

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
*‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3821
THE FIRST “LYREBIRDMEN”
Wednesday, May 6, 195.3
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
Westminister Abbey—
the Tomb of
Queen Elizabeth I
A MONO the twenty-eight royal person-
*** ages buried in Westminster Abbey is
Queen Elizabeth 1 (1558-1603). Every
third year, on the anniversary of her
accession, a commemoration service in
Latin is held in the Abbey.
The magnificent tomb of the great
Tudor queen is situated in the north aisle
of Henry VITs Chapel. Her marble
effigy, in the familiar ruff and ermine-
lined robe, lies on a moulded base sup-
ported by four lions beneath an elaborate
canopy resting upon columns of black
marble. The tomb is renowned for its
great mass of heraldry as it contains no
less than forty-one shields and was the
work of Maximilian Poutrain and John
de Critz. A recent addition to the tomb
has been the famous gold ring which the
Earl of Essex sent to Queen Elizabeth
during his imprisonment in the tower.
Had the fateful ring arrived safely in
the hands of Queen Elizabeth the life
of the Earl of Essex would not have
ended on Tower Green.
Queen Elizabeth I, daughter of Henry
VIII and Anne Boleyn, was born in
Greenwich Palace. After her father’s
marriage with Jane Seymour, Elizabeth
and her half-sister, Mary, were declared
illegitimate. Her early childhood and
the greater part of her life until her
accession was therefore spent under a
cloud. She inherited the Tudor qualities
of industry, energy and physical strength
and she was noted for her diplomacy;
she owed her great power and popularity
in part to the fact that she was able to
read the mind of the nation. Her reign
saw a great revival on almost every side
—socially, politically and in the realm
of learning. Shakespeare, Marlowe,
Spenser and Jonson lived in that golden
age of literature which marked the growth
of the English Renaissance.


Tw Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-CUT HERE AND MAIL - ——
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name • •
Address
(S.B. 253) Age
The Red Page
GOLDFIELDS STORY
G. F. Young’s Under the Coolibah
Tree (Melrose ; London) is really about
his adventures on the Westralian gold-
fields, right back in the first romantic
days when you could pick up a fortune,
or not, from every rocky outcrop ; but
he begins with his maternal grandfather,
G. F. Davidson, and Grandfather is
worth meeting.
He was “a successful opium-trader”
who had a base at Port Essington and
wrote a book called Trade and Travel
in the Far East. He inspected Sydney
in 1836 and found 300 public-houses
“nearly all filled from morning to night
with men and women, too often spending
the last penny they possess in the world.”
He took up land in New South Wales
on the Paterson River, found that con-
victs —not altogether surprisingly, seeing
they had to —worked better than free
immigrants, and that “Nothing tends
more directly to promote the good order
of a farm than mustering everybody in it
at noon on Sunday for the purpose of
reading the Divine Service to them. Set-
ting aside the normal benefits that this
practice may be supposed to produce, it
puts an effectual stop to distant wander-
ing on that day.”
The Paterson River farm failed, David-
son went to Hong Kong, then England,
then returned to Australia and took up
land at Maitland, N. S. Wales where
The final disheartening blow was given
them when the eldest son was shot dead
by a shepherd after some argument about
a shortage among a flock of sheep he was
in charge of. The murderer was tracked
down and arrested, tried and sentenced to
death, but while awaiting execution in
Maitland jail he quarrelled with a Chinese
tailor, who stabbed him to death with a
pair of scissors. So they hanged the
Chinese instead.
Next comes Mr. Young’s boyhood at
Grafton, N. S. Wales ; and that too is
good reading. His father, who had
emigrated with his parents from England,
once sailed with “a young fellow named
Bloomfield” to San Francisco in a 30-
ton schooner loaded with wheat, “one
of the most hazardous voyages ever
undertaken in Australia history,” but
afterwards joined the bank and became
accountant at Grafton.
For the young Mr. Young there were
handsome and dissolute young jackeroos
to be observed on a cattle station; there
were Chinese coolies, a hundred at a
time, disembarking at the wharf on the
Clarence and trotting inland to the tin-
fields and the railway-camps; there were
mobs of bullocks swum out into the
stream and hauled aboard the ship by a
chain around their horns attached to the
ship’s winches; and of course, there was
“the biggest flood of all time” when
everybody lived in top-storeys or on the
roofs while the current swirled past
now conveying one continuous line of logs,
forest-debris, haystacks, sawn timber,
drowned cattle and similar flotsam and
jetsam, all speeding along to the open sea.
Anything living on the logs—fowls, pos-
sums, rodents of all sorts and thousands
of snakes, venomous and otherwise —by
some instinct smelt, the open sea as they
approached; and without exception every-
thing living made one final bid for life on
land again and, seeing the big stone break- N
waters close to which their 60-mile-long raft
was now travelling, tried to swim the short
distance to the stones forming the break-
water. Curiously enough, only the snakes
made this crossing in safety. The break-
waters were alive with these half-drowned
reptiles, which lived only a few days at
most, converting the breakwaters into an
evil-smelling place.
Next come schooldays in Sydney, and
weekends with a grandmother who kept
three men’s hats on pegs in the hall to
frighten away burglars ; holidays with an
uncle who was magistrate at Braidwood,
with a story of an old man tried for
sheep-stealing at Yass on a warrant from
which be had absconded 30 years pre-
viously. Then Mr. Young’s own business
career beginning in a job as a clerk with
the Sydney shipping firm of Towns and
Co. ; glimpses of Paddy’s Markets, of a
Monsieur Jacques Ibot who tried to fast
for 40 days in a King-street shop-window,
or the Petrified Man who was supposed
to have been found in a limestone cave
near Bathurst but was later unmasked as
the sculptural handiwork of some prac-
tical joker at Moonee Ponds ; a meeting
with Robert Louis Stevenson, “a small,
feeble-looking, pale, long-haired person
with piercing black eyes, holding out a
thin hand,” whom Mr. Young, in his
capacity as messenger for Towns and
Co., encountered in a boardinghouse in
Woolloomooloo,
Then, offered a free trip by a seafaring
friend, Mr. Young left for the goldfields.
He did the long trek to Coolgardie,
camping out under the stars, and found
it, so he says, a “cakewalk.” But by that
time he had made friends with an ex-
perienced bushman, born in France and
known as Ted without any surname, and
so avoided the troubles of other new-
chums: — .
The slowest units of traffic moving up-
wards were the teams of men pulling hand-
carts. These poor slaves made heavy going.
Eight or a dozen back in the eastern States
had put up, say, £5O each to form a pros-
pecting syndicate. Safety in numbers. A
number sufficient to repel any attack by
wild natives... .Their handcarts were piled
high with camping-gear, cases of tinned
meat, bags of flour and all the food and
gear they thought they would need, not
forgetting a water-cask. Often the springs
of the cart were down on the axles because
of overloading. These newchums would
haul the cart on two longish ropes—a team
of men sweating and often complaining
about this or that chap who was not doing
his bit. The whole thing spelt anger, over-
work, ill-temper and certain failure.
There were many of these outfits to be
seen. Not one of them for certain ever
reached the goldfields intact. Often the
whole adventure was abandoned less than
half-way along the track, half the “horses”
stampeding back to the soak, thence to
Perth, into a job of some sort. Some would
decide to go on and make a deal with a
driver of a team going onward with stores
and food. The teamster would heave up
anything saleable, the handcar and any
junk were abandoned to the firstcomer who
wanted it —and no one ever did want the
cranky thing—and a few b'rave newchums
would jog along behind the team to Cool-
gardie.
If the book is quietly entertaining up
to Coolgardie, from this point on it is
magnificent; all literally the stuff of
which legends are made: working on
Bayley’s Reward with two sons of Rolf
Boldrewood; hearing the story of the
30 men who rushed to the new find at
the Twenty-five Mile and of the 17 of
them who perished when they tried to
return to Coolgardie after the first-comers
had drunk all the water at the only soak ;
meeting, as a fellow-laborer at Bayley’s,
a Melbourne stockbroker, Howard Tay-
lor, who had gone broke in the slump —
“He returned to Perth, got a job in an
office, and then when Kalgoorlie hit the
headlines he began brokering again.
Within five years he was in England
entertaining the Prince of Wales on his
yacht” ; finding a promising reef —the
Six Mile —near Kalgoorlie, taking the
nails out of their boots to build a shaker,
watching a hundred men roll up to stake
their claims near by the first night-
fall ; meeting Tom Roy, who walked
alone from Cunnamulla to Kalgoorlie in
1892, “Bread and Blood” Vosper, the
long-haired Socialist editor of the Kal-
goorlie “Miner,” and “Smiler” Hales, who
wrote for the Coolgardie “Miner” before
he made his reputation as a correspondent
in the Boer War; the story of the
Londonderry find, with Lord Fingall
buying the shallow reef for quarter of a
million —“the mine struggled on, and was
ultimately handed back to the dingoes
and blackfellows.”
The reef found by Mr. Young and his
partner was only two miles away from
the Londonderry, and they sold it to
Louis Wills, an English company-pro-
moter. Mr, Young stayed on for a while
as manager until an expert could be
brought out from England; and there
came to him, in advance of the expert,
the Honorable Robert Montague, second
son of Lord Montague of Beaulieu
Abbey, sent out for colonial experience
and the spiritual benefit of seclusion on
the goldfields. He arrived with so much
luggage that it completely filled his tent,
and he had to camp in another; and a
very good fellow he turned out to be,
though Mr. Young seems to have left a
few gaps in his history.
There is also the story of “Wagon-
jaw” Jimmy Hogan who made a rich
find, went into a shanty to celebrate and
woke from his spree to find that he had
signed a document making the shanty-
keeper his partner. He died a few weeks
later.
Mr. Young, after the inevitable row
with the incoming English manager at the
Six Mile, set out with Ted for parts
unknown: “We bought two camels and
equipment with water-casks and pack-
saddles and hit out in a south-easterly
direction to the Widgiemooltha series of
granite soaks. From here we bored into
the blue north-east.”
They found no gold to speak of, and
Ted got sick and, on their return to
Coolgardie, died. Mr. Young made back
to Perth and, with a new mate, set out
by ship for Marble Bar. He saw abo-
rigines working in a chain-gang at Roe-
burn Jail and .was there while on e ot
the natives was publicly hanged for
defending the honor of his tribe.” He
helped build a jetty at Cossack while the
Government official in charge of the job
drank his way through three hessian-
covered cases of liquor ; he went pearling
and saw two beachcombers marooned on
a lonely island where they would collect
turtle-shells for some months until the
schooner called for them again ; he got
to Marble Bar at last, met Tom Roy
again, who had walked in from CooT
gardie, and went prospecting with a
couple of wild fellows who had been
members of the notorious Ragged Thir-
teen who had overlanded from north
Queensland to Coolgardie. They set up
camp in a hot ironstone gorge which
turned on some really impressive thunder-
storms —“in no time the rocky face
opposite was a target for the lightning.
Great blue lights appeared, stones from
the hillside rattled down and the air was
filled with sulphur fumes.”
After all that and much more, includ-
ing a couple of shipwrecks under the
guidance of drunken skippers, Mr, Young
married, and took up land on Gape
Otway, the south-eastern extremity of the
continent, where he could fill a chaff-bag
with crayfish in less than half an hour.
He coped with bushfires, made a success
of his farm, and began to write occasion-
ally for the newspapers, including The
Bulletin, and to broadcast for the
A.B.C. He doesn’t seem to have made a
fortune out of his prospecting, or what
he did make he lost in some unlucky
venture ; but his book, in the category of
knockabout autobiography, of genuine
historic value, is a solid mass of gold. It
has this Page’s warmest recommendation
to all Australian readers.
In Praise of 8,282,385
Perry Mason’s latest case, The Case of
the Vagabond Virgin, by Erie Stanley
Gardner (Heinemann), comes with a
wrapper stating that Gardner sold
8,282,385 copies of his mysteries in 1950
in the United States and Canada alone.
That is surely somewhere near a record,
and it must be said, deserved.
Gardner has never achieved the depth
of Hammett’s Maltese Falcon; and as
characters Rex Stout’s Nero Wolfe and
his secretary Archie Goodwin are richer
and rounder than Perry Mason and his
secretary Della Street; but Gardner is
at once more voluminous and con-
sistent ; and in a packaging-world, the
standardised product that can be supplied
in the greatest quantity gets the biggest
sales.
In a standard Perry Mason case the
reader should expect (1) the introduc-
tion to Perry Mason, “Counseller at
Law,” of a seemingly-trifling case, which
develops, bringing in new characters and
circumstances, into a case of murder;
(2) the illegal planting of evidence, or
tampering with evidence, by Mason in
such a way that it will lead to the con-
viction of the wrong-doer; (3) conflict
with the police, or suspicion of involve-
ment, which brings Mason to the verge of
arrest; and (4) a brilliant courtroom
scene in which Mason takes devastating
points of law and in cross-examination
forces a confession from an unsuspected
witness. Accept no substitutes.
The irreformable detective-story reader
modifies a famous dictum of law; in a
detective story it is not necessary that
justice should be done, but that it should
seem to be done ; and to this purpose it
is of as much importance that Gardner
is a born illusionist as that he is a lawyer ;
the vivacity and excitement of his court-
rooms are matched only by the apparent
authenticity of his legal points.
Now and then the reader is offended by
a little too much smug cuteness in
Mason’s courtroom manner ; and the un-
resolved relationship between Mason and
his kissable secretary is a cause of regret
to at least one fervent admirer. But add
to the freshness and complexity of his
plots the rich range of his American
scenery: suburban homes, city offices,
hotels, motels, night-clubs, golf-clubs,
cars, aeroplanes, ranches, country vil-
lages ; add to these an ability to
people them with persons impersonally
and inconspicuously described, the whole
range of American men and women,
seen through the understanding of an
American lawyer, knowing what to look
for, but tolerant and even kindly when
he finds it—and you have a respectable
enough reason for being a “Perry Mason
fan.”
[The book under review begins when
the prosperous head of a department-
store, who has picked up a girl hitch-
hiker and installed her in a high-class
hotel, engages Mason to bail her out of
jail, where she is imprisoned on a charge
of vagrancy ; and is in all respects a
standard product.
Old Love-letters
Madame Andrd Gide was earmarked
for immortality; and the small book of
suppressed passages from Gide’s Journal,
which were first published in 1947, after
Gide’s death, and now appear in Eng-
lish translation by Justin O’Brien, Et
Nunc Manet in Te (Seeker and Warburg),
discloses her amazing rejection of the
honor.
She was his cousin; they had been
children together; and after their
marriage Gide’s abnormal preoccupa-
tions drew him, so far as can be dis-
cerned, completely away from any in-
tention he may have had of being a com-
plete husband. Nevertheless, he con-
tended, he Was madly in love with her,
thought of her as the core of his exist-
ence, and in proof of this, during his
frequent absences from their chateau,
wrote her regular letters embalming his
most rare and exquisite thoughts.
It would be most apt to say that she
was “made the recipient” of these dis-
closures ; they were evidently not so
much letters as rarefied literary per-
formances, and Madame Gide was
through them to be raised to the com-
pany of the great French ladies to whom
immortal letters have been written. How
“immortal” Gide’s letters were we shall
never know; the suppressed passage of
November 21, 1918, ushers in the
catastrophe with one bodeful blast of
trombones:
Madelaine has destroyed all my letters.
She has just confessed it to me, and it
crushes me. She did it, she told me, just
after I left for England. Oh, I am well
aware that she must have suffered dread-
fully from my departure with Marc; but
did she have to take revenge on the past?
lt is the best of me that disappears;
and it will no longer counterbalance the
worst. For more than thirty years I had
given her (and I still gave her) the best of
me, day after day, the moment I was absent
even briefly. I felt suddenly ruined. I
have no heart for anything. I should have
killed myself without effort.
For ears untuned to Gide’s harmonies,
the affair sings with the gaiety of high
comedy. Only from the point of view
of the wife can it appear tragic; in such
matters it is the unspoken accusation of
the victim, driven to crime, that sears
the soul:
“They were my most precious belong-
ings,” she told me. “After you left, when
I found myself all alone again in the big
house that you were forsaking, with no
one on whom to lean, without knowing
what to do, what to become.. ..I first
thought that nothing remained but to die.
Yes, truly, I thought that my heart was
ceasing to beat, that I was dying. I suffered
so much I burned your letters in order
to do something. Before destroying them
I reread them all, one by one.”
Against this sombre bass, Gide’s out-
cries have the sound of sweet music;
“For a solid week I wept,” he records
on November 25; on December 11, his
“back is broken” ; he feels crushed again
on December 22—“ It was in them [the
letters] above all that I hoped to sur-
vive” ; and then the entries take a new
turn, protesting his love for her, and
lamenting her lack of love for him.
A very curious guy was M. Gide.
Lorca of Spain
Reading again A. L. Lloyd’s transla-
tions of Federico Garcia Lorca, Lament
for the Death of a Bullfighter and Other
Poems (Heinemann), one misses in this
1953 edition the opposed Spanish
originals of the large-paper edition of
1937.
Stone is a forehead where dreams moan,
where is no curving watercourse, nor frozen
cypresses.
Stone is a shoulder to carry time
with its trees of tears and ribbons and
planets
does not sound so well without the music
of the Spanish to complete its feeling:
La piedra es una frenti donde los suenos
gimen,
sin tener agua ni cipresas helados.
La piedra es una espalda para llevar al
tiempo
con arboles de lagrimas y cintas y planetos.
One can remember reading that
fifteen or sixteen years ago, with
its suggestion of the opening of
one of Beethoven’s great adagios,
and wondering why anyone should
write verse in anything but Spanish.
Indeed, the father of English lyricism,
and precursor of Shakspeare, Wyatt,
picked up a lot of Spanish music
when he was representing Henry VIII in
Spain ; and likely enough, when he says
“Blame not my lute,” he means that it
(“Red Page” continued on page 35)


3m.
m.
!: '
m
, Bft
BK$
I
' V
U^'V’'
iMs
if:®
fj ' M
mm.
1181
I mm
' \ \
i»i
K > '
;
iSSJKJS'
V • '
«||
t' v
: • •
' ‘ s ‘V ’•:
«&&
o
:■
WM
■m
m
mm
■
wm
mmm
:■
llPlif
■ • -
i
i ;
m
d
Homemakers! Anthony Horderns’ bring you the very
latest in Curtain Fashions
“Curtain Units!”
It* downright witchcraft the way one set of our curtain units suddenly becomes so many completely
different curtains in your clever hands ! Drape them, mass them, tie them, bunch them, fold them,
alternate them . . . we’ve only illustrated 16 of a possible 90 effects ! You’ll discover dozens the first day
they’re on your windows. Curtain Units are an ingenious American idea, and to-day Anthony Horderns’
bring them to you exclusively. Curtain Units will fit any length window of any width. One unit fits
a bathroom window, several (2, 4, or 6 units) a living room window. You vary the design with a
flick of the wrist, covering the whole window or just part, draw them, to the side on sunny mornings.
Frilled Plastic, 27in. drop, 10/6 each; 36in. drop, 15/6. White Madras, with red and green motif,
frilled with green multi-check Voile in colonial style. 27in. drop, 12/6; 36in., 17/6. Furnishing Dept., 3rd Fir.
Unit Curtains will fit any size window! Look at
16 of a possible 90 ways you can arrange them!
m
m 2
wmm.
%
<*&W.
%
■gmm
Three different shaped Hassocks to rest
your feet on! Square, oblong or round,
in richly coloured tapestries, velvets or
rioqueties. 17/6, 19/6, 31/ for round-
iiid oblcng shapes; 33/6 for square shape.
5/6 buys you one of these gay cushions
with their sunny coloured print cover'
ing. They're flock filled. At this price
you’ll be able to afford several for your
living room, your sun room. 18 x 18.
Brilliant Tapestry Table Covers for
your most important room! Rich all
cotton texture in a leaf pattern, silk
fringe. Rusts, greens and reds in 60in,
x 90m. size. Priced at only 79/6 each.
m
wi.
7
Make a Lay-by Now
(D.P.S.)
ring T.O.P.S. DIAL M 2401 AND DO YOUR SHOPPING EASY
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING-
nthony Horderns
fd


Fascinating-But Fantastic
The Myth of the Caveman
By OLAF RUHEN
50ME people don’t believe in fairies,
Others are sceptical about ghosts,
or gods, or goodheartedness. For
myself, I resolutely refuse to be-
lieve in cavemen.
I think that there never was, nor ever
will be, a considerable tribe, or cum-
munity, or percentage of the earth’s
population the members of which might
fairly be described as cavemen. It is,
of course, a personal opinion, and if
someone has the evidence to prove me
wrong, lam open to conviction. But in
half a lifetime of reading and wandering
and observing I have never noticed a
scrap of evidence which might even sug-
gest to me that at any time our ancestors
lived in caves. .
I have, however, particularly in late
years, noted an increasing number of
writings whereof the authors devote a
great deal of space to little cries of joy
that man is finding out about his
ancestors, that the leaves of the Book of
the Past are revealing their secrets to
the paper-knife of the probing scientist;
and most of these writings are unanimous
in patting modern man on the back for
having come a long way from the cave
he used to occupy. Not being a believer
in cavemen, I don’t think man has come
very far at all.
Of course, there were people who lived
in caves. There still are. In fact, there
must be uncounted thousands of people
who have occupied caves of one sort or
another, from a one-night stand in the
Sydney Domain to the best part of a
life-time in more remote areas. But the
cave-dweller of today is not a represen-
tative member of the race. He is a rat-
bag, a hermit, a weakling, a man at outs
with society, a small-time opportunist, a
refugee, or a man (or a family, though
there are seldom enduring progeny)
whose contribution to society is so small
that he is rejected of everyone,
To my way of thinking, and there is
considerable evidence to back it up, the
cave-dweller was always in this category,
To begin with, there are not, in the
world, many habitable caves. The re-
quirements for a suitable hole in the
ground are, firstly, that it is not subject
to periodic inundation; secondly, that it
be well ventilated; thirdly, that it is
easy of access while capable of being
defended ; fourthly, that it be adjacent to
adequate food and water supplies;
fifthly, that it is naturally lit or capable
of easy and constant illumination; and
sixthly, that it provide, against the on-
slaught of enemies, a means of escape.
But even where a, cave has possessed
these features there has seldom been
evidence of its intelligent occupation by
a considerable body of the district’s
population, even right back in those misty
periods when man’s spirit occupied a
frame differing very considerably from
that which he now matutinally admires
through its reflection in the bathroom
mirror.
To find PekingvMan the scientists had
to delve down through a mass of litter
representing aeons of the world’s develop-
ment. And though conditions in the
cave must have come close to perfect for
the preservation of the more indelible
remnants of man’s existence, the archaeo-
logists found only a score or two of
bodies. Some of them were quite
modern, and some incredibly ancient.
There was, of course, no point in look-
ing for the bones of prehistoric man out-
side a cave. Finding any such would be
a matter of sheer luck. Therefore caves
have always been good hunting grounds
for thpse who want to form an opinion
of what man used to look like.
In the open air, bones disintegrate, be-
come lost. Most communities dispose of
their dead, through burial, through burn-
ing, through eating or casting away in
the sea. B6nes, being excellent material
for weapons, were objects of commerce
in many prehistoric communities, and
still are in some modern ones.
And ever since man was man he has
lived in communities. Only the social
outcasts of the caves died and were left
amongst their litter, amongst their crude
weapons and the bones they had been
lately chewing, and the ashes of their
fires. In the caves, even the ashes were
preserved to tell the story. On the open
plains, on the hillsides and the lighter,
more open forests, where man lived in
his thousands, he passed on without leav-
ing a trace. His bones lived for a little
while, for a hundred years or a thousand,
and then the last trace of him was gone.
The propensities of caves for preserv-
ing bodies were not unknown to our
ancestors. In New Guinea, amongst the
mountains to the East of the Markham
River, there is a cave where lime-water
drips, and here the mummified bodies of
the village ancestors for generations back
sit in rows. The Pharaohs enlisted the
help of their great artificial caves in their
endeavor to maintain their real images
in perpetuity.
Cave art is sometimes used in evi-
dence, very loosely, to show that man
occupied the caves. Stone Age man
drew pictures on the walls of a great
many caves. But for every graceful line
committed to the permanence of the cave
walls there were a hundred thousand
drawn in more impermanent places ; with
a stick on a mudbank, in charcoal on a
dead and peeling tree, or with pigment
on living skin.
Cave art is the doodling of the passer-
by. Sometimes the community, driven
by fire or flood or marauders, lived tem-
porarily in a cave; and wall-painting
may have enlivened an hour or two.
Sometimes a message was left there, by
arrangement, where the rain would not
wash it away. But if caves had been
the art galleries of Stone Age man not
a cave in the world would exist now that
did not carry paintings to the highest roof
of every chamber.
How unfair it is to judge, by the way,
the artistic potentialities of early man by
these scribbiings of the social outcast in
his loneliness!
But this is all negative evidence. The
weapons of early man tell us a great deal
about his habits. They were not the
weapons of a dweller in crevices. They
were the weapons of the open air and
the free range. Conspicuously absent
from most occupied caves were weapons
developed for that form of living—the
entrance pitfall, the stack of throwing-
stones near the openings, or wall-to-wall
fire-pits for defence. It is inconceivable
that the wits which contrived the bow
and arrows would not have thought of
these or similar armaments as standard
defence for caves —if in general were
a caveman.
Incidentally, it is also unfair to judge
early man on such of his tools as have
survived. I once met stone-age people
who possessed, as standard equipment for
the individual, a very cunningly-contrived
fid for their elaborate weavings, and an
even more ingenious pair of tweezers,
both fashioned from delicate and insub-
stantial bird-bones which will never pre-
serve their intrinsic evidence of intelligent
workmanship to a long-removed posterity.
I have since used the fid with pleasure
for my own nautical purposes.
But is it important to insist that few
of us number a caveman amongst our
ancestors? I think it is. Too many
practitioners of our so-called sciences
jump to untenable conclusions, and this
particularly where the human race is
involved in their studies. Sir Hubert
Murray, who was a great and under-
standing student of his fellow-humans in
Papua, and who successfully used the
results of his observations in his adminis-
trations of that country, once wrote to
his brother George:
I am glad you are going in for anthro-
pology. It is a most fascinating study
though, so far as I can see, purely fan-
tastic; the alleged facts being unsupported
by evidence, and the inferences forced.
However, I suppose that may bo said of
other studies, though they are commonly
less interesting.
Wherever you may find him today, man
is an entity, and men collectively in one
part of the world hardly differ from a
similar collection of men in another.
One man is cruel, one kind; one com-
monly flexes his muscles while another
cringes ; but, collectively, they differ only
because of the circumstances that sur-
round them and the natural reactions
thus evoked. Wherever men live collec-
tively there is government, and wherever
government, is strong enough to live it
must live by fear. We have advanced
here only in that to a large extent, but
not wholly, government with us has seen
fit to replace mortal fear by economic
fear.
Stranded in the Central Desert for a
few generations, civilised men would soon
go naked, carry spears and throwing-
sticks, and become good trackers. When
civilised crime came to Papua, an excel-
lent and sophisticated detective soon
arose, as Lewis Lett tells, from the ranks
of the Papuan police-boys.
Our early ancestors had wit and intelli-
gence, or they could not have survived
to pass on to us their heritage—the earth.
They had courage to tackle adversaries
bigger than themselves, they had strength
and health, they could act individually or
co-operate. They were social, gregarious
fellows, with a desire for the company
of others, from which they derived the
ability to entertain and be entertained.
They were possibly less selfish than their
descendants in matters of property, for
their fears were mortal and not economic;
therefore they were more selfish of per-
sonal standing, of esteem and of reputa-
tion.
We know that they tackled the mam-
moths on their migrations—not singly,
but in great and earth-shaking herds. We
know that they travelled over great dis-
tances, in spite of fantastic obstacles. We
know that they survived and throve in a
highly competitive world. We know that
they protected their young through an
abnormally long period of juvenile help-
lessness. And we know, if the theories
of evolution are correct, that they did
these things even before they acquired
speech, or an upright stance, or an
ipward-turning thumb, or any of the
other peculiarities by which we know
them as man.
Well, there it is. I don’t believe in
the cavemen. I believe instead in a race
of free-roaming ancestors possessed of
wit and stamina and courage. What
came before them I don’t know. But it
will take a great deal of very concrete
evidence indeed to make me believe that
the ancestors of the human race issued
like crabs from crannies in the rocks, and
shared their shelters with bats and
pythons.
Do You Worry Correctly?
IT is a great pity that many people
who rightly regard worrying as
a major mental sport should so
often have the full enjoyment of
it vitiated by their careless approach
to it.
You may have gone to bed, for
instance, and stayed awake far into
the night worrying about things that
are never likely to happen—this is
the most satisfying of all forms.
Next day you are shocked to find
that it is almost midday before you
think to resume that most enjoyable
line of worry.
If this is caused by any other
major worry, such as wondering if
you should be tempting Fate by buy-
ing anything for the house that day
because the astrological notes say
it is badly aspected for any business
transactions, all, of course is well
If, however, the beauty of the
mornmg or the carolling of the birds
is responsible for your failure
immediately to resume your over-
night wort 7 on rising, you should
think of the consequences which
might flow from such a wrong out- .
look. The next, thing you know
you’ll be singing about the house, or
tog TSSSi career ‘
Analysing this, you will quickly
appreciate that the worrying-time you
have thus lost is irreparable. Should
you be unable to see, in the light of
day, fears of such a magnitude as
ann’p d dnrincr the niabt rnncpn
appeared during the night, concern
trate on, conjuring up some comple-
mentary or even totally unrelated
disasters which could occur, and
soon you’ll be once again happily
worrying.
Sometimes the fear may take pos-
session of you that the current worry
you are savoring to the full may be
lost by the incursion of some entirely
new one. This is quite unnecessary.
because it is possible, with constant
practice, to stew over quite a multi-
plicity of things simultaneously,
Don’t, however, make them so
jumbled as to be in danger of losing
their separate identities. Nothing is
so frustrating as to worry, but at the
same time be uncertain what you are
worrying about. There is, however,
some compensation in that this may
lead to the creation of a new worry,
One woman who came to me for
advice explained that everything was
going along so smoothly at home
she had become alarmed because
there was nothing for her to worry
about.
I was able to point out that every
time Johnny fell over at school and
punctured the skin there was a possi-
bility of a tetanus germ getting in ;
that her daughter, when walking
along a city street, could be flattened
by somebody suicidally leaping out
a 12th-floor window immediately
above her ; that her husband could
be murdered one dark night coming
home with his pay; and that she
herself, for all she knew, might at
that moment have unsuspected ele-
phantiasis in its early stages.
she- staggered out and almost
wa i ked under a bus in her agitation,
but at least sbe was satisfied she had
something to worry about again. So
proficient had she become, and so
kcen ber concentration, that when I
saw ber a fortnight later she was not
on | y st jn worrying about that
quartet of fears but also about several
others which had cropped up in the
i nte rim Her look was one of
ecstatic harassment beautiful to
behold
Some le with a choice of
worries £ nd F who possess the single-
mindedness which allows them to
conC entrate on one, often unaccount-
abl piek the wrong one.
/ iw
. ( know a ’
“stance whose secre-
tars' to f h i” S SIL.T
moming that her father beaten-
m * t 0 ™ th S±°, tg “°„ 5®
Sr^he&p^ot"
and by P midday he’/chewed up 14
Yet he selected
Rf. s q f , •
thl . s * lfle on wh t lc ? t °
val “ able
fP 1 es f harl
themums! The fellow obviously had
f proportion He didn ’ t
j F
deserve to be vouchsafed a worry,
Who hasn t heard the fat jovial
fellow with the smooth forehead
proclaim y that he owes his well-
nourished condition to his lifelong
habit 01*. never worrying about a
thing. Inis is not a boast but an
admission.
Pity such an unenlightened crea-
hire! Think of the futile hours he
has spent, perhaps drowsing with a
blank mind when it could have been
seething with horrific worries. Such
a fellow, who has probably never
had the pleasure of lying awake
wondering if he’s going to be mashed
up a train smash the next day,
doesn’t know he’s alive,
The deleterious practice of inter-
mittently worrying can usually be
traced to faulty training in child-
hood. This fault is never in evidence
where the child ( has been taught at
an early age the benefits of constant
worrying, whether from his kite per-
haps not having enough tail to it or
whether he’ll finish up among the last
five in the class. Once put on the
right track he may look forward to
a lifetime of steady worrying and so
do his bit in later years to help keep
psychiatrists in Jaguars and pure-
silk shirts.
BO.
Next Week
“Into the Machine Age”
By Rose Lindsay
A personalities-packed instalment
of the unpublished memoirs of Mrs.
Norman Lindsay.
Short Story
“Harlequinade”
By Ethel Anderson
An astonishing free fight at an
early Parramatta Show makes
Sydney’s Show a tame mothers
meeting.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 6, 1953
Vol, 74—No, 3821
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521:
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House,247-249 Collins Street,Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
APPEAL TO GREED AND FEAR
Not less politically dishonest than his abuse of the
Government for its “failure” to provide “full” employ-
ment—he himself having repeatedly said in the past
when in office that the provision of employment was a
State matter and that the Commonwealth had no
adequate powers to handle it —is Dr. Evatt’s assertion
that ihe Menzies Government has failed to keep its
promise to reduce taxation.
To support his contention he has certainly quoted
figures. He knows that these figures as he uses them
are misleading. They are aggregate figures showing
total taxes collected, but they bear no relationship to
taxation on individual incomes, the expansion of
which in the past three years, if they had taken place
with “Labor” in power, would have been held up—
inflation or no inflation —as the prime example of that
party’s unparalleled wizardry in bringing about the
Golden Age.
On figures provided by the Treasury, due to fatter
pay-envelopes and rises in wages and salaries there are
now 650,000 more taxpayers than in 1949 despite the
removal of taxation at lower levels. There
are 920,000 more people earning between £5OO and
£lOOO, and four times as many people in the £lOOO-to-
£2ooo group as there were in 1949, according to Mr
Fadden. And these increases in higher-bracket incomes
have naturally had their overall effect on total revenue.
But this does not necessarily support Dr. Evatt’s claim
that there has been no reduction of taxation to the
individual; for the reductions to individuals have
been very substantial, both in direct and indirect taxes.
Almost every kind of commodity used for agricul-
tural production, for instance, has been cleared of
sales-tax. Land-tax, imposed by “Labor,” has been
abolished. Depreciation allowances on plant and
buildings in rural industry allow cost to be written-off
in five annual instalments. And these concessions run
with the simplification of income-tax forms in a
manner which makes for quick handling and swift
rebates to taxpayers.
There have been increases in the concessions
for life-assurance premiums, education allowances and
medical charges, apart from the replacement of
“Labor’s” rebate system by straightout concessions
which benefit the taxpayer considerably in reducing
the rate of tax in the £. And the actual overall reduc-
tions in assessments are apparent to anybody who cares
to look at the 1949 rates and at the 1952-53 rates.
Under Dr. Evatt’s Government in 1949 a man on £BOO
a year, with a wife and two children, paid £77 19s.
Now he pays only £46 6s, . Similarly tax on the
same family basis on £lOOO was £129 under Dr. Evatt
in 1949 and £B3 4s. today under Mr. Menzies.
And if anybody believes that “Labor” is likely to do
better than this he merely has to turn back to pre-war
years, when State “Labor” imposed its own income
tax. Dr. Evatt shouts with horror at the iniquity of the
Commonwealth which collects £46 6s. a year from a
taxpayer with a wife and two children for combined
Federal and State tax on £BOO a year ; but Mr. Fadden
points out that the pre-war Socialist State Government
of Queensland squeezed £6l 19s. 7d. out of the same
taxpayer in 1938-39, when money was worth at least
three times as much to him as it is now.
Furthermore, it needs to be remembered that
Governments do hot maintain high levels of taxation,
or even the present moderate ones, merely for fun.
Reduction of‘taxation is the best votebuyer known to
politics, and despite the testimony of unreliable
demagogues of the Ward type that Liberal Govern-
ments keep the rates high for the malign purpose of
oppressing the toiler, they are generally just as ready
to placate voters as “Labor” Administrations.
Two-thirds of this year’s Budget expenditure is
accounted for by four main items. Nearly a fifth of
the revenue —about £l7B million — goes to the States,
which receive three times the tax-reimbursements that
they received from Dr. Evatt and his Government in
1949. But both he and his anxious satraps in the
States certainly do not hold that this amount can be
reduced. Then there is £164 million a year spent on
social security. “Labor” would run a mile befdre
reducing that. It talks of increasing it. There is
£6O million for loan costs and interest, and repatria-
tion, pensions and rehabilitation; and there is an
inescapable £2OO million a year for defence so long
as “Labor’s” close Socialist allies in Moscow continue
to threaten the world with their wars, hot and cold.
HEAVENLY TWINS
Beyond that there are mostly expenses which can be
reduced only by desocialising the Commonwealth
services and through the subsidence of inflation and
abandonment of the 40-hour week.
It is no wonder that Dr. Evatt prefers the alterna-
tive of deadlock government to pushing the Menzies
Administration out and taking the responsibility him-
self during the next few months. For that is his pro-
gramme ; not the reduction of taxation by “Labor,”
but the reduction of taxation by the Menzies Govern-
ment under blackmailing Senate pressure. He is
cynically frank about this —just as frank as he is in
his prescription of a solution for the financial
problem. He intends that Australia shall owe
its way instead of paying its way until the
ruin overtakes it which overtook pre-Hitler Germany,
and nearly overtook Lang-ruled New South Wales
when its financial theories were provided for it by
Jock Garden, from whom Dr. Evatt and Senator
Cameron learnt their financial theory and who in turn
learnt his from Moscow.
Prefabs, and Plain Fobs
Finding himself down Wagga way, Senator Ashley,
with a fine rush of w’s to the head, accused the
Federal Government of “wilful waste” of public
money through the importation of prefabricated
houses. According to the “Fixer,” the Government
had brought these into the country and erected them in
various States at high cost, while the “leading manu-
facturer of Australian prefabs., Vandyke Brothers,
had been compelled to dismiss hundreds of its
employees so that its work-force was now reduced
from 400 to 10 men.” It had allowed Australian
building tradesmen to become unemployed, and was
prepared to pay more than double for imported
prafabricated houses which could be erected in Aus-
tralia by a highly efficient organisation that today
was virtually closed down through lack of Work,
To these allegations Senator Spooner, Minister
for National Development, replied that the houses
referred to had been ordered at a time when the
housing shortage was very severe, and when it was
impossible for local manufacturers to supply the large
number required. The last batch had arrived in
April, 1952.
Returning to the attack, Ashley said that 533 of
the imported prefabs, were still in their crates, in fact,
rotting in their crates.
. They have been exposed to weather, and reports
on their condition are most disturbing.
He wanted to know why it was that “the Aus-
tralian job costs only half the imported job” ; whether
tenders had been invited in Australia before allotting
the orders ; whether there had been a price competitive
with that quoted by Riley-Newsum (the suppliers of
the imported homes). Finally, he threatened a
thorough investigation if “Labor” secured control of
the Senate. The inquiry would
see whether it was a shocking Government blunder,
whether there has been gross irtefficiency in super-
vising the cost of erection, or whether it was a
straightout scandal.
“Labor’s” senior Senator in N. S. Wales must
have a very short memory if he forgets the origin of
the policy of importing prefabs. As Senator Spooner
pointed out, it was a “Labor” Government (in which
Senator Ashley was Minister for Supply) which
initiated the programme and. first invited overseas
tenders, the reason being that it did not want Com-
monwealth housing needs to “make demands on the
already overburdened local building industry.” To
the “Fixer’s" second outburst Spooner replied that all
the crated prefabs, were stored in sheds, not in the
open; that Riley-Newsums got the contract by open
competitive tender, and that Vandyke houses cost
much more than half the Riley-Newsum price.
It seems rather a coincidence that a “Labor”
Senator should raise the question of prefabs, only a
week after the “Labor” Premier of N. S. Wales was
reported to have cancelled an order placed by his
Housing Minister for 1000 Vandyke homes, giving as
his reason that the Treasury had told him there was
not the money available to pay for them. Mr. Cahill’s
Housing Commission doesn’t seem to have shared
Senator Ashley’s belief that the importation of prefabs,
was a bad thing, or that it can be held responsible for
dismissals of local men. In the commission’s report
for the year ended June 30, 1952 —two months after
the last Riley-Newsum consignment reached Australia
—it expressed regret that owing to lack of funds
out of approximately 8000 overseas houses that would
have been obtained for this State in augmentation of
the maximum programme from local resources, it is
unlikely that more than 851 will now be built.
The report gives the impression that the N. S.
Wales “Labor” Government, through its Housing
Commission, had thrown itself into the business of
importing houses with the utmost enthusiasm.
The closest consideration was given to the
standards of materials and workmanship and suita-
bility to Australian conditions... The commission
was satisfied that houses of suitable standards were
available from resources overseas to relieve the
housing' position in this State.
Far from disagreeing with the Federal Government
on the subject, the N. S. Wales “Labor” Government
was accepting a subsidy of up to £3OO a house on
certain types, and the commission claims to have
worked in the “closest possible co-operation with the
Commonwealth authorities.” As a result of this, at
the time when the cold light of reason penetrated the
Loan Council last year and forced Premiers and
Treasurers to pull in their horns, negotiations were at
an advanced stage with four European countries in
addition to Britain. This was the position as recorded
in (he commission’s report:
CONTRACTS ENTERED INTO.
Houses.
Austria .. .. 1000
Germany .. .. .. 000
France . • .. .. 000*
2200
* Subsequently cancelled.
NEGOTIATIONS COMPLETED BET CONTRACT
NOT SIGNED.
Houses.
Britain 5000
Italy 200
France .. .. .. 000
5800
NEGOTIATIONS PROCEEDING BET NOT COMPLETED.
Houses.
Britain .. .. .. 500
The commission, therefore, at the time of suspending
negotiations, had reasonable expectations of erecting
some 8000 imported houses as a result of its activity
in this field. Following the suspension of negotia/
tions, and its subsequent cancellation of the French
contract, the commission’s expectations were reduced
to 1600 houses, and of these it is now possible that
only 851 may be supplied, owing to certain difficulties
which may have arisen.
From this it should be obvious that but for the drying-
up of loan funds, New South Wales—Senator Ashley’s
own “Labor”-governed State —would have imported
many thousands more houses. If Vandyke employees
have been thrown out of work by imported prefabs.,
it is dishonest for Ashley to say that the Menzies
imports are to blame and to ignore the Cahill imports.
Prefabrication, it seems, is not confined to houses.


PLAIN ENGLISH
On Their Records
The best argument for the swinging
voters on Saturday next is to be found
in easily checked facts rather than in
the arguments of party leaders. They
provide a line on the Government’s
critics of its “horror Budgets” and de-
pression policy and an acid-test for their
sincerity and ability to keep their in-
ferred promises.
In 1949 the Communists were in
control of nearly every key union, or a
large part of it. They have been almost
completely cast out. Coal in 1949 was so
short that factory working weeks were
frequently reduced to 30 hours because
of power-shortages. There is now coal
for export. Gas output (monthly) had
been increased 30 per cent, by com-
parison with 1948-49, electricity 40 per
cent.
The tale that production and consump-
tion are waning and depression is round
the corner doesn’t square with official
statistician’s facts. Iron-and-steel pro-
duction is up by 40 per cent.; bricks
by 10 per cent.; cement sheets by 40
per cent.; cement by 30 per cent, (against
1949).
“Labor” fought against rationing of
petrol being removed. It was removed
as one of the first acts of the present
Government. The removal has not
affected defence needs, and Australians
have since bought another half-million
motor-vehicles without putting any strain
on supplies. “Labor” clung to ration-
ing on tea and butter. The rationing
is off —forgotten.
The depression complex which
“Labor’s” leaders have developed, or
have tried to develop, has no justification
in fact. In material, not in money, terms,
consumption has increased 11 per cent,
in three years, which would in itself
indicate higher living standards even if
the extra half-million savings-bank
accounts and the additional £2OO million
which has gone into savings deposits
were not enough.
And the opinion of commerce abroad,
independent of politics, after watching
“Labor’s” attempt to socialise the banks
and pluck the fowl of capitalism, is in-
dicated by the fact that since June, 1951,
the Americans have announced new in-
vestments of almost £5O million and the
U.K. £4B million. Homebuilding has
provided an average of over 60,000 new
homes a year since “Labor” went out,
including a total of 43,000 for ex-service-
men and -women.
These are figures quoted by Mr.
Menzies, but they can be very easily
checked by anybody who doubts them.
And that is more than Dr. Evatt’s figures
can be.
"Fifty-fifty"
In the course of Bankruptcy Court pro-
ceedings last week Reginald Aubrey
Doyle, self-styled professional punter, at
present serving a 10-years sentence for
forgery, false pretences and theft, refused
to answer questions regarding his asso-
ciation with former N. S. Wales Minister
for Mines, J. G. Arthur. He declined to
say whether he had occupied Arthur’s
room at Parliament House; he admitted
he had leased a flat to Mrs. Arthur at
£7 7s. a week and'said he had bought
a 1950 Buick car from Arthur on Feb-
ruary 4, 1952. Then,
I refuse to answer any further questions
on Mr. Arthur or my associations with
him; after the royal commission I will
assist you all I can.
Mrs. Doyle was not so reticent. Ques-
tioned about her transactions in shares
in Constructors, Ltd., she said she had
.sold 8000 shares which she had bought
from Arthur.
Mr. Manning (for the Official Receiver);
Did you pay him back after the shares
had been sold?
Mrs. Doyle: I gave him money for him
to sign the shares over to me.
Mr. Manning: How much did you pay
Arthur? —£2000.
Mr. Manning: You sold the shares for
more than £4000?
Mrs. Doyle: Yes. I gave Mr. Arthur
£2OOO as security for the shares before I
sold them.
Asked what arrangement had been
made about the shares, Mrs. Doyle said :
I decided to go fifty-fifty with Mr.
Arthur on the profits. I got £lOOO out of
it and he got 600 new-issue shares, worth
about £750. He did not sell those shares.
Mr. Manning : In what circumstances did
Arthur give you the opportunity to make
money on these shares?
Mrs. Doyle : The arrangement was made
because Joe had mentioned it to my hus-
band. Mr. Arthur must have had a right
to the shares and wanted to sell them.
After Mrs. Doyle had said that that
was the only transaction she had had with
Arthur, she was asked about cheques for
£525, £2OO and smaller amounts paid to
Arthur out of her account. She replied
that she thought these were betting tran-
sactions ; she had no recollection of the
£525 cheque, and she did not know why
she had paid £1 ss. to a sharebroker
with a cheque endorsed “Dividend 100
Constructors shares on account J. G.
Arthur.”
She had paid the £2OOO in cash to
Arthur outside the Rural Bank in
January, 1951, after discussing it with
him previously. She had no papers or
records of the transaction.
Mr. Manning : What did you do with
the new-issue shares?
Mrs. Doyle: Arthur paid £lOOO and my
husband paid the other £lOOO.
Mr. Manning: What shares did you get?
Mrs. Doyle: I got 2000 and Arthur got
6000. He received £750 from the profit
and I received £lOOO.
The bankruptcy hearing is still pro-
ceeding. The royal commission is
scheduled to resume on May 18.
Friends Again
The “Labor” party has shown a nice
discretion in avoiding during the election
campaign any discussion of the conduct of
foreign affairs. The changes Mr. Casey
has wrought in our position and standing
abroad in his short period of office have
been substantial and salutary. This is
not to say that his policy or that of the
Ministry is not open to criticism —some
features of it, particularly the Anzus
Pact, have been criticised severely both
here and in Britain, and the criticism has
by no means fully developed.
But our general relationships with
other countries have become so smooth
that it is difficult to believe that the
position of 1945-49 was real. In his
•attempts to advertise himself in that
period Dr. Evatt was at odds with almost
everybody who could be of any use to
us. He courted the native races every-
where, a fact which delighted the
Russians but few others, not even the
native races themselves. He was an
enthusiast for the freeing of India and
Burma, and was so vocal about it that
some people abroad were inclined to
wonder whether he intended to cut the
painter with the United Kingdom. He
was an enthusiast for the freeing of
Indonesia to such an extent that he
mortally offended the Dutch, who, like
many Australians, had difficulty in draw-
ing a line between his own and the Com-
munist viewpoint. He supported the
Indians in S. Africa —the matter did not
concern Australia —against the policy
of the Union, thus causing a coolness
with a sister-Dominion.^
His policy tended to ignore the
common defence ties with the United
Kingdom, a somewhat mysterious and
nebulous attitude which seemed to please
only his strong supporters, the Com-
munists. Russia often had his support, and
this pleased the great Australian unions
which were run by the Communists but
which yet were represented at “Labor”
annual conferences. He offended the
United States over Manus not so much
because he refused the use of the island
(they didn’t want it), but because his
attitude seemed to be dictated by the
Communist objection to Uncle Sam
remaining there. He was usually with
the Russians against General Mac-
Arthur in Japan, and normally at
loggerheads with his own representa-
tives, who could never tell when he
w r ould suddenly change his plumage in
mid-flight.
It has been more than an achieve-
ment for the present Government to
clean up the messes, to wash out the
nasty tastes and to smooth over the
bad feeling towards us which he left
behind. From being the most unpopular
country in the world we have become
one of the most popular. Our stable-
companions are no longer Liberia, El
Salvador and Cuba and suchlike “demo-
cracies.” We are once more on the best
of terms with the great Powers and our
fellow-Dominions.
O
The Governor-General Lands
From the new concrete Man-o’-War
Steps (traditional landing-place for Aus-
tralia’s Governors-General), laid on the
site of Macquarie’s first steps, the
Admiral’s barge can be seen snuggled
against the old stone steps of Admiralty
House across the misty grey harbor. A
few yards off, smelling her buoy, waits
the grey-and-black leanness of frigate
Barcoo, a group of ratings round her
forrard 4-inch mounting. In the right
background, the ship-lined edge of
Garden Island, envious of their sister’s
eminence.
On the steps, the colorful splash of
service uniforms; backing them, the
green rise leading to Government House,
lined with fully 50 people. On the road
between steps * and slope, the blue-uni-
formed, white-gaitered and -belted naval
guard of honor, the bluejacket band from
the Nowra naval air-station waiting on
their right.
The distant barge eases from her steps,
picking up speed, a white wash mounting
astern. Abreast Barcoo the wash dies,
the barge swinging with the wind.
Aboard Barcoo a pipe shrills ; her mount-
ing spits a burst of white smoke, lit with
a tongue of flame. The first of the 19-
gun salute crashes across-harbor.
When the last echo dies, the gleaming
blue-and-white barge, every fitting
chrome-plated, sweeps in for the come-
alongside—years of experience concen-
trated in the cox’n’s tense face. A
“cock” here..,
He handles it nicely. The engine dies
to a snarl. Cameras wait. From the
midship cockpit a slim, straight figure
in the uniform of a British field-marshal,
the face set in a natural mask of grim-
ness, steps on to the pier, near where
the children of Macquarie, that other
officer of India, used to sail their toy
boats.
The Governor-General’s salute crashes
from the band in brassy welcome.
Salutes, handshakes, cameras whirring.
Stepping quickly and definitely—this
new commander-in-chief knows his busi-
ness —Sir William Slim approaches the
tensed ranks of the guard, the young
faces rigid with disciplined respect. A
word, a touch of an aircraft-badge on
a stiff arm, another comment, and re-
lieving smiles.
Inspection over, the guard orders-arms
with a disciplined smack on the bitumen.
The big Daimler whispers up.
Hammarskjold
The former Secretary-General of U.N.O.
at least had a name that fitted easily
into headlines, though the surname itself,
as generally pronounced, seemed to have
its disadvantages.
With Lie’s successor, Dr. Dag Ham-
marskjold, the headliners will have to
resort to using his Christian handle—
to uncouth ears an amazing sound in
itself, with perhaps other disadvantages.
At any rate, he collects $25,000 a
year tax-free as clear salary, with a huge
expenses allowance. He’s a Swedish
civil servant and economist, with one
complete disqualification for an appoint-
ment by Australian “Labor” —he’s never
been a politician in their sense of the
term, and his being a Minister without
portfolio doesn’t mean in Sweden what
it would mean here. Still, his people
have been mixed up in Swedish politics
for generations, so perhaps Dr. Evatt,
had he still been U.N.O. rep., would
not have had to blackball Dag \ “on
principle.”
Soviet support, hailed as part of the
Kremlin “peace offensive,” ensured the
appointment, and Dag’s first efforts
(“New York Times” report) were devoted
largely to pronouncing his name—that
is, his surhame.
He said that “Hammer-shield” would
do, that “Hammer-shuld to rhyme with
pulled” was better: “He also had some-
thing to say, couched in the metaphor of
his favorite sport, about the future of
the U.N. ‘The safest climber,’ he put
it, ‘is the one who never questions his
ability to get to the top of the moun-
tain.’ ”
Dag himself seems to have proved that
alpine axiom—if “mountain” is the right
word for U.N.O,
Price-Increase by "Labor"
Not satisfied with imposing thumping
charges on people who use Sydney trains,
trams and buses, N.S.W. Minister .for
Transport Martin has issued a new order
compelling them to pay an extra 6d. for
using private taxis, whether the taxi-
owners want it or not.
Every taximan will have to charge the
increase, because Mr. Martin has threat-
ened them with prosecution if they don’t.
Which suggests plainly enough that
another bunch of inspectors is about to
add their weight to the mass of inspectors
already cluttering up the city and harry-
ing everybody.
When this Minister of a Government
whose Prices Minister has been loudly
declaring that he intends to cut down
prices announced his intention, reporters
asked him the reason. He wouldn’t give
one.
It was unnecessary. The reason is that
the move is just one more despairing
effort to force people to use Mr. Martin’s
frightful public-transport system, which
is millions in the red and gives a service
between a tragedy and a joke. High fares
and bad service on trams and buses have
driven thousands to use taxis, which in
many ways are cheaper than trams and
buses, so Mr. Martin will penalise them
for it. Wasn’t it Mr. Cahill, his Premier,
who said some years ago, when this same
Government sought to impose penal
taxation on air-travel, that if people
wanted to use fast and comfortable means
of transport they’d have to pay for not
using the trains?
This new slug, of course, is merely
an extension of the slugs imposed on
long-distance road transport. There,
those who run tourist buses or motor-
trucks are compelled by the N.S.W.
transport laws to charge passengers an
extra Id, a mile and consignors 3d. a
ton a mile on total weight of truck and
load. The money thus collected is paid
to the bankrupt railways.
The difference is that the taxi-slug goes
into the taximen’s pockets, probably
because Mr. Martin’s advisers could see
no way to have it paid into tram and bus
revenue. Thus this “Labor” Minister is
adding to the profits of private enterprise
in a ridiculous attempt to boost tram and
bus revenue.
But over and above everything, the
spectacle of a “Labor” Minister deliber-
ately increasing the price of a private
service and forcing the sellers of that
service to impose it exposes—if any ex-
posure were needed—the “Labor” sham
that it is “the people’s Government.”
"Softlee Catchee Monkey"
“Ek Dum” : Those who believed that the
Soviet Union’s sudden sentimental dis-
plays of friendliness were merely an
application of the old Asiatic proverb
“softlee, softlee catchee monkey” are
being justified by happenings in Laos,
Siam and Korea.
The disputes at Panmunjon may be
due to some extent to what the
“Manchester Guardian” calls the “trucu-
lence and maladroitness” of the American
negotiator, Lieutenant-General Harrison,
who is certainly no Talleyrand. At the
same time he undoubtedly has been
much provoked, and the Communist
refusal to agree to name in advance the
neutral to whose care the prisoners of
war should be sent while armistice nego-
tiations are carried on gives rise to the
feeling that they are using the same tactics
as in previous negotiations —of agreeing
to every point except one on which they
know U.N.O. cannot agree and which
they think most likely to provide them
with fruitful propaganda among Asiatic
nations and then refusing to budge on it.
They must have known from the begin-
ning that the United Nations would not
hand over to them, as they demanded,
unwilling prisoners, in many cases con-
scripted South Koreans.
And they must equally know that on
this occasion the Allies would not agree
to the handing-over of prisoners to the
care of a neutral until they knew who
the neutral might be. British prisoners
handed over to a gentle neutral like
Persia might have cause for misgivings,
but the Chinese 'are just as likely to
choose Russia or one of the Soviet’s
satellites.
The position in Indo-China is even
more revealing. There, while the Kremlin
has been sending out doves by the sugar-
bag full, the Cominform agencies,
directly under Malenkov’s control, have
been fomenting an extension of the war
and a threat to Siam, which has been
warned from British sources that
her territories are infested with a
large organised Communist conspiracy.
It is significant that Communist
activity has flared up in Malaya. The
Viet-minh troops, too well armed and
equipped to be acting solely with their
own resources, closed on the capital of
Laos, Louang Prabang, during the week
and pushed steadily towards the Siam
border. Their invasion provoked the
remark from M. Bidault, the French
Foreign Minister, that he feared the
Soviet policy of peace was not genuine.
This is the first forthright utterance
on the subject expressing the doubts gene-
rally felt. Bidault said that it was
obvious that a new aggression had
occurred and that responsibility for it
was not confined to S.-E. Asia:
There is somewhere a man or several
men who direct policy as a whole, and it
is to them that our proposal is today
addressed —peace is indivisible.
The fate of the Communist advance
has yet to be decided, but there seems
no doubt about the outcome. The in-
vaders are only now reaching a point
o Continued on page 7)


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
Alum’s getting all the gadgets! What about
“Farmers’ Boy” for Bad ?
... ....
m,
[ J
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Rotary Hoe attached
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series II: Mark XII h.p. Yilliers Engine.
Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2 hoeing blades, lOin.
Tool-bar, 3 universal standards, power take-off.
F.0.8./F.0.8. State Capital Ports, £lB4/18/9
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit for Almost Every Purpose
z
Rotary Scythe.
Paspalum guillotined!
r
Plough
Lawnmower
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W. : GRAZCOS Co.-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne
Q’land ; BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
S.A.: CLUTTEKBUCK BROS. Ltd., 61-63 Bindley St., Adelaide.
]V.A. and Tasmania: Applications invited from Finns interested
in Distribution Rights.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Duster
Other attachments include;
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, spray-painting, etc., CUTTER BAR,
FURROWER, TRAILER, SAWBENCH,
GENERATOR for lighting, hole-bonng,
etc., MILKING MACHINE & DISC
HARROWS.
INFORMATION COUPON
{Please post to your State Distributor)
! Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS I
I BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
| NAME j
1 ADDRESS j
where the French are likely to chance
resistance. The French plan seems to be
to allow the Viet-minh troops to lengthen
their communications considerably and
then fight them on the plain of Jarres,
near Xieng Kouang, which the Com-
munists claimed to have captured over
a week ago, and west of the capital.
The Viet-minh force is a sizeable
one. Its divisions (304th-307th) are re-
ported at full strength, the total 27 bat-
talions, plus Laos irregulars, in some
strength. Against these, the French
have only seven battalions in the area,
two of them right down at Vientiane, on
the Mekong, near the Siamese border,
and they can spare few more from the
defence of the Tonking-Hanoi areas.
Louang Prabang, the capital, is defended
by only a single battalion or thereabouts,
and surrounded. The fate of Laos is
sealed unless help is sent. Some probing
Communist units are almost at the
Siamese border. The warnings, earlier
and current, from the Western leaders,
show the grave risks of world war which
go with the invasion and of which the
Soviet Powers must be fully cognisant.
POLITICAL POINTS
On any analysis it boils down to this;
Menzies represents the Production party,
Evatt the Inflation party.
9 •
In all previous Senate elections count-
ing has had to take second place to the
Reps votes, so that the job has not been
very far advanced by the close of count-
ing on the Saturday night. This time it
will be different; by midnight the
primary count in most metropolitan
divisions should be reasonably complete,
with a fair swag of returns also in from
the country. Allocation of preferences
will, of course, still have to wait until all
returns are in.
• ®
The Doc. has reduced his price:
In Brisbane, April 10: 1 would rather
lose 1000 elections than see any unemploy-
ment in Australia.
At Geelong, April 29; I would not care
if we lost 100 elections as long as we
could have every man and woman in Aus-
tralia employed.
Next bid, please,
9 9
Jack Lang came on the air on Sunday
night with a “Save Australia” Senate
talk. These days Lang gives his general
support to Evatt, reserving the right to
say what he likes about Calwell in the
Federal sphere and Sheahan in New
South Wales. His view is that the Senate
election is part and parcel of next year's
election for the Reps, and he warns
Australia that the country’s gravest
danger is a Government whose hands are
tied so that it cannot govern. For that
reason, speaking, of course, as a non-
party man, he urges electors to vote
“Labor,” so that a “Labor” Government
will not be hampered by a deadlocked
Senate after next year’s election. The
prospect of the Menzies Government
being hampered by a deadlocked Senate
for the next 12 months doesn’t seem to
strike the Big Fella as at all dangerous
9 9
At a meeting in Fremantle town hall,
after a spate of interjections on the sub-
ject of unemployment, Menzies asked
anyone who was “really unemployed
and needing a job” to stand up. Two
out of 500 stood up. “That shows the
difference between propaganda and fact,”
commented Menzies,
9 9
Evatt has been talking darkly of “the
big monopolies which work hand-in-
glove with the Menzies-Fadden Govern-
ment, and he warns that “this combina-
tion is becoming a great danger to small
businesses and private enterprises.”
This pose of being greatly concerned
over the welfare of the small businessman
has been a feature of the Evatt Senate
campaign. The reason is, of course,
obvious; the s.b.m. belongs to the
swinging-vote class which decides
elections.
Ben Chifley made similar efforts in
1949 when he said, “We have no inten-
tion of nationalising things like rag-shops
and ice-cream carts.” It didn’t come
off ; the electors shrewdly felt that a party
which openly admitted it aimed at nation-
alising banks, airlines, shipping and insur-
ance companies would not hesitate to
grab the small fry as well.
Biggest laugh of the Senate campaign
is Bert’s assertion that the Government
has been forced to fall back on mis-
representation of “Labor.” “Labor’s”
campaign, of course, has been kept on
the highest level.
9 9
Premier Cain, very concerned because
his Government departments are spending
£200,000 a year on petrol and oil for
Government motor-vehicles, apart from
those run by the Vic. railways, electricity
commission, tramways board and others,
has ordered a “special inquiry.” He has
a simpler corrective at hand. Why not
make the Government chaps use the
railways just as the Vic. Transport Board
makes everybody else use ’em?
9 9
Latest issue of “Dairy News Copy,”
put out gratis by N.S.W. Minister for
Agriculture, contains eight articles, six
of them praising pasture-improvement
THE QUACK
demonstrations by departmental officers
on dairy-farms in the Lismore, Forbes,
Kiama, Foxground, Nowra, Milton,
Nundle and Tam worth districts. In each
instance the work is referred to as “Dairy
Grant demonstration” or “Dairy Grant
Production demonstration.” Nowhere is
it called Commonwealth Dairy Grant,
though that is what it is, the money for
the work having been found by the
Menzies Gqvernment. The very sheet
which so carefully avoids any credit to
the Commonwealth Government is paid
for by that same Commonwealth Dairy
Grant.
9 9
Extract from the “Letters-to-the-editor”
section of the Sydney “Telegraph”:
My mother was so anxious to leave
Turkey that she married an Irish national.
Australia’s new Ambassador to Eire may
find his diplomatic skill strained to the
uttermost to explain that one.
Taxi-fares have been increased in
Sydney, the new flag-fall rate to be
Is. 6d. This doesn’t mean that the Trans-
port Department is permitting drivers to
charge the new rate ; it is forcing them,
and the department will apparently con-
sider it just as heinous an offence to
charge less as to charge more. In the
Cloud - Cuckoo - Land of “Labor”-
bureaucracy that makes sense.
• •
Samuel Phineas Lewis, Communist ex-
president of the N. S. Wales Teachers’
Federation, is off the executive of the
union for the first time in 20 years, and,
with his defeat and that of a batch of
his supporters, the control of the Federa-
tion has been wrested from the hands of
the Reds and fellow-travellers. Under
Lewis’s leadership the executive was
chosen at section meetings ; this system
was abandoned at the last annual con-
ference in favor of a secret postal ballot
of all members.
9 9
Unemployment? Despite the efforts
of Evatt, Ward and Calwell, Westralia
doesn’t seem to have heard o'f the word.
Anglo-Iranian Oil, seeking 900 workmen
for the construction of its new refinery
at Kwinana, near Fremantle, is talking
of flying out the necessary men from
Britain.
• •
“Labor’s” stock reply to Government
claims that the strong stand it has taken
against Communism has resulted in
giving Australia a period of industrial
peace such as it never experienced under
“Labor” is to say “Look how Chifley
and Evatt handled the coal-strike in
1949.” But it was only because “Labor”
Ministers had regularly backed down in
the face of Communist threats that the
Red-controlled Miners’ Federation had
the audacity to pull on the 1949 strike.
• •
Q. Is this Dr. Evatt who now shows
so much concern for the rights of indi-
viduals trampled on by the Menzies Gov-
ernment the same Dr. Evatt who, a few
years ago, told the Institute of Political
Science;
The taking-away of the right of the
individual to choose his own vocation and
employer is only one of the,freedoms whiciT
the Australian people must forgo in the
interests of the State.
A. Yes. Same man ; just a little stouter.
• •
One candidate tvho is sure to poll well
on Saturday is Mr. Informal. At the
1951 Senate election there were 339,678
informal votes cast: In New South Wales
the figure was 146,729, only JO,OOO short
of the required to elect a Senator.
Still, that was a big improvement over
1949, when the informal vote was
222,576 in New South Wales and 505,275
for the whole Commonwealth.
• •
Just as a sort of reminder to Aus-
tralians, who are eating and drinking
heartily, spending freely, and going to
England in shiploads for long holidays,
it has just been announced that the British
meat ration will be increased so that
everybody there can gorge themselves
up to two-bob’s worth of meat a week.
• •
At the end of January the United
Kingdom had 71,000,0001 b. of wool
stock-piled under a policy begun in
1951-52. Now, according to the Aus-
tralian Wool Board, no more stock-pile
wool will be bought for the present. This
will reduce competition for this season’s
clip and could affect prices. A further
justification for the Menzies Govern-
ment’s attempts to stop wild spending,
• •
Trevor Oldham, killed with his wife
and 41 others in the crash of a Comet
jet-airliner near Calcutta, became Oppo-
sition-leader in the Victorian Assembly
after the general election last December
when Liberal-leader Norman lost his
Glen Iris seat to former Premier Holl-
way. He had represented Malvern in
the Assembly for 20 years, and was
Attorney-General and Deputy-Premier
in the Hollway Government from
1947-50. He was on his way to London
to attend the Coronation as one of the
official representatives of Victoria when
the catastrophe occurred.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“X.S.”: Who says the Puritan tradi-
tion doesn’t persist in Melbourne? A
wine firm recently advertised over the
air that it was prepared to deliver choice
wines and sherries to your front-door in
a plain van,
❖ ►> ❖
Arthur J. W. Burgess: Revisiting, after
an absence of 52 years, old haunts and
sketching-grounds along the shores of
Sydney Harbor, I came to Bradley’s
Head, where the mast erected to com-
memorate the Sydney v. Emden action
in the First World War intrigued my
curiosity. Surely H.M.A.S. Sydney (a
light-cruiser) never had a tripod mast—
especially one as carried by a battle-
cruiser of that period. I was commis-
sioned by the trustees of the National
Art Gallery to paint a picture of the
First Australian Fleet and, later, two
large canvases for the Australian War
Records (Canberra). One of these showed
“Nero Wants your autograph .”
the Emden driven ashore by Sydney.
Earlier I had been working for various
naval shipbuilders, so Was familiar with
light-cruisers of the Sydney and Mel-
bourne class. To obtain details I spent
some time on both the Melbourne and
battle-cruiser Australia. I am unable to
accept that H.M.A.S. Sydney ever carried
the tripod mast as the inscription on the
tablet implies.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: It is so beautifully simple, so
genteel, the weight-scale racket that is
now the accepted practice in Sydney.
You go into a cakeshop and ask, say,
for a pound of cake at 2s. 4d. a pound.
A piece is hacked off, put on the scales
and is whipped off. “There’s a little over
the pound in that —two and eightpence.
Is that too much?” In the meantime it
is being wrapped in anticipation —almost
invariably correct —that the little extra
will be acceptable. It is never under the
weight, and one cake-shop employee I
know has orders always to cut more than
the quantity asked for. And you can
never be sure you are getting overweight,
anyway. It needs only a little knowledge
of psychology to know that your
customer —unless he or she is of the
aggressive type —will not in a crowded
shop demand to have the stuff put back
on the scales so the weight and price
can be re-checked. The same thing, a
butcher’s assistant assured me, is worth
up to £lO a week to the boss. There
must have been howls of delight among
Sydney greengrocers when the decision
was made to adopt the practice of selling
fruit by weight instead of number. If
you see any suburban shopkeeper looking
glum and frustrated you’ll know he’s one
of the stiff ones whose commodities are
sold by number only.
+Z* ❖
“NX Mick”: Sandy’s brand-new, ultra-
lightweight, chrome-plated bike slid from
under him in loose dirt on a Goulburn-
to-Sydney training ride. We braked and
returned, to gather round his still form
in the middle of the road, and a chorus
of voices anxiously asked: “Are you all
right, Sandy?” He opened his eyes and
moaned “I dupno. I haven’t looked at
me bike yet,”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spokeshave”: According to a fashion
authority quoted in Canberra’s “Current
Affairs Bulletin,” the same costume will
be indecent ten years before its time,
shameless five years before, daring one
year before, smart at the present moment,
dowdy one year later, hideous ten years
after, in 20 years ridiculous, in 30 amus-
ing, quaint after half a century has
elapsed, charming in 70 years, romantic
at the century and beautiful after the
passing of 150 years. This is the his-
tory of the trousers-for-women move-
ment, so “Jasby” (B. 22/4/’53) should
take courage and start wearing skirts.
■ijf
“Bert the Carpenter”: When an
Adelaide wrecker took the roof off an
old building in Hindley-street he noticed
that the stamped metal -tiles showed not
the slightest sign of rust, although they
had been standing the weather for a cen-
tury. He bent a corner of one until it
broke; it gave out a crackling sound.
Hardly able to credit his good fortune, he
took the tile around to the city’s leading
hardware manufacturers. They confirmed
his surmise; those metal tiles were made
of pure sheet-tin! The firm bought the
lot, and the wrecker collected several
hundred quid. Equally lucky was another
man who was asked to put an old garden-
fountain in working order. His tender
was too high. “Let the fountain go,”
said the property-owner. “Just lay new
pipes to the garden taps.” A few days
later the plumber offered to fix up the
fountain free of charge if he could take
the old pipes leading to it. The owner
told him to go right ahead, but he soon
found that the plumber was the winner.
Running from the boundary to the foun-
tain was 50yds. of cast-lead pipe with
walls over Tin. thick. The plumber’s lead-
bonus from the job would make a Broken
Hill miner’s mouth water.
♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: On the evidence, Sydney
is a pagan city. Allowing for slight
exaggerations on the part of disheartened
clerics, it seems a fact that a phenomenally
balmy autumn has emptied the churches.
Clergymen say that whereas long spells
of inclement weather have no noticeable
“And now observe how this brush cleans my suit in a jiffy.”
effect on Sunday attendances, the recent
extended series of summery weekends
emphatically has. This suggests that
Sydneyites definitely cherish more than
a sneaking regard for that ancient deity,
the sun-god.
♦> $
“Billy S.”: Three school-hats bent
over text-books, three school-badges
thrusting themselves aggressively towards
me —the badge of one of Sydney’s most
exclusive seminaries for young ladies.
As the train sped towards Sydney I
managed to read, upside-down fashion,
the titles of the books being avidly
perused ; they were David Copper field,
The Tempest and a poetry anthology.
The train pulled in at Redfern. David
Copperfield looked up and said “You
know that pimple on the end of Miss X’s
nose?” The Tempest and the poetry
anthology looked up and chorused “Yes.”
“Well,” continued David Copperfield,
“it’s busted.” Laughter all round, then
three heads again bent over their books
to carry on with their contemplation of
the rare beauty of the English language.
❖ ❖
“C. 8.”: Hollywood prides itself on its
ability to give arresting titles to its films,
as when it changed Anna Karenina into
plain “Love.” The most arresting title it
has produced, however, is O. Henry’s
“Full House.” On show in a Melbourne
theatre, it arrested both the attention
and the feet of several would-be patrons,
who, when they caught sight of it, tore
off to see if they could find a theatre
with vacant seats.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bethune”: The quibbling of a handful
of Scottish nationalists over whether the
Queen’s title should include the ordinal
First or Second after Elizabeth, has set
people wondering whether the question
has been raised in 'relation to other
monarchs. I don’t recall any outcry over
the titling of Edward VII or Edward
V1IL; possibly in the case of the former
the traditionalists thought it preferable to
accept him as the seventh Edward rather
than, by styling him Edward I, revive un-
pleasant memories of the Sassenach who
pinched the Stone of Scone. The remark-
able thing is that, with the exception of
the Jameses, who were accorded two
numbers, there was no reason for the
point to be raised between 1603 and the
accession of Edward in 1902. Charles, as
a royal name, was new to both England
and Scotland ; so were Anne, George and
Victoria. Mary II had one royal name-
sake on the English throne (Bloody Mary)
and one on the Scottish (Mary, Queen
of Scots). Her husband, William of
Orange, had as predecessors south of
the Tweed, the Conqueror and his son
Rufus; north of it only William the Lion
was actually crowned king, but if William
Wallace wasn’t William II in all but name,
then the Scots wha hae wi’ Wallace bled
hae shed their bluid in vain/
* * ❖
“Cauboy”: Unknown to most Aus-
tralians, in five years Swanhill-on-Murray
has risen to an eminence as the centre
of a revival of the Shakspearean tradi-
tion which, although it doesn’t so far
threaten Stratford-on-Avon, beats any-
thing done in Melbourne. For four days
recently the Murray township was posi-
tively drenched in Shakspeare. Beef-
eaters, pipers and townsfolk dressed in
costume, progressed through the streets;
there were decorated floats on the river,
depicting scenes from “Romeo and
Juliet” and “Hamlet”; a puppet show,
Morris dances, Elizabethan square-
dancing ; “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
and “Henry the Horrible” in burlesque;
films, public readings and an excellent
performance of “Twelfth Night.” For
one week the population of 5000 walked
and talked with the Bard and shouted
him drinks while the youth of the town
played him. The inspirer of this remark-
able rural burst of culture is Mrs.
Marjorie McLeod, the active little lady
who is in charge of the local branch of
the National Theatre movement. She
is aided and abetted by Mayor Duncan
Douglas, whose daughter Angela had the
leading role in “Twelfth Night.”
♦>
“Dug”: “Ceg’s” nurse (B. 15/4/’53)
who had mixed ideas on wines and soup
was probably busy catching up after a
sojourn in prohibition America. The
“rouge-en-blanc” available to the initi-
ated in some restaurants there did not
mean the concoction of “vin rouge et
blanc” with which she filled up and,
lacking the know-how, she would have
gone short. Another nurse, one of the
First War Aussie originals, visited
America during the “dry.” In a San
Francisco restaurant she noticed some
customers supplied with long opaque
white glasses, but it meant nothing to her.
Hearing her bemoaning the lack of a
drop of the doings, an acquaintance
suggested ordering buttermilk. She did
so. The long white glass arrived, con-
taining a copious measure of good red
wine, the “rouge-en-blanc” As easy as
that, if you had the magic word “butter-
milk.”
❖ * *
“Bo”: Hollywood’s latest period-pot-
boiler concerns the alleged activities on
the Spanish Main of Captain Peter
8100d —activities which would astonish
that virile character’s creator had he
lived to witness them on celluloid. In
one sequence Blood boards the brig, of
a fellow-pirate, a large, oily-ringleted
Italian whom Rafael Sabatini would
have been equally astonished to observe
—all the sea-captains of his who in-
fested Cartagena and Port Royal were
either Englishmen, Frenchmen or
Spaniards. Down into his cabin bounces
the ebullient spaghetti-fancier singing
snatches of the “Largo al Factotum”
from “The Barber of Seville.” A re-
markable piece of prescience, this. Blood
was sent out to the Barbados by Judge
Jeffreys at the Bloody Assizes for his
part in the Monmouth Rebellion, which
occurred in 1685. Rossini’s “Barber of
Seville” had its world premiere in 1816.
I still look forward hopefully to seeing
in some Hollywood historical opus King
John signing Magna Carta with a ball-
point pen.
WET OR DRY?
“Melbourne meteorologist Mr, H. E. Camm
says ‘All of Australia’s reputable meteorologists
know that a drought is almost certain next year.’
Commonwealth meteorologist, Mi- E- W.
Timke, said there were ‘no scientifically-
accepted grounds for assuming’ this.”
I shot an arrow into the sky.
It came down wet, or it came down dry.
But, animal, mineral, cold or hot,
Nobody knows if it’s weather or not.
Said Mr. Camm, “All the reputable met-
eorologists prophesy dryness and heat.”
But, animal, mineral, cold or hot,
Nobody knows if it’s weather or not.
Said Mr. Timke, “Don’t be upset;
When Camm says ‘dry,’ he may be all
wet.”
But, animal, mineral, cold or hot,
Nobody knows if it’s weather or not.
Does it add up to floods ? Does it add
up to drought ?
Can’t the Indian Sum-mer be working it
out ?
For, animal, mineral, cold or hot,
Nobody knows if it’s weather or not.
And the weather-reports—will no one
report ’umn
For robbing A ustralians of most of their
autumn ?
For, animal, mineral, cold or hot.
Nobody knows if it’s weather or not.
N.S.W.
SEILLIAM.


“Peter R.”: It takes a lot to fluster the
Navy. A midshipman was sailing a cutter
around Westernport Bay (Vic.) when a
violent squall struck, and the mast went
by the board. The cutter was driving
rapidly down upon the rocks when a
motor-pinnace came off to the rescue.
“What’s the matter. Smith?” hailed the
lieutenant in charge. “The mast has
broken, sir,” called back the hapless
middie. “Not broken, Smith,” shouted
the loot as the cutter drifted to within
a cable’s-length of the rocks, “not
broken —carried away! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Smithy”; I think everyone in Tas-
mania must have heard “Apple Isle’s”
clap of thunder (B. 15/4/’53). It rocked
me about 2ft. under the bedclothes, and
the missus went further than that. Our
three little Smiths were all hanging out
their bedroom windows enjoying the
spectacle, with the house threatening to
shake to pieces around their ears ; but
I did hear of the little girl whose father’s
stomach had the noisy habit of announc-
ing that it had received food confi-
dentially asking her mum next morning if
“Daddy was ill in the night, ’cos there
was an awful loud noise!”
❖ *X*
“Looby”; Gush-session behind me in
the tram: “Oh, my dear, I always deal
there. It’s a store with a delightful old-
world atmosphere. Why, they never use
that tape-stuff; they tie every purchase
up with real string.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Chevroford”: The Commonwealth
Statistician has worked it out that Vic-
torian drivers are the worst in Aus-
tralia. As a Victorian driver I
find this hard to believe,
although the figures are against
me. One thing I’ve noticed in
Melbourne is that pubs close
at six o’clock, that they are
thronged from five to six on
week-days and pretty well all
day on Saturday, and that
everybody’s preoccupation is to
get a skinful before he gets
kicked out at the hour fixed by
the authorities when people
must stop drinking. At these
times cars, trucks, vans and
even semi-trailers are parked
outside most pubs, and they pre-
sumably have drivers as well
as passengers somewhere. A
thing I’ve never seen happen
at a private party is for a host
to suggest to a car-owner
guest that he oughtn’t to
have another drink. In fact, the laws
of modern chivalry demand that a host
should do the opposite. As to myself.
I’ve noticed that I always feel I’m driving
better after I’ve had a couple than when
I am stone-sober, but, of course, I might
only think I am driving better. Still, I
have been driving for 30 years and haven’t
had an accident yet of any importance,
though X have spared the lives of
thousands of careless old ladies, women,
children, jaywalkers, fowls, cows, dogs
and horses who thoroughly deserved
destruction.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ali Chaidh”: I don’t dispute that
Highland women wore the belted plaid,
but if “Skee” (B. 15/4/’53) denies them
a tartan skirt he is going against such
an authority as Innes of Learney, the
“Period furniture, madam? See Mr. Charlson over there."
Lyon King of Arms, who mentions the
pleated skirt in Tartans and Clans and
Families of Scotland. On such tradi-
tional authority, Innes was successful in
getting an official skirt accepted at the
Braemar Games. The belted plaid is
unsuitable for dancing, but the plaids
were generally of tartan. “SkeeV’
account seems to be taken from Martin’s
Description of the Western Isles pub-
lished in 1703; it applies only to the
Western Isles, I have a reproduction of
an old print showing women working at
the making of tweed, and they wear a
mixture of tartan and plain skirts, belted
plaids and tartan shoulder-pieces. Until
she married, a girl wore a snood —little
more than a broad ribbon. When married
this was changed for a curch, toy or coif
(in Australian, a bonnet), A girl who
lost her character was not allowed to
wear the snood or the curch. Many a
sly allusion occurs in Scottish songs to
lassies who lost their snood,
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Cine Ma”: The request made by the
management of a Sydney theatre to its
“Look, mum —no bike!”
patrons asking them not to souvenir the
goggles provided for viewing the 3-D
films were so effective that to date not
one pair of goggles have been taken. As
the special polaroid glasses cost 15s. a
pair, this is some consideration. There
is one class in the community, however,
that won’t benefit from them. All the
scientific aids in the world will not enable
a one-eyed person to see stereoscopically,
for the simple reason that two good eyes
are basic equipment where the object
looked at is something projected on to a
flat surface. This, of course, doesn’t
explain the flatness of most modern paint-
ings.
“J.H.”: Signs announcing that German,
French, Polish and whatnot are spoken
within have become a commonplace. But
one Sydney motor concern has a winner
in a baby hoarding covered with a won-
derful array of foreign-language sen-
tences, topped by one in a script that
looks suspiciously like Arabic. Punch-
line is at the bottom: “And, of course,
Australian at its best is also spoken here.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hohum”; Roland Robinson’s account
of his visit to D. H. Lawrence’s house
at Thirroul (B. 8/4/’53) caused some
friends of mine to recall their visit. After
reading the faded name on the gate they
went in, clutching their copy of Kangaroo
and knocked on the door. It was opened
by Wagner’s nephew ; or so he explained
later, and why should we doubt it? He
was a schoolteacher, and had never heard
of Lawrence. But they soon set that
right. They opened their Kangaroo and,
using it as a guide, read him round to the
shower-room Lawrence describes, the
steps he used, and eventually all over the
house. Convinced, he asked them to
afternoon-tea, explaining he was merely
a holidaymaker, not his house at all, and
he’d never be so ignorant again. And,
of course, he won’t be. But I am. My
excursion to the house took place before
I met my friends. My love and I went
by train. It was wet, drizzly, and we
took the wrong turn from the station; so
we never found it. But we cheered one
another. And we bought a supply of
potato-chips, burning hot and packed in
little bags covered with red and blue
designs. And so went the time. I’m
sure Lawrence would have approved.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ *
“Zake”: A glorious autumn morning ;
time, around 8.30 a.m. The P.M.G.
mechanic who had set up his plant on
the footpath outside the outer-suburban
home was leaning comfortably against
the brick wall, writing a letter. Whose
heart wouldn’t be wrung with sympathy
for a fellow who, to preserve his lunch-
hour intact so that he could enjoy in
full measure the soporific warmth, was
compelled to pursue the task of catching
up on his correspondence at such a revolt-
ing hour? However, one couldn’t accuse
him of being crude —at least the “Men at
Work” sign wasn’t visible.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Beo”; Back from a pilgrimage to
Moscow, he was telling us about the
wonders of the Red paradise. His en-
thusiasm took me back to an occa-
sion in Berlin in 1946 when I
went to a watchmaker to collect my
watch. In came a Russian captain, who
gave an alarm-clock to the watchmaker
and ordered “Make a dozen small watches
out of this and keep the rest for your
work. Our Russian mechanics would
make maybe two dozen, but you Ger-
mans are not smart enough,” he con-
cluded, and walked out. “I must give
him the dozen watches or they will accuse
me of insulting their science,” said the
watchmaker sadly.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hyanlo”: We often take for granted
that a back-to-front collar places a sky-
pilot in a set apart, forgetting that they,
too, may have human failings. My
sister —an Army nursing sister, and as
garrulous as all women —got talking in
a Moresby mess, and when she men-
tioned her big brother in the Army the
new padre came into the conversation.
It appeared he knew me well; in fact,
had been our unit padre all through the
Middle East. On this slim acquaintance
quite a friendship developed till Sis got
my answer that our little unit had never
had a padre. Still, as he said when she
taxed him with it —“You can’t blame a
man for trying.”
*l* *** $
“Sack”: Every advance in the film
industry may have brought its advantage
to picture-fans, but a heavy toll has been
extracted, nevertheless. The early silent
generally began with something like;
“Charlie Chaplin in ‘WORK.’ Essanay
Comedy. Part I.” And the show was
on. Technique improved, and the pro-
ducer had to receive honorable mention,
then the director, then the cameraman,
then every member of the cast and even
the bloke from whose book the picture
was alleged to have been taken —although
he often wouldn’t have known it if they
hadn’t told him. More and more of the
customer’s time and patience were being
used up with each colossal epic. Talkies
burst into the picture. Immediately new
titles appeared on the honor-roll:
“Theme song by Thomas Tinpan.
Dialogue by Slick and Nazal. Musical
score by Schubert Snazzier. Sound-
effects by Knox and Wrattles.” And
so on. Then the “stupendous” spectacles
arrived—cribbing even more valuable
minutes while credit went to: technical
advisers, fashion-designers, make-up
continuity writers, adaptors from
the play and a host of others. And now
third-dimensional films are coming. I
was brooding over the inroads the 3-Ds,
will make when a soaring tubular scaf-
folding in a Sydney street caught my eye.
A huge sign on it read: “Scaffolding by
M ” It’s becoming an epidemic.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Piper”: Sympathise with “Fairf’s”
problems regarding the etiquette of deal-
ing with those who read books over his
shoulder in the train (B. 22/4/’53), but
suggest that an even more urgent ques-
tion is how to cope with the reader of
private letters. At least the slow, or
intrigued reader of a book can later get
a copy for himself if curiosity gets the
better of him. But he will never under-
stand your letter unless you explain that
a squiggle like a spider is a family short-
hand meaning “Everyone well”; or
that the phrase “Jim was on it again
last Saturday” refers to his skill in pick-
ing winners and not to the plonk. And
could Emily Post herself compose a
retort courteous to the lady who, having
read my letter with close attention, re-
marked as she scrambled over my feet
on the way out, “Your sister’s not very
hot on spelling, is she?”
SPICED CELLULOIDISMS
No Holly wooden opus can
Be ever deemed to be complete —
Acceptable to every fan —
Unless, reviewing his defeat.
Some character —the lowly kind,
Always a boring sort of fellow —
To loud upbraiding is inclined.
Though they’ll have done it to him, mind,
“They kaint do this to me/” he’ll
bellow.
Then there’s the crook with gat in hand,
His minatory mouth a slit;
A model, he, of self-command.
There's not a cop he can’t outwit
(The snooping crime-reporter , though
His turpitude will be revealing).
One thing is definite; he’ll throw
A speech that we’ve all come to know :
“Yew heard me. Bud —reach for the
ceiling !”
The film in which the Big Shot rules —
His feet among a forest of phones —
The politicians who’re his “tools”
Is one to raise our deepest groans.
The script of this must needs contain
Besides the “Okay —beat it, baby !”
One that no yes-man could refrain
From shooting. Something in this
strain :
“We got the D.A. sewn up, J. 8.?”
Who hasn’t, in his flea-bound seat.
Fidgeted more whene’er his eye
Sees coming on the screen, replete
With self-conceit the amorous guy
Who makes persuasiveness with dames
His longest suit ? Having begun, he
Soon discloses sinister aims.
Leering, he huskily exclaims:
“You an’ me could go places, honey
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


The pick
of t he bunch
since
1847
GMoncta
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
It’s unlikely that the new G.-G. will
need advice on matters military, but in
his newly-appointed A.D.C., Lt.-Cdr.
John Griffin, the Field Marshal will have
a man owning to knowledge of all three
services. Griffin started War II in the
A.I.F. In 1943 he shifted to the R.A.A.F.,
trained in Canada, and was with a night-
fighter squadron in England at the cease-
fire. For three years from 1946 he was
at Adelaide and Sydney Universities,
studying aeronautical engineering. Then
he joined the Australian Navy. Here,
also, the accent was on versatility—he
serving in destroyer Warramunga in
Korea before shifting to naval aviation,
in which science, after courses in Eng-
land, he rose to be senior observer with
the R.A.N.’s 816 carrier-squadron.
Assuming that an Ambassador should
be cosmopolitan; should give, even in
casual conversation, the impression of
thoughtful, energetic intelligence ; should
have wide knowledge of, and, possibly,
lectured on, world affairs : —then it can
AMBASSADOR TO IRELAND
be assumed that Dominic Paul McGuire
should make a first-class job of Aus-
tralia’s Ambassador to Ireland. Schooled
at the Christian Brothers’ College,
Adelaide, McGuire has been moving ever
since, and in the past 12 years there are
few capitals he hasn’t cast up in, observ-
ing, writing, lecturing. R.A.N. service
in War II added a mile or so to his
travels and to the swag of books bear-
ing his name. As well as whodunits
and travel-books, he has produced the
excellent Price of Admiralty, the story
of the sloop Yarra’s fighting end against
a Jap cruiser squadron. His wife (also
a graduate of Adelaide University, and
a biochemist interested in insulin
research) helped him with the Yarra
story; and went on to produce The Royal
Australian Navy, a mass of accurate in-
formation, possibly the best reference
w.ork on the subject. The new Ambassa-
dor is nuggety, friendly and just turned
50.
Met in Melbourne, one of the most
belettered of English airmen and the
man who figured in the most D’Artignan-
like escape of the last war —Air Marshal
Sir Basil Embry, K.8.E., C. 8., D.S.O.
(three Bars), D.F.C., A.F.C., former
C.-in-C., Fighter Command. Shot down
in a Blenheim bomber before Dunkirk,
he was captured by the Germans but
decided not to submit tamely to cold
storage. He grabbed the rifle from a
guard, shot him, then shot another, dived
into the Somme and wriggled his way to
Paris, where the American consulate got
him back to England.
A high distinction has come the way of
Albert Coates—an honorary Fellowship
of the Royal College of Surgeons. One
of Melbourne’s leading medicos, Coates
is certainly not without honor among
Malayan Diggers. President of the
B.M.A. in Victoria in 1941, he was
operating in A.I.F. hospitals in Malaya
when the Japs began pouring down the
spine of the peninsula. Leaving Singa-
pore under orders 48 hours before the
surrender, he had his ship removed from
under him by an aerial bomb, landed in
Sumatra and elected to stay with his
patients when the Japs landed. So the
patients, and Japs, had the services of a
remarkable surgeon. Coates learnt a good
deal of surgery and medicine on
Gallipoli; later worked as a mailman
in the Melbourne G.P.O. and as well
studied medicine at the University.
Extraordinary persistence gained him
first-class honors and one of the
biggest prizes in pathology. Born in
Ballarat, he was the R.S.L.’s choice to
represent it at the Jap Treaty Conference
in 1951.
For his thesis on forestry (based on
34 years’ writing on the subject), T. N.
Stoate, at present Conservator of
Forests in Westralia, has been awarded
a Doctorate of Science by Adelaide Uni-
versity. It is the first awarded in Aus-
tralia for forestry. Another “first” of
Stoate’s was the award of the Russell
Grimwade travelling scholarship in 1930,
on which he laid the roots of his present
know-how, at Oxford.
New secretary of the Supply Depart-
ment (which controls, among other
things, the Woomera rocket-range),
Francis Alexander O’Connor has spent
most of his life dealing with supplies.
Born at Leongatha
(Vic.) and schooled at
Melbourne High, he
joined the public service
at 17, secretary to Cap-
tain Griffith, of the
Military Board. Shortly
afterwards he shifted
to the newly-organised
Navy Office. For
almost ■ the whole of
War II O’Connor was
chairman of the Con-
tracts Board and Direc-
tor of Contracts —a
hefty assignment. A
family man with four
children, his spare-
time is taken up supply-
ing his beloved garden
with fertiliser or his
motor-car with a driver.
After just on 20 well-
remembered years as
head of Melbourne’s
Scotch College, Colin
Macdonald Gilray
(he’s a Scot), is due for
slippered ease. A New
Zealand Rhodes
Scholar, son of a one-
time Professor of Eng-
lish at Otago Uni-
versity, young Gilray
played Rugby Union
for the Fernland before
he went to Oxford,
where he played,
naturally, for Scotland.
Though he started
teaching at London’s
famed Mill Hill School,
Gilray had a shot at
Wilhelm (winning
M.C.), and a shot at law (Inner Temple
Bar), before finally settling for teaching.
Principal of Dunedin’s John McGlashan
College when Melbourne called. Born
at Broughty Ferry, Scotland, 68.
Relieving Gilray, Englander R. Selby
Smith becomes, at 38, one of Australia’s
youngest G.P.S. heads. An Oxford and
Harvard man, Smith unaccountably
joined the War II Royal Navy as an
ordinary-seaman. He later went for his
commission, however, got it, and clewed
up as lieutenant-commander in a light
aircraft-carrier.
Sir Maurice James Mansergh, born
two years ahead of his brother, Cecil
Aubrey Mansergh, has maintained “pre-
vious station” in naval promotion.
Maurice, rear-admiral, 1946; brother,
rear-admiral, 1948 ; Maurice, vice-
admiral, 1949; brother, vice-admiral,
1951. Both have two sons, both were
in War I (the younger at the Dardan-
elles), both commanded cruisers (Maurice
the 15th Cruiser Squadron at the end of
War 11, Cecil the Enzedders Achilles and
Leander in the Pacific fighting), and both
have had important staff jobs, Maurice
having been chief-of-staff to the Allied
Navaf C.-in-C. for the Normandy affair.
The other day the elder stepped up to
full admiral in Her Majesty’s Fleet.
Along with several other very charm-
ing and talented people —Barbara Jefford,
Anthony Quayle, Raymond Westwell,
Joan MacArthur and Jane Holland (Mrs.
McKern) among them —Leo McKern is
one of the reasons for the noteworthy
quality of the Shakspeare being served
up by the Shakspeare Memorial Theatre
Company at Sydney Tiv. The human
touch is the final touch to an actor, and,
to roles as far apart as lago and Touch-
stone, McKern brings a recognisable
human quality. His lago, a most vil-
lainous creature, is suspiciously like the
bloke next door, and his vastly amusing
Touchstone is flooded with human
warmth. McKern himself, of course, is
nothing like either, except that the human
touch isn’t one of his histrionic acces-
sories—it persists behind his quiet voice
and quick smile when, offstage, the grease-
paint and costume are drained of the
character with which he fills them so
generously for an audience. An Aus-
tralian (Sydney-born), McKern first
TOUCHSTONE
nibbled at acting during the last war —
he was with the 57th Field Park Coy.; —
and, afterwards, moved about some of
the Sydney repertory groups without
receiving any conspicuous encouragement.
Six and a half years ago he went to Eng-
land, and, in less than half that time,
shot from nowhere to the top with the
Old Vic., accumulating a reputation and
a list of performances which is almost
unbelievably impressive—until you see
him in one of them.
FIELD-MARSHAL
SIR WILLIAM SUM,
as seen on Man-o’-War Steps, Sydney
The Navy, too, sails on its stomach,
wherefore the supply-branch rates some
importance in the complex fighting
organisation of a ship—it being respon-
sible for supplying anything ranging from
butter to blocks for boats’ falls. The
other day Barrie Lawson West, an R.A.N.
supply midshipman from Mooroolbark
(Vic.), took the Grand Aggregate Prize
in England, in competition with snotties
from the Mother Navy and every other
in the British Commonwealth. West won
his prize in the training cruiser H.M.S.
Devonshire; it was handed to him by
that other sailor, the Duke of Edinburgh.
The Royal College of Surgeons has
awarded the Jacksonian Prize for 1952
to John Borrie, thoracic surgeon at the
Dunedin Public Hospital (N.Z.) for an
essay on the surgical treatment of cancer.
A graduate of Otago Medical School,
Borrie served with the Kiwi Medical
Corps and was captured in Greece. A
Nuffield Fellowship awarded after the
war took him to the U.K. Cancer being
his speciality, he annexed a Hunterian
professorship for research concerning its
lung ravages while he was with the
Northern Region Thoracic Unit in New-
castle (Eng.).
Into the Silence:
At Raetahi (N.Z.), at 90, Walter Seth-Smith,
who introduced American bees into North
Otago for fertilising purposes. A brother, Rev.
Frank Seth-Smith, still alive in Bournemouth
(Eng.) at 98, preceded David McKee Wright as
pastor of the Congregational Church in Oamaru
some 60 years back. The church has long
since been demolished.
At 55, at his Northwood Park property,
Seymour (Vic.), Alexander George Hunter,
known widely and well in racing and agricultural
circles—as evidenced by his presidency of the
Victorian R.A.S. and chairmanship of the
Trotting Control Board. The names of the
horses he bred at Northwood Park would make
a track Who’s Who; Windbag himself was for
many years his leading sire there. Victoria’s
richest pacing event, the A. G. Hunter Cup, is
a memorial to his standing in the sport.
In Adelaide, at 74, Professor John McKellar
Stewart, till recently vice-chancellor and Pro-
fessor of Philosophy of Adelaide University,
and a most assiduous educator. His work in
that field brought him C.M.G. in 1949.
Educated in Melbourne, Edinburgh and Ger-
many, he had been connected with the University
for over 30 years. His three sons are medicos.
At 50, at Lockley (S.A.), Arthur Charles
Kinnear, circulation-manager of News, Ltd.,
and, earlier, deputy chief-of-staff of Adelaide
“Advertiser.” In just under 40 years of journal-
ism, he had managed SAD radio-station,
accompanied Dr. Grenfell Price to the Simpson
Desert seeking Leichhardt’s remains, and, in the
middle of War 11, had become Director of Infor-
mation in S. Australia’s civil-defence set-up.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 56, William Robert
Lane, of the N.Z. “Herald.” Born in Paraguay,
where his father (with associates) had sought
to set up Utopia, W.R.L. returned with his
parents to New Zealand after the failure of
the New Australia scheme. With the Auckland
Mounted Rifles in Palestine in War I, he retired
from the “Herald” in 1950.


MUTUAL AID


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: I was to pick Mat up
in Nagambie, but couldn’t locate him.
Nagambie isn’t the sort of place where
you’d lose anybody, and I concluded he
hadn’t arrived. I took a walk, just to
put in the time and have a look at the
place. Up a side-street I met a wedding
party just coming from a church and
stopped among the little crowd to watch
it. Then I spotted Mat. He was on the
other side of the crowd from me, with
his eyes fixed on the bridal pair as they
came out and their friends started crowd-
ing round and throwing confetti over
them. Mat kept his eyes on the couple
all the way through the crowd and into
their car, and he watched the car drive
away, I got to his side. “Was she a
little beauty! ” I exclaimed. “I bet she set
you thinking, you big hump.” His eyes
“The other Way, John —I'm sure we passed a pump this
morning sometime .”
came back to me from some far-off
place. “Eh?” he said. “Come off it,” I
commented; “you couldn’t take your
eyes off her.” “Her!” he snapped. “It
was him I was lookin’ at. He’s the dead-
spit of a cove who owes me a fiver.
* * * *
“Snaffle”: I’ve seen plenty of the bush-
horsemen type mentioned by “5.4. E.” (B.
22/4/’53), and plenty of the show-ring
and park-style riders, too, and I’ll take
the latter any time —and not on looks
alone. Has “5.4. E.” ever considered that
the correctly-balanced rider is a lot easier
on the horse than the man with what he
aptly describes as the “sloppy-looking
bushman’s style,” whose weight is prob-
ably shifting at every step, with conse-
quent discomfort and fatigue for the
mount? Furthermore, I’ve seen more
horses with sore backs, due to bad horse-
manship, on outback stations where the
big stocksaddles are used, than on the
smaller inside properties where
very often the riders are training
their mounts for the show-ring
while they’re working. I admit,
however, that one feature of
the present show-ring seat, par-
ticularly as favored by women
riders, could be improved;
many of them ride a trifle too
“short,” bending the lower leg
back from the knee. The old
dictum, “toe, knee and shoulder
in a straight line,” with a
straight back and hands low,
gives the rider a better appear-
ance, and more control over a
horse that’s inclined to play
up. Low hands ensure that the
horse is controlled by pressure
where it should be, on the jaw,
and not on the mouth, as is too
often the case with the bush-
man’s style—and the rider is
better able to “hold his horse
together,” and thus give it con-
fidence as well as improving its
“style.” As for hunting saddles
of the real English type (rarely
seen in Australia), I’ve ridden
in those built 60 or more years
ago. They’re as flat as a board
from pommel to cantle and have
no knee-pads. I’ll give full
marks to any man who can
handle a powerful, hard-pulling
hunter across-country on one
of them —and at the same time
balance a silk “topper” on his
head with every appearance of
nonchalant unconcern.
“Ketchla”: Jack Sauerbier, with
whom I went prospecting in the Mc-
Donnell Ranges, had marvellous eye-
sight. From a small quondong-kernel
about the size of a threepence he carved
for’me a tiny basket. On its sides it has
a stag’s head, a kangaroo, a rose, sham-
rock and thistle, whilst running across
the handle is a suitable dedicatory mes-
sage. It was done with a pocketknife
without the aid of a lens, yet the work
stands up to being viewed through a
powerful magnifying-glass. Jack’s eye-
sight was equally good at long-range
vision. He could recognise a friend a
mile off. One evening we were admiring
the planet Venus, then at its brightest.
Jack remarked: “You know, that thing
looks to me as if it’s not round, but
shaped like a section of orange.” I
thought little of it at the time, but years
j a t er j mentioned it to a surveyor. “Venus
does show as a crescent,” he replied,
then set up his theodolite. When I looked
through the telescope I beheld what
resembled a tiny new moon. In his
Arabia Deserta Doughty states that the
Arabs claim to be able to see Venus as
a crescent with the naked eye. Spencer
Jones, the Astronomer Royal, doubts if
such a thing is possible, but I don’t think
he had taken into account the marvel-
lous clarity of the air in semi-arid coun-
try in winter. In Centralia I never had"
any trouble to see quite clearly the nine
stars in the Seven Sisters constellation.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: Add the Gascoyne River,
in nor’-west Westralia, to the wandering
watercourses mentioned by “Bass” (B.
22/4/’53). A few million years ago it
entered the Indian Ocean many miles
south of the present mouth, swinging
away when it encountered a rocky bar
at the extreme east of Brickhouse
Station, through which the old channel
“Just to start with , put your head in here , and I'll tell you
if you make a mistake."
can still be followed; its once-steep
banks are now smooth slopes, and water-
gums grow thereon. In time the river
broke through the rock and took a new
course down to where Carnarvon stands
today; where the rock barred its way is
Rocky Pool, a deep, wide sheet of water
that’s one of the finest camping places in
the district. And, parallel with the new
course and in some places only half a
mile from it, there still flows one of the
tributaries of the ancient stream (at least,
it flows when there’s rain), running be-
sicfe it for miles and then turning sharply
away to the south to peter out in a chain
of pools and vanish in the sand. The
“new” river has its peculiarities also.
Seven or eight miles from the mouth, on
the north side, the country is cut by a
maze of dry channels linked to the main
river, and these, in flood-time, all flow
away from the parent stream. Once had
the pleasure of being caught in this
watery wilderness, surrounded by deep,
strongly-flowing creeks and completely
cut off in dusty, drought-stricken salt-
bush plains; 12 to 15in. of rain had
fallen about 150 miles up-river, and we,
who hadn’t received a point, were as
badly off as though we’d copped the
lot. It’s a great place, the nor’-west —if
you like that sort of thing.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Sebak”: It had long been my ambi-
tion to see a really big shark caught.
I had imagined a desperate battle, foam
flying, stout rod bending, thick line
twanging, reel screaming. Recently I had
my chance. The fisherman was a
veteran, so when he told me that a big
Joe Nark was on the other end of his
line I eagerly waited to see the fight. His
feet planted firmly on the wet sand the
angler began to reel in; a few turns,
then he was prepared to let the monster
run again. There was no furious re-
sponse from the seaward end of the line.
Again the reel began to wind. Nothing
but a dead-weight resisted the line. The
veteran looked perplexed. He wound in
more line —and looked even more
mystified. From my point of view, I
could have been watching a man drag
in a bag of potatoes, for all the thrill
there was about it. The big body broke
the surface, not far out; there was no
swish, no swirl, scarcely a splash. “I
can’t understand it,” muttered the fisher-
man. He steadily wound in more line,
brought the twelve-footer into the surf,
stranded it —and then he did understand.
One of the shark’s cannibalistic cobbers
had bitten a huge chunk out of his back
just above the tail. It didn t need much
''imagination to realise that a shark bitten
through the nerves and muscles at that
spot would be as completely helpless as
a man with his spine broken. I still
have an ambition to see a really big,
uninjured shark fighting it out.
* * * *
“Sack”: It’s not uncommon to find in
a stand of bluegums, box, etc., an odd
sapling that is different from the others,
yet has unmistakable characteristics of
two distinct species in the clump. The
alien is a hybrid, of course, and cross-
pollination by the bees the obvious ex-
planation. But there is another tree which
puzzled me for years. At a passing
glance it can be mistaken for a bluegum;
on closer inspection, however, its bark
seems to be something between a box
and a blackbutt, without being very much
like either. But it is the foliage which
is the puzzling part. Although the
bulk of the leaves are about 12 inches
long, two wide and curved like a sickle,
at various places on the main bough
branches shoot out bearing a completely
different type of leaf. The aliens are
almost oval in shape, two inches by four,
and nearly blue-green in color. When
broken both types of leaf smell more
powerfully of eucalyptus than most
gums. Cross-pollination could not pro-
duce the freak, although budding could;
but nobody goes around practising
arbour-surgery in virgin bush. I’d written
off the mystery as unexplainable till I
saw one of the freaks growing in Hyde
Park (Sydney), near Liverpool-street. A
foreman gardener answered my question
definitely—the tree had not been budded
or grafted. And on his further informa-
tion I now know that the tree is a Euca-
lyptus longa-flora and the freak foliage
is natural to it.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Wai-weer”: About 30 miles north-
west of Thursday Island is Naghir Island,
known as Mt. Ernest, and thought to be
the spot which Torres, struck by its re-
semblance to Monserrate, gave that name.
When I last visited the island
there was a roughly-hewn piece
of stone about sft. high stand-
ing beneath a tree near the beach bearing
some sort of likeness to a human figure
and called Nagi. It used to stand at a
site in the bush where the zogo-man prac-
tised his witchcraft. The people were
expected to contribute liberal gifts to
Nagi’s welfare ; and when bringing them
to be placed at the base of the figure had
to bend low and crawl forward on their
knees. But a pearl-getting company
operating from the island saw possibilities
in Nagi’s reputed powers, had the figure
shifted to its later site and used it as a
stimulus to native workers who might be
contaminated by the white man’s “go-
slow” policy. Apparently a judicious
reference to Nagi’s methods of producing
ill-luck when offended brought results.
THE “JADED SAINT”
The “Jaded Saint” was a battered old “Cat,”
With worn-out donks and a dented hull;
Her mainplanes sported many a patch
And her perspex blisters were scratched and
dull.
Her high tail-fin and her nacelle-struts
Were the roosting-place of the wandering gull.
Whenever the “Saint”, returned from patrol
You could hear her coming from miles away!
Her wheezy old donks would clatter and bang,
As she hit the drink in a shower of spray;
And taxied in, like a half-stunned duck,
Awaking the echoes around the bay.
When the trade-wind blew and the swell was
high
And the surf on the shelving beach would sing
The “Saint” would tug at her mooring-buoy
And lean on her floats and roll and swing . . .
Her barnacled bottom would show at each
plunge
Like lace on the skirts of some gay old thing!
Some wag of a pilot had christened the “Saint,”
Had done, on her bows, the painting bright,
Of an ancient gent, in a long, grey robe,
With a nose so red and a beard so white;
A bottle of plonk in his trembling hand . . .
A saint who had been on the scoot all night!
With his halo in splints . , . and his moulting
wings,
His haggard cheeks and his face so sad,
His bloodshot eyes and his wobbling legs , . .
One felt so sorry for the poor old lad,
With his dissolute air and his hang-dog pose . . .
You could feel the headache the old chap had!
In the hundreds of hours we flew the old kite,
For day after day, in the stress of attack, •
Through tropical nights of peaceful calm,
Or lowering skies all stormy and black
Her squadron-mates were shot down or lost . . .
But the “Saint” never failed to come safely
back.
And many a sailor and soldier, at sea,
Has blessed the “Saint” as he fell asleep,
While she circled the convoy, ahead and astern,
Her tireless, night-long watch to keep,
Around and about, in that vigilant search
For the Sneaking Death which lurked in the
deep.
VICTORIA. K.D. MACKENZIE (EX-R.A.A.F.).


“C. Towers”: Another sidelight on the
habits of the electric stringray —Torpedo
vulgaris. Prawn-boats working the
N.S.W. coast carry a small tank of sea-
water on deck in which the catch is
dumped for sorting, together with the
various forms of marine life brought
up in the trawl. A large specimen of
T. vulgaris landing in the tank with them
has been known, by discharging his
voltage, to kill every prawn therein in-
stantly ; furthermore, every prawn was
turned from golden brown to dull white.
Could one infer from this that the stored
electricity is not only for defensive pur-
poses but for stunning or killing small
fish and Crustacea on which T.v. proposes
to dine?
♦ * ♦ *
“Harbel”: Mac’s failure to make pro-
vision for a gate in his fence wasn’t such
a tragedy, if he discovered his blunder
just after he had “finished putting the
last rail in position” (B. 8/4/’53). In
a fence which has no gate-opening there
are two ways of putting the last rail in;
by cutting top , and bottom rails so that
one end will slip farther than necessary
through the mortise in the post, then
pulling back to go through the post at the
other end of the panel; or, the more
usual way, by leaving the last post loose
in its hole (where it is a corner-post or
"Reached bottom be blowed —’e must be treadin' Water!”
one in between makes no difference), kick-
ing it out of alignment until the rails on
both sides are entered in the mortises,
then warping the post back into position
with the spudbar. In either case the
horse and cart could be got out of the
enclosure without a lot of trouble. I’m
reminded of the legend of the absent-
minded brickie. Scores of people knew
him, but no two have the same name for
him or saw him perform his classic
“blue” in the same place. His renown
sprang from a humble but very import-
ant little brick edifice which he com-
pleted, then found himself a prisoner
inside. He’d forgotten the door. But
so far I’ve never found anybody who
“can remember” how he got his material
inside.
* * * *
“Bass”: The recent heavy rains in the
Westralian goldfields were followed by
swarms of butterflies, which produced a
plague of cutworms. They ate out some
towns and they’re still a menace to
others, and they’re proving one thing
very conclusively: that the modern
methods of pest-destruction are as hope-
less against such numbers as were the
methods used 30 years ago. Nature is
on one of her reproductive sprees, and
the results are staggering. The W.A.
Government entomologist reckons this
must be the worst cutworm-plague the
West has known, and if he’s right there
must be something like half a million of
them to the acre. That’s about the esti-
mate of the proportions they reached in
‘the previous big plague. Then we dug
ditches across the paddocks and wondered
what to do when they were filled to over-
flowing. We drove sheep across them
until the ground became boggy with the
pulverised worms. And in the end we
simply had to wait until they ate them-
selves out and vanished. They did that
with the help of flocks of ibis that turned
up from nowhere, but mainly they just
died out. That plague astounded us with
the speed with which it got under way,
but the explanation is simple. Some
cutworms are always with us, and a long
dry spell had slowed down the rate of
reproduction. Rains came and condi-
tions suddenly became favorable and
continued that way, and Nature went
mad. Most grubs have a short life;
they pupate quickly, moths mate within
a few hours of emergence, and they lay
tremendous numbers of eggs. Ordinarily
most of those eggs would be wasted, but
under favorable conditions they all hatch
and the grubs all live. So it goes on,
and man can simply watch in helpless
amazement.
* ♦ * *
“Elkeedra”: “Charley Blair” (B.
15/4/’53) is partly correct about Aus-
tralia’s inland sea. A few million years
ago—which is only yesterday as geolo-
gists measure time —the continent was
divided by a broad sea-channel which
ran from Port Augusta (S.A.) right
across to the Gulf of Carpentaria. If
you look at a contour-map you can still
see traces of it. Down this channel came
the shellfish of the tropics and the man-
grove-tree, to establish themselves in
South Australian waters and also in the
shallow sea which then existed where
the Nullarbor is now. When this sea-
channel was blocked, partly'by silting-up
and partly by rising of portions of the
land mass, those tropical shellfish and
mangroves adapted themselves to colder
water and climate. In a modified form
they still exist there today. A geologist
once showed me the evidence, in the
form of shells from the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, the same types, beautifully opalised,
from a fossil-bed near Alice Springs,
and some taken from Spencer’s Gulf in
S.A. The similarity was unmistakable,
Incidentally, the big turtles of the tropics
which occasionally appear in S.A. waters
always make for Spencer’s Gulf when
winter approaches, as if age-old instinct
were driving them to seek a sea-channel
running north which no longer exists.
# * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Seems a New Zea-
land shearer named Bowen is claiming a
world’s record for 456 sheep shorn in
nine hours, and W.A. sheep-barbers are
kicking—they reckon the N.Z. jumbucks
are straight-backs and as bald as walla-
bies, and that a good Australian shearer
“Pilot coming aboard, sir!”
could shear at least 500 of them in a
day. One old W.A. hand recalls the “mad
eight” who shore 1811 sheep at William-
bury in the Carnarvon district in 1.923,
and he claims that their figures, as a
team, have never been beaten. They’ve
been beaten all right. Their average of
226, put up in an eight-hour day, may
be a redord for an eight-man team, but
in 1939, at Roy Hill, six men averaged
just on 250 for a 1499 tally. The best
was 283, and the lowest 222. Any old
shearer can recall men who’ve tallied
240 and better. At Liverjnga, in 1925,
W. Gray put up 318 in eight hours, and
at Dalgety Downs R. Swallish tallied
304, both of these, of course, below
Jackie Howe’s 321 shorn in seven hours
40 minutes at Alice Downs in 1894.
That’s still a record with blades that
looks like remaining a record,
* * * *
“Kelms”: Can a dragonfly take off
from level ground (B. 8/4/’53)? It can,
and does. In fact, there doesn’t seem
to be any aerial manoeuvre of which it
isn’t capable. It can outfly, out-turn
and out-twist a swallow. Its habit of
going in a straight line along the surface
of a stream has made possible its being
timed with accuracy. It has been clocked
at 70 m.p.h. On short bursts after prey it
can step that up considerably. The
dragonfly is probably the greatest insect-
killer there is. Almost as soon as it
hatches out in the swamp in which it
was deposited as an egg it begins pros-
pecting in the slime for other insect
larvae. Nothing less than twice its size
is safe from it, and its appetite is in-
satiable. Its longest spell from hunting
is just after it emerges from the water.
It climbs a reed and hangs there while
its shell dries and splits. Then, in one
of the prettiest and most amazing meta-
morphoses in insect life, it emerges from
its nymph-shell, grows its wings, develops
its body and spreads its wings for its
first flight—all without moving from the
reed. Then it’s off again on its lifelong
hunt for other insects.
* * * *
“Fairf”; Parramatta (N.S.W.) has just
had its first traffic-lights installed, and,
ironically, they are on the intersection
where Ab’s jib stuck him up ’way back in
’32. For the first few minutes of the chest-
nut’s strike Ab. clucked at her quietly,
slapped her gently with the slack of a
rein, and finally gave her a sharp cut
with the whip. The mare merely
twitched. As no bystander came forward
to assist, he dropped the loose ends of
the reins over the sulky-back—in case he
had to make a flying re-entry if the pony
started in a hurry—and climbed down to
the road. Holding the joey’s head he
turned her, turned her again; nothing
doing. He tried to lead her off; she
wouldn’t budge. Looping a short end of
rope under her fetlock he pulled with
firm gentleness; she refused to take the
desired step forward. He tried the old
theory: “Worry ’em; take their minds
off it.” Pulling her forward he kept
tapping her hooves with the toe of his
boot; she didn’t know how to play,
Suddenly the Law stepped in. “Get that
horse out of this,” it commanded. “Can’t
you see you’re obstructing the traffic?”
Ab. grinned lugubriously. “I’m willing,
constable,” he pointed out. “You’d
better tell her .” “Don’t get cheeky about
it,” snapped the cop, “or” Ab’s
face was suddenly serious. “Listen, will
you watch her while I go and get some l
sticks?” he asked. “What d’you want
sticks for?” demanded the policeman.
“Well, I’ve tried everything else hut light
a fire under her,” Ab. replied blandly.
It was then the constable- remembered he
was wanted somewhere else. And now
red and green lights flash their signals
on that intersection; but somehow I
think the chestnut would have been color-
blind
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: I have tried out every
type of firewood in Australia in my time,
from gidya and mallee to myall and
mulga; but for calorific value one timber
seems to stand on its own: the pink- (or
scrub-) gum of the south-east of S.A. I
discovered this during the depression,
when we bought for wood-sawing, chaff-
cutting and similar jobs on the farm, a
small steam engine which had once
driven a merry-go-round. We soon
found, however, that the fire-box was
designed for burning coal, and you
couldn’t keep up a decent head of steam
with the ordinary fuels such as bluegum,
redgum and sheoak. Then we tried pink-
gum, and our troubles were over. For
the worst fuel in Australia I nominate the
stringybark of the same area, or boobi-
alla grown on the coast. Even when split
into fine kindling it boggles at burning.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We’d pulled up at old
Sandy’s yard, and sat watching him dose
a few crackers. “I’ll pay y’ back that
nicotine drench I got off y’,” Sandy told
Seventyfiver. “I bought a new tin.”
“Awright. Pour it inta the same bottle
y’ borrered, an’ it’ll be right. Pretty
dear, that stuff.” Sandy collected the
bottle from the corner-post. “Well, I
didn’t use all o’ yours,” he said, eyeing
the contents of the bottle, and holding
it up that Seventyfiver might verify his
honesty. “ ’Bout quarter of a bottle left
in, so I won’t ’ave to pay that bit back,”
Carefully he poured the bottle to three-
quarters full, and handed it towards
Seventyfiver. “There y’ are, then. That’s
countin’ the quarter I never used.”
“Eh?” “That’s right,” Sandy explained.
“A quarter from one leaves three-
quarters, don’t it?” Seventyfiver’s brows
met in a colossal effort. “You work it
out f y’self if y’ ain’t satisfied,” chal-
lenged Sandy. “Don’t want y’ thinkin’
it ain’t right.” Slowly Seventyfiver
accepted the bottle, and we turned home-
ward. We had almost reached the
shack when he broke the long silence
with a prodigious sigh. “Seems like I’ve
alwns ’ad a feelin’ fractions was crook
somewheres, Sol,” he remarked resignedly,
“but, cripes, if they was thought up be
the brainiest blokes in the world, what’s
the sense of me wonderin’ if they c’d be
wrong?”
LATE SUMMER BY THE
GOULBURN
Brown waves, bobbing
Across the stones,
Dance to the throbbing undertones
Of crickets strumming in grasses rank.
Grasshoppers drumming from bank to bank
The same old rhythms, the same roll-call,
And the bleaching noon-day above it all.
The brown swimming-hole mirrors, out of plumb,
The tawny bole of a river gum
Where, top of the slant-leafed, twisty tree,
A brown hawk scans
Eternity;
Looks the earth and its outskirts over:
Cocksfoot, fescue, withered clover
Dusty and dull, unbeautiful.
The slopes run up and the road runs down,
Drifts and dwindles and disappears
In a mirage of shaking, spangling airs.
All the world
Shrivelled and curled,
Leaf-dry, sapless and summer brown.
I like it thus.
It suits my mood,
This murmurous brown solitude;
With the sap dried out
Of the heart of things—
Of being, after the heart’s long drought.
Though no bird sings,
It is not the greyness of pain or fear,
Never the blackness of despair:
For paddock and hillside, ridge and slope
Are heavy with promise, rich with hope,
Only waiting the autumn rain
To shiver and spring to life again.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


fd
*1
PREFAB. BARGAIN FOR
SALE, £4OO.
Nissen type Steel prefab, with open
ends. 60ft. x 24ft. x 12ft. Suit fac-
tory, garage, farm or station. Blue-
print for easy erection. Crated ready
for rail. Jones, 59 Edward-street,
North Sydney. XB 1905.
Small's Club Chocolate is
the all-weather chocolate
and it breaks with a
clean loud snap every time.
Change to Small's, the
family chocolate with a
real taste difference.
9
iuißa» aure
You can enjoy four types of
Club Chocolate: Plain, with
Almonds, Almond and Raisin,
Fruit and Nut.
Small's Club Chocolate is the best chocolate of all for cooking.
The hearty not-so-
sweet flavour of
Small's Club Choco-
late teams up with
every outdoor sport.
Women and kids
love it, too.
kv
I
SC-1
Business. Rollery. Ete.
EVATT, TREASURER?
In the event of Dr. Evatt win-
ning a majority in the Senate at
next Saturday’s election, and
subsequently, through holding up
the Government programme for
12 months by Senate obstruction,
winning the general election
early next year, what would be
the likely effect on the national
economy?
If the Doctor’s words and
opinions are worth two straws,
it is clear that he utterly dis-
approves of the present Govern-
ment’s financial policy: its
restraint of credit expansion, its
import-restrictions, its taxation
policy, its curb on luxury spend-
ing, its interest-rate policy, and
its attempt to make Governments
and the people live within their
means. On the other hand, he
has committed himself—if it is
possible for Dr. Evatt to feel
committed by anything he has
ever said—to a policy of “full
employment” at any cost.
In this Senate-election cam-
paign Dr. Evatt has spoken more
on economic matters than upon
anything else. At present
appearances the general election
of 1954 will be fought on
economic issues. And, if Dr.
Evatt still happens to be Leader
of the Opposition at that time,
he is bound to talk more about
economic matters than about any
other issue.
With “Labor” in office in the
past, Australia has seen Dr.
Evatt in the role of Attorney-
General and Minister for
External Affairs. The job which
brought him most prominently
into the public eye was the latter,
He flitted around the globe, seek-
ing new friends for Australia,
losing old and trusted ones,
always trying to attract the
spotlight to himself. As Ex-
ternal Affairs Minister he had
a pretty free hand. “Labor”
has never been keenly interested
in Australia’s external relations
—except where Communist
interests were involved, as in
Indonesia being more con-
cerned about internal politics
and economics; and, if as
Foreign Minister, Evatt cut his
capers largely to suit himself,
Caucus didn’t worry about it
very much,
But the civil service and dip-
lomatic corps did. Paul Hasluck,
complaining that the Minister’s
foreign policy often changed its
plumage in mid-flight, quitted
the service. And there were
other breaks with top men, as
well as hard feeling in the case
of still others,
Because of the 40-hour week,
with its inevitable accompani-
ment of high costs, Australia is
almost bound to strike major
economic problems in the years
to come, especially if there are
no clouding issues, such as war
with Soviet Russia. Whoever is
Prime Minister of Australia from
1954 until 1957 is almost certain
to be preoccupied with economic
problems more than with any-
thing else. And his preoccupa-
tion will increase if temporary,
short-cut political remedies are
applied by him instead of giving
honest consideration to real
problems.
It seems that Dr. Evatt intends
to supplement with bank credit
any shortage in the amount of
taxation and loan money needed
to keep “full employment” and
all “public-works” programmes
going. Full employment appears
to be his one yardstick. Con-
siderations of material shortages,
public-works priorities, ensuing
inflation, and the strain on the
price-level and interest-rates have
not worried him publicly.
Taken at its face-value, Dr.
Evatt’s “policy” is rank inflation,
and full of headaches for the
Treasury, central bank and for
any responsible branch of the
civil service. He has shown no
public cpncern about the pro-
ductivity of trade-unionists or
any other section of the people.
He will not admit that output
per wage-earner per hour is the
index of real national prosperity.
No ; he evades all essential issues
and trades on the selfishness,
wishful thinking and self-pity of
the average voter. He is a
plausible legal advocate with a
bad case, making the best of it.
He puts his faith in arbitrary
“controls,” such as price-control
and pegged interest-rates. He
has all the paraphernalia of
the bureaucrat and lawyer about
him, but none of the realism of
the industrialist or practical
economist.
So, what are we in for if Bert
Evatt should become Prime
Minister of Australia? Will he
again “change his plumage in
mid-flight”? Even if he declines
(or is not offered) the Treasurer-
ship he must, as P.M. in a period
of economic strain, have as much
influence on economic matters
as any “Labor” Minister is likely
to be allowed to have by the
chiefs of the A.L.P. It is com-
pletely unlikely, however, that
any “Labor” Minister would be
allowed the latitude on internal
economic matters that Dr. Evatt
was allowed in carrying out his
foreign policy. The power of the
A.L.P. executive in policy felt to
be of vital interest to the “move-
ment” x \tfas shown in the case of
the Militia Bill, Jhe Anti-Red
bill, and the drafting of the man-
power regulations under the
Curtin and Chifley Governments.
A.L.P. policy has been shown
in almost all cases of economic
stress to be nationally irrespon-
sible. It is completely sectional
in- its outlook, and it has tradi-
tionally been accustomed to pass-
ing the buck. Generally it has
sought power without responsi-
bility. Its pressing for the 40-
hour week at a time when we
should have been working extra
hours, not fewer, in order to
overcome the wastage caused by
war is a clear illustration of its
lack of economic responsibility.
“Labor” dealt ruthlessly with
those of its members who
favored the Premiers’ 1 Plan in the
depression of the 1930’5, notably
with Hogan in Victoria and Hill
in South Australia. Yet the
Premiers’ Plan was an instru-
ment of sane economic policy,
even if individual injustices were
inflicted in the course of improv-
ing the general public weal. To-
day our economic skill, through
experience, should far surpass
what we possessed in 1932. But
A.L.P. leaders will not listen to
experience. They still look for
the easy way out of everything,
and range class against class
when it comes to a showdown.
At present the Economic
Adviser to the Treasury is Dr.
Roland Wilson, an able civil
servant under many Ministries.
The governor of the Common-
wealth Bank is Dr. Coombs,
who was one of the Socialists’
planners in the Department of
Post-war Reconstruction under
Mr. Dedman. Both these men
must have had a good deal to do
with either the conception or
carrying-out of the Menzies
stop-inflation-by-increasing - pro-
duction policy. Will their advice
be accepted by the A.L.P. and
by Dr. Evatt should a “Labor”
Government come to power in
the Federal sphere?
On past performances the
A.L.P. and caucus will only
accept advice to the extent
that it suits their sectional
purpose. “Labor” has no time
for the bondholder, even though
it woos him until it gets his
money to spend on “public-
works” and the like. It has no
time for the thrifty. Though
once it used to boast that the
wage-earner was the creator of
pll wealth, today it does not
appear to regard production as
wealth at all, so Communist-
addled has it become. Work,
indeed—-to go by present-day
“Labor” policy, which stipulates
a six-hour day—would seem to
be regarded as an unnecessary
evil.
If Dr. Evatt, should he become
Prime Minister, either directly or
as A.L.P. agent reversed the
Menzies Government’s economic
policy, it is likely that rising costs
would soon cause a crisis in our
export industries. In that event
the position of Mr. Ward would
be clear: on past history he
would be all for devaluation of
the Australian £. And then, if
that should happen, with no
restraint on costs and little
stimulus to production or to
save, the great inflationary fly-
wheel would swing into motion.
The possibility of “Labor”
regaining control of the Trea-
sury benches is one of the prob-
lems facing all Australian in-
dustry today. The Menzies
Government’s economic pro-
gramme, with minor reserva-
tions, has been sound. But it
has not yet worked itself out,
and it has had State “Labor”-
Government obstruction to con-
tend with. Will Dr. Evatt, if he
assumes control of the national
purse, be content to let a good
job go on and ultimately take
credit for the hard work done
by the Menzies Government?
If he does, then he will most
certainly have to undergo an-
other change of policy-plumage,
either in mid-flight or when he
feels himself safely home on his
Treasury perch.
What impressed British indus-
trialist knight Percy Mills,
council chairman of the Federa-
tion of Chambers of Commerce
of the British Empire, when he
had a quick look at Maoriland
in April, was that the change
from forest, waste-land and
wilderness to urban and rural
wealth, from cannibalism to
culture, had been worked out by
a sparse population in little more
than a century. He told Maori-
landers that the contrast with
teeming Eastern countries with
low standards of living was
amazing, but Maoriland couldn’t
rest there; all sections would
have to put more into the effort
to build on what had been done
by earlier generations. N.Z. was
going through a phase of some-
what false prosperity, based on
high prices for its main com-
modities, and the people were
demanding standards that would
have to be paid for. Where the
capital was coming from was
more than anyone could tell at
the moment, but funds would
be found to develop Maoriland
and other places in the Com-
monwealth that were worth
developing. All countries that
were prepared to make a reason-
able effort on their own account
should be able to count on get-
ting capital for sound reproduc-
tive projects.


Public Notice
I, DIMITRO B ARDASZEWSKI, of Polish
nationality, born at Luczynce, Poland,
resident two years six months in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 41 Phillip Street,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1874 of the State of New South Wales
on the First day of July 1887.)
Registered Office: I O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £3,000,000
5%
REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURES
Redeemable on 30th September, 1963, or, at the option of the Company, upon at least six
months’ prior notice of redemption having been given, on 30th September 1960, or on any
half-yearly interest date thereafter.
SUBSCRIPTION LISTS NOW OPEN
Full prospectus ■and application forms obtainable fromt
J BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED and
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
The Directors will proceed to daily allotment of the debentures as from the opening date
of the Issue. Interest will accrue as from allotment date on amounts from time to time
paid up on the debentures.
Applications will be received only on one of the application forms referred to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the
full Prospectus and should be lodged at the principal office in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth or Hobart,
of the Bank of New South Wales or The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited.
The Issue will close on the 27th May, 1953, subject to the right of the Directors of the Company to close the Issue at
an earlier time without prior notice,
DIRECTORS:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX, 22 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Chartered
Accountant (Aust.), Chairman.
JOHN GORDON CROWTHER, Australian Club, Macquarie Street, Sydney, Solicitor.
JOHN WALLACE DUNLOP, 120 Bellevue Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Merchant.
GREGORY BLAXLAND KATER, 106 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Electrical
Engineer.
WILLIAM JOHN VICTOR WINDEYER, Q.C., Harribgton Avenue, Warrawee, Sydney,
Barrister-at-la w.
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
lAN POTTER & CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Members of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne, who will take firm £1,000,000 of the Issue.
STATUTORY INFORMATION:
(a) The minimum amount which in the opinion of
the Directors must be raised by the Issue of
debentures is £3,000,000. This amount is re-
quired to be provided in respect of each of the
following matters: —
(i) The purchase price of any property purchased
or to be purchased which is to be defrayed
in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the
Issue is Nil, but the estimated amount
which will be expended in respect of ex-
tensions and improvements to buildings and
additions to plant, machinery and equip-
ment required for the expansion of the
business carried on by the Company and
its subsidiaries is £2,940,000.
(u) Preliminary expenses payable by the Com-
pany, Nil, Expenses of the Issue (including
underwriting commission and brokerage
amounting to £45,000 payable to the under-
writers in consideration of their agreeing
to procure subscriptions for debentures of
the Issue) are estimated to amount to £60,000.
(in) Repayment of any moneys borrowed by the
Company in respect of any of the foregoing
matters, Nil. But pending the expenditure
of the sum of £2,940,000 as referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) hereof, part thereof will
from time to time be used in reducing
bank overdrafts.
{iv) Working capital, Nil.
(*) No amounts are to be provided in respect of the
matters aforesaid otherwise than out of the
proceeds of the Issue and the issue of debentures
made by the Company in 1952.
The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act 1936 of the State of New South Wales have not
been fully complied with in this newspaper advertisement of the full Prospectus which is dated the 21st day
of April 1953 and a copy of which has been filed for registration with the Registrar-General of the State of
New South Wales.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
“What is the Budget ?”
“It’s the thing that makes
everything go up.”
“So that what we buy costs
more ?”
“Yes. It’s like this: If you
buy a television set before the
Budget it costs £75; but if you
wait till afterwards it will cost
£86.”
This was overheard in an
Underground compartment on
Budget-morning between two
schoolgirls aged about eight
years. For twice the lifetime of
each of these young citizens suc-
cessive Budgets have exacted
more than they have offered.
First, preparation for war. Then
war itself. Then post-war
poverty plus a happy-go-lucky
Socialist holiday and damn the
consequences. And finally, in
March of last year, a crisis very
nearly out of hand: a balance-
of - payments overwhelmingly
adverse, a soaring inflation and
a creditors’ meeting pending.
This was scarcely an ideal
background for easier times, par-
ticularly as the new Government,
holding office by a hair’s-
breadth, promised nothing but
steady and painful corrective
measures.
It is not surprising that public
opinion, attuned for so long to
austerity and expediency, should
react with delight and astonish-
ment to a Budget which, for the
first time in 16 years, imposes
no new taxes and, one way or
another, reduces everybody’s
load. Second thoughts, perhaps,
force the conclusion that the
“flat” reductions of 6d. off
income tax and 25 per cent, off
purchase tax will in practice add
nothing considerable to the
person of moderate means and
will leave the pensioner and the
larger families in much the same
plight.
But the step is in the right
direction. Mr. Butler has already
freed eggs, ham, tea and sweets
from the ration and now
promises the same for sugar. He
plainly intends to release the
nation from excessive bureau-
cracy, the businessman from
departmental control and the
housewife from the fallacy that
“Whitehall knows best.” All
these reforms are long overdue.
And, by encouraging industry
instead of shackling it, he invites
the nation to pay its way
independently.
Another aspect, rather over-
looked, is that the Chancellor
has relied less upon the high
academic qualifications of back-
room wizards than upon the
down-to-earth views of practical
industrialists. This is borne out
by the essential simplicity of his
Budget which shows that he has
acted directly upon the advice
given to him by both manage-
ments and T.U.C.
Miscalculation
The Chancellor is said to be
in no way upset by the forecasts
of his large corps of statisticians.
There may be very good reasons
why “the disinflationary develop-
ments had less comfortable con-
sequences for the Exchequer
than they did for the economy
as a whole,” but something
certainly seems to have sent the
estimates of these learned gentle-
men awry. The estimated “above-
the-line” surplus for the year
was £5lO million. On the “con-
ventional basis” the actual
surplus proved, in fact, to be
£BB million, A deficiency (in
Whitehallese, a “shortfall”) of
£422 million or, in other words,
an error in calculation of 83 per
cent.!
The layman is forced to
wonder what good purpose
is served by an expensive and
highly complex system of fore-
casting if it only results in a
figure so wildly out as to be
absurd. Will the same thing
happen next year?
Mr. Butler has never given
the impression of being pre-
occupied with figures for their
own sake and has been
criticised for his “rough-and-
ready reckoning.” Assuming
that his premises are sound his
methods may well be as good as
any other. At least, so it would
seem.
Bouquets and Brickbats
On the whole. Press comments
ring with loud praise, especially
the more popular, non-Socialist
journals. “Daily Express”
refers to “champagne stuff” and
“Daily Mail” to “A jolly good
Budget.” The Liberal “News
Chronicle” thinks it in tune with
the mood of the moment, offer-
ing something for nearly every-
body but that it lacks provision
for the lower-paid. “The Times”
hints at some risk-taking, but
does not consider the Budget
rash. “Financial Times” com-
ments “good, bold but risky,”
and warns against the possibility
of heavier taxation later on. The
Conservative “Daily Telegraph”
applauds the “brave and wise
Budget,” with its “complete
break from Socialist economy,”
but questions whether it is not
too bold, even inflationary.
“Manchester Guardian,” smil-
ing but detached, asks whether
we can afford to make life easier
and considers that Mr. Butler is
gambling high. “Yorkshire
Post” is favorable, although
uneasy about the Chancellor’s
deliberate budgeting for a
deficit, but points hopefully to
the possibility of an easing of
international tension with the
consequent need to buttress
against a trade recession.
The weeklies, after longer de-
liberation, are more cautious.
Summing up, “Economist”
applauds the Budget for the
rightness of its doctrine —"...
it marks a change of direction.
a turning of the fiscal tide” —
and gives the Chancellor the
benefit of doubt until his policy
is proved or disproved. A major
criticism is that “only one-third
of the concessions go to industry
and thrift while two-thirds go
to private consumption.” That
is, to more spending and less
saving.
The Socialist Press has never
been more virulent or spiteful,
probably because it can find so
few real grounds on which to
base an attack.
Crumbs from the Table
The Budget, so broad and
simple in its outline, yet includes
some minor concessions that are
based on merits of principle
rather than upon fiscal require-
ments. If the people of the
Scilly Isles are protesting volubly
against the removal of the
anomaly which has, up to now,
exempted them from income tax
it is no more than natural. And
authors—at least, the few lucky
ones —whose royalties rank for
surtax can spread their earnings
over two years (so can the others,
but it doesn’t make as much
difference to them). The ageing
and disappearing character, the
London cabby, is enabled to buy
his taxi free of purchase tax;
and if he thinks the concession
doesn’t go far enough he must
have taken note of the general
criticism that his gruff, testy and
offhand ways are often as deter-
rent to prospective fares as the
high cost of the journey.
Amateur drama is relieved of
entertainment tax even among
the flourishing societies that can
afford a professional producer.
All amateur sport is to enjoy a
similar remission.
And, finally, to the topic of the
moment —cricket. Much to the
dismay of the Soccer and Rugby
League clubs, both amateur and
professional cricket is to be tax-
free at the gate. The difference,
of course, is that the winter
game, especially Soccer, is a
flourishing and indispensable
industry. Cricket finances are
shaky. Not only does this con-
cession mean a brighter outlook
for George Davies and his men
and a timely increase to their
welcome, but it also is a neces-
sary stimulant to English cricket
as an institution.


Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B.
Hefier; W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Does your WILL still express your intentions?
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you consult your Solicitor and have your
Will revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing the Trustees Executors and Agency
Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a company with over 74 years* specialised experience in the Administration
of Estates.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors stud Agency Company Ltd*
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
TR 13.35
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
(— —Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov,, Profit. 7 i p.fc. Ord. serves. serves.
1943.. 350,345 75,000 Nil 275,345 1,157,861
1944.. 187,368 75,000 Nil 112,368 1,270,229
Ord. div. appropriation added re-
serves, £91,675 1,361,904
1945.. 169,695 75,000 Nil 84,695 1,446,599
5 p.c.
1946.. 346,872 75,000 236,000 36,872 1,483,471
1947.. 418,570 75,000 Nil 343,570 1,827,041
1948.. 278,206 75,000 Nil 203,026 2,030,067
1949.. 210,884 75,000 Nil 135,884 2,165,951
Tax-provision account, £72,212 .. 2,093,739
1960.. 617,621 75,000 Nil 541,621 2,635,360
2i p.c.
1951.. 550,477 75,000 275,000 200,477 2,835,837
1952.. 713,213 75,000 337,500 300,713 3,136,550
Behind the spring in last term’s net
earnings are increased plant capacity and
organisation, which have taken time to
build up, a more adequate supply of raw
materials (especially coal) and of various
grades of labor, as well as willpower
and drive on the part of management
in overcoming the obstacles to produc-
tion and marketing. The co.’s still-
growing plant at Port Kembla, which
hasn’t yet had a chance to develop full
earning power, now rivals the big New-
castle steel-works in size.
There is £14,500,000 of capital to
feed in a million p.c. prefs., held by
the public, and the 13,500,000 ords.
The latter are all owned by 8.H.P.,
which took 8,800,000 of them at par
over the last four years, and now figures
as a large creditor as well. Since B.H.P.
took control in 1935, it has received
only three divs. totalling 10 p.c. By
thus ploughing back into the business
the bulk of the profits won, after pay-
ment of pref. divs., the parent has placed
national requirements in front of its own
immediate needs.
Last term’s £713,213 (up £162,736) of
profit covered the pref. div. (£75,000)
and 4.7 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 4.3, 4.9, 1.9 and 4.3 p.c. back to
1948. The div. was kept at a modest
2j p.c. The £300,713 that remained
lifted reserves to £3,136,550. The profit
was written after setting aside whatever
was considered necessary for taxation,
etc., and allowing £1,669,083 (up
£455,184) for depreciation, equal to 6.1
p.c. of the book-value of all fixed assets
at Nov. 30 last. Depreciation is calcu-
lated at “normal rates on original cost.”
The margin between the co.’s cost of
production and net realised prices makes
it difficult to provide further funds for
this purpose, the chairman says. Since
official allowances for depreciation, based
on historic cost, are inadequate for main-
tenance of real capital at today’s cost
of replacement, it is high time the Gov-
ernment became a realist and gave up
the economically dangerous practice of
taxing part of industry’s capital as well
as its profit.
At the Kembla steelworks No. 3 blast-
furnace, second-largest of its kind
in the world, was blown in on August
27 last —work on it began in December,
1948 —and it is now producing over 1500
tons of metal per day. A new battery
of 24 by-product coke-ovens (making
144 in all) was also blown-in, and three
new soaking pits and a new blooming-mill
motor were installed. Major works well
in hand are additions to the open hearth,
blooming mill, power section and ore-
unloading plant. Work on the Kemira
tunnel continues, where 12,170 ft. of the
15,800 ft. drive has been completed.
Foundations for the hot-roughing and
plate-finishing plants are almost com-
plete, and work has begun on the hot-
finishing section, which is the next link
in the chain. Until these projects are
out of the way, little progress need be
expected with the big cold-rolling and
tin-plate mills, which are being erected
in conjunction with B.H.P.
The additional plant and better supply
of coal bumped up output of metallur-
gical coke and pig-iron to levels tempo-
rarily in excess of local steel needs, which
are reflected in a small drop in steel-
ingot production:
Year, Coke, Pig-iron, Steel-ingots,
Dec. 31, Tons. Tons. Tons.
1950 . . 615,436 559,317 612,128
1951 . . 685,468 577,032 642,663
1952 . . 746,590 631,439 638,926
Some of the surplus pig and ingots were
sold overseas, but mounting costs have
robbed the co. of much of the advantage
it enjoyed in the export field a few years
ago.
Heavy outlay on capital accounts re-
mains the dominant feature of the
financial structure:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £12,000,000 £14,500,000 £14,500,000
Mortgage . . 1,500,000
Overdraft . . 185,304 264,031 2,205,136
From 8.H.P... 2,400,000 6,487,500
Sundry creditorsf 4,838,266 6,995,155 8,359,351
Fixed assets . . 15,764,128 21,315,219 27,740,048
Shares in sub-
sidiary .. 386,497 386,497 386,497
Stocks. . . . 2,453,396 3,860,922 6.114,307
Book debts . . 1,071,570 1,448,366 1,967,118
Cash, Govt, bonds 20,839 21,519 18,067
t Includes provision for taxation.
To meet last term’s net additions of
£6,424,829 to fixed assets, £2,253,385 to
stocks (in at cost or under) and £518,752
to book debts, £1,500,000 was raised on
mortgage, £1,941,105 was added to the
overdraft, B.H.P. advanced an extra
£4,087,500, and £1,364,196 was added to
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.
r Dividends — \ Re-
Dec. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1943 .. 6,703 8 5 4,691 15,579
1944 .. 7.616 8 5 4,691 18,504
Profit on sj*le of freehold, £145 18,649
1945 . . 8,645 8 6 5,228 22,066
Recovered loss of subsidiary, £1539 23,605
Expenses of share issue, etc., £733 22,872
1946 :. 9,299 8 6 5,948 26,223
Expenses of share issue, £905 .. 25,318
1947 . . 12,951 8 6 7,742 30,527
Expenses of share issue, £1702 .. 28,825
1948 .. 30,267 8 9 14,124 44,968
1949 .. 41,523 8 10 17,953 68,538
Revaluation reserve, £84,000 .. 152,538
Share premiums, £5OOO .. • • 157,538
1950 .. 52,737 8 10 22,567 187,708
1951 .. 55,485 8 10 27,180 216,013
1952 .. 31,047 8 8 22,144 224,916
» Subject to £4878 goodwill.
Economic, seasonal and other develop-
ments gave both the manufacturing
and agency sides of the business a jolt
last term. Still, the management was
quick to get at grips with its problems,
the outlook generally has improved, and
a “much better result” is expected at next
balancing-date, which augurs well for
maintenance of the 8 p.c. div. The
long-term outlook for shareholders is as
satisfactory as anything of the kind can
be under existing conditions.
On the production side the emphasis
has been, and still is, upon efficiency and
costs. Of recent years important addi-
tions and improvements have been made
to the factory and plant at Rosebery, near
Sydney, which turns out sheep-shearing
and milking machines, petrol and diesel
engines, lighting equipment, spraying
plants and other aids to the quickening
and cheapening of primary production,
etc. And returns from these sources are
supplemented by sales of agency lines,
including Electrolux refrigerators, Haw-
kins pressure-cookers and Chamberlain
and Steyr-Daimler tractors, the N. S.
Wales and Queensland franchises for
which were acquired a couple of years
or so ago. A small Queensland offshoot
(paid capital £15,000) looks after dis-
tribution in the northern State. It made
a loss of £5292 last year as against a
profit of £13,507 (subject to tax) in 1951.
Last term floods, bushfires, the tax
burden, tightening of credit and doubts
about what the future might hold caused
country clients to shorten sail on the
buying side. At the same time inter-State
distributors were heavily stocked with the
co.’s goods, and production and sales
fell away —import restrictions limited
supplies of some lines which were in
demand. The slip in gross profit from
trading was £104,768:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Gross profit (trading) £336,641 £385,729 £280,961
Div. from subsidiary.. 4,552 6,462 5,500
Exes 245,477 268,751 243,062
Depreciation .. • • 11,979 5,456
Tax-allowance •• 31,000 62,500 5,197
Net profit . . • • 52,737 55,485 31,047
♦ After deducting £9062 overprovided in 1961.
The div. from the subsidiary was in
respect of its 1951 earnings. Exes, were
cut back by £25,689, despite the buoyancy
of wage and distributing costs. The big
saving was in tax allowance, down
£57,303, of which £9052 was in respect
of overprovision in 1951. The net profit
claimed was thus only £24,438 lighter at
£31,047, which covered the pref. div.
(£2000) and 11.5 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 21.2, 24.6, 24.7, 23.8 and 12.4
p.c. back to 1947. A couple of points
were clipped off the div., reducing it to
8 p.c. The £8903 that remained lifted
reserves to £224,916, subject to £4878 of
intangibles; so the two combined need
turn in only 4.4 p.c. to cover an all-round
8 p.c. on capital alone.
The tighter trading shows up again in
a contraction of £75,646 in debtors’
balances. Stocks, in at cost or under,
showed little change:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £184,582 £276,799 £276,799 £276,799
Mortgages .. 70,000 77,500 85,000 115,198
Overdraft .. 24,845 94,964 136,553
Creditors, etc.* 269,487 167,421 305,073 174,453
Final div. .. 9,774 13,590 13,590 21,144
Freehold .. 85,799 170,000 174,127 207,044
Plant . . 55,404 61,968 78,673 78,274
Shares subsid. 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000
Stock . . 285,211 286,209 448,715 449,467
Book debts .. 152,102 209,808 270,046 194,400
Cash .. .. 3,936
Goodwill .. 4,878 4,878 4,878 4,878
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet the net addition of £32,917 to
freeholds and slash £130,620 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
the co. went to its bankers for a further
£41,589 and raised an extra £30,198 on
mortgage. The fall of £23,615 in the
more or less liquid surplus (£196,519) was
due entirely to the outlay on fixed assets.
At 15s. (19s. 6d. a year ago) the f.-p.
12s. 6d. ords. return 6.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The £1 8 p.c. prefs. at 245. 6d.
yield 6.5 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£l9 17s. 6d. prefs. and 235. sd. ords.
Union Trustee Co.
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944 .. 9,382 6 p.c. = 8,250 1,582 78,191
1945 .. 15,441 7i„ „ 10,312 5,129 83,320
1946 .. 11,756 6 „ „ 8,250 3,506 86,826
1947 .. 9,317 6 „ „ 8,250 1,067 87,893
1948 .. 7,310 6 „ „ 8,250 86,953
1949 .. 9,982 6 „ „ 8,250 1,682 88,636
1950 .. 13,228 7i „ „ 10,312 2,916 91,552
1951 .. 11,951 7§ „ „ 10,313 1,638 93,190
1952 ~ 7,484 6 „ ~ 8,250 92,424
1953 .. 7,468 6 „ „ 8.250 91,642
The outlook for shareholders, of which
more presently, is not so glum as the
last two lines in the table suggest. The
collapse of net earnings was due to the
pressure of rapidly-rising costs against a
ceiling of fixed corpus and other com-
mission charges, which, excepting a few
minor adjustments, had remained un-
altered for well over half a century. Pre-
war the gains from expanding turnover
had more than taken care of the then-
moderate growth of costs. Gradually
the picture changed until it became the
other way about, inflation and Govern-
ment procrastination being the villains of
the piece. For the last two years this
68-year-old Union co., second largest of
Australia’s corporate trustee organisa-
tions, has been giving clients extensive
and efficient service at less than cost.
The co. operates in the three eastern
States, where it enjoys strong connections
in pastoral and other circles. Owing to
growing realisation of the advantages of
the corporate over the private trustee,
there has been an uninterrupted growth
in the volume of business entrusted to
the co.’s expert care. Still, net earnings
fell from an average of £13,098 (9.5 p.c.
on capital) for the six years to 1940,
to £10,449 (7.6 p.c. on capital) for the
next six years and to £9871 (7.1 p.c. on
capital) for half a dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1952.
Last term commissions, rents, etc.,
brought in an extra £13,482 ; a suggestion
of healthy expansion, which can be ex-
pected to continue:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes. Earnings.
1947 .. .. £151,648 £142,331 93.8
1948 .. .. 159,205 151,895 95.4
1949 .. .. 176,651 166,719 94.4
1950 .. . . 196,568 183,340 93.2
195] . . . . 221,077 209,126 94.6
1952 ..' .. 268,483 260,999 97.2
1953 . . . . 281,965 274,497 97.3
But exes, (mainly wages) gobbled the
gain and £l6 besides, leaving net profit
(£7468) at 5.4 p.c. on capital, or a mere
3.2 p.c. shareholders funds (capital and
reserves combined), and shareholders are
entitled to a fair return on their money
whatever labels are attached to it. Thanks
to the change in outlook, the div. was
kept at 6 p.c., and reserves were drawn
upon for £782 to pay it.
The change came with belated amend-
ments to the Trustee Acts in N. S. Wales
and Queensland, which provided for a
new and slightly-increased scale of com-
mission charges. No such amending
legislation has been yet brought down
by Victoria’s “Rip Van Winkle” Govern-
ment. The new scale of charges,
however, is static, and applies only to
new business, which means that recovery
in net earnings of the cos. will be gradual
and still Subject to what happens in
connection with costs. A formula for
a sliding scale of charges based on offici-
ally ascertained costs would have been
more equitable. Only when a pound is
a pound for a lifetime can people think
in terms of fixed charges and a prescribed
range of investments and still be v sound
in their economics.
Preservation of capital for the re-
mainder and provision of a reasonable
income for the life tenant are, in most
cases, now virtually impossible unless the
settlor “contracts out” of the Act by
including a clause in his will giving the
trustee special powers in respect of in-
vestment. Hence the need for revision
of wills with this point of view in mind;
and the time has arrived for revision of
prescribed trustee-investments as set out
in the various State Acts.
The £137,500 of capital is in 100,000
shares of £2 10s. paid to 275. 6d. each.
There is also a reserve liability of £1
per share callable only in the event of
liquidation. The co.’s own funds, to-
gether with provision for taxation, etc.
(£22,315), are represented by freeholds
(£162,991), book debts (£1287) and cash,
bonds, etc. (£91,305).
Last recorded sale of the scrip, which
is covered by 455. lOd. in net tangibles,
was at 255. 9d., giving a return of 6.4 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div, basis.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 112,589 8f p.c. = 65,625 1 ng, 371,637
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ) ’
Unexplained addition, £126,512 .. 498,149
1945.. 96,732 85 p.c. = 65,625 1 , 07 524,256
To staff fund, £5,000 .. } ’
Unexplained addition, £152,594 ... 676,850
1946.. 80,401 85 p.c. = 65,625 14,776 691,626
Unexplained addition, £636 •• 692,262
1947.. 89,086 85 p.c. = 65,625 23,461 715,723
Unexplained addition, £4109 .. 719,832
1948.. 97,079 85 p.c. = 65,625 31,454 751,286
Unexplained addition, £48,469 .. 799,755
1949.. 94,018 85 p.c. = 65,625 28,893 828,148
Unexplained reduction, £953 •• 627,195
1950.. 96,702 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,702 848,897
Unexplained addition, £44,111 .. 893,008
1951.. 99,573 10 p.c. = 75,000 24,673 917,581
Unexplained addition, £16,463 .. 934,044
1952.. 96,441 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,441 955,485
Unexplained addition, £9563 .. 965,048
1953.. 106,831 10 p.c. = 75,000 31,831 996,879
The scrip of this ably-handled and well-
entrenched island trader, which has a


Established mux in Reign of
Qeorge 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins. Street, Melbourne.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
stctibh' cv-
PROTECTA
s£& H€t/>
TILL
Suitable for every type of bnstnes* it record*
all Sale*. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing to appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
the
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from tho rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD HUNTER late of Parkes.
—TAKE NOTICE that MINNIE HARRIET
HUNTER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1383 of 1953 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and during three
years and upwards habitual drunkenness
and cruelty If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Tenth day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty-three and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from M. J. MAGUIRE & SON.
Solicitors, Court Street, Parkes, or from
A. J. TAYLOR & STATHAM, Solicitors,
27 Hunter Street, Sydney, their Town
Agents.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
FAITH
FUTURE
THE
m
You know, there are one-and-a-half million
children in Australia today between the ages of six
and sixteen. Some of them go down the road past
my home to school each day and I’ve got to know them
by sight,
“These, and children like them, are Australia’s*
richest reserve,” I say to myself. “These will be the
men and women to inherit the greatnesses and achieve-
ments that we will pass on to them.”
And sometimes I vronder whether the boys and
girls in all our scattered schools are sufficiently seized
with that spirit of 'Courage, Enthusiasm and Enterprise
which they’ll need to fit them fo* their place as
citizens.
Of the basic soundness of their teaching, I have-
no doubt. TTiey will have been taught the lessons of
Courage with fitting examples drawn from the sagas
of Australian heroes in war and peace.
They will .have been told of the Enthusiasm and
Enterprise that leapt in the hearts of our early explorers
—'some to perish in their eagerness —and no less in
the hearts of men and women who served their country
simply and faithfully leaving their imprint upon its
progress in lives lived in a thousand quiet ways.
People, perhaps, like the parents of these very children
who pass my home.
No matter how we nurture the native qualities in
the schoolroom, they’ll still need Belief. Belief is as
flint upon the rock, the spark to fire their Courage,
Enthusiasm, Enterprise.
“Credo.” “I believe.” Down through the centuries
that one straight affirmation of faith has poured zealous
men into an Imbelieving world to work miracles in
conversions to a Cause. It has brought a smile to
martyrs’ lips. It has raised men from depths to
tremendous heights, so that they can overcome the
storm and conquer the unconquerable, »
Take from a man his Belief, and you leave him
questing aimlessly in a world of questions. Give him
Faith, and you clothe him with the wisdom to answer
all.
And so I say, teach our children the subjects of
school and University. Give them the best that civic
scholarship can impart. But frame their learning in
Belief—belief in their own and their country’s destiny ;
belief that out beyond the material in life lies the
spiritual; and thit in the soul of a man, as of a
nation, is the essence of a marvellous creation.
8.16
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
Manufacturers of: —
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overband and Chute Separators,
£dso Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
We manufacture the “Curvilinear ” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
long and pleasing history as a
profit-earner and dividend-payer,
possesses the essential features of
a sound industrial equity —
strong net tangible asset backing
with a satisfactory immediate
return and prospects of future
benefits as a holding proposition.
At 455. (same as a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 shares, covered by net
tangibles with a book value of
465. 7d., give an immediate
return of 4.9 p.c. on the basis
of last term’s distribution —10
p.c. Fiji is worth 11.1 p.c. in
Australian currency at the
present rate of exchange. Still,
many investors don’t like putting
their money into ventures out-
side Australia, mainly on grounds
of control.
Since the co. took over B.P.’s
South Seas business in 1920, paid
capital has remained steady at
£750,000, and the policy has
been to keep the div. moderate
and finance expansion out of
surplus earnings. Divs, aver-
aged 6.1 p.c, for the 20 years to
1940, and 7.6 p.c. for the nine
years to 1949, followed by a
steady 10 p.c. for the four years
to the close of last accounts.
And since 1943 reserves have
been strengthened by no less
than £575,627 from undisclosed
sources.
There was little change in
island trading conditions last
term —sugar and copra, taken
by the British Government under
long-term contract, and all other
produpe continued to fetch high
prices—and the co. suffered no
visible loss from the severe
hurricane which hit the main
island of Fiji early in'the term.
Gross profit increased by
£61,839, and a tight hold was
maintained upon working exes.,
etc., which took 63.6 p.cl of
gross as against 63.5 p.c. for the
previous term:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Gross profit 365,338 403,753 465,592
Working exes.* 225,001 256,413 296,493
Depreciation . . 28,909 43,686 52,209
Bad debts, etc. 11,855 7,213 10,059
Net profit . . 99,573 96,441 106,831
* Includes unspecified provision for taxa-
tion, and contributions to staff fund.
After allowing an extra £8523
for depreciation and an addi-
tional £2846 for bad debts, etc.,
the net result benefited by
£10,390, making it £106,831,
second best in the co.’s history.
It was 14.2 p.c. on capital, or
6.1 p.c. on shareholders’ funds,
and it leaves out of the reckon-
ing £9563 dropped from some-
where into reserves. So the 10
p.c. div. remained a comfortable
matter, and there is nothing at
the moment to suggest that it is
likely to be interfered with.
Bigger trading—stocks are up
£638,520 and book-debts up
£40,241 —and a deal with the
New Hebrides subsidiary are the
features of balance-sheet figures;
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Owing to sub-
sidiary .. 624,593
Creditors, etc. 161.755 213,502 875,272
Final div. . . 37,500 37,500 37,500
Properties, ship-
ping. etc. .. 214,242 229,619 238,249
Shares subsid. 314,960 314,960 314,960
Investments .. 107,799 108,584 813,571
Stocks, etc. .. 984,108 859,372 1,497,892
Book debts . . 165,744 230,703 270,944
Owing by sub-
sidiary .. 4,390 119
Cash .. . . 76,593 213,130 148,628
During the year the New
Hebrides co. sold its “foreign
investments,” some of which
were taken by the parent, which
is holding the proceeds at call
until “such time as they may be
required for re-employment.”
There was £624,593 coming to
the subsidiary when the books
closed, the amount due to sundry
creditors, etc., which includes
deposits at call, had increased by
£661,770, and £704,987 had been
added to the book-value of in-
vestments, which consist of
“shares in other cos., Govern-
ment loans, etc.”
Peko (Tennant Creek) G.M.
This is the co. (paid capital
£lOO,OOO in f.-p. 2s. 6d. shares)
which took over the Peko mine.
a gold-copper prospect about
seven miles east of Tennant
Creek township and some 2\
miles north of Nobles Nob mine,
on the Warramunga field, toward
the end of 1949,
The board recently turned
down an offer of financial assist-
ance from Canadian sources,
and is now offering those on the
register at May 7 2,000,000 new
2s. 6d. shares at par, two for
five, payable 6d. application, 9d.
immediately following allotment,
and the other Is. 3d. in approxi-
mately 12 months’ time.
The money is wanted for
installation of a 50-ton-a-day
cyaniding plant and other
equipment for extraction and
treatment of ore from the
gold-bearing lode, to explore
and open-up the copper deposit
below, and for services, housing,
etc. Later it is intended to install
additional plant for treatment of
copper ore and production of a
copper concentrate by fine-
grinding and flotation. Mean-
while, treatment of 19,000 tons
of proved gold-bearing ore,
averaging 16.5dwt, in the upper
levels of the mine is expected
to yield a, profit of £lOO,OOO over
a period of two years. The co.’s
plans are based upon the recom-
mendations of its two * con-
sultants, Dr. M. D. Garrctty,
geologist, and C. W. Morris,
mining engineer.
The essentially gold-bearing
lode goes down to the 210 ft.
level, where it merges with a
rich oxidised-copper body in
what appears to be the top of a
dome in which the two bodies
soon turn into sulphides, which
are more difficult and expensive
to Extract and treat than the
oxides.
The shaft has been deepened
from 210 ft. to 300 ft., where driv-
ing, cross-cutting, etc., have
exposed high-grade stuff, averag-
ing from 15.6 p.c. to 22 p.c.
copper and from 12dwt. to
13dwt. gold per ton over good
widths. Insufficient work has
been done to enable the exact
tonnage and value of ore between
the two levels just mentioned to
be calculated. No work has been
done below the 300 ft. level, but
the diamond-drill has disclosed
ore to a depth of 400 ft., core
assay 11.1 p.c. copper and 25dwt.
gold. Mr. Morris says “assum-
ing that the ore-body retains its
present dimensions down to
500 ft., 500,000 tons may well be
developed above that level.”
General experience is that
secondarily enriched ore in the
upper levels of a mine can be
expected to pass into leaner
primary ore at depth.
All that can be said definitely
at the moment is that, on
evidence available, Peko appears
to have encouraging prospects,
the full extent and value of
which have yet to be proved.
The co. is operating in a high-
cost field (no estimate of operat-
ing and realisation, largely
transport, costs are given), which
means that only high-grade ore
will yield satisfactory profits.
The other imponderable is the
course of metal prices.
The market prices the scrip at
7s. 3d., as against 10s. 3d. a
month or so ago.
According to cable advice
London - controlled Paringa
Mining and Exploration (paid
capital £270,440 in Is. stock
units) made a loss of £6797 last
year as against a loss of £26,769
for the previous term. Rising
costs and drop in grade of ore #
brought the co.’s 95,000-ton-p.a.*
mill on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile to a standstill in Jan.,
1951. However, in Nov., 1952,
it was able to sell its leases, plant
and stores at Kalgoorlie to its
next-door neighbor, Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie, for £68,000 (stg.).
At Aug. 31, 1950, there were
some 91,800 tons ore, averaging
5.08dwt., measure up in the
mine, but it was mostly in high-
grade pillars. Paringa has now
become a holding and invest-
ment co. The board says “pur-
chase of majority holdings in a
number of mines is now more
suitable to the co. than invest-
ment of the greater part of its
resources in one venture.” In
August last it acquired a 60 p.c.
interest in the old Wheel
Fortune Extended lead-mine at
Northampton (W-A.), where pro-
duction is being stepped up to
about 300 tons lead concentrates
a month. After allowing for this
purchase, the co. held cash and
readily-realisable securities total-
ling approximately £72,000 stg.
In Perth buyers recently offered
6id. for the scrip.


Women's Letters
/HEEDCDDNE
The thriller “Dial M for Murder” got
away to a good start at the Comedy,
though two women in the audience had
pre-curtain-rise spinal-shivers , denied to
the rest —they were Mrs. Hector Ross,
whose husband took the leading role, and
Mrs. John Casson, wife of the producer.
In the audience were Lady Robinson,
who wore a scarlet velvet coat over her
gold satin frock; Mrs. Simon Fraser,
whose dove-grey crepes carried silver
embroideries ; Mrs. Graham Nathan, in
grey and silver lame ; Mrs. H. Jacobsen,
her choice a black velvet skirt and petal-
shaped strapless bodice; Mrs. Peter
Condon, whose ballerina frock was of
heavy cream guipure lace ; Mrs. Frank
Tait, who allied black satin skirt with
fine black lace top ; Mrs. Garnet Carroll,
in black skirt and blouse of white
diamente-studded lace; and Mrs, Bill
Gluth, who wore black Chantilly lace
over satin.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was festive gaiety at the depar-
ture of the Oronsay for the Coronation,
and cabin parties were plentiful. Sir
Rupert and Lady Clarke said goodbye to
their three children, who will stay with
Lady Clarke’s sister, Mrs. Fraser Smith ;
the Governor was down to bid good-bye
to Premier John Cain and Mrs. Cain,
whose daughter, Mrs. Robert Hunt and
son John were also at the ship. Not
quite recovered from the car accident
on the previous day as they were
travelling to town from Iheir Derrinallum
property, Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Fair-
bairn and their children Katrina and
James ‘entertained friends. A large party
(including her two sons George and
Robert) farewelled Mrs. G. A. Vasey.
* ☆ ☆
The Theatre Ball, which was post-
poned because of the death of Queen
Mary, will now take place on May 14 at
the Royale Ballroom. The Governor
and Lady Brooks will attend. Lady
Angliss is president of the ball-committee
and vice-presidents are Mrs. F. W.
Dennett, who recently returned from
Colombo, Mrs. F. H. Moran and Mrs.
A. T, Smithers. Committee-members in-
clude Mesdames Aubrey Gibson, D. J. S.
Mackinnon, R. Marriott, Hamilton Sleigh
and lan Potter. Tickets at 355. each
may be obtained from Mrs. David
Braham (UY 5701) and Dorothy Laver
(BJ1169). Proceeds are in aid of the
National Theatre Movement.
* * ☆
Furs valued at £25,000 were shown
at a late-afternoon party at Giro’s by
the Fur Tirade Association of Victoria.
Included were two new mink varieties,
silver-blue (a light-grey with a blue tint)
and Aleutian (deep-gunmetal-grey).
Other mink trends are royal pastel
(brown, lighter than natural mink, with
a tinge of pink) and white. White mink
was used cleverly in a wide-draped cape-
stole for formal evenings; in direct con-
trast was a hug-me-tight in white coney
with a bloused back, deep lapels and
bracelet cuffs—cost 33 guineas. All the
old favorites were featured. Kolinsky
capes, grey or dyed squirrel coats, mus-
quash made to look almost like mink.
There was a helmet and matching muff
of dyed blonde wallaby-skin. A fur
cardigan in safari-brawn sealskin had
neck, facings and cuffs of wool ribbing.
Attractive was a dyed Scotch-mole cape-
stole with belt slotted through the back
of the cape and across the stole-front.
☆ ☆ ☆
Culmination of months of organising
by undergrads and a committee of 40
devoted women, headed by Lady Grim-
wade, the International House Market
Fair at the University was a great success.
Among stallholders doing very brisk
business (the first day £2OOO was netted)
were Lady McConnan* Mrs. L. Plant
and Mrs. Henry Stebbins, wife of the
U.S. Consul-General, who was helped
by other American women. At the
Chinese stall Consul W. Liu, Mrs. Liu
and their son Alec, who is an under-
grad., had the assistance of Mesdames
King Mouey, Wing Dan, Shue and Jessie
Ling, and Enid Yen.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guest-of-honor at a late-afternoon
party given by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
W. L Brens, in her rooms at the Town
Hall was Mrs. Gladys Hain, to whose
work as journalist, barrister and presi-
dent of the Housewives’ Association the
Lord Mayor paid tribute. Mrs. Brens
chose a black crepe frock which had a
draped skirt and a small black hat.
Guests and representatives of various
organisations included Lady Disney,
Lady Harrison Moore, Miss N. Malcolm,
Lady Wales, Mrs. Essington Lewis, Mrs.
T. C. Rentoul, Lady Knox, Mrs. Karl
Kumm, Mrs. T. J. Ryan and Misses
Rachael Robinson and May Maxwell.
Councillors’ wives present were Mrs. H,
Tatnall, Mrs. H. Lyall, Mrs. George
Hume, Mrs. Gordon Coulter and Mrs.
R. Solly.
Rosemary Yerburgli-Bonsey, daughter
of Mrs. John Wood house, of Toorak,
and the late Mr. Robert Yerburgh-Bon-
sey, came from England four years ago
with her mother and stepfather. Colonel
John Woodhouse. Born at Maidenhead,
London, she finished her schooling at St.
Catherine’s, Toorak. For a few months
she has been modelling for photographer
Athol Shmith, and hopes to do modelling
in London and Paris. She Will be pre-
sented at a garden-party during the
Coronation festivities.
Massed autumn flowers surrounded a
large picture of the Queen at the Loreto
Convent Old Girls’ Association Coro-
nation Ball held at the Royale, where 15
pretty debs, wearing individual white
gowns, were presented. Those from
Mary’s Mount, the Ballarat convent,
were presented to Mrs. Roy Dobson,
president of that branch of Loreto Old
Girls, and others to Mrs. Anthony Kelly,
who is president of the Toorak branch.
Mrs. Kelly’s gown was of cinnamon-
brown Chantilly lace over pink satin,
and Mrs. Dobson’s sea-green satin
brocade. Vice-president of the ball-
committee, Mrs. John Dynon, wore
pastel-blue satin brocade with sapphire
rhinestones trimming , the cuff on the
halter-necked bodice.
Mrs. J. committee-member,
who was with her husband, Dr. Calan-
chini, chose a brocade patterned with
autumn-tinted flowers. Mrs. Pat King,
who was responsible for the decorations,
*wore black tulle. Among the dancers
were Mrs. Desmond Hollywood, whose
off-the-shoulder frock was of royal-blue
satin; Mrs. Peter Parker, in turquoise-
blue velvet; Mrs. John Cahill, her
chiffons poinsettia-red; Mrs. Henry
Cahill, whose black silk organza frock
had white guipure lace On the strapless
bodice ; and Maev O’Collins, in emerald-
green chiffon.
☆ ☆ ☆
Madame Jacques Chable, who leaves
shortly on a visit to her parents in
Switzerland, was guest-of-honor at a
late-afternoon party givSn by Mr. and
Mrs. A. Nauman in their Malvern home.
The hostess wore a blouse of heavy
Swiss lace and a black-crepe pleated skirt.
Madame Chable, who was accompanied
by Major Chable, wore an ankle-length
frock of royal - blue - and - cinnamon -
checked tie-silk. Among the guests were
Mrs. Chester Guest, who wore with her
slim black jacket-suit an emerald-green
velvet cloche ; Mrs. James McDougall,
in mushroom-pink wool-romaipe; Mrs.
L. H. Eyles, her tie-silk frock of tur-
quoise-blue and silver; Madame A.
Reddin and her daughter Colette, the
latter in scarlet velvet hat and black
suit; Mrs. H. M. Sarle, the Consul for
Switzerland, M. Paul Cattin, and
Madame Cattin, Madame Renaud de
Haller, Mesdames Bob Eggleston, Peter
Isaacson and F. Romberg.
SYDNEY
In the absence of carolling gondoliers
and moonlit canals, the masked ball of
the National Opera made a very fair
attempt at recapturing for Sydney the
atmosphere of the Venetian masque.
About 350 people crowded into Prince’s,
where the walls were decorated with
paintings by Australian artists and where
two huge gilded and crowned figures
swept their surrealist draperies towards
the band. It was obvious that nobody
had come in her second-best dress, and
nearly everyone wore masks.
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, president of
the ball committee, chose the conven-
tional tricorne and wimple in white
feathers tq. wear with her dress of white,
blue and silver. She welcomed to the
official party Mr. and Mrs. Erik Langker
and Mrs. C. T. Lorenz (who wore a
dramatic black mask with her all-black
dress) and French, Italian and German
members of the Diplomatic Corps.
Among the most striking masks and
headdresses worn were Mrs. David
Klippel’s towering black butterfly em-
broidered with guipure' lace, Mrs. K.
Chaldjean’s blue-bird in a of roses
(this won first prize); Mrs. Bill Murrell’s
black mask with its high curling
feathers, and Mrs. Hans Tronser’s crown
worn with a white brocade dress. Mrs.
Noel Vincent, whose mask of the lorg-
nette type was draped with black lace,
wore her hair curled and powdered a la
Pompadour.
Hits of the evening were the four
black cats who turned out to be Edwina
Hordern, Judy Crossing, Philip Lloyd
Jones and Dougan Livingston, and the
floor-show by David Nettheim, Patricia
Martin and Gerry Donovan, who had
prepared a special skit called “We’re
Definitely Patrons of the Arts,” which
seemed to go down very well.
Margaret Roberts, who plays Mrs.
Oliphant in the Metropolitan’s current
production, “Lace on Her Petticoat,”
may be said to have been lured over the
footlights from the critic s chair. When
she came to Sydney from Cairns ( Q. )
six years ago she had thoughts of buying
a suburban paper, and as part of her
training for running it she was given the
dramatic criticisms to write. So she
joined the Sydney Drama Society and
found that she liked acting better than
writing. She has played in “Anna
Lucasta” and “Vintage for Heroes” at
the Independent, and opposite Jimmie
Handley in the Melbourne production of
“No Trees in the Street.” (Talma photo).
The Elizabeth Festival, held in aid of
the Food for Babies Fund during the
week, consisted of a tea-party at which
dress, drama and music of the 16th cen-
tury were contrasted with those of the
present day, a cocktail-party which added
a commentary of the sport of the two
eras by Mr. Justice Herron, and a three-
day Elizabethan exhibition at the Rural
Bank —quite a feat of organisation, which
deserved the success that greeted it.
Guest-of-honor at the tea-party was Miss
Elizabeth Northcott, and hostesses were
Mrs. J. W. M. Eaton (who read extracts
from Shakspeare and Shaw), Mrs. Ken
Pointing, Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan, Mrs. Neville Lynch, Mrs.
Wallace Browne, Mrs. T. E. Toms and
Mrs. H. T. Castaing. Ricky Dougherty
represented the younger set, and Beatrice
Wines gave a commentary on the cos-
metics of the Elizabethan day.
☆ ☆ ☆
Shape of things to come—Dior’s
“tulip”-line. This rounds the shoulders
and the bosom quite emphatically and
nips in the waist. It makes one look just
like Mrs. Noah in childhood’s Noah’s
Ark, but is preferable to the skinny look
(sorry, slender line) of the 1920’5, which
seems to be the only alternative offering.
☆ ☆ ☆
One was very much inclined to agree
with Miss Meysie Law, the new general
secretary of Y.W.C.A., when she said at
the aftemoon-tea given in her honor last
Thursday that rather too much emphasis
is being placed today on the importance
of youth. Young people have been so
catered for and protected that now they
want to be in society on their own terms,
not realising that democracy doesn’t
mean equal privilege but equal oppor-
tunity and shared responsibility. It is
this understanding, of course, that
Y.W.C.A. strives to give them. Miss
Law, who is a charming person and an
entertaining speaker, comes to Sydney
from Melbourne, but much of her experi-
ence with “Y” was gained in India, where
she was stationed for eight years.
☆ ☆ ☆
The gay dressing of the Stratford-
upon-Avon production of “As You Like
It” at the Tivoli once more found a re-
flection in the audience, though the
exuberance was not quite so noticeable
is at the first night of “Othello.” Miss
Elizabeth Northcott was present wearing
a lovely black lace stole with a white
dress. Lady Lloyd Jones, who was with
Sir Charles, wore a draped cocoa chiffon
dress, and Mrs. M. Dekyvere’s short
dress was of cream Indian gauze pat-
terned in gold. A magnificent dress of
orchid organza was worn by Mrs. S.
Lands, and her companion, Margaret
Quilty, was in black shot with pink and
accented with pink satin.
Although it was an excessively hot
night there were a few mink capes to
be seen (perhaps the owners had de-
spaired of ever getting a real oppor-
tunity to wear them). Noticed among
the audience,Mr. and Mrs. Harald Bow-
den, Dr. and Mrs. Robert Gill, Marie
Rosenfeld (who has been playing Anne
Boleyn at the Independent) and the Peter
Campbells, Mrs. Campbell wearing a
glamorous dress, strapless and bouffant,
with a bodice embroidered with pearls
and tiny daisies.
An interesting feature of “As You Like
It” is that the players have been dressed in
the period of Charles II —wide collars,
ruffled pants, cuffed boots —which gives
them the lighthearted look so necessary
for people who “fleet the time carelessly
as they did in the golden world.” It
also '•gets Rosalind away from the Prin-
cipal Boy look that tights give.
☆ ☆ ☆
Daphne Coburn was the guest-artist
at the musicale arranged during the week
by the National Opera Company to meet
the artists who leave for their season at
Newcastle tomorrow (Thursday). About
250 people went along to the gallery of
the Education Department to wish good
luck to the members of the company and
to discuss all the plans for the season
which is to begin in Sydney on June 24.
☆ ☆ ☆
Anthony Quayle’s report of how he
had tried to get Shakspeare to help him
with his speech for the civic reception
given the Stratford Company on Tues-
day, got several laughs even from the
speech-sated reporters present. Shak-
speare apparently couldn’t help at all,
he’d never had much to do with mayors
himself, but congratulated the actors on
their new-found respectability. He was
very interested to hear that Australia
had at last been found (they’d been
looking for it in his day), but was sur-
prised that there was no plague in Lon-
don, for plague in London was the only
thing that had ever sent his company
on tour. Mr. and Mrs. Quayle and Miss
Barbara Jefford were introduced to the
guests at the reception by the deputy
Lord Mayor, Alderman Frank Green,
and Mrs. Green.
☆ ☆ ☆
Encouraged by the success of the Boy
Scouts’ bob-a-job campaign, the Girl
Guides are launching a “Willing-Shilling
drive on May 9, and for one week the
harassed housewife will have bright-faced
brownies, guides and rangers calling on
her, offering to run messages, baby-sit,
mend, iron, wash the dog, etc., for what-
ever price the housewife thinks it’s worth
(but a shilling is the least one could offer!
The object is to raise money for Girl
Guide activities and to impress on the
girls that such money should be earned.
It seems a very nice cause to support,
especially as the housewife gets some
benefit from it directly.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3--
JACKSOM
OSUIMVA^
t -K BTTO ....
BW S
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & C«.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIEB
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RALPH AUSTIN WARRINGTON
BIGG late of Fairfield.—TAKE NOTICE
that HOPE ESTHER BIGG has filed a
Petition for Divorce No.- 5002 of 1952 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 13th
July 1958 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS.
ALLAN E. CUPIT & BEST, Solicitors,
of 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
PROGRAMME
GLADYS MONCRIEFF
SHOW
asi
AUSTRALIA’S
SWEETHEART
IN HER FIRST
REGULAR RADIO
PROGRAMME
Hear “Our Glad” make a Good Neighbour Award each week —
help a promising young artist —and laugh with her at the delight-
ful humour of Lou Vernon’s “Luigi.” Popular personality David
Low, brilliant musicians Wilbur Kentwell and Glen Marks, and
a well-known guest artist are also featured in “The Gladys
Moncrieff Show” —the show with a heart!
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7LA
Vie
2HR - 3CV - 6WB - 6MD - 7HO
Every Monday Night 8.30
M acquarie broadcasting
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“As You Like It”
The remarkable thing about
the Shakspeare Memorial
Theatre people currently inhabit-
ing Sydney Tiv. is their peculiar
notion that Shakspeare should
be served up as entertainment.
In fact, from their approach you
would almost think that the late
W.S. was primarily a playwright
who wrote plays for actors and
audiences, and that his most
acute reporting and superb
poetry were things added when,
with unmatched prodigality, the
literary Muse tossed all her eggs
in the one great basket.
That, at any rate, seems to be
what these people from Strat-
ford-upon-Avon think about it,
and, even more remarkable than
the attitude itself, they bring it
off. Consider their “As You
Like It.” Away with argument
and pause for pose and well-
turned speech; the play’s the
thing; speed, smooth coherency
and polish from the overall pro-
duction right down to the least
performance and the smallest
detail. And, since it succeeds as
entertainment, which it does —
beautifully it succeeds
naturally from any other worth-
while point of view.
Take Anthony Quayle’s
Jaques, for instance—the melan-
choly one, that is. We have seen
Jaqueses who were this, and
Jaqueses who were that, and
Jaqueses who were something
else, and about all of whom there
might have been much argu-
ment. Likewise, there are those
erudite souls who hold that
Jaques is a balance to all the
foolish, delightful nonsense with
which the play concerns itself ;
that he is, even, to some degree,
W.S. himself voicing an opinion
of his characters and their tom-
foolery. No doubt that, too,
will support argument.
But who wants argument?
Not Mr. Quayle, it would seem.
In the first place, since W.S.
wrote for actors and not for
scholars, and since Mr. Quayle
is a very astute and perceptive
actor, it seems likely that his
Jaques is close enough to the
author’s intention. In the
second, his Jaques rather
tattered, slightly whimsical and
treating the happily foolish folk
around him with mildly amused
disdain —is a delightfully enter-
taining fellow, and that is the
end of it. Argue till you’re
black in the face about who he
is or why and you can’t, thank
heavens, alter that.
Similarly with Leo McKern’s
Touchstone —what a leap from
his lago! Before he is anything
else he is immensely and simply
funny—a nimble, human clown
who made his (and it was his)
audience laugh, not in polite
appreciation but in sheer mirth-
ful enjoyment. And, dispute it
if you like, that is at once his
purpose and justification.
On some points, however,
there were grounds for argument.
Keith Michell played Orlando
too much as though he wasn’t
fooled for a moment by Bar-
bara Jefford’s Rosalind, and
Miss Jefford should have put
more mischief into her decep-
tion. Still, her Rosalind was
lovely enough to make one over-
look that, and Michell’s Or-
lando, in all his loveSlck doting,
never lost the qualities with
which Shakspeare introduces
him.
You could also dwell on
the sweeping black fury of Ray-
mond Westwell’s Duke Frederick
—likewise a considerable jump
from his Roderigo—on the shy,
soft tones of lan Barmen’s
Silvius, or on the minx that
Zena Walker made of Phebe;
or you might linger with some
appreciation over the golden-lit
scene wherein Rosalind promised
her miracles and others tossed
their lines to each other like
lovely falling echoes, or the next
masterpiece wherein Touchstone
played his pipe while the pages
sang and the enchanting 7 Audrey
lay on the ground kicking her
heels and idly beat time with
a twig.
But why dwell on parts when
the play’s the thing; when there
is to be enjoyed as an entirety
Glen Byam Shaw’s beautiful
production—beautifully staged,
beautifully set and moving as
lightly and as happily as its con-
tent ; as near-perfect a produc-
tion of romantic-comedy as you
could wish for, a happy pastoral,
drenched in sunlight and flooded
with poetry like birds singing in
the trees above it?
❖ ♦> ❖
“Twelfth Night”
For what may well be called
“theatre family reasons,” Bris-
bane’s Twelfth Night Theatre
spared nothing to do its name-
sake play proud, and on all
counts the performance was one
to be proud of—-the settings, de-
signed and painted by Margaret
Olley; the costumes, beautifully
designed and made by Ruth
Adamson, and producer Stanley
Hindebrandt’s ability to present
the play, uncut, at what must
have been Elizabethan speed.
Of the performances, Donagh
McDonagh’s authoritative,
somewhat sinister Malvolio was
the best character-realisation of
the piece, but one will remem-
ber for a long time the serenity
of bearing and sheer vocal
music of Jacklyn Kelleher as
Olivia.
<i* * ❖
Beatrice Tange
In the farewell recital she gave
before leaving for Europe the
Sydney pianist set herself as
severe a test as she could have
devised by the last and
greatest of the 32 Beethoven
sonatas, Op. 111.
The first movement, Maes-
toso, is a gigantic structure, by
far the most profound written
by the master in his favorite key
of C minor. To the building of
this Miss Tange brought a
facile fluency, surprising strength
and interpretative ability which,
aided by intense concentration,
stood up well under the move-
ment’s terrific demands. In the
lovely Arietta, too, the pianist
was able to infuse the quality of
resignation to his fate which
this, more than any other slow
movement of Beethoven, en-
compasses.
Two Scarlatti sonatas were
polished off crisply, and Bach’s
Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue
could be said to be mathemati-
cally correct. A brace of Chopin
studies were given beautifully
delicate treatment.
* ❖ ❖
Lily and Olga Kolos
A charming recital of duet-
singing—an art that deserves
greater cultivation and expres-
sion than it has been accorded
of recent years—was given by
these Sydney sisters, who com-
bine well-trained voices of fine
quality with a captivating liveli-
ness of interpretation, at the
Conservatorium.
Commencing with three lovely
songs by Purcell: “My Dearest,
My Fairest,” “Let Us Wander”
and “Sound the Trumpet,” they
did full justice to a group of
Brahms lieder, tossed skilfully
the conversational ball of the
Letter Duet from Nicolai’s
“Merry Wives of Windsor” and
finished with Czech folksongs
of great animation and good
musical content. Their voices—
Lily is a lyric soprano and Olga
a mezzo —blend beautifully.
Lily Kolos’s solo work in-
cluded Schubert’s great song
“The Shepherd on the* Rock,”
in which the clarinet obbligato
was supplied by George Pikler.
This was exceptionally good
singing, with not the slightest
suggestion of straining after
effect. She also sang attractively
a bracket of songs by Faure.
Olga Kolos’s solos included
“O Del Mio Dolce Ardor,” by
Gluck, Carissimi’s “Vittoria,
Vittoria,” given with sparkling
elan, and two fine Strauss songs,
“At Night” and “Devotion.”
Leo Demant, the accompanist,
was self-effacing urbanity itself.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Lace On Her Petticoat”
“Lace On Her Petticoat” at
the Metropolitan seems very
mild fare after that theatre’s
recent witty revue. The play,
set on the west coast of Scot-
land in 1885, is a sort of cau-
tionary tale about class-con-
sciousness as it affects the
daughter of the marquis, the
daughter of the milliner and
(far down the social scale) one
“Wee Rosie.”
Amber Mae Cecil as the youth-
ful Lady Alexandra presented a
child’s idea of what a poor little
rich girl should be, and the
milliner’s daughter, played by
Melpo Zarocosta, though appeal-
ing at first \yith her Alice-In-
Wonderland looks and quaint
accent, grew tiresome towards
the third act.
Portrayals by Jean Anderson
and Ken Broad bent were human
and sincere, and, although Mar-
garet Roberts’s essential youth-
fulness kept breaking in, her
acting as the “grandma” was
warm and attractive. In spite
of the smooth production of
Lesley Lindsay, the play, on the
whole, seems very insignificant,
and its theme is not only dated
but outdated.
Artbursts
Victorian Artists Society
The Victorian Artists Society
in its autumn exhibition reaches
a very high level, if painterly
skill and ability only are to be
considered.
There are, of course, the usual
expositions of the latest fashions
like Eric Smith’s Blake, “Agony
in the Garden,” which shows a
lack of imagination and tech-
nical facility, and there is Elfreda
Vricoe’s “Brother and Sister,” in
which the glazing methods in-
vented by former artists to
enable them to render the subtle
effects of light on flesh are used
to produce something quite
meaningless and banal. There
is Barbara Brash’s “Seated
Woman,” whose flesh and night-
dress have all the variety of a
coat of whitewash applied to a
smooth surface, and there are
jabberings in paint labelled “ab-
stractions.”
On the other hand, however,
there is a remarkably large
number of pictures which show
more rather than less delicacy of
perception and refinement of
observation. Among these may
be mentioned John Farmer’s
“Fragrantissima,” Dorothy Ste-
phens’s “Gannets,” in which
there is an attempt to realise the
character of the objects, Donald
Cameron’s “Shadow Pattern,”
Doris Reynolds’s “Boatsheds,”
Polly Hurry’s “Still Life,” Graem
Inson’s “Sweet Peas,” T. J.
Phelan’s “The Boat” with its
feeling of cold light, Margaret
McDonald’s flowers, the red
house of F. D. Novenic, “The
Silos” of Robert Miller, the self-
taught P. Peterson’s “The
Gully,” and the desolation of
“Summer Landscape” well given
by A. F. Howells.
But the gem among the land-
scapes is the “Saltwater River”
of Lesley Sinclair, an affair of
boats, banks, sky and water with
more depth, subtlety and warmth
of feeling than there is in all the
moderns lumped together.
Talkies
“Walk East On Beacon”
A German scientist working
on a top-secret project in the
U.S.A. is contacted by Red
agents, and, while pretending to
yield to their persuasions to
supply them with a formula on
which he is working, quietly tips
off the F. 8.1. They get him to
supply a phony formula, and
the hunt is on.
The film, throughout which
tension is strong, stresses some
of the methods used by the
F. 8.1. in its detection work, in-
cluding the use of television and
a camera concealed in the spot-
light of a car. There is no strain
on feasibility. Melodrama in-
trudes only towards the end,
when, with the proved chain of
agents tabbed and about to be
gathered in, the chief agent
attempts the kidnapping, for
shipment via submarine to
Russia, of the scientist.
George Murphy is the F. 8.1.
head, and Finlay Currie impres-
sive as the nuclear expert.


INSURANCE -—for your protection-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
{lncorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
■Z<y,
IS'-
Wm
XvSJgS
tt- h ■ '••
mh
li'ZM
y^-
■ .'.•••
:; M
■ S.
m
:yii
/
on performance
There is more much more
—to supplying aircraft than
transferring fuel from fueller to
aircraft tank. The green and
yellow fuellers of the Anglo-
Iranian’s BP Aviation Service
are well known to you.
Much goes on in the Com-
pany’s laboratories unseen
by the consumer but of
great importance to him.
What of tomorrow’s fuels?
Even now they are being
developed,
and this
illustration
shows a full-scale combustion
test being conducted on avia-
tion turbine fuel. New fuels
result from endless experiments
and exhaustive tests with the
engines in which they will be
used. This is but one example
of the concentration behind the
scenes to give you better per-
formance. |
AVIATION
f
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Proprietor#: Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.) 1/53
I Wouldn't miss Christmas
By
DAVID
CAMPBELL
<< H dear!”
f 1 A sigh as long as a
V J creek through willows.
What were the
children to do? They had the
whole house and afternoon to
themselves, and all they did was
wander about the garden pulling
a flower-head here and corners
off the leaves.- Len had gone to
vote in town with the others, so
there was not even a point to
dragging their feet on the raked
paths. The demanding of the
young kookaburra down in the
elm wood was beginning to get
on their nerves.
They had been down to see
the mother-kookaburra feeding
him. He sat in a fork, his cloudy
feathers fluffed out like a toad,
and cried, cried, cried for more
and more. His mother shuttled
between the tree and the fowl-
run with food: a panning glide
down and back like a fish
through reeds. The young
kookaburra kept his beak wide
open. It was interesting, but the
children could see him any day.
Had she been catching snakes,
that would have been different.
“Greedy-guts,” Billy said.
“When he’s full up we might try
and catch him.”
“When he’s full up!”
Overhead, too, in the still
summer sky above the orange-
tree, swallows were feeding their
young on the wing, meeting and
hanging breast to breast at the
top of steep curves. And watch-
ing their windy flight over the
creek and the yellow paddocks,
Janet said “Wouldn’t it be good
to be grown-up?”
She would dip, fly, over Bald
Hill and the metal towns, moun-
tains and pointed waves . . .
“But you’d miss Christmas,”
Billy said.
“They have Christmas, too.”
“But they don’t get as much.
A book or a silly old pair of
pliers.”
“I wouldn’t miss Christmas,”
Babs said.
“You’ll miss it if you go oil
dragging your feet on Ten’s
paths.”
“You’re doing it, too!”
Janet pointed her shoulders.
“I know,” she said: “Let’s play
grown-ups. Let’s dress up in
their clothes.”
“Come on! That’s a good
idea!”
IN the cool, tall bedroom where
Babs had been bom, where
their mother used to sit at night,
brushing her long hair while they
said their prayers, where their
earliest memories moved like
sun and shade in the vine-filtered
light, Janet began taking out
silks and treasures, enchanted in
the scents of rosemary. The dim
colors ran through her hands
like water.
“I think ...” she said, fair
head pn side, lips together.
“How does this suit me?”
“What about me ?" Babs said.
“Who am I going to be?”
“Oh, you’re too small.
Nothing would fit you.”
“I want to be Mummy!”
Babs wailed.
“I’m Mummy. We can’t have
two, stupid.”
“I don’t care! I want to
be ... ”
“I know ...” Janet’s voice
was suddenly affected, honeying
over her impatience. “Keep
quiet, and I’ll dress you up.
There.” The corners of her eyes
had become merry and white.
“You can be Miss Frost.”
“But she smells,” Babs wailed.
“You’re Miss Frost,” Janet
said, “or you don’t play. But
you can wear Mummy’s clothes.
Billy! Guess who Babs is?”
“What’s going on in here?”
Billy came thumping sternly
out of their father’s dressing-
room in a pair of riding-boots
that met his short pants above
the knee. An old Army tunic
dwarfed him for a greatcoat,
and their father’s new city hat
with the dents in it rocked on
his ears. He wore a boot-polish
moustache.
“What are you children up to
now?”
Janet rolled among the silks,
sprang up to adjust him.
“You almost frightened me,”
she said. “Just for a second.
Here, I’ll fix you. Say it again.”
But Billy wrenched away,
pacing stonily, struggling to
retain his pose.
“Late as usual, Josephine.”
But when he went to look at
his watch the sleeve of the tunic
hung down, and he ran shy and
laughing from the room.
A MOMENT later he was
back. “Fm sitting in the
car,” he said.
“I want to play Mummy!”
“You can’t, Babs. You’re
Miss Frost.”
“Come on,” Janet said. “It’ll
be fun. You’ll be funnier even
than Daddy.”
In two minds, Babs gazed at
her small figure in the dim glass.
“I expect,” she said, “I could
tuck some socks down my
smock.”
“Oh, yes!”
The children all laughed,
though Janet knew a moment’s
doubt.
' “But hurry up,” Billy said.
The girls were ages getting
dressed. Billy paced and fidgeted
about the room, glancing at
them, walking out and coming
in again, unconscious of the part
he was playing ; while Janet was
smiling secretly, alone and be-
witched in the feminine mirror-
world of lace and powders.
“There!” she said, dusting the
rouge on her cheeks. “I really
am quite like Mummy!”
“Oh, come on!” Billy said.
“Don’t be all day. Really,
Janet, you spoil everything.”
“If you hurry me any more,”
Janet said, “I won’t play.”
Her eyes, as she looked at him
from the looking-glass, were
wide and candid. Billy turned
and walked to the door. He
stood there for some time,
rattling the china doorknob.
“Button me up,” said Babs.
OUT at last they were ready.
Janet swept across the floor,
her small, fair head tilted up-
wards, while Babs trailed be-
hind, a tiny pouter-pigeon trip-
ping on her skirts. In the un-
familiar sitting-room they all
paused, self-conscious of a
sudden; at a loss.
“The flowers!” Janet said in
a strained little voice. “They’re
lovely this year.”
She began adjusting a vase
with her long fingers. She
really did not feel like playing.
Billy’s impatience had upset her.
For some reason she had the
feeling that their governess, the
overseer, the jackeroos, were all
in the room. The men had risen
and were looking at her.
Billy, hiding laughter in his
rolled sleeves, paced to the fire-
place. Hands behind back, sway-
ing from heels to toes, he
glanced about the room. He
was enjoying himself, his irri-
tability forgotten,
“Well, my dear! Children all
right?”
“Oh, yes. Thank you.”
“That’s good. Garden looks
well.”
“Yes, it does, doesn’t it?”
Billy was really doing marvel-
lously. He was glancing about,
at ease, making the conversation,
just like their father in his rare
boisterous moods before dinner
when with charm and banter he
brought everybody together.
Normally Janet would be rolling
on the floor. But she still felt
constrained, shut in, as if the
room were full of strangers. And
even Billy, though he was per-
fect, did not really seem like
either her brother or her father.
The chintz curtains stirred, and,
gazing out at the blond waver-
ing paddocks, he had a good
idea. “The water,” he said.
“The dam’s getting very low.
You’ll have to go steady on the
watering.”
Immediately Babs broke into
tears. Her eyes closed and her
mouth opened. “The flowers!”
she wailed. “They’ll all die!
What will Mummy say?”
Billy, standing at the fireplace
in his big boots, looked at her in
amazement. He thought he had
been doing very well. But Janet
gave him a swift look and led
Babs crying into the bedroom.
“There,” she said. “It was
only a game. There’s still
plenty of water.”
“I must have been really good
this time,” Billy said from the
door. “She thought it was real.
I can do it when you don’t
laugh... What’s the matter,
Jan? Aren’t we going
any more? Oh, come on!”
JANET was undressing Babs,
folding the things away in the
sweet-smelling drawers, doing
everything the way their mother
did.
“Come on, Jan. I don’t under-
stand.” He hovered about the
room, annoyed, bewildered, feel-
ing like crying himself, clumsy
in his big clothes like a long-
haired sheepdog.
“We’d only just started. I
don’t understand,” he kept say-
ing- , ' ,
“That’s just the whole
trouble,” Janet said.
But suddenly she was sorry
for him—for her father as well
as her mother.
“Oh, well,” she said. “You get
changed and we’ll all walk down
the avenue and Mum and
Dad at the first gate.”
Outside they could b<*": the
carping of the young kooka-
burra, and the swallows were
still swinging and feeding in the
yast cloudless sky.


'X
-xx
lliiiii
V X
iiiliil
■hhmh
- M.
■
\
iiiili
liiliil
iiiili
SSS
SSSS:
•/ ; : : : : : .‘v
1
Ms j,
iliii
W;Si
s;*s
*::*
liiiii
■ , ■■
#wwwife
..
mm.
Wz*********
\
- '-< Sk
i
'M
iii
mg
M
x :
iiiii
.x®*?- 4
®?XS
9
-3#
,
■
X
■
■ iiff
I
I
>
,
■x.:;.
H
islis:
i
.
44 Yippee! We’re off to Uncle Jack’s farm”
What a wonderful new world has been brought
within easy reach of to-day’s kids by the family car.
Within a few short hours they can be exploring moun-
tain and stream, roaming far-away seashores, or
learning how life is lived on Uncle Jack’s farm.
The family car has become so much part of our
lives that we are apt to overlook the work of the
people who have made it possible.
To build Holden, for instance, General Motors-
Holden’s research team first had to find out what kind
of car Australian people wanted. Not too big yet
big enough to be used as a family car. Not too small
—yet small enough to be handy in traffic and easy on
petrol. Not too dear because it had to fit the
budget of the average Australian family. Not too
cheap because Australians do not want to sacrifice
safety, comfort, good looks and dependability.
Around this kind of basic information the car was
designed . . . new plants were built and existing ones
modernised . . . and the car was produced to fit the
needs of Australian motorists and Australian motor-
ing conditions.
To-day General Motors-Holden’s is still the only
automobile company producing an Australian car.
It has at this moment an investment of £2,400 for
each of its 10,300 employees. An £11,000,000
expansion programme, which will be completed
before the end of the year, will add a million square
feet of floor area to the plants in Sydney, Melbourne,
and Adelaide. This programme includes the installa-
tion of machine tools and equipment costing nearly
seven and three-quarter million pounds.
General Motors-Holden’s is a big family ... a big
business. When you come to think of it, it must be
a big business to do all the things the people expect
it to do. For, after all, it is the people who dictate
the size of any business by exercising their choice in
the things they buy.
There’s a lot behind the family car: a lot of
research, a lot of work, a lot of people, a lot of
investment.
More resources and more engineering “know-
how” stand behind every General Motors product;
they are your constant guarantee of better value.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’
... a partner in Australia’s future
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
) LIMITED
• PERTH
gesso


New
ACTION
v; : !
.. ■
c V OH
m
C O^ OSION
Mobiloil
f/mrs wr o#£ wrere*r cavse o££WM£W£a*
IMPROVED OXIDATION
INHIBITOR
LATEST ANTI-CORROSION
ADDITIVE (ANTI-ACID)
300% INCREASED SUPER-
DETERGENT ADDITIVES
NEW
(ASE OIL
SUPERIOR ANTI-
FOAMANT ADDITIVE
THE GREATEST OIL EVER MADE -
\ ** F IVX 532
The true causes of
engine wear proved at
the worlds greatest
research .'laboratories-.
FRICTION . . . , ,51 *c
ABRASION. . 39^
CORROSION . * /kID
mi
(Addiction)
■I
The HARD WAY
by STANDBY
(R.S.PORTEOUS)
A ship at sea haunted
by the ghost of her
dead, captain ....
PERHAPS there is truth in
the old saying “It is better
to be born lucky than
rich.” But what about
the man who rises to the top
without either of those two
desirable advantages? Surely
he is the man who can look down
from his lofty position with
intense satisfaction, feeling proud
of his achievement in climbing
unaided no matter how hard the
way.
That’s how it was with
Kennedy, Captain James
Kennedy, D. 5.0., R.N.R., Com-
modore of the Waterman Line.
He’d reached the very top of his
profession by sheer guts and
determination, starting off with
a fixed idea and never swerving
from it.
“When I was a kid of twelve,”
he once told me, “I made up my
mind I’d be captain of a fine big
ship some day.” He grinned that
quick flashing grin of his and
added “In another five or maybe
ten years I’ll catch up with that
kid’s dream, if I watch my step.”
He didn’t say it, but I knew
he was wondering how much
longer he could put up with
Captain Spring, when he added
that bit about watching his step.
We were leaning over the rail
yarning one stifling Red Sea
night. He was first-mate of the
old Balcomba and I was second.
Well, he didn’t have to wait
five years. Before that voyage
was over he’d realised his
ambition, even though he only
started off in. temporary com-
mand. No first command is
easy, but I doubt whether any
master ever experienced a
tougher one than Kennedy did.
Right from the start it had
been the hard way for him. He
didn’t even know who his parents
were, and the first twelve years
of his life were spent in one of
Dr. Barnardo’s Homes. Then
some,urge took him to Liverpool
docks, where he shipped as deck-
boy in a coastal schooner, the
first step of the long, hard
journey towards a command.
“A scared, seasick, undersized
little runt,” was how he
described himself. But he stuck
to it. From coastal schooner to
square-rigger, from sail to steam,
he worked his way up, studying
in badly-lit fo’c’sles, undeterred
by the jeers of fellow-seamen or
the rebuffs of his seniors. Iff
those days ships’ officers were
not sympathetic towards lads
who tried to rise above the
fo’c’sle. If you wanted to be-
come an officer you first got
yourself born in a well-to-do
family, and then. induced your
parents to pay an apprenticeship
premium. But Kennedy battled
alone, the hard wwar,3 r , where even
his size was against him.
I suppose he’d be described as
small; well below average
height, lean, wiry and sharp-
featured. But somehow you
didn’t notice his lack of stature
and he certainly never allowed it
to worry him. “If they’d dished
me up a few decent feeds when
I first went to sea I might have
filled out,” he told me cheer-
fully. And then with the flash-
ing grin that made you forget
everything about him except his
vivid personality, “But I reckon
it wouldn’t have made much
difference.”
YITE’D been shipmates in the
* * Balcomba then for nearly
two years; and I’d had time to
appreciate his remarkable
qualities. Unlike so many small
men he was not “cocky” ; simply
quietly sure of his ability as a
seaman. He kept that ship as
spick and span as a crack yacht,
not from a sense of duty, but
because he loved her. That was
his attitude towards any ship he
served in, and I believe he’d have
lavished the same care and affec-
tion on a coal-barge had fate
placed him in charge of one.
The Balcomba was a five-
thousand-ton tramp commanded
by Captain Spring. She was a
well-found and well-kept ship
and under any other master
would have been a happy one.
But Spring was, without excep-
tion, the most objectionable man
I have ever served with or under.
He came, I believe, from a
wealthy family, and had been
with the company ever since his
father paid his first apprentice-
ship premium. Like Kennedy
he was a short man, but there
the resemblance ended. Spring
was plump and had a definite
paunch. He sought, by a loud,
bombastic manner, to make up
for his lack of height, whereas
Kennedy’s quiet confidence made
you forget his size. Kennedy’s
quick grin could smoothe the
worst difficulties, but Spring
never smiled. His coarse features
were stamped with ill-temper and
the sagging lines of dissipation.
For Spring was a hard drinker,
even at sea. In port he was an
out-and-out soak.
To give the devil his due the
man was a good seaman—the
one point in his favor. Arrogant,
overbearing and sarcastic, he
made life aboard that ship hell
for us all. His very presence at
the saloon table was sufficient to
stifle any attempt at conversa-
tion. He dominated us, and by
his arrogance managed to convey
the impression that each and
every one of us was a hopeless
incompetent. God, how we
hated that man!
Why did we stay with him?
At that time deck-officers were
as plentiful as flying-fish in the
Indian Ocean; and we were
horribly scared of being stranded
on the beach.
Naturally, as first - mate,
Kennedy had more dealings with
Spring than any of us. And it
was Kennedy who came in for
most of his sarcasm. It always
seemed to me that Spring had a
personal grudge against him, but
perhaps it was that Captain
Spring, the man who had started
his seafaring career with the
advantages of education and
influence, resented the rise of one
who was climbing without the
aid of either.
We steamed into Hong Kong
harbor early one steamy summer
morning, and to top off a
thoroughly foul voyage Kennedy
had a bit of trouble getting his
starboard anchor down. The
delay was short. It took
Kennedy and the carpenter less
than a minute to clear the
trouble, but it gave Spring a
chance he wasn’t likely to miss.
Some masters would have waited
patiently, realising that every-
thing possible was being done
and that no one was to blame.
More irritable ones might have
cursed.
Spring did neither. His
“Would you kindly get that
anchor down, Mr. Kennedy?”
floated clearly down to the
fo’c’sle head. And the biting
sarcasm he got into it! The
tone implied that if Kennedy
couldn’t dp anything else in a
seamanlike manner he should at


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office; 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
m
■
M
&S*
'
SS:
,
MW
s*ss
asas
'
t
LOOK YOLB BEST
AND DO YOUR BEST!
You know as well as I do that a man does his
best if he looks his best. There is a definite
connection between feeling well and doing well.
Ten years ago Stamina set out to produce a suit
ANY man would be happy and proud to wear.
To-day that dream has come true. A limited
number of very attractive two-piece double-breasted
De Luxe Stamina Suits, in rich designs of Navy
Blue, are available from Stamina Distributors. They
are Australia’s best value.
Every De Luxe Stamina Suit is guaranteed to be
pure wool Crusader Cloth, the cloth that is
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK.
This is the opportunity that value-wise men have
been waiting for,
ASK for:
Stamina, f*' i
O-B PUUS
FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
SI-113
least be capable of letting go an
anchor when he was ordered to.
It works into you, that sort of
thing. It works under your skin
and gradually undermines your
confidence. I know now that it
had finally worked into
Kennedy, though he wouldn’t
allow it to show.
“Curse him,” he said that
afternoon. “Curse him and his
bloody sarcasm. May he stay
ashore and drink himself to
death.”
Andrews, the chief-engineer,
and Kennedy were leaning over
the rail, watching Spring’s
sampan as it threaded its way
shorewards through the motley
array of anchored shipping.
Just one week later Spring’s
■steward called Kennedy away
from the breakfast-table.
“It’s the captain, sir,” he
explained urgently. “You’d
better come and have a look at
him.” And then, with hushed
intensity, “He’s dead.”
pAPTAIN SPRING lay on his
bunk, dressed in his best
shoregoing whites. His wide-
open eyes glared fixedly at the
bulkhead, and his coarse features
had settled into an expression of
sneering contempt as if he had
greeted Death himself with the
same supreme scorn he felt for
the most incompetent junior
officer. Kennedy was forcing
himself to close the staring eyes
when he felt the grip of old
Andrews’ hand on his shoulder.
“Mon!” the chief breathed.
“That was a powerful curse ye
put on him. I hope ye never put
the likes on me.”
It was a foolish thing to say
with a gossiping steward drink-
ing in every word.
Kennedy jumped. “Don’t talk
such rot, chief,” he snapped
irritably. “This isn’t a joking
matter. We’ll have to find out
what time he came aboard, and
then get the port doctor out to
establish the cause of his death.”
The chief said “I can answer
both. I saw his sampan Mary
helpin’ him up here just after
midnight. And ye’ll also find he
did just what ye were hopin’ he’d
do. Drank himself to death. It’s
nae so difficult in this climate,
and Spring was a braw trier.”
The port doctor was not long
in confirming the chief’s
diagnosis. Death, he said, was
due to heart failure, probably
brought on by excessive drink-
ing. Two years ago he’d warned
Spring that this happen.
Captain Spring’s body was
taken ashore and buried that
afternoon. The company’s agent
attended the funeral in his official
capacity; Kennedy, Andrews
and I were there to represent the
ship; and morbid curiosity or
alcoholic remorse brought two
of Spring’s ex-drinking-partners
along.
And that, we felt as we drove
back to the waterfront, was the
last of Captain Spring. We were
wrong. Spring had been in com-
mand of the Balcomba ever since
she was launched, and he’d
stamped his malicious person-
ality on her. On duty and off
he’d dominated our lives, going
out of his way to make us hate
him with a lasting and bitter
hatred. You can’t get rid of
such a personality simply by
dumping his body under six feet
of soil.
VX/'E picked up a new third-
mate, a nice lad just out of
hospital; and with Kennedy in
temporary command cleared for
Singapore. The Balcomba should
have been a happy ship then ;
we all liked Kennedy and
respected his ability as a seaman.
But instead, Spring’s malevolent
spirit remained with us, keeping
us subdued and somehow
uneasy.
In a way Kennedy was to
blame, for instead of shifting
into the master’s quarters he left
Spring’s gear exactly as it was
and locked the place up.
“My own cabin’ll do me,” he
said. “I’ll only be in command
till we get to Singapore. They'll
have a new skipper waiting for
us there. And anyhow, I’m
damned if I’d feel comfortable
in Spring’s bed.”
We cleared Hong Kong with
the storm-warning flying from
the signal-station. Not a good
start. Somewhere to seaward, it
told us, a typhoon was brewing.
“The forecast places it to the
north of the port,” Kennedy
said. “With any luck we’ll be
well out of its track before
dark.”
But luck wasn’t with us that
voyage although we were head-
ing south. Either the forecast
was wrong or . that particular
typhoon made a totally unex-
pected change of course.
Throughout the day the signs
were by no means disturbing.
The glass was only a little below
normal and quite steady. Under
a cloudless sky the sea heaved
with a slight northerly swell,
unruffled by any breath of wind.
Certainly it was oppressively hot,
but that was only to be expected.
Kennedy stayed on the bridge
till nine-thirty that first night;
then, as there was nothing to
warrant his presence there, he
turned in after telling the third-
mate to call him if the glass
started falling or if there was
any change in the weather.
In the clammy heat of his
cabin he lay on his bunk, trying
to will himself to sleep. He must
have eventually fallen into a
restless doze, for in his dreams
he saw Spring standing in his
doorway, more arrogant and
more overbearing than ever.
“My God, Kennedy! ”
Spring sneered. “You’ve got a
nerve! First trying to take my
job and then sleeping when the
ship is headed straight into a
typhoon. It’s just as well I’m
here to keep an eye on her.”
And with heavy sarcasm as
Kennedy struggled to rise
“Don’t disturb yourself. I’ve
slowed her down and brought
her round.”
IZENNEDY sat up with a jerk,
awakened to the realisation
that the ship had been slowed
down and that someone was
standing in his doorway. Shiver-
ing yet sweating profusely he
switched on the light and recog-
nised Adams, the stand-by
seaman.
“The third-mate says will you
come up, sir,” Adams said,
blinking at the light and staring
around the cabin as if expecting
to see someone else.
Kennedy said “Right, Adams.
What the devil are you staring
at?”
“I, er—” Adams shuffled
awkwardly. “I thought there was
someone with you, sir. I ’card
someone talkin’.”
“You’re dreaming,” Kennedy
snapped. “Tell Mr. Banks I’m
on my way up.” He was
astounded that he, a competent
deck-officer, could sleep through
the ringing of the telegraph and
the slowing down of the engines.
Banks, the young third-mate,
was obviously relieved to see him
on the bridge. He reported that
the glass had suddenly dropped
to 29.5 and the the swell, coming
now from due east, was increas-
ing. There was still no wind,
but a light mist was drifting over.
“It only came on after you
brought her round and slowed
her down, sir,” he finished.
Very quietly Kennedy said
“Let’s get this straight, Mr.
Banks. I didn’t alter the course
and I didn’t slow her down. I
haven’t been up here since I
handed over to you at nine-
thirty.” He glanced at the wheel-
house clock. “It’s now eleven-
fifteen. You’d better explain
what happened.”
Banks, although nervous, was
sure of his facts. He was in the
starboard wing of the bridge
when he noticed the ship swing-
ing to port, and at the same time
heard the clang of the engine-
room telegraph. He moved
amidships at once and saw a
small man he took to be
Kennedy moving away from the
telegraph. The telegraph-pointer
was standing at “Half Ahead!”
The man disappeared in the
darkness without saying a word.
After making Sure that Kennedy
was not in the chartroom or any-
where else on the bridge Banks
questioned the helmsman, a big
stolid Irishman named Malone,
who said that the captain had
ordered him to bring her round
and steady her on East. The
time was then ten-fifty.
The whole incident annoyed
Banks, who rightly felt he had
been slighted. He was young
and new to the ship, but on any
ship certain formalities had to
be observed. What sort of a
ship was this, where the master
came on the bridge and altered
both course and speed without
even speaking to the officer of
the watch? At twelve minutes
past eleven he felt glad that the
mist and falling glass gave him
an excuse to send for this
unseamanlike master. In his
opinion he was entitled to an
explanation.
Kennedy listened to his story
and nodded. He tapped the
glass, frowning at its further
downward trend.
“I’ll have a word with
Malone,” he said. “And I’d like
you to keep all this to yourself,
Mr. Banks.”
TN the wheelhouse Malone’s
stolid sweating face shone
with the upward glow from the
binnacle light. About as much
imagination as a cow, Kennedy
thought.
“Who ordered you to bring
her round to east, Malone?” he
asked.
“The captain, sir.”
No animation, no interest not
even the upward flicker of an
eye from the lighted compass-
card.
“Meaning me?” Kennedy
asked roughly.
The eyes did lift then, and a
look of horror spread over
Malone’s sweating face.
“Mother of God!” he whis-
pered, crossing himself hurriedly.
“It was the Quid Man! Captain
Spring himself it was that gave
me the order!”
“Pull yourself together,
Malone,” Kennedy ordered.
“Captain Spring is dead. Dead
and buried. I’m in command
here. Keep her on east and
watch your steering.”
He walked out and paced rest-
lessly up and down the bridge.
He could dismiss Spring’s visit
to his cabin as'a dream, but this
was something he couldn’t
dismiss lightly, something he
couldn’t even understand.
Underneath the sound prac-
tical seaman in him was
the streak of superstition
common in old fo’c’sle hands.
It was as natural that he should
imbibe some of it during those
early years at sea as it was for
him to learn to steer and splice.
And now, though his training
told him he should get his ship
as far south as possible, he hesi-
tated. Might he not be wrong?
Was it possible that Spring, with
o Continued on page 34)


m
m
mpzmmst
m
t.* #
m
fi
y
wma
sa*
1 ... « *•■■ ' :
y
r
-
mb,
/fZvwvgr
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
AND PERTH
SPORTING NOTIONS
Raced by Bill Robinson, a
leading Grafton (N.S.W.) citizen
(mayor there for many years),
Suncup cleared out with the
£lO,OOO Q.T.O. Stradbroke,
winning by four lengths from
Malt Maid and French Echo in
1,26*. This is the first year the
Stradbroke has been decided at
seven furlongs. Both first and
third horses are trained in Syd-
ney.
Suncup showed remarkable
brilliance when he began racing
at two years, winning twice from
three starts and also retaining
his speed in the early part of the
current season, when he won
the A.J.C. Hobartville Stakes.
He was then tried as a stayer,
but proved a complete failure in
that department. In the Victoria
Derby he led the field by up-
wards of a dozen lengths into
the straight, then ran last.
Brought back to sprint racing
after a spell, Suncup ran last
again in the V.R.C. Newmarket,
but he improved quickly in
Sydney, and, after finishing third
to Regoli and La Hey in the
C. W. Cropper Handicap, won
the Denman Stakes.
Trainer Bob Abbott, who
won two A.J.C. Doncasters
and an Epsom with Blue
Legend, turned Suncup out in
grand order, having timed the
colt’s preparation exactly right.
Favorite Tarien was never
dangerous; perhaps th 6 9st. on
the slow track told. Little
excuse could have been found
for the modest displays by New
Zealanders Regoli and Red
Jester.
• • • •
Suncup has proved a bargain
at the 425gns. he cost as a year-
ling. His five wins have earned
£11,249 in stakemoney.
* m 9 m
A few weeks ago Sea Sovereign
was being beaten out of places
in minor , Welter and other
modest fields on Sydney tracks,
but he has since won two
classic events, the A.J.C. and the
Q.T.C. St. Legers, an indication
of his quick form-improvement
and proof of the weakness of the
three-year-old class, especially
the stayers. Arbroath, best Mel-
bourne staying three-year-old,
probably had had enough racing
when brought to Sydney for the
A.J.C. St. Leger, in which ne
finished third.
* * *
Prince Morvi, a two-year-old
winner at the Brisbane meeting,
carries the colors of last year’s
Sydney Cup winner, Opulent, as
he is raced in partnership by
“H. Tanks” and Joe Harris. A
frequent visitor to Brisbane
meetings, Harris was part-owner
of Spear Chief when that stayer
won his second Brisbane Cup
(1939). Prince Morvi, trained at
Randwick by Ernie Fellows, is
by Gaekwar’s Pride (imp.) from
Sincerity by Beau Pere (imp.)
from Rossolis (imp.) by Inver-
shin (dual winner of the Ascot
Gold Cup). Prince Morvi’s
breeding lines are linked up with
two noted English sires, Fairway
and Pharos.
At Moonee Valley on Satur-
day seven of the eight favorites
were defeated, three of the win-
ners starting at outside odds, St.
Falcon at 25’s, Tudor Arch and
Baloo both at 12’s. The sole
winning favorite was Magic
Mountain .(2 to 1) in the Second
Puckle Handicap. In Brisbane
Chiller’s Gift was a real gift for
bookmakers at 33’s, while Sun-
cup was a 14-to-l chance. How-
ever, most of the other six win-
ners started at brief odds, two
being at odds-on and one
(Hydrogen) at 5 to 4.
Kaa (imp.), little-known so
far as Sydney racegoers are con-
cerned, is the sire of Baloo, sur-
prise two-year-old winner at
Moonee Valley, raced by his
breeder, T. H. McKay. Baloo
is Adelaide-owned, and Satur-
day’s start was only his third
in a race. Kaa is a son of
Colombo, while Baloo’s dam,
Edith, is by Amalfi (imp.) from
Nurse Cavell by Bardolph (imp.).
Magic Mountain, favorite and
winner of the Second Two-year-
old, is a High Peak (imp.) colt
from Golden Gossamer by
Dhoti (imp.). Adelaide jockey
D. Coleman rode the winner and
brought total Melbourne suc-
cesses to eight. He recently
became attached to Des Judd’s
Caulfield stable. Judd trains
Magic Mountain.
Darby Munro has about one
month in which to find a
mount in the English Derby (run
June 6). He’s also keen on
securing a ride on one of Queen
Elizabeth’s horses. Australian
jockeys have done remarkably
well in all countries in which
they have taken up either
permanent or temporary resi-
dence, and Munro would
quickly show England’s best
what he can do in a race, pro-
vided he got on to the right
horse. Edgar Britt, Australia’s
most notable horseman to have
ridden in England in recent
years, has done particularly well
and at the moment is heading
the winning list. Fancy any
jockey being ahead of England’s
Gordon Richards in any season!
“Work in with us, son, and one day you'll be a
big-time bloke like me."
However, Richards has been out
of the saddle for a brief period ;
he’ll get plenty of winning rides
once he resumes.
Mention of Australian jockeys
in England points attention to
the success of A. (“Scobie”)
Breasley, who won himself
further fame when he landed
the March Stakes at Newmarket
on her Majesty’s Gay Time (4
to 1), beating 9-to-4-on favorite
Lucius, with Zuichero third. It
was a field of three only, and in
such small fields horsemen of
ability and alertness, adopting
clever tactics, often outwit rivals.
Just to make it an Australian
jockeys’ week in England,
Edgar Britt won the first classic
of the season, the Two Thousand
Guineas, on Nearula (2-to-l
favorite). English punters who
watch Darby Munro in action,
especially in a punishing or tight
finish, will see a master-horse-
man at his best.
• • • •
It doesn’t take some of the
keener big punters long to make
snap decisions to travel from
one city to another when rain
causes postponement of the local
meeting. Early last Saturday
morning driving rain looked cer-
tain to cause a change in the
S.T.C.’s Canterbury arrange-
ments, and the fixture duly was
postponed till a day to be fixed.
News of the change was put
over the air quite early on-Satur-
day morning and a number of
Sydney punters made quick
plans to see the Stradbroke run
in Brisbane.
* * * *
Last Wednesday’s night game
at Brisbane, won by Queensland
11-6, is not, perhaps, the best
indication of Rugby Union form.
However, according to observers
the lights did not cast a signifi-
cant shadow: the ball, painted
yellow, was clearly visible. And
Queensland did win,
• • • •
The Queensland team is hav-
ing a solid itinerary, with last
Saturday’s game at North
Sydney, Monday’s game at New-
castle, the game today (Wednes-
day) sprung on them by the
selectors, who requested another
N.S.W.-Queensland game after
Saturday, and then next Satur-
day’s Australia v. The Rest, at
Sydney Cricket Ground, for
those Queenslanders chosen.
The Queenslanders were in a
mood of determined confidence
on Saturday, with the night-game
win under their belts to give
them confidence, and the estab-
lished reputations of the opposi-
tion to give them edge. In drizz-
ling cold rain, on a muddy field,
they tore into N.S.W. with a will,
and were unlucky not to win.
N.S.W. won 8-5.
With Queensland hooker Nev
Cottrell (injured knee) out, and
N.S.W. winning most of the
scrums, Saturday’s game spot-
lighted some remarkable weak-
nesses in the N.S.W. side. In
Brisbane, centre Gavan Horsley
played all over John Solomon.
He did the same again. The
Queensland forwards were fiery
and dogged, Arch Winning and
Coi Forbes being outstanding,
and half J. Nickles took a ham-
mering with grand courage. On
the day, he was a better half
than C. Burke (N.S.W.), though
with fewer opportunities.
Queensland full-back Tom
Sweeney was a better man, on
the day, than N.S.W. full-back
Colbert. For N.S.W. forward
Mac Hughes was outstanding.
The full-back position is still
open: in an earlier City v.
Country-Newcastle game there
was considerable interest in the
form of full-backs Piper and
Graham (from Wagga). On the
day. Piper was the more
polished; Graham was sound,
but a bit slow.
The preliminary luncheons
and whatnot and a one-day
picnic affair disposed of, Has-
sett’s men got down to the main
business. As usual they began
with Worcester, where, after a
bad start (repeated in the second
game) and with Miller in the
Bradman role, they gave the
locals the leather-hunting they’ve
been getting since Bradman first
arrived in England in 1930. Our
bowlers, however, had given the
Worcester bats no great trouble.
Harvey quickly hit form against
Leicester. The Australians were
due to begin their third game
today, against Yorkshire, which
is “hiding” fast-bowler Trueman
from them.
* * ♦ *
Nearest thing in Saturday’s
V.F.L. round was Fitzroy’s one-
point downing of Richmond
(12.9-11.14), a tough, even battle
in every quarter, and very much
so in the final. But the real
thriller of the day was the bril-
liant brand of play let loose by
North Melbourne in their sur-
prise tossing of Collingwood by
a tidy margin (18.10-11.9),
Norths piling ’em on from the
word go.
In the other V.F.L. clashes,
Carlton dished Melbourne, 13.12-
8.11 ; Geelong were much too
hot for Footscray, 15.12-8.13;
St. Kilda downed Hawthorn,
13.14-8.9; South Melbourne
shaded Essendon in a fast, even
game, 13.21-13.11.
* * *
South African negro Panama
Flash (8.9) punched much too
fast for Victorian Van Woods
(8.12) at Leichhardt. Woods
outfought Panama for a few
rounds, and when the negro’s
right eyebrow was cut in round
three things didn’t look too hot
for him. Van Woods’s right eye-
brow also bled in the fourth, and
plenty of color, mostly red,
marked the contest from then
on ; At the end of round 12
Panama was so far in front on
points that the decision for him
was a foregone certainty.
A four-round prelim., Bobby
O’Brien (9.6) v. Terry Walsh
(9.6), was a classic, and if both
boys are carefully nursed along
they should become big-name
boxers. Apparently pounds
heavier than Walsh, O’Brien
won well on points, but many
thought Walsh had earned at
least a draw with his cleverer
work.


The intensive research and
accumulated knowledge of «
precision engineering dur-
ing 100 years of watch
making result in the prc
duction of to-day's
Lavina —17-jewelled
Swiss master-
pieces.
*
m
'
mm
WATCHES
as ferp ieces
LW27.61
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MERVYN EDWARDS late of 79
Francis Street Manly.—TAKE NOTICE
that LAVINIA EDWARDS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1062 of 1958 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 10th July 1958 and obtain a
copy of the-Petition without charge from
G. M. LAURENCE & SON. Solicitors, of
18-20 Martin Place, Sydney, city agents
for EDGAR BEALE, of 138 Crown Street,
Wollongong, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
BULLOCK. —WILL any person knowing
the present whereabouts of PHILIP
STEEL BULLOCK (son of the late
KATHERINE SARAH BULLOCK, who
died on 14th May, 1907), or his descend-
ants (if any), please communicate with
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY,
472 Bourke Street, Melbourne?
AMPUTE
LIGHTING
PLANTS
m
Brilliant light at the press of a button
with AMPLITE Home Lighting Units.
12 Volt 300 Watt, 32 Volt 400 Watt,
£B9/10/0 ; 32 Volt 750 Watt, £142/10/0
Ideal for Farms, Caravans, Boats, Camps,
Battery Charging, etc.
««'« aMPUOk
PTY. LTD.
88 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Australian Historical Sketches
Over the Mountains
By M. H. ELLIS
i HE month of May, 1813,
S opened in a very different
V j way in Australia from
May, 1953. The tiny
population of less than 15,000
was nearly all crowded on the
ledge of land called the County
of Cumberland, between the sea
and the Blue Mountains. It did
not know how long it might have
even that foothold and its two
still more tenuous ones at New-
castle and in Van Diemen’s
Land. Napoleon’s ships had been
active on the oceans, and there
was room to fear that he might
not neglect the Antipodes long
if his successes continued on the
scale reported when the last
mails left Europe.
Locally, the country was going
through the worst drought on
record—the worse because it had
come on top of a period of
plenty which had produced
fecklessness and waste. Now the
grass and waterholes were drying
up. Stock were dying in droves.
The night was lighted by the
glow of bushfires. Two ships
would soon be sent to India for
grain. The failure of the March
rains promised shortage of
wheat and meat to eat with it
next summer. The colonists
could feel the breath of starva-
tion on their necks.
It was at this stage that the
idea occurred to somebody that
it was opportune to make
another attempt to cross the Blue
Mountains. And, since this was
a project which had had the
support of Governor Macquarie
from the beginning of his reign,
Government backing appeared to
be assured.
Who thought of it first is
somewhat in doubt. One account
credited William Lawson, of the
New South Wales Corps, a
trained surveyor, with the idea
that the hills could be crossed by
sticking to the top of the water-
shed. And this seems plausible,
especially since it came to light
in the “Australian” at a time
when William Charles Went-
worth still had some control of
it. The writer of the article, who
signed himself “X.Y.Z.,”
declared:
The honor of the discovery of the
Bathurst country was reserved for
Mr. Lawson, then an officer of the
Veterans (Corps).... His cattle had
increased beyond his expectations,
and if new pastures were not dis-
covered, there was no other alterna-
tive but numerous deaths among
them He had no sooner arrived
from London, where he had met Mr.
Caley and frequently discussed with
him the practicability of a mountain
pass, than he determined to set out
on the expedition to find a passage
over the Blue Mountains. For this
purpose he secured an agreeable
companion' in Mr. William Went-
worth, and a persevering assistant
in Mr. Gregory Blaxland, and the
party started, determined to suc-
ceed.
Later Mr. Gregory Blaxland
claimed to have been the origi-
nator of the idea. His own narra-
tives, compiled subsequent to the
event, take this for granted. But
his tales vary. In one account,
written in November, 1816, he
claimed that when he called on
the Governor to tell him of their
intention to set out Macquarie
“appeared dissatisfied, since
when I have reason to suppose
that he neither expected nor
wished us to succeed.” By 1823
his version had changed:
On inquiry I found a person who
had been accustomed to hunt the
kangaroo on the Mountains in the
direction I wished to go, who under-
took to take the horses to the top
of the first ridge. Soon after I
mentioned the circumstance to His
Excellency the Governor, who
thought it reasonable and expressed
a wish that I should make the
attempt. Having made every re-
quisite preparation, I applied to the
two gentlemen who accompanied me
to join in the expedition and was
fortunate in obtaining their consent
....To these gentlemen I have to
express my ■ thanks for their com-
pany, and to acknowledge that with-
out their assistance I should have
had but little chance of success.
It is significant that when the
official “Gazette” reported the
return of the expedition it men-
tioned Lawson’s name first; that
he kept the navigational record
of the journey and was appar-
ently the only man who wrote
notes for a journal during its
progress, though the other two
members produced accounts
afterwards.
+ +
It seems strange if Blaxland
was leader of such a party,
though his farm on the South
Coast was the expedition’s
depot. He was unpopular with
the Governor, who within a very
few weeks criticised him in
drastic terms to the Colonial
Office. Lawson was the senior
of the party and a military
officer. And Wentworth, though
a young man, had been
appointed Acting - Provost
Marshal several months before,
and therefore had been the
holder of one of the most
important offices in the colony.
It is strange that when Gregory
Blaxland suicided on December
31, 1852, nobody remembered his
connection with the expedition at
all. He was merely farewelled
by the Press as a “very old
colonist.”
The expedition caused little
stir in New South Wales.
Indeed, the Government was
probably not at all anxious that
much should be known about it;
for once it was clear that there
was a track over the mountains
all sorts of hopeful convicts
would begin to try to walk home
to Europe —some did, in fact,
try the following year and
received 100 lashes apiece for
their pains.
The attempt differed from all
previous ones in that horses were
used, four with four men —the
guide, Mr. Byrne, and three
others (presumably convict
servants to the three expedi-
tionaries ; - their names have
never come to light). They took
five dogs.
They crossed the Nepean at
Chapman’s farm. Emu Island,
at 4 o’clock on Tuesday, May 11,
1813, though the “Gazette,”
censored by the Governor’s
secretary, credited them with
leaving on May 18 and “hoped
that so spirited an undertaking
would be productive of advan-
tage to the colony, and entitle
the gentlemen employed in it to
the thanks of the colony.”
The bearing of their course
originally was south-west when
they set out from the western
side of the Nepean about 9 a.m.
on May 12, They saw the water-
hole which lies near Glenbrook
—’“a large lagoon of good water
full of very coarse rushes” —and
camped that night at the head of
a deep gully.
+ +
Next day they saw blazed
trees, making it clear that some
European had been there before
them. Scrambling through the
bush, dragging their horses,
plunging now this, now that way
to find a crossing of the ridges,
meeting “really terrific gullies”
and “precipices in some places
nearly perpendicular for several
hundred feet,” they struggled
along, their men becoming more
fearful as they receded further
into the wilderness and there
were more signs of the blacks.
On May 19 they came upon
the second ridge of hills, now
known as Mt. King George,
where they “first began to have
an extensive view of the settle-
ments below at a little distance
from where they ascended.”
Here they came on a “heap of
stones piled up in the shape of a
pyramid by some European, one
side of which the natives had
opened apparently to find out if
it was a cache of stores.” This
was conjectured to be meant to
mark “the end of Mr. Bass’s
track.” It is now known as
Cayley’s Repulse—Bass went by
Richmond Hill and Mt. Tomah.
On May 21 they were near
Wentworth Falls, “encamped at
the head of a well-watered
swamp,” extremely nervous
about the supposed presence of
natives. On the 22nd they were
on the highest ridge of the
mountains, and from now.on
were awed by the sight of the
tremendous cliffs.
By May 24, a fortnight out,
they passed through the region
of Medlow Bath; four days
later “on the edge of a preci-
pice” at Mt. York. In the even-
ing of the day they reached this
point they gave their horses their
first feed of grass since they had
left the forest land of the coastal
belt.
On the morning after they
-descended the range—a back-
breaking job, for they had
to unload their horses, dig foot-
holds for them with a hoe and
carry their gear themselves.
They were down in two hours, at
about 9 a.m., and went on for
two miles most of the way
through meadow, clear of trees
covered with grass between two
and three feet high. They
camped and rested a day, feeling
the difference in the climate ; for
at night the frost lay thick on
the ground and “froze the leg of
a kangaroo quite through.”
A fine stream on which they
camped and which they crossed
next day seems to have been the
Lett River. They also crossed the
Cox. Still another stream came
in their way in Lowther’s Creek,
and they climbed a high sugar-
loaf near-by, which is now
named Mt. Blaxland.
With every step they became
more delighted with the results
of their discoveries —even though
natives still seemed to menace
them —for they saw from the
sugarloaf “forest land all round
them,” according to Blaxland,
“sufficient to feed the stock of
the colony, in their opinions for
the next thirty years.” They
had, they computed, travelled
more than fifty-six miles through
the mountains in brush and
scrubby-brush land, which they
had “walked over three times,”
and six miles in forest land on
the western side.
On June 1, three weeks after
they set out, they started back
to the Nepean, making the
journey from the western foot
of the mountains in four days
and crossing the river on June 6.
There was no excitement about
their return. Six days later the
“Gazette” announced in a short
unheaded paragraph that they
had come home “without the
slightest injury from fatigue or
accident”; but they obviously
did not rush to report their dis-
coveries to the Government in
detail.
Their reactions were diverse.
Mr. Lawson Was most concerned
with the defensive positions
revealed, Blaxland with the
pastoral side, and young Went-
worth, though the most imagina-
tive of the three, and dwelling
like the others on the pastoral
resources and defensive possi-
bilities of the new country, was
rightly in doubt whether they
had really crossed the ranges at
all:
Before it can be determined
whether in this excursion we have
actually passed the mountains, it
will be necessary to ascertain
whether the western boundary of
the forest land which we discovered
is similar to the eastern. But admit-
ting that we have not traversed the
mountains, we have at all events
proved that they are traversable, and
that, too, by cattle, a circumstance
which by those who are allowed to
possess some local knowledge of the
country has hitherto been deemed
impossible.
Macquarie has often been
blamed by historians for not
having immediately rushed to
proclaim the triumph of the
“dauntless three,” heap rewards
on them and commend their feat
to the Home authorities. The
above passage in Wentworth’s
journal was enough to justify
caution, especially since it carries
a presumption that others knew
something of the mountain
country before the expedition
set out.
As it happened, the first man
rewarded was Byrne, who had
served as guide to the explorers
and who in the following
November was presented by the
Governor with £lO for his ser-
vices. It was only after he had
sent Deputy Surveyor-General
Evans over the route at the end
of the year that Macquarie pub-
licly and officially acknowledged
the services of the expedition on
February 12, 1814. Then he
showed himself “happy to em-
brace this opportunity to con-
vey his acknowledgments” to the
travellers for “jpheir enterpris-
ing and arduous exertions” in
having “effected a passage over
the Blue Mountains, and pro-
ceeded to the extremity of the
first valley.” They being “the
first Europeans who had accom-
plished the passage over the
mountains,” he desired “to con-
fer on these gentlemen sub-
stantial marks of his sense of
their meritorious exertions
1000 acres of land in the newly-
discovered country.”
Strangely enough, two out of
three of the heroes did not
want land in the “newly-dis-
covered country.” Blaxland and
Wentworth secured theirs in the
coastal belt, but Lawson went
west, and became the pioneer
administrator of Bathurst after
the settlement was properly
formed. He contributed greatly
to the exploration and settlement
of the west.
Only a little over a year after
the 1813 expedition Macquarie
began to build the Blue Moun-
tains road. Less than a year
later again he visited the
Bathurst Plains, which Evans
had discovered out beyond the
terminus of the first journey,
and founded Bathurst. And in
July, 1815, the first cattle were
sent from the coast to the west.
The first fats left Bathurst for
Sydney in October.
+ +
It remained for Wentworth,
a decade later, to romanticise the
journey in verse —a unique feat
for an explorer—and to tell of
“the mighty ridge that from thy
azure brow survey’s! the fertile
plains that stretch below”;
How mute, how desolate thy' stunted
woods,
How dread thy chasms, where many
an eagle broods,
How dark thy caves, how lone thy
torrents roar,
As down thy cliffs precipitate they
pour,
Broke on our hearts, when first with
venturous tread
We dared to rouse thee from tny
mountain bed!
Till gain’d with toilsome step thy
topmost heath,
We spied the cheering smokes ascend
beneath,
And, as a meteor shoots athwart tbe
night,
The boundless champagne burst upon
our sight,
Till nearer seen the beauteous land-
scape grew,
Op’ning like Canaan on rapt Israel’s
view.
He might have performed the
additional feat of being the first
Australian-born to win the
Chancellor’s Gold Medal at
Cambridge for his poem if he
had not met unusual competi-
tion in Mr. Winthrop Mack-
worth Praed, who, on that occa-
sion, proved to be “belle of the
ball.”


□
6
ATLANTIC
-FLASH-
w
STOP-WEAR
\SERVICE J
dm
THIS SHU
m\
CALLOUS
mAMjic
r
A
v
• VAVt V7lB
sr MU
<fcs>
\
■
0=)
mm
c*=)
i
S** on.
iU
$S!l(
&
to
Turn to the Team
you can Trust I
Here’s the eager team that brings you Happy Motoring . . .
There’s your Atlantic Solo Station operator, friendly, depend-
able; there’s the Atlantic Stopwear Service, for longer
engine-life; Atlantic Flash, for surging power; Esso Paradyne
for extra pep; and Atlantic Motor Oil for a cool, smooth
motor. Be wise take the full Atlantic treatment, and
o
55.53/3
STOP AT THIS SIGN
FOR
ATLANTIC
iiappq tfletcAmq"
Tun
into
ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY LIMITED
Divorce Notice
OF
IN THE SUPREME. COURT
TASMANIA— In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO ELVIE JEAN CLEMENTS and WIL-
LIAM BURK formerly of Whitemark
Flinders Island in Tasmania but whose
present address is unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed m
this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer charges in the
Petition of ATHOL HENRY CLEMENTS
of Whitemark Flinders Island in Tas-
mania praying for a dissolution of his
marriage on the ground of adultery In
default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said Peti-
tion proved and pronounce judgment in
respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within forty days after tne date of this
publication an appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street,
Hobart, in Tasmania, or at the Launceston
District Registry, Cameron Street, Laun-
ceston.—D. W. SHIELDS, District
Registrar. N. 8.: Friends of the above-
named ELVIE JEAN CLEMENTS and
WILLIAM BURK who may see this ad-
vertisement are requested to bring it under
their notice. A copy of the Petition may
be had on application to the Solicitors
for the Petitioner, MESSES. ARCHER*
HALL, WATERHOUSE & CAMPBELL.
64 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
One or two copies of “John o’
London’s Weekly” for August 1, 1952.
—5492.
To buy muzzle-loading gun, flint
or (preferably) percussion.—s49l.
Copy of print of Norman Lindsay
drawing “The Woman I Was.”
5493.
Information Sought
Was there a Pope Joan?
Pope Joan was a mythical per-
sonage, long believed to have filled
the papal chair as John VIII, about
855. She was said, as the story goes,
to have been the daughter of an
English missionary, and educated at
Cologne. She fejl in love with a
monk with whom she went to Athens
in male attire, but returned to Rome
on his death. Here she opened a
school, and entered the priesthood,
eventually being elected pope, but
died during a papal procession. This
tale was first overthrown by Blondel
in 1647, and was finally and com-
pletely refuted by Dollingen in 1863.
* * * *
Some details about agricultural
high schools in New South Wales?
The Government of N. S. Wales
maintains three agricultural high
schools, viz., the Yanco Agricultural
High School (750 acres) in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area; the
Hurlstone Agricultural High School
(395 acres) at Glenfield, 23 miles from
Sydney; and the Farrer Memorial
High School (270 acres) at Nemingha,
7 miles from Tamworth. The schools
at Yanco and Nemingha are mainly
for resident pupils, and the Glenfield
school is for day and resident pupils.
The course at these schools extends
over five years, with an examination
for the intermediate certificate at the
end of three years, and for the leav-
ing certificate at the conclusion of
the course. Successful candidates at
the intermediate certificate examina-
tion may gain entrance to the
Hawkesbury and Wagga Agricultural
Colleges; those successful at the
examinations for the leaving certifi-
cate may qualify for matriculation at
the University of Sydney or for
scholarships at the State Teachers’
Colleges.
* * * *
Who were the Magyars?
The Magyars are the dominant race
of Hungary and constitute a branch
of the Finno-Ugrian tribe, and came
originally from the plains east of the
Carpathians. About the year 896
they descended into the Moravian
realm, under the leadership of Arpad,
the great national hero, and caused
great devastation and pillage, until
they were driven back by the Ger-
mans in the tenth century. After this
they settled down to a more peaceful
existence, embraced Christianity,
formed laws, and made rapid advances
in civilisation. There are other races
in Hungary, Serbians, Wallachs,
Ruthenians, Slovaks and Germans,
but the Magyars have always taken
the most prominent part in public
affairs. The language spoken is of
Finnish derivation.
* * * *
Some details concerning Karl Lieb-
knecht, a famous German socialist ?
Karl Liebknecht was born in 1871,
and practised at the German bar. In
1907 he published a pamphlet against
militarism, for which he suffered two
years’ imprisonment. He was a mem-
ber of the Prussian Diet in 1908, and
of the Reichstag from 1912, and dur-
ing World 1 War I served on the
Western front. In April, 1916, he
was expelled from the Reichstag for
a speech on Government finance, and
in the autumn he received a sentence
of four years’ penal servitude for
“attempted high treason,” being re-
leased in October, 1918. Heading
the Spartacist uprising, he was
arrested on January 15, 1919, in Ber-
lin, and on the way to Moabit Prison
was shot dead, probably by police,
who said he tried to escape. His
fellow-prisoner, Rosa Luxemburg, was
killed during the same journey. See
M. Adler’s Karl Liebknecht and Rosa
Luxemburg.
Brief Answers
P.T.G.: Andre Deutsch, 12 Thayer-
street, Manchester-square, London,
W.l. Australian representative is T.
C. Lothian (Pty.), Ltd., Box 354 E,
G.P.0., Melbourne....L.F.: At first
the new battalions were numbered
2/28th, 2/29th, 2/30th, but as these
numbers had already been allotted
to battalions that were to be formed
in Australia, they were then numbered
70th, 71st, 72nd. Finally, in October,
1940, they were renamed 2/31st,
2/32nd, 2/33rd, and considered for
territorial purposes as having been
raised from Northern Command,
Southern Command and Eastern
Command, respectively A.R.P.:
The answer to both questions is No.
C.S.C.: The George Cross was
created on September 24, 1940, to
recognise acts of the greatest heroism
or of the most conspicuous courage
in circumstances of extreme danger,
and may be awarded posthumously.
It may be awarded to male and female
persons. . The Cross is intended
primarily for civilians, and award in
the Navy, Army or Air Force is
confined to actions for which purely
military honors are not normally
granted... .F.J.F.: Distances between
ports are: Brisbane to Sydney, 505
miles; Sydney to Melbourne, 588
miles; Melbourne to Adelaide, 505
miles; Adelaide to Fremantle, 1356
miles; Fremantle to Colombo, 3141
miles; Colombo to Aden, 2107 miles;
Aden to Suez, 1320 miles; Suez to
Port Said, 88 miles; Port Said to
Naples, 1112 miles; Naples to Mar-
seilles, 456 miles; Marseilles to
Gibraltar, 690 miles; Gibraltar to
London, 1340 miles A.K.: Try
the following standard American car-
polish: 11b. boiled linseed-oil, 1 quart
benzine, 6oz. cedar-oil. Mix and
apply with a sponge, rubbing only
one way; let stand for half an hour,
then polish with a dry cloth. Olive-
oil may be substituted for cedar-oil.
A very good polish may be made by
mixing 1 quart kerosene of heavy
test with half gallon petrol; use
quickly and wipe up cleanly
M. : Any of the packet dyes will
do this work. Clean the carpet
thoroughly, then follow the packet
directions. Materials are usually
immersed in water before dyeing, but
as a carpet cannot be handled when
wet, water can be brushed or sprayed
on. Make up the dye bath on the
light side, try a corner to test color,
and then mix to suit the desired shade.
Apply the dye with a brush. If you
have a small piece of the carpet, it
would be well to test the process
first: carpet need not be boiled, as
recommended for fabrics, fair results
may be attained without this
F.M.W.: Write Deputy Commissioner
of Taxation, Dept, of Taxation, Sav-
ings Bank Building, 14 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney H.A.C.: Neither
N. S. Wales nor Victoria nor any
other State has made any recent
change in its intestacy laws to com-
pensate for changes in the value of
money... .N.J.L.: The only way to
enforce an agreement such as this one
is to commence a legal action. Un-
fortunately, the action would have
to be heard in Sydney if the com-
pany defended the claim. However,
they would have to fill a sworn
defence if they did intend to defend.
Possibly, a letter from a solicitor
would produce results, and of course
you could instruct the solicitor by
letter J.A.: If the bookseller has
a shop, the shop must be registered
under the (Victorian) Shops and Fac-
tories Act, 1928. Forms of registra-
tion are obtainable from the Chief
Inspector of Shops and Factories,
Melbourne. If the books are to be
taken around for sale upon the per-
son of the seller or in his vehicle, the
seller must have a hawker’s or
peddler’s licence. Application for
this is made to the Court of Petty
Sessions —see the Clerk of Petty Ses-
sions nearest to your home N. 8.:
The play “Outcast” was written by
Hubert Henry Davies, and was first
produced at Wyndham’s, London, on
September 1, 1914... .D.J.N.: (1)
27,771 miles. (2) 6182 miles....
D.S.C.: Neither the Museum nor the
Mitchell Library has a record of the
meaning of the place-name Pominga-
lafna W.H.D.: Sara Allgood came
to Australia in 1916 and toured as
“Peg” in “Peg o’ My Heart.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.K.: Fine sketch, but not enough
action.... A.H.: Naturally enough,
when you write a radio-documentary
you have to put in a lot of kiss-me-
Charlie that seems out-of-character in
cold print... .J.A.S.: “The Baby”
not one of ours—we think J.D.R.:
Too ruminative... .M.C.: Both too
far away... ,D.G.: No English fish-
ing-stories—we find Australian ones
tall enough H. 8.: Slight....
E.N.: Well enough done, but no
action... .D.A.: Thin D.L.R.:
“Spring Peas” so well-rounded that it
had no point.... H.V.C.: Good idea,
but you don’t treat it right....
R.E.8.: Too long, and not our kind,
anyway... .K.K.M.: Only the much-
practised can make something out of
nothing... .G.M.H.: Again and again
we say: Don’t think you can gag the
detective story until you can write
one straight —it’s not so easy as it
looks T.O’C.: Not bad at all, but
a bit more of a fictional miracle than
we can believe in....M.G.: You
have suceeded in being at once trite
and improbable... .E.D.J.; Take
away those prawns E.M.R.: They
merely made us miserable... .H.S.:
Sorry that we can’t grant your wish
to be a “little lamb skipping through
the grass”... .A. 8.: Out of focus.
N.A.L.; A dreary dirge
R.S.C.: We are a little tired of read-
ing -about sunsets M.C.: Yes, it
is all very true; alas, the writing is
p00r.,. .E.M.A.; We agree with you
that it is a slight thing.. ..5.W.8.5.:
Send it to a temperance journal.


St. Mark's Church, Granville
RELIGIOUS—SHORT STORY
QUEST for Amateurs
Prizes: 1, £lOO. 2. £5O. 3, £25
and Nine Prizes of £5 each.
Entries close July 1, Awards Nov. 1.
Inquiries: The Kev. C. L.. Oliver, M.A.
UU 1073.
Puzzles of the "Remarkable Pheasant"
The First “Lyrebirdmen”
By A. H. CHISHOLM
MANY queer little prob-
lems obscure the story
of white men’s early
contact with the “New
South Wales bird of paradise,”
and among them are these three
questions: '
I.—Through what means did
the habits and song of the bird
become known very soon after
the discovery itself?
2.—What became of the his-
toric specimen, the first example
to be collected, that was brought
to Sydney early in 1798?
3.—Why did David Collins,
when telling in 1802 the story
of the discovery and giving data
relating to the bird’s remarkable
display and vocal mimicry, fail
to disclose the source of his
information?
The first question is based, of
course, on the fact that in the
days of discovery the “moun-
tain pheasant” was very shy and
its haunt particularly wild, and
on the further fact that close
acquaintance, with knowledge
of bird-voices in general, is
needed for the detection of vocal
mimicry.
In this regard it has to be
remarked at once that the basic
information on the bird’s be-
haviour was not supplied by the
writer of the first references to
the bird, namely, young
Barracks. That lad was quite
impressionable—in his account
of the “Shangri-la” expedition
of 1798 he described some of the
“meadow lands” he had seen,
in what is now the district of
Berrima, as being “most beauti-
ful country... .one of the finest
in the known world”—but, hav-
ing been on tour during summer
and early autumn (a relatively
quiet time with birds), he had
nothing to say regarding either
the voice or habits of the
“pheasant,”
Some other person, of closer
knowledge, must have supplied
the information on these sub-
jects that was presented by
David Collins.
Only one white man of the
period, it would appear, was
experienced enough to be able
to detect vocal mimicry in de-
tail. That man was the abo-
rigines’ Bun-bo-e, John Wilson.
Whatever the nature of his
character, Wilson was a tough
and resourceful fellow who had
lived in a primitive state for at
least three years (during which
time, as he claimed, he had been
“upwards of 100 miles in every
direction around the settle-
ment”), and so he must have
gained unique knowledge of the
district—its aborigines, plants,
mammals and birds. He, and
he alone, was familiar with the
“mountain pheasant.”
But, of course, the ex-convict
was not in touch with the ex-
Judge-Advocate. There must
have been an intermediary. That
medium, in all probability, was
Governor Hunter,
It is unlikely that Hunter,
personally, ever saw a living
lyrebird. Had he done so he
would gladly have said so, as
he did in the case of the platy-
pus. (It is on record that a native
of the period, crouched beside
a Hawkesbury watercourse,
watched one of the curious duck-
bills for “above an hour” be-
fore spearing it, and during all
that time the Governor watched
both the aboriginal and the
animal.)
But even if the interested
Governor had chanced to see his
“bird of paradise” in life, he
could not possibly have
acquired, on brief acquaintance,
detailed knowledge of its habits
and mimetic ability. It seems
highly probable, therefore, that
the knowledge was gained from
Wilson, and that it was gained
at a stage when Hunter’s initial
interest in the bird had grown
keener.
In short, the indications are
that Hunter sent Collins by
letter, in 1798, an account of
the “New World” expedition
and the discovery of the “pheas-
ant,” but did not furnish the
observations on the bird’s habits
until his return to England in
1801: hence the fact that Col-
lins recorded the finding of the
species in the main part of his
book and the notes on habits
in an appendix.
There need be no doubt that
if Hunter had enjoyed some
respite—had been able to escape
factional squabbles —he would
have conducted in person some
of the excursions he promoted:
possibly not lengthy ones, such
as Bass and Flinders were under-
taking, but certainly some of
the explorations by land. He
said as much to Sir Joseph
Banks when sending him the
Barracks journals. “Old as I
am,” he wrote, “I was then both
able and willing to make such
journeys, but I was too much
annoyed with various matters
of less real importance.”
Poor John Hunter! How re-
freshing for him, in midst of
official turmoil, would have
been the sight and sound of
lyrebirds, as indeed was the case
(in circumstances that were also
very trying) with one of his
successors of modern times.
It was, no doubt, the Gov-
ernor’s interest in exploration
and natural history that caused
him to extend vice-regal patron-
age to Wilson. Possibly his
Excellency expected that such
interest might cause the wild
white man to reform. If so, he
was disappointed. Wilson re-
mained in Sydney for some time
after his period as an official
explorer and then “went bush”
again.
His career closed in 1800. He
had, apparently, risen to emin-
ence in an aboriginal tribe
through spreading the belief
that he was the reincarnation of
a dead chief, but even that status
did not safeguard him when he
attempted to take a young
woman, against her will, for his
“exclusive accommodation.” An
angry tribesman rose, and Bun-
bo-e died suddenly with a spear
through his body.
Collins relates these facts
(presumably on Hunter’s
authority), and then adds a com-
ment of his own, one which his
wife, when revising and reduc-
ing his book for a second edi-
tion, took the liberty of amend-
ing. The tribesmen, says Col-
lins, were left to expect the re-
turn of Wilson, at some future
period, “in the shape of another
white man,” They were left,
says Mrs. Collins, to expect his
return “in any shape that their
fancies might form.”
That delicate matter aside,
the fact is that John Wilson
had led a colorful life. Collins,
naturally, had nothing to say
regarding his pre-Australian
career, but the records of the
Quarter Sessions of Wigan in
Lancashire, dated October 10,
1785, afford some information
on the subject.
Wilson, it is now learned, was
a youthful mariner (age not
stated), and he was convicted
on that date of “felony” and
sentenced to “transportation to
some parts beyond the seas for
the space of seven years.” His
offence consisted of having,
“contrary to the peace of our
lord the King, his crown and
dignity,” stolen from one Robert
Wignall “nine yards of cotton
cloth called velveret, of the
value of tenpence.”
Incidentally, what a thoroughly
useful amount tenpence was at
that time! As jurors of the day
well realised, the stealing of
goods to the value of a shilling
or more was apt to involve the
offender in an appointment with
a hangman, and so the practice
arose of saving lives by “con-
trolling values.” Thus in 1790
another Lancastrian named
Simeon Lord, later an eminent
Sydney merchant and magistrate,
but then a laborer of only 19
years, received the same sen-
tence as Wilson’s for allegedly
making free with goods of the
same magical value; in his case
100 yards of muslin was assessed
at sixpence and 100 yards of
calico at fourpence!
The impressive fact, indeed,
In last week’s Bulletin Australian ornithologist A. H.
Chisholm told of the first finding of the “New South Wales
pheasant,” the lyrebird. He now looks into a number of puzzling
aspects of the lyrebird records, and pays tribute especially to
both a Governor and a wild white man. It scarcely needs to be
said that these authoritative articles involved considerable original
research.
is that the figure of tenpence
(representing the difference be-
tween death and exile) had much
influence on lyrebird history;
for, as matters fell out, the first
Australian-born scientist to pub-
fish important material on the
subject, building in the 1860’s
upon Wilson’s basic observations
of the 1790’5, was Dr. E. P.
Ramsay, of Sydney—and he was
a grandson of Simeon Lord.
Presumably Wilson spent
about 18 months in an English
prison, or in the hulks, for he
was a transportee on board the
Alexander, a unit of the First
Fleet, which left England on
May 13, 1787, and reached
Botany Bay on January 18,
1788. His term expired towards
the end of 1792, and he appears
to have gone bush soon after-
wards and lived with aborigines
until 1797.
In May of that year Governor
Hunter, annoyed by the effect
that several ex-convicts were
haying on the natives, issued an
order directing four men—John
Jeweson Joseph Saunders,
John Wilson and Moses Wrl-
hams—to deliver themselves up
to the nearest peace officer
under pain of being outlawed.
Wilson surrendered in the fol-
lowing November-and through
that action he gained a place in
the annals of ornithology (as the
discoverer of the lyrebird) and
in the records of Australian ex-
ploration (as the leader of the
first party of white men to in-
vestigate the area that isi now
the prosperous Southern Table-
land of New Sputh Wales).
It is reasonable to suppose
that John Hunter, when making
a note in his diary regarding
the fate of Wilson, felt a pang
of regret over the early death
of a man who, whatever his
faults, had been a useful
explorer, an informed bush
naturalist, and (according to
Barracks) a most reliable bush
companion.
Certainly the former “vaga-
bond of the woods' had done
the Governor some service by
discovering the picturesque
“bird of paradise”—a pleasant
relief for the ruler of a turbu-
lent colony—and there can be
little doubt that it was through
him, too, that white men first
learned of the song-culture and
display of this very distinctive
bird.
We come now to a second
question arising from events of
1798: What became of the
.rx,il • 1 1 • 1
specimen of the lyrebird which
young Barracks shot, under Wil-
son’s guidance, during the
course of the “New World”
expedition?
One possibility, or even
probability, is that it was pre-
sented to a certain titled lady in
London. ■ At any rate, that
young woman, the daughter of
an admiral and a friend of
Lord Nelson, did receive an
early example of the picturesque
bird, and, presumably having
pride in her novel exhibit, she
placed it on view when, on a
day in 1799, a major-general
called upon the admiral.
Through that simple action
both the lady and her visitor
entered the ornithological his-
tory of Australia. For, in fact,
the major-general was no
ordinary Army officer but also a
zoologist and an artist of com-
petence, and it was upon the
specimen that he then admir-
ingly examined —alongside tea-
cups in a London drawing-room
—that the first scientific descrip-
tion and the first painting of the
lyrebird were based.
That scrap of history has be-
come apparent from considera-
tion of an address given to the
Linnean Society of London in
November of 1800. The speaker,
Major-General Thomas Davies,
submitted to the meeting a
description and drawing of a
splendid “pheasant” inhabit-
ing New South Wales, and pro-
posed that it be named Menura
superba; and in his general re-
marks he revealed that the
specimen discussed was one
sent from Sydney as a present
to Lady Mary Howe.
“I have also,” he added,
“seen two other specimens in
the possession of the Right Hon
Sir Joseph Banks.”
Curiously, the major-general
did not disclose the origin of any
of these gifts. Possibly he was
not informed on the point. At
all events, it is now a more-or-
less simple matter to deduce,
from various sources, who the
donors were.
John Hunter had long been a
close friend of both the Howe
family and Sir Joseph Banks.
It was Lady Mary’s father,
Lord Howe, who gave him his
first command, and it was the
same naval personality who, in
1787, appointed him to be
second captain of the Sirius,
next in rank to Governor
Phillip with Australia’s First
Fleet. The natural thing there-
fore was that Hunter, on ac-
quiring specimens of the “New
South Wales bird of paradise,”
should immediately send one to
the daughter of his naval patron
and another to “the uncrowned
King of New Hollands”
Banks’s possession of a
second specimen is explained by
the fact that (as indicated in a
manuscript letter contained in
the Mitchell Library, Sydney),
one was sent him in 1799 by
George Bass.
So, then, of four examples
of the lyrebird obtained during
1798-99, one went to Lady
Mary Howe and two to Sir
Joseph Banks; and as for the
other, Collins reveals that the
drawing of the species published
in his book of 1802 was made
from a specimen “presented to
Mr. Arthur Harrison by Gov-
ernor Hunter.”
What happened to the speci-
mens later is not known. Prob-
ably some of them reached the
British Museum; but, unfor-
tunately, very little information
is attached to early examples of
Menura contained in that insti-
tution.
Whatever the ultimate fate of
those four novelties, it is abund-
antly clear that the man who
sent three of them to England
played an important part in the
early history of the species. In-
deed, John Hunter may fairly
be regarded as Australia’s first
“lyrebirdman.” In the alterna-
tive, that title might reasonably
be shared by him and John Wil-
son ; for between them these
two —the Governor and a con-
vict-bushman —gained the first
knowledge of the existence and
the talents of the bird, forwarded
the first specimens to England
and made 'the first field-notes
available for publication.
From these considerations
there arises our third question:
Why was no acknowledgment
made, either by the historian
Collins or the ornithologist
Davies, of Hunter’s services in
this matter?
Collins, it is true, mentions
the name of Hunter from time
to time, but not as a direct
source of information. On the
other hand, he refers on the
title-page of his book to help
given him by the succeeding
Governor, Philip Gidley King:
and that officer, though originally
present with the First Fleet, did
not take charge in Sydney until
nearly three years after the lyre-
bird was discovered.
As for Major-General Davies,
although when naming Menura
he failed to mention the naval
officer who was responsible for
its discovery, when he again
introduced the bird and ex-
hibited specimens to the Linnean
Society (in 1801) he cordially
acknowledged their source;
they had been forwarded, he
said, by his friend Governor
King.
Thus arises the odd circum-
stance that, whereas Hunter re-
ceived no credit for his basic
work, the later contributions of
his successor were acknowledged
quite freely. What is the ex-
planation of this anomaly? Per-
haps some light can be thrown
upon the matter by considera-
tion of the circumstances sur-
rounding the two birds for-
warded by King,
Those specimens were sent by
the storeship Buffalo, which left
Sydney in September of 1800,
and it was in that vessel, on that
occasion, that Hunter returned
to England. Naturally the de-
parting ex-Governor took with
him various productions of New
South Wales, among them being
spirit-specimens of Doryanthes
excelsa, the beautiful gymea-
lily. King, too, was well repre-
sented by exhibits from the
bush; having had time on hand
while waiting to take over from
Hunter he had accumulated a
variety of oddities, and so he
sent, in care of the captain of
the Buffalo (who, incidentally,
was Hunter’s nephew), not only
the lyrebird skins but living
examples of emus and black
swans and a spirit-specimen of
the astonishing mammal then
known as the water-mole or
(Continued on page 34)


m cmmirmu
>7
4
W
vTu
Whenever and wherever you
travel on business or pleasure,
protect your funds by carrying
Commonwealth Bank Travellers'
Cheques. They are more con-
venient and safer than money.
The Commonwealth Bank can provide you with
Travellers' Cheques which are readily negotiable
throughout the world. Cheques are available in
Australian, New Zealand, English and U.S.A.
currencies.
Your enquiries on this or any other trading
bank service will be welcomed at any branch of
the Commonwealth Bank.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
jAoMtem&i
OBTAINABLE AT ALL BRANCHES^
The art of
being yourself
Books and rules on the
“right” way to dress, to speak,
to get ahead, are teaching us
to be similar nobodies, warns
Eric Manners in May Reader’s
Digest.
He points out that you don’t
“form character” by following
a set of instructions, and
shows how great men like
Thomas Edison and Charles
Darwin profited by ignoring
convention.
Read how you can make your
own life richer (and more
fun!) by just learning to be
yourself.
May Reader’s Digest brings
you this and dozens more
stimulating articles condensed
from world's leading magazines
and books —for only 1/6.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S.-BRITISH ALLIANCE
There have been serious rifts
in the U.S.-British alliance over
the past year or two, and more
are expected.
Because, suggests a specialist
on this particular combine,
Sebastian Haffner, in London
“Observer,” the problems in-
cluded —some of them very
touchy—have not yet been
seriously faced, let alone solved.
The relationship, he points out,
differs from that of either of
the partners with France or any
other country. It is unique.
Only Britain and America are
in the extraordinary position
that they cannot help meeting
each other everywhere. This
makes it a costly luxury for both
of them to ignore the other any-
where. But neither of them has
yet really faced and wholly
accepted this uncomfortable
truth:
“There is a myth in Britain
that in the British-American
relationship Britain is the wise,
mature and restraining factor;
America the youthful, head-
strong and impetuous one. That
is sheer nonsense. In Palestine
in 1948, in Persia in 1951, it
wq£ Britain who was impetuous
and America who restrained her.
“All too many British —even
some who talk glibly enough
about the need for British-
American partnership—still re-
gard America, in their heart of
hearts, as a kind of power-bank,
where Britain can keep an occa-
sional overdraft, but which for
the rest should not interfere in
Britain’s world-wide political
business.
“We [British] have, as a
nation, yet to understand and
inwardly digest the fact that
America is not just an extension
and offshoot of Britain, but a
great and full-grown national
personality, with her own ideals,
principles, interests—yes, and
prejudices —and that in working
with her we cannot expect to
have everything our own way.
“Most Americans, for their
part, have to disabuse themselves
of the idea that Britain is a spent
force, a little obstinate country
on the fringe of North-West
Europe which talks more than it
is worth. Britain is not, of
course, physically as strong as
America, but she was at no time
physically as strong as the
strongest Power of the day ; and
yet for those Powers to under-
rate her has always proved a mis-
take. Britain is still the centre
of a world system of her own,
which, however battered, has
shown by its recent feats of
adjustment and adaptation that
the sap of life still runs strong
in it,
“If this world system can be
married with the American one,
if Britain and America deli-
berately fuse and unite their
policies (they have to do it
deliberately ; there is • no pre-
established harmony between
them), then both will be safe,
and the world will be stable. If
they are at cross-purposes, both
are in for trouble, and so is the
world as a whole.”
Israel's Gamble
“The foundation of the Israel
State was a gigantic gamble,
based on faith and the fanatical
belief of its sponsors that the
Arabs must and could be fought
off long enough for the Jewish
national home to become firmly
established. World Jewry was
counted on to provide a steady
PANORAMA IN OIL
—London “Daily Mail"
flow of funds until the economy
of Israel could become viable.”
And, comments a London
“Daily Telegraph” special
correspondent, if by “economy”
we understand not a typical
Middle East economy but the
European-type economy which
is the target of the Israel Gov-
ernment, then doubts may well
be felt today on the validity of
both those premises.
The Israel Welfare State, pat-
terned where possible on the
British Socialist model, and de-
depehding on continual subsidy
from outside sources, the corres-
pondent reports, has encouraged
a psychologcial attitude of de-
pendence which causes disquiet
to many Israeli leaders. No less
than seven-eighths of the total
income of Israel is derived either
from American grants in aid, or
from subscriptions and bond
purchases by Jews in the free
world. Eighty-five per cent, of
the subscriptions come from
American Jews.
During the fiscal year 1952-
53 the American Congress appro-
priated the equivalent of more
than £25 m. sterling in aid to
Israel. During 1952 Jewish
organisations in America alone
subscribed at least £2om., and
between May, 1952, and Decem-
ber, 1952, about £s6m. was de-
rived from bonds bought by
Jews abroad. In addition, every
fourth or fifth Israeli receives
food parcels and similar aid
from abroad:
“The drain on American
Jewry has been severe and con-
tinuous, and there has been a
noticeable falling-off in subscrip-
tions. The wave of Soviet anti-
Semitism is certain to stimulate
a new flow of support, but the
general trend is likely to con-
tinue, and would be intensified
in the event of heavier American
taxation.
“Yet Israel’s costs are mount-
ing. New settlements and cities
are being built and new irriga-
tion schemes created. Experi-
ments in industrialisation, not
always successful, are being
tried.
“Israel’s imports for 1952 are
estimated at about £4Bym.,
against exports worth under
£s£m. This represents a con-
siderable increase in imports over
the 1951 figure, while exports
are static or even falling.
“Apart from a certain amount
of copper in the Negev, phos-
phates which provide fertilisers,
and the so far unproved possi-
bility of oil resources, Israel has
practically no domestic raw
materials. She is cut off from
her natural markets and cheapest
supply sources by her dispute
with the Arab States, by whom
she is surrounded except on the
Mediterranean coast. Her sole
source of power is imported oil;
her principal export is citrus
fruit.”
Politically and diplomatically,
the correspondent also reports,
the picture is no rosier. Soviet
anti-Semitism has strengthened
the already strong Arab hand.
The urgent need to establish de-
fences in the Middle East against
a possible Soviet south-westerly
drive, the desire to protect
Anglo-American oil interests in
the Arab States and the issue of
bases in the Suez Canal Zone
and elsewhere may combine to
make America and Britain en-
force at'least some Arab claims
against Israel.
The Arab States have never
recognised the existence , of
Israel, and Arab spokesmen
continue to reiterate the intention
of one day “hurling the Jews into
the sea.” Long stretches of the
present Jordan border are
separated from the Mediter-
ranean only by a strip of Israel
territory nine to 20 miles wide.
Worst of all, and source of the
frequent border incidents, is the
problem of the Palestine Arab
refugees: “About 600,000 of
these unfortunates, under the
combined stimulus of Arab
military orders and Jewish
terrorism, fled from what is now
Israel in 1948. Since that date
they have remained camped in
conditions of abject misery along
the Israel frontiers waiting to
return to their homes. About
350.000 refugees are in Jordan,
200.000 in the coastal ‘Gaza
strip,’ which is now Egyptian,
and a further 100,000 in Syria
and the Lebanon. Every dictate
of common sense and humanity
calls for the resettlement of these
people as soon as possible in the
Arab States. But the latter realise
that to assimilate the refugees
would be to destroy the best
argument for the return of then-
lands and property. Most of
their homes have either been
filled with Jewish settlers or
have been methodically
destroyed.”
Meanwhile, the refugees,
sometimes aided by Jordanian
and Egyptian officials, “infil-
trate” into Israel to steal irriga-
tion pipes and cattle, or to col-
lect some of the oranges and
onions which they regard as their
own looted property. When they
are surprised there are gun-fights,
and Israeli troops have carried
out reprisals over the Jordan
frontier.
“Israel had hoped that by
doggedly maintaining her posi-
tion she could ultimately induce
the Arabs to accept the fait
accompli of Israel. But there is
no sign of any such acceptance.
The power of the Arab States
has increased, and Israel’s
economy is being sapped by her
disproportionate military expen-
diture, the loss of valuable man-
power in the armed forces and
the extinction of trade with all
her immediate neighbors.”
Jap Air Force
It hasn’t got very far yet, but
according to “U.S. News and
World Report” “Japanese air
power is on the way back.
“War-time pilots,” the report
adds, “are getting military flight-
training again. An air-school,
with American instructors, is
operating. Japanese instructors
will take oyer as the school
grows.
“An air force is illegal now.
Bpt fliers are getting ready for
the day when a Japanese air arm
will join Asia’s defences.
“Officially, the establishment
at Hamamatsu is the aviation
school for the Japanese National
Safety Force, a 110,000-man
army-to-be. The American
Army advisers stationed there
say that their only mission is to
train Japanese pilots to fly tiny,
single-engined planes for liaison
and artillery spotting for the
Safety Force. But when you
talk to the Japanese officers who
run the school and those who are
in training you get a different
story.
“They see this as the beginning
of a new Japanese air force.”
Malaya Hopes
As reported by London
“Financial Times’s” Singapore
correspondent;
“The general impression left
after a three-weeks’ visit to up-
country rubber estates is of the
marked improvement that has
taken place in conditions in
Malaya in recent months. Morale
has improved so much that it
might even be dangerous. Tired
of carrying arms, travelling in
armored vehicles and continually
being escorted by special con-
stables and military, some
planters are now inclined to take
risks.”
Over the past few years corres-
pondents in Malaya have come
out with some glowingly opti-
mistic reports, and officials there


(ADVERTISEMENT)
w.
%
£
&
w
Ar
*3*
%Tu*o*ocvr
■ou fO*« £ L
viess/n®
• 9
• Petrol Rationing.
• Black Markets.
• Coal shortage.
• Spiralling living costs.
• Strikes and Red control of
Unions.
• Neglected defences.
• Controls and restrictions.
• Constant menace of
Socialism.
• Farm Labour shortage.
MENZIES-FADDEN 9tT
you prefer their government
which has given you...
• Production increased and ample
supplies of coal, steel, building
materials, petrol, etc.
• Living Costs stabilized.
• Industrial Peace and Secret
Ballot. '
• Communists defeated.
• Defence transformed.
• Private enterprise encouraged.
• Higher Pensions and Child
Endowment.
• Free Life-Saving Drugs and a
magnificent Health Scheme.
• Better prices for Primary
Products.
&WHB COUNTRY PARTY TIP.
B
GOVT SENATE TEAM
I
rvh'mm
2
fd
3
f
AND PLACE A NUMBER IN ALL OTHER SQUARES
Authorised for the Country Party by J. F. Dredge, 42 Bridge St., Sydney.
fcave from time to time seen
everything in the jungle garden
rosy usually followed by
terrorist outrages worse than any
before. Now “Manchester
Guardian” joins in the optim-
ism:
“The experiment of creating
a country-wide Home Guard,
recruited from all races, includ-
ing the Chinese, is evidently suc-
ceeding. There is apparently a
growing realisation among
Malayan villagers—now that so
many of them have the means
to protect themselves—that they
need no longer submit to Com-
munist armed blackmail. This
is also borne out by the steep
reduction in the number of
civilians killed by terrorist gun-
men—only 71 in the last four
months compared with 411 in
the corresponding period a year
ago.”
London “Daily Telegraph,”
however, still has its doubts:
“There is little danger of such
tidings as these awakening here
[in Britain] any premature optim-
ism: we have seen too many
false dawns for that. If there
were any such danger it would
be sufficient to point to the
terrorists’ past feats of recupera-
tion and to the grave tasks which
will face us when terrorism is
but a memory. Many races have
been poured, without melting,
into the Malayan melting-pot;
we have yet to melt them and
form them into a single free
nation. The Malayan economy
is dilapidated by strife and lop-
sided by nature; we have yet
to repair and diversify it. In the
complexity of these tasks our
harassed officials may yet look
back on the emergency as a time
of comparative simplicity.”
U.S. Recession
Many people in responsible
positions in politics and business,
comments London “Financial
Times,” must ask themselves the
question when will a recession
begin in American industry?
“The signs are that it will be
towards the end of this year, and
that it will increase during 1954,
“By the end of 1954, and may-
be earlier, America will largely
have completed the more costly
part of its rearmament. The
very anticipation of the end of
this programme is in itself a
deflationary force.
“It is not easy to see how the
enormous industrial turnover
created by rearmament can be
maintained. Prices are falling
and will continue to fall in many
branches of American industry.”
Hawaii: 49th State
Noting that the U.S. is
“hovering on the brink of ad-
mitting Hawaii as the forty-
ninth State of the Union,” the
Washington correspondent of
London “Times” attributes this
consummation to the change-
over from Democrat to Republi-
can Government in America —
Hawaii being traditionally Re-
publican, and hence in recent
times brushed-off by the Demo-
crats,
Senate assent is all that’s re-
quired to complete the change.
Lying more than 2000 miles
from the American continent,
populated predominantly by
non-white peoples, says the
“Times” correspondent, Hawaii’s
elevation to Statehood will
represent a notable decision in
American history. It will be the
first time the Union has spread
outside the limits of continental
America and the first time that
a predominantly non-white
community, with only a fifth of
its population of American
stock has been incorporated
within the Union on a basis
of complete equality.
The “Times” man lists as first
among the real arguments in
favor of Hawaiian inclusion the
fact that as America’s manifest
destiny has drawn her deeper
and deeper into the Pacific, the
value of Hawaii, as a kind of
American Gibraltar, has become
increasingly appreciated;
“Ever since Captain Cook dis-
covered the islands in 1778 their
strategic importance has com-
manded the attention of the
great maritime Powers. (On the
initiative of an English admiral
the Union Jack flew over the
islands for a brief moment in
1843.) But although always
under the eye of visiting men-
of-war of the European Powers,
it was the arrival of American
missionaries early in the 19th
century, attracted by the unre-
formed ways of the Polynesian
natives, which really brought the
islands under white influence.
The missionaries in many cases
became the advisers of the
native monarchs, who under
their influence opened up the
archipelago, fabulously rich in
sugarcane, to American trading
and business interests. By the
end of the century the descend-
ants of the traders and the mis-
sionaries, by now intermarried
to form a dominant governing
class, effectively controlled
Hawaiian affairs, and, impatient
at the erratic rule of the Poly-
nesian monarchs, established,
with the help of a handful of
American marines, a Hawaiian
republic, which in 1893 they
asked the United States to
annex.
“The American President of
the time, the Democratic Grover
Cleveland, shocked at the
thought of such an imperialistic
idea, refused his assent, but five
years later, with the arrival of
the bolder Republican President,
William McKinley, at the White
House coinciding with the out-
break of the Spanish-American
war, ‘manifest destiny’ took its
inexorable course. The recur-
ring Far Eastern crises of this
century have bound Hawaii
with bonds of naval steel tighter
and tighter to the Americah con-
tinent, and today Pearl Harbor
is as American a name as Lex-
ington or Valley Forge.
“If the aeroplane has turned
Hawaii from an outpost to a
familiar neighbor, and strategy
transformed the neighbor into
a vital part of the United States
itself, it is the Hawaiian people
who have, by their actions in
peace and war, proved their
eligibility to the privilege of
Statehood. Fust, and perhaps
most important to the hard-
headed businessmen in Congress,
they have developed what Mark
Twain once called ‘the loveliest
fleet of islands that lie at anchor
in any ocean’ into a sound,
prosperous, go-ahead economy
with its fabulously rich sugar,
pineapple and tourist industries.
“Befofe the Second World
War many Americans doubted
that in the event of conflict with
Japan the Hawaiian population,
one-third of which are of fairly
recent Japanese origin, would
remain loyal to the American
flag. Their doubts were proved
without foundation, and the
Hawaiian battle honors in the
war against Japan were second
to none. Nor was there one
single act of sabotage at home.
“There is, however, one
highly significant difference be-
tween the population of Hawaii
and that of the mainland. In
continental America the original
stock has almost always ab-
sorbed the immigrants, except
the negro, as they arrived. In
Hawaii, however, where the
white American stock, swamped
by the floods of Asiatic immigra-
tion in the last century, repre-
sents about only a fifth of the
population, as against Japanese
37 per cent., and other Orientals
about 21 per cent., and Poly-
nesians 17 per cent., this is
clearly impossible.
“Instead of absorption there
has been a process of fusion,
first between the Polynesian
native stock and the families
of the American missionaries
and traders, and now between
these two groups and the
Oriental immigrants. The latter
stage has in effect only just be-
gun, but it seems safe to con-
clude that the ultimate
Hawaiian-American will, racially
speaking.;. .be about seven-
tenths Oriental, two-tenths
Occidental and one-tenth Poly-
nesian.”
The Stars and Stripes will, of
course, have to be re-designed
(for the first time since 1912,
when Arizona and New Mexico
entered the Union) to include
seven rows of seven stars in the
place of the six rows of eight
each as at present.
Australian Fallacies
t C ° r | on l lSt Cohn C lark,, m a
Manchester Guardian letter,
fallacies which the Austraha”
oligarchy f of politicians and
toTI
gat mat there is need lor
more centralisation of power in
Canberra and that Australia
anq mat Australia
needs foreign capital ;
“I have been one of that
inarticulate majority of the Aus-
trahan electorate which had the
prudence to think that it was far
safer to have political power dis-
tributed among six State Gov-
ernments rather thah centralised
in Canberra, in spite of the
blandishments and threats of the
leaders of all the political parties.
(The more the party leaders agree
on an issue like this, the greater
the suspicion with which the
electorate regards them.)
“As for capital requirements,
Australia’s need is to stop wast-
ing her resources in the estab-
lishment of protected secondary
industries. Once this is done she
will have more than enough
capital to provide for all her own
development needs, and a
surplus tq lend abroad as well.”
Dragnet Digest
Slight Understatement.
London “Daily Mail”: “The
Neguib Government must under-
stand that Britain will not
entrust her Imperial destiny to
the Egyptian Army.”
Variegated Commonwealth. —
As London “Observer” notes of
the 600 million people who
acknowledge the Queen as Head
of the Commonwealth, 520
million are not white-skinned;
tbat i SS gg per cent
’
u nc l e Georgi. London
“punch” writer, B. A. Young,
TthereTa/te^nTbrightness
*
JTtor masse3 mournin * the loss ? £ *5“
Little Father, the bravest, kindest
, • t V d : n the world’s
, a . wisest 1 9 aaer mme wona s
history aut hor of every benefit
enj oyed today by citizens of the
Soviet paradise, inventor of the
steam-engine, etc., it must lie in
the fact that they have already
acqu ired a new Little Father,
the bra Vest, kindest and wisest
j eader i n the world’s history,
audlor of every benefit enjoyed
today by citizens of the Soviet
paradise an d inventor of the
c i rcu lar-saw.”
c *
Real Estate for Aid. —“ There
is,” says “U.S. News and World
Report,” “a growing view
among Republicans in Congress
that Britain and France have
some real estate in which this
country [U.S.A.] is interested —
that they could exchange it'for
the billions of dollars in aid
they are getting. The French
island of New Caledonia, off
Australia, is very interesting to
America, and there are some
British islands in the Caribbean
area that are being eyed.”
Illegal West-East Trade. —
London “Economist” quotes
estimates of illegal trade across
the borders of Germany, Austria
and elsewhere as being double
tbe legitimate West-East trade,
To elude regu i a tions. Western
h fa lsify labels and
~„ J . .
shun B°° ds from c ° untr y to
country, disguising their true
destination until the cargo slips
over the frontier at points like
Berlin or reaches one of a score
of Europe’s free ports, from
L “ tr “fP ped *° be ‘
In the U.S. last year
(London “Financial Times” re-
aon financial limes re
p ort ) production of the non-
* r „ vlnn tn f}lP
celiulo f c to th ®
general public) rose by as much
fs 24 per cent. Production of
these fibres rose from 210 mil-
lion !b to 260 million lb; and
the ° f consumption which
was slightly higher than this, was
equivalent to nearly 60 per cent.
of the tot al of wool consumed.
, . , . ,
Americans Mixed Feelings. —
As viewed by a New York
“Herald Tribune” writer: “To-
day most Americans are struggl-
ing in a painful conflict of emo-
tions. They are torn between
the feeling that defence is bur-
densomely expensive; that war
is bloodily repulsive; but that
they must preserve a kind of
world which cannot be preserved
without one or the other or pos-
sibly a continuation of the pre-
sent mixture of both.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Army Training
A few months ago The Bulletin
printed an item decrying the proposal
to equip our local battalion with kilts,
when the same unit was housed in a
hopelessly inadequate building. Now it
appears that the Army intends to build
a new training-centre.
That a new and larger building is
needed is obvious, but what is required is
a training-centre, not a palace. The new
plans are for a set-up which will cost
about £150,000 and include messes for
officers, sergeants, n.c.o.s and o.r.s,
sleeping accommodation and a veritable
warren of offices.
The whole thing is too silly for words.
The essentials for this and similar units
are weapons, ammunition, Australian
clothing and a place to learn as much
as possible of the business of soldiering.
There is no need to spend any of the
national income on teaching the youth
of the nation how to quaff ale or sleep on
inner-spring mattresses. What is needed
is the expenditure on such things as
Brens, Owens, mortars and ammunition
for same. — Lofty (N.S.W.).
Parking
Open-air parking (B. 18/4/’53) is not
the “only certain cure for today’s parking
problems.” Nor are parking-stations a
“palliative.” Both have their uses, but
a third development, the parking-meter,
is essential to the continued prosperity
of inner-city business areas.
Large, open-air parking-stations must
necessarily be situated on the outskirts
of the city. They are eminently suitable
for the all-day parker, but will never be
patronised by the mere shopping
parker—Sydney planning experts report
that city business-houses are losing
£50,000-worth of sales each v week be-
cause such parking is not provided close
to their businesses.
Multi-storey parking-stations built in
business areas and the traffic-meter cater
for such needs. Many American cities
have raised the capital required to build
off-street parking-stations by using the
meter. Over 1,000,000 meters are now in
operation in the U.S.A. alone. Usually
the meter requires no capital whatever
on the part of the municipal authority,
manufacturers installing them on the
basis of collecting all fees until their cost
has been recouped—usually about eight
to nine months. Thereafter revenue from
fees, averaging about Id. for 10 minutes,
is used to finance parking buildings.
Supervision of the parking-meter is
cheap and effective. One traffic-officer
on a motor-cycle can patrol a large area
while watching for the red signal-flags
which indicate an overparked car.
Winnipeg, Canada, reported that over-
parked cars had been reduced by 67 p.c.
after installation of the meters.
Contrast that with Melbourne parking
management, which, according to the
chairman of the City Council traffic
committee, is costing the city £60,000 a
“Watch where you're chucking it, mug!”
year, without producing anything satis-
factory.
The experience of Manhattan should
be sufficient warning to all city business
interests. Surveys have disclosed that,
while out-of-town business increased by
60 p.c. in the past 20 years, Manhattan
retail sales showed no increase at all
because of traffic congestion and park-
ing problems. That will happen in Aus-
tralia unless inner-city parking facilities
are provided.— Rag (Vic.).
The parking problem is essentially one
of public mass-transportation. Harland
Bartholomew, in the American ‘‘Plan-
ning and Civic Comment,” gives it the
once over.
Transportation has developed from the
horse-and-buggy era (small urban areas)
through electric street-car and suburban
railroad (increased areas) to individual
automobiles (maximum urban areas).
Bartholomew asks “can and should
the shift from mass-transportation to
individual automobiles be halted?”
Limitations are street congestion, strain
of driving, heavy-truck traffic, expensive
and difficult parking, accident hazards
and steeply-rising costs. The cumulative
effect of those will be to slow down or
halt the shift to individual automobiles.
If half of the 60 per cent, or so of people
now moved by mass-transport were to
transfer to individual cars the conges-
tion on Australian city streets would be
chaotic—utterly so in Sydney and Bris-
bane.
The final answer is improved public
transport giving inexpensive, regular,
comfortable and otherwise efficient ser-
vice. That, in fact, is a Government
obligation, although it is avoided like the
plague.
If public transport, adequate in all
respects, were available on a round-the-
clock schedule my own car, with
thousands of others, could stay in the
garage and reduce this country’s ruinous
bill for imported petrol.— John Gresty
(Q-).
Country Cultural Centres
The proper place for Melbourne
Ward’s Australiana collection lately pub-
licised in The Bulletin is its present
situation at Medlow Bath, Blue Moun-
tains (N.S.W.), but housed in a good,
fireproof building.
Any such collection forms a good
nucleus for a local cultural centre. Good
museums are not confined to three of
the capital cities of Australia. At Laun-
ceston (Tas.) the Queen Victoria
Museum not only houses a small but
good collection, but has, within its
limited resources, done some excellent
research work. As is to be expected in
a mining district, the Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) collection houses mainly
mineral specimens, but it contains other
interesting material.
The tiny township of Kyancutta (S.A.)
is well known outside Australia because
of the little museum there, run by pri-
vate enterprise. Its owner has exchanged
meteorite specimens with collectors in
many other parts of the world.
When starting a local museum its spon-
sors will have a notable precedent to
guide them. John Tradescant, a
gardener employed by Queen Henrietta
Maria, had what he called a “Closet of
Curiosities.” It housed natural-history
specimens and native weapons brought
from overseas by seamen, and other
exhibits. Also, it was open to the public,
and crowds flocked to see it. Tradescant
willed it to his friend Elias Ashmole,
who passed it on to Oxford University ,
and thus it became the start of the now
famous Ashmolean Museum, and the
forerunner of all the great public
museums of today.
It is surprising what some of the older-
settled districts can offer in the way of
interesting and even valuable specimens.
Twenty years ago, as part of a carnival
to raise funds for a local hospital, I
ran a one-day museum sideshow. Among
the items loaned by local residents were;
a fine collection of Zulu weapons ; re-
markable old swords and firearms col-
lected by a Light Horse trooper after
the battle of Romani; a horary once’
owned by John Pascoe Fawkner (one
of the founders of Melbourne); a file of
very early issues of the London “Times”
and a book printed by William Caxton
—this last was sold to an American
during the last war.
After a local museum has been started
the next step is an art gallery. Some
country homes own sufficient good paint-
ings to make up a loan-display, and city
“shoo!"
art galleries will lend paintings and prints.
Then comes a reference library and an
archives department, the latter to house
pioneers’ diaries, letters written in the
early days, back files of the district news-
paper and so forth. Once a start has
been made donations and bequests
usually follow as a matter of course. —
Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Ward’s Forgotten Museum
The American (B. 8/4/’53) who offered
£40,000 for Melbourne Ward’s museum
at Medlow Bath (N.S.W.) was out for
a bargain. To me. Ward valued the
museum alone at £30,000 and the library
at a similar sum. He has spent large
sums buying Australian books and Aus-
tralian simply to prevent this treasure
from going out of the country. He has
also criticised the Government for letting
the “Yass Collection” go to an American
buyer.
The library attached to the museum
is a jumble of books and papers because
it is so overcrowded and, while it may
be small beside the Mitchell or Dixson
benefactions, it is no mean collection and
in certain things is unique in Australasia.
Ward told me that there is a clause
in the will that the collection must stay
at Medlow Bath and that a block of land
has been granted by the Hydro next door
for the new museum to be built.
The contents of the present over-
crowded building would fill a sizeable
museum, which would be a boon to the
Blue Mountains tourist trade and to the
country. Besides, we need more cultural
decentralisation, A grant for the building
of a new museum would make little im-
pression on the N.S.W. deficit for the
year.—J. J. A. (Vic.).
Red-cedar
“Mullum’s” friend (B. 8/4/’53) could
be right in his idea that timbers will be
replaced by synthetic materials before
red-cedar would mature. But if we don’t
plant red-cedar and other good furniture
woods he definitely will be right, because
if the timbers are not available synthetic
materials must take their place.
A few years ago the pottery industry
looked sick at the competition from
plastic, but plastics still run second to
chinaware.
The same thing applies to furniture.
All kinds of substitutes filled a gap, but
time-tested timber made the comeback.
The need for timber for furniture
apart, trees do need to be planted for
other reasons, and a timber-tree fulfills
these reasons as well as any other. So
why not plant them? If they remain
useful as timber-trees, well and good; if
not, we have not lost. — John J. Alder-
son (Vic.).
Parades
Why go to the Royal Marines or a
Guards regiment for drill-discipline (B.
8/4/’53)? Australian service units can
put on a tip-top show. Unfortunately,
few people ever see them. Duntroon,
Point Cook. Ingleburn, Jervis Bay, Rich-
mond, Wacol and Amberley are too far
from the centres of population to attract
crowds to see a half-hour parade.
In London you can see a ceremonial
parade in the heart of the city. In Aus-
tralian cities the most you can expect is
an occasional march. Australians would
be more inclined to appreciate and
applaud their servicemen if they could
see them. — Mullum (N.S.W.),
Anti-inflation Policy
Those destructive critics who con-
demned the Federal Government’s
method of defeating inflation by increas-
ing taxation still seem at a loss to know
why it has worked. Before the 1951
Budget far too much of our manpower
and materials were being used for the
manufacture of such articles as imitation
jewellery, fancy goods, decorative goods,
beauty preparations, pleasure and sport-
ing materials, carnival equipment, radio-
sets and such like.
By putting heavy indirect taxes on such
goods the Government certainly suc-
ceeded in switching more manpower and
materials to the production of coal, steel,
cement, fertilisers, essential machinery,
building and fencing materials. Output
of all those essential goods has increased
substantially since the 1951 Budget.
But the? critics contend that, as the
extra tax-money raised was spent by the
Federal and State Governments, it went
into circulation and therefore had no
anti-inflationary effect. The Federal
Government used £lO2 million of its
tax-money on works and gave the States
another million for their works
programmes. , f
Australians are good spenders, and u
that £2OO million-odd had been left m
the hands of the people a large propor-
tion of it would have gone into the
purchase of luxury goods and thus
defeated the Government’s object ot
damping down the demand for sucir
things.
While it is true that most of this money
eventually went into the pockets of e®'
ployees on Government projects the effect
was still ahti-inflationary because, in the
first place, it was paid as normal wasp-
which is quite different from its being
left in taxpayers’ pockets as excess spend-
ing power, and, second, there was a time-
lag of up to 18 months from when
the money was collected until it was m
to employees on Government jobs. /
interim was sufficient to make the switch-
over to boost essential industries."
McKenzie (Mudgee, N.S.W.).


Introducing the most amazingly versatile piece of workshop machinery ever invented. The “Woodmachinco Wonder Bench” that
does a thousand and one jobs and makes hard work easy. Simple to use. No special instruction needed. Can be driven off 32-volt
Generator Set, ordinary house lighting, or any petrol motor. Completely portable.
THE "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDEE BENCH
let us quote you for 32 volt or other voltage motors
mw
No. 1.-—Shows "Woodmachinco Wander Bench" (Cl 3) complete
with lOin. saw, boring table, electric lead, switch, half H.P. single
phase motor (works off any ironing point). Price £7O/10/-,
FiG.R., F. 0.8., Brisbane. Fitted with 1 H.P. petrol motor.
£33/10/-extra. Will also take Min. saw and 2 H.P. motor.
(Insert shows the petrol motor fitted, making the outfit com-
pletely portable and independent of electric supply).
|T
No. 2 shows the quick and
simple change from sawing to
planing. Both saw and planer
protected. Change from sawing
to planing in lOsecs. Both
planer rise >and fall.
No. 3.—T. .& G. Flooring easily
made. All mouldings (see page
3) simply made this easy way.
We will make any design joinery
moulding cutter to order. Send
sample.
No. 4.—Any size ply, or any
length timber can be handled.
No limit to length or area. Don’t
break your back with a hand-
saw. Live longer. 4 Let the
"Wonder Bench' 7 work for you.
No. s.—Rebates for hinges,
sash fittings, etc., quickly, ac-,
curafely cut this way. No ef-
fort, no delay. Use saw box for
fence. Lower front table for
any depth cut.
No. 6.—Using the Z arbour
and emery wheel for sharpening
axe. All ‘ hand tools, etc.,
speedily sharpened. Make your
own moulding cutters on these 1
emery wheels.
k
No. 7.—'All bevel cutting simply'
done. Bevel box easily made
Once jig box is made all bevels
then finished accurately. Cannot
alter, must be identical to last
bevel-cut.
No. B.—Mr. Woodworker, stop I
sweating over your hand rip I
saw NOW. Cut all your cover I
strips, door stops, Hoggings, fill- I
ing in strips, etc., this effortless <
way. Add years to your life, t
No. 9.—Drill all your dowel
holes this way. Discard your
brace and bit. The “Wonder
Bench” drills holes quickly, ac-
curately, and with no effort. No
more crooked holes.
ino. TO.—Those kitchen unit
aoors, quickly. accurately
moulded and rebated in one
simple operation. Say good-bye
to old methods, hand mou'ding
planes, etc.
No 11 .--Sanding Mates l usoq
on Z arbour) give smooth,
square, accurate finish on ends.
Brings up grain for varnishing.
Also use. Sanding Plate for' neat,
accurate" fitting of parts.
No. bobbin used
in place of planer head puts
glass smooth finish on all ob-
stinate, cross grain timbers. Also
sands saw marks from curved
surfaces. (See insert).
mo
icteg
No. 13.—'Using
(router) bit bn boring table. All
slots, mortices, grooves, chan-
nels, etc.', ' speedily, efficiently
cut. No more hand chiseling, no
more key-hole sawing.
SHOWING COMPLETE, SECTIONS OF
iS a T
5>
\M|PS^ FPONT TABLE
'lowered fop. DEPTH Of cut
No. 14.—A1l
this way. Heavy tennons are
cut on the moulding head, using
special tennon or trenching
knives. Finish building yout
house in half the time.
UNEVEN END 0£ EXTENSION TABLE
TIMBER OOCKEO snowing smu WHEELS
OFT TO SQUARE TO CARRY EXTRA
_ WEIGHT Of LOME'
BLOCK NAILED IN
ANY POSITION
DETERMINES
LENGTH OF
TIMBER'
To PE DOCKED
slide pieces bolted
UNDERNEATH DOCKING ,
TABLE PARALLEL WITH '
MAIN BENCH TOR KEEP SAW CUT SQUARE
No. 15.—This set up will dock
20 times studs as a
man with a handsaw, and the
operator will not feel half as
tired at the end of the day-
16. Using the “Wood-
machinco’\ Dovetailing Attach-
ment on kitchen unit drawers.
Adds qua'ity and strength to
your job.
ffc ! IMMIIB |j|„ j _ Hum II (I IllWir*^*
No. 17.—Profile cutting. With
The “WoTlder Bench” laid on
side, and using an impromptu
platform and a i-in. morticing
(router) bit. Handles all boards
up to 1 inch.
No. 18.—For that garage or
■workshop you have wanted for
so long. Build it yourself. Don’t
wait any longer. It’s easy with
the “Wonder Bench" to do all
the really hard work for you.
)
No. 19.-—Thaf extra room o?\
your house. Don’t pay a fabul-
ous price for it. Build it your-
self. Have that spare room
next time relatives .or friends
visit you.'
sNo. 20/—Mr. Apiarist; Next fimd
your bees swarm, have those
extra hives ready, and they will
cost so little if you make them
yourself on the “Woodmachjnco
Wonder Bench.
off any line
engine, or, in
unit that has
No. 22.—For all thoEe interior
jobs where fine, accurate sawing
and c’ean smooth finish are
essential. let the "Wood-
machinco Wonder Bench" do it
for you..
Mb. 23.—Mr. Orchardist, your
fruit case problems are over.
No more loss because of fruit
going bad waiting for cases.
Fruit cases are made quickly,
easily and accurately.
Mo. 24.-—Firewood! Yes, stacks
of it. The eternal problem of
the farmer's housewife is now
solved. Cut enough firewood
in one day to last a year on
the “Wonder Bench.”
rr
: ;
%'■
No. 25.—Fencing battens are no
longer a'problem. Cut ait you
require from mill ends, and sell
any surplus to your neighbours.
"Woodmachinco Wonder Bench”
is indisoensiblA
No. 26. —For those repair jobs,
and hard to cut shapes, for
wooden parts for agricultural
implements, waggons, etc., The
“Woodmachinco Wonder Bench"
Is IndisDfinsibla
No. 27.—For that new fowl
house, or pig sty. get it started
and finish it 4n half the time,
and only use. a half of the
energy with the “Woodmachineo
Wonder BeofiW’ ’
AND NOW ... Read this ASTOUNDING FREE OFFER
“Woodmachinco” actually “gives away” a precision made “Wood-turning
Lathe Set,” value (catalogue price) £37/10/-, absolutely FREE to all
purchasers, on the form below, in the month of May, 1953.
SPECIAL OFFER No. 19
Free to You (with every “Wonder Bench” Purchased on this
Offer Form in May, 1953)
co~ puJIC. r\ir. tHE 'WOODMACHINCO e.a
\ HEADSTOCK & TAIUSTOCK
assembly set
cs
SuPPuEO
flOtT5 NO T SyPPuCO
This £37/10/'
E.A. WOODTURNING LATHE SET
ABSOLUTELY FREE TO YOU I
NOTE.—This Special Offer and Order Form,
is separate from, and is not to be asso:iated
with any other “Special Order Form" ottered
elsewhere by us.
EA Specification: Threaded Faceplate. 7J-in. diameter, fin. Hollow Spindle, in both heao
and tail stock. Headstock Spindle Ballrace mounted with provision for emery stone at rear. A
strong sturdily constructed unit built for commercial use. Swings 18m. in gap, takes any
length between centres. No 2 Morse Taper Driving Dog and Non-split Centre fitted. Pulleys
three cone A sec. , , ,
This outstanding offer is made to introduce our woodworking units to your District, and
once the quota of E.A. Lathes allotted under this introductory scheme has been distributed,
then this offer will be rescinded. .
If you wish to secure one of these practical, efficient and accurately made machines
free, be well advised and act promptly, as you can readily understand we cannot Keep this
offer open indefinitely.
Fill In the form below NOW.and "get “your FREE E.A. WOODTURNING OUTFIT whil*
they last.
The “EA" Lathe set will be given free only on receipt of the Order Form No. 19. and
no free E.A. Lathe orders will be recognised unless ordered on this form.
SPECIAL OFFER FORM No. 19
To '’WOODMACHINCO." Grey Street, South Brisbane, Q.'
Dear Sirs,
Enclosed herewith is Cheque. * P.O. Money Order, Bank Draft, or Cash for the sum of
£7O/10/- as payment in full for one only “WOODMACHINCO” WONDER BENCH, as illustrated
at top left (No.. I), complete with half H.P. 240 V. motor, switch, lead, lOin. saw, planer
blades, and drilling table, all readv to plug in and use..
I understand these Units are in faultless condition, and will be forwarded immediately.
ALSO,' to~ be “delivered with the "WONDERBENCHabsoIuteIy FREE of all cost to me.
F.0.R., F. 0.8., Brisbane, ONE ONLY E.A. LATHE ‘OUTFIT, in perfect order as listed in your
catalogue and illustrated hereon.
In return for your giving me this E.A. LATHE OUTFIT complete, and free of all cost. I
undertake to tell my friends of your woodworking outfits, and wherever possible, contact
other woodworkers, and do my best at all times to further the sales of your woodworking
outfits in my District.
Signedi,, *
Address tuto ■-.....jvrrrrp-mTT.-rtr,...State.?..
“WOODMACHINCO.” 102 Grey St.. Sth.- Brisbane Q. Phone J 171$
(Note: For the sum of £5/10/- extra “Woodmachino” will pack this “Wonder Bench” and Lathe Outfit in strong boxes and insure same, and pay f
all capital cities in Australia. Freight to Tasmania and Darwin £1 extra.)
For your next vacation come to Sunny Queensland, the State with the best climate in the World. It’s Summer all the Winter in beautiful Queensland.


LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
;
m ■
mmm
mSm
Pit
y
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwali Ft. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYS AGHT'S” WIR
WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Young Beef
“Doddie Boy”: The Aber-
deea-Angus Society has taken
the initiative in a campaign to
encourage marketing in Aus-
tralia of beef cattle at an earlier
age than is now customary. It
will ask the Australian Meat
Board, which sponsors fat-cattle
competitions, to include prizes
for cattle not more than
3} years old and weighing not
more than 720ib. carcass weight.
R. B. Williamson, a West
Australian member of the
A.M.B., said Australia had to
follow the lead America had
given in speedy meat-produc-
tion. There was no place in the
top-grade market for old steers,
and U.S. breeders had fixed
two years as their marketing
target.
The society sees these ad-
vantages in earlier marketing:
A speedier turnover of stock
and capital, improved carrying
capacity, higher premiums for
good young stock, better feed-
ing practices, better demand for
young beef, more land used for
fattening.
Apropos, the Sydney R.A.S.
expects nearly 750,0001b. of beef
on-the-hoof at its fat-stock and
carcass show and sales on May
21. About 450 head of show
stock is entered, and will be
slaughtered under supervision at
Homebush after they are judged
to determine further awards and
to provide a study for beef-stock
raisers.
A “meat school” for exhibi-
tors and public will be held on
May 29 inside the beef-chilling
chambers at the abattoir. Many
of the steers for the show will
be from some of the remotest
station outposts, some of them
“refugees” from last year’s
northern drought, nursed back
to prime condition on N.S.W.
central-coastal pastures.
Pure-bred Aberdeen-Angus,
with 170 steers, out-number all
other breeds in the total entries
so far received. Hereford-
breeders follow with 158, then
Shorthorns, 127, Poll Shorthorns
54, Poll Herefords 24 and Red
Polls 3.
A record entry of 33 pens, of
three pasture-fed steers —99
beasts in all —showing not more
than six teeth, has been received
for the export-class competition.
Last year 15 pens competed. The
steers, all pasture-fed, will be
judged on the hoof and as car-
casses on a point-score.
— *
Dog Trials
“Jubilee”: In Hubbard’s
Working Dogs of the World we
find: “It appears that Welsh
farmers have begun to realise
that their old dogs were far
superior to the breeds from
across the border, and it is to
be hoped that some may be
saved from extinction.” This
was published in 1947, and my
own experience bears it out.
The specialisation in Border
collies for trial work and the
building-up of this breed for the
lucrative profession of supply-
ing pups to young aspirants for
dog-trial laurels has created a
position which has been
apparent for over 30 years to
men who work dogs. The trial-
ground demands a dog which
is easily commanded, alert and
brilliant in his moves, providing
a spectacle for the spectator, but
always within the limits im-
posed by the trainer.
In the late 60’s these attri-
butes were recognised when
victory at the dog-trials of
Britain became an end in itself.
Because of their trial qualities
the Border collies quickly
showed their superiority within
the demands of trial work, and
it was not long before they were
ousting such breeds as the Welsh
hillman, Welsh grey beardie,
Welsh black-and-tan and the
old English sheepdog, as well as
the smooth-haired Scotch and
English collies. The early dogs
brought to Australia and New
Zealand were of all these breeds,
and were suited to New Zealand
conditions.
Australia’s drought condi-
tions brought about a cross with
the native dingo, resulting in
the kelpie and the barb, which
ar& satisfactory for what is
asked of them. New Zealand
has had much the same experi-
ence as Wales.
The Border of today is often
too strong in the eye, often too
light in the color of the eyes,
denoting untrustworthiness and
not dependable out of sight.
Many Welsh grey beardies
went to South America, and
were crossed by their immigrant
masters with the native beardie
there, and the result is today a
dog that can handle huge mobs
of Romney and Corriedale sheep
much more satisfactorily than
the Border specialised trial-dog.
Before the door is quite closed
we should be importing some
of the nearly extinct breeds so
as to give the farmer and
shepherd the chance of some
other choice of working dogs.
Good Workers
“Delta”: The care of the
vegetable-garden is frequently
left to the womenfolk, and to
them the new system of garden-
ing without digging should be of
interest. This consists of having
most of the hard work done by
man’s best friends, the earth-
worms, which work a 24-hour
day and a seven-day week for
no wages, but they must be pro-
vided with food and water, and
their favorite food is compost.
Pick a patch of fertile soil,
which contains some earth-
worms, hoe the surface lightly
to remove any weeds, and rake
level. Then spread a couple of
inches of compost on top of the
soil and water well.
Sow seed in shallow drills, or
plant seedlings in the usual
manner, taking care to press the
surface firmly. Unless your
garden soil is well stocked with
worms, it may be advisable to
begin with some of the easier-
grown vegetables, and give the
worm population time to
increase, as it will do if the soil
is kept moist.
The worm, which is a
voracious feeder, and has a
gizzard similar to that of a fowl,
swallows humus from the sur-
face, and, burrowing deep into
the subsoil, takes in grit contain-
ing mineral elements, digests the
lot and excretes them in the form
best suited to nourish plant-life.
Surface water, and also plant-
“ Yes , I think the side-tilted style with pleated, matching
fly-veil suits y' best.”
roots, follow the worm burrows
well down into the soil.
If the soil is allowed to be-
come dry the worms will burrow
into the subsoil and curl up and
wait until moister conditions
prevail, but if the soil is kept
moist, they will continue to work
and increase. The “no-digging”
system permits intercropping, as
there is no need to clear off one
crop and turn the soil in
preparation for the next. One
may plant the new crop, row by
row, as the old one is harvested,
thus saving space and minimis-
ing the area that must be weeded
and watered.
All weeds have an optimum
depth at which the seeds will
germinate, and they will remain
buried for years, ready to spring
to life when turned up to the
surface, but in an undug garden
that does not happen, and one
soon ceases to have much weed
trouble.
A mulch of short lawn-clip-
pings or of sawdust will help to
keep the surface free from weeds
and will conserve moisture.
Inorganic fertilisers should be
used very sparingly, if at all, as
the acids which they contain are
not favored by earthworms as a
food item.
In five years of earthworm
gardening I have used no
inorganic fertilisers, nor have I
noticed any need of them.
Apparently any necessary
element which is not found in
the compost is brought up from
the subsoil by the worms.
Blood and bone may be used in
making compost if animal
manure is not available.
From a little patch, approxi-
mating 100th acre of red clay
soil, I supply all the vegetables
needed by a family of four
throughout the warmer months,
and about half their require-
ments in the winter. My lettuce
and parsnips have weighed over
21b. each, potatoes and carrots
over lib., while a row of onions
averaged fib. in weight. But
more important than weight is
the quality and flavor, which is
particularly noticed in tomatoes
and potatoes.
Weather Signs
“W.C.Q.”: Banking -up of
storm-clouds in the western sky
during spring and early summer
afternoons is usual in North and
Central Queensland (B.
15/4/’53), and is regarded as an
omen of the approaching mon-
soonal rains.
Such days usually open with
a dense fog. The wind will be
north-east to north-west and
light, driving fairly low cumulus
clouds to the south-east or
south. Above these clouds (and
often unnoticed) will be high,
fragmentary cumulus, perhaps
associated with “mares’ tails,”
drifting from the quarter whence
the storm clouds will come later.
By noon the low southward-
travelling clouds will have largely
vanished, though some frag*
mentary cumulus usually remain.
The thunderclouds now begin to
appear above the horizon, the
northerly wind freshens, and
more cumulus hurry from the
north.
Sometimes they grow very
dense and black and entirely blot
out the higher storm-clouds.
This is often followed by a good
shower, but quite frequently the
overcast suddenly breaks to
reveal a few crumbling thunder-
clouds, and the drought is still
on.
I’ve seen this type of weather
persist for weeks, the storms first
appearing soon after noon, then
late in the afternoon, then at sun-
down, then about 10 p.m., even
to the early hours of the morn-
ing. Such recurrent dry storms
are generally caused by a
stationary low-pressure trough
or rain-influence just outside the
area. Good rains may occur
when the trough passes over or
the trough may fade out com-
pletely without rain falling.
If we could cause moist air
to move down on Australia from
the north, we needn’t worry
about rain-making—the rain
would make itself. Moist air
does come from the north, but
only during four or five months
of the year. In 1950, for some
unknown reason, it came all the
year, with a consequent record
wet season.
Trees and Frost
“Breck”: The old idea that
eucalypt seedlings will stand up
to severe frost is a fallacy. They
must be protected. In their
natural state they’re protected by
older trees and scrub.
Best shelter is a miniature
wigwam of hessian. For saplings
about 2ft. high drive three stout
3ft. stakes into the ground
at equal distances around
and about Sin. out from the
stem ; slant them slightly in to-
wards the top. Around them
pin hessian or a split cornsack
which, fastened securely at
ground-level, reaches up the
stakes to a height of about 2ft.
If the remaining width of the
sack is folded back at the top
it can be used to stretch over
the top of the stakes and give
added protection during bad
frost periods. An opening is
needed at the top most of the
winter to let in air and sunshine.
These covers also act as pro-
tectors against rabbits and
stock.
White Leather
“H.C.”: To make a good
white hide, dehair, flesh and de-
lime the skin first. Place in a
solution of 41b. of alum, 41b. of
salt and 4gal. of water and leave
there six days. Drain twice
daily.
After that, lift out, drain the
solution off and stretch to
dry. While still 50 per cent,
damp, rub in tallow, fat or neats-
foot oil on both sides and again
hang and stretch.
Slow drying is best. Rubbing
while drying and working in
more fat makes the skin supple.
White hide may not be as strong
as the green variety, but as the
gelatine in it has been made
insoluble it’s less likely to decay.


2ii
Bathed
in glorious
sunshine...
ALL YEAH HOUND
the beaches of
—fe_. %' J jw on yj%
' s
Lore than a score of sun-bathed
tropical beaches surround the jewelled island of
Ceylon—beaches that provide the traveller with
year-round enjoyment and relaxation . . . where
you may swim or surf in shark-free waters, like
sparkling polished crystal.
Brilliantly-coloured coral reefs surround the
shores adding the final touch of beauty to fas-
cinating Ceylon—the land where Nature stores
her treasures.
Come now, to Ceylon. Like thousands who have
seen her beauty, you’ll want to return again to
this wondrous land of charm.
fd
f
Further information, free maps and
literature can be obtained by writing to
the CEYLON GOVERNMENT TOURIST
BUREAU, or Travel Agents, Shipping
and Airlines in Australia.
Tours can be booked direct on all
Registered Travel Agents through the
Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau
free of commission.
CT. 12.16
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
df
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS... NO EMPTYING... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
d
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 20 years
DISTRIBUTORS,:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Khuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Trading Co., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
before dinner...
CIKZANO
1
the worlds BgSs
favourite
appetiser /
VERMOUTHS
SWEET, DRY AND BIANCO
IPiimotU* <iince 1816
CIN I
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
Os
OM-
to**
BO**
pV\o‘p’
Tfi-«-* lc ' C
*DkL’'6d£' 0&.
STERILISED
I BONE FLOUR
f 65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Bos 3583.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. 80. 4058. MELBOURNE • G.PO.
\ 80. 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Bos 7SBK. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Castrating Pigs
“Tammy”: Best age to cas-
trate pigs is at 5-6 weeks. A
good way to do it without loss
is to have a comfortable seat
near a wall or post at your right
hand. Drive a spike into the
post strong enough to stand the
weight of a weaner. Put a slip-
noose around the left hindleg
a little above the trotter, then
pass the twine around the other
leg and pass between the legs
under the tail and so to the
other leg.
Draw a bag up over the head
and body to muffle the noise,
which may irritate grown sows
near by. Now work the subject
over your right leg in your sit-
ting position so that the scrotum
is in the best position to oper-
ate. Use a sharp knife and cut
deep in the lowest part of the
scrotum for drainage and to
prevent removing any mem-
brane unnecessarily. With
pressure of the left-hand finger
and thumb pull the testicles right
out. Apply disinfectant and let
go back with mother for a week,
when he should be healed, and
can then be weaned.
Put your hook or spike at
such a height that your right
leg will keep the pig just off
the ground. Use the left leg to
keep him quiet.
Pasture Improvement
“Archaps”: T. B. Pattridge,
of the C.5.1.R.0. (Brisbane), has
returned from overseas con-
vinced that sown pastures are the
key to improved animal nutri-
tion and carrying capacity in
sub.-tropical areas.
Pattridge, who visited Ceylon,
India, Africa and the United
Kingdom, said Australian
pasture research did not suffer
by comparison with that
in other countries; in fact, the
Australian work was generally
highly regarded. j
In most countries, particularly
in Africa, pasture research was
concentrated on a study of plants
that would grow naturally in the
existing environment, whereas
in Australia the fundamental
outlook of research officers
tended towards the pre-selection
of plants which would provide
adequate nutrition for stock and
then to modify the environment
through the use of fertilisers so
that those plants could be
grown.
Perhaps the best example of
such work was the development
of subterranean clover—once
a difficult plant to grow, but now
spread over large areas of West
and South Australia, Victoria
and New South Wales through
the use of appropriate fertilisers.
This one plant had been grown
on almost every type of soil and
under a wide range of climatic
conditions.
The success achieved with
trace elements in the 90-mile
desert had attracted much atten-
tion overseas, and here again it
seemed that the results were
achieved because fertilisers were
being applied to plants which
normally would not grow there
successfully.
Dairying in W.A.
“Howie Wing”: Before big
money is spent in clearing more
land to expand West Australian
dairy-production two alterna-
tives should be investigated.
One is the possibility of making
the few cleared acres more pro-
ductive. That would mean irri-
gation, heavier manuring and
more subdivision —which may
or may not be feasible. The
other is to develop the bush part
of holdings as forestry.
Most timber-men would laugh
at this idea but timber-
milling in the west is taken to
mean a crude hacking at natural
wealth with no thought of re-
placement.
We have dairy-research
stations and forestry schools
which do good work, but no-
body seems to grapple with the
basic problem of what a particu-
lar type of country should be
used for.
Hints for the Farm
“Big Billy”: Utensils for ex-
tracting honey must be clean and
sterile. Scrape each side of the
comb, using a well-worn table-
spoon with sharp edges. Honey
and wax can then be scraped off
down to the midrib and founda-
tion of the comb is left intact.
“C.A.A.”: Fertilisers should
not be used as a lick for stock,
as they can cause zinc- or
copper-poisoning. It is also un-
wise to feed super, direct to
stock because of its acid nature
and the possibility of the ani-
mals receiving too much fluorine
or calcium sulphate.
“M.”: Hydatid risks can be
minimised by feeding dogs
cooked meat only and dosing
them for tapeworm at eight-
weekly intervals with arecoline
hydrobromide. The dose is
given in water and varies from
1/16 grain to | grain, depend-
ing on the size of the dog. Wash
the hands thoroughly after
handling dogs or their premises
and equipment, and instruct
children in this routine.
“J.J.A.”: Long life is an in-
herited factor in poultry, so
choose eggs from two- or three-
year-old hens, the first 20 or 30
eggs after the moult being the
most fertile. The eggs should
be over 2oz. and under 2|oz.,
with shells free from ridges and
roughness. Thin-shblled eggs
dry out rapidly and kill the
embryo, or if they hatch give
chickens that will lay thin-
shelled eggs. All these factors
are inherited, just as eggs from
weak and sickly hens will pro-
duce weak and sickly chickens.
“Ann”: To prevent oilskin
clothing from becoming sticky it
should never be folded or rolled,
up, and when not in use should
be either hung by two hooks or
with the arms extended on a
stick to allow cool air to circu-
late through it.
“M.”: When ringworm
appears on stock, clip the hair
closely round the part and
soften it with olive-oil. Wash
off with warm soapy water and
apply a 2\ per cent, tincture of
iodine ointment twice a day
until the bare patches are
covered with a healthy growth
of hair. Burn washing-cloths
and sterilise receptacles immedi-
ately after use.
“Deejay”; Next time you
have a stubborn nut that’s
locked with rust build a coffer-
dam round it with putty, fill it
with oil and leave it for a few
hours.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The April heat was similar to that of April, 1917, which
indicates that the shorter Crohamhurst Cycle is still in
control. This means a dry, cold winter in northern New
South Wales and south-eastern Queensland, but further
south a gradually increasing rainfall with floods.
Some authority has predicted a major drought very
soon, but my theories do not support this, beyond the dry
winter abovementioned. There is likely to be a moderate
dry spell late in 1954 and early in ’55, but the next major
drought under my system is about '5B-60.


CRIPPLING
RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
D
trade mark I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical 'profession.
• DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take In tablet form.
• DOLCIN Is obtainable from your chemist
it*
TIC*
SCI*
URff 1 *
MBA® 0
I
gj*
»Bl*
HE*-'
<o>
UflW
100 TABLETS FOR
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Piy. Ltd., Box 1552,
GJ.O., Sydney.
D 4.2
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
his undoubted knowledge of this
coast, had come back to save his
old ship? Malone might have
been dreaming at the wheel, but
young Banks had been wide
awake and obviously disturbed
by the incident.
XJACKWARDS and forwards.
U Alone, burdened with
doubts and indecision. Until
the signs were unmistakable.
“Bring her back to her original
course,” he ordered, moving the
telegraph to “Full Ahead.”
He felt sure he heard young
Banks sigh with relief; and he
cursed Spring inwardly. He’d
allowed himself to be tricked
into wasting nearly an hour, a
precious hour that might mean the
difference between life and death.
the watches changed
*" at midnight he had all hands
turned-to, double-lashing and
securing everything in readiness
for a big blow. Before we were
finished the old Balcomba was
rolling heavily, rain was coming
down in torrents and the wind
was tearing at our flapping oil-
skins in ever-increasing gusts.
At one-thirty Kennedy
brought her round to face wind
and sea. There was no doubt-
ing the necessity of the order this
time for the old girl had to fight
her way around against break-
ing seas and howling wind-
We thought it was blowing a
gale then, but before daylight
we were made to realise that the
gales we had weathered were
puny things compared with this
monster that was raging down
on us.
It lashed up mountainous
seas, tore the tops from the
waves and hurled them at us
with a force that splintered
woodwork and shattered every
pane of glass on the bridge, leav-
ing us exposed to a demon that
threatened to batter us insen-
sible. It drove the rain ahead
of it until rain and spray, sea
and sky were one solid stream
of water fleeing before its fury.
And the noise! The thunderous
drumming roar of it numbed ears
and brains, deadening the impact
of seas crashing against our ship.
And through it all Kennedy
and the helmsman battled to
keep the ship head-on to wind
and seas, while the rest of us
crouched and clung like useless
limpets to what shelter we could
find, bracing ourselves against
the sickening dives that seemed
as if they would continue down
to the ocean-bed, afraid that if
we slackened our grips we would
be blown overboard. Lightning
flickered incessantly around us,
but the thunder that must have
accompanied it was lost in the
roar of the gale.
Then daylight came, not as a
relief, but as an unwelcome
revelation, exposing things that
had been mercifully hidden by
darkness. It revealed the awe-
inspiring immensity of the waves
and it revealed only too clearly
the punishment the poor old
Balcomba was taking, ventilators
twisted and torn from their deck-
fittings, lifeboats splintered to
matchwood in their cradles. We
saw tons of solid water crash-
ing aboard, swirling feet-deep
across our fore-deck until we
had the impression that we were
clinging to only half a ship with
everything for’ard of the bridge
torn away and sunk.
We got a glimpse of a small
coastal steamer fine on our star-
board bow, yawing madly on a
wave-crest, before rain and driv-
ing spray once more hid her
from our view. I tried, without
losing my grip on the rail, to
convey the menace of her
presence to Kennedy, but he had
already seen her and was motion-
ing the helmsman to favor his
port hand.
God knows how he retained
the power to think in that
inferno. God knows how he
even managed to stay on that
gale-swept bridge. Had the wind
whisked his slight form aloft
amongst the tattered clouds I
doubt if I would have felt sur-
prised. Yet throughout he
remained calm, outwardly
impassive, the smallest yet the
greatest of us all, the one man
capable of saving us.
We only saw the little coaster
once after that—a desperate,
helpless thing caught broadside-
on in the frothing teeth of a
giant comber. And even as we
looked the wave crashed down,
rolling her over and engulfing
her so completely that nothing,
not even a solitary struggling
seaman or a piece of wreckage
remained to tell of the passing
of a ship and her people.
What could we do but think
“Poor devils!”? We couldn’t
even say it aloud lest the wind
force the words back down our
throats. And why waste
sympathy when we would prob-
ably soon be joining them? The
one thought in all our minds
was: What will happen if we
strike the centre of this?
Well, we didn’t strike it. And
we survived, thanks to Kennedy,
and Kennedy alone. If the ghost
of Spring really did appear on
the bridge that first night I
would favor Kennedy’s opinion
that it tried to lure us to destruc-
tion rather than save us. That’s
the type of man Spring was.
Why, he would reason, should
we incompetents be left to enjoy
the life denied to him?.
TPHE storm passed on, leaving
-*■ us battered but safe, wallow-
ing in a heavy swell. I got four
precious hours of sleep that
night, but Kennedy never left
the bridge. He was still there
when we turned-to to clear away
the wreckage and patch the
damage next morning. Late in
the afternoon I went up to report
progress,
“We’ve come through with
surprisingly little damage,” he
said in answer to my report.
“Yes,” I agreed. And then,
without thinking that he was
entitled to a good sleep before
being confronted with a fresh
worry, I blurted out “I suppose
you know you’ve got another
problem on your hands?”
I’d sensed it in the attitude of
the men as we repaired the
damage, in their whispered
snatches of conversation and
their furtive glances towards the
locked door of Spring’s quarters.
Malone had lost no time in
spreading the story and he’d had
a receptive audience. All hands
were shying clear of those
quarters as if the Devil himself
was behind the locked door.
“That big Irish fool has got
’em scared stiff,” I finished. “If
you can’t convince them he’s
imagining things you’re going to
have crew trouble on your
hands.”
“Hell!” Kennedy said, swing-
ing away from me. “It seems to
me I’ve had every other sort of
trouble.”
When he turned back again he
was actually grinning. “Send
Mr. Banks up here to take over,
and then muster all hands on the
port side abaft the master’s
quarters. I’ll lay their bloody
ghost.”
The men were all there, mut-
tering in groups when Kennedy
came down the ladder. Tired,
dirty and unshaven as he was, the
little man was completely master
of his ship. Never, even during
the height of the gale, have I
admired him more. With the
possible exception of Malone,
Spring’s ghost was more real to
him than to any man on board.
Yet he never hesitated, never
swerved from what he con-
sidered his duty.
“So Malone’s been filling you
up with a ghost-story,” he said
quietly. “Trust an Irishman to
think up a thing like that.” He
had them with him there.
Malone was the only Irishman
on board. “You say Captain
Spring gave you a steering order,
Malone. I suppose you’ll say
he’s in his old quarters now, eh?
There’s nowhere else he could
be. Well, we’ll soon settle that.”
He beckoned to one of the
stewards. “Get the key, steward,
and help me shift my gear in
there. I’m turning in now, in
the master’s quarters. That’ll
do, men.”
They broke away sheepishly.
Not for a month’s wages would
any one of them have done what
Kennedy was doing.
\\7ELL, the ghost was laid,
** and if Kennedy didn’t sleep
,soundly he never admitted it.
Instead of appointing another
man in Singapore the owners
confirmed his command and he
slept in those quarters for several
years. Banks, of course, kept
his mouth shut, but poor Malone
jumped the ship in Singapore,
unable to put up with any
further crude fo’c’sle witticisms
about taking steering orders
from ghosts.
duckbill, and later termed
“platypus.”
In general, therefore, the
little Buffalo was something in
the nature of a museum-cum-
menagerie, with specimens repre-
senting a kind of competition—
strictly unofficial! —between the
second and third Governors of
New South Wales.
Hunter won the contest.
Actually, he won it in advance,
so to say.
The important factors were,
not the more-or-less familiar
emu and black swan, but the
novel “pheasant” and “water-
mole,” and, unknown to King,
specimens of both of these re-
markable creatures had been
forwarded to England by
Hunter two years earlier. More-
over, although George Bass had
already sent home dried speci-
mens of the gymea-lily. Hunter’s
spirit-specimens also were used
when an eminent botanist,
Joseph Correa de Serra,
described and figured the strik-
ing new plant.
The happy fact, indeed, was
that the first notes and drawings
relating to Doryanthes were to
be published (with acknowledge-
ments to both Bass and Hunter)
fairly alongside the first descrip-
tion and first color-plate of
Menura (prepared from a speci-
men sent by Hunter).
Had these and kindred de-
velopments been foreseen by
the ex-Governor his mind would
probably have been easier than
it was. He had said of Australia,
“This is a good country and
will do well.” How pleased he
would have been, therefore, had
he realised that his name was to
be forever associated with three
of the country’s most dis-
tinguished products, namely, the
lyrebird, the platypus and the
gymea-lily! No man could
wish for a more distinctive
honor.
As matters were, it seems
doubtful if that long voyage of
the Buffalo (from September,
1800, to May, 1801) was an en-
joyable one for John Hunter.
His latter days in Sydney had
been unpleasant, and some of
his travelling companions—the
inoffensive emus and swans, as
well as the specimens of the lyre-
bird and platypus—must have
been a constant reminder of the
subject. Those exports were, in
fact, a direct product of a vice-
regal quarrel that extended over
several months.
The trouble began when, in
April of 1800, King arrived in
Sydney to take the. place of
Hunter. The two men had been
friendly enough as fellow-
officers in the days of the First
Fleet, but now Hunter, whose
nerves had become strained
during five difficult years, be-
came annoyed at the manner in
which he was being supplanted,
and thus bad feeling developed
between him and King. In-
deed, Hunter delayed his depar-
ture for six months, and in that
time his potential successor had
little or nothing to do.
That explains why King was
able to send an assortment of
specimens to England by the
ship on which Hunter sailed;
having gained some knowledge
of natural history in earlier
years through collecting for
Banks on Norfolk Island, and
being “at a loose end” while
waiting to take over the Gover-
norship, he turned his attention
to zoology.
Whether he personally col-
lected his lyrebirds, or had any
bush experience of the species,
is doubtful; if he did see and
hear the bird he failed to record
any data, and so the ornitholo-
gist Davies, who knew nothing
of the bird’s habits up to 1802,
was scooped on the subject by
the non-ornithologist Gollins.
Does this imply that King
merely “sat tight,” or wandered
aimlessly about the small settle-
ment, during the whole of his
jobless period? Does it also in-
dicate (as critics may claim) that
his specimens were procured at
secondhand and that his sole
object in collecting was to
gratify Banks? Not nscessarily.
He may have made observations,
and also gathered specimens,
without placing his activities on
record.
At all events, one likes to sup-
pose that the third Governor of
New South Wales, being forced
into idleness for several months,
devoted intervals of the winter
of 1800 to the study of natural
history in general and the lyre-
bird in particular.
Hunter, meanwhile, carried
on the business of government,
and then returned to England
with his Scottish temperament
in some disorder. Later he gave
to his old friend and subordi-
nate, David Collins, much valu-
able material for publication,
but, being tired and disheartened,
he stipulated (or so it would
seem) that his contribution
should not be directly acknow-
ledged. A consideration in re-
gard to the lyrebird data, u all
probability, was that Hunter did
not wish acknowledgement for
information gathered by others.
Moreover, he probably was
aware that King had also
furnished Collins with a certain
amount of material, and it seems
possible that this would be
another factor in causing him
to request the suppression of
his name on the title-page of
Collins’s book.
There need be no doubt that
Collins would have been very
willing to give full recognition
to his former chief, and it may
be supposed that he pleaded the
point with Hunter; but, of
course, when a Scot is angry he
is apt to be very obstinate. A
further consideration is that
Hunter, a man retiring by
nature, had no wife to urge
upon him the value of publicity.
As for the case of Major-
General Davies, a choice of
three possibilities is presented:
(1) He inadvertently overlooked
asking Lady Mary Howe the
name of the donor of her “bird
of paradise” ; or (2) Lady Mary
said “I don’t think Governor
Hunter would wish his name to
be mentioned”; or (3) as
Davies’s description of the new
bird, although read in 1800, was
not published until 1802, by
which time he had learned from
his friend King of the quarrel
in Sydney, he wilfully suppressed
Hunter’s name. Charitable im-
pulses suggest the adoption of
the second of these theories.
On the whole, it is curious
that records relating to both the
lyrebird and the platypus should
have become entangled, more or
less directly, with a memorable
quarrel between two early
Governors of New South Wales,
but, at least, it is possible now
to view the situation with some
clarity,*and that view indicates
that natural history in Aus-
tralia owes a considerable mea-
sure of gratitude to John Hunter.


FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
THE CREST OF THE BROKEN WAVE
JAMES BARKE 16s.
IT ISN’T CRICKET
SID BARNES
COLLINS
16s.
PUBLISHERS
DESIREE
By Annetnarie Selinko
The diary of a silkmerchant’s
daughter who became Queen of
Sweden forms the plot of this novel
and gives us an intimate story of
Napoleon and his contemporaries.
18/9 (post 1/3)
DOCTOR AT SEA
by Richard Gordon
Doctor Gordon, now fully qualified,
on advice of a psychologist becomes
a ship’s doctor, and his adventures
are even funnier than those ex-
perienced in “Doctor in the House.”
13/6 (post 9d.)
ANGUS
89 -95 Castlereagh St.,
&
ROBERTSON LTD.
:s 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
should be entered up against his guitar.
What lute could undersing a line like:
Forget not, O, forget not this!
Lorca, like Wyatt an intellectual, and
a skilled musician and collector of folk-
music, also performed a major feat of
grafting—he superimposed the poetic
images of Rimbaud and the French sym-
bolists upon the cante Hondo and cante
flamenco, “the barbarous, bitter folk-
music of the South ;” cante Hondo hold-
ing the “philosophical desperation of the
Arab, the religious desperation of the
Jew and the social desperation of the
gypsy.”
Of late, experts have drawn a parallel
betwen this cante Hondo, the short, sharp,
street-corner and often-impromptu song
of the outcast and the underdog, and the
music that was born in the dives and
parks of New Orleans of negroes and
half-castes and slum-dwellers —jazz. But
whereas the American popular song has
found little sublimation beyond the
softening influences of Tin Pan Alley and
the witticisms of Ogden Nash, the Spanish
has been raised to great poetry in the
verse of Lorca ; and the commerce seems
to go both ways:
Rafael di Alberti, Lorca’s colleague, has
described how one night, as he was passing
a dive in Triana, the gypsy quarter of
Seville, he heard a flamenco singer intoning
four lines taken from an elegy which he
had written on the death of Joselito the
bullfighter.
It is interesting that Lorca himself was
shocked by mechanised America, and
that after his visit there his sympathies
lay exactly where a union of jazz and
cante Hondo would put them:
, . . the Negroes who empty the spittoons,
the young men who tremble under the pale
terror of their directors,
the women drowned in mineral oil,
the multitude of the hammer, the violin or
the cloud . . .
must shout though their brains burst on
the wall,
must shout with a voice so bold
that the cities tremble like little girls,
and the prisons of oil and music burst
open,
because we want our daffy bread.
His critics insist that Lorca had no
politics. It was unfortunate, then, that
his main poetic symbol for villainy was
the Spanish Civil Guard, who shot him ;
and that his poems, which expressed the
people in words the people could not so
much understand as feel, should have
become the symbols of revolutionaries.
He was bigger than that, and because he
was bigger than that the inability of the
Falange to prevent his death has become
one of those blunders that are worse than
crimes.
R. McC.
Arabs , Ancient and Modern
From the spate of books on the Middle
East two of special interest are The
Travels of Ibn Jubayr (Cape)—the work
of a tolerant and observant Muslim de-
scribing his pilgrimage from Spain to
Mecca and Medina from February 4,
1183, to May 3, 1185—and Caravan (also
Cape), a disarmingly-modest and popu-
larly-written account, by Carleton S.
Coon, Professor of Anthropology at the
University of Pennsylvania, of the peoples
from Morocco to Afghanistan.
To the general reader who knows the
Middle East either through reading or
by travel, the great interest of Ibn
Jubayr will lie in his accounts of still-
existing cities and peoples. Most of the
cities have suffered further decay, and
only a few, in their new suburbs chiefly
occupied by westerners, have made any
attempt to adopt modern sanitation. Even
today the route followed by Ibn Jubayr
offers considerable hazards and incon-
veniences, realised only by the few
foreigners whose needs are not met by
airdravel.
After eight centuries the Egyptian Cus-
toms-officers are still extortionate and
ill-mannered, particularly as there is no
modern Saladin to bring them to book ;
the Jiddan by choice and by habit is still
a thief; and, in spite of the untold wealth
poured into the Arabian coffers by the
oil companies, the hajji is more merci-
lessly exploited than at any time in his-
tory. Nor has the cupidity and avarice
of the shopkeepers of Damascus and
Baghdad decreased.
By and large, the English-speaking
world is deeply indebted to Brig. Broad-
hurst for this translation, which is the
first in the language. The debt would be
vastly increased if, in a new edition, the
pious exclamations and the descriptions
of tombs, of no interest to anyone out-
side the Muslim faith, were cut down to
a minimum. This might also allow of
some reduction in the price of the volume,
which is high for the average reader. The
obviously authentic and often critical
accounts of the cities passed through and
of the Muslim ceremonies at Mecca and
Medina are a joy to all infidel students
of Araby who are prohibited from pene-
trating more than the outer fringe of the
holy territories.
The immediate purpose of Caravan,
written from first-hand knowledge as well
as literary research, is “to provide a back-
ground of geographical and cultural in-
formation, and hence of understanding,
for Americans interested in the Middle
East.”
Geographically, Turkey is outside the
scope of the book, but the inclusion of a
penetrating analysis of pre-Kemal
Turkish development is welcome. The
influence of Attaturk in improving the
Middle East is ignored, unfortunately,
and the explanation (p. 167) of his re-
placement of the fez by the “horrendous
brimmed hat” is incorrect. There are
other errors, as is inevitable in a work
covering such a vast territory, and rely-
ing in part on works by more senti-
mental travellers, but they are not im-
portant. Altogether, this is a book to
read with pleasure and to refer to with
profit.
Ibn Jubayr studies the Muslim as he
sees him, from the inside. Professor
Coon enumerates, from the outside, the
physical and spiritual environments
which have formed the Muslim per-
sonality. For all that, the mosaic of
sincere piety and complete viciousness ;
of overwhelming and often ostentatious
hospitality and overweening avarice ; of
pride and prejudice and an invulnerable
superiority-complex ; of scrupulous atten-
tion to obligations within his own narrow
circle and unashamed dishonesty in ex-
pression and act without it, together with
the readiness to burden Allah with the
entire responsibility for all conditions
and events and to use that as an excuse
for the lack of any effort on his own part
—all this remains the enigma which con-
stitutes the Arab.
L. O.
Newspaper Novel
Pamela Frankau has her father’s ability
to capture the social spirit of her times;
he fermented it into an aphrodisiac, she
makes it into a box of chocolates, but
the materials of The Winged Horse
(Heinemann) are toothsome delicacies.
Dominating the book is a Fleet-street
nabob, a small man with a wide mouth
and an engaging grin who goes to
America and buys (in the pleasing ver-
nacular of the literary slave-trade) a
rising young American cartoonist. On
the boat back to England, the young
cartoonist meets the nabob’s daughter,
who is returning to England with her
child after a second and final break with
her New York stockbroker-husband. On
the boat, intimacy (as they say in Fleet-
street) occurs.
In England, the young cartoonist is in-
vited to the nabob’s country home. There
he meets the nabob’s younger daughter,
her brother, still at university, who wants
to be an actor, and the young sculptor
from the neighboring estate, a great
favorite of the nabob’s, whom the
younger daughter loves very dearly. Miss
Frankau paints the two children with
the transparent delicacy of a Russell Flint
watercolor; and the American cartoonist
falls heavily under the spell of their
indolent elegance, their rattletrap car that
meets him at the station, and their easy
manners that are made possible only by
great wealth and the protection of the
urchin-ogre father of whom they are
afraid. Only the married daughter repels
him, not considering that a shipboard
affair constitutes an introduction.
Then the nabob’s harebrained son is
killed landing a second-hand ’plane he
flew against his father’s will across the
Channel to visit an ageing actress with
whom he is impossibly in love; the
father sees in this a great opportunity
for his young neighbor, the sculptor, to
knock out a masterpiece in the boy’s
memory ; the sculptor, much to the sur-
prise of those who had considered him
only a plodding technician, turns out a
masterpiece; and the nabob considers
that this will be wasted on a mere indi-
vidual, and arranges, with a huge news-
paper build-up, to have it unveiled as a
memorial to a bombed town.
About here, the cartoonist finds that his
feelings for the nabob’s family have
softened the savagery of his perceptions ;
his work loses its sting; the nabob feels
(in the polite language of the trade) that
he will have to let him go; and he goes
back to America after failing to per-
suade the younger daughter to accompany
him—at the last moment she fears her
father.
Meanwhile, the married daughter finds
that her New York stockbroker-husband
has revenged himself upon her by de-
liberately mismanaging her fortune. In
New York, trying to clean things up,
she meets the cartoonist, condemned to
small-time work, and they live together,
she seeking a divorce. The nabob visits
her, but rather than give in to him, she
sticks to the cartoonist. And then the
cartoonist finds that the young sculptor s
prizewinning winged horse has been
moulded from a sketch the cartoonist
made in England ; he goes to England
and forces the story into the papers ot
the nabob’s rivals . . .
Much of it is sentimental melodrama,
but most of the office-scenes and news-
paper-scenes are brilliantly done; and
such as would like to see a nabob gently
grilling over a slow fire will not be dis-
appointed.
The Red Carpet: Dan Wickenden
(Dent). A young American comes from
a country town to become a great writer
in New York; he gets work in a pub-
lishing firm, falls heavily for the wife
of a posturing poet, attends intellectual
banquets at the home of the poet’s
wealthy mother, throws a wild party in
his own constricted flat, and corresponds
with the plain, but loving girl-he-left-
behind-him in the country town. Mr.
Wickenden is making a name for him-
self as a transcriber of contemporary
America; and this book, in which the
happenings are not dissimilar from those
in similar circles in Sydney (N.S.W.), is
a readable mixture of exact observation
and nostalgic charm.
Upon Several Occasions: Elizabeth
Berridge (Heinemann). Essentially of
interest to women, this novel is set in a
small Welsh village. Its main interest
centres about the parochial affairs of
Church, Chapel and Women’s Institute.
Romance is supplied in the courtship of
a schizophrenic girl, Mady Barnard, by
a man from a neighboring village who
wins her with untruthful accounts of his
war-record and loses her when he admits
his lies. There is some very good
characterisation —notably of an ageing
Anglican rector and his wife —which is
not supported by a comparable excel-
lence of writing.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 224
Across
I—Quack cleaner with the French
sunburn. (9)
s—Keep5—Keep company, then marry,
though bullied. (5)
8 — A pound vestment. (3)
9 Report the Light Brigade adven-
ture demanded in many a
restaurant. (5,6)
11 — He bounds. (7)
12— Wharf fee makes a bull cry with
fury. (7)
13 — Slim about Mussolini. (6)
15—Who is it that I saw sitting on
a see-saw? (4)
17—Direction to a peruke in the
draught. (4)
19 —Disparagement. (4)
21—Cash element of music. (4)
23 —Step possesses high - ranking
Turks. (6)
27 — The first letter in two pronouns
to Capone. (7)
28— Expelling nothing you bite, (7)
30 — Plump half-day instrument with
a fairy mirage seen in the Straits
of Messina. (4, 7)
31 — Gilbertian feminist. (3)
32 — A firkin. (5)
31—Imaginative opus? (5, 4)
Down.
1 — The fellow allows the garlands.
(8)
2 Book heads off all lazy Britons
under Mary. (5)
3 Behold the tom Edward traced.
(7)
4 To Virginia with the plutocratic
comedy by Deval. (8)
5 Conspirators are in these one
hundred and one expressions of
disapproval. (7)
6 Dingoes battle with an artist, and
upset a pest that the gardener
battles with. (9)
7 Related intake to health or
figure, so kick the bucket,
Edward! (6)
10—Artistic legislator has an upward
path racket. (4)
13— The dog star isn’t Sirius. (3-3-3)
14 — How was I in ancient Rome? (3)
16 —A state like a King of Judah,
Abijam’s son. (3)
18—Cloth to spoil nothing but a mur-
derer. (8)
20 —Cry of a Bayreuth dog, perhaps,
is to kill timber. (8)’
22—A beaut who removes .the rough
edges? (7)
24 —Hesione of “Heartbreak House,"
so go to sleep! (7)
25 — Squabble in time for tea. (6)
26— Obscure the outlines. (4)
29 —How Yours Truly describes his
actions when he proceeds to the
batting crease? (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 223


DIVIDENDS from
QUEENSLAND
guaranteed bq her
° twin securities
i
I
!
\n
i
\S
W'AL
i
a
*2
r
*
J
«*
V
V
fd
ff
Queensland investments in
Hastings Diesels have success
assured. This rich state pro-
vides abundantly all the essen-
tials vital to splendid returns. This Hastings Diesels
Limited wholly-owned subsidiary holds the Queensland
representation for the Great Companies of Caterpillar
Tractor Co. and John Deere Tractors and Agricultural
Implements . . . whose famous equipment is destined
to play a major part in Queensland's development and
forthcoming primary production drive for food.
Your opportunity for sure regular returns is now offered with the Ordinary Shares at £1 each in Hastings Diesels
Limited. As only 30.000 SHARES are now available, IMMEDIATE APPLICATION IS ESSENTIAL.
jm *'*y
in
Expansion
0 0
0 0 0
0
0
70 000 ALREADY
m tMiniV ■
S • / V.\ .
;• >:.■:■•
• 30,
IN
I LTD
O AVAILAB
f
Original investors in the Hastings Deering Group of Com-
panies have now received back 100% of their capital on
regular dividends!
The first 100,000 shares in
Hastings Diesels Limited
were taken up by existing shareholders in our Group of Com-
panies within two weeks of publication of the prospectus.
Hastings Deering's themselves have taken up £325,000 of the
original authorised capital.
df
d
Hostings Deering Building,
William St., Sydney.
Phone M 0412 (33 lines).
fd
1950 .... £8,136 5.5%"]
1951 .... £11,790 9.2% [
1952 .... £48,779 39%j
Capital = £lOO,OOO
DIVIDENDS
CATTLE PROPERTY: 50-yecr leases for 2,600
square miles adjacent to Alice Springs.
COUPON FOR APPLICATION FORM
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Limited,
William Street, Sydney.
Please forward me Prospectus for your new issue of ordinary
shares.
My name.. ........
Address... ........... ...
. ... State
865
