

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“THE SWORD OF LAUGHTER"
‘The Bulletin,”
Vol. 74—No. 3830
Wednesday, July 8, 1953
Price 9cl.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
A VERITABLE TEMPLE OF
KNOWLEDGE IS THE
VICTORIA AND ALBERT MUSEUM
OVER a million people each year visit
the Victoria and Albert Museum in
London—one of the great art museums
of the world. Its tower, shaped like a
crown, is a well-known landmark in South
Kensington and the great building covers
an area of twelve acres. It has been
likened to a temple—a temple of mag-
nificence in which its unrivalled collec-
tions are exhibited in galleries extending
for over a mile. The foundation stone or
the museum was laid in 1899 by Queen
Victoria—the* last public ceremony per-
formed by the Queen before her death.
Ten years’ later the building was opened
by .King, Edtytird .VII. >
The object of the museum is to illus-
trate periods of artistic achievement and
to promote the application of art to
industry. It is organised in eleven depart-
ments, which include architecture and
sculpture, ceramics, engraving, illustration
and design, metalwork, paintings, wood-
work and textiles. Outstations of the
Victoria and Albert are the former pala-
tial homes of Osterley Park, Middlesex ;
Ham House, Richmond, and Apsley
House at Hyde Park Corner, as well as
Bethnal Green Museum.
To enumerate the various objects of art
in this great treasure house would require
a very large volume, and there is space
here to mention only two or three—such
as the gilded State barge of the Prince of
Wales in 1732, with a cabin like Cin-
derella’s coach; and The Great Bed of
Ware, capable of holding seven or eight
people, which was known to Shakespeare,
who speaks of it in “Twelfth Night.”
Here, too, there are gleaming ivories that
tell the history of the earliest of the arts
which began in the Stone Age when
hunters carved the bones of reindeer:
elaborately carved and decorated key-
board instruments that tell the story of
their pedigree by way of clavichord, vir-
ginal, spinet, harpsichord to the modern
grand piano. Magnificent carpets are also
displayed, among which is the celebrated
Ardabil Carpet, which shows Persian
workmanship at its highest level. The
museum is especially rich in Italian sculp-
ture and Chinese and Japanese lacquer
work. The work of goldsmiths and silver-
smiths is seen in glittering profusion, and
all the exhibits bear the mark of perfection.


The Red Page
ANCIENT AUSTRALIA
Australia has been here a long time ;
and Yilgarnia, says Charles Francis
Laseron, F.R.Z.S., in The Face of Aus-
tralia, The Shaping of a Continent
(Angus and Robertson), has been here
as long as anywhere has been anywhere.
So if you have a genuine fondness for
the antique, you can give over the cedar
chests and the William ’n’ Mary teasels
and go back to dear old Yilgarnia for
a lump of granite or porphyry 1500 mil-
lion years old, or maybe a barrowful of
Kalgoorlie gold. There isn’t as much of
Yilgarnia as there used to be ; its western
escarpment is the Darling Range, which
leaves just enough room for West Aus-
tralia's coastal district; southwards its
cliffs are half the coastline of the Bight;
northwards its boundary is the Nulla-
gine series of rocks which rose from the
sea 600 million years ago.
Yilgarnia in its time was a huge island
spreading over and beyond the south-
west of Australia, separated by the sea,
which used to cover the Nullagine rocks
and the Great Sandy Desert, from the
ancient island of Stuartina, now the
Kimberleys, between 1000 and 600 million
years old.
Australia’s eastern coast is only about
10 million years old. Before that, the
land had been washed flat. Then a big
land-wave, in a line from New Guinea
to Tasmania, rolled up the eastern table-
land from York to south Tasmania ; the
seabed, with its deposits of limestone and
strata of coal, was inclined into a slide
into the sea, and the rains began once
more to wear it down into rivers.
The ground round Sydney buckled in
a curve, making a basin of the Port
Jackson valley instead of a tilted slide
to the coast; the eastern part of the
tableland subsided, and Port Jackson
went undersea—probably a hundred
feet further undersea than it is now,
because of Eustatics.
Eustatic movements, says Mr. Laseron,
are movements of the sea-level, with a
range of more than 300 feet: down in
an ice-age, when water is frozen on land,
and up when the ice melts and the water
flows into the seas. Thus, more than a
million years ago, when there were no
Greenland’s Icy Mountains, Sydney
Harbor was some 100 feet higher than
now—raised beaches in various parts of
Australia prove it. Then, in the Great
Ice Age, the sea fell about 250 feet below
its present level. During another deep-
freeze the sea sank 350 feet. Port Jack-
son was either afloat up to at least the
editorial offices of the “Sydney Morning
Herald” or an empty, unsophisticated
valley penetrated by a sluggish stream.
But this is not all that happened to
Port Jackson. “Our Harbor” is thought
to have been at first two valleys, Middle
Harbor and Port Jackson, separated by
a low col or shoulder of land across
what is now the Sow and Pigs reef. The
river of the Port Jackson Valley flowed
to the sea in a channel cutting from Rose
Bay to Bondi. Vaucluse was then a
headland. Then that channel silted up,
and the Port Jackson stream wore its way
out over the Sow and Pigs col, which was
probably underwater during the high-
level sea-periods.
Some 130 million years ago, the
country behind the present Australian
tablelands subsided and formed lakes;
and about 90 million years ago, the sub-
sidence let in the sea through the Gulf
of Carpentaria, well into South Australia,
forming a huge sea which almost split
Australia in two. A slight rise in the
northern ground partly dried the interior,
which again formed freshwater lakes. By
10 million years ago great rivers were
running into the sea from beyond Central
Australia. For a million years, up to
5000 or 10,000 years ago, heavy rains
watered the Australian interior and great
herds of diprotodons and giant kangaroos
roamed the country. Then the rains
stopped, the rivers dried up, and the
animals crowded into the lakes, such as
Eyre and Callabonna, and died in the
cracking mud.
The young face of western Victoria
is heavily adorned with volcanoes; with
those at Mount Gambier and some in
Queensland, these went out only 5000 or
10,000 years ago, and, excepting the Mel-
bourne Olympic Games organisation,
were Australia’s last active volcanoes.
The foregoing remarks are by a reader
who has no acquaintance with geology
except in this reading of Mr. Laseron’s
book ; and thus they may be taken as a
sign of Mr. Laseron’s ability to make
his subject interesting and easy. Anyone
who would like to astonish his friends
with an account of the formation of
coral atolls, whether on the island-sub-
sidence theory of Darwin, or Sir John
Murray’s theory of rising-sediment, or on
Mr. Laseron’s theory of a little of each
topped off with Professor Daly’s theory
of coral rising with the eustatic rise of
the sea, may here find it most simply and
graphically laid-out for him. There are
also superb accounts of the formation of
the Barrier Reef ; of the glacial lakes and
fjords of Tasmania; of the mountains
of the eastern coast, their formation and
composition; of the curious things that
happen to such river-deltas as that of
the Burdekin. . ,
And there are Australian caves, and
how water and chemicals dissolve lime-
stone, and make underground-rivers
through it, and cut through it in series
of descending tunnels when it bars the
paths of rivers; and the huge caves
under the Nullarbor sand; and caves
that are made by great earth-movements
when underground fissures do not close ;
and the crystals, six and seven feet
across in a big cave found in the Gari-
baldi mine, which were broken-up by
a German prospector and sent to Ger-
many to make prisms for petrological
microscopes ; and the football team that
broke off some Moor Creek stalactites,
which thereupon began replacing them-
selves at the rate of two inches in sixteen
years, thus upsetting the theory that a
stalactite needs millions of years to
form . . .
There are the Glass House mountains
in Queensland and the volcanic Warrum-
bungle range in N. S. Wales, and, especi-
ally, the curious Mount Olga, in Central
Australia, worn into deeply-shaded
curves like something by the modern
English sculptor, Moore; and the Water-
house Range, also in Central Australia,
a huge fold of rock with the top of the
fold sliced flat away, leaving a surface
like the flight-deck of an aircraft-
carrier . . .
Mr. Laseron goes on to deal with Aus-
tralian plants, and their possible age
and ancestry, the oldest being the pines;
Tasmanian beeches that are more than a
thousand years old ; the Tasmanian hori-
zontal-plant that grows tall, then falls
sideways, sending out horizontal branches
along its trunk that grow tall and fall
sideways, etc., making a dangerous plat-
form ten or twelve feet above the ground,
falling through which a man cannot get
out without assistance ; the tramway
down to Middle Harbor near The Spit
that wiped out the only examples of the
cypress-pine ( Callitris muelleri ) except
those found on a cliff at Wentworth
Falls ; Boronia thujona, found only at
Bundanoon, Narrabeen and Warriewood
—fire has destroyed the Bundanoon
patch, and it is thought that close-settle-
merit has obliterated the Warriewood
patch . . .
And with all this, making a fascinat-
ing addition to the fine Australian docu-
mentary books we have had of late from
this and other publishers, go a prefatory
chapter which explains simply the main
geological and geophysical terms (pene-
plains, horsts, rifts, dip and strike, faults,
escarpments, scorise, moraines, etc.);
31 maps and diagrams; 39 excellent,
mostly half-page photographs, and an
index of place-names.
A Robert Johnson Book
Partly a souvenir-book for the tourist
or a gift-book for New Zealanders to
send abroad, partly an art-book, New
Zealand, Land for the Artist (Legend
Press) makes —with the minor exceptions
that the title-page looks too commercial,
and there is no need for the antique
lettering of the half-title —a very pleasant
item in either category. There are 16
reproductions in color of paintings by
Robert Johnson; an article on New
Zealand scenery by R. C. Goudie ; and an
excellent biographical account of Robert
Johnson, with comments on New Zea-
land painting, by Olaf Ruhen.
One of Robert Johnson’s paintings is
so authentic a piece of New Zealand
landscape—and a most attractive sample
with its green hills running into soft blue
waters —that this reviewer instantly recog-
nised it for Long Beach, in the Bay of
Islands ; and if a glance at the title proves
it to be located a hundred miles away at
“Port Jackson and Great Barrier Island,”
that only shows how closely one bit of
these lovely northern waters and hills
resembles another.
Johnson, as Ruhen recalls, was born
in New Zealand. “With fellow-artists
Unk White, George Finey, Noel Cook
and others,” he came under the influ-
ence of “stimulating and lively art-work
from Australia,” and sailed for Sydney
in 1921. He has several times recrossed
the Tasman to paint his native land, and
painted the pictures in the present volume
in 1949 and 1952.
From the tourist viewpoint he has
covered the country almost literally from
North Cape to the Bluff —at any rate
from Paihia in the Bay of Islands to Mt.
Pisa in central Otago, with excursions to
Piha on the west coast, Cromwell
Gorge, Ha-Hei in Mercury Bay, Port
Charles on the Coromandel Peninsula,
Hikurangi on the east coast, and
Ngauruhoe in eruption—and from the
artistic viewpoint a number of the paint-
ings, such as “Piha” and “Great Barrier
Island,” are in his best style: which, if
it comes some distance short of the fine
intensity of Gruner, has a warm and
sturdy fidelity that always makes it
likeable.
The Problem Farmer
You know me, to your sorrow;
The farmer, I, whose plough
Never turned furrow
But across your brow.
Efface that vexed look;
Don’t act surprise:
We’ve met in many a textbook
And exercise.
My life’s a tangle
Never know whether 1 am
Tilling a triangle
Or parallelogram.
1 grow the guzinter.
My turnips have square roots.
All through the winter
1 sell summer fruits.
Calculating teenagers
Mess up my affairs—
I can’t choose managers;
Besides, I’ve other cares:
In blouse and tricolor
For “un fermier” I pass.
Next I’m “agricola”
In the Latin class.
Matchmaking’s clamant
There: “Agricolae,*’ they cry
“Puellas amant."
I only sigh.
No; my love’s a dummy,
Cloth for flesh and wire for bone,
N.S.W.
That a pupil’s Mummy
Pins her dresses on.
Scaffolds of imagination,
I and this woman
Form an equation:
We have much in common.
O armless love, O headless!
O more than Milos’ Venus,
We are‘beggars and bedless—
And must this come between us?
Like heroes of romancers,
Turning gentle crook,
I’ll burgle the Answers
At the back of the book:
Land-values, estimated
From rates paid and rate per cent.
Stock-holdings, calculated
From dividend and increment;
Ships assessed for insurance.
The grocer’s and butcher’s bill——
I’ll not hold pennies in abhorrence;
I’ll tickle every till;
And give to my dear lover
Satins, silks and furs
To wrap her over and over,
And always to be hers;
And then I’ll buy a high-school
With a pleasant view
To be her and my school
And teach us dreams come true.
RPMLD McCUAIG.
Chinese Short-stories
Age is a great selector ; and that some
of the items in Famous Chinese Short-
stories retold by Lin Yutang (Heinemann)
are more than 1000 years old helps to
explain their excellence.
What is chiefly remarkable is their
suave reminder that our age and civilisa-
tion has not invented elegance and
Freudian insight into motives, especially
into women’s motives. The stories of
the exemplary widow, who was to be
honored by an arch commemorating her
chastity, but at the last moment seduced
her gardener; of Madame D and her
stratagems to outwit her husband, a syco-
phant climbing after official jobs ; of the
student who left his girl in order to study
in the city—these have the modernity and
cold insight of Maugham and better. The
study of the deserted girl in the last
“Passion,” “the most celebrated love-
story in Chinese literature,” is extra-
ordinarily powerful.
Lin Yutang admits to having changed
the end of the widow-story from
chagrined suicide to a happy marriage;
a doubtful gain. But, whatever he has
done to such stories as “Curly-Beard”—
in which a young man, anxious to over-
throw the monarchy, hears of another
young man more fitted than he to do it,
goes to see him, decides that he has been
told the truth and leaves to set up a king-
dom elsewhere —such stories are, in
essence, unalterable.
Of the satire of “The Poets’ Club” it is
almost impossible to believe that Lin
Yutang has not interpolated a few
words:
This uniqueness of expression, its novelty A
and unintelligibility, united them together I
into a secret coterie, but I had no doubt
that the human sentiments meant to be ■
expressed by them and underlying them —
the excuses for their tortured obscurity—
were common to mankind. Many of their |
poems could not be understood by I
others, and some even not by all of them. 'I
If that was in the original it embodied
the observations of Wang Chu, a.d. 997-
1057.
Reviewed Briefly
The Privileged Classes, Then and
Now: Lieut.-Colonel Frank Wilson,
foreword by Peter Fleming (Constable).?
The decline of the British aristocracy and
the rise to power of businessmen, spivs
and civil-servants, outlined in mildly
humorous drawings.
# * *
The India I Knew, 1897-1947: Sir?
Stanley Reed (Odhams). The author
was for 17 years editor of “The Times of
India” and writes with a wealth of
information on politics, social reform,
British engineering and commercial
projects, and prominent British and
Indian personalities. Though he rei
calls the ' old hard-drinking days when
whisky cost £2 a dozen bottles, his book,!
is anything but flamboyant; its strength;
is its quiet reliability.
* * * *
The New Town: Mervyn Jones;
(Cape). Post-war Britain, faced with,
reconstruction and housing problems,l
embarked on a policy of decentralising;
light-industries by building factories and
workers’ houses in “New Towns.” The
Long Ness of this novel is one of these
towns in the process of construction!
Flarry Peterson, its main character, is,
the general-manager of the scheme, a
schoolmaster who rose to the rank of
colonel during the war and, as a result
of his newly-acquired social status,
married a beautiful second wife from
county society, There are delays and
frustrations in the housing scheme: his
ambitious wife dislikes her life at Long
Ness and embraces booze, lovers and
the composition of pornographic short--
stories. The novel is ;a rather dreary-
chart of the decline and fall both of
Harry Peterson and of all his dreams;
and ideals. The stagnation of the hous-
ing scheme results, too, in the deteriora-'
tion or salvation (according to their;
several natures) of various other char-;
acters. The politics of the book are
convincing but, although well-written,
the work as a whole rather lacks life and
interest.
♦*' ♦ ♦
Jefferson Selleck: Carl Jonas (Cape).;
This affectionate satire purports to be
the autobiography of Thomas Jefferson;
Selleck, citizen of Gateway in the Middle
West of the U.S.A. Selleck dictated his
memoirs to a tape-recorder, following
a coronary-occlusion which enforced his
retirement in his fifties. He is a con-
vinced believer in all manifestations of
the “Great American Myth.” His busi-
ness was a small manufacturing company
called “Yaw-Et-Ag” (try spelling it back-
wards). Selleck also indulged in politics: I
“I had managed to buy up practically
every scrap of noise in that city, all the
brass bands, all the drum and fife corps,
some Scotch bagpipers, all the whistles,
all the horns .... I provided all kinds
of well-rehearsed spontaneous demon-
strations I am a good man with noise,
if I may say so. I am good with it be-
cause 1 like it, which is the secret of
success in almost all matters.” But even
at his noisiest, silliest or least percep-
tive one cannot help liking Mr. Selleck.
There is none of Sinclair Lewis’s
savagery in Carl Jonas’s satire, and the
novel is an uncommonly interesting
document, and eminently readable.


ii
m
4 f/i I
' „ M v & /
As'. *
A
¥VW r .
%
v:,
%>
\/
s
m
m
mm
m*
:: : :
:•:•;*
f-mm
m
mm
mm
: ii\
«S
mm
•r •;•**•■*;■.
■S'5:
m
.
?:■
Our multiple shoe fitting section brings yon
All the Famous Names in Men’s Footwear
Just walk into our shoe department and our salesmen will find the shoe that fits perfectly . . . a shoe that
could have been tailored just for you! For here you’ll find the largest range of famous brand names of
multiple shoes in Sydney . . . names such as Hansman, Julius Marlow, Packard, etc. At Anthony Horderns
your "fit” is assured by the use of the famous Brannock measuring device, plus the experienced staff.
“Sir Herbert
Barker”
*
Julius Marlow
Bailsman
Packard
BBSBBB
m
m
si-
■
SSw?
Above:
Warwick calf Oxford in black or tan, 79/'. 541.
Unillustrated:
Julius Marlow “Coaster” in black or tan calf, 79/'. 5 to 11.
Sir r Herbert Barker Orthopedic Shoes, made in Eng'
land. It is the perfect comfort and daily increasing health
that these shoes give that has made them so well known.
Black or brown glace kid, also black box calf. Made in
three fittings. Sises 5 to 11, 100/'. ,
Illustrated above, from left to right:
Packard Shoes. This famous name
shoe comes in many different styles,
ranging in price from 86/' to 98/'.
Illustration shows black calf plain toe
Derby, also tan, 86/'. Fractional fittings.
Sizes 5 to 12.
Julius Marlow. In 60 measured fit'
tings, black and tan calf, ranging in
price from 79/' to 89/'. Illustrated
Moccasin Golf Shoe with rubber sole
and heel, in tan calf. Sizes are 5 to 11
in 60 measured fittings.
Hansman Shoes. Super grade shoes
are made in the finest black or tan calf.
You have them in either round or square
toe. In fractional fittings, 5 to 11, 109/'
Men’s fihoes,
George Street.
’Phone: M 2401.
Box 2712, G.P.O.
••• :■ ‘• g
m
m
Vi
'C
i "TRUTH IN ADVERTISING '
nthony Horderns
dfd


Vast South Australian Possibilities
GREATER THAN THE SNOWY
By H. A. LINDSAY
ANOTHER £A5B£ million is to be
spent on the Snowy scheme ; here
in South Australia there is an in-
exhaustible natural reservoir from
which nearly half a million acres can be
irrigated, yet nobody is doing anything
with it save a few enterprising land-
owners.
This vast natural storage, which seems
to have few, if any, parallels in the world,
lies in the bottom corner of the State,
South Australians refer to this piece of
country as “The South-east.”
White settlement began there 110 years
ago, when squatters took up the exten-
sive areas of grassland on the plains
around Bordertown, Naracoorte and Mt.
Gambier, but most of the rest of the
area was neglected. Some of it con-
sisted of low hills of loose sand carrying
bracken and stringybark. Other areas
were huge flats carrying a low heath. All
the low-lying country suffered from a
trouble rare in Australia; too much
water.
Under a thjn topsoil lies i mper vious
cl or a of hald rock Unable t 0
,*,., , , ■ ,
Hat
flat } or n . at^ ra drainage, the 22m.-26m.
wmter rainfall used to collect on these
dats in s p a^ow sheets of water many
square miles in extent. Not until the
summer was well advanced could this
water drain away.
Around the turn of the century a
system of large drainage-channels was
excavated to speed the run-off. This
raised the stock-carrying capacity of a
big area of country, but the real pro-
gress of the South-east dates from 1920
with the use of sub.-clover and super.
The late 1930’s saw the revolutionary
discovery made by the Waite Institute
and C.5.1.R.0. in collaboration of the
part played in soil-fertility by traces of
the elements copper, zinc, molybdenum,
manganese and cobalt. Since then
sulphur and boron have been added to
the list. This meant an enormous ex-
tension of the area that could be cleared
and sown to pasture.
The A.M.P. Society’s scheme, which is
transforming hundreds of thousands of
acres of poor scrub-country in the upper
South-east into pasture capable of
carrying up to two sheep per acre, is a
very worth-while enterprise, but farther
south there is a potential for increased
production which not only eclipses any-
thing being done by the A.M.P., but
equals any potentialities to be found any-
where in Australia.
It is bound up with Jhe geology of an
area which starts to the west of Border-
town, runs south for nearly 150 miles
and extends westward to near the coast.
This country consists of a series of low
ranges, all running parallel to the coast.
They are former coastal sand dunes.
Between them, attaining a width of
twenty miles in places, are flats carrying
little save tea-tree and heath.
The soil on these flats ranges from a
few inches to a foot in depth. Under this
lies a layer of flint-hard travertine lime-
stone above several feet of rubbly rock.
Below this again, underlying the whole
of the country and having a very gradual
fall from east to west, lies a vast, un-
broken sheet of Murray rock, as porous
as a sponge and filled with fresh water.
This water percolates slowly through
the Murray rock to the coast, where it
finds its way into the ocean through
springs on the sea floor.
Only where there are natural cracks
in the overlying limestone can plant-roots
get down to the water-table. As a
result, the shallow topsoil is sodden in
winter but dries out rapidly in summer,
yet at from 6ft. to 10ft. below it is
one of the world’s largest natural fresh-
water reservoirs.
It is incorrect to think that shallow
soils cannot grow good crops or pastures.
In England, on the edge of Salisbury
Plain, the land has been farmed for
centuries, yet there is no soil there save
six to eight inches of loam overlying a
hundred feet of pure chalk.
It all boils down to correct land-
management—with the growing of clovers
or other legumes to build up soil-fer-
tility—and, of course, water. Summer
rainfall supplies the water in England.
On the great heath flats of the South-
east lack of summer rainfall must be
made good by pumping water out of the
underlying porous rock and using it to
flood-irrigate the topsoil.
Practice has been to make use of* the
abundant winter rainfall to grow suffi-
cient fodder to tide stock over the dry
summer period. However, 20 years ago
T. F. Guster, at Keppoch, showed what
could be done. He sank a 20-foot well
on his property, used a centrifugal pump
to irrigate 20 acres of lucerne and ran
a large herd of dairy cattle on it. Still,
very few copied his example, and those
who did consider irrigation on the heath
flats were blocked by the problem of
finding a pasture plant which would not
be drowned by the sodden soil in winter,
yet would grow under irrigation in the
summer. That fodder plant has now
been found. It is the Palestine strain
of strawberry clover.
A few years ago James & Sons, who
had been growing celery near Adelaide,
bought four thousand acres of heath
country in the South-east some fifteen
miles north of Lucindale. They tested
the underground water-supply by sinking
a bore to 20ft. and fitting it with a
centrifugal pump throwing 200,000
gallons per hour. It failed to lower the
water level in the bore more than a few
feet. Then 180 acres of the flat were
ploughed, sown with Palestine straw-
berry clover, cut into small paddocks
and provided with check-banks. These
paddocks were flood-irrigated through
the summer; results were astounding.
Not only did they run 1800 sheep
(ten to the acre) on those 180 acres of
irrigated pasture; they also cut 12,000
bales of hay. At a very conservative
estimate, nearly half a million acres of
country in the South-east await develop-
ment on similar lines.
The water doesn’t have to be lifted
more than 20ft. anywhere—less than
half the lift necessary on most Murray
irrigation schemes. It isn’t necessary to
spend millions of pounds in storing the
water; Nature has done that for us. No
expensive channels or pipelines are
necessary to convey the water to where
it is to be used. Sink a bore or well to
a maximum depth of 20ft. anywhere
and the water will be struck without
fail. In some cases it is only 4ft. from
the surface.
Geologists refute any suggestion that
extensive pumping would lower the
water-table. It could utilise * merely a
small portion of the water which now
flows through the porous rock and is
eventually wasted in the sea.
Nor will droughts affect the supply.
The intake to the water-bearing rock-
strata lies far to the eastward in the
sandhill country of Victoria. Only
many years in succession without a drop
of rain falling there could have any
effect on the supply.
Thousands of farms, carrying millions
of additional sheep and a couple of
hundred thousand head of dairy cattle
on irrigated strawberry-clover pastures,
could be established on these heath flats.
Around all the flats lies higher ground
suitable for homestead sites.
So much for Australia nearing the
end of its resources in food-production.
There is no limit in sight.
Over 20 years ago I stood with my
brother-in-law, the late R, E. G.
McDonald, on a low hill near Lucindale.
We looked out across thousands of acres
of heathy flat, in itself but a tiny
fraction of the total area of similar
country, all having an inexhaustible
supply of fresh water a few feet below
the surface. McDonald had just returned
from a world tour, during which he had
studied farming in America, Britain and
Europe.
“One day all this portion of South
Australia will be another Holland as
regards* intensive farming,” he said.
The work now being done by people
such as James & Sons shows that his was
not an idle dream.
By Correspondence
The Sukka Vacuum Cleaner Co.
Dear Sirs,
I am finding most unsatisfactory
the Sukka cleaner I purchased from
you. It will not pick up cotton.
Possibly the machine is a defective
one, and if so, I think, in fairness
to a customer who bought it in good
faith, to say nothing of the protection
of that reputation of which you
publicly profess to be so proud, that
it should be replaced free of cost to
me. I await your advice.
Yours faithfully,
Judson Pinnedd.
Mr. Judson Pinnedd.
Dear Sir,
Referring to yours of the 16th
inst., we regret to learn that the
vacuum-cleaner we supplied you is
not functioning to your perfect satis-
faction. However, before deciding
what course of action to take we
would need to have more specific
details of its alleged defection. You
say it won’t pick up cotton. To
enable us fully to determine the
causes, if any, of the defect, if any,
would you kindly supply answers to
the following questions?
\d) Was the cotton in the form of
material, such as a dress, shirt, bed-
spread, etc.?
( b ) Was it on a reel at the time?
(c) Was there a dripping tap in the
vicinity?
(d) Was the machine being
operated by a left-handed person?
On receipt of this information we
will advise you further.
Yours faithfully,
Hercules Dripp,
Manager,
Sukka Vacuum-Cleaner Co.
The Manager,
Sukka Vacuum-Cleaner Co.
Dear Sir,
In reply to yourl of the 24th inst.
I set out hereunder the answers,
seriatim, to your questionnaire, and
trust they will afford you the infor-
mation you seek:
(a) Don’t I?
( b ) No, it was perfectly sober.
(c) We have no use for a dripping
tap—we keep all our dripping in an
earthenware crock. ‘
(d) My wife and I, the only ones
who use your alleged cleaner, are
ambidextrous.
Yours faithfully,
Judson Pinnedd.
Mr. Judson Pinnedd,
Dear Sir,
Further to yours of the 29th ult.
From the valuable information you
have supplied us with it is now pos-
sible for us to arrive at a probable
cause of the defect, if any, that you
allegedly observed in our machine.
Its failure to pick up bobby-pins,
butterfly-clips and hassocks left
lying about on the carpet could be
due to ( a ) your failure to switch the
power on ; ( b ) putting the nozzle in
# the wrong end so that it blew instead
of sucked ; (c) because while vacuum-
ing you were wearing your socks
inside-out.
On receipt of your further infor-
mation as to these matters we will be
pleased to go further into the question
of possible repair or replacement of
the putatively defective machine,
Yours faithfully,
Hercules Dripp,
Manager,
*he Manager,
Sukka Vacuum-Cleaner Co.
k)ear Sir ; . , .
re Pty to yours of the 6th inst.,
I have to state that, regarding the
suggested possible causes of the
(a) Ours is an all-gas home.
fa) A § ood vacuum-cleaner should
be capable of blowing and sucking
simultaneously,
. (c) I never wear socks except when
in ke d on w * nter nights,
. However I noticed one thing about
lt }° ? hich 1 sho £ d draw your
attention. While pushing it 1 be-
came aware of a hum coming from
r ff lon tke alleged motor. This
could have been caused by the power
through it. A much more
lkel Y cause > m m y opinion, would
ke diat your particular make of
cleaner stinks. ,
T ur j faithfully,
Judson Pinnedd.
Mr. Judson Pinnedd.
rw r c.- r
d *
Yours faithfully,
Wm-milm Di-inn
. Hercules Dripp
“
Sutta Co
Dear Sh: Gleaner Co.
I have received legal advice to the
contffliSE
material. My wife and I strongly
resent the imputation that one of us
is left-handed. However, I have no
wish to engage nor, presumably, do
Y ou m costly litigation. If you
supply me with a new
replace the defective one I bought
from you I will be willing to regard
the matter as closed. Thanking you
m Anticipation,
Yours fmmfully,
Judson Pinnedd.
~ T a tv a a
r ' Judson Finn
“ t 0 last letters , j
have to inform you that it is the
cleaner stems from either (a) the fiy-
wheel running hot in the smoke-box ;
(b) lack of suitable lubrication. The
remedy of either, or both, can be
effected simply by unscrewing the
motor-casing and pouring in half a
tin of treacle.
Incidentally, we have turned up
°ur records and find that the machine
you have is a Mark I, and that you
bought it 24 years ago. We will be
glad to offer you ss. for it as a
trade-in on our new model,
Yours faithfully,
Hercules Dripp,
Manager,
Sukka Vacuum Cleaner Co.
per BO.
FATALISTIC AUSTRALIANS
EVER since I was a child I had
read with admiration books
about stoic Orientals, who suf-
fered incredible pains, and were
prepared to sacrifice their lives
without turning a hair. I trained myself
to live up to this indifference towards
fate, and I think I can face up to mis-
fortunes with more stoicism than the
average European.
But what’s that in comparison to the
Australians’ capacity to take things as
they come, without batting an eyelid?
Nothing expresses more an Australian's
* 4. 4.u u u i
contempt than when he remarks, even
it m a rather casual manner: He can t
take it.
An emotional outburst, or “rushing
about madly” when a catastrophe occurs
is quite out of place. Instance what an
excited fellow-European, a newcomer,
told me about a native-born friend of
his whose factory burst into flames.
“We were having a cup of tea in the
office, opposite the main building,” the
New Australian, still breathless from
the incredible experience, related,
“when I looked out the window and saw
flames leaping from the building. ‘My
friend,’ I cried out, ‘look, look, your
factory is on fire! ’ He calmly rose, gave
the fire-alarm, put into motion all the
necessary instruments to quell the
inferno, then returned to the office, and
finished his cup of tea. ‘How can you
finish your tea,’ I asked, ‘when your
whole fortune is at stake? I cannot
understand!’ And you know what he
said? Look, I couldnt do more than
I did, so we might as well finish our tea.
I >“ st /T ™ hi.
concluded, throwing up ms arms m
if his an g n< £ phlegmatic
Au ’ tral ’ ja[l - S factory was burnt down . . .
j know the instance quoted is an
extreme one, but this stoical attitude is
part 0 f the Australians’ make-up. I have
encountered it in civil life, when money
or property was at stake, and on the
battlefronts, where lives depended on
quick decisions.
I have seen Australians lose their
fortunes and lives the way I would like
to do it, if and when the time comes.
STEPHEN KELEN.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 8, 1953
Vol . 74—No. 3830
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington
CONVENTION OR CHAOS
The New South Wales Liberal party was able to
present its request for a Commonwealth convention
last week without fear that it might cause a shock to
Treasurer Fadden’s system. The demand, a novelty
in Liberal politics, has been commonplace in Country-
party and New-State circles for 20 years. And though
some Liberals have seen the need for a close examina-
tion of the present basis of Government and finance,
they have shrunk from agitation. The attitude of the
average State Liberal member has been something like
the average electioneering attitude to small children —
every candidate is willing to kiss them all, but not to
adopt them.
It was therefore all the more welcome to hear
the leader of the deputation, Howarth, M-L.A., who is
acting for Opposition-leader Treatt during his absence,
laying down all the arguments of which many Liberals
have always fought shy—on the dangers of socialisa-
tion arising from the gradual centralisation of power,
on the need for responsibility for taxation lying in the
hands that wield authority.
The fact is that a convention on the Constitution
is not only necessary or advisable but inevitable within
measurable time. When Federation was established
there was accord among all parties as to the nature
of the relationships between States, between States and
the Commonwealth, and as to the Federal nature of
the Commonwealth. But during the next generation a
wide divergence of aim developed, and is still develop-
ing, concurrently with the “Labor” drive towards
socialisation. With the acceptance of the Socialistic
objective it was obvious that “Labor” must cease to
be a Federalist party, since Socialism and regional
sovereignty are inconsistent.
Therefore “Labor” policy is in favor—as
specifically set out by its platform—of a unified Aus-
tralia, ruled from Canberra, taxed from Canberra,
supplied with social benefits and public works from
Canberra, its States broken up and the subdivided
remnants reduced to the level of delegate provinces
drawing their finances from the Commonwealth and
operating under the heel of the Commonwealth. And
“Labor” is averse to the return of taxing and borrow-
ing powers to the States because it regards such moves
as reactionary from the ideal of Socialism.
“Labor” cannot hope to carry out its Con-
stitutional-amendment plan except by agreement
not only of a majority of the States, plus the majority
of the voters, but of all the States, since there are some
matters in which a single State can hold up change,
even if a majority of electors and States approve at a
referendum. For instance:
A new State may be formed by separation of
territory from a State, but only with the consent of
the Parliament thereof, and a new State may be
formed by the union of two or more States or part
of States, but only with the consent of the Parlia-
ments of the States affected. 1
This, of course, effectively blocks “Labor’s”
scheme for the carving-up of the Commonwealth into
helot provinces without a convention which agrees
upon the whole plan. And there are many other
matters in the “Labor” platform, notably the abolition
of the Senate, which are outside the realm of practical
politics save through the convention technique,
“Labor” therefore needs a convention, if it is in
earnest, as much as the Government parties, to explore
Commonwealth-wide attitudes to its plan as a pre-
liminary to carrying it out. Dr. Evatt recognised this
when he placed his specious Fourteen Points proposals
before the people in 1944. His objective, hidden
behind a mass of camouflage, was to implement the
whole “Labor” objective.
On the other side, a convention is undoubtedly
vitally necessary to provide a stadium for a proper
showdown on the whole of the matters which are
hamstringing government. The system needs to be
taken joint from joint and examined from municipal
level upwards, because it is perfectly clear that the
governmental structure has ceased to bear more than
a superficial resemblance to the original plan. The
founders of the Constitution felt that they had pro-
vided under Federation for the continuation of the
States as the generators of power and development, and
for the Commonwealth as a central co-operative
agency of the sovereign States to assume duties for all
of them above the level of regional contention —the
provision of security for alj through a defence system,
of a legal oiling system to remove restraints on trade
between various parts of the Commonwealth and
ON THE WAY TO LAKE CALLABONNA, THROUGH THE GREAT FORTY-HOUR DESERT
“Professor R. A. Stirton, U.S. palaeontologist, has brought back to Adelaide remains of a number of prehistoric
monsters found at Lake Callabonna, in the far north-east of South Australia. They are presumed to have
been driven in to the lake by an intense drought, there to die when food and water gave out entirely. They
virtually ate themselves toff the earth.”
shelter against outside commercial competition under
which Australian industries could grow up. The
House of Representatives was to be the brain of the
new machine, the interpreter and implementer of the
all-Australian will. The Senate was to be the watch-
dog of the States, the guardian of their interests, a
noble institution above politics, the haunt of selfless
elder statesmen.
All this has proved a dream. The Federal Parlia-
ment has become a hybrid thing without supreme
sovereign power, but with sovereign responsibility to
feed the bankrupt States. In whatever the form the
Commonwealth system can be reconstructed it can
be done only through a Constitutional convention,
which should begin to draw its plans now.
"labor" and "Vermin"
With Federal “Labor” nearly four years out of office
and straining every vocal nerve to get back again next
year, exponents of “Labor” policy from Dr. Eyatt
downwards have been striving to say only such things
as are calculated to contribute towards that end, and
to leave unsaid (or whispered only into trusted ears)
the things which past experience has shown to be
unpalatable to the electors. Pursuant to this policy,
in the Senate campaign Dr. Evatt told the electors
—as he will no doubt tell them again at the general
election next year —that bank-nationalisation is a dead
issue.
N. S. Wales “Labor,” grown a little careless, per-
haps, after 12 years of office, feels that it can be
excused for believing that an electorate which has put
up with it for so long will stand anything. Only this
attitude of mind can explain the blatant confession of
Acting-Premier Heffron in the course of his statement
on his compulsory-unionism proposals:
We in Cabinet are not responsible to anyone
other than to the Labor party and to the people
who returned us to power to carry out our policy.
“Labor” Governments have only too often shown
a complete disregard for the interests of everyone
except their own party and its supporters, but they
have usually indignantly denied any such intention.
The usual conception of democratic government is that
the party for the time being in power shall, guided by
its own particular philosophy, govern in the interests
of the people as a whole, not merely in the interests
of its own party. The Heffron doctrine seems to be
that non-“ Labor” voters don’t matter.
Some of Britain’s Socialists have expressed similar
contempt for those outside the fold. Aneurin Bevan,
when Minister for Health, said of the Conservatives
“So far as I am concerned they are lower than vermin,”
and his Cabinet colleague Emanuel Shinwell told the
Labor-party conference at Margate in 1947:
We represent the workers by hand and brain.
As for the rest, it doesn’t matter two hoots. The
wind is blowing in our favor.
There is not much difference in meaning between
the Shinwell statement of six years ago and the
Heffron utterance of last month, but there is a con-
siderable difference in their import. Shinwell, though
a Minister, was expressing a personal opinion at a
party conference where fiery rhetoric was more or less
expected. Heffron spoke as the leader of a Govern-
ment, and his remarks were part of a considered state-
ment issued to the Press.
That Shinwell and Sevan were not voicing the
philosophy of the more sober section of their party
has been shown several times by Herbert Morrison,
who, at the time of their outbursts, was Leader of the
House of Commons and Lord President of the Council.
In other days Morrison was rather a “wild” man him-
self, but the responsibility of office sobered and
broadened him more than it did some of his colleagues
in Britain and Australia. At Labor’s annual confer-
ence in 1946 he said:
Don’t let the party run away with the idea that his
Majesty’s Government exists to run the country in the
Interests of the Labor party; it exists to run the
country in the interests of alt the people.
That emphasis on “all the people” contrasts
strongly with Heffron’s “the people who returned us
to power.”
Earlier in the same year Morrison had told Labor
members:
It would be a terribly bad day for Parliamentary
democracy if any group, either in the House or
outside, controlled the Government and gave them
instructions.
As far as Australia is concerned that “terribly
bad day” arrived years ago. As Prime Ministers,
neither Curtin nor Chifley made any secret of the
fact that their Governments took their instructions
from the executive of the A.L.P., a body completely
outside Parliament and without any responsibility to
the Australian people. Four months ago the Queens-
land State Government went to the people without
any policy at all except the time-honored one of “judge
us on our record.” On controversial subjects such as
the legalising of s.-p. betting—a very live subject in
Queensland at the time—it was unable to express an
opinion or make any promise, because the Labor-in-
Politics conference which was to decide the Govern-
ment’s policy was not due to meet for another three
weeks.
This admitted subservience to an organisation
that is not accountable to the people for its actions is
the very negation of democracy, as is the creed pro-
pounded by Heffron. Democracy implies government
by the majority, but it does not imply the suppression
of minorities. A democratically-elected Government
has no more right to ignore the rights of a minority
than had a medieval despot. If it assumes this right
then majority-rule degenerates into mob-rule.
In the view of Australian “Labor,” as expressed
by Heffron and practised by most “Labor” Govern-
ments, State and Federal, there is no difference between
the work of the party and the work of the Govern-
ment. Both are to work for members of the “Labor”
movement. The rest don’t matter. That’s Democracy,
“Labor” brand.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Fadden Wins
Sydney morning-newspaper editors had
a mazed air as they strove to deal logi-
cally with Treasurer Fadden’s announce-
ments of the past week about financial
happenings in the Commonwealth. The
“Herald,” which could see nothing but
ruin and disaster in Fadden’s policy at
its birth, sounded like a penitent
setting out on a pilgrimage to pray for
forgiveness at some Canberra shrine.
The peas could almost be heard cracking
in the Old Girl’s shoes as she wrote. The
reaction of her reptile contemporary,
author of one of the most savage attacks
ever made on a public man because of
his company-tax amendments, was that
of a frustrated headhunter.
The Commonwealth, by contrast with
the State of N. S. Wales, is able to
announce financial results which justify
its economic policy and its refusal to
budge from it in the face of a barrage of
criticism and pressure and the threat of
defeat at the Senate and the next general
elections. As a result of good (but not
peak) prices for wool and some import-
restriction, there was a record trade-
balance for the year, and London funds
have resumed a healthy appearance.
There is a surplus in the Commonwealth
accounts for 1952-53, even though at
£l3 million it is considerably less than
was expected a month ago.
The cut in taxation will certainly be
substantial in 1953-54, though with rising
costs no immediate reduction in civil-
service expenditure has become possible.
The service has grown so huge and so
complicated (mostly under “Labor”
aegis) that any effective reduction in
staffs and outlay could not be achieved
except under a long-term programme.
That it is impossible to please every-
body is.seen in the reaction to the relax-
ing of import-restrictions. To some
manufacturers restrictions have meant a
sheltered market at a time when costs
were getting severe; and the prospect of
increased competition from overseas
goods is not pleasing to them. On the
other hand, Chambers of Commerce are
generally in favor of even greater free-
dom in importing, though 12 months ago
import-restrictions saved many of their
members from bankruptcy.
Not the least satisfactory result of the
Commonwealth policy, however, is to be
read away from figures. It has un-
doubtedly had a sobering effect on the
whole community. There is generally
evident a more prudent attitude than in
1950-52 to spending, a better realisation
that money does not grow on trees and
sounder thinking about the relationship
of high wages and short hours to basic
prosperity. There is, as one association
puts it, greater “buyer-resistance to high
prices” than there was, and less tendency
to listen to the kind of fairy-tale which is
woven by some politicians round the
words “price-fixing” and “full employ-
ment.”
Slavery in Macquarie-street
The past fortnight has provided two in-
stances of how far the cringing thing
which calls itself a State Government in
N. S. Wales is subservient to tyrannous
union influence —the kind of influence
which forced Acting-Premier Heffron to
announce its adherence to compulsory
unionism at the June A.L.P. Conference.
The first case was one in which the
Commissioner of Police selected to head
the Sydney vice-squad (which deals with
liquor, drugs and prostitution) a young
officer with a high reputation for keen-
ness, efficiency, energy and probity. Im-
mediately the Police Union stepped in
and compelled the appointee to have his
qualifications turned over with a pin
before a public inquiry. The union
pressed for all it was worth the claims
of an older man whom the commissioner
said in evidence that he would not appoint
to the position, no matter how excellent
he might be otherwise or how senior.
Nothing was adduced against the commis-
sioner’s own choice except his junior
status and alleged lack of requisite ex-
perience. But an order was secured
which prevented his being promoted to
the rank of inspector.
He is to be retained in his new job
without promotion in rank, but it is
staggerihg to think that any Govern-
ment would tolerate a system in which
its appointments can be made subject to
union censorship and judicial regulation.
It is also staggering to think what the
effects would be if the same principles
were applied in defence or private busi-
ness.
The second case affects the payment of
penalty rates for weekend and other
duties in the railways of N. S. Wales.
On July 30 Mr. Hettron announced that
N. S. Wales transport had lost £5,040,000
during the year. Railways Commis-
sioner Winsor last week applied to the
Arbitration Court to reduce weekend
penalty rates from double- to time-and-a-
half on Sundays and from time-and-a-
half to time-and-a-quarter on Saturdays.
He also proposed to remove or reduce
night-shift penalty rates, metal-workers’
penalty rates and some war-time loadings.
The weekend loading which gives some
employees nearly £6 for a day’s work
on a Sunday—it brings bus-drivers’
weekly earnings to about £2O a five-day
week —cost about £1,000,000 a year. But
the union, led by its ex-Communist
A.R.U, secretary. Dr. Lloyd Ross, is
not prepared to face the Arbitration
Court. It at once terrorised members
of the caucus and applied pressure on
the Minister through Mr. J. D. Kenny,
M.L.C., spokesman of the N. S. Wales
Labor Council. Mr. Martin was just as
immediately responsive. He bowed his
neck to the yoke and ordered the with-
drawal of the application to the court,
thus smashing the principles followed by
the party which claims to be the father
of arbitration and its main prop. His
measure is only temporary, but it seems
a foregone conclusion that the Cabinet
will prove as feeble and as false to its
trust as he is.
It is a misnomer to call any Ministers
in N. S. Wales responsible. Their view
of themselves seems to be that they axe
in office to do what they are told by their
employees.
Out in the Cold
“You have to be organised to fight these
inhuman conditions efficiently. If you
are organised (as the British migrants are)
everybody will respect y0u.... We want
you to be organised and then direct your
action... .so you will get better accom-
modation .... We are sure that many
Parliamentarians and union-leaders will
respond to such organisation.... All
British migrants will help you... .”
The foregoing are extracts from a cir-
cular sent to migrants in the Matraville
(Sydney) hostel by the “Federal Aus-
tralian Migrants’ Welfare Association,”
and claimed to be authorised by H. Bore-
ham, who has been leading British
migrants in their attacks on the manage-
ment of the Commonwealth migrant
hostels.
Three closely-typed foolscap sheets,
the circular is a farrago of nonsense and
venom. It declares that “This country
cares only for the strong and the rich.”
Its promises of help and better accom-
modation may be assumed to be the
same as those made to unfortunate British
migrants who have been misled into
refusing to pay the reasonable hostel
charges and allowing themselves and
their families to be evicted.
At Bradfield Park (Sydney) evicted
migrants put up tents just outside the
hostel grounds. Without water or sani-
tation, in bitter winter weather, they
condemned themselves and their families
to unnecessary hardship, and, upon local-
government authorities ordering them to
take their tents down, one of them said,
despairingly, “I don’t know what is going
to happen to us.”
Well, where were the Communists and
this “Welfare Association” with their
promises? How many of the evicted
were taken into Communist homes and
fed and warmed? How many beds were
made up for them in Communist offices?
The poor wretches were literally and
figuratively left out in the cold.
Hungary and Poland Join In
The Communist front continues to crack
in Europe, the cracks growing wider and
longer in East Prussia and Czechoslo-
vakia, which are now thoroughly under
martial law, with purge commissions
sitting, firing-squads busily engaged and
tanks parading as emblems of democracy.
Last week more wholesale sabotage was
reported in major Czech industries, par-
ticularly in brown coal, so vital to its
economy. Violent measures over a month
have failed to put down the widespread
riots and strikes, indicating that they are
on p serious and national scale.
East Germany has quietened down
somewhat, but not altogether, and the
East German Government, side-by-side
with brutal Russian military measures,
has been taking unprecedented steps for
conciliation, such as the issue of luxuries
and clothing (on a scale unknown since
before the war) to offset the effect of
drastic food-reductions which have been
made necessary by the falling-off in out-
put. Under normal conditions East Ger-
many not only used to feed itself but
contributed the bulk of West Germany s
farm-food rations; but under Commun-
ism the requisition for “State needs
i.e., for export to Russia —have led to a
decline to starvation-point in food for
local use.
The latest two countries to be embraced
in the ambit of near-rebellion are Poland
and Hungary. The Polish outbreak,
which is on a large scale and of the same
nature as those in Czechoslovakia and
East Germany, apparently began about
the same time as those in Berlin June
17 is given as the date, though little
or nothing has been heard of it till
now. It was reported that not only
civilians but Polish troops have been in
rebellion, and that the trouble spread
during last week.
In Hungary just before the week-
end, the seemingly firmly-established
Government headed by Rakosi went
out of office, a significant fact,
since Rakosi, one of the bloodiest-
handed ruffians known to his genera-
tion and the last of the great secre-
taries of the Comintern —he it was who
advised the admission of the Australian
Communist party to Moscow’s ranks in
August, 1922 —has been overthrown. The
same concessions to freedom as were
made in East Germany have been made
to Hungarians.
With all this disturbance the soft
Russian touch with the Western world
continues. Passports have been issued
to Russian wives of Americans in Mos-
cow for the first time. Statements are
appearing in Russian journals that Wes-
tern culture, hitherto anathema, must no
longer be disregarded. The Russian
envoys to the great Western Powers of
Europe have suddenly been called home
together. There is a general air of con-
ciliation which suggests that this is a
moment when the Kremlin needs the
friendly support or neutrality of London,
Paris and New York pretty badly.
There is even a subsidence of Com-
munist propaganda in Italy and a milder
tone in Asia towards the United Nations
in Korea, despite continued Chinese
attacks along the Korean front. People
like Vyshinsky, so prominent in abuse,
seem to be hiding their lights for the
moment.
It is the strangest atmosphere which
has prevailed since 1924, and must be
unsettling to the Australian Communist
party, which could hardly get on with-
out its campaign against the “Wall-street
warmongers.”
A B C 's "Birthday"
From M. F. Dixon, former head of the
A.B.C.’s news department;
The A.B.C. gave listeners a mixed grill to
mark the 21st anniversary of its establishment,
by Act of Parliament, on July 1, 1932. Pre-
viously national broadcasting had been con-
trolled by the Australian Broadcasting Company,
which had been set up in 1924. The A.B.C.
thus had the benefit of eight years’ pioneering
work during a necessarily difficult period.
A.B.C. chairman Boyer opened the
“celebrations” with a “Guest of Honor” talk
on the Sunday night in which he claimed that
no public institution in Australia had been so
consistently and violently criticised as the
A.B.C. Some of the kicks had been deserved,
he admitted, but many of them had been hard
to take. However, he was pleased they had
been given, because it showed a wide public
interest in national broadcasting.
That doesn’t necessarily follow. Listener-
research reports, as Boyer well knows, show
that, apart from news, only a comparatively
small minority of people listens to the A.B.C.
Probably this minority argues that after 21
years’ experience, and with a vast sum to spend
annually, the commission should be able to
sense public requirements, and, when it fails,
criticism is repeated and bitter.
On the A.B.C.’s “birthday” the “Sydney
Morning Herald” devoted its first leader to
the event, conceding that not even the com-
mission’s least-friendly critic would suggest that
its youth had been entirely misspent. The
“Herald” reviewed a number of the commis-
sion’s programme achievements but made no
reference to “independent” news, against which
it fought bitterly at the time, declaring that
the cost would bring the commission to its
knees. The “Herald” apparently is now con-
tent to allow the service to potter along,
indifferent even to its ever-mounting cost.
On the commission’s “birthday”-night
general-manager Moses, who graduated from
a sporting commentator to the post of chief
administrative officer, introduced a number of
congratulatory messages from other broadcast-
ing organisations, and then gave the news
service its biggest and only boost of the cele-
bration period. Moses had apparently noted
the failure of his chairman and the “Herald”
to mention news, so he told listeners how the
service bad expanded from the reading of news-
paper snippets away back in 1932 to the big
independent news-gathering organisation which
the commission owns today. He even claimed
it as one of the biggest news organisations
in the southern hemisphere, and at an annual
cost of £280,000 one can well believe it. As
a matter of cold fact, news was still being
read direct from the papers when I joined the
service in mid-1936. It was the abdication
crisis late that year which gave us our first
break into the independent field. What fol-
lowed is a matter of history.
As one who had 14 years’ experience inside
the A.B.C. I *have no hesitation in saying that
whatever success national broadcasting has
achieved has been due largely to the hard work
and enthusiasm of a number of its senior
executives and staff, plus the fact that the
commission has always had plenty of money
to spend. True, it had one lean period flow-
ing the reduction of its share of the licence
fee by Postmaster-General Thorby, but, outside
of that, it has always budgeted for a generous
sum and almost invariably got it. In the
circumstances failure to achieve some measure
of success would have been unpardonable.
But the sky will be the limit should any
Government be unwary enough to allow the
A.B.C. to run a national television service.
Much in a Name
When Coronation-fever was at its height
a London newspaper suggested changing
the name of newly-conquered Everest to
Mt. Elizabeth. In its eagerness to pay
tribute to the Queen it overlooked at
least two things; (1) That the world’s
highest peak rises from the borders of
Tibet and Nepal, so that the right to
alter its name is hardly the prerogative of
the British Government, and (2) that
any move to honor the Queen in this
fashion would necessitate taking the
honor away from the great English sur-
veyor who first fixed its position and
calculated its height.
Fortunately, nothing was done about
Everest, but similar suggestions have
been cropping up in Australia. In Syd-
ney someone suggested renaming
Queen’s-square Queen Elizabeth-square.
There was no mention of replacing
Queen Victoria’s statue, which stands
therein, with a statue of her great-great-
granddaughter, but that, no doubt, would
have followed as a matter of course had
the first bright idea been adopted.
Adelaide, too, is going through the
same emotional craziness. Some enthusi-
asts want King William-road to become
Queen Elizabeth-road; others think it
would be more fitting to call Mt. Lofty
Mt. Elizabeth. It is hard to believe that
either suggestion would commend itself
to the Queen. Certainly they will have
no appeal to anyone with a sense of
history. King William-road, like the
street of which it is a continuation, was
named after the sovereign in whose reign
South Australia was founded; Adelaide
itself was named after his consort. Mt.
Lofty was so named by Matthew Flinders
35 years before the foundation of the
colony. There is no more justification for
bestowing Queen Elizabeth’s name on
the road or the mountain than there
would have been for rechristening them
in honor of Victoria, the two Edwards
or the two Georges.
The name-changing craze isn’t con-
fined to Royal names. Although Sydney
folk still call a road in Ku-ring-gai
Chase Coal - and - Candle - Creek - road,
officialdom changed it three years ago to
General San Martin Drive. Now there’s
a move to take down the nameplates on
Sir John Young-crescent and put up new
ones bearing the name of Sylvia Chase.
Alderman Albert Sloss, one of the spon-
sors of the scheme, justifies it thus:
I have spoken to scores of residents of
Woolloomooloo and none of them knows
who was Sir John Young. But they all
know Miss Sylvia Chase, that dear old soul
who sponsored the first Police Boys’ Club
which was at Woolloomooloo. We should
honor her.
Let them honor Miss Chase by all
means, but not by wiping another honor-
able name from the map. If Woollo-
mooloo residents of today don’t know
that Sir John Young was Governor of
their State 90 years ago, what makes
Albert Sloss think their descendants of
90 years hence will know who Sylvia
Chase was?
Doyle Inquiry
Hearing of evidence in the Doyle Com-
mission was concluded on Thursday;
counsels’ addresses will begin on July 27.
J. G. Arthur, M.L.A., was questioned about
his trip abroad in May, 1952. He said the
trip cost about £3OOO. He had about a third
of this himself and the other £2OOO was a loan.
Arthur said he would prefer to keep the lender’s
name anonymous. It was not Doyle or Mrs.
Doyle, and the money did not come from
Constructors, Ltd., or any of its subsidiaries.
It was “the same gentleman who guaranteed
my overdraft in 1952.” (This name had already
been handed to his Honor on a slip of paper.)
To further questions Arthur said the £2OOO
had been handed to him in cash at Parliament
House and he had immediately banked it. His
own £lOOO came from money he had won
betting; he had kept it “on my person and at
home.” He had given no security for the
loan and had not yet repaid any of it. He
would repay it “when I’m free to repay it,
after the Government reimburses me for part
of my expenses. They will reimburse me when
I submit my report on mines I inspected.”
He had not regarded the trip merely as a
honeymoon; he was “to inquire into a major
problem of the coal industry.’’
After officers of the Rural Bank had testified
that Doyle, in guaranteeing Arthur’s overdraft
in September, 1951, had lodged scrip in the
name of J. R. Stewart, Arthur was asked
whether he was aware of this. He replied that
(Continued on page 7)


he did not know it until he visited the bank
two or three weeks ago.
Mr. Snelling: In any phase of the transac-
tions did you know Doyle was using or had
used the name of J. R. Stewart for some share
transactions?—l can’t truthfully answer that.
He was accepted as Stewart by the bank.
In regard to a bank document releasing
shares in the name of J. R. Stewart, Arthur
said it had been sent to him at Parliament
House while the House was sitting and he had
signed it in a hurry. He had not noticed the
signature “J. R. Stewart” just above where he
had signed.
Mr. Shelling: I put it tp you that when
you signed that document you must have
thought the signature “J. R. Stewart” was
strange?—l must have.
Did it not lead you to believe that Doyle
sometimes used the name of J. R. Stewart? —
It could have been so. I could not swear to it.
Mr. Shelling : Do you believe now you
have seen the bank documents that you knew
between September, 1951, and April, 1952, that
Doyle had used the name of J. R. Stewart for
some share transactions? —I would not like to
answer that.
You have conceded that in the light of these
documents you must have? —In the cold hard
light of reasoning, yes.
The court heard conflicting versions of a
phone conversation between Arthur and a
“Telegraph” reporter, J. D. Cahill, who rang
him at Bowral on February 5, shortly after
Doyle “went into smoke.”
Arthur’s version: I told the reporter “I don’t
know, and I don’t care, where Doyle is,” and
hung up in his ear. >
Judge Amsberg : Did. you say to the reporter
that you did not know Doyle?—l certainly did
not, your Honor.
Cahill’s version: Mr. Arthur said, “I don’t
know Doyle. I have never heard of Doyle,
nor do I want to hear of him. The police have
not been in touch with me yet I don’t know
him and I’ve never heard of him Don’t you
link my name with Doyle’s. I’ll see you don’t
get away with it.”
W. N. Faragher, a Melbourne “Argus”
journalist, said he had listened to.the conversa-
tion with headphones. He corroborated Cahill’s
evidence.
M. C. Cox, chief civil engineer of Con-
structors, Ltd., said that the managing-director,
C. J. Chesterfield, visited Sydney once a month
between June, 1950, and March, 1951, and he
usually interviewed him on business in Arthur’s
office at the Mines department. Sometimes
Arthur was present; at other times he saw
Chesterfield alone, in Arthur’s room. In June ?
1950, he was with Arthur and Chesterfield in
Arthur’s room, when Doyle came in and asked
Arthur, “What has happened to my shares in
Constructors?” Arthur’s reply was inaudible.
Then Doyle said, “You have my cheque for
£5OO. What are you going to do about the
shares?” Arthur replied, “You needn’t worry.
We’ll fix that up for you.”
Earlier, Mr. Miller, Q.C. (for Arthur), had
challenged the right of Mr. Ashburner, Q.C.,
to cross-examine Arthur on the grounds that
the expenses of his client (W. C. Wentworth,
M.P.) were being reimbursed by the Liberal
party. His Honor said Mr. Ashburner could
cross-examine “within prescribed limits.” An
attempt by Mr. Ashburner to question Arthur
regarding Vitnell (a principal figure in a current
Housing Commission inquiry) was cut short
by the commissioner as irrelevant to the inquiry.
POLICTICAL POINTS
Priminister Menzies arrived in Johan-
nesburg on Saturday by air from London.
He will leave Cape Town for Fremantle
by sea on Friday. The Doc. is in
America revisiting the site of his former
glory as president of U.N. Assembly.
• •
Some years ago a politician holding
forth on the catholicity of the maternity
bonus claimed that even the wife of a
State Governor (identity not revealed)
had not been too proud to accept it.
The N. S. Wales Parliamentary Pensions
Fund can now also claim vice-regal
patronage; ex-G.G. McKell is on the
payroll,
• •
Australia’s oversea trade balance for
the financial year just ended showed an
improvement of £737 million compared
with 1951-52. Exports, at £872 million,
were up £l9B million and imports, £514
million, were down £539 million from
the previous year’s colossal figure, £1053
million. Higher wool-prices and increased
shipments of meat and other foodstuffs
accounted for the higher exports ; import
restrictions kept the other side of the
ledger down.
• •
On Friday the Federal Treasurer an-
nounced a relaxation of import restric-
tions. Category “A” quota was increased
from 70 p.c. to 80 p.c. of the 1950-51
figure; category “B” from 30 p.c. to 40
p.c. A cut of similar dimensions was
made on April 1, and the Treasurer
speaks of Friday’s cut as “a further instal-
ment in the progressive relaxation of
import-controls which is the established
policy of the Government.
• •
Snippet from the Doyle inquiry, Rural
Bank officer testifying:
Just before the so-called. Horror Budget
came out Doyle advised me to sell any
shares I had within the next few weeks.
He said the bottom would fall out of the
market when the news came from Can-
berra .... Share values dropped sharply
when Budget details were released.
Those businessmen who are worried
over the uncertainty of the sales-tax posi-
tion might do worse than make a trip
to Long Bay,
• •
If there is to be a Commonwealth
Constitutional convention with the aim of
revising the Constitution a matter of
prime importance is to consider the
power of existing. States to deny sections
of their people the right to form a new
State.
• •
An agricultural economist refers to
“the pressing problem of how to induce
our farmers to grow more wheat.” The
only way to induce anybody to produce
more of anything is to let them get full
price for it—and the only practical
way to do that is let demand set the
price for goods and to give workers
cash incentives.
• •
Calwell, of course, is about as easy to
gag as a sailor’s parrot, but, apart from
him, those controlling the walkie-talkies
of Federal “Labor” seem to be keeping
most of their team on the path of
caution, though how they are managing
to induce Eddie Ward to keep his tongue
in his cheek is an interesting subject
for speculation. Federal “Labor” has
everything to lose by careless talk before
the next election. Till then, moderation
is the watchword, with the understanding
that once the party is back in office the
gags can be removed,
• •
Brisbane butchers are reported to be
looking for some way of “getting meat
back on the Australian breakfast-table”
in place of what they call “the lazy
man’s breakfast” of cereals, eggs and
fruit. One idea they could try would
be to give a pound of chops away with
every packet of cereals.
• •
N. S. Wales Ministers are still trying
to saddle the Federal Government with
the blame for their own mismanagement.
Latest example is the yarn that work on
the Keepit Dam has had to cease because
of the “unfair allocation of loan-money
in N. S. Wales.” Once more it must be
emphasised that, the only authority
responsible for the allocation of loan-
money in N. S. Wales is the “Labor”
Government of N. S, Wales. Allocation
as between the States is made by the
Loan Council, on which the “Labor”
States command a majority. The Loan
Council also decides the rate of interest
to be paid on loans. The Common-
wealth’s part is to raise the loan-money
for the States (if it can). Without any
statutory obligation to do so, the Federal
Government this year supplemented loan-
funds by £l3 H million.
Keepit and other projects are at a
standstill because Cahill and co. reck-
lessly began “works” all over the State
without any regard to priorities and on
the assumption that more and more loan-
money would be available every year.
Conservation-Minister Enticknap in his
“explanation” says: “As work on major
water-conservation projects advances, a
progressively greater annual allocation of
money is required to enable construction
to proceed at the economic and safe rate
which only full-scale operation can give.”
This discovery seems to have come rather
late in the day.
TALKING DOLLS
Sound advice given by a Melbourne
judge to a youth whom he was sentencing
to a year’s imprisonment for robbery with
violence: “Don’t divide the world into
you and suckers, because the suckers
stay out of jail.”
• •
One suggestion put up to Fadden by
the N. S. Wales Liberals to overcome
the shortage of money for schools is for
an issue of “school-building certificates”
on the lines of war-savings certificates.
They hope such a plan would tap savings
untouched by ordinary loan appeals.
One thing is certain —if some of the
organisations which have been making
political capital out of the school-
shortage devoted as much energy to sell-
ing certificates as they have done to
holding protest meetings and organising
petitions to and demands on Canberra
the appeal would be an overwhelming
success.
• •
On Monday a Federal Cabinet sub-
committee was to decide whether or not
to order an immediate redistribution of
Federal electoral boundaries in Victoria.
Cain’s two-for-one split-up was waiting
on the decision.
• •
As a counter to having its leader and
deputy-leader on the sick-list Britain’s
Conservative party received a boost for
its morale at the Abingdon by-election,
which its candidate, A. M. Neave, won by
22,986 votes against 17,126 polled by
Ted Castle (Labor) and 3060 received
by G. R. Allen (Liberal). Labor had
hoped to do better than that, as there
had been a considerable influx of
workers into the constituency since the
1951 election, mainly because of the ex-
tension of the atomic-energy plant at
Harwell. Instead, however, the Conser-
vative majority increased. Ted Castle,
like his wife Barbara, is a Bevanite.
• •
The Queensland Parliamentary salaries-
grab is almost an accomplished fact, the
“Labor” caucus having decided that the
electors will stand another £2OO a year
for each member’s salary and a similar
sum for allowances. The bill will be
introduced (and passed) when Parliament
reassembles.
• •
Eamon de Valera popped out of cable-
obscurity on Saturday when, following
the loss of a couple of seats at by-
elections, he narrowly survived a no-
confidence motion. With the aid of 5
Independents he won 73-71.
• •
The Nicholas Committee on Federal
Parliamentary salaries and allowances
said £8 a month was too much for stamps
and £4 a month was plenty. So it was
cut to £4. Then the whingeing began.
In April the Cabinet increased it to £6,
but no public announcement was made.
That represents more than 100 letters a
week at 3ld. a letter. Keen correspon-
dents, those Federal members!
• •
After Queensland Industrial Court
awarded a 275. 6d. a week rise to certain
tradesmen in sugar-mills, “Courier-
Mail’s” industrial reporter tipped a “flood
of union claims for increased wages”
and a general revival of the demand for
increased margins. There is a distinct
contradiction between efforts to keep
costs down, “Labor’s” constant picking
at the Menzies Government over its
alleged failure to reduce living costs, and
the general hunger of unions for wage-
rises which can do nothing but bump up
costs.
• •
While the N. S. Wales Government
is whingeing about having no money for
public works, schools and hospitals, its
Government Insurance Office is planning
to spend a million pounds on a new city
building.
• •
Road-hauliers in South Australia are
advocating a Government-fixed maximum
for damages in road accidents, because
“ ‘fabulous’ verdicts of juries in other
States are increasing the cost of pas-
senger-transport in South Australia.”
The point they make is that although in
South Australia “astronomical” awards
do not occur, as damages are there
assessed by a judge, insurance-premiums
are based on claims paid in all States.
High insurance is increasing the expense
of road-transport. For years there has
been a limit on claims against the S.A.
railways.
• •
A new political record is claimed in
Westralia for 38-year-old Arthur Griffith,
who won the by-election for the Suburban
Province seat in the Legislative Council,
formerly held by Agent-General J. A.
Dimmitt. In two successive Parliaments
he has won his way into both Houses,
and he is the youngest member ever to
enter the Council. • After service over-
seas with the Second A.1.F., he did in-
surance work in Perth until he won the
Canning seat in the Assembly, at the
1950 general election. He lost it again
by a narrow margin at the general elec-
tion last February.
• •
It’s called running the railways.
Move 1: Railways unions apply to Arbitra-
tion Court for increased penalty rates for
weekend work.
Move 2: Railways Commissioner Winsor
applies to court for reduced penalty rates.
Move 3: Labor Council of N. S. Wales
asks Winsor to withdraw his application.
Move 3a: J. D. Kenny, assistant-secretary
of the council, says he has spoken to Transport
Minister Martin and that if necessary Martin
will issue a direction to Winsor “telling him
where he gets off.”
Move 4: Martin admits himself “somewhat
distressed” and says he is not going to bear
the responsibility for the application.
Move 5: Winsor says he is prepared to aHow
his application to stay on the reserve list if
unions will do the same with theirs.
Move 6: Martin orders Winsor not to pro-
ceed with his application until Cabinet makes
a decision.
Move 7; Due to be played at a Cabinet-
meeting after this went to the printer.
Move 8; Any reader can guess. No prize
for correct answer.
In Victoria a similar game is in pro-
gress, but the “Labor” Cabinet’s move
to veto the decision of its Railways
Commissioners came more promptly—
immediately after a threat to hold up
Sunday trains.


Society
“Fino”: Introduction to Australia.
A New Australian acquaintance, taken
seriously ill immediately on his arrival at
a migrant centre, was admitted to hos-
pital, As he knew little English, it says
much for his instinct for survival that
he recovered after the question put to
him by the examining doctor, which to
Ivan’s untutored ears sounded like “Did
you arrive to die?”
“Vingter”: Finding in my 10-year-old
son’s possession several score illuminated
Sunday-school texts I asked how he had
come by so many badges of good con-
duct. He replied that he had won them.
"I can so sit on my hair!”
By further questioning I drew his painful
admission that he was the bag-holder in
a weekly “book” conducted among the
Sabbath scholars on the previous day’s
events at Caulfield, with the cards as
betting currency All suggestion of
irreverence was removed by his explana-
tion that the religious tokens were, among
a wide range of swap-cards collected by
today’s youngsters, accorded the highest
value as collectors’-pieces.
“Becks”: Sooner or later someone had
to write the worst song of the century.
Many have got close to it; the main
difficulty has been to prove that they
were any worse than a host of their
competitors. Now it has arrived —a ditty
about a doggie in the window (presum-
ably of a pet-shop). How do I know it’s
the worst?’ Well, it must be. It’s the
only song that has simultaneously topped
every “hit parade” in America.
♦> ♦> ❖
“X.N.0.”: Souvenirs of royalty? There
should be somewhere in the Old Dart
or Aussie several chappies who treasure
what they may regard as relics of a
martyr. When “Dums” (Rear-Admiral
Dumaresq to you landlubbers) enter-
tained H.R.H. (“of Wales” then, “of
Windsor” now) in the first H.M.A.S.
Australia quail was on the menu —
silly morsels of bird you held by one
broken leg whilst biting out the breast-
meat. H.R.H. mishandled one of his quail
and punctured a royal digit. These minor
wounds can bleed quite a lot, and the
party went into a flap—one R.A., three
staff-officers, two personal lackeys and
three surgeons in agitated attendance.
Into the press dived a P.O. steward with
a pile of table-napkins. He whisked
away the napkin from the bleeding royal
finger and substituted a second, third and
up to seventh virgin cloth—then a lead-
ing-sick-berth-attendant arrived with
the correct doings and the P.O. steward
retired. Later he claimed to have made
“over twenty quid” selling salvaged ser-
viettes complete with royal “berlud-
stains.”
♦♦♦ ❖
“Bo”: As a motorist, I am alarmed
at the news that the Sydney transport
authorities have turfed out some of their
surplus officials. Why, it is even possible
that the axe may be due for the gentle-
man whose duty it now is to see that
the tram-tracks are always set either 2in.
above or 2in. below the road-level. The
thought that with his removal tracks
may become level, and that in conse-
quence my reduced car-repair bill will
effect real hardship on my garageman,
wrings my heart.
4s> $ if
“Macnell”; It has often been opined
here that the present-day Daring- and
Battle-class destroyers (like our Tobruk
and Anzac) are more in the class of
young cruisers. The Admiralty now pro-
nounces that the Daring-class will no
longer be referred to as ‘ destroyers,
They will be known officially as Daring-
class ships, or simply Darings, and are
to be used tactically as light-cruisers. It
is an inevitable development.
there was the torpedo-boat. e
destroyer was mvented to destroy that-
its original name was torpedo-boat-
destroyer—and did it so effectively that
it wiped out the t.-b.-class, took over its
duties and added a host of others. Then
it grew in size, speed and armament till
it became a destroyer of anything up to
battleship-range as witness Vian’s
torpedoing of the Bismarck. Now the
3000-odd-tonners are equally effective as
destroyers, anti-submarine frigates or
anti-aircraft ships, as well as packing a
hefty punch for shore-bombardment.
“A nutcracker, please."
Daring is only the second ship in Royal
Navy history to give her name to a type
of vessel —the first, of course, was the
Dreadnought.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Craiser”: Jupiter is reliably reported
to have appeared to Danae as a shower
of gold. Showers, at any rate of copper
and silver, have been reported at Glass-
street, North Melbourne, with the local
kids picking up the largesse to the extent
of ten-bob a head some evenings. I
recall similar showers of coins in the
old days in Shanghai. They emanated
from some of my colleagues who, when
they got exhilarated at a party, would
heat cents on the stove and throw them
out of the window. The clink of the
metal on the pavement would always
attract a horde of coolies who waited
for them to cool sufficiently to be
handled. One inventive genius found a
way of cooling them quickly in a very
natural manner,
. '
♦> ❖ ❖
“Dunheved”: Those factories at St.
Mary’s (B. 24/6/’53) stand on ground
which was once Dunheved, a property
owned by Governor King. I don’t
know if the ruins of the Governor’s
residence, together with his observatory,
have survived, but they were still to be
seen in the ’thirties. Another landmark
was the whipping-post; the caretaker
used to regale visitors with lurid tales
about it, his favorite being about the
convict who copped a second flogging be-
cause the Governor’s little daughter
arrived too late to witness the first one.
Believe it? Well, I did the first time I
heard it.
* ❖
“Trickle”: Client wrote asking why
we hadn’t sold his five bales of wool, and
we replied that they would be in the next
sale. Back came a letter saying that we
did not give the small man a fair go —
that big companies took it out of the
small man. On sale-day the small man
came down in person —the whole 17 stone,
of him.
* ❖
“Cauboy”: John Brownlee has added
his voice to the chorus of disapproval
of the Melba film. He contradicts the
screen-story where it says that Papa
Mitchell favored a singing career for
Nellie. Melba herself said that her
father was so determined to thwart her
public career that he discouraged her
friends from attending her first drawing-
room concert in Melbourne and she was
forced to perform before an audience of
two. David Mitchell was a keen busi-
nessman who built up a great industry
in lime-deposits on his property at Lily-
dale. Had he been able to foresee that
one day his child would be paid £4OOO
for singing two songs at a private house
in Sydney he would probably have with-
drawn his opposition.
♦ ❖ ❖
I never pass a Sydney pub
without thinking of Kipling—not that
Rudyard, to my knowledge, ever wrote
anything about Sydney’s pubs, but be-
cause of the paintings that adorn the
external walls of the taverns. Either the
poet was wrong or the painters are, for
no “muddied oafs” play football on the
paintings that advertise “A man’s drink.”
The players’ guernseys are spotless, their
shorts immaculate, their knees unsullied
by mud, dirt or even stain from the vivid
green pastures that spread untrampled
across the field. The phizzes of both
tackled and tackier are serene as a saint’s,
and their tonsorial fastidiousness re-
mains unruffled. Nor are other sports-
men less immaculate. No sweat trickles
down the faces of these flannelled fools,
and rain never turns their perfect
wickets into “stickies,” while wrestling
and boxing are for clean-limbed young
men of unmarked handsomeness who
never suffer a gashed eyebrow or burst
ear, and don’t get blood-splashes on their
trunks. I never pass a pub without think-
ing of Kipling—and the caustic remarks
of the artist’s friend when he viewed the
“pretty pretty” paintings in The Light
That Failed.
i i
**4 +J+
“P.C.M.”: I know an instance of
ammunition being twice-used much
later than 1830 (B. 24/6/’53). In
1918 there was a Chinese labor
corps compounded in France along-
side a German prisoners’ compound.
When an air-raid destroyed the barbed-
wire fence of the Chinese compound the
Chinks rushed a near-by dump and pro-
ceeded to chuck Mills-bombs into the
German compound. The Jerries threw
the bombs back, but they took the pins
out first, and then there was a hell of a
mess. In the subsequent stampede some
of the Chinese were picked up on the
Channel coast —they couldn’t go any
further because they couldn’t swim!
* ❖ ❖
“Sparkes”; After a convivial evening,
the skipper came on board with an arm-
ful which no amount of newspaper
wrapping could disguise. Carefully
placing his four bottles on the saloon-
table, he stepped out on the deck, lit his
pipe and, grabbing a passing seaman, be-
gan to .deliver a lecture on navigation.
Tony, our hard-case bos’n, was unquench-
able ; spotting them, he departed with
one under his arm. The contents had no
sooner been disposed of than the skipper
discovered his loss. While the ensuing
row was at its height the crew prevailed
on Tony to confess; so, fronting the
skipper, he said penitently “I’m sorry,
sir, I took the beer. I didn’t know it was
yours.” The skipper, a generous soul,
delivered a lengthy lecture on dishonesty,
and concluded by saying that if Tony
had wanted a drink as badly as that he
should have asked for it. He’d overlook
the matter, but the bottle must be re-
placed. Tony mumbled apologies, and,
without batting an eyelid, said “Very
well, sir. And can I take another bottle
now, sir?” The skipper looked dazed
and tottered slightly, but handed over
another bottle without a word.
“LABOR”-SAVERS
“A ‘senior executive’ of the N. S. Wales
railways is quoted by Sydney ‘Sun’ as saying
that unions have prevented automatic cleaning
of trains and spray-gun painting because these
are ‘labor-saving devices.’ ”
Uniordsts are discerning ;
Their maxims are profound:
Theirs not to keep wheels turning,
But make the work go round.
“Let no new-chum abolish
Our paintbrushes,” they say ;
“We like to kneel and polish.
But never let us spray!”
And each man asks his neighbor
When labor-savers rave„
“What labor can save ‘Labor’
If labor-savers save ?
“For in daywork, or in nightwork
One truth is certain-sure ;
Not ‘Many hands make light work,’
But ‘Many hands make more’
“In Government employment
One states such theories —
They’re not for the enjoyment
Of private enterprise:
“Someone must make a profit
For tax-collectors to
Cut off our portion of it
Because they love us so.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Emjai”: My wife is famed for her
grapefruit marmalade, and donations of
jars of the delicious-looking confection
bring high praise, which, on my sampling
of the product, seemed fulsome until I
eavesdropped on an explanation of the
involved processes. It came to the stage
of the skimming of the stuff that rises
to the surface of the jelly. “And those
skimmings—you just throw them out?”
inquired the visitor. “Oh, dear no,” was
the reply. “They do for Dad’s breakfast
toast,”
♦♦♦ ♦s*
“Springvale”; A twenty-year war here-
abouts has just ended. During that time
“She talks real nice English—her last owner Was an A.B.C. announcer .”
Springvale (Vic.) has grown and pros-
pered, factories and new residential areas
have transformed the place, and the
civic-centre leaves nothing to be desired,
Yet for all that there has been something
lacking, something no self-respecting
country town should, be without. Or
should it? Which is exactly what the
war was about. But now the vitriolic
verbal clashes have subsided ; agreement
has been reached. The shire council has
at last yielded to the inevitable and the
Dry Era in Springvale is to come to an
end. The pub will be duly erected at the
obvious site—opposite the railway-station.
“Bamekaw”; Luigi, a New Australian
keen to make good, often comes to me
for help in his language problems. He
staggered me recently by asking when
could he call anyone a wight. I found
he had got the word from an English-
Italian dictionary bought in Rome. It
was compiled by an erudite Itie prof,
who had apparently acquired his English
the classical way. Throughout the book
there was considerable evidence that he
had been nurtured on Shakspeare and
other writers of generations gone. Luigi
has quite a chance to master a vocabulary
of archaic words, and 1 look forward to
hearing him, instead of telling a dinkum
Aussie to clear off and stop getting on
his works, say, “I prithee begone, scurvy
knave, and irk me no more.”
* *> ❖
“Kesem”: The young chap “Chauvel”
Tom Archer came across in 1847 (B.
3/6/’53) who was also on the lookout
for good grazing country in the Mount
Abundance district was C. G. T, Chauvel,
the first of the name so well and honor-
ably known in Australia. R. S. Porteous
is not correct in his assumption that
young Chauvel had had his fill of scrub-
bashing, for although it was Blythe who
accompanied Tom Archer on his second
trip to the west, Mann in his reminis-
cences of the abortive Leichhardt journey
says that on their return to the Conda-
mine they reached “Blythe and Chauvel’s
temporary station on July 22, 1847,”
Chauvel’s name was never officially coo-
nected with properties on the Ccmda-
mine or Maranoa. In. January, 1863, he
took up Tabulam run in N. S. Wales.
* *
Spicule . Sister, escorting patient o
the examination couch for Doctor to
have a look-see at her brand-new
appendix scar, was suddenly called away,
Hastily giving the patient an examma-
tion sheet—one of those strange-lookmg
drapes with a square space in the centre
—she told her to get herself ready for
Doc. When he arrived on the scene some
minutes later. Doc was astounded to see
his “abdominal” sitting up on the couch,
the sheet draped carefully over her form,
and her head thrust through the aper-
ture in the sheet. Medico retired in some
confusion, and it wasn’t until Sister came
back that the patient learnt that the cute
little hole is there to fit over the cute
little scar.
“Ceg”: Female guests of her Majesty
at Pentridge Jail, Melbourne, are shortly
to move to more congenial quarters at
Fairfield. It is just about 100 years since
their last change of address —from the
Western Jail to the prison hulk Sacra-
mento moored in Hobson’s Bay. The
ladies must have welcomed the change
after the awful conditions at the Western
Jail. Once aboard the good ship Sacra-
mento, the ladies with their offspring (as
many as 26 children were on board at
one time) were set to work at washing,
sewing, making their own clothes and
shirts for male prisoners. Chaplains
visited the hulk weekly and there was a
library of “moral and instructive works,”
An attempt to establish a school, to teach
reading, writing and ciphering, was, how-
ever, a failure, due to want of room and
“other obstacles.” The Inspector-General
reported that the Sacramento experiment
was not a success, as the women, whose
numbers varied from 58 to 108, were,
with very few exceptions, the most de-
praved of their sex, frequenters of the
pave and the lowest dens of iniquity.
The only gain to society was their tem-
porary abstraction from it,
*X* <♦ ❖
“Crunch”: I heard them before I saw
them—a youth and a girl arguing loudly
as they came out of the coffee-lounge.
The young man carried the girl’s bag as
well as his own, thus proving that the
Age of Chivalry is not quite dead. The
girl was doing most of the talking, but
occasionally the youth got a word in.
She was ashamed of him, she said; she
felt humiliated in his presence ; she never-
wanted-to-see-him-again. Then, with a
“You needn’t bother to take me home,”
she ran across the road and boarded a
tram. “You see what women are like,”
the youth said to me as he watched the
tram begin to move. I made a noise
to indicate that I saw. “That’s the worst
row we’ve ever had,” he went on. “But
she’ll get off at the next stop and come
back. Everything will be all right.
You’ll see.” I looked around, intending
to ask from which Correspondence
Course he got his amazing self-assurance.
He grinned. “She’ll have to come back.
I’ve got her purse.”
*X* ❖
“Uramao”; Back in the free-and-easy
days of Central Otago (N.Z.) the police
sergeant in Arrowtown was a fine speci-
men of the Hibernian race whose wife
was proud of his exalted position.
In company of some of her friends
she saw the sergeant hauling a delinquent
off to the cooler, which was adjacent to
the police residence. Later she heard
cries from the cell “Let me out, Bridget,
darlint. Let me out.” She was furious
at the mimicking of her husband’s voice
and threatened the prisoner with addi-
tional charges on top of the one he’d
have to answer for in the morning. But
the cries were so persistent that she went
into the lock-up and, looking through the
bars, beheld her hubby in disarray and
furious at his long incarceration. The
prisoner had adroitly side-stepped at the
door, thrust the sergeant in, and
decamped.
* ❖
“Brick E.”: We were working on what
was to be a park and children’s play-
ground. During the morning somebody
who appeared to have some authority
strolled in and began to ask questions.
Suddenly he shot at me: “Where will
the Jungle Jim be?” I have never been
an avid reader of comic-strips, but the
name rang a bell somewhere. I grinned
as though he had made a joke, but when
he persisted I decided it might be best to
humor him. So I said “The boss has
taken the plan away ; when he comes
back I’ll ask him.” I did—grinning
broadly. The Trump unrolled the plan,
looked at it and began to explain. Some-
what chastened, I learnt that the un-
known was a jungle gym —a kind of steel
maze that kids enjoy wriggling, twisting
and crawling through.
+> *X* ❖
“Piper”: Scrawled in the dust above
the doorway of the carriage of an electric-
train the following notice has me
puzzled: “1960 Fatso Bier Soke” it reads.
Is it a horrid warning to Fatso as to his
probable fate in seven years’ time, or a
cryptically-worded address of some sly-
grog joint—or even of a pub where they
have the stuff in bottles? I wish I knew.
*X* &
“Uramao”: Among the unpublished
manuscripts of Sir George Grey in Auck-
land Public Library, upon which two
English-language professors are now
working, are letters from Elizabeth
Browning to an aunt of Sir George Grey
(Mrs. Martin). Letters from Coleridge and
Charles Lamb to a German, Francis
Aders, who ran a literary and art salon
in London, will also be available to the
public. The most interesting document
is a translation of De Quincey from a
Danish source. Letters from the author
of Confessions of an Opium Eater to
Robert Southey concerning Coleridge and
Wordsworth are other treasures. Con-
jecture as to how the De Quincey papers
reached New Zealand is that they might
have been brought there by his son,
Colonel Paul Frederick de Quincey, who
arrived with the 70th Regiment, settled
in the Dominion and subsequently be-
came sergeant-at-arms of the House of
Representatives in 1889.
i* * ❖
“Irving”: Admiring the precision
movements of a platoon of rookies being
drilled by a specimen of the gentle-
manly type of n.c.0., whose bull-ring
technique is, judging by results, as
efficient as that of the hell-raising sarges
of my day, I couldn’t help recalling a
Yankee top-sergeant I saw engaged in a
similar task in 1942, After a botched-up
movement, he seemed on the point of
apoplexy; it may have been bubble-
gum, but to me it seemed that he was
frothing at the mouth. Then he became
serenely calm in a split-second as he
addressed his luckless charges in caress-
ing tones: “You gfiys see these stripes
on my arm? I’m proud of those stripes,
and if I didn’t treat you like gentlemen
and speak to you like soldiers they’d take
these stripes off me pretty damn’ smart.
So you guys better thank your lucky
stars I’ve still got these stripes, because
it’s only these goddam stripes that stop
me from telling you what a lousy, useless,
hamfisted, blasted” By this stage the
bubble-gum or froth drowned his invec-
tive in a bubbling hysteria. Then he swal-
lowed ostentatiously and concluded sooth-
ingly: “So you can thank these stripes
of mine that I’m stopped from saying the
things about you that I’d like to say
about you.”
* ❖
“Pie-eater”:/“You know the prices of
valve-rubber and bells, so what about
minding my shop while I go training?”
asked Colie the pro. bike-rider. All
went well for a couple of hours; I was
called upon only to lend the shop’s pump.
Then in came a complaint regarding a
new type of variable gear fitted to an
imported bike. After tightening and
loosening every nut, screw, spring and
cable in sight, I assured the owner that
he’d now have no trouble in getting all
three gears. “It’s supposed to be a four-
speed,” he said. Even after I’d used
a hammer and cold-chisel, bottom gear
was still unavailable, so I uttered a few
trade terms and informed the customer
he’d been sold a “bomb” instead of a
set of gears. “I bought ’em here he
snarled just as Colie returned, I ran
out the back door and finalised my hire-
purchase payments by post.
THE FREAKS
“Of all pastimes, chess is the only one that
breeds in its devotees a calm reflectiveness, a
philosophic outlook, and so a kindly tolerance.
— “World’s News-’’
Have you never descried on the face
Of the chap who indulges in judo
A look hard and grim ?
You could never trust him
Any, more than the player of ludo.
Of necessity, he must he base —
Oh, evil! —who plays snakes-and-
ladders.
As for bridge-players — well.
They are ALL ripe for hell; t
As bad as a bagful of adders.
Full many a draughts-player has met
The fate that befell Danny Deever
Because, getting “huffed,”
His opponent he snuffed
By splitting his dome with a cleaver.
Inflamed, too 2 the tempers will get
Where solo enthusiasts gather;
On open misere.
And you’ll see skin and hair
Flying round — oh, a real whack-and-
slather.
With chess, though, they never sink low.
It furnishes stimulant mental;
Its devotees ne’er
Kick and bite, bash and swear.
They’re so philosophic, so gentle.
Who loses two knights in a row
Will laugh in a manner quite hearty.
You’d imagine i by his
Most benevolent phiz.
That he was the triumphant party.
It’s sad, though, to think that a game
Can be played without one getting
clouted.
Why ! The best of our rules
By this queer bunch of fools
Is being disgracefully flouted.
Well, upon their own heads be their
shame !
They should learn that proper enjoy-
ment
Of pastimes is missed
If the bottle or fist
Isn’t given the fullest employment.
N.s.W.
S.W.K.


“Still keeps going
when the rest
have stopped"
Rxlta BATTERIES
'
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY,
' JEX4.3*
PERSONAL ITEMS
From surgeon-commander to captain
in the branch goes James Martin Flat-
tery, a man with the biggest spread in the
Navy and a jutting jaw that could do
service as a jury-ram any time. The
doc. first threw his weight around at
Sydney University, where, he played a
solid game of footy, reaching State
representation. He was handball cham-
pion of N.S.W. for years, held the Aus-
tralian title in 1920-21, and in his day—
and not so long ago, either —was a demon
fast-bowler in Navy games. He had
most of the late scrap at sea, and had a
particularly heavy responsibility in
cruiser 'Australia in the Philippines cam-
paign, where the medical efficiency of the
whole squadron was his concern. At
that time, at Lingayen, his own ship had
44 killed and 69 wounded. Now 54, the
doc. has been looking after the health
of sailors since 1924.
The £lOO,OOO smile here caught by
Challen in Sydney belongs to Adolph
Basser. The income from the trust fund
he has established will be used for
scholarships for medical and scientific
research and for general charitable pur-
CHARITIES
poses. Last year Basser gave £50,000
to the Royal College of Physicians, and
the latest expression of his generosity
brings his public gifts to £200,000. Leav-
ing Germany at 20, Basser, starting from
scratch, began to make instruments.
Twenty-one years later he was able to buy
out Saunders’, the big Sydney jewellery
firm, and since then he has been its
managing-director. But he is best known
to the N.S.W. public as a follower of
the turf —almost a lifetime habit. In
1951 he achieved one life-ambition by
winning the Melbourne Cup with Delta.
He has belonged to Tattersall’s Club for
33 years. Short and stockily built, at
66 he can still give his mid-week golf
opponents some anxious moments.
An Enzedder who graduated from
Canterbury College in 1946, Dr. A. V.
Jones has been appointed assistant-
Professor of Physics at the University
of Saskatchewan, Canada. In 1951 he
won an Exhibition Scholarship which took
him to Cambridge. After annexing a
Doctorate of Philosophy he crossed to
Ottawa, joining a research group at
Saskatoon to study the origin of light-
waves emitted by the aurora.
Taking over the managing-directorship
of C-O.R. from K. Washington Gray,
R. B. Dummett, a Cambridge man. He’s
well-oiled in the game, having been with
Anglo-Iranian Oil since 1936 and that
co.’s area-manager in Italy and Switzer-
land.
Discarding, at 58, some of his many
professional parts, William Dunstan has
retired from the general-managership
of Melbourne “Herald.” The other
day he resigned as chairman of the News-
paper Proprietors’ Association of Mel-
bourne, a post he had held for 17
years. There was another post he’d
helped to hold —at a place called Lone
Pine. There, on August 9, 1915,
Corporal Dunstan, for most conspicuous
bravery, was awarded the Victoria Cross.
The soldier retires:
Retired as Citizen Forces Member of the
Military Board, Major-General W. J. V.
Windeyer, C. 8., C.8.E., D.S.O. (with Bar), a
prominent Queen’s Counsel of Sydney who
has continued both the century-and-a-hall-
old legal tradition and the century-old military-
volunteer tradition of his family begun in
the old original N. S. Wales Volunteer Forces
at the beginning of the ’sixties and late ’fifties.
Windeyer himself held his first citizen-force
command in 1922, commanded the Sydney
University Regiment, 1937-40, and the 2/48
Infantry Battalion, Second A.1.F., 1940-42,
including the period of the Tobruk siege, after
which he had a very varied and active career
in command of the 20th Australian Infantry
Brigade during the four years beginning in
January, 1942. The El Alamein Campaign, the
capture of Finschhafen, a classic operation of
the New Guinea campaign, and the Borneo
operations were included in his record of major
experience, and he administered the command
of the Ninth Division in the final months of
1945. He has managed in the post-war years
to carry on a distinguished and mainly
Equity Bar practice, to sit on the Council of
the National University at Canberra, the senate
of Sydney University, the Military Board, as
well as the boards of some major commercial
concerns, while finding time to command the
Second (N.S.W.) Division until last year and
to meet the extensive calls implied by member-
ship of the Military Board and take a lively
interest in historical research. At 53 he seems
to have earned a little leisure. His successor
is Major-General Selwyn Porter, C.8.E., D. 5.0.,
E.D., another Libyan campaigner and Second
A.I.F. Brigadier, who in 1950 became G.O.C.
Third Division (Vic.). He hails from Wan-
garatta.
In Melbourne on a flying visit to see
the Stratford Players launched at Her
Majesty’s, Colonel Fordham Flower,
chairman of the Stratford-on-Avon
Memorial Theatre. His family started a
brewery in Warwickshire over 150 years
ago and he has been comparing Aus-
tralian beer with Warwickshire’s, but is
too diplomatic to say which is better.
His family organised the trust which re-
vived the Bard’s touch in Stratford and
built the Memorial Theatre in 1913. His
father sent abroad the first overseas
touring-company from the Stratford
theatre.
Mixed up with Merinos for most of
his working life, Douglas Boyd has
shorn himself, of the chairmanship of the
Wood Board to look after his reading
and gardening. As well as running a
grazing property in Victoria, he’s been
president of the Graziers’ Federal
Council, a member of the Wool Board
since its establishment in 1936, and chair-
man for the past decade.
Beatrice Grimshaw has passed on in
Bathurst (N.S.W.), leaving 33 novels and
a sheaf of short-stories to her name, some
of them uncommonly good, most of them
about New Guinea and the South Seas
she knew so intimately, a lot of them
printed in early Bulletins, others in
Australian anthologies, and in the old
“Strand” and “Windsor” magazines of
London. Bom in County Antrim, edu-
cated at the University of Belfast,
she was commissioned by the
London “Daily Graphic” to travel round
the world and put her experiences be-
tween covers. The world-tour stopped at
the Pacific; not so her travels —she was
the first white woman to boat up the
Sepik and Fly, at a time when not too
many white men could claim the experi-
ence, and she trekked with Sir Hubert
Murray on several of his inspections of
the then-wild interior. The Bismarcks,
the Solomons and the Coral Sea were
also her domain, and wherever she went
a novel of the area resulted. A close
relative, Colonel John Grimshaw, has
travelled the same parts just as ex-
haustively—since 1947 he’s been chief
of police in Papua and New Guinea.
A new version of the Good Samaritan
story came to light the other day in Mel-
bourne when Frank Walker, a 63-year-old
commercial artist, offered one of his eyes
to Russel Impey, lying convalescing in
Heidelberg Hospital. Impey is a young
veteran of the Korea war who lost an
eye when a mortar fragment hit him.
Walker is a grizzled veteran of the two
World Wars who reckons he is old
enough to get along all right with one
eye.
“Macnell”; Having brought destroyer-
cruiser Anzac through 228 days of sea-
time round Korea —just under 58,000
miles of steaming; two appendectomies
carried out on board; temperatures of
20 below; ice-floes as big as tennis-courts
and 7ft. thick; and an exhausting round
of junketing in Tokyo in the Coronation
period—Jack Mesley, D.S.C., R.A.N.,
deserved the news of his captaincy which
greeted him on arrival in Sydney the
other day. There were other little details
which led up to the four rings—just
under 30 years in service-blue. War ll-
time in the Mediterranean, in the Can-
berra when she was finished off Save
Island, in the Australia when Jap zombies
made a pin-cushion of her upperworks
in Lingayen Gulf, and in the Shropshire,
squadron navigating-officer, when she
opened up her eight eight-inchers at
Brunei and Balikpapan. Married just
before the war, the new captain owns
three prospective naval officers, spaced
with navigational exactitude at the ages
of six, eight and ten.
Herewith Kenneth Gowan Begg, new
boss of Imperial Chemical Industries.
Born in Melbourne in 1901, he showed
no particular promise at Melbourne
Grammar except in rowing, football and
athletics; but, having gained experi-
ence with several small Melbourne mer-
chants, at 29 he was able to buy
his own business, the New Zealand
branch of an Aussie concern dealing
with chemicals and dyes. In 1924 he was
selling dyestuffs in Sydney, was sole pro-
prietor of Dyes and Chemicals (N.Z.),
and was making trips to Europe and
returning with a dispatch-case stuffed with
orders. By 1929 he had a staff of 27,
and in 1940 he sold his company to
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and became its chief execu-
tive in New Zealand, In a few short
CHEMICALS
months the firm’s capital had increased
from £2OOO to £300,000, and Begg was
the managing-director of a concern which
was enlarging its frontiers every minute.
By 1942 1.C.1.A.N.Z. had got through
its teething troubles and he was trans-
ferred to Melbourne to organise the
chemical division. In the course of the
next couple of years he climbed the few
remaining rungs of the ladder, and in
1950 became commercial managing-
director.
It says much for the urbanity and
bonhomie of pianist-conductor Walter
Susskind that, having been awakened by
a couple of Bulletin men from a well-
deserved siesta —he was in the middle of
a strenuous Sydney season during which
he has been associate artist to Joan
Hammond —he could rustle up a welcom-
ing grin, pull on a pair of socks, and
yam away of things musical while
Prior was capturing the urbane expres-
sion. A Czech, he began his piano
career at 17, touring Europe. When
Hitler marched into Prague Susskind
CHORDS
made for England, where with two other
self-exiled compatriots he formed the
successful London Czech Trio. But the
call of the baton proved too strong, and
shortly he was conducting regularly, to
such good effect that soon he was in
strong demand by celebrities to conduct
orchestras with which they appeared as
soloists, since when he has piloted
famous orchestras in four continents.
He had just finished a whirlwind tour of
S. America before joining Joan Ham-
mond for her Australian tour. After
playing the last accompaniment for the
soprano he will put all the major Aus-
tralian orchestras through their paces
for the A.B.C.
Music is second nature to Dr. Keith
Barry, controller of programmes for the
A.8.C., and when that organisation cele-
brated its 21st birthday the other day
he pointed to the creation of the first
full-time orchestra in Australia as its
greatest achievement. Barry was Busby
Scholar in Music at Sydney University,
was later a lecturer in the subject at his
Alma Mater, edited “Music in Australia”
and was music-critic of the “Daily Tele-
graph” in Sydney. Two of his books are
Chopin and His Fourteen Doctors, and
Music and the Listener. He is M. 8., too,
and was president of the Australian
Tuberculosis Association.
Into the Silence:
At Littlehampton (Sussex), at 74, Will Long-
staff, one of the most competent of War 1
official war-artists. One-time jackeroo, he got
his first taste of war in S. Africa, and nis
second in France, in charge of camouflage-
operations for the big August 8 offensive of
the 2nd Australian Division. So thorough was
his concealment of preparations that the attack
was a complete surprise—Ludendorff referring
to it as “Germany’s Black Day.” When C. E.
W. Bean recommended the appointment of a
panel of war-artists to the Australian War
Memorial Longstaff was among the nine
selected. He painted most of his war-museum
pictures in a studio in St. John’s Wood,
London; and, in 1928, perhaps his best-known,
depicting the spectres of legions of men on
guard outside the Menin Gate Memorial. He
was a cousin of Sir John Longstaff.
In Sydney, at 71, John Marcus Baddeley,
who rose from a pit-boy to be president of
the Miners’ Federation, M.L.A. for Cessnock
in the N.S.W. Parliament for 29 years, and,
finally, chairman of the State Coal Mine
Authority. His Parliamentaiy had taken
in the posts of Deputy-Premier, Chief Secretary
and Minister for Mines.
At Launceston, at 31, William Maxwell
Wilson, of Lilydale (Tas.), an officer of the
Tasmanian Agricultural Department and the
founder of the Junior Farmers’ Clubs in
northern Tasmania. A Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College and Melbourne University product,
he was a pilot in the R.A.A.F. in War 11. His
great-grandfather was one of the pioneers of
Lilydale; the Wilson family has lived there for
90 years.


HELPING OUT A PAL


ABORIGINALITIES
“Melbn”; Prefabrication, is it? The
C.5.1.R.0. has been drilling holes in
Green Island, off the Tasmanian coast,
with a posthole-borer to catch up on the
muttonbird housing shortage caused by
grazing cattle trampling over rookeries.
Research-officers found that on four test-
plots 66 per cent, of the holes in four
of the prefabricated suburbs were
promptly occupied by expectant mothers
on the first evening. The unoccupied
ones were probably ignored by fastidi-
ous birds looking for central heating.
* * * ♦
“Bass”: A Perth newspaper-artist on
a tour of W.A.’s south-West comer drew
a cartoon depicting a tree about to fall
on a car, and he started a dispute in
which a lot of money changed hands.
The bet was whether a tree with the scarf
cut as he drew it would fall the way
he intended it to —that is, away from the
scarf. With a straight tree, well balanced,
on level ground, it would fall away from
the side on which the scarf was cut, the
scarf in this case being taken from one
side almost right through to the
other. Most men who’ve never felled a
tree will bet against this, and on paper
it looks as though the tree will collapse
on that side out of which the wood has
been cut. But actually all that prevents
a tree from falling to one side is the
strength of the timber on its opposite
side. By severing the bonds that hold
the south side down you permit it to
fall the other way. A good axeman
uses this fact to turn a tree’s fall in
the desired direction. He leaves a section
of the trunk uncut on the side to which
he wants the tree to fall, and that section
will pull it even against its natural fall
or the slope of the ground, as long as
those inclinations aren’t excessive. But
draw a tree with the scarf cut like that
and take the drawing into a city bar, and
you’ll get drunk on the bets you’ll lay.
Provided, of course, you can convince
the bettors that you’re right.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Nor’-west”: Molly, who had been
brought up and educated at a mission
school, had worked at the station for
some time. Early one morning the boss
heard a commotion and found a couple
of bush natives had just arrived. They
were pretty well ail in,. but soon re-
covered upon being given food and water.
After a while Molly came saying that
an old lubra had been left behind, so
the boss sent a rider out and had her
brought in to safety. Next afternoon
Molly came again, and said, “Boss, you
know them feller blacks come yesterday?
They leave piccaninny in bush near old
well.” It transpired that Molly, as well
as the other station blacks, had known
for a day and a half that a baby was out
there perhaps dying in the heat, yet they
had just taken it as a matter of course
that the weak should be left behind so
that the strong may survive.
* ♦ ♦ *' *
“The Bunyip”: The blasted Test
matches are here again, and otherwise-
good toilers are staggering around bleary-
eyed most of the morning, their yawns
punctuating sage opinions on what
Hassett did or Hutton didn’t. Billy Butt,
however, is as fresh as a frost; he still
keeps wickets for the local team, but he
listens late no more. Last time our blokes
were in England, William was an ardent
night-owl; used to wangle night-shift so
he could get home in time to hear the
summary from those just retiring and
settle down, relaxed in comfort, till
stumps, happy that nobody would then
disturb him till after midday. But one
night he was striding home when he
heard Jackson’s radio burst into wild
excitement over some thrilling bit of play,
and he leaned over the back-fence to
listen. He was next noticed by the milk-
man’s moke, which let out a squeal, leapt
into the collar and delivered the remainder
of the milk for that street in a manner
more erratic than usual but with com-
mendably-increased speed. They „helped
Billy unfasten his frozen arms from
around a post, sustained him till life
returned to his legs and set him off
home. He heard the rest of the match
from his bed, though the medicine made
him drowsy and he couldn’t listen very
late. He now gets the scores from the
morning paper.
♦ * * *
“Ida D.”: A sure guide to a fungus’s
edibility (B. 10/6/’53) is the way it peels.
A true mushroom peels clean from the
outer rim to the centre; as it gets older
the skin is apt to break, but still runs
back cleanly—that hint was given to me
by abos; the toadstool won’t do this;
the skin will break and pieces of the
flesh come with it.
* * ♦ ♦
“C.C.”: Tobacco-gardens in New
Guinea (B. 1/7/’53) had wooden effigies
carved to represent a man, called
“Madub,” stuck into the ground to en-
courage the tobacco to grow more
quickly; or they might be tied on to a
piece of Jbamboo to suggest the height
to which plants should grow. Native
tobacco was still being grown on the
side when I was in the Strait, but “Guv-
ment” frowned on the retention of this
form of local culture since it was con-
trary to Excise regulations. I was told
“Speak to me, John —pull the plug out and speak to me!”
that full-strength leaf was so powerful
that one whiff from the 3ft.-long pipe
(the tobacco itself was placed in a small
bamboo container fitted into a hole at
one side of the pipe) was sufficient to
produce unconsciousness; the smoker
leapt up, then fell down “like dead man,”
and his friends had to souse him with
water to restore his senses. Today the
islanders get their smoking-mixture in
the same packages as the white man.
« ♦ • •
“B. A. Ker”: Quite apart from its
beauty as a timber for high-class furni-
ture, showcases, shopfittings, etc., red-
cedar (B, 10/6/’53) always has been a
utility timber in the building trade,
Seasoned cedar doesn’t shrink, crack or
twist; virtues which, combined with its
lightness, make it the ideal timber for
plumb-rules and spirit-levels. Though a
softwood, its grain is so close that it can
stand an unbelievable amount of knock-
ing-about without splitting. Witness the
old-timer’s hod: stacked up with 14 or
16 bricks, it was emptied on a shoulder-
high scaffold by the simple method of
crashing the load into the bricks already
there and heaving up the shank. The
“And it Was only because I Was always thick in the head that I survived .”
cedar in the “monkey” was never more
than half an inch thick, but despite the
constant rough usage it would last for
five or six years, at least. Even for ordi-
nary plugging the timber stands alone;
a door-jamb or architrave nailed into
the tight grain of a cedar plug will never
pull out; in fact, just before Hitler’s
war it used to be the practice to buy a
bag of cedar scraps when plugging out
a brick house. With post-war timber
shortages, however, old hemlock or
Baltic-pine packing-cases became the sub-
stitute, and now they are accepted as
the equal of cedar. But it is one point
on which I agree with the radio-adver-
tisement cliche; “There is nothing ‘Just
as good.’ ”
* * * ♦
“Salmon Gums”: A party from the
Perth museum has obtained a specimen
of the grey honeyeater, the last “new”
species of bird to be found in W.A. In
the field this bird looks almost uniformly
grey, but closer inspection shows that its
underparts are white. It has a ring of
ash-grey feathers around the eyes, and
a short, black, down-curved beak. It
looks and acts rather like a silvereye;
but its main point of interest, apart from
its rarity, lies in the fact that it’s one
of the few birds that successfully adapted
themselves to the outward spread of the
Centralian deserts. It survives, even if
it doesn’t flourish, in the mare arid
regions, along with the Alexandra parrot,
the night parrot, the quail-thrush, wedge-
bill, and a few other lesser-known birds.
It was first seen in 1903 near Lake
Austin, in the Cue district, by the orni-
thologist Lawson Whitlock, but it wasn’t
described accurately until he found it
again six years later at Lake Way, near
Wiluna. Whitlock collected through
most of the outback of W.A. from 1901
on, and he left records which combine
excellent factual accounts with a high
literary standard,
* * *,
“Horseless Horseman”: The most
awkward spot I’ve been in while sheep-
droving was at Redcliffs (Vic.). We had
come north from Nowingi with 2000
wethers whose only diet for weeks had
been gumleaves or Mallee bark, so that
when we reached the main street the
mob saw —or smelt—a vegetable shop
and charged. As they milled in they
munched into half-bags of French-beans
and peas. The enraged greengrocer and
customers in the shop could do nothing.
They tried retreating down the back, but
some sheep followed. By the time we
had manhandled about 40 jumbucks out
of the shop and half that number out
of the back-rooms and yard the green-
grocer was ropeable—it was a Saturday
morning, his busiest time. It took
solicitors months to fix up damages;
thereafter we knew that mob of wethers
as “the Bean-eaters.”
* * ♦ *
“Lancewood”: Another interesting
tree in the rain-forests (B. 24/6/’53) is
the strangler-fig. Seeds deposited prob-
ably by birds in a fork of the giant
stinging-tree germinate, and the tiny
roots, unable to pierce the surrounding
wood, proceed downward outside the
trunk of their host, ultimately reaching
the ground in a lacelike pattern. There
they take root, increasing in bulk and
strength until their host is entirely sur-
rounded and ultimately strangled, and
slowly rots away, leaving a hollow frame-
work of fig-roots often six to eight feet
in diameter.
♦*♦ H t
“Gfavelsnatcher”: Young Bill came
over to see me the other day. Wanted
some advice, and I gave it to him.
Trouble is, he didn’t want to take it.
Now, I knew Bill’s father, and when he
died I told him I’d keep an eye on the
young bloke and see he didn’t get into
mischief. And I’ve done my best. Kept
him away from the cities, so he could
have a chance to grow up like a man,
and when he started knocking around
with girls I was there to advise him.
By cripes, I stopped the young goat from
making a fool of himself dozens of times,
and once when he looked like getting
out of hand I put him on the track of
a good show out from Ora Banda. I
knew that’d work. Bill’s got too much
of his old man in him to be able to resist
the color. Well, the show turned out
better even than I’d expected, and when
he sold it at a good figure I showed him
how to invest his money. Now he’s
sitting pretty, with plenty of cash and his
life ahead of him. A lucky young bloke,
if I do say it. And now he wants to
get married, and to a widow with two
kids! Did Igo him! “Why, damitall,”
I said, “she’s fifty if she’s a day.”
“Yairs,” he said. “I know she’s a bit
old for me, but —well, struth, I’m getting
on meself. I was sixty last birthday, y’
know.” Well, what could I say? Be-
cause, when you come to size it up, the
young blank is getting on a bit.
BENELONG RETURNS TO HEAVEN
A fool of an idea that was, to get nostalgic
and go
For a reincarnated walkabout down below.
Our harbor, with white-men’s gunyahs crowding
all the shores.
All the creeks —think of it —running in white-
man-smelly
And not enough fish in it to fill one black-
man’s belly.
Wherever I looked there was hardly a bird or
a tree,
Nor a kangaroo left; a terrible country to be.
Even away from the gunyahs it wasn’t much
better;
All the land ruined by that awful invention, the
plough.
Hardly one goanna to the acre is it carrying
now.
Our people outnumbered by ten or a hundred
to one
And all resigned and saying nothing can be
done,
Quoting some theory; “When there’s a mass
immigration
By a frugal and industrious people of another
race or nation,
It inevitably lowers the living standard of the
indigenous population.”
Tried to get the present Governor to listen to me
But he’s hedged in by a thing called democracy,
Worse than all the taboos we ever invented;
Originated by a wild new tribe called politicians,
Who’ve overrun the country and camped in all
the best positions.
That’s why I footed it back as fast as I could
Even though there’s a lot here that isn’t much
good;
Such as listening to so much outlandish harp-
music
And having to make friends with every wild
animal.
Thank God though, the number of white people
is small.
N.S.W.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.


\m
TheAOSNI
PAIN
HANDS • WRISTS
ELBOWS • SHOULDERS • HIPS
KNEES • ANKLES • FEET
No matter how much or how long you
have suffered, no matter what you
have tried before, do not give up
hope. COLCHISONE, the sensational
English pale blue pills, will bring
yOU the relief you seek. For ailments
of the Rheumatic group—Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Fibrositis, lumbago and
Gout—there is no substitute for this
outstanding treatment. Proved first in
England and now here in Australia,
COLCHISONE is bringing a new life
to hundreds of thousands—a life free
from the crippling pain of stiff,
swollen joints and limbs.
mm
COLCHISONE
PRICE: 17/6 Small
with food chart.
From your chemist 30/. Large
If you have any difficulty in obtaining supplies, write to
Rickard Medical Products Pty. Ltd., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
m
a
X
*r >*
X
X
** *
* * &
\
m
m
* * XT *
j
Presented by
SUNDAY NIGHTS at 7.15
268 • 4BH - SDN ■ 6IX
2HR 2CA 2LF 2MG 2PK 2LT 2WL
%
WITH
808 YOUNG'S
OUTSTANDING TRIO
AND FEATURING A
WELL-KNOWN
GUEST ARTIST
EACH SUNDAY
“Mat’s Mate”: Something had slowed
the team down. It was beaten to the
ball by Walpeboof backs, stood flat-
footed for marks, even when the rucks
got the knock-out the rovers were too
slow. Mat, acting-captain, worked like
a Trojan. He tried to inspire us, abused
us, accused us of running dead and be-
ing scared stiff. It was no good. Every-
body but him and one wingman was
affected by lethargy. Had Walpe for-
wards been less elated and more calcu-
lating we’d have been more than 26
points behind at three-quarter time. In
the last quarter Mat went fullback and,
pulling the lively wingman in on his
flank, left the rest of us to it and doggedly
fought to keep the Walpe score down.
Came the final bell, and, stoushed 12.23
to 4.11, we drifted off. “I’m glad that’s
over,” Mat said. “The way the
johns was watching you out there
1 was dead scared you’d all get pinched
for parking.” \
* * * *
“Villefair”: Whether or not Norman
Lindsay’s cat was drawn from imagina-
tion (B. 3/6/’53), the feline fight cer-
tainly was. Having often taken a sadistic
delight in watching the murderers of my
birds clawing one another for a change,
I can assure the artist that the “under
cat” would never come out the loser.
Four legs are better than two: the
fummy on top is handicapped by the
necessity of having some visible means
of support, while the opponent, writhing
on a coiled-spring backbone, gets in the
dirty work with hind-legs ripping madly
and fore-legs holding their own, scratch
for scratch. Which just goes to dis-
prove the aggressive principle that you’ll
never come out on top by taking things
lying down.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Like “Bogaduck” (B.
10/6/’53), I learnt the coldness of high
New Guinea creeks, and within sight of
them have floated and flopped about in
seas too warm to be refreshing; but
between the two there is a stage that is
pure joy. One of the best is beside the
half-way house on the road from Lube
(across the mouth of the Markham
from Lae) to Bulolo —a 20ft. waterfall,
strong enough to have gouged a deep
hole at the foot, sufficiently elevated to
be just cool enough to stay under as long
as you liked, the right fall and volume
to give you a massage without a buffet-
ing. A bath to remember.
* * * *
“Kelms”; If “T.C.R.’s” catfish is what
Westralians call the cobbler (B. 3/6/’53)
—and I think it is—then his description
of the pain inflicted by a stab from its
spikes is a gross understatement. I’ve
had a minor dose npyself, and I’ve
helped hold down men who’ve copped
the lot. Nothing you can do relieves
the pain until the poison wears itself
out in about 12 hours, after which it’s
not much worse than a few boils and a
carbuncle mixed up with a raging tooth-
ache. As to its edibility, I place it among
the first six fish on the menu. In Perth
fish-shops it sells as readily as other fish.
* * * *
“Villefair”: I can’t speak at first-hand
of water-pressures, but “Smithy’s” par.
(B. 27/5/’53) about the aqualung diver
who reached a depth of 396 ft. would
have raised Old Joe’s 6/oorf-pressure.
Joe was an ex-diver and a hero of ray
youth. He always claimed that he had
“dove” to a depth of 32 fathoms, which
was deeper than any other diver had
descended, in the gear of his day. But
he had got “squeeze” in doing it. The
stomach-rupture which frequently
brought his hand up to apply an inward
kneading motion was reputed to have
contributed to, even if it didn’t actually
cause, his death. But, speaking as a lay-
man, I’m a little puzzled as to how it
was known that Farques removed his
mouthpiece while under the influence of
a rapture. Might not his death-struggles,
induced by water-pressure, have been
responsible? After all, the old quotation
could be applied: “The sea is deep and
dead men tell no tales.”
* * * ♦
“H.C.8.”: Once worked with a bloke
who was well up in astronomy. Digging
out bunnies, we were, when something
brought the subject up. Well, he started
describing the heavens. It finished up
with us sitting on the ground while he
scratched plans with a bit of stick. Here
was the moon, there the sun, this
wais Orion’s Belt, and so on. Got me
in properly. Inside of half an hour the
ground looked like a pak-a-pu ticket.
He was clever, all right; he seemed to
know where every star and planet was
and how far it was away from us. But
he didn’t know how far away the boss
was. The old coot had got to within
three paces behind us when he roared
out we were sacked.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Weary, who had a block
at Red Cliffs irrigation settlement on the
Murray, was a born experimenter.-
Everything he read or heard about vine-
yard-management, sidelines and so forth.
“ I'm glad they all gave us something useful
he tried. His block was littered with
discarded gadgets of one kind and an-
other, and his headlands and the swampy
half-acre in one corner had grown—or
tried to grow—pretty well everything
from sunflowers to lichi-nuts. Then
Weary read about the big money being
made out of peanuts in Queensland.
“This country is just as good as Kinga-
roy,” he said. He sent for literature on
peanut-growing, studied it, worked up
the driest part of the swampy half-acre,
acquired seed and sowed it. Nothing
happened. After a while Weary dug up
some of the seed and sent it off to the
Department of Agriculture with a cover-
ing letter about the failure and asking
why the seed didn’t germinate. The
answer, for a department, was terse: ‘lt
is foolish to sow peanuts that have been
roasted for human consumption.” But
by then Weary was planning to try eidel-
weiss or something.
% * * *
“W.J.W,”: “Edx” passes rather lightly
over the “ablutionary habits” of the
Afghans on W.A.’s early goldfields (B.
10/6/’53). 'Yet the results of them were
serious. Rockholes were few and far
between, and fouled water could easily
mean the death of a man by thirst, or
of many men by fever. When the W.A.
Government sent W. J. Raeside to the
fields with a boring plant in 1893, that
engineer found that a large part of his
job was keeping clean the existing wells
and waterholes. Part of one of his re-
ports read: “The Afghans and their
camels are the filthiest lot that ever went
near water. They camp right against
the wells and in the watersheds, and for
all that I can do I cannot keep them at
a proper distance from the water. They
wash their dirty linen on the edge of a
well, while the splashes and dirty suds
fall into the water.” To prospectors
whose lives depended on water, and who
took great care of the wells therpselves,
the fouling of water was unforgivable.
One man who shot a ’Ghan whom he
found washing his feet in a waterhole
was later acquitted by a goldfields jury.
But that same jury would probably have
been unanimous in their praise of the
good work the Afghans did.
MAHONGA
My face was almost polished,
My neck, for once, was clean,
My hair done extra special,
Twice to “the back” I’d been,
Ere I set on my journey,
Bursting my sides to go
And see the horse Mahonga
Jump at the Albury show.
Along the road I padded,
On through the lovely day,
My shirt just washed and ironed,
My heart scrubbed, too, I’d say;
Two shillings in my pocket,
Even my soul aglow
To see the horse Mahonga
Jump at the Albury show.
You should have heard my breathing,
My pulse was running wild,
My heartbeats were a record —
Even the gum-trees smiled;
And then I saw him jumping
And heard the cheering flow,
Watching the horse Mahonga
Jump at the Albury show.
And so I rode Mahonga
In fancy there that day,
Astride the champion jumper
That jumped as if ’twere play;
My hands were sore with clapping,
And how I loved to blow
That I had seen Mahonga
Jump at the Albury show.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


m
S
m
m
m
ms
'i'/T' >j
m
■}:w
the enchanting
hills of a
Step into this enchanting
wonderland and soon you will
believe that Ceylon is truly just
a few miles from Paradise.
The magnificent hill country of
Ceylon has been bestowed with
nature’s richest gifts ... an end-
less panorama of scenic grandeur,
unrivalled anywhere in the world.
Here, in a climate that cools and
refreshes, you may enjoy all that
makes a holiday really memorable
-—golf on one of Asia’s finest
courses fishing in trout-filled
mountain streams —the April horse-
racing carnival—miles of fas-
cinating mountain walks.
First-class
hotel
accommodation
is available
throughout
Ceylon.
Further information, free maps and literature can
be obtained by writing to the CEYLON GOVERN-
MENT TOURIST BUREAU, - or Travel Agents,
Shipping and Airlines in Australia.
Tours can be booked direct on all registered Travel Agents
through the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau, free of
commission.
CT.S.I6
Canyon tell
a ‘big Scotch from a
‘small 3 Scotch?
a
0
BELtS
mitviiuiMniM wwwsss
distillers «sth scoj
, PRODUCT ■
We don’t mean, of course,
the difference between a
double and a single.
We mean the difference
between the ordinary-
run of whiskies—and a
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are an
Independent firm of
distillers—have been since
1825 when we started.
The output of Bell’s is not
huge. But to those who
know it, it is very, very
precious. At Bell’s,
generationaftergeneration
have handed on their skill;
and this coupled with the
knowledge, almost the
intuition, of those who
make whisky ensures
that the barley, water and
peat, aided by the soft
Highland air, go to make
a perfect whole. Try
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky—
and you will acknowledge
its magic mastery.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Exchange-rate “Buzz”
The story that the Australian
pound was about to be de-
valued perhaps £133 Aus-
tralian to £lOO sterling, perhaps
£AISO to £stg,loo—has been off
to several false starts lately.
Some people have transmitted
money to London ahead of due
date, being prepared to pay in-
terest on overdraft in the interim
rather than be caught for a
greater sum in any exchange-
rate movement. Many and
varied have been the sources of
“buzz” and reasons for the
action, but the exchange-rate
stays at £AI2S to £stg.loo.
Our London funds have been
building-up pretty solidly,
helped by better wool prices, a
heavier clip and the restriction
on imports. On June 24 the
Commonwealth Bank’s holding
of gold and balances abroad
was £A4BS million, a great im-
provement on the critical figure
of 15 months ago. It is forecast
that imports from other than
dollar sources are likely to be
admitted more freely in the
near future, and the growth in
our London funds lends support
to this opinion.
There is likely to be pressure
before very long from some
manufacturers in regard to
growing competition from im-
ports and increasing difficulty
in meeting overseas conditions
in the export trade. Already
many exporters have found
themselves priced out of foreign
markets. Costs have risen tre-
mendously in Australia in the
past three years, and there is
now an abundance of most
things in the markets of the
world. Commodities today are
sold strictly on price and
quality. Already a number of
Australian industries have
approached the Tariff Board for
increased tariff protection.
There will no doubt be pres-
sure for an increase in the ex-
change-rate in order to “offset”
the great rise in Australian pro-
duction-costs over the past three
years and the loss of subsidy
that was coming in through the
“premium” received for export
surplus. But an increase in the
exchange-rate would solve no
problem. Our problem really is
one of inadequate production
per man per working week, and
of wages that are too high in
comparison with output. On top
of these high costs we have ex-
cessive transport costs largely
the result of inefficiency in the
railways and of the taxation
levied on road tranport so as to
stifle competition with the rail-
ways.
To devalue the Australian
pound now would be to undo
much of the anti-inflationary
work which the Federal Gov-
ernment has managed to achieve
over the past two years. It is
not so very long ago that there
was great pressure on the
Menzies-Fadden Government to
up-value the pound—to bring it
back to parity with sterling, in
fact. The rate was, in the end,
left where it was. In the short
space of two years the agita-
tion has swung almost com-
pletely round. The plea now is
for devaluation. But, con-
sidering all the circumstances,
it will be remarkable if the
Federal Government falls for a
currency-depreciation campaign
at this stage.
We must choose an economic
battle-line somewhere and stand
on it. It is suicidal merely to go
on subsidising inefficiency and
lackadaisical effort by currency
manipulation. Australia is a
backward country industrially,
especially in regard to man-hour
output of basic materials and
in materials-handling. Obvi-
ously what we have to do in
Australia is to make it profitable
to export our products with the
exchange-rate as it is. To do
that we have to improve quality
and lower costs. That means,
as we have said previously,
greater output per pay-envelope.
Share-pi-ice Prospects
In the recent stronger share-
market A.C.I. old scrip yielded
3.9 p.c, at the current div.-rate,
and 8.H.P., which has not shared
in the price-firming, showed
4 p.c. at 41s. 6d. Tooth scrip
offered 4.3 p.c. at 70s. 6d. All
those shares are being bought in
hopes of better things to come.
The yields are below the long-
term bond-rate, and considerably
under the 5 p.c. usually offered
on first-class debentures.
The three concerns mentioned
are undoubtedly in the front
rank of their kind, and each
is enjoying a record in output
and turnover at present. They
are not like the electrical indus-
tries, the food-canning, the
textile, the ice-cream or the
timber trades, which have
experienced varying degrees
of recession. Commonwealth
figures with regard to steel and
beer, in particular, show record
production. The same with
cement (Kandos, incidentally,
returns 4.2 p.c. at 385.) and
tobacco and cigarettes (British
Tobacco 4.7 p.c. at 355. 6d.).
But present yields of 4 p.c.
and under do not warrant any
great improvement in the market
for the scrip concerned unless
increased benefits are in sight.
Investors of today cannot long
ignore the factor of present
yields. In times of buoyancy
market increments tend to
conceal or offset a low yield.
But in the absence of buoyancy
created by a plethora of invest-
ment funds investors will be giv-
ing attention to yields every time
they review their shareholdings.
Thus, while front-rank invest-
ments will no doubt fully justify
their holders’ faith in them in the
long run, there is little reason
to expect a strong market
upsurge in the shares until
immediate or prospective yields
improve. A. 0.1., B.H.P. and
Tooth are probably amongst the
listed concerns which are best
fitted to increase their distribu-
tions in the near future. But
whether they will do so is
another matter.
In respect of second-line
investments, there is often room
for a further market strengthen-
ing. There are 6 p.c. yields avail-
able from old-established stocks
with excellent prospects of
future div.-increment and main-
tenance of the present div. mean-
while. Swans (Sydney), lohn
Mcllwraith (Melbourne),
“A tin of flea-powder , please
Frederic Ash (Newcastle) are
examples, while Masonite shows
5.5 p.c., Wormald Industries
5.9 p.c., Goldsbrough Mort
5.7 p.c. and W. C. Penfold 6 p.c.
Prospects of higher profit-
earning during the current year
will depend considerably upon
the course of costs (which are
tending to steady), upon taxa-
tion relief, and upon the course
of wool, wheat and metal prices.
Wool sales should open about
the time the Budget is presented
—late August or early
September.
The Search for Oil
From L, Owen, sometime
general-manager to the Papuan
Apinaipi Petroleum Co.:
I must thank Mr. Richardson (B.
l/7/’53) for recalling that three of
the slim scout-bores sunk within the
P.A.P. permit had exceeded 600 ft.
in depth. In the fourteen years which
have elapsed since these wells were
drilled, I had completely forgotten
the not-very-important details. In
making any deductions from these
figures, it should be realised that the
sites were on locations picked for
maximum information and easy drill-
ing in ground exceptionally stable
for the Gulf coastal area of Papua.
The No. 2 scout-bore, it may be
mentioned for the sake of accuracy,
was sited not on “volcanic neck,”
but on a digitated fringing sill, and
the column did not consist entirely
of igneous rock. “No. 3” stopped
in grits. Incidentally, the figures
quoted by Mr. Richardson supply the
quantitative evidence I lack to con-
firm my statement that no depth-limit
was placed on my scout-drilling by
the Oil Advisory Committee.
I must emphatically reaffirm that
it was my policy at Oiapu to drill
to the limit attainable, under the
current stratigraphical and labor con-
ditions, where any information of
any value could be obtained by so
doing. The fact that I did not go
deeper in scout-bores Nos. 1 and 4
was due to the inadequacy of the
rig owned by P.A.P. For any attempt
to reach commercial oil in coastal
Papua, the outfit is completely un-
suited, and that statement is in no
way modified by irrelevant figures as
to the depths of oil-sands found in
Java, Sumatra, Borneo and Dutch
New Guinea.
A
£13 million Surplus
The actual Common-
wealth surplus for the year
1952-53 was £l3 million.
Revenue was £28.5 million
above Budget estimates,
expenditure £15.9 million
above. The higher expendi-
ture was almost entirely the
result of greater defence
commitments, principally in
Korea. In the preceding
year, when the 10 p.c.
surtax was in operation, the
Treasury showed a surplus
of £98.5 million, which was
used to help out State works
expenditure. Altogether
£152 million was found by
special finance and
“internal” loans for the
States in 1951-52, apart
from £72.4 million of
public loans and “domestic
raisings.” During 1952-53
the Commonwealth found
£131.5 million for the
States by domestic raisings
and a special internal loan.


Personal and Missing Friends
CYRIL HASSELL. Son of JOHN
STEWART HASSELL, of Corowa. Please
communicate with VINDIN & LITTLE-
JOHN, Solicitors, 25 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and he will hear something to
his advantage.
MCCARTHY, Allen George.—WOULD
anyone knowing the whereabouts of
ALLEN GEORGE MCCARTHY, son of
ROBERT McCarthy, Solicitor, formerly
of Ballina, and believed latterly to have
worked at Port Kembla, please urgently
inform the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM DOUGLAS ANDREWS
formerly of Oatley New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that FRANCES
ANDREWS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4088 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 9th of September
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from W. D. SCHRADER
& DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney,
New South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KARL HERMANN HARRY PAUL
formerly of No. 199 Crown Street Sydney
seaman.—TAKE NOTICE that CARMEN
MARGARET PAUL has filed a Petition
for Divorce (No. 2123 of 1953) on the
ground of desertion without just cause for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 11th September 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from J. J. KIELY, Solicitor,
of Twyford House, 17 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
NEW ZEISS CAMERAS
TO SUIT ALL POCKETS
NETTAB 12 on 120 FILM
F 4.5 Lens, Pronto Shutter .. £l6/-/-
F 4.5 Lens, Prontor Shutter .. £2O/18/6
Leather Ever-ready Case .. £2/12/-
NETTAR 8 on 120 FILM
F 6.3 Lens, Yario Shutter
F 4.5 Lens, Pronto Shutter
F 4.5 Lens, Prontor Shutter
Leather Ever-ready Case
.. £l3/8/-
.. £l7/3/-
.. £2l/1/6
.. £2/15/6
IKONTA 35mm.
F 2.8 Tessar Lens, M X Compur
Shutter .. £4O/16/6
Leather Ever-ready Case .. £4/15/6
msi
USED BARGAINS
THREE MONTH
GUARANTEE
33mm, Retina XI F. 2
Heligron Lens, Compur
Shutter .. .. £49/10/
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
3J x 3J Bolleitlex Auto Delux
F. 3.5 Xenar Liens .. .. £B5
Delca HI F. F. 2 Sumitar Dens,
Ever-ready Case .. .. £165
We send 0.0. D.
Lay-bys, Easy Terms
All orders over £2O Carriage Free
CAIRNS
CAMERA CENTRE
Hotel Australia Building,
19 Martin Place,
Sydney
Concentration
on refining
-
-V
WRB
m
Sli
m
SKM
AS MORE AND MORE PEOPLE wish to
fly, and increasing numbers of air-
craft are brought into operation to
carry them, air transportation’s thirst
for oil grows.
To those who fly aircraft or who,
as passengers, are carried comfortably
and swiftly about the world, the
familiar sight of the green and yellow
fuellers of BP Aviation Service is the
outward sign of the very extensive
organisation working behind the
scenes to provide for these increasing
demands. But long before these
fuellers can perform their proper
function, adequate refinery capacity
must have been planned and built.
Anglo-Iranian is making stren-
uous efforts to increase its refinery
capacity, particularly to meet the
fuel demands of the new Jet Age.
Already new refineries are in produc-
tion, and expansion goes on apace in
Great Britain, Australia, Africa and
in Europe. This concentration on
refinery expansion will enable BP
Aviation Service to play its part in
meeting the air world’s future jet
fuel requirements.
NjMATIDN
SERVICE^
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
3/53
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The British are a singularly
undemonstrative race. Ask
almost any Englishman to name
the anniversaries of Dunkirk, El
Alamein, the opening of the
Second Front, VE day or YJ
day and he’ll have to think very
hard even to fix the month. At
this time of year, with cross-
Channel traffic increasing,
holiday-makers in Europe can’t
fail to notice that this charac-
teristic is not a feature of the
liberated countries. Scarcely a
weekend passes without a fete,
sometimes religious but often in
honor of a national occasion.
Nations that have been overrun
and conquered celebrate, with
fervor, their liberation. But the
liberators from the Unconquered
Island let the anniversary pass
with a nod before passing on to
reports from the battlegrounds
of Wimbledon or Lord’s.
Perhaps we carry this laconic
indifference to an extreme, unfair
both to history and to our
present world status. The
Coronation has shown that there
is no lack of fundamental unity
and stability. Coach-parties by
the thousand from a wide
circumference converted Cent-
ral London into a congested
and rather embarrassed shrine,
the celebrations being unmarked
by scenes of dissipation or
Saturnalia. On the whole, a
family affair, sober, orderly and
reflective. And now, because of
the dislocation to the day’s busi-
ness, they have ceased.
All hearts are warmer, too, for
the sight on television of the
Queen’s review of her Navy at
Spithead. One American com-
mentator remarked: “Hearts of
Oak were beating at Spithead
just as they did when Drake’s
Golden Hind sailed up the
Channel and when Nelson led
his line of battle at Trafalgar.”
True enough. But they missed a
beat every now and then when
they read the comment in their
own papers. “The change of
emphasis which modern condi-
tions have brought about”
(Admiralty statement) may
explain the composition (air-
craft - carriers, escort - vessels,
minesweepers) and the decline of
the battleships (44 in 1912, 11 in
1937 and one in 1953), but
responsible comment is
unanimous in questioning
whether our weapons are up-to-
date, our technical equipment of
the best, and our strength as
great as it should be. All stress
that, in the main, our naval air-
craft are obsolescent.
The trouble would seem to
spring from insufficient money
voted, for there are no signs of
any falling-off in invention or
innovation, as witness the steam
airplane-catapult, the angled
deck and numerous technical
devices that have been adopted
elsewhere.
Unto the Breach
“Challenge to Britain,” the
Labor party’s statement on
policy, is no challenge at all. It
is not a clarion-call to the nation
nor even a rallying-cry to unite
the half-hearted against the
unprincipled Tory foe. The
breach that it seeks to close is
not, in fact, with any economic
or political enemy, but with
Labor’s own militant diehards
and their indefatigable general,
Aneurin Bevan.
The 30-page pamphlet is
merely an attempt to arrive at a
formula, for discussion at the
annual conference, which will
equate Britain’s present problems
with those dreary shibboleths of
the bad old days that are so tire-
somely characteristic of Socialist
dogma. No one would quarrel
with the statement of our ills
except to pronounce it over-
drawn and repetitive. It is
suggestive of a man who knows
what is bad for himself indulging
in a lecture on abstinence before
starting on a spree that he hasn’t
the will to resist.
The cold war and the wider
world are dismissed in two
paragraphs. References to the
United States are perfunctory
when they are not cold. The
solution to economic problems
rests with the creation of
development - corporations and
councils. And the universal
panacea is to be found by resort-
ing to “drastic Socialist
measures” and a multiplicity of
Socialist planning,
1945-51 All Over Again
Since nationalisation has lost
favor not only with the country
at large but also with the trade-
union leaders, the Co-operative
movement and Labor’s own sup-
porters, it isn’t surprising that
reference to it should be
cautious. (“Though the general
case for nationalisation is com-
pelling, we advocate nationalisa-
tion here only for those indus-
tries where the immediate
national need makes the case
overwhelming.”) But “public
ownership,” it seems, is not quite
the same thing. Transport and
steel will Joe restored. A number
of key machine-tool firms will,
“in the public interest,” be
acquired. So will any aircraft
firm which “falls down on its
job.” Then farmland, sugar, all
water-supply undertakings and
chemical industries to “a sub-
stantial degree.” Industrial
assurance will be subjected to a
“publicly-organised service,” and
the immense resources of insur-
ance companies will receive
“special consideration,”
Add a modicum of “fair
shares,” Budgetary control, a
“fair distribution of the burden
of taxation,” a capital-gains tax
and an end of all financial
restraint to the social services
and we’re back in 1945. That,
it might be added, is where we
came in.
Victoriana
It is an old story that the
economics of the theatre bear
down heavily upon the lighter
stage. Intimate revues are mostly
confined to the “club” theatres,
struggling valiantly against pro-
duction costs and uneven
material, and a discouraging
succession of failures suggests
that home-produced musical
comedies are not substantial
enough to compete with estab-
lished Broadway successes. If
theatre finance has still some way
to go before attaining the sober
correctitude of an investment
trust at least it has learned some
hard lessons. And one of them
is that £20,000 —not by any
means a generous sum to put
down for a musical play—is an
awful lot of money to throw
away.
Anthony Vivian (one-time
journalist, late partner of C. B.
Cochran and a real-life baron
who entertains his players on the
terrace of the House of Lords)
has chosen the latter course in
reviving “The Two Bouquets,”
a moderate success of the ’thirties
by Eleanor and Herbert Farjeon.
One realises, rather sadly, that
shortage of money is not all.
There is nothing on our present-
day stage to compare with the
Farjeons’ delicacy, sureness and
four-square theatrical sense.
Although this bit of flimsy-
whimsy about a stuffy Victorian
family at Twickenham in the
’nineties seems dated at times it
is purely because what was
thought funny in 1936 now
misses point. Wisely, the pro-
ducer (Willard Stoker) has given
the trifle a new interpretation.
Instead of tongue-in-cheek
burlesque the players act their
parts as if they believe in them.
No one consciously tries to be
amusing. The result is that all
are amusing.
The plot is severely contrived ;
two cousins, lovelorn but
properly bashful, whose beaux
are equally diffident; a mis-
chievous switching-over of the
bouquets by the amorous scion
of the house ; a comic termagant
of a Mama and doddering Papa
who gets tight; the boisterous
vulgarity of the scion’s secret
wife, an actress, and her low
companions; misunderstanding
at the ball and final clearing-up
to everybody’s satisfaction at the
regatta.
If some of the characterisation
is not quite sure, the quality of
the singing more than compen-
sates. Hugh Paddick’s forthright,
dead-pan badness and Daphne
Anderson’s ebullient Cockney
vulgarity are pure delight. Best
in period are Savoyard Derek
Oldham and Sydney-born Sara
Gregory.
There are at least two-score of
musical numbers, themselves
selected from the Victorian
repertoire, which are treated with
reilsh a “ d . ““"d musicianship—
a proof indeed that Victorian
r overlaid with
songs wer 7 not an ovenaia wun
facile sentimentality.
Anthentieitv of rnciiimo o C
Authenticity—or costume as
well as music—imparts quality
to the piece. The Farjeons did
not treat their work patronis-
ingly because it was comedy,
They spent laborious hours
searching contemporary journals
and songs. On this evidence their
approach was indisputably the
right one.
Souvenir Ironical
Sailors ashore from
Russian a . uiser Sverd , ov are
reported t 0 have made a dash for
, 7 f , „ u
newsagents’ shops to buy British
t t t hr . mp *n
newspapers to take nome. All
brought them satisfaction save
& „
01 ? ly , 01 ? e ’ tbe Worker,
which they impatiently cast away
because it didn t contain what
they sought—souvenir pictures
of the Royal family.


Incorporated in "Victoria in IZ7B
Acting as Executors of Wills,
Trustees of Estates, Attorney under Power, etc., for 74 years
, % ' v -
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
TR16.35
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves,
£ £ £ £
1948 303,234 61,268 8 p.c. = 213,333 1,382,734
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,362,734
Added goodwill, £12,180 .. .. 1,350,554
Interest arrears recovered, £173,685.. 1,624,239
1949 412,749 10 p.c. ■= 320,0001,616,988
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,696,988
Interest arrears recovered, £59,997.. 1,656,986
Goodwill written off, £54,469 1
1960 506,207 12 p.c. = 384,000 f 1,794,724
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 J
Interest arrears recovered, £183,261.. 1,977,975
Surplus sale of properties, £12,808.. 1,990,783
Goodwill written off, £18,450
1951 718.164 15 p.c. = 480,000 • 2,180,497
Special'grant staff fund, £30,000
Surplus tax provision, £219,617 .. 2,400,114
Goodwill written off, £19,786
1962 457,094 _ 10 p.c. = 320.000 • 2,497,422
Special grant staff fund, £20,000
Goodwill written off, £3OOO
1953 609,061 10 p.c. = 320,000 • 2,768,483
Special grant staff fund, £20,000.
K. M. Niall, who had sat at the board
table for the past 34 years and at the
head of it for the last 18 of them, died
in April, 1953. His place as chairman
has been filled by C. York Syme, who
joined the board in 1936, and who is also
chairman of B.H.P. and its big sub-
sidiary, A.I. and S.
G.M. and co. is the second-biggest
wool-broking and pastoral-finance house
in the Commonwealth, and still expand-
ing. It also does a large merchandising
and stock-and-station and other agency
business, and is a run-owner on its own
account as well. Earnings are thus
mainly dependent upon conditions in the
wool trade, which fluctuate with the
relative levels of seasons, prices and
costs.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts conditions were mixed,
but the co. picked up more than it lost.
For the most part —Queensland excepted
—the season was good, for the seventh
year in succession, and the Australian
clip and the cheque for it were second-
best on record:
Average
Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1950- .. 3,547,195 £636,330,574 £179/7/9
1951- . . 3,409,312 307.787,401 90/5/7
1952- . • 3.515.764 368,510.091 104/16/6
*l2 months to June 30. 111 months to May 81.
The co. received 445,000 bales (up 43,000
bales), put 422,905 bales (up 9064 bales)
under the hammer, and had 61,496 bales
(up 21,630 bales) in store when the books
closed. From then to the end of the
season good clearances were reported,
and prices held well.
In round figures the co.’s sales of live-
stock and land were:
12 Mths. Sheep, Cattle, Pigs. Land,
Mch.3l, Number. Number. Number. £
1952 .. 3,900,000 436,000 130,000 6,500,000
1953 . . 5,200,000 445,000 120,000 4,600,000
Excepting land, prices were a little firmer
than the previous year’s. Merchandise
turnover shrank in volume but was not
much lower in value, because of the rise
in prices for superphosphate and wool-
packs. The net return from the co.’s
own runs, portion of which were re-
sumed, was much the same as for the
previous term, and accounted for a
“considerable proportion” of the year’s
total profit.
Turnover (all sections combined)
totalled £78,000,000, or £4,000,000 less
than the previous year’s figure. Still,
gross profit was £482,748 better:
Provi-
Year, Gross* dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Fund. Profit.
1961 .. 3,868,875 3,123,947 26,764 718,164
1952 .. 8.306,579 2,814,266 36.280 457,094
1958 . . 3.789,327 8,138,714 41,662 009,061
* Includes surplus on realisation of investments.
And exes, were proportionately lighter,
taking 82.8 p.c. of gross profit as against
85.1 p.c. in 1952. The net result was
thus £151,967 stronger at £609,061, equal
to 19 p.c. on capital as against 14.2,
22.4, 18.6, 12.9 and 11.2 p.c. back to
1948. The div. was kept at 10 p.c. —
3 p.c. of it is called bonus —making
average distribution over the last five
years 11.4 p.c., compared with an aver-
age of 6.3 p.c. for the preceding quin-
quennium.
A sound financial structure and pre-
paration for bigger trading are the
features of balance-sheet figures:
1951. 1952. 1958.
Capital .. £3,200,000 £3,200,000 £8,200,000
Creditors .. 9,201,246 8,244,793 6,883,102
Tax reserve .. 1,451,774 1,297,248 998,829
Final div. .. 384,000 224,000 224,000
Liquids .. 5,468,993 4,171,022 2.742,267
Advances .. 8,292,535 7,610,832 7,588,541
Stocks .. 969,679 1,395,821 871,597
Shares in sub-
sidiary .. 78,536 73,536 73,536
Shares other
cos. .. 64,065 64,271 64,281
Property, etc. 1,265,043 1,731,990 2,241,965
Plant .. 283,666 415,991 492,227
The year’s net addition of £509,975 to
freeholds reflects additions to the co.’s
wool-stores at Adelaide, Perth and Mel-
bourne and purchase of a property at
Newcastle, where a new selling-branch
is to be opened. The contractions of
£1,361,691 in the creditors item and of
£1,428,755 in liquids were due to with-
drawal of some large credits held on
clients’ account when the books closed
in 1952. The shrinkage of £524,224 in
stock was mainly in respect of merchan-
dise. s.
Expansion of the business and rising
prices have called for more fixed and
working capital. To meet these needs,
including a margin to further assist
clients in less propitious times, those on
the register at May 29 were offered
800,000 new £1 ords, at a premium of
ss. each, one for four, payable in full
on application July 8. The issue will
lift paid capital to £4,000,000, on which
10 p.c. will call for £209,061 less profit
than was claimed last term. The pre-
mium (£200,000), however, will make 10
p.c. worth only 8 p.c. on the new shares.
The current term’s earnings, and those
for the following year, will be affected
by further resumption of the co.’s runs
in western N. S. Wales. Still, another
good season is in prospect for most of
Australia, with assured' prices for beef
and pigmeats, thanks to contracts with
the U.K, Government. The statistical
position of wool favors good clearances,
but the price outlook for the staple is
not unclouded. Many overseas mills,
outside the U.S., have already built up
pipeline stocks, stockpiling of raw wool
by the U.S. and U.K. Governments has
ended, and the world clip is expected to
be heavier than it was for 1952-53.
Much will depend upon the strength of
American, Japanese, German and
Russian buying.
At 345. 9d., ex rights, the co.’s f.-p.
£1 shares return 5.7 p.c. on the basis of
a 10 p.c. distribution. The rights recently
changed hands at 7s. 10d., making total
cost of the new shares, including broker-
age, 335. 2d., at which figure the return
is 6 p.c. on the same basis of distribution.
Net tangible cover is 345. 10d., includ-
ing the new issue.
Bankers & Traders Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1948 .. 37.789 9* p.c. = 18,641 19,148 469,067
To reserve unexpired risk, £75,500 .. 644,667
Tax refunds, etc. £26,000 .. • • 669,567
1949 .. 42,156 12* p.c. = 24,528 17.628 587,195
To reserve unexplred risk, £78,500 .. 665,695
1950 .. 55,422 1.2* p.c. = 26,367 29,055 694,750
To reserve unexpired risk, £54,000 .. 748,750
1951 .. 53,062 12* p.c. = 30,660 22,402 771,152
To reserve unexpired risk, £50,000 .. 821,152
1952 .. 23,571 12* p.c. = 80,660 814,063
1953 . . 28,766 12* ~ .. 30.660 812,169
Shareholders in this 32-year-old Sydney-
controlled fire, marine and accident
office, which has world-wide connec-
tions, can thank the net return from in-
vestments for maintenance of the 12i p.c.
div. over the last couple of years of
lean underwriting experience. For a
long time the policy has been to keep
the amount distributed as dividend at or
near the net amount received from
interest, rents, etc., thus leaving the
underwriting surplus, or all but a small
fraction of it, during the good years
available to swell reserves, and therefore
investments and the returns therefrom.
In this way the board had built up
reserves of £812,169 (including £507,000
for unexpired risks) to support and assist
the £245,281 of paid capital at March
31, 1953.. So the two combined need
turn in only 2.9 p.c. to cover 12£ p.c.
on capital alone. Actually last term’s net
return from investments was £33,258 (up
£3026), or £2598 more than the div.
called for. For this and other reasons
the p.c, looks as secure as anything
of the kind can look under existing con-
ditions, with encouraging long-term
prospects.
It was another unsatisfactory under-
writing experience that stood in the way
of a more healthy revival of last term’s
over-all net earnings. During the year
the co. pulled out of part of its foreign
field, where a “large volume of business
had proved unprofitable”—the branches
at Bombay and Karachi were closed, and
so were the agencies at Grenada and
Norfolk Island. One effect of this, to-
gether with a “heavy falling-off of marine
business in Australia,” due to import re-
strictions, was a shrinkage of £70,832 in
net premium income. Other sections of
the business in Australia continued to
expand:—
Net ' Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1939.. 224,287 132,110 77,277 58.9 p.c. 34.4 p.c.
1945.. 842,481 163,893 146,788* 47.8 „ 42.9 „
1949.. 889,797 440,936 299,460* 52.5 „ 35.6 „
1950.. 984,367 493,304 857,092* 52.8 „ 38.2 ~
1951.1,096,804 618,732 403,770* 56.4 „ 86.9 „
1952. 1,337,250 814,315 529,596* 60.9 „ 89.6 „
1958. 1,266,418 782,079 488,831* 61.7 „ 38.6 „
* Excludes tax on investment income.
Despite the curtailment already referred
to, losses took an extra" 16s. of each
£lOO of net premiums. The trouble was,
and still is, unsatisfactory local experi-
ence in connection with third-party and
motor-vehicle risks, due to the mounting
tide of motor accidents, heavy damages
awarded by juries and rising cost of
repairs. A tight hold, however, was kept
upon controllable outgoings, as the re-
duction of 20s. p.c. in the expense rate
shows.
The net underwriting result was a loss
of £4492 as against a loss of £6661 for
the previous year. The return from in-
vestments left the profit from all sources
at £28,766 (up £5195), which was equal
to 11.7 p.c. on capital compared with
9.6, 21.6, 26.2, 21.5 and 19.2 p.c. back
to 1948. The reserve for unexpired
risks (£507,000, down £28,000) was main-
tained at a shade over 40 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, which is the ratio
usually considered adequate.
The year’s developments and the strong
protection for both policyholders and
shareholders are further 'reflected in
balance-sheet figures:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. £245,281 £245,281 £245,281
Sundry creditors* .. 176,360 257,560 240,247
Outstanding claims, etc. 457,028 566,564 543,122
Final div 18,396 18,396 18,396
Freeholds .. . • 265,343 308,059 824,095
Government securities.. 523,283 585,796 695,064
Advances co-ops. t • • 145,583 195,372 203,988
Shares subsids. •. 69,995 69,995 69,995
Shares other cos. .. 182,928 247,351 253,149
Book debts, etc. .. 363,673 408,911 308.042
Cash .. .. • • 167.462 86.379 104,880
* Includes provision for taxation, t Advances to
building co-op. societies.
The curtailment of overseas risks and
drop in marine business show up in re-
ductions of £100,869 in book-debts, etc.,
and of £23,442 in outstanding claims.
As for the current term, it is doubtful
whether any marked revival of premium
income need be looked for, but the steps
taken to curtail overseas losses, and the
recent and substantial increase in
premium rates for local third-party and
motor-vehicle risks, should help to pro-
duce .healthier results in these fields. And
experience has shown that the theory of
averages has worked in the long-run.
Still, economic and other developments
have pushed prospects of further bene-
fits to shareholders into the background
for the present.
At 375. 6d. (475. 6d. a year ago) the
£1 shares paid to 12s. 6d. each return
4.5 p.c. on a 12? p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is 535. lid., including the
unexpired-risks reserve.
Morris Hedstrom Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends ,
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£» £* £,* £* £*
1948.. 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 52,693 805,803
Capital profit, £9740.. .. .. 815,543
1949.. 382 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 51,190 866,738
Capital profit, £27,597 .. .. 894,330
1950.. 639 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 50,447 944,777
Capital profit, £9150 .. • • 95^,927
1951.. 487 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 61,2451,015,172
Capital loss, £4OB .. . .1,014,764
1952.. 309 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 52,117 1,066,881
Capital profit, £16,548 .. . . 1,083,429
1953.. 185 13,152 10 p.e.= 52.041 67,992 1,151,421
* Fijian currency.
With headquarters at Suva, the co. does
an extensive merchandising business
throughout Fiji, Samoa and Tonga, and
is a large plantation (copra) owner as
well. Trade activity in this area depends
largely upon conditions in the sugar,
copra, banana, mining and a number of
minor primary industries.
Last term sugar and copra—taken by
the British Government under long-term
contracts—as well as other island pro-
duce found ready markets at high prices,
and the co. reported a “substantial” in-
crease in the volume- of trade. But
profit-margins narrowed and inventory
values of some retail lines were written
back by an unstated amount to bring
them into line with replacement cost.
However, what the co. missed in the
retail field it more than picked up in its
wholesale activities. Gross profit from
all sources increased by £43,569 to a
record £608,558, thanks partly to better
returns from plantations:
Gross profit— 1951. 1952.
Trading .. .. £300,688 £381,427 £345,777
Other • • ~ 164,868 183,562 262,781
Total .. .. £465,556 £564,989 £608,558
Exes 864,887 457,155 511,204
Profit claimed .. .. £100,669 £107,834 £97,354
Unexplained additions.. 25,768 9,475 35,831
Profit per table . . £126,437 £117,309 £133,185
The net profit claimed was £10,480
lighter, due to a growth of £54,049 in
exes., which include £69,668 (up £6422)
for depreciation, an unstated provision
for taxation and £18,761 (up £5790) sent
to the staff pensions fund. That leaves
out of the reckoning a net addition of
£35,831 (up £26,356) to the insurance
funds (£260,875), due partly to over-
provision for hurricane losses at the
previous balance. The all-in net result
was thus £15,876 stronger at a record
£133,185, which was enough to cover
the pref. div. (£13,152) and show 23 p.c.
on the £520,407 of ord. capital as against
20, 21.7, 19.7, 19.7, 20.1 and 17.3 p.c.
back to 1947. The high return on
capital is due mainly to the size
of the reserves, £1,151,421 at March 31
last; and the inner strength is believed
to be substantial, too. During the three
years to 1945 £288,000 of inner reserves
were disclosed, and over the seven years
to the close of last accounts capital
profits from sales of assets totalled
£147,469. On shareholders’ funds
(visible reserves and capital combined)
the year’s profit was no more than 7 p.c.
It all gives both the 10 p.c. div, and
shareholders’ long-term prospects a com-
fortable look.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
reflect readjustment to less easy trading
conditions:
1951. 1952. 1953.
(Fijian). (Fijian). (Fijian).
Paid capital .. ~ £739,613 £739.618 £789,613
Creditors, etc. ~ .. 99,736 194,038 169,273
Suspense* .. - ■ 150.168 175,866 207,542
Final divs 26.020 26,020 26,020
Land, buildings, plant,
etc .. . . .. 269.310 243,151 278,001
Plantations . . • • 67,633 44,721 42,921
Stocks etc. . . . . 531,544 858,440 697,751
Capital value branches 116,907 200,399 136,296
Book debts, etc, .. 241,130 372,447 253,970
Investments and cash .. 804,183 483,257 884,927
* Provision for income tax, exchange, etc.
Stocks were reduced by £160,689,


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
TO VALMA DAWN BUSSOLA (Address
unknown). —TAKE NOTICE that your
husband KENNETH JOHN BUSSOLA has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground of adultery
If you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within 30 clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Courts will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. —DATED
this 15th day of June, 1953. r-G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. -Advt,
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd.
Annual Meeting of Stockholders held in Melbourne on Friday,
June 26, 1953
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Annual Meeting, Mr. C. Y. Syme, Chairman, said—
I would first like to make reference to j
the great loss we have sustained in the death
of our late Chairman, Mr. K. M. Niall.
When he died in April last, he had been
Chairman of this Company for 18 years,
and he had been a Director for 16 years
before he became Chairman. He was un-
tiring in his devotion to the Company’s
affairs and to the pastoral industry iu
general. His energy and enthusiasm
accounted for a very great deal of our
progress, and in a personal as well as in
a business way we have missed, and will
continue to miss, him very much indeed.
We are fortunate that he left a suitable
successor to his seat on the Board in the
person of a son, Mr. G. M. Niall. With
his appointment we have been able to
maintain the tradition of having a
member of the Niall family associated
with the control of the Company since
Mr. J. M. Niall was appointed General
Manager in 1900.
The Board appointed me as its Chair-
man in place of Mr. K. M. Niall.
BALANCE SHEET:
Liabilities show a substantial reduction
as compared with last year, but you will
recall that they were unusually large last
year, due mainly to Credit balances held
for clients to meet the heavy Income
Tax assessments which became payable in
April/June, 1952. The book value of
Premises has again increased very sub-
stantially, largely due to major additions
to our Wool Stores in Adelaide and
Perth, a small addition in Melbourne and
purchase of A.W.R.O. Stores in Newcastle.
In Adelaide our wool receipts are now
nearly 50% higher than in the last pre-
war season, and in Perth over 100%
higher. The Store extensions in these
places are now becoming fully available,
and will provide effective facilities for
handling the increased business.
Stocks —mainly Merchandise —show a
substantial reduction from the abnor-
mally high figures recorded last year.
For reasons mentioned later, the resump-
tion of Station properties has had little
effect on the Balance Sheet figures.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT:
The Wool clip this season has shown a
marked increase in the Eastern States and
in South Australia. The total of receipts
into the Company’s Stores, viz., 445,000
bales, constitutes a record. We handled
about 9000 bales more than in the previous
year, and, because of the well-grown clip,
the bales averaged nearly 61b. .heavier.
The carry-forward is up considerably.
We handled a greater number of Stock
than in the previous year—sheep sold
totalling 5,200,000 as against just under
4 million; the cattle total at 445,000 was'
up by 10,000, and pigs at 120,000 slightly
down. The value of land sold— £4,600,000
—was nearly £2,000,000 lower than last
year.
The reduction in Merchandise turnover
wad not great, partly owing to increased
prices ruling for Superphosphate and
Woolpacks. Recently the price of Wool-
packs has been reduced by 10/- a pack.
Expenses continue to increase, although
quite a substantial proportion of the
present year’s rise relates to the in-
creased amount of wool and stock handled.
We have received some benefit from the
cancellation of Federal Land Tax, but you
will see that the total required under the
various Taxation headings exceeds the net
profit for the year.
Despite the continued high rate of
Taxation, the ratio of net profits to stock-
holders’ funds has been more than main-
tained, and the main reason for this posi-
tion lies in the high prices for wool,
stock and land that have been ruling in
recent years. The rise in the prices of
the commodities we handle has been far
greater than the rise in stockholders’ funds,
and consequently the ratio of profits to
stockholders’ funds is higher than it was
in pre-war years. As a natural corollary
our liquid position is less strong than it
used to be, and it has become increas-
ingly difficult to meet the legitimate calls
of our clients and to provide for the
essential expansion of our wool-store
accommodation and other facilities. The
retention of part of our profits has in
the past helped us in this direction, and
we have been greatly assisted by the
fact that Australia as a whole has been
free from a major drought for many
years. We cannot expect our good for-
tune in this regard to continue indefi-
nitely, nor can we assume that a general
fall in the price level will reduce our
working capital requirements. It is this
state of affairs which led your Board to
decide to increase the amount of the
Company’s share capital, this being neces-
sary in our opinion for the satisfactory
conduct of our existing business, with
some margin to provide for a drought or
other like emergency.
COMPANY’S OWN PROPERTIES:
Seasonal conditions for the year have
been favorable. Fair lambings have re-
sulted, and the prospects for the cur-
rent joining are good-—all sheep being in
excellent condition and the pastures as-
sured for some time ahead. Rabbits have
been greatly reduced, but blowflies have
given some trouble.
You have been advised in recent years
of the serious effect on our earning capa-
city to be anticipated from the re-
sumption of large portions of our four
Stations situated in the Western Division
of New South Wales. Some country has
already been lost, and further blocks will
be lost periodically until the final re-
sumption in early 1955.
The effect on our Balance Sheet will
not be great as adequate provision has
been made for this contingency, but you
will realise that our Profit and Loss
Account must suffer considerably.
During the current year we will have to
lighten down sheep numbers. These sales
will assist profits temporarily, but the
ultimate result of this arbitrary resump-
tion will be that Stockholders will be
losing the net income from approximately
75,000 sheep.
You will have noticed that the High
Court has recently held that the Wool
Profits Distributions under the 1948 Act
are not subject to Income Tax. The
Government has announced that it is
making an appeal to the Privy Council,
and until the case is finally decided we
are maintaining the taxation provision
already made. We have, of course,
lodged the objections necessary to protect
our rights if the final decision is favor-
able.
PESTS:
The dingo continues to be a serious
problem in Central and northern Queens-
land, and in many other districts ad-
jacent to broken country'. Noogoora
Burr has increased, particularly on flooded
areas. The blowfly has been troublesome,
although it has been satisfactorily coped
with in most districts.
The rabbit pest has been very markedly
reduced as a result of myxomatosis and
the follow-up efforts of landholders, and
benefits in increased carrying capacity
are obvious in many districts. While it
appears that the disease is not the com-
plete answer to the rabbit, it may serve
to prevent infestations of plague propor-
tions, such as the pastoral country has
been subject to from time to time in
the past.
THE SEASON:
THE SEASON in NEW SOUTH WALES
has generally been very favorable ex-
cepting for the Central West, South-
west and Western Riverina, which
missed the good summer break experi-
enced by the rest of the State.
In QUEENSLAND severe drought con-
ditions existed in 1952, but good relief
rains were received between November
and February and considerable flooding
occurred. Pastures are now drying off
rapidly, and further general rain is
required. Surface water is short in
soma districts.
In the far north of SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA and the TERRITORY an ex-
ceptional season is being experienced, a
break having occurred in October/
November, 1952, and having been fol-
lowed by further heavy falls early this
year. The main portion of the State
has been generally dry; little summer
rain was received in districts south of
Goyder’s Line. Most of VICTORIA also
had not had a good fall since the end
of January. In both States falls in the
last fortnight have been useful, although
we cannot expect much new feed until
the Spring.
The WESTERN AUSTRALIAN agri-
cultural districts received a good early
break, and conditions are now excellent.
In the Great Southern and South-west
good rains fell in May, and the season
is improving. Some inland pastoral
areas are still very dry, but, generally,
conditions are very good. In parts of
the West Kimberleys conditions remain
bad.
STOCK MARKETS:
Prices for store sheep have generally
followed the rising trend of the wool
market. The demand for cattle has
been limited by the uncertain feed posi-
tion. Prices in the fat markets have
been generally firm.
CHE WOOL MARKET:
The 1952/58 season’s clip was par-
ieularly well grown due to the unusually
avorable seasonal conditions experienced
n most districts during the growing
leriod (with the notable exception of
uuch of Queensland). As a result of
he heavy average cut per head, the
otal Australian clip will probably just
xceed the previous record clip of 1948/
4, although sheep numbers would still
ail by some millions to reach the total
ecorded before the 1944-45 drought.
The market opened in September,
962, at sound levels and since then
as, with some minor checks, moved
teadily upward. There has been a
welcome absence of the very marked
uctuations which characterised previous
easons recently. Average price realised
or greasy wool has been: —
eason 1949/50 .. .. 63.35 d. per lb.
„ 1950/51 .. .. 144.19 d. per lb.
„ 1951/52 .. .. 72.42 d. per lb.
„ 1952/58 .. .. 82.72 d. per lb.
(11 months)*
The United Kingdom has been the
outstanding r purchaser during most of
the year, and West European countries
also took substantial supplies. . Japan
purchased the greatest quantity' she has
done since the 1930’5. It is under-
stood that considerable quantities of this
were processed on American account for
the forces in Korea.
In the closing months of the season
Russian inquiry again became a factor
after being practically out of the market
since the hectic days of early 1951.
That country is at present buying good
style Merino normally used for the better
style worsted cloths.
Australian mills were not prominent
early in the season, but became more
active as the season progressed.
American buying has been on a modest
scale. It is understood that considerable
quantities of Argentine carry-over wool
have been absorbed there.
Estimates of consumption Indicate
that world production (except for rela-
tively minor weights absorbed in military
stockpiles) is being processed and
absorbed by the retail trade.
It is understood that the U.K. Minis-
try of Materials does not at present con-
template further stockpile purchasing next
season, but, as against this, it appears
that the Argentine carry-forward has
been markedly reduced. The steady
strength of the market is a very satis-
factory feature.
During the year synthetics have re-
ceived even more publicity than usual,
and the threat is real. Wool has been
ousted from some fields, such as fur-
nishings. However, the synthetics have
serious weaknesses, particularly for wear-
ing apparel, and practically the whole
of the Australian clip is suitable for
clothing. It seems significant that
figures for American consumption of
wool still show increases in spite of the
extraordinary propaganda in favor of
synthetics being conducted there.
The substantial recovery in sheep num-
bers in recent years has been mainly in
the higher-rainfall closer-settled areas
where pasture-improvement work is a
major factor. This explains the marked
increase of comebacks and crossbreds as
compared with Merinos.
With our rapid rise in population,
meat production is an increasingly im-
portant side of the industry, and con-
stitutes a useful hedge against falls in
wool prices.
However, Merino wool is still by far
the country’s most valuable export and
the basis of Australia’s prosperity. It
is of vital importance to maintain the
standard of production as the large, well-
known clips are cut up into numerous
small ones, and the Company’s wool and
stock experts exert a very considerable
influence in this matter.
KENAF:
At periods during and since the last
war considerable difficulties have been
experienced in maintaining the supply
of jute packs essential for marketing the
clip. For many years substitutes for
jute as a material for packs have been
sought without success, but recent tests
of packs made from kenaf fibre have
been quite satisfactory. This fibre comes
from a type of hibiscus which has been
grown in small plots in New Guinea.
This Company has now joined with a
number of other leading Wool Brokers
and others interested in the Wool and
Sugar industries to investigate the possi-
bilities of producing the fibre on a com-
mercial scale in that country.
NEW stLA.BE ISSUE:
Applications close today (Bth July), and
any Stockholders who have not yet taken
advantage of' their rights in accordance
with the terms of the offer should do so
promptly.
After allotment is completed we pro-
pose to call another General Meeting
to convert the new shares into Stock.
The procedure we are following is made
necessary by the provisions of the Com-
panies Act.
This issue when completed will mean
that the Company’s Authorised Capital
has been fully availed of, and your
Directors think it wise to ask you to
increase the nominal capital to
£6,000,000 in case it should be con-
sidered desirable to make another issue
at some future date. I would, emphasise
that there is no present intention of
making another issue in the near future.
OENEBAL;
I have already referred to the changes
in the Australian clip as a result of the
development which is occurring in our
better rainfall areas. The discovery that
very much country hitherto practically
useless required—in addition to large
quantities of superphosphate and the
nitrogen-building effects of the, native
clovers —minute quantities of certain
minerals, is a result of scientific work
of the past 15 .years, and much credit
must go to the C.5.1.E.0.
It takes some years to bring country
from its virgin state to the point where
reasonable returns are received, and dur-
ing that time many pounds per acre (as
an approximate average, say, £l5) must
be spent.
In some States Governments, private
organisations and individuals are doing
most promising work, and, when the
work is done efficiently, there is prospect
of satisfactory returns, provided today’s
price levels continue.
As you will realise, the amount of
capital and labor required means that
only a limited area of country can be
tackled with the resources immediately
available, and this question of the wisest
use of our national resources poses a
problem of vital importance. We con-
sider that expenditure on improving this
type of country and providing the trans-
port facilities necessary for its produc-
tion should be given the highest priority.
At last year’s meeting the hope was
expressed that the efforts of the Govern-
ment and Central Bank to stabilise the
value of the currency would be success-
ful. Definite progress has been made
during the year, but there is still much
uncertainty in the minds of business
people as to the likely future movement
of costs. There are indications in many
industries that our costs are dangerously
high relative to costs and prices over-
seas, and strenuous efforts by all part-
ners in production are necessary to put
our economy on a sounder basis.
As a result of a run of good seasons
payable returns, the discoveMf and appli-
cation of improved pasture Ymd farming
practice, and the availability of better
equipment, primary production generally
is showing considerable advances in effi-
ciency. However, this country is subject
to severe climatic variations, and it is
now eight years since the breaking of the
last general drought. We could have a
recurrence at any time, and, if so, the
whole economy would face very great
difficulties.
STAFF:
As you know, our business is largely
dependent on the ability and experience
of our Staff, and we are continuing to
give much attention to their development.
Your Directors record their apprecia-
tion of the loyal and able work of the
Company’s Staff.
book-debts by £118,477 and,
branch balance by £64,103, while
£24,765 was clipped off the
moderate amount coming to
sundry creditors, and £31,676
was added to suspense accounts
and £401,670 to the pile of cash
and investments, which includes
shares in subsidiaries (£128,411).
The growth of £34,850 in free-
holds, etc., was mainly on
account of reconditioning and
extension of premises and partly
on account of commencement of
the co.’s new South Seas hotel at
Suva, completion of which will
call for a substantial part of the
cash balances, the chairman says.
The general trend of world
commodity prices points to
development of more difficult
island-trading conditions. In
Australian currency the co.’s f.-p.
£1 ords. at 48s. 9d. (575. a year
ago) return 4-5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis—lo p.c. Fiji is worth
11.1 p.c. Australian at the current
rate of exchange. Net tangible
cover is 645. 3d., Fiji currency.
The well-protected prefs. seldom
appear on the Australian market.
Robert Harper & Co., Ltd.
Dividends—
A B Nom’l
Pref. Ord. Ord. Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. 6 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £> £> £
’48.. 42,418 10,500 24,000 2400 533,258
Prom inner res., £15,925 .. 549,178
’49.. 49,730 10,500 24,000 2400 562,008
Unexp. addition, £4568 .. 566,576
8 p.c.
’50.. 41,249 10,500 19,200 2400 575,725
Unexp. addition, £6BlB .. 582,538
Profits, sale freehold, £100,932 683,470
10 p.c.
’51.. 37,581 10,500 24,000 2400 684,151
Unexp, addition, £942 ~ 685,093
Profit, sale assets, £5321 .. 690,414
8 p.c.
’52.. 32,138 10,500 19,200 2400 690,452
Profit, sale assets, £5556 .. 696,007
’53.. 36,407 10,500 19,200 2400 700,314
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
The strong position which this
manufacturer, importer and dis-
tributor of a wide range of
grocery lines enjoys today is the
outcome of a cautious policy in
both trade and finance long fol-
lowed by an able management.
The co. trades on short-term
both as buyer and seller, pre-
ferring to have thousands of
customers on its books rather
than be a silent partner m a
limited number of “supported”
accounts. And its warehouses,
scattered throughout the Com-
monwealth, are fed from well-
equipped factories at Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane and Perth.
Since war ended an expanding
home market, spurred by infla-
tion and immigration, has ab-
sorbed the increasing output
from the factories, on which a
lot of money has been spent
recently on extension and
modernisation. But net earn-
ings have not increased pro-
portionately to turnover, be-
cause rising wage and other
costs, especially inter-State
transport, have eaten most of
the gains in a field where mar-
gins have always been narrow.
Last term restrictions reduced
the volume of imported com-
modities processed, and less
than half the previous year’s
quantity of rice was received.
Still, production of other lines
expanded, and aggregate turn-
over was “almost equal to the
all-time record” achieved in the
previous term, the chairman
says. Margins narrowed, owing
partly to the lag between rising
costs and lifts in authorised
selling-prices and partly to the
sharpening of competition in
the general struggle for liquidity.
After setting aside £31,589 (up
£11,299) for depreciation, what-
ever was considered necessary
for taxation, and taking stocks
into account at or under cost, net
earnings were £4269 stronger at
£36,407. That was a mere 3.2 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined), which
is indicative of how difficult it
, would be for a newcomer to
become established in the trade.
However, the £36,409 was
enough to pay the pref. and B-
share divs. (together £12,900)
and show 9.8 p.c. on the
£240,000 of ord. capital, thanks
to the stoutness of reserves
(£700,314). The div. has been
kept at 8 p.c. ever since 1918,
and sweetened with bonus addi-
tions as earnings permitted.
Partly as a hedge against pos-
sible price-falls in imported
lines, stocks were reduced by
£135,961, and £160,996 was
lopped off the overdraft:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 430,000 430,000 430,000
Tax reserve . . 51,116 69,207 63,977
Overdraft . . 194,053 33,057
Sndy. creditors 162,105 131,883 188,643
Pinal dividend 15,600 10,800 10,800
Freeholds . . 233,607 347,278 390,401
Plant, etc. . . 262,240 318,097 318,009
Stocks.. .. 341,057 467,453 381,492
Sundry debtors 209,951 237,084 176,639
Govt, securities,
cash, etc. . . 216,117 76,488 80,250
Goodwill .. 80,000 80,000 80,000
Book-debts were reduced by
£60,445. Building extensions,
now almost complete, sent free-
holds up by £43,128.
The current term should get
some benefit from the easing of
import restrictions and from
the new and “very modem”
packing plant which has just
been installed at the Melbourne
factory, and from something by
way of tax concessions to be
announced by the Treasurer
when he brings down the Budget.
The £1 ords. at 335. 6d. (48s.
a year ago) give an immediate
return of 4.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The investor at
335. 6d. who looks for 6 p.c. on
his money counts on a 10 p.c.
distribution, which may prove
to be within reach as conditions
become more settled. The 7 p.c.
prefs. at 245. yield 5.7 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £7 10s. Bd.
prefs. and 78s. 4d. ords.
To quicken production from
its Copperhead leases, near
Southern Cross (W.A.), and
bring other mines into produc-
tion, Great Western Consoli-
dated, one of the Western
Mining Corp. group, has raised
a loan (amount unstated) under
guarantee by W.M.C., which has
been granted a five-year option
to subscribe for 500,000 of the
co.’s 10s. shares at Bs. each. The
co. got its 30,000-ton-a-month
mill at Copperhead into produc-
tion early in December last, and
mechanical performance has
since been satisfactory. For the
12 weeks to May 25 87,670 tons
ore were treated for a recovery
of 10,9540 z, fine gold, an average
of 2.5dwt., which isn’t likely to
prove profitable with costs
(unstated) at their present level.
The long-term outlook for the
project remains as before, the
board says. The prospectus
showed ore disclosed by pros-
pecting and development as:
, —Proved—^Probable—
Tons. Tons.
’OOO. dwt. ’OOO. dwt.
Underground .. 500 5.5 800 5.5
Opencut .. 790 8.4 ■ —■
Total.. .. 1,290 4.2 800 5.5
The co.’s leases cover two
mineralised ore channels strik-
ing a little west of north from
Southern Cross. Paid capital is
£1,768,000 in f.-p. 10s. shares,
which the market prices at 7s. 9d,
as against a high of 10s. 4d. in
1952.
After considering the report
of managing-director F. A.
Close, who recently visited the
mine (B. 1/7/’53), the board of
Blue Spec, on the Pilbara field
(W.A.), has decided to
thoroughly rehabilitate the plant
and underground workings. And
the co. has received Capital
Issues consent to raise up to
£78,000 of fresh capital for the
purpose. Mr. Close says that the
ore blocked has a recoverable
value of £970,000, and that it can
be extracted and treated at an
estimated cost of £370,000 over
the next 2y years. Mindful of
tfie history of the venture, the
market prices the f.-p. ss. shares
at 4s. 6d.


Women's Letters
MELDCLDNE
Square-dancing is still the rage here
—one group has turned its enthusiasm
into a means of raising money for the
institution for which it works. John
Campbell has organised the nursing,
administrative and domestic staff of the
Children’s Hospital into a group which
meets once a week in St. George’s
Church Hall, opposite the hospital. Each
member pays 5s, each night and brings
supper for self and partner. The bal-
ance, after payment of expenses, goes to
the hospital funds.
☆ ☆ ☆
With Mrs. Stanley Smith as president,
the staff of Scott’s Hotel held a very
successful ball at the Royale, and pro-
ceeds will go to the funds of the Society
for the Aged and Infirm Blind. Kilted
pipers gave a demonstration of cere-
monial marching during the evening and
were later entertained by Mr. Stanley
Smith. Mrs. Smith’s midnight-blue tulle
gown was made over matching taffeta
which was banded with dusty-pink faille.
She was assisted by ticket-secretaries
Irene Thompson, in white taffeta with a
tartan-ribbon sash, and Joan Gilbert,
whose black velvet gown had gold-sequin
trimming.
In the official party were Judge and
Mrs. L. Stretton, she wearing dove-
grey chiffons, Mr. S. Horsfall, who
represented the Society for the Aged
and Infirm Blind, and Mrs, Horsfall,
whose junior-blue faille was striped
in lighter blue. Mrs. Murray Hey-
wood, down from Nauru, had white
daisies scattered over the skirt of her
midnight-blue tulle gown; Nancy Holds-
worth’s angora frock was in emerald-
green ; Mrs. N. A. Hunter’s gown was of
dusty-pink-and-black-striped faille; and
Mrs. A. G. Lessor combined a black
satin skirt and heavily-beaded white
bodice.
☆ ☆ ☆
Cupid sped several darts last week.
Joan, second daughter of Sir Archie and
Lady Michaelis, made the promise to
Lindsay Parker, of Elizabeth Bay,
Sydney —he is the only son of
the late Mr. and Mrs. J. Parker, of Mel-
bourne. Pamela, younger daughter
of Lady Knox and the late Sir Errol
Knox, has accepted a ring from Brian,
youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. James
O’Connor, of Mount Gambier (S.A.) —
they share an interest in hunting, Brian
being deputy-master of the Mt. Gambier
Hunt Club. Also facing a conjugal
future are Mrs. Nell Challingsworth,
youngest daughter of the late Mr. and
Mrs. John Reader of Rochester, and
Richard Kenneth, second son of Sir
Richard and Lady Linton, of Toorak.
Independence Day luncheon at the
Town Hall was celebrated by the Aus-
tralian-American Association, with Sir
John Latham (Federal president of the
association) in the chair and with Arthur
Calwell guest-speaker. Clusters of Aus-
tralian and American flags were set on
each table, and along the edge of the
official table, with a bouquet of red,
white and blue flowers in the centre.
Lady Latham accompanied her
husband; others included General Sir
Sydney and Lady Rowell, Vice-Admiral
Sir John Collins, Archbishop and Mrs.
J. J. Booth, and the U.S. Naval Attache,
Captain R. Wayne Denbo, whose vote
of thanks to the speaker concluded with
the remark that the ohly thing wrong
with Australia was “there are too few
Australians.” Captain Denbo has finished
his two years here and returns soon to
Washington for another posting. Other
Service people noticed were the U.S.
Army Attache, Col. J, Middleton, and
his wife, and the U.S. Army Air Force
Attache, C61. John Sullivan.
☆ ☆ ☆
“The Big Bang” Ball celebrated the
Fourth of July at the Royale Ballroom,
sponsored by the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital.
Proceeds will go to the hospital. A huge
figure of Uncle Sam holding a match
to a red firecracker dominated the foyer,
where was, naturally, a map of America.
Large figures of Uncle Sam were placed
on each side of the orchestra and in
between soared a large gold eagle above
crossed banners. Table decorations
carried out the “big bang” theme with
large red firecrackers; smaller ones held
surprise gifts for both men and women
guests.
The official enclosure was set out as
a veranda on the banks of a river, de-
picted in the painted backdrop, with
small tables, striped umbrellas and striped
canvas chairs. The official party was
received by the president of the auxiliary,
Mrs. Charles McKay, and her husband,
and the U.S. Consul-General, • Henry E.
Stebbins, and Mrs. Stebbins. Mrs, Mc-
Kay’s lively gown was of hydrangea-
green satin brocade, made with a very
wide skirt and the bodice finished with
a halter neckline. Mrs. Stebbins chose
mushroom-pink Chantilly lace for her
gown, with a matching stole covering a
bodice made with a fichu neckline. Lady
Latham, president of the Children’s Hos-
pital, present with Sir John Latham, wore
a gown of midnight-blue lace, sparkling
with iridescent sequins.
Ticket sec. for the ball, Mrs. Laurie
Tewkesbury, was in a bouffant short
evening gown of soft rose velvet; Mrs.
J. Poppadak in mauve and pink floral
satin brocades, while blonde satin with
a flowering skirt was the choice of Mrs.
W. W. Killough. Supper was brought
in on long branches, wrapped in red and
blue “lapkins.” When opened, the various
food items were found wrapped in grease-
proof paper and were eaten picnic-
fashion.
This John Warlow study is of Mrs.
Roy Blake, wife of the Commercial
Secretary for Canada. Scottish-born, she
has spent most of her life in Canada
and it was there she met her husband.
Before taking up their post in this city,
Mr. and Mrs. Blake had four years of
diplomatic service in England. Next
year they will return to Canada for a
holiday and a new posting, which Mrs.
Blake hopes will be back in this country.
They have two sons, Roger (14) and lan
(12). Mrs. Blake makes her own lovely
clothes.
Canada’s coat-of-arms and pennants
bearing the names of the nine provinces
were used in the decorations at the Aus-
tralia when Mr. and Mrs. Blake enter-
tained at a buffet dinner-party to honor
Dominion Day. Salmon and maple-
syrup were flown specially from Canada
for the party. The 250 guests included
many Canadians resident in this city as
well as representative Melbourne citizens
and members of the Consular corps. The
toast of the Queen was given by Mr.
Blake, to Canada by Lieut-General Sir
Sydney Rowell, and to Australia by the
past-president of the Canadian Club,
John Lennon.
Mrs. Blake received the guests wearing
a smoke-grey paper-shantung frock
splashed with a purple orchid. Among
the guests were Mrs. J. Burke, who wore
a short full frock of royal-blue velvet;
Mrs. W- B. White, her black taffetas
having a narrow satin stripe and diamente
shoulder-straps; Mrs. Don Charlwood,
whose choice was grey shot tie-silk ; Mrs.
H. E. West, in short black velvet frock
and black osprey-trimmed cloche; Mrs.
W. K. Black, whose navy-and-light-blue
striped faille was full-skirted; and Mrs.
J. K. Lennon, in black taffeta.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another function honoring Dominion
Day was that held by the members of
the Canadian Club. Guests Were re-
ceived by the acting-president of the
club, Dr' Fred Fenton, and his wife,
who wore an ankle-length dinner-frock of
black Chantilly lace. Noted among the
dancers were Mrs. Bernard Brown, whose
faille frock was parchment-toned, Mrs.
J. Polack, her white faille patterned in
black florals, Mrs. Don Webster, who
had gold sequins outlining the boat-
shaped neck of her ruby velvet frock,
SYDNEY
National days seem to be crowding
the picture at this; time of the year. The
Canadians, the French, the Filipinos
all celebrated recently, and, indeed, one
would have thought it was a German
national day on Saturday to judge by
the number who turned up at the Erna
Sack concert. The German Ambassador,
Dr. Walter Hess, and Mrs. Hess and
daughter Inge were there, as were Dr.
and Mrs. F. J. Bach, Count and Countess
Posadowsky, along with what seemed a
thousand or so others. Erna, in a crino-
lined dress of red velvet and white satin
sparkling with rhinestones, a flower in
her hair, a smile on her face and almost
as much gusto as Gracie Fields, fairly
“laid them in the aisles” with her songs
of their homeland, touching the nostalgia
off with the invitation to come “Avalsing
Mateelda Wiz Me.” Also seen were Mr.
and Mrs. Harald Bowden, Dr. and Mrs.
T. Bateman and Mr. and Mrs. E.
Lashmar.
Working for the Black and White Ball,
to be held this year on October 6 at
the Trocadero, is Gillian Galbraith,
shown here in a study by Antonia Blax-
land, who is also a new recruit to the
record committee of 95 members. Other
members of the younger set who have
joined the committee this year are
Edwina Hordern (who is assistant hon.
secretary ), Annette Macarthur Onslow
and Barbara Showers.
Some lovely little hats were worn by
hostesses and guests at the reception held
by the Victoria League in honor of Lady
Holmes, wife of the High Commissioner
for the U.K., and her daughter Jennifer.
Mrs. H. H. McNall, deputy-president of
the league, wore black with a small grey
hat delicately embroidered with crystal.
Mrs. Allen Foott’s mulberry, toque had
two tiny pert birds perched on it. Mrs.
G. I. D. Hutcheson’s black toque was
decorated with pearls, and Mrs. R. T.
Russell wore a sleek henna model of
hatter’s-plush. The Dean of Sydney,
Rev. E. A. Pitt, and* Mrs. Pitt were also
welcomed as guests-of-honor. Also at
the reception, which was held in the
League’s rooms in Kembla Building, were
Sir Mark and Lady Sheldon, Mrs.
Bertram Wright, Mrs. Michael King,
Mrs. Keith Morris and Mrs. G. M. King,
who was accompanied r by her daughter
Judy.
☆ * ☆
“The Glorious Fourth” was celebrated
by the English Speaking Union (Women’s
Section) with a luncheon last Thursday,
when Mr. Justice Herron (the only man,
and apparently undismayed, among 75
women) said that Australia owes a great
deal to the events of American Indepen-
dence Day, as it was from the American
Constitution that the Australian Federal
Constitution developed. Eleven members
of the American Women’s Club were
present, including Mrs. C. Rutter, Mrs.
M. Howard and Mrs. M. Ovington, and
at the official table, which was decorated
with flags and poinsettia, were Lady
Plowman, Lady Holmes and guest-
speaker Mrs. Boyce Campbell, whose
subject was “American Women.” Mem-
bers present included Mrs. Roy Nilsson,
Mrs. S. Kirschener, Mrs. Simpson Lee,
Mrs. H. J. Brady and Mrs. Vernon Cole,
who entertained Mrs. Byron Beans and
Mrs. George West.
The elasticity, and sometimes am-
biguity, of our common language was
aptly demonstrated by Mrs. Boyce Camp-
bell. In America, she explained, to “wash-
up” means to wash one’s face and hands,
so that she was -a little hurt on one
occasion when an Australian guest asked
her when she was going to do so. She
replied rather huffily, “Oh, later on,” and
was amazed when the guest offered to
help her, insisting that Australians always
helped one another do this. Mrs. Camp-
bell also drew attention to the fact that,
whereas Australians “stand” for elec-
tions, Americans “run” and that while
we “sit” for examinations, they “take”
them.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was no dearth of talk at the
sherry-party organised by the Radio and
Television Writers’ Guild and held at
the Lyceum Club on Thursday. Max
Afford, who may perhaps be regarded as
the dean of the faculty of radio-writing,
said that the aim of the guild was
mainly to study the technique of writing
for television and to meet socially for
that purpose. Main convenors of the
assembly (there were about 75 people
there) were Michael Noonan, Kathleen
Carroll and Marion Dreyer. Not every-
one present, of course, was a radio-
writer, though most probably hope to
write for television at some time or an-
other. Keith Smith, Max Green and
Barbara Jeffress were among the radio
people present, and Aura Jackson came
along with her sister Vasie Zalacostas.
Kylie Tennant was there, more inclined
to talk about her 20-month-old son Bimbi
than her books. Lending glamor was
Mrs. Billy Maloney, who leaves shortly
to join her husband in Cairns (Q’land).
Altogether a lively and enjoyable party.
☆ Tfr ☆
The Metropolitan Operetta Society’s
brave venture into the professional field
with “The Gypsy Baron” at the Royal
struck an opening night (as most such
brave ventures do) of rain, storm and
parking problems. The audience con-
sisted mainly of mothers, brothers,
sisters, aunts, etc., of the players, some
of whom are quite youngsters, not more
1 than 15 or 16 years of age. The east
have worked long and hard at their pro-
duction, and one cannot but wish success
to their colorful operetta, which their
president, Mrs. Dot Ball, has translated
into English. Their producer, Carl
Randall, will be remembered as the pro-
ducer of “Annie Get Your Gun” for
J.C.W. not so long ago.
☆ ☆ *
The R.S.L. Coronation Ball at the
Trocadero on August 13 is expected to be
one of the most spectacular dances of
the year, a special feature being the
presentation of debutantes to the Gover-
nor. There are still some openings for
debs: girls who are interested, not neces-
sarily the daughters of ex-servicemen,
should get in touch with Mrs. Ella
Mawer at the Combined Services Sub-
branch in Barrack-street.
☆ ■& *
Strange how little impact 3D films
seem to have made on Sydney. People
who have seen them haven’t much to say
about them, and those who haven’t don’t
seem to lose any conversational caste
thereby. Etymologists may, however, be
interested to know that the name
“roundies” has been coined for them as
opposed to the “flatties,” “talkies” and
“movies” and other terms of endear-
ment bestowed on the products of the
film-industry.
☆■ ☆ ☆
Difficult decision to make this week — .
whether to go to see “La Boheme” at
the Tivoli or “South Pacific” —both
opening on Friday night. “South
Pacific” costs more (£2 2s. per seat), but
this, according to the strange standards
of the fashionable world, may be an
inducement. Besides, there’s the added
attraction of being the first to see the
rejuvenated Empire Theatre. One could
see it next week, of course, but that’s
not at all the same thing. Funny, isn’t
it?
☆ ☆ *
The Red Cross is appealing for books
for distribution to its hospital libraries,
and will arrange for their collection if
it is not possible to deliver them to
27 Jamieson-street. Although all kinds
of books are needed, they should be in
good condition and clean, suitable for use
in hospitals. Those who are interested
may ring 80542 for details.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Othello”
The Shakspeare Memorial
Theatre company has moved to
His Majesty’s, Brisbane, and
spellbound audiences are finding
Anthony Quayle’s production
of “Othello” enormously in-
formative.
Here was a practical compo-
site set which, by the alteration
from rich-red curtains to more
exotic yellows, moved the action
effectively from Venice to
Cyprus. Only two central ornate
pillars were too acclimatised
and refused to make the Medi-
terranean crossing. Any device
to avoid interminable scene-
changing is welcome in Shak-
speare, and the skilful control of
lighting plausibly allowed a
street scuffle in one corner of
the stage while Desdemona lay
in bed in the darkness of
another.
Anthony Quayle’s Othello
was both imfftessive and mov-
ing, though his rapid gulping of
the first few baits almost made
further angling by lago unneces-
sary. Barbara Jefford’s Desde-
mona was good, though she
marred her gentleness with an
occasional elocutionary cold-
ness.
It seemed, too, that half of
poor Cassio was overlooked.
Despite the unfavorable light
he generally casts upon himself,
there is much evidence in the
speeches and actions of others
that he is a proper man, “with
a daily beauty in his life,” a
worthy soldier in Othello’s eyes
and, above all, deemed capable
of taking over the government
of Cyprus. Terence Longdon
made him little more than
Roderigo in intellect, and con-
siderably less in taste.
But those were minor flaws
in a production memorable for
its richness of setting, costum-
ing and poetry. To raise them is
not to deny the excellence of
Quayle and the wellnigh per-
fection of McKern’s lago and
Joan MacArthur’s Emilia.
❖ ❖ ❖
‘The Gioconda Smile”
What is behind the smile on
the face of the Mona Lisa, or
whether anything is behind it,
has obsessed writers ever since
Walter Pater wrote his famous
passage. Aldous Huxley
apparently tries to give his ver-
sion of it in this play put on by
the Tin Alley Players at the
Union Theatre, University of
Melbourne.
Janet Spence, a pleasant smil-
ing woman, is in love with
Henry Hutton, an idealist and
a man of culture, who is not
in love with her and doesn’t
know she is in love with him.
She, too, doesn’t know that he
is in love with an ordinary young
woman who is bearing his child
and whom he wants to marry,
the only obstacle to the marriage
being his sick wife, who is dying
of an incurable disease, but
taking a long time about it.
The wife dies, the verdict is
poison, and Hutton stands his
trial for murder, but behind the
enigmatic smile of Janet lies
the whole story. It was she
who removed the obstacle be-
tween Henry and his mistress
under the fond delusion that she
was removing the obstacle be-
tween herself and Henry. When
she discovers that she has done
this signal service for another
woman her love turns to hate
and her desire for vengeance is
pursuing Henry to the very foot
of the scaffold when her super-
human restraint breaks down
under the questionings of a doc-
tor. She- confesses, Henry’s
neck is saved and the curtain
goes down on what is presum-
ably to be a happy ending.
Huxley’s play is strongly
dramatic, but psychologically it
isn’t very subtle. If Leonardo
had painted his lovely model in
such crude tones and colors as
Huxley uses to paint the evasive-
ness of Janet and the unaware-
ness of Henry it is doubtful if
his picture would be remem-
bered. Wyn Roberts dominated
the evening with a well-balanced
performance of the various
moods of Henry Hutton. Mary
Thomas gave a savage life to
Janet’s conflict, and Nurse
Braddock, also harboring a
hidden love for Henry, was
austerely done by Louise Hom-
frey. Kenneth Burgess wasn’t
convincing as Dr. Libbard, but
the character isn’t convincing,
anyway.
♦+♦ *x+ ❖
“Hobson’s Choice”
“Hobson’s Choice,” by Harold
Brighouse, was Newman Col-
lege’s choice for its annual in-
vasion of the stage at the Union
Theatre, University of Mel-
bourne, and why Newman Col-
lege chose this piece of innocu-
ous theatrical drivel rather than
something by T. S. Eliot or some
other significant playwright
passes comprehension.
Since Harold Brighouse was
a popular playwright in the U.S.
and U.K. at the time of World
War One it may have been up
to the standard of the Gunn’s
Gully Dramatic Society of the
’nineties, but it was certainly not
up to modern university
standards.
The story concerns the deter-
mined daughter of an excessively
tyrannical master - bootmaker
who forces her hand on a shy
apprentice and turns him into a
master-bootmaker. Jill Con-
nolly, Janet Byrne, Margaret
Tobin, Gavin Hackwill, Gerard
Joyce and Mary Aughterson
played the piece as if it were a
period play, which was probably
the best thing to do with it.
Unfortunately it didn’t belong
to any period in terms of its
resemblance to human nature.
Erna Sack
Coloratura soprano Ema Sack
opened her Sydney season on
Saturday night at the Town Hall
and her opening number,
Handel’s “Largo,” was not very
reassuring—she was well off the
centre of several notes.
It was not until Haydn’s “My
Mother Bids Me Bind My Hair”
and Linda’s air from Donizetti’s
“Linda of Chamounix” were
behind her that Madame Sack
gave a true glimpse of her art.
With the Schubert group there
was no mistaking it.
“The Trout” was liltingly gay
and mischievous. But the best
singing.of the night came with
“Night and Dreams”; here the
high attack-note was achieved
with marvellous softness,
mezzo voce of beautiful calibre
being employed thereafter. Even
with the voice falling to the
barest whisper it remained clearly
audible. Soft and clear also was
“Ave Maria,” delivered with
devotional warmth*
The Shadow Song from
Meyerbeer’s “Dinorah” offered
Madame Sack the first oppor-
tunity for real vocal acrobatics,
and these, elsewhere as well as
in this, were quite exceptional.
On one occasion she made a
terrifying leap of two octaves to
land flush on a note that came
somewhere from the apex of the
skull. These extremely high
notes —no living singer could
possibly go higher—have the
quality of fine violin-playing.
Indeed, in much of her singing
the bird is less in evidence than
the E string.
As well as a voice of astound-
ing agility, and a lively intel-
ligence to , inform its use,
Madame Sack is endowed with
remarkable vivacity. And there
is no doubt whatever that she
can play upon an audience with
the same skill that she does on
her remarkably-ranged voice.
Gilbert Hill was her accom-
panist.
❖ * *
Joan Hammond
In her interpretation of
operatic arias during her
Sydney season soprano Joan
Hammond has gone from
strength to strength with glori-
ous outpourings of tone and
accurate reflections of the
emotions of her songs—the
anxiety and the humiliation
which sweep the countess as in
“Dove Sono” from “The
Marriage of Figaro” she tells of
her unhappy marriage; the
Lament of Marguerite in Boito’s
“Mefistofele” on the death of her
baby; the undercurrent of fear
in the aria from “Thais” as the
courtesan, singing to her mirror-
reflection, wonders how long the
power of her beauty will last;
and the despair followed by the
expression of serene faith voiced
by Maddalena in “Andrea
Chenier.”
Whereas some of Miss Ham-
mond’s earlier excursions into
lieder were only moderately suc-
cessful, there was much greater
authority evident in Schubert’s
“Wandering Minstrel,” whilst
“The Message” was Brahms
singing of the best. Mozart’s
“Lullaby” was all tenderness.
Gabrielle Sibella’s “Girometta,”
set to a 16th-century poem, was
another fine song, finely sung.
There was insufficient rapture
in Rachmaninoff’s surging
“Floods of Spring,” but
Tschaikowsky’s “Why?” was
entirely captivating.
Throughout her recitals Miss
Hammond’s enunciation in all
the languages which she has sung
has been a model for any young
singer to emulate. Walter
Susskind’s accompaniments were
precise and alert, and, especially
in the difficult Wolf songs, of
exceptional merit.
Desmond Bradley with
Orchestra
The second of the 1953 youth
concerts at Melbourne Town
Hall had Eugene Goossens as
conductor and 19-year-old Des-
mond Bradley as soloist. The
young performer, who won the
A.B.C.’s National Radio
Eisteddfod in 1948 and has since
been studying under Enesco,
Menuhin’s teacher, in Paris,
carried his violin magnificently
through the “Symphonic Espag-
nole” of Lalo, exploring its
rhythmic mazes with sure feet,
running with apparent ease
through the incredibly swift
movements of the various Anda-
lusian dances and putting gaiety
into the final rondo.
In the orchestra immediately
behind him sat his father, who
was his first teacher. When
Enesco, who only permits him-
self three pupils at a time, heard
him at his audition in Paris, he
said “I have nothing to teach
this boy,” meaning that there
was nothing wrong with his
foundations. He built on those
foundations with incessant prac-
tice, and last year Encsco
organised his Paris debut. Next
year he goes on tour in Spain
and Portugal under the auspices
of his master,
A better example couldn’t
have been provided for the
thousands of young men and
maidens assembled in the Town
Hall. The critics, judging him
up by standards, may say this
or that about him, but that is
not important. What is im-
portant is his own feeling. If he
feels the importance of music
so much that he is ready to sac-
rifice everything for it, nothing
can prevent him getting that
extra inner thing beyond tech-
nique which is usually called
maturity and is the distinguish-
ing-mark of the great artist.
$ ❖ »>
“The Gypsy Baron”
“The Gypsy Baron” at the
Sydney Royal has on its credit
side a host of Strauss melodies,
a well-drilled cast, good costum-
ing and scenery, a youthful,
eager and pretty chorus, efficient
stage management and one or
two fair voices.
It’s sad that these assets fail
to outweigh the debit side, which
is burdened with a general lack
of vitality, wholesale inaudi-
bility and a sad lack of co-
operation between the orchestra
and the players. This is the first
appearance of the Metropolitan
Operetta Society of N.S.W. on
the professional scene, although
the society has had quite a lot of
success with its amateur produc-
tions over 10 years.
Produced by Carl Randall,
“The Gypsy Baron” will run for
four weeks, and is likely to
improve on its first-night’s
performance as the company
gains confidence. Wes Whalan
as Conte Canero must be praised
for his excellent diction in a cast
where scarcely anyone else ceuld
be heard at all, Michael
Khlentzos as Sardar Barinkay
sang with assurance and Barbara
Wheatley’s voice and appearance
had charm.
Talkies
“Miss Julie”
This Swedish film is a rare
work of art with Strindberg’s
play coming to vivid life under
the imaginative direction of Alf
Sjoberg, who also wrote the
script. The story of the tragic
consequences which flow from
the seduction by an aristocratic
girl of feudal Sweden of one of
the family’s servants has been
beautifully handled.
The character-drawing is
masterly: the neurotic girl, her
passions aroused by the sight of
two rustic lovers in a barn, fight-
ing the hatred of men that had
been instilled in her by her
morbidly-bitter mother; the
handsome servant, who, full of
Jack - is - as - good-as-his-master
ideas, swashbuckles it while his
master is away but cringes as
soon as he hears the imperious
voice and despises himself for
it; the bovine, sluggish, plain
cook, the manservant’s mistress.
' Sjoberg has devised a flash-
back technique, wherein
characters of a past period move
in the background of scenes of
the present. It is brilliantly done
with no suggestion of confusion.
The talented people handling the
chief roles are Anita Bjork and
Ulf Palme. At Sydney Savoy.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Never Let Me Go”
The case of the Russian wives
of English and American men
working in the U.S.S.R. who
were refused permission by the
Soviet Government to leave
Russia with their husbands has
been made the basis of this
M.-G.-M. film at Sydney St.
James.
One is an American pressman
(Clark Gable), the other an
English tank-sergeant (Richard
Hayden); deciding to rescue
the ladies, they co-opt the help
of Cornish small-boat expert
(Bernard Miles). That their
mission is to be brilliantly suc-
cessful there is never any doubt
even before the project is under
way, and that they are blessed
with remarkable, even incredible,
luck goes without saying.
❖ ♦> *
“The I-Don’t-Care-Girl”
Hollywood’s current passion
for biographical musicals has so
shrunk the supply of suitable
subject-matter that film-makers
have been forced back on vaude-
ville headliners of the long ago
whose names‘don’t mean a thing
outside the U.S. This one is
about Eva Tanguay, who was
some sort of songandance gal
back in 1912, and who typified
the flaming youth of the period.
The plot is the thinnest of
threads on which are strung some
spectacular sets and some snappy
dancing sequences in which
Mitzi Gaynor throws herself
around with admirable energy.
At Sydney Palace.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Somebody Loves Me”
Another musical about a pair
of musicomedy stars of World
War I vintage—one Blossom
Seeley, who blooms for her
singing soul-mate, Benny Fields.
Benny appears at first to be
merely climbing over their
friendship to reach the heights,
but of course it’s really true luv
and it was all a misunderstand-
ing—without a misunderstanding
in it a musical would be like a
watch without a mainspring.
Betty Hutton’s joyous person-
ality lifts it slightly above the
ruck, and the versatile Ralph
Meeker is her sidekick. TTie
score is not without a quota of
whistleable tunes, and the danc-
ing is up to the mark. It’s at
Sydney Prince Edward.
Artbursts
Michael Kmit, who was
awarded this year’s Blake Prize
for religious painting, has a show
at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney. Byzantine effects ; an
extravagant and grimily volup-
tuous use of colors, predomi-
nately blues, greens and purples ;
and figures which appear to
deny most of the principles of
anatomy are the main charac-
teristics of his work. It was
selling like hot-cakes when this
commentator looked in.


The SWORD OF LANCHTER
by Olat Ruhen
-‘ ‘ \ * A ATCH it,” said the
I\ i district - officer. “I
VV warit no incidents.
For God’s sake don’t
start a scrap unless you have to,
but get yourselves back safe.
These United Nations boys are
a bit too eager to criticise. On
the other hand, we’ve got to do
something about the river. If
you can make a firm contact
with the Wagidi people we’ve got
the game by the throat. They’re
the ones that give us trouble
every time. Bring back a half-
dozen Wagidi boys and we’ll
have a peaceful river. But I’d
like to get some of the January
River people as well and some of
the Arodinis.
“The Arodinis shouldn’t be
too hard, they’ve had contacts;
but they’ve had Japanese con-
tacts since then and the attitude
might have changed. If you
can’t get recruits, see if you can
make contact with the women.
That’s the great thing. If you
can make contact with the
women you’ll know the men
trust you. But if you do make
contact with the women, then
watch your boys. You’ve got
the hardest part ahead of you.
I wish I were coming with you.
Double guards, by the way, in
the Wagidi country.”
“We’ll look after it,” said Bert
Adams. He >vas a thin man,
very thin and slight, with a
hooked nose and bent shoulders.
He spoke softly, and he was
worshipped by the Melanesian
boys who formed his entourage.
The third member of the party
was a young patrol-officer, Jeff
Davidson. These three, the
district-officer, the assistant-
district-officer and the patrol-
officer were sitting on a rock by
the riverbank, and from the trees
about them vines of the lawyer-
cane moored a floating wharf
or raft composed of the split
trunks of the limbom-palms laid
over a little fleet of carved
canoes.
A seagoing launch was moored
with ropes to the same tree-
trunks, and the floating wharf
acted as a fender to keep it off
the bank. The current swirled
and boiled under the canoes.
“No point in waiting,” said
Adams, standing up. “We’ll be
on our way,”
The district-officer stood up,
too. “Good luck,” he said. “I’d
give anything to be with you.
But I’ve been up as far as the
Wagidi three times now, and the
last twice we started, a shooting
war. I don’t think we did too
much damage, but they’d
remember me and be resentful.”
“A better chance this time,”
Adams said. “At least we’re not
in canoes.”
They shook hands all round,
and the two younger men
boarded the launch. She was an
ex-Army work-boat, about fifty-
five feet, with an almost clear
deck protected from the sun by
an awning running all the way
aft from the wheelhouse.
Already she seemed crowded
with men.
'T'HERE were eight police-boys,
A all picked hands. Basiki, a
boy from Buka, blue-black and
muscled like an athlete, had been
posted on the river during the
war, and when the fighting
started he decided to stay where
he was and keep order. He did
so, magnificently, protecting the
people he guarded from enemy
contacts even though he was
right behind their lines, and
sending in occasional reports to
let his masters know how things
were going. Kambi, himself
from the river-district, had also
fought there during the war.
Nearly all of the police-boys had
a clear understanding of the
purpose and importance of the
expedition.
Skipper of the launch was a
cheerful Aussie - named Cliff
Feeble, a man who was at home
wherever he laid his head at
nights. Under him he had a crew
of about ten boys, Tami
Islanders who knew the sea and
were happy wherever'there was
water sufficient to carry them.
In addition there were houseboys
and a steward. And, wildly
excited, his face one huge grin,
there was a compact little boy of
about eight years whom they
called Tomkins.
His was an important function.
In theory he was a youngster
accompanying his father, one of
the houseboys on the expedition.
In practice, his presence on the
launch gave authenticity in
savage eyes to the proposition
that the party’s function was
peaceful. A raiding-party would
not have bothered itself with
children. It was impossible, with
the concentration of men on the
launch, to carry women, and,
indeed, women conventionally
dressed might not have been
recognised as female by the
natives of the upper river. A
child, playing happily on deck,
sitting and watching the scenery
float past him, even bawling his
head off in a tantrum, was the
next-best hostage to good faith.
Tomkins never indulged himself
in tantrums, and the scenery,
though after a day it might have
been counted monotonous, was
always worth watching.
The broad pattern of the river
varied little. Always there was
a bank falling victim to the
erosion of the swift currenf, and
because the processes of nature
seemed hastened in that vivid,
exaggerated, tropical land, the
erosion was carried out before
their eyes. In every hour, it
seemed, some immense tree
shuddered gently and swayed a
little on its roots, then crashed
into the river, to remain
anchored, a little while, by I Mb
tangle of creepers that fastened
its upper branches to the stand-
ing trees.
The current itself was full of
arboreal wreckage. Tree after
tree hastened down, twisting and
turning, at intervals over the
broad quarter-mile of muddy
water. Millions of feet of
wonderful timber-trees, erema,
cedar, kwila and taun, slipped
by to rot on some mid-river
mudbank miles downstream.
Between the trees came floating
islands, tangled masses of the
root- and plant-fibre of the wild
sugar. They were large islands,
sometimes half an acre and more
in extent, and once or twice they
were occupied by living inhabi-
tants, crocodiles or snakes, or
contemplative river-birds. Every-
where the muddy water was
flecked by the floating yellow
flowers of the Mogas-tree, the
wild hibiscus that loved to grow
with its feet in the water.
On the bank opposite to the
retreating forest there was nearly
always an immense field of
arrowed seed-heads twelve feet
higU, where the wild sugar was
in process of reclaiming land
from the river as fast as the river
hewed it from the other bank.
lIJOR ten days the party
A travelled through similar
patterns of construction and
destruction. They watched the
details of life along the river, a
native village standing in the
water, an eagle’s nest as big as
an Army truck crowning a tall
fig-tree, a crocodile swimming
ahead of the launch, the big blue
and bronze goura pigeons, as big
as turkeys, with dainty blue top-
knotted crowns, preening them-
selves in the tall timber,
prominent against the scarlet
blaze of the d’Albertis creeper
that raced down the green hill-
sides in cascades five-hundred
feet in length.
Towards evening the hornbills
flew screaming over the launch,
and the flying-foxes emerged
from their cities behind the
sugar and flew to raid the native
gardens in the bush, and for a
few brief moments the sunset
bathed the water in fantasy. The
reflection in the east was always
finer than the light surrounding
the sun’s bed. It soared all rose
and carmine above the dark
forest, and every I color was
reflected in deep detail in the
muddy water. ■ They anchored at
night always, and set a watch of
Tami Islanders to ward off the
heavy tree-trunks that swirled
down on the current and
threatened their anchor-chain.
It was an idyllic voyage, but,
at least in those early weeks,
Adams, the A.D.0., showed his
worries. The significance of
their quest was far, far greater
than that of other, more
elaborate, expeditions. The
people of the upper river were
isolated by much more than the
physical difficulties of the country
which, in actuality, were rendered
slight by the great navigable
river itself. Even here, three-
hundred-and-fifty miles from its
mouth, it was enormous, twenty-
five feet deep, and broad and
fast-running. But along its
upper length, each tribe was
isolated, speaking its own
language, hiding its habitations
away from enemy eyes.
Each tribe was constantly
armed against its neighbors,
whom they raided solely for the
purpose of taking heads, a
practice they found necessary in
the control of their own social
relations within the tribe. They
took no prisoners, and never
learned the language of their
neighbors. The upper river was
classified as Uncontrolled Terri-
tory, and the trader and the
missionary alike were barred
from it.
Yet only trade could open up
the river. Only trade could
enable that contact to be made
yffiich would deter them from
the inter-tribal wars; which
could help to control their many
and manifest diseases; which
could make friends and future
allies of them for the Adminis-
tration, The Wagidi people, the
most warlike and the most
numerous, formed the key tribe.
At least some of their members
had to be taught a language
through which the traders and
the recruiters could approach
them. And the only way in
which this could be done was by
bringing some of the younger
men to civilised areas and teach-
ing them, word by word, in the
way a baby is taught. Somehow
they had to be given the desire
to learn. The blackbirder of the
early days, using force and guile,
did not have that problem. The
blackbirder’s victims, returning
at last to. the villages from which
they had been stolen, paved the
way for the agents of civilisation.
TINDER the limitation of pre-
serving the peace at all costs,
it was not so easy to lure young
men from their villages into an
alien scene. And Adams, per-
sonally, had a further, private
worry. He had no real faith in
his own courage. Through no
fault of his own he had never
been in a really tight corner. He
did not know whether he could
rely on himself under fire. His
compunctions were not in facing
the arrows of the Wagidi, but in
facing his fellow-men with an
attitude he could not foretell.
He was afraid of showing
yellow.
Nor had Adams, as yet, much
faith in his patrol-officer, a young
fellow fresh from the new-
fangled School of Pacific
Administration, of whose teach-
ings Adams disapproved. David-
son had spent some time in
settled areas, close under the
watchful eye of a district-officer,
and Adams had a sneaking feel-
ing that his excellence in clerical
work might not augur that
steadiness under fire which the
coming situation might demand.
“The great thing is, take it
easy, don’t panic and think
quick,” he said, outlining their
difficulties after dinner one night.
“The great thing is rum,” said
Feeble, reaching for the bottle.
As usual, they had eaten their
dinner on deck, oh a collapsible
bridge-table, on which they were
served by the smiling, deft
steward, a native named Arnold.
They had eaten in a cloud of
fly-spray, disseminated by two
boys with spray-pumps who kept
at bay the thick clouds of
mosquitoes, of which, however,
at least some were voracious
enough to penetrate the spray,
and hardy enough to bite once
before they died.
“You’re looking a bit worried,
Bert,” Feeble continued conver-
sationally. “It’s only another
patrol.”
“I am worried,” Adams
admitted. “The Wagidi have
been fought off so often that it’s
getting to be a habit. The war
was no good to them. They
didn’t see much of it, but none
of the patrol parties that passed
here bothered to dicker with
them. Just fought them off.
And I dare say the Japs did the
same. We .don’t know how many
parties they might have had a
brush with. But the post-war
record isn’t so hot. Four small
expeditions, and three of them
drew fire from the Wagidi, and
all failed to make other
contacts.”
“Let’s give them a miss and
go straight up to the January
River,” Feeble suggested. “No
one will ever know the
difference.” •
“Not much,” Adams grunted.
“With five thousand Wagidi wait-
ing between here and there for
anything that floats. No, we
clean up. We bring back Wagidi
men and make contact with the
women or the show’s a failure.”
“Anything special about these
women?” asked Feeble, raising
one eyebrow.
“Well, no. But we won’t see
a woman on the river until such
time as these people trust us. If
they bring out their women
before we leave, then we can go
back friends. Or at least we can
be fairly sure of finding them
friendly.”
“It’s a pretty universal
behavior-pattern,” young David-
son said earnestly, speaking for
the first time and airing the
anthropology he had learned at
the School of Administration.
“The only behavior-pattern the
Wagidi have shown so far has
a murder-motif,” Adams said.
“It makes vile art.”
AT Sennowi, a village on the
edge of uncontrolled terri-
tory, and therefore the last of
which the houses were built on
the river-bank, visible to all eyes,
they stopped and waited for two
old men who had been expecting
them. They were “lapuns,” that
is to say, they were very old
and very wise. They were naked
except for a flying-fox skin
apiece that they wore instead of
a loincloth. They wore shells in
their ears and their noses, and
bands of opossum-fur about their
heads. They had wrinkled faces
and soft, kindly eyes.
“Hereafter the atmosphere
thickens up,” said Feeble, for the
old men smelt to high heaven.
“You’ve taken your last breath
of fresh air till we get back,” he
said to Davidson. Ignoring him,
Davidson asked Adams: “Why
are we taking them? They’re not
interpreters, are they? I thought
there was no one who could
speak Wagidi.”
“Call them interpreters,”
Adams said. “They claim to talk
Wagidi, but the D.O. says they
can’t get more than a word or
two across. However, it lets the
Wagidi see we are interested in
the people of the river. They
will recognise these two for
Sennowi people, and it might fire
them with an ambition to come
along for the ride themselves.
You can never tell. Got to play
every card in the pack.”
At midday on the sixteenth
day they came to the bend of the
river where the previous Wagidi
contacts had been made. A
tributary joined the main river
here, and at the junction was a
delta of islands, all crouching
low on the water and all covered
with the wild sugar. The con-
fluence of the waters was wide, a
square mile or more of open
water at the edges of which
currents ran in all directions
amongst the adjacent islands.
The forest lay well back from
the water. There was no sign of
man.
The launch cruised slowly
about the confluence. In four
places the near horizon was
broken by the tracery of bread-
fruit-trees, sure sign of human
habitation ; but in none of these
four instances could the launch
approach the breadfruit groves
because of the tangled mass of
wild sugar. When they cruised
too close the propeller fouled,
and four times in the afternoon
Cliff Feeble sent boys diving to
clear the blades.
When night closed down they
anchored in a backwater where
there was little risk of entangle-
ment with the floating logs of
the main stream and where, too,
the visibility was good.
At the moment of darkness
the drums began, a rolling rever-
beration that leapt up ' at them
from the water, and gave little
clue as to the direction from
which it came. Adams set double
guard of four police-boys, and
saw personally to the ammuni-
tion in their service rifles. Cliff
Feeble supplemented this guard
with two boat-boys, who manned
a searchlight on the roof of the
wheel-house. The drums con-
tinued without a break in
rhythm. There seemed to be
thousands of drums, rolling in


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... .. 2/-
Yearly 22/6
Men who bjow use KONGO
m
mm
m
mm
■
I
m
Not words but deeds have made Mobilco a mighty name. This is ROUGH COUNTRY you
see in this picture . . . hilly, rugged and with plenty of bracken and scrub ... but it's taken
in its stride by Mobilco. See the nice clean cut left by this Mobilco Bush King as it swings
away from a job well done. At the turn of a lever the blade will be vertical and the
operator ready to go on with a quick job of cross cutting without wasting a minute. This
is the machine for you . . . Because of its clean-cut, lightweight, rugged, commonsense
construction . . . Because of its true 7 BHP, air cooled, 4-stroke engine . . . Because of its
patented swivel chassis design which prevents jamming in rough country (blade swings
through the cut but wheels don't move) . . . Because it is the basis of a clearing, timber
getting, fencing system (Mobilco's 'quick-change-in-the-Bush' Attachments include Drag Saw,
Cross-cutting Bench, Ripping Bench, Ripping Leg, Post Hole Digger and Electric Post Borer
... available whenever you want them to fit to your Mobilco in a matter of minutes). Yes
Mobilco has all you want plus a six months' guarantee and handy easy-to-arrange time
payment for those who want to pay as they earn.
If you don't know of a Mobilco in your own district write to us straight away and
we'll tell you where you can see one really earning its living . . . and it won't be far
away from you no matter where you live.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS - ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
MOBIICO
like thunder, and like thunder
sounding, now near, now far
away.
THE searchlight circled the
launch and picked up,
amongst the roots of the sugar,
the brilliance of red reflectors,
in closely-set pairs. There were
dozens of these pairs of red
lamps, all on a level at the
surface of the water. None of
them moved while the light was
on them, but sometimes, when it
had switched and then come back
again, the lamps were in a
different place.
“Crocodiles,” said Adams.
“I’m going to have a go at
them,” Feeble said. He was
fondling his own rifle, another
service model.
“No you don’t,” Adams said.
“The Wagidi know that sound
too well. From now on, and
while we’re here, every shot fired
from this launch must kill a man.
No bluffing, no wounding and no
misunderstanding about shooting
crocodiles. And, I hope to God,
.no shots fired at all.”
Adams woke frequently that
night from his sleep under the
mosquito-net on deck, where he
was surrounded by the brown,
uncovered bodies of the boys,
and each time the drums were
unending and unaltered. In the
morning they still throbbed, and
Adams felt his head throb with
them. But the guards reported
nothing in the night, and the
morning fight disclosed nothing.
All that day they cruised
slowly about the mudbanks. In
the afternoon a canoe emerged
from the reeds a long way from
the launch, with four men stand-
ing in it. They were visible only
a minute; then the canoe
vanished in the reeds again. The
launch sped to the spot, but
there was nothing. One of the
lapun men from Sennowi grasped
Adams by the arm and pointed.
Adams saw a tiny movement in
a tree standing back amongst the
sugar. It could have been a bird
or an opossum. Because of the
lapun, Adams knew it was a
man. The drums were beating
unceasingly and there was a
droning of wooden trumpets.
After he had seen the man in
the tree and understood that he
was under observation, Adams
went round the mudbanks at a
little distance from the back-
water they had used for
anchorage. In the mud of each
he thrust a bush-knife, and
draped over it a length of red
cloth. At the foot of each bush-
knife he set out a mirror, a safety
razor-blade, a pair of fish-hooks.
He did this wherever the launch
could safely approach a bank
close enough for the police-boys
to jump ashore.
That night, because of the
tension, they sat till midnight
round the little table drinking
rum.
“We make a wonderful target,”
Feeble said, and poured himself
a drink. When he went to bed,
Adams slept the night through
and awoke considerably
refreshed in the morning. The
guard reported mysterious splash-
ings in the water fairly close at
hand and attributed the noises
to crocodiles. The gifts set out
on the mudbanks were gone.
Adams waited a few hours,
then set out patiently to replace
the bush-knives and the red
cloth. The launch had just
turned away from the second
little depot when there was a
shout from the police-boys.
Adams looked quickly, and saw
a flash of red disappear amongst
the reeds of wild sugar at the
first place. Immediately they
set back, and he tossed another
knife on to the bank. Nothing
happened there, but a hundred
yards away a canoe prow nosed
into the river. In the canoe an
old, old man stood, grasping the
rim of the wooden shell between
the toes of his right foot and
wielding his paddle hesitantly.
A DAMS ran to the case of
bush-knives and held one
out, grasping „it by the blade,
The old man dipped the paddle,
came a little nearer. Adams
waved the knife and called for a
length of cloth. Basiki ripped a
yard and a half from the roll and
handed it to him. Adams swiftly
wrapped the blade in the cloth,
and the old man paddled a little
closer. He was shouting some
unintelligible monosyllable. The
.wo lapuns from Sennowi village
jumped to the rail alongside
Adams and called. The old man
hesitated again, then in a few
swift strokes he came alongside
and accepted the presents.
“Look!” Feeble called. There
was a buzz of excitement from
the Melanesians aboard. Out of
the sugar, in every direction,
canoes were emerging. There
were dozens of them, each
manned by from one to eight
natives. They were shouting as
they came, paddling furiously
with a peculiar 'motion, swing-
ing sharply from the waist as
they dipped the paddles.
“No more presents,” Adams
called, “Trade only.” He held a
knife high as a native reached
for it, and signalled for the man
to give him his paddle in place
of it. The man held up the
paddle eagerly and Adams
handed down the knife.
Qn board the launch the boat-
boys broached a case of packets
0 f fi s h-hooks and a case of
m i rro rs. They set to work cut-
ting the cloth into lap-lap
lengths and the trading began.
“You’ve got them feeding out
0 £ y Qur h anc i ” Davidson called,
“Take ano her look” Adams
£%*
everv one’s a warrior
S Ihe bottom of the
me L ° U ° m °* **
j n every canoe a f[ re burned
on a shard of pottery near t b e
bow. Every inch of the
remainder of each canoe was
crammed with weapons—bows
and arrows, fish-spears with
twenty points, blade - shaped
canoe-paddles that doubled as
spears. In some were a few toys,
spinning-tops and carvings,
Some carried a little food and
some had garden implements,
stone-adzes, hafted in wicker-
work. But nearly every canoe
was crammed with lethal
weapons which the launch’s crew
was now buying rapidly.
“I think we made it,” Feeble
shouted happily, but at that
moment there was a cry from up
forward. One of the crew had
found a native’s arm investigat-
ing a porthole. Adams suddenly
thought of his military position.
“Get them all round the port-
side,” he called. It was hard to
hear his voice above the din.
“No trading on the starboard-
side, and no trading at all until
they come round. And, Jeff,
count the heads. I’ll take a
count myself.”
By signs they encouraged the
wild men to go round the port-
side of the launch. Here they
laid up the canoes side by side
and dropped their feathered and
ornamented paddles at right-
angles across the narrow hulls,
making a floating platform
alongside the launch. The men
were all excitedly bidding for
trade now, making cutting
motions with a hand against the
crook of the Other arm to
indicate a bush-knife, putting a
finger inside their mouths to
imitate a fish-hook.
“Eight-hundred I make it, as
near as dammit,” Jeff Davidson
said.
“Two - hundred - and - twenty
canoes,” supplemented Adams,
“They know what steel is, any-
way. Let’s try them with salt.”
TTE had a bag of salt brought
up and distributed it in
handfuls. The men tasted it,
threw it in the river or the fires.
“The first crowd I’ve ever seen
that didn’t value salt,” Feeble
said.
They were ugly - looking
customers. They were short,
with skinny legs, but magnificent
arms and chests. Threequarters
of them were suffering from the
skin disease called grillss, an
exaggerated tinea that gave them
scales like crocodiles. Many of
them had elephantiasis. All
were stark naked, except that
they wore daggers of bone in
their arm-bracelets and braided
lockets about their necks, and
talismans and decorations
wherever they could hang them.
One man wore a breast-plate of
pigs’ tusks. Others wore cowrie
shells, and Adams noticed that
many of the elders, men about
thirty to forty, wore four of these
in a curiously flower-like pattern
*on the point of the nose. One
man wore a breast-plate of
o Continued on next page)


Is your mind
in mothballs?
True top limits of intelli-
gence are probably fixed at
birth but science is discover-
ing that most of us never use
half the mental resources we
are born with. All of us live at
a lower mental level than we
need to.
July Reader’s Digest tells
what recent studies reveal
about the mysterious workings
of the mind. (Did you know
scientists now believe it may
be possible to learn while we
sleep?)
Read six ways you can
stretch your mental powers.
July Reader’s Digest brings
you this and 28 other stimulat-
ing articles condensed from the
world’s leading magazines and
books. 1/6 at all newsagents
and bookstalls.
flashing blue wings of the king-
fisher, and one had a long tail
of bright-green and white and
black feathers spaced out in
blocks to form a simple design,
Some of the ten-foot paddles
were decorated with red and
yellow parrot-feathers, some with
the feathers of the white
cockatoo and the black hornbill.
Adams avoided buying the
feathered paddles, because he
watched the canoe-men clean
their hands and their mouths and
their noses on them. The smell
of humanity in the raw—the
rankest animal smell on earth—
was all-pervasive, in spite of the
acrid honesty of wood-smoke
that drifted over the scene from
the fires in the canoes.
When there was a lull in the
shouting, Adams bedame §ud-
denly aware that the beating of
the drums and the braying of
the wooden trumpets had ceased,
Now the trading was in the
hands of the crews, and Adams,
with the help of the two lapun
men from Sennowi, tried to talk
to the leaders of the men in the
canoes. “Tell them we want to
see the village,” he said again
and again, and pointed
repeatedly to the breadfruit-trees
behind the swamp that
undoubtedly concealed a habita-
tion of some sort. He called
little Tomkins to him, and stood
with his hand on the boy’s
shoulder, trying to be oblivious
of the fact that the boy, with a
couple of fish-hooks in his
possession, was trading like an
oldster.
Opposing Adams, the initiative
seemed to be all in the hands of
one of the tnen, standing in a
canoe by himself; a huge fellow
with a clean skin and a curiously
Semitic appearance which was
enhanced by the way he wore his
hair, shaved back to the crown
and thence hanging in ringlets
round the back of his neck.
Feeble had already christened
him Tracy, ufter a comic-strip
character of his acquaintance to
whom the chief bore no other
resemblance than in the slowness
of his reactions.
Chief Tracy at last appeared
to accept the meaning of what
he was told. He shouted
volubly, pointed to the bread-
fruit-trees, then again far to the
south, then traced the passage of
the sun across the sky. Two or
three of the others looked up at
his shouts and some of them
began to echo his words.
A lapun reached out his skinny
hand and touched Adams on
the arm. The other was barter-
ing the shells from his ears for
a necklace of dogs’ teeth and
apparently had lost interest., But
the first one said “Tomorrow,
We see the village tomorrow.”
Adams had already come to
the same interpretation, and
with it he had to be content. He
was worried, now, as to whether
he could disperse the wild natives
before nightfall; but, with the
sun still above the horizon there
was the vibrant bray of a wooden
trumpet, resembling in its note
the sound of a conch-shell; and
the canoes shot away from the
launch as though their occupants
were following a military signal,
In seconds the river was empty
again. There was no sign any-
where of the Wagidi.
T ONG before morning-light
•*-' the sounds of men dicker-
ing with the watch brought
Adams from under the blanket,
He spoke sharply to the police-
boys, telling them to send the
tribesmen away ; but found that
was impossible. The trading
went on with the greatest of
enthusiasm. One of the canoe-
men pointed to a puckered scar
on his chest and another on his
arm that were undoubtedly
bullet-wounds.
Adams seized on the gesture
immediately. He had one of the
Tami Islanders lie down to
imitate a dead man and asked in
mime “How many?”
“What the hell are you
doing?” asked Feeble.
“I want to know how many
Wagidi have been shot. I want
them to talk about it, to us. They
are less inclined to do anything
else about it if they talk,” Adams
told him.
The man with the healed
wounds was making motions,
but if they referred to men killed
there were indeed a great many.
Hastily, Adams offered him some
trade.
Late in the morning, when the
sun had come to a good height,
Chief Tracy, the leader to whom
Adams had spoken on the
previous day, came back, and
signalled for the launch to follow
his canoe. He seemed to have
some understanding of the
draught of the launch and kept
to open water. They followed
him along narrow tortuous
channels for several miles, and
finally came to a place where a
great pond opened out on the
edge of forest.
In the water, four large houses
stood on piles. At a distance of
perhaps sixty feet from the
nearest house, big floating tree-
trunks had been lashed one to
another with lawyer-vines in
such a way that they formed a
great log boom about the village.
Within this boom, and leading
from it to the doorway of the
nearest house, a huge log was
moored. Elsewhere in the pond
were floating pigsties, strong
houses on solid rafts that could
defy the crocodiles.
But there were no pigs in the
sties, no people in the houses.
There were no children and no
dogs.
Adams looked his disappoint-
ment.
The Semitic man he called
Tracy was gesticulating at the
houses, looking pleased. He
brought his canoe to the side of
the launch and signalled Adams
to get in. Adams looked him
straight in the eye and talked as
though to him, but loudly for
the benefit of the others in the
launch.
He said “Well, we’ve been
sold a pup. This is a supple-
mentary village and they cleared
out the women before they
showed it to us. It could be a
trap. Tracy here wants me to
go ashore and I’ll have to show
some trust in him and go. Jeff,
come with me. While I go inside
the huts stay outside where you
can watch me and Cliff at the
same time. Cliff, keep us both
covered, and keep all the canoes
between you and the huts. None
at the rail or behind you. Jeff,
if your Webley isn’t loaded go
below and load it out of sight.
That’s about all, except for
God’s sake no shooting.”
He climbed over the rail and
sat himself squarely in the middle
of the canoe. Tracy shouted,
and set off for the boom with
enthusiastic strokes. Jeff
Davidson signalled another canoe
over and got into it. Already
dozens of men were crowding
over the log boom, pulling their
canoes into the pond, penetrating
the huts.
ARRIVED at the boom, Tracy
held his canoe off a little and
harangued the people. He spoke
at length, and in the meantime
the canoe carrying Davidson
came to the boom, was pulled
over with the patrol-officer still
seated in it, and was taken to the
doorway of the nearest hut.
Adams scented treachery, and
his spirits fell with every word
the man uttered. Yet he himself
could have acted in no other
wise. Had he refused to look
at the village on the grounds that
no women and children were
there, he would have laid his
motives open to suspicion. For
these men, as every other race
of men, held that their own
women were the most desirable
on earth. And now the expedi-
tion to the empty houses looked
inescapably like an attempt —and
a successful one —to divide the
forces on the launch.
No river-man would allow
himself to be seated in a canoe.
Sitting was for women and
children and the very old; and
not for warriors, who preferred
to maintain a standing balance in
these trickiest of all craft. In
that moment, sitting in the canoe
by the log boom, Adams under-
stood the strong psychology
behind the tradition. He felt
overawed by the orator tower-
ing above him, for orator the
man was. The chief’s muscles
tightened visibly as he clenched
and knotted his words into a
fabric of meaning. What was the
design of the fabric? Adams
wished he knew. If these were,
as they seemed, the words of
sovereignty, then, Adams felt,
this was the end. He envisaged,
quite clearly and calmly, another
expedition sent out to recover
his bones and ascertain his fate.
From a rapid calculation he
could estimate that at least five
hundred warriors, fully armed,
had accompanied the launch to
these empty houses, these
deserted hunting-lodges on the
backwater. In addition there
could be greater numbers con-
cealed in the forest. Treachery
was in the air, as it was in the
tradition of the Wagidi.
Adams felt, secretly and
rather nervously, for the big ser-
vice Webley in the pocket of his
shorts. Its weight was reassuring
when he hunched his right
shoulder, yet he knew the re-
volver could do little for him.
Its use would serve only to
quicken keener deceptions, prac-
tised a little more cleverly by
the tribes-people when next the
white men essayed the naviga-
tion of the upper-river.
At that moment, indeed, all
three white men had their per-
ceptions quickened by the
minutes of suspense, and all
three of them thought accord-
ing to their natures. Adams
thought of those coming after
him. In addition he consciously
measured the distance to the
launch, trying to estimate his
ability to swim to it underwater
if the need should arise ; in his
imagination counting the num-
ber of strokes, the number of
brief appearances for air he must
make, the way he must swim to
the other side so that he could
clamber aboard sheltered from
arrows in showers.
On the launch itself Feeble felt
the tension growing out of the
incomprehensible Wagidi words.
He was the practical man, the
man who did things. He had
brought the launch upriver, and,
by all the oaths he could muster,
he would take it down again.. It
was nothing to him that this or
that great purpose should be de-
feated in the detail of achieve-
ment. It was his task to run the
launch, to look after his own
skin, and to see his friends right.
VARIOUS VERSE
THE GOLDEN TROUT
Once 1 sleeping in the hills
Flung one arm out, scratched the moon;
Got the gold beneath my nails
And on my finger-tips in scales.
I woke and plucked a dog-rose thorn,
Cleaned the stuff beneath my nails,
Found the way to a little creek,
Broke the water to the sands
And scrubbed the gold-flakes off my hands.
Some weeks later down the creek
I saw a gleaming in a crack
And in the gravel in a pool
Formed there by a water-whirl.
Eagerly I tried a wash
And when I’d nearly panned it out
Something flapped within the dish.
I had caught a golden trout
And its eyes were two half-moons
Throwing light of several suns.
I took a broad sharp knife to kill.
The blade gapped blunt and would not cut
So I hooked the fish beneath the gills
And bore it to a little ledge
Where in an overhanging rock
A dusty sunbeam pierced a crack.
By head and tail with mighty strength
I seized that fish and down the length
Of the burning sun-ray sliced its head.
It dropped to ground. The awful light
Shining from its eyes went out.
The flapping ceased, the fish was dead.
I scaled it clean and gutted it
And took it home in joyful haste;
Put it in a copper dish
Bubbling hot with golden wine,
Sprinkled cheese and bread-crumbs over,
Covered it and set it baking.
In fifteen minutes it was done,
A rich and wholesome savory blend
Of fish, wine, cheese and crumbs.
I ran with it to my dearest friend,
Wildly knocked upon her door.
"See what I’ve brought you. Take and
eat
This that came of wonderment.
It holds what few have ever known,
All the savors wind-blown
From the earth to a hidden sky.
It drew its size from sunny days
And fed by night in moony ways.
Beauty, joy and all are there
Filtered from the brisk clean air
That dances over mountain tops
By its huge and waving gills.”
Cautiously she raised the lid;
A hundred secret odors fled;
Then fearfully she closed it firm.
“It interests me, yet I do not dare
Taste what seems so strange and rare.
This comfortable happy life would end
And I’d be driven I don’t know where
By what I do not understand."
It is sorrow to find a friend has failed.
I fed it to a mongrel dog
That scratched in an upturned garbage-
can.
Now he wanders unquiet and alone
For he knows what never a dog has known
And ever must seek who chn understand
What it is he has found.
In.s.w.
ERIC C. ROLLS.
AFTERNOON DRIVE
Fleet road and flowing river:
it is that time of day
when autumn, the solace giver,
soothes summer’s anger away.
It is that time of living
when thoughts lie still in the mind
as water pebbles, giving •
mere shadows in the wind;
a time of dream beyond meaning,
of song without voice—concord
of sounds from the senses gleaning
from speed without form or word.
Let us go onward blending
and borne with the ceaseless spate,
part of the dream, unending,
lulled and inviolate.
n.s.w.
E. NORMAN.
TWO TRINITIES
“Are you ready?” soul said again
smiling deep in the dark
where mind and I live passionately
grain rasping across grain
in a strangled question-mark
—or so we have lived lately.
I looked through the hollow keyhole
at my wife not young any more
with my signature on her forehead
and her spirit hers and whole
unsigned by me—as before
we knew each other, and wed.
I looked at my grown daughter
cool and contained as a flower
whose bees I shall not be among—
vivid as white spring water
full of sea-seeking power
like the first phrases of a song.
I looked at my son, and wept
in my mouth’s cave to see
the seed ready for sowing
and the harvests unready to be
reaped
green fruit shocked from the tree,
the bird killed on the wing.
“Well?” soul said and I said
Mind and I are at one
to go with you now—finally
joined now to be led—
for our place here is gone:
we are not among those three.
Soul said "Now come with me.”
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
CHRISTMAS TREE
He wished to hang her branches
For his own delight
With silver gauds and baubles
And blown glass bubbles, white
And clear as rain-clean sky. He said:
“Let good true men who pass
Know I have spent my last sixpence
On gay shining glass!”
She stood while he decked her
With bright transparent toys;
He wound her round with tinsel
And many wandering boys
Came by to see the wonder.
“Stand off, lads, and admire,”
He’d say: “But do not touch the tree,
The tree burns with my fire.”
For any inquisitive wind
The metal bells would tinkle.
If storms hid the daylight
Still the glitter would twinkle.
But when he tired of his plaything
Tarnish and rust were there
And rot to perish ribbons;
Soon, soon each branch was bare.
The boys came near and nearer
They tested every limb
Finding her kind and sturdy,
Safe and good to climb.
No leaves would grow where the glass
flames
Had charred too scorchingly
But clambering boys re-decorate
Her new simplicity.
n.s.w,
NANCY KEESING.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
6i x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Missing Friend
IF WILLIAM HUDSON, formerly of
Opotiki, N.Z., of Maori race, aged about
42, last heard from over 20 years ago,
then working on a sugar plantation in
Queensland, will communicate with s the
undersigned he will hear of something to
his advantage. Friends are requested to
bring this advertisement to his notice,
and anyone knowing his whereabouts or
of his death is requested to write
A. G. T. BRYAN, Solicitor, Thames, N.Z.
LIGHTING
PLANTS
Brilliant light at the press of a button
with AMPLITE Home Lighting Units.
12 Volt 300 Watt, 32 Volt 400 Watt,
£B9/10/0 ; 32 Volt 750 Watt, £142/10/0
Ideal for Forms, Caravans, Boats, Camps,
Battery Charging, etc.
(A'ASIA)
ANPUOP
88 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
He moved amongst the police-
boys, seeing that their rifles were
in shape, but there was little
need for that. They were a
picked team. He buckled on his
own revolver in its holster,
brought out the service rifle he
used for crocodiles; and after a
moment added the rifles belong-
ing to Adams and Davidson to
his arsenal,
pHIEF TRACY was stiff talk-
ing.
At the door of the hut David-
son had his attention divided.
He was hemmed in arid sur-
rounded by primeval man, and
primeval man was taking him-
self seriously. In addition,
Davidson was suffering acute
physical embarrassment. Prob-
ing fingers were investigating his
skin, to see that it was not
painted. They were feeling be-
low his clothes, to ascertain that
he was builded after their own
image and substance. They
pulled at his hair, prodded at
his back. It took little imagina-
tion to feel that those fingers
were estimating the amount of
meat he would provide for the
victory feast.
So close was primeval man,
Davidson could hardly move.
He made the effort, as a kind of
check to see how quickly he
could produce his useless re-
volver, carried, like Adams’s, in
the pocket of his shorts. He
sought in the other pocket and
produced, with some difficulty,
cigarettes and matches, and lit
a smoke. On an impulse he
handed the lighted cigarette to
the man next him. The man
drew deeply on it, then passed
it on. The faces about him were
suffused with delight, as though
a movie-director had commanded
the emotion.
Amongst them were faces
which, but for the fashion of
half-shaven head and drooping
ringlets, closely resembled many
he reriiembered having seen on
city streets. It seemed to him
that these were people he knew,
for all that they smelt horribly
of dead opossums and rancid
humans. They"'were probably
men with reputations for kind-
ness, for cruelty, for greed, for
thoughtfulness. Some of them,
like the talking chief, possessed
a capacity for oratory; some,
probably, had a sound
philosophy, and some a sense of
humor.
A sense of humor? David-
son brought himself back to the
present with a jerk. This was a
hell of a fine time to be thinking
of a sense of humor. This was a
moment of drama, such as he
might never see again. And if
they got through this —
And at that moment the Chief
Tracy threw his hands in the
air, having arrived, apparently,
at the end of his speech, and
having, Davidson thought, prob-
ably decided the fate of the white
strangers.
He looked about him for a
tightening of hands on weapons,
but there was none. The men
stood impassively, thronging
about him, except for those still
passing his cigarette-end from
one to another. He lit another
cigarette, and a third, and
started them on their travels.
The chief was, climbing up
on the boom, extending a hand
to Adams, shouting to the
natives on the anchored log,
obviously telling them to make
a way. The white-man took a
step along the log, and it rolled
heavily in the water and he lost
his balance. In that instant the
chief, behind Adams, gripped
“You're a rotten shot!"
him high up on both forearms,
and held the limbs close against
his back, making it impossible
for him, if he wanted, to draw
the revolver from his pocket.
It could have been to save him
from the water. It could have
been to hold him prisoner.
So in that same instant the
police-boys sighted along their
rifles, tensed and ready against
this quickening emergency. On
such a tiny peg hostilities hang
their beginnings.
They would hold their fire
until they were ordered. But
Cliff Feeble also had reached for
his gun and was bringing it to
his shoulder. Adams saw it, and
he saw also the irresistibility of
the impulse which would hold
Feeble to his intent until he had
pressed the trigger. This was
the end, Adams thought, and he
threw himself sideways into the
water just as he heard the sound
of the shot.
He heard something else, too.
He heard the sound of loud and
raucous laughter,
WITH him went Chief Tracy,
and thereby saved himself
from Feeble’s bullet. Under-
water the chief still held Adams
tight, and he surfaced as quickly
as he could. The water was only
neck-deep; but it was not until
both their heads were clear that
the chief let him go. They stood
in astonishment. All the natives
were in a state of arrested move-
ment. Only Davidson was
laughing. He was laughing like
a circus-clown, bending himself
double, throwing his arms
about, making all the noise he
could.
Then from the launch came
another cry. Basiki was balanc-
ing on the rail with his back to
the river, waving his arms wildly
like the wings of a crowing
cock. He balanced only a
second and then fell in, flat,
spreadeagled on the water on his
back and sending a splash up all
over the boat. Then, at that
sight, the natives clustered round
the huts began to laugh, and
Adams knew the situation had
freed itself.
He waded to the hut; and as
Davidson extended a hand to
help him up he said “Thank God
you’ve got a sense of humor,”
Davidson answered “I never
felt less like laughing in my
life.”
The inspection of the huts was
anticlimax. There were huge
baked clay-pots made like
Roman wine-jars on a pointed
base so that they could not stand
by themselves. There were
tubular sleeping-bags woven
from grass so finely as to be
mosquito-proof. There were flat
clay fireplaces and sago-basins
folded out of palm-sheaths, and
flails and a betel-mortar, and a
variety of household objects.
Davidson stood guard at the
doorway while Adams looked at
these things, and later Adams
stood guard for Davidson. He
was still shaken by the moment
on the log.
They stayed at their first moor-
ings amongst the Wagidi two
days, but they made no advance
on their relationship. Some-
where beyond the sugar,
amongst the breadfruit-trees
they knew there were villages
with women and children ; but
these stayed hidden and the
villages stayed secret. From the
launch they could not even hear
the crowing of cocks, the bark-
ing of dogs, the squealing of
pigs.
CO they left the Wagidi and
went on up to the January
River. There were no people
here. The villages that explorers
had reported were gone. There
was no sign of life. They investi-
gated a line of breadfruit-trees,
and there had been houses there,
but they were fallen down and
decayed.
But fifty miles further up they
found the Arodinis. By an
incredible piece of luck one of
the lapun men from Sennowi
could speak some words of the
language, and he easily per-
suaded ten of the young men to
ship aboard the launch.
Indeed, he persuaded more,
but Adams culled the group
severely. He turned down all
the men who looked weak, all
who had bad grillae or ele-
phantiasis, all who had open
sores of any magnitude. When
he got his recruits aboard the
police-boys ripped off their
ornaments, shaved their hair,
scrubbed them with stiff brushes
and wrapped them about with
clean lap-laps. The bush-boys
were delighted. They had no
words to tell their pleasure, but
they lined up again and again
near the bucket and the scrub-
bing-brushes.
“Well, we got something to
show,” Davidson said.
“It doesn’t solve the main
problem, though,” Adams com-
mented. “The Wagidi still con-
trol the river, and we have
neither their friendship nor their
confidence.”
“Are you going to contact
them on the way down?”
Davidson asked.
“I suppose so. It doesn’t
seem much use.”
On the deck aft Basiki was
holding school. He had lined
up all the hew natives and was
teaching them pidgin-English.
He caught one by the hair.
“Girass,” he said. He poked a
finger gently at his eye. “Heye.”
Tapped him on the nose—
“ Noose.” Put a finger in his
mouth —“Maus.” Then like a
choirmaster he set them all to
repeating—“Girass, heye, noose,
maus.”
Two days later they discovered
that the strange noises had mean-
ing, and from then on their edu-
cation proceeded rapidly.
Anchored again off the
Wagidi confluence, Adams
waited for the tribesmen to
appear. When the canoes began
to emerge from the sugar he
groaned.
“Warriors still,” he said.
“Look at them. No women.
Some day people will sail this
river and find the villages on the
river-bank and kids playing.
Some day it will be safe for
them to live in the open.”
The Chief Tracy was in a
canoe with a youngster of
eighteen years or so. He was
looking open-mouthed at the ten
new recruits, who stood in a
block aft, visibly frightened, for
these were their hereditary
enemies, and obviously very
well known to them by sight. The
boy spoke rapidly to the chief,
his father, and called out to the
Arodini, but they didn’t answer.
Father and son paddled rapidly
to the side of the launch, where,
abandoning his paddle, the
youngster sprang on deck.
Feeble shouted, and one of the
police-boys made a move to-
wards the youngster, but Adams
held up his hand. The youngster
addressed himself to the canoes,
and launched into a speech as
eloquent as his father’s had
been.
He spoke at length, then sud-
denly he walked to the rail, took
the carved dagger from his
bracelet and handed it to his
father. He slipped a necklace
of dog’s-teeth from his neck and
handed that down. He stripped
himself of every adornment until
he stood bare and naked on the
deck.
“He’s recruited himself,” said
Feeble.
had done more than that.
As soon as Adams realised
the youth’s intent he gave him
presents-—a bushknife and a
mirror—and signified he should
give them to his father. Then
the police-boys wrapped the lad
in a lap-lap. Immediately there
was a rush of youngsters from
the other canoes. Adams selected
ten of them and signified that
that was all.
And now the father of the
boy, standing alone in his canoe,
turned towards the waste of
sugarcane and called, his voice
high. There was an answering
call, far and faint.
Adams said “Well, let’s get on
our way before they change their
minds.”
The Tami Islanders went for-
ward to the anchor, and the boy
followed them, curiously. When
he saw what they were about he
ran back to Adams, gesticulat-
ing. It was obvious he didn’t
want the launch to sail, and
Adams indulged him, wonder-
ing.
“I’ll give you twenty minutes.
Then we sail,” he said- to the
uncomprehending youth.
Just as the twenty minutes
were up another canoe pushed
out of the sugarcane with two
seated figures. They were
women, rather elderly and
nearly naked. They pulled quite
fearlessly up to the starboard
side of the launch, which
Adams had kept clear, and the
youth went to the rail and talked
to them.
One of them looked up at
Adams, pointed to the boy and
then cupped her breast, telling
him clearly that this was her
baby.
“All right, mother,” he said.
“I’ll look *after him.”
She smiled as though she
understood this perfectly, and
presently she reached into the
canoe and took a singed bird
from the fire in the pot at the
bow and gave it to the boy. He
accepted it absently and bit into
it as he talked. Adams went
below and found a bead bangle
and a handful of loose beads and
a couple of mirrors and a packet
of razor-blades and handed them
to the two old women. Then he
gave the signal to the Tami
Islanders and the boat moved
into the stream.
IN the evening Adams went up
to the bow where Feeble was
sitting, looking for a good
anchorage.
“Well, the D.O. will be
pleased. Successful trip,” he
said,
“It wasn’t my doing,” Feeble
said gloomily. “We might have
been still back there, the lot of
us. I’m sorry about that shot.
I really thought we were for it.”
“Don’t worry about it,”
Adams said. “It was the judg-
ment of a moment. It’s a damn’
good job young Davidson had
his wits about him. Laughing’s
the last thing I’d have thought
of. But it turned out for the
best in the end. When you come
to think of it, we all tackled it
different ways—you shot, I got
out from under and Davidson
laughed. And the laughing
won.”
From the after-deck came the
chorus of Basiki’s school.
“Girass, noose, heye, maus.”
the boys chanted. “Han, foot,
finga.”
“Basiki’s a good lad, too,”
said Adams.
“I thought he’d gone mad
when he jumped off that rail,”
Feeble answered. “He had his
wits about him,” He paused
awhile. “We’ll make Sennowi
day after tomorrow,” he said.
“Civilisation four days later.
There must be a five-knot
current in this river.”
Adams laughed. “Oh, civi-
lisation’s a lot closer than it
was,” he said.
The river swept them along.


The Cornet
By JUDITH
WRIGHT
WIRTH was named for
the circus, which had
set-up in the town the
night he was born, and
gone on the next day, taking his
father with it. His father, an
ex-prelim, boy whose hand had
been broken in a fight, had been
out of work a long time, and
was not much loss to his wife
and the baby ; but he was senti-
mental about them still, though
Wirth was now over fourteen. It
was he who had sent v Wirth the
cornet.
How his father had got hold
of it, Wirth did not trouble his
head. There was a report that
the old man was acting as
chucker-out to a fan-tan house
in Townsville; he might have
been given the cornet as a bribe,
stolen it, or even found it on a
dump. But, apart from a few
dents, the cornet was still
perfectly good.
Wirth had polished it again
and again until it shone, pressed
out the dents as, best he could
and now worshipped it as a god
Indeed, hanging on the rough
timber wall in the darkness of
his lean-to room, whose window-
space was shuttered only with
the cave-gloom of the bougain-
villea stems that rioted over the
shack, fountaining with thorny
magenta that silenced the blue
of the sea, the cornet shone
golden as an image of a god or
of the sun.
Wirth kept a rag beside a
bottle of polish, taken by his
mother from the hotel where she
worked as a housemaid; before
he left for school every morning
he polished the cornet until his
fingers ached, played a few notes
and hung it back against the
wall. All day it illuminated the
back of his thoughts.
The bandmaster of the local
Salvation Army had taught him
how to play it. Now he could
pick out almost any tune he
heard, carefully and slowly at
first, sitting on the grey blanket
on his bunk and staring at the
stems of the bougainvillea press-
ing in through the window-
space, but without seeing any-
thing at all, except when he
lowered his eyes to his fingers
moving on the valves.
Because of the cornet, he had
been asked last year to join the
Scouts’ band. The rest of the
band consisted of mouth-
organs, a banjo, a few jews’-
harps and one accordeon; the
cornet was unique, enviable, the
only instrument that might have
made part of a real grown-up
band. Wirth, through its influ-
ence, became himself influential.
He was accepted, part of the
school’s community, a nigger no
longer.
■OUT today he sat in his room,
pondering on his sandshoes.
They were broken at the toes,
being by now a great deal too
small; also, old as they were,
they had never been whitened,
and to clean them now seemed
a task beyond him.
He would have to wear them,
for it was the end of the year,
and the Scouts’ band was to sit
on the platform at prize-giving,
and to play, accompanied by
Miss Gittings on the tinny piano,
while the youngest children
danced to the tune of the “Teddy
Bears’ Picnic”; and later they
were to be allowed to finish the
proceedings with “God Save the
Queen.” The band had been
practising these tunes until it
could play them in its sleep.
They were to sit at the very
back of the platform, certainly;
but that would not be far enough
back to prevent Veronica
Fawkes from seeing quite clearly
that, whereas all the other boys
had shoes for State occasions,
Wirth still wore his busted sand-
shoes. TTiey were not very
noticeable at ordinary times,
when everyone wore old sand-
shoes or sandals or no shoes at
all; but today was a different
matter. Vronnie herself, being
the daughter of Jim Fawkes, who
worked on the railway (a real
good job, everyone said, con-
sidering Jim had married a girl
who was practically a half-
caste), would have not merely
shoes, but probably socks as
well.
He had tried the effect of
metal polish on the back of the
sandshoes, but it did not work;
he had to wash them under the
tap and leave it at that. But he
turned his attention to the
cornet; he had given it a good
cleaning yesterday, but now he
could not help polishing it again.
Into the lovely brassy curve of
the trumpet his whole room
fitted, small and distorted ; the
timber bunk, the old card-table,
the nails on the wall where his
clothes hung, the nautilus-shell
which was his second-greatest
possession ; and Wirth himself,
a huge dark hand with a rag in
it and behind it a comically
inhuman face reduced to spread-
ing nose and mouth and intent
eyes, without chin or forehead.
Wirth shot out of his clothes
at every possible point, like a
young tree out of a tree-guard
much too small for it. His wrists
stretched six inches from the
cuff of his only long-sleeved
shirt, the collar-button would not
reach the buttonhole, the old
khaki shorts of his Scout uniform
seemed to perch on the extreme
top of his thin length of legs.
He was his mother’s despair in
the matter of clothes.
“Never mind, Mumma,” he
had said. “I’m nearly fourteen ;
I’ll leave school and go cane-
cutting, and get money enough
to buy you clothes, too.” But
his mother had been against this.
She wanted to get him appren-
ticed down at the engineering
works, and was determined to
manage it against all odds.
“You’re as clever as any of
the other boys. What you want
to go cane-cutting for? They’d
take you on down at the works
and there’s your future. Nothing
in cane-cutting.”
“Not enough money at the
works, Mumma.”
“Ah, money. As if I can’t
keep you a year or two longer.
They pay me real good down
at the hotel. And Mrs. Effley she
says I’m the best cleaner she’s
got. I ain’t the retiring-age yet
a while.” And between
Mumma’s persuasion, and the
prestige of the cornet, Wirth had
stayed at school until the end of
the year.
His mother had an hour off
for the prize-giving. Mrs.
Effley had given her a hat, as
well, and she sat on the veranda
now with scissors and needle
altering it, and slapping now and
then at the mosquitoes that came
in out of the shelter of the
bougainvillea. The old wicker
chair, mould - spotted and
propped with a piece of fire-
wood at one side, was scattered
with scraps of old ribbon and
material as she snipped and tied.
She tried the hat on now, as
Wirth came out and looked at
him with her head on one side.
“Better this way?”
But she could not make the
hat forget Mrs, Effley, Anyone
would have known it was a cast-
off, Wirth felt.
“Take them feathers out and
see if it looks different.”
His mother was cast down.
“It’s the feathers that makes it.
Don’t you like them, Wirth?”
Oh, well, what did it matter
anyway? Wirth went out of the
front fence —the gate no longer
swung on its rusted hinges, but
the fence had two broken panels.
His uniform was clean enough,
and you’d hardly notice the
darns, his mother thought.
/"\UTSIDE the school there was
a small crowd already;
most of the band had arrived,
and Miss Gittings in pink voile,
and the smaller children were
getting a last briefing on the
“Teddy Bears’ Picnic.” Then
there was Mr. Keller, in the
middle of a cluster of the elder
girls and one or two of the boys.
It was the sight of Mr. Keller
that made Wirth slow down as
he walked towards the group.
Mr, Keller was the relieving
head teacher ; he had come a few
weeks ago, when Mr. Hazey was
taken ill. Wirth did not like Mr.
Keller much, but the girls all
said he was wonderful. He had
curly red hair and looked like
somebody on the pictures. There
was Vronnie talking to him
now; and there was Chesty
Harris beside her. Chesty Harris
was the son of the head tech-
nician down at the works; he
was the school’s undisputed
leader in most things, and, like
Wirth, he was leaving school
today.
“Here comes the famous
cornet,” Mr. Keller said as Wirth
lagged up. If Mr. Hazey had
said it, this remark would have
sounded quite different. Mr.
Keller, Wirth felt, made it clear
that Wirth was tolerated only
for the cornet’s sake; and he
was looking straight at the sand-
shoes. There was a slight, very
slight, rustle of exhaled giggles
from the group.
Wirth said quickly “ ’D’after-
noon, Mr. Keller,” and moved
round to the other side of the
crowd.
As he might have expected,
there was Eddie Smith. Eddie,
who played a jews’-harp, was
the only other colored boy in the
band ; he had been allowed in at
the same time as Wirth, in a
generous glow induced also by
the cornet. As a result, he would
follow Wirth around, but three
or four yards behind, because he
knew he was not very welcome.
Eddie smiled, his face turned
bashfully down to the hosed
white sand of the schoolyard,
and put his hand in his pocket
as he always did when he had
anything to offer. “Got a Choc
Foam Bar,” he whispered, and
gave Wirth a large piece.
“Can’t play in the band to-
day,” he went on, encouraged by
Wirth’s silent acceptance. “Lost
my front tooth, see?” He put a
finger ip the gap, and tentatively
rocked another tooth beside it.
“The jews’-harp hurts. But I
got to sit in the front seat. I’m
getting a prize.”
“Yeah?” But Wirth was
listening to the talk on the other
side of the group. Chesty Harris
was top-dog today. He, too, was
going down to the engineering-
works as an apprentice ; and he
had just been asked to join the
town’s second cricket team,
Mr. Keller was playing this
up; Chesty was a bit full of
himself, too. And the girls in
their white hats and cotton
dresses clustered and swayed,
making a background of soft
giggles and exclamations.
Vronnie looked prettier than
any ; she had on her first high-
heeled shoes, red leather with
ankle-straps; they made her
taller than Wirth. She had
scarcely glanced as he passed
her.
A/TR. KELLER and Miss Git-
tings began to marshal them
all in and put them in their
proper places, to wait for the
crowd of parents just beginning
to clot outside the school fence.
Wirth was more uncomfortable
than ever. His seat was a long
way back on the platform, cer-
tainly, but he was just opposite
Vronnie, sitting in the front row
among the other prizewinners,
and his feet, on the level of her
eyes, felt shamefully con-
spicuous.
He set the cornet down care-
fully in front of them, but soon
he would have to pick it up
again. He could see his mother,
too, in the back of the hall, and
the green hat looked as though
Mrs. Effley had pushed it into
the garbage-can before changing
her mind about it.
He was only happy in the
brief intervals when the band
was playing. Though he had
dreaded the moment of picking
up the cornet and exposing the
broken shoes, he quite forgot
them during the “Teddy Bears’
Picnic,” in spite of the fact that
Mr. Keller, as the acting-scout-
master, was conducting the band.
And at “God Save the Queen,”
when Mr. Hamilton had given
all the prizes and all the speeches
were over, he played with such
pious vehemence that the rest of
the band was almost drowned;
the lovely clear metallic notes
climbed up into the space under
the specked fibro ceiling and
seemed to hang there golden and
vibrating like bees. Then the
singing died away abruptly into
a clamor of voices and scraping
of chairs; the children ran to
show their prize books; and
everyone on the platform began
to pour down the steps into the
hall.
Wirth stood to let the rest go ;
brushing past him, they almost
knocked the cornet out of his
hands. His mother had gone
already. He would slip out
unnoticed at the side entrance
and make for home.
But, just ahead of him, Mr.
Keller and Mr. Hamilton had
delayed in some private talk.
Mr. Hamilton was owner and
manager of the engineering
works and town mayor as well.
Wirth had never spoken to him ;
but Mr. Hamilton turned now
and beckoned Wirth over.
“I say,” he said, “young man,
your mother was speaking to me
about you yesterday. (All right,
Keller, you go ahead, I’ll be
along in a minute.) You want to
be an apprentice at the works,
eh? Well, I told her I’d have a
look at you. They tell me you’re
all right with your hands; good
at arithmetic and that?”
“Not so good as Chester
Harris,” Wirth mumbled. He
was so embarrassed at talking to
Mr. Hamilton in so public a
position that he stood with one
foot over the other in a desperate
attempt to hide his shoes.
“Perhaps not; but good
enough, eh? Well, you come
down and see me tomorrow.
We’ll have to go into it; there
are indentures to sign and so on,
you know. But we need two
apprentices, and vou seem the
likeliest man for the second
vacancy; young Harris is com-
ing to us, of course. That’s
right,” he nodded down to Mr.
Keller at the foot of the steps,
“Coming now, Keller; see you
tomorrow, young man. Morn-
ing only, mind; it’s Saturday,
you know.” And he hoisted
himself down the steps to the
impatient Mr. Keller, waiting to
lead him out to the aftemoon-
tea tables.
Wirth hurried out by the side-
door. But there was a crowd
outside; for the cups and
saucers and the tea were on a
trestle tables near the door, and
the prizewinners were waiting to
take round tea to the visitors.
T/RONNIE, standing beside
* Chesty Harris, saw him as
he came out. “I say, what was
Mr. Hamilton Saying to you,
Wirth?”
“Asking me to go down and
see him.”
“Gee, Mr. Hamilton did? See
him about what?”
“Wants me to be an apprentice
down there.” Wirth looked at
Chesty Harris defiantly. He had
not mentioned anything about
his mother’s ambitions at school.
“Well, my God!” Chesty did
not lower his voice, though he
spoke to the boy next him.
“What do you know? Niggers
trying to be engineers. And I’ve
got to put up with him as a
mate. Reckon I’d better go
down south straight away, if
that’s yvhat the works is coming
to.”
“But,” Wirth went on, speak-
ing to Vronnie, “I told him, no,
thanks. I got a better job wait-
ing, twice that lousy money. He
can keep his old apprentice-
ships,”
“Gee, Wirth, you never. What
sort of job?” Vronnie hung
between him and Chesty for a
minute, half-impressed.
“Job up north, Ingham way.
On the canefields.” Wirth wished
he had not said it. Vronnie was
back at Chesty’s side at once.
“Gee, just cane-cutting. Well,
if that’s your taste you can have
it. I don’t suppose Mr. Hamilton
will cry over you long. Give
us that tray, Maise. Gittings’s
got her eye on us, Chesty; we
better get cracking, eh?”
Wirth moved off round the
table. He was a little stunned at
his own words. Well, that had
cooked it for Mumma. Chesty
would pass it on straight away;
Mr. Hamilton would be sure to
hear. What the hell, anyway?
Eddie Smith panted up to the
table for a second tray of cups.
“Where you going, Wirth?
Aren’t you having any cake and
stuff?”
“No thanks, Eddie. Not
hungry. I got to get home.”
“But, Wirth, there’s straw-
berries and ice-cream round
there. I can get you some; wait
a minute.”
“Not for me, thanks.” Wirth
moved off towards the back-gate.
Eddie abandoned his tray.
Something was wrong with
Wirth, he could see. He ran
back to the ice-cream can and
stole a generous quantity of
strawberries as well, though these
were strictly for visitors; he
piled a glass dish and remem-
bered the spoon.
Wirth, outside the gate, stood
a moment uncertainly, putting
the cornet back in its sling.
There would be nothing to do
at home until Mumma got back.
He decided on the beach road;
but a little way down he heard
running feet behind him, and,
turning, saw Eddie with the dish
of ice-cream.
“You got to eat it, Wirth. I
pinched it for you. Gee, you
played wonderful, Wirth. What’s
wrong? Did you hear what that
Vronnie Fawkes said? You
don’t have to listen to her ; she’s
just trying to get Chesty on. the
string. She’d say anything to
get him to look at her.”
“What did Vronnie say? At
the prize-giving, you mean?”
“Aw, I shouldn’t have said. I
thought you must have heard
her, and that was why—l didn’t
mean anything.” Eddie was dis-
tressed. The ice-cream began to
(i Continued on page 30)


Australian Historical Sketches
The Haunted
Expeditions
By M. H. ELLIS
THE most peculiar expedi-
tions of discovery made in
Australia were the two
expeditions of Wilson in
1798 and those of Ensign
Barrallier in 1802. All these
were haunted.
Wilson’s party was sent to the
country south of the Cowpastures
by Governor Hunter in January,
1798. It left Parramatta on
January 14, Mt. Hunter in the
Cowpastures on January 24, and
was back in civilisation by
February 9, in the interval,
according to its own accounts,
apparently having travelled “in a
direction south-west three-
quarters west about 140 miles
from Parramatta.”
David Collins, formerly Judge-
Advocate, summed - up the
'• popular verdict on its perform-
ance : “With respect to the direc-
tion in which they travelled, that
might not be correct, nor can
much reliance be placed on their
judgment of distances. On the
face of the country their account
may be more just.”
Hunter was interested in their
report that they had discovered
a large quantity of salt accessible
to the Cowpastures. He sent
Henry Hacking, formerly
quartermaster of the Sirius, to
confirm this, Wilson, the convict
leader of the first party going
along with a man named Collins
and another unnamed com-
panion.
After they had seen the salt,
Wilson took his companions
(except Hacking, who returned
to Sydney) off on another tour
which seems to have penetrated
farther than the first. It is now
generally accepted, though far
from, certain, that the initial
journey ended somewhere in the
Wombeyan Caves area, prob-
ably near the Burragorang Look-
out, and the second in the
Towrang country further south.
A set of journals describing
these journeys exists. There is no
doubt that the first was prepared
by, or from the information of,
“a lad, a free servant of
Governor Hunter, who was
capable of giving an account
of the occurrences of the
journey.” From “him the fol-
lowing particulars were col-
lected,” according to Collins.
Hunter describes him as “one of
the journalists” of the two
expeditions. And it is because
of him that the expedition has
its ghost, a mythical character
named “Barracks,” whose name
has falsified the records of
libraries for 40 years past.
The haunting came about in
this way: On copying a dispatch
about the Cowpastures written
by Governor King on November
1, 1805, the scribe who produced
the Historical Records of N. S.
Wales in 1895 set down Gov-
ernor King as having written
about the distance from Nepean
Ford to Stonequarry Creek, on
which Picton stands:
Caley makes the distance not
more than 10 miles from the Ford
to the hut; Barracks made it 17....
When the Historical Records
of Australia were produced in
1915 this passage was trans-
cribed straight from the Records
of N. S. Wales without referring
to the original documents. But,
more than that, the editor
annotated it:
BARRACKS: Barracks had arrived
in the Colony with Governor Hunter
as a boy servant. He had accom-
panied John Wilson in his explora-
tions in 1798, and had kept the diary
of those journeys. He returned to
England with Governor Hunter.
There is not a scintilla of
evidence to support this supposi-
tion. Yet from that note the
natural consequences immedi-
ately arose. Everybody (perhaps
naturally) took the matter for
granted. The original journals
of the Wilson expedition, which
are in an official handwriting
familiar to research-workers, and
which rests among the Banks
Papers at the Mitchell Library,
were labelled by somebody
“Barracks’ journals.” Index-
cards sprang up in libraries
under the name of “Barracks.”
Essays were written by historians
and naturalists on the young lad
of that name who had described
the flora and fauna of the south,
including the lyrebird, the
cullawine, like the “stoth” of
America, the wombat, the gang-
gang and numerous botanical
specimens. The Government
even named a creek and some
falls after him—they are on the
maps. The only trouble was that
nobody could ever identify
“Barracks” or find any trace of
a man of that name.
Over nearly forty years all
those who have written lectures,
articles and paragraphs have
done the question of his identity
over with a fine tooth-comb,
omitting only one simple investi-
gation. They have all failed to
look at the original copies of
Governor King’s dispatch on
which the Historical Records of
Australia identified the young
writer of journals as “Barracks.”
There are several copies in the
Mitchell Library—the original
draft in King’s handwriting, the
microfilm of the actual dispatch
now in the Record Office in
London, the office copy from the
Sydney records. And all these
make it clear beyond doubt that
King was not referring to any-
body connected with Wilson’s
expedition. The word which he
wrote was not “Barracks” but
“Barrallier.”
A close examination of the
joiynals of the Wilson party on
its two journeys and of the cir-
cumstances and surrounding
references suggests that the young
servant of Hunter ; went only on
the first journey, and if this is so
it seems from a reference in the
journal covering the second one
that Hunter’s servant was a man
named Price. Nobody named
“Barracks” existed save as the
phantom offspring of a misprint
which has led research-workers
off on a wrong scent, and has
caused the wasting of a lot of
time spent in pursuing and
investigating him in more than
a generation past.
By a strange coincidence, how-
ever, the expeditions of Barrallier,
one of which seems to have
ended almost within sight of the
terminal of the first Wilson
expedition, were also haunted,
this time by royalty.
Barrallier was one of the
strangest characters associated
with exploration in early Aus-
tralia. He and his father, who
was employed as a surveyor by
the Royal Navy, were French
refugees from Toulon. French
was so much his native tongue
that he wrote his journals of
exploration in that language—in
handwriting which, humorously
enough. Governor King, the
worst calligraphist in the world,
cduld not read, though he was
fluent in French.
Young Barrallier was lucky
enough to have as a patron no
less a person than Charles
Greville, father of the diarist,
who begged the Duke of Port-
land to have him appointed
Depqfy Surveyor-General of
N. S. Wales at the age of 26.
But the most he could get for
him was permission to accom-
pany Governor King to the
colony in the Speedy, and on
arrival in April, 1800, there vyas
no difficulty in getting him a
commission as ensign in the New
South Wales Corns, which he
joined on August 14, 1800.
King soon found work for
him. He was sent to survey the
coast from Wilson’s Pro-
montory to Western Port in the
little Lady Nelson with
Lieutenant Grant, R.N., and his
charts of that part of the Aus-
tralian shore are in existence.
He also surveyed Jervis Bay.
He surveyed the Hunter River
mouth and found that that
river was really three and
not just one at the mouth.
He was architect to the
first ship built in Australia,
the Royal George, the keel of
which was laid down on the site
of Patrick’s at 33 Pitt-street,
then on the shores of the Tank
Stream estuary. He became, on
the departure of Captain Edward
Abbott (sent to Norfolk Island
following his part in the
quarrels between Macarthur and
Colonel Paterson), military
engineer and artillery qfficer in
charge of the defences of
Sydney, and he designed and
planned the original Fort Phillip,
scraps of which still exist round
the Sydney Observatory. And
in addition he “voluntarily dis-
charged the duties of colonial
engineer and surveyor to the
advancement of the natural
historv and geography of the
settlement.”
But it was as an explorer that
Barrallier deserves note, even
apart from his work on the coast
of what was to be Victoria and
in the Hunter River. It was late
in 1802 that Governor King
decided to send him to try to
cross the Blue Mountains, but he
found himself faced with a
difficulty. Barrallier was an
officer of the regiment and there-
fore under control of Colonel
Paterson. And poor old Pater-
son, sorely wounded in body by
John Macarthur the year before,
and since that even more sorely
wounded in soul by the quarrels
which he had developed with the
Governor, was also rather
allergic to anybody else going on
major explorations. In that
realm of activity he justly
fancied himself. And thus he
was adamant that Barrallier must
stick to his job. He was needed
by the Army. He must not be
used for civilian operations. He
refused him leave.
Then did King produce the
ghost which haunted the Bar-
rallier expedition. As strategy
always precedes tactics, so vice-
regal duties always take preced-
ence of mere soldierly work.
And King used an expedient so
abnormal and so Gallic and
uncharacteristic of his naval
mind that one may almost cer-
tainly add the invention of it to
Barrallier’s achievements. In a
word the Governor made him
his aide-de-camp, appointed
him an ambassador and
sent him in the name of his
Majesty the King on a mission
to the “King of the Mountains.”
Nobody, of course, knew
whether there was any King of
the Mountains, but this did not
matter. Even Paterson in his
rage could not refuse leave to an
authorised ambassador, and keep
him trapsing round to make
sure that the artillery on Dawes
Point was clean. So off went
Ambassador Barrallier, first and
only of his breed in “Botany
Bay,” the importance of his mis-
sion being marked by the fact
that his retinue consisted of four
convicts, five soldiers and a
bullock-wagon.
His tour was notable in more
ways than one, since he it was
who established the technique of
exploration based on depots,
which became a feature of the
method of many a later expedi-
tion.
He first penetrated the Burra-
gorang Valley through the Cow-
pastures and the Camden-Oaks
approach, and set-up his depot
at a place he called Nattai —it
was on this journey that he
measured the distance from the
Camden Ford (Benkennie or
Belgenny in the early days) to
Stonequarry Creek as mentioned
by King in 1805.
Then he began a second
journey which seems to have
taken him up the northern side
of the valley (climbing Tonalli
Peak on the way), going through
the Byrnes Gap, joining Church
Creek just below the junction
with the Waterfall and the Kow-
mung and running up Christy’s
Creek until he came to the high
falls, now known as Barrallier’s
Falls, issuing from a sheer cliff
of the Kanangra Walls. Had he
been an Englishman this obstacle
would probably have been a
challenge to him to climb, but,
having a Gallic imagination, the
precipice meant insuperable diffi-
culty to him and he turned back.
Had he braved the heights he
would have found himself in an
hour or two on the Kanangra
Plateau. Then a day’s or per-
haps a morning’s travel would
have seen him over the range
near Oberon. And Blaxland,
Lawson and Wentworth would
never have been heard of as
mountain-climbers. As it was,
he did not actually cross the
main range, but he penetrated as
far west as they did 11 years
later.
Afterwards he made another
journey from Nattai along the
right bank of the Wollondilly
to beyond Paddy’s Creek, a
peculiar mountain which any-
body can identify from his
description. He reached almost
to the Wombeyan Caves region
hoping that the river would turn
west and see him through the
mountains, but as it continued
to run south and the country
suggested that it might turn east,
he again abandoned the quest.
His charts still exist, so do his
journals—in their diplomatic
French. They are models of
their kind, his observations and
his mapping tallying accurately
for the most part, though even
at that there have been differences
of opinion about the details of
some of the parts of his routes.
He did not find the King of the
Mountains. But he is reputed
to have put the word “cooee” in
the Australian dictionary as a
bush call, though it appears in
earlier vocabularies as meaning
“come here.”
When Barrallier left New
South Wales he was promoted
lieutenant attached to the 90th
Regiment in St. Vincent (West
Indies), and his first job was to
plan the defences of Antigua,
Nelson’s own old station. He
was appointed a commissioner
to define the limits of the forti-
fication. He was present as a
military engineer of the opera-
tion of capturing Martinique.
He was given a captaincy and
a company in the 101st Regi-
ment, became aide-de-camp to
Sir George Beckwith, C.-in-C. in
the West Indies, took part in the
two captures of Guadeloupe
and, in 1812, by special appoint-
ment from the Duke of York,
was given the five-year job of
surveying and making a military
map in detail of Barbados. He
planned the mausoleum to the
memory of the soldiers who fell
at Guadeloupe and Nelson’s
statue in the West Indies —some
obituaries credit him with a
share in the erection of Nelson’s
monument in Trafalgar-square,
but that I cannot confirm. He
eventually became surveyor-
general in the West Indies,
returned to England in 1818, was
loaded with honors silver
medals for his battles, a gold
snuff-box from Frederick
William King of Prussia.
And finally he died, on June
11, 1853, a lieutenant-colonel on
half-pay in the Rifle Brigade, 80
years of age, at Bedford Square,
Commercial-road, London, far
from the Burragorang and its
ghostly king.
So short is Australian history
that I myself knew a man who
had been entertained at dinner
by him —a man, incidentally,
who had seen Napoleon’s body
removed from St. Helena in 1840
and spoken to Bertrand and who
lived to describe the Australian
ceratodus and to say in 1920
before he passed on, a{ 96, still
keen and active in intelligence:
“You mark my words, this man
Hoover who is in Belgium will
be President of the United
States.”
His name was Daniel
O’Connor, born of a soldier
father in St. Helena in 1824. His
youngest daughter was one of
Melba’s closest friends, a
beneficiary of her will.
MacGuigan
Saturday night in fluorescent city fields;
under those hanging gardens, the neon vines,
MacGuigan steers his way where people talk
and laugh and lean on friends. O how they fizz
from the shining funnels of entertainment!
MacGuigan scorns the lampflowered iron stalk
but strangers he likes to buttonhole:
Friend, speak to me and less from pious pity
than because this skinful of liquor surrounds
that indigestible pip the human heart.
Born at Loch Lomond, the bonny bonny banks,
by what Queen of Chance, Knave of Necessity, Ace of
Destiny
I circled the globe to wander a South Sea city
I canna tell, ho, I canna tell.
The cards are worn and sticky, the game nigh played.
Have been in my youth a lord’s valet, and in the new land
a barman. Hence these sore feet. These so verra sore
feet.
A Mons veteran I, MacGuigan, and saw the Angel,
that is the truth. Oh, yes, the truly true Truth.
Have never missed Anzac parade or forgot a wreath for
comrades.
When I leave this eyebright pearly town
I go twisty ways from here up wee dark streets
to my little back room with gasring and new carpet
and the widow next door—but I’m too fly for her.
Summing up MacGuigan says: (I hope I’m not intruding).
Always tell the Truth! By the look in his eye
you know he sees Truth as a fierce Rob Roy
whose bright sword cuts the Liar into tartan pieces.
His faith is profound as the deep sea under its foam,
qualms tumble in and are lost.
What is incurable can be cured by His mercy.
What is unendurable may be endured by His grace.
Death is a stepping-aside, a making-way-for
but in MacGuigan’s and the Lord’s good time.
God he trusts further than any lamp-post,
doffs an old hat to the moon, waves his stick:
and when I’m feather fu’ He arms me home.
n.z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.


Divorce Notice
XN~THE supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK AUGUST SOHWEBSCH
(address unknown). —TAKE NOTICE that
NELLIE EDNA SCHWEBSCH has filed
a Petition under Commonwealth Matri-
monial Causes Act 1945 (applying the
law of Victoria) for Divorce No. 1575 ot
3 952 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 17th September 1953 and obtain
a cony of the Petition without charge
from HICKSON. LAKEMAN & HOL-
COMBE, Solicitors, of 10 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Doncaster, V.A.T.C. Toorak
Handicap and Caulfield Cup.
Karendi was unlucky in the
barrier-draw, otherwise he
might have won the Doomben
Ten Thousand on Saturday. He
did manage to finish closest of
thirds to True Leader and
Coniston, and he remains un-
questionably one of the best
sprinters in training.
It’s little wonder Brisbane two-
year-old Lucky Returns is a
smart galloper. The colt is a
son of former Melbourne per-
former Laureate (winner of the
A.J.C. Derby), and is a brother
to Lucky Ring, one of Brisbane’s
best sprinters of recent years
and dual-winner of one of
Queensland’s most important
sprints, the Stradbroke Handi-
cap (1949-50). At his latest
start, on Saturday, Lucky Re-
turns started second-favorite for
the Second Juvenile and won
cleverly from favorite Dayetta,
who had raced unsuccessfully in
N.S.W
Doomben’s £BOOO Cup, to be
run this coming Saturday, over
11 furlongs less 22yds., has
been won in recent years by a
number of visiting horses and
it is on the cards that another
southerner will lift the big end
of the stakemoney on this occa-
sion. A top-class field of
middle-distance gallopers will be
in the line-up, and with his big
pull in the weights Alinga on
7.4, or four pounds above the
limit, might prove successful.
Alinga is a last-start winner
of Canterbury (Sydney) Birth-
day Handicap in record time
(Imin. 51sec. for nine furlongs),
carrying 8.3, or 141 b. above the
minimum, so he appears favor-
ably placed in Doomben Cup
weights. Hydrogen is expected
to do well, but he has 9.6, and
Sweet William, winner of the
Carnival Handicap on protest
on the first day of the meeting,
might follow Alinga home, with
French Echo next. New Zea-
lander Earldom, first past the
post in the Carnival Handicap,
might have to be considered with
7.10. He was brought from the
Dominion with this race speci-
ally in view.
Melbourne racegoers have be-
come used to the Grand
National Hurdle favorite finish-
ing in the ruck or toppling over,
and this year’s G.N. once more
was a surprise result. Jolly
Sirius, who beat Starfast and
Gay Ghost, started at 25 to 1.
Gunshot was thought a good
thing for the £3OOO race over
three miles, and started at 5 to
2, but he made bad jumps and
was a long way back most of
the way, finishing in the ruck.
Jolly, Sirius is a five-year-old
gelding by Melbourne Cup
winner Sirius from Jolly Nellie.
He had been beaten by Xenurus
at Moonee Valley a week earlier,
and his win probably surprised
connections as much as it did
patrons of the Flemington
fixture.
Aged gelding Grey Boots,
starting favorite at 3 to 1 in the
V.R.C. July Handicap at Flem-
ington, was too solid for Dur-
ham and Prince o’ Fairies.
Grey Boots’s winning aggregate
now exceeds £27,000, his suc-
cesses including the A.J.C.
Militant and Grand Monarch
on the doubles tote at Warwick
Farm returned odds of 600 to 1 ;
Henry the Seventh and Militant
returned £29 9s. for each ss.
Heavily backed horses won the
first four races, but Militant and
Grand Monarch were outsiders
and Cold Spray at 8 to 1 in
the concluding event sent the
fielders home happy.
L’Eperon hasn’t done much
racing, but he has progressively
improved in his last three starts
—a third, a second and then first
at Warwick Farm, ridden a
clever race by A. Mulley, who
stuck to the rails all the way
and got what he had looked for,
an opening in the final furlong.
L’Eperon is a two-year-old black
gelding by Blank (imp.) from
Royal Sunbeam, and his con-
dition reflected much credit on
his trainer, Stan Burton, whose
horses have been in the money
lately. Burton has had a long
association with racing on the
training side, and he appears to
have a smart one in L’Eperon.
The gelding’s dam is a Royal
Sun (imp.) mare from Polasaide
by Polycrates (imp.). He was
bred by Mrs. C. M- D’Arcy and
is raced by Mr. and Mrs. Paul
D’Arcy.
Sydney owner A. O. fLomano
must take a poor view of Priory,
because Priory has finished in
front of his three-year-old,
Haydock, at each of their last
three starts. Haydock was third
at Rosehill, then twice second
at Warwick Farm. Haydock is
certainly proving a costly
maiden galloper. On the other
hand, Priory is showing grand
form and he is expected to
emerge from the Graduation
Stakes ranks to A.J.C. Metro-
politan or Cups’ prospects.
Priory has the breeding to stay
for a week. His relatives in-
clude such stayers as Trivalve,
Hall Mark, Nuffield and Mag-
nificent. All four won both
Derbies, while Trivalve and Hall
Mark threw in the Melbourne
Cup for good measure.
Priory has won his last three
races in grand style, putting in
a splendid finish from the rear
of the field, and he has proved
a bargain at the 500gns. paid
for him as a yearling. He is by
Probation (imp.), who has a
sound staying background and
won at 1L mile in England. The
gelding’s dam, Devoted, is by
Constant Son (imp.) from Trois.
Australian-bred sire Cold
Shower, a son of imported Mid-
stream, had a winner at War-
wick Farm (Cold Spray) and
another at Newcastle (Prince
Jupiter) on Saturday. Costing
500gns. as a yearling. Prince
Jupiter is from the same family
as an English Derby winner.
Captain Cuttle. His win was in
a Maiden Juvenile; he carried
topweight, 8.7, and had an easy
task. His dam. Veiled Princess,
is a Veilmond mare from Cin-
derella by Brazen (imp.). His
half-brother Seventh Veil won
races at Newcastle and at
South Grafton.
Judging by her family lines
the two-year-old filly Ardent
Flame, winner of a Hawkesbury
Novice, is destined for better
things on the turf. She is by
Newtown Wonder (imp.) from
Ardent, by Genetout (imp.) from
Night of Love, by Rampion. A
first foal, Ardent Flame is from
a sister to French Cavalier and
belongs to the same family as
Manfred, Delta and Martian,
Ardent didn’t race. Freckles,
one of the fastest horses to race
in Sydney, figures in the pedi-
gree.
Three-year-old Gilt Girl,
winner of a double at the latest
Gosford fixture, and five-year-
old Gilt Crag, placed in the
Novice at the same meeting, are
sisters to the former speedy
galloper Temeraire, one of the
fastest two-year-olds in Aus-
tralian history. Temeraire, un-
beaten at two years, won the
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate by eight
lengths in 59£ seconds, a race
record. Wins also included the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce and the
Champagne Stakes. Both fillies
are trained at Rosebery by
Bland Beck for P. Allan, stud-
master of Oakfield, Mudgee
(N.S.W.) who bred the pair.
Sir Gordon Richards, Eng-
land’s greatest jockey, has now
ridden close on 4700 winners—
an amazing total, and one which
may never be eclipsed. A few
days ago, he rode his 60th
winner for the present season—
a remarkable feat for a man 49
years of age, but he is extremely
fit and naturally picks his
mounts. He has won the jockeys’
premiership on 24 occasions,
and several years ago rode )1
successive winners. The movie
of the recent English Derby,
which Richards won on Pinza,
has clearly indicated to Aus-
tralians that the famous horse-
man is most effective and gets
everything from his mount. He
rode Pinza right out, at no
stage taking a peep to see where
“Me lost? No —me mother is.”
his closest opponent was in the
final stages. A little bit more
of this is wanted on Sydney
courses. There is far too much
watching what the other fellow
is doing instead of concentrat-
ing on the job in hand.
• • • •
Sydney punters are missing
the presence of leading
riders, some away from the
country, others riding in Bris-
bane, and Jack Thompson out
of racing for the time being
with a broken leg. It was ob-
vious at Warwick Farm last
Saturday that with the best
horsemen in attendance there
would have been at least one
or two different results. Some
of the runners got into unneces-
sary pockets, while little-experi-
enced jockeys covered far too
much ground rounding the home
turn and then swung too wide
in the final furlong or so.
Apprentices of today, with few
exceptions, do not appear to be
in the same class as those of a
few years ago. They don’t
appear to be taught enough,
apart from a lack of race-riding
opportunities.
Smart naming of horses has
the approval of all sections of
the racing community, but some
owners and trainers seem pre-
pared at all times to give a colt
or filly about to race for the
. first time any sort of title, may-
be the first that enters their
head. The Australian Registrar
and his staff always help owners
and trainers should they require
aid in the naming of a horse,
and the official section can claim
some particularly smart in-
stances of giving a good title
to a thoroughbred. There’s
plenty in a name when it is
applied to a racehorse. Any
turfman reading down the list
of famous performers of the
past and present can’t help but
be struck by the intelligent ex-
amples of nomenclature, as all
the big winners in this country
have been admirably named.
Here’s a few that indicate con-
sideration given to picking a
good name: Shamion, Phar Lap,
Carbine, Delta, Gloaming, Ajax,
Heroic, Carbon Copy, Peter
Pan, High Caste, Eurythmic,
Nightmarch, Flight, Limerick
and Mainbrace.
In the coming racing season,
which begins on August 1, on
which day every horse advances
one year in age, Australian
racegoers will find a long list
of new names, for the greater
part two-year-olds making their
debut. One unusual naming is
that of» Painted Admiral for the
rising two-year-old by Channel
Swell (imp.) from Papillon ; he
cost 1400 gns. at the April sales
at Randwick. There are other
odd titles, among them Amity
Point, Beau Jas, Cheeky Pat,
Cold Rain, Coppelia Ballet,
Cuddling, Double Duchess,
Fulham’s Hope, Howe Modest,
Karacheena,/ Kwelkan Prince,
Lizzie Lass, May’s Daughter,
O’Sullivan, Panaurum, Slap
Castle, Tommy Betel, Twilight
Tear, Ta Lo Wah and Zuebeida.
One smart naming is that of
Winchell for the bay colt by
Columnist from Cineraria pur-
chased at the Randwick sales
for 900 gns. by A. O. Romano.
Golden Dollar is the choice for
the colt by Valognes (imp.) from
Currency.
* * *
Fighting knocks by Watson
and Bailey on the last day
enabled England to make a draw
of the second Test at Lord’s.
When England was 3 for 12 in
the second innings it looked cer-
tain to be beaten. There wasn’t
a great deal between the two
teams, and both had the upper
hand in turns.
By his century Watson joins
the band of those who have
made a hundred in their first
Australia-v.-England Test. But
this was not Watson’s first Test
—he played in all five against
South Africa in 1951 (top-score
79) and one against India last
year. Incidentally, he is, like
Compton, a soccer international.
Lindwall and Bedser, the
spearheads of the two attacks,
both took their share of wickets.
Lindwall is still without doubt
the world’s best (and probably
fastest) faSt-bowler. And there
is pace, too, in his batting—
though he is not just a big-
hitter, his second-innings 50 at
Lord’s was hit-up in faster than
even time. (Lindwall holds the
record for the fastest-made Test
century.)
Bedser, not as devastating as
at Nottingham, took eight
wickets, at around 20 apiece. At
Notts he was assisted by very
safe catching—a feature largely
missing from England’s play at
Lord’s. And it’s catches that
win matches. Nine were dropped
by English fieldsmen in the
second Test.
Miller’s 109 (his third Test
century against England) takes
his Test aggregate past the
2000-mark, and makes him,
after Wilfred Rhodes, the
second player to take 100
wickets and score 2000 runs in
Tests. Lord’s has been the scene
of other great Miller innings—
for a Dominion XI v. England
in 1945, while still in the
R.A.A.F., he knocked-up 185 by
what Wisden described as “abso-
lutely faultless cricket.” In the
second 1948 Test he made a
second-innings 74, most of his
runs coming—again quoting
Wisden —from “glorious drives.”
The third Test begins to-
morrow (Thursday) at Man-
chester. Two-thirds (10 out of
15) of the England-Australia
games at Manchester have been
drawn, rain being mainly
responsible; two Tests (1890
and 1938) had to be abandoned
without a ball being bowled.
* * *
The Wallabies had a win over
Eastern Transvaal (15-12), after
being beaten by Orange Free
State last Wednesday. In the
latest game there was plenty of
kicking, and plenty of tight
scrummaging. The Wallabies
showed improvement in both
departments, centre Herb
Barker converting four penal-
ties. Today (Wednesday) the
Wallabies play Rhodesia, at
Salisbury.
In Sydney Rugby Union Uni-
versity beat Randwick 41-3,
Gudsell being the brains of the
attack. In other games. Eastern
Suburbs beat Gordon 12-11, St.
George beat Drummoyne 18-13,
Manly beat Eastwood 14-3, and
Parramatta beat Northern
Suburbs 27-13.
« * *
Footscray, downing the re-
doubtable Essendon by 9.15 to
7.11 last Saturday, clinched its
position as second on the
V.F.L. premiership table. The
leaders, Geelong, all but had
their smugness wrecked by
North Melbourne when, at home
to Norths, they took it easy—
until they discovered that
North’s shooting-boots were
getting goals. Then it was only
desperate last-quarter work that
won for Geelong, by a point-
-12.14 to 13.7. Footscray, start-
ing the last quarter five goals
down, brought the crowd to its
feet with a slashing burst, boot-
ing 7.4 to the Dons nil. Carlton
beat South, 14.13 to 10.13, Fitz-
roy beat Collingwood 9.8-7.19,
Richmond beat Hawthorn
12.10-7.6 and St. Kilda insisted
on Melbourne remaining last
by kicking 11.7 to 8.21.
* * *
Trevor King (8.13 D looked
liked Sydney’s best featherweight
when he clashed with Ray Cole-
man (8.13 i) for the N.S.W. title
at Leichhardt. Coleman was so
hopelessly beaten at the end of
round nine that his second sur-
rendered for him. Two good
prospects figured in four-round
prelims. Chappie * Godfrey
(12.7), son of Australia’s former
lightweight champion Sid God-
frey, beat Andrew La Motta
(12.9) pointlessly in one, and
Norm Unwin (8.6) did likewise
to Herb Pittman (8.8) in the
other.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
"De-mokrasie" in Japan
WHAT NOW,
WATANABE SAN?
By STEPHEN KELEN
THE troops called Kokuchi
Watanabe san “Chewing-
gum Charlie” because of
his protruding, heavily
gold-inlaid teeth, displayed by
constant grinning.
When you spoke to Watanabe
san he at first looked straight in
your face, then cast his eyes
down and grinned. His “mirth”
was no expression of confidence,
nor was it arrogance. It was
simply to hide his great
embarrassment because he could
not speak English.
Watanabe san, who had a
small curio-shop on Tokyo’s
Ginza, considered his linguistical
shortcoming a humiliating dis-
ability, but he hadn’t the
courage to start taking English
lessons. Being in constant touch
with Occupation troops, who
were his best customers, he
employed a young Nisei girl
(from America), Sumiko Oura,
to do all the interpreting.
Sumiko, rather contemptu-
ously I thought, referred to
Watanabe san as the “average
Japanese.”
“Why do you call him the
average Japanese?” I asked
Sumiko one afternoon, after
purchasing a “bird-clock,” much
to her master’s delight.
Watanabe san was standing
next to her behind the counter,
listening attentively, pretending
to understand what we were dis-
cussing. He grinned politely.
“First of all,” Sumiko
reasoned, “because he can’t
speak English. Bui there are
plenty of other reasons, too.
This man—she avoided mention-
ing his name, not wanting him
to know he was the subject of
our conversation—“believes so
sincerely in everything that
happens around him. Only a
through-and-through Japanese is
capable of so much sincerity and
idealism.”
Another facet of the puzzling
Japanese mentality, I thought.
“The true Japanese,” Sumiko
went on, “is like a child. His
rulers never let him to grow up.
But now you people are adding
a lot of mental years to his . . .
what should I say? Well, this
man here and millions like him
are having growing-pains. Do
you realise all the changes the
Occupation has brought to him?
You are trying to make a think-
ing man out of him. You are
trying to increase his self-
confidence, make him an indi-
vidual. He doesn’t really resent
the improvements you are trying
to force on him, because he was
taught not to oppose anything
the men in authority tell him.
He is doing his darnedest, but it’s
so difficult for him.”
Watanabe san still stood at
Sumiko’s side, grinning politely.
“Most of the boys,” Sumiko
continued, “call him ‘Chewing-
gum Charlie.’ I had to tell him
just what those words mean.
Do you think he was hurt about
it? Nothing of the sort. He
takes it as a great compliment.”
When he heard Sumiko say-
ing “Chewing-gum Charlie,”
Watanabe san’s grin was trans-
formed into a proud smile. He
evidently liked his nickname.
As the Occupation progressed
Kokuchi Watanabe became a
puzzle not only to the world but
also to himself. A typical citizen
of the great Japanese metropolis,
the number of “democratic
changes” forced on him stunned
his way of thinking and caused
serious disruptions in his life.
He had to shoulder the full
impact of change more directly
than his rural brothers, who
were cushioned by distance and
isolation from Scap head-
quarters.
Watanabe san, who is in his
forties, had been told ever since
he could read and write the com-
plicated Japanese characters that
“de-mokrasie” was wicked and
decadent. His military masters
had told him it was Nippon’s
mission to save the world from
the barbarian West. They con-
vinced him that the Emperor’s
invincible armies had waged war
on China, and later against the
West, as an act of profound
benevolence. During the two
years he spent on garrison duties
in Shanghai he could not under-
stand why the local population
resented the Japanese occu-
pation.
His thoughts had probably
been: “True enough that the
Chinese, and later all the other
nations, including the Germans,
of course, will have to live under
Japanese rule, obey the Imperial
edicts and carry them out faith-
fully, but at least they will belong
to the ‘divine hierarchy,’ which
is a lot better than living in
complete chaos.”
The attack on Pearl Harbor
(caused by American aggression,
the masters told him) was a day
of complete rejoicing to
Watanabe san. Conquests in
China, Malaya, the Pacific
islands —he really thought he
was on top of the world. Vic-
tories were an ample compensa-
tion for rationing, rising prices
and the constant vigilance of the
thought-police.
“When the war is won,” the
Watanabes of Nippon consoled
themselves, “everything will be
all right.”
Then, surprisingly, the sirens
wailed over Tokyo. “Another
air-raid practice. So unneces-
sary,” thought Watanabe san.
People searched the sky for a
moment or so, then started to
run to their posts or shelters.
Those who had no other duty
than to save their lives were not
numerous. “If Nippon should
ever be attacked, save property
first, and only after bother about
human life.” A thousand-and-
nine dailies published in Japan
had been printing those words
for years. Watanabe san had
been planning how, if it came
to the grave decision, he would
sacrifice himself and family to
save “something useful to the
country.” It was to him a
pleasant, romantic and patriotic
thought, because it was con-
sidered an impossibility that
enemy planes would ever be
allowed to attack the sacred
Nipponese soil.
But, much to his amazement,
great, birdlike machines
appeared in the clear noon sky ;
the ack-ack guns commenced
their crescendo in tone and
action to drive them off. Small
black objects, very much like a
fish, plunged downwards, and
soon whole districts burnt like
pinewood.
From then on the planes came
with infuriating frequency, but
Watanabe san gradually got used
to the attacks, till one day part
of the Emperor’s Palace was hit
and burnt down by the
Occidental devils.
Destruction of the Emperor’s
abode made Watanabe san bitter
and disappointed. How could
tfie materialistic West sink so
deep? Were not Hirohito’s
person and all his property
sacred and inviolate?
Then a more terrifying and
dangerous thought entered his
mind: “Have the gods with-
drawn their benevolent protec-
tion from their divine, though
earthly, brother?”
Watanabe san’s humiliation
and bewilderment increased
when first the American, then
other Allied soldiers flocked the
streets of his beloved city. He
was terrified and prepared for
the worst.
A period of change and
further amazement followed.
The first thing he noticed was
that Yamamoto san, president of
the local “Neighborhood Asso-
ciation,” which closely col-
laborated with the “thought-
police” and was in complete
control over everyone in their
district, barked no more orders
and later disappeared.
Soon after that his newspapers
told him there would be the
first really free elections in
Japan, and he could vote as it
pleased him. Obediently, he
went to the polls, on his way
there expecting the local bully to
whisper the name of the candi-
date he had to select, but, much
to his amazement, no one
intimidated him.
His wife, Toshiko, came with
him to the polls to select her
own candidate. .Watanabe san,
naturally, told her who she
should vote for; nevertheless it
was unprecedented for a woman
to express her opinion in public.
He read in the “Yomiuri”
(his favorite paper) that the new
Constitution would really make
him a “free man.” The writer
of the article also said that from
now on Government employees
were the “servants of the
people,” and that harsh methods
and bullying were things of the
past. And, true enough, when
Watanabe san had to go to
renew his trader’s licence, the
young men at the desk were
most polite and helpful.
The foreign soldiers, who
flocked to the capital by the
thousands, did not push him off
the pavement (as the Japanese
military used to do when a
civilian was not quick enough
to give way to them). Further-
more, they did not come into his
shop and take things away—as
he himself had been guilty of
doing when in Shanghai.
Another change—in many
ways a most inconvenient one
—was that instead of consider-
ing financial matters in “month-
units,” he had to think in
“weeks” now. Before “de-
mokrasie” was introduced he
had paid his employees every 30
days or so, but Sumiko explained
it to him that in the West wages
were paid weekly, because '“it is
more convenient for the
worker.” He resented this cus-
tom at first, but willy-nilly
agreed to it. Later he found it
actually to his advantage.
“Now that I pay my staff
weekly”—it consisted of three
shop-assistants and Sumiko, the
interpreter—“they work with
more enthusiasm. It is part of
‘de-mokrasie.’ Let us not rule
our personnel by authority but
kindness,” he advised some other
Ginza traders who sought his
opinion.
But one of the greatest sur-
prises was when Shugimoto san,
the police constable, investigat-
ing a robbery which had
occurred in the house next to
his, made polite inquiries in-
stead of barking questions at
him.
When Tojo and his associates
were condemned to death it
made Watanabe san gasp with
excitement. It was then that
the first cynical thought entered
his mind. The war-criminals, he
saw, were well-fed and cared-
for (another amazing aspect of
“de-mokrasie”), whilst he and
his family had to battle for the
daily rations, meagre, tasteless
and expensive, purchasing most
of the commodities on the black-
market.
“How is it,” he asked himself,
“that the free and innocent have
to suffer while those who com-
mitted crimes against mankind
receive preferential treatment?”
(new terms and conceptions that
he picked up in the papers, which
had completely changed their
tone and approach to problems).
But this was only a fleeting
thought of dissatisfaction,
quickly drowned in the ever-
increasing flood of words, which
had but one conclusion: “You
are a free man, Watanabe san.
‘De-mokrasie’ brought freedom
to you!”
It was a rather pleasant
thought for Watanabe san to
consider himself a “free man,”
and first cautiously, then boldly
and more frequently, he started
to criticise the Government, and
even made “some respectful re-
marks” about the Tenno. Deep
down in his mind he fully ex-
pected the police to come and
drag him out of bed in the
middle of the night after the
first “few remarks” he made,
but no one disturbed his rest
or punished him for “dangerous
thoughts.”
The spotlessly clean foreigners,
with all the worldly goods, such
as candy-bars, chewing-gum.
potato-chips, chocolate they so
freely gave his children, the
streamlined limousines instead
of the shabby, charcoal-burning
cars of his own tycoons, all
prompted him to believe , that
there must be a great deal of
good in the way the Western
people lived.
At first he thought it immoral
that couples were shown so
brazenly kissing each other in
Occidental films, and the way
youngsters danced, but, gradu-
ally, he started to enjoy these
“shortcomings.”
Also, and what was more im-
portant to him, he discovered
that his wife actually had a body.
In the sultry Tokyo summer Mrs.
Toshiko Watanabe, following
her sisters’ example, influenced
by Occidental pictures and
fashion-magazines, discarded her
heavy kimonos and commenced
to wear dresses made of light
materials. About the same time
photos of contestants in beauty
competitions, in which the
female bodies were displayed
rather prominently, attracted
Watanabe san’s attention.
He started to look at Toshiko
with less of the indifference
which was part of the traditional
“attitude” of the Japanese male.
Although the men of Nippon be-
long to the most sensuous people
in the world, they cared little
about their woihenfolk’s desires.
Watanabe san, as was cus-
tomary, never kissed his wife,
nor did he do anything to arouse
her feelings. Now he paid more
attention to Toshiko. He even
kissed her occasionally. Finally,
the Book of Sensual Pleasures
was exchanged for a more per-
sonal and understanding con-
tact with his wife.
Watanabe san considered
these changes in sexual relations
a pleasant and novel “inven-
tion,” and he even boasted to
some friends that he was “an
extremely good husband,” giv-
ing detailed and highly-colored
description of his “new approach
to family problems.”
He even went so far as to let
Toshiko teach him some of the
Western songs, and he sang “Old
Lang Syne” at a New Year’s
Eve party. He made a mental
note of Christian “festivals,” and
Christmas became an event he
truly enjoyed. He accepted it
as a pleasant, merry occasion
that gladdened the heart of his
children —and was good for busi-
ness.
The more serious implications
of the Occidentals’ creed left him
completely untouched. He did
not think the pipe-stand which
had a crucified Christ carved in
its centre a sacrilege.
A commercial-traveller had
brought this “work of art” to
him, and he had bought a dozen,
setting one in the “place of
honor” in his shop-window. It
amazed him when Sumiko, who
was a Christian, demanded the
removal of the article altogether.
“The Christian soldiers will
be very angry, they will come
in here and make plenty of
trouble for you. This pipe-stand
is a dreadful piece of profanity.”
Watanabe san was hurt;
nevertheless, he followed Su-
miko’s advice, took the pipe-
stand from the display, and
when the traveller came again
he apologised and asked him to
exchange the dozen “works of
art” for other merchandise he
could sell without trouble.
Though in general Watanabe
san accepted all these changes
on the surface only, they began
to influence him, to change his
traditional way of thinking and
many of his habits.
But now the Occupation is
over. And already he has dis-
cerned a harsher note in the
policeman’s voice; the bureau-
crats are looking at him more
sternly ; Yamamoto san has re-
turned from his “voluntary
exile,” and a couple of members
of the “local patriotic society”
have already called on him for
“contributions.”
Sumiko san, too, has left him
—she returned to America.
Foreign soldiers, on leave from
the Korean front, still come to
buy curios at his shop, but he
wouldn’t think "of employing
another interpreter; it would
not be profitable, because busi-
ness has slackened considerably.
Sign-language does a good
enough job.
Resignedly, he still remembers
the few years of puzzled free-
dom he enjoyed vaguely. But,
somehow, the thought of his
complete inability to learn Eng-
lish does not worry him any
longer.


The intensive research and
accumulated knowledge of
precision engineering dur-
ing 100 years of watch
making result in the prc
duction of
Lavina—l7-jewelled
Swiss master-
pieces
¥
m
f IAMNA
WATCHES
-j jevNellec/
c^s 5 Masf er ,p feces
LW27.61
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
KOREAN CLIMAX: WORLD COMMENT
Apart from general relief at the
prospect of being done with it,
two main themes have
dominated Korean armistice-eve
comment overseas—justification
of the whole United Nations’
role in the war itself, and appre-
hension, or at any rate
cautionary speculation, regard-
ing problems and risks still
ahead.
The achievement chiefly
emphasised in justification is that
the United Nations’ effort
blocked aggression on one front
and thereby probably prevented
it elsewhere. This, the strongest
applauders claim, also probablv
averted a Third World War.
Now, perhaps, almost a plati-
tude, this point is made with
much less evident feeling in
Britain than in the U.S., where it
has been very forcibly and
impressively asserted, particu-
larly in New York “Herald
Tribune” by the Alsop brothers.
The general British feeling can
be fairly summed-up as “good
riddance.”
Speculations and doubts centre
on the various apparently diffi-
cult Far East problems still to be
faced, especially the reconciling
of British-U.S. differences on
such issues as admitting Com-
munist China,to U.N.O. The
British view, of course, has long
supported Communist China as
a member, and, since the
London conference of Prime
Ministers, this now has the solid
backing of the rest of the British
Commonwealth. Moreover,
American comments indicate
some wavering towards this same
view in the U.S., where it has
hitherto been anathema, and still
is so in official pronouncements.
Widely recognised for his very
accurate assessments on foreign-
affairs issues, Walter Lippmann,
however, states on this that the
actual difference between Britain
and the U.S. isn’t really very
great.
Also, Washington correspon-
dents of the British Press report
an imminent change in U.S.
policy now in the making. Thus,
the correspondent there of
London “Sunday Times” states
that the new policy will leave the
door open for diplomatic recog-
nition of China or its admission
to the United Nations if the
Peking Government gives real
proof of its desire for peaceful
co-existence with the rest of the
world. Washington would
expect the Chinese to agree to:
(a) A peace in Korea which
would include agreement to a
plan for the rehabilitation and
unification of the country, and
-Newark (U.S.A.) “Times"
ONE MORE TO SCALE
(b) co-operation in facilitating a
cease-fire in Indo-China.
“It is doubtful,” the corres-
pondent adds, “whether Formosa
would be mentioned in such a
statement, although there is every
reason to believe that the United
States is aiming ultimately at
some modus vivendi between
Formosa and the mainland
The present attitude reflects the
belief that the Communist
regime is now in firm control of
the mainland, and that Chiang
Kai-shek has no chance of, nor
any serious plans for, the
reconquest of China.”
On these and other aspects of
the war-climax in Korea, the fol-
lowing extracts can be taken as
a fair sampling of responsible
British and American views.
They are given as reflecting the
confused reactions prevailing at
the prospective conclusion of one
of the most extraordinarily con-
fused and inconclusive wars ever
fought.
♦ # * •
Washington correspondent,
London “Sunday Times ”;
“Americans stress that in Korea
they are accepting a stalemate
for the first time in their history.
Psychologically it is repugnant
to them. They believe in clear-
cut solutions, not in something
as complicated and unsatisfactory
as the Korean truce appears to
them. In addition the truce is, in
the view of officials, such a pre-
cariously balanced agreement
that it may mean in the future
only more trouble and disil-
lusionment.”
• • • •
The same: “Any premature
attempt to force the Peking Gov-
ernment down American throats
would not only harm the United
Nations’ position in the U.S., but
the defence of Korea —the most
courageous and far-reaching
international move in American
peace-time history—might in the
long run turn sour in people’s
minds and cause a return to
isolationism.”
* * * *
London “Daily Mail”:
“Millions of lives and uncounted
wealth have been lost, and for
what? In a military sense,
nothing at all. Never, it would
seem, has there been a more
fruitless conflict. Yet in fact one
thing of immeasurable value has
been accomplished. Communist
aggression has been withstood
and held. Moreover, the Korean
war has brought into being a
mighty combination of free
peoples, which is still growing in
strength. Korea may prove to
have been the Communists’
greatest blunder. It put the West
on guard,”
• • • •
The same: “It has been a
bitter, squalid struggle, relieved
only by the valor of the fighting
men. The sight of shattered
Korea should be an awful warn-
ing to those who speak lightly
of ‘preventive war’ against
Russia. That could make the
earth a desert. Yet we have
been dangerously near it more
than once. If some people in
America had had their way the
atom-bomb would have been
used and China attacked. And
if some people in Britain had
been heeded we should have be-
come doormats for the Chinese,
and Communism would have
won its biggest victory,”
* * * *
London “Daily Telegraph:
“Although the ordeal ends with-
out spectacular military triumph,
there is cause for sober thank-
fulness at the victory of a prin-
ciples—a principle which may
save others from like ordeals, and
ultimately make peace per-
manent. What has triumphed in
Korea is the principle that
aggression is not only the concern
of the victim and his allies but a
crime against the world.”
• • • •
The same: “It would be easy
to make the bitter or cynical
comment that countless lives
have been sacrificed, a whole
country devastated, millions of
treasure poured out, all for the
sake of a few meaningless acres.
But, apart from the vindication
of principle, the hard military
fact is that aggression has been
met, halted and punished. The
aggressor has not got what he
wanted, nor held what he tem-
porarily gained. It is true that
the unification of Korea in
democratic freedom has not been
achieved by the military action
of the United Nations, and must
await political negotiation; but
the cardinal fact for the Com-
munists is that unification has
not been achieved by aggres-
sion,”
♦ ♦ * *
London “Financial Times”
{after commenting that a new
impetus will be given to the
present tide of hopefulness about
international affairs): “Parallel
with the political possibilities—
and always, of course, likely to
be affected by them —are the new
economic possibilities. Trade
between East and West could
never take place except on a
narrow front while the fighting
was going on. It was always
possible that even this trade
might be brought to a stop.
“Now, not only will it be
possible to try to expand what
exists, but there is a much better
chance that the market of China
may be reopened to trade from
outside. Not only would this
transform the problems of the
Japanese, who are likely to be
affected most immediately, in the
economic sense, by the end of
fighting; it would provide new
opportunities for the productive-
capacity of the West, relieved
from the need to produce ‘hot’
armaments. Whatever may still
be thought of the politics of the
Chinese Government, the re-
opening of its market would be
an event of major economic
importance.”
* * * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“The frontiers of freedom have
not been pushed back; popula-
tions have not been liberated or
Governments overthrown. Yet
something hardly less decisive
and heroic than these things has
been accomplished: the plain,
effective resistance to aggression.
The enemy has been stopped in
its tracks, and the principle has
been reaffirmed, not only in
Korea but throughout the world,
that the free nations will not
permit the rights and indepen-
dence of any nation to be over-
run by force.”
* * * *
London “Observer” : “If one
considers that for nearly two
years the military stalemate has
been complete and yet that every
day during these two years, while
the armistice negotiators played
their marathon poker-game at
Panmunjom, men have been
killed and maimed in stationary
routine fighting conducted to no
recognisable military or political
purposes, everyone will heave a
sigh of profound and weary
relief at the end of this slow
atrocity.
“Beyond this relief, there will
be little elation. The results of
the Korean war cannot satisfy
anybody. True, aggression has
been stopped, and both sides of
the ‘cold war’ have been
chastened and sobered into a
better awareness of the limita-
tions of their physical power.
But what a price has been paid
in order merely, at the end, to
arrive at the same division of
Korea which existed before the
war. Something like a million
dead ; uncounted millions home-
less and displaced ; the cities and
industries of Korea in ruin. And
no problem solved, no bitterness
assuaged, all the original causes
of war still present and virulent
as before. It is a tragedy with-
out a catharsis.”
♦ ♦ * *
Joseph and Stewart Alsop, in
New York “Herald Tribune” ;
“An early collapse of the resist-
ance to the Communists in Indo-
China ; the eventual absorption
of Siam, Malaya and Burma into
the Soviet empire; the probable
triumph of the Hukbalahap
movement in the Philippines ; the
acutest danger in Japan; a
certain invasion of Formosa—
these were the obvious and easily
predictable Far Eastern conse-
quences of letting the Kremlin
get away with its Korean attack.
“By the same token, any such
showing of American weakness
would have had the most wide-
spread and uncontainable reper-
cussion in the Middle East and
Europe. All the weaker nations
would have adopted a policy of
scuttle-and-run. All the soft
situations, as in the Middle East,
would have gone bad without
remedy. In the end, the Western
alliance would have come apart.
The most strategic positions in
the free world, would have been
lost to the Soviets. And we
[U.S.A.] should have been left
with no choice but the choice
that faced the British after
Munich —the choice between
making the best terms we could
with arfnore powerful enemy or
fighting .a war of despair on the
worst terms imaginable.
“Such were the enormous
prizes the Kremlin hoped to
garner by showing its own power
and our weakness in Korea.
Such were the disastrous conse-
quences which have now been
avoided. Avoidance of disasters
on this scale must certainly be
considered a worthy object even
for so painful and discouraging
a venture as the Korean war has
been. In this sense, indeed, the
war has been successful.”
* * * *
London “Time and Tide ”: “A
settlement on Korea is a gamble.
It is probably justified and a
necessary gamble. But a gamble
it is and we should do well to
recognise this with the utmost
realism. The best argument for
such a settlement is that if there
is the slightest chance that recent
gestures from Moscow do really
represent a new policy and not
merely a new phase of tactics, we
must on no account neglect the
chance, as Sir Winston Churchill
does not intend to do if he can
help it. For the alternative of a
Third World War is so awful
that it is justifiable to run con-
siderable risks to avoid it. If
that ever came, Korea would be
merely an ‘incident’ on the
periphery by comparison with
what would happen in the
world.”
• • • •
The same : “The next year or
two may remove the dread fear
which hangs over all the nations
and make possible a better and
securer life for all. That is the
Prime Minister’s hope, and we
must hope with him and give
him all the support in our power.
But we have seen violent altera-
tions in the Communist line
before now, and they have not
portended any real desire to
abandon the Communist dream
of overthrowing the free world.
It was, indeed, one such change
of line, and we should do well to
remember it, which let loose
World War No. 2.”
* * ♦ ♦
London “Economist”: “While
it is to be feared that an armistice
may now free Peking’s hands for
new adventures in the south, it is
certain that failure to check
aggression in Korea would have
led many of the southern peoples
to accept the coming of Com-
munist rule as inevitable. In
— St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Globe-
Democrat"
BITTER PILL
effect, the Korean campaign itself
has been of more service to
South-East Asia than any new
negotiation can be.
“Here, indeed, one arrives at
the true meaning of the Korean
war. In fighting it, the United
States and its allies have kept
alight the faith in collective
security that was so often allowed
to die in the days of the League
of Nations. In the 1930’5,
Abyssinia, Austria, Czecho-
slovakia and China itself were
left alone at the mercy of the
aggressor; in 1950, South
Korea was not. History may
record this as a unique turning-
point.
“It is true that the Korean war
will leave behind it a sorry mess
of unsolved problems and
unaverted dangers. Let it be
remembered, however, that this


GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
ALL-BRITISH
€
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart fir Co. ltd.
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and
was true in 1918 and 1945, too.
It is, after all, the fate of the
peace-loving nations, which
thrice in this century have been
forced into wars, to fight them
not for tangible gain but solely
to prevent things from getting
much worse.
“Yet there is a difference of
great meaning. The Korean war,
unlike its greater predecessors, is
ending without final victory, with
the original aggressor cowering
under the skirts of his backers
but spitting unrepentantly from
that refuge. The nations that
have given their blood in the
struggle are robbed of the
emotional satisfaction of
triumph ; small wonder that their
prevailing mood is one of frus-
tration, doubt and anger. But
would it* in fact, be better if the
atmosphere now reflected the
jubilant relaxation, the deceptive
finality, of 1918 and 1945?
“This time at least, it is pain-
fully clear that although the war
may have been fought it has not
yet been won. By relaxing their
vigilance, by failing to counter
the political offensives which the
Communists will now launch,
and above all by failing to keep
the ranks closed, the allies may
yet yield up in peace the victory
they denied the enemy in war.”
The same: “It can be taken
for granted that Peking will re-
double its claims to the Chinese
seat at U.N.0.; and, in doing so,
it will not merely be pressing for
an obvious objective, but also
seeking to open-up a rift be-
tween the Allies. But, although
Allied disagreement on this issue
is real, and the need for agree-
ment urgent, no good is done
by exaggerating the scale of the
rift or of its significance. In
both Britain and America, at
present, there is a tendency to
assume that the other country’s
position as regards the Chinese
seat is more absolute than is the
fact; it is all too often argued
that the gap is unbridgeable. In
fact, since the recognition by
U.N.O. of Peking’s credentials
in place of those of the Taipeh
Government would be a pro-
cedural act, the matter is largely
one of simple mathematics. If
and when a majority of the sixty
member-nations come to feel
that Mao has lived down his
crime of aggression in Korea, he
will receive his seat; and,
although groups of member-
nations are free to agree among
themselves how and when they
will vote on this issue, no one
Power or group of Great Powers
could prevent the change being
made if the due majority were
found in favor
“More important, in reality, is
the other half of the Chinese
problem the question of
Formosa.”
♦ * * *
London “Daily Herald” {lt
can be said that, although not all
the British Press would put it in
quite the same terms, and an odd
voice here and there might even
dissent, the Labor daily here
quoted represents the almost
unanimous British view on
admitting Communist China to
U.N.0., so much so that quoting
others would be mere repeti-
tion) : “What should be the next
step towards world peace?
It should be the admission into
the United Nations of China’s
Communist Government.
“While the Chinese Com-
munisms were making war on the
United Nations their admission
would have been wrong. It
would have looked like reward-
ing, rather than deterring, aggres-
sion. But [the question is]:
Who shall speak for the Chinese
people in U.N.? And the only
sensible answer is: The Govern-
ment which rules nearly all her
500,000,000 people.
“The British people give this
answer, not because they approve
the Peking Government’s
policies, but because it is the
Governmerft of China. It has as
much right as the Russian Gov-
ernment to belong to U.N. And
if it is kept out China will be left
with a bitter grievance, which is
bound to make a real peace
harder to achieve.”
• • • •
The same: “If the exclusion
of China continues, one of two
developments is inevitable.
Either there will be no negotia-
tion at all, or it will have to take
place outside the aipbit of the
United Nations. The second
choice would mean the eventual
destruction of the United
Nations as a body of any
importance.
“We do not believe that is
what the Americans want.”
* * * *
New York “Herald Tribune ”
report: “President Eisenhower
is said to be firmly opposed to
admission of Peking to the U.N.
unless it is willing to pay some
price for it, such as the unifica-
tion of Korea and termination
of the Indo-China war. None
of the [British] Commonwealth
Prime Ministers believes Com-
munist China would pay such a
price, yet most, if not all, of
them would like to admit Peking
into the U.N. without prior con-
ditions in the belief that this
would contribute to general
relaxation of tension in the Far
East.”
♦*_ * *
Ok
New York ‘‘Herald Tribune ”
commentator: “There should be
no difficulty about the United
States accepting Red China in
the U.N. and still maintaining
its policy of non-recognition of
Peking. But here the United
States bumps head-on into the
real issue at stake in this
problem. It is the issue of
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek
and his Nationalist Chinese Gov-
ernment on Formosa.
“For the simple fact is that, if
Red China is admitted to the
U.N. as one of the Big-Five per-
manent members of the Security
Council, Generalissimo Chiang
and his Government would be-
come, in the eyes of the world
body, a mere gathering of
refugees on Formosa. Tech-
nically, of course, it would be
possible for the United States to
acknowledge Red China in the
U.N. and recognise the Nation-
alist Government on Formosa as
well. But such, a solution of the
dilemma would be wholly
unrealistic.
“This, then, is the issue con-
fronting President Eisenhower as
he strives to bring about an end
to the bloodshed in Korea and
to maintain the unity of the
Allies. Moreover, it is an issue
which threatens to splinter his
Republican party if he yields to
the growing pressure among the
Allies and agrees to admit Red
China to the U.N.”
* * * $
“New York Times" U.N.O.
correspondent: “There is almost
no end to the ripples that could
now be set in motion. Indo-
China, for instance. It will be-
come the centre of Communist
military movement in Asia, and
the French can be expected to
demand more United States help.
“Washington will try to get
some sort of United Nations
involvement in Indo-China. The
Indians, who make no secret of
the fact that they regard the
Indo-Chinese war as a colonial
issue, wfll try to keep the U.N.
out of the picture. It has been
reported here [in Washington]
that the Russians have told the
Indians that U.N. entry into the
Indo-China situation would make
settlement of other Far Eastern
problems almost impossible. a.
“Then there is the matter or
world trade. There are bound to
be suggestions from trade-hungry
nations for a lowering of the
barriers to East-West commerce
thrown so high by the Korean
war. Congress is not expected
to react with delight.”
Good to Seem Tough
Leading Americans who urged
tougher action in Korea and the
Far East —notable among them
Senators Taft and Knowland
and Admiral Radford—were
fiercely condemned, in Britain
especially, for “seeking to spread
the war.”
Washington correspondents of
New York “Herald Tribune”
point out that those advocates
spoke for the Americans who
wanted a victory, instead of
merely a truce, and, as well,
“toughness” possibly served a
purpose:
“The leaders in the Kremlin
and at Peking are hard-headed
men, after all. They must have
been greatly impressed by the
fact that a large, influential and
rapidly-growing group of Ameri-
cans was demanding stronger
action in the Far East. The
Sovjet and Chinese policy-
makers must have been aware
that a continuation of the bloody
stalemate in Korea would involve
very great risks for them.
“The prospect that the Know-
land - Radford - Taft viewpoint
might soon become a majority
American viewpoint was prob-
—London “News Chronicle”
TREAD CAREFULLY IN THE CHINA SHOP
ably the major influence in get-
ting the Communists to give way
on the issue of the prisoners.
“It is worth remembering that
it can be helpful to sound tough
in a negotiation. It is also worth
remembering that it is dangerous
to look weak at any time.”
American Changes
Reporting that impatience with
Syngman Rhee is growing
in the U.S., the “Manchester
Guardian’s” diplomatic corres-
pondent expects this to have
“consequences far beyond the
immediate issues of the
armistice.”
In the U.S. “the overriding
popular wish is to end the
slaughter of American citizens” ;
hence sentiment towards Rhee
“may deteriorate rapidly”:
“Rhee can be easily coupled
in the public mind with Chiang
Kai-shek. If his stock falls
sharply, Chiang’s may decline
with it, even though Chiang does
nothing positive to cause irrita-
tion. We may in fact be near
the start of considerable changes
in the international setting which
will be due to rapid changes in
the American temper and out-
look once the United States is
no longer goaded by the chal-
lenge of active war in Korea.
“No other country is so
volatile as the United States;
nobody who was in America
after Pearl Harbor and saw the
fury against the Japanese could
ever have expected that in less
than 10 years the Americans
would regard the Japanese as
amiable pupils and allies. The
attitude of Senator Knowland
and some of his colleagues could
be usefully watched in the next
few weeks, for there are already
signs of change.”
J. Bull: New Phase
Phases in Britain’s career, sur-
veyed by London “Economist”:
“The first phase of Empire
has long since passed ; given the
desire to trade and the power to
back the trader, that first phase
of acquisition did not impose
any too great strain.
“The second phase—the trans-
formation from a centrally con-
trolled Empire to a Common-
wealth of independent States—
is all but over ; and where it still
has stages to run, their goal is
decisively set. This phase, too,
given benevolent realism at the
centre and vigor at the circum-
ference, has not in most places
presented impossible tasks to
statesmanship.
“But the third phase has
opened—the phase in which, with
links only of common interest
and common sentiment, the in-
finitely variegated community of
the Queen’s peoples has to be
held together over the years.”
Various Voices
President Eisenhower: “In
these vast problems that affect
every one of our lives, there is
no thought that you can cut the
knots; you must untie them
slowly and laboriously.”
Sir Winston Churchill: “It is
no longer a case of Crown versus
Parliament but of Crown and
Parliament. In our island, by
trial and error and by perse-
verance across the centuries, we
have found out a very good
plan. Here it is. The Queen
can do no wrong. Bad advisers
can be changed as often as the
people like to use their rights for
that purpose. A great battle is
lost; Parliament turns out the
Government. A great battle is
won; crowds cheer the Queen.”
U.S. Senator Lehman: “The
issue is not between Britain and
the United States but between
McCarthyism and America’s
role of leadership in the free
world. The two are inconsistent.
To attempt to reconcile them is
to invite disaster.”
General Neguib (interviewed
in Cairo for London “Daily
Herald”): “We have a record of
65 promises that they [the
British forces] were going to be
withdrawn. But they are still
there. Can you wonder that our
people are sensitive and sus-
picious? Especially if you re-
member that even the 1936 treaty
only gives you the right to have
10,000 troops in the Canal Zone
and that, in fact, you have
80,000. This great military base
has been built without asking
our consent in an area which the
treaty only allows you to use for
training. But the question now
is how to reach a settlement.
And I assure you that we are
prepared to reach any settlement
which we can regard as con-
sistent with our national
sovereignty.”
General Sir Gerald Templer
C Malaya ); “The thing I’m
worried about is complacency.
British planters and tinminers
go around saying it’s all over
but the shouting. They are be-
ginning to complain about re-
strictions. The shooting isn’t
over yet. There are probably as
many Communist terrorists in
the jungle now as there were
one or two years ago.”
Prince Bernard of the Nether-
lands : “No matter how great
the differences between Euro-
pean nations might be at times,
they have at least one thing in
common at present, and that is
that they all want to remain free
and that they are all ready to
resist aggression collectively. The
Europeans have therefore at
least achieved unity of purpose.”
Ceylon’s Minister who made
the rubber deal with Communist
China (“ U.S. News and World
Report" interview ): “We gave
the United States a chance to
buy our rubber and we were
more or less told that we would
have to sell it to the United
States at a loss. We are glad
there is another buyer in the
market. That creates free com-
petition—and you [Americans]
are the champions of free com-
petition ! ”
Queen Juliana of the Nether-
lands: “Within the next quarter
of a century, we in free Europe
will all be living in the same
house or we shall be dying in
the same ruins.”
Warren Lee Pierson (head of
the U.S. Council of the Interna-
tional Chamber of Commerce):
“I think many Europeans have
been unduly upset in recent
weeks by all the protectionist
talk they have heard from
Washington, They have mis-
taken testimony given in Con-
gressional hearings for the
expression of the will of
Congress or the American
people, when in fact it is nothing
more than the functioning of the
democratic process which allows
every interest to have its say.”
General Omar Bradley : “This
tenuous peace, with its cold-war
overtones, is so much less costly
than total war that we should
willingly pay the price.”
U.S. Secretary of the Treasury,
George Humphrey (debunking
the “fear of peace”): “We are
not going to have a depression in
America whether we have an
armistice, a real peace, or con-
tinue to develop a proper and
balanced posture of defence. So
long as we maintain the sound-
ness of our money, attain that
nice balance between achieving
security from aggression and
maintaining economic strength,
eliminate waste and handle our
fiscal affairs with wisdom,
America can look forward to
good jobs at good pay and real
advances in the scale of living.
We can have a stronger economy
based on sounder fundamental
conditions than we have known
in many years,”
U.S. Senator Taft: “Every
effort should be put into
attempts to settle the overriding
issues of the Far East—to end
the Communist threats against
Indo-China and Malaya—as a
part of the Korean truce agree-
ment. Of course, it would be
better to have a cease-fire in
Korea than to continue a stale-
mate-war there, but I don’t
think we will ever get a united
Korea by merely agreeing to
stop the shooting.”


"THE LETTERS
OF RACHEL HENNIHG"
Over 9500 copies of this fascinating, factual and
intimate story of Australians a hundred years
ago have now been sold. Its historical and
entertainment value has been applauded by
critics in Australia and abroad. Rachel Henning
without doubt has become an enduring character
in Australian literature. The Norman Lindsay
illustrations ifl the book are superb.
7s. 6(1., post-free
Copies of “The Letters of Rachel Henning” are
again available from “The Bulletin” offices in
Melbourne, Brisbane or Perth, or from The
Book Department, “The Bulletin,” Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
melt over the side of the dish.
“Aw, Wirth, go on and eat it.
It’s for you.”
“You tell me what Vronnie
said.” In this crisis, Wirth was
merciless. He took Eddie by the
arm and twisted it, and the ice-
cream dish fell upside-down in
the sand. “What did she say?”
Eddie began to cry. “Wirth,
I don’t want to. I shouldn’t have
said. I never thought. I just
thought ...” Wirth increased
the pressure. “Don’t, Wirth, I’ll
tell you, she said,” Eddie sobbed
“She just said —she just said , . .
Oh, Wirth, don’t do that. She
said, all right then, she said,
look at that nigger Wirth Birks
With his dirty toenails sticking
out behind that kid’s trumpet of
his . . . *’ Eddie’s gulped recital
ended in a wail as Wirth let go.
“Aw, gee, I’m sorry, Wirth. I
never ought to have said it. Gee,
forgive me, Wirth.”
“You get back and eat some
ice-cream, kid,” Wirth said.
HE turned round and left the
howling Eddie beside the
glass dish and the tumbled straw-
berries. He carried the cornet
down to the beach. Its long
crescent of sand melted away
into the blue of the headland,
deserted except for a stray fisher-
man in the edge of the surf.
Walking down barefooted into
the water, he felt mechanically
with his toes for pippies.
After a time, he thought of the
cornet, and sitting down in the
sand he began to play. He knew
seventeen tunes now, without
the “Teddy Bears’ Picnic” and
“God Save the Queen,” which
he avoided; when he had gone
through them all, he ran over all
the notes the comet would play.
Then, slowly, he stood up and
went to the edge of the sea. But
he stopped with his arm swung
back to throw, and put the
cornet back in the sling where
he carried it. The sun had gone
down.
Walking back through the
town, he stopped outside Eddie’s
place and gave a whistle. Eddie
was sitting on the veranda rail;
seeing Wirth he looked
frightened, but slipped down and
came to the fence.
“Here you are, kid,” Wirth
said. “I don’t have* any more
use for this now ; I’m leaving
this hole and going up to the
canefields. You better learn to
play it.”
The Chiaken-hearted Ohost
by DAL STIVENS'
FURIOUS FRED was
returning one night to his
hut in the bush after a long
session at the sly-grog
shanty, and was hoisting himself
up the path through the flat
when he came on a notice. It
was written in foot-high letters
in charcoal on several pieces of
white cardboard and was tacked
with a rusty nail to a gum-tree
and read:
Don’t be scared when you see
me.
Furious tapped each of his six
teeth before going on. He
climbed thirty yards and came
on another notice. This was
also in foot-high letters and
read:
Vm as scared as you are.
Furious read it three times
and went on. Soon he came to
another notice:
I scare myself too.
“I don’t know what this is
about,” said Furious to himself,
“I-I-I’ll t-tell you,” said a small
nervous voice behind him.
Furious turned and there,
crouching on the track, was a
ghost, shining like a piece of
fungus, all five-foot-five of him.
He wore a suit that might have
been blue serge once and a
bowler hat.
“What do you want?” asked
Furious. “You gave me a
fri Hr T • J -A
I-I t-tned to warn you, said
the ghost. P-please help me.
The ghost waved a hand
imploringly before his eyes, and
in the same instant began to
gibber and whipped the hand
way -
What’s the matter with
you?” asked Furious.
said
g . h °lu } s -f are m y s ? lf -
T-that h-hand of m-m-mme
looked t-temble, w-with h&t
h-hornble gr-gr-green-yellow
light.” The ghost got some
control of himself by gulping
hard. “When I was alive a ghost-
story would keep me awake afl
night, and now I find myself
” lle ahmt
slept for a g
was wringing hi hands! though
like drifts of greeny-yellow fog.
“I’m sorry to hear that,
Spook,” said Furious. “But what
can Ido about it? You’ll have
to pull yourself together. Be a
man and keep a stiff upper-lip.
“Whoever heard of a ghost
with a stiff upper-hp. cried the
ghost and burst into tears.
Furious was so moved he
tried to pat the ghost. His
hand went through him. The
ghost’s misty body broke in|p
two halves and eddied about in
the wind before settling together
again.
“I was just using a figure of
speech. Spook,” said Furious.
“Get a grip on yourself, face up
to things, get some back-
bone ...”
HE broke off because the ghost
was boo-booing louder than
ever. Furious went to pat him
once more, remembered, and
held his hand back. He sat down
on a log and motioned the ghost
to join him. The ghost wafted
over to the log, the mist swirled
like a settling pool and then, in
about twenty seconds, there was
the ghost squatting alongside
Furious.
“If you weren’t a spook I
could give you a rum,” said
Furious, thinking hard.
“It’s this haunting,” said the
ghost, gaining more courage.
“I’m supposed to scare the day-
lights out of people—if you’ll
forgive the mixed metaphor.
They should run like hell, but
all the running is done by myself.
Of course, I don’t run in the
usual sense of the word, but
you get what I mean?” (Furious
nodded.) “I reckon I must be a
failure, that’s all.”
“Oh,. no, you’re not,” said
Furious. “You put the wind-up
me tonight, in spite of your
notices.”
“That’s all very well!” said
the ghost in the loudest voice he
had so far achieved. “But I was
scared, too. How can I have any
self-respect?”
“I see what you mean. Spook,”
said Furious, filling his brier-
pipe and wrinkling his forehead
as he thought. “I suppose you
are a proper spook?”
“I don’t know, but I hope
so,” said the ghost.
“You ought to be able to make
yourself vanish, then,” said
Furious. “You wouldn’t scare
yourself that way.”
“You’ve got it!” cried the
ghost. “Here goes!” He stood
up, his form began to waver and
twist, his greeny-yellow forehead
knotted and his lips grew to a
line. ‘After a bit he asked “Am
I going?”
“I don’t think so,” said
Furious. “You look much the
same to me.”
The ghost tried harder and
grew a little black in the face
with the effort. He kept it up
for ten minutes and then sat
down, puffing, on the log.
“I’m a failure there, too,” he
said, and burst into tears again.
“Nothing was built in a day.
Spook,” said Furious. “You
practise it and you’ll vanish all
right. And now, if you’ll excuse
me, I must get home and have
some shut-eye.”
■OTE saw no more of the ghost
for a week, and then one
night as he was coming back
from the shanty, he saw a notice
in two-feet letters in charcoal
on a piece of cardboard:
I’ve done it!
“Perseverance does it!” said
Furious —to himself, so he
thought.
“Too rigftt!” said a small
voice, right in front of him. “I
no longer scare myself, and now
I can scare others. Eeech!
Eeech! ”
“You got a cold. Spook?”
asked Furious. He pulled a
spotted bandana handkerchief
out of his pocket and held it to
the ghost, and then, remember-
ing, stuffed it away in the hip-
pocket of his dungarees.
“No, why do you ask?” asked
the ghost.
Furious thought he could see
a faint green mist moving against
the base of an old dead gum.
“You sneezed,” said Furious.
“That wasn’t a sneeze,” said
the ghost and burst out sobbing.
“I was trying out a screech.”
“You’ll have to do better than
that. Shade,” said Furious.
“That wouldn’t scare anybody.”
He sat down on a log and waved
the ghost to do the same.
“I’ll stand,” said the ghost,
between sobs. “If you can call
it that. If I got something to sit
with I mightn’t be able to vanish
again. Eeeecch!”
“Up to putty,” said Furious.
“You’d better call it off,
Spookie.”
“I couldn’t do that! ” cried the
ghost, in the loudest voice he
had yet achieved. “Whoever
heard of a ghost who didn’t
scare people? It’s my lot.”
“Duty is duty,” said Furious.
“You go off and practise hard.
And now, if you don’t mind.
I’ll hit the hay.”
A WEEK later, Furious was
returning from the shanty an
hour or so before his usual time.
He’d done in all his dough, but
still had a raging thirst. In spite
of bad temper he kept his eyes
peeled for a notice from the
ghost. He had almost reached
his hut without seeing any and
was shaking his head and say-
ing, as he thought, to himself
“Poor chap, he’s not cut out for
it,” when suddenly there was a
terrifying screech right in his ear.
Furious was so startled he
sprang up in the air, thrashing
his legs. He sat down hard on
the ground, sprang up
immediately and began to per-
form, jumping up and down on
his hat and speaking his mind
about the ghost. At the end of
ten minutes he cooled down
abruptly and said “Good on
you. Spook!”
“Yes, I wasn’t bad, was I?”
said the ghost. A vapor wavered
and threw a faint shadow in the
moonlight,
“Now, don’t get a swelled
head, Ghostie,” said Furious.
“You’ve got a bit to go yet.”
Furious tapped three of his teeth.
“You’ve got to scare someone
else. Shade.” Furious made his
teeth ring before he said
“Suppose you try the shanty-
keeper.” Furious hawked in his
throat. “I’m as dry as an old
bone in a drought.”
“I’d never scare him,” said the
ghost. “Let me try something
easier.”
“Nothing could be easier,”
said Furious. “A screech like
the one you handed me and he’d
clear out into the scrub. I could
do with a free drink or two, so
I’ll tag along and watch you put
the wind up him.”
“You’re honest about this?”
asked the ghost.
“Never spoke a truer word,”
said Furious.
After some more encouraging
words from Furious they set off
for the shanty. Furious walked
quickly, but the ghost lagged
behind and Furious had to keep
urging him along. Near the
shanty, the ghost began to
whimper. Furious, whose thirst
was worse by this time, went
hostile and shouted at him
“What is up with you now,
Shade?”
“It’s not professional,” said the
ghost.
“What’s not professional?”
asked Furious.
“Screeches only,” said the
ghost. “A ghost shouldn’t scare
people with screeches alone —not
in our best circles anyway. Our
clients should see a ghost, too.
When one of our number shows
himself and screeches, his clients
get so terrified they try to climb
up the wall.” The ghost paused,
“I’ll never achieve such heights,
of course, but you know what I
mean.”
Furious thought it out, and in
the end he hit on the idea of
wearing a sheet himself while the
ghost provided the screeches and
groans.
lyrO light was showing in the
shanty when they got there,
“He sleeps round the back,”
said Furious, leading the way in
the sheet. “I’ve got a hell of a
thirst.” He found the window,
pushed it up and climbed in.
The ghost hung back and then
floated in through the wall, very
slowly, and got behind Furious.
“Now!” hissed Furious and
began to flap his arms. The
ghost made no sound except a
whimper of fear. “Screech,
Ghostie!” urged Furious. He
flapped his arms, and then to
encourage the ghost began to
screech and groan. He broke
off to mutter at the ghost “You
milksop!”
“Eeeccch !” cried Furious.
The shanty-keeper stirred,
shouting “Where’s my flaming
gun! ”
Something foggy brushed
across Furious and fled whimper-
ing out through the wall.
Furious screeched once more and
followed the ghost. He barked
his shins getting through the
window, raced off and tripped
over the sheet. He got up, threw
away the sheet and scrambled
across the clearing.
“B-a-n-n-g-g /” went the
shanty-keeper’s gun, which was
loaded with saltpetre. Furious
clapped a hand to his hip-
pocket and ran faster after the
ghost, whose progress ahead was
marked by loud yelps.
CLEAR of the shanty. Furious
performed, discussing the
ghost’s pedigree and failings. He
alternately jumped on his hat
and scratched his rump, while
the ghost hovered around, snivel-
ling. A quarter of an hour
passed before the ghost could get
a word in.
“I’m truly ashamed,
Furious ...” he began.
“It’s a (adjective) wonder
you’re game to show your
(adjective) face!” said Furious.
“Scared of a (adjective) shanty-
keeper ...”
“It wasn’t him that scared
me,” said the ghost.
“Who, then?” asked Furious.
“You!” said the ghost. “Your
screeches and groans! ”
Furious commented on the
ghost for only ten minutes. The
ghost burst into sobs.
“You’ll make a go of it yet,
Ghostie,” said Furious, kindly.
He went to sit down on a log and
then remembered. He rubbed
his hip-pocket, “Perseverance
and backbone’s what’s needed.”
After some more heartening
words from Furious, who felt
handicapped because he couldn’t
pat the other on the shoulder, the
ghost went off promising to
succeed.
WHETHER he did. Furious
doesn’t know. The ghost
never appeared again. Furious
had his ideas about it.
“I expect the poor fellow was
too (adjective) ashamed to come
back,” he used to tell himself.
“Or it might even be possible for
a ghost to scare himself to death
—if he wasn’t careful.”


Milk
Production
Increased
Tri-Cal-Os is a most valuable mineral
supplement in stock feeding. Given to dairy
cows in the dry period means profitable
milking for four or /five months longer.
Tri-Cal-Os is bone flour (containing 65%
tricalcic phosphate), and is very easily
digested and assimilated.
OS
CM
51 1*
H-OO*
BOHfi
MW
Tri-e*' c ' c
*
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
*Dlt€a£'Ol
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Writ* to DAVIS GELATINE; G.P.O 80. J 583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
80. mF. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K, BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 588. PERTH
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK GEORGE PBTHER-
BRIDGE late of Pastoral Chambers
Goulburn Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY CLARE PETHERBRIDGE
has filed Petition for Divorce No. 1388
of 1953 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you may
file an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
11th of September 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King Street. Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES RAYMOND FIELD late of
LEICHHARDT.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARJORIE ISOBEL FIELD has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 772 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse If you wish to defend you may file
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
11th September 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IUMLEYS
Official Insurance
Brokers to the
Graziers’ Association
of N.S.W.
have the specialised
knowledge to provide
the best possible
Insurance for the
Man-On-The-land
/ Why not take advantage of \
\ lumley’s Free Advisory Service }
EDWARD LDMLEY & SONS tS;
263 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone B 0538.
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter St., Newcastle. 'Phone B 1810.
87 Woodlark St., Lismore. 'Phone 1962.
ELS.B.IB
Wants
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Author desires contact car-owner
going to Q’land. Can drive. —5529.
Words of an Australian poem
beginning
I was your fond betrothed
I was your lover.
—5530.
Words of poem “High Flight” by
a R.A.A.F. officer beginning “Oh, 1
have slipped the surly bonds of
earth.”—5531.
To buy one Hamblin stereoscope
No. 650, second-hand.—5533.
Bulletin staff man, wife, two small
children, wants furnished flat or cot-
tage, anywhere Sydney, but northern
suburbs preferred.—5535.
Businesswoman, Sydney, wants
self-contained small furnished flat.
North side of Harbor preferred.—
5536.
Printed matter giving details of the
careers, exploits and personalities of
female matadors. —5534.
Words of Australian poem “Old
John Bax” by C. H. Souter.—5532.
Information Sought
How can liquid glue be made from
joiner’s glue?
Make a solution of glue in its own
weight of water by soaking and then
dissolving, with heat. To this add
an equal volume of 28 p.c. acetic
acid and heat for nine or 10 hours.
When properly made this product is
a very effective glue for light wood-
work, as well as for mending china-
ware, ornaments, etc. An alternative
method is to stir 3|lb. sodium
chlorate into a hot solution of 101b.
glue, 131b. water.
* * * *
Some information about the pro-
duction of jute ?
White jute ( Capsularis ) is sown in
February and harvested in the June-
Septeraber period, while the stronger
fibre, Olitorius, is sown in February
and harvested in the August-October
period. The plants are cut just after
flowering, bundled, and left for two
to three days to allow the leaves to
wither and drop off. The bundles
are then submerged in water for a
period varying from ten days to three
weeks. The netting process consists
of the fermentation of the soft pith
of the plant, which dissolves and
leaves the fibre, which can then easily
be separated from the stick. The
fibre is then washed, dried and made
up into bundles ready for market.
* * * *
Can a retired man in Sydney aug-
ment his income by growing orchids ?
Is there any demand for these flowers
at a payable price? Are there any
handbooks on the subject of orchid-
growing ?
Growing orchids with the object
of selling the flowers can be a profit-
able hobby. The easiest and most
suitable types are the high-class
hybrids of the genus Cyinbidium,
which are grown for the American
market. Perusal of the “Sydney
Morning Herald’s” “Florists, Gar-
den and Farm” advertising columns
on Saturdays will indicate agents who
will call, pay cash and pick up the
blooms during the flowering season,
which extends from May to October.
If an immediate return is required
it would be necessary to outlay a
fair amount of capital to buy flower-
ing-size plants. For the man of
small means the more economical
way to begin would be to buy bulbs
and small divisions of good-quality
plants and wait for them to develop.
By this method the grower would
gain experience in handling the plants
and avoid losses, as although Cym-
bidiums are easily grown it is neces-
sary to know how to cater to their
needs. It is advisable for a beginner
to join an orchid society, which will
give advice and supply books on the
subject. Fees are moderate. Two
societies are the Orchid Society of
N.S.W. (J. C. Davis, Hon. Sec.), 16
Jarrett-street, Campsie (N.S.W.), and
the Eastern Suburbs (Sydney) Orchid
Society (C. H. Russell, Hon. Sec.),
81 Drumalbyn-road, Bellevue Hill
(N.S.W.). Some books on the sub-
ject are Orchids for Everybody by
R. Bruce Hogg (25 s.), The Charm of
Growing Orchids by P. A. Gilbert
(365.), Orchids: Their Culture and
Classification by P. A. Gilbert (425.),
and A Handbook of Orchids by J.
Bisset (12s. 6d.). You should also
subscribe to “The Australian Orchid
Review,” a quarterly magazine pub-
lished by the Orchid Society of N. S.
Wales.
* * * *
(1) How many Japanese were killed
in Burma during World War II ? (2)
List of some histories and other
books on the Burma campaign?
(1) Roy McKelvie in his The War
in Burma states that the total land
casualties of the Japanese throughout
the war was “360,000, of which
110,000 were killed in Burma.” (2)
Historical accounts: Report to the
Combined Chiefs of Staff by the
Supreme Allied Commander, South-
East Asia, 1943-45, Vice-Admiral, the
Earl Mountbatten of Burma; The
War in Burma by Roy McKelvie and
The Campaign in Burma by Frank
Owen. Books by war correspon-
dents : Wingate Adventure and
Bombs Over Burma by W. Or
Burchett, Retreat with Stilwell by
Jack Belden, Monsoon Victory by
Gerald Hanley, and Wrath in Burma
by Fred Eldridge. Books by service-
men : With Wingate in Burma by
David Halley, Burmese Outpost by
Anthony Irwin, Beyond the Chind-
win and The Wild Green Earth by
Bernard Fergusson, Chindit Column
76 by W. A. Wilcox and Forgotten
Skies by W. W. Russell. Medical:
Burma Surgeon and Burma Surgeon
Returns by Dr. Gordon S. Seagrave.
* * * *
The correct diet for a nine-months-
old cocker spaniel pup?
The principal meal should be given
about 8 a.m. and should consist of
raw beef to which has been added a
little roughage in the shape of broken
or crushed dog-biscuit and a little
scraped raw carrot. Until maturity
a light meal consisting of the yoke of
raw egg beaten in a little milk poured
over a crushed wholemeal dog-biscuit
ffray be given about 11 a.m. The
less the dog is washed the better for
his health. A good daily grooming
is much better for the skin and coat.
* * * *
Some facts about Lake George
(N.S.W.) ?
Discovered by Joseph Wild (August,
1820), the lake was visited in October,
1820, by Governor Macquarie, who
named it in honor of Ithe King
(George IV). Its native name was
Wee-ree-waa. Lake George varies
considerably, in length, width and
depth, in different years—its extent
apparently being determined largely
by seasonal conditions. When con-
sidered full, the depth is from 20ft.
to 25ft., the latter figure being the
greatest it has reached (1874). When
discovered the lake was full, but by
1838-39 it had practically dried up.
There is no outlet, except perhaps
by unknown subterranean passage.
About 20 years ago, when the lake
had almost dried up, most of it was
surveyed for settlement; before this
it had been proposed to establish a
motor speedway there. Nothing came
of either scheme. The lake is now
full." (Information from the N.S.W.
Department of Lands.)
* * * *
Where and when was Jim Jeffries
born, and when did he begin boxing?
How many contests did he have
before winning the world’s heavy-
weight championship, and who beat
him for that title? Is he still alive?
James J. Jeffries was born at
Carroll, Ohio (U.S.A.), on April 15,
1875, and had his first contest when
he k.o.’d Dan Long in round two
at San Francisco on July 2, 1896.
Jeffries had 10 fights (for eight wins
and two draws) before he won the
world’s heavyweight championship by
beating Bob Fitzsimmons in round
11 at Coney Island on June 9, 1899.
Jeffries still retained this title when
he retired after k.o.’ing Jack Munroe
(round two) at San Francisco on
August 26, 1904, but he returned to
the ring, and was knocked out by
Jack Johnson (round 15) in a bout
billed for the real world’s heavy-
weight championship at Reno,
Nevada, on July 4, 1910. Jeffries
died at Burbank, California, on
March 3, 1953.
Brief Answers
P.H.: Her Majesty’s full title in
Australia is: Elizabeth the Second,
by the Grace of God of the United
Kingdom, Australia, and her other
Realms and Territories, Queen, Head
of the Commonwealth, Defender of
the Faith....C.A.L.: Write Ford
Motor Cos. of Australia, Parramatta-
road, Homebush (N-S.W.) G.G.:
A fine white shoe-cream should be
lightly applied with a flannel, and
rubbed clean with a duster of silk
or cotton. As the leather is old, it
is probably porous and may even
be flaky: so try a corner at the
back, very sparingly, and judge
results. Keep the books out of direct
sunshine, in a closed case if possible.
.... J.C.: Butcherbirds feed on
large insects, lizards, mice and young
birds, and derive their name from
their habit of hanging up the bodies
of any victims which cannot he
swallowed immediately by sticking
them on spiny twigs in some con-
venient tree C.E.H.: Write Cement
and Concrete Association of Aus-
tralia, 14 Spring-street, Sydney
L.L.R.: It is suggested that you
send the MS. journal to Tyrrell’s
Bookshop, 281 George-street, Sydney,
for inspection. If they are interested
they will make an offer. It is impos-
sible to assess the value of such items
without seeing them D.K.M.:
Write Director National Art Gallery
of N.S.W., the Domain, Sydney
R.D.W.: Annual subscription to the
Bread and Cheese Club, Melbourne,
is 225. for metropolitan (Melbourne)
members, and 15s. for country and
inter-State members. For particu-
lars write H. W. Malloch, 980 High-
street, Armadale (Vic.) M.M.:
Aqueous rocks are rocks formed by
the chemical and mechanical action
of water or by organic depositions.
They can be composed of chemical
precipitates, of former rocks crumbled
by the sea and cemented by softer
material, or of decayed vegetable-
and aniftial-life. They are also known
as sedimentary rocks J.S.L.: The
First World War officially ended on
August 31, 1921, when treaties of
peace were ratified by the respective
Governments; the war with Turkey,
however, was not declared to have
ended till August 6, 1924. The
Second World War ended officially in
Europe on May 9, 1945, and in Asia
on August 14, 1945 M.H.: If you
prefer not to use a bituminous seal
for the roof we suggest that a surface
waterproofing agent such as “Silasec”
would be suitable for the purpose.
“Silasec” is a proprietary line of
concrete waterproofing material which
is obtainable from John Danks Pty.,
Ltd., 324 Pitt-street, Sydney
C.M.0.: The stamps are of no great
rarity. Stanley Gibbons’ Stamp cata-
logue lists the Id. vermilion red as
No. 206, issued 1894-95, and prices
it at 6d. for the mint stamp. The
id. green is listed as 223, issued
1895-96, and is priced at 4d. mint.
These prices refer to stamps with
blue burele band at back. These last
issues of State stamps are unpopular
amongst collectors and the average
dealer would not be interested in
buying them M.J.M.: Write
Peuegrini and Cos., 543 George-street,
and £. J. Dwyer, 711 George-street
—both Sydney R.C.: Write Syd-
ney Observatory, Sydney, for leaflet
entitled “The Sundial” W.M.:
Tax payable by a taxpayer with a
dependant wife receiving £3OO per
annum for the years in question is:
1947, £26 135.; 1948, £l3 10s.; 1949,
£9 7s. 6d.; 1950, £6 Is. lid.; and
1951, £3 15s. 6d P.G.: Mrs.
jEneas Gunn was at no time a con-
tributor to The Bulletin C.H.S.
and A.8.C.: The Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research
Organisation, Wall House, 18 Loftus-
street, Sydney, will answer your ques-
tions if you write to them direct.
M.T.: Write Mr. D. Raymond,
numismatist, 128 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor think t
tsaitor thinks necessary.
ACS- Nnt in nnr line at the
moment!'.. .E.M.R.: More a history
& novel ; . H . M . : You make
everything sound like nothing....
A H - : A good story, but too um-
“ I ' or ■;; ; AV Inane
V.M.M.. Suspect your taxicab-story
***duuaj»to ■*•*•:-
T>rop has been
J°l
i* fv, f’j ,^ OU r were....
pr '
p , , a stor y about changing a
shl P s course b y sticking magnets
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
n „„ r th . T c . hn d
bm not auhf H T LuD
j n \he ai? 1 WB -Taklf a lot m
“ hSin?
Sffi ffi
mia C ,4 SydLy^ « do “n’t qnite ring true....L-K.:
V\° ; % old T P los Pectors agam....
US '"h
8 uifu f» r°° m irhp
.Jf 0 lojgt; ’'
IJj “'s jc^“i?' L g “ d h ,to“°
would be better if you took it more
lightly J.F.P.: Not enough to it.
H.T.: A meal for the gods:
Sunday Night’s Tea.
“I mus t get you some tea,”
Said my dear lovin’ wife.
But still full from Lunch
1 said Not on y° ur llfe -
But she oooks me three frankfurts
with bread and plum jam.
While she had tomato sauce on
A slice of cold lamb.
With two runs of tea
And h thTee slices V bread
I felt fuller than ever, so
I blue off to bed!
GCG • The idiom of vour
Outback Australians has a strong
Amen can flavor BTC Soon
f H f t .A’ *"•*, ‘ t ?' ~
JP* f Sp
T 1! vo n
Qw g vniir lg u ’w" -i 'du- „ n
Y whv observing
J ‘ u p".
Try something nearer home .. .H.R.
Cracker-night item has a genuine
sparkle; technique too thin... .G.S.:
Likewise for the blackbird and the
Persimmons.... G.V.K.: Rum Jungte
P oem very rum .K.F.: A pleas-
edifice but rather shaky m
foundations Regular Reader
prose article about Crown-street
fhoSdfind”lfmark“h?te or S£
Verse amateurish Hui te
R f Nottog to ‘addto ‘ 'previous
comment JLG* The swagman
falls rather flat.H.P.: Poem lacks
directness of vour covering letter
me mrecmess or your covering lettei.
your chest- S
’ .. . m „
1 Ju ul U] i LETIN
m ioJtXZmL *TLTI pin
Unable to give an old’ writer a spin ?
i must have been bally well balmy 1
F A n • uv.cci.-Vf.r nr,*™ the
viVtiiM nf' ’simnHHtv dinner.re-
hit that’s sincerity ,
“The A c hinp Hp a rt’’ nnt‘ ‘ m? a t'
A WR ® Whv^w
Tvearv^na”^
about perished Try _ something
shorter with a different story....
RH -fie .home: for pome on Rome
i L-D.T.. Use a more natural
dS:£Si£
A^nS^md


DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED (Incorporated in England)
ENGLAND
hi
r
>
I
W
By QANTAS ~C ONSTELLATION, , to South
Africa via Cocos Is. and Mauritius, then
to England by UNION CASTLE MAIL
STEAMER. Combined fare from £432 (Aust.).
Tours to Kruger National Park available en route.
' consult
Mialg&tu's
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The "HAPPY MEDIUM"
4 days in the Air
14 days at Sea
KUV mom
f£K-
iSKJ
*mur: i
CO ULB
- s
a
\ I
z
•a
‘lf
co
“Son dan" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each icentb —«»
Price* and fan-
Cher informiUM
«p»d tppiiatlai
any olhei period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ha
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Histributino Apetus — ...
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. LW
ADELAIDE .. Vardon ft Sons LtA
PERTH •« ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
More Sheep per Acre
“R.N.”: Sheep now carried
on about 15 million acres of
N.S.W. tableland country can
be doubled or trebled, accord-
ing to “Better Pastures for
the N.S.W. Tablelands,” issued
by C.5.1.R.0.
Tableland soils are lacking in
nitrogen, so clover is essential
for successful improvement.
But clovers will not flourish
until various mineral deficiencies
have been corrected. Almost all
these soils are deficient in phos-
phorus, and many of them in
sulphur. Superphosphate pro-
vides both. Lime, molybdenum
and possibly boron are neces-
sary on many soils of the
southern tablelands. Positive
responses to these minerals have
not been obtained so far on the
northern tablelands.
Sub.-clover is the outstanding
legume, Mt. Barker variety for
the south, Tallarook for the
north. Sub.-clover and Phcdaris
tuberosa provide a basic mix-
ture for pasture-improvement
throughout the region.
On the northern tablelands,
however, other grasses and
legumes have shown promise.
They have a range of seasonal
productivity and offer promise
for the development of seasonal
pastures which will spread the
production-peak and ease periods
of feed-shortage. Shortage of
winter feed is the most serious
defect of native pastures on the
northern tablelands. (The book-
let is free.)
Feeding Dairy Cows
“Mr.”: Three-year feeding
trials supervised by A. C. T.
Hewitt, Victorian stock-feeding
expert, show; that cows fed on
pasture supplemented with
grass-clover hay produced milk
and butterfat more economically
than cows on pasture with con-
centrates as additional food.
One herd received pasture
and other home-grown foods
without concentrates; a second
herd was fed a half-ton of
crushed oats as a supplement to
pasture and home-grown fod-
ders ; a third got linseed-meal
as well as pasture. The treat-
ments were rotated around the
herds each year.
The no-concentrates herd
yielded 14,7061 b. of butterfat;
that fed concentrates low in pro-
tein (half-ton per cow per year)
produced 16,6851 b.; that receiv-
ing high-protein linseed (half-
ton per cow) gave 17,5341 b.
Hewitt says that at an average
cost of £3O per ton for concen-
trates and with butter-fat at
4s. 6d. per lb,, the cost of con-
centrates for the second herd
was £855 for an increase in
returns of £445. In the herd fed
linseed-meal the concentrate
cost, £BB5 and resulted in in-
creased return of £636. Obvi-
ously the pasture- and grass-
clover-fed cows paid better.
New Alloy Tested
“C.S.”: Blades of a rotary-
hoe treated with a special wear-
resisting alloy lasted 8i times
longer than normal steel blades
in trials at Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College (N.S.W.).
Principal E. A. Southee said
a rotary-hoe was equipped with
18 blades as normally used and
12 on which a hard-facing alloy
had been deposited by oxy-
acetylene welding on the wear-
ing surface. The alloy was
Cobalide 1, an iron-chromium-
manganese mixture well known
as an abrasion-resisting hard-
facing for general industrial
purposes.
The'hoe was in operation for
185 hours in heavy-clay soil and
for 20 hours in stony ground.
The hard-faced blades lasted 8i
times longer than the normal
steel blades. The tests revealed
that to avoid breakage of blades
in hard soils or stony areas,
tempering is desirable after hard-
facing.
Pointing out that the cost of
hard-facing is approximately the
same as the price of a new
blade, Southee says a consider-
able saving resulted.
Hard-facing by welding is
widely used in industry as a
means of reducing wear-rate of
operating parts. Southee says
there is wide scope for its use
on farm implements.
Treatment of implements by
hard-facing can be done by
welding-shops or by farmers
who have oxy-acetylene welding
plant.
Record Maize Yield
“Y. Dent”: At Lochiel, near
Pambula (N.S.W. South Coast),
sterling hybrid maize has yielded
152 bushels an acre on a 70-year-
old paddock—a South Coast
record. It was grown by Cole
Bros., who won their division
of the R.A.S. championship.
Second was C. A. de Kantzow,
of Pitt Town, whose Standfast
hybrid yielded 150 bushels. The
winning crop was grown on a
medium alluvial loam, which was
for some years under a red-clover
and rye-grass, maize rotation,
with occasional lucerne. There
was little evidence of stalk-rot,
leaf-blight or corn ear-worm
damage. The clover-rye-maize
rotation was strongly recom-
mended by N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture.
Pasture Work in N.Z.
“Oxo”: B, A. Harpham, a
lady student of Queensland Uni-
versity, reports on pasture-
improvement on P. P. L. Dillon’s
property, Leefield, near Blen-
heim, South Island (N.Z.).
Dillon took over the 4200 acres
just before the war, when it was
carrying 2500 sheep and 25
cattle. The lambing percentage
was then 72 per cent,, and
average cut of wool per head
7.251 b. Today the property is
carrying 6100 sheep and 100
cattle, with a 97 per cent, lamb-
ing and an average cut of
11.91 b.
All the sheep are Corriedales.
Leefield has 600 acres of plough-
able land with a heavy sub-soil,
900 acres of heavy-stone country,
three hill blocks each of 500
acres and 1000 acres used only
for wethers. The hills are about
3000 ft. above sea-level, and the
flats about 700 ft.
Dillon followed two systems
when laying pastures. One was
to plough in winter, sow wheat in
spring, feed it off and harvest in
autumn. The land was then
ploughed for winter fallow, fol-
lowed by spring rape, then
ploughed in autufnn and sown
in mid-April with 81b. to 101 b.
of subterranean-clover and a
bushel of perennial-rye.
The other system was to
plough in early winter and fallow
during winter, then plant swedes.
After ploughing and summer
fallow, either autumn wheat or
pastures were sown.
Dillon has found that adequate
fallowing saves fertiliser. He
uses a ton of lime and lewt. of
super, per acre in early spring,
then lewt. of super, each year,
and a ton of lime every three or
four years. He found that heavy
seeding choked out weeds and
saved long cropping.
About 150 acres of Leefield is
sown each year for feed to carry
the lambs from weaning in
January to September. Usual
sowings are swedes, choumollier
or rape. Six- to seven-thousand
bales of hay are cut from the
sub.-clover and rye with some
lucerne.
In a normal season the lambs
are weaned when the sub.-clover
dries off in January, and the
ewes go to the hill paddocks.
Wether lambs are marketed, and
the others go on the kale, etc.,
or into hay-paddocks.
N.T. Cattle
“Archaps”; Tentative droving
programme for 1953 issued by
the Northern Territory Adminis-
tration shows that about 92,000
store cattle are leaving the
territory this year, about 78,000
of them for Queensland. Over
11,000 fats are going to
Wyndham meatworks.
Chief N.T. Veterinary Officer
Rose has warned cattlemen that
better attention must be paid to
inoculation against pleuro-
pneumonia. The vaccine must
be that prepared by C.5.1.R.0.,
or natural virus, when approved
by the chief veterinary officer.
Much of the pleuro in travel-
ling cattle results from careless
or unskilled inoculation, and too
many misses. Rose issued a
special warning against bushfires,
“owing to the heavy growth of
feed this year.”
The mobs started to move in
April, and the last are due to
reach Queensland in October.
Main departure centre for
Queensland is Helen Springs-
-19 mobs totalling 23,000-head.
Cattle Crosses
“Bully”: The C.5.1.R.0. will
soon begin crossing zebu and
Afrikander cattle with British
breeds at Belmont station, near
Rockhampton (C.Q.). The
progeny, expected late in 1954,
will be studied for growth-rate,
tick - resistance and heat-
tolerance, some, after weaning,
being sent to other breeding and
fattening centres for field tests.
For the experiment, Belmont
is to be divided into 12 paddocks
with sft. 6in. barbed-wire fences.
The zebu bulls have become
heavier since reaching Australia
from the U.S.A. They are
docile and quiet, though stub-
born.
The Afrikanders are capable
of existing comfortably in a
10in.-15in. rainfall zone. On the
same feed they are doing better
than other beasts on the
property.
Both zebus and Afrikanders
have it on British breeds in this
warm climate, as they cool down
and become normal more rapidly
when rested after being moved.
Dog Troubles
“Farmer Bill”; Conjunctivitis,
common in dogs, may follow
distemper or influenza.
Symptoms are watering of the
eyes, discharge of pus from the
corners and gumming-together
of the eyelids.
To treat, dissolve a half-
teaspoon of boracic-powder in
hot water, and break it down
by adding tyalf a pint of warm
water. First clear away the dis-
charge with a clean cloth dipped
in the solution. Using another
clean cloth, drip the boracic
water into the eyes and work it
gently around the eye-balls and
under the lids. Repeat three
times daily.
If the eyes remain sore as the
trouble clears up, strain cold
weak tea through a cloth and
drop into the eyes. This old
remedy is soothing and healing,
is recommended by vets and
worth pounds of drugs.
Neglect of conjunctivitis can
cause ulceration of the cornea,
then blindness follows. When a
dog fights against eye treatment,
lie him down gently and take
him quietly to build up his con-
fidence.
Bees in Winter
“Sundowner”: For successful
wintering of bees, colonies should
be placed where they will receive
maximum sunshine and protec-
tion from high winds and cold
draughts. Face the hives north,
and no closer to a belt of trees
or hedge than 3ft.
Store surplus comb's in a dry
place, protected from wax-moth
and mice, and add a few crystals
of paradichlorobenzene placed
on a flat cover under the first
box. After placing a sheet of
newspaper on top of the box put
the next box on as tightly as
possible with more crystals on
the box and so on. Complete the
stack with a hive-lid on the top.
Inspect periodically and add
more crystals if necessary.
A Cactus Pest
“W.C.Q.”: Landholders be-
tween Collinsville and Nebo
(C.Q.) are up against a major
pest in Harrisia cactus, lliis
giant cactus has been in the area
for years, but lately it has started
spreading freely.
Cactoblastis will not touch it,
and grubbing, as a means of
eradication, is slow and costly,
because every small fragment
left in the earth is capable of
producing a jiew cactus. And
if the cut-down stuff is left lying
around it quickly takes root and
leads to a thicker stand.
A good deal of land near
Collinsville has been opened for
selection, some of it cactus-
infested, Under the terms of
selection, settlers are expected
to keep their land cactus-free,
but, since the land is only worth
ss. to 10s. an acre, and the Agri-
cultural Department says the
work of killing the cactus with
arsenic pentoxide lasts four years
and costs £lOO an acre, these
new men have little chance of
success.
Hormones and weedicides
other than arsenic are ineffective.
More Merino Studs
“Rom”: A Sydney company
director, H. F. Friday, last year
began sheepbreeding at Castle
Hill with six ewes, six lambs and
a ram. He has been allowed to
register his sheep as a hobby
stud known as Coningsby. The
foundation stock were bought
from Ledgworth, Yass.
Registration has been granted
to P. Dart, Whitemark, Flinders
Island, who established the first
Merino stud on Flinders Island,
founded with 13 ewes, in lamb,
from Austin-Wanganella. C. H.
McDonald and Sons, of Cald-
well, near Deniliquin, have regis-
tered their new stud under the
name of Old Corban, derived
from the Corban stud founded
in the 1890’s near Deniliquin,
and transferred to Hay when the
property was acquired for closer-
settlement 37 years ago. Another
is Stony Point, Darlington (Vic.),
whose present manager is Robert


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage ne
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
"DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolyenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolyenator
(QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolyenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Me-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolyenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or ffm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank
Chambers, Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight !
<6lbs.
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
sdf
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BABEEHH
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Yon will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today Jot FREE LITERATURE.
BABREKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3u), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE ONE-TOOL
WORKSHOP...
for profit or pleasure
Does all kinds of odd jobs
faster, easier. SHOPSMITH is
the power tool that 600,000
Americans have bought. It does
1001 woodworking jobs. .. .
takes little space, less skill. . . .
changes quickly from tool to
tool to multiply your savings
and your fun!
* % \
(1) As a Circular Saw.
m
mm
(2) As a Disc Sander
SHOPSMITH
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINE
In a matter of moments. Shop-
smith can be adapted for use as
a . . . Disc Sander, Drill Press,
Circular Saw, Horizontal Drill,
or Wood Lathe. Shopsmith’s
rugged, practical design allows,
for accurate duplication of any
precision job. Powered by a
dependable \ h.p. electric
motor (Motors to suit local
conditions—A.C. or D.C. also
available).
SHOPSMITH may be pur-
chased on the most attractive
easy terms.
(3) As a Lathe
■
Multi-
purpose
Multi-
profit
(4) As a Drill Press ' (5) As a Horizontal Drill
Manufactured by
C. C. ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES LTD.
under license from Magna Engineering Corp., U.S.A.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. {Sydney Metropolitan Area)
C. C. DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD.
213 Bridge Road, Glebe, N.S.W.
Demonstration & Showroom; 125 a York St., Sydney. 8X7044
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney. Nock & Kirby Ltd., Sydney.
N.S.W. (Country Distributors)
A. J. Ellerker, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: J. R. Hall & Co., 500 Bourke St., Melbourne. Hardware 00. of
Australia, 71-76 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
West Australia: Watson Bros. Pty. Ltd., 363 Murray St., Perth.
South Australia: Harris Scarfe Ltd., Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Queensland: Ellerker Bros., 261 Wickham St., Valley, Brisbane.
Tasmania: J. R. Hall & Co., 50 Esplanade, Devonport.
Jamieson, a grandson of the
man who founded the stud 72
years ago.
Perennial Sudan Grass
“Saw Gum”: Although John-
son-grass is a very troublesome
weed, its excellent summer
growth and perennial character
make it so valuable that large
areas of it are used to advantage
in southern U.S.A.
A cross between Johnson-
and Sudan-grass has now been
made in Argentine to develop a
perennial grass without the ob-
jectionable spreading rootstocks
of Johnson-grass.
The new grass has been tried
in southern U.S.A., where it has
been found to go through mild
winters. There is no sign of the
grass spreading, and it is
claimed to be eradicated, when
necessary, readily by overgraz-
ing. It could be an acquisition
in Australia.
Seed-borne Parasites
“Springvale”: There are two
ways to combat seed-bome
vegetable diseases—seed-sterilisa-
tion and seed-protection. The
first aims at destroying the
harmful organisms carried in or
on the seed-coat without inter-
fering with germination. The
second aims at the prevention or
reduction of pre-emergence rot-
ting of seed in the soil by treat-
ment with fungicides.
Sterilisation is most thorough
by hot water, but this applies
only to seeds of species which
would not be injured by it. The
seed should be loosely tied in
bags of porous material and
completely immersed in water at
the specified temperature for the
duration of the treatment period.
A suitable bath can be made
from a kerosene-tin packed in a
wooden box with wood shavings
or straw. Fill about two-thirds
*
full with water at a higher tem-
perature than that required, and
allow to cool to one or two
degrees above the effective tem-
perature. The seed can then be
submerged, and the temperature
level maintained by stirring in
small quantities of hot water.
It is necessary to have an
accurate Fahrenheit ther-
mometer.
The second method is protec-
tion with chemical compounds.
There are proprietary fungicides
in dust form, organic mercury
compounds, which have some
initial effect in reducing the
severity of certain diseases.
Among the plants which show
improved emergence when their
seed is dusted with fungicides are
peas, beans, tomatoes, cabbages,
the cucurbits, carrots, celery,
parsnips, parsley, lettuce, onion,
sweetcorn and spinach.
Beet for Pigs
“Billjim”: For the barren
winter months, when milk or
whey is scarce, roots are the
cheapest and most effective
supplement for pigs. One of the
best crops is sugar-beet, which
yields well and with little or no
waste.
For wintering three months a
sow needs two tons of roots and
a store-pig half a ton. Half an
acre well manured and culti-
vated will supply the needs of
four or five sows and their
autumn litter.
It is advisable to feed sugar-
beet with a protein supplement
such as meat-meal. In-pig sows
should receive Hlb. of meat-
meal a day, with 301 b. to 401 b.
of beet, while a 601 b. store
requires to lib. of meat-
meal, with 81b. of roots, the
quantity being increased to 191 b.
for a store weighing 1001 b. If
meat-meal is not available pea-
or linseed-meal may be used.
Fertilisers
“Mr.”: For vegetable-growing
generally it’s best to rely princi-
pally on organic manures, using
the artificials more as a
stimulant. Their haphazard use
in the vegetable-garden can
throw the organic plant foods
seriously out of balance. Excess
use of sulphate-of-ammonia, for
example, can cause deficiencies
in phosphates and potash.
If artificial fertilisers are used
it’s best to apply a ready-mixed
“complete” or “market-garden”
mixture containing phosphorus,
nitrogen and potash. But keep
both it and fresh animal manure
from direct contact with freshly-
sown seed or the roots of newly-
planted seedlings.
Hints for the Farm
“Big Billy”: If a portion of the
farm is closed for autumn-
saved pasture, for feeding after
calving, it is particularly
important to graze the rest of the
farm under a controlled rota-
tional system with adequate
spelling between grazings, both
to ensure continued grass growth
during winter and to ration what
grass is available. In addition to
the grass, feed as much hay as
the cows will eat, as well as
201 b. of silage per cow per day.
“My”: To control woolly-
aphis, spray apple-trees with red-
oil, Igal. in 15gal. of water in
July or August. Use a high-
pressure spray to penetrate the
waxy covering of the aphis
colonies. The spray won’t hurt
,the wasps which help keep the
aphis in check, as their larvae
are protected within the bodies
of the aphis.
“W. Court”: First job after a
firebreak has been burned should
be a careful look along both
outer and inner fringes for
smouldering material. Dead
trees should be inspected. Some
fail to look over a firebreak the
day after because the grass was
too green to burn well the
previous night. However, grass
that will hardly bum at nightfall
may blaze furiously at midday.
“Konanda”: Most shrubs do
well if, when planting, a handful
of superphosphate is placed at
the bottom of the hole and
mixed well with the soil. When
planting-out trees or shrubs make
the hole large enough to hold
all the roots with ease, placing
the plant a little deeper than it
was growing previously. Very
wet or very dry conditions at
planting are unfavorable to root-
establishment, so it is better to
plant after rain or after proper
watering. Firm the soil well and
water after planting each seed-
ling.
“Rooster”: Judging from
results in my own vegetable-
garden, forcing rhubarb during
winter pays dividends. It has a
delicate flavor and is much more
tender than the so-called slow-
growing winter varieties. Any
variety can be forced, but winter
types, such as Stone’s Ruby or
Topp’s Winter, cause less
trouble, producing thick stems
when the clumps are covered
with a layer of fresh manure or
green litter to a depth of several
inches.
“Humus”: Contours prove
themselves. Erosion - control
methods of the Victorian Soil
Conservation Authority were
severely tested by the heavy 1952
rainfall. Near Avenel the
former Minister for Conserva-
tion, R. K. Brose, saw heavy
damage where water scoured
unprotected slopes. Adjoining
areas, contour-furrowed, showed
no evidence of soil loss. Officers
of the authority report similar
contrasts in many parts of the
State which had heavy down-
pours during the later part of
the year.
“Fides”: To make nourishing
dog-biscuits boil a sheep’s heart
and liver till tender and mince
finely. Take 81b. of finely-
ground wheatmeal, add a table-
spoon of salt, lib. of grated
carrot and minced meat. Mix
well and knead to a dry dough.
Cut into Sin. squares about
thick. Secret of making good
dog-biscuits is a slow oven and
thorough baking. Underbaking
causes toughness and affects the
keeping qualities. The ingredients
given make over six dozen bis-
cuits. When feeding to pups
with undeveloped teeth or old
dogs with decayed teeth, break
into pieces by hammering
between thick pieces of paper.
“Myr”: A cow deposits
annually up to 12 tons of solid
and liquid manure which con-
tains approximately 9cwt. of
sulphate of ammonia, 3cwt. of
super, and 6cwt. of potash salts,
but this, unfortunately, is de-
posited very unevenly, causing
rank patches which stock
neglect for sweeter, shorter grass
elsewhere. Regular harrowing
of the pasture with light
harrows, however, will remedy
the trouble, spreading the
manure evenly and giving the
rain a chance of washing it into
the ground where the nutrients
again become available to the
plants.
“M.”: Victorian Department
of Agriculture recommends the
following anti-smut treatment
for seed-wheat. Pickle all seed-
wheat with to 2oz. per
bushel of a pickling powder
containing mercury or hexa-
chlorobenzene —either is more
effective than dusts containing
copper. Make sure that each
grain receives its coating of
powder. Most of the recent
smut trouble has been due not to
neglect of pickling so much as
rushing the job, leaving some of
the grains uncoated. A few
missed here and there can cause
a lot of trouble.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Under my cyclical system of forecasting the northern
N.S.W. districts and southern Queensland show an almost
rainless winter until late in July, with a possible fall about
the middle of the month, though this shows on only one
cycle. ,
However, the whole picture is for a good spring. There
are at present no spots on the sun, which makes for a
reduction of energy in the production of the rain-points.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tramway Services
Tramway managements in Australia
are well aware of the losses incurred
and the poor service given, but they wait
in vain for practical suggestions to solve
problems over which they have no con-
trol. After all, they can’t follow the
policy of some private operators who,
refused permission to increase fares, have
taken their vehicles off the road.
The peak-hour demand in congested
metropolitan areas is the main cause of
poor service and financial loss. In Mel-
bourne, 605 trams are needed to move
the peak-hour load, while only 204 main-
tain the off-peak service. In a recent
report the Tramways Board points out
that an extension of the period by no
more than 20 minutes would result in
vast improvements in the service given.
Yet suggestions for staggering knocking-
off time have been ill received, mainly,
the board believes, because of habit,
prejudice, conservatism —a general re-
luctance to accept change and depart
from established practice.
As a result, 400 trams, and many of
their crews, stand by for most of the day
to deal with an evening crush which
leaves travellers frazzled and irritated.
So short has the peak-hour become since
shops commenced closing at 5.30 p.m.
that many of the trams make only one
paying trip for the day.
Partial staggering of working hours
has been accomplished at an industrial
area some distance from the city which
is served by tramway buses. Under
ordinary conditions 115 vehicles would
be required to move the peak-hour load,
but, by staggering, this has been reduced
to 56. However, as no housing exists,
off-peak demand is comfortably catered
for with four buses, leaving 52 vehicles
and 104 men idle between peaks, and
causing a loss of £60,000 a year.
Public behavior also plays its part.
Despite appeals of tramway inspectors,
the travelling public insists on over-
crowding the first tram headed for their
destination, although peak-hour schedules
provide for trams travelling to the same
terminus following one another. Checks
show that the first car is often impossibly
jammed, the second just filled and the
third empty.
A deteriorating road situation also
hampers tramway service. Traffic-jams
at intersections, double-parking at kerbs,
frequent traffic accidents, and the over-
flowing of cars on tramlines —all con-
tribute to dislocating the service to the
point of chaos.
Many motorists believe that tramways
should be taken out of city streets, but
tramway engineers produce traffic counts
showing that trams, using one lane, carry
seven times the passengers conveyed in
cars occupying two lanes of a road.
Los Angeles planners believe that all
transit-lines should be underground, but
construction costs in Australian cities
make that solution prohibitive. London’s
answer has been to create new towns
beyond the metropolitan area which are
“ Nonsense , Mother —he LOVES meeting you !”
self-contained, factories and housing
being placed so that long-distance travel-
ling is abolished completely. Road
engineers favor trams running between
plantation strips and entirely separated
from road traffic, but that scheme would
require many miles of road-widening.
Since mass transportation is a vital
factor in our daily lives, it is clear that,
if our cities are to continue to grow,
they must be replanned to enable com-
fortable and economical movement.
Tramway systems have been forced to
accept wholly adverse situations and yet
still attempt to make their services pay.
But public comment, itself desirable and
“And We supply a puncture-repair outfit with every one We sell.”
healthy, should be directed more to the
failure of our cities to plan for metro-
politan growth.—Rag (Vic.).
The Gambling Australian?
What makes so many Australians think
that Australians are more confirmed
gamblers than any other people?
I’ve been over a lot of Australia, and
it’s my experience that the foreigner out-
gambles the Australian most of the time.
The Italian is a great gambler, whether
he’s from a Westralian mine, a Queens-
land canefarm or a city fruitshop in
between. The Slav is a greater one, and
so are the Croat and Montenegrin, but
they’re all starters compared with the
Greek. In the big ring at Kalgoorlie,
considering the relative national popula-
tion, Italians and Slavs far outnumber
Australians.
It is an essential part of the myth that
the Australian soldier is a particularly
heavy and consistent gambler, but to any-
one with eyes and ears he was in the
shade in that respect beside the Ameri-
can soldier, plain or colored.
There is no counterpart in Australia
to the football pools of England, which
count their business in millions and mil-
lions annually. There are lotteries out-
side Australia —the Irish sweepstake is
one. Despite the fact that it
occasionally produces a race-
horse of world class, the
racing and breeding of horses
(and dogs) in Australia are
small business compared with
the scale of things in Eng-
land, France, U.S.A. and
South America.
Australia has no Reno, or
Las Vegas, nor anything
vaguely approaching them in
its national social scheme.
Racketeers don’t run
gambling “businesses” in
America, they run “empires.”
The ordinary Australian
citizen apparently hasn’t
heard of the Stock Exchange
as a gambling medium, as
has his Canadian equivalent.
The Australian likes a
flutter, as do most other
people in the world—some-
thing for nothing attracts
everyone. But the implica-
tion that Australians are in-
veterate gamblers above other
peoples is the result of super-
ficial observation. By world
standards they are nowhere
near the front, and that’s not
to their discredit either. —Mark O’Polo
(Vic.).
Car Insurance
The withdrawal of compulsory third-
party insurance wouldn’t reduce road
accidents (B. 24/6/’53). Third-party is
more or less an official recognition of the
fact that accidents will happen no matter
how careful a driver may be.
There are many careless and reckless
drivers careering about the roads, but
they are not careless or reckless because
they are covered by third-party—insur-
ance companies are neither benevolent
nor soft in the head.
In almost every accident on our roads
which involves even a slight element of
negligence, there is usually a police prose-
cution in store for the erring driver. If
he is convicted of negligence or drunken
driving the insurance company concerned
certainly won’t pay for any damage done
through his negligence. The driver him-
self is open to an action for damages.
On the other hand, third-party insur-
ance is intended in such cases to com-
pensate innocent persons for any injury
suffered as a result of such negligence.
The driver does not benefit personally
by third-party insurance, which, if with-
drawn, would merely react against the
innocent party, whose only recourse would
be a costly court action.
Road Safety Council figures covering
the first five months of this year show
a slight but encouraging drop in the
accident-rate and a substantial decrease
in the number of fatalities.
The latest increase in third-party pre-
miums was mainly due to fantastic
damage awards by juries, and not because
of an increasing accident-rate. As a
counter-to that, the N.R.M.A. and other
bodies have been advocating a fixed scale
of damages to be used as a guide to
courts and juries in assessing accident
claims.
Road Safety Council campaigns have
played a big part in making people more
safety-minded, but there is always a sec-
tion who are deaf to safety appeals and
who recognise no interests beyond their
own.
The only language these criminally
irresponsible drivers understand are
severe court penalties and suspension of
driving licences. Unfortunately the courts
are prone to extend undeserved leniency
to such drivers, and police officials are
perfectly justified in complaining that
magistrates are too ready to extend the
provisions of section 556 a of the Crimes
Act, which in many cases permits careless
drivers to escape the consequences of
their actions.
Obviously the cure is much heavier
fines or jail or both, and not the with-
drawal of third-party insurance.—J. K. D.
(N.S.W.).
Adelaide
Adelaide’s City Fathers have at last
had to admit that their hitherto praise-
worthy 19th-century town planner,
Colonel Light, was somewhat unimagina-
tive.
The reason is that the city of Adelaide
has been designed to cope with a maxi-
mum flow of traffic from east to west,
and vice versa. Human nature asserting
itself, however, the inhabitants have
shown an unyielding wish to go north
and south. So, at the moment, everyone
is scratching his head in an endeavor to
get over the apparently insoluble prob-
lem.
Impeccable surveyor and draughtsman
as he was, Light planned the city
area on the basis of a mile squared
mathematically on the cardinal points,
neatly divided into so many streets of
varying widths according to their pro-
jected importance. Relieving them in
the centre, and at symmetrically placed
points, were “squares,” very neat, proper
and highly commendable.
For some reason, still undisclosed, there
was provision for only five through-
streets in a north-south direction; east
and west, however, ran no fewer than
eleven. In addition, it was only a re-
versal of Light’s idea that made the
main thoroughfare, King William-street,
“thorough” at all. He wanted to put
Government House at its head on North-
terrace! Adelaide would have had no
central north-south street. Fortunately,
reason prevailed.
For the first 100 years or so the scheme
worked quite well. But, before the last
war, S.A. had 75,000 cars to its credit.
Today the number is not far short of
treble that figure. So, instead of sneering
at Sydney’s cart-tracks and Melbourne’s
little streets, the city of churches and
pubs is ruefully facing its own traffic
problem.
A potential main north-south artery,
Pulteney-street, was effectively blbcked-
off at its northern end by the erection of
the lovely Bonython Hall, which now
faces down its length. Ironically, Pul-
teney’s twin, Morphett-street, set well
away from the main shopping and busi-
ness centres, is connected to the northern
part of the city by a serviceable bridge-
system.
Fortunately, the little valley of the
Torrens, to the north of the town, lends
itself fairly easily to bridging. But S.A.
leaders will have to overcome local city
interests and resume land in the north-
eastern corner of the city block for broad
through-ways. The need is imperative if
the growth of the energetic southern
capital is not to be impeded.—B. K. G.
(A.C.T.).
The Black Police
A misreading of my handwriting made
it appear that I claimed that my father
was inspector of white police in the
Normanton Gulf district. Actually,
James Lamond, father of H. G.
Lamond, was inspector of the Norman-
ton district, and I served as native police
officer in charge at Turn Off Lagoon
under Inspector Lamond, through whose
persuasion I joined that section of the
Queensland police.
My father, Captain R. Kyle Little, was
a sub-inspector of native mounted police,
stationed first on the Walsh (Palmer gold-
rush _days), then at Bloomsbury, south
of Bowen, and finally on the lower
Georgina River, 120 miles from Boulia.
He died in Birdsville. — John Kyle
Little (Q.).
Folk-lore
Why deplore our apparent lack of folk-
lore, customs, native songs, ballads and
dances (k 1/7/’53)?
White settlement in this country is 165
years old. We are a Commonwealth of
going on nine million people scattered
over about three million square miles.
We have few closely settled rural areas
compared with Europe and America. As
well, we are mainly of a common stock,
issuing from two tiny islands on the edge
of Europe.
European civilisation has existed for
longer than most of us care to work out.
America has known the white man for
some 350 years. National folk cultures
have become a part of the “old” coun-
tries from the effluxion of time and have
received a deliberate boost because of
their tourist value. The enormous popu-
lation of the U.S. includes representa-
tives and descendants of probably all
Europe. It, too, has a huge and growing
folk-culture, deliberately and enthusiasti-
cally fostered.
When those important factors are con-
sidered, this country shows up reasonably
well. Its native culture and customs are
becoming richer ever decade. The annual
festivals of the Barossa vintage (S.A.)
and at jacaranda-time in Grafton
(N.S.W.) may in time become as famous
as overseas junketings. Can it be denied
that the new Australian population otf
post-war years will add their share?
Australian domestic culture and cus-
toms are not as yet fixed and fully
recognisable entities, but many are in
their strong and burgeoning youth.—
Karrimba (A.C.T.).


Australia and Canada
To an old Australian, who can re-
member the struggle for Federation and
its triumphant issue, it was humiliating
to read the article in which “K.A.S”
demonstrated how Canada has gone clean
ahead of our Commonwealth in a half-
century which they began with no great
difference in population (B. 3/6/’53).
And there is no comfort to be found in
patriotic indignation and questioning;
the facts collected by “K.A.S.” are in-
disputable. But he omitted one very im-
portant cause of the lead which Canada
has taken and is ever-increasing. This
was stated by the Australian Arthur Jose
in his book The Growth of the Empire
(now, alas! no longer evert a geographical
expression), the first edition of which was
published in our first Federal year;
In one striking particular the Australian
Constitution differs from the Canadian; In
the Dominion the central Parliament is
supreme, and the provinces have only such
powers as have been definitely allotted to
them; in Australia it is the Federal Parlia-
ment whose powers are limited by definite
words in the Constitution, and the States
retain all the other powers they used to.
possess. Thus the Dominion Government
owns and controls all the land of Canada
outside the borders of the original
provinces, while the Federal Government
of Australia owns no land at all, and
immigrants have to depend on what six
different States choose to offer them through
six Agents-General on six different sets of
conditions.
It may be objected that our Federal
Government does own or control a bit
of land; the so-called A.C.T. But what
is this to Yukon and the North-west
Territories, spread over 1,511,979 square
miles? From these immense national
assets whose production in variety and
value is annually increasing, North
America has long drawn most of its
radium supplies and is now getting
“radioactive ores for atomic-energy
projects” (see Canada, 1952, published
by the Bureau of Statistics at Ottawa,
copies of which are available in Sydney).
Retained all their 1901 powers, the
States, except when a temporary surrender
was forced on them by events beyond
their control, have among them the
power to refuse self-government in local
matters to dissatisfied sections, even
populous parts of Australia like North
Queensland and northern N. S. Wales.
How much more wisely the Canadians
have behaved! They began with four
provinces; they now have ten, as well
as the two territories, one of which,
Yukon, has a member at Ottawa. Sas-
katchewan and Alberta were admitted as
provinces in 1905 and Newfoundland in
1949.
Newfoundland, like New Zealand, in
our case, had sent delegates to the con-
vention which drew up a partnership
plan, but remained out until in process
of time it became a suppliant. New
Zealand’s adhesion to an Australasian
Commonwealth is never discussed now,
and if mentioned in a mixed company of
informed people the New Zealanders
would laugh. It is not in the nature of
their solid and sensible people to con-
tribute to the cost of the excessive estab-
lishments that Australians have to main-
tain or to share the burden of our im-
mense losses in transport and the rest.
All the same, aviation has removed m'ost
of the “1200 arguments” which the
grandfathers of the present generation of
Maorilanders urged against union with
Australia, and the rise of Asian nation-
alism, with the emergence of Communist
China as a formidable military Power,
has become a menace to both our
countries which calls for closer co-
operation than even an Anzus Pact.
Tn small as well as large matters the
Australian taxpayer has to shoulder a
pyramid of expenditure from which the
Canadian is free. Within the last few
weeks N. S. Wales has had to bear
the cost of a by-election because the
Sydney Government transferred one of
its members to a judgeship. This could
not happen in Canada; there “the judges
of the Superior, District and County
Courts in each province.... are appointed
by the Federal Government from the
bars of their respective provinces;
judges’ salaries and pensions are also
fixed by the Federal Government.” Nor
do the Canadian provinces swarm with
“Is there no place left on earth where a man can enjoy a Utile solitude ?”
politicians and their attendants and other
hangers-on, as our States do;
The provinces, with the exception of
Quebec [which has over 4 million people;
Ontario has nearly 4| millions] have one
legislative body; Quebec still retains a
second, the members of which are appointed
for life.
Neither is there an imitation Court in
every provincial capital nor a herd of
Agents-General in London. Compared
with official Australia Canada is a pattern
of democratic simplicity. It is on record
that after the First World War the
Canadian Government “requested the
King not only to cease conferring
hereditary titles on citizens of Canada
but to ask that other honors should only
be given on the advice of Canadian
Ministers.”
Since that time the giving of such titles
has ceased in Canada.
As for the distribution of power, “all
matters of national concern are under
the jurisdiction of the, Federal Govern-
ment,” which “also has unlimited powers
of taxation.” The ten provinces “have
control over such items as education, the
administration of justice, municipal in-
stitutions, prisons and reformatories,
hospitals and welfare institutions and
administration of public lands.” It fol-
lows that they neither need nor ask for
prodigious subsidies such as our State
Governments insist they require, nor does
the national Minister of Finance (only
eighth in order of Cabinet precedence)
spend half his time arguing with his pro-
vincial counterparts and looking into
their disorderly accounts. Whereas the
demands of our State Treasurers in Can-
berra run to hundreds of millions of
pounds Australian, Ottawa subsidies to
the provinces (two of which have more
people than there are in Australia) were
merely .13,677,000 dollars in 1933, rising
slowly to 14,445,200 in 1945, albeit war
effects and the accession of Newfound-
land have caused an increase to 25,541,000
dollars.
In Australia a Government with a
clear majority in the people’s House has
just escaped being placed at the mercy
of the Senate, a Senate chiefly memorable
in its uninteresting history for the sweep-
ing victory of an A-ticket of unknowns ;
and this fate is all too likely to over-
take whatever Government may be in
office after the next election, and the
next. It couldn’t occur in Canada.
There the Senate is a nominee Chamber
with little more than consultative powers,
which it never abuses.
The truth is, we took the wrong turn-
ing in 1900. Guided mainly by senti-
ment and by false notions of our national
destiny, we ignored the successful work-
ing of the British North America Act, so
wisely adapted to the aptitudes and ex-
perience of colonists, and adopted the
U.S. system. It has never suited us, and
suit us it never will. Can we retrace our
steps? Yes, provided we get resolute
and imaginative leadership, especially
from Canberra. — D. Empson (N.S.W.).
Britain's Population
There’s not much reason behind that
argument (B. 3/6/’53) that Britain’s food
problem is essentially a population prob-
lem, and that large-scale migration to the
Dominions is the solution of it.
During the 19th century millions of
Britons migrated to U.S.A., the British
colonies, or elsewhere. But Britain’s
population increased steadily. Today it
stands at a record level.
Emigration on a scale sufficient to
match British population to current
internal food-supplies would have to be
so extensive that the Dominions certainly
could not absorb it. Australia has found
it difficult enough to assimilate into her
economy the few hundred thousand who
have come here since World War 11.
A substantial reduction of the British
population would also create serious
economic problems. Such things as port
accommodation, housing, transport and
sanitary and educational facilities have
been developed to serve a population of
the present size. One substantially smaller
would find their maintenance a heavy
burden. Similarly with payment of
interest on the national debt.
Most of those who would go to the
Dominions, too, would be of working
age. The number of elderly persons left
in Britain would form a far greater pro-
portion of the total than today. Pen-
sions would be a correspondingly heavier
charge on the economically active.—
Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
Juries and Damages
That paragraph on the merits and de-
merits of trial by jury (B. 10/6/’53) was
wrong in stating that “the problem is
common to all States.”
There have been no juries in civil
actions in S.A.' for a quarter of a century,
since the Juries Act of 1927 provided
that “every cause, matter, or issue re-
quired to be tried in the Supreme Court
or any Circuit Court in any jurisdiction,
other than the Criminal Causes jurisdic-
tion of such court, shall be tried by a
single judge without a jury.
As a solitary exception the Act em-
powers a judge, on the application of a
party, to order trial by a jury when it
appears that a question may arise “whether
any party has been guilty of an indict-
able offence,” but no one has ever availed
himself of that privilege. Certainly no
lawyer in S.A. would now care to resur-
rect the civil jury, that happy hunting-
ground of Sergeant Buzfuz and Mr.
Stryver.
Every man under 65 who is on the
roll of electors for the Legislative
Council is liable for jury-service in the
Criminal Court, This means that jurors
are selected from those who have the
small property qualification of being
occupiers of a dwelling. The list of ex-
emptions from such service includes deaf
and dumb persons, members of Parlia-
ment, the Governor-General, mental
defectives and convicted felons. The
property qualification has led to a great
improvement in the mental capacity and
sense of responsibility of criminal juries,
and while no innocent man gets convicted,
the road is not easy for the real criminal.
The Bulletin’s criticisms of out-
rageously extravagant damages awarded
by juries in the eastern States has no
application here; and the suggestion that,
after a jury has decided the question of
liability, damages should be “assessed by
experts” is amusing to a lawyer.
Who would be the “expert” to assess
damages for a boy who has become a
permanent imbecile as a result of head
injuries caused in a motor collision? Or
for a woinan whose childbearing is ended
by a fractured pelvis caused by a railway
accident? Or for a decent girl wrongly
arrested for shoplifting? Should the
panel of experts include an imbecile, a
woman with a fractured pelvis and
someone who has previously suffered
wrongful arrest? Or should the panel
be entirely composed of those all-round
“experts” whose genius is so universally
admired by politicians and who call them-
selves economists?
Perhaps the South Australian idea that
the judge is as well qualified as anyone
for this admittedly difficult task has
something to commend it. — Judicosa
(S.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 233
Across
I—South seaman on a tub what is
supposed to be very restful? (7)
5—A son of Ham and lon a padded
contribution to our comfort. (7)
B—Former streetcar and a Hayworth
century beyond the obligations
of wedlock. (5-7)
10—Wine to the founder and driving-
spirit of Sydney’s Mercury
Theatre. (5)
Ammunition for some firearm. (3)
13—“ Blue” has this hardier altera-
tion. (3, 4)
14 Boy to spread and turn new-
mown grass for drying. (3)
16—Island measure. (4)
—l >ro B en ff° r to employ a spell. (5)
in —Container to have capacity. (3)
‘■o—Come clean. (3, 2)
22 Coppers on a Tibetan ox native
in Borneo. (4)
23 Our French number’s heir comes
back. (3)
Tart let hide a chatterbox. (7)
27 You take a town in Victoria, and
it is not contradicted .TO)
28— A valuable piece of property send
this girl back, but it isTr setback
to a State. (5)
30—Piano lake’s sprinters held by
investors in the cultivator com-
pany? (12)
31— The man’s rightist subject. (7)
32 Times with sun-time girl friend
of Meggs before you set about
the finish. (7)
Down
1— Girl has pianissimo craftsman-
ship on a Victorian city. (10)
2 Willow thanks carnivores in the
army. (10)
3 Tune to an advertisement, Robin.
(5)
4 So hard to be found in secret
stores. (6)
5 What stops a knockout punch?
What stops a prayer? They’re
Oriental. (8)
6 Nimbus is to give a boy a ring.
(4)
7 Fleet registers a five in New
York. (4)
9—Emancipation of a piece of evi-
dence of a victory. (7)
11 —Birds save improperly. (4)
14— The Sick Man of Europe is to
jog along in a dance. (6, 4)
15— Coffee cups timed to rise over
donkeys, or to dismiss Latin
12-ounce weights. (4-6)
17—Tiptop Canberra murder uses all
our money. (7)
19 —Herb is one in a hundred. (8)
2l__Wear past the two of us holding
an alternative. (4)
24—Hamlet in a hamlet of outer-
Melbourne. (6)
26—Cardinal dupe in the affair of
“The Queen’s Necklace. C 5)
28 — Shut up when shut wrong (4)
29 — Nip to see with heads up (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 232


Wm
■
miiiMd*
lii
WifMMi'
: r~ * p
life
v ||
ii
i !
■ ■
m 3 fnPrwtlL i. —I ■
:
■
. .
iiiiplM
.•"*>• ■ ■%& sgags:
M i
i'i lei
: Mpi|
| pi:*; Jjj|
B «dßr€
v /* -It"' «' & fMowU
,
~ •••••• . v . •• -■;•■■ .;;»
■ < ' m
t m
m . .; * *
■ s d'-ePf' 1 ■■B S 9
.V. 4 ,
* I 1 IT ~'~xjP**r. : M efllri i
•,*» -V ' “
CATERPILLAR DiCSCC
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
CATERPILLAR
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
i means
* mw
(g©§T
,3
HASTINGS PEERING - QUEENSLAND PIT.
LTD.
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane
Phone J 1456 (6 lines)
BRANCH: ERNEST ST.. INNISFAIL
Phone 475
HASTINGS DIESELS LIMITED.
ALICE SPRINGS. NORTHERN TERRITORY
AND LAE. NEW GUINEA
