

“THE HOMELAND IN PICTURE AND STORY”
Fifty-two of the illustrations and descriptions which have appeared on this page during
the past twelve months are now available. Write for your free copy to the nearest branch
of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd., and please mark your envelope:—
“MONUMENTS”
Available from any Australian Office of the House of Seppelt
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163. G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE;
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, 8.0.4.
233 E, G.P.O.
Box 64. P.O.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74-No. 3851
THE STORY OF LEGACY
Wednesday, December 2, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
REGENCY-STYLED CARLTON HOUSE TERRACE, A GEM OF LONDON
IN many parts of London arc to be seen fine examples of Regency architec-
ture, built during the reign of the Prince Regent (1810-1820) and
reflecting some of the gaiety and extravagance of that period. As a result
of the new influence the sober and unadorned brickwork of the eighteenth
century was faced with plaster or stone and embellished with columns and
cornices.
Gleaming white palaces arose which, in reality, were terraces of houses
masked behind an impressive and imaginative facade to which they were
not logically entitled. Regency architecture may be accused of insincerity
hut because of its grandeur and ornamented quality, it is held m high
esteem today and large sums of money have been spent in restoring Nash s
classical terrains which surround Regent’s Park in London, to their former
glory- ,
Carlton House Terrace, which faces the Mall, the great processional way
to Buckingham Palace, is another outstanding example of Regency architec-
ture. The Terrace takes its name from the Triton House
which stood near by on the site now occupied by the Duke of York s Column
in Waterloo Place. Carlton House was built by Lord Carlton and was
occupied in 1783 as a town residence by the Prince later
became King George IV. His suppers and banquets at Carlton House,
frequently attended by two thousand guests, were outstandingly lavish and
were described as Arabian Nights fantasies. It was there that he secret
married Mrs. Fitzherbert in 1785, an event which was denied in the House
of Commons,
In 1816 Carlton House was the scene of the marriage of Princess
Charlotte to Prince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg. Seven years later the house
was demolished to make way for Carlton House lerrace, illustrated here-
which became the home of Prime Ministers and ambassadors. Loid He by,
when living there, was interviewed by Charles Dickens, who, at that time,
was a reporter on the “Morning Chronicle.” In later years Dickens again
visited Carlton House Terrace as a guest-01-honor at a party given by
Gladstone.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War the swastika used to be
seen flying above the German Embassy in Carlton House ret race. Ihe
embassy became the largest diplomatic house in London and contained
palatial rooms in which a thousand people could be entertained.


CAREER PLANNING
The ONLY way to achieve Success is to
work for it. STOTT’S can train you privately,
in your own home, for a secure, well-paid
Career.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresseutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing. Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Bussell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
■ —CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -----
To STOAT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s 'in--
MY NAME
ADDRESS .■ .. . , ....... .
(S.B. 1253) AGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P-O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare ahd current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 5/--)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and .N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set o£ 6),
The Red Page
FITZGERALD'S NEW POEMS
There are a few final illuminations in
literary criticism for which anyone seek-
ing to practise or to understand the arts
must always be grateful; Aristotle on
the epic and the tragedy ; Matthew Arnold
after him : Hazlitf on the “plain English”
style—by which he meant/not necessarily
condemning all grace of cadence arid
ornament of phrase, that a man should
first of all speak out simply and plainly.
That is obviously the basis for the best
English prose: why we accept Swift and
Hazlitt himself without reservation, while
Walter Pater seems precious.
Until reading Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s
new collection of shorter poems. This
Night’s Orbit, beautifully printed by the
Melbourne University Press, I don’t know
that I had ever thought of applying
Hazlitt’s principles directly to poetry as
well as to prose. In poetry one is
naturally inclined to look first for the
graces—the flashing image, the singing
line. \et Hazlitt’s insistence on plain-
ness, directness and simplicity is closely
in accord with Wordsworth’s theory and
practice, which brought new life to
English poetry after the jewelled clock-
work of the 18th century; and it is in
line with what Yeats advocated for poetry
in our own time, the use of “the natural
words in their natural order.”
Certainly the poems in This Night’s
Orbit are plain. Where anyone else
would go on about deep-blue rollers,
spindrift making rainbows at the bow,
the white sails swelling in the wind and
all the rest of it, Fitz Gerald, looking
through Tasman’s eyes after his ship has
nearly been wrecked on Heemskerck
Shoals, puts the ocean' into an image as
plain as a wheat-sack: ■—
You could not hide in a bag
Thousands of miles of trafficabie seas.
He sums up his whole philosophy in the
couplet;
But with the wind blowing about him what’s for
a man
except press on towards breakfast while he can?
Without any lilt of line (though not
without energy) and without any flower-
ing of imagery, unless the bare, blunt
phrase of this white patch ’ can be taken
as embodying the spring, he will Write
a stanza that is pure hard thought in
exceedingly hard language:
Health is not healing, scars grown over, crust
upon the festered surface; it is out-thrust
of renewal from within —process of growth—
which aching and recovery both
are signs of, working through, like this white
patch
of week-end miracle on tea-tree thatch.
Professor A. D, Hope, now enlivening
(once a month) the “S. M. Herald’s” book-
„page, lately criticised this plainness of
Fitz Gerald’s, where he thought it had
run to extremes, printing some lines
from Between Two Tides as prose, to
show how flat they were:
The brooding doubt presented itself at all
points nevertheless as he looked back: what
otherwise could he have done? Indeed
what otherwise? Yet that doubt itself
showed that the past walked with you in
unfulfilment and that it still required you,
could still touch your arm demanding: “The
thing unfinished, where did you put it?”
I must confess that 1 have myself,
reviewing some of the poems in This
Night’s Orbit as they appeared in antho-
logies, had similar reservations. I re-
member remarking of “Week-end
Miracle,” the tea-tree poem, that it con-
tained “precisely three lines of descrip-
tion amongst its metaphysics”; I
attempted to warn FitzGer.ald, with all
the solemn wrong-headedness of which
a critic is capable, that —referring to some
lines of “Heemskerck Shoals”—if he made
his face too “indifferent” it would look
“merely blank.”
I daresay—ift least I hope, for the
reputation of critics—that Professor Hope
and myself are still a little right. Cer-
tainly there are some very flat bits in
the midst of the drama and deep thought
of Between Two Tides. But why not
print the condemned lines as they were
written, as verse, and look at them
again?:
The brooding doubt
presented itself at all points nevertheless
as he looked back: what otherwise could he
have done?
Indeed what otherwise? Yet that doubt itself
showed that the past walked with you jn un-
fulfilment
and that it still required you, could touch your
arm
demanding: “The thing unfinished, where did
you put it?”
It is plain, admittedly. But (disregard-
ing certain other defences which might be
made for it: that it is spoken “in char-
acter” ; that it is immediately preceded
by some much more musical lines; that
there is a nightmarish, dramatic quality
in the thought of your past misdeeds and
omissions walking up and “touching your
arm”) 1 do not think it really is so flat
after all. It is natural; it is easy to speak ;
it has dramatic stops and starts in the
rhythm; 1 like the flow of it. Without
claiming it as one of the peaks of Fitz-
Gerald’s verse I think it could well be
admired as an example of the ease and
ingenuity of his craftsmanship; much
as I have come to admire a comparatively
undistinguished passage in “Heemskerck
Shoals” for the fluency with which —in
rhymed verse at that —Fitz Gerald has
contrived to discuss Tasman’s problems
of navigation:
And a proved mistake '
was dropping back to Van Diemen’s Land in
the wake,
instead of working to windward when that shore
swinging away td north might well have solved
the problem of New Holland, closed its extent,
and patched a gap or two in the continent
by limits fixed. But northward would have in-
volved
departure from the instructions wanting more
authority than his own hands held....
It should be clear from these remarks
that I have revised —indeed, reversed —
my doubts about Fitz Gerald’s plainness
of speech. That is the effect of reading
the poems gathered together in This
Night’s Orbit where each reinforces the
other, where all are contained in a unity
of style and outlook and where, conse-
quently, one can see clearly, in a way
not possible with sporadic publication in
anthologies and The Bulletin, exactly
what the poet has achieved.
Here are poems in a style directly
opposite to that of, say, Spenser, Keats
or Dylan Thomas; yet the total effect is
of poetry of very high quality. Instead of
every rift being “loaded with poetic
ore,” meaning beautiful adjectives, there
is a clean, hard structure of steel—l
doubt if there are any rifts to fill. Instead
of a vague yearning for the ineffable,
or for death, a pursuit of “La Belle Dame
Sans Merci,” there is the immensely prac-
tical philosophy of
what’s for a man
except press on towards breakfast while he can?
Simply because there is no nonsense about
it. either in style or outlook, this plain-
ness of speech now seems as admirable —
as flawless—a basis for poetry as Hazlitt
thought the same directness was for prose:
a poet should be a man before he tries to
be anything more ; and he should never
be anything less.
But a basis is not poetry ; the absences
of woolly thought and superfluous orna-
ment are merely negative virtues. Plain
speech is all very well—provided it is a
poet speaking.
So perhaps the first point one should
make clear, since Keats remains Keats,
is that Fitz Gerald’s poetry, in spite
of its discipline of plainness, is every-
where lit, everywhere infused by the
more romantic qualities one demands. It
is hard to lay one’s finger on these
qualities; yet they are there. Some-
times there is a whole colored stanza,
like this from “Fifth Day,” the poem on
Warren Hastings:
Scarlet and ermine judges, wigs, gold laces,
canopies, woolsacks, drapings in red and green
for Peers’ benches and Commons’—the culprit
faces
a canvas not a court, a painted scene;
or this from “Duped Though We Were” ;
There are still our hills beyond, whose green
smoulders, whose boughs, like smoke,
bulk darkly, pouring huge between
night and the hearths of folk;
but this is rare. There is ao easing of the
severity of style in the internal rhymes of
“1918-1941,” lyricism in one or two of
the slighter poems, an Irish lilt in parts
of “Transaction” ; but this, too, is rare.
It is rare even to find a single complete
line that might be quoted as obviously
poetic. The poetry lies chiefly—and it lies
everywhere—in phrases, the evocation of
a scene, the steady and life-giving infusion
of a poetic feeling for Nature so that
before any further purpose is accom-
plished you are in company with the
poet in an old camp among the mountains
in Fiji, finding “the fallen ridge-pole
under the fern” ; or
within sound
of a dean sea, beside white dunes
amid bottle-brush.
In a sense this verse, so plain at first
glance but soon found to be lit with these
flashes of color and imagery from Nature,
is rather like the kind of poetry which
T. S. Eliot has said he is trying to write;
a verse so clear, so limpid, that it be-
comes like a pane of glass through which
may shine the pure poetry of thought
and vision. Only it is a pretty tqugh glass
in Fitz Gerald’s poetry, compared with
the thin sheen of Eliot; it might be a
better simile to say that each poem grows
like some tough, stringy tree, always with
at least one green leaf to hang in the
sky—and it is enough—always with its
roots firmly in earth.
The color and charm of phrase, though
they are there, are not Fitz Gerald’s main
concern. The nature-poetry is only part
of the force that strikes up from under-
ground throughout the verses ; it merges
into a wider field of awareness, concerned
with man more than with Nature and
finally, as in all true poetry of vision, with
the mystery of man’s destiny in the uni-
verse.
We see Fitz Gerald as a moralist—a
role in which he has mors in common
with Wordsworth than with any of our
contemporary poets—thinking, with that
“high seriousness” Matthew Arnold so
admired, on how a man may build
“character worth its own respect.” We
see him as a patriot, thinking high
thoughts about Australia’s destiny, “be-
neath its empty -centuries and stars turn-
ing.” We see him as a humanist watch-
ing Burke and Warren Hastings, thinking
how nothing of that bitter old drama
matters in’the end except how the pro-
tagonists carried themselves as men, and
how nothing would even be remembered
of them were it not for “an ordinary
fellow’s simple need” —Gurney, the short-
hand-writer, who, in the course of earn-
ing his daily bread, reported the trial.
We see him as the chronicler of high
adventure, sailing with Tasman through
an ocean where, if “spouting dolphins”
had long vanished from the map, there
was still
a day’s advance
through blue uncertainty, a desperate chance
like that these minutes back which taught the
the feel
of coral running inches under the keel;
and where, more importantly, on sea
or on land, there is the significance of
human conduct, at once practical and
metaphysical;
the necessity of men, deep down, close cramped,
not seen in their own hearts, for some attempt
at. being more than ordinary men,
rising above themselves. It was an urge,
that swung from wars to follies, being the purge
of stagnation from the veins and violent when
there was little to Work it off against; but was
man’s only greatness also. Then, because
room hungered’ there for greatness, gaped in
demand,
men could give greatness gladly to that land.
And finally we see him, in that extra-
ordinary poem “The Face of the Waters,”
as a poet in the full force of visionary
perception, seeming to be actually present
at the creation of the universe:
Once again the scurry of feet—those myriads
crossing the black granite; and again
laughter cruelly in pursuit; and then
the twang like a harpstring or the spring of a
trap,
and the swerve on the polished surface ; the soft
little pads
sidling and skidding and avoiding; but soon
caught up
in the hand of laughter and put back.
Out of the tension of silence (the twanged
string);
from the agony of not being (that terrible
laughter
tortured by darkness) out of it all
once again the tentative migration; once-again
a universe on the edge of being bom:
feet running fearfully out nothing
at the core of nothing:
color, light, life, fearfully
become eyes and understanding: sound be-
coming ears
Out of the whole book there emerges
one clear, strong statement: the affirma-
tion of life as adventure —in everyday
existence, on the sea, in eternity. It is
a plain-enough poetry on the surface,
when all has been said; but that is part
of the secret of its strength ; and the
vision that informs it is enormous:
You could not hide in a bag
Thousands of miles of trafficable seas
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Bandits in Malaya
Major Arthur Campbell has written
an extraordinary book in Jungle Green
(Allen and Unwin), an account of the
campaign in Malaya against the “Kajang
Gang” led by the bearded Chinese Com-
munist, Liew Kim Bok.
The Suffolk Regiment, with which
Major Campbell served, spent three years
in this campaign ; and his book is not so
much a description of what happened to
his own crowd as a picture and recon-
struction of the campaign as a whole, with
incidents brought in from other con-
texts, and names changed; which would
seem necessary, for, in praising the British
soldier. Major Campbell gives the whole
picture:
Jewson raised his voice above a whisper.
He said again, “I’m afraid, honest I am,
scared stiff. I want to be with me mates.
I feels all right with them. It’s being alone
what gets me. All them shadders. I don’t
like it. I don’t want to go back there by
meself.”
, I raised my voice, too. I said, “Shut up.
You’re going back. I am not going to let
a coward like you endanger the lives of
the whole lot of us” . . . I pulled the
man forward by his wrists. He followed
me, dragging his feet along the ground and
whimpering.
Op Lance-Corporal Raikes:
“I don’t give a damn. I’ve had this
march and I’ve had the jungle. I’ve had
every mucker in this outfit. I’m staying
here until I’ve had a damn’ good rest. I’ll
move when I want to.”
As the Major says,
I did not know at first what to say to
this.
It is such incidents, nobly suppressed
in most other books about campaigns,
that make this book extraordinary; it is
the un impassioned police-court narrative
style at its best. Because of this, heroism
shines in it without rhetorical flourishes;
and in accounts of fighting the reader can
almost feel himself on the scene because
of the precise observation of detail.
There is a reconstruction of Liew Kim
Bok’s ambush of a munition convoy so
vivid that the reader is likely to forget
that the author was not present, and also
to forget the Chinaman’s enemy-status
and vicious cruelty in admiration of his
organising talent; the bandits lining the
top of the pass, shooting downwards and
dropping bombs on the convoy:
Two minutes after opening fire, he blew
a loud blast on his whistle and the firing
slopped abruptly. His men threw rattan
lines, which had been made ready, over the
sheer bank and swarmed down them into
the trucks. They hauled out the ammuni-
tion boxes and fed them up the rattan
lines to others who had stayed on the bank.
Liew Kim Bok himself dashed over to the
private car and dragged out the Malay,
who was lying underneath it too terrified
yto move. He shot him through the head
and, opening the door of the car, dragged
out the screaming women. He hit them
over the head with the butt of his gun
until they were silent and then he tore
off their clothes and flung their naked
bodies into the monsoon drain. Even if
they came to, they would not dare leave
the drain while they were .naked. He fired
ten rounds into the engine, smashing and
twisting the machinery into uselessness.
Then he grabbed a carbine from the
clenched hand, of a dead policeman and
shinned up the nearest rattan line.
He watched his men at work for a
moment and then blew another long blast
on his whistle. At once they scrambled
on to the bank, drawing the lines up after
them and quickly hitched the ammunition-
boxes to each end of a bamboo pole.
They slung the pole across their shoulders
and disappeared into the jungle, carrying
their own and the captured weapons in
their hands. Liew Kim Bok was the last
to leave. He eased his way into the thick
undergrowth exactly five minutes after the
first shot had been fired.
The British patrolled after Liew Kim
Bok through the jungle, fording swift
rivers, travelling for days and nights
through jungle-swamp as black by day
as by night. They tried herding bandits
out of the jungle by bombing it from the
air, and the bombs went close to blowing
up the British infantry seconding the
attack. They had a pitched battle in a
cemetery among the long grass and the
tombstones. They shot two bandits
coming for food to a railway-station at
night. They made a big killing of bandits
found at their morning bath in a stream
—they were led to this Communist camp
by a bandit who surrendered, Lee Cheng,
who also led them to many others. It is
{“Red Page ” continued on page 35)


Mothers! here are prams that
sss
i ■ ' -A
[
tOth'itf li iil
are built like limousines
These prams are the utmost in streamlined comfort, built like a limousine
car, plush lined, strong chassis, excellent springs, smooth riding,
brakes that won’t fail, protection from wind and rain, in fact, the only
thing it hasn’t got that a limousine has, is an engine. Yes, you
can take it from me (being a baby myself I know what I want) these
prams from Anthony Horderns’ nursery furniture section are really what
baby needs.
1 *
534, Cane Pram. Hand woven from
pith cane, 4 coiled springs, good
brake, hood fitted with sun visor,
cream lacquer finish, strong chassis.
£l9/15/6.
561, English Tan Sad Pramette.
Body, hood and apron covered in
fadeless cloth, quilting lined, coil
sprung, chrome chassis dressguards.
£24/1/10.
12x Stork Cane Pram, Same
features as 534, but it differs only
in the chassis. The price is
*l7/10/9.
Duplex 52. Steel frame, Cee type
springing, adjustable back rest, drop
end, washable body, foot brake,
nickel handle, mudguards, in many
colours. £l6/0/3.
K*TSF~~~~ ' v■‘-7T r ' "T
. . ...
sum
mmm
f
W
vV. v -- ■>"
liiPpiK,
lII*
Windsor Pramette. Fitted with Cee
springs, 2 wheel brake, tangent
spoked, nylon bearings, convertible
to stroller, fawn, grey, green, bur-
gundy, blue. £2l/17/9.
721, Pramette. Fitted with coiled
springs, full piece chrome handle
and guards, rubber handle grip, in
colours grey, green, fawn, burgundy
and blue. £l5/4/9.
Elizabeth Pram, All metal frame,
fitted with Cee springs, cream pad-
ding inside, stove enamelled, colours
blue body hood, burgundy body
hood, cream body with burgundy or
blue hood, cover. £23/2/-.
Stork 27 Stroller. Covered in
flecked canvas shades of fawn, blue,
green and burgundy, scissors folding
action, easy to collapse and erect,
fitted with mattress, storm cover,
and shopping basket. £B/18/6.
BE SURE OF YOUR GIFTS. LAY-BY NOW FOR CHRISTMAS
g
ĝ
NURSERY FURNITURE DEPARTMENT, FOURTH FLOOR. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. PHONE: M 2401


They're heading south again
Viewing the Antarctic
By D. HENRY
EARLY next month Australia is
sending a full-scale expedition to
establish a base on its southern
hinterland, Antarctica. Its aim,
broadly, will be to continue the work of
scientific investigation and economic ex-
ploration begun by Sir Douglas Mawson.
Australia has a proud history in
Antarctic exploration. When Hubert
Wilkins received the gold medal of the
Royal Geographic Society a couple of
decades back, Dr. Mill, vice-president
of the society, commented on the occa-
sion ;
“I believe there are now only three
knights who won their spurs in Polar
Service. All are gold-medallists and all
are Australians—Sir Edgeworth David,
Sir Douglas Mawson and Sir Hubert
Wilkins.”
In 1933 Australia took over existing
British claims to about one-third of
Antarctica. This amounts to a great
wedge of land almost as large in area
as Australia itself. It is not nearly so
remote as most people envisage ; actually
only about six-hours’ flying-time from
Hobart.
There is every reason to suppose that
this vast area contains at least its fair
share of mineral wealth. Coal there
certainly is in large quantities. Most
other desirable minerals have been found
in trace-form. One of the main objects
now is to carry out a thorough geological
survey of all the major rock outcrops.
Presumably, too, there’ll be a few Geiger-
counters and the like tucked away among
the equipment.
Establishment of this Antarctic base
will carry out the third phase of a three-
point plan the Australian authorities have
been working on for several years. The
plan has called for the establishment of
three permanent scientific stations. Those
on Heard and Macquarie Islands have
been operating for some years now.
One of the most important objects is
to improve weather-forecasting facilities
in Australia and New Zealand, to the
general and dominant agricultural produc-
tion of which efficient forecasting is of
especial importance.
Most Australian weather is brewed in
the Antarctic, but hitherto we have been
under the disadvantage of not knowing
what is cooking until it lobs on the door-
step. Now, with daily reports being
radioed in from Heard and Macquarie
Islands and, when it is established, the
new Antarctic mainland station, it is
hoped that it will be possible to give
Australian and New Zealand farmers and
pastoralists much more warning of the
approach, for instance, of very cold
fronts, and so save them heavy losses.
Other fields of study will be among
cosmic rays and radio-physics. It is
hoped that study of the Aurora Australis
will lead to advances in the field of
wireless communications: it is well
known that when the Aurora is particu-
larly active it interferes seriously with
wireless.
This latest expedition will be the best-
equipped ever sent from Australia. A
party of 13 men will use the big, four-
hut main station as a base for operations
ranging far over Australian Antarctica.
For their field journeys they will be
equipped firstly with those old Antarctic
trusties the huskie dogs and specially-
built Norwegian sledges. Indicating the
foresight which has gone into this expedi-
tion, the huskies have been bred and
trained for the job for three years now
at Heard Island, where the expedition’s
chartered Danish motor-ship Kista Dan
will pick them up on the way south.
As well there will be Weasels, a type
of tracked snow-vehicle of American
design used successfully by Byrd on his
1947 expedition. The Weasels will haul
special caravans of Australian' design,
in which field parties will be able to work,
eat and sleep.
Significantly, though, three men
appointed to the expedition very early in
the piece were airmen: Flight-Lieutenant
D. Leckie, Sergeant S. R. Seaver and
Sergeant W. Duffel, all of the R.A.A.F.;
Leckie and Seaver to pilot, and Duffel
to look after the ground-maintenance of
the two Auster planes which will accom-
pany the expedition to write a new chapter
in the history of Antarctic aeronautics.
There’s been tremendous, world-wide
interest in Polar aviation in recent years,
since top military strategists have come to
realise that the shortest distance between
two points is sometimes not a straight line
but a gentle curve over the closest Pole.
Taking a glance over the brief evolution
of Antarctic transport, the first man to
set foot on what could reasonably be
called a solid fragment of Antarctica was
a Frenchman named D’Urville, who
suffered severely from gout and pre-
sumably withdrew the said foot fairly
smartly.
In 1895 a boat-party from the ship
Antarctic made what is officially recog-
nised as the first landing upon the
Antarctic continent proper, “on a low
beach at the foot of an icy cliff. Penguins
came along in numerous parties to meet
the unusual visitors.”
Penguins and visitors alike relied on
the same means of transport —Shank’s
Pony. And that way it was to remain
for a while. Early visitors were prepared
to admire Antarctica, mainly, from a
distance.
Naturally enough, Antarctic explorers,
looking for a solution to the transport
problem, turned their eyes to the only
comparable part of the world, the Arctic.
Thus dogs were the first choice for a
solution to Antarctic transport.
Among the boat-party which had landed
on that “low beach at the foot of an icy
cliff” had been a young Norwegian named
Borchgrevink. He had tried to pay his
way as passenger, had been told that
passengers were “out” for Antarctic trips,
and, in his enthusiasm, went south as an
ordinary seaman. Next time, though, he
came with his own expedition. And with
it he brought dogs, with two Lapps to
look after them.
As it panned out, the pooches weren’t
much help. Borchgrevink achieved the
distinction of being the first man to spend
a winter ashore on the Antarctic continent.
And the dogs were the first dogs to do
so. After which they all went home.
The turn of the century ushered in the
Golden Era of Antarctic exploration—
Scott, Shackleton, Mawson and the rest.
First of all Scott and Shackleton, to usher
in the Air Age down there.
Yes —the Air Age!
The first man to see Antarctica from
the air was not Wilkins, or Mawson, or
Lincoln Ellsworth, or, most famous of
Antarctic aeronauts, Byrd. They were
all to come later. The first was Captain
Robert Falcon Scott. And the second
was Ernest Shackleton. And they did it
only a few weeks after either of them had
first set eyes on Antarctica —years before
Shackleton was to lead his own expedi-
tion south, discover the “Gateway to the
Pole” and nearly reach the Pole; more
years before Scott was to reach the Pole
and die on the return journey.
They did it, in fact, nearly two years
before Wilbur and Orville Wright per-
suaded their first embryonic aeroplane into
the air at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina.
The whole story is in Scott’s Voyage of
the Discovery, the account of this later
famous explorer’s first venture south. The
first mention is tucked away in Scott’s
description of buying equipment for the
expedition:
.... tobacco, soap; glasses, crockery and
furniture; oil lamps and candles for light-
ing and stoves for heating; medicines and
medical comforts; a photographic outfit;
a library of many hundreds of volumes;
also a balloon equipment.
A “balloon equipment”! Some
visionary had suggested it as a means
of obtaining a view over the great southern
ice-wall. It was a small captive-balloon
of a type used by the Army for lifting
a single observer, mainly to “spot” and
direct artillery fire.
Early on the morning of February 4,
1902, Scott’s men began to make prepara-
tions for a very historic event; the first
(and, so far as we know, only) balloon
ascent ever made in the Antarctic,
Cylinder after cylinder of their very
limited supply of gas went into the bal-
loon, but when the last of the 16 cylinders
specified in the instructions (500 cubic ft.
apiece) had been emptied, the big gas-
bag was still wrinkled and far from
fully inflated. The military experts who
wrote the manual of instructions for
observation-balloon Mark X hadn’t
reckoned on its ever seeing service in a
temperature of 16 deg. The gas had
contracted and three more cylinders were
required to top it off so that the name
“Eva” could be read clearly on its smooth,
unwrinkled surface:
The honor [wrote Scott] of being the
first aeronaut to make an ascent in the
Antarctic regions, perhaps somewhat
selfishly, i chose for myself, and i may
SemV.Z‘rih?SL.‘”..‘e»t d rbld\„3:
in any region, and as I swayed about m
S£. t * P . 1 .T£45 dow* "7 tJrSSS
diminishing figures below i felt some
mT ‘
Meanwhile the balloon continued to rise
as the wire .tope attached to it was eased,
until at a height of about sooft. it was
brought to rest by the weight of the rope;
I heard the word “sand” borne up from
below and remembered the bags at my
feet; the correct way to obtain greater
. b rp^..r„"v»K%i b ar„ l Vb. d "». s 'bS°t
with thoughtless inexperience I seized
them wholesale and flung them out, with
the result that the “Eva” shot up sud-
denly, and as the rope tightened com-
VSataV 1 ”
slackened i again ascended, but, alas!
only to be again checked by the weight of
the rope at something under sooft. Our
wire rope was evidently too heavy to
allow greater altitude, and the only lighter
one we possessed seemed not quite within
the bounds of safety should the wind in-
crease - .
After Scott had had his share of enjoy-
ing the view, Shackleton went up armed
with a camera, to take the first aerial
photographs of Antarctica. Then, since
the wind was beginning to rise, the bal-
loon was deflated, packed away, and
so far as history shows, never heard or
a B am -
But, although probably neither of them
remotely envisaged it at the time, Scott
and Shackleton had that day, long before
the heroic sledge journeys which were to
make their names immortal, blazed the
trail of future Antarctic exploration—by
air.
For a while, however, Antarctic trans-
port remained on the ground level,
although not without some bold experi-
menting. Dog-teams were the earliest
transport, and, as Amundsen was to
demonstrate, the most successful. Scott,
though, had an unaccountable prejudice
against the dogs; a prejudice which was
to cost him his life.
When Shackleton led his own expedi-
tion in 1908 he took with him dogs, sledges
and Manchurian ponies; and, incredibly,
a motor-car. Even more incredibly, the
car gave some quite useful service at
times, but the constantly changing An-
tarctic surfaces were too much for it.
The next evidence of the Internal-
combustion Age in the Antarctic was
Scott’s experiment with the motor-sledge,
an ingenious and visionary vehicle con-
sisting of a sledge fitted with a power-unit
and a caterpillar-type of drive. Again
Scott was years ahead of his time. His
motor-sledges weren’t altogether a success,
but today a variety of track-type vehicles
are among the first things packed for an
expedition south. *
The Aerial Age proper in that quarter
commenced in 1928-29, when the Aus-
tralian Sir Hubert Wilkins became the
first man to fly an aeroplane in the
Antarctic. Since then expeditions have
considered air-transport an essential part
of the equipment.
Mawson, Riiser-Larsen, Ellsworth and
Byrd rapidly advanced the science of
Antarctic aviation, which probably
reached its ultimate peak with Byrd’s
fifth expedition in 1947.
That 1947 expedition was the most
fantastically elaborately equipped that has
ever gone to the Antarctic. What a con-
trast to the early expeditions of men
like Scott and Shackleton, who had to
struggle desperately to raise their own
funds! (Of course, Byrd did, too, on his
earlier trips.) Scott’s first expedition in
1901 cost a total of £90,000, including the
balloon. His ship was the tiny wooden
vessel Discovery, and the total strength
of the expedition was 38 souls.
Byrd, in 1947, with the full force of
the U S, Navy behind him, led an expedi-
tion which, in terms of the value of the
equipment, would represent many tens of
millions of dollars. He had 13 ships,
including an aircraft-carrier and two ice-
breakers, and an organisation of 4000
men. He had a dozen or so planes, ranging
from helicopters to D.C.3s and Martin
patrol-bomber flying-boats. And he did
a very thorough job, exploring, by air,
more of Antarctica than the combined
efforts of every previous expedition in
Antarctic history had encompassed.
As he circled above the South Pole
for the second time in his life, Byrd
records that he thought often of Scott
and his heroic struggle to reach the same
point on foot.
One wonders, though, if his thoughts
included recognition of Scott as the first
Antarctic aeronaut.
JULIAN HUXLEY
By L.O.
MY sympathy goes out to all the
direct descendants of famous
men. However capable they may
be in their own right, comparison
with their forebears is inevitable. Dr.
Julian Huxley is, without a shadow of
doubt, a great scientist, a clear thinker
and a brilliant lecturer, besides having
the good fortune to be born a grandson
of Thomas Henry Huxley ; but his mental
make-up and even his appearance are
so reminiscent of his grandfather that
comparison, though it may be odious,
is justifiable if not justified.
I speak with special authority on this
point, for every one of the senior pro-
lessors under whom I studied had been
taught by T.H.H., and they never tired
of relating tales of his genius, Edgeworth
David left behind, in Sydney University,
a similar legacy of almost religious awe.
Julian Huxley, as 1953 Dyason Lee-
hirer, gave three talks in Sydney under
the auspices of the Australian Institute
of International Affairs, the first of which,
not surprisingly, was entitled “Man’s
Place in Nature.”
The lecturer deplored the tendency to
reduce everybody to a dead level of
mediocrity—which, incidentally (I am not
quoting J.H.), is just what compulsory
unionism will achieve if it becomes law.
He pointed out that combinations of
living matter had survived in the struggle
for existence and that the evolution of
man could be traced from the primitive
fish through reptiles, birds and mammals,
During that long journey the evolutionary
advance had been carried out by a sue-
cession of new dominant groups which
radiated into a large number of different
lines. Man happened less than a million
years ago. Accompanying the evolution
of the body, there had been a develop-
ment of sense-organs and brains, and,
in man, a steady improvement in the
mind.
Whatever may constitute the universe,
it is a combination of mental as well
as physical properties, and man, with the
possession of a developed brain, has a
new method of evolution at his command.
He differs from every other major type
of life by converging instead of diyerg-
ing, and, as a result, he has achieved
greater results in 10,000 years than those
obtained by other living organisms in the
preceding thousand million years,
In his second lecture Julian Huxley
trod on more slippery ground when he
dealt with the decline of dogmatism. Even
in the predominantly broadminded
assembly of well over a thousand listeners,
tension could be sensed when he stated
that dogmatic belief, although it might
have a temporary value, was, in the long
run, bad.
When he grouped all dogmatic religions
(in which he included Marxism, Fascism
and Nazism) together as untenable with
the advance of science, I could imagine
the shades of the founders of Scots
Church protesting vehemently and deny-
ing his assertion that the earth could
no longer be accepted as a clockwork
universe wound up by a Creator. Man
himself, said the lecturer, was a creator
when he discovered scientific laws.
The third and last lecture filled the
Assembly Hall to more than capacity,
The speaker developed the theme that
twentieth-century man had need of a new
religion and that the conflict between
religion and science should cease. He
divided religions into three types—direc-
live, demoniac and contemplative. The
first ordered us how to live; the second,
by fear of punishment, scared us into
obeying instructions; the third developed
a philosophy of acceptance. Most
religions were a combination of all these
categories, in varying degrees,
Dr. Huxley concluded by stating that
scientific knowledge held not only the
means of furthering civilisation but also
of destroying progress. It was now time
to evolve a new science—the science of
human possibilities,
My own reaction to all this is of no
importance, but I came out by that same
door as in I went, with the feeling
that both Herbert Spencer and T.H.H.
had said much the same thing eighty
years ago.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 2, 1953
VoL 74 — No, 3851
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521:
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
INTIMIDATION BECOMES LAW
If the Commonwealth is still a decent country, and
not a seething sink of corruption hidden under a
veneer of fine words, Mr. Cahill’s Sydney City
Council (Disclosure of Allegations) Act, forced
through the Legislative Assembly in Sydney last week,
should be defeated of its purpose. There has never
been a more barefaced use of power in a way
calculated to cover up charges of criminal wrong-
doing. What it is calculated to smother should come
into the open in spite of it.
It is quite obvious that the N.S.W. State Gov-
ernment is frightened to appoint a Royal Commission
into the long and growing list of charges of bribery
and criminal favoritism made against aldermen of
the Sydney Council and those who associate with
them. The Government, also, just as obviously knows
that if it allows the Press to continue unchecked to
publish these exposures and offers to publish evidence
it will have to hold an inquiry.
There is no doubt that the charges have some
large basis somewhere. Even the N. S. Wales A.L.P.
Executive expressed itself through its secretary, Mr.
C. W. Anderson, as determined to “provide safeguards
against corruption” in the City Council and “deter-
mined to put a cleaner through the council.” And
Mr. J. T. Lang, former N. S. Wales “Labor” Premier,
has pointed out that the executive’s headquarters at
the Trades Hall had itself been responsible for the
“worst suspicions and blackest insinuations” against
“Labor” aldermen in recently disqualifying no fewer
than eight from seeking re-election. But the Cahill
Government is determined that there will be no
clean-up, and it proposes to gag and bind the only
force which can express public opinion and which
can compel the Government to do the right thing.
In this it has the full support of the leaders of the
Federal Parliamentary “Labor” party.
The desperation inherent in the steps which have
been taken speaks for itself, especially in the light
of previous happenings since the N. S. Wales electors’
decision to return the present N. S. Wales Government
to power. Time and again Mr. Cahill has been
forced to investigate charges, and each time the
inquiries would not have been held but for the
determined insistence of the Press and of a very
small band of members of Parliament like Mr.
Wentworth, who were prepared to pursue their purpose
irrespective of the abuse and innuendo which they
suffered in the process.
The Doyle inquiry was literally forced on the
Government by public opinion. Never was a Premier
dragged screaming so loudly to action as was Mr.
Cahill in that matter. The charges he called a “smear
campaign” later proved all too true. Yet never
was a Premier so little moved by horrifying revela-
tions as the same gentleman, who, on all the facts,
would have been disinclined to remove Mr. Arthur
from Parliament after the findings of Judge Amsberg
were made public if Mr. Arthur had not thought
discretion the better part of valor and removed him-
self. As it is, the Government’s attitude to its late
colleague is one of friendly tolerance, and he still
appears to retain the freedom of all the facilities of
Parliament House.
The Vitnell inquiry into the associations of a
criminal with the building-operations of the Deputy-
Premier’s Department was similarly initiated only
under duress of Press opinion, and the results have
been just as stunning to the public as those brought
out in the Doyle affair. The real ramifications of
Mr. Vitnell’s connections have never been revealed,
and the Government is obviously just as little anxious
for them to see the light of day as it is to hurry
to conclusion the investigations of the Liquor Royal
Commission, despite the fact that the delays in the
presentation of the report in that matter have been
so long as to be already a public scandal, in view of
the kind of conditions revealed by the evidence.
Again, that was an instance in which a self-
respecting Government would have brought matters
to decision for the sake of its own good name. But
apparently N. S, Wales “Labor” does not care about its
own “good name” in connection with liquor or
it would have had something forceful to say about
the scarcely-noticed remark of a publican, accused
POSTPONING THE BOIL-OVER
during the week of being one of the City Council’s
favorites of fortune, that it was normal for 90 per
cent, of publicans to contribute to “Labor”-party
funds at Christmas-time,
In fact it is clear that out of bitter experience
Mr. Cahill and his colleagues feel that it is better
not to inquire too closely into any public affairs
conducted under the regis of the “Labor” party. If
their outlook were otherwise there would be no
need for their nightmarish legislation, which sounds
as if it had been drafted by Mr. Heffron, the Deputy-
Premier, out of his experience as a Communist-party
official in bygone days.
Civil law still exists and gives protection to
any individual who cares to defend his reputation.
And the charges which have been published in con-
nection with the City Council’s affairs have been so
widespread that almost any “Labor” alderman of the
council has been in a position to sue the newspapers
for weeks past, since the allegations in some degree
must affect the reputation of any member of the
council’s majority. But there will be no Royal
Commission, no reformation. There is no demand
from “Labor” to have its name and that of its
representatives cleared.
Any newspaper editor who dares to make or
publish, or who has made or published, charges
against a body which appears (as far as the evidence
has been produced) to be rotten to the core may
find himself served at the instance of the police with
an order by a Supreme Court judge to name his
informants or suffer crushing penalties and perhaps
even jail. The thus retrospective clause of the intimi-
datory measure stands as a self-exposure of what
these people are really up to. It reads:
Where, before or after the commencement of this
Act, any statement, report or matter relating: to the
[Sydney City] Council or any member or servant
of the Council in his capacity as such has been made
or published and such statement, report or matter
alleges, suggests or implies that an offence against
the Secret Commissions Prohibition Act, 1919, or
section one hundred and one of the Local Government
Act, 1919, as amended by subsequent Acts, has been
committed either by such member or servant or by
any other person, a Judge of the Supreme Court may,
upon the affidavit of a superintendent or inspector of
police showing reasonable grounds lor believing that
any person or body of persons, corporate or unincor-
porate, named in the affidavit has in his or its pos-
session any document upon which such statement,
report or matter was based, or has within his know-
ledge or control any information upon which such
statement, report or matter was based, order such
person or body of persons to produce such documents
or disclose such information to such superintendent
or inspector of police.
It is to be noted that the protection is expressly
given to the Sydney City Council and the City Council
only; but it need only be a matter of time before it
is extended to every field in which “Labor” integrity
is questioned, so that the new measure can be
regarded as an experiment in suppression. If it
works efficiently it will presently become a normal
weapon of intimidation in the class-war.
This is not merely a matter of interest to Sydney
or N. S. Wales. It has become of Australian-wide
import through the approval given to it in the
Federal Parliament by Dr. Evatt and Mr. Arthur
Calwell, who speak for Federal “Labor,” and whose
speeches showed up in its true colors the cynical
utilitarianism and lack of idealism with which the
A.L.P. bosses and their spokesmen view these matters.
It would be a matter for laughter if it were not
so serious that Mr. Calwell, while supporting a vicious
totalitarian bill to hamstring Press inquiry into specific
charges of corruption which shriek for investigation
and calculated to silence public opinion and possible
witnesses, should himself utter the most sweeping
allegations of corruption against his opponents, for
which he did not produce a single word of specific
backing.
Dr. Evatt has given support to the principles
of the new Act, though he was careful to say before
speaking that he had not seen it —he had only
learnt its details from —of all people—a pressman!
Despite that. Dr. Evatt supports the measure,
and with warmth. But so far he has had no warmth
to expend on the conditions which obviously exist
in Macquarie-street. The N. S. Wales “Labor” party
is the party which endorses him as a “Labor” candi-
date, acknowledges him as its Federal leader and
instructs him through its juntas. But Dr. Evatt
seems to take the attitude that he lives in two worlds
—only the glories and not the smells of politics are
his business. He behaves as if such mundane charac-
ters as Messrs. Doyle, Vitnell, Arthur and the numerous
colorful figures of the Sydney City Council did not
exist in the pure air in which he walks. Any attempt
to reach the truth —even by his own party-members,
who have been as active as anybody in trying for
investigation of the accusations of the Press against
“Labor” bodies —is to him, as to Mr. Cahill, Mr.
Downing and Evatt minor, merely an attempt by
conscienceless enemies to make political capital “so
desperately necessary” to them by “trying to discredit
the Labor party.”
His attitude is of such importance that it should
certainly be made a major issue during the Gwydir
election-campaign, which he has just opened. He
and his Federal colleagues should be forced to state
squarely where they stand in relation to the N, S.
Wales State Parliament and Sydney City Council, their
proceedings and their morals. At present it looks
as if nobody can support a candidate backed by
Messrs. Evatt, Cahill and Calwell without endorsing
the operations of the Cahill crowd and their smellful
collection of hangers-on.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cahill's "Assurance"
It says something for the general frighten-
ing character of the N. S. Wales Press Gag
Bill that before the end of the week in
which he had forced this politically
desperate measure through the Sydney
Assembly the author of it was himself
palpably scared stiff.
Otherwise we would not have had Mr.
Cahill saying, as he did: “I can give this
assurance, that I will recommend to my
colleagues that action be taken immedi-
ately [after the purpose of the measure
has been served] to repeal the particular
legislation” —the most Nazi-hke and
dangerous measure, it should be added,
that has ever degraded a Parliament in
Australia.
Apart from what value may be thought
to lie in any “assurance” by the author
of such a measure, what real value for
the future can there be in this particular
“assurance” if Mr. Cahill and “colleagues”
get away this time with the game they
are up to? The intimidatory threat
against the Press will remain—intimida-
tory not only to the Press but to every
person in the community who knows of
corruption in some “Labor”-controlled
outfit.
Henceforth —if the precedent is now
established —the Press and the decent, or
personally damaged, in the community
will be forced to accept that “Labor”
outfits are sacrosanct, to be touched at
the certain risk of retrospective legisla-
tion. The threat will remain that a
replica of the present measure would be
enacted as a matter of course; the
precedent—if they get away with it this
time —will be there, and the mere fact of
its being there will be counted on as a
sufficient deterrent to ensure for “Labor”
scandals, however evil, the saving camou-
flage of silence.
Wearing the Dog-collar /
N. S. Wales workers began to taste the
new freedom of the Dog-Collar Age even
before the ink was dry on Mr. Cahill’s
new compulsory-unionism legislation.
Some of them had their first inkling that
the industrial millennium had arrived
when they received a notice signed by
“A. W. McNamara, Branch President” of
the N.S.W. branch of the A-W-U.
Prospective members to be forced into
his branch were brusquely advised that
A.W.U. tickets for 1953-54 must be
produced and shown to the union repre-
sentative on the job on December 9 next,
and that, “in accordance with the decision
of the Government, any employee who
fails to produce his ticket to the repre-
sentative shall not be allowed to continue
his employment.”
A typical set of union rules are those
of the N.S.W. branch of the Federated
Ship Painters and Dockers. A member,
it goes without saying, is under strict
discipline. If he is guilty of any conduct
which the president of a meeting considers
disorderly or “calculated to unduly delay
proceedings” he may be fined 10s. and
expelled. “Any member committing a
breach of the rules of the union or work-
ing against the best interests of the union”
may be fined up to £3 for each breach:
If it proved that any member has sys-
tematically worked against the union, or
is a person whose character unfits him
for membership, he shall be suspended
or expelled from the union.
Let any member inducted under the
new Act complain to the Press about the
conduct of union affairs and he risks his
job. His freedom of speech and thought
are gone the moment he gets his ticket.
He has been forced into a secret-society:
Any member or members discussing
union business outside the union rooms,
or using insulting language to officers _ or
members of this union concerning union
business, shall be fined a sum not ex-
ceeding five-shillings.
Any member summoned as a witness
before the management-committee is
likewise liable to be fined if he fails to
turn up. And so is any member making
a charge against another member and
failing to go on with it. Members are
compelled to wear their badges when seek-
ing employment. Despite his having
paid all his dues, anybody appearing
without his badge “shall not be con-
sidered as a member during the period he
is without the badge.” Better, in fact,
to go to work without trousers.
Apart from this sort of thing, in most
unions members are required not to
advocate political or industrial policies
opposed to the union. Some require that
the member shall declare that he is not a
member of any political body not sup-
ported by the union—the A.L.P. stipu-
lated in some cases. He cannot circularise
members about a union matter without
executive permission. In some unions
it is a crime to apply for a job except
through the union. And the new member
may be asked to sign pledges which run
counter to the common law.
Whatever the rules, no conscript after
putting on Mr. Landa’s dog-collar is
ever likely to feel again that he’s a free
man.
How to Lose Elections
The contest for the Gwydir Federal seat
on December 19 is important, and it
should have provided a field for a clear-
cut fight between the Government and
“Labor” on the main issues of the coming
general election. It won’t.
However capable the Government, and
however united the Cabinet, nothing
could be more maladroit than the organ-
isations behind them, and nothing more
embarrassing to the Prime Minister and
his colleagues than the dogfights in which
these wretched bodies indulge at the most
awkward moments, both internally and
with each other.
The Country party twice won Gwydir
by a substantial majority with Mr.
Treloar —by over 2300 votes in 1951.
Mr. Treloar dying, however, it decided to
nominate Mrs. Thelma Kirkby, its
defeated woman candidate for the Senate
at the last election. It is difficult to find
any real support for her outside the inner
councils of the C.P. Nearly all the back-
ing, especially among Federal M.P.s,
favors the second C.P. candidate, Mr.
Allan, a returned soldier of presence and
ability, a man obviously of the kind of
timber of which Ministers are made. He
is young (37), personable, experienced in
the world by travel and war-service. But
Mrs. Kirkby has the No. 1 official back-
ing.
To add to the confusion, the Liberal
organisation, with the usual display of
somewhat nojjsy belligerence, decided to
nominate as a candidate a Mr. Howard,
a former mayor of Narrabri. Last time it
nominated for Gwydir its candidate had
1700 votes of his own and about 400
preferences and lost his deposit. There
was no prior notice of the intention of
the Liberals, who also chose the opening
period of the campaign to shout defiance
to all C.P. organisations everywhere and
to show signs of turning next year’s general
election into a free-for-all for the delecta-
tion of “Labor,” which against a united
Government front would seem doomed.
This position is all the more remark-
able since the Federal coalition has
worked well and much of the strength of
Cabinet comes from the ability of C.P.
Ministers. But the idea of the tinpot
dictators of Ash-street and elsewhere
seems to be that the country is pining to
be rid of these Ministers and to relegate
them to the back cross-benches.
Taking the Leer Out of Beer
By Victorian “Labor’s” sweeping amend-
ments to the Licensing Act the allegedly
“dry” areas are to be abolished, and
so they should be. These celebrated
parched spots are in parts of Box Hill,
Surrey Hills, Canterbury, Camberwell,
East Malvern, Glen Iris, Hartwell and
Burwood —i.e., they are within a stone's-
throw of the very wet metropolis and are
surrounded by wet suburbs.
Local-option polls fastened the drought
on these districts, and this has been a
bone of contention ever since between
the anti-liquor people, who are organised,
and the drinkers, who are not.
It was a burning question in the
ridiculous referendums which used to be
held every eight years, and which cost the
State hundreds of thousands of pounds
and recurrently diverted the public’s
attention from more important problems.
The money spent on ink and paper,
salaries of propagandists for both sides
and the bribery and corruption of politi-
cians, if it had been spent on water-
irrigation, would have turned the country
into a garden. All it did was to turn
hypocrisy into a virtue.
Nobody ever asked whether Box Hill,
Surrey Hills, etc., really were dry, or,
if they were, whether their inhabitants
were happier, soberer, more industrious,
or better wives and husbands than the
inhabitants of Toorak and Hawthorn, or
whether there were fewer accidents due
to drunken drivers in those areas than
in any other. It is a Melbourne by-
word, however, that if you want to make
a fortune quickly the way to do it
is to get a contract for collecting empty
bottles from the backyards of Canter-
bury, Camberwell, etc.; if you want a
pleasant evening with a “niner” the place
to go is Hartwell or Glen Iris; and if
you want a really good recipe for home-
brew the housewife to give it to you
is most likely to be found in Burwood.
The “Labor” bill has at least lifted the
crime-element from having a drink in
East Malvern and Glen Iris; but not
much can be said for the rest of its
enactments. The Licensing Court may
now grant unlimited licences to hotels,
spirit-merchants, cjubs and grocers;
liquor may be served on licensed premises
or in clubs until ten instead of eight,
and with midday meals on Anzac Day,
Good Friday and Sundays ; dances may
be held on licensed premises, and com-
munity hotels can be established by muni-
cipalities and co-operative societies.
The six-o’clock swill is retained, how-
ever, with the mitigation that the customer
of Bung has fifteen-minutes’ grace to
finish his last drink before he is kicked
out. But nothing is provided that will
tend to further the gradual bringing-in
of the system enjoyed in European
countries, where drinking liquor is not
a sin to be practised furtively in closed
and private places under all sorts of
severe restrictions.
Billed for Bermuda
Six months from when the idea was
first mooted by Sir Winston Churchill,
followed shortly afterwards by President
Eisenhower’s acceptance and invitation,
the West’s “Big Three” (French Premier
M. Laniel the other one) at last get
together at Bermuda, to talk of more
things than even the Walrus would have
attempted in the scheduled time.
They will be flanked by their Foreign
Ministers, making it a full-dress show ;
a fact which makes the playing-down of
advance publicity, and the consequent
lack of public interest, all the more
remarkable.
The prospect would seem to be a
general shaping of revised “cold-war”
strategy for the West, probably with
specific assurances for France. Such
revision accords with the concept of the
war danger as receding, though with its
possibility still there and the “cold war ’
still on. The West’s present strength,
alone responsible for lessening the war
threat, was the product of urgency under
menace ; the idea now (to which even
America subscribes) is the “long haul,”
with the maintaining of strength
stretched out accordingly rather than
hurried to meet immediate danger.
In line with this outlook, the purpose
of the conference —as indicated by Sir
Winston in his little-noticed recent pre-
view of it —falls under three main
heads: —
1. To discuss ways of “strengthening
our forces.” This means, above all, the
very thorny question of pronouncing a
definite all-“ Three” policy on integrating
Germany militarily with the West’s
defence. France will want to hear con-
crete assurances of Britain’s “close
association” with E.D.C. (European
Defence Community), and concrete
assurances, too, that America does not
mean to get out of Europe as soon as
the German divisions are in fighting
order. The Pacific front will also come
in under this head.
2. To consider “ways of reassuring the
other half of the world that we mean
them no harm and repudiate all inten-
tion of aggressive action.” Sir Winston
has himself suggested an offer to Russia
of a definite security-assurance pact on
Locarno lines, which again is an issue
so full of thorns that merely clearing
away the outer briers might well occupy
the time set for the conference. Another
suggestion envisages a “neutral zone”
running through Europe between Russia
and the West, which has all the sub-
stance of a dream.
3. To consider the best methods of
“making easy practical contacts with
them [the Russians] and, even if we can-
not solve our major problems, thus
reduce the world tension.” This accords
with Mr. Eden’s advocacy of a piece-by-
piece attack on the hundred and one
issues in dispute. It also indicates that Sir
Winston is still set on bringing off a top-
level “Big Four” meeting, with the job
ahead of him selling this patent nostrum
to Eisenhower, whose prerequisite of
just one single positive peace action by
Russia still stands, and hasn’t been met.
That programme would seem more
than enough for a brief conference, and
more than sufficient reason why the con-
ference needed to be held. The long
postponement has been all to the good
in one respect —nobody now expects
miracles. It will be enough if the “Big
Three” come out of it with their working
unity intact.
Fair Go for A.B.C.
Throughout their political careers both
Mr, Menzies and Dr. Evatt have fre-
quently complained that their critics
haven’t taken the trouble to inform
themselves on the matter giving rise to
the criticism. Yet both criticised the
A.B.C. sporting broadcasts from their
own personal outlook and without bother-
ing to examine the position.
Mr, Menzies described racing-infor-
mation as “dreary.” He admitted to
being a cricket-lover and resented any
interference with cricket broadcasts,
though he was fair enough to admit that
racing enthusiasts would equally resent
cricket interference, and the “A.B.C.’s
task of trying to satisfy all its listeners
was difficult.”
Dr. Evatt took the stand that A.B.C.
catered too much to betting-interests, to
the disadvantage of those interested in
“sport alone,” as distinct from betting.
The fact, of course, is that A.B.C. gives
the barest minimum of betting-informa-
tion.
Others rushed in to criticise. Among
them the president of the National
Farmers’ Union, C. M. Williams,
boomed that there was “an overwhelm-
ing feeling in this country that the A.B.C.
devoted altogether too much time on
Saturday afternoons to racing and
sport.”
All of which is arrant rubbish. In a
typical month the two Sydney A.B.C.
stations were on the air for 953 hours,
2FC for 478 and 2BL for 475. Out of
that, 52 hours was given to sport, all but
about one hour through 2FC. The total
time for racing was 10 hours 23 minutes,
or less than one-fifth of the sporting, the
total sporting time being only about 5
per cent, of the whole. And the month
included a full broadcast of a cricket
Test-match in England!
This information was available to Mr.
Menzies, Dr. Evatt and the rest of them.
It applies to A.B.C. national and regional
stations throughout the Commonwealth.
Dr. Evatt’s plea for “whole descriptions”
of sports other than racing is best
answered by the fact that A.B.C. does
give “whole descriptions” of the “matches
of the day” in cricket, tennis, football,
rowing, athletics, aquatics, golf, etc. as
anybody who listens knows. And there
is no such thing as a “whole description”
of a race-meeting, since few races take
more than two-minutes broadcast time
and there are seldom more than seven
races (14 minutes) on a programme.
An Ancestor Rehabilitated
Discomfiture of the experts is always
a source of satisfaction to laymen; hence,
the discovery that the jawbone of the
Piltdown Man was never his at all, but
rightly belonged to a modern ape some-
thing like 50,000 years his junior, has
caused quite a lot of amusement at the
expense of anthropologists. the
ones most amused probably wouldn t be
able to tell a Stone-Age brain-box from
a weather-worn coconut has not lessened
their enjoyment.
What is overlooked is that it was the
scientists themselves who uncovered the
imposition, and though the joke is on
them they haven’t hesitated to make their
discovery known. Actually the methods
by which the hoax of 40 years ago were
detected are quite a triumph for science.
Two methods were used: one based on
the fluorine content of the Piltdown re-
mains ; the other on the nitrogen content.
Both produced the same result, dating
the cranium fragment as belonging to
the Upper Pleistocene period (about
50,000 years ago) and the jawbone and
tooth as of modern origin, planted by
some deep-thinking practical jokester.
Instead of laughing at anthropologists
for having been hoaxed we should be
grateful to them for now removing a most
embarrassing skeleton from the family
closet. For too long we have read of
the Dawn Man, with his prognathous jaw,
shambling across the uncut pages of pre-
history. The new discovery means that
Eoanthropus didn’t have a prognathous
jaw at all; therefore he had no need to
shamble.
So it becomes permissible to picture Mr.
Piltdown as an erect-walking fellow with
his head held high ; the sort of citizen
who could bowl over a sabre-toothed tiger
or a round of drinks with the boys with
equal aplomb, not to mention staking a
few flints on his favorite brontosaurus
at the Saturday meetings. Altogether an
ancestor to be a credit to anyone’s family-
tree.
Go down, Dawn Man! Come in, Mr.
Piltdown!


POLITICAL POINTS
Cahill’s double for the Democratic
Stakes; Press Gang and Press Gag.
• •
Another sad chapter has been written in
the story of the once-beautiful friend-
ship between Eddie and Arthur, which
first showed signs of cracking when
Calwell threw himself heart and soul
into his immigration programme, thereby
raising the ire of Ward, whose attitude
towards immigrants is that of the London
street-Arab of the Punch cartoon —
“ ’Ere comes a stranger. Let’s ’eave
a brick at ’im.”
In the debate on the Double-Taxation
Conventions with the U.S., Calwell, like
Evatt, warmly approved the Govern-
ment’s action, but Ward came out with
a hymn of hate against America and the
Government. In Eddie’s eyes everyone
is trying to sell-out Australia and the
only true patriot in the land is E. J.
Ward.
• •
“S. M. Herald” dug it out of the files:
Right throughout the history of the
world, the Press has enabled democracy to
wring from the despots and tyrants the
rights for the people which they enjoy
today. We are going through a changing
world and always we have that great
organ, the Press, to tell the people what
is right and what is wrong
Who. said it? Northcliffe?.. .Keith
Murdoch ?...,. Warwick Fairfax?... No,
J. J. Cahill on June 19, 1951.
• •
It’s hard to believe that the Press could
change so much in so short a time. Or
that Cahill could.
’ • •
The big boom in dog-collars in Sydney
in recent weeks is now spreading to the
muzzle-industry.
• o
When the anti-Red bill and referendum
were being debated “Labor” members
from Evatt downwards worked them-
selves into such a frenzy of indignation
over the “onus-of-proof” clause that it
might have been thought the phrase
was the rock upon which their whole
party was built. Yet not one “Labor”
voice as been raised against the “onus-
of-proof” provision in the Press Gag
bill. This provides that where a corpor-
ate body is convicted under the Act every
director and officer shall be deemed to
have committed the same offence
unless he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge, or that
he used all due diligence to prevent the
commission of the offence.
So all the song-and-dance of two years
ago about defending a principle was mere
eyewash. Evatt -and Co. were merely
defending the Corns, after all.
With acknowledgment to Frith and the
Melbourne “Herald.”
According to the cables the Soviet
Union has “invited Britain, the United
States and France to take part in a four-
Power conference at Berlin.” This sounds
like a splendid'and voluntary gesture by
Malenkov and his associates. Actually,
in the words of the Soviet’s own an-
nouncement, all the Kremlin has done
is—after four or five surly refusals—
to “express consent to take part in a
conference of the great Powers”
to which it had been invited by the
Western Allies on November 16.
The only thing clear is that for some
purpose Russia wants the conference.
And it will be a very vital conference.
The international position is coming
closer every day to the danger-point.
Amid the booming prosperity brought
about by high world prices few pause to
realise how much of the apparently good
conditions are due to defence programmes
forced on the world by Russia or that
armament is approaching a point at which
war will be inevitable. Whatever the
motives which dictate Russia’s tardy
acceptance of the invitation to confer,
every effort should be made to capitalise
the opportunity.
Sydney “Sun-Herald” phoned a batch
of “Labor” M.L.A.s and asked whether
they had had any phone calls from con-
stituents regarding the Press Gag bill.
Several said they had had no calls;
others admitted one or two calls each
way. But Wyatt (Lakemba) and O’Neill
(Georges River) reported heavy business:
Wyatt, two calls against, 65 in favor ;
O’Neill, none against, 30 in favor. Both
members are comparatively new to
politics. But they should go a long way
in the “Labor” party.
• •
First fruits of compulsory unionism:
the loss to N. S. Wales of a new industry
involving a capital investment of a
million dollars.
• ®
It’s called wanting it both ways. When
the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. was seeking a
site for its refinery every State wanted
it. Westralia won and was well pleased
at the prospect of having a £4O-million
industry on its doorstep. Yet, having got
"AS LONG AS YOUR ARM"
“N. S. Wales ‘Labor’ Premier Cahill, attacking a man who had made allegations against
the ‘Labor’ Sydney City Council, read out in Parliament what, in police parlance, was
described as the man’s ‘record’.”
it, the Westralian “Labor” Government
and Westralian “Labor” Senators are
for ever asking the Federal Government
for financial help in developing the
Kwinana site ; they argue that all Aus-
tralia will ultimately benefit, so all Aus-
tralia should share the initial expense.
The same argument could apply to any
new industry in any State.
■- , i
• •
“News Review,” the official organ in
Sydney of the A.L.P., naturally supports
the Press Gag Act. But on the very page
on which it supports the forcing of news-
papers to reveal their sources of infor-
mation it has this to say;
In the bars of many of the. hotels in
Pyrmont newspaper reporters have been
offering free beer and whatever else is
required to anyone who will make a
charge, true or false, against a Labor
alderman.
Will Cahill force the party rag to reveal
the sources of that “information”'?
e e
Playford’s State is to permit the sale
of smokes and butter in shops at night,
though tobacconists and the bigger retail
stores opposed it. Their opposition is
understandable, though all the Playfords
have done is legalise a widely-practised
illegality. If you know where to go it’s
never hard to get smokes or butter —or
other things—after dark.
• •
The Press Gag applies only to the
Sydney City Council. Hasn’t the Cahill
Government any friends on other
councils?
• •
Because so many Federal politicians
use the Parliamentary broadcasts to make
political speeches under the guise of
debates, some A.B.C. “advisers” want
the broadcasts cut down. The fault is
with the politicians, not the A.B.C.
Parliamentary broadcasts take up only
7 per cent, of A.B.C. broadcasting time.
The people who want them cut out have
little to complain about. If it is true, as
the critics assert, that many tune out the
Canberra broadcasts or switch off
altogether, then it says little for their
responsibilities as free electors. Life isn’t
all music and celebrity artists.
• •
The most popular argument in favor
of compulsory unionism is the most
fallacious: the one that because a union
gains certain benefits for workers in a
particular industry all who work in the
industry should be compelled to sub-
scribe to union funds. If that were
accepted, then progress associations,
parents and citizens’ associations, and ex-
servicemen’s associations could require
compulsory contributions from all who
benefit from their work. And how about
the Surf Life-saving Association?
• •
Australian Wheat Board is to hold a
ballot of growers on “a wheat-stabilisa-
tion scheme as soon as the Common-
wealth, States, and wheatgrowers’ organ-
isations reach agreement on the terms of
a stabilisation scheme.” That’ll be the
day!
• •
An advertising-agents’ survey has found
that of every 100 Australian homes 60
have no telephone, 70 no electric dish-
washer, 50 no motor-car, and 32 no
refrigerator. Ah, but look at all the
politicians, public servants, boards, com-
missions, and advertising-agents they sup-
port. One can’t have everything!
• •
“Actin’ ”: It is not quite correct
that John Wren “prided himself on having
been ‘Labor all his days” (B. 4/11/’53).
There was one occasion five years ago
when he indicated to me, at our sole
meeting, that he had turned for the time
against his old allegiance. The meeting
took place near the end of 1948, after I
had made the acquaintance of a fellow-
passenger in a plane to Melbourne, and
had disclosed to him my interest in the
Liberal cause. The passenger told me of
his association with Wren, and of the
Roman Catholic church’s concern with
Labor’s banking plan. “You ought to
see Wren,” he told me, and I finally
agreed to do so. The pink-faced little
man was in his Flinders-lane office the
next day, and we talked for an hour on
politics and political personalities. Most
of what was said doesn’t matter, but his
parting sentence is of interest for the
record. “Go and tell Mr. Menzies,” he
said, “that he’s going to win the next
election! ”
• •
Nice to be able to give yourself a rise
in screw without consulting the boss.
Latest to do it is the South Australian
Government, which has brought in a
bill to raise State members’ salaries
£275 a year. There were two objectors
in the House, both Government men, but
in matters like these objectors don’t get
much hearing— not in the House, anyway.
• •
“Labor’s” reply to the plaint that com-
pulsory unionism was not mentioned in
Cahill’s policy speech last January is that
it had been on the party’s platform for
donkeys’ years. We may now confidently
expect the introduction of a measure
which has been on the platform even
longer—abolition of the Legislative
Council, The spectacle of “Labor”
M.L.C.s voting themselves out of “the
best club in Sydney” and passing-up their
gold passes, tenner-a-week “expenses,”
tickets to the Stadium, etc., is just i too
funny to contemplate.
• •
Corns, drew first place on the ballot-
paper for Sydney City Council election.
Under proportional-representation this
makes them almost a certainty for at
least one seat. A large proportion of
the Communist vote at Federal elections
comes from within the City Council
boundaries, and first position will, on
Senate figures, .give them a bonus of
round about 2 per cent. With 20 aider-
men to be elected, the quota required will
be less than 5 per cent.
• •
“J.P.S.” (Korea): Arthur Horner and
John Horner are not brothers ; their only
“relationship” is political; they are both
members of the executive committee of
the British Communist party, and are
also both general secretaries of trade-
unions. Arthur, a small, wizened Welsh-
man, runs the National Union of Mine-
workers (a “life” appointment, and he
does not have to face an election), and
John, a large, solidly-built Cockney, is
boss of the Fire Brigades Union, All
paid officials of the F.B.U. are “Commos”
(I’m an ex-member of this union), and
although they are elected by an over-
whelmingly anti-Communist member-
ship, they always manage to retain their
posts. Perhaps England could well
afford to adopt the Registrar-supervised
ballots which have been so successful in
“cleaning-up” Australian unions.
• •
In almost any city daily paper any
day there’s a report of somebody paying
“conscience-money” to some Govern-
ment department or other. We never
read of a politician paying conscience-
money back to the people.
• •
Federal “Labor,” its eye ever on catch-
ing votes, proposed last week that
quarterly cost-of-living adjustments
should be continued for Federal public
servants who do not come under Arbi-
tration Court awards —a regulation sus-
pending the adjustments was before Par-
liament for approval. The move gave
Evatt and Co. a chance to work in some
propaganda, which, of course, was its
purpose. Had it been carried it would
have given one set of public servants
preferential treatment over another.
• •
The specious argument that compulsory
unionism could be a strong weapon
against Communism is not borne out by
the history of the watersiders, seamen
and miners’ unions, all of which have
been close preserves for unionists for
many years and all of which have been
happy hunting-grounds for the Comrades.
• •
Opposition-leader Bolte said in Vic-
torian Assembly that Chief Secretary
Galvin had dropped a bombshell when he
announced that every town could and
should have a lottery agency when Tatt.’s
comes over —unlike Tasmania, where only
a handful of agents is permitted. It
is unreliably reported that on hearing this
a Chinese fan-tan proprietor opened a
branch of his business opposite Parlia-
ment House for the convenience of
members, only to learn that what is
accounted a virtue for Spring-street is a
vice for Little-Bourke.
• •
Sydney undertaker L. S. Andrews has
gone to jail again, this time in protest
against regulations which lay down that
no fewer than three men may be em-
ployed to move the coffin of an adult,
although two will suffice for a corpse on
a stretcher. Andrews claims he sent two
men only on a job because he expected a
stretcher to be used and knew the deceased
was of slight build. On union information
he was fined £7 10s., with £5 2s. costs;
in default 26 days. Andrews took jail.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
"vrOT very long after I, as a youth, revo-
lutionised and revitalised the N.S.W.
Railway Department by joining its staff,
it brought into being a Suggestions and
Inventions Board—an organisation which
may still flourish, for all I know. At
first the lure of bonuses made no appeal
to us junior clerks, busy as we were
having battles with soaked sponges, ring-
ing the boss up by using disguised voices,
and nailing his lunch-bag to the floor.
Then came a bombshell —some genius had
reaped a fantastic reward of about 20
quid for suggesting that the shortening
of the word “Gentlemen” to “Men”
would effect a great saving. Probably
it cost the department no more than a few
hundred pounds to effect the change-
over. Fired by the prospect of also
getting such a bonus and retiring, my
colleagues and I let the rest of the work
slide so that we might concentrate on
furious imaginative thinking. For myself,
it became purely a question of how to
"Your Dad used to look romantic in it in nineteen-forty.”
truncate “Ladies,” I had a delicate feel-
ing that the Commissioner might not
accept “Tarts.” “Sheilas” was even
longer than “Ladies.” Then I got it —
“Tabs,” short for “Tabbies.” It would
save two letters. Embittered at the lack
of appreciation of my efforts when I
was tersely informed it had been turned
“I loathe stepping on them. They’re so SQUELCHY.”
down, I left the service. And look what’s
happened to it since! —“Bo,”
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Contact” (Japan): The Oriental
gentleman who developed kanji, the
written language used in China and
Japan, must have had a good knowledge
of women and quite a sense of humor.
In this language, just as the symbol for
“tree” written three times means “forest,”
so the symbol for “woman” three times
means “noisy, clamorous.” And this
from a country in which women are
supposed to be quiet, subdued and never
to give offence to their master, the male!
& ♦> *
“Cauboy”: Blame for the decay of
spectacle on the flesh-and-blood stage
can be sheeted home to the films. Before
their fatal advent producers like Bland
Holt and William Anderson thought no-
thing of having stage-coaches, gigs and
carriages with four horses galloping
across the stage, installing a water-system
so that several inches of water would
fall upon the performers in the space of
a couple of minutes and making their
heroines escape from a blazing building
by walking gracefully across a telephone-
wire. A Melbourne-Cup finish was
staged at the old Melbourne Royal by
Holt on one occasion with three horses
on a revolving platform fighting for a
photo-finish. In “The Ladder of Life”
at the same theatre Anderson had an
immense steam-hammer which slowly
descended on the imprisoned leading-
lady and would have ended her theatrical
career had not three sailors smashed
their way through a skylight and gripped
each other’s ankles to form a human
rescue-ladder nightly. At the old Palace
a mad scientist armed with a tube of
deadly disease-germs pursued Gladys
Moncrieff over the ribs of a Zeppelin
floating over the Atlantic. In these
degenerate days it’s a spectacle if some
arty-crafty modern artist hangs up a few
lengths of muslin and daubs a couple
of squares of plywood with duco.
“Piper”: With a local shop already
taking orders for Christmas-trees, I’m
wondering what a jam-tin filled with
sand will be worth this year. Last
year the shopkeeper charged gullible
souls who couldn’t find a tin for them-
selves 2s. 6d. for one and it wasn’t
painted, either.
❖ ❖ *>
“Becks”: First heard the yarn told of
Diggers of the First World War. “Poor
old Jack. Got so used to sleeping on
the ground that when they put him in a
hospital-bed he just couldn’t sleep. Too
soft for him. He used to get out and
doss on the floor. Nurses were always
putting him back.” “Yes, Tom was the
same. Came home in 1918. Lovely
feather-bed all ready for him. No good
at all. Wouldn’t sleep anywhere but on
the floor.” Any belief I might have had
in the yarn was dissipated in World War
11, in the course of which I had ex-
perience of sleeping-places of all degrees
of hardness, yet never lost the ability to
enjoy a real bed when it came my way.
What’s more, I never met anyone who
did. But the yarn still lives on. Witness
Sydney “Sun-Herald’s” story of the
American woman who was out here
earlier this year making films for tele-
vision :
While in Australia Mrs. Denis lived the
life primitive. She slept on the ground
for four months, moulding the earth to
the shape of her body When she
arrived in New York she slept on the
floor in her room for the first two nights.
She got into bed the third night because
the maid, looking at the untouched bed,
kept eyeing her curiously.
I wonder how thick the carpet was.
“Enn Kay” (B. 11/11/’53)
missed one of the choicest Puritan names
of all. When I think of the difficulty of
jamming my handle John into the
space on some forms I am condemned to
fill-in, I shudder at the Christian-name—
Bind - Their - Kings - in - Chains - and -
Their - Nobles - with - Links - of - Iron.
That was one man’s affliction.
, : - v
“A.L.D.”: It wasn’t only Puritans’
children who were given peculiar names
in the 17th century (B. 11/11/’53). Race-
horse-owners, too, could think up some
strange monickers. One nag in Charles
IPs reign was named “Sweetest-when-
naked.”
❖ ❖
“Fair Mac”: Conversation from behind
me in the bus: “Jack Whozit still working
on the council?” “Yair, but he’s lost
his grading. Pity, but it was his own
fault hitting the grog pretty heavy;
got a couple of warnings ; wouldn’t wake
up to himself, so now he’s street-sweep-
ing.” Sounds of incredulous regret, then:
“He had a pretty good job, too, didn’t
he?” “Good job? I’ll say—he was
lavatory-attendant in Soanso Park! ” The
Demon Drink has got something to
answer for.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Soc.”: “Macann’s” New Australian
nipper (B. 25/11/ ’53) mightn’t have been
so surprised at the idea of there being
any of them (meaning things ghosty) in
this part of the world if he’d seen the
bill I’ve just had from Angus and
Robertson. It debits me for a copy of
Skeleton’s Poetical Works. No doubt
Angus and Robertson thought I’d like
to have the author of, presumably, those
“haunting poems” the critics talk about
(or used to), and I look forward to
reading what should certainly be a
rattling good book.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Adelaide tried
that idea of sending out a police-
woman to catch the pests who annoy
women at night (B. 18/11/’53). The
woman chosen for the job stood around
in poorly-lighted streets, with a couple
of plainclothes men near by. If anyone
spoke politely to her she told him there
was nothing doing and advised him to
clear out. If he persisted, but was still
polite, she showed him her badge. The
escorts grabbed anyone who was really
offensive. One of the first men to
approach her was a plainclothes man
who hadn’t heard of the new stunt. She
let him go on for a time, then showed
him her badge. News of the encounter
leaked out and Romeo’s mates ragged
the life out of him.
♦> i*
“Mac Hoots”: Contemplating those mil-
lions of tickets thrown away daily at
the toll-gates on Sydney Harbor Bridge
I have developed a comforting theory:
The wind and the stormwater channels
must be taking them all into the HSrbor,
so that eventually they will fill it up, the
Bridge will be over dry land, therefore
unnecessary, and at last we shall have the
toll-gates abolished.
* ❖ ❖
“Bret Lawson”: “Uidhist” (B.
11/11/ ’53) is slightly astray in his story
about the Scot masquerading as a priest
in Greece. It was not Lord Frederick
Hamilton but a friend who had the
encounter, which occurred not in Greece
but in the Crimea. The Scot was a
young man, not “a middle-aged and
much-bewhiskered sea-captain,” and he
was bestowing a blessing on passers-by
at a religious festival, not conducting a
service in church. Finally, he was not
masquerading; he was actually a priest
of the Russian church, being the son
of a Glasgow foreman employed at the
Government dockyard at Sebastopol-
The incident is related in Lord Frederick s
Vanished Pomps of Yesterday page “
in my copy. .
♦♦♦ ❖
“Muskeen”: Have just read a transla-
tion of a Brazilian novel published m
1880, in which the hero curls his hp in
scorn. I first came across this expression
in Eric, or Little by Little; it was a
favorite facial contortion of one of the
masters. My attempts to perform the tea
in front of a mirror failed dismally, ano-
although in two wars I was the legitimate
recipient of scorn from my superiors,
never did I see a lip curl. Is this a
lost art? It surely must be, otherwise
Tin Pan Alley would presente
us with song-titles such as “Oh, don
curl those lips at me, honey,” or un-
curl that lip, my lovely,” or just plat
“Curly Lips.”
A.B.C. v. M.H.R.
“At a conference of advisers of the A.8.C.,
Professor Oliphant said the average mental
age of Australian listeners was probably much
the same as that of British listeners —131-
Professor Geoffrey Sawer said the A.B.C.
should have nothing to do with Parliamentary
broadcasts.”
Oh, I’m of the average mental age
Of thirteen-and-a-half,
A bit of a tiger in a cage
Whose love is only calf;
I follow the flabbergasters
Of the comics and the flicks.
But I never can stand broadcasters
Whose mental age is six.
Oh, I like a Beethoven symphony,
And I’m keen on good hot jazz.
Concertos with Maura Lympany
And Durante’s. razzamatazz;
But enrol me as a hater
Of the childish parlor-tricks
Of the Parliamentary debater
With a mental age of six.
Oh, you can’t be sure in saying.
When the session’s in its stride,
If it’s the radio playing
Or the squalling tots outside;
In fact I’d prefer the toddlers
Battling with stones and sticks
To the gabble of adult twaddlers
With a mental age of six.
Yet all day long and all the night
We entertain these bores.
Condemned to a diet of trite and spite
With genius shoved outdoors;
When the world’s so full of variety
Why only the politics
Of a selfish debating-society
Of the mental age of six ?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“I got the allotment cheap.”
TINTIL I ftaet the real thing in Corn-
wall, I thought Cousin Jacks existed
only in jokes. The cove I asked directions
from scratched his head for a moment
and then pointed towards a narrow,
hedged lane. “See that lane?” he said.
“Well, along there is a haystack, then
there’s a stone wall, then there’s a clump
of trees and the road goes along between
two wire fences,” He peered at my
companion and myself to see if we were
taking it all in, then continued. “Then
there’s the school and the chapel.” There
was a pause, we nodded and waited.
“Well, if you go that way you’ve gone
the wrong way.” The next cove was even
better. He chewed his lip and then shook
his head sadly, when we asked him the
way to Mevagissy. “Mevagissy, Meva-
gissy.” He shook his head again. “Well,
if I was goin’ to Mevagissy I wouldn’t
gc from here. — “Alma.”
♦J*
“Nakhoda”: When Tatt.’s comes to
Melbourne, Victoria will get out of the
class of those countries which
won’t tolerate gaming-houses
within their own borders, but
delight to have them on their
doorsteps. Of such are, or
were, France, which is preserved
from vice by Monte Carlo,
Singapore by Johore, Hong
Kong by one-time Portuguese
Macao and International Shang-
hai by the Chinese city. Every
young griffin in Singapore got
his first acquaintance with the
great god Luck at the gambling
farms across the straits, the taxes
on which helped the Sultan of
Johore to keep his harem in
that state of numerosity and
grandeur to which the dynasty
was accustomed. It was the
last bit of the vast Portuguese
empire in Asia which preserved
the purity of Hong Kong, and
if Macao had fine wide streets
and public gardens and better
amenities than Hong Kong it
could thank the fantan shops
for them. International Shang-
hai’s safety - valve was the
roulette-tables maintained by
the Swiss or some other consul
just across the Chinese border.
Where the whisky was free,
cheques were accepted—and
invariably honored —and where
everything was jointed so that
tables, chairs and equipment vanished as
if by magic when the Chinese police,
having sent advance information of their
intention, made a routine invasion.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Romast”: Shanghai was the scene of
a good anti-British demonstration (B.
25/11 / ’53) in 1949. Hordes of students
Were marched to the British Consulate-
General, where they “demonstrated” by
shouting and waving banners. An
American journalist edged his car in
among the crowd and a student draped
it with a “Down with Britain ’ banner.
The American protested that he was not
a Briton but an American. “Very sorry,”
apologised the student. He whipped off
the offending banner and replaced it
with another —“Down with Britain and
America! ”
£♦ ❖ ❖
“Dicky”: Class distinction rears its
head in some unexpected places in Eng-
land. The notice outside the humble
but necessary addition to Abbey annexes,
during the Coronation, said “Peers”
with a certain aristocratic simplicity. In
the same vein, there seemed to be a
stark brutality in the notice at Tilbury
which said baldly, “Ladies Third
Class.”
♦> ❖
“Kombali”: So films can’t make
crooks (B. 18/11/’53)? In the days of
the silents one film showed how a crook
dealt with a Yale lock by means of a
small hand-drill and a bit of wire.
"No, Jenkins! I Want the one with the hula-girl on it."
Shortly afterwards scores of homes and
shops all over the U.S.A. had their locks
forced in that identical way. After a
few similar experiences the law clamped
down on object-lessons in burglary
technique. But detective yarns in pulp
magazines gave even better information.
In one there was a detailed description
of how a safebreaker stole some gelig-
nite from a quarry, extracted the nitro-
glycerine, carried it to the job in a
bottle packed in felt and used soap to
tamp the cracks of a safe-door. Before
long there was an epidemic of safe-
blowings in America, with that technique
copied in detail. Nearly all the culprits
were first-offenders. The law clamped
down on that sort of thing, too,
❖ ♦>
“Enn Kay”: Interviewed in Wales,
shortly before leaving for the American
tour on which he died, Dylan Thomas
(B. 18/11/’53) was living with his wife
and two daughters—his elder son is at
Oxford —in a boathouse at Laugharne,
on the coast. This house was previously
tenanted by another famous Welsh writer
—Richard Hughes, author of A High
Wind in Jamaica. Thomas discussed with
the interviewer his latest work, “Under
Milk Wood,” described by * him as a play
for voices, “not exactly a verse-play, al-
though there is some verse in it prose
with blood-pressure.” The setting of the
play is an imaginary Welsh village named
Llareggub, which looks as unpronounce-
able as most Welsh placenames but makes
good sense in English (or Australian) if
you look at it long enough—and from
the right direction.
❖ ❖
“Swelpme”: Near the station of Mac-
donaldtown (a close suburb of Sydney)
a railway-bridge crosses the road. The
other day an armored bullion-car came
along the road and was almost under the
bridge when two shots roared. Immedi-
ately there were faces at the small peep-
holes of the car; muzzles of firearms
showed themselves. The vehicle spurted.
Hollywood never achieved such an
atmosphere of tense, dramatic suspense.
Meanwhile the train overhead slowed
down, the fettlers stepped off the metals,
and the flagman put two more detonators
on the rails.
❖ ❖
“Melbn”: In his survey of the public
statuary in Melbourne to which that
Collingwood councillor objected, “F.S.”
(B. 11/11 /’53) missed the only one of
aesthetic importance —the nude boy stand-
ing on the basin of a fountain which rises
gracefully from a pool surrounded by a
bluestone wall carved with birds and
dolphins spouting water at one another.
It is remarkable not orily for its spirited
carving but for coming, not from the
studios of the academic sculptors who
carved most of the city’s heavy-handed
effigies, but from Pentridge. The sculptor
was a Bendigo miner, jailed for being in
possession of a stolen horse, though it was
subsequently proved he didn’t steal it.
After serving his sentence he was re-
leased, but got nabbed again, this time
in the company of a party of Tasmanian
convicts who had just lifted a quantity
of gold, and was given another sentence.
He was later found guiltless of this
offence also. A visiting magistrate
noticed his carving and drew the gover-
nor’s attention to it, and he was given a
shed in which to start his fountain. He
asked for a model for the figure, and,
the warders refusing to submit their chil-
dren, the magistrate, who must have been
a very discerning man, got the nephew of
a friend of his to sit. The model
subsequently became a clergyman. The
fountain was erected where it now stands ;
it earned the sculptor a free pardon, and
he was helped to set up as a . stonemason
in Prahran. There is a lot of his work in
the cemeteries of Melbourne.
“P.0.M.C.”: Tell “Pip Tok” (B.
18/11 /’53) that horses do shy at the
same spot repeatedly—the ones I back
always shy at the winning-post.
*** *:* ***
“Narumee”: Our street is on the route
of the Royal progress and we’ve all
rallied round; the nature-strips have
been mown and watered by residents —
all except one which has been allowed to
flourish defiantly rank, marring the vista
of close-cropped green. Couldn’t the
occupant just there do it? Or wouldn’t
he? Anyway, the local council has taken
matters firmly in hand and mown it for
him. Now the hitherto more-civic-minded
of us are thinking again. And wondering
whether
♦l* *l* *z*
“Dentonio”: Banbury Cross’s “fine
lady,” mentioned in the Seppelt cover
ad. (B. 21/10/’53), was originally a
“Fiennes lady.” Broughton Castle, near
Banbury, has for centuries been the seat
of the head of the noble family of
Fiennes, Lord Saye and Sele. The
nursery-rhyme’s reference to “bells on her
toes” implies that the lady was on a
hawking excursion. Bells were used to
attract back to their master or mistress
falcons and hawks that had missed their
quarry.
“J.D.A.”: Why does “J.J.A.,” after
rightly praising Italian and German
breads (B. 18/11/’53), make such a
curious and unsubstantiated attack on
French bread? I suspect that the air-
bubbles have something to do with it.
Most Australians, reared in a country
where, in gastronomical matters at least,
quantity rather than quality is the guid-
ing principle of choice, are dismayed
when they crack open their first French
loaf and discover that it is almost hollow.
They feel cheated, forgetting that bread
is sold by weight, and that this hollow-
ness is the cause of the enormous size
of the French loaf. The hollowness is
no accident. French gastronomists claim
that the soft white interior of a loaf,
no matter how fleecy, has little nutritive-
value, less taste-value and is difficult to
digest, since by its very substance it
cannot be fully cooked. Accordingly
the French baker takes great pains to
produce his semi-hollow loaf with its
nutty, biscuity crust.
THE HERO
“Every young man has embarrassing
moments when with a girl, but how few come
out of it with distinction! ” Women’s
magazine.
It’s day-before-payday,
The usual grey day.
Not quite broke, but bent.
A girl you meet up with.
You ask her to sup with
You, being a gent.
Soon after you do it
You bitterly rue it —
You feel in your kick :
Nine-bob and a trizzy I
It makes you feel dizzy.
In fact, rather sick.
Your glance at her’s stealthy.
How brutally healthy !
She’ll eat like a horse,
With appetite robust.
You’d certainly go bust
By end of one course.
In restaurant seated
Your collar gets heated;
Your spirit’s downcast.
The waiter’s just seen you.
You reach for the menu —
You’ve got to think fast.
The oysters, you fancy.
Would be much too chancy.
She might get ptomaine ;
You’d be deeply troubled
At seeing her doubled
Up there, in great pain.
The fish could be dried up
Through being too fried up,
And, likely, half-cold.
The entree, you think, would
Be quite on the blink, could
Be covered with mould.
The piece-de-resistance
You’d seen at a distance —
What horrible meat!
And spuds armor-plated.
It seems you were fated
Elsewhere, then, to eat.
You grab up the lady
Along with your cady
And bolt, at this point.
At last you’ll be jake, for
You thankfully make for
A hamburger joint.
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


Fly^Faster^by^_JTAA^_p»^ssurised^CONVAl^^tlWnE^
TO MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. TOWNSVILLE. ADELAIDE (and
PERSONAL ITEMS
Extremes of climate mean little to
Kenneth Campbell, appointed o.i.c. of
the Macquarie Island expedition. A
smiling Scot frae Dumfries, science-
graduate of Glasgow University, Camp-
bell has visited Canada, the U.S. and the
Continent, and took a fly with the R.A.F.
in 1942. With War II over, he joined the
Burma frontier service and was Assistant
Resident Commissioner in the Kachin
Hills till he left for Melbourne in 1948.
Followed an administrative course in
Sydney and posting as a patrol-officer to
New Guinea, a job he held for two and
a half years. Since 1951 he’s been in
Perth, a member of the science faculty of
the Westralian University.
# •
Youthful-looking Bryan Dummett, here
depicted, is managing-director of C.O.R.
and a director of Australasian Petroleum
Refinery, Ltd,, which will operate the £4O
million Kwinana oil-refining plant now
being built in Westralia. Dummett, a
product of Rugby, took his B.A. at Trinity
College, Cambridge.” In 1936 he joined
the Continental distribution staff of Anglo-
Iranian Oil, and after the war was area-
manager for Italy and Switzerland; more
recently U.K. marketing matters occupied
REFINER
his time. When the Kwinana plant comes
on-stream about 18 months hence,
Dummett and his colleagues will have in
the region of 3,000,000 tons (750 million
gallons if it reads better) of motor-spirit,
aviation turbine-fuel, kerosene, diesel-gas
and fuel-oil to dispose of.
• •
Extending his family’s philanthropic
interest in Adelaide University, T. E.
Barr Smith has donated just under £14,000
for a travelling scholarship in agricultural
study, tenable at' Cambridge. T.E.’s
grandfather started off in 1892 with a
substantial gift to purchase books for the
University; his family later provided a
fund for endowment of the library.
Granddad’s son (commemorated by the
latest scholarship) gave £35,000 in the
late ’twenties for the library building.
The present donor originated the Food-
for-Britain appeal. In 1945, with an
R.A.A.F. pilot, he conceived a scheme to
get meat to the Old Country. Taken up'
by Adelaide City Council, the idea be-
came Commonwealth-wide. Chairman
of several pastoral companies, Barr Smith
(now 49) has been on the committee of
the S.A. Jockey Club, Consul for Sweden,
and racehorse-owner. One of his neddies,
Fleche d’Or, in 1946 created a record
tote dividend of 1150 to 1.
• •
Edgar Logan, the lanky athlete nomi-
nated by the Lawn Tennis Association to
referee the first inter-zone final of the
Davis Cup (first Westralian to be named
for the job), has been umpiring tourna-
ments in Perth for the past 15 years, and
is a foundation member of the W.A.
Lawn Tennis Umpires’ Association.
Service off the courts is with the Educa-
tion Department, district superintendent
for Fremantle. In his teaching career in
various parts of the State he did much
to encourage youngsters in the game,
one of his pupils being Max Bonner, now
professional of the Royal King’s Park
Club, who will assist Dinny Pails in
coaching the Belgians, Philippe Washer
and Jackie Brichant. Logan hasn’t stuck
exclusively to tennis—in younger days he
was a crack runner and jumper. He
played for Australia in a grimmer game
when, lieutenant of the 48th Battalion,
he collected a nasty one at Passchendaele.
• •
Brigadier Thomas J. Daly, C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., of Toorak, had a rare distinction
for an Australian, the U.S. Legion of
Merit, pinned on his chest by the
American Military Attache in Melbourne
the other day; for exceptionally
meritorious service as C.O. of the 28th
British Commonwealth Infantry Brigade
in Korea. The citation read; “He dis-
played determination and aggressiveness,
often exposing himself to the danger of
enemy fire, in his inspiring leadership.”
It was signed by President Eisenhower.
• •
“Fitz” on three winners:
Tom Ronan, awarded a £6OO Commonwealth
Literary Fund Fellowship to write a novel
based on the cattle-industry and set in far-west
Queensland, collared first prize in the 1951
Jubilee novel-competition with his Vision
Splendid, to be published in London by
Cassell next year. Bora in Perth 46 years ago,
Ronan had his childhood in Derby (W.A.) and
on a cattle-station near Broome. After school-
ing in Perth he went back north, to tackle a
bit of almost everything, from pearling in
Broome to buffalo-hunting in Arnhem Land.
For War II he was with the A.I.F. in the
Middle East, including the Alamein stoushing.
That business completed, he joined the Duracks
in his home State, first as overseer on
Auvergne; later, after a period as a freelance
journalist, manager of Newry. Now with
C.5.1.R.0., he lives at Springvale, historic
pastoral homestead near Katherine in the
Territory, built by explorer Ernest Giles in
the 1870’s.
Fellowships for the same amount go to
Roland E. Robinson and Alan Marshall.
Robinson will write a collection of abo.
tales and will spend six months in the Territory
gathering native myths. Marshall is to do a
volume of short stories dealing with Australian
animal life, his childhood and a caravan-tour
he made in the outback.
• •
“F.S.”: Sir Thomas Maltby, one-time
Victorian Minister for Electrical Under-
takings and Mines and a former Speaker,
was travelling Russia and writing home
impressions; he found they were being
censored. So ingenuity, which he has in
large measure, was stimulated. After
being shown round the town of Novo-
rossysk he wrote: “This town impresses
me very greatly with its housing and
amenities, which remind me of the Dudley
Flats residential-area in West Melbourne.”
Anybody who knows Dudley Flats wiil
understand what he meant.
• •
“X.S.”: If the principle of judging a
constable’s efficiency by the number of
arrests he made had been applied to
Senior-Constable John Ebor Davis, just
retired from the Victorian police, he
wouldn’t have lasted his 25 years in
Collingwood. Known as “Bluey,” Davis
seldom arrested anybody but drunks, and
these he only picked up for their own
protection, and as often as not told them
to go home and gave them the fare. With
most other obstreperous characters he
reasoned. His reasoning must have been
good because people who knew of him
came to the station to ask advice on their
problems and wouldn’t see anybody but
Bluey. Once a gang of hoodlums showed
lack of appreciation of their officer’s
qualities by attacking him in a lane with
an axe, inflicting wounds that required
13 stitches. Another gang of hoodlums
indignantly started after the first lot to
give them a good bashing. Davis
promptly reasoned with his would-be pro-
tectors and fixed the mob himself, thus
going one better than Rajah Brooke, of
Sarawak, who eliminated head-hunting by
setting one tribe of head-hunters on to
another.
A. L. McKenzie Clark, Deputy-
Director of Agriculture in Westralia,
retires after 40 years’ service. Schooled
at Perth’s Scotch College, he graduated
in veterinary science at Melbourne in
1912 and joined the Westralian Agri-
cultural Department a year later
Appointed State chief veterinary-officer
and chief quarantine-officer (animals) in
1930, he handled three outstanding jobs
—stamping out the rinderpest outbreak
of the late 1920’5, the pleuro-pneumonia
outbreak among south-western herds in
1930, and an epidemic of swine-fever in
1940. Recently, he was one of the com-
mittee of four who reported on the estab-
lishment of an animal-breeding station in
the Punjab, under the Colombo Plan. A
husky 65, athlete in his young days, at
Scotch he rowed in head-of-the-river
races, and while in Melbourne represented
Victoria in lacrosse.
• •
“Horseless Horseman”; Few men have
walked over more of Victoria than 75-
year-old Alf King, head surveyor of
Victoria’s Soldier Settlement Commission.
The only Victorian town his work has not
taken him to is Echuca. Since “retir-
ing” 10 years back as chief-surveyor of
the Victorian Lands Department, he has
cut-up and mapped every soldier-settle-
ment area in the Cabbage Garden, and he
retires now on the condition that he
comes back to the commission at call.
Coming from Kent with his parents to a
dairy-farm at Wyyung, near the Gippsland
Lakes, when he was a three-year-old, he
subsequently had enough of teat-pulling,
and so graduated at the Bairnsdale School
of Mines. His first 15 years with the
theodolite were spent on the rugged west-
coast of Tassie, straightening out mines
and mining-leases—the toughest country
he was ever in. Agile, kindly and know-
ledgeable, he carries a fund of stories
redolent of the old days of the bush and
tent-life.
• •
A keen nose and eye for a bargain
would seem to sum-up Coventry’s im-
pression of Harry C. Williams, appended
hereunder. Williams entered the Adelaide
retail-trade in 1928, and today, as manag-
ing-director, still does a counter-job now
and then to keep in line with the
customer’s angle. While guiding People-
stores, Ltd. (founded by his father),
through successive expansions which have
engulfed an old church, a stable and a
theatre, he’s found time to preside over
the Retail Traders’ Association and over
Apex, and to serve on the Chamber of
Manufactures Council. His father,
RETAILER
Cornish miner William H. Williams, is
remembered by Adelaide old-timers as a
merchandising genius who once built a
snowman in his store-window (of snow
collected in the Adelaide hills) and put a
bargain-priced hat on its head. Son Harry
is just back from taking a look at the
shops of India, the Continent, Britain,
Canada and the U.S.
Of late swarms of business moguls have
been converging on Australia from over-
seas. Reason, a considerable interest in
these parts as a place for expanding home
factories. Latest met is Harold Hoeff-
man, a native of Chicago—like most of
his kind from the U.S., genial, easy to
talk to and willing to listen. He’s vice-
president and a director of the Link-Belt
LINK-BELTER
co., probably the largest power-trans-
mission and conveying-machinery concern
in America ; in business 75 years, now
rating 18 American plants and 11,000
employees, Link-Belt produces a wide
variety of machinery ranging from end-
less-belts for mass-production set-ups to
giant earth-moving shovels and cranes
used for hoisting experimental rockets
into position. Landed in Sydney to-
wards the end of a world-tour, Hoeffman
on the way saw one of his shovels operat-
ing on a sugar-railway in Mauritius; in
Jo’burg, whence came the Cullinan
Diamond now in the Crown Jewels, he
descended one of the mines; and in a
room holding roughly 45,000 carats of
diamonds, he was given a sample of the
product. Having travelled on a fair
number of airlines he reckons the Qantas
Constellation which brought him from
Jo’burg to Perth can match any of ’em
for courtesy of crew and efficiency of
operation. There’s a Link-Belt branch in
Sydney he’ll have a look at before head-
ing home.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Northam (W.A.), at 81, William Henry
Alexander Phillips, Old Digger and railway-
man. As a captain of Light Horse he served in
the Palestine campaign; that war over, he
helped to run the Palestinian railways for
several years, after which he grew oranges near
Haifa.
At 67, in Melbourne, William Harry Scott,
with C.O.R. for over 20 years and one ot
the best-known of oil executives. From Vic-
torian manager—on joining the company —he
went up to group-manager for Victoria and
South Australia, and, in 1938, to general sales-
manager. Secretary, in War 11, of the petro-
leum committee formed to handle pool-petrol,
he became after the war chief-executive ot his
firm’s management department.
In Christchurch, at 85, Frederick Gurnsey,
one of the last wood- and stone-carvers in
New Zealand. A student of London and
Edinburgh Schools of Art, Gurnsey was for
some time with the Harry Hems Co., of Exeter,
the leading church-carvers of England. In
N.Z. in 1905, he became instructor in the
Christchurch School of Art and executed much
of the carving about the city, as well as the
lions on the Bridge of Remembrance. Of his
carved reredos in the cathedral the Archbishop
of Canterbury said on his visit two years ago
that no work like it had been done during the
past 100 years.
At 86, in England, Lieut.-Colonel Percy
Neville Buckley, son of the Mrs. Mars Bucx-
ley who was one of the founders of Buckley
and Nunn, of Melbourne. In England for the
past 20 years, P.N. had served in War I, and
had an interest in his father’s property,
Narrapumelap' Station, near Hamilton. Hi
daughter is the wife of Admiral Sherbrooke,
who won V.C. in a destroyer defending
Murmansk convoy from German capital snip
in 1942. A 1
At Katanning (W.A.), at 81, Alexande
Thomson, ending a long life of public service.
One-time Parliamentary leader of the Westra-
lian Country party, he had been member to
South Province in the Upper House for cl
on 20 years when he retired at just under » •
Earlier he’d represented Katanning in the
Assembly. Son Jack now holds the GPP
House seat.


OVER THE THRESHOLD


ABORIGINALITIES
TTHE cargo-plane rolled to a standstill
A on a remote New Guinea strip.
On top of flour-tins, butter-boxes,
bananas and pineapples in the hold was
a wicker bassinet. Local braves leaped
aboard to unload, and the bassinet reached
the grass before its occupant was noticed.
Unloading operations ceased amid a
welkin-busting chorus of amazed
“Aaaoooos!” She was the first white
baby they’cf seen ; and the news travelled
like a bushfire, yodelled round the fore-
ground of the valley.
Two bowmen carried the bassinet to the
house as gingerly as if it held dynamite ;
a horde of backseat-drivers crowded close
behind. Perhaps they’d had a vague idea
the white bloke came ready-made and
all set to disturb their even tenor. But
here was a little helpless one. That was
a tale to tell when they got home.
The young-’un was set down on the
kunai-floor of the grass-thatched house-
b’long-master ; and there might well have
possibly been three kings among her audi-
ence. Outside curiosity kayoed timidity
among the women, and a giggling pro-
cession of them hip-swayed in, their own
bambinos clinging like limpets or slung
in shopping-bags.
Eventually told to clear ’em out —
“altogether fella too much ’e stop ’long
piccanniny”—the houseboy included in
his vociferous address dire admonitions
regarding lack of future for all concerned
should their presence make the baby cry.
Actually she wailed* unconsolably when
her admirers went. —“Ybsul.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Pip Tok”: Claimed to be the first
of its kind to be bagged in Westralian
waters, a broad-billed swordfish, lift,
long and weighing 1531 b., was caught—
fairly literally by hand —off a Fremantle
beach by two fishermen, one swimming
after it when it began groggily to make
for the open sea after having been
stranded in shallow water and holding its
tail while his mate lassooed it. The fish’s
torn fins pointed to its having been in a
fight before it made for close-in water.
* * * *
“Sackville”: A chap who runs a small
mixed-farm in Burragorang Valley
(N.S.W.) seems to have struck a new
angle on sheep-breeding. He has no
“Ask your lord can he reduce the toll —I done me wad on the last joust."
special fads about strains, or even breeds;
nevertheless he is most selective over his
rams and is going to great lengths to
procure the type of ewes he needs for
his experiment. If it proves as successful
as he is confident it will be, his flocks
should double themselves in a year. After
that, he has hopes of trebling the count
at every lambing; nor does he consider
it utterly impossible to increase the flock
fourfold per annum. His system? Breed-
ing from sheep that were twhi lambs or
the offspring of twins. Perhaps it isn’t
really so fantastic —in Homo sapiens the
tendency to beget twins is undoubtedly
hereditary. So don’t be surprised if
Burragorang should hit the headlines one
day with an ovine parallel to the Sara
quads.
* * * *
“Yakipan”; Concerning those frog-
races in p.-0.-w. camps (B. 14/10/ ’53),
one owner-trainer who “raced” at Changi
left nothing to chance. His method of
persuading any acceptor from his “stable”
to attain maximum speed was to rub the
juice of a red chilli on its backside. His
entries nearly always won in one hop.
* * * ♦
“Kelms”; Not all fused sand is “obvi-
ously formed by some meteorite” (B.
28/10/’53). It might be a fulgurite. Any
rock substance that’s been fused or vitri-
fied by lightning qualifies for that title, but
more particularly it’s reserved for a tube
of vitrified sand formed by lightning
penetrating the solid ground and fusing
it as it passes. Often when lightning
strikes the surface of rocks it produces
a certain amount of fusion, which covers
a greater area if the rocks are dry and
the electricity isn’t conducted away
quickly. The fusion forms a glassy crust,
usually not thicker than an eighth of an
inch, which may be white, yellow, brown
or black, probably depending on the type
of rock. But when the rock is wet the
lightning sometimes takes a path straight
to earth. Solid rocks have been drilled
this way, leaving holes which are lined
with glassy materials ; and if the lightning
strikes sand it leaves the vitrified tubes.
These may be only a few inches long, but
the Geological Survey in Queensland has
one sft. long, forked at the 4ft. mark.
That’s not by any means a record. One
40ft. long was found in England. Geo-
logists call fulgurites “fossil weather.”
• ♦,••••
“Millicent”: Nineteenth-century physics
is good enough to explain the damage
caused by the Siberian meteorite when
it hit the earth (B. 28 /10/’53). It covered
acres and weighed thousands, perhaps
millions, of tons; but there is no evidence
to suggest that the highest temperature
produced was any greater than the every-
day temperatures achieved in furnaces
all over the world. The heat produced
by the transmutation of mass into energy,
according to Einstein’s mass-energy equa-
tion, is on a different scale. In an atomic
bomb certain matter is changed into other
matter and there is some energy left
over, which is manifest as heat —heat,
with temperatures known to exist in
suns, far beyond anything previously
known on earth, while the heat-energy
released when mass itself is annihilated
is of an inconceivably higher order still.
The second atom-bomb couldn’t have
weighed more than 10 tons or so, and
the essential active part of it must have
weighed much less (there have been many
hints that this was only several hundred
pounds). It obliterated four square miles
of growth and habitation, and scientific
works state that approximately a thou-
sandth part only of the available mass
was liberated as heat-energy when the
inefficient contrivance went off. The total
instantaneous annihilation of a mass the
size of the Siberian meteorite by trans-
mutation into its energy-equivalent
wouldn’t have left much useful life on
the face of the earth.
* * * *
“Mark O’Polo”: Exporting horses is an
old-established business in W.A. (B,
4/11/’53). The first shipment (to India)
was in June, 1844, exactly 15 years after
Stirling with his gallant little band of
battlers had found the place.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m toilin’ for a bloke
in South Aus. once,” Mat said, “He had
a farm about four miles out o’ Peter-
borough, Gumbowie way. Well, after I
bin there a couple o’ weeks the boss’s
missus has to go and stay in the ’Borough
with a sister of hers got crook. She was
a pretty bossy sort, and they had the
telephone on. What happens is she rings
him up every morning before breakfast,
when we come in to dinner and straight
after tea every night. This goes on for
about four days, and I can see he’s gettin’
t’ be a wreck. Dam’ near one meself.
because the flamin’ phone seemed f be
ringin’ every time we was in the house.
On the sixth night I get a idea. Yeah,
after the boss went to doss I took the
phone off the wall and went and hid it.”
He sighed. “Wimmen! Next night she
turns up. She’d blew the tripe out o’
the post-office and then come out t’ see
for herself. When she saw the thing was
taken down she went stone-mad at the
boss. Wouldn’t listen to him After a
couple of hours solid ear-bashin’ he
rushes down t’ the hut an’ next thing
I know I’ve done me job.” Mat paused.
“Oh, well,” he said, thoughtfully, “I was
lucky. He still had t’ stay there! ”
♦ * ♦ *
“Emjai”: The cattle - market had
jumped even better than “Homey” Mc-
Gurk had hoped, and he was cleaning-
up. He had a lot of bullocks on moun-
tain leases ih the Mt. Cobler country
about the headwaters of the Rose and
King rivers (n.-e. Vic.); and there were
cleanskins there also, some of them big
wild pikers with horns a yard wide,
which had never been mustered before.
But “Horney’s” men knew them and
their habitat, and got them. Brothers,
the two men, who had lived their lives
with cattle in the mountains, brought
the mob down to a special sale,
and when they were yarded “Homey”
turned the brothers loose in the pub.
Later he came on them, well blithered,
down at the yards talking sentimentally
to the bullocks still awaiting buyers’
drovers. “Homey” edged them back to
the pub, pumped roseners into them
and then dumped them into his ute.
“Jest runnin’ ’em out far as the ’Wingee
for the night; too much temptation with
them here in the town,” he explained.
“No, not the booze. That don’t ’urt
’em. But I heard ’em promisin’ their
piker pals they’d be startin’ ’em off for
home in the dark and they’d all be back
up the Cobler in a week.”
* * * •
“Sebak”: It is doubtful whether Rusty,
the kelpie pup, has ever even seen a
sheep, but working and yarding are bred
in him, so when he feels energetic the
chooks suffer —or they did. The change
came when a White Leghorn rooster was
added to the flock. Rusty saw the proud,
arrogant bird as merely another fowl
and began to muster him into a corner
with me others. Whitey took one belliger-
ent look at this presumptuous creature,
then flew to the attack. For 10 seconds
Rusty was lost in a snowstorm; when it
subsided he was in full, yelping retreat.
All day he sat by the steps, brooding.
Next day he began mustering again. Up
raced Whitey and leapt straight into the
fray. Rusty was ready. With masterly
timing he clocked the rooster in mid-air
with an inverted uppercut, and pinned
him squawking to the ground. Rusty’s
round. At frequent periods for a week
the bout went on, but always the end was
the same. Then the pattern changed.
Whitey attacked; the hound downer-
cutted as usual. Whitey squirmed to one
side, shot between his opponent’s legs,
wheeled, and attacked from the rear.
Rusty hasn’t evolved a counter as yet,
but he’s still trying. Meanwhile a circus
act goes on regularly, with a yelping pup
tearing around in circles while a vindictive
rooster clings to his back and, between
moments of preserving balance, does a
woodpecker act on the base of the hound’s
skull.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Mackville”: We were listening-in to
the world-title fight. Ossie (short for some
Polish monicker like Ossavitchi) looked
around. “Ah, but the fair go it not is!”
he said. “Why does not the reference
prevent the wife of Carroother from
punch-hitting the other fightingman?” We
all stared. “The wife?” repeated Nugg
in mystification. “What” The bell
rang and he was immediately “shooshed”
into silence. Just before the end of the
round Ossie spoke up quickly: “There!
Did you not hear what the pronouncer
said? ‘A left from Gault, a right from
Carroothers, and another right from Car-
roothers misses! ’ ” Then Ossie’s wicked
grin registered. I can see we’re going to
have trouble with Oss; New Australians
should be the butts, not the havers-on.
VOICE OF THE CROW
Cursed is the carrion crdw
And the note of his toneless crying.
Sucked from a well of death
Where the bones of life are drying;
And his constant caw is a dirge
Drear as the proud earth’s dying,
The wail of a drought-dipped plain
And a hot wind’s wasted sighing.
Yet the voice of the crow
Sounds of the burnt soil singing,
The coarse comment on deserted land
Where age is sternly clinging;
And if the crow’s harsh call
Is base to the bellbird’s ringing,
It is a boldness born of time
And a cry of loneliness winging.
N.S.W.
BERMARD PEACH.


Neeles Kirby’s
RIFLES REDUCED
Beretta Huntsman. Specially reserved for our "Bulletin" Readers I
BERET! /•
SPORTOMATIC
rUBE LOADER
wSmWIBW
/'
?lsP.//
its
II
M vV:l ; i
w
I
/”
—
iiiiiiii
✓
m m s
m
/'
i
*
r
.
r ; :
S//1
;/ s/
*
/...si
..-
m\
iWV;
5*5-5
SPORTOMATIC
CLIP LOADER
.•': ■'
OK
Pi*
/ ■>
'em
;
o
BW
#■
L Ji
Hi
WEBLEY SCOTT
HUNTSMAN
BAYARD
417 GEORGE STREET. PHONE B 0246. BOX 4250, G.P.O.
“Berelta” .22 Sporting Rifle, can be used as automatic
repeater or single shot. New price, £27/10/-.
“Sportomatic” .22 Rifle, clip loader model. Priced
at £26/4/3.
Famous “Huntsman” brand .22 Rifle, single shot
model. Selling at £7/10/-.
“Bayard” Semi-automatic Rifle, .22 calibre. Priced
at £ll/12/-.
“Webley-Scolt” hard-hitting Air Rifle. .22 calibre.
Priced at £2l/7/6.
Model 87A “Sportomatic” .22, tube auto, loader.
Priced at £27/11/3.
From our Sports Department—First Floor
FULL STOCKS OF RIFLE AMMUNITION
In supply again! “Civic” .22 short, long, long
rifle, and hollow point ammo. Also imported
ammunition at clearance prices. Short, 5/- 100,
Long 7/-, and Long Rifle 9/- per 100.
Nock&Kirby's
'T'HE pair of rollers were putting up a
A desperate fight to save their young in
the nest high up in the hollow spout
of the big fire-blackened gum. While
only one currawong attacked they had
no trouble in keeping him at bay, but
with the arrival of a second attacker the
situation became serious. While the
rollers would go for one currawong the
other would fly to the spout, upon which
the defenders would chase him off. Then
the first would make a sortie. The rollers
changed tactics. Leaving one bird out-
side to do the best it could, the other
entered the nest. Faced with the difficult
task of pulling the parent bird out of
the narrow spout the currawongs decided
that baby rollers were a bit tasteless,
anyway, and flew off in disgust.—
“Saaedi.”
* ♦ * *
“Brick E.”: Pre-stressed concrete (B.
18/11/’53)? If, as I have reason to
believe, the pre-stressed lintels produced
by Monier Industries at Villawood
(N.S.W.) in October, 1952, were the first
of their kind in Australia, I can make
the modest claim of being the first
tradesman to place one in position. That
doesn’t make me an authority; still, 1
may be able to add to the information
already given. Concrete contracts slightly
as it dries, therefore the mild-steel rods
used in ordinary reinforcing must bend
a little to allow the mass to shorten.
It follows, then, that under excessive
loads the concrete may sag slightly before
the hooks on the ends of the rods take
the full burden. Pre-stressing aims at
allowing the concrete to slide along the
reinforcing as it dries. The reinforcing
used is thin, stainless spring-wire; it
is carried through the ends of the form-
ing and stretched to great tension. When
the concrete is dry the wire is cut off
close to the end of the beam —but not
before the tension has been maintained
by wedging, or blowing liquid-cement in
the ends with a pressure-gun. Pre-stress-
ing isn’t likely to replace orthodox
methods for foundations, walls or floors
of buildings, but it can take the place
of steel joists, lintels, bridge-members,
etc., the advantage over ordinary concrete
being its lightness and lack of clumsy-
looking bulk in proportion to the longi-
tudinal strength achieved.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: It isn’t fear-paralysis that
keeps a rabbit frozen in its squat at the
sound of a shot (B. 18/11 /’53). In-
“I think We'd better file the points of before We get him in the boat."
stinct makes it freeze at the slightest hint
of danger and rely on its coloration,
blending with the background, for pro-
tection. I’ve shot scores of them in the
N.S.W. Riverina by exploiting the habit,
the method being to walk quietly, in the
late afternoon, up to a thick patch of
saffron-thistle and fire one shot into the
ground. That freezes the entire rabbit
population, and from then on it’s just a
case of looking quietly around and drop-
ping them one by one.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; If “Kros” had dug
a little deeper into Webster he’d have
found that “fossilise” (B. 4/11/’53) has,
among a variety of meanings, those of
“to become rigid or fixed beyond the
influences of progressive forces,” and “to
render insensible to new influences.” I’d
say that the word in its first meaning
could be applied to the Chinaman who
was disinterred, unchanged, after a few
years in the Kimberley mud ; and that in
its second meaning it covers the effects
of the mud on the Chinaman. But
I’ll agree with “K.” that the meanings
shouldn’t be used too literally. Other-
wise we’d find ourselves speaking of the
400 million Chinese who have lately
become “rigid or fixed beyond the in-
fluence of progressive forces,” having
been “rendered insensible to new in-
fluences” by something that might be
likened to Kimberley mud. And I won’t
have that. Mud is comparatively clean.
* * * *
“Ybsul”: How case-hardened you can
get to beauty! Even the most unimagin-
ative estate-agent would have used up
every superlative in his locker eulogising
the view from the thatched veranda of
my highland New Guinea possie, but all
the chap who flew me in could point cut
was the storeroom, petrol- and oil-dump,
a tractor and a motor-bike, the house-
cook and boy b’longa house-cook, the
wash-wash boy and the engine-boy and
boy b’long ’im. Then, in parting, he
said; “Bit of a creek in your backyard ;
last bloke used to swim in it. Too blasted
cold for me.” Poking about the “back-
yard” later, a sound of tumbling water
led me to the “creek,” a series of lacy
waterfalls twisting down like a spiral, stair-
case, separated by bowl-like pools, crystal-
clear, with a native bridge spanning it. If
such a paradise was within weekend
motoring distance of any Australian city
sightseers would beat a track to it. But
it’s quite safe here.
* * * *
Westralicm Centenary
A centenary passing with 1953 is that
of the first discovery of gold in W.A.
It was, of course, no coincidence that
this should have been within two years
of the great finds in N.S.W. and Vic-
toria ; the wonder is that, although there-
after traces, colors and specimens were
continually being reported from one end
of the State to the other, as pastoral
and mineral interests pushed further and
further inland, more than 30 years passed
before the first major find and nearly 40
before the golden torrent began to pour
out.
Again and again fabulous wealth was
passed over. In 1854 R. Austin, surveyor,
standing on the hill he named Mt. Magnet,
with gold all around him, said that the
country east of the Murchison River
impressed him as being one of the finest
goldfields in the world. That country
wasn’t proclaimed a ’field until 1891.
During the ’sixties the Yilgarn was re-
peatedly traversed by exploring parties.
In 1863 H. M. Lefroy camped and ex-
plored between and around the future
Coolgardie and Norseman, In 1869 John
Forrest, looking for signs of Leichhardt,
passed through the heart of the Mt.
Margaret field.
But the most astonishing case was that
of surveyor C. C. Hunt, who discovered
and named Hampton Plains, not far from
Coolgardie. He was there in ’64, ’65
and ’66 sinking wells (which are still good)
and exploring the country round about.
Hunt died soon afterwards as a young
man, and he never learned that he had
tramped over and sunk his wells around
such places as Bayley’s, the Londonderry
and Wealth of Nations.
EDX.
HAWK AND LAMB
You would not think that hawk a hunter
Who droops on the paddock-post as the noon
Slumps down on the wheat this ending winter
With a winded air and leaden as a stone.
But the lamb stuttering on legs no taller
Or thicker than a wheat-stalk knows;
It pleads with a toy-like bleat for the shallow
Shelter of the ewe that suddenly sheers
At a maturer sense of that brown watcher
Waiting . . . Hand me the rifle. Quick!
Then as taloned hawk to toy-like creature,
So my curled finger to tiny hawk!
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


Ordering Sherry, Sweet or Pry ?
is your finest buy
A* jGlimlL&ll
Cfftf ffTlft?
.SfrJL Jli JuLt X J^JUmLaSi
TO
AIRMAIL
TWAQ
JLJHL K#
GIFTS AND GREETINGS
OVERSEAS
i
M A
You can still make sure of
getting your letters and parcels
to overseas friends before
Christmas—by using fast, over-
seas air mail. But post now /
You may send postcards and greeting cards,
pre-stamped aerogrammes, first-class air mail
letters, printed matter —and all kinds of parcels
(up to 11 lbs. weight), at moderate cost.
Wish all your overseas friends “Merry Christmas”
—by overseas air mail.
This announcement is inserted as a public service by
Qantas Empire Airways, Australia's Overseas
Airline, contractors to the P.M.G. for overseas
air mail. AM6a
Business Rollery Etc.
Costs, Profits and Savings
CHAIRMAN H. D. Giddy, of
The National Bank of Aus-
tralasia, told shareholders at the
annual meeting in Melbourne
that though our foreign-exchange
reserves had been “at least parti-
ally re-established from the
dangerously low level of £362
million reached in June, 1952,”
they were not unduly high at the
£548 million of June this year,
and would require careful con-
servation. During the current
year there might be little supple-
mentation of reserves.
With regard to the capital
market internally, Mr. Giddy
said;
A year ago, the capital market was
exhibiting signs of tightness, with a
shortage of funds for the investment
opportunities offering. Interest-rates
rose and many offerings were under-
subscribed. The volume of money in
the community fell during 1951-52,
but the solid rise of £220 million
between June, 1952, and June this
year has considerably eased the
position.
From the peak levels reached in
September and October last year, the
redemptive yield on Commonwealth
bonds has receded slightly, despite the
fact that a relatively large volume of
funds has been taken from the
market. These developments may be
taken as a good augury for the cur-
rent financial year, but any return to
conditions which could generate
feverish activity would. be fraught
with grave peril.
A material overall improvement in
the level of industrial and commer-
cial activity has occurred since this
time last year. The more liquid
state of business generally, following
the reduction of excessive stocks, has
buttressed business confidence and
brought a return of scope for new
activity.
The business scene at the moment
is one of practically full employment,
with its accompaniment of a high
market demand. There seems no
reason to suspect that these condi-
tions will not continue during
1953-54.
The National’s chairman said
it was of supreme importance
that this position should not spill
over into on© where excessive
activity by Governments and
private enterprise again forced
the home market into excess
demand and inflationary pres-
sure. A further, and wholly
disastrous, upsurge in costs and
prices would then be inescapable.
On the question of costs, Mr.
Giddy said Australia was a
young country, as yet capable
of great development, and one
which had achieved a very
high standard of living. Main-
tenance of this standard and its
improvement, with a growing
population, required expanding
domestic industries as efficiently
based as possible, but our
physical resources were such that
a large overseas trade was also
necessary. This somewhat
unusual position at times posed
unusual difficulties, particularly
when major changes in price-
and cost-levels occur, as the after-
math of war or of world booms
and depressions. And such
changes were unlikely to be of
equal severity in different coun-
tries. Mr, Giddy was emphatic
that costs must not be permitted
to rise further, and that State
“Labor” Government action in
trying to defeat the Federal
Arbitration Court’s wage-freeze
was to be deplored. He added:
Sections of organised labor far too
often seem oblivious to the cost-
factor. Successful claims for higher
money incomes will fail in their
objective of improving the employee’s
standard if the result is to raise real
costs. Especially is this so in condi-
tions of full employment, where real
overall gains are possible only
through improved productivity and
output based on higher efficiency,
greater and more intelligent effort,
and the more scientific use of
resources.
Internal monetary policy, or sys-
tems of protection, must not be
allowed to produce excessive cost-
levels. Such an outcome would
destroy the foundation for a suc-
cessful and growing overseas trade,
* and in the end would also cripple
the home market.
Mr. Giddy touched on a theme
which has been developed in
these pages over the past two
years—-the need for savings and
“As an act of grace , Johnson, We allow the staff twenty
minutes for morning TEA!”
business profits, and often for
large business profits:
The recovery from the business
setbacks of last year has improved
the outlook for earning profits.
Uncontrolled cost-increases ultimately
strike a death-blow at turnovers and
profits. And it is of extreme impor-
tance to the community’s economic
health that the capacity of business
to carry on at a profit should always
be maintained.
For the individual man or woman
the stimulus afforded by having some
surplus income over and above that
spent upon current living expenses
is invaluable. He, or she, must rely
upon this surplus to build up mone-
tary savings and to acquire the
necessary, or pleasant, capital assets
which add to the standard of life.
Similarly, for the business enter-
prise the prospect of a surplus is
vital. The ploughing-back of sur-
pluses into the business is one of
the best and least-costly methods of
safely financing growth or preparing
for adversity. Good profit-prospects
are also essential for the venturing
of capital into new kinds of activity
which, in turn, contribute so much to
progress in the material standard of
living.
Profits and profitability have taken
on a new meaning with the spread
of the ownership of business and
industry through all sections of the
community. In our country, profits
are not the concern of a privileged
few and, taken broadly, are relatively
low; the diffusion of ownership, so
greatly accelerated since last century,
has brought the profits of even the
largest of our business corporations
into hundreds of thousands of homes.
, Some hundreds of thousands of
Australians now share the ownership
of our public companies in business
and industrial enterprise. Through
investments of life-insurance, super-
annuation and provident funds, many
more have a direct or indirect inter-
est in the profits of our greater
public companies.
This spread of ownership, to-
gether with the growth of Govern-
ment enterprise and economic super-
vision, is factual evidence of the
changes that have taken place in our
business structure.
Government finance and expendi-
ture have become vital factors in
business activity. The material tax-
reductions, both individual and cor-
porate, of the 1953-54 Federal Budget
should provide an additional stimu-
lus. Overall Government expendi-
ture, Federal and State, will probably
be in the vicinity of £1450 million
this financial year, a little above last
year. By far the largest portion will
be financed from taxation and other
revenue sources, and the amount of
direct credit-expansion ought not to
exceed that of 1952-53. It may be
somewhat lower. Some use ot
central-bank credit during this
financial year may be necessary, but
excessive resort to this tempting
spur could be quite disastrous in
present circumstances. Administered
with care to bring into production
unused resources and to support
money incomes, it may be of real
benefit to the community. If extra
real wealth from additional produc-
tion does not eventuate, the value of
the higher incomes will prove illu-
sory, as it will be dissipated by the
advent of inflationary cost and price
increases.
Worse still, an unbearably high
cost-level would be thrust, ultimately,
upon export production, which is
always open to the blast of world
prices and world competition. And
from time to time one must expect
this blast to be chilly in the extreme,
Australia has reached a critical
period in its post-war economic
position. Costs have come to
possess a very real meaning
again in nearly every type of in-
dustry.
J. Blackwood & Son, Ltd.
Engineers’ supplier in Sydney
since 1878, the Blackwood busi-
ness has been soundly managed
and profitable, and it has con-
tinued under family management
up to the present. There are
now three third-generation Black-
woods on the board. The other
directors are G. R. McCredie
and R, A. Irish,
In 75 years the business has
expanded, now ranking among
the foremost engineering-supply
houses, with a strong shipping
connection and an association
with most forms of secondary
industry.
Principal merchandise handled
include copper and brass and
other non-ferrous metals; steel
plates, sections and pipe;
plumbers’ supplies; engineers’
tools; bolts, nuts, rivets, screws,
welding equipment; general
engineering and plumbing re-
quirements.
The co, has several sole
agencies. Most of its turnover
is in Sydney, Newcastle, Wol-
longong and Port Kembla. The
warehouse is in Sussex-street,
Sydney, and the steelyard and
bulk-store is in Pyrmont. A new
steelyard is to be built at Water-
loo, and the co. has a building-
site in Flinders-street, Wollon-
gong.
Net tangible assets at June 30
last amounted to £241,158. Paid
capital at that time was £135,000.
It is now proposed to issue
30,000 10s. shares to the staff
at a premium of 2s. 6d. a share,
and 100,000 to the public at the
same premium. When all the
new capital and premium comes
in the net tangible backing per
10s. share should amount to
15s. lid., excluding profits earned
since June 30 last.
Average net profits over the
past five years, after allowing for
public-co. taxes, work out at
just under £42,000 a year. With-
out taking into account any prob-
able increase in the earning-rate
arising from the introduction of
new capital, and share-premiums,
that average represents 21 p.c.
on the proposed new capital of
£200,000. Earnings for 1952-53
were 22.4 p.c. on capital.
The new shares will rank
equally with the old for dividend.
It is expected that an interim of
5 p.c. will be paid in April, 1954,
and that future dividends will be
at the rate of not less than
10 p.c, p.a. Tax-free funds
amounting to 18.7 p.c. are avail-
able for distribution from time
to time.
.Dividends paid by the old
private co. during the three years
to June 30 last have annually
exceeded in total the amount
which a 10 p.c, div. would call
for on the new capital.
On a 10 p.c. div. basis the
shares at 12s. 6d. each would
yield 8 p.c. Both prospective
dividend and capital appear
soundly backed, and the scrip at
12s, 6d. is attractive.


1868
Established
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
osuiuv^
V - V
*5
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers ,
me*n OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS,' BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings* Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
bTKUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. 'HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. CECIL MANION. General Manager.
Itrandies iu all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONXiY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/fl per night
Double Rooms—
From 84/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
MS*
mm.
ns
MM
wm
111
IT "Hi 1
MM
Ml
I®
HP
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30lh SEPTEMBER 1953
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £34,901,798
Money at Short Call —London 6,062,500
Short-dated Treasury Bills Australia 35,000,000
75,964,298
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia 69,320,000
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of
New Zealand 8,049,950
Government Securities Australia, New
Zealand and Fiji, at or under Market
Value 34,755,473
Local and Semi-Government Authorities’
Securities, at or under Market Value 1,056,108
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit .. 43,117,259
Amounts due by Other Banks 8,768,459
241,031,547
Loans and Advances to Customers and
Local Bills Discounted (less Provision
for Bad or Doubtful Debts) 196,028,276
Bank Premises at Cost, less amounts
written off 5,700,000
All other Assets 23,087
442.782.910
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra 54,151,153
£496,934,063
LIABILITIES
Issued and Paid-up Capital—439,ooo Ordin-
ary Shares of £2O each £8,780,000
Reserve Fund £7,000,000
Proposed Addition for the
Year 250,000
7,250,000
Proposed Pinal Dividend, payable Novem-
ber 1953 197,550
Profit carried forward 460,173
Shareholders' Funds 16,687,723
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate, Bills
Payable and other Liabilities, Including
Reserve for Contingencies 424,963,218
Notes in Circulation 80,928
Balances Due to Other Banks 1,051,041
442.782.910
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra 54,151,153
£496,934,063
Net Profit for Year ended 30th September
1953 £1,117,835
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir COLIN A. SINCLAIR, k.b.e.. President
JOHN CADWALLADER, Esq.
Sir LESLIE MORSHEAD,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.C., D.S.O.
The Hon, R. C. WILSON,
C.M.G., M.L.C.
D. B. LEWINGTON, Esq.
S. G. ROWE, Esq., d.s.o.
V. C. FAIRFAX, Esq.
General Manager —S. J. GANDON
Assistant General Manager —H. C. C. MARSHALL
Chief Inspectors —
R. J. ABERCROMBIE, R. R. McKELLAR,
A. STEWART-RICHARDSON
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALKS WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
AS34O6
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Import Prospects
Importers, exporters and back-
room boys in State departments
have been carefully sizing-up
New Zealand’s exchange out-
look with an eye to possible de-
velopments at the January Com-
monwealth conference. Wool,
which holds the balance in N.Z.,
as in Australia, although to a
lesser extent, looks healthy
enough to give a good lift to con-
fidence, and the Reserve Bank
has plucked up courage to raise
basic import allocations for
1954 to 75 p.c. of amounts spent
in 1950. This is a 25 p.c. rise
on the basis fixed earlier, and
may be taken as a sign that
everything is going well,
Basic grants can be spent as
traders please, but the bank ad-
vises all to concentrate on goods
that come within the scope of
their normal trading, which
means that they should keep as
clear as possible of luxuries and
non-essentials.
No one will charge the bank
with recklessness when prospec-
tive export income for the cur-
rent production season is com-
pared with that of three years
ago, and it wouldn’t be hard to
make out a case for lifting the
basis to 100 p.c. No doubt Mr.
Butler will present this case in
the role of Britain’s main sales-
man out to do more business.
Something better than an im-
port-quota system will have to
be worked out if N.Z. is to do
its part in freeing trade.
“Kites” are being flown to
test out prospects and give
Britain a chance of studying
reactions. N.Z.’s main reason
for restricting imports today is
to shelter local industry. If it
had some latitude to adjust its
tariff things would be easier.
Tariffs are bound to figure
prominently in the coming talks.
At present N.Z. hardly dares
take a step to deal with its 20-
year-old tariff schedule, and
anyone can see with half an eye
that this and other controls
must all be examined together.
Petrol-tax and Highway*
By lifting the petrol-tax from
a bob to Is. 3d. a gallon, with-
out affecting the price, 3s. 2d.,
the N.Z. Government lately per-
formed a sleight-of-hand which
was worth a couple of million
for its new highways pro-
gramme. It was a simple-
enough trick, seeing that a cut
in shipping-freights had reduced
the price of bulk petrol by
several pence a gallon, and the
Government could either pass
on the benefit in lower prices to
heavily-taxed motorists or keep
the money for its national
scheme. As the temptation is
always strong to cling to funds
rather than give them away, the
Government did the natural
thing. Looking at the state of
N.Z.’s highways, which took a
terrific thrashing in the war
years and have been breaking
up since, it also did what was
sensible and necessary.
N.Z. has to find £2O million,
all told, to spend on roads and
new bridges each year for the
next decade, perhaps longer, and
if the job is well done the bene-
fit will come back to motorists
in lower running costs, fewer,
broken springs, safer driving and
greater comfort.
Half the money will come
from the levy on petrol, which
is far and away the biggest
single source of revenue in N.Z.
today. As easily taxed as beer,
petrol yields nearly double as
much, which isn’t surprising
when the quantity of fuel, 160-
odd million gallons, needed for
the fleet of more than half a
million motor-vehicles is com-
pared with beer-consumption of
40 million gallons. Although
Maorilanders can put up a good
performance when it comes to
pouring stuff down their throats,
motorists have them well
whacked. So the petrol-tax at
the new rate will bring in £lO
million, against a trifle more
than £5 million from beer, taxed
at more than double the rate.
Motorists might have guessed
what was coming to them when
Minister of Works Goosman
painted the picture as black as
possible when he mentioned the
highways in Parliament a few
weeks earlier: “It’s a desperate
situation; we’ve got to have
more money for the roads. We
have to rescue the highways,
and we’re going to do it by
building them narrower and
stronger to stand up to modern
traffic,”
The other half of the £2O mil-
lion will come partly from
motor-registration, licence- and
traffic-fees and the mileage tax
(£3.5 million), partly from
county and municipal rates
(£5.5 million) and the balance of
a million from a diminutive and
inadequate-looking grant from
general taxes.
Taking all levies together,
users will be paying more than
two-thirds of the bill, the
propertied classes a shade over a
quarter and general taxpayers
the final 5 per cent. Whatever
the pros and cons of this basis
of financing, it is streets ahead
of the social-security system,
which lets the user, or con-
sumer, off scot-free and en-
courages gross extravagance.
Motorists don’t object to foot-
ing most of the bill so long as
the money goes where it’s in-
tended and there’s no leakage to
side-channels, which could en-
courage county ratepayers to
shirk their duty. Where better
highways put value on property
farmers and townsfolk should
do their share.
Car-hungry
Car-hungry New Zealanders,
waiting in the queue when buy-
ers in most countries can walk
into the nearest salesroom and
get a car any day, will welcome
the Government’s announcement
that the non-remittance system
of importing is to Of
late the pressure has been easing
a bit in N.Z., and the day when
a handsome profit could be col-
lected by turning over anything
that was run-in is past, but
there’s still a wait of months for
anything brand-new.
The 50 p.c. rise in car-
imports promised for 1954
should result in a net gain in the
number of new cars, after
allowing for the ban on non-
remittance models. Off and on,
for years, N.Z. has been cash-
ing-in on its sterling reserves, to
the tune of millions, to get
extra cars under “no-remittance”
licences, which encouraged
trade that by-passed the banks
and N.Z.’s exchange mechanism,
and hit buyers for an additional
£5O or more on popular-priced
models.
Easy money in the post-war
years has played the mischief
with morals where cars are con-
cerned. No one knows how
many thousands of new cars
were spirited away to used-car
salesrooms almost before their
speedometers started to tick;
and it is common knowledge
that some car-salesmen made a
fine thing out of payments on
the side.
Doctors
Since State-paid fees and free
medicine made Maoriland a
wonderful place for doctors,
chemists and cos. in the drug
trade, medicos have been flock-
ing to the Dominion in such
numbers that they’re beginning
to get in one another’s way,
and the local B.M.A. thinks it
should do something about it.
Doctors are coming in nearly
as fast as students are qualify-
ing in N.Z.’s medical school and
hospitals, which means an in-
crease of at least 150 yearly, or
double the needed number. Ten
years ago there were 900 doctors
to take care of 1,640,000 Maori-
landers; today there are 2300
for a population of 2,100,000.
For the majority the main
pastime is writing prescriptions,
which is a lucrative occupation,
as Maorilanders have cultivated
the drug habit on a scale that
fills the heads of the profession
with alarm. Years ago there
were warnings that the rush
for free medicine, which most
doctors encouraged, would be
the downfall of the national
health scheme, but the flow of
colored fluids bottled with
claims to cure all sorts of ills
still continues.
If the doctors aren’t strong
enough to stop it, the Health
Department will step in. It
could make a charge to check
the wastage, or strike off the
free-list the most popular drugs,
like purgatives, cough - dope,
headache concoctions and sleep-
ing-pills. This would be an
end to easy money for doctors.
The Government is giving the
profession a last chance: “Stop
the increase in costly drugs, or
else . .


Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Coltnan,
C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. HeflEer; W. Sydney
Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Experienced Management
of Agricultural and
Eastern I Properties
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company,
has a wide association with the administration of rural properties. It provides efficient manage-
ment, safeguards the interests of dependents, and provides ample security for the performance
of Trusts at a fixed and moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938
TR11A.35
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
TN size the National is third among the
1 big-seven private, trading banks in Aus-
tralia. It treads close on the heels of the
A.N.Z. Bank (a recent amalgamtion of
the ’Asia and Union), with the Wales out
in the lead. In enterprise, and extent
and efficiency of services offered to cus-
tomers, however, it claims to be second
to none. These services, many of them
not directly remunerative, are extended
to all sections of the community, and
range far beyond the keeping of accounts
and making loans, or advances, to credit-
worthy borrowers, which is the prime
function of the banks.
Growth of the business, which is well
spread throughout the Commonwealth,
has kept in step with Australia’s rapidly-
expanding post-war economy, and was
hastened by absorption of the then 75-
year-old Q.N. Bank in 1947, which
greatly strengthened the co.’s position in
the northern State. The growth in profits,
however, has not been proportionate to
the growth in banking activity, due
mainly to hampering legislative controls.
The position in this respect was eased a
little by last year’s new banking legisla-
tion, which, while leaving the central
bank with wide powers for overall con-
trol of monetary policy, gave the private
banks more elbow-room in the field of
advances and investments, etc. At the
same time the freezing of funds on special
account with the central bank was put on
a more satisfactory basis, and the trad-
ing section of the Commonwealth Bank
has been put on a slightly more competi-
tive footing, though it remains subject to
the same over-all control as formerly.
During the year to September 30 last
there were so many cross-currents at
wfork that the co. lost on the
roundabouts most of what it picked
up on the swings. The improvement
in gross earnings (£7,020,405) was
£638,904. But exes. (£5,377,340, up
£553,471) and taxation (£974,061, up
£70,095) gobbled all but £15,338 of the
gain, leaving the net result at £669,004:
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 6 p.c. ten off. serves. serves.
£* £> £/ £ £
1946.. 354,564 300,000 50,000 4,564 3,460,958
1947.. 421,952 351,781 65,000 5,171 3,466,129
Surplus absorption Q.N. Bank,
£893,991 4,360,120
From inner reserves, £806,009 .. 5,166,129
Q.N. p. and 1. balance, £48,366.. 5,214,495
National and Subsidiaries.
6 J p.c.
1948.. 558,597 437,192 65,000 56,405 5,270,900
7 p.c.
1949.. 540,173 470,822 65,000 4,351.6,275,251
1950.. 594,634 470,822 100,000 23,812 5,299,063
1951.. 623,781 470,822 100,000 52,959 5,352,022
1952.. 653,666 470,822 100,000 82,844 5.434,866
Surplus liquidation Q.N. Bank,
£500,000 5,934,866
8 p.c.
1953.. 669,004 538,082 100.000 30,922 5,965,788
'The £669,004 was only 5.5 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined), or 9.9 p.c. on capital alone as
against 9.7, 9.2, 8.8 and 8 p.c. back to
1949. The lift in the div. from 7 p.c. to
8 p.c. can be taken as an indication that
the board is satisfied with the outlook as
a whole, and with that of the bank in
particular. The chairman’s detailed sur-
vey of the economic prospect before us
appears on the opposite page. Reserves
benefited by £500,000, mostly from a
further distribution of surplus assets ot
the Q.N. Bank (in voluntary liquidation).
The year’s growth in the national in-
come (due largely to a bigger wool
cheque), revival of business activity and
reduction of swollen inventories by
traders—thanks partly to import restric-
tions and partly to an appropriate mone-
tary policy on the part of the Govern-
ment and the banks—sent the co.’s de-
posits up by £29,241,366 and pulled
down its advances by £10,370,820. These
movements were accompanied by a
growth of £40,135,842 in liquids, thus
further strengthening an already strong
banking position:
National and Subsidiaries.
, 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £6,726,025 £6,726,025 £6,726,025
Notes .. 47,489 47,484 47,484
Deposits, etc. 217,886,024 198,345,748 227,587,114
Due other banks 26,534,739 445,646 97,299
Final dividend 235,411 235,411 269,041
Liquids " . . 127,746,406 76,220,171 116,356,013
Advances .. 115,589,018 128,896,379 118,525,559
Other assets .. 10,201,527 2,644,099 2,160,179
Premises .. 3,244,758 3,474,531 3,651,000
Liquids include £25,095,798 (up
£19,172,967) of public securities carrying
various rates of interest, £11,500,000 (up
£4,500,000) of 1 p.c. Treasury-bills and
£45,637,000 (up £10,800,000) frozen on
special-account with the central bank at
i p.c. interest. The suggestion there is
that the bulk of the year’s net earnings
came from the investment basket. Given
reasonably stable economic conditions,
and with wages and interest-rates as they
are, any improvement in the ratio of
advances to deposits, etc., should help to
put a little stiffening into net earnings.
Four of the main factors affecting the
volume and character of trade are the
level of personal disposable incomes,
Government spending, population charac-
teristics and the availability of goods.
With the national income and employ-
ment both at high levels, recent tax-
reductions will do much to sustain pri-
vate spending, especially on consumer
goods. The Government’s own out-
goings have not been reduced, popula-
tion has been spurred by immigration,
and the period of scarcity forjnost goods
appears to be on the way out. What is
not generally realised is that the pros-
perity of the primary industries has sup-
ported the weakness which has developed
in the secondary industries, namely high
wages and short working week with heavy
overtime rates superimposed. The prob-
lem is to correct the position before the
ebb-tide sets in.
At 325. 9d. (295, a year ago) the co.’s
f.-p. £1 shares return 4.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
distribution. On the same basis, the
12s. 6d.-paid contribs. at 20s. 9d. yield
4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 375. 9d. per £1 of paid capital.
Mt. Isa, Ltd. (Q.)
TSA is Australia’s biggest individual
-■■mining co., and in technical achieve-
ment and efficiency it stands high in the
scale. Its big low-grade silver-lead-
zinc deposits and high-grade copper-
deposit are in the centre of North
Queensland. The ore is treated on the
spot, and the products railed to Towns-
ville, whence the silver-lead bullion is
shipped for refinement by a subsidiary in
Britain, and the zinc concentrates are
sold overseas, too.
The co.’s large new copper-mill, which
began production in February last, made
no contribution to earnings for the
year to June 1953, nor was
any div. received from Mining Trust,
Ltd. (London), whose £1,189,197 of
share capital was bought in 1952 for
£849,427 in f,-p. £1 Isa shares. For these
and other reasons prospects for share-
holders are more promising than last
term’s drop of £511,095 in profit and cut
in the div. from 20 p.c. to 15 p.c. might
suggest.
Chief factors responsible for the sharp
contraction in net earnings were falling
prices for both lead and zinc, delayed
sales of the metals, owing to a change in
marketing methods following cessation of
Government bulk-buying in the U.K.,
and the expense connected with initial
copper-production:
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit, f ( Dividends——. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’50.. 878,587 15 p.c. = 736.183 142,404 1,465,180
’51..1,360,842 25 „ „ 1,354,384 6,458 1,471,638
’52..2,179.758 20 „ „ 1,151,462 1.028,296 2,499,934
Prom tax provision. £1,800.000 ..4,299,934
’53..1,668,663 15 p.c. = 863,597 805,066 5.105,000
f After deducting debenture interest and allowing
for depreciation.
The £1,668,663 of profit was 29 p.c, on
capital compared with 37.8, 27.7, 17.9
and 32.7 p.c. back to 1949. Heavy capi-
tal expenditure (£2,111,269), now near-
ing completion, and large amount of
working funds locked up in products on
hand or pending settlement, necessitated
the cut in the div. The profit was written
after allowing £111,827 (up £14,073) for
prospecting, £BOO,OOO (unaltered) for
depreciation and £300,000 (down
£1,835,282) for taxation. The lead-bonus
paid to employees totalled £1,224,466
(down £944,550) —the co. still awaits the
court s decision on a claim for review
of the lead-bonus clause of its award,
which applies to the copper as well as
the lead-zinc section of the mine. Re-
serves benefited by tax refunds totalling
£1,800,000, as well as by nearly half the
year’s profit, of which £600,000 has been
earmarked for capital expenditure during
the current term.
Overall costs per ton of ore treated
were 119.55. (down 41.15.), of which 28.95.
(down 40.55.) was in respect of the lead-
bonus.
Next table shows the recession in aver-
age London prices for lead and zinc;—•
v ear o S n O / 6 /’ 5O • • £S9s e i6 4 £SBG m i2 4
yIIv fo/6/>59 ” 18 ° 148 13 11
xeai to 6v/b/’o2 ~ 167 10 11 iqq -ia o
Year to 80/6/’5B o { in
4 mths. to 31/10/’53 .. 94 5 9 72 6 2
The figure for copper fell from an aver-
age of £S2BS per ton for January 1953
to £5252 for June, to £5227 3s. 10d. for
September, and had recovered to approxi-
mately £S24O last week. None of the
smelter output of red-metal had been sold
when the books closed.
The copper plant treated 194,630 tons
04 ■'■s6 P-c. copper-ore for 28,605 tons
ot 22.19 p.c. copper concentrates. The
lead-zmc mill handled 559,275 tons
(down 55,940 tons) crudes, assaying 7.3
p.c. lead, 5.40 z. silver and 7.3 p.c. zinc,
fot a smaller outturn of concentrates,
of course. Marketable metals in the
various products were;
June Silver. Lead. Zinc, Copper,
0z - Tons. Tons. Tons.
9 1 .. 2,651,928 34,650 22,946 437
1952 ~ 3,296.147 38,319 23,827 616
1953 . . 3,195,374 38,536 21,413 6011
The 1953 figures represent recoveries of
84.4 p.c. of the lead and 81.4 p.c. of the
silver in the lead concentrates, 56 p.c.
of the zinc in the zinc concentrates and
91.6 p.c. of the copper in the copper
concentrates.
During the year cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £2,398,018, mainly to meet net
additions of £1,311,269 to mine and plant
(chiefly the copper-smelter), £146,924 to
shareholdings, etc., £609,136 to stocks and
£192,661 to book-debts:
D ~ 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £5,757,312 £5,757,312
Debentures 1,414,788 1,400,076
Creditors! 4,623,047 1,894,665
Mines and plant .. .. 6,278,331 7,589,600
Shares other cos 1.014,759 1,161,683
Stocks* 3,544,648 4,153,784
® etytors 485,229 577,890
Bonds and cash .. . . 2,972,113 574,095
Includes products on hand at valuation, f Includes
final div. and tax provision.
The big reduction of £2,728,382 in the
creditors item, etc., was due largely to
that tax refund already referred to and
provision for the lower rate of dividend.
The holding of cash, etc., should be
strengthened as metal stocks, “valued at
a conservative margin below market,”
are reduced.
Ore reserves at June 30 last were put
at:—-
z Assay —^
Pb, Zn, Ag, Cu,
Lead-Zinc — Tons. p.c, p.c. Oz. p.c.
Sulphides .. 9,636,300 8.4 6.9 6.4
Carbonates .. 243,500 9.2 > 3.9
Copper-
Sulphides . . 3,853,850 3.9
Oxides .. 58,400 g.O
A lot more payable stuff is known to exist
in both the lead and copper sections of
the mine. Other likely deposits on the
Isa field are also being tested.
With lead and zinc prices running
around 10 p.c. and 15 p.c. respectively
below last term’s averages, and costs stub-
born, there is little prospect of improved
earnings from the two metals during the
current term. Much will depend upon
results from the copper-smelter, where
“teething” difficulties have been over-
come and units costs should benefit as
production increases—it is now running
at or about the target-rate of 15,000 tons
blister per annum.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares at 425. 6d.
(445. a year ago) to give an immediate
return of only 7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distri-
bution.
Brack Mills (Aust.), Ltd.
<HI7HILE some others in Australia’s
* ’ infant rayon-weaving industry re-
ceived a buffeting from the erratic
conditions which affected the trade over
the last few years, this seven-year-old
has come through without a falter. It
kicked-off with the blessing of Bruck
Silk Mills, Ltd., the big Canadian producer
of rayon-yarn and -fabrics, who took
£70,000 (in scrip) for goodwill and pro-
vided the looms (for which payment has
also been made in scrip) and key person-
nel from the managing-director down-
wards. This meant much on the technical
side, and the board has followed a sound
financial policy, trading well within the
co.’s own resources.
The mill, at Wangaratta (Vic.), came
into commercial production on a small
scale during the 1948 term, when a profit
of £16,340 was earned. Since then
output, which has grown in volume and
variety as more looms and other plant
were put to work, has found a ready
market, despite rising costs and with-
drawal of the subsidy on locally-
consumed yarn (all imported), which the
Government offset by hoisting the duty
on imported rayon fabrics to Is. 6d.
a square yard, an increase of Is. 4id.,
in June, 1950. The effects of this increase,
however, were partly nullified by a
temporary flood of imported rayon
piece-goods admitted under by-law free
of duty, or at greatly-reduced rates.
The ords. came into the picture with a
maiden 3 p.c. in 1949, followed by 4-},
6, 1\ and then 11| p.c. last term:
Year, , Dividend To Re-
June 30, Loss. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.*
5 p.c.
& & £ £ £
Goodwill, £70,000 70,000
Preliminary exes., £23,105 ~ 93,105
1947.. 22,850 Nil Nil 115,955
Profit.
Pref. interest capitalised, £19,555 .. 135,510
1948.. 16,340 Nil Nil 16,340 119,170
1949. .60,950 12,500 3 p.c. = 16,416 32,034 87,136
1950.. 70,187 12,500 4J „ ~ 27,190 80,497 56,639
Reduction intangibles, £19,555 .. 37,084
1951. .84,953 12,500 6 p.c. = 41,361 31,092 5,992
1952.111,062 12,500 7i,. „ 61,584 36,978 30,986
1953.187,303 12,500 ll| „ ~112,181 62,622 93,608
‘After deducting intangibles, now £115,955.
The spring of £76,241 in the 1953 profit
was due to continued increase in output
and sales following additions to plant,
which operated on a three-shift basis.
The record £187,303 of profit, written
after allowing £115,948 (up £34,947) for
depreciation and £352,000 (up £202,000)
for taxation, covered the pref. div. and
17,4 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 12, 10.5, 9.5 and 8.8 p.c. back to
1949. So the lift in the div. from p.c.
to 11| p.c. was a comfortable matter,
the, final being at the rate of 12| p.c.
p.a. The £62,622 that remained lifted
reserves £93,608 in excess of intangibles
<£115,955). Although the immediate
outlook is bright enough, the co.’s future
is by no means unclouded.
During the year ord. capital increased
by £214,791, of which £194,291 repre-
sented final calls on the 1951 new issue
(413,900 £1 shares at par) and £20,500 was
scrip issued (fully-paid) to the Canadian
co. for new plant, of which more is to


8 had my wife
made over
“I’ve no waist at all just a
middle-aged spread,” moaned
Mrs. Packard. “Try a charm
school,” quipped Mr. P. and
darned if she didn’t!
In December Reader’s Digest,
an amazed and admiring hus-
band tells how his Spartan
wife dieted, tackled exercises
too tough for him—and steadily
shed those pounds till she
“glowed.”
Here are the wonders charm
schools can accomplish - as
seen through the Intrigued eyes
of a husband.
December Reader’s Digest
features 29 stimulating articles
condensed from world’s leading
magazines and current books.
Don’t miss your copy now
one shilling and sixpence all
newsagents and bookstalls.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
CyJmder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY-, UMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
DAVIES & COELiSUN, Patent ' Allur-
De ys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street. Waterloo.__Telg£honej_jlX 220g 1 _
Business Prospects Improving
But Cost Position Disturbing
‘‘The business scene at the moment is one of practically full employment, with
its accompaniment of a high market demand, and there seems no reason to
suspect that these conditions will not continue during 1953-54, said the
Chairman of The National Bank of Australasia Limited (Mr. H. D. Giddy)
at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, held in Melbourne on Wednesday,
25th November.
“A material over-all improvement
in the level of industrial and com-
mercial activity has occurred since
I last addressed you,” continued Mr.
Giddy. “The more liquid state of
business generally, following the
reduction of excessive stocks, has
buttressed business confidence and
brought a return of scope for new
activity. Stocks could not have
been cleared without the mainten-
ance, perhaps it was a restoration,
of market demand which resulted
from the support given the national
income by the improvement in the
overseas balance of payments and
by Federal Government monetary
policy. National income in 1952/53
is officially estimated to have in-
creased by about 10% in terms of
money, to approximately £3,580
millions, a new record.
“It is of supreme importance that
this position should not spill over
into one where excessive activity by
Governments and private enterprise
again force the home market into
excess demand and • inflationary
pressure. A further, and wholly
disastrous, upsurge in costs and
prices would then be inescapable.
INTRACTABILITY OF COSTS
“This general improvement in the
over-all financial position in Aus-
tralia hds not been accompanied,
unfortunately, by any parallel
achievement in overcoming the pro-
blem of high costs. Gains have
been made, it is true, and the
ominous cost and price trend of
two years ago has been substan-
tially halted. But our costs are at
a very high level, and there is evi-
dence of a worsening in our overseas
competitive position.
“Both management and labour
have a vital interest in preventing
costs from increasing and in setting
out to regain the ground that has
been lost in recent years. The main-
tenance of monetary incomes along
with a full employment policy means
that no startling over-all reduction
in money costs is practicable.
FUTILITY OF PRICE CONTROL
“Retention of price control is no
help, for such control will only hide,
temporarily, the truth and distort
business into mis-shapen effort.
Free prices provide the only known
mechanism tolerable to the free
world that can determine the true
value of the monetary unit and
hence the real worth of a nation’s
industrial efforts.
BANKING POSITION BETTER
“The present banking position has
a different complexion from that of
a year ago. The fiscal year 1951/52
ended with a balance of payments
deficit of £ASBS millions, and in
consequence over the twelve months
to September, 1952, the main Trad-
ing Banks had to meet an overflow
of well over £2OO millions of liquid
funds to support industry through
that difficult period.
“By contrast, the 1952/53 balance
of payments showed an extremely
valuable surplus of £AI7I millions,
resulting in the main Trading Banks
enjoying an inflow of funds of about
£AIBB millions for the twelve
months to September last.
“This change for the better in
our external position and the en-
lightened monetary policy of the
Federal Government have been
primarily responsible for restoring
the liquidity of the Banking System
to a reasonable level.
LARGER FOREIGN EXCHANGE
RESERVES
“The nation’s international mone-
tary reserves have been at least
partially re-established from the
dangerously low level of £A362
millions reached in June, 1952.
That was well below the value of
one year’s imports at even the most
stringent stage of the restrictions,
but these reserves had improved to
£AS4B millions by June this year.
They are not unduly high, however,
and will require careful conserva-
tion.
CAPITAL MARKET RESPONDS
“A year ago, the market
was exhibiting signs of tightness,
with a shortage of funds for the
investment opportunities offering.
Interest rates rose and many
offerings were under-subscribed. The
volume of money in the community
fell during 1951/52, but the solid
rise of 220 millions between June,
1952, and June this year has con»
siderably eased the position.
“From the peak levels reached in
September and October last year,
the redemptive yield on Common-
wealth Bonds has receded slightly,
despite the fact that a relatively
large volume of funds has been
taken from the market. These de-
velopments may be taken as a good
augury for the current financial
year, but any return to conditions
which could generate feverish
activity would be fraught with grave
peril.
STRENGTHENED OUTLOOK
FOR PROFIT ABILITY
“The recovery from the business
setbacks of last year has improved
the outlook for earning profits. And
it is of extreme importance to the
community’s economic health that
the capacity of business to carry on
at a profit should always be main-
tained.
NEED FOR SURPLUS INCOME
“For the business enterprise the
prospect of a surplus is vital. The
ploughing back of surpluses into the
business is one of the best and least
costly methods of safely financing
growth or preparing for adversity.
Good profit prospects are also
essential for the venturing of capital
into new kinds of activity which, in
turn, contribute so much to progress
in the material standard of living.
“Profits and profitability have
taken on a new meaning with the
spread of the ownership of business
and industry through all sections
of the community. In our country,
profits are not the concern of a
privileged few and, taken broadly,
are relatively low; the diffusion of
ownership, so greatly accelerated
since last century, has brought the
profits of even the largest of our
business corporations into hundreds
of thousands of homes.
“Some hundreds of thousands of
Australians now share the owner-
ship of our public companies in
business and industrial enterprise.
Through investments of life insur-
ance, superannuation and provident
funds, many more have a direct or
indirect interest in the profits of
our greater public companies.
“This spread of ownership,
together with the growth of Gov-
ernment enterprise and economic
supervision, is factual evidence of
the changes that have taken place
in our business structure.
NEW BANKING LEGISLATION
“Two Bills were introduced into
the Federal House of Representatives
on 19th February this year amend-
ing the Commonwealth Bank Act
and the Banking Act of 1945. The
amendments to the Banking Act
came into operation on 29th April,
1953.
“The Government failed to separ-
ate completely the central and trad-
ing bank functions of the Comrhon-
wealth Bank, and compromised by
transferring the activities of the
General Banking Division to an
entity known as the Commonwealth
Trading Bank of Australia, which
will commence operations on 3rd
December next. In fact, this new
organization will still be subject to
the same over-all control as formerly.
“This compromise offers no real
immunity from interference by any
future Government so minded. Aus-
tralia, particularly its Banking
System, still suffers from the failure
by many Governments over forty
years to establish, once and for all,
a truly central bank completely
independent of competitive com-
mercial banking.
“The right of the Commonwealth
Bank to call to Special Account
75% of the increase in a Bank’s
Australian deposits constitutes a
severe control over the business
activities of the Trading Banks, and
Is excessive for over-all credit
management purposes. However, we
welcome repeal of the old retro-
spective power to call amounts into
Special Account and removal of the
huge liabilities that had accrued
under the severe provisions of the
1945 Banking Act. We welcome,
also, repeal of the statutory pro-
hibitions under that Act on the
investment of surplus funds in Gov-
ernment and other securities.
NEW FOUNDATIONS FOR
GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION
“Looking back over the past year
or so, one must conclude that the
over-all supervision of the economy
by the Federal Government has been
wisely applied in the general inter-
ests of the community. The recovery
which has taken place is indicative
of its success. But more important
still, perhaps, is the fact that the
methods adopted may be the pre-
cursor of a kind of Government
supervision which is appropriate to,
and will fit in with, the free price
market and retention of the profit
concept as basic economic criteria.
“The Federal Government has
made, I feel, a sincere attempt to
use weapons of economic oversight
which are compatible with the
flourishing of free enterprise in a
modern society. This may well be
in accord with a world-wide trend
of the democratic countries. I be-
lieve we are witnessing the emer-
gence of the idea that a more
delicate touch is essential_ if Gov-
ernmental economic supervision and
a virile private enterprise are to
live together.”
GOOD YEAR FOR BANK
Net profit for year to 30th Sep-
tember, 1953, was £668,954, an in-
crease of £51,989 on that of last
year. Gross earnings rose by
£661,389 to a record of £7,001,632,
but working expenses and taxation
provisions were £609,400 higher.
Dividends are raised to equal 8%
p.a. on paid-up capital; previously
7% p.a. Assets at 30th September
totalled £256,849,373, £27,842,146
up on last year.
Liquidity is much improved at
10/3d. in the £ of deposits as
against 7/9d. last year. The Chair-
man reported that the number of
customers had grown to a new
record and 30 additional offices
were opened making the total 681.
The Bank has under way an ex-
tensive programme to modernise and
enlarge premises. Staff numbered
4,523, comprising 3,237 men and
1,286 women.
come. How the fresh share-
capital, and more besides, was
used the following table shows:
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. .. 771,194 870,590 1,085,381
Overdraft .. 277,724
Sundry
creditors,. 486,681- 240,115 328,637
Tax provision,
etc. . . 137,462 267,462 379,616
Final divs... 47,611 67,834 70,874
Freehold .. 23,934 26,422 30,448
Leasehold .. 70,440 85,826 93,044
Plant .. 511,548 585,108 618,335
Stock . . 742,400 785,201 802,624
Book debts,
etc. .. 306,659 521,360 546,197
Cash . . 31,975 794 117,467
With the help of an additional
£88,522 from sundry creditors,
the co. was able to wipe-out the
overdraft (£277,724 at previous
balance), carry an extra £17,423
of stocks, add £24,837 to book-
debts and strengthen the cash
holding by £116,673. Net addi-
tion to the book-value of fixed
assets was £44,471. The im-
provement in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£68,162) was
£232,942.
And the forward-looking
management has now decided
to enter the field for production
of mixture-fibre (natural and
synthetic) yarns in conjunction
with John Vicars and Co., the
Sydney spinners and manufac-
turers of woollen- and worsted-
yarns, cloths, etc. A new
jointly-owned co. is to be formed
for the purpose, and is to set-up
a factory at Bulli (N.S.W.), where
plant now on order in Switzer-
land is to be installed. Bruck’s
half of the capital required is to
be met from its existing
resources.
Production of mixture-fibre
fabrics, which is in its infancy
the world, over, is being hastened
by the high price of wool and
by results achieved in using
rayon-staple and wool for light-
weight worsted fabrics, some of
which are blends of viscose- and
acetate-staple (presently to be
turned-out in Australia by
Courtaulds) with little or no
wool-content. It is also claimed
that color and pattern are pos-
sible in worsted fabrics of this
type which would not be possible
in all-wool worsteds, except at a
prohibitive price. The main
characteristics of the new syn-
thetic fibres are their strength
and resistance to abrasion. But
they are expensive fibres, and
for this and other reasons are
likely not to seriously rival wool
and other natural fibres, but to
be used in blends with them.
Bruck’s f,-p. £1 ords., which
advanced from a low of 15s. lid.
in 1952 to 17s. 6d. in Jan., 1953,
recently sold at 335. 9d., at which
figure the return is 6.6 p.c. on an
Hi p.c. div. basis. The 5 p.c.
prefs. at 18s. 6d. yield 5.4 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £5 6s. lOd.
prefs. and 21s. 9d. ords.
Permanent Trustee (Syd.)
'T'HE wide, complex and exact-
ing nature of services ren-
dered by corporate trustees —at
charges below cost during the
two years to mid-1952 —are not
generally realised or appreciated.
Because of the wide field
covered, trustee investment does
not lend itself to standardisa-
tion. Each trust portfolio has
to be kept under constant review
by a staff of experts, whose duty
is to provide maximum income
without unduly risking any of
the capital involved, and who
must at all times be ready with
advice and sympathy on prob-
lems affecting the financial well-
being of the family and de-
pendants.
Net earnings of the co. depend
primarily upon the relative
levels of charges, costs and
volume of business. Excepting
some minor matters, the
statutory scale of corpus and
other commission charges the
cos. are allowed to make re-
mained, until recently, un-
changed for over half a century.
Expanding business more than
took care of the growth in costs
pre-war, to the benefit of net
earnings, dividends and reserves.
Then costs began to win the race.
This Permanent co.’s profits fell
from an average of £12,123 for
the five years to 1940, to £11,849
and £11,178 for the two succeed-
ing quinquenniums, and to
£5887 for the two years to Sept.
30, 1952, when the trustee sec-
tion of the business was being
handled at less than cost.
The outlook changed in April,
1952, when amendments were
made to the N. S. Wales Trustee
Companies Act providing for
small increases in the scale of
statutory charges. And there was
a welcome improvement in last
term’s net earnings, as the fol-
lowing table shows:
To Re- Re-
Sect., Profit. >, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946.. 10,541 8 p.c. = 8,800 \ m 76 511
To staff fund. £lOOO.. f ’
1947. . 10,715 8 p.c. = 8,800 1915 78,426
1948.. 10,832 8 „ „ 8,800 2032 80,458
To renovations, etc., £lOOO . . 79,458
1949.. 11,769 8 p.c. = 8,800 2969 82,427
To renovations, etc., £3OOO .. 79.427
1960 .12,035 8 p.c. = 8,800 3235 82,662
To staff fund, £2OOO . . 80,662
To renovations, etc., £lOOO .. 79,662
1951.. 6,534 6 p.c. = 6,600 79,596
From inner reserves, £3159 .. 82,755
1952.. 5,240 5 p.c. = 5,500 82,495
To inner reserves, £9OOO .. 73,495
1953.. 8,659 7 p.c. = 7,700 959 74,454
The £8659 ,of profit was 7.8 p.c.
on the £llO,OOO of paid capital
as against 4.7, 5.6, 10.9 and 10.7
p.c. back to 1949. The div. was
lifted from 5 p.c. to 7 p.c. Sub-
ject to what happens in connec-
tion with costs (mainly wage-
rates in this case), prospects of
further but gradual improve-
ment in net earnings, and later
on in the dividend rate, are
encouraging.
On shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) the,
year’s profit was only 4.7 p.c.,
which suggests that the net re-
turn from the trustee business
is still slender, which is to be
expected since the increased
charges apply only to new busi-
ness. Last term the value of new
business entrusted to the co.’s ex-
pert care exceeded the value of
trusts wound up by £573,285,
raising the total of trust funds
on the books to £31,408,643.
And, with a growing realisation
of the value of the corporate
over the private trustee, the
volume of business can be ex-
pected to keep on expanding.
At Sept. 30 last the co.’s own
funds, together with £34,794
coming to sundry creditors, etc.
—the etcetera is an unspecified
provision for taxation and con-
tingencies—were represented in
the books by premises, etc.
(£55,178, and worth a lot more),
investments, mainly Government
securities, mortgages and shares
in public cos. (£119,661 net) and
cash and debtors’ balances
(£44,408).
During 1953 the price of the
co.’s £5 shares paid to 11s. each
—7ss. of the remaining 89s. is
callable only if need be in the
event of liquidation—fluctuated
between 14s. 3d. and 11s. in the
market. They recently sold at
13s. to return a satisfactory 5.9
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
18s. sd.
Australian Development, N.L.,
star performer on the Tennant
Creek field (N.T.), continues to
win rich returns. For the year
to June 30 last it treated 15,781
tons (up 621 tons) for 36,3 5 loz.
(up 67490 z.) fine gold, an aver-
age of 46dwt. per ton. The
profit was £404,962 (up £91,967),
or 270 p.c. on capital, and four
divs. totalling £337,500, equal to
2s. 3d. per Is. share, or 225 p.c.,
were paid. A further Is. 6d. a
share has been sent out since the
close of accounts. New primary
and secondary crushing-plants
have been installed, and, when
the new ball-mill gets into opera-
tion about April next, share-
holders can look forward to
even more prosperous times, the
chairman says. Ore reserves at
June 30 last were figured by con-
sulting engineer C. E. Blackett
at 213,000 tons positive, with a
potential value of £s£ million.
To date the co. has paid divi-
dends totalling £1,200,000 on a
paid capital of £150,000. The
market prices the Is, shares
(which had been 17s. 7d. in 1952)
at 285., thus valuing the under-
taking at £4,200,000.
* * * ♦
Crippled by mounting costs,
the last two operating mines on
the Bendigo field (Vic.), North
Deborah and Central Deborah,
ceased work last week. The
field, which consists of a series
of anticlinal and synclinal folds,
has been a continuous gold-pro-
ducer since it was first discovered
in 1851. Work was concen-
trated mainly on three lines of
lode —New Chum, Garden Gully
and Hustlers —and some deep
shafts were sunk. Fifty-three of
them reached a depth of 2000 ft.,
19 went below 3000 ft. and two
below 4000 ft. Largest nugget
found on the field (in 1852)
weighed 5730 z. and was only Ift.
below the surface.


Women's Letters
MCLEGU13NE
There were over 200 guests at the
civic reception given by Lord Mayor
R. H. Solly and Mrs. Solly to welcome
home from their holiday in England the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady
Brooks, she wearing a frock of white-
spotted navy foulard and a tiny petal-
shaped cloche of white grosgrain. With
Lady Brooks was her niece Heather
Turher-Laing, in delphinium-blue corded
faille and a curvette of white faille. Mrs,
Cain’s choice was a suit of black bara-
thea and a small white grosgrain cloche.
Mrs. Solly had a pale-cream satin-straw
hat to go with her junior-blue light-
weight wool suit. Her daughter Noel
chose a suit of navy-and-grey bird’s-eye
tweed and a white beret.
Noticed in the throng were Lady Lowe,
Sir Edmund and Lady Herring, Sir
Clifden and Lady Eager, U.S. Consul-
General Henry Stebbins and Mrs. Steb-
bins, Lady Disney, Mrs. Alec Hay, Lady
Rowell, Mrs. Fred Hardy, Cr. Burns
Campbell and Mrs. Campbell, Cr. James
Ferguson and his wife, chairman of the
Combined British Societies Stanley Ridley
and Mrs. Ridley, Sir Harold and Lady
Gengoult Smith, Cr. and Mrs. Gordon
Coulter, Cr. Maurice Nathan and Mrs.
Nathan, Cr. and Mrs. Harry Lyall and
Cr. and Mrs. A. Finlay.
☆ ☆ *
Thanksgiving Day was celebrated with
a luncheon at the Victoria sponsored by
the Australian-American Association.
The president. Sir John Latham, who
was accompanied by Lady Latham,
introduced the U.S. Ambassador, Mr.
Amos J. Peaslee, the guest-speaker, who,
with Mrs. Peaslee, had come from Can-
berra. The Ambassador emphasised the
notable endurance of the Pilgrim Mothers
—they had to endure the Pilgrim
Fathers. Lord Mayor Solly and his wife
were at the official table with Lieut.-
General Sir Sidney Rowell and Lady
Rowell, Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins
and Sir Donald and Lady Hardman,
With U.S, Consul-General Henry
Stebbins was his wife, and the Consul
for the U.S., Givon Parsons, was with
Mrs. Parsons. Other Americans present
were the U.S. Army Attache, Col. John
Middleton, and Mrs. Middleton, Mrs.
John Sullivan, Mrs. G. Uhrich and the
U.S. Naval Attache, Capt. Robert Mac-
Pherson, and Mrs. MacPherson. Mrs.
R. G. Casey represented the Women’s
Group of the Australian-American Asso-
ciation, and Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs.
David Cheadle and Mrs. Robert Hamil-
ton were ushers for the luncheon. Cold
turkey and salads were served to keep up
the tradition, but ice-cream replaced the
traditional pumpkin-pie.
☆ * ☆
Of cream satin was the classical gown
worn by Brenda, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. H. McRoberts, of Toorak,
when she was married at St. John’s,
Toorak, to Peter Harold, younger son of
Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, also of
Toorak. Seed-pearls were embroidered
on her long-sleeved bodice, and the full
skirt fell into a long train. A beaded
cap held the Brussels-lace veil, and she
carried a sheath of St. Joseph lilies.
Pastel-pink tulle frocks, very wide-
skirted, were worn by bridesmaids Sandra
Anderson and Jennifer McRoberts —the
latter is the bride’s cousin. Their picture-
hats were in matching tulle, and their
bouquets were of pale-pink peonies. The
bridegroom’s brother John was best man
and Hugh Strachan groomsman. Guests
gathered afterwards at the home of the
bride’s parents.
☆ ☆ ☆
Southern Command Officers’ Mess was
the setting for the first party to be given
by officers of the Women’s Royal Aus-
tralian Army Corps. Guests were received
by the director of the W.R.A.A.C.,
Colonel Kathleen Best, assisted by the
assistant-director. Major Margaret
Williamson. Lieut.-General Sir Sydney
Rowell and Lady Rowell and Lieut.-
General Sir Horace Robertson and Lady
Robertson were guests-of-honor. With
Col. S. F. Walsh was his wife, who
topped her black faille ensemble with a
white feather calot. The wife of Major
Quentin Tilley wore with her dove-grey
faille frock a cyclamen flower-trimmed
hat. Mrs. C. Nichol was smart in a grey
shantung jacket-suit and small black hat
Other guests were the Matron-in-Chief
of the R.A.A.N.C., Col. E. J. Bowe;
R.A.A.F. Matron-in-Chief, Group-
Officer C. I. Mcßae; and Director of
the W.R.A.A.F., Wing-Officer Doris
Carter.
Mrs. Jeffrey Macartney, who before her
marriage won a Commonwealth-wide
competition for singing and went to the
U.S. for further tuition, is secretary of
the Victoria League musical committee
and organises its musicales. She is also
a member of the Royal Melbourne
Hospital Almoner Ambulance Fund and
a committee member of other hospital
organisations. Photo by Athol Shmith.
Giro’s was transformed into a South
Sea island for the dinner-dance, “A Night
in Wdikiki.” Huge butterflies fluttered
from the walls, and scarlet hibiscus, green
seaweed and fish and shells caught in
large fishing-nets added to the tropical
scene. There was a parade of the latest
in beachwear and guests voted for their
favorite model, who received a prize.
Proceeds were for the Sutherland Homes
for Children Auxiliary. Mrs. Margaret
Saker, wearing a brilliant-trimmed black
French crepe gown, was the organiser.
Among those who dined and danced
were Katherine Harrison, whose sleek
velvet gown was scarlet; Wendy van
Senden, in pale-primrose broderie
Anglaise ; Margaret Joyce, whose short,
wide-skirted, white broderie Anglaise
frock carried a bustle-bow of mauve
satin ; Pat Christie, wearing a lovely black
French organdie frock which had rhine-
stone straps; Judith Taylor, her short
strapless frock of black linen patterned
with butterflies; her sister Elizabeth,
wearing turtle-grey silver-striped nylon ;
and Jeanette Berry, whose frock was of
frosted-pink-and-white organdie.
* * ☆
The At-home given at the Union House
by the Chancellor of the University, Sir
Charles Lowe, and Lady Lowe was a
very happy affair. Guests included
members of the University, former gradu-
ates in various professions, as well as
military, naval and air-force chiefs-of-
staff and civic leaders. Lady Lowe, who
was assisted by her daughter, Mrs. W. J.
Wark, and daughter-in-law, Mrs. T. W.
Lowe, wore a black red-spotted faille
frock and small white grosgrain hat with
a folded-back brim. Judge and Mrs.
Stretton, Judge Scholl and his wife, and
Judge and Mrs. Barry, were there, as
were the vice-chancellor. Prof. G. Paton,
and Mrs. Paton, Sir Frederick and Lady
Mann, Sir John and Lady Latham,
Solicitor-General H. Winneke and Mrs.
Winneke, Sir John Medley and Major-
General Kingsley Norris and Mrs. Norris.
* ☆ ☆
Mrs. Leslie Sangster was hostess at the
luncheon for Mrs. W. Plowright. Mrs.
Sangster’s black-faille frock had white
Swiss-embroidered organdie collar and
revers. The guest-of-honor wore amber
jewellery with her black ensemble.
Among the guests were Lady Martin,
whose black-patterned white-nylon frock
was worn with a small white-flower hat;
Mrs. D. L. Whelan, whose white-nylon
frock was appliqued with large black
lace motifs; Mrs. Allan Bernaldo, in
bronze-shot shantung frock and apple-
green wide-brimmed straw hat; and Mrs.
Alex Charles, her white faille finely
striped with black.
SYDNEY
Although everyone seems to be tak-
ing a very poor view of this new law to
make newspapers reveal the sources of
their information, surely there is some-
thing to be said for it. Would it not
give newspaper reports a more scholarly
appearance, thus winning them greater
prestige in academic circles? There
would be acknowledgments at the be-
ginning of each report, footnotes
throughout, and an index, appendix ana
bibliography to conclude with. Althougn
this would necessitate a greater acreage
of newsprint it would be a godsend to
the journalist who is paid by the line
and the readers could feel confident the
reports were accurate (that is, if they
could be sure that the acknowledgments,
footnotes, index, appendix and biblio-
graphy were accurate).
There are pitfalls in the scheme, of
course. One is that footnotes generally
require a certain knowledge of Latin.
They necessitate the use of words such
as “ibid” (short for something mean-
ing “in the same place”), “passim”
(meaning “all over the place”), “et al.”
(meaning “and others” —Al can be any-
body, that is, like Tom, Dick and Harry),
“viz.” (short for “videlicet,” oddly
enough, and meaning “namely”). It
might, in the last instance, have been
easier simply to write “namely” but it
wouldn’t have looked so scholarly.
Another drawback is that footnotes need
asterisks. Every journalist does not have
an asterisk on his typewriter and they
are exceeding hard things to draw. (This
typewriter, by the way, has an asterisk
which will be used later if an opportun-
ity can be found.)
A more serious drawback is that foot-
notes often tend to become more inter-
esting than the text. This Letter at
school had a series of history books full
of fascinating footnotes. From them she
learned that some geese once saved
Rome by cackling and waking the sen-
tries (the exact date and occasion fades
from mind), that some general or other
would rather have written Gray’s Elegy
than have taken Quebec, and that
Charles II “never said a foolish thing
and never did a wise one.” A new
teacher towards the end of the year said
the children’s minds were “full of
bric-a-brac and all at sea,”* for which
she blamed the footnotes.
*A mixed metaphor probably, though not
necessarily.
In spite of these things, it is obvious
that the bill may do something to
improve the standing of journalism.
Still, for the present at any rate, this Letter
will write in her ordinary style, hop-
ing that no sources of information will
have to be revealed, because it has
proved impossible to recall what the
names of those history books were or
where it was learned that “passim”
meant “all over the place” (it probably
doesn’t).
Liddy Chandler is president of the
Junior Committee of the Crippled
Children’s Association, which is planning
what promises to be a very exciting
barbecue at Palm Beach on December 12.
Entitled “Night on the Spanish Main,” it
will feature the boys of the Palm Beach
Surf Club, armed , literally, to the teeth
and in the guise of pirates storming the
beach from surf-boats, dancing under the
stars (perhaps the Jolly Roger?), skulls-
and-crossbones, hidden treasure and lots
of fun. The proceeds are, of course, in
aid of the N.S.W. Society for Crippled
Children. Liddy’s photograph is by Hugh
Spencer.
The reception to the Governor-General,
Sir William Slim, and Lady Slim, by
Sydney’s three Empire societies at the
Trocadero, was attended by over 700
people, who were all personally presented
to their Excellencies. Lady Slim, who
looked well and most attractive in oyster-
beige trimmed with brown velvet, stood
beside her husband for nearly an hour and
a half, greeting the members and shaking
hands. Representing the Royal Empire
Society were the president, Mr. W. J.
Bradley, and deputy-president Mr. Walter
Williams. Mrs. H. H. McNall represented
the Victoria League with Mrs. Alan Foott,
Mrs. H. S Nicholas and Captain and Mrs.
G. I. D. Hutchinson, while from the
Overseas League came Sir Keith and Lady
Smith and Major and Mrs. Cecil Chap-
man. The foyer of the Trocadero had
been decorated with bowls of white
madonna-lilies and the bandstand was a
mass of flowers of all kinds, with a cascade
of orchids in the centre forming a back-
ground for the official party.
☆ ☆ ☆
Speaking at the annual dinner of the
Sydney branch of the English Associa-
tion, Miss Ruth Bedford made a plea for
“the dying custom” of learning poetry
by heart, a plea which must have strong
appeal for many who love poetry. “Natur-
ally there is a limit to what one can
learn,” she said, “but how are we honoring
the poets if they are to live only between
boards in their printed words. Unless
we have them in our memories we hardly
have them at all.” Miss Bedford was
speaking in reply to Mr. Justice Mc-
Leliand, who had proposed the toast of
the English Association in a speech
brightened with legal anecdotes.
The toast of “Australian Literature”
was proposed by Mr. J. M. Douglas
Pringle and seconded by Mr. Douglas
Stewart. Mr. Pringle said there was need
in Australia for satire and social criticism
and that “any honest writer would surely
wish to attack many features of Aus-
tralian life today.” The president of
the English Association, Mr. R. G.
Howarth, who, with Mrs. Howarth, re-
ceived the guests, said that the association
held fast to its ideals and continued to
enjoy disinterested fellowship in love
for the language and the literature which
was shared with so many other peoples.
Among the guests at the dinner, which
was held at the University Union, were
the Ernest Burbridges and the Kenneth
Slessors, Miles Franklin, the George
Fergusons, Beatrice Davis, Janet Stephen,
the F. S. Burnells, Frank and Margaret
Trist and the James Meaghers,
☆ ☆ ☆
A very attractive bride was Myee Joan,
only daughter of the W. A. McLennans,
of Balgowlah, when, on Saturday, she
exchanged vows at St. Andrew’s, Manly,
with Ray Coyle, younger son of Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. Coyle, of Roseville. Her
trained gown of powder-blue organza
had a Tudor collar, and from a Tudor cap
fell the tulle veil. The bridesmaids, Robin
Young, of Balmoral, and Jennifer
Chambers, of Eastwood, wore primrose
organza ballerina frocks and flower head-
circlets to match their bouquets. The
bride’s brother, Alex., was best man.
Reception was at Linden, Cremorne,
where the 90 guests were received by Mrs.
McLennan, who had navy accessories
for her hyacinth-blue tie-silk cocktail-
frock, and Mrs. Coyle, who wore an
emerald-green hat with her mist-grey pin-
tucked nylon-organza cocktail-frock,
☆ ☆ ☆
A pleasant way of helping the Family
Welfare Bureau is by attending the Royal
Tour Fashion Collection which will be
held at the Troc. on Thursday, December
10. Tickets are 10s. 6d., obtainable at
the Troc.
☆ ☆ *
The date for the Radio Party Drive in
aid of the Deaf, Dumb and Blind Children
has been extended to December 17, so that
there is still a fortnight in which one
can organise a party for this cause. The
hostess must apply for registration-forms
from the Organiser, Radio Party Drive,
Box 4120 G.P.0., Sydney, or by sending
her name and address to her local radio-
station ; if registered, she may win one
of the 200 prizes which have been
donated (including valuable furs, a wash-
ing-machine, a refrigerator). The idea is
to collect admission-fees from guests as
a donation to the N.S.W. Institution foi
Deaf, Dumb and Blind Children (with a
minimum donation of £1). The parties
may be held at any time up to December
17, when the names of the hostesses and
the winners will be announced over radio-
stations throughout N.S.W.


Elements of an Industry , . •
No. 24 of a Series
<•.
•w ; j
V ‘h| .-apP
FLUORINE From the famous Blue John mine in Derby-
shire comes a mineral called fluorspar. For generations this has been
mined in the North of England for use as a flux in metallurgical
processes and for making enamels and glass. Today fluorspar has
assumed a new importance. It is the chief source of hydrofluoric acid,
the compound from which the element fluorine is obtained. Fluorine
is chemically so active that it combines with glass and other materials
normally used in chemical apparatus. Moissan, the famous French
scientist who in 1886 first isolated it, used platinum apparatus which,
though attacked, reacted sufficiently slowly to allow him to isolate
some free fluorine gas. For over fifty years this elusive element
remained a chemical curiosity, but during the war it was needed in
large quantities for the manufacture of certain uranium compounds
used for the atomic energy projects. The result was so to intensify
the research on fluorine chemistry (a great deal of it in 1.C.1.s
laboratories) that fluorine is now produced on an industrial scale.
Certain fluorine compounds are astonishingly resistant to corrosion
and decomposition, a property which is of great value commercially.
In Great Britain 1.C.1. uses some of these in the manufacture of
‘Arcton’ refrigerants and ‘Fluon’, a new plastic material.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
gg
U.4BA.atS«
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Oratorio in a Cathedral
That monumental work of
musical architecture, Handel’s
“Israel in Egypt,” produced and
conducted by Dr. Herman
Schildberger and performed by
the combined choirs of Brighton
and Camberwell Philharmonic
Societies with orchestra and
organ, lost nothing from being
rendered amidst the architecture
of St. Paul’s Cathedral, Mel-
bourne ; nor was anything lost
of the volume and nuances the
conductor drew out of his
players amongst the groins and
arches.
This climax of Handel’s ora-
torio work is distinguished by
several special features written
for double chorus and with a
perfect solution of the problem
of descriptive music which takes
for its material the realistic
sounds of Nature and moulds
them into the expression of
human emotion.
Such perfection as this per-
formance has possibly never
been heard before in Melbourne.
The experienced analysis of the
conductor produced an uncanny
balance which had an intoxicat-
ing effect upon the audience, and
the fact that the feelings aroused
could only express themselves in
complete silence made the effect
seem almost more uncanny.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ +>
“The Messiah”
This, the first of the usual
Christmas spate of the Handel
oratorio to be performed in
Sydney and suburbs, brought to-
gether two choirs: St. George
Choral Society and the Central
Methodist Mission under the
baton of Leonard Bell.
Despite some uncertainty in
attack and occasional raggedness
in tempo, the choruses achieved
much of the Handelian Acridity,
and certainly the women’s voices
left no doubt as to their power
to produce swelling tones in the
great climaxes. The sopranos
in the St. George choir in par-
ticular have admirable tone and
control.
Margaret Moore, the con-
tralto of the evening, used her
rich voice with no little fervor
in her solos. Soprano Marjorie
Conley sang with clarity, though
she still needs to find more
depth of expression.
Ronald Dowd brought off
some ringing notes and was
generally dependable, and Wil-
liam Diamond’s baritone was
adequate, though he wasn’t in
quite the voice which distin-
guished his work in “The
Bartered Bride” a week or so
ago.
&
Sydney Metropolitan’s new
show is Lesley Lindsay’s produc-
tion of Beaumont and Fletcher’s
satire on the Elizabethan stage,
“Knight of the Burning Pestle,”
♦♦♦ ♦>
For the young-’uns over
Christmas Sydney Mercury is
offering Goldoni’s “Servant of
Two Masters,” while the Inde-
pendent is giving Saturday-
afternoon performances of “The
Water Babies.”
Artbursts
Albert Rydge
Albert Rydge, who has an
exhibition of paintings at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, is
a Meldrum follower, and, on
first impressions of his bold
dramatisation of tone and light
at the expense of finer nuances,
one is more aware of his applica-
tion to his master than of his
application to Nature; of his
devotion to method than his
devotion to subject.
Still, the method can be quite
effective, and several flowerpieces
come up very well under it, even
if the dramatic splash of fight
is rather ostentatious and too-
obviously common to most of
them. There are both a richness
and a delicacy about the white
flowers and blue bowl of “Mock
Orange-blossom.”
The landscapes are better
where the theory is less in evi-
dence —in the soft intimacy of
“Bush Track,” and in “Tumut
Racecourse,” “Prince’s Paddock,
Bowral,” and “Balmoral Beach.”
Several marine or harbor views
suffer from a flat and lifeless
painting of water.
Talkies
Cinemascope
The Cinemascope, which got
its first Melbourne demonstra-
tion at the Regent the other
morning, naturally leaves a
strange impression on any indi-
vidual who has been accustomed
to the pocket - handkerchief
screens, which soon may or may
not be the past order. It occu-
pies the whole space between
the proscenium-pillars, and
where incidents are going on at
the extremities on each side one
finds oneself wagging one’s
head like an observer on the
long side of a tennis-court at a
Davis Cup match. This tendency
is possibly a matter of adapta-
tion and may pass with practice.
Another effect that filmgoers
will have to get used to is the
semi-stereoscopic illusion which
makes things not only look
further away but more fuzzy
than the orthodox screen. To
test this out we visited another
theatre immediately after the
Regent show was finished. The
-effect was most striking. Every-
thing looked much more sharp
than it does in Nature.
Whether the Cinemascope is
more like Nature is another
question. The pictures of aca-
demic artists who were con-
temporaries 'of Van Gogh
appeared to their generation to
look like Nature, and Van
Gogh’s pictures didn’t appear to
be a bit like Nature. Today Van
Gogh’s pictures appear to look
like Nature, while most of his
contemporaries look nothing like
it.
The other claim that this new
method of projection makes the
audience part of the proceedings
•—which was the aim of the
Greek tragedy-writers —is more-
or-less substantiated. When an
aeroplane or a motor-car or a
wave is rushing at you you have
a desire to make for the exit,
but, then, we had that at the
very inception of the movies
and soon lost it.
Having survived the silents
and the talkie revolution, one
would say that the new form
will stand or fall on the artistic
quality that is within it. An
audience can be emotionally
inside a picture though physi-
cally outside it, as in the case of
a picture like Somerset Maugh-
ham’s “The Razor’s Edge.” On
the other hand, it could be
physically inside it and emo-
tionally millions of miles away.
<* ❖
“Dr. Knock” (Sydney Savoy):
A delightfully droll story about
a doctor who buys a practice in
a rural French district only to
find that everyone is disgustingly
healthy and what few patients
there are pay only once a year,
which happened to be the day
before he bought the business.
He builds up a prodigious prac-
tice, co-opting the glad help of
the chemist and the flattered
schoolmaster, by launching a
campaign to warn the district of
the dangers in the insidious on-
slaught of disease, and soon his
surgery is filled with patients
suffering from imaginitis.
There are two classical
scenes: one in which two local
“ Sabotage !”
humorists go in together during
a free consultation to make a
goat of the doctor, only to come
out terror-stricken; the other
when the g.p. who sold him the
practice comes to collect his first
quarterly payment and is per-
suaded to get into a hospital-
bed upon the new doc.’s diag-
nosis.
Louis Jouvet as the new prac-
titioner dominates the film, and
he can do more with a raised
eyebrow, a steady stare or a
grave nod than most actors can
convey with a speech. And
underneath it all is the subtle
suggestion of silent laughter at
the ease with which he extracts
fees from a thrifty though
wealthy community.
&
“Angels One Five” (Sydney
Embassy): The light bantering
touch which English film-makers
inject so skilfully into grim
story-material is well in evidence
in this story of a group-captain’s
determination to get maximum
kills at his fighter-station during
the Battle of Britain. Jack
Hawkins, one of the most versa-
tile film-aStors in England,
handles the role with aplomb,
and John Gregson is a young,
undemonstrative, untalk ati v e
Scottish pilot, a newcomer to
the squadron, who vindicates
himself after a gauche start.
Types are drawn with fidelity,
and the scene in the operations-
room as a squadron-leader is
shepherding the badly-wounded
Scot homewards after a long
series of dogfights outdoes most
crime-thrillers for tension.
* *X* ♦>
“Penny Princess” (Sydney
Lyceum): There are some good
satirical touches in this pleasant
fantasy about an American sales-
girl who becomes heir to a
miniature European principality,
the chief industry of which is
smuggling. The fun starts when
an English sales-promoter of
Cheddar cheese discovers that
the country produces a cheese
impregnated with schnapps and
called “Schneese.” He and the
girl get together, and soon the
neighboring countries are being
flooded by the alcoholic food.
Yolande Donlan as the sales-
girl - cum - regent and Dirk
Bogarde as the English cheese-
fancier capably handle the
laughs.
“Vicky” (Sydney Mayfair): A
well-done murder-mystery which
plays on the multiple-suspect
theme told in a series of flash-
backs. Reason is reasonably
respected, and the drawing of
red-herrings across divers trails
isn’t blatantly visible. The
opening scenes are the best of
their kind since “The Man In the
Window.” Best performance
comes from Richard Boone as a
detective whose mind is crack-
ing. Jean Crain and Jean Peters
are the girls in the case.
*** ♦♦♦
“Sangaree” (Sydney Victory):
This period-piece would, it was
claimed, prove to be a greatly
improved 3D (with glasses), but
it is no better than its four pre-
decessors.
The cloak-and-dagger affair,
set in Georgia nearly a century
ago, is mediocre and characters
are stereotyped. Fernando
Lamas is the hero who laughs
in the most carefree manner
every time his hide is threatened
by bullet or blade ; Arlene Dahl
and Patricia Medina have only
to look decorative, a task they
perform quite ably. Francis L.
Sullivan is the flabby-jowled
villain behind the scenes, and
even his monstrous bulk is at
times reduced to pint-size by the
tricks of the 3D camera.


You're wrong Delaney
By BANT SINGER
What Has Happened*
Now cleared of suspicion of
the murder of Martini, who was
shot by Peters, Martini’s part-
ner, Delaney is recovering in
hospital from an attack made on
him by Peters. Medical proof
that a man named Baler died of
heart-failure clears Delaney of
any complicity in his death. But
Peters is still somewhere in
Black Springs, waiting to get
Delaney, because he thinks
Delaney holds £3OOO stolen from
Martini. Delaney, scared about
Peters and alarmed for the
safety of his sweetheart, Kathy
Colter, accuses Det. Keough of
using him as bait to draw Peters
to Black Springs. Keough ad-
mits it and assures Delaney he
will find Peters. Delaney is
taken for a motor drive by Mrs.
Paterson, who now knows that
Peters has stolen the letter from
Delaney. Out in the country
Mrs. Paterson makes advances
to Delaney.
4 ‘ ELL me about Peters,” I
said.
I She draws her head
back and takes her hands
from my shoulders and sits back.
There’s a little frown on her
face.
“I went out to the car to get
my bag,” she said. “It was dark.
The gun was on the car-seat,
where you put it. I put it in my
bag. When I walked back to
the house he stepped out from a
corner—it’s a fernery and
there’s bougainvillea growing
over it—and had the letter in his
hand and said, ‘Just a minute,
lady. About this letter.’ I
thought it was you. You were
the only one to know about the
letter. I thought you’d come
to make trouble because I hadn’t
paid you. I couldn’t see his face
in the dark”
“He don’t speak like me.”
“I know that now. Not then.
I just thought it was you. So
I reached in my bag and got the
gun and shot. I thought I’d got
you. He staggered and 1 waited
to see him fall. But he turned
and ran. I tried to shoot again.
But it was too dark. I couldn’t
see him. Then the cook and
my husband came”
“Then Peters still got the
letter! ”
“I suppose so.” She sounds
kind of worried,
“And that about him bag-
snatching—that you told your
husband and the police”
“Oh, that! I had to tell them
something! ”
“When did you know it wasn’t
me you shot?”
“Not till afterwards. Not till
after the police found his gun
near the fence—no, that’s not
right. Wait. Oh, I remember.
We were in the house. Every-
body was fussing round me be-
cause—well, because of what I
told them about being attacked.
Keough, the senior detective,
came in. He had a big gun in
his hand, and as he came in he
said, T think this will be good
news for Delaney.’ ”
“He said that?”
“Yes. It surprised me. Don’t
you see? I didn’t know your
name. I was so surprised I said,
‘Who is Delaney?’ Mr. Keough
looked at me and said, as near
as I can remember, ‘l’m pretty
sure the man who attacked you
is a man called Peters. We’re
looking for him. Earlier to-
night a man named Delaney was
taken to hospital. He fell down
some steps. He was under sus-
picion of murder. This gun’—
Mr. Keough held ifle gun up—
‘could mean it was Peters com-
mitted the murder.’ That’s what
he said, and when he said it I
didn’t know what to think. So
I just pretended I was dull and
didn’t say anything.”
“Yeah. And Tuesday you
came to the hospital. You
wanted to have a look at De-
laney. You thought”
“That’s right. When I spoke
to you in the bed, when that little
girl was there with you, as soon
as you answered I knew.”
“You knew it was me had
the letter first off and that it was
me wanted the hundred
pounds?”
“Of course. I knew, too, that
the other man—Peters—must
have got the letter from you
somehow. It was all very con-
fusing. It worried me. It still
worries me. Because if the
police catch Peters they’ll find
that letter and”
The sun was warm on that
seat because we were cut off by
the shrubbery from the little
breeze blowing up there on the
hill. It was warm and I was
warm. But a long shiver run
right through Elaine and I
looked at her and her face was
pinched and a dull color like
she was cold. She put her hands
up and dropped her face into
them and rocked herself, and I
could hear her crying. No
matter what you do when a
woman cries—whether you put
your arms round her or not—
you let her cry. You let her cry
and she gets it out and pretty
soon she’s something like
straight' again. I didn’t put my
arms round Elaine. I just let
her cry. I reached across and
got another of her cigarettes
and lit it and sat there and let
her cry.
After a while she got a better
hold of herself. She put a hand-
kerchief to her eyes. She was
shot to pieces, but she was over
the worst of the crying.
“You’re worried about your
husband?” I says.
“Oh, God,” she sort of whis-
pers it, “I don’t know what to
do—it would be dreadful if he
found out.”
“Your husband?”
“He’s such a good man—he’d
never understand”
“Huh. Husbands never do.
How you expect a man to under-
stand a woman playing round
with other fellers?”
“Please, please”—she turned
round and put her hands on me
and I feel the shivery strength
in them —“I’m asking you to
help me. I’ve got to have some-
one to help me!”
“Me!”
“Oh, must you be so difficult! ”
She’s got a way with her, and
if I don’t watch it she’ll get
under my skin. I don’t want her
under my skin.
“Look,” I says, and I’m look-
ing right back into her eyes.
“What do you take me for?
Twice you tried to put a bullet
in me. I got you now, sweet-
heart. While you been talking
I been thinking. You never
meant to pay that money. Right
from the start you never meant
it. What you meant was to get
me somewhere and put a bullet
in me. Then you’d have got the
letter and give the police that
stuff about being attacked and
defending your honor or some-
thing. Just blind luck makes
Peters get the bullet, not me, and
now you come yelping for me to
help you. You thought you was
great when you shot at Peters,
thinking it was me. You thought
that was the end of your
troubles. You was out to end
your troubles; that’s all you
wanted. Baler was dead and
Delaney had a letter, and if De-
ianey stops a bullet that’s the
end of your troubles. Only it
was Peters, and he wasn’t hurt
bad by the bullet. Because he
got away and he’s holed-up
somewhere and he’s got the
letter, and let me tell you he can
be a damned sight worse than
me, because he’s wanted for
murder and he ain’t particular
what he does to people get in his
way. So any time you hear
from Peters about that letter you
take my tip and do what he
wants. Because Peters is a bad
kind to tangle with.”
She’s looking at me all the
time I’m saying this and her
color livens up and the red
comes back into her cheeks and
her eyes brighj. She knows I’m
dead on the line and she’s tak-
ing it and standing up to it.
She’s defiant. Because she’s
fighting for something, and she’s
got to be defiant to get it, and
if she isn’t defiant she’ll maybe
lose out.
“I’m not scared of Peters,”
she says.
Before God she means it. I
look at her a long time. Be-
cause this Elaine has got more
sides to her character than any-
body I know, and I got to watch
my step with her.
So she’s not scared of Peters.
But she’s scared because when
she asks me to help her just now
she means that, too, just like she
means it when she says she isn’t
scared of Peters. So she’s
scared, but not of Peters.
“Look,” I says, “let’s get this
sorted out and maybe we can
get something out of it. You
listen to me.”
So I give her the score. Right
from when I lammed out of St.
Kilda up till now. Only thing I
don’t tell her is how I got the
letter, because nobody is going
to know about me falling on
Fat that night. Way I tell that
part of it Fat hands me some
notes in the poolroom and he
doesn’t notice the letter among
{Continued on page 22)
"She turns and reaches out like a flash and smacks me hard in the fare.”


rrrr-r- ' 1 7#*' KfS
■ m,
mmmm
>
W,&
\ ' #1
ii* <w ?®
r .
ammd
m
:••>■•>• . :: :•
■
■
i
S:P<;
m
i
m
■
«
¥ :>¥
m.
m
H
Kiisssij
mm
:?&;*:
«~;r v /
“Now. lot S 800 ...
have we overlooked anybody?”
Big families are fine, but sometimes there’s a tendency to overlook some members of them. Take
General Motors-Holden’s, for instance. Here’s a family of more than 11,000 people who produce a wide
range of products. Many people, however, think of GMH only in terms of cars, with Holden the bright
boy of the family and Vauxhall, Chevrolet, Pontiac, Buick, Oldsmobile, Cadillac, as the other leading
lights. Actually Holden, last year, despite its widespread popularity, represented only about half of
GMH’s overall business.
Equally important, especially to Australia’s farmers and business men, are the trucks, utilities, and buses
of the GMH family: Bedford . . . Chevrolet. . . GMC .. . Maple Leaf. . . and, of course, Holden and
Vauxhall utilities. GMH market a complete range of commercial vehicles to meet every need of industry
and agriculture. The part these vehicles play in keeping the wheels of industry moving is vital to our
national economy.
Then there are the three non-vehicle divisions which last year accounted for more than 16 per cent,
of GMH’s entire turnover. There’s Frigidaire made only by General Motors and a name
synonymous with leadership in household and commercial refrigeration. Then there’s NASCO —or
the National Automotive Service Company which merchandises a range of more than 40,000 different
automotive spare parts and accessories and makes possible the Australia-wide servicing of all GMH
vehicles. And finally IDEC —or the Industrial and Domestic Equipment Company which supplies
power and industrial equipment like diesel engines, roller and ball bearings.
All these vehicles and non-vehicle products are
integral and important members of the GMH family
a family that is doing big things for Australia.
gf
... a partner in Australia's future
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH


mmsm
:
1}
V.
sL<i
u f.
mm/i
wsssamm.
B
///
/Wii.
Sff
aa
1%
-4*58
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
(JVusabev
-JTlotk-
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl 13.3
them, I make that stick. And
1 don’t tell her nothing about
Kathy, because Kathy is my
business and I’m keeping her
that way.
When I told it Elaine looked
at me and there’s a light in her
eyes and her face all alive and
vivid, like she’s watching a close
finish and got money on the
horse a nose in front.
“Golly,” she says, “you’re ex-
citing What a thrilling life you
.
Yeah,” I says, dry.
She looks out over the valley
at Black Springs, where it dozes
m the Sabbath sun
Nothing like that ever hap-
pened tome, she says, kind of
wishmg it had.
‘Baler happened to you,” I
says. And me, and Peters,
And don’t forget you still got
Peters happening to you, just
like he’s happening to me. Don’t
you forget that!”
Her face hardens and she
turns round and looks at me.
She looks at me a long time,
and I sit there and look back at
her. Because there’s something
in her mind and I don’t know
what it is and I got to keep
looking at her. The thing that’s
m her mind makes me keep
looking at her, though I don’t
know vvhat it is.
Yes, she says, and sud-
denly her voice is soft and sad.
“Herman happened to me. You
wouldn’t know about Herman.
To you it seems all strange and
fantastic about Herman and me.
You talk about him as though
he was a nobody, as though he
didn t amount to much. Well,
perhaps he didn’t, to other
people. But not to me. not to
me
And then she’s crying again,
with her face in her hands, and
her body shaking Nothing I can
do about it, only let her cry.
A long time ago I saw a little
kid killed by a motor-truck, and
the mother was there and she
picked the little kid up and held
it and cried and shook. And it’s
just like that with Elaine. She’s
crying and shaking like she’s
holding somebody dead in her
arms. So there’s nothing I can
do when she’s like that, because
it’s something way outside me.
So I get up and take a little
walk, round behind the shrub-
bery and about the park, and my
mind kind of crazy. I take a
little walk to give her time.
When I come back Elaine is
just sitting there looking out
over the valley. She isn’t crying,
just sitting there with a lost
look on her. I sit down again.
We don’t say anything for a
little while.
“Look,” I begin. “You got
yourself in some sort of a mess.
I don’t know what it’s all about.
But you got to pull yourself to-
gether. You seem to jump from
one thing to another. One
minute you’re hard, next you’re
soft. I don’t get you. But it’s
no good. You got to get a hold
of yourself and not get all het-
up and then get all broke-up,
see?”
She don’t look at me, just
keeps looking across the valley.
“Delaney,” she says, “in some
ways you’re a dear. In some
ways you’re a fool. All you
men are fools about some things.
Leave me. Just leave me for a
little while. I brought some
lunch for us. It’s in the car.
Go and get it out, please. There’s
a rug to spread on the grass, and
a tablecloth. Go and do that.
Call me when you’re ready.”
The lunch was in a basket.
Mixed sandwiches, an apple-pie,
cheese, some little cakes, two
bottles of beer. I’m sort of one-
handed, because of my right
wrist in plaster, and kind of
stiff from the cast and bandages
on my ribs, but I get the stuff
out and lay it on the cloth. All
of a sudden I’m hungry and
want to get at it.
“It’s on,” I call.
Elaine comes from the shrub-
bery. I put a car-cushion so
she could sit with her back to
a wing of the car. She’s cool
again and done her face up, and,
except for a tired look about her
eyes, you wouldn’t know she’s
been having a crying jag.
So we eat the lunch and drink
the beer and because we both
need it we don’t waste time talk-
ing, except small stuff about this
and that. The lunch done us
both a hell of a lot of good.
Afterwards she packs the things
in the basket and folds the cloth
and puts it away. Then she lays
down on the rug with her head
on the car-cushion smoking a
cigarette. I sit a little away, my
back to the car and my knees
hunched up and I’m smoking.
Anyone comes it’s just that kind
Mrs. Paterson and a convales-
cent up on the hill getting a bit
of sunshine. Elaine is a whole
lot better and she looks at me
with her eyes partly closed, like
a cat when it’s pleased, and says,
“How properly disinterested you
look, sitting there.”
“Huh?”
“I wonder if a woman could
trust herself if she were up here
with you like this and it was
dark.”
“You trying to tease me,
you”
“Perhaps.”
“You’re wasting your time.
I told you before about that.”
I been doing nothing but lie
in bed and getting well and hav-
ing everything done for me, and
well fed, two or three days,
and I’m teased, all right. Be-
cause she’s lying there the way
they know to tease a man. But
she isn’t going to know I’m
teased. So she sits up and
straightens her skirt and stops
looking like she’s waiting to be
kissed.
“Delaney,” she says, “you’re
a man of the world.”
“So I’m a man of the world.”
“Oh, stop it. Let’s be sens-
ible.”
“All right.”
“I suppose you know what a
nymphomaniac is?”
“Way I see it, that’s a woman
can’t contain herself.”
“Yes. Well, I’m that kind of
woman! ”
“You want to take all your
clothes off I don’t mind.”
She turns and reaches out like
a flash and smacks me hard in
the face. A real smack. It
sounds to me like a rifle-shot
and my face feels like fire. She
leans towards me and it’s like a
flame in her eyes. , I been
smacked before by women and
girls, but this is the first time I
get it like that.
I sit there and I know one
side of my clock is red from the
smack.
“I hope,” she says, cold, “that
will do you good. You can’t
talk to me like you would to
any little slut- The sooner you
understand that the better. I
know what you think of me, but
that doesn’t entitle you to say
what you like.”
“You got me wrong,” 'I says.
“If it’ll do any good, I didn’t
mean what you think, I’m no
pansy-boy. I can’t use language
like some people. You told me
you was a—well, you told me,
and that’s sort of exposing your-
self. That’s what I meant
when”
“I don’t know whether you’re
dull or just pretending,” she cuts
in. “You exasperate me. Now,
would you mind shutting up
until I’ve said what I want to
say.”
“Go ahead. I’m dumb.”
“There’s something inside me
always hungry—always want-
ing—well, you know what. I’ve
just got to have it. I’m two
persons, really. That’s one, the
one that’s always hungry for
love. The other is—well, I
don’t really know. But there’s
a me that wants to be decent,
that loathes the other me. Do
you understand?”
“Maybe.”
“If you do understand, and I
don’t think you do, you’ll know
what that means to a person like
me living in a place like this”—
she waved a hand towards Black
Springs. “You can’t keep things
quiet. Everybody knows you.
My husband is one of the top
men here. That makes it worse.
Listen, one of the packermen at
the mill has a giddy wife. She
goes gay. Everybody knows it,
but it doesn’t matter much be-
cause she isn’t anybody. But
me! Lord, if I get a little drunk
at a party they look down their
noses. Now, dp you see what I
mean?”
“Reckon I do.”
“Now I’m going to surprise
you. That first time when I
met you in the car I told you
I’d shoot you before I’d let
Richard find out about me. I
meant it. I love Richard. One
day I’m going to kill myself be-
cause of that. I”
“Hold on. Wait a minute.
You”
“No. I mean it! I love
Richard. That thing in me, that
other person, makes me betray
him. And I can’t help it, I can’t
help it. Every time it happens
—after it happens—l want to
kill myself. One day I will. I
certainly will if ever Richard
comes to suspect me.”
“Just a while ago you were
crying over Baler.”
“Yes, Because both sides of
me loved him, too. One side be-
cause he satisfied it, the other
because he was unassuming and
adoring and discreet. Oh, he was
so discreet. He never gave a
sign to anyone about us. You’d
never believe the kind of man
Herman was! I know he was
stout and not much to look at
and not very intelligent, but you
don’t know, you don’t know,
the real Herman. He was won-
derful.”
It looks like she’s going to cry
again, and I’ve had enough
crying. I’ve just about had
enough of all this. So I give
her a jolt.
“All right. So you love your
husband and you loved Herman
and you thought he was wonder-
ful, but you’d shoot me or any-
one else to stop Richard finding
out and some day you’ll do
yourself in. Way you talk means
that though you love Richard
and now Baler is dead you’re
still hungry. You’re so hungry
you play round with me, but it
don’t mean a thing because you
love Richard. Want to know
something, sweetheart?”
She don’t say anything.
“Way I see it about the best
thing could happen Richard—
and maybe some other fellers—
would be for you to do yourself
in. Maybe Peters’ll do it for
you. Because you don’t want to
forget that bird. He” ——
She bust right out crying and
rocked herself, kind of crazy. So
I shut my trap, because maybe
nothing I say will do any good.
Looks like talk isn’t going to do
anybody any good in this set-
up. It’s been a big day and I’m
tired. And I still got Peters.
Because he’s holed-up there
somewhere in Black Springs and
I got to go back there
and maybe be a target for him.
So I let Elaine rock herself and
weep.
When she gets a grip on her-
self she wipes her face and gets
busy again with the lipstick and
powder.
“All right,” she says. ‘I
thought you were the kind ot
man might help me. Because
you’re like me. ' You can be
selfish and hard. You watch
people. I’ve seen you watching
me. You’ve had experience,
and I know you’re not very
scrupulous.”
“In a minute you’ll have us
both on the same team.”
She thought that over. „
“That mightn’t be a bad idea,^


£fcr
T 1
JLJ3
The NEW
INTERNATIONAL
yi’jiiTY
wins
every
round
Improvements built
into the new AR-Line
International 15 cwt.
Utility confirm it as
the champion of the
cruiser weights.
tililHSl
Its power-packed design has been
proved under rigorous “trial by torture”
(International’s test programme) which assures
it has ail the punch of a champion for farmer,
grazier or tradesman’s transport.
IT’S A KNOCK-OUT RUNABOUT YOU CAN
PUT YOUR MONEY ON . . .
• The sturdiest utility in its capacity range.
0 Semi - elliptic front spring and “I” - beam front axle
for more road clearance and less overhang.
0 Body and payload ideally balanced—flexibly sprung.
0 The roomiest cab on the road.
VIRILE 6-CYLINDER SILVER DIAMOND ENGINE
Cylinder block hardened by the addition of chrome.
Molybdenum iron exhaust-valve seat inserts. Extra
compression ring on each piston. U-flex oil rings.
See your local International Truck Dealer or call at the
International Motor Truck Branch in your capital city.
Let us show you why the new AR-Line International
Utility is best for Australia and YOUR best buy today!
SIX MODELS :
Capacities from 12 to 23J cwt.—
incorporating these
NEW FEATURES :
CLEAN, ATTRACTIVE STYLING
makes International Utility sleek
and distinctive—combining the
carrying capacity of a small truck
with passenger car comfort.
CUSHIONED - DISC CLUTCH
provides smoother operation,
longer clutch life.
HOLLEY CARBURETTOR improved
design gives increased efficiency,
economy, serviceability.
TWO-PIECE EXHAUST VALVE
minimizes valve stretch, keeps
valve tappet re-adjustments to
minimum.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES WORKS DANDENONG AND GEELONG
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
PMT 431-36
she says. “Your kind of life
would be exciting.”
“Yeah. Sometimes it’s too
damn’ exciting. You and me
make a team, what game you
reckon we’d play?”
She gives me a look from her
eyes and I feel the excitement
start in me.
“Oh, there’s games for two,”
she says.
“You’re in the game I’m in,”
I says, “you’re on your own.
You talk about me helping you.
How?”
“I’ve got to have that letter
back; I’ve just got to.”
“So what? You want roe to
go find Peters and say to him,
‘Please, Mister Peters, give me
that letter; a lady wants it’?
Look, that Keough and maybe
fifty police been combing Black
Springs for Peters for three days
now. Sure, he’s in the place,
but where? If fifty police can’t
locate him how”
“That’s true. But it’s you
Peters wants ; you said so. I
just thought that perhaps if he
thought he could get that money
and dodge the police he might
give the letter up. I thought
perhaps you know a way to get
a word to him. I thought that
because you know these things,
like knowing who to see.”
I stood up.
“It’s getting you down, Mrs.
Paterson,” I tell her. “I don’t
know anybody in Black Springs
who would know where Peters
is. If I did I wouldn’t go near
them. That Peters has got it in
for me, and it’s my bet the only
way he wants to see me is in
front of a gun, with him holding
it. Anyhow, he’d have a fat
chance of seeing me the way you
think with fifty police ready to
jump him the moment he shows.
All right, so you had a crazy
notion. Just forget it. You been
reading too many books.”
She sits up on the rug and
pulls her knees up and puts her
arm round her legs and drops
her head and lets it rest on her
knees.
“That’s too bad for your little
girl-friend,” she says. “Because
I know where Peters is, and he
knows about your girl-friend.
And you can just think that
over, Mr. Smart Delaney.”
CHAPTER XV
I’M leaning against the car,
looking down at Elaine’s
head where it’s resting on her
knees. I hear the last three
words —“Mr. Smart Delaney” —
sort of hang in the air, and then
my mind kind of catches the
other words and looks at them
and takes them in. It takes
them in and then I’m down on
my haunches in front of her,
where she’s sitting on the rug,
and my left hand is on her right
shoulder, pushing her back hard
against the car, and my right
hand—the one in the plaster—
is up.
Because I’m ready to smack
her down. She brought me up
here and kept me up here, talk-
ing and having emotions, and
explaining herself, and all the
time it was mostly stalling. Be-
cause what she really brought me
up here for was to tell me what
she just told me. That, and to
hold me up here while Peters
pulled something; something
,with Kathy.
Kathy! Kathy is worth
Elaine and Peters and me and
Lily and Keough all put to-
gether. “It’s too bad for your
little girl-friend,” Elaine says.
I got heat in me now, but it’s
a different kind of heat. I got
my right hand set to smack
Elaine down, but I don’t do it.
Because right now she’s got the
cards. She knows where Peters
is and she knows what Peters is
cooking up. I smack her down
it gets me nothing. I got to find
out about Peters first, and may-
be smack her down afterwards.
Because there’s Kathy. I got to
shake Peters out of Elaine and
get right down there to Black
Springs and wise Keough and
v peters
“where’s Peters?” I start
s h a hi n g her.
i see her foot coming up. I
ought to have been watching for
that W fi at they teac h you j n
comman( ios is never give the
enemy a fi rea k But what they
tea(dl you - s f or men j j us t
never thought about Elaine as a
roug fi.fi ouse fighter. I should
Qf thought of fi er that way, be-
cause s fi e ’ s an d got guts.
she a on that n i g fi t
and s jj e s fi o t p e ters that same
nightj and she smac k e d me hard
in the face just now. She’s a
fighter, both ways.
So j see fi er r j g fi t f oot com ing
up and try to r j de j t> but it hits
me in the nec ] Cj an fi because I’m
on my haunches it knocks me
s ifi e ways. So I roll the way I
k now an( j CO me up facing her,
but it was kind of awkward be-
cause G f my wr j s t an d favoring
my hurt ribs. It’s awkward and
s j ow and she ’ s got t j me t 0 be on
fi er f ee t and ready.
“Don’t you put a hand on me
that way,” she says, and it’s in a
fi o t whisper, “No man slaps
me .”
j could walk in there and
knock her cold, and she knows
it. But she isn’t scared one little
bit. So I look at her and stand
up, slow, and keep still. Be-
cause I won’t get anything out
of knocking her cold, and I
know that.
“All right,” I says, “Where’s
Peters?”
“Will you get me that letter?”
“You and your letter! Look,
this bird is kind of crazy.
He”
“Don’t tell me what he is, I
know. But I must have that
let t er . I”
“How can I get the damn’
letter? Peters got the letter and
he knows what it’s worth. He
knows”
“if i take him that money,
the money you’ve got, he’ll give
me the letter. Then he’ll go.
jj e says jf fi e ’ s go t the money
he can get away.”
“Look. I”—something shuts
me up. I was going to tell her
I haven’t got the money, but a
little notion inside me warns
me off. Time enough for her to
know I haven’t got it. Keough
hasn’t told anybody about Lily
having the money. Peters thinks
I got it. He’s got Elaine think-
ing I got it. All right, says this
notion, let ’em go on thinking
that way. While they think that
way it gives me time. I tell
Elaine about the money now and
she’s sunk. She’s sunk and she
goes to Peters, wherever he is,
and tells him there’s no money,
could be hell to play. That
Peters is desperate now. He
learns there’s no money he’ll
maybe blow his roof and blow
some people off the map.
“Look,” I says. “You said
something about my girl-friend.
Where does she come into this?
She never done you any harm.”
“Delaney, that letter means
my whole life. I’d do anything
to get it back or see it destroyed,
I won’t have Richard hurt—oh,
I know, I know what you think
of me—but I won’t have
Richard hurt. If I thought that
little girl of yours would gossip
around about me I’d”
“Forget it. She don’t know
a thing about the letter. Only
you and me and Peters knows.
What you mean when you said
it would be too bad for her?”
Elaine don’t answer for a
minute. She stands there beside
the green sports and purses her
lips and draws invisible lines
on the grass with the toe of a
shoe.
“Look, sweetheart, don’t play
around. I can be just as bad as
that Peters if I bust out. What
about Kathy?”
She gives me a knowing smile,
“That got you, didn’t it?” she
says. “You’re not so hard you
can’t be got at. Well, nothing
about Kathy—yet. But Peters
knows about her and he told me
to tell you not to forget it. He
said, ‘You get the dough from
Delaney and bring it to me.
Then you get the letter. No
dough, no letter. And you tell
Delaney there’s no dough he’ll
maybe lose his girl-friend.’
That’s what he said.”
“Who tolfl Peters about
Kathy?”
“I’m afraid I did. I said”
“You bitch, you’re using him
to”
“I told you. I’ll do anything
to get that letter.”
“Where’s Peters?”
She shook her head and gave
me that smile, like a mother
telling a little boy he can’t have
a sweet.
“What’s to stop me surging
down to Black Springs with you
and going straight to Keough
and”
She laughed out loud. She’s
really amused, like it’s a joke,
I know what’s in her mind.
She’d laugh to Keough, too, and
put on that air of hers and say
{Continued on page 34)
NIGHT DUTY
Old Young who sleeps by day by
night
talks madly in his rested brain
where in his bed he sits upright
drugged against movement.
against pain;
shouts whispers moans and shouts
again.
The nurse holding the lantern
low
hears every cry or sigh but his
as she goes lightly to and fro.
His unrelenting memories
are of what was: he knows no is
and she with difficult restraint
goes past and on and bends to
hear
some too-familiar poor complaint
from sleepless lips that cannot
bear
the tides of darkness, and the fear.
She is the conscience of the place
when lights are out or screened
away.
Her shadowy averted face
is like an empty mask of clay
cast in the mould of yesterday
unrecognisable now; her hands
emerged from chaos reassure
the night’s distortion; while she
stands
momently near, the shapeless
hour
takes shape, is momently secure.
Old Young, the nurse, the night,
the flame
within the shielded globe of glass
pause like the players in a game
held by some delicate impasse;
and while they pause the seconds
mass
to break the half-cast spell, to
whirl
the hour apart once more in
night.
The nurse becomes a simple girl
who with a desolate air of flight
goes swiftly treading out in light.
n.s.w. Kenneth Mackenzie.


zoS
««*
s*
* /
W-'
'fi- am
I I
' WE'LL SHOW YOU!
Without obligation, contact your local Authorised Nuffield Dealer or
Nuffield Tractor Distributor; he’ll show you how the Nuffield Universal
Tractor will do a job for you . . . easily . . . under your conditions . . .
with your implements ... on your property. He’ll show you its versatility
... its 6-way power—swinging drawbar, belt pulley, power take-off and
3-point hydraulic power—all of which is standard equipment at no extra
cost. You’ll see its adjustable track front and rear . . , speedy 4-wheel to
3-wheel conversion ... its high road speeds ... its “non-slip” power weight
distribution ... 5 power-packed forward speeds ... its complete electrical
equipment ... its independent turning brakes AND its great economy.
g
NUFFIELD PRODUCTS. «E sbiu
AND SERVtCID BY WJIHORYSEfc
HUFFIELO DISTRIBUTORS »M
DEMERS IHROUEHOOI FBE
CO«ttOHV)iRU«
dealer
NT. 18.24
IT HAS EVERYTHING! IT DOES EVERYTHING!
H«e Nuffield Dealer will show you ou YOUR property!
NUFFIELD
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, NEW SOUTH WALES
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
--
THIS
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest feature*
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
''National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing- Plan*.
Music, etc.
Built entirety In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Qg^iAUlfaL
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy seeds or cuttings ot
perennial-pea—s64 l .
To buy Stealthy Terror and The
Man in the Dark by John Ferguson.
Penguin editions. —5642.
Words of verse beginning:
A thousand years from now, dear heart,
we shall not mind the pain,
The rushing, turbid streams of life wil!
not have left a stain.
—5643.
Whereabouts of the descendants of
John Roads of Buckinghamshire,
England, who emigrated to Australia
April 29, 1847, then aged 22.-5644.
To buy copy of Big Red by H.
G. Lamond, North of 23 by W. E.
Harney, and any books of verse by
A. B. (“Banjo”) Paterson.—s64s.
To buy copy of The Bulletin,
Reciter. —5646.
To buy copies of any “National
Geographic Magazine” before 1924.
—5647.
English family; husband, wife and
two children, recent arrivals from
Devon, want furnished cottage or
flat in not far-distant Sydney suburb.
—5648.
Information Sought
What is the danger of carbon-
monoxide or other poisoning from a
household gastcooking stove where
there is no proper ventilation pro-
vided above the stove ?
The burners of household cooking-
appliances are designed and adjusted
to ensure the complete combustion of
gas. In the circumstances, danger of
carbon-monoxide or other poisoning
from the products of combustion is
extremely remote. Gas-appliances
similar to those used locally have
been used for many years through-
out the world and have not caused
a serious health risk. Presumably,
the question is directed to the venting
of ovens. The object of such vent-
ing is primarily to prevent the dis-
charge into kitchens of grease-fumes
and other odors from the food.
Modern ovens (both gas and electric)
are not ventilated and do not con-
stitute a health risk.
♦ # ♦ m
What is the truth about the
“Brisbane Line?
In a speech on Oct. 26, 1942, at
Preston (Vic.) at a State election
meeting, Mr. E. J. Ward, then
Minister for Labor and National
Service, alleged that the previous
(Menzies-Fadden) Government had a
plan to abandon northern Australia
“without firing a single shot.” There
was, of course, no such plan. Mr.
Menzies immediately described the
statement as “a figment of his
exuberant imagination” and Mr.
Hughes said it was “a wicked inven-
tion emanating from a man who
spends his time bespattering others
with abuse, stirring up national and
civil strife.” There were plans to
evacuate people from some parts of
Australia in certain contingencies; ifl
face of a direct invasion, for in-
stance, if it was considered that
defence of such outlying parts was
impossible. These plans were drawn
up by Service chiefs and not by
members of the Government. Any
such plans laid down before the
Japs entered the war were most
tentative. The real and immediate
threat to Australia did not occur till
the fall of Malaya and the East
Indies (after the Curtin Labor Gov-
ernment had taken office), and there-
fore all actual plans to cope with this
potential danger were submitted to
and approved or disapproved by the
Curtin Government. (Mr. Ward’s
pre-war approach to Australian de-
fence was notorious: he opposed the
sending of troops to defend New
Guinea and was against any form of
military training in defence of Aus-
tralia.) A royal commission (under
the then Mr. Justice Lowe) was held
in July, 1943, into Mr. Ward’s
charges; but, as Mr. Ward claimed
Parliamentary privilege, and refused
to testify and give the source of his
“information,” the inquiry ended
abruptly and a more-or-less open
finding was consequently recorded.
* * * «
(i) The date of erection and oc-
cupation of the present Government
House, Sydney ? (2) When was
Admiralty House taken over by the
Commonwealth as an official resi-
dence for the Governor-General?
(i) What part did Cranbrook,
Rose Bay, Sydney, play as a resi-
dence for Governors of N.S. Wales?
(1) Erection of Government House,
Sydney, was commenced in 1837, the
building having been designed by
E. Blore, of London. It was erected
under the supervision of Lewis,
the Colonial Architect at that time.
In June, 1845, the Governor, Sir
George Gipps, took up his residence
in Government House, and a house-
warming that he gave on June 26 of
that year was simultaneous with the
celebration of the anniversary of
Queen Victoria’s accession and
coronation. (2) In 1913, after the
departure of Admiral Sir George
Patey (R.N.), who was the last naval
chief to occupy Admiralty House
since its establishment in 1885, it
was passed to the Commonwealth
as a residence for the Governor-
General when in Sydney. Lord Den-
man was the first Governor-General
to occupy Admiralty House. (3) In
1901 Captain William Scott leased
Cranbrook to the N. S. Wales
Government as a home for the State
Governor, this being necessary since
Government House was to become
the Sydney residence of the
Governor-General of the newly-
formed Commonwealth of Australia.
On December 3, 1907, the Govern-
ment purchased the property for
£22,500. Three Governors lived at
Cranbrook: Sir Harry Rawson
(1902-09), Viscount Chelmsford
(1909-13), Sir Gerald Strickland
(1913-17). After Sir Gerald Strick-
land’s departure, the State Govern-
ment sold Cranbrook at the end
of 1917, and thence onward it
became Cranbrook School.
* * * *
(7) What is subartesian water?
(2) Is there really such a word? (7
cannot find it in the dictionary .)
Artesian water is that which, struck
by boring at depfh, rises up spon-
taneously, through natural hydro-
static pressure, shooting into the air
like a fountain. Subartesian water is
that which is not under sufficient
pressure to be driven to the surface,
and which has to be pumped. (2)
Webster’s gives it among words be-
ginning with sub-, with no separate
meaning appended. The Shorter
Oxford Dictionary does not list it,
nor does the Winston Dictionary.
The Australian Encyclopedia uses
“subartesian” with its special signi-
ficance, and the word may be
peculiar to Australia.
* * * *
Who is entitled to (7) the Austra-
lian Service medal, (2) the United
Nations Service medal, (2) the Korea
medal ?
(1) Awarded to members of the
Australian armed forces who had 18
months’ full-time duty at home or
overseas between Sept. 3, 1939, and
Sept. 2, 1945. Members of the
Volunteer Defence Corps who served
for not less than 18 months on full-
time duty also qualify. (2) Briefly, it
is awarded to those who ( a ) served
in Korea for any period on the
posted strength of a unit or forma-
tion there since June 27, 1950, inclu-
sive; (£>) served in Japan for any
period since June 27, 1950, inclusive,
on the posted strength of a unit of
British Commonwealth occupation
force or British Commonwealth
forces Korea which directly supported
operations in Korea; (c) paid official
visits, inspections, etc., on duty since
June 27, 1950, to Korea and/or to
units in Japan, provided such visits
amounted to 30 days either continu-
ous or aggregated. (3) Awarded to
those who (a) served one day or
more on the posted strength of a
unit or formation in Korea since
July 1, 1950, inclusive; ib) paid
official visits, inspections, etc., on
duty, provided such visits extended
to 30 days either continuous or
aggregated. Service on land in
Japan, or on the way to Japan out-
side Korea or Korean waters, is not
qualifying service for the Korea
medal. Applications for these medals
should be made in writing, stating
Army number, name and address, to
the Medal Section, Central - Army
Records Office, Albert Park Barracks,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Brief Answers
K.S.: Write Anthony Hordern’s,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney W.A.E.:
The record first-wicket partnership
(first-class cricket) is that of H. Sut-
cliffe (313) and P. Holmes (224 not
out) for Yorkshire v. Essex in 1932
(555). An opening partnership of
554 (one run less) was made by J. T.
Brown and J. Tunnicliffe for York-
shire v. Derbyshire in 1898. The best
first-wicket partnership by Australians
(456) was by W. H. Ponsford (248)
and E. R. Mayne (209) for Victoria
v. Queensland in 1923-24 E.A.D.:
(1) Advise you to order The
Bulletin before you leave; it will
be posted to your address in Eng-
land. (2) We do not enter sectarian
controversies. (3) The reason is
clear—because it acknowledges the
Bishop of Rome (the Pope) as the
head of the church and because its
government is centred in Rome. The
acknowledgment of the Bishop of
Rome as head of the church is based
on the commission given by Christ
to Peter: “Thou art Peter, and upon
this rock 1 will build my church; and
the gates of Hades shall not prevail
against it”....K.D.: Write Under-
secretary, Dept, of Mines, Bridge-
street, Sydney... .C.H.: Write Lewis
Berger and Sons, Box 23, Burwood,
N. S. Wales... .F.G.M.: Write Divi-
sion of Plant Industry, Department
of Agriculture, Farrer-place, Sydney.
I.H.L.: Federal Estate Duty is
assessed at 3 p.c. upon estates up to
£10,000; at a rate ranging from 3 p.c.
to 6 p.c. upon estates between £lO,OOO
and £20,000; at a rate ranging from
” P-C- to 26 p.c. upon estates between
£20,000 and £120, 00O; at a rate rang-
ing from 20 p.c. to 27 9/10 p.c. upon
estates between £120,000 and
£500,000, and at a fiat rate ot
27 9/10 p.c. upon estates of £500,000
and more J.G.; After you sold
the shares you would not be entitled
to the first lot of dividends unless
the shares were sold “ex-dividend,”
and this does not seem to have been
the case. You are not entitled to the
second lot in any case C.L.C.:
Write Secretary, Real Estate Insti-
tute of N. S. Wales, 30a Martin-
place, Sydney R.McD.: Write
H. S. Temby, Secretary, Common-
wealth Literary Fund, Prime Minis-
ter’s Dept., Canberra M.P.: In
Mortal Bondage by Colin Roderick,
published by Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, 1948... .8.A.: Write H. M.
Butterley, Hon. Sec., The English
Association, 25 Hanna-street, Bee-
croft, N. S. Wales....L.W.H.: (1)
Linseed-oil rubbed in with the hand
will produce a smooth, dull polish.
If high polish required it would
need to be French-polished. (2)
Burrsthreo non-corrosive oil; Is. 6d.
per tin. (3) Some chamois leather
contains a chemical which would be
detrimental to a gun if stored for any
length of time J.J.: Results of the
First Annual Religious Short Story
Quest conducted by St. Mark’s
(Granville, N.S.W.) Literary Guild
was as follows: Awards—(l) “Mam-
tan, the Afghan,” by Mrs. R. Pad-
gett, 28 Raymont-road, The Grange,
Brisbane; (2) “The Singing Stone,”
by R. D. Tate, 8 Richmond-road,
Rose Bay (N.S.W.); and (3) “The
Eighth Word,” by B. J. Noad, Dept,
of Health and Home Affairs, Wil-
liam-street, Brisbane.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
N.G.: “Known-Unknown” will
remain unknown J.M. (Hobart):
If that is what happens suggest that
you close the window in future
A.R.: Not quite what we are seek-
ing A.J.H.: It was rubbed out
like the guy in the whodunit....
A.W.R.: Moss-grown .... M.C.:
“Little by little, the leaves [of your
MS.] dropped” into the basket
W.G.L.: It calls for spit and polish.
B.W.: Homeless newlyweds on
verge of estrangement buy an art-
union ticket and —we could hardly
believe our eyes —win a furnished
de-luxe home... .R.P.C.; Glad to
hear from you, but the subject has
had as much attention as it deserves.
• ■ -^ W ; N - : We seen brighter
stuff in our parish magazine
L.J.E.: The door is not only shut,
it is bolted and barred A.8.T.:
It belongs to the paper in which the
controversy started P.S.D.:
Hardly strong enough for its length.
But you ought to have some good
paragraphs in your fountain-pen
N.S.: That yarn was told in the Ark.
C.J.S.: Specimen submitted does
not reveal an unsuspected Henry
Lawson G. 8.: Your notions of
how small boys act and talk are, to
say the least, somewhat peculiar
R.T. (and 50 others): Alas and alas,
it looks as if we ate in for an
epidemic of lonely-prospectors-dying-
from-thirst yarns J.D.M.: What-
ever have we printed to make you
think we would print a thing like
that?... .G.S.: Such outpourings of
words are altogether unreal
E. : Space is too precious for
rambling stuff of that kind....
A.W.S.: Jerry-built story without an
original idea F.H.F.: A feeble
little flutter... .M.W.T.: A common-
place little item repeating a point
that has been made so often
J.D.M.: Has merits as a sermon, but
not as a story C.R.L.: The effort
to achieve mirth is too obvious
A. 5.8.: It may be true, but you have
made it terribly tedious P.N.:
The Gap story is not only improb-
able, it is poorly written H.0’8.:
Still puzzled as to how Bill, who
begins a spree at Boggabri, finds his
way to Madame Tussaud’s
F. Reads like an extract from
Flaming Youth, a novel published
about thirty years ago L.H.; We
gained the impression that you in-
tended it as a testimonial for a cure
for rheumatics T.D.: We are
afraid that if we printed it we would
get into hot water with the Burglars’
Protection Society J.A.P.: We
bolted the gate against the bloke
from next door J.A.W.; That
bookie will have to remain un-
registered so far as we are concerned.
M.H.H.: Digested the informa-
tion regarding your marital state, but
failed to see what relation it has to
your poems M.C.: Below stand-
ard.... L.P.: Those trees need a
more brilliant advocate H.F.; Let
us have it in English A.8.M.:
Too shaggy, by far M.D.: Lucky
you, to be able to wander along from
morn till dusk doing nothing
M.C.: Now withering in the basket.


Personal Service Is the Main Essential-(Legacy Charter)
The Story of Legacy
By "EK DUM"
P I FEATURE of Australian
/“I life which never fails to
[ | move overseas visitors to
admiration is Legacy. It
is something essentially Aus-
tralian in conception, based on a
model theory. Among institu-
tions of the same kind every-
where, it is an exemplar of
human kindness and a sense of
responsibility at its best. In
fact, one of the Common-
wealth’s finest advertisements.
It has maintained its original
aspirations, its sound financial
resolutions and its dignity
throughout 30 years of service.
And consequently it has also
kept the support of its workers.
It is a real fraternity of sacri-
fice. It is manned by specialists,
acting gratuitously on a basis of
equality in the spirit of an Old
Battalion rallying to the aid of
the family of a departed mate
with as unobtrusive an air and
habit as possible.
Whatever service, professional
or otherwise, is called for is
given freely if there is talent to
give it. Expense is limited
strictly to provide what the mem-
bers themselves cannot give.
And what can be done has been
expanded gradually as the bene-
ficiaries of Legacy have them-
selves enrolled to help carry on
and as supporters have come
forward in the roles of Torch-
bearers. The work, instead of
ceasing with the years, increased
immeasurably with the coming
of World War II and received
a tributary of need from Korea
and Malaya.
Legacy in embryo was the
conception of Major-General
Sir John Gellibrand, the Aus-
tralian-born British soldier who
had fought at Ladysmith with
the Manchesters and on Galli-
poli and in France with the
A.I.F.
That unassuming commander,
who dressed like an ordinary
Digger, was “in the opinion of
some who knew him the
brightest intellect in the Aus-
tralian Imperial Force.... one of
those officers whose bravery was
conspicuous even according to
the standards by which gallantry
was judged in the early days of
Anzac.” Bean wrote of him:
He was a tremendous worker, and
possessed of a humor, a quick under-
standing of men, and a standard of
quixotic honor which fascinated
every Australian youngster who
worked under him, and which made
him the tinest trainer of young Aus-
tralian officers that the Australian
force was to know.
He was just the man to lay
the foundations of such a body
as was got together in Tasmania
in March, 1923, to begin the
work under the name of Re-
membrance Club of Hobart. His
spirit has walked with the move-
ment ever since.
When he decided that the idea
was a success he handed on the
torch to Melbourne through
Captain Stanley Savige, a man
of his own training, a young
“learner” of the days of
Pozieres Heights and Sausage
Valley, who lived to lead one
of the most extraordinary and
exotic “armies” of the days of
the Dunsterforce and to make
his fame sure among the slimy
hills and moss forests of the
Salamaua front and rise to be a
lieutenant-general and a corps
commander in World War 11.
He it was, with Tommy White
(one of the four originals
of the flying-school founded for
Australian officers in 1914, the
romantic escaper of Afion Kara-
hissar and now Australian High
Commissioner in London), who
joined Hilmer Smith, another
“Gellibrand man,” of the 12th
Battalion (and Baby 700 and
Bloody Angle on Anzac Day) to
carry the movement to Sydney in
1926. J
Those who took it up there
were the members of the “Round
Table” at the Imperial Service
Club—now, alas, dwindling
sadly, but of whom Legacy’s
original N. S. Wales president,
Lieutenant-Colonel G. C. Somer-
ville, and Lieutenant-Colonel
Hilmer Smith, Lieutenant-
Colonel E. O. Milne and others
survive. Since then the seed has
been widely scattered.
From the moment Savige held
a meeting of six pioneers, all
“Gellibrand men,” in Melbourne
in March, 1923, apostles of the
movement regarded their then
work as “a task allotted to us by
our beloved chief, whom we had
served on the other side. By
some means or other his grip
was upon us, his inspiration and
the way he moulded our lives,
taught us the real things of life ;
that is something one cannot
quite describe.”
Legacy as it was born was not
designed for its ultimate pur-
poses. After some casting-about
for a name, Mr. F. P. Selleck
suggested the present one, and
it was from that name rather
than the specific determination
of the founders of the club that
its tasks evolved.
The idea when it was founded
on the mainland was that the
objectives would be to “convince
the public—who just then per-
haps required convincing—that
the men of the A.I.F. were a
decent crowd, capable of stand-
ing on their own. little flat feet,”
and, secondly, “to set up in busi-
ness, if possible, any returned
soldier who needed help.”
For those aims, it was obvious,
the scope was somewhat limited.
It was not till the A.I.F. was
fading every day more deeply
into the body of ordinary citi-
zens that Legatee Frank Doolan
suggested, in October, 1925, that
“the real field for the move-
ment’s work lay in the care,
guidance and encouragement of
the families of those comrades
who, through death, were them-
selves no longer there to give
these benefits” ; that, as the chil-
dren of the Lost Men of Anzac
and the Somme grew in age, the
cases were increasing in which
somebody was needed to take
the place of dead fathers, to
“act virtually as a guardian and
sponsor, with the help and ad-
vice that our dead comrade
would have given.” And often, as
it happened, could not have been
given by a parent either with
such devotion or with the appli-
cation of such a versatility of
talent and resources as Legacy
could offer.
The essential ingredient of the
Legacy policy might be des-
cribed as applied mateship.
There is something of the lodge
spirit about its procedures.
“Personal effort is the main
essential.... .the spirit of Legacy
is service” —so says the charter.
The club has its formulae and
rituals. It maintains a strict con-
vention of equality. It insists
on rigid observance of rules and
adherence to allotted duties. Its
members meet every week at a
simple luncheon, held in their
own building. Legatees are
never too numerous for the
whole not to be kept in touch
on a comradely basis, so that
everybody knows everybody.
There is a president elected in
rotation year by year ; there is
usually a visiting lecturer who
gives a 25-minutes talk at each
luncheon.
The weekly bulletin —its pro-
duction puts no small strain on
its producer—gives a copious
account of current events and
performances. The flaming
torch against its wreath of
laurel is prominent in badge and
insignia at Legacy gatherings, re-
minder of the purpose. The
words of the pledge echo round
the room as those gathered stand
with bowed heads; “To our
fallen comrades —Lest We Fdr-
get.”
It is not too much to say that
with a great many Legatees their
work is almost a religion and
that they attend to their Legacy
duties much in the spirit of
church-workers, though with a
liberality of outlook which
might not always be approved in
ecclesiastical circles.
There is something religious
about their self-criticism. No
assembly of Puritans was ever
more “frank and even severe”
with itself (as the movement’s
official history, compiled by
Lieutenant - Colonel Hilmer
Smith, puts it) about any short-
comings or laggard tendency. Of
any failures the leadership is not
afraid to speak out through its
bulletin or otherwise, though in
these days, seeing that the mem-
bership consists of a carefully-
chosen body of volunteers, there
is little need for prodding. The
task sometimes is to restrain the
ardor and competitive spirit of
workers.
The Legacy movement can be
studied now in any capital and
most of the larger cities and
towns of Australia. In each it
has the same features, subject to
local resources and local opinion.
What is true of operations in
Sydney is true of those of other
capitals, save that there is a
native variation in the flavor of
the different clubs. Each, of
course, is entirely self-govern-
ing.
It is best perhaps to study one
branch to obtain a clear picture ;
Sydney branch’s history is illus-
trative of the rest.
It began, as did the' other
branches, by restricting its
membership and shaping this to
its needs. It does not take in
members for whom there is no
work. It held its inaugural
meeting in 1926 with 79 nomina-
tions on hand, and by the end of
the first financial year in June,
1927, this had grown to 166. It
restricted membership to those
who had been in the British or
Australian services. All admis-
sions were made on nomination
and according to a classification-
list:
One person shall be admitted
under each sub-heading in the
classification, and no person shall be
nominated unless a vacancy exists
in the classification for his par-
ticular occupation.
There was a waiting-list at the
end of a few months.
No attempt was made to
accumulate large funds in the
beginning or to appeal for public
aid. The year’s work was con-
fined in 1926-27 to an appeal to
Legatees to send in the names
of any ex-servicemen seeking
work and to inform the commit-
tee of vacancies for jobs. By
the end of the year 19 men had
been placed and eight appren-
ticeships secured for war-
orphans. A comradeship com-
mittee dealt quietly with Digger
problems on a very personal and
confidential basis. It was dis-
covered that at East Sydney
Technical College large numbers
of girl students attending were
daughters of deceased soldiers,
and a cafeteria was established
for their use. The entertain-
ment committee organised its
first car outings for wives and
children of dead A.I.F. men.
These and social gatherings
were a great success from the
first. But the general scope of
the work can be judged by the
fact that the club subscriptions
that year totalled only £B4 and
that the credit balance at its end
was £52 11s. lOd.
These minute beginnings
formed the basis on which the
present very extensive structure
of Legacy is built. Yet neither
the spirit nor the method of the
movement’s pilgrim fathers has
changed very much with expan-
sion. The badge of Legacy
“still symbolises in its torch the
undying flame of service and
sacrifice handed to us by our
comrades in the war who have
passed on, in its wreath of laurel
with points turned down to
symbolise remembrance, the
guerdon of honor.”
But Legacy has become big
business in voluntary effort. And
it has found not only that new
wars bring new responsibilities,
but that the obligations arising
out of the first war still persist
and even multiply.
Its recruiting field of effort
now covers a period of 40 years.
While it is recruiting wards from
Korea it is still taking under its
wing fresh sons and daughters
of those who died as a result of
earlier war. Having established it-
self in loco parentis to boys and
girls who were eight or nine
years old when its work began, it
neither can nor wants to discard
its responsibilities now that
some of them will soon become
grandparents themselves, more
especially as the child ward of
yesterday can become the
worker of today and perhaps the
patron and supporter of to-
morrow.
Furthermore, the movement of
population has enforced a
gradual need for closer linkage
of the 44 separate clubs which
exist in Australia (17 in N. S.
Wales) and the one in London,,
and the formation of contact-
groups where a centre does not
warrant a club.
There is scarcely any spot in
the Commonwealth today where
the dependant of a dead over-
seas-serviceman or -woman—the
Mercantile Marine has latterly
been embraced within the scope
of the work—cannot turn to
some representative of Legacy
for help.
The help is versatile and skil-
fully supervised. The old basic
rule of “no need, no member”
still applies. Sydney Legacy has
only 350 members, but these
form a panel so representa-
tive that it is scarcely pos-
sible to conceive a duty which
there is not somebody to per-
form, or advice which no mem-
ber can be found to give.
Outside the Executive there
are 32 separate committees, each
of which contains specialists in
every kind of problem which
a family or its individuals may
be called on to face —homes
(widows), advisers, management
of the camp cottage, comrade-
ship, education, employment, en-
rolment and reception (which
deals with junior legatees), the
six committees which run indi-
vidual homes and holiday houses,
two family-welfare committees,
intermediate and junior welfare
committees, juvenile institutions,
library, dental, medical, pensions
advice, police co-operation
(Legacy has a representative in
each of 30 police districts), pro-
grammes, special housing, war-
gratuities.
The War Orphans’ Fund
Appeal Committee carries on the
one great annual activity through
which a hand is reached out for
public help and for which at
least one Sydney citizen has to
be regularly supplied with an
annual button wh'ch he buys for
£lOOO. The fund is kept separate
from the club, which manages
the movement and which
finances its lunches, its own
activities and such special ges-
tures as buying two wards a trip
to the Coronation out of its own
membership subscriptions.
With these bodies go the 13
contact-groups which are formed
from Sydney but serve country
and suburban districts.
It takes more than a little of
the time of some of the mem-
bers to deal with their commit-
tee duties —in some avenues the
work provides almost a whole-
time job for experienced Lega-
tees who have been long in the
movement and to whom early
retirement from profession or
business has deeded personal
leisure. The Legacy enrolments
in N. S. Wales of mothers and
children total 23,000, about two-
thirds of whom come under the
care of Sydney Legacy.
When it is known that
“every widow is encouraged by
her Legatee adviser”.. .“to bring
her every problem (even those
that merely arise from a sense
of loneliness or confusion of
thought) to the appropriate com-
mittee,” it can be realised what
labor is entailed in member-
ship of the section in Sydney
that deals with the cornerstone
of social service of Legacy,
family welfare, looked after by
two committees which spend
£37,000 a year and “handle
every problem, financial or
Otherwise, not directly covered
by a special committee.” They
dealt with 8757 cases last year,
1947 of them, involving mone-
tary help.
Or there is the work of the
junior- welfare committee, whose
main responsibilities are set out
as “the cultural, physical recrea-
tion needs of junior legatees”
numbering some thousands. This
committee has its annual athletic
carnival, concerts, hobbies exhi-
bition, operation “Rosemary,”
swimming carnival, talent quest,
Town Hall Christmas-party and
Clifton Gardens picnic—2000
children —20 large picnics in the
year to cope with, a stamp club,
chess club, pen-friends club,
swimming, basketball and foot-
ball instructional clubs, many
competitions to attend to and a
gymnasium to supervise which
needs to provide for total attend-
ances of about 8400 boys and
12,400 girls per annum—about
500 a week. There is the camp
cottage at Narrabeen which
houses 1000 children a year. The
Women’s Auxiliary’s home at
Moss Vale coped in 1952-53
with visits of 165 mothers and
162 children, dealing with every-
thing from concession-fares to
the provision of car drives and
Christmas parties.
There is a home-maintenance
committee of which the help ex-
tends to inspections of widows’
dwellings, as far down as aid in
restoring the leaking tap and
ejecting the white-ant, painting
the kitchen and vanquishing the
troublesome landlord, not to
mention keeping the claims of
war-widows before those who
manage State housing ballots.
College - type establishments
and houses provide for wards in
training. In the Fred and Ada
Cull House 19 healthy and
happy boys serving their trade-
apprenticeships live in a fine
home with flower- and vegetable-
gardens gradually reaching per-
fection and with their own
tennis-court. The James Arch-
bold Memorial House is a simi-
lar hostel for student girls who
have reached the junior-legatee
status. The Glen Mervyn House
provides a home for country
junior legatees attending the
University. The Kyle Williams
Home for Children, which pro-
vides for mothers and children
who have need to come from
the country to the city for special
purposes, such as medical
examination, is also kept up.
The Home admits on medical
certificate. The Gowrie Home
is primarily for aged and friend-
less widows.
The relevant committee is
building up a library which in-
creases by 800 books a year.
The education committee last
year gave no fewer than 885
interviews, and its wards were
(Continued on page 30)


Personal and Missing Friends
WOULD EDITH ELIZA GUEST, the
daughter of WILLIAM GUEST and MARY
GUEST, both late of Geelong, Victoria,
or any descendant of hers, please com-
municate without delay with MESSRS.
BLAKE & RIGGALL, Solicitors, 120
William Stret, Melbourne?
HESKETH, Myrtle Annie Edith.—WlLL
any person knowing of the present where-
abouts of the abovenamed, last heard of
78 Walcott Street, Mt. Lawley, W.A., now
believed to be in Eastern States, please
contact the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, A.N.A.
House, 44 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
W.A., Administrator of Estate DANIEL
JOSEPH OSWALD, Deceased?
SOHIERGE. —Anyone knowing the where-
abouts of the next-of-kin of EMILE
SOHIERGE, born in Saxony, and who emi-
grated to Australia, are asked to com-
municate with T. J. PURCELL, of 66
King Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Ik Divorce.
TO REGINALD JAMES ALLEN late of
“Miegunyah” Trangie.—TAKE NOTICE
that FLORENCE EMILY ALLEN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 624 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by Third February 1954 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from HAROLD R. STEED &
CO., Solicitors, 10 Martin Place, Sydney,
Australia.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Perth-owned Raconteur gal-
loped his way to AJ.C. Viiliers
Stakes favoritism when he easily
won the Malabar Handicap from
Caphua and Versher at Rand-
wick on Saturday. The win so
impressed his jockey, Neville
Sellwood, that he decided to
ride the handsome Remarc
horse in the Randwick mile on
December 19.
Raconteur could repeat his-
tory. In 1948 Filipino, from
Perth, won the Viiliers for W.A.
medicos S. O’Neil and T. Early,
for whom he was trained at
Randwick by Frank McGrath.
Filipino started favorite and
beat The Diver and Blue En-
sign. He carried 9.4, the same
weight as Raconteur won with
last Saturday.
Raconteur has 9.2 in the Vil-
liers, but the ease of his vic-
tory impressed, and it seems
pretty certain he can be further
improved. He hadn’t raced since
the autumn. Plato, French Echo
and Ocean Bound are other Vil-
liers fancies.
Raconteur has a high-class
performance-list in his own
State, his wins including the
W.A. Derby (1£ miles) and the
Perth Cup (2 miles). In Perth
he won 10 successive events, and
he has now scored on 14 occa-
sions. He seems the ideal horse
for a race such as the Viiliers.
Now that Arthur Ward is to
ride former New Zealander Un-
faan in the Summer Cup at
Randwick on Boxing Day the
gelding will continue to gain
admirers for the mile and a half,
a £3OOO contest. There is little
between Unfaan and Lord
Forrest for favoritism, followed
by Dafk Fife, who, on 7.4, en-
joys a big pull in the weights.
Ward replaces J. J. Elliott, who
had won on Unfaan at Warwick
Farm on November 14, but who
was criticised for his riding exhi-
bition when Unfaan lost at his
next start.
W. J. Smith returned to the
owners’ winning-list when his
grey filly Huala won the Rand-
wick Nursery Stakes, atoning
for her narrow defeat at War-
wick Farm a week earlier by
Moyborough; on Saturday
Moyborough started equal-
favorite, but finished only fifth,
the 71b. penalty probably affect-
ing her chance, as she is not
built on generous lines. Huala
gets her grey coat from her dam.
His Lass, an imported mare by
His Highness from Americus
Lass by Allagash. Danmark
Pty., Ltd., bred Huala, whose
sire, Hua, had a fine winning-
run in Melbourne, successes in-
cluding the V.R.C. Derby and
the St. Leger. Himself a good
stayer, Hua has sired the
winners of upwards of £lBO,OOO
in stakes.
• • •
J. P. Crennan, who races the
Stockade (imp.) colt Compound
in partnership with studmaster
S. G. White, had the right idea
when he coupled Compound on
the doubles’ tote with all 11 two-
year-olds engaged in the Juvenile
Stakes, the preceding event, and
when Compound won the Three-
year-old Novice he collected a
tidy sum from the double with
long-odds Magic Chant. Com-
pound’s dam, Silvermerle, is by
El Cacique (imp.) from Silvia
B by Polymestor (imp.). Satur-
day’s winner looks like develop-
ing into a useful stayer, though
two of his best-known relatives
were the former sprint speedsters
Chaperone and Civic Pride.
Magic Chant, who started at
66 to 1, is a brother to Magic
Touch, and the Jack Green
stable apparently was caught off-
course, as it bets solidly when
a win is anticipated. However,
Magic Chant’s effort indicated
he could soon beat a better field.
Enchanting, dam of the winner,
is a Talking mare from Joan
Darling by Gilt Edge.
Sydney owner Arthur Murrell
had his colors carried to. vic-
tory in two States on Saturday.
At Ipswich (Q.) his two-year-
old Vital Chance won the
Second Maiden at odds-on ; at
Randwick Ocean Bound had a
comfortable win in the Clovelly
Handicap. Ocean Bound also
carried the stable’s confidence,
and in an open-betting race had
heavy support at an average
price of 9 to 2. Ocean Bound
has now won twice from his last
three starts, and maybe has re-
turned to his two-year-old win-
ning form.
Cedrela, who figures on the
limit (7st.) in the A.J.C. Summer
Cup, to be run on Boxing Day,
won her first race when she com-
fortably downed the opposition
in the Randwick Novice run
over the Cup distance; she car-
ried 8.4. She took a long time
to open her winning-account, as
she is a five-year-old, and in
some of her string of failures
she cost punters and the stable
plenty. She is by Delville Wood
(imp.) from Nebraska.
Value of the broadcast system
on racecourses was illustrated at
Randwick on Saturday when
Braestand, who had good back-
ing for the final event, the
Clovelly Handicap, was left at
the starting-gate, due to a mishap
in which his near hind foot was
pinned to portion of his stall.
Immediately the race was run
the announcer, Lachie Mel-
ville, warned backers of Brae-
stand not to destroy their tickets,
as the gelding had been declared
a non-starter. It took about half
an hour to free Braestand, whose
backers appreciated the quick
notification of the official ruling.
Winners at 100 to 1 are rare
on Sydney tracks, but not un-
common on Melbourne courses,
where bookmakers are more
generous than on other Aus-
tralian tracks. On Saturday at
Moonee Valley the three-figure
winner was Mileshot. She is by
Milestone (imp.) from Dardan-
elle by Hellespont (imp.) and
from the family which produced
Chicquita, winner of £28,285 in
stakes, and one of the best mares
to have raced in Victoria.
Two years ago Cellar Master
won the V.R.C. Maribyrnong
Plate, Adelaide’s Fulham Park
Plate, and the S.A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes. One of his
relatives, Lovrana, was sent out
second-favorite for the Second
Pascoe Stakes at Moonee Valley,
and she won with something in
hand. The filly is raced by
J. Foster, for whom she is
trained by A. A. Robinson, and
it was only her second start
in a race. Lovrana is one of the
progeny of the successful
English sire Masthead, a Blue
Peter stallion, and is from Two
Crosses by Enfield (imp.). Gay
Lover, who also appears in the
pedigree, may be remembered
as having been first past the
post in the 1936 A.J.C. Epsom,
only to lose on protest to Capns.
Doubles-tote business is in-
creasing with almost every meet-
ing held within the Sydney
radius. Though attendance-
figures were down for the Rand-
wick meeting, the doubles-tote
held £43,000 against £26,000
last year. Win-and-place invest-
ments, however, dropped sharply
from £138,000 to £112,000.
Tote-punters that is, those
who have regularly patronised
the machine form of betting—
are not happy over the 12j p.c.
cut.
When Golden Figure won the
Kembla Second Maiden at that
club’s latest fixture he revived
memories for leading Sydney
jockey Bill Gook, because the
three-year-old’s granddam,
Figure, one of the most brilliant
sprinters of her day, was mostly
ridden by Cook, who, now in
his early forties, is still riding
as good as ever. Figure won,
among other races, the 1930
Oakleigh Plate, Golden Figure
cost F. J. Lussick 1800 guineas
as a yearling and is now raced
by Lussick in partnership with
Mrs. F. M. Bingham. The geld-
ing is by Golden Sovereign
(imp.) from Figurine, a sister to
Hadrian.
In the eastern States the best
two-year-old colt would appear
to be Indian Empire, raced by
Adolph Basser, owner of Delta.
Lindbergh, A.J.C. Breeders’
Plate winner, also has shown up
favorably, while Pipes of Pan
is expected quickly to make a
name for himself. Sydney filly
Queen of All, with two wins,
might prove a top-ranker among
her sex. Melbourne has some
“ Remember, you get time-and-a-half after ten rounds."
bright hopes among the juven-
iles, including Spritsail, Fascin-
ating, James Aitch, and Tenet,
winner at Moonee Valley last
Saturday with 9.3, starting at
5 to 2 on.
Provincial (N.S.W.) winner
Nice Brook, a bay three-year-old
gelding by now-defunct Nice
Day (imp.) from the Midstream
(imp.) mare Brooklet, was a
325-guineas yearling. His grand-
dam, Queen Helen by Chief
Ruler (imp.), was a smart win-
ner, her list including the V.R.C.
Ottawa Stakes and the A.J.C.
Easter Plate.
•; • • «i
Appointed A.J.C. starter in
1930, Jack Gaxieu has proved
one of the most capable officials
in his particular field since he
put aside his amateur race-riding
gear. He was a top-ranker
among the horsemen who rode
for the love of the sport, and he
won many of the trophies asso-
ciated with the amateur side of
it. Jockeys young or old can’t
play any tricks on Gaxieu,
whose orders must be obeyed
quick and smart. Nonetheless,
he is popular with the riders.
He won’t, however, be on deck
for several weeks, as appendix
trouble has put him into hospital.
In the meantime his assistant,
Bayly Yates, is carrying out the
job in fine style.
••' • •
The annual stewards’ school
at Randwick, conducted by the
A.J.C., will meet again early in
January, when stipes from all
parts of N.S.W., with a sprink-
ling from other centres, will get
together for six days. They will
discuss various aspects of stew'-
ards’ jobs and new and altered
rules of racing, and will listen
to lectures delivered by promin-
ent Turf men. This time, how-
ever, the special “fixed” race at
Randwick will not take place.
Last summer when it was run
more for the benefit of the less-
experienced stewards, and as
further guidance to others, the
officials detected several arranged
“non-triers,” cases of “fixed” in-
terference, mild in character, and
other transgressions of the rules
of racing.
“P.0.M.C.”: The promising
displays in the saddle of midget
’prentice Bill Toohey (noted on
this page) recall, both for style
and vigor, his famed namesake
Jack, of nearly 30 years ago.
During his comparatively brief
career Jack Toohey won the
Doncaster in three successive
years, for which the A.J.C. pre-
sented him with silver spurs. He
won the programme one Satur-
day at Rosehill and missed only
by one the following week at
Randwick, Jimmy Munro pip-
ping him a head in the last.
Jack Toohey rarely tried to push
through on the inside; he pre-
ferred the longer way round,
particularly on a good one. I
have noticed that most of W.
Toohey’s 17 winners have been
the fruits of following precisely
the same principle.
* * *
Against N.S.W., S.A. played
two fast-bowlers new to Shield
cricket. One, 21-year-old Alf
Bailey, plays for Noblet’s team,
Glenelg. Noblet has no doubt
given him a few useful tips. His
cricketing rise has been meteoric
—he only took up the game
three years ago, and first played
A-grade only last year. In the
last grade-match last season he
and Noblet twice dismissed West
Torrens in the one afternoon
(each taking 10 wickets).
The other, John Drennan (of
Woodville), got in when Ross
Hiern had to withdraw through
an arm injury. Drennan, also
21, was earlier tipped as likely
to get Noblet’s position, but left-
hander Ken Horsnell, now also
out through injury, was pre-
ferred against W.A. Horsnell
was able to bowl only a few
overs in the game at Perth.
Bailey and Drennan are each
considered by their respective
admirers as the fastest bowler in
Adelaide’s A-grade.
India won the first “unofficial”
Test against Ben Barnett’s
British Commonwealth side—by
an innings. The three Australians
(Barnett, Meuleman and Lox-
ton) all played.
Arthur Morris, after his suc-
cessful English tour (he made
1302 runs in first-class games
over there, third-highest aggre-
gate), is batting again in his form
of 1948 and earlier. Following
such performances as his three
Test centuries in successive inn-
ings (1946-47) and, in 1948 in
England, getting the highest Test
aggregate and average of either
side (696, av. 87), Wisden opined
that Morris would become a
record-breaker like Bradman.
But, though he has continued
to score well, he has not been
the consistent heavy run-getter
expected. Now, in Shield
cricket, he’s hit up two centuries
(171 against Q,, 126 against
S.A.). The second one was his
50th first-class century.
“K.R.”: In a recent first-
grade game Waverley cricket-
club (Sydney) had what was
probably the oldest opening
attack in Australian grade-
cricket. Fast-bowler Harold
Butler (36) has been playing for
21 years, and has taken close on
900 wickets (all grades). He’s
still got some pace. (He is, inci-
dentally, an alderman of Waver-
ley council.) Bowling from
the other end was Ted Dinan,
medium-pace, who is in his
forties and started in grade-
cricket even before Butler did.
“J.H.”: In a C-grade game at
Mt. Gambier (S.A.), H. Bennes,
playing for West Footballers,
made 205 not out. He hit 16 sixes
and 14 fours. Eight of the sixes
came in the one over—one off
every ball!
“Bosey”: Reported from
Grafton that a young school-
marm, Miss Frances Aspinall,
lately played in a game in the
district’s first-grade cricket comp.
Her team won. Frances is not
only a player; she is also an
accredited umpire.
* * *
After a month’s spell in Aus-
tralia away from tennis, Frank
Sedgman turned up at Wembley
(England) in top form and won
(on Nov. 20) the world’s indoor
professional tennis champion-
ship. After easily disposing of
veteran Donald Budge in a
semi-final, he crashed his way
through the final, whipping
Richard Gonzales 6-1, 6-2, 6-2.
The game lasted only 52 min-
utes. In Paris a few days later
the story was the same, Sedg-
man winning 6-1, 6-3. With
Budge, he also won the two
doubles titles.
Sedgman now stands unchal-
lenged as world’s No, 1 pro-
fessional. His 1954 programme
is uncertain, as Kramer, who
has arthritis, is reported to have
retired from active play and
Gonzales, unless he can strike
his past form, is plainly no match
for him. But, whatever happens
later, Sedgman has important
present plans—to get back to
Australia as soon as possible to
do all he can to help Hoad,
Rosewall and co. hold the Cup.
* - * #
Seventeen - year - old Bert
O’Keefe, of Sydney, won the
Australian featherweight ama-
teur title by outpointing Queens-
lander Gill Dury in crisp style at
Sydney Stadium. O’Keefe
looked best of all the amateurs.
In the wrestling, Victorian Dick
Garrard beat Frank Radlemeier,
of N.S.W., to keep the light-
weight title. Dick is 42, and
has been champion in either the
light- or welter-weight division
since 1931.


ptm
mm
m
4
®|l //JF /
W
W *SB
THEj|fENDABLE%RETTE
AND MEDIUM
STRENGTH
X966D-8.53
&c=
BOOSTERS for
PLEASURE
BY M.G. VINCENT
IT was a blistering Saturday
in early February that the
father arrived arrived home
with the cockerels, Bill,
Sam and Joe, in a corn sack.
It was well after his appointed
lunch-hour. The rest of the
family had completed their
meal, and the usual wrangling
was taking place about the clear-
ing of the table and the washing-
up. The arrival of the father,
ledger under one arm, pockets
bulging with the weekend sweets
supply, and burdened with the
mysterious sack, put an end to
all quarrelling.
“What have you got?” asked
Marian.
“Snakes,” screeched Jane.
“Look at them wriggling.”
“Whatever you’ve got there,”
commented the mother dis-
approvingly, “I have a ruined
dinner here for you. One-
o’clock you said you’d be home,
and look at the time. After
two! And now it’s all dried up
and I suppose you’ll leave half
of it. It’s really not fair, Ray.
A dreadful day it’s been, and
I’ve been cooking over that
blazing oven and you come
home at two !”
“With snakes,” finished Jane,
hopping on one foot.
Completely unmoved by his
wife’s welcome, the father
pushed his hat back from his
perspiring forehead, and with
the backs of his hands resting
jauntily on his hips, surveyed
the eager faces of the four
children. “What-ho!” he said,
grinning. “Now what do you
think I have here?”
At that moment, a head was
poked through a hole in the
sack, and under a blood-red
comb a wicked and calculating
eye scrutinised them.
“Ohhhhh! ” cried the child-
ren.
“That must be Bill,” said the
father. He bent down and ex-
amined the head. “Yes, that’s
Bill all right,” he cried, trium=_
phantly. “He’s always first.”
6 6TJOW many wretched roo-
sters have you there?”
demanded the mother, queru-
lously.
“Three. Three first-class Leg-
horn cockerels. I won the Red
Cross raffle.” He was boyish
with delight.
“Oh dear,” moaned the mo-
ther. “What on earth are we
going to do with three? And
Leghorns are never much good
for eating. There’s hardly a
mouthful on them. And I’ve got
a fowl ordered for tomorrow.”
“These will be more than a
mouthful by the time I’ve
finished with them,” grunted the
father, working at the cord
which tied the mouth of the
sack. “By Easter these will be
prime birds.” He rolled these
words off his tongue as though
he were tasting each syllable.
“Easter! Oh no! Surely
you’re not going to fiddle
around with them till Easter!
It’s not till the end of April,
almost. Oh dear! I just won’t
have them. I know who’ll have
to do all the work. And before
we know where we are, they’ll
be roosting in our beds. Three
wretched roosters! Three!”
The father was too busy ex-
tricating the cockerels from the
sack to give any heed to this
spate of words. He set down
the flapping, squawking birds in
a row, as though they were
toys. “There you are,” he said
to the children. “Bill, Sam and
Joe. Joe’s the runt, but he’ll
fill out. We’ll give him a yard
to himself. I think Bill bullies
him.”
Little James approached, ob-
viously to pat the snow-white
backs, but with a prolonged
screech the three roosters flew
off the veranda and fled to-
wards the fence where they
tried in vain to squeeze through
the wire-netting. The children
turned inquiring eyes towards
their father and were relieved
to find him smiling. “They
can’t get out,” he said reassur-
ingly, “and after I bolt down
this burnt-offering your moth-
er’s been talking about, we’ll
t»uild them a cosy little yard.”
“If there’s one thing I can’t
abide, it’s fowls,” said the
mother, very crossly. “I know
them. Always getting out and
messing up verandas. / And
having to be fed and crowing at
dawn.” An expression of plea-
surable anticipation smoothed
the frown away. “Yes, wait till
they start their dawn crowing,”
she taunted. “You’ll be only
too happy to get rid of them
then!”
6 6TJERE, Marian,” said the
father briskly, “put up
my ledger. In the right place,
mind you. Now, let’s see. A
wash. Then the burnt-offering
and then we’ll set to. Marian,
you find the hammer and nails
and saw. Then everything’ll be
ready,”
“I am not having those
wretched birds near the house.
Not under any circumstances.
You can put up whatever you’re
putting up down near the fruit-
trees.”
The father was horrified.
“They’ll get all the westerlies
there! The only place for them
is under the budleys.”
“Don’t you dare put them
under my budleys,” cried the
mother. “They’ll ruin them.”
The father and the mother
stared at each other, estimating
each other’s endurance. The
children fidgeted unhappily.
“Why don’t you put them
near the honeysuckle?” sug-
gested Marian tentatively.
“Certainly not!” bellowed the
father. “Fowls are terrified of
snakes. I told your mother when
she planted that stuff that it’d
be a harborage for snakes, but
she would plant it.” He went
into the laundry to wash his
hands.
“We’ve never had a snake,
not in the four years we’ve been
here,” protested the mother.
“And don’t you dare build
fowl-pens under my budleys.
And you children get that
washing-up done. Properly.
And, Ray, your dinner’s over
the saucepan.” She hurried
from the room, slamming the
door after her. Jimmy and
Marian looked unhappily at
the shivering door, then glanced
out at the roosters, which were
still running up and down
the wirenetting. “Shoo!” cried
Jimmy. They all ran out to try
to catch the roosters.
“Let those birds alone,” com-
manded the father, coming to
the laundry door as he dried
his hands. “You’ll frighten the
wits out of them; and I want
to tame them. I’ll have them
eating out of my hand before
long. You wait and see. Now
come in here. Get this work
done and then we’ll build them
a shed.”
THE building of the shed and
the yards took three hours.
It was only a “temporary resi-
dence,” “a makeshift,” said the
father. The next day they would
set-to in earnest and construct a
more “befitting edifice.” Bill,
Sam and Joe were eventually
rounded-up and put in the yard
and the gate closed. They stood,
dejected, in the centre of the
small yard, their feathers as
white as the marguerites which ■
had been sacrificed for them.
“They look thirsty,” com-
mented Marian.
“Good Lord,” said the father,
“we haven’t fed them. Jane, go
and ask your mother for some-
thing to keep their water in and
for some old scraps ; but some-
thing decent, mind you.”
High-pitched with anger, the
mother’s voice came instantly.
“I told you I’m having nothing
to do with them, and I haven’t
any extra food whatsoever, and
send James and Jane in immedi-
ately. It’s time they were in
bed.”
“Perhaps you better give them
away,” suggested Marian fussily.
“She seems awfully mad.”
“She is galloping her high
horse full tilt,” said the father,
grinning.
James began to whimper.
“What’s wrong?” he demanded,
pulling at his father’s trouser-
legs. “Nothing’s wrong. Don’t
be such a boob,” said Pen
placidly, sucking at paspalum-
stalks.
“Your mother will come
round in time,” said the father
imperturbably, dismissing the
mother’s antagonism with the
nonchalance of a man happily
married for eleven years.
IN spite of the father’s confi-
dence, the mother, apart from
allowing a scrap-tin to be in-
stalled, persisted in her hos-
tility. She refused to honor
Bill, Sam and Joe as individuals,
and referred to them as “those
wretched roosters.”
When little Jimmy, who spent
nearly all day pushing grass to
them through the wirenetting, or
gazing at them, ran in to report
that Bill was keeping Sam in a
corner, or that Joe was trying
to squeeze through a weeny,
teeny hole to get in with Bill
and Sam, or that a bee was
buzzing around them the mother
said “Yes, darling. I am right
up to my eyes and I can’t come
just now,” or “I haven’t time to
be bothered with those wretched
fowls.”
When Marian came in to say
that Jane was poking at them
with a stick, or had thrown stink-
beetles to them, she said “I
couldn’t care less. I wish she’d
kill them.”
And at meal-times when the
father (who had moved his chair
from one end of the table to the
other, thus upsetting all the
usual table-arrangements, so that
he could keep his eye on them)
reported that they were all
lined-up at the fence waiting for
him to give them some titbits,
she compressed her lips or said
“If you go giving them any of
your good food I won’t cook
you another meal.”
At the conclusion of each
meal the father would gather all
the leftovers on his plate and
divide them into three equal por-
tions. “What, is this all?” he
would say with disgust. “Did you
only leave this little bit of fat.
Pen? What a glutton.”
“I left some cabbage. See!
There!” Jimmy would cry,
standing up on the stool in his
excitement.
“See what you’re doing?” the
mother would demand furiously.
“You’re deliberately encourag-
ing the children to leave their
good nourishing food for those
wretched fowls. I won’t stand
for it!”
“And your mother hasn’t left
even a smell on her plate,” the
father would groan, winking at
the children. “Well, off we go ;
but, you see, they’ll turn up their
beaks at this miserable offering.
What a starvation diet! They’ll
think a strike’s on,”
AT the end of the week the
roosters were taking the
offerings from the father’s
fingers. This was looked upon
as a great achievement and
greeted with cries of delight and
pride by the children and a
somewhat smug jubilance by the
father. When the mother heard
of it she sniffed and said “This
is only the beginning. Oh, I
knew what would happen! I
wish you’d never bought that
ticket.” When pressed to say
just what would happen she re-
fused to say any more than “It’s
going to be a nice how-d’you-do
soon. I can feel it in my bones.
Those wretched fowls will just
take over.”
The first advance was made
several weeks after the father
brought them home. It was a
stifling day, and the roosters
stood in their yards, staring to-
wards the kitchen, their beaks
open.
“Look at those poor parboiled
animals,” directed the father.
“They’re stifled. They’ll have
to be moved.”
“Not under the budleys!” said
the mother firmly.
“Well, they’ll have to have a
breather. I’ll give them the run
of the yard for an hour or so
and they can find a cool spot
themselves.”
“Yes, right under this roof.
They’ll make straight for this
veranda!”
“There you go; jumping to
conclusions again.”
Five minutes later the roosters
were lined-up at the edge of the
veranda, their eyes brightly ex-
pectant under their tilted combs,
their beaks still agape, their
white plumage brilliant in the
sun.
“What a nice shady place
they’ve picked,” said the mother
sarcastically.
“They’re starving, that’s what
it is,” replied the father. “I’ll
(Continued on page 30)


a
ORIR
%
9
iim
SACK AGAIN—in response to demand
GhW l^,
MEDAL WINES
in the popular, festive gift carton
no extra cost, of course!
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BERMUDA PRELIMINARIES
Sir Winston Churchill: “I
stay on for the time being, bear-
ing the burden at my age,
because I have the feeling that
I may have an influence on
what I care about above all
else—the building of a sure and
lasting peace.”
» * # *
President Eisenhower: “This
titanic force [the atom] must be
converted to the fruitful service
of mankind. This can come to
pass only as one of the results
of shaping a firm and just and
durable peace. Such a peace
will be born only of courage,
knowledge, patience, leader-
ship.”
* * * *
“New York Times” corres-
pondent : “The traveller has
the feeling that Europeans are
talking while they wait. What
it is they are waiting for they
do not quite know. So many
problems are coming to a head
at once, so many decisions can-
not be postponed much longer,
that people have a sense of
something impending.”
3|* 4*
“New York Times” editorial
comment “ The first "essential of
a successful Western peace-
effort must be to establish a
solid front and a common
policy. This is no easy task in
a democratic world, and it must
not in any case stifle a frank
exchange of ideas. But there
must be agreement in action,
and the establishment and
maintenance of the solid front
and common policy must there-
fore be the first concern.
“This involves agreement on
two fundamental points. One
is how and on what conditions
to continue efforts to bring
Soviet Russia to the conference
table, which all three Powers
desire. The other is whether
European unification is to be
regarded as merely a military
matter which can be sacrificed
for agreement with the Soviets,
as some propose, or whether it
is essential for Europe’s own
survival. Once these questions
are answered the answers to
other questions will be easier.
“A common answer to these
two essential questions depends
on agreement in estimating
Soviet conditions and inten-
tions.”
* * * #
“Wall-street Journal: “Sooner
or later some kind of meeting
with the Soviets will have to be
held, if only to demonstrate
that the Malenkov regime is no
more amenable to negotiation
than was the Stalin regime;
who attends the conference is
perhaps less important than that
it takes place. So long as the
United States is clear as to its
objectives and has no intention
of appeasing the Soviets, it need
have no fear of talking with
them—at any level.”
“Philadelphia Inquirer” : “Just
as it takes two to make a bar-
gain, so it takes both sides to
make peace. So far, let us not
forget, all the real moves for
peace have come from the West.
The Kremlin has done a lot of
talking about peace, but has so
far rejected every opportunity
to meet the Western Powers
halfway in negotiations.”
* * * *
“London Economist” : “Many
of the aims set out in the
[British Labor-party] statement
“DADDY!”
London "News Chronicle"
were admirable ; but as for the
means of attaining the more
important of them, the men of
Margate [who framed the state-
ment] could only offer a single
mystic word —negotiation. They
called for negotiation on Ger-
many, on Austria, on Korea and
on Indo-China, as if, in each
case, this was a shining new
idea; and they deplored the
West’s loss of ‘initiative in efforts
to break the East-West deadlock.’
An uninformed reader of the
statement would, indeed, gain a
clear impression that a stubborn
Western world had long been
coldshouldering a Russia eager
to discuss each of these prob-
lems.
“But the facts are about as
different as they could be.
Since July, the Western Govern-
ments have been repeating to
the Russians their long-standing
invitations to discuss Germany
and Austria ; since the end of
August, the United Nations has
held out to both Russia and
China an invitation to a confer-
ence on Korea ; the French have
shown their willingness to
negotiate about Indo-China;
and the West has clearly indi-
cated that, after making reason-
able progress with the affairs of
Korea and Germany, it will
gladly talk to the Communists
about the wider problems of the
Far East and of Europe.
“For Moscow, as for Mar-
gate, these are facts to be
glossed over as quickly as pos-
sible or, better still, ignored
altogether.”
* * * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“What we have never properly
explored is the possibility that
Russia conceives her crying
need to be a guarantee of secur-
ity. Often enough she has said
it was, but her behavior has
been so aggressive that we have
not believed her. Should we
not then offer security and see
what happens next? Perhaps
this offer would surmount the
deadlock and allow all parties
to proceed in amity toward the
nineteenth-hole.”
* * * *
Istanbul “Hurriyet” : “If the
Russians were really scared of
an attack, would it not be only
too natural for them to first
propose a non-aggression pact?
The fact is, however, that, as
everyone is aware, the Russians
have been further strengthened,
particularly after their attain-
ment of the hydrogen-bomb.
The meaning inherent in a
policy of conciliation is to the
effect that the States of the free
world are afraid lest they be
unable to avert a Bolshevik
offensive. If this weak position
is a reality—and the Kremlin
knows this better than anyone
else—it will be very difficult
indeed to find from now on
concessions and guarantees that
will satisfy its appetite and
ambition.”
London correspondent, “New
York Times”: “To some
practical-minded British and
French diplomats it seems prob-
able that neither the United
States, on one hand, nor its
Allies, on the other, ever will
agree on all aspects of all ques-
tions that divide them. Even if,
prompted by the need for unity
in a conference with the Soviet
Union, the three Western
Powers agreed on a common
front on all problems, they
simply could not maintain it
because of the influence of
domestic politics upon foreign
policies.
“So it is reasoned by Sir
Winston Churchill and a num-
ber of other British and French
political leaders of varying
shades of political opinion that
the best the West can do is to
settle such differences as can be
settled, reaffirm their common
faith in the overall objectives
of Western policy and ask the
Soviet Union for a meeting on
the highest level. This request
should be so worded that should
the Russians refuse or even


—INSURANCE —for your protection -
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3 1 (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
f
on quality
i
i
ft
•ft
ft*
m
m
m
i
%
i
zm
.♦.NVV
;♦«*
You know the BP Aviation
Service. You have seen its
green and yellow fuellers on
hundreds of airfields. But have
you ever stopped to think what goes
on before the fuel reaches your air-
craft tank, or how that fuel’s quality
is ensured?
From the dime that the crude oil is won
from the ground until it is delivered
to the consumer, constant checking
at all stages of production and dis-
tribution is necessary to maintain
the highest quality. The illus-
tration shows a chemist analys-
ing a sample of aviation fuel.
It typifies the concentration
on laboratory research work
behind the Anglo-Iranian
Company’s aviation fuels.
AVIATION
g
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
hedge, they stand self-convicted
of rejecting a legitimate oflei to
ease world tension.
“This reasoning is backed by
one other important situation,
which lies just below the sur-
face of foreign policies here [in
Britain] and on the Continent.
This is that, whereas in the
United States politicians are
striving to impress people with
the need for precautionary
measures against the atom-
bomb and hydrogen-bomb, here
in Europe the emphasis is
mainly on avoiding a situation
between the West and the Soviet
Union in which protection
against bombing need be a
primary preoccupation in the
lives of ordinary folk.
“So in any conference [ot
Western leaders] there is an un-
conscious difference among the
representatives. The representa-
tives of the United States,
although they fear atomic
bombing and detest war, yet
retain confidence in the ultimate
survival of their country in an
atomic conflict. Those who
represent the countries still
horribly scarred by the bombing
of World War II are fearful
that survival as an ordered
civilisation is out of the ques-
tion for them in an atomic war
because, to cite only one reason,
they just do not have the
economic and financial re-
sources to organise and equip
an adequate defence or retalia-
tory striking-power.
“This is a fundamental con-
flict. It is also one that involves
other peoples beside the British
and French. It should be
remembered that in Germany
one of the principal appeals of
rearmament in the European
Defence Community has been
that it will help prevent war.
“Europe and Britain are one
in their intention to prevent war,
and emphasis lies on that rather
than on preventing the wounds
of a new war from biting too
deep.”
China Myths
Reporting from Hong Kong,
noted American writer on world
affairs Joseph Alsop debunks in
New York “Herald Tribune” the
wishful hopes of a Peking-
Moscow split. He calls them
“plain silly”:
“The Chinese,” he contends,
“now regard international Com-
munism as a great bandwagon
of power, in the front seat of
which they are privileged to sit.
Peking will not begin to argue
with the bandwagon’s Moscow
driver until the bandwagon
falters and goes into reverse.
And that time is too remote to
be interesting for now.
“There are other wishful non-
senses that had better be for-
gotten as well. Some Hong
Kong shipping firms with British
registry may deal under the
table, but British exports to
China are only a trivial fraction
of China’s imports, and are
almost wholly composed of non-
strategic materials. In these cir-
cumstances, yammering that we
[United States] can cripple
China by stopping British and
other Allied trade with China is
about on a par with the magical
bullroaring of the Australian
aborigines.
“The great guerrilla movement
in China is another myth—the
anti-Communist guerrillas are
far less numerous than the
American underworld and a
good deal better controlled, too.
The hankering of the Chinese
for recognition is also mythical
—the British were as eager to
recognise as spaniels, and their
representative in Peking is still
humiliatingly classed as a ‘nego-
tiations commissioner.’
“And all these different wish-
ful myths are intensely dangerous
because they obscure the hard
central reality of Communist
China’s emergence as a new
Great Power in Asia.”
Draqnet Digest
Furph from Madrid. —Quoted
by London “Daily Mail,” touch-
ing on the U.S.-Spanish agree-
ment; “Bullfighters are running
a sweepstake with a prize of
a crate of soft-drinks for the
first toreador to stick his chew-
ing-gum between the bull’s
horns.”
Elementary Dete c t i o n. —
London “Punch” goes into the
“ANYTHING YOU CAN DO I CAN DO....”
“Frankfurter Rundschau”
Sherlock Holmes business:
“Fleet-street and the Foreign
Office are alike baffled by the
latest Soviet Note. Its extreme
length, diffuse style and suscepti-
bility to conflicting interpreta-
tions all tend to support the
theory, propounded in America
at the time of Mr. Donald Mac-
lean’s disappearance, that a hand
schooled in Whitehall may hold
the Russian pen.”
Sporting Item. —From London
“Daily Express”: “The America-
baiting season is in full swing.
For those who enjoy the sport
it is one of the best seasons on
record.”
Aiding Indo-China. —“Any-
one in Saigon,” says a “U.S.
News and World Report” dis-
patch from there, “can see proof
that the U.S. is deeply involved
in Indo-China’s war. American
and other ships already have un-
loaded more than a billion
dollars’ worth of U.S. aid, mainly
military, at this Indo-Chinese
port. Now the ships carrying
U.S. guns, planes, tanks, ammu-
nition and the like are still more
numerous here.”
Anzus. —As assessed by the
Washington correspondent of
London “Sunday Times”: “The
Anzus Pact, it is true, exists and
some believe that it could be the
nucleus of a wider coalition, but
the American military leaders re-
garded this compensation for
Australia’s and New Zealand’s
agreement to the Japanese peace
treaty more as a political sop than
as a military asset. They de-
sire to base their containment
policy on countries closer to
China: Japan, Formoisa, thq
Philippines, South Korea and
Viet-Nam.”
They Still Like Ike. —Giving
first-hand impressions of Ameri-
ca in a series of “Manchester
Guardian” articles, D. W. Bro-
gan says of Eisenhower: “There
is no doubt about it —the Presi-
dent is as strong, is stronger
than he was when elected. Ex-
cept possibly in the first year
of the New Deal, I cannot re-
call a time when a President was
as universally accepted as the
national leader.”
“So sorry, but.” “As the
Japanese face up to what prom-
ises to be a testing time ahead,”
comments a Tokio correspon-
dent of London “News Chron-
icle,” “the argument Chin-
ese coal is offered for £6 a ton
landed, against £l2 for Pennsyl-
vanian, has more cogency than
the rival merits of the Western
versus the Communist ‘way of
life.’ ”
Malaya Pays. London
“Daily Express” comment:
“The never-ending fight against
Communism costs Malaya
directly and indirectly at least
£50,000,000 a year. But for that
heavy burden the country would
be financially sound despite the
big drop in the price of its two
basic exports,” i.e., rubber and
tin.
Ambitions. “Manchester
Guardian” summing-up: “There
is an immense difference be-
tween the desire of one coun-
try to rule the world and the
other’s lack of desire. There is
nothing the Soviet Government
wants more: there is little the
United States Government
wants less.”
The Churchills’ Achievement.
—Assessed by London “Finan-
cial Times”: “Before the last
election the country [Britain]
was still inclined to suppose that
there was a sharp alternative
between the system of controls
and nationalisation of the Labor
party and fiee enterprise as it
was before the war, with wide-
spread unemployment. It is the
most important aspect of the
Government’s success that this
has been shown to be a false
dilemma. The economy has been
given much greater freedom,
and inflation has been to some
extent overcome, with little or
no rise in unemployment or re-
duction of prosperity.”
U.N.O. Low. —Alistair Cooke,
in “Manchester Guardian: “In
the past old hands have com-
forted themselves by saying
that even if the United Nations
was impotent to resolve the
conflicts of power it was doing
steady, good work in health and
technical assistance and the re-
settlement of the world’s home-
less. But to-day there is no such
consolation. The United Na-
tions is having a rough time on
all fionts.
Reputation. “If,” comments
“New York Times, the
Soviets wished to make an
honestly pacifying gesture they
could make it in Austria. But so
far Moscow’s reputation for
stupidity and ignorance remains
unimpaired.”
British Fears on U.S. —Lester
Markel, editor of “New York
Times’s” Sunday issue, writing
after a European tour; “Two
great fears about us [Amen-
cans] haunt the British—the fear
that we shall force them into
another war and the fear that
we may drag them down into
another depression.”
American Aid. London
“Times’s” tribute; “American
aid s j nce t h e war, whether
people choose to regard it pri-
marily as an act of generosity
f enliehtened se if.
must rank as one of the
interest, must rank as one ot t
greatest and most sustained con-
structive programmes in all
economic history.”


taking between them no fewer
than 37 kinds of courses, ranging
from attendance at schools for
backward and blind children to
degree-courses in nine separate
university faculties. The em-
ployment committee’s task is
easy in these days, though it
wasn’t in the depression.; but it
handled 103 special cases in the
course of the year. The legal
committee dealt with 381 appli-
cations for advice, mostly on
matters connected with wills and
probate, taxation and fair-rent-
ing. There were hundreds of
cases calling for help in secur-
ing pensions.
Legacy shares, too, with the
R.S.L. responsibility for the
war veterans’ homes, the benefits
of which were recently extended
to ex-servicewomen, and which
now have nearly 250 ancient
warriors housed, some with their
wives in “Darby and Joan” cot-
tages. Over 5000 have passed
through the three sections—
Narrabeen, Yass and Bare Island
at La Perouse. Some stay a
month, some make it their last
rest. Narrabeen has everything
in amenities the heart could
desire.
Medical tasks, of course, are
onerous. The committee com-
passed in Sydney alone 1935
examinations last year. But this
is only the beginning of the
medical job, of which the scope
ranges from chest X-rays, hos-
pital co-operation, finding ac-
commodation for mothers and
children down from the country
for medical attention, to pro-
viding a doctors’ big-brother
movement for junior legatees
taking the medical course at the
universities. The dental treat-
ment given by the movement in
1952-53 was based on 8582
appointments made. Dentures
were provided, amalgams, in-
lays, root-fillings hammered in
by the thousands. About 800
wards are rendered fully “dent-
ally fit” every year. It is a very
human sidelight on the terrors
of the aching tooth that 10 per
cent, of the dental appointments
made are broken.
All this calls for huge funds
in these days. The movement
has its own many-floored Legacy
House in Sydney, a project
realised as the result of the
launching of a £150,000 appeal
by the Lord Mayor of Sydney
in 1946, in which year the
foundation-stone was laid by
H.R.H. the Duke of Gloucester.
This houses the club itself
with all its facilities, its financial
organisation, the Women’s
Auxiliary and the Torchbearers
for Legacy. This body consists
mainly of women volunteers, with
a centre and suburban groups. It
was formed from Comforts
Fund workers at the end of
World War 11. It last year
handed £30,000 to the Sydney
Legacy War Orphans’ Fund,
which at present attends to the
main financing of the movement.
The Torchbearers have their own
shop in which they sell goods
mostly made by their own vol-
untary labor. To the fund the
public subscribed over £101,705
in 1952-53, including about
£40,000 raised by the annual
badge a day appeal in Legacy
Week. The total income is about
£115,000. It usually includes
some bequests which, with gifts
to Legacy of £1 and upwards,
are tax- and probate-free both
to the giver and Legacy.
The most striking fact is that
the money is raised at a record
level of cheapness. Total ex-
penditure last year, including de-
preciation and a loss of £l3OO
on Commonwealth Inscribed
Stock written off, was £120,696
—about £6OOO more than in-
come. The cost of raising
funds, including salaries, pub-
licity and general expenses and
depreciation of furniture and
office-plant, was £7972 —the pro-
portion of cost to total amount
is limited by the rules to 1\ per
cent.
The administration of Legacy,
including its Legacy House and
the maintenance of Sydney
Legacy’s vast network of opera-
tions, including salaries and
wages, printing, stationery, pub-
licity and depreciation in rela-
tion to the fund’s activities, was
last year only about £19,500, of
which less than half went for
salaries and wages.
Apart from being a model of
service and a model in its atti-
tude to its wards, who have
always been regarded as part of
a large family and in no sense
objects of charity or pity, Legacy
is also a model of economic
management. But its dividends
in human gratitude and in fine
young citizens are probably the
largest paid.
One little incident woven into
the legendary background of its
history last year illustrates the
special aura which hangs around
its operations. Never forgetful
of the niceties which lend color
and life to a movement of its
kind, the Legacy Club sent two
of its junior legatees, Keith
Hodgess and Paul Sabine, sons
of men who made the great sac-
rifice, to attend the Coronation.
One was a trainee-fitter, the
other lately a prefect at a great
public school. It arranged to put
them into the lower-deck uni-
form of the R.A.N. and have
them carried in H.M.A.S. Syd-
ney. Then somebody remem-
bered that during his visit to
Sydney club headquarters in
1945 Earl Mountbatten had
attended some function of the
junior class. A letter was sent
to the now Commander-in-Chief
of the British Mediterranean
Fleet suggesting that he might
like to see what the raw material
of 1945 had developed into. He
did.
When H.M.A.S. Sydney
reached Gibraltar the C.-in-C. s
Rolls Royce with chauffeur
drew up at the Mole. And the
two youngsters, for whom
the future might have been dark
indeed save for Legacy, experi-
enced life as it is lived in the
home of a Commander-in-Chief
of the British Fleet in the Medi-
terranean who also happens to
be a member of the Royal
Family.
have to increase their ration.
We must remember they’ll need
more as they grow.”
The mother, after reiterating
several times that the “wretched
creatures” were to be kept off
the veranda at all costs, left the
two parties enjoying a silent but
eloquent contemplation.
After a while the father said
to Marian “Sneak in and bring
me a crust of bread. A stale bit
that isn’t any use.”
“But Mum keeps them for
crumbs,” said Marian con-
scientiously.
“Stuffy old Marian,” said
Pen.
“I’ll get some,” hissed Jane.
When she returned with a few
crusts the father said “Now,
watch this. I bet Bill takes it.”
He placed the crust in his
mouth, knelt on the edge of the
veranda and thrust the crust to-
wards the roosters. After a
moment’s hesitation Bill moved
forward smartly and took the
crust. There was a squawking
and a tussling and off went the
three roosters in a tangle to the
budleys.
“I thought so! I just thought
I heard someone at the bread-
tin ! ” rasped the mother, and
they turned to find her at the
kitchen-door flushed with indig-
nation. “If we run short of
bread I’m not making any
scones. So don’t think I am.”
“He took it!” cried Jimmy.
“Bill took it. Right out of
Daddy’s mouf.” He ran to his
mother, his eyes shining with
excitement. He tugged at her
skirts and she picked him up,
her face softening a little. “Right
in Daddy’s mouf, the cruss
was 1 ”
AFTER this tremendous
achievement the father was
called upon many times by
friends, relatives, neighbors and
children to demonstrate the
singular sagacity and boldness
of Bill. (In spite of all endea-
vors Sam and Joe could not be
induced to make the attempt.
They preferred to wait in the
background and tackle Bill after
he had collared the prize.) In
order to rehearse this unusual
display the roosters were let out
each lunch-hour. It took at
least ten minutes to get them
back into their yards, and about
the middle of April they refused
to be coerced, beguiled or
duped. They took to the lower
end of the big yard and had a
great time dodging about in the
high paspalum, and eventually
retreated to the voluminous
canopy of the vagrant honey-
suckle. The children were late
for school, the father was late
for a meeting and the mother
was so furious that even by
nightfall she remained indig-
nantly aloof.
Little Jimmy said sorrowfully
to his father “Bill oomphed all
over Mummy’s veranda and she
threw the broom at him and hit
him.”
“Next time,” threatened the
mother, “I’ll throw the axe at
him and kill him.”
The next day the roosters were
kept penned. The mother had
issued an ultimatum: if the
roosters were kept in their yards
no evil would befall them till
Easter ; but if they were allowed
out she herself would chop off
their heads. Immediately.
Quite bewildered by her un-
abating hostility, the father
assumed an expression of melan-
choly martyrdom, which he was
very much surprised to find was
ignored. The roosters remained
in their pens, and in spite of his
gloomy forebodings, they con-
tinued to fill out. They became
fine, spanking birds ; even little
Joe fulfilled all boastful prog-
nostications.
“In another week,” said the
father one day, “we’ll put him
in with Bill and Sam.”
“In another week,” said the
mother, “he’ll be in the oven.”
A tense silence followed this re-
mark. At last the mother said
'“Now, Ray, I hope you’re not
going to start any silly nonsense
about keeping them after Easter,
because if you are, I won’t have
it. I think I’ve done very well
to stand them as long as I have.
All this feed cluttering-up the
laundry and messing around be-
fore breakfast and keeping the
children out in the evening. And,
any rate, it’s all ridiculous. If
you want pets why don’t you get
a cat or a dog?”
A FEW days later she over-
heard the father saying to
Win Carter, who had come up
to watch Bill taking the crust
from the father’s mouth
(through the wirenetting, of
course) “Yes, you’re right about
that. Win. He’s a first-class
bird. They all are. I’m begin-
ning to think it’d be a damn’
silly thing to chop off their heads
at Easter. I think I’ll keep them
a few months and then decide.
They’ve certainly put on weight,
but, when all’s said and done,
they’re still only chickens.”
When he came inside she
pounced. “Now, look here, Ray.
Those roosters are being killed
at Easter. All this fuss over them
is absurd. You can’t keep them
for ever.”
“We’ll see. We’ll see,” he said
irritably.
He duly put Joe in with the
other two. When he came home
at lunch-time he was met at the
gate by a miserable Jimmy.
“They’re all buddy. All buddy
everywhere.”
“What’s happened?” cried the
father, thinking of the threatened
execution.
“They’ve been fighting. All
the morning, and now they’re
all bunged-up and buddy find
Mummy’s riding full-kilt again.”
The roosters were indeed a
sight, and it was practically a
week before they spruced up ;
even then Sam and Joe had lost
some indefinable jauntiness. The
father pointed this out, remark-
ing as an afterthought “They
won’t be in the pink of condi-
tion now by the weekend. You
better order a fowl from Bevans
and give them a bit longer.”
“Fiddlesticks! They’re as fat
as they’ll ever be. Only their
feathers are a bit the worse for
wear. You don’t eat the
feathers.”
The father pulled a wry face.
“That fight knocked the stuffing
out of them,” he persisted.
“Well, you watch me pack the
stuffing back into them,” said
the mother smartly.
“Don’t you dare touch those
fowls! ” shouted the father,
secretly alarmed at the change in
his usually docile wife.
TN all probability she would
have allowed him to have his
way, as usual, had not the
roosters found they could fly
over the encircling fence. This
happened the day before Easter,
and when the father arrived
home for lunch Bill, Sam and
Joe were being kept from the
veranda by Jimmy, very ex-
citedly and importantly waving
a stick.
“There you are —see the fruit
of your enticement?”
“They just f-flew out,”
spluttered Jimmy. “Like birds.”
Pride and apprehension ap-
peared fitfully in the father’s
eyes. “I’ll put up another width
of netting,” he said promptly,
“and I’ll cut their wings.”
“Nothing’ll stop them now
except the axe.”
“Don’t you dare axe them,”
commanded the father, and
when the mother turned away
without answering, hope died.
“Once your mother gets an idea
stuck in that fool head of hers
there’s no reasoning with her,”
he bellowed, with anger of
impotence.
He was late getting home that
night on account of the forth-
coming holiday, and before he
entered the house he went to
the fowlyard. There he found
only Bill, quietly asleep on his
perch. He did not say anything
about Sam and Joe that night or
the next morning; but just be-
fore lunch he broke his grim
silence to say “Don’t you dare
give me anything but pudding.”
“I have chops for you,” said
the mother.
“Yes, cooked in the same fat,
I suppose,” he replied, fiercely
condemnatory.
Unnerved by the enormity of
her defiance and his prolonged
silence the mother flew into a
rage. “Starve, then!” she cried.
“Of all the ridiculous boobies!
Starve!”
TN silence he went to the front
veranda, and there he sat on
the rocking-chair and stared
gloomily about him. The chil-
dren came and regarded him
sadly.
“It smells pretty good,” said
Jimmy at last. “Won’t you have
any?”
“What!” cried the father,
aghast. “What do you think I
am? A cannibal. A gluttonous
cannibal like the rest of you.
Go away!”
Marian took the pudding to
him. She whispered that the
mother was “terribly mad and
banging things around.”
“She’s too fond of banging
things around —especially axes,”
was all the father said, and
Marian went away, forlorn.
As they were finishing their
dinner the father came to the
back-veranda and, ignoring
them, approached Bill, who
stood at the top of the steps.
“Come on, old chap,” he said.
He picked him up and settled
him comfortably under his arm.
Then off he went, without a word
or a backward glance. Jane
crept to the lounge-room win-
dows, and when she returned she
reported that he had disappeared
down Taylor’s-lane.
It was an hour before he re-
turned, and everyone was pleased
to see he was in a much better
humor.
“Any bellyache yet from your
cannibalistic gorging?” he
asked.
“Where’ve you been? Where
is Bill?” cried the children.
“Ha!” said the father. “Ho!
Your mother can’t axe him now.
He’s safe.”
The mother, her face hidden
behind the paper, said “I wasn’t
going to touch him.”
“Ha,” said the father. “Just
as well. Any rate, he’s now head
of a stud. That’s the place for a
bird like Bill.”
“What’s that mean? Where is
he?” demanded Jane.
“With Win Carter.” The
father looked very satisfied ; but
instantly all the children looked
alarmed, and Marian cried “But
Mr. Carter has a dreadful
rooster. It fights something
terribly.”
“It nearly killed Mrs. Moore’s
poor rooster,” confirmed Jane.
“I was right there, and Mrs.
Moore was mad as mad and I
went down with her, and Mr.
Carter said could he help if his
rooster was all tackle. It was
better than being all cackle, he
said. And now Mrs. Moore
won’t speak to him.”
Even Pen looked dismayed.
“Poor old Bill!” she said softly.
“He’ll die, die, diddley-eye die! ”
and she began to sing dolefully
“Oh, we laid them there in sad-
ness and our hearts were filled
with pain.”
“There’s no need for that
caterwauling,” said the father
impatiently. “That old rooster
of Win’s got the doing of his life.
He’ll be stewed any day now.”
He sat down in his old brown
chair, stretching out his legs
and taking his ease happily.
“Marian,” he said, “get me a
tin of sardines. I must have
something to eat. Yes, it was
something to watch that go-in.
Bill was right in his element.
He’s set for life. He’s got thirty
selected fowls there.”
The mother was too overcome
by guilt and relief to object to
the deliberate indelicacy of these
remarks. All she said was “I’ll
make you some tomato-soup if
you like,” and without waiting
for his reply hurried from the
room.
But, enjoying himself hugely,
he raised his voice so that its
resonant vulgarity was inescap-
able : “Yes,” said the tormenting
voice, “just as well I got him
into the pink of condition. He’ll
need every ounce of it.”
THE STRANGER
Now I undo the summer,
unbuttoning the sun
to find that what my spirit wears
is intimate as bone.
In the glazed glass of winter
a stranger glanced at me;
sincs then I wear his fibre
from hidden heart to knee.
I cannot name his nature.
I do not dare
compose for him the images
of dew and mist and air.
Snow is too frail a mixture
to hold the flesh or ghost
whose thought is like a whip of
fire,
whose word is cold as frost.
n.s.w.
MARGARET IRVIN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Handling Stone-age People
The Pacific School of Administration
at Mosman is known as the “Mosman
Kindergarten.” The Government should
find out whether it wouldn’t be better
to transfer it to Wau (New Guinea),
where the Administrator and his senior
staff could watch the progress of the
young cadets.
Wau is a good site with a healthy
climate. After six months of Wau school
a cadet of promise might be sent to an
out-station in a settled area under an old
and experienced commissioner; while
there he could carry on a correspondence
course with Wau. Then, say, six months
or more in central office at Port Moresby,
Rabaul or Lae, where the cadet would
be in contact with Europeans and natives,
and could pick up a knowledge of the
problems existing between them.
Dealing with stone-age people it is
natural that a young cadet a long way
from headquarters should be inclined to
underrate the native; there he makes
his mistake, for they are very quick at
summing-up a European.
I suppose the finest selection of cadets
was made by Chinnery (Commissioner of
Native Affairs) and others in New Guinea
in the early days. They selected young
men of good education and sportsman-
ship. Many of them are now heads of
the New Guinea Service, and their war
record was outstanding.
There is much dissatisfaction among
senior officials who, after many years in
the tropics, feel they are entitled to pro-
motion elsewhere in perhaps a more
salubrious clime. But such plums are for
political favorites. —G. A. L. (N.S.W.).
Car Trials
The Redex trial race through the
Territory and back through S.A. caused
many a horselaugh among real bush-
men. Even a grandma had a go—and
got through. It was not so much a
reliability race as a matter of the best
mechanical service. Drivers hadn’t to
do much more than put their cars in and
take them out when serviced.
The roads, though certainly not so
good in places, are used by outbackers
almost daily when going about their
business of making a living, and the
descriptions given by various reporters,
“We're not satisfied with th ' poor quality tucker served
in th ’ company mess.”
and by many of the drivers, showed that
they knew little of what the outback is.
Next year W.A. is to be included,
Then we will see something really tasty,
Cars will follow a beaten track which
has been pioneered—with carts, horses,
donkeys, camels or mules—by men who
faced something different from what
confronts the travellers of today.
Yet if there happens to be a real dry
season or better still, a decent sort of
rain before and during the great trials,
there will be plenty of five-to-one in this
part (nor’-west W.A.) that not one of
the contestants will get through on time.
They will learn something of what bush-
tracks are, even though these are far
and away ahead of those of the days of
the pioneers. If anyone gets lost, or
meets with a mishap, there will be walky-
talkies to ensure that somebody attends
to the matter. The old-timers could be
lost for a year—and no one know about
A recent arrival in these parts decided
to follow mining. He got a job at the
Blue Asbestos mine near Nullagine, flew
there in a few hours, and had accom-
modation and every convenience on
arrival, with good wages for not very
hard work. He complained because
there were no public gardens and no
public swimming-pool where a man
could relax and refresh himself after a
day’s toil. Ye gods and little fishes!
Trouble enough to get water for ordin-
ary domestic purposes, for the town was
(and is) in the making.
The men who found the asbestos-
show were more than 12 months on the
road, lived on bungarra and other wild
game, and had to find water. They
didn’t complain because there was no
public garden there —they were satisfied
to locate a lot of asbestos at the end of
their trip—and then they had to get
home again.
Yes, the world is getting soft. — Soutar
Abis (W.A.).
Distortion and Art
Artists in all spheres know the value
of distortion and exaggeration: the actor
mimes larger than life ; the writer uses
inversion, repetition, hyperbole ; the car-
toonist enlarges characteristic features;
the singer emphasises final consonants ;
the sculptor enlarges the head of a high
statue.
It’s the spirit, the feel of the thing,
that matters, not slavish attention to
unimportant detail. A good artist paints
a chair so that we feel its solidity, its
texture, its “essence”; not so that we
see the knot-holes and nail-heads.—
A. E. S. (Tas.).
Do They Teach?
Last year my daughter sat for her
Junior examination and ended three years
of intensive study. For those three years
she had from three- to four-hours home-
work each night, with five- to six-hours
each Saturday and Sunday. This was
necessary to fulfil the assignments of
several teachers, and was accepted as
general by the school’s headmaster, who
deplored the necessity for homework but
could see no way of avoiding it.
Don’t know what the overall effect of
this excessive homework is, but it doesn’t
produce better scholars. As far as my
daughter is concerned, for those three
years she practically stopped growing.
Since leaving school she’s grown four
inches in 10 months and is at least a
stone heavier.
It seems to be taken for granted that
children should receive much of their
scholastic education at home. They are
repeatedly given assignments with the sug-
gestion “ask your father” about any knotty
problems.
On the other hand, the parents’ minor
role is carefully preserved by the regular
dispatch of papers which are required
for some vague administrative purpose,
and with which the pupil gets the in-
struction, “tell your father he must sign
this tonight.”
I suggest that teachers concentrate on
teaching. With the advantages of modern
education methods they should be able to
turn out far more knowledgeable scholars
than was possible 30 years ago. And I’ll
take a shade of odds they don’t. — Dust-
man (W.A.).
Milk Products
Queensland Under-Secretary of Agri-
culture Bell suggests in his 1952-53 report
that in Australia the dairy industry is
based too much on a butter-economy and
neglects promotion of other more profit-
able products.
The industry, he says, might well ex-
plore the possibility of increasing local
sales of whole-milk (especially colored
and flavored milks), milk-powder, cottage-
cheeses and cream. Some more profit-
able outlet must also be found for skim-
milk, “a large proportion of which is
fed wastefully to pigs in the absence of
a profitable market”
In virtually every country of the
world, said Bell, butter-consumption has
been falling, with, in many cases, a
subsequent rise in consumption of the
cheaper margarine. He added that a
study of the pre-war and 1950 utilisation
of milk products in the Netherlands,
U.S.A. and Australia suggested that Aus-
tralia still had an undeveloped market for
whole-milk, cheese and other milk pro-
ducts. Per capita butter-consumption in
Australia fell by some 8 per cent, during
1952-53, and the Dairy Industry Investi-
gation Committee had advanced the view
that this was due largely to the increase
in retail price to 4s. l|d. per pound.—
Agric (Q.).
The Children
The children’s books one sees around
seem a dead-end lot. If they are what
the public wants let them stay, but I
should like to see a few titles from the
classics, which have stood the test of
time, and which can help the children to
broaden their education while still learn-
ing to read. — MeLax (Tas.).
From results seen in my seven-year-
old girl I maintain that phonetics teach
youngsters to read but not to spell, I
mentioned as much to her teacher, and
suggested that the child would do better
if she tackled spelling as an exercise in
memory.
Teacher was shocked. That, I was
told, was not the modern method at all.
Children had to learn to think, must em-
ploy and develop their reasoning-powers
and work out the spelling of a word as
an exercise in logic.
A very fine ideal, no doubt. But what
is logical or reasonable about a language
that spells “cat” with a “c” but “kitten”
with a “k,” “film” with an “f” but
“photo” with a “ph” and so on? —Pat
(N.S.W.).
Teachers’ promotions often depend on
total numbers who pass examinations,
rather than on the quality of individual
results. Hence a teacher who gives any
thought to his own future jnust devote
as much time as possible to the less-
bright pupils.
Many of our present watered-down
courses have been influenced by the
urgings of psychologists, who claim to
know considerably more about what
children can or cannot do than anybody
else, though many of their generalisa-
tions are well wide of the mark when
applied to able pupils,
There seems little hope for brighter
pupils in secondary-schools until there’s
a change in the basis for teacher-promo-
tion, together with provision of special
courses for better pupils.— Peers (Tas.).
More than ever before our schools
provide opportunity and encouragement
for children to read good literature.
Children who fail to take advantage of
this are generally those of below-ayerage
intelligence living with parents of similar
calibre.
The cause of popularity of “comics”
goes much deeper than is suggested in
the glib statement that our educational
system is to blame.
When the tempo of life was much
slower children had fewer diversions to
distract them. Their lives were more
static, world events played little part in
their existence, and they seemed content
with the long, discursive, often boring
stories that were fed to them under the
guise of “good” literature.
Today time is limited ; radio, films, ,
sporting events create interests with
which reading must compete. World
events now mean something to children,
and, because of their knowledge of
atomic weapons and jet aircraft, that
“something” is usually uneasiness or fear
for the future.
In these circumstances it is not sur-
prising that children demand well-written
books of action and drama from which,
as they grow older, they can easily
graduate to the great adult authors of
present and past generations. The lower-
intelligence group turn, naturally
enough, to comics and low-class litera-
ture, from which no amount of educat-
ing will divert them.— Piston Pete
(Vic.).
Too Many Doctors
“Tonsi” (B. 4/11/’53) wants more of
the old-fashioned G.P.’s. They were the
salt of the earth in horse-and-buggy
days, when one small bag held all the
necessary equipment and one small head
could hold all that was then known of
the healing art. Since then knowledge
has increased to such an extent that it
is impossible for any student to master
all the textbooks or for any practitioner
to possess all the equipment without
which his skill is wasted. There is as
much difference between a tongue-and-
pulse diagnosis and an X-ray examina-
tion as there is between a bread-poultice
and penicillin.
Most medical specialists earn their
fees only after an expensive trip to
Europe for a post-graduate course in
their pet subject and a large investment
in the tools of their trade. It is now
becoming common for doctors to pool
their abilities and laboratories in clinics.
At no extra cost the patient gets the
benefit of the combined wisdom of
several men who excel in their specialty
but who honestly admit their limitations
in other departments of medical or
surgical technique. These doctors do not
differ: they co-operate. As individuals
they possess all the virtues of the family-
doctor. As a team their virtues are
multiplied.
If, after being on call 24 hours a day
for twenty years, a G.P. seeks a job with
a shorter darg and a “margin” for skill,
there are few of his patients who can
afford to throw a stone alt him or his
brass-plate.— Jock W. (f>.A.).


HTS
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
.v mr
tMf
,1
m
p$ w I
f * ■ '
* . 's*** II t» %-*&
, v si.. i*L\ , lr .V . ,<&» »*
,v.l
m.
*~,
;i !
j: .
9Jt !M Suiouaj
SJ.HOVSAH
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Quadrat Wins
“Ben C.”: Timely spring rain,
mild temperatures and the
absence of hot, drying winds
favored central-west N.S.W.
wheat crops this season. They
were somewhat slow in matur-
ing, and this promoted good
grain development. Slow-ripen-
ing conditions, however, did not
make for high protein content,
and on this score some wheat
will not measure up to expecta-
tions.
G. Nicholson, of N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture,
awarded the R.A.S. champion-
ship to McKillop and Sons,
Buddah, Narromine, whose
Quadrat is estimated to yield
50 bushels an acre. A. J. Peters
and Sons, Bonnie Doon, Hillston
(Bencubbin), were second, and
J. E. Capps, Boori, Mendooran
(Gabo), third.
Since 1950 the country on
which the championship crop
was grown had been flooded
several times. There had been a
substantial build-up of sub-soil
moisture. The land was first
cultivated 50 years ago. After
growing lucerne for a number
of years it was sown to barley
in 1944 and to oats in the follow-
ing year. Since then it had been
under natural pasture. Last
May it was sown with 451 b. of
graded and dusted seed an acre,
but no super, was used.
The growers chose Quadrat
because of its short, strong straw
and late maturity, thus reducing
the risk of loss from frost-
damage on the river-flat country.
The crop was dense, well grown,
finished nicely and showed no
signs of having suffered from
dry weather.
Although a potentially heavy-
yielding crop, the wheat lacked
the finer points of competition
crops. Purity of the crop was
not up to seed standard, and
foot-rot was fairly severe.
Although not readily sought
by millers because its protein
content often was deficient, Ben-
cubbin is still the most popular
variety in the western division.
Gabo has largely replaced Gular,
and is suitable for late sowing on
the heavier-soil types. Similarly
Celebration and Ford are useful
for early to mid-season sowing.
Quadrat has excellent field
characteristics which appeal to
farmers. The variety lacks
rust-resistance and its grain-
quality is disappointing, which
is why it is not favored by
millers.
Maize Hybrids
“Zea”; With suitable hybrids
demonstrating their 20 to 25
per cent, superiority over open-
pollinated varieties it would be
thought that every maize-grower
in Australia would be on hybrid-
maize. But even in those parts
of N.S.W. where the greatest
advance has been made with
hybrids, about 30 per cent, of
growers still stick to the old
varieties.
This sturdy individualism and
strong scepticism, which are his
foundation of stability, keep the
sub-standard farmer chained to
a low standard of living, with
which he is satisfied.
But even progressive farmers
have to keep up to date on the
rapidly-increasing knowledge of
hybrids, which differ just as
much as or more than the old
varieties.
The first hybrids were early-
maturing types of American
origin. Experience has now
shown that some of these are
entirely unsuited to Australian
coastal conditions because of
their high susceptibility either
to weevil-attack or to leaf-
blight, which take a large toll of
the yield.
Hybrids produced by the
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture from local material have
demonstrated their superiority in
these respects and in yielding-
ability in coastal trials. This is
because these characteristics and
suitability for local conditions
were carefully observed in the
breeding programme.
Pigs on Sawdust
“Eons”: Can “Wall” tell me
whether he tried running pigs on
sawdust himself (B. 21 /10/ ’53),
or whether he picked up the in-
formation elsewhere? I tried it
once, not because it was recom-
mended, but as a temporary
expedient. I found it too dusty.
making the pigs, especially
young ones, cough like billy-oh.
Worms could have caused the
coughing (I was drenching them),
but then, again, the worms could
breed in damp spots in earthen
pens, anyway. I didn’t use lime
—what is the specific action in a
case like that? I know, of
course, that the deep-litter sys-
tem (which began accidentally
because of labor shortages) has
been successful in poultry-
raising, and I have heard of it
being used with pigs, but never
saw it.
Strawberry
“Baroona”; Remove runners
from strawberry plants now to
allow the fruit a better chance
of growth. , January is early
enough to let the runners form
so that there will be plenty to
plant out in May.
Where water is available for
the plants aillow 18in. between
the rows and 12in. between each
plant. When planting, place the
crown of the runner just at soil
level, with the roots well
planted. Allow about 18 plants
to each member of the family
when calculating the amount
required.
Strawberries do better in well-
manured ground which has been
used for another crop, and they
do better in their second year
and should remain in the same
position for the two years.
Make the strawberry patch a
very fertile spot, with heavy
supplies of manure placed a few
inches below the surface. Leaf-
mould from under gum-trees
seems to suit them. It is an
excellent mulch and can be
gradually added as the weather
gets hot, so that the roots will
be kept cool. Strawberries like
an open, sunny position.
Fluorosis
“Outback”: Dr. Montgomery
White of Queensland Agricul-
tural Department, an authority
on the subject, says the only
feasible approach to mitigation
or prevention of fluorosis is
through livestock-management.
Provided sheep were protected
from fluorided waters for some
months after birth and there-
after were exposed only inter-
mittently to such waters, they
would show no ill-effects at
maturity.
When fully grown the expos-
ure could be extended. If this
procedure were adopted in all
endemic areas, says White, it
should increase the sheep popu-
lation of Queensland consider-
ably. It would call for greater
surface-catchment and storage
on badly-affected properties—a
provision which prudence alone
commended. Dr. White is now
busily engaged on experiments
with wallum country in the
vicinity of Coolum, where a
systematic investigation of the
cropping possibilities of this
infertile country is being under-
taken.
As the wallum country of
Queensland extends over some
four million acres it would give
primary production in this
State a great fillip if economic
means of making such country
productive could be evolved.
The main difficulty is likely to
be drainage, which would be
very costly. Seven acres of the
State’s 25 acres at the Coolum
experimental farm have been
planted to fodder trees, and if
these keep the land drained
sufficiently a heavy expense on
drainage should be avoided, but
all this is in the lap of the gods,
As a pilot to the Coolum
“Just a small patch'll do for me spuds—I broke the fork."
project a small area of wallum
country near Archerfield has
been leased by the department
from the Brisbane City Council
as a convenient centre for
small-scale experiments on
mixed pastures, and already
important leads have been
obtained.
Rotational Grazing
“Roto”: The high value of
rotational grazing of dairy-pas-
tures has been well proved in
N.Z., and some subdivision of
large paddocks by coastal dairy-
farmers in Australia has been
successful.
But the use of portable electric
fencing to give milking-cows
their approximate pasture-
ration twice daily means that
fixed subdivision into small pad-
docks is nearly out of date.
What could be termed ration-
grazing with electric fences is a
widespread practice in Great
Britain, and is increasing rapidly
in N.Z. A demonstration of its
value and economy on the
Manning River (N.S.W.) is a
pointer to its rapid development
here.
There would be little objec-
tion to coastal dairy-farmers de-
pending wholly or mainly on
pastures if they learned and
applied the art of good pasture-
management, which would lead
to more economical production.
Copper and Cobalt
“Valeman”; Swampy areas
generally are lacking in copper.
Decreased copper-content of the
blood, particularly of the liver,
creates anaemia, and may result
in degeneration of the heart
muscle ; hence the cases of fatal
collapse of milking cows in such
areas. The same lack causes
marked scouring during spring
months.
Sheep are often affected in
this way, and, as a consequence,
develop “steely” wool—a loss of
the normal crimpiness in the
wool fibres. Lambs contract
ataxia, a staggering gait brought
about by a nervous condition
involving one or more legs.
Regular drenching will make
up the specific mineral lack,
using the following formula:
Copper-sulphate 10oz., cobalt-
chloride 20z., water tgal. Half
a pint of this solution is added
to Bjr pints of water. The drench
is given once a week for several
months at \ fl. oz. per sheep and
4 fl. oz. for mature cows, with
proportionately smaller doses
for younger animals.
Top-dressing and treatment of
drinking-water helps. Top-dress
with copper-sulphate at the rate
of 51b. to 101 b. per acre and
cobalt-chloride at 11b. to 21b.
per acre every five to seven
years. Keep stock off treated
land until after a good soaking
rain. Drinking-water is best
treated with a solution of
copper-sulphate lOoz. and
cobalt-chloride soz. to a gallon
of water, half a pint of the solu-
tion to 400 gal. of drinking-
water, but only in earthen- or
concrete-tanks. Metal-tanks will
corrode.
Kurrajongs
“Breck”:, Kurrajongs may be
cultivated by three methods. The
first is the ordinary practice of
a seedbed, then planting in the
permanent site when the young
tree is about 18in. high.
The second is “mass-produc-
tion.” A row is ploughed along
the line of the fence and the
soil compacted. A spade is then
used to open a 2in. crack in the
soil and the seeds are dropped
in thickly. Later the young
seedlings are thinned-out, the
more vigorous being left.
The third method is that used
by H. S. Henley at Bassett
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The dry spell and bushfires seem to be in keeping with
what happened in 1788, and are being repeated in tune
with the cycle. However, the same cycle should bring
good storms in December. The absence of sunspots is a
cause of the dryness, and it seems to some extent that the
weather is repeating the longer Crohamhurst cycle.
Under this the seasons of the ’eighties are being
repeated as controls. Then the rains came in October, as
they have just done, and November was dry till late, when
moderate rains fell. Good falls came in December and
January, and may repeat this year, though the long
Neptunian cycle shows January dry, with a heatwave about
the 18th, which makes the issue uncertain.


Is Yours on the Wall?
The Bulletin Wool Type Card
is not a course in wool- or
sheep-classing. If it were it
would cost a lot more than it
does. Its purpose is to give
sheepowners, students, soldier-
settlers and others who handle
wool and sheep a practical
guide on the identification and
selection of fleeces, all the
way from very fine Merino
(74’s) down to Lincoln-type
(40’s). And with this selec-
tion of samples is a quick in-
dicator for breeding this or
that type 'of fleece by cross-
ing. A continuous stream of
orders proves its value at
7s. 6d. Send now to have the
card for spring and summer
drafting.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
f
for all stock foods. Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
OM.
BO***
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly xoppl/td—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE! ®.PO lea J 583.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O Box 588, PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872,
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates,
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE
■
g
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W, Board of Health, Ouaranteed,
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS.. NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
f
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
“ 1 DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co., (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q'LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIC.; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: K. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or ffm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
/6s a/ufy/s teae
Always ready
for cooking
Always gallons
of Hot water
Always greater
convenience
AH-forthe
ONB
LOW
COST'
ffi
4
■i m mm
W
w///.
CuAttAa*/
Tghmlrhnpl §2q
DOMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND WATER HEATER
with true thermostat control
• HEAVY CASTING within the range stores the heat, and
thorough insulation prevents heat loss.
• TWO LARGE COOKING OVENS and TWO BIGGER HOTPLATES
allow you to do all your cooking at the one time.
• CONTINUOUS BURNING means that the “520” is always
ready when you decide to cook.
• BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL—including coal, coke,
anthracite, briquettes, etc.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Car-
michael 520 is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
Write for free illustrated literature to Carmichael's,
Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W.
CONSTANT HOT WATER
★ In the kitchen
★ In the bathroom
★ In the laundry
The Carmichael 520
will supply enough hoi
water for all your
household needs.
Naturally it cooks perfectly
Makers of fine fuel stoves since
. its
1892 ... A Unit of Email Limited
Downs, Cowra (N.S.W.). Sow-
ing of the seed was in spring.
Fresh seed gave the highest ger-
mination ; it was not boiled or
soaked. Some weeks may pass
before sprouting begins. Seed-
lings are transplanted into the
nursery-ground when 12 months
old; when some may be 2ft.
high. In this transfer an inch
is cut off the bottom of the root,
all leaves removed and the seed-
ling trunk also cut off at about
4in. from the ground. This
forces growth.
In the nursery the kurrajongs
are spaced 4ft. apart each way.
As they develop the lower
branches and shoots are
trimmed off and the upper
branches thinned out. They
remain in the nursery till they
are about 6in. in diameter. Thus
all trees, irrespective of age,
have a same-size appearance
when planted out, long lines of
them looking like so many
fence-posts.
Prior to transplanting on to
the permanent site the trunk of
each tree is measured off to 6ft.
above the ground and sawn off
at that point. No twigs or leaves
are left on it. The root is cut
off cleanly at 18in. to 24in.
depth. In the new hole water is
allowed to soak in as the soil is
piled back and the tree is
tramped into position. If no
rain falls within the month a
second watering is given.
Four-way Cross Chickens
“Hortus”; Following the idea
of hybrid-corn, 34 million
hybrid-chickens were produced
in the United States in 1951.
Under N.S.W. general condi-
tions the most satisfactory cross
is that from White Leghorn
cocks and Australorp hens. If
the reverse is taken, i.e., W.L.
hen and A. cock, birds develop
a very high degree of broodi-
ness and produce, on the average,
fewer eggs.
In the four-way cross a strain
of White Leghorns and another
of Australorps could be formed
by crossing of two inbred lines.
Let us call them Wl, W 2 and
Al, A 2. Commercial stocks can
then be reared by (Wl x W 2)
x (Al x A 2).
Capital outlay and running
costs tend to be heavy, as the
inbred lines generally turn out
to be poor producers, with low
fertility and hatchability. How-
ever, experience has proved that
the expense warrants it, for the
finished article has come near
the top of the lists in most tests.
Poultry Grain
“C.A.A.”; Provided that
oats and barley are cheaper than
wheat, there is no reason why
they should not be used in the
poultry ration.
Oats can form half of the
grain portion of the ration. A
convenient way is to feed oats
in place of wheat at the midday
feed, continuing with wheat af
the evening feed.
Crushed oats can be used as
the main ingredient of the wet
mash if their price beats bran
and pollard. Oats also give
excellent results when incor-
porated in dry mash. A dry
mash should always include
about 50 per cent, of crushed
grain, and this can consist
entirely of oats.
Feeding oats is one of the
recommended controls for
feathering trouble or cannibal-
ism in poultry flocks. However,
the change to oats should be
made gradually to avoid up-
setting laying.
When the price of barley is
cheaper than wheat it can be
satisfactorily used as a 50/50
mixture in both morning mash
and grain.
It is necessary to feed more
meatmeal with a crushed-grain
mash than with a bran-and-
pollard mash ; 18 p.c. to 20 p.c.
of meatmeal by weight should
be included.
Hints for the Farm
“Toofer”: 2,4,5-T is a hor-
mone weedicide proving success-
ful in control of blackberries
and other woody-plant pests. In
very low concentration (100
parts per million), this same
chemical is a growth-regulating
substance. In California it has
been used successfully in this
concentration for inducing early
maturity in apricots, increasing
the size of the fruit, reducing
pre-harvest drop and, under
certain conditions, improving
the appearance of the fruit,
“Spes”: For cannibalism in
chicks, place a tin of unsalted
mutton-fat in the yard for
ad lib. feeding. It acts like a
charm.
“Deejay”: If the fowls are
laying thin-shelled eggs have the
following mixture made up and
include 2 per cent, in the mash;
60 parts steamed bone-flour,
20 parts oyster-shell flour or
limestone-dust and 20 parts of
common salt. Blend it will,
keep it in an air-tight tin and
feed until shell-texture is normal
again.
“Dandy”: Timber for home-
made furniture can be made
white-ant-proof by soaking it
thoroughly in sheep-dip. I leave
it in the dip for about six
weeks, turning over each piece
every day. White-ants avoid
timber so treated, and it k.o.s
any white-ant eggs,
“L.C.”; Since poison in cer-
tain insecticides can cause
serious losses of bees, ask the
experts as to the safest period
for applying them to pasture-
lands or fruit-trees. Danger
period to bees and other pol-
linating insects may range from
August onwards to April. Hive-
bees then taking in large quanti-
ties of water from the foliage
of plants for brood-rearing can
be destroyed by the poison
absorbed by the water from the
foliage.
“Hortus”: Discussing N.S.W.
tableland country, Hereford
Society president Dutton said
that at Urandangie they followed
a set practice. Land was first well
worked up, made into a good
seed-bed and a crop planted. The
latter, when harvested, provided
the wherewithal to introduce the
new improved pastures. Pota-
toes made an ideal first crop.
The idea was that share-farmers
could obtain the use of the land
free of cost for a year, provided
they took off the crop. The
land was then ready for the new
pastures,
“Billjim”: Treat cauliflowers,
cabbages and lettuces nearing
maturity with weekly applica-
tions of liquid animal manure.
If the soil is wet and further
moisture would be a disadvant-
age, a side-dressing of nitrate-
of-soda at loz. per plant is
preferable. See that the fertiliser
does not touch the stems or
foliage of plants. Work it lightly
into the soil.
“Sundowner”: As water for
cleansing milking-machines by
the caustic-soda method should
be as near boiling-point as pos-
sible, use an old cream-can
with on and a hole cut in
the lid to take a hose from a
steam-pipe. A bag around the
can helps to retain the heat, thus
reducing the time taken to heat
the water and the amount of
fuel required by the boiler. See
that at least ligal. of lukewarm
water is passed through each
unit, followed by a gallon of
boiling water and caustic-soda
(one tablespoon to 4gal.), finally
followed by a gallon of boiling
water only.


"THUS stories of
deceptions that
shocked the world L
m
*SSt SL-'
gf
Former crime reporter Ron
Ingleby reveals the breath-
taking audacity of some of
the arch counterfeiters of
history. Don’t miss each
complete weekly story pre-
sented with the good wishes
of the distributors of Ranch
o
MACOI ARIE
g
BROADCASTING SERVICE
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN -61 X - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2 PIC 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BUKDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Branches in all States.
this Delaney must be delirious
or something. And if Delaney
wants to make it stick he’s got
to tell Keough about the letter
and how he got it and how he
tried to sell it to Elaine. And
about the next thing would be
Delaney up for blackmail, and
they hit you hard for that. And
I’d have to make it stick about
Fat. That wouldn’t be easy with
that Keough pressing a man. I
didn’t kill Fat, but if it got out
about me pulling the raid and
falling on Fat when he climbed
that fence I’d be in a spot.
Elaine don’t know about that,
but I do, and she knows enough
to know that right now I won’t
go surging down to Keough
about her and Peters.
So that’s the way it is, and
I got to do some stalling and
hard thinking.
“How you going to get the
money to Peters if I give it to
you?”
“That’s all right,” she says.
“Let me worry about that.”
“I haven’t got it with me.”
“I didn’t suppose you had.
Where is it?”
It’s my turn to laugh. So I
laugh.
“Pull your head in, sweet-
heart, It’s where you can’t get
it. Nobody can get it but me.”
“How soon can you get it?”
“Tomorrow.”
“Tomorrow! I don’t know
whether Peters —he warits it
right away.”
“He’ll have to wait. You
seeing him soon?”
“I can get in touch with him.”
“Get in touch with him. Tell
him I’m a hospital patient. I
can’t get out of there. To-
morrow they’ll let me out.
There’s a police guard on me.
I’ll have to shake him off some
way. Tell Peters that. Tell him
I’ll try for the dough tomorrow.”
She looked at me. I’m plenty
worried, and it must have
showed in my clock,
“All right,” she says. “I’ll
tell him. I hope I can make him
see it.”
“He’s got to see it. I can’t
get loose to get the dough right
now. You know that.”
“He’s impatient. He’s scared.
Don’t forget he’s got police all
round him.”
“I ain’t forgetting it. But I
can’t do it before tomorrow. ;
Peters has hid from the police
all this time. He can wait
another night. Nothing else to
do. He gets impatient and
shows it gums up everything.
You make him see that.”
“All right.”
Inside me I’m keyed up. I
got no ideas yet about what I’m
going to do. But I got to do
something, and the best way to
begin is make it stick with
Elaine and Peters that I got that
dough. I make that stick it gets
me some time. Time to do some
straight, hard thinking. Be-
cause unless I can do some
thinking there’s going to be
plenty trouble. Trouble for me,
and maybe Kathy. So I watch
Elaine and it’s sticking.
“I’ll hear from you to-
morrow,” she says. “When?”
“In the morning. Maybe
early. Maybe I’ll get the dough
tonight and have it for you. I
don’t know. It wants some
scheming. You tell that Peters t»
lie low.”
“I’m not enjoying this, De-
laney. I’m scared all the time
about Peters. But I must have
my letter. You understand
that?”
“I understand. I ain’t happy
about it, either. You give me
that hundred in the first place
we maybe don’t come to this.
Now look where we are. I only
wanted a hundred for the letter.
Peters wants three thousand.
Well, all right, looks like he gets
it.”
“You’re a darling. I knew
you’d be a darling about it.”
“Cut that out. You said you’d
do anything to save Richard
knowing about the letter, or
anyone else knowing about it
and causing Richard trouble. All
right, I’m the same about Kathy.
That’s all.”
She moves up and put her
arms round my shoulders and
kisses me. Her mouth is hot and
trembly, because she’s relieved,
and I kiss her back.
“I wish I was Kathy,” she
says.
“I don’t,” I says. “Come on,
let’s get back. We got nothing
to get slushy about,”
“We’re a bright pair, De-
laney.”
“Let’s get back to that hos-
pital.”
At the bridge the police-block
stops us and looks over the car.
There’s two of them this time,
and a big car pulled beside the
road ready.
“You sighted that Peters yet?”
The one looking in the car is
the parrot I first reported to the
morning after Fat died. He
looks at me.
“Gripes,” he says. “Ain’t they
hung you yet?”
Elaine thanks them nicely and
drives off. We pick up the
wounded footballer and old man
Morton and make the hospital
with ten minutes to spare—all
patients out for the day got to
be in again by 3.30 p.m. None
of them Medes and Prussians
the fellow writes about got a
stricter law than that.
So they put me back in the
bed and the nurses bustling
about, cleaning, up after the
afternoon visitors. I lie down
like I’m done up and close my
eyes. Because I got to think and
I don’t want to talk to nobody.
So I lie there with my eyes shut
and hear the movements and
voices talking and I think.
So now it’s a first-class mess
and there’s got to be a way out.
Elaine knows where Peters is,
and Peters got her letter and can
blow her wide-open if she don’t
play along with him. Elaine and
Peters both think I got Martini’s
three thousand and that’s the
pool. I got to lie here and make
like everything is normal. And
Elaine got to go away from the
hospital and she’s got to act
like everything is normal.
Wherever Peters is he’s got to
lie low. Because it’s daylight and
maybe fifty or a hundred police
in and around Black Springs
looking for him. Fifty or a hun-
dred police combing—-hey!
All them police looking for
a killer. And Mrs. Elaine Pater-
son, way up in the top social
bracket in this town, wife of
a leading citizen, she knows
where he is! She knows where
he is and tonight maybe she’ll
get in touch with him and be
talking to him and all them
police getting spots before their
eyes looking for him. I’d give
a lot to know what Keough
would say if he knew that, I
ought to get up off that bed
and get to a phone and call
Keough and bring him right
up here and tell him. I ought to
do that, only Keough would have
to know about the letter and
then he could pin it on me for
blackmail and maybe about Fat,
too. And there was that about
Kathy. Peters wouldn’t stop
at anything to get even with me ;
Elaine wouldn’t stop at anything
to get that letter. And Kathy •
“Nurse?”
“What is it, Delaney?”
“Nurse, I got to get an urgent
message down town. Could I
use the phone?”
“Won’t it keep?”
“Nurse, it’s damn’ urgent! ”
“All right. Put your robe on
and slippers and come with me.”
The hospital provides you
with slippers and a robe. I got
them on in a second flat and
following her out. There’s a
couple of small rooms, for dis-
pensing and cleaning, and a
phone in one of them. I locate
the number of the Enterprise
Hotel.
“Number, please?”
“Three two four.”
“Hullo. Enterprise here.”
“Can I speak to Miss Colter
—Kathy Colter? It’s urgent!”
“Who’s calling?”
“Tell her it’s Del Delaney.”
“Hold the line.”
There’s all the funny little
noises you hear while you’re
waiting on an open phone. Then
she comes.
“Hullo.”
“Kathy.”
“Oh, Del, I’m glad to hear
you. When they told me it was
from the hospital I thought”-
“Kathy, listen!”
“Yes. I’m listening.”
“Listen, Kathy. You got to do
something for me. You got to
do it right away.”
“Of course. What is it? You
sound”
“Listen, kid. You got to do
this without asking questions.
You got to just do it and trust
me.”
“If I can do it I will.”
No panic. No fussing. That’s
Kathy.
“Listen. Go straight to the
police-station. Don’t wait to
get a hat or anything. Just
walk straight out of there and
go to the police-station and
ask for Mr. Keough, Tell him
—no, wait. Don’t walk. Call
a cab. I’ll pay for it. Tell the
driver to take you straight to
the police-station. Ask for
Keough. Tell him I sent you.
Tell him he’s to keep you there
while he rings me up here, at
the hospital. Tell him it’s about
Peters. You got that?”
“I’m scared. What”
“Kathy, no questions. Just
do it. You got to do it.”
“I’m to tell Mr. Keough to
keep me there and ring you up?”
“That’s right.”
“All right. I’ll go now.”
“Kathy, wait. If he isn’t
there tell them you’ll wait. You
got to wait there until he comes.
You got that?”
“Yes. All right. But I
wish”
“Before God, Kathy, it’s
urgent. Go right now, kid. Go
right now!”
“All right. I’m going. When
will I see you?”
“Tonight, maybe. But hurry,
kid, hurry!”
“I wish I was with you, Del.
Then I’d”
“Kathy! For God’s sake,
go!”
I hope I scared her plenty. I
hoped she’d call a cab and get
to Keough before I got back
to my bed.
In the bed I waited for Keough
to call me. I didn’t think of any-
thing except seeing Kathy in
the cab and getting out and
running into the police-station.
I lay in the bed and waited
for Keough to call me and there
was nothing else to think about.
Because I couldn’t think of any-
thing until I knew Kathy was
where Peters couldn’t get at her.
So I lay there and waited.
It was about twenty-past three
when Elaine brought me back
and it was maybe a quarter-past
four when I called Kathy up
at the hotel. Henry, the foot-
baller, wore a watch.
“Henry, you got the time?”
“About twenty-five past four.
Was you going somewhere?”
“Maybe.”
I lay back and shut my eyes
and waited for Keough to call.
“How’s the time, Henry?”
“Half-past.”
So she’s had fifteen minutes to
get there and see Keough. He
don’t call me in another fifteen
minutes I got to call him,
“What’s the clock say,
Henry?”
“Gee whiz, anyone’d think
it was your weddin’ day or
something. Just on twenty-to-
five.”
I get out of the bed and
put my robe and slippers on
and start for that telephone.
The nurse comes in and looks
at me and says something and I
just go past like she wasn’t
there. This is the one number
I don’t have to look for.
“Hullo, that the police?
Delaney here. Want to talk to
Mr, Keough.”
“Wait there.”
Then I hear his voice.
“Well, Delaney?”
“Mr. Keough, you got Kathy
Colter there?”
“Kathy Colter? No.”
“She been there?”
“Just a minute.”
I wait while he asks the other
Johns.
“No. She hasn’t been here.”
“Mr. Keough, she should of
been there. She left the hotel
maybe a half-hour ago to go
there.”
“Delaney, what’s, all this?”
I’m so worried now I’m near
screeching. I get a hold of
myself..
“Mr. Keough, you got to come
and see me right away. It’s
about Peters!”
“Ah. You got something?”
“I don’t know. Maybe. You
got to come here quick.”
“Cool down, Delaney. I’m
coming.”
“Listen. You come straight
away. Before you come get
your boys after Kathy Colter.
They got to find her, Mr.
Keough, they got to find her.”
“Cool down, cool down. I’ll
fix it. I’ll be there in ten
minutes.”
I put the phone down and go
back to the bed and get into it.
Tm in a sweat and shaking and
my legs like water. Because it’s
been a big day and I’m not right
at my top and got some shocks.
And now this. So I lie in the
bed and wait for Keough and
shake.
{To be continued next week )
DARK RIVER
O dark river
Take us down to the sea
Where no other shadow
But yours moves certainly.
One plunge of the heart
In your living wave
Opens the oldest retreat
And mystery we have.
Ferry then our silence
Deep deep down
O dark river.
Into your own.
Q-
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
A SONG
On seas of happiness go sailing
ships, walnut-shells, dreams.
With branches bent like wish-
bones, willows
go drowning to their knees.
Oh love, you little girl, my
darling,
do not be afraid of dreams.
With voices soft as willows, lovers
go drowning to the seas.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


SIMPLE HERALDRY
Cheerfully illustrated by lain Mon*
creiffe and Don Pottinger—explains
the Ancient Science of Heraldry in
a light -hearted and amusing way—
from the origins of armorials in the
Middle Ages down to the arms of
famous living personalities.
13/3 (post 9d.)
THE BOOK OF FURNITURE
AND DECORATION
by Joseph Aronson.
A revised edition of this famous
book which shows the evolution of
furniture through the influence of
history and climate, and gives practi-
cal information about woods and
fabrics, paints, lights* etc,
42/6 (post 1/11)
Write , ’ phone or call in for these , or any of the new books now available ot
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l.
INDEPENDENT COMPANY
by Lt.-Col. B. I. Cullman, D. 5.0., M.C
With cm Introductory Chapter by Nevil Shute and Foreword by Lt.-Gen.
Sir Vernon A. H. Sturdee, K.8.E., C. 8., D.S.O.
An authentic account of the exploits of the Australian 2/2 and 2/4 Independent
Companies in Timor. A splendid adventure story that makes a valuable contribution
to the history of the Pacific war.
24 pages of half-tone illustrations and 5 maps.
At all booksellers, 217-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
London : : Melbourne ; ; Sydney : : Auckland
Novels in Constant Demand
YOU’RE WRONG, DELANEY by Bant Singer 12s. Od.
DIGBY by David Walker 13s. 3d.
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
by Catherine Gaskin 13s. 6d.
SUNDRY CREDITORS .. by Nigel Balchin 13s. 3d.
Available from all booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
with the Lee Chengs that Major Camp-
bell’s police-court reporting fails; as
' Lee Cheng turns-in old comrade after
old comrade, the bare account of his
actions does not explain what makes him
tick.
Lee Cheng and others of his kind, how-
ever, did a lot of explaining about Com-
munist techniques; there is a remarkable
account of a day in the life of a Com-
munist bandit. The cooks go on duty at
4.30 a.m. At a dawn-whistle the bandits
get up, fully-clothed as they slept, and
do physical exercises on the parade-
ground.. The bandits then clean and tidy
the camp, then put in one or two hours at
drill or cleaning weapons. Breakfast at
8.30; then discussion of the bandits’ plans
and criticism of the leader; then lessons
in reading and writing and the daily talk
on Communism:
“At four o’clock we bathe. Liew Kim
Bok attaches great importance to keeping
clean After supper we have a sing-
ing lesson. This is a good time for
attacking a bandit camp. I often talked to
Liew Kim Bok about this [ex-bandit Chen
Yun speaking], but he thought that sing-
ing was very important for the morale and
he always took the risk.”
The book is rounded-off with the death
of Liew Kim Bok, sprung from his jungle
hideout, on© of the women that were his
“Achilles Heel” dead on the side of the
track, himself first seen running round in
circles screaming, his entrails popping out •
of a stomach-wound. He had taken
pleasure in burning informers alive in
omnibuses, and shooting daughters dead
in front of their informer-fathers.
Major Campbell’s purpose in this book
was to prove that the young Englishman
is as tough as he ever was; and he
certainly succeeds ; but he is as brilliant
a journalist as a propagandist, with an eye
for the unusual fact, as after the trial of
a bandit who had been taken with
weapons:—
I asked....how much it cost to get
this man hanged. He said it was a very
difficult figure to estimate but, when every-
thing had been considered, including the
man’s board and lodging while the case
was being prepared, She cost of police
guard, his lawyers, which the Government
paid for, and the cost of the court itself,
a very rough estimate would run at well
over £2OOO. 1 added-in the cost in time
and trouble of the witnesses. The total
gave me food for thought. A bullet
cost Hd.
The Soil
Soil Restoration, ; ‘by Edward Faulkner
(Michael Joseph, Robertson and Mullens),
is a continuation of Ploughman’s Folly,
a book of startling theories about the
soil and man’s ill-treatment of it which,
if true, have enormous possibilities for
Australia, where the same procedures
are at work as, according to Faulkner,
produced America’s dustbowls.
According to Faulkner, there are two
niggers in the woodpile. One is the ten-
dency of some scientists to consider farm-
ing practices from the grower’s viewpoint,
which is economic, and scarcely at all
from the standpoint of the health of the
consumer. The other is that once-
beneficent invention the mouldboard-
plough.
Nothing but the mouldboard-plough
could have broken up the magnificent
soil of the American prairies so quickly
and so well; but the mouldboard, when
it does a good job, turns the soil com-
pletely over, burying what organic matter
was originally in the surface to a depth
where the plants cannot reach it. At the
same time it forms a blotter which tends
to draw the moisture from the surface and
to interrupt the capillary action of the
moisture moving upwards from the sub-
soil to the surface.
Moreover, Faulkner asserts, though he
admits it isn’t proven, this column of
moisture should carry in solution to the
surface the celebrated trace-elements so
essential to plant-growth; and he be-
lieves that when the scientists found these
trace-elements absent in certain soils they
were there all right but had been shut
off—again the mouldboard-plough was
the culprit.
To prove his point, Faulkner bought a
farm of very poor soil and determined
to make a living off it without the
adventitious aids of science. He sold his
plough, bought disk-harrows, which could
only chop up the weeds and rubbish and
crop-residues into the first few inches of
the surface, and planted his vegetables
straight into this decaying rubbish. He
says that plants grow best ip the presence
of decay, as they do in the forest, which
nobody ploughs but which grows the
largest vegetables in existence.
His results amazed and bewildered his
nextdoor neighbor, a farmer who had
beaten him to better soil and who was
farming it in accordance with tradition
and the latest findings of the agricultural
institution. Faulkner’s crops were larger
in quantity, better in quality and, more-
over, tasted better; and he concluded that
the better taste was an indication that his
tomatoes and potatoes contained more of
the vitamins which the American con-
sumer is tending to buy more and more
in bottles from the chemist because he
isn’t getting them in the foodstuffs he
eats.
Faulkner never dusts or sprays because
his plants don’t get the multitudinous
pests that visit his neighbor and keep
him running to the agricultural chemists;
he considers that his plants have built up
their resistance to disease precisely as
do human beings. Also, what is of most
importance, his soil, to which he returns
nothing but the residues of the last crop,
is slowly getting richer while his neighbor’s
is .getting poorer, despite the aids of
science.
Soil Restoration is a report on this
seven-year attempt to demonstrate
Faulkner’s theory and seems to merit the
attention of the C.5.1.R.0. and similar
Australian institutions. It has a most
appreciative foreword from S. Graham
Brade-Birks, M.Sc. (University of
London), one of the leading agricultural
scientists of England.—M. G. S.
New Novels
The Honey Siege: Gil Buhet (Cape),
Novel translated from the French.
M. Griffon, widower and schoolmaster
of the Languedoc village of Casteil-
corbon, kept bees. One autumn night
someone robbed one of his hives. He
suspected the boys of his senior class,
not excepting his own son Georget, and
called for a confidential confession within
two days, failing which his pupils would
forfeit a holiday. Furious at the injustice
of the imputation, the lads retreated to
an old ruined fortress which overlooked
the town, drew in the drawbridge,
assumed chivalric titles, improvised a
food-supply and, gradually, became ex-
tremely bored. Meanwhile those hoary
old stock-characters who apparently
inhabit all French villages these days
paraded their various idiosyncrasies and
foibles, and in one way and another
managed to be tolerably amusing.
The Pike Beelzebub : Johan Fabricius
(Heinemann). Two long short-stories, the
title-piece and “Heartbreak in Flanders,”
are in this book, translated from the
Dutch by H. Schuurbecque Boeye. The
book is described as “Two variations on
a theme, one in major and one in minor.”
The theme is love “on the rebound.” In
“The Pike Beelzebub” the heroine is
Fanny, daughter of an innkeeper whose
hostelry is patronised by weekend fisher-
men ; and the comedy lies in what happens
when Fanny, spurned by a flashy lover,
allows herself to be wedded to the lusty
Toon, winner of a fishing-competition.
“Heartbreak in Flanders” ends in tragedy:
a wealthy banker marries a beautiful
young widow who has been deserted by
a scapegrace artist. The contrast between
the two tales is pointed by the clever
use of symbols ; a stuffed pike in one—
a petted tomcat in the other.
* * * *
Remaining a Stranger: Mary Voyle
(Heinemann). With this novel the pub-
lishers announce a new series of “specials”
to be published at lower prices. Remain-
ing a Stranger is a first book which opens
with a promise that is not sustained;
some hopeful characters turn out uncon-
vincingly and the writing becomes
strained. The setting is an English village
where Felicia, a woman of thirty, is joined,
after her mother’s death, by her brother
Guy, who is almost a stranger to her.
Guy, who had squandered his father’s
bequest to him, inherits the house, Felicia
the money. The local vicar, penniless,
loves Felicia from afar. Guy, from less
afar, loves the doctor’s niece, having
abandoned (remarkably painlessly for all
concerned) his London mistress. Every-
one, with the exception of the doctor and
his niece, indulges too much in self-search-
ing, even running to three pages on the
contentious subject of a drink before
dinner,
* * :I«
A Different Face : Olivia Manning
(Heinemann). Meticulously craftsmanlike
in writing and construction, with some
fully-conceived and well-drawn characters,
this novel suffers from being too fashion-
ably “bloodless” ; no person in it is ever
shown as “black” or “while” and the
greys tend to monotony. It concerns
Hugo Fletcher, who spent a bitter and
neurotic youth in Coldmouth, whence he
escaped to the Public Instruction service
in Egypt. As the book opens he returns
to the town, having spent his entire savings
on a mastership at a small preparatory-
school in his native town —a place he
still hates, but has to return to for various
psychological reasons. Even before he
arrives the school has failed, for reasons
which gradually emerge during the weeks
Fletcher stays with the defeated head-
master, Charles Martyn, and his ex-
actress wife. Coldmouth has been
bombed —the only parts of it which
retained a reality for Hugo in his memories
no longer exist and neither do his
parents nor, it seems, anyone he once
knew. As he discovers the truth behind
the school’s disaster, so he comes to some
sort of terms With himself. Whether his
future regeneration will hold is more-or-
less left for the individual reader’s
decision.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 254
Across
I—Flattering1—Flattering piano thus imitating
and blandly washing. (4-7) 1
6 —Boy is half careless. (3)
B—Not8 —Not befitting a clergyman rela-
tive named Richard and Albert.
(10)
10 — The Lord High Executioner
registers a couple of striking
successes. (4)
11 — Mislaying records making a
revelation. (10)
13—Use the scissors on haberdashery
returns. (4)
15 —Talk in German, though. (4)
17 —Seedy trumpeters what benefit
nobody? (3-4)
19— Bunkum. (3)
20 — Part of Victoria is always Ger-
man in Western Australia. (7)
21 — Star gave change. (4)
23 — Famous Christian Scientist in a
whirl dyed wrongly. (4)
24 — Throw pennies when a new actor
appears in an old show. (4-6)
26 Shields male and female articles
from Spain. (4)
27 — Where the wealthy live to make
a midshipman rue. (4, 6)
29—Brace. (2)
30—Moo-moo-moo or baa-baa-baa
or snort-snort-snort or any cliche.
(3, 6)
Down
1— Marine creatures have a pound
in a steamer. (6)
2 Bring all beams to the same
point. (5)
3 She has fifty and one who hasn’t
got a workman for a finish.
(10)
4 Is Yours Truly a Gallic friend?
(3)
5 Zero. (3)
6 Totalling when getting on a
horse to go a-hunting, perhaps.
(9)
7 Features of catspaws and street
robbers. (8)
9 —A night in France with a six-
footer who gets an annual pen-
sion? (9)
12 —Acid one to bark to a city of
the East Indies. (9)
14 —Knot a spice impediment. (5-5)
16 —Give weapons to a dope and ring
an edentate quadruped. (9) •
18—The most dulcet south and the
minute trial. (8)
22 —Money about recent changes in
the middle. (6)
25 —This girl is disorderly when
alone. (5)
27 Get outside of. (3)
28 — Girl upset a Tibetan ox. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 253


■d?
Australia Can Make It!
ANOTHER MARS ACHIEVEMENT
an
m
&
■
£ lTr - * » J
mmam.
■
. .
mp
I K ■ i-4?
MARS 14iln. ALL GEARED HEAD LATHE
The current delivery of the latest 1 in. Mars All Geared Head Lathe to Australia’s largest
mining enterprise represents an important milestone in the progress of the Australian Machine I 00l
Building Industry.
The unique lathe bed design of this unit takes the swarf away from the operator, thus reducing non*
producing periods to a minimum. A 5 ft, swing and a 30in. wide bed, provides an extremely high
operational capacity. The lathe is fitted with a force feed and magnetic filtered lubrication system.
Remember, this huge, powerful and positive lathe is wholly manufactured in Australia!
Two othef famous unit
/
tw# •
m
‘'V;:
IBS&* r*7r»E
MARS No. 4 UNIVERSAL MILLER
A fine and modern milling Machine with guaranteed accuracy and
outstanding quality. Rapid Power Traverse all movements. Wide
range of speeds and feeds. Built in electrics. Schlesinger standards
of accuracy. Complete with all accessories.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
MARS 10f/ll ALL GEARED
HEAD, S.S. & S.c. LATHE
Gap bed, hollow spindle, avail-
able to 12 ft. centres. Built to
Schlesinger limits of accuracy.
Manufactured of Meehanite
castings produced in Mars
Laboratory Controlled Meehan-
ite Foundry.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
f
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES
XV,A,i The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. VIC.; Herbert
Osbourne Pty. Ltd.. 567-560 Little Bourkc Street. Melbourne. N.S.W.: Herbert Osbourne Pty. Ltd., 100 Oxford Street, Sydney.
QLD.: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd. TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins Street. Hobart. INDIA (Bombay Province).
B, S. Mehta & Co.. Ali Cbrs.. Port Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
m
MACHINE TOOL
Manufactg. Co. Pty. Ltd
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
