

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
WELL DONE, MENZIES!
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74-No. 3817
Wednesday, April 8, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE LATE QUEEN MARY'S BIRTHPLACE, KENSINGTON PALACE
IN Kensington Gardens, at the western end of Hyde Park, is Kensington
Palace, a dignified red brick building which was a royal residence between
the years 1689 and 1760.
The original building was known as Nottingham House before its
purchase by William 111 from the second Earl of Nottingham in 1689. It
was reconstructed by the architect Christopher Wren for William and Mary,
and further alterations were carried out for George I (1714-1727) by William
Kent, the Yorkshire painter and gardener who laid out Kensington Gardens.
Both William 111 and his wife Mary died in Kensington Palace, as did
the next to ascend the throne, Queen Anne (1702-1714) and George II (1727-
1760). Following the latter’s death the Palace at Kensington ceased to be a
royal residence and its suites of rooms were occupied by junior members
of the royal family. One of the earliest of these was the Duke of Kent,
brother of George IV, and it was there that the Duke’s daughter, Victoria,
was born in 1819. Eighteen years later she was living at Kensington Palace
when she was aroused at night by the Archbishop of Canterbury to be told
that she had succeeded to the throne. The rooms which she occupied are
open to the public, and many mementos of her youth can be seen there.
In the magnificent State apartments are some fine examples of the work of
Grinling Gibbons. Some of the State rooms were damaged during the air-
raids of the Second World War. Those which were occupied by Princess
Beatrice now accommodate the London Museum since its removal from
Lancaster House.
It was at Kensington Palace that the late Queen Mary, mother of King
George VI, was born in 1867.


Learn
Stoni Writing
-M.W 1 V) of HOttE
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT BERE ANV
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B, 253) Age
The Red Page
IN DEFENCE OF BROWNING
After reading Betty Miller’s Robert
Browning (Murray) I am more than ever
convinced that the Freudian approach to
biography is worthless, and, when applied
to a great mind like Browning, positively
iniquitous.
Textbook psychology may have some
validity in dealing with mass reactions to
environment, upbringing and parental in-
fluence, but its rules cannot be adapted
to the distinctively individual mind. Most
of all, it becomes an exercise in back-
stairs logic when it seeks to unravel the
conscious states of those creative minds
by whose works consciousness has been
generated in mankind. To do so assumes
that Aischylus and Shakspeare were the
automatic products of their own works,
and were wandering in an intellectual
limbo till Freud came along and
explained the mechanism that made them
tick.
That is precisely Betty Miller’s atti-
tude to Browning. Like all Freudians,
she brings along her little textbook of
rules to explain Browning’s psychology
in terms applicable to a neurotic grocer.
Of course she goes straight to Brown-
ing’s relations with his mother to explain
the whole future conduct of his life.
Mothers, to Freudians, are monsters.
They corrupt and demoralise their off-
spring on some Satanic principle which
the Freudians themselves have never been
able to account for. All we can assume
is that Freudians are recruited from
people who saw something awful in the
maternal woodshed. Whether their sub-
ject loves or hates the mother, the effect
is equally destructive. Here is Betty
Miller’s application of the mother-and-
son formula as applied to Browning:
Browning loved his mother. First
significance.
His mother was deeply religious.
Second significance.
Browning’s first passionate re-
action to poetry was from the poetry
of Shelley. Third significance.
Shelley was an atheist. Fourth
significance; and Betty Miller has
her thesis intact to account for the
conflict in Browning’s mind between
his emotional and intellectual re-
actions to life—the conflict which,
according to this thesis, corrupted
the integrity of its expression in
poetry.
Having pained his mother in youth by
atheistical opinions inspired by Shelley,
remorse and bad conscience for having
done so forced him to reject the intellec-
tual for the emotional, and thereby (so
this biographer asserts) emasculate his
poetry by making concessions to popular
morality, Victorian prudery, social inter-
dictions and religious ethics... in Betty
Miller’s terms, “suppress and hold in
abeyance the deepest creative forces of
his being” and drive him to “analyse the
psychology of the charlatan by the
consciousness of charlatanism in him-
self.”
I refuse to go on enumerating instances
from Browning’s life and poetry by which
Betty Miller seeks to buttress up this
fatuous concept of Browning. They are
merely evidence that Betty Miller hasn’t
the dimmest understanding of Brown-
ing’s thought or his poetry, and conse-
quently his personality is a closed book
to her.
What she assumes to be evidences of
the corruption of his intellectual concept
of life are invariably selected from
evidence of the profundity of that con-
cept. All through Browning’s thought
runs the conviction that the image of life
transcends the factuality from which it
is derived ; that desire is a greater reality
than realisation, that knowledge is not
learned but already known, and that
what the ego builds of self-identity as a
state of consciousness is the concrete
reality of that identity in being. And
that exchange between image and actu-
ality is sufficient. We are not here to
find, but to seek. Where image and
actuality will fuse into one integration
is another matter. Browning carries it no
further than life on earth. For those
who seek to carry it further he releases
the derision of that staggering tour-de-
force of analytical surgery “Mr. Sludge
the Medium” ; one of the most strikingly
original poems in the English language.
All this to Betty Miller means that that
Browning has allowed the mother-love
motive to demoralise his intellect and
corrupt the creative integrity of his
poetry, and it is a typical Betty Millerism
that she should have selected “Child
Roland” as Browning’s consciousness of
that corruption. I do not think intellectual
stupidity can go further than this, for
in the whole range of poetry the pact of
integrity which the creator must make
with his own soul has never been so
starkly affirmed as in this poem: that
pact which must accept whatever chal-
lenge to it the “hoary cripple,” destiny,
may make, and which must revive effort
eternally under the black depression of
seeking an achievement which cannot be
attained. In addition to its own private
inferno, it must face also the massed
stupidity and spiritual sterility of man-
kind, with its hatred of all high achieve-
ment in art and all isolated greatness of
mind, and under its thin crust of a civi-
lised consciousness, the seething furies
of its genesis in barbarism...
_ . toads in a poisoned tank,
Or wild-cats in a red-hot iron cage—
Browning did not need the Belsen-camp
atrocities to write those lines.
The truth is, Betty Miller dislikes
Browning extremely. She snatches at any
triviality that belittles him and rejects
everything that dignifies him. She
accepts as documentary evidence things
said and ignores the validity of things
done. She stamps Browning as the male
subjective to the woman dominant be-
cause he wrote inflated nonsense to Eliza-
beth about subjecting his will entirely to
hers, while at the same time, in spite of
Elizabeth’s enfeebled protests, storming
that citadel of parental megalomania, the
Barrett mansion, and dragging Elizabeth
out of her self-imposed invalidism into
freedom and fresh air. He is “hopelessly
impractical” because he makes mistakes
in reading a railway timetable, but still
succeeds in carrying Elizabeth safely
across to Italy, making a home for her
there and even auditing the household
accounts with care.
Betty Miller accepts on Elizabeth’s
authority that Browning conformed to
the tenets of the Christian religion, but
does not record Browning’s indignant
“No” when asked point-blank by
Buchanan if he believed in Christianity.
In his youth she presents Browning as the
product of middle-class gentility, living
strictly within the ordinances of the
family circle, and endorsing its taboos
against loose conduct generally, and that
on the authority of a few refined spinster
ladies whose drawing-rooms Browning
was in the habit of visiting, but passes
with a bare reference his friendship with
Alfred Dommett and James Silverstone,
lively fellows with whom Browning
knocked about London, attending public
assembly-rooms where there were girls
to dance with, or dropping in at gipsy
camps on the way home to Camberwell,
where I haven’t any doubt that Brown-
ing picked up his Fifine for a guinea or
two..,
For myself, I regard that blank space
in Browning’s private life between
twenty and thirty as having more signifi-
cance to his poetry than any other period
of his life. It is the supremely formative
period in every man’s life, when he must
affirm or reject the adventure of life by
the one event that can award him the
accolade of complete manhood. Any
casual hoyden may serve to award that;
the more casual the better, for that sort
of affair involves no emotional complexi-
ties. Intelligent youth of that period may
entertain the most exalted 1 and lyrical
sentiments towards refined ladies, but the
nuisance is that refined ladies are hedged
about with social interdictions which put
them beyond the reach of bungling
amateurs in the advance amorous. Prac-
tice is required to give them assurance in
affairs of that sort, and where else are
they to get that assurance save from the
easily-approachable girls of the lower
social stratum? Fielding has provided
us with an immortal instance of youth’s
eternal complexity between lyrical senti-
ment and fleshly ardors in Tom Jones’s
relapse from sentimental adoration of
his refined Sophia into the arms of Molly
Seagrim.
Of course Browning had his experience
of casual love-affairs in common with
any other normally-sexed youth. He
certainly did not get his profound know-
ledge of women from drawing-room con-
versation with refined spinsters and
marriage with a confirmed invalid. When
he first appears as a documented figure
he is a handsome young man, a dandy,
and perfectly self-assured in any society.
All his life he was extremely attractive
to women, so much so that Elizabeth
once said that it was indecent the way
the women pursued him. Though he
retained a strong affection for Elizabeth
up to her death, all passion had faded
out of their marriage in the later years,
when Browning went out alone nearly
every night to parties and dances with the
gay society groups of Rome and Florence,
sometimes coming home at four in the
morning. Whatever may have been his
submerged relations with women at that
period has not yet been documented,
but if we accept Browning’s invitation to
go to his poetry for any revelation of his
private life we may find it significant that
in his poetry all the husbands deceive
their wives, while the wives stay at home
and passively put up with it. And it is
certainly Browning’s voice speaking
through the lips of Don Juan in “Fifine
at the Fair” who claims the right to
possess all women, for all women, from
Fifine to Helen of Troy, have a secret to
tell him.
The only part of Betty Miller’s
biography that has validity, to my mind,
is her analysis of Browning’s marriage.
Her understanding of Elizabeth’s place
in it is convincing, and she has satisfac-
torily exploded the legend of an enduring
love-affair by making it clear that Eliza-
beth’s death was a relief to both of them.
Elizabeth wanted to die and Browning
wanted to get back to poetry. Save for
“Mr. Sludge the Medium,” he had hardly
written a line for ten years. He had been
forced to endure the ordeal of seeing
Aurora Leigh proclaimed the greatest
poetry since Shakspeare—even greater
than Shakspeare—while his own work
was either attacked or ignored. The fact
that he created his greatest work, The
Ring and the Book, immediately after
Elizabeth’s death is the evidence of what
a stultifying effect she had on him, for
she had been extremely opposed to his
using the Franceschini murder as a theme
for poetry.
The only aspect of the Betty Miller
attack on Browning that needs to be re-
futed seriously is her insistence that he
corrupted the creative integrity of his
poetry by his Mother-Shelley conflict
and that he made concessions to Vic-
torian prudery and its popular morality.
Browning’s poetry itself refutes both
accusations. He wrote the greatest poetry
since Shakspeare, and he is the only great
Victorian who did not make any conces-
sions to Victorian ethics. Dickens de-
faced his work by submitting to them.
Tennyson is a concession from first to
last to popular sentiment. Only the per-
fect craftsmanship of his verse saves it
from extinction as the product of a com-
monplace mind. Thackeray is for ever
shaking his schoolmaster’s rod at any
infringement of the conspiracy of silence
over the simplest realities of sex. But
the poet who wrote “The Statue and the
Bust,” “Fifine at the Fair,” all the
imageries of physical caress that run
through the love-lyrics, and who could
write such lines as
Deep as drops from a statue’s plinth
The bee sucked in by the hyacinth,
So will I bury me while burning,
Quench like him at a plunge my yearning,
Eyes to your eyes, lips to your lips!
Hold me fast where the cincture slips,
was making no concessions to Victorian
prudery.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
D. H. Lawrence in Australia
Not long after I had “discovered”
D. H. Lawrence for myself and had
learned that he had visited and written
about Australia, I determined to explore
the country of his novel and find, if
possible, the house on the low cliff over-
looking the “huge rhythmic Pacific”
where, with his wife Frieda, he had lived
and worked.
A collection of Lawrence’s letters,
edited by his friend Aldous Huxley, con-
tains a photograph of the house, which
is called Wyewurk, not Coo-ee as in
the novel. These letters also supplied,
for me, the information that Lawrence’s
address had been Thirroul, on the N. S.
Wales South Coast, not “Mullumbimby”
as related in Kangaroo. This knowledge
apart, the novel, which I was reading as
I travelled in the train, was my only
direction, but the book proved to be a
true guide.
Lawrence must have sat in the train
and sketched-in the scenery all along the
way. You will find his description of
Sydney and its suburbs. Then “the waste
marshy places, and old iron and abortive
corrugated-iron ‘works’ —all like the Last
Day of Judgment, instead of a new
country.”
Botany Bay is there, Como, “that
curious sombreness of Australia, the
sense of oldness, with all the forms wor
down, low and blunt, squat, and t
sombre bush with its pale-stemmed du
leaved gum-trees, and great spiky thing
like zuccas.” It is the bush that mak
one of his characters say: “Most Au
tralians come to hate the Australian eart
before they’re done with it. If you ca
the land a bride, she’s the sort of brie
not many of us are willing to tackl
She drinks your sweat and your blooc
and then as often as not lets you down
does you in.”
Leaving the train at Austinmer, I started
out along the highway that goes over th
hills by the sea. As I crested the firs
rise a sleet of rain swept over the sea anc
the land. Through the rain 1 saw th
township of Thirroul. Somewhere, nea
the sea, was the place I had come t
find. Then I realised that many thing
could have happened since Lawrenc
lived there. I stopped on the rise anc
read a passage in the book: “A long hig
jetty straddling on great tree-trunk pole
out on to the sea—a spit of low yellow
brown land, grassy with a stiff littl
group of Noak’s Ark-trees and, furthe
in, a little farm-place with two fascinal
ing big gum-trees that stuck out thei
dark clots of foliage at the end of slim
upstarting branches,” There, sur
enough, was the scene in front of me
Not far from there would be the house
I assumed.
But when I descended into the town
ship, the houses, shops, and, over all, the
dark mountain at the back, closed in on
me. It seemed that after all those years
I could not hope to find the place,
turned in towards the sea, looking for
big red bungalow where the Lawrences
used to get their milk. Then, ahead of
me, I saw a group of coral-trees, “the
trees with the bright scarlet flowers perch-
ing among the grey twigs.”
A milk-cart with a boy driving it was
coming down the road. I waved to him
to stop and asked him if he had a house
called Wyewurk on his run. He saic
he had and gave me directions. I re-
membered that I would first see a white
gate. I cut across a grassy footpath
turned the corner and looked eagerly
down the road. I thought I could see
the gate. As the angle lessened I was
sure, “A brick house, with a roof of
bright-red tiles coming down very low
over dark wooden verandas—deep
verandas’ like eyelids half-closed.”
I w-as having some difficulty with the
loop on the gate, in my haste I was trying
to wrench it off, when I became aware
of a girl standing in the doorway watching
me. I tried to explain what I was about.
“I came to see this house—you see, a
writer named !■). H. Lawrence lived here
once. I wanted to see where he lived,” I
told her.
The girl seemed to think I wanted to
rent or buy the house.
‘‘Oh, wait and 111 get my father,” she
said, disappearing. So the father came
out to see what the trouble was.
“D. H. Lawrence?” he queried. “No,
I don’t seem to know that name.”
“Oh, yes, he lived in this house, I
know. Here,” I said, opening the book,
“here’s a description of it, the surround-
ings, everything. You couldn’t mistake
it.” ' ■ - -
The old man had been eyeing me as
he talked. “Well, you had better come
in and have a look around,” he said.
Lawrence’s bent windswept tree, bigger
now and thick in leaf, was thriving in the
middle of the lawn at the back of the
house. I talked to the old man and the
girl on the lawn above the sea, reading
out of the book to them descriptions of
the coastline spread out before us.
Beyond, where Lawrence’s little path still
led down through the ragged hedge, “the
great Pacific was rolling in huge white
thunderous rollers not forty yards away,
under the grassy platform of a garden.”
... “The morning was one of the love-
liest of Australian mornings, perfectly
golden, all the air pure gold, and the
great gold effulgence to seaward, and the
pure, cold pale-blue inland, over the dark
range.”
Afterwards, I walked alone on the wide
smooth beach in the late afternoon.
Where the sea ran back, leaving the sands
glistening wet, the beach was littered
with smooth, shining pebbles. The
purple-blue, transparent little bladders,
like Venetian-blown glass, which
Lawrence had described so surely, were
left lying in solitary places. I walked
under and past the jetty and stood on
the smooth rocks where Lawrence had
said his spirit would stand looking across
the sea.
The essential part of Lawrence’s writing
of Australia is praise, it is poetry in
prose. He was given the experience of
an Australian spring. He and Frieda
drove with a pony and sulky into the
bush in spring. The wattle was out.
(“Red Page’ continued on page 35)


t * mm,
mm®
X.
Cyclops Baby Chariot is a new idea in
strollers. ' Back rest gives baby added
comfort, enables him to sleep. It folds
neatly, compactly, light, too. £4/19/9
<■■■
SrSm
m*
mmm
i ... jg
Hi-lux High Chair makes meals a pleas'
ant event for your youngster. He’s well'
supported, so there s no strain on his
back. £l2/5/6.
' S:
’
Nala Babyminder, combination chair
table protects your baby yet allows him
to play with blocks, etc., on the table.
Tumble'prooi. fitted castors, lac. cream.
£ll/11/-.
Nursery furniture isn’t expensive
when you buy ou Anthony Horderns’ easy terms
Buy all your children’s nursery furniture at the one time and still budget! By paying only
a small deposit, you take immediate delivery of any nursery furniture in our
Store. You pay off the balance in easy payments over one to three years. Our buyer has to
pass every single article for safety before we will sell it! That guarantees complete safety for
your children, your budget, too! Furnish your nursery our way ... you pay the least price
for the most quality!
6X (
3 #
« i
M * *, '-3
■
IK
: :
: .:>::v;
jps iHPi pin
:
'
xx - ; : •
: ; x-- ; :
x X:
W *m
Mm
. V x
X xj:
5/i
1
:•:
" »;
'■ ■
:~'h
m
% -’■X:X ; X;;::X
Tables and Chairs for Tiny Tots. 2, 3 and 4'year-olds adore
these tables, chairs. The specially small size enables a kiddie to play
comfortably without danger of falling, injuring himself. Wooden
seats on chairs, metal table top (pretty transfers on it). £3/12/-,
Stork Car Seat keeps baby safe while you’re driving in a -car.
Keeps him off upholstery, away from controls; supports him
comfortably. Green, fawn, or blue flecked canvas. Only 33/-
Stork Basinette woven in open weave cane to give air to your
baby while sleeping; stops basinette from becoming musty in damp
weather. Detach it from stand and you have an easy'to'carry car
basket, lacquered cream. Mosquito net bar fitted. £5/18/-
Desk and Stool (for children up to 9 years); makes homework
something to look forward to; keeps room tidy. Transfers, too!
Inkwell, pen and pencil recess. Amazing value at £5/16/3
Panel and Cot. 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in.; can be collapsed down for
easy handling. Finished in a glossy lacquer, plated siderails, and,
of course, two ply woven wire attached. Priced at only £ll/16/-
■ : :
m.
T.
m
m
W-
■f
M
ilii
m
muss
II
x : St
tk TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
Anthony Horderns
Eft*
NURSERY FURNITURE, FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Grounds for Protesting
I'm Deaf, Not Silty
By LIONEL BARRIE
‘ ‘ I WANT a grey mumble —I’ve for-
gotten my size,” announced the
| customer who approached me in
the men’s hat department where
I’d been employed ever since my recent
Army discharge.
“I’ll soon find out your size, sir,” I
confidently stated as I deftly removed his
hat from his head and placed a measur-
ing-gadget within the sweatband.
The expression of wonder which im-
mediately changed his face plainly indi-
cated that once again I’d wrongly guessed
the meaning of the word “mumble.”
“You did ask for a grey hat, didn’t
you, sir?”
“No. A grey shirt.”
“Oh! My mistake, sir. The shirt
department is near the door as you come
in.”
Similar mistakes in the weeks ahead
led me to believe that the hearing defect
which had terminated my military career
would also prevent my climbing to dizzy
heights as a retail-store salesman, so I
went to work in a factory where there
was so much noise that nobody tried to
talk above it.
Away from the noise, I adapted myself
to living in a world where people said
such irritating things as;
“Are you going to umphum to-
morrow?”
“Ereruh was splendid.”
“Hand me from the* back pssst,
please.”
“Could you direct me to
street?”
Although I always give the seekers of
directions another opportunity to let
me know where they want to go, I haven’t
directed anybody to unheard-of places
for years.
After I’d learned that sound-reception
was better on one side than the other, I
ensured that speakers were always kept
beside my right ear, even though that
did sometimes call for vigorous
gymnastics which must have seemed
pointless and perplexing to those who
didn’t know my trouble was physical,
not mental.
Life became even more trying for me
when that ear gave up the ghost without
first indicating that it might do so. Un-
aware that it had changed from being
partly useful to merely ornamental, I
continued with my gymnastics and, with
redoubled vehemence, cursed the appa-
rently ever-increasing incidence of
mumbling.
Awareness of its purely decorative
status came only when I scratched and
blocked its companion while travelling
in a noisy underground train. I found
that instead of having ears which could
be designated “best” and “worst” I
possessed one that was entirely useless
and another not much better. (When my
wife tells me a joke, the woman next door
laughs.)
Within a few weeks of alighting from
that train I’d come sadly to realise that
those with defective hearing can never
appear intelligent to strangers, and that
strangers and casual acquaintances cannot
be bothered with making themselves
understood, even if this entails merely
careful speech.
Deafness will prevent a wit from join-
ing in an exchange of wisecracks at a
convivial gathering. A deaf person
appears to know nothing, due to his in-
ability to participate in general discus-
sions. It is possible to participate in
sport without hearing, but every sport
has its social side and its post-mortems
on performances. Without hearing,
there’s no way of being in a debate con-
cerning the present champion’s ability, as
compared to the star of yesteryear.
Convention demands that trite and
trivial remarks be answered, and even a
puerile reply is more welcome, and more
highly regarded, than is a blank stare or
no acknowledgment at all.
The public knows little about the very
real problems of the deaf; many, even
in these enlightened times, obviously can-
not comprehend that deaf and partly-
deaf persons would like to be able to
hear, but don’t hear very well. I wonder
why they tell us “You want to get your
bloody ears fixed up,” yet refrain from
advising the blind to “Watch where
you’re going!”
Upon accepting the fact that hence-
forth I would be regarded as a bit dense,
I ceased to worry and can appreciate
the humorous side of the many situations
into which “crook” ears have precipitated
me. However, I don’t believe I’ve ever
appeared as silly as the chap who asked
for a grey shirt in a department where
nothing but hats were displayed.
But sudden questions and comments,
apropos of nothing, or at the wrong
time and in the wrong place, allied with
general conversation which unexpectedly
veers from the subject, all combine to
put a vacant stare on my face. My ex-
pression becomes even sillier when I en-
counter those who speak while eating
cigarette-butts; those whose natural lip-
line has been changed by artificial teeth,
or loss of teeth, or fear of ill-fitting
dentures; the moustache-growers; and
the legions of the careless who ask:
“Avenue got none a tall?” or “Wotz th
daylhov terday?”
When the Repatriation Commission
agreed that, as I’d been fit Class A 1 upon
enlistment, perhaps there was some justi-
fication for my claim, I received a pen-
sion-book and hearing-aid.
And then started my days of stowing
batteries, wires and a microphone about
my person and endeavoring to pluck
comprehension out of a background of
normal noises which I’d forgotten
existed, and an accompanying confusion
of static-like electronic sounds ; the latter
mainly caused by clothing continually
rubbing against the microphone.
A hearing-aid does not give the equiva-
lent effect of anew pair of ears, but it
affords considerable relief from strain
when speakers co-operate.
I’ve worked with one who, without
spectacles, would need to be led around
by the hand, yet with glasses he followed
a perfectly normal life ; I’ve been beaten
in a race downstairs by the wearer of a
“tin” leg ; and I’ve admired a beautifully-
kept cricket scorebook compiled by a
man who held the pencil with an artificial
hand —and I’d willingly exchange dis-
abilities with any one of them.
It’s very rarely that any one of the
five aids I’ve used has ever caught a
word that wasn’t directed precisely at
me; this despite the fact that all the aids
are reputable makes and the defect in
the ear which holds them is scientifically
assessed as only “moderate.”
The major fault of hearing-aids is that
they are too good. When the sounds
made by a typewriter, passing traffic, a
giggling flapper and a number of voices
speaking simultaneously all travel along
one wire and reach the ear together, it’s
time to switch off and take no further
interest in the conversation. That’s why
I’m regarded as unsociable, in addition
to stupid.
I’m certain that the Devil himself
chooses the moments that my aid is to
fail. His order of preference is (1)
Friday night, (2) whenever I’m scheduled
to meet V.I.P.s at work, and (3) if I
venture more than 50 miles from home.
No other times are regarded as suitable.
This means that I (1) cancel all social
engagements for the weekend and write
letters applying for admission to Trap-
pist monasteries, (2) cause business
tycoons to wonder how my firm has
managed to exist for 70 years, and (3)
return home, with my wife acting as
interpreter en route.
Yes, I now have a job where I some-
times meet V.I.P.s, but only Death, A
Manpower Shortage and A Tremendotis
Stroke Of Luck enabled me to get it. I
couldn’t hope for my three allies again to
unite and get me a comparable job, there-
fore I must hold down my natural spirit
of independence while my boss sticks
pins in it.
The hearing-aids supplied by cinemas
are godsends, when they work, and
when one has mastered the various tech-
niques for obtaining them. At some
theatres (very few) it is only necessary
to ask, and one will be brought to the
seat. At these places I generally know
when the last reel has only another five
minutes to run, because at that time an
usherette will stand near by and direct
a torch-beam on to my skull, thus ensuring
that the aid is returned in time for her
to catch her usual bus home. Sometimes
I can’t help feeling that I’d like to hear
the final little bit of sound-track.
At other shows a deposit is charged,
and the various techniques include one
of buying tickets at one box-office, join-
ing another queue at a second box-office
to obtain the aid, and, finally, it is re-
turned to the manager’s office for the re-
turn of deposit, this taking place after he’s
located in another part of the building.
I consider that by learning and re-
membering the multiplicity of complex
methods of obtaining aids, hearing, for
the use of persons, deaf, I’ve established
my claim to being merely deaf—not
stupid.
Using theatres’ aids with faulty con-
nections and frayed wiring can lead to
attacks of cramp, for any movement of
the head is likely to result in silence.
And a trained, delicate touch is needed
on the volume-control of such aids, as
adjustments are likely to bring about a
momentary silence followed immediately
by a blast of sound that makes me long
for either a greater degree of deafness
or a heart-to-heart chat with the theatre’s
sound-engineers. Having adjusted the
volume, it is sometimes necessary to leave
the fingers on the knob with exactly the
ROSE LINDSAY'S
MEMOIRS
“Visitors to Springwood,” in the
next instalment of Mrs. Rose
Lindsay's fascinating memoirs,
include Melba and Beverley
Nichols (an unforgettable depic-
tion), a Prince of Siam and his
delightful Princesses, and other
distinguished personages. Kreis-
ler, George Lambert and Howard
Hinton all figure in this sparkling
gallery.
In next week’s “Bulletin.”
same pressure and position they had when
the desired result was achieved, otherwise
amazing things might happen to the ear-
drum.
Should the reader ever see a deaf
person with a decided list to one side
emerging from one particular Sydney
Castlereagh-street cinema, it can be taken
for granted that the lopsided effect was
caused by using an aid which had an
extra-short length of flex leading to the
earpiece.
No theatre charges for this service,
which is available at all sessions—in the
dearest seats. That’s why I’m not plan-
ning family additions while the present
high standard of motion-pictures is main-
tained.
As I cannot depend on hearing to let
me know what’s going on around me at
work, my eyes roam continually. This
practice was responsible for precipitating
me into one of the awkward situations
mentioned earlier. A .
stenographer with a fertile imagination
misunderstood my reason for staring.
After I’d wriggled out of the situation
as gallantly as I could, she told me I was
a silly boy.
But I’m deaf, not silly.
Intelligence-test for an Intelligence-tester
1-—You ask a subject of one of
your tests, as a routine question, to
instance four occupations which
might reasonably be categorised as
dead-end jobs in the order of their
usefulness, if any, to the community,
He lists these as: (1) process-work-
ing ; (2) constructing buffers at the
end of railway-platforms; (3) bar-,
bering at Parliament House; (4)
f ° r r Z g m
subjec s of mte hgence-tests. Would
wn% B ‘ Ve h ' m
9 n,,K r ;J g ‘, ,
„,n'7. •? .1 r san5 an H a ar ,7’
S J * a I , Marmaduke.
, r rC to ., stand on a
frutt-case placed on its sale on
slightly sloping ground, the slope
facing north-west, on a very windy
day and Just after he had eaten a
hearty meal, the top of his head if
he were wearing a very old bowler-
hat which had a feather in the left-
hand side, would be im. above a
6ft fence. How tall would Steve
be ; ™ a . .
p’ + T he , q ulc k-mental-reaction
test to which you submit a subject
requires him to place in the holes
made to take them 12 round and 12
square pegs. The average time for
doing this correctly is 18 seconds.
At the end of two and a half minutes
he has succeeded in putting five
round pegs in the square holes and
seven square pegs in the round holes.
Explain your reasons for the strong
recommendation you would make for
him to join one of the public services,
4. At a boarding-school to which
you go you subject all the senior
pupils to an exhaustive series of
tests, and after it is over they invite
you to stay for a party. Included
in the games played is one in which
you are required to sit blindfolded in
a chair. One of them is to make a
noise with a household implement
near you and you are to try to recog-
nise it. Your first two attempts—
an egg-whisk and a tin-opener—are
not successful, but you hit* it with
your third, a pair of scissors. You
return home naturally gratified at
this demonstration of your own high
1.Q., but your wife asks you what
you have done to your tie. You see
in the mirror that it has been cut
off an inch below the knot. Would
you connect this strange occurrence
with the sound that you had so bril-
liantly pinned down at the school?
5. —For years you have employed
A and B as the two chief characters
in your tests. You have developed a
particularly warm affection for them,
they having given you years of un-
stinted and patient service in a wide
range of capacities, from inlet- and
outlet-pipes of a water-tank to
farmers who respectively grow oats
and wheat. A subject to whom you
put a question concerning them flatly
refuses to answer it. When you ask
him his reason he states that he is
allergic to the first two letters of the
alphabet. The thought of using any
other two alphabetical characters is
repellent to you as savoring of dis-
loyalty to a couple of faithful re-
tainers. How would you resolve this
threatened impasse?
6 ._ Atter 30 years of giving I.Q.
tests £or the Department
reach the retiring ag £ you
decide 10 8° to work and obtain a
position as a temporary clerk with a
big city firm. The managing-direc-
to ® h J a most unusual » a * e and
face, and both seem familiar to you.
At last remember that he wa ’ an
old subject of yours when in his final
at school, and that you had told
£ im exasperate dly after his test that
if he h^d twi ' e brains he
ossessed he would be about arter .
£ itted and ou predicted J, at he
would ’ nevs . r g £ od for anything
exce p t pjck-and-shovel work. Would
you feel impelled to seek an inter-
vjew w ith him so as to refresh his
me on thi int?
.
'■ * ou return home after one of
wor st days you can remember,
The subjects of your tests not only
proved to be as utterly hopeless a lot
of dumb-bells as you have ever
handled, but were the most tantalis-
*nS- You no sooner get inside the
door than your own hopeful rushes
op and asks you to help him with his
homework, the chief task of which is
to write an essay on the importance
obtaining a high intelligence
quotient. Coincidentally with this
request and your rising gorge your
e Y e lights on the lad’s cricket-bat in
corner, almost to your hand,
What would you do?
B.—Your wife returns home one
afternoon from a day’s shopping and
you notice that she is limping badly,
She assures you it is not due to the
rheumatism in her shoulder. Some
time later she complains that the
shoes she bought the day she came
home crippled are too small. You
elucidate that she got them a size
smaller than usual because the others
made her feet look too big. She also
wore them straight home from the
shop that day. Would you deduce
anything from the concatenation of
circumstances?
9.—As a consultant you are
approached by a father whose four-
year-old son, on being asked why
he had sawn off the leg of the lOOgn,
radiogram, replied that he wanted to
see how it looked that way. The
father had refrained from punishing
the child because of the logic and
frankness of the answer. , To whom
would you apply the I.Q. test as
asked for; the father or the child?
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 8, 1953
Vol 74—No, 3817
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,'Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington,
WELL DONE, MENZIES!
The first post-war Menzies-Fadden Government came
into office in December, 1949. Until April, 1951,
its efforts at government were again and again blocked
by a hostile Senate. Having got a double-dissolution
from Governor-General McKell, in April, 1951, it was
given a mandate by the people to go ahead with its
policy—mainly to deal with Communism, to settle
industrial unrest, to check inflation, and to remove
the hand of Socialism as far as possible from private
enterprise and the banking system as well as to prepare
adequate military defences for the country.
In the short period of two years in which it has
had the numbers in both Houses with which to carry
out its policy the Menzies Government has done great
things. With more co-operation from the people, the
Press, State “Labor” Governments and the trade-
unions, in their own interests, it could have achieved a
great deal more. But some Australians have short
memories. The almost fervent relief with which the
impressionable section of the voting public received
the news of Mr. Menzies’s first victory has been
replaced by a peevish querulousness because miracles
have not been performed, or perhaps because uranium
has not been harnessed to do all our work for us and
guarantee “social security.”
The “Labor” party, Parliamentary and trade-
union, was determined from the outset that the
Menzies Government should not be allowed to govern.
Mr. Calwell, earlier so eager to pluck the banking,
fowl, with gleeful haste announced that no assistance
would be forthcoming from himself or the trade-
union movement so far as Mr. Menzies’s efforts to
maintain the value of the pound were concerned. Just
as the “Labor” majority in the Senate during the first
short term of office in larrikin style blocked the Gov-
ernment’s legislation regardless of its popular mandate,
so “Labor” Governments in the States set out to
frustrate every effort by the Federal Liberal-C.P. Gov-
ernment to “put value back into the pound,” Mr.
McGirr and Mr. Cahill in particular, through their
public squanderings and their inefficiency, failed to
support the production drive and deliberately set out to
obstruct free-enterprise government.,
And a shocking—not to say vicious and lying—
opposition has been raised by sections of the Aus-
tralian Press and by pressure-groups apparently
because the Federal Government was not able to keep
runaway inflation of incomes going with one hand
while, with the other, it stopped inflation in costs and
put “value” back into inflated pounds. It can only be
assumed that money had come so easily to so many
people for so long that ideas existed that value could
be retained in, or even restored to, our currency with-
out increasing* production per head and cracking-
down on money-inflation as well as on costs-inflation.
The Menzies Ministry took office when the black-
market was the nursery of widespread crime, when
industry and the people were threatened with a
complete Socialist banking monopoly in their day-to-
day life, when indiscipline in industry was so great
that any Communist trade-union secretary appeared
to have more authority than the Prime Minister.
Under Federal “Labor,” too, the liberty of the subject
had been a doubtful quantity, as the brutally treated
Australia-Firsters had found out, and the good name
of no decent citizen was secure in a “Labori’-dominated
Canberra.
Rafferty, Communism and “militant” unionism
ruled in Canberra up to December, 1949. Any citizen
who did not toe the party-line or contribute to union
funds had a poor show if he came up against party
“policy.” Peter Dargin, the union-victimised Portland
(N.S.W.) butcher who eventually shot himself, was an
example of that.
It was not until the Liberal-C.P. Ministry
took office that coupon-books were at last
thrown away, and with them a source of
great social evil. Before the Menzies Govern-
ment took over in 1949 the country’s industries
had become badly run-down, and Communist union-
leaders thumbed their noses at authority. Strike
followed strike in key industries, and production of
essential commodities, such as coal and steel, fell far
below what had easily been achieved in war-time.
Chaos reigned in transport and in power-supply. Once
the Menzies-Fadden coalition had a majority in the
Representatives and the Senate and legislation was
introduced to deal with Communist disruption a change
came. The chief Communist industrial wrecker,
Comrade Ernie Thornton, of the Ironworkers,
left for Peking and has never come back. Open
sedition and contempt of law were answered with jail
THE RAIL-HOG
sentences. Though, through the work of Dr. Evatt
and his “Labor” party, accompanied by a red-hot
effort from the Communist party, the Liberals’ Anti-
Red legislation was rejected by the people at a
referendum, an amendment to the arbitration laws by
the Menzies Ministry resulted in the secret ballot in
trade-unions becoming effective, though voting secretly
had always been opposed by the “Labor” party. One
prompt result of the secret ballot was the throwing-out
of the Communist leadership in the Federated Iron-
workers’. Other unions have acted similarly.
The Federal Government has brought peace to
industry to an extent not seen in Australia for a
dozen years. But to steer industrial effort in the direc-
tion most obviously indicated by shortages of essential
materials, and to provide for defence —always infla-
tionary—-in 1951 it was decided to control national
expenditure by financial restrictions and by increased
taxation, including the raising of sales-tax rates on
what were considered to be unessential goods. A few
months later, because of the fall in the price of wool
and of the enormously inflating cost of overseas goods
entering the country, it was decided to restrict imports
—drastically in the case of less essential items.
All these moves were bound to excite criticism
from vested interests and pressure-groups and from a
Press which insists on a controversy or a sensation a
day. The Government’s policy was kicked and damned
by many of those who had been crying out for a show
of “statesmanship” on the part of their political
leaders, but who couldn’t stand it when they got it,
because it hit their pockets, and not just the other
fellow’s. What the Menzies-Fadden Government did
during 1951 and 1952 was the most statesmanlike act
Australia has seen for many a day. Its policy was
bound to be unpopular, but it went ahead with it
because it was the only policy constitutionally avail-
able with ,which to deal with our falling production-
rate and our soaring costs.
Results have been most impressive. Coal output
has risen to over 19 million tons a year, compared
with under 15 million tons in 1948-49. Steel produc-
tion is now at the rate of 1,900,000 tons a year, against
1,178,000 tons in the Chifiey Government’s last year.
Output of nearly all essential commodities has risen in
like manner. Further, the balance of trade has be’en
righted, and it has been possible to relax import
restrictions, as well as controls over credit. The con-
gestion in ports and harbors has eased because the
loading and unloading of vessels is much quicker than
it was hitherto. Only State-managed transport systems
haye fallen back in efficiency over the past two years.
'The most convincing result of all this has been
the stabilising of the cost of living. Though the
Liberals and the Country party came into power just
when the full inflationary effect of the 40-hour week
(effective from the beginning of 1948) was beginning
to make itself felt, to which was soon to be added the
Arbitration Court’s award of a 205.-a-week
“prosperity” loading, the last basic-wage award shows
that cost-inflation has been halted. And this has been
achieved in spite of the load which the 40-hour week
still imposes upon the economy. Meantime real wages
(based on buying-power) of trade-unionists have
increased 5| per cent, under Liberal-C.P. government.
The Government’s effort in defence has perhaps
been its greatest aiccess. Its National Service scheme
has run smoothly, and is highly popular with the
trainees. The Regular Army for the first time in Aus-
tralian peace-time history has become more than a
staff corps. The three proud battalions which were
born of the Occupation Forces in Japan and which
have seen, or are seeing, front-line service in Korea have
earned a reputation of which Australia can be proud.
The Navy and the Air Force are in equally sound
condition. At Woomera one of the world’s biggest
secret-weapon bases, joint British-Australian effort.
has advanced techniques in relevant matters to an
extent vital in importance to the security of this
country; and the industrial defence position is grati-
fying considering all the circumstances.
To pay for defence and assist general policy the
increase in tax on personal incomes in the 1951 Budget
was 10 p.c. In the 1952 Budget this surtax was
removed; now, by virtue of increased statutory and
concessional deductions, income-tax rates in Australia
are the lowest they have been for 10 years. A man
with a wife and two children who had an income of
£{ooo in 1948-49 (the last year of Chifiey government)
paid £129 6s. a year in income tax; today he pays
£B3 4s. on that income. Most sales-tax increases
affecting luxury items still stand.
In assessing the achievements of the Federal
Liberal-C.P. Government it is necessary to sort out the
different fields of Government effort and Constitutional
power. The State Governments still have sovereign
powers over most industrial activities, and the effects
of the “Labor” Administrations in. N. S. Wales,
Queensland and Victoria stand as a black blot in the
story of our efforts at economic rehabilitation. The
40-hour week, it should be understood, is the result of
an award by the Federal Arbitration Court, a body
independent of politics or Administrative acts. The
Federal Government did not introduce the 40-hour
week; nor has it any power in peace-time to alter it
by independent action. State Governments, on the
other hand, have power to alter working hours under
State awards; the McGirr Government did, in fact,
introduce the 40-hour week to N. S. Wales in advance
of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court’s decision.
What the Menzies-Fadden Government has
achieved in its short term of office has been won in the
teeth of bitter, often larrikin, opposition from the
Federal and State Parliamentary “Labor” parties.
And Dr. Evatt, leading “Labor” in the Federal sphere,
has made it quite clear that he intends to revert to a
system of supplementing tax revenue and loan-raisings
with as much bank-credit as he thinks necessary in
order to maintain what he calls “full employment” if
he should become Prime Minister under “Labor.”
With Dr. Evatt’s economic policy in operation infla-
tion will rage as it has never done previously, and the
cost of living will soar to heights not seen before in
this country. Price-control, which is the Socialists’
one answer to inflation, cannot possibly cope with a
full-employment policy based on bank-credit expan-
sion.
Mr. Menzies, a Liberal, has reached maturity in a
generation when political materialism and Short-
sighted opportunism have never been more pronounced.
He has stood out against political humbug,
though it is always difficult to repair damage
already done by a Socialist Ministry. He is no paragon
of all the political virtues: in matters of detail his own
Government has made mistakes, and there inevitably
have been differences of opinion between himself,
1 reasurer Fadden and other members of both parties.
Nor has he the cunning or easy familiarity of some of
his political opponents. 0 But one thing is clear: at this
time he stands without peer as an Australian political
leader of capability, sincerity and democratic integrity,
and one with ability to take his seat alongside the
leaders of the other countries of the world.
The Menzies-Fadden Government, whatever its
shortcomings, has tackled Australia’s economic and
social post-war problems with great courage and no
small measure of administrative ability, even if not
with all the political adroitness that some of its more
impatient supporters might like to see. It deserves
the full confidence and trust of the Australian people.
The national problems ahead t)f us will demand, above
all things, political honesty, commonsense leadership
and plain-speaking. The Socialist confidence-tricksters
are incapable of giving us any of those things.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Return From Korea
For the first time a battalion which has
been fighting in Korea is being welcomed
-home in a body this week iand given
a chance to display itself to Australians.
The First Battalion of the Royal Aus-
tralian Regiment is not the veteran Aus-
tralian unit df Korea. It has been there
a little over a year, but it has come back
seasoned and experienced in modern
fighting-ways after having been in a line
in which the world’s most important
modern armies are represented.
The complete battalion marched
through Brisbane on Monday. Queens-
land members then went on leave and
the remainder of the troops sailed for
Sydney on the New Australia. For the
march through Sydney today they will
be joined by available members of the
Third Battalion, which was the “old
original,” arid which has been relieved in
bits and pieces and remade so that it now
includes few of those who went out with
it when Korea was still a real war with
major battles and retreats and advances
instead of a defensive stalemate.
The occasion serves to remind Aus-
tralia of the significance of the war and
of the importance of defence. We have
been involved in it for three years, and it
has cost more 18,000,000. We have
now three battalions of infantry which
have been involved. No. 77 Squadron of
the R.A.A.F. and ships of the R.A.N.
C.M.F. officers have been sent to the
front for experience, and many arms of
the service have added to their knowledge
of methods on Korean service. It has
been the custom to send out members of
other arms to obtain front-line experi-
ence with the infantry. They come back
with a wider knowledge of the technique
of all-arms co-operation.
Whatever the cost in men and money,
the Korean war means that if major hos-
tilities were to break out we should not
be in the position which applied at the
beginning of other great wars—that all
officers were unblooded in recent fight-
ing and out of date in battle experience.
All Australian troops are benefiting by
the first-hand war-front training of keen
young men who have been recently fight-
ing, these ranking from privates up to
battalion-commanders. The 13th Train-
ing Battalion, National Servicemen, for
instance, is under command of Lieutenant-
Colonel Ferguson, who commanded
the Third Battalion in Korea.
Lieutenant-Colonel Frank Hassett, who
a year ago was in command of
our front-line battalion, is about to go
to Duntroon as Director of the Depart-
ment of Military Art. And through all
branches Korean veterans are scattered,
disseminating their knowledge.
Of these veterans it can be said that
they are certainly giving Australian tax-
payers value for their money. The repu-
tation of the Australians for dash, in-
genuity and enterprise in the front line
is almost too good—as one American
general remarked, they are “always
chafing at the bit, and there is no need to
egg them on to fight.” The difficulty has
been to restrain their aggressiveness in
periods of quiescence. Their standing
has been shown by their being placed with
other picked troops of the British Com-
monwealth forces in a key position in
the line and'by the keenness with which
their patrolling and other methods are
studied by the commands of other forces.
As individuals they are physically better
than the general standard of U.N.O.
troops, and their equipment, provision-
ing and medical services are now very
fine, and will give a magnificent basis of
organisation and method from which to
work in the event of a wider conflict.
Australia has every reason to be proud
of its Korea force and grateful to all
* who have served in it., Sending it has
been worth while in increasing national
prestige and providing a grim but prac-
tical school —the school of war, which is
the only one really worth while for finish-
ing soldiers for war.
The cost has been sad and heavy in
lives, wounded and sick, but our part in
the affair has been unavoidable. It was
a matter of solemn obligation to provide
a force. And it is a matter of pride that
those who died and those who returned
from the fighting were alike volunteers
entitled to the gratitude of their fellow-
citizens.
They have been as much involved in
defending the Commonwealth as if they
had been repelling actual invasion. There
is little doubt but that the Korean aggres-
sion was organised from Moscow as a
first step in the drive for the control of
the Pacific. If this drive had not been
halted by our own and other troops we
would almost certainly have been in-
volved already in other conflicts much
nearer home. But the U.N.O. Army in
Korea held back the Red tide.
Is There an Evatt Plan?
So confident is “I_,abor” of victory at
the Senate election next month and the
Reps poll next year that the tall poppies
of the party—the old hands who have
tasted Ministerial power before and the
up-and-coming young-’uns who haven’t,
but want to —are busy picking port-
folios for themselves. It’s harmless
enough as a parlor pastime, but it can
lead to complications and even to the
shattering of beautiful friendships when,
for instance, two or more would-be
Cabineteers choose the same portfolio.
If there is any truth in what appears to
be a well-grounded rumor from Can-
berra, this position seems to be looming
up in connection with the Treasurership
in “Labor’s” shady—er—shadow Cabinet.
While J. B. Chifley was alive there was
never any doubt as to who was to hold
the purse-strings if “Labor” returned to
power, though the late Prime Minister
did at various times appear to be groom-
ing a deputy or successor—McKenna
was in the running for a while; also
Burke. Since the death of Mr. Chifley
the “Labor” party has been suffering
from a surfeit of would-be Treasurers,
some more vocal than others. Noisiest
of the lot, of course, has been Arthur
Calwell, who has made it quite obvious
that he believes he knows all the answers
to the economic problems of the age.
Most people with any regard for the
economic stability of Australia would
agree that it would be difficult to imagine
a greater calamity than Calwell at the
Treasury—unless it were having Ward
there. But that is because no one ever
thought of picturing Bert Evatt as
Treasurer. And that is the prospect that
now presents itself.
It has been generally considered that
if “Labor” were returned to office Evatt
would content himself with adding
External Affairs to the Prime Minister-
ship, but last week came a report that he
had set his heart on the Treasury. It
is only in the last 12 months that the
Doc. has shown any real interest in
finance, and he * makes pretty heavy
weather of it when he touches on the
subject in debate, but if he has convinced
himself that he is really a financial expert
there is no reason to doubt that he will
tackle the Treasury job if he gets the
chance. In that case his policy would
presumably be the one he outlined in the
course of the Werriwa by-election battle.
Summed up, this seems to involve lower
taxes, more social services, higher wages,
lower prices—the balance to be made up
by bank-credit. This policy is not
peculiar to Evatt among “Labor” men ;
with variations, it has been preached for
years. Two decades ago when Jock
Garden was a mighty figure in the ranks
of ‘ Labor” he produced a plan for its
implementation. Apart from nationalis-
ing the banks and abolishing State Par-
liaments the main feature was that “the
Federal Government should take over
the whole resources of the country, such
as wheat, minerals, butter, etc., and issue
certificates against these resources.”
The finer points of the Evatt financial
plan have not yet been disclosed, but it
should not be overlooked that round
about the time Garden was peddling his
plan, the Doc., along with Eddie Ward
and the late Jack Beasley, was studying
economics under Jock Garden. The
authority for this is Garden’s son, giving
evidence on oath at the New Guinea
timber inquiry. His statement has never
been denied by Jock’s alleged pupils.
This could mean that the Evatt plan is
nothing more nor less than the Garden
plan in modern dress. What a prospect!
What a Treasurer!
Chained to Moscow
The feature most noticeable in the new
orientation of Communist behavior is not
the more conciliatory attitude of the
Soviet bloc towards the Western Powers,,
but the openness with which Russia’s
dominance of the world of Communism
is now admitted.
The later Stalinist policy was to conceal
Russia’s direction of world-Communist
plans as far as possible, and also that of
its satellites in any regional changes.
Thus, since 1943 it has been a convention
with the Commufiists that all national
Communist parties were independent and
self-controlled.
The open shifts of policy in China,
in line with Russia’s shifts and im-
mediately following visits by Peking
dignitaries to Moscow, have been too
patent in the past year to escape notice.
And the manner in which Communism
has abandoned the stand that the million
Chinese fighting in Korea are all indig-
nant volunteers in the N. Korean service
speaks for itself. In sending out the
feelers for a renewal of the armistice
negotiations in Korea the North Koreans
have not appeared at all. All the over-
tures have come from Moscow and
Peking in the most barefaced manner ;
and, incidentally, seem to be directed
rather towards the conciliation of India
by showing a tendency to favor its cease-
fire plans than towards actual settlement
of main issues, which can only be deter-
mined when the Soviet Union and Com-
munist China adopt an international
policy consistent with the charter of
U.N.O*
Another indication of the changed
attitude of Russia to its followers was
the announcement during last week that
Thorez, head of the French Communist
party, for long incommunicado in
Moscow and ostensibly seriously ill, had
been “ordered” by Malenkov to return
to France to attempt to restore the for-
tunes of his shattered organisation there.
No secret was made of his subordination
to Moscow; but, after all, this is in
accord with the bold lines of the thesis
and resolutions of the Russian Com-
munist Conference held last October with
the heads of most important foreign
parties in attendance.
Australia has some interest in the
change. Mr. Sharkey, head of the local
C.P., was one of those whose ill-health
drove him to the Soviet Union in time
for the conference, on the excuse that the
capitalist medical attention obtainable in
Australia was inferior. Since his recent
return his own party has begun to show
an unguarded tendency to admit its direct
linkage with the Soviet Government. The
changes in its line in the next few months
will be worth watching.
In the Horrors
Dr. Evatt is in the full flood of his
fantastic Senate campaign, living appa-
rently in a third-dimension of his own.
His advocacy has only a secondary appeal
to the workers. It is directed almost
entirely to the selfish profiteer to whom
inflation was all to the good, to the black-
marketeer who thrived on shortages, to
the luxury manufacturer who encouraged
squandering, and to the # loafer who wants
money without work, and to the type
of rural producer who is dazed that
taxation has not been reduced in a period
in which his income and assets have
ballooned sometimes tenfold in the post-
war years.
These are Doctor Evatt’s com-
panions in moaning about the “horror
Budgets” of 1951 and 1952, about
“economic instability” and the measures
which have brought Australia allegedly
“to the brink of economic and financial
confusion,” and the “income tax which
has been almost doubled”—in a period
in which wages have rocketed to the
skies.
Anybody who desires to judge the
Menzies record should think back and
imagine what the past three years would
have been like under Dr. Evatt, with
the Communists still in control of the
great unions, dislocation perennial and
the savage class-war on employers regu-
larly in progress. Would there have
been a fall in taxation under “Labor”?
There certainly would not. It would
have been unable to resist the tempta-
tion to bleed large quantities of cash
from the woolgrower, the wheatfarmer
and the industrialist to feed Messrs.
Cahill’s and Gair’s vote-buying machines
and to white-ant key Liberal and C.P.
electorates with socialistic enterprises to
which to attach large blocs of “Labor”
voters.
“Labor’s” is an unscrupulous larrikin
campaign of which the keynote is the
decision to have Mr. Calwell follow Mr.
Menzies round like a small boy hired to
throw mud at a rival every time he
appears. It is a panic-mongering cam-
paign of exaggeration and untruth such
as might be expected of the Calwells,
Clyde Camerons and Wards, but not of
an educated lawyer and former High
Court judge. It does Dr. Evatt no credit.
A Forgotten Treasure.
During World War II an American
discovered Melbourne Ward’s natural-
history museum at Medlow Bath, on the
N.SkW. Blue Mountains, and offered him
£40,000 for what it contained. Ward
refused to sell, and, to make sure the
collection will remain in Australia, has
willed it to the N.S.W. State Government.
Which means that after Ward’s death
the collection will either be added to the
already overcrowded Australian Museum
in Sydney or will be allowed to remain
half-forgotten and unnoticed in its
present derelict building. It deserves a
better fate.
Ward, now past 50, has spent most of
his adult life searching the Australian
continent and the Oceanic islands for
native weapons, tools, domestic appli-
ances, shrunken human heads and other
items, and, while doing so, acquired
enough knowledge of the peoples, the
lands and their culture and history to
earn him an F.R.S. and F.R.Z.S. He has
also established a small but comprehen-
sive library where the student may read
up practically every aspect of Oceanic
ethnology.
How Ward makes a do of it is a mys-
tery, since he charges but a nominal fee
for inspection and himself devotes an
average of two hours to every group he
conducts. It says much that his museum
has become a haunt for New Australians
in search of information about their new
country.
A country which has lately taken to
talking about its culture, and whose
writers and artists have discovered the
primitive just in time to make some
records of it before it is lost for ever,
should not he content to leave Ward’s
museum neglected—a big Blue Mountains
fire could destroy the lot.
Though it is willed to N.S.W., the
whole thing is a national treasure and
should be treated as such.
The Site Is Important
The perpetrator of the grisly Netting
Hill (London) murders, in which at least
five, and perhaps seven, women were
dons to death, could not have been a
clever murderer, for no clever murderer
would be so foolish as to attempt to hide
the bodies. To do so invariably leads to
exposure.
Criminal history shows that the corpse
of a human being is wellnigh in-
destructible. Bury it, burn it, sink it in
deep water, hide it in the trackless bush,
pop it in an acid-bath, dismember it and
scatter the parts far and wide, sooner
or later a bit of it or the whole comes
to light and the chase is on. The most
striking illustration of this is the notorious
Sydney “shark-arm mystery” of 20 years
or so ago, when a shark was caught and
put in the local acquarium on show and it
vomited up a tattooed human arm —a
discovery which led to one of the most
sensational of cases, during which at
least one other murder was committed
and police investigations reached right up
into Sydney’s highest political circles.
Some psychologist or other, discussing
capital punishment, remarked:
Murderers are either frenetic, or tem-
porarily crazed, or obsessed, or frightened
of apprehension, or motivated by some
powerful, overwhelming emotion. They
don’t take time out to think of the gallows
or the electric-chair. And invariably they
are optimists. Their crime is just bound
to be the one that is never sheeted home.
Well, a first principle of murder ought
to be not how to dispose of the body
but not to worry about it. Do your
murder and leave the body about where
the first passer-by will stumble over it.
You still won’t get away with it, but
you’ll save a lot of time. The Netting
Hill murderer planted the bodies and, as
might have been expected, they simply
waited for someone to find them.
But a more important principle for any
would-be murderer is the choice of
location. Do your murder in Lon-
don and you can expect to be
hanged. Do it in “Labor”-governed
N. S. Wales and the very worst that can
happen is accommodation for life at the
public expense in one or other of the
well-appointed State jails. It is quite
likely, such is our outlook on the matter,
that if the Netting Hill man had chosen
a Sydney tenement-house for his per-
formances, he’d have, upon being con-
victed, been sent to jail and trained as
an interior-decorator.
Banned or Not Banned?
One of the most difficult recent problems
“Labor” has had to tackle has been that
of incentive payments, which it has
officially been desperately trying to dis-
courage. Its stand shows in its rea ;
nakedness the trend of official “Labor
thought. , ,
The other day the A.C.T.U. ordered
the rejection of incentive pay averaging
£3 a week by the members of the J)
unions involved at the Australian Paper
Manufacturers’ works, after talks with
the company, which was ready to put
forward an alternative plan, had broken
down. ...
The N. S. Wales Labor Councils
(i Continued on page 7)


leaders when incentives first became an
issue after the war were as adamant as
Mr. Monk and his dictators, but found
themselves unable to control their unions,
some of which entered into incentive
agreements. Mr. J. D. Kenny, the
assistant-secretary, now says that
agreements had “not been banned.”
A statement from Dr. Evatt and Mr.
Calweil would be more to the point at
this juncture. They all along have spoken
of the need for higher remuneration for
workers and also for more production,
and it is now up to them to say clearly
whether they favor incentive payments
to that end. If they do not the electors
can take it that their whole advocacy is
a ruse designed merely to cause discontent
both with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and with free enterprise.
The matter calls the more urgently for
an explanation of political “Labor”
policy, since the A.W.U. apparently
expects that the May review of the basic
wage will lead to a reduction through
falls in formal living-costs as recognised
by the Arbitration Court.
There is no real argument against
incentive systems. They are in vogue in
every country in the civilised world, and
thoroughly approved by beneficiaries in
consonance with the generally held
adopted Labor principle that the workers
should have a greater share in the profits
of industry. Even in Iron Curtain coun-
tries they prevail; in fact, Stakhanovitism
is- the very basic principle of Russia’s
plans. Only in Australia has “Labor”
officially stood out against the idea,
despite the fact that most non-Com-
munists favor it.
Apparently the basic “Labor” idea in
this country is that nothing must be
allowed to continue which consolidates
the free-enterprise system. Nothing must
be fostered which promotes content in
industry and happy relationships between
employer and employee. Dr. Evatt and
his friends are Socialists out to destroy
the existing system. Their plans fatten
on discord and prosper through the pro-
motion of distrust, dislocation and indus-
trial discontent.
With a generally contented work-force
in existence, having the means of improv-
ing its wage- and work-standards at its
own disposal, the Evatts and the Cal-
wells and their Leftist hangers-on of the
A.C.T.U. would swiftly be thrown into
the discard.
POLITICAL POINTS
Cold War or Lukewarm Peace? Shak-
speare (as usual) seems to have had a
line for it: “That is hot ice or wondrous
strange snow.”
• •
Senate elections on May 9 will be
unique in that it will be the first time
electors have been asked to go to the
polls for the express purpose of electing
a Senate; usually they merely fill in a
Senate paper as a kind of afterthought
to the main business of the day—the
choosing of their M.H.R.
• •
Preliminary moves have already been
made in the hopscotch game that is going
to take the leaders of the political parties
all over the Commonwealth in the next
few weeks. Menzies spoke in Launceston
last week in a pre-campaign speech ; he
made another at a meeting of party sup-
porters in Brisbane yesterday, but will
not open his campaign proper until
April 14—also in Brisbane, Evatt kicked
off last night at Marrickville (Sydney)
and will be in full cry again at Too-
woomba (Q.) tonight. After next week
it will be a non-stop talking contest.
• •
Senate nominations close on April 17
and the draw for first place on the ballot
papers will take place the same day. It’s
a lottery that means much to both sides
this year.
• •
Ail prophets should be compelled by
law to give a half-yearly accounting of
their prophecies. On this basis Calweil
would now be due to explain what went
wrong with his October, 1952, forecasts.
Firstly he said the November basic-wage
rise would be 10s. or 12s. It was 4s. in
Melbourne, 2s. in Sydney. Then he said
that the announcement of these figures
would be withheld until after the Flinders
by-election. It wasn’t. Finally he said
that if “Labor” won Flinders the Menzies
Government would “dissolve” within a
few months. “Labor” won, but Arthur
is still waiting for the dissolution, and he
looks like having a rather long wait,
• •
W. R. Colbourne is the latest tip for
the “Labor” nomination for Sol Rose-
vear’s seat. He is president of the N. S.
Wales branch of the A.L.P., and, to say
the least, that shouldn’t hamper his
chances if he wants the seat.
• •
McDonald’s Country party is talking
of applying for an injunction to prevent
the Two-for-one Redistribution bill being
presented to the Governor. Cain and
the Hollway Liberals claim that all con-
stitutional doubts on the bill’s validity
have been settled by the amendment pro-
viding that an Assembly redistribution
will not follow a Federal redistribution
if this entails a reduction in the number
of seats. McDonald claims the bill is
stiff invalid. Good or bad, it has passed
the Assembly by 39 to 22.
• •
Clement Attlee, Opposition-leader in
the Commons, is in hospital recovering
from an appendicitis operation. His
enforced rest has revived rumors of his
early resignation, though these have been
cropping up at intervals ever since he
became Prime Minister in 1945. Still,
he’s past 70 now, and the decision prob-
ably won’t be postponed much longer.
Bevan is pushing hard, but Morrison is
still the best bet.
• •
Just before Easter Sydney police
warned intending holiday-makers against
drawing attention to the fact that their
homes were temporarily unguarded, A
friendly cable across the Tasman Sea
would have been a thoughtful gesture —
in Auckland thieves broke into the home
of the Dominion’s Minister for Police
while he and his family were away and
made a considerable haul.
• •
Release and exoneration of the Soviet
doctors raises the query whether the next
step will be the mass pardoning of all
those executed in the great purges of the
1930’5.
• •
I. J. Voullaire, a Mildura (Vic.)
vegetable-grower who uses road-transport
to send his goods to Melbourne and
Sydney, heard Vic. Railways Commis-
sioner Wishart declare that average
freight charge by Vic. railways was about
a ton-mile and that that was much
cheaper than road-transport, Voullaire
replied that though his trucks ran loaded
only one way the cost was less than
a ton mile and any transport operator
who could get back-loading would make
a “handsome profit” at the What
Voullaire overlooked was that he carries
his own goods; Wishart was including in
road-transport costs the penal taxes
imposed on it to bolster railway finances.
• •
Beer drinkers in Sydney rubbed their
eyes last week when they read that one
hotel in their city was selling bottled beer
without tickets or strings and was also
serving free counter-lunches. It lasted
THE ALMOST-UNKNOWN SOLDIER
“Been in Korea, you say, Dig. Where’s Korea?”
about three days. By the weekend the
licensee was complaining that a brewery
representative had warned the pub that
there’d be no more beer for it until it
mended its ways.
• •
Calweil pulled a boner in the very
worst of taste when he criticised the
Prime Minister’s action in taking the
salute at the march of the Korea men
through Brisbane; he accused Menzies
of stealing the prerogative of the State
Governor for political purposes. The
truth is that the Prime Minister was acting
at the request of the Governor-General.
It is a new departure for Calweil to show
concern about vice-regal prerogatives;
the more likely reason for his annoyance
is that that was one show where he
couldn’t follow on behind with his false-
echo act,
• •
A Melbourne “Argus” cartoon has
given the best answer yet to State Gov-
ernment efforts to kill private road-
transport and persuade people that rail-
ways are better. The drawing shows a
railways goods-shed, with a van being
unloaded, and two porters standing amid
a flock of rabbits. One porter is holding
two rabbits and the caption is, “I bet
the fellow who sent these two by fast
goods is going to stick to road-transport
in future.”
• •
Two Victorian unions have declared
two Victorian Housing Commission
home-building jobs “black” because the
unions don’t like piecework contracts.
One of the unions, the Plumbers’, wants
all plumbing work done by day-labor at
a weekly wage of £25. Yet the impres-
sion given by “Labor” is that it is
Menzies who is holding up housing in
Victoria.
• •
Until an Australian serving in Korea
bucked about it the N.S.W. Government
wasn’t admitting that such men were re-
turned soldiers and was debarring them
from ballots for soldier-settlement blocks.
After the soldier said what he thought
Premier Cahill rushed in to say the Act
would be amended at once. But no
soldier of the Korean or any other war
need suppose that this means he’ll get
a block while he’s still young enough to
work it.
• •
All Menzies need do to counter
“Labor’s” move of having Calweil follow
him about will be to mention Bert Evatt
kindly in every speech. If Calweil does
not react vocally to this he will certainly
choke himself with suppressed rage inside
a fortnight.
• • '
That well-known newspaper authority
the “Government spokesman” has been
prophesying the early withdrawal of
Commonwealth bounties and subsidies.
These cost £3l million last year, and
provision was made for £2B| million in
this year’s Budget. The dairying industry
gets close on £l7 million of this, thereby
setting a perennial problem for taxpayers
who wonder why, with milk round about
lOd. a pint (lid. in N. S. Wales, 9%d. in
Melbourne and Brisbane) they still have
to fork out £2 a head per annum in sub-
sidy.
Wheat, in keeping the price of stock-
feed down, absorbs nearly £44 million.
Tea subsidy costs £4.8 million. This is
most likely due for the axe. The subsidy
scheme anticipated rising world prices,
but the oversea price is now on the way
down. Coal subsidy (just over a million)
goes to Victoria and S.A. to help finance
imports of foreign coal; these are now
likely to cease, and with them the need
for the subsidy. All in all, it looks as
though some pruning can be expected.
How much remains to be seen.
• •'
With the next basic-wage adjustment
due about the middle of next week the
tipsters have been at work trying to pick
the figure. This time there is no wide
disparity noticeable among their guesses
—the range doesn’t seem to go beyond
Is. down and 2s. up. Plumping for the
bob decrease, one union official went on
to complain that the system wasn’t fair
and that it did not accurately reflect the
cost of living, which, he claimed, was
still going up, not down. Yet it is the
same system that last year was recording
increases of 10s. to 14s. Then the com-
plaint was that the rise fed inflation and
benefited no one.
It cannot be said that a small varia-
tion of the order anticipated this time
will have much effect on inflation, one
way or the other, and it certainly won’t
benefit anyone much. But the new-found
stability it reflects will benefit everyone,
though it is too much to expect a “Labor”
man to admit that.
• •
When Lucy, “Labor” M.L.A. for lyan-
hoe in the Victorian Parliament, criticised
Premier Cain in caucus for not taking
party members into his confidence oyer
.the Olympic village site, Cain replied
that Cabinet had sometimes to make deci-
sions quickly without submitting them to
the party first. An Olympic decision
made quickly? Cain must be setting up
as the funny man of the A.L.P.
• • *
Barley-growers have been warned that
the Australian Barley Board must be
continued to prevent loss to them, to
save their export-market and to prevent
South Australian growers from being
denied access to the Victorian barley-
consumers. Who warned them? Mr.
Pearson—a member of the Barley Board.
• •
Note on Russia:
It is early yet to go into hysterics about
Russia’s conciliatory moves; so far they rep-
resent only another change of line and duplicate
earlier changes which have happened at moments
when it has been deemed politic in the Kremlin
to weaken the Western world’s cohesion or
will to defence. It would be easier to accept
it this time at face value if it did not come
at a stage when the Western European Defence
Army was about to reach reality and when
changes of policy respecting Korea were
imminent in U.N.O. and if it did not im-
mediately follow the savage shooting-down of
Allied aircraft in Germany. It will be time
enough to ring the joybells when Russia (a)
agrees to open her borders and internal routes
to tourist traffic and trade ( b ) renounces her
policy reaffirmed a few months ago with
Malenkov dominating the conference —of con-
quest by world revolutions with Moscow as
the base of operations (c) abandons control
of world Communist parties, so evident at
present and (d) agrees to the proposals before
U.N.O. for reduction of armaments and to a
proper inspection to see that it is effective.
All the moves so far are empty ones —minor
concessions with no overall effect on the main
features of Russian long-term policy. Incidents
like the sudden decision that the Kremlin doctors
are innocent may merely mean that one murder
gang has lost power and another is on top.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Kingsbro”: “Have you ever ridden
on a track before?” asked the referee as
I dismounted at the finish of my first
bike-race. Not wanting to appear too
much of a bunny, my answer gave the
impression that I was a veteran racing
cyclist. Whereupon he fined me 10s.
for looking behind me in the last 220yds.
❖ . ♦♦♦ ❖
“Ceg”: Despite talk of unemployment,
the Situations Vacant columns in the
papers still offer a variety of jobs cover-
ing all the better-known avocations, be-
sides others, the nature of which is
puzzling to the layman. For instance,
vacancies exist for Stuff Over Hands,
Pullers Out, Linkers and Clickers. Now
what could they involve? Should you
happen to be a good Coner, Shaper,
Falter or Dipper; then your country
needs your help. Some jobs seem to
call for a certain amount of political
aptitude, such as Twisters and Fixers.
“Young monkey! I thought you were at school !"
Are you a good Rubber or Pincer Hand?
Reelers, Spotters, Dippers, Overlockers
and Pipe-benders command good wages.
Would you care to have a shot at any
of those jobs? I find it hard to make
up my mind, but think I’ll settle for a
good steady job as a Slatter Off,
♦♦♦ *** ♦♦♦
“Lyle”: “Squeeze” (B. 11/3/’53) was
not unknown in the administration of the
land laws in N.S.W. in last century. R, D,
Barton, in his Reminiscences of an Aus-
tralian Pioneer, gives several examples.
On one occasion a squatter friend of his
was visited by the land commissioner on
business connected with renewal of his
lease. He cooked the commissioner a
beef-steak in the morning, “put it on a
plate by the fire, put another plate over
it, and on that plate a tenner, and an-
other plate on top of that.” He then
went to get his guest’s horses and buggy
ready. When the commissioner came
out the squatter asked him how he hac
liked his beef-steak. “Very well, indeed,”
said the old chap. “That steak was very
good, but the sauce was excellent!”
♦> »+♦
“Findy”: Unbreakable cups (B.
1/4/’53)? When our firm found itself
overstocked in a particular line it was
customary to pass them on to the staff
at or below cost. That’s why one of the
juniors came around one day with a
sample of an unbreakable tumbler. His
method of sales-promotion was to walk
into a department, drop the glass care-
lessly on the floor with the remark “Any-
one want to buy some unbreakable
glasses?” and then book his orders. As
he went from room to room he became
more and more reckless —or more and
more confident in the indestructibility of
his wares—and the height of the drop
increased accordingly. At last he reached
our department, threw open the door,
burst in, hurled the glass up to the ceil-
ing and, as we all watched it come down,
yelled “Anyone want to buy an un-
breakable glass?” As the sample smashed
into a thousand fragments on the floor
the whole department joined in a spon-
taneous and simultaneous “NO!”
♦> ❖ ♦♦♦
“Spicula”: Wonder if ‘-Norther”
can produce anyone who actually saw
that wallah in plus-fours and tweed over-
coat who berated the menfolk of Caims
for wearing shirts and shorts (B.
25/3 / ’53). I’ll let him into a secret.
There “weren’t no such animal.” Who
started the yarn? Well, suspicion rests
on a local medico who likes to vary his
pulse-reading with leg-pulling. Further
than that I cannot go.
❖ ❖ *
“Archaen”: Our Frogmen did wonder-
ful work during the war, but it was left
to the French to invent the best under-
water breathing device. Known as the
aqualung, it enables a man to remain
submerged for an hour and to descend to
200 ft. It is possible to go much deeper,
but it is very dangerous to do so, not
on account of the pressure of the water,
but because breathing the compressed
air from the steel bottles carried on the
back produces a kind of intoxication
2ooft., leading to the taking of
stupid risks. An aqualunger, wearing a
suit of thin sponge-rubber to keep out
the cold and with rubber fins on his
hands and feet, can swim about as freely
as a fish. The first peace-time use of
the device was to locate mines which
had been laid in harbors. Spear fisher-
men then took it up, and it proved of
immense value to marine biologists.
Now the archaeologists are hailing it as
something likely to unearth treasures
from the sea floor. The waters around
Greece, Crete, Lemnos, Italy and the
Nile Delta are dotted with wrecks of
ancient ships. Many of them carried
“I find it splendid for the old physique."
vases, statuary and bronze ornaments
one Roman vessel has already been
located off Tunisia, loaded with marble
columns and other loot from the sack of
Athens. If some aqualunger locates a
wreck carrying, say, a marble statue of
Aphrodite or Athena, bearing on its
plinth the magic words “Pheidias made
it,” then artists will hail it as a treasure
beyond price.
“Macnell”: Radar, asdic, the V.T.
fuse, the angled-deck and steam-catapult
for aircraft-carriers (among other little
knick-knacks) having been passed west-
ward by the Royal Navy, Uncle Sam has
now asked for something else. So im-
pressed was General L. C. Shephard,
Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps,
by the bands of the Royal Marines on
his visit to the U.K. last year that four
bandsmen of the U.S. Marines were
recently sent to Portsmouth to study the
parade and ceremonial technique of
Royal Marine band-work, with the view
to adopting their drumstick-drill. Which
bears out my contention that the Royal
Marines, seaborne as they are, can stand
up to any comparison with any Guards
regiment for drill-discipline.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Muskeen”: Others may have their
own opinions, but I prefer to believe that
the Wild Colonial Boy was Jack, not
Jim, Doolan and that he was born at
Castlemaine in Victoria. But while we
are on the subject of national heroes
can anyone tell me the identify of Flash
Jack from Gundagai? He was of a
much later vintage than Jack Doolan
because he’d “pinked them with the
Wolseleys,” which means that he
flourished after the innovation of shear-
ing by machinery. But perhaps the fol-
lowing may give some clues:—*
I’ve been whaling up the Lachlan, and I’ve
dossed on Cooper’s Creek,
And once I rung Cudjingie shed, and blewed
it in a week.
But when Gabriel blows his trumpet, lads.
I’ll catch the morning train,
And I’ll push for old Tom Patterson’s
on the One Tree Plain.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Pawang”: “Strict Veg.’s” suggestion
(B. 25/3/’53) to make beer instead of
drugs free would have pleased Samuel
Butler. In Erewhon Butler imagined
a society in which illness is treated by
punishment in the form of a jail-sentence.
In our society we would readily recog-
nise the absurdity of sentencing a man
to prison because he had the misfortune
to contract pneumonia, and yet we do
exactly the same thing when we sentence
an alcoholic addict, who is just as much
a victim of illness. Doctors are beginning
to call many complaints diseases of dis-
couragement. The theory is that a person
loses hope when confronted by some
problem he lacks the skill to solve, his
resistance is lowered and he becomes an
easy host for a germ that may have
lurked in his body for years but did
not develop through lack of opportunity.
The discouraged individual’s sickness
excuses him from further effort, since
nothing much is expected of a sick man.
Butler was far in advance of his time
as a thinker, and it may be he was nearer
the truth than the judge who sentences a
habitual drunkard to prison for beating
his wife but is sorry for the husband who
becomes a habitual invalid and is treated
with the utmost care and consideratio
by his family. y '
♦j*
“Eve”: In a recent quiz show con
testants were asked to finish well-know
phrases. “Each phrase includes some
thing to eat,” said the compere. Firs
lady was given the words “Full as”
Instead of saying “A goog,” she blithel
replied “Full as a boot.” The comper
gently said, “Er, come now, you couldn’
eat a boot!” Now that just shows you
how little these radio-announcers ge
around. I could take him to five differen
restaurants and, provided he orderec
grilled steak, well
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cauboy”: Reported that Vivien Leig]
attributes the nervous breakdown whid
has sent her to a nursing-home in London
for psychiatric treatment to having hac
to play for two years in “A Streetcar
Named Desire.” Very likely. The strain
would be terrific. Vivien is a very fine
actress, and you can’t play a part wel
if you can’t feel it. I don’t think she
felt the Shakspearian parts she played in
Australia; her Lady Anne didn’t stir
me like Olivier’s Richard. But the part
she played in “Street Car” she gave
every evidence of feeling, and to play that
half-mad neurotic creature and com-
pletely to identify oneself with her for
600 nights would be enough to drive
most people into an asylum.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Waria”; Historians now agree that
Governor Bligh was a much-maligned
man, but one thing for which he seems
never to have been given full credit is
his work in the field of cartography and
new discovery. Maps compiled by him
indicate how careful and competent he
was—he had learnt his craft from Cook,
and later imparted it to Flinders —and
his charts of Torres Strait, for example,
show as new features a big expanse of
islands, reefs, etc., north of Cook’s
furthest point. Most of the names in
this area were given by Bligh, at the
time he formally took possession in 1792,
although his title of the “Clarence
Archipelago” does not now appear on
charts, Bligh did some useful surveying
round Tasmanian shores on both his
trips; he was the discoverer of the
channel later marked by D’Entrecasteaux,
and his maps are the first to show Mount
Wellington, which he marked “Table
Hill.”
* * *
“Hortus”: Half a dozen youngsters
were sent to me to collect two cuts each;
the headmaster was too busy to do the
deed himself. When the fourth lad
appeared, he asked, “How many do I
get, sir?” “Two,” I replied, “the same
as everyone else.” “Do you think, sir,
said the small voice, “that I could have
a spell between the first and the second.
LIFTS
“Using a new elevator-shaft as the structural
core, Sydney 5 " architect Douglas B. Snelling has
remodelled an 80-year-old boarding-house into
offices at a cost of £82,000. ‘I have no doubt,’
he said, ‘that the most economical thing would
have been to demolish the building and put
Ut> a new one but that was impossible
because of post-war Government restrictions on
the allocation of materials for new commercial
buildings.”
I think that I have never sniffed
A poem fragrant as a lift,
A lift that sort of grows inside
Old walls, with boughs of steel spread
wide;
A lift, that all the year can bear
Four floors entangled in its hair.
And not disturb the ancient shell
In which it lives and loves to dwell;
A lift, that calmly can outweary all
Post-war restrictions on material.
Rejecting gibes, as coarsely comical.
Of being too uneconomical;
A lift, of architectural brilliance
Reviving faith in man’s resilience
To the sustained and problematical
Objections of the bureaucratical:
Poems ? Don’t have one as a gift!
There’s far more uplift in a lift.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


“NX Mick”: With his car-battery on
the blink, Bob called to pick up his ma-
in-law for a Sunday run. It was a warm
day, so it needed only two minutes at the
crank-handle before the engine kicked
over. Unfortunately, the crank-handle
didn’t disengage and it spun madly in time
with the engine. Bob picked himself out
of the gutter and dived for the dashboard
to switch off. After recovering, he put
himself on the end of the handle again.
This time it was five. minutes before
“Jilt me, would y ’!”
success rewarded his efforts. As he
walked round to climb in, ma-in-law
smartly turned off the ignition-switch and
said proudly, “I know what to do now,
Bob.”
♦+♦ * &
‘“Kelvin”: Regulars in our compart-
ment on the 8.5 a.m. recollected some-
thing familiar in the very pleasing face
and figure of the lass who joined our
band for the first time about a week
or so back. She showed no resentment
“You always Leave everything to the last minute , Joan.”
at the interested looks which came her
way on the first few mornings, but
showed some uneasiness on observing
that the masculine glances alternated
between herself and a life-size lass pic-
tured on the hoarding near our end of
the platform. In the ad., which extolled
the virtues of somebody’s lingerie, the
subject, shown in the privacy of the
boudoir, wore even less than the girl in
the Folies Bergere poster adjoining. But
her face seemed identical with that of
our new travelling companion. Having
Satisfied ourselves that she was the lass
on the poster, and with the same hoard-
ing appearing at all stations into town,
we looked forward to less monotonous
train journeys. But our fair companion
apparently divined our thoughts. She
stood up, declared trenchantly, “I’m a
perfectly respectable schoolteacher,” and
withdrew to a non-smoking compartment.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Bo”; The sight of the things again
among the District Exhibits at Sydney’s
Royal Easter Show brought back
memories of one of the most harrowing
experiences of my distinguished military
career. With our divvy back in billets
for a rest after several months “in,” my
offsider and self reconnoitred the sur-
rounding countryside, as was our wont
on such occasions, just to see what we
could see. And lo! We beheld a
northern French cocky carting his end-
of-the-summer crop of apples to his shed
for winter storage. Deeming it only fair
that we should supplement with an in-
expensive luxury the usual diet of
“bayonet” soup, lance-jack bacon, Frey
Bentos stew and ten-to-a-lqaf with which
we fortified them against the needs of
battle, I constituted myself and offsider
a raiding-party of two. The speed and
siletj.ce which marked our nocturnal sortie
would undoubtedly have brought the
highest praise from our C.O. had we
been silly enough to invite him to witness
it. Selecting the heaviest bag, we took
it in turns to carry it back, and our
twisted spinal-columns bore witness to
the martyrdom we suffered for our
comrades-in-arms. Then, agonisingly
creaking to the vertical again after dump-
ing our prize in the cookhouse, we
opened it up —to find it full of mangel-
wurzels!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Terry the Tory”: Perhaps those
novels of P. G. Wodehouse which,
though differently titled, told the same
story were an American and English
edition of the same book (B. 18 /3 / ’53).
U.S. publishers often give a book by an
overseas author a new title. Norman
Lindsay’s Miracles by Arrangement, for
instance, was published in America as
Mr. Gresham on Olympus.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Ted”: Besides his bush ballads and
Lowland Scots dialect verse. Will Ogilvie
(B. 18/3/’53) has written some veiy
vigorous sporting verse. A characteristic
example of his ability in this literary
branch is his description of a fox, in his
poem “Our Pilots”:
You’re vermin to a vast of folk, but glory
to a few.
What is it in your creeping stride that calls
and calls and calls?
What is it, when the racing pack runs on
from scent to view?
That rallies us to ride our best —dead
straight—and chance the falls?
“G.P.”: The drunk boarded the tram
and started fumbling for a cigarette, then
gave it up when he realised he was fooling
no one. He focused his glazed attention
on the bloke nearest to him and applied
the bite: “Gotta smoke, mate?” Bloke
shook his head and explained he didn’t
smoke. Drunk regarded him thoughtfully
for a moment and turned to someone
else. Same response. Drunk leaned
across the aisle intending to try his luck
there, but apparently the selected victim
got in first with the non-smoker plea.
Drunk sat back amazed. “ ’Strewth!
Three in a row. You wouldn’t read about
it!” The tram stopped and he got off,
whereupon the three blokes, with one
accord, delved into their pockets and
came up with cigarettes, lit up, looked at
each other and grinned sheepishly.
❖ >** ❖
“Pat”: Remember the old song “I
took my harp to a party, but nobody
asked me to play”? I. saw it in reverse
the other night. About 20 guests were
congregated, the occasion being a sur-
prise-party for the “not-a-bit-surprised”
husband. I was intrigued by the sad,
silent character who wandered about the
room, a gleaming new accordion slung
about his body. When by eleven o’clock
no note of music had sounded from it,
I murmured to the hostess, “Why don’t
you ask the musical bloke to give us a
tune?” Snorted she back furiously, “Ask
him ! The only reason I bothered invit-
ing him was because his wife told me a
month ago he’d bought the thing, and
I thought if he came we could have a
bit of a dance. Now, it seems, he’s
learning by post, and can’t even manage
‘God Save the Queen’ yet. He’s done
nothing all night but ask the rest of us
if we can show him how.”
*t* *i* *>
“Mullum”: “Icinit’s” sar’-major (B.
25/3/’53) must have been easily em-
barrassed. There was an air-force
detachment in Darwin which was
quartered on the “Civil” ’drome. A row
of iron huts stood parallel with a row
of houses inhabited by civil-aviation
blokes and their families. The airmen
always walked between huts and showers
clad only in a towel. There was nothing
really surprising in that, except that the
towel was worn round the neck.
* ❖ ❖
“A.E.S.”: Two of my chief delights
being reading and eating, I enjoy descrip-
tions of food, be it the simple, mono-
tonous noodles and cheese of the Mon-
golians or the gargantuan fried breakfasts
of Edna Ferber’s backwoodsmen. One
evening last week I was reading a book
about an American literary group who
dined together each day at a famous New
York hotel, and I was delighted to find
reproduced a dinner-menu, an astounding
affair listing between 200 and 300 dishes
—l2 kinds of cheese, 30 salads, potatoes
in a dozen disguises, I temporarily forgot
my own meal; I had reached the 25th
sweet honey-dew melon when my
wife’s voice penetrated my consciousness;
“Apple dumplings, or not?”
“Spoke” : Sig, aged 10, won a minor
scholarship to the local high school.
Before the results were announced he was
quite sure he had done a very bad exam.,
but bore up bravely. “I don’t think I’ll
come down to dinner tonight, Mum,” he
said. When he heard that he had not
only won it but had come top of all the
schools in his district, he decided to come
down to dinner after all. After the
plaudits had died down he said to his
father; “Well, Dad, I’m the first one in
your family who’s ever won a prize,
yourself included.” “Magnificent in
defeat but insufferable in victory,” mur-
mured his mother.
5+ ❖
“Alta”: We have a good customer at
X. When he writes to place an order
we fulfil it gladly, forward it promptly
and hope he’ll write again. We also now
have a bad customer at X. She wrote
to us on elaborate stationery and men-
tioned that our good customer had
spoken well of us. Would we forward
the following (be sure to enclose
account!) She was unknown, but some-
times in business you must go on appear-
ances as you find them. Anyway, we
fell. Subsequent “accounts rendered”
brought no reply. Recently we met our
good customer. He came to the shop.
We mentioned the name of the lady.
“Yes,” he replied, “I know h?r well. Did
she catch you for much?”
♦j*
“Yair”: Family row revolved around
ten-year-old’s refusal to have his bedroom
window open at night. Bribes and threats
were no good. He trotted out a winning
argument one night wheii mild old
Grandpa was staying to tea. Said the
kid, “All this fuss about fresh air is
Stupid! Look at the birds. They’re
healthy, and they sleep with their heads
deep in their feathers. They don’t get
much fresh air at night.” Everybody
looked stumped—bar Grandpa. Beam-
ing, he said, “That’s true, lad! Birds
don’t worry about it, do they—and just
look at their weedy legs.” Bedroom win-
dow has been open ever since.
♦jt
“Sackville”: A truthful friend of mine
swears to the veracity of this: The New
Australian man-of-all-work around his
establishment is an obliging and capable
soul. Noticing that ah electric-light in
the big office was not working, he got
a high stepladder and was engrossed in
the job when a snuffling sound caused
him to glance behind and downwards.
The sight tore his susceptible heart. He
beckoned to a girl who had just entered
the office and inquired anxiously: “The
girls—why do they cry? See, on their
desks they lay their heads. And the girl
whose hah is red, her shoulders tremble.
I am sad for them.” At that point the
girl he was addressing walked behind
the stepladder, over which he was lean-
ing his elbows. Immediately she, too,
was seized with violent emotion. Person-
ally, I would not have thought it possible
for a man’s pants to slip down to his
ankles without his knowledge, but
A NOBLE REPORT
“Figures released by the U.L.V.A. show
that during 1952 Australians drank 178,347,125
gallons of beer, which is 11,690,286 gallons
more than in 1951. It sets an all-time record.”
Last year our politicians worked much
less.
Left much more mess;
Losses on deadhead-burdened tram and
bus
Grew so much bigger;
The potholes in our roadways left unfilled
{Though we were billed
So heavily) broke every previous
High-record figure.
Also, you will remember, there were
stacks
Of party hacks
Given the cushiest jobs; oh, far more
duds
Were placed than ever —
Prideful achievements! Yet, will ’t be
allowed
That we’re less proud
Of having soaked up much more foam-
ing suds
Than ever? Never!
Sufficient stuff to float a fleet of ships
Passed through our lips.
We worked our elbows with avidity,
There’s no denying.
Blue-ribbon wearers find the news quite
bad ;
For them it’s sad.
But for S’rartie Fadden it must be
Most gratifying.
Hebes, flat to the boards, filled up the
mob ;
It was their job.
Bone-dry themselves through satisfying
thirst,
Their hands pump-hardened,
Many by barmaid’s-elbpw were laid low —
But just a mo !
My tonsils really need to be immersed.
May I be pardoned ?
WeLLj heRe i8m baCK aGainsh goo3
daYyou FOlKsH
eV Fry thing okesh ?
WHa’wash i wriTIn’ on? / gee i fEEl
glaD,
oh yESh6 — sONsumptlon,
O’ beeRj dOn-t lerruM tellYa itsH gO)
SlOW
iN AusSie ? NO
BrewERYsh, BunGSH?ANd bAR-
maidSh worKLiKe mAp
YaiR„,tHEY shoWgumpTi,Onj
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


Keep in
good
SPIRIT 5
Gtionde
ength
hospital
b »andy
PERSONAL ITEMS
The latest batch of Korean awards
includes a D.F.C. for Flight-Lieutenant
E. G. Ramsay, of South Perth (W.A.).
Born at Cottesloe (W.A.), educated
Albany High School and Perth Modern
School, he enlisted in the R.A.A.F. in
1940, was a flying-instructor in War II
and rejoined the permanent Air Force
in 1951, On August 4he led a daring
rocket attack on a vital supply area and
destroyed his target despite heavy anc
accurate ack-ack fire. In Korea he ha
taken part in some 180 Meteor sorties
most of them against defended grounc
targets.
Made a Melbourne landfall in the
Antarctic motorship Tottan the other
day, Pierre Stahl, who belongs to the
world’s most travelled profession. In
the last few years he has journeyed from
Paris to Iceland and Greenland, crossing
100 miles of icecap in that frozen island
to Rome, Beirut, Karachi, Calcutta
Saigon, Singapore, Java, Darwin, Bris
bane, Melbourne and Hobart, thence to
Adelie Land, Macquarie and Auckland
Islands, carrying two gravimeters. At the
end of his trip he measures the gravity
of the globe—the operation takes him
only a few minutes —and then goes home
to Paris, His latest jaunt has taken him
25,000 miles from his home address —anc
the work done occupied him about 40
hours! He returns through Noumea
Washington, Labrador and Greenland
French Polar Expeditions, a Government-
backed body, sponsors his flittings.
Retiring after 33 years at Fremantle
(W.A.) as pilot and Harbor Master
Captain A. E. Trivett, a blue-water man
who knows sail and steam. An appren-
tice on full-rigged ships, he was second
officer of the Marathon, at £4 15s.
month. He was shipwrecked in the Oak-
branch on an uncharted reef in the
Magellan Straits, in 1909, near Cape
Pillar, which is 19 miles north of the
latitude of Heard Island. Awarded the
D.S.C. for his service in “Q” ships during
the First World War, he was an examiner
to the Navy in the second scrap.
“J.F.”: J. E. Macdonnell (“Macnell”
of The Bulletin) has been going great
guns in the author-business, with two
books published in London (by Con-
stable) within five months. A third,
about an aircraft-carrier in Korean
waters, is in the publisher’s hands.
Gimme the Boats, a novel about men in
destroyers, has not yet come to Australia
in book-form, but the Sydney “Sunday
Herald” is running it as a serial. The
same paper contemplates serialising
Valiant Occasions, a study of the R.A.N.
and the R.N. in historic actions. The
author has been in all types of ships,
from corvettes to cruisers, saw action in
various seas during War II and knows
the Navy viewpoint from lower-deck to
wardroom. He joined the R.A.N. in
1934, and was a commissioned gunner
when he left it in 1948 4o join The
Bulletin. His Fleet Destroyer, published
in 1945, attracted the favorable attention
of the Red Page, chiefly because of a
rare ability Macdonnell showed to make
warlike machinery not only intelligible
to the ordinary reader, but dramatic. In
a series of special articles in The
Bulletin, and in later writing, this
quality has been polished and developed,
with a more mature style and an increas-
ing ease in handling character which
promise to place him high among sea-
writers.
Enzedder Dr. B. H. Mason, Professor
of Mineralogy at Indiana University
(U.S.) and formerly lecturer in geology
at Canterbury University College (N.Z.),
has stepped up to become curator of
physical geology and mineralogy at the
American Museum of Natural History,
New York.
Degrees were flying round at the annual
conferring at the University of Melbourne
recently, but one distinguished recipient
almost missed his—Dr. K. J. G. Suther-
land, just appointed Professor of Dental
Science at the Westralian University. On
his way to Union House he passed an
overturned motor-car and five people,
three of them badly injured. He adminis-
tered first-aid, stopped the bleeding and
saw them into an ambulance before con-
tinuing his way to receive his Mastership
of Dental Science. Sutherland holds
medical and surgical degrees as well as
dental, and served as a fang-farrier with
the R.A.A.F.
Three R.A.A.F. wing-commanders have
new postings. They are Wing-Com-
mander A. O. McCormack, previously
Officer Commanding North Western
Area, Darwin, who has been posted to
command No. 2 (Bomber) Squadron at
Amberley (Q.) —the bombers are Lincolns
—and Wing-Commanders W. J. Guthrie
and H. C. Plenty, D.F.C, and Bar, who
go to East Sale (Vic.) for flying-instructor
courses, with a view to their taking up
appointments in the R.A.A.F. Training
Organisation. A. O. McCormack was
schooled at Wesley College, Melbourne,
joined the Citizen Air Force in 1937
and flew heavy bombers with No. 466
Squadron in 1943-44. Hitting something
heavy over Berlin, he saw the rest of the
European war from the ground in Stalag-
luft 3. W. J. Guthrie, of Ivanhoe (Vic.),
went to school in Sydney, at Canterbury
High School, joined the Air Cadets in
1938 and served in the South-West Pacific
as C.O. of No. 12 and No. 73 Squadrons.
He is at present doing a Staff College
course at Point Cook. H. C. Plenty, of
South Yarra, was bom at Port Pirie
(S.A.), went to school there and joined
the R.A.A.F. in September, 1939. He
served in Malaya and the Netherlands
East Indies from 1940 to March, 1942,
with No. 8 Squadron, flying Hudsons,
and winning the D.F.C. The Bar was
added for work in the South-West Pacific,
flying Beauforts with No. 100 Squadron
in 1943-44. He has recently been
Deputy Director of Organisation and Staff
Duties.
Sydney Irving, Queensland manager
for J, C. Williamson, joined the “Firm”
as a call-boy at the old His Majesty’s
Theatre, Sydney, in 1929. Worked both
back stage and in the front of the theatre
SYDNEY IRVING, of the “Firm"
before the war. A gunner in the old
militia, he was later commissioned and
saw service in Darwin during the early
Japanese raids and served in various
other areas including Lae, Wewak, Aitape
and New-Britain. He came to Brisbane
after being demobbed as treasurer to
the late George Matheson. Hobbies;
Gardening and fishing.
There will be few cinema-goers who
knew Bert Bailey without his “On Our
Selection” beard. This Will Dyson sketch
was made before Bert grew it for the
immemorial part of Dad Rudd. Con-
cerning that fine crop of facial fungus
. . . Bert grew it for a screen-production
in Melbourne of Frank Thring’s, when
Thring was losing the fortune he had
made from American films in Sydney to
create Australian ones. A trial screening
was ordered, and Bert appeared on the
screen talking to another character.
BERT BAILEY, as Will Dyson knew
him in 1907
Suddenly the house rocked with laughter.
Pad’s beard had shot forward an inch
or so in the middle of the conversation.
Some of the sequences had been shot
before others, as is the usual practice,
and a fortnight’s growth of hair was being
condensed into a second. A versatile
trouper, Bailey was born in Auckland
(N.Z.), and played in drama, musical
comedy and grand opera before Cine-
sound built “On Our Selection” and
“Grandad Rudd” around him in the early
’3o’s. Earlier he had taken “Dad and
Dave Come To Town” to London, where
it had a two-year run. Writer as well
(co-author of “The Squatter’s Daughter”
and “The Man From Outback”), the
grand old character was 80 at the end,
in Darlinghurst, Sydney.
A Melbourne man is advance-agent
for the Stratford Players. He is John
Scarlett, who has worked in Shakspeare’s
birthplace for some years. The company
spends £lOO,OOO annually on productions,
plays to 350,000 people and makes over
£20,000 profit. What the shopkeepers
of the town make isn’t stated.
Four names that may have consider-
able influence on Australian drama;
Norman Marshall, producer ; Cyril Hogg,
managing-director of Samuel French,
Ltd., publishers ; Margery Vosper, lead-
ing play agent; T. C. Kemp, dramatic
critic of the “Birmingham Post.” This
most representative panel has consented
to read plays for the Society of Australian
Writers (London). But the society makes
plain that this announcement is informa-
tion, not an invitation. It has not, as yet,
the facilities for dealing with scripts
from Australia.
Come to these parts to confer with
C.5.1.R.0. men on breeding, and, in par-
ticular, on the statistical approach to the
same. Sir Ronald Fisher,. D.Sc., F.R.S.,
Professor of Genetics at Cambridge.
His Statisticial Methods for Research
Workers and The Design of Experiments
unified and systematised the methods of
earlier workers in the field, and they are
now standard reference books, translate
into French, Italian, German, Spanis
and Japanese. Among other publica-
tions, The Genetical Theory of Natural
Selection is a mathematical theory
establish the principles of natural sele
tion as the effective cause of evolutiona
change, on a more rigorous basis tha
Darwin’s.
This year’s £lOO Crouch prize at th
Ballarat Art Gallery was won by Micha
Shannon, of Melbourne, with a pictur
the most unusual thing about which was
the title, “My Mabel Waits for Me
There was another unusual feature abou
the contest —the Minnie Crouch priz
of £5O for a watercolor was won by
Ballarat artist, Wesley Walters. It
the first time a provincial art prize i
Victoria has been won by a provincia
artist. Gordon Thomson, deputy directo
of the National Gallery in Melbourne
did the judging.
Elected a Fellow of the Royal Societ
for his contributions to the theory o
plant-breeding, published in some 3
scientific papers, Dr. O. H. Frankel, Chie:
of C.5.1.R.0.’s Division of Plant Industry
A naturalised British subject, born i
Vienna in 1900, a Doctor of Agricultur
(Berlin), Master of Agricultural Scienc
(N.Z.) and Doctor of Science (N.Z.)
Frankel held a similar job in N.Z. wit
D.S.I.R. He was one of the earlies
research workers in genetics in New
Zealand, his work being concerned, in
the main, with research on chromosomes
in wheat and other plants. On the practica
side, he and his co-workers at the Whea
Research Institute were successful in
breeding wheat suitable for N.Z. condi
tions which combined high yield and high
milling quality. Before, N.Z. wheat pro-
duced only low-grade biscuit flour.
Back to his old love—destroyers—goes
Captain S. H. Beattie, newly appointed
to Quadrant, in command, and Senior
Officer, First Frigate Squadron. Quad
rant was a destroyer. Now, having been
fitted in Melbourne with some particu-
larly nasty teeth in the way of anti-
submarine weapons, she’s rated an A/S
frigate. Beattie is the man who drove
the old destroyer Campbeltown into the
dock-gate at St. Nazaire and blew it
open with the tonnage of explosive she
carried in her bows. The deed brought
him V.C. Commander David Shaw
relieves Beattie in frigate Shoalhaven
previously the flotilla-leader.
Into the Silence:
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 82, Dr. W. H. Borne,
one of the oldest members of the medical
profession in the Scotch city.
At his home in Sydney, at 48, John M.
Hordern, stockbroker, formerly a captain in
the A.I.F. and p.o.w. with the Japs for three
and a half years. A member of the firm of
McNall and Hordern, he had recently joined
the committee of Sydney Stock Exchange.
In Naval Base (W.A.), at 65, Victor G. C.
Riseley, some-time journalist, editor, public ser-
vant and publican. He had edited the “Swan
Express” and “Primary Producer,” was
State Government publicity-officer and for
more than 30 years was connected with the
Perth “Sunday Times” as reporter, feature-
writer and writer of topical verse. For
several years he ran the Naval Base Hotel.
In Melbourne, Miss Dorothea Collier, whose
father came from Manchester to Australia in
1848 with a colossal collection of antique china.
The daughter spent most qf her life adding
to it and protecting it from burglars in their
home in Camberwell. Left alone to guard it
when her mother died, she filled the house with
pythons from Queensland. Once one of the
snakes gave her a hug and left her unconscious.
She wore unusual dresses, answered the door
always with a python curled round her neck and
raised a large amount of money for charity with
her snake-dances. She claimed to be able to
hypnotise any animal at will, and once succeeded
with a lion. She had over 130 teapots.
In Perth, at 58, A. A. M. (Bob) Coverley,
Old Digger and Parliamentarian. He served
with the 10th Light Horse on Gallip. and in
Palestine. Since 1924 he had represented Kim-
berley in the Westralian Assembly; had been
Minister for the North-West from 1939 to
1947, and from 1943 to 1947 held the additional
portfolio for Forests. As Minister for Forests
he controlled the State sawmills, into which he
introduced plant for the construction of cases
for fruitgrowers. A man op genial disposition,
with a great capacity for mateship, he will,
perhaps, be best remembered for his sympa-
thetic interest in the welfare of natives.


THE CHAMPION


ABORIGINALITIES
“O. K. Lee”: Bore-drain channels in
W.Q. reduce washing-up fatigues to a
minimum ; after use pannikins and plates
are weighted, down and stored in the
lukewarm water of the drains till next
required. The bore-drain is often used
also as a means of one-way communi-
cation between neighbors many miles
removed. The message is floated down in
a sealed tin in the certainty that it will
be picked up by his down-drain neighbor
at the netting barrier where the channel
flows under the boundary-fence. “By
bore-drain cable” is a common variant
of “mulga-wire” in those parts.
* * * #
“Mat’s Mate”: On the fringe of the
Goulburn Valley (Vic.) fruit settlements
we encountered a solemn youth in a
sulky. “Any work going about here?”
Mat asked. The youth put a foot out
on the shaft-butt, eyed us carefully, and
pondered. “Well,” he admitted, after a
pause, “might be a bit doin’ at Shep.”
He seemed doubtful, rubbed his chin, and
added; “They’re pretty busy at Ky., too.”
We waited. “You tried Tat.?” he asked,
visibly brightening, “Tat.’s a fair spot.
Y’ could give Mooroop. a go, I reckon,
but they’re just about finished out at
Stan.” Another silence, then, “Where’d
ya come from?” “Ech.,” Mat said. “We
was makin’ f’r Wang., but maybe we’ll
go through Rush, an’ cut up through
Roch. back to Ech., if that’s how she is.
So long.” So we pushed on through the
Goul. Val. and that night camped at
Murch., which is about 16 miles north
of Nag.
* * ♦ ♦
“C. Coral”: Apropos those “dispersals”
of the Queensland blacks (B. 11/3/’53),
a sidelight occurs in the memoirs
of Lieutenant H. M. Chester, a
one-time Government Resident at
Somerset and Thursday Island. When
Chester was at Somerset in 1869 he got
news of the massacre of the crew of the
Sperwer off Prince of Wales Island, and,
unaware that a punitive expedition under
Frank Jardine had already made a
big cleaning-up, arranged with the captain
of H.M.S. Blanche to capture the natives
responsible. Prince of Wales Island they
found deserted, but at Wednesday Island,
some miles distant, came on a company
of Mt. Ernest natives with their canoes.
Search of the capip revealed some of the
looted cutter’s sails and stores. A drum-
head court-martial was held on the spot,
three of the leading men were found
guilty and shot. “In my report to the
Colonial Secretary,” says Chester, “I
departed from the stereotyped style
adopted in those days by the officers of
the Native Police, who invariably re-
ported that they had ‘dispersed the
blacks .' I said that ‘these men, having
been handed over to me by Lieutenant
Markham, were shot by the troopers.’
This, I believe, is the only instance on
record in Queensland of so many natives
being captured alive, and in which the
reasons for the action taken were fully
explained to them.” During 1918 I met
some of the old natives who remembered
the Sperwer incident; but they were
emphatic that the wrong men had been
shot, alleging that the first punitive party
had got the ringleaders. They explained
the stuff from the cutter as having been
obtained by barter. One old fellow,
whose father was one of the trio shot,
graphically portrayed the incident from
his memories as a lad. Cape York natives
used to relate tribal experiences of “dis-
persals,” but those were at other hands.
Chester was not an advocate of the
“shoot-’em-without-mercy” policy.
♦ ♦ * *
“Sackfair”; The dragonfly was on the
road, all four wings fluttering spasmodi-
cally, but failing to raise his long graceful
body off the concrete. Apparently he
was injured. With a caution that was no
doubt carried over from the days when
we gazed on dragonflies with awe and
called ’em “horse-stingers,” I tried to lift
him on a short stick. Immediately the
tail curled over the back in a threatening
arc. Although my searching eyes failed
to detect anything that could deMver a
sting I still used the piece of stick. Four
times I failed to get the creature balanced
enough to stay on the stick as I raised it.
On the fifth attempt he clung on until
his perch was about a foot off the ground,
then unexpectedly became airborne. With-
out a falter he flew to a clump of pas-
palum fully 50 yards away. The incident
set me thinking. Never can I recall
having seen a dragonfly alight on the
ground. Can it be, that he is like the
swift —so long on the wing that a take-
off is impossible from a level spot?
* * * ♦
“G.G.2”: The greatest mass slaughter
of birds I ever saw happened at Rocky
Dam, on the creek of that name, in Old
Man Paddock, Warbreccan Station
(W.Q.). Just above the tank-sinker’s
camp there was a clump of gidyea-trees
in which a mob of galahs made a nightly
roost. At the dry end of a dry year on
those plains 10,000 would be only a
medium flock. During one, night a real
old-man thunderstorm came up.
Lightning flew across the ironstone
ridges, the hail came down like bullets.
Next morning it seemed at first glance
that a gigantic pink blanket covered the
ground beneath the trees. No more
galahs came to perch at Rocky Dam
again that year.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Thirty-odd years ago this
road had never known blue-metal, let
alone tar; like a red ribbon with three
drawn threads through it—two caused by
rolling wheels and the wider one by plod-
ding hooves —it wound its dusty way to
the creek flats, where a dozen Chinese
market-gardens flourished. Along it huge
loads of “cabbagee” and “tlamata” were
taken to market in high-prowed carts that
“Of COURSE I’ve got the brakes on —at eight-and-six a mile!”
seemed to my romantic, childish mind to
be built like Spanish galleons. The horse
was always very big—no Celestial would
ever buy a small, nuggety draught, even if
it could out-pull a 17-hander —and Ah
Fat was generally sound asleep on the
load. There were no kerbs or gutters,
then, and no concrete footpaths; just.a
Wide expanse of natural ground with a
ploughed furrow as the line of demarca-
tion between road and pavement. In
those days it used to strike us as extremely
funny to see four or five “Pats” shuffling
back to the gardens after a night of (pre-
sumed) fan-tan or opium: with plenty
of width to walk abreast, they invariably
imitated Brown’s renowned bovines. To-
day the erstwhile rural district is a
modern suburb ; a housing project has
wiped out all trace of the “Chows’
“ Hmmm — adenoids !”
gardens” ; Pats no longer walk one be-
hind another along the footpaths—but
everybody else does! Why? Because
by keeping to the exact centre of
the concrete footpaths you can just miss
the ergot-laden paspalum. Progress!
* * * «
“Emel”: Cheapest sheep to keep, unless
your neighbor stocks the same breed or
has exceptionally good fences, are Dorset
Horns, which, when they can’t get
through, go over fences after extra feed.
They range well, too. Some from a near-
by shed have been seen drinking from an
irrigation channel five miles from their
home paddock. Our Dorset Horn-
Merino cross lambs would jump any-
thing they could see over, and made
daily foraging excursions into a neighbor’s
oat-crop, or across the road to the
paspalum-choked channel. We’re con-
vinced the Dorsets don’t believe in eating
their own tucker if they can get someone
else’s,
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Every time this Olympics
business comes up it reminds me of the
marathon event in west Riverina when
our beards were black. Red Louis
brought the news, appearing at Tapalin
one hot morning. “Where y’ makin’ fr,
Red?” “Gol Gol.” “Aw. You ridin’
all the way?” ' “Well, y’ don’t think a
man’d ruddy-well walk, do y’!” “Long
way t’ ride f’r a drink, ain’t it, moren’
twice as far as Euston.” Louis screwed
up his eyes at the sunglare. “They tell
me,” he said, slowly, “there’s a new
bloke got the Gol Gol pub. Takin’ over
Saturdee. Free booze all day.” That
was Thursday morning. Gol Gol was
just on 50 miles down-river. Three of
us rode horses, Mulligan rode his bike,
We overtook or were passed by others all
the way down. The punt from the Vic-
torian side worked overtime. By Satur-
day there were easily 150 guests awaiting
the event. The Gol Gol publican was
too busy all day Friday to say much, but
late that day he asked somebody what
the excitement was all about. They told
him. “Aw,” he said, “that wasn’t this
pub. It’s the Crown at Wentworth.”
They still say some of the horsemen
covered the 25 miles to Wentworth in
funder two hours that night. We went
home, each a couple of quid lighter.
* ♦ * *
“C. Towers”; The city visitor was
holding forth about fish being cold-
blooded when old Sandy chipped in.
“Don’t you believe it, mate. I’ll tell
you something. This morning I’m fishing
off the end of the jetty and the water’s
that clear I can see my bait —a big
prawn—resting on the bottom. And I
can see a couple o’ fish—a good-sized
bream and a nice flathead —edging up
toward it. Thbs© fish’re watching the
prawn, and they’re watching each other,
suspicious, see? They get closer an’
closer, an’ all of a sudden the bream
makes* a dart and a grab, and rips the
prawn clean off the hook. Well, y’ oughta
have seen the sad look on the dial o’
that flathead! It got me, an’ I’m just
goin’ to shot the poor cow a prawn when
I see that bream swim over and offer
the flathead half his. Don’t tell me fish
are cold-blooded, mate. They got hearts
just as warm as yours or mine.”
* % * *
“H.A.L.”: Never heard of using a bit
of silk stocking to catch crabs (B.
25/ 3/ ’53), but Jim, who lived on the
banks of the Glenelg River (Western
Vic.), used old stockings to catch eels.
Just below Jim’s hut was a narrow
channel connecting two very long
and deep readies of
the river. Across this,
as soon as the stream
ceased to run each
summer, he would
build a fence of saw-
mill off-cuts. The
board in the centre
had a hole in it 4in.
across. Every Thurs-
day night Jim would
go down with a silk
stocking the foot of
which had been cut
off, pass the top end
through the hole in
the board and fasten
it around the edge
with tacks. He
would then put a
trap of chicken-
netting against the
fence, with the
stocking hanging in-
side it, and fix it in position with wire.
Used to going through the hole as they
moved between the two pools, the eels
would poke their noses into it as usual,
wriggle down the length of the stocking
and emerge inside the netting cage. Jini
sold his catch at sixpence a foot, an
this, added to his old-age pension, meant
he was never short of beer- and tobacco*
money all through the summer.
THE CHARWOMEN
Ho, ho! Such a sight I’ve seen
I can’t look long or short ;
But only in between
And fear to break in half
With a belly-rumbling laugh.
Today at half-past four,
Ho, ho, ho, I saw
Fifty-one or more
Magpies loop the loop,
Climb, roll and swoop
So much,out of fashion
I saw np birds at all
But fifty-one charwomen in a park
Tumbling in a merry lark
Trying to shed ’twixt work and tea
Centuries of propriety.
Their dowdy, heavy, full black skirts
Were never made for somersaults;
Ho, ho! Nor their off-white bloomers shaking
As two great rolls of flesh went quaking
Over head and over turkey.
Some joined hands and danced about,
Their ample bosoms burst their clouts
And up and sideways bounced a bulk
Of dugs would make a milkmaid sulk.
Then one and all they seized their pails
And turned to me their serious tails —
Fifty-one or more, I said,
And went sedately home to bed.
Laughter the old Troll
Nicked me in the eyes;
Now though I look straight
I only see crosswise,
And when amongst the clods
The magpies search for grubs,
I’ll see old greasy Kate
Flicking with her broom
The dust from room to room,
Or moving a chair for fluff.
Her skirt will strain and swell
As she bends low enough;
And ho, ho, ho, to tell
How much I liked her lark
At half-past four in the park!
n.s.w.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


“Flight”: After watching several
slaughters by eagles, I’m not sure yet
which is the proper way for them to
tackle a plain-turkey. On two different
occasions I saw a turkey flushed off the
ground and into the air so that the eagle
could get a better go at it. Each eagle
did the trick the same way : they
swooped on the turk as it was flying for
the lick of its life; the eagle seemed to
grasp its victim by the neck from behind
—probably it sank in its talons to pierce
the spinal-cord—anyway, that turkey vol-
planed to the ground. Yet I have also
seen two eagles shepherd an airborne
turkey back to the ground. There, its long
neck sticking up above the Mitchell-
grass, it made a good target for their
swooping attacks, the object of which
seemed to be the turk’s neck, just as
before. But the turkey knew a thing
or two. It dodged like a snake ; it almost
turned back-somersaults to evade double-
thrusts ; and, when the going became
too hot, it took to the air in an effort to
escape, sure the eagles wouldn’t press
home their attacks there. The turkey was
still intact when all Vanished from sight.
♦ * * ♦
“Kalapi”: When myxomatosis skittled
nearly all the rabbits on Steve’s place he
completed the job by getting the few
that were left, put his netting-fence in
thorough repair and announced that
henceforth he was going to have one of
those rabbit-free properties you read
“It Was the only way to get your home number, sir. The cab
cost seventeen-and-six
about. But within a month the wombats
had ripped holes in the fence to get at
the grass on the, other side, and the
rabbits were in again. A sympathetic
Government official gave Steve permis-
sion to kill off the colony of wombats.
“What'll you do about the skins?” in-
quired old Joe, who tirade a living by
doing casual work around the district,
Steve snorted. “You won’t catch me
trying to skin the brutes. I had ago
at it once. Toughest skinning job I ever
tackled. I’d sooner do a pig any day—
and it’s hard enough to get the hide off
one of them, heaven knows.” “Can
I have the skins, then?” Joe inquired,
and was told he was welcome to
them. He duly turned up armed with a
tyre-valve, pump, knife, butcher’s-saw
and a pick-handle. He went to the first
of the poisoned wombats, cut off a foot,
pulled the skin back, sawed off the leg,
put the valve into the skin and lashed it
firmly in place with twine. Then he
began to pump. Whenever the skin was
sticking he lambasted the ballooning car-
cass with the pick-handle to free it. It
didn’t take long for the carcass to re-
semble a gigantic football. A few cuts
from the knife and Joe had the hide.
Before driving away in his battered old
utility he said: “I’ll have ’em tanned
within three months, then a saddler I
know’ll give me a few quid apiece for
’em. Wombat leather outlasts any pig-
skin for saddle-seats.” All Steve could
do was sigh.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“J. 8.”: Although it was the middle of
winter, the missus had been continually
complaining that the milk would not
keep. Repeated cross-questioning of
Mary, the gin who milked and separated,
revealed nothing amiss. Finally the
missus persuaded the boss to go up to
the yards and have a look. He arrived
to find Mary milking and merrily hum-
ming away with her feet up to her
fetlocks in the bucket of new milk.
When the storm had subsided Mary
glanced up at him with a flash of white
teeth. “Aw, boss,” she protested, “him
plurry sight warmer that way!”
* * * ♦
“Mark O’Polo”: There’s still no telling
where you’ll find gold. A few months
ago within a dozen miles of Prince’s
Bridge, Melbourne, on a block of land
where building had started on a new
factory, and in country seemingly more
suited to growing vegetables than to
finding a power-shovel excavating a
drainage trench threw up several pieces
of gold. During the lunch-hours and at
knock-off, every man on the job became
a prospector. The scene was slightly
reminiscent of the early days, except that
no claims were pegged, and instead of
shapers and cradles the seekers used
sieves, and in no time the ground was
dotted with small mounds. As with most
alluvial shows, the field soon petered out
and after four days no one was getting
a color, but there was a second rush
to the same place several weeks later,
when the trench was backfilled, and the
’dozer broke into natural surface beneath
the spoil-bank. This time interest died
even sooner, and in a couple of days it
“Mama, meet Tom from the Territory."
became evident that the field was barren.
Among the dozen df more lucky ones
the most successful was a carpenter who
struck an extraordinarily rich patch
during the first rush, a small jar con-
taining 20 glorious golden slugs. Yes,
you’ve guessed it. The site was once a
Chinese market-garden, and those urban
goldminers were digging up sovereigns,
the privy hoard of some old long-dead
Chinaman.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
“Anthropo”; The hungry abo. ate
human flesh as readily as he now does
rabbit. John Forrest on his first expedi-
tion, which took him 25 miles beyond
what is now Laverton (W.A.), found
ample evidence of cannibalism among
the tribes all over what later became the
North Coolgardie goldfields. In her book
telling of life last century in a Westralian
parsonage, Mrs. Milled gives the story,
told by her male house-servant, of how
an abo. father, during prolonged winter
rains, which made all hunting a failure,
killed a sister to provide food for the
others of the family. Records of the
W.A. Supreme Court tell of the trial at
Geraldton on October 10, 1873, of
Yarradee and Mullagelly, accused of the
murder of four-year-old Edward Dunn,
snatched almost from his father’s door,
then carried off into the forest, killed and
eaten: the picked bones being thrown
into the Megrew Well, from which they
were recovered. The two adult diners —
two boys also partook of the feast-—were
hanged. On a Murchison (W.A.) sheep-
station Molly Maguire, who held the posi-
tion of washlady, was the one gin whom
nothing could tempt to go “walkabout.”
Well - nurtured on white - feller - tucker,
Molly tipped the steelyards at 15 stone:
she had no illusions as to what would
happen to her well-padded carcass.
♦ ♦ * *
“P. le L.”: Prolonged drought had
made Mac’s stack of hay doubly valu-
able, so he decided to put a fence around
it against the sorties of predatory stock.
It was not until he had finished putting
the last rail into position that he became
aware simultaneously of two facts: his
horse and cart were still on the inside
and he’d forgotten to make any pro-
vision for a gate.
• ♦ * ♦
J. E. Murphy: The stories of the
massacre of the Frasers (or Frazers) on
Hornet Bank (Q.) as given by Colin
Roderick in Of Mortal Bondage and in
The Early History of Rockhampton
(1904), by J. T. S. Bird, are at variance
with Clem Lack’s version (B. 11/3/’53).
Revenge was the motive of the blacks,
not for outrages of gins but because Mrs.
Fraser gave shelter at the homestead to
several young lubras who shrank from
the marriage arrangements made for
them by the old men of the tribe. The
immediate cause of the massacre was one
Nancy, who was the mother of several
half-caste children. Instigator of the
attack was Hawkwood Jimmy, a
stranger to Hornet Bank, who, after
drifting in with a dray-train from the
Auburn district, sought to make Nancy
his gin. When she rebuffed his advances
and fled to the shelter of the homestead
Jimmy prevailed upon old Boney, a
trusted retainer of the Frasers, to assist
in the massacre. According to the report
of it by Lieut. Powell, O.C. of the Native
Police Detachment at Eiirimba, eight
miles from Hornet Bank, there was no
opening of the doors to parley with the
attackers. It was to Powell’s detachment
that “West” Fraser, despite his shocking
head injuries, managed to crawl. The
people at the homestead were all armed
and under the charge of an English tutor,
but no alarm was sounded because the
dogs did not bark. “West” Fraser lived
because, hit with a nulla-nulla, he slipped
betW/een bed and wall and was left for
dead. The body of a Fraser child was
found transfixed with spears in the middle
of the homestead yard. Lieut. Powell
and his native troopers formed part of
the avenging party which, easily follow-
ing the trail of discarded plunder, caught
up with the murderers the day after the
massacre.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
PASSING OF A HERMIT
One of the loneliest places in New
Zealand is Preservation Inlet, on the
south-west tip of the South Island. Apart
from the lighthouse-keepers, it had, till
his passing a few months back, one other
human inhabitant —Jules Bjorg, known
for many years as the Hermit of Preserva-
tion.
Jules went to Preservation to live about
20 years ago, mainly because he found
it the best place for his asthma. A
cordial old fellow, he always welcomed
visitors and kept a visitors’ book which
must now be an historical treasure.
He kept himself in meat by various
ingenious devices. In his garden was
a tree from which he would hang greens
of a type beloved by deer. They were
suspended among the leaves by a wire,
and when a deer came in the night to
feed off them they would naturally pull
the wire.
That would ring a bell attached to the
other end of the wire over Jules’s bed.
Jules would open a trapdoor by his bed,
place his rifle on a rest so that it would
point to where the deer was standing,
then turn a switch which would flood the
deer with light. The startled animal
would turn round to face the light, and
Jules had only to press the trigger and
lie down in bed again, certain that the
meat would be there in the morning.
He also had an arrangement for catch-
ing deer alive. It was a kind of stock-
yard with a 'deadfall gate, like a port-
cullis. A tree figured in this ruse also.
The deer pulled at anything that might
be hung in the tree, and down would
fall the gate.
Jules was famous for his home-made
wines. He kept his supplies in a properly-
constructed cellar, and kept full records
of the dates, and his barrels were
scrubbed so clean they were almost white,
tlis garden, too, was like a nurseryman’s
catalogue. It is said that a warm current
strikes that part of the coast and gives
vegetables a phenomenal growth —that,
together with the rich bush-soil, did the
trick. His parsnips were like elephants’
trunks.
The occasional visits of a Grumman-
Widgeon amphibian to the inlet brought
Jules more into the limelight in recent
years and his fame began to spread. He
had become part of the scene and might
have developed into a tourist attraction
in an area which as yet has seen so few
tourists.
THE GASCON.
WHERE LEICHHARDT LIES
Is this the land where Leichhardt lies.
Unfound though the years have fled?
Stark red desert •’neath blazing skies,
Where the ghostly pools of mirages rise
From the daypans’ barren bed.
Where is the spot where he lies at rest,
By channel or gibber-plain?
Did he grimly hold to the journey west
Or, disillusioned and sorely pressed,
Did he turn to the north again?
Did he turn to the north as the Israelites
Once turned to the promised land?.
Through days of torture and nightmare nights
To a fate unknown went the ill-starred whites
To death in the black men’s sand.
This is the land where the whirlwind goes
In the path of the men who fell ;
Where the stars are pale and the min-min glows
And the sandhills shift when the storm-wind
blows
From the south like a Mast from hell.
Sweeping north go the dull-red waves,
Storm-crests of a long-stilled sea —
Deep down under in smothered caves
Do they shield forever the long-lost graves
And the key to the mystery?
Did he die a hero or die accursed
By the comrades he had led?
Did he fall to fever or blinding thirst?
Was he trapped by flood when the channels
burst
And the north-spawned waters spread?
This is the land where the desert blacks
Still wander, a scattered band.
Do they mutter low of the “debbil tracks”
In the long-ago, and of fierce attacks
In the heart of their sacred land? —
Where the fine red dust of the Centre cloaks
In a close embrace and strong
The spinifex-hills by the rock-bound soaks
Where the twisted limbs of the desert-oaks
Are crooning a deathless song.
Is this the land where Leichhardt lies?—
Land of the “great unknown.”
Grim red desert and blazing skies,
Guard well your secret from questing eyes
For this is his land alone.
QUEENSLAND.
LANCEWOOD.


m
t&m
t •)•*>;.;
!'
r
■ r.«OSprrAU. : :v:.x_i.
Hill
: r WU STREHGT« : ■
’‘ r WhTtNTS . fiKT 4 >i. CJS.V.
I
P5O/M
GUARD
<%>
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for erery type of business II records
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing la appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agenta~
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
r
CfiXo
■
yff.
%
-'■'hS.
m*.
/r *»mri
enchanting
wm
the
hills
of
9
Step into this enchanting
wonderland and soon you will
believe that Ceylon is truly just
a few miles from Paradise.
The magnificent hill country of
Ceylon has been bestowed with
nature’s richest gifts ... an end-
less panorama of scenic grandeur,
unrivalled anywhere in the world.
Here, in a climate that cools and
refreshes, you may enjoy all that
makes a holiday really memorable
' —golf on one of Asia’s finest
courses fishing in trout-filled
mountain streams—the April horse-
racing carnival—miles of fas-
cinating mountain walks.
HI
First-class
hotel
accommodation
is available
throughout
Ceylon.
Further information, free maps and literature can
be obtained by writing to the CEYLON GOVERN-
MENT TOURIST BUREAU, or Travel Agents,
Shipping and Airlines in Australia.
Tours can be booked direct on all registered Travel Agents
through the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau, free of
commission.
CT.9.16
Business. Rollery. etc.
Taxation and Inflation
From “J.R.Y.” (N.S.W.);
I, like “A.H.Y.” (B. 11/2/’53),
seek enlightenment regarding our
finances. Could you explain the fol-
lowing: The Federal Government
imposed heavier taxation ostensibly
to assist in combating inflation. Now f
it appears that the funds secured in
this way were handed to State authori-
ties to meet the cost of works. Did
this not have the very effect the
Federal Government sought to avoid,
seeing that it is generally conceded
that Government enterprise does not
get the same value for its money as
private? Also, resultant private
unemployment meant less production,
with fewer goods to sell.
Though the Budget surplus of
£98.5 million for 1951-52 was,
in fgct, used as a basis of finance
for State works, and was thus
spent over practically the same
period that the extra taxation
was levied, it did npt fail to
have anti-inflationary effects,
though certainly these effects
were not as abrupt as they would
have been if the money had
been set aside, unspent, by the
Federal Treasury.
If the Budget surplus and other
Federal assistance had not been
forthcoming there would have
been an almost complete stop-
page of State public works in
1951-52. Public loans during
that financial year brought in
only £63.8 million, which
“domestic raisings” brought up
to £72.4 million. The Common-
wealth Government had pre-
viously underwritten the States’
works programmes up to £225
million, and the' £152 million
shortage was made up out of the
£98.5 million Budget surplus, out
of the Australian - currency
proceeds of an International
Bank loan, and out of investment
of Commonwealth trust-fund
moneys.
If the Commonwealth Gov-
eminent had not underwritten
the States’ loan requirements it
might not have been so liberal
with them. But it should be
noted that the Budget surplus
enabled the Loan Council to
avoid going on the loan market
and paying a very high rate of
interest to attract loan money
from otherwise unwilling
investors. There is no question,
therefore, about whether the
10 p.c. super-tax in 1951-52
helped to check inflation and
stabilise finance and the interest-
rate. It did.
The Cahill Government was
grossly extravagant with its
share of the loan funds, but it
is not within' the Common-
wealth’s power to direct State
Government “works” policy. As
to the “resulting private unem-
ployment” meaning “less pro-
duction,” in nearly all essential
materials—coal, steel, cement,
etc. —there has been a great
improvement over the past two
years, and the turn-round" of
shipping has speeded up in a very
welcome manner,
F. W, Hughes Industries
The public became interested
in F. W. Hughes Industries, Ltd.,
at the end of 1951, when
1,250,000 £1 ordinary shares
were offered for cash subscrip-
tion, and 2,900,000 ords. and
£1,161,308 in cash were taken
by vendors as consideration for
all the shares in F. W. Hughes
Pty., Ltd,, and its subsidiaries
and associated companies. Paid
capital is £4,150,000.
Since flotation the £1 shares
in the public co. have never sold
at par or over on the Stock
Exchange, though a 6 p.c. divi-
dend has been paid, at present
tax-free. With the latest (final
for 1952) distribution share-
holders were supplied with addi-
tional information about the co.
Here is a summary:
F. W. Hughes Industries, Ltd.,
owns the whole of the share-capital
of F, W. Hughes Pty., Ltd., and
through it a group of subsidiary com-
panies.
F. W. Hughes Pty., Ltd., is the
main operating co. of a group which
was built up by the late F. W. Hughes
and his colleagues over half a
century. The works of this co. at
Botany (N.S.W.) occupy an area of
more than 20 acres, and the products
are scoured and carbonised wool,
wool-tops, noils, pickled pelts and
tanned sheepskins. Trading opera-
tions are conducted the world over
through various agents and through
Pastoral Products, Ltd., a subsidiary
in London. The co. also deals exten-
sively in wool and livestock produced
on a number of stations throughout
New South Wales.
Alexandria Spinning Mills Pty.,
Ltd., is a subsidiary of F. W. Hughes
Pty., owning large spinning and
weaving mills and dye-works at
Alexandria (N.S.W.), where some of
the wool-tops produced at Botany are
processed further. The main products
of these mills are hand-knitting yams,
worsted yarns for the knitting and
weaving industries, and worsted suit-
ings and frockings. Buildings and
yards cover an area of over acres.
A full range of knitting-wools is pro-
duced.
Brookvale Weaving Mills is another
unit in the textile group. The new
weaving mill is almost complete at
Brookvale, a northern suburb of
Sydney, and there automatic looms
brought from England will soon be
producing worsted suitings and frock-
ings.
Alexandria Textiles Pty., Ltd., is a
subsidiary trading as a distributing
co. and warehouse in Sydney and in
Melbourne, handling the textile pro-
ducts of the manufacturing group.
Pastoral Properties. The pastoral
section Of F. W. Hughes Industries
and its subsidiaries runs an average
of approximately 225,000 sheep and
6000 head of cattle. Kooba Station,
in the Riverina, is the largest single
property, and is owned by F. W.
Hughes Pty. Other pastoral companies
in the group are:—
Kiacatoo Pty., Ltd.: Kiacatoo,
near Condobolin.
Merriola Pty., Ltd. : Merriola,
near Hay.
Nulabor Pty., Ltd. : Nulabor
(adjoining Merriola).
Northern Farming and Grazing
Co. Pty., Ltd.: Youendah, Marsh-
mead and Tooloora, near Walgett.
South Benerembah Pty., Ltd- :
Benerembah, in the Riverina.
Southern Estates Pty., Ltd. :
Borambola, Corriedale, Lynwood and
Little Springs, near Wagga; Coleman
and Pearce, near Tumut; Booberoi,
Eribendery, Marooba and St. Ed-
wards, in the Condobolin-Lake Car-
gelligo area.
Welbondongah Pastoral Co. Pty.,
Ltd. : Welbondongah, near Garah,
northern N.S.W.
Stud flocks are maintained at
Kooba, Nulabor and Borambola.
Colonial Meat Co. Pty., Ltd., is a
subsidiary in Melbourne, carrying on
in fellmongering, wool-scouring,
wholesale butchering and meat-can-
ning. This co. produces canned meats
under the registered trade-name of
Kensington.
The products of this co. are largely
for the export trade, and are handled
throughout the world in the same
manner as export products of the
New South Wales companies.
The Colonial Wholesale Meat Co.
Pty., Ltd., is a subsidiary operating
at Homebush, Sydney, engaged in
meat-canning and in wholesale
butchering. This company markets
canned meats under the trade name
of Bronte.
Both meat-processing cos. produce
a wide range of canned meat’s, and
in the wholesale-butchery section
both companies conduct a distribu-
tion service to retail butchers in the
Melbourne and Sydney metropolitan
areas and also export lamb and
mutton carcasses.
The holding co. balances on
October 31 each year. An
interim distribution will be due
in June next. Though the textile
industry is depressed, the co.’s
sheep - property and meat-
canning interests should be doing
well. The £1 ord. shares at
19s. have attractions for holding
purposes,
Newcastle Harbor
“Abdul Assiz”: Since the
Dutch dredge H.A.M. 301 com-
pleted its contract on November
10, 1952, the results achieved bv
the Government-owned fleet oi
vessels in deepening the shipping
channels of Newcastle Harbo
have been negligible, and silting
up, without flooding, is again
menace.
In fact, only one channel, the
Coke Berth, has shown
measurable improvement, the
depth having increased from
19ft. to 21ft. 6in., a figure stil
3ft. 6in. short of the target of
25ft. At Wickham Dolphins
decrease of 3ft. has been regis
tered (from 26ft. to 23ft.). The
target here was 28ft. Lee Wharf
No. 4 has shown a similar silting-
up, and other berths show de-
creases in depth of from Ift. to
4ft. At 27 places the depth has
remained stationary. It will not
be possible to ship wheat with
safety at the Silo Berth until
depth of 28ft. 6in. (target 30ft.)
has been established.
In spite of the fact that only
the Richard Vowell and one old
bucket-dredge have been at work
in the port since Christmas the
results are disappointing, and the
continued deterioration of the
harbor is viewed very seriously
by the commercial interests
involved. It isn’t surprising that
the Newcastle Chamber of
Commerce is making strong
representations that the work be
stepped up.
All the recent silting-up of
Newcastle Harbor, and the lost
depth thus occasioned, has
occurred at the seaward end,
thus indicating that the silt has
been deposited by tidal action
and has not come from
upstream.
This means that —floods or no
floods—continuous dredging will
be necessary if Newcastle’s ship-
ping-lanes are to be kept open
to traffic.
One result of the silting-up
brought home to the Sydney
public has been the higher cost
of household gas resulting from
increased coal-handling charges
in the Port of Newcastle.


SD
%
IV
Jo> decide oh* Me
FS
A* r
s
3Sa^3^Jf|j
zmmr
We’ve shown before how the Hanomag R 45
can save you up to £3OO in fuel costs alone
over an average working year; also, we’ve
demonstrated how field tests proved the
amazing draw bar pull of the Hanomag . ..
but it’s the combination o| factors that
really matters. Compare the market . . .
you’ll find Hanomag the most powerful,
most economical tractor in its field.
With its 5 forward gears Hanomag R 45 has a multitude
of uses, from slow extra-heavy pulling in first gear to a
12 m.p.h. road speed with 22-ton trailer load. Manoeuv-
rability is ensured by the independent rear wheel brakes
giving a tight turning circle of only 11 ft. 10 ins.
For the complete story on the amazing Hanomag R 45 contact:
BUY NOW!
REAP
MORE PROFITS
DEMCO Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd.
267-271 Cleveland Street, REDFERN,
N.S.W, Phone MX 4121
Diatributors —QUEENSLAND: Demco
Machinery Co. (QMand) Ltd., C/- Bpx
93b, G.P.0., Brisbane. VICTORIA:
Demco Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 355
William Street, Melbourne. SOUTH
AUSTRALIA: Shipp Bros., Hilton
Road, Adelaide. WEST AUSTRALIA:
E, E. (Joe) Hancock, 59 Lord Street,
Perth,
To DEMCO MACHINERY CO. PTY. LTD.
267-271 Cleveland Street, REDFERN.
Please forward, without obligation, full
details of the Hanomag R 45 Tractor.
NAME-
ADDRESS
B. 8.4.’58
2819
FAITH IN THE
'5.
Events of the last 10 or 12 years have underlined
the fact that we are living just across the ocean from
our good friends the Americans. I like that thought.
With utmost regard for the British tradition and
for the excellent British standards we have established
here, I believe that the strengthening of the Australian-
American relation will have a tremendous influence on
what we do with this country.
As a scout pilot of the. Royal Flying Corps and
later the Royal Air Force in the first World War, I did
battle with Richthofen and his “circus” of picked
pilots, shooting some down and later being wounded
and shot down by them; I know war at first hand.
Those who know me know where my loyalty lies.
But I frankly admire the people of the United
States, and prize their friendship. The great industry
they have built, their virility, their employment of
power, their flair for organisation, their wide and
fearless conception in things constructional, their
capacity for engineering, which is very close to my
own heart, the generosity with which they have helped
to raise up today’s world afflicted from the ravages of
war. •
These I extol. And I think that if we profit from
the lessons that American virility and drive can teach
us, we will bring our hopes for Australia to quicker
realisation.
I believe that in the years ahead, Australia will
be increasingly a link between the British and
American worlds, drawing all that is best from the
two great foundations —and sharing with both a
common prosperity.
Ever since, as a child, I read Carlyle’s “Heroes
and Hero Worship,” heroes have been very real people
to me, and in that category I place General Douglas
MacArthur, the gallant American who was the chief
agent in the delivery of Australia from invasion in
1942.
I’ve heard MacArthur described as flamboyant,
dramatic, emotional. All of them traits of an acutely
sensitive character, and all of them compatible with
genius. All of them, moreover, the marks of great
warriors in history.
MacArthur the soldier, the man, the protector of
our country, has earned the respect and gratitude of
Australians. And I hope that if ever we raise a
Pantheon to our great, we’ll save a Corner of Memory
to the name of this great American.
The idea of a Pantheon may seem remote, for the
bones of the great ones who founded and fostered
this young country are scattered far. But I’d like to
see MacArthur commemorated most fittingly in the
National War Memorial at Canberra —and to see it
done while he yet lives to know we honour him.
B-12
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Prosperity and Production
A first-class production season
on both sides of the Tasman has
placed Australia and Maoriland
on more even terms this year
than last. In a broad sense trends
are similar, with the difference
that Maoriland’s greater depend-
ence on external trade at a time
when primary exports have a
seller’s market gives it the ad-
vantage. External reserves have
picked up well and are now head-
ing towards the £9O-million mark
—taking in the holdings of all the
banks —which is double the pre-
Easter total last year.
With output at record level in
all main lines, butter, cheese,
meat and wool, and prices fairly
strong all round, the little
country is in a comfortable
balance-of-payments position
from a consumer point of view ;
the difficulty is on the capital
side, where it is in the same fix
as other countries in not having
enough funds to finance develop-
ment while trying to maintain
its high standard of living.
Its lead over Australia is less
apparent as wool exercises an
equalising influence, wool being
much less prominent in N.Z.
than in Australian trade. On
present prospects, as the season
puts in a strong finish, wool and
dairy-produce proceeds are likely
to be about on a par, around
£7O million, with meat some
distance back, about £45 million.
This seems to be as near to a
perfect balance as Maoriland is
ever likely to get. The uptrend
in primary-production costs has
lost some of its momentum, to
M.L.’s relief, and if import
prices level out, or fell a bit, the
chances of stabilising conditions
would be favorable.
One of the uncertainties is the
future of wages. N.Z. is not
saddled with the handicap of
Australia’s automatic quarterly
system for dealing with price-
inflation by parallel wages-
inflation, and has been more
successful in resisting upward
pressure, but its full-employment
policy doesn’t help in the effort
to bring costs fully under
control. It can’t be taken for
granted that the workers will 1?e
satisfied with their wages while
the cost of living leaves little
margin in the family budget, and
while they feel secure in their
jobs. There’s no general willing-
ness yet to put more muscle into
work, which is the only real
remedy.
Takes and price-controls are
other disincentives. On the
farms, production isn’t in quite
as healthy a state as the present
buoyant season makes it appear,
because tax demands take a large
share of any increase. “What’s
the use?” is the attitude of many
M. farmers who shrug their
shoulders when appeals are
made to them to produce more
food. If the run of good seasons
were to end this weakness would
show up in a sharp fall in
exports. The president of the
Bank of N.S.W. saw the danger
when he said a few months ago:
“In the long run the heavy load
of taxation will inevitably
weaken the initiative and enter-
prise of those who produce New
Zealand’s income.”
N. Forest Products
October or November, 1955,
is the target-date for launching
newsprint production in Maori-
land from Murupara-trees
pulped and processed at the big
plant planned for the Tasman
Pulp and Paper Co., Ltd., with
the backing of the Government.
If everything works out to time-
table 1955 should be a red-letter
year for N.Z., for paper and
pulp are billed as its fourth-
greatest industry. The target is
nearly a year later than the
original one, when Maorilanders
were promised newsprint in three
years’ time. That was in Decem-
ber, 1951, but planning delays
upset the reckoning. However,
this isn’t all loss, for with world
costs on the downtrend and with
more knowledge, the co. claims
it has “pulled down” the first
estimates by £1,750,000 by sav-
ings from more favorable
tenders, by planning less costly
foundations and by lower pro-
jected constructional outlay.
Planning-tiaae which cuts nearly
a couple of millions off the cost
of a project must be time profit-
ably spent.
The co.’s plant will have a
capacity of 75,000 tons of news-
print, 72 million board-feet of
sawn timber (on a two-shift
basis) and 36,000 tons of kraft
pulp yearly, enough to leave an
ample margin for export, which
will mean a saving of dollars to
the sterling bloc as well as a
most important addition to New
Zealand’s export income. A
good deal of planning on the
marketing side will be necessary
while the mills are building to
be ready to get rid of the stuff
when the time comes.
Dollars and sterling, totalling
£l7 million in all, will be wanted
to finance construction and pur-
chase plant, £7 million of the
amount in hard currency, which
the co. has arranged to borrow
from the American Export-
Import Bank. The £lO million
earmarked as a sterling loan is
guaranteed high priority, and
might be wanted early in 1954.
The £l7 million, along with a
few six-figure amounts from
other countries Australia
(£300,000), Canada (£900,000)
and Sweden and Switzerland
(each £300,000) —and £4.4 mil-
lion which Maoriland itself will
be putting into the enterprise
should float the industry. What
isn’t clear at this stage is whether
the Government or the Tasman
co. will raise the sterling, and
whether part of the proceeds will
be for railway and harbor works,
to be built by the State. II seems
likely the co. will be the borrower
of Export-Import Bank dollars,
which are channelled to give
American industry the orders.
However things are worked
out finally in detail, there’s no
doubt that the Government is
carrying a lot of the capital risk
and is well and truly committed
in this scheme to create a
great national asset.
Under the construction pro-
gramme a start on building the
mills will be made in September
next, and about a year later saw-
milling should begin at half-
capacity, to help the logging-
teams to get into harness. Twelve
months after that the whole
organisation should be fully
equipped for integrated running,
based on a vast output of logs
frofii the forest.
Gas Companies
Pegged prices and uncon-
trolled costs have been slowly
paralysing Maoriland’s gas in-
dustry, which has lost a lot of
ground since the days when it
was a reliable profit-earner under
free enterprise. It has been stag-
nating for so long now that
some of the cos. are at the end
of their tether.
Half a dozen have gone to the
wall in the past 18 months, and
those still able to keep going are
having a hard battle with infla-
tion, which is the bugbear of all
enterprises, whether in gas or
other industries where price-
control operates.
It has been uphill work more-
or-less since tax-free electric-
power first became a real chal-
lenge in the ’thirties. On top
of the tax handicap, gas cos.
have to contend with competi-
tion which seems to them not
quite on the level, when power
is sold below cost to beat gas
where the two share the business,
and is priced to net a handsome
profit in other channels. There’s
nothing the gas industry can do
to stop this sort of thing when
the power authorities are in
league with the State Hydro-
electric Department and domi-
nate the fuel and power field.
Gas is banned from State
houses under an edict made be-
fore electricity shortages and
rationing became almost rou-
tine, so the dice are loaded
against gas to an extent that
leaves it without a sporting chance.


Si
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
State* — Victoria, New South Walet
and Queensland.
Are you leaving Your Executor a legacy' of trouble?
One Executor, however able, cannot possibly acquire in
a lifetime the specialised knowledge of a group of experts
that is available permanently from the Union "trustee
Company.
Many people appoint the Union Trustee Company as
sole Executor of their Wills. You, too, can do so with
complete confidence. But should you wish to combine
the Company’s wide experience and extensive knowledge
with the services of a relative or friend, you can
appoint the Union Trustee as co-Executor with that
person.
Why not take' advantage of Union Trustee’s practical
experience in the administration of all types of
Estates? Service is comprehensive; charges are moderate.
Call, without obligation, for a confidential discussion with one of
the Company’s senior officers. Or, if you prefer, write or telephone
for a copy of the free booklet, “Important Facts Concerninlg Wills,
Executors, Trustees
U N io N
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Inoorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ,
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
DSF
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ & £> £»
’47.. 5,662,219 1,983,579 654,572 16,425 ),„„ . nQQ
To staff fund, £43,555 .. ~ f
’48.. 6,348,235 2,220,456 764,279 7,594 1 „ QO , „„„
To staff fund, £34,679 .. ..f
’49.. 7,049,512 2,225,973 819,308 8,276 1 Q ono 00-i
To staff fund. £82,964 .. .. 7 6.9t>2,9»l
’60.. 7,906,996 2,447,608 946,756 14,773 \ , a ,,
To staff fund, £34,015 .. .. (
’51.. 9,249,309 2,864,334 1,265,126 14,615 1 K fi77
To staff fund, £40,557 .. .. f 5 ’ 064 ’ 677
’52., 10,346,930 3,020,908 1,427,769 35,532 h Rl7
To staff fund, £45,726 .. .. | 5.817,090
* Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits,
t After deducting taxes.
, Industrial : Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec. Income.f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£* £/ £t £* &
1947.. 669.908 808,350 622,52912,043 1 , o ft , » Ifi
To staff fund, £22,270 .. > a.aua.iad
1948.. 2.910.499 931,097 674,311 5,958 \ , „ S 9
To staff fund, £16,989 .. .. J, i.aoa.im
1949.. 3.119.500 1,026,795 712,765 7.215 1 , 0, 7 o nn
To staff fund, £15,425 .. .. I 1,857,800
1950.. 404.981 1,066,977 770,608 8,315 1•. fil o
To staff fund, £15,468 .. ..} A.OAd.oia
1951.. 826.246 1,118,103 904,597 8,768 I , ,r 9
To staff fund, £17,820 .. ~r a.mi, *oo
1952.. 416 1,339,085 1,019,526 14,064 )
To general branch, £50,000 .. } 1,615,456
To staff fund, £18,285 .. .. J
* Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits,
f After deducting taxes.
Current trends —official restriction of
imports, coupled with exhortation to
increase exports, and partial finance of
public works with central-bank credit —
place fresh emphasis on the need for
savings as a factor in our social and
economic progress, and upon the value of
life assurance as a means to these ends.
In the social sphere, saving means
putting aside part of current income for
future enjoyment and against misfortune.
Policies of sound, regular-bonus-paying
life offices are designed for just this pur-
pose ; they meet a multiplicity of future
needs of the assured and his dependants,
including creation of an immediate estate
before it is paid for. In these days of
high taxation, high cost-of-living and
rising welfare standards, it is becoming
increasingly difficult for the individual
to provide adequately for his own security
upon retirement, and for that of his de-
pendants upon his death, especially if it
should be premature. Hence the need
of the institution to do it for him, and of
the rapid growth of assurance as a factor
in industrial superannuation.
In the economic field the net personal
savings from life assurance—the differ-
ence between a society’s income and out-
go—are anti-inflationary in character, and
are, for the most part, invested in Gov-
ernment securities and in commerce and
industry, and so help to swell the volume
of both production and employment.
The M.L.C. writes ordinary industrial
and accident business in Australia, New
Zealand, Cafiada and the U.K., and its
latest accounts disclose satisfactory
margins in all those matters upon which
strength and progress depend. In the
two life departments combined
£47,425,890 (down £150,467) of new busi-
ness was put on the b00k5—£36,368,825
(down £1,297,546) in the ordinary section,
where group assurance is creating new
actuarial and investment problems, and
£11,057,065 (up £1,147,077) in the indus-
trial department.
After deducting taxes (£333,673, up
£101,936), aggregate income of the three
departments was £1,336,669 stronger at
£14,632,473 —premiums, etc., £11,809,701
(up £1,115,316) and interest, rents, etc.,
£2,822,772 (up £221,353). After paying
all legitimate claims and exes., £7,845,695
remained, of which £7,432,456 was added
to the life funds, £50,320 was written off
the book-value of securities, £64,928 sent
to the staff fund, £89,658 to reserves in
the general (shareholders’) section, and
£208,333 (20.8 p.c.) was paid in dividends,
same as for the previous term.
The assurance funds, which total
£83,105,873, had the suppdrt and assist-
ance of £1,191,000 of other reserves,
which also belong to policyholders. The
funds alone exceeded actuarial liabilities
under policy contracts, calculated on a
stringent 2$ p.c. basis in the O.D. and
mostly on a 2 p.c. basis in the 1.D., by
the following amounts:
Surplus.
i 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Ordinary .. 1,207,347 1,445,985 1,644,117 1,672,724
Industrial.. 188,310 224,748 252,560 286,780
Total .. 1,395,657 1,670,733 1,896,677 1,959,504
Bonuses to policyholders were main-
tained on the same satisfactory scale as
for the previous term, and the margin
between the net effective rates of interest
earned and the rates assumed in Ithe
valuation were more than is usually con-
sidered adequate for maintenance of
bonuses on the existing scale. -
The net effective rates earned were
£3 10s. 2d. p.c. (down Is. Id.) in the
O.D. and £3 12s. sd. p.c. (down 7d.) in
the 1.D., the slip in each case being due
entirely to the incidence of taxation.
Exes, as a ratio of premium income were
kept on an even keel at 17.06 p.c. in
the 0.D., but increased by 2 p.c, to
30.55 p.c. in the 1.D., owing to the large
amount of new business written.
A feature of the investment portfolio
over the last few years has been the atten-
tion given to mortgages (largely through
co-operative building societies with
Government guarantee) and industrial
debentures and shares:
1951. p.c. 1952. p.c.
Govt, securitiesf £48,071,178 59.0 £49,038,582 65.1
Mortgages, etc... 21,316,930 26.2 26,409,3“?5 29.7
Loans on policies 1,952,825 2.4 2,348,131 2.6
Cash, book debts,
etc 1,019,782 IT2 970,858 1,1
Property.. .. 941,164 1,1 986,842 1.1
Debentures, etc. 2,983,694 3.7 3,577,498 4.0
Shares .. .. 5,193,884 6.4 5,736,685 6,4
£81.479,457 £89,067,971
Liabilities* .. 2,270,010 2,320,226
Net assets ..£79,209,447 £86,747,745
t Includes municipal and public bodies. * Other than
under policies.
At Dec. 31 last Government securities
accounted for 55,1 p.c., mortgages 29.7
p.c., debentures, etc., 4 p.c. and share-
holdings 6.4 p.c. of total assets. Three
years earlier the ratios were 72.5 p.c.,
16.5 p.c., 1.2 p.c. and 5.1 p.c., respec-
tively.
Buyers recently offered 83s. 6d. for the
co.’s f.-p. £1 shares without attracting
sellers. The return at 83s. 6d. would be
4.9 p.c. on a 20.8-p.c.-div. basis.
Industrial Acceptance Corp.
z Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1947.. 87,224 7} «= 87,500 49,724 268,192
Special div., £135,611 .. .. 132,581
Sundry additions, £120,838 .. .. 253,419
Share premiums, £150,000 .. .. 403,419
To special tax res., £86,031 .. .. 317,388
1948. .215,598 124 = 125,000 90,598 407,986
Flotation exes, w/ofl, £10,921 .. 397,065
1949. .270,828 6 124 = 144,271 126,552 523,617
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 648,617
1950. .396,161 5 124 = 165,625 230,536 879,153
• Share premiums, £400,000 .. ..1,279,153
1951.. 481.450 5 12.9 = 218.760 262,700 1,541,853
To contingencies reserve, £57,490 .. 1,599,343
1952. .762,690 5 15 = 250,000 512,690 2,112,033
The spectacular and very profitable
growth of the undertaking over the last
few years is due largely to the board’s
decision in 1950 to replace substantial
bank accommodation by open market
borrowing of cheap debenture and deposit
moneys, and, of course, to a favorable
economic climate. The co. has thus fol-
lowed what is now current practice in
London and New York for providing a
substantial portion of working capital in
this class of business, and its decision
also accords with central-bank credit
policy here. Broadly the aims are to
boost earnings for the equity (ord.) share-
holders, and to avoid being caught with
a top-heavy share-capital structure
in the event ’of a trade recession, though
trouble could arise if such a recession
was pronounced and prolonged.
Now one of the largest vendors of
consumer-credit in Australia, the co. pro-
vides finance for < a wide range of goods
bought under hire-purchase agreements,
including motor-cars, tractors and other
farm equipment, industrial machinery,
furniture, refrigerators and sundry house-
hold appliances, etc. It operates in all
States, enjoys strong connections, which
include several large car-selling and
furniture-retailing houses, and owns three
subsidiaries, largest and most important
of which is the recently-acquired Ajax
Insurance Co., which has been very help-
ful in providing funds for expansion of
the h.-p. business.
From the end of 1947 to the close of
last accounts the book-value of the co.’s
h.-p. debts shot up from £3,420,755 to
£18,010,268. Over the same period
£1,500,000 was added to paid capital,
raising it to £2,000,000 (£500,000 of it
carries a fixed cumulative 5 p.c.), over
£2,000,000 was gathered on fixed deposit,
the amount coming to sundry creditors
(chiefly subsidiaries) was increased by
£2,489,000-odd, and £7,499,700 was raised
on first-mortgage debentures.
The structure of the debenture debt at
last two balancing-dates was as follows:
f— 1 Amount
Maturing. Interest. Dec.,’sl. Dec.,’s2.
31/3/’53 ~ 4J p.c. £2,980,000 £2,976;500
31/10/’55 ~ 4i „ 450,800 450,800
31/3/’57 .. 4i „ 500,000
90-days ~ 3i „ 2,007,100 3,572,400
90-days .. 2| „ 21,500
Total ~ £5,459.400 £7,499,700
The co. holds Treasury authority to issue
up to £9,000,000 of this class of paper,
and the trust-deed provides that the
backing of liquid assets shall not fall
below £l6O per £lOO debenture. To pro-
vide for redemption of the £2,976,500 of
4} p.c. stock which matured on March 31,
1953, and of £23,500 of 3i p.c. short-
term stock, the co. came onto the market
last month with a cash or conversion issue
of £3,000,000 of 5 p.c, debentures. The
result of the issue has not been an-
nounced.
Although the total debenture debt re-
mains unchanged the average cost will
rise from 3.5 p.c. to 3,8 p.c., and might
reach a shade over 4 p.c., following
recent official approval of short-term rates
ranging from 3i p.c. for 90 days to
4 p.c. for 360 days., However, since last
term’s profit plus debenture interest was
equal to 8.8 p.c. on the debenture and
share-capital and reserves combined, both
the debentures and pref. capital are con-
tributing handsomely to the pool for the
ords.
With an extra £2,974,945 out on h.-p.
contracts, the board was able to write last
term’s profit £281,240 stronger at
£762,690. That was after visibly setting
aside £57,490 against possible losses, etc.
After payment of the pref. div., enough
remained to show a juicy 49.2 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 30.4, 33, 25.1, 21.5
and 17.4 p.c. back to 1947. The div, was
raised from 12.9 p.c. to 15 p.c,, and the
£512,690 that remained hoisted reserves
£112,033 higher than paid capital.
To meet the addition to h.-p. contracts,
wipe out the overdraft (£99,820 at the
previous balance), reduce fixed deposit by
£203,130 and strengthen the cash hold-
ing by £553,970, an extra £2,040,300 was
raised on debentures and the amount
coming to sundry creditors was increased
by £680,377:
1960. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,750,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Debentures .. 5,204,800 5,459,400 7,499,700
Overdraft .. 365,042 99,820
Fixed deposits .. 1,174,669 2,346,055 2,142,925
Sundry creditors*.. 306,498 1,939,651 2,620,028
Unearned income.. 1,353,229 1,816,615 2,217,892
Staff fund .. 30,272 42,780 57,802
Tax provision .. 307,547 510,665 620,967
Final divs. .. 90,625 112,500 137,500
Freehold .. .. 2,600 2,600
Office equipment, etc. 36,765 49,415 50,508
H.-p. debts .. 11,281,314 15,035,323 18,010,268
Shares subsids., etc. 128,096 778,075 778,075
Cash . . . . 15,660 12,926 566,896
* Includes advances from subsidiaries, £2,125,046 at
December 81, 1952.
When the books closed there was £2 9s.
4d. belonging to debenture-holders, fixed
depositors and outside creditors in the
business for every pound of shareholders’
funds.
The Ajax Co. (paid capital £60,000)
netted £47,945 (after allowing £57,725 for
taxation) on a net premium income of
£1,421,834. Its assets total £1,940,676,
of which £1,598,205 is represented by
advances to I.A.C.
The price of the f.-p. ss. ords., which
dropped to 9s. Id. during 1952, stood at
12s. 9d. last week, giving a return of
5,8 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 10s. 2d.
The well-protected prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
Rosella Preserving
Rosklla Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1942.. 53,720 12 p.c. = 48,000 5,720 144.731
1943.. 54,552 10 „ „ 40,000 14,552 159,283
1944.. 55,751 10 „ „ 40,000 15,751 175,034
1945.. 63,360 10 „ „ 40,000 23,360 198,394
1946.. 64,504 10 „ „ 40,000 24,504 222,898
1947.. 66,124 10 „ „ 40,000 26,124 249,022
1948.. 65,986 10 „ „ 40,000 25,986 275,008
Share premiums, £47,706 .. .. 822,714
1949.. 82,301 12i p.c. = 50,000 32,301 355,015
Share premiums, £2294 .. .. 357,309
1950.. 91,566 12J p.c. = 62,500 29,066 386,375
Share premiums, £50,000 .. .. 436,375
1951.. 131,683 12i p.c. = 63,542 68,141 504,516
Share premiums, £425 .. . . 504,941
1952.. 154,089 12i p.c. = 75,000 79,089 584,030
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508 at Sept. 80, 1952.
The co., which has always been a
good profit-earner and dividend-payer,
turns out a wide range of canned fruits,
jams, vegetables, cbndiments, etc., from
three factories in Victoria, two in N. S.
Wales and one each in S. Aust, and Tas-
mania. Plant is modern, and about 84
p.c. of expenditure on it over the last three
years has been written off out of earnings,
which means much so far as the earning-
power of plant in relation to capital is
concerned. Divs. have averaged over
11 p.c. during the last 34 years, sweet-
ened with periodic new share-issues on
favorable terms.
To help finance factory additions, etc.,
including a new tomato-processing unit
at Tatura (Vic.) and new warehouse at
Richmond (Vic.), as well as carry more
stocks and book-debts, 200,000 new £1
shares were issued at a premium of 10s.
each during the two years to Sept. 30,
1951 —one half was gathered in Sept.,
1949, and the other half in August, 1951.
Although the share-premiums make a
12£ p.c. div. worth only 8| p.c. on one-
third of the £600,000 of share capital, the
issues were in the nature of bonuses to
shareholders because of the high price
of the old shares in the market.
Last term net earnings (up £22,406)
were maintained on an even keel in rela-
tion to capital. It was a creditable per-
formance considering the difficulties
which beset the trade, chief of which were
continued decline in the export of jams
and consequent growth of competition
and narrowing of profit-margins in the
expanding home market, following sharp
rises in the cost of sugar (up £2O a ton)
and the basic wage (up 38s, a week on
the average for the four States in which
the co. operates). In contradistinction to
jams, there was, and still is, a strong
overseas demand for canned fruit, and
the Australian record pack for the cur-
rent season has been practically cleared.
There was also marked improvement in
production of canned vegetables, espe-
cially tomatoes.
The improvement in the net figure was
due entirely to savings in exes. Gross
profit on trading (£717,852) was down
£24,001, but exes. (£563,763) were pulled
back by £46,407 —they include £30,528
(down £7372) for depreciation and some-
thing for taxation and other contingencies.
The £154,089 of profit claimed was 25.6
p.c. on average capital as against 25.9,
18.3, 20.5, 16.5 and 16.5 p.c, back to
1947. So nothing had to be strained to
maintain the 12| p.c. div. The £79,089


NORTHERN MINES DEVELOPMENT
NO LIABILITY
(fi be registered under the Companies Act 1938 of the State of Victoria )
REGISTERED OFFICE: 450 Collins Street, Melbourne
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF 500,000 ORDINARY
SHARES OF 5/- EACH ON WHICH 2/- PER
SHARE IS PAYABLE ON APPLICATION
The whole of the issue has been underwritten and taken firm by the
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
Leonard G. May, 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Marriott & Treloar, 31 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Limited).
DIRECTORS:
Charles Edward Blackett, M.1.M.M., M.Aust.I.M.M., 16 Lysterville Avenue,
Malvern, Vic., Mining Engineer.
Dr. Michael Duhan Garretty, D.Sc., M.1.M.M., M.A.1.M.8., M.Aust.I.M.M.,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic., Mining Geologist.
Leonard Charles Keane, 50 Augusta Street, Holmsdale, |.A., Company
Director.
Kenneth William Craig, A.S.A., A.C.A.A., 450 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Vic., Accountant.
MANAGER AND REGISTERED OFFICE
Martyn Bruce Gemmell, A.C.A.(Aust), A. E. Bruhn & Co., 450 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The primary business of the Company will be to explore for, test
and develop gold and base metal mining properties. Areas tested will be
secured either by direct acquisition of Mining Rights or by securing
options on existing tenements considered to have merit. Six options have
already been secured on behalf of the Company. Where warranted separate
Companies will be formed to operate the Mines; this Company’s interests
will be transferred to the operating Companies and substantial benefits
should accrue to Shareholders in this Company.
OPERATIONS
Exploration will be carried out by mapping and geological analysis
and, where warranted, by diamond drilling. It is estimated that it will
be possible to purchase all necessary equipment to carry out all desired
investigations and to complete approximately 10,000 feet of drilling
before it is necessary to call up more than the 2/- per share to be
paid on allotment.
LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES
Application will be made in due course for the listing of the Company's
Shares on the Adelaide and Melbourne Stock Exchanges.
STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum subscription upon receipt of which the proposed
Directors may proceed to allotment is 500,000 shares of 5/- each, on which
the amount payable on application and allotment is 2/- per share.
As required by the Companies Acts concerned it is stated that the
requirements of these Acts in relation to prospectuses have not been fully
complied with herein.
THE PROSPECTUS
Copies of the full Prospectus and Forms of Application for Shares may
be obtained at the office of the Company at 450 Collins Street, Melbourne.
l£ om t Leonard G. May, 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, and from
Marriott & Treloar, 31 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Applications for Shares will be accepted only on one of the Forms
of Application referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the full
Prospectus.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established IS 7B.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: .
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
Manufacturers of: —
, Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overband and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
We manufacture the “Curvilinear” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
The Mutual Life & Citizens" Assurance Co., Ltd.
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
The sixty-sixth Annual Meeting of the Company was held in Sydney on the 26th March, 1953. The
Chairman, Sir Henry Manning, in moving the adoption of the Report, Balance Sheet and Accounts,
said:—
“With your concurrence, I shall adopt
our usual course of taking the Annual
Report, Balance Sheet and Accounts as
read.
“The Annual Report shows that the
M.L.O. experienced another successful year
in 1952. Measured in terms of the in-
creased assurance protection in force,
payments to policyholders' 1 or dependants,
and service to the community, it was a
year of great progress and growth.
“At the end of the year the Company
had on its books 1,406,711 life assurance
policies assuring (with bonuses)
£316,238,882 in Australia, New Zealand,
Canada and the United Kingdom. This
represents a gain of £32,087,508 in force
during the year. It took sixty years to
reach the first £150,000,000 ; only six for
the second. No other single fact illus-
trates so strikingly the great growth of
the M.L.O. in recent years, whose busi-
ness in force in Australia is exceeded only
by one office established many years be-
fore. No other fact, perhaps, reminds
us more vividly of our greater responsi-
bilities.
“The year’s aggregate payments to
policyholders or dependants were
£4,266,833, the greatest amount ever
paid in any single year. This was
£1,620,628 more than was paid six years
before. It brought to £23,202,258 the
aggregate payments to families and others
in the seven years since World War II
ended, and to £74,810,830 since the in-
ception of the Company.
“This continuing flow of payments to
policyholders or dependants represents an
important social and economic service to
the life of the community. Not only are
families benefited and in many cases held
together in time of trial through such pay-
ments, but the economy as a whole is
strengthened and aided by them.
“The Company’s assets, representing
almost wholly the accumulated savings of
its policyholders, amounted to over
£89,000,000 at the end of the year—an in-
crease of more than £7,500,000 over the
previous year.
“The selection of securities suitable to
the investment policy of a life assur-
ance fund has always called for careful
investigation, but conditions have been
particularly difficult over the past year,
with persistent inflationary pressures and
with fields of investment limited
official restrictions on the issue of fresh
capital. The conditions have had an im-
portant bearing upon the earning power of
our funds as have also factors mentioned
in my previous two addresses. In these
circumstances whilst it is gratifying to
be able to announce increases in the
effective rates of interest earned on the
the funds of the Ordinary and Industrial
Branches, slight reductions in the net
rates have had to be recorded owing
to the incidence of taxation.
“There are now strong indications that
the economy is on the way to resuming a
more even course and confidence is grow-
ing. The volume of policy loans is one
indication of the economic health of the
nation. When times are hard, the volume
naturally becomes significant. At the close
of 1931, during the depression, policy
loans amounted to 8.94% of our total
assets. At the end of 1952 they consti-
tuted only 2.64% of the assets.
“The total income of the Company for
the year amounted to £14,966,147, an
increase of £1,438,606 over the previous
year. This record increase in income
is a reflection of the Company’s expand-
ing field of operations and sphere of in-
fluence.
“On the whole neither ithe downward
turn from the boom conditions of 1951
nor the mood of the public was unfavour-
able to the large-scale use of life assur-
ance in 1952. High living costs continued
to create needs for amounts of life assur-
ance protection considerably beyond
those regarded as adequate a few years
ago. Then again business activity, the
earnings of individuals and employment,
except in a few industries sensitive to
changes in the economic climate, con-
tinued at high levels.
“A substantial proportion of the new
business of the Company over many years
has been effected among groups of em-
ployees, including superannuation plans
which have been carefully framed to meet
the particular circumstances of individual
staffs. In ever-increasing numbers em-
ployers are seeking to take advantage of
the favourable terms on which benefits
on retirement or death may be arranged
with the M.L.O. for their employees. The
broadening interest in employee welfare
has created many opportunities for service.
“In industrial assurance we are proud
that from the pioneering efforts of this
Company has sprung in this part of the
world an institution of national and social
importance. It is little realised how
similar, not how different, industrial assur-
ance is to ordinary life assurance. The
type of benefits is, for the most part,
the same in both. The great character-
istic of this branch of life assurance is
the provision, where practicable, of home
service for the collection of premiums at
the home of the wage-earner, for the pay-
ment of claims, and for the rendering of
other facilities. These features consti-
tute a regular reminder and encourage-
ment to save money.
“Towards the end of the year the
General Manager and I paid a visit to
the Company’s Branches in New ‘ Zealand.
This visit was both interesting and fruit-
ful. We were supplied with abundant
evidences of the high reputation which
the M.L.O. enjoys throughout the
Dominion. Our meetings with all sectiqns
of the staff —both field and administrative
—and with leaders of commerce and in-
dustry were beneficial in every way. We
have since paid a similarly successful visit
to Queensland.
“The mortality experience among the
M.L.C.’s policyholders during 1952 con-
tinued to be favourable. In part this ex-
perience was due to the good health of
the population, but an important factor
was the careful selection of the lives
placed on the Company’s books.
“During the year the M.L.C. shared
in _the establishment of The Life Insur-
ance Medical Research Fund of Australia
and New Zealand. The objects of the
Fund are to promote and assist scientific
and medical research in the field of
cardiovascular function and disease, the
results of which are expected to benefit
the national well-being by reducing mor-
tality and improving longevity. Practi-
cally half the deaths in Australia and New
Zealand are from diseases of the heart and
circulatory system. As the average age
of the Australian and New Zealand popu-
lations is now much higher than it was
50 years ago, the incidence of these dis-
eases can be expected to increase unless
significant discoveries are made in
measures of prevention and treatment.
“A reduction in mortality, as just sug-
gested, by improving longevity will in-
crease further the proportion of elderly
people in the population. The economic
and social effects of such increases have
been under discussion for some years.
There have been recent warnings that the
maintenance of elderly people must be a
heavy burden on the community. It will
not be denied that at a proper age the
individual has a right to have provision
made for his declining years, but neverthe-
less it is an inescapable fact that how-
ever many schemes for this laudable object
are arranged and money accumulated for
the purpose, the provision of future pen-
sions, apart from their paper value, de-
pends upon the future productivity of
the country. Whereas at present for every
person over the age of 62 (say) there are
about five of working age, it has been
estimated that in 20 years’ time there
will be only four. It follows, therefore,
that if the future elderly population is
not to prove an insupportable burden to
the relatively smaller working population,
the national production in all forms must
be increased. This obviously requires
capital, whether from national or direct
private sources, and the life offices, who
are becoming the recipients of small
savings on an ever-increasing scale, will
play their part in its provision.
“Just as the living expenses of indi-
viduals and families have increased in our
inflated economy, so also has the cost of
corporate living. The cost of nearly all
commodities and services essential to
carrying on the business has risen steeply.
Salaries have necessarily been governed
by declaration of the Arbitration Court.
Consequently it is pleasing that in the
Ordinary Branch the expense rate is
almost the same as in the previous year:
in the Industrial Branch there has been
a moderate rise, due to increased new
business. No aspect of the management
of our business calls for more continuous
and watchful consideration than does this
matter of expense. Ouy*business is con-
cerned with a multitude of transactions,
the great majority being of very small
amounts, the whole making up large
totals such as our premium income of
some £11,600,000. Each transaction in-
volves expense, however small, and must
be carefully watched, so that these small
items may not similarly accumulate to
such a figure as seriously to affect the
success of our work. In many forms of
business the charges to the customer can
be varied to meet rising costs, but the
life office has no such safeguard. It
accepts business on terms which are fixed
for long periods and in a period of un-
settled values this situation calls for
constant scrutiny.
“In the 66 years this Company has been
serving its policyholders its sphere of
influence has steadily grown and greater
security has been brought to more and
more people. This has been achieved by
its renowned strength and resilience in
all circumstances and particularly in
times of national emergency. Life assur-
ance ranks as a fundamental institution
in our national life*and has risen in im-
portance almost to the level of necessity
with the basic human requirements of
food, clothing and shelter. It is the means
by which small financial sacrifices build
protection against major catastrophes,
and it offers the nearest approach to com-
plete security any man can reasonably
hope to achieve. To the family man in
particular investment in life assurance is
a moral obligation. Today’s living costs
and today’s high taxes make it difficult for
the average citizen to create an estate for
the benefit of his dependants or for his
own old age except through life assur-
ance. The number of cases which arise
where an assured person, who has been
passed physically fit 'by a competent
doctor, dies from a natural cause within a
year or two serve as a salutary reminder
of the basic value of life assurance.
“The premiums collected represent
money not spent on consumer goods and,
by reason of the periodical nature of the
demand for their payment, are savings
regularly made which would, but for the
existence of the assurance contracts, prob-
ably be swallowed up in the casual
spending of the individual budget.
“At the same time, the financing of
loans for the development of industry is
of outstanding importance and calls for
large sums of borrowed capital. The cost
of accumulating such capital entirely from
contributions of the ordinary man would
be prohibitive; Life assurance, there-
fore, performs a very useful function in
the national economy, in that it is a
central pool into which flow the com-
paratively small yearly premium payments
of large numbers of assurance policy-
owners, and out of which flows money in
substantial amounts, under expert guid-
ance, along investment channels, helping
to make possible the large-scale opera-
tions of industry and commerce. In this
good work the M.L.C. is playing its part.
“I wish to take this opportunity of
expressing the Directors’ appreciation
of the loyal co-operation which has been
shown during the past year by all
members of the staff in keeping with a
worthy tradition.”
that remained lifted reserves to
£584,030, subject to £30,508 of
intangibles.
Trade and other trends show
up in a growth of £733,341 in
stocks (in at cost or under) and
contraction of £39,711 in
debtors’ balances:
1960. 1951. 1952.
Capital .. £500,000 £599,112 £600,000
Overdraft .. 212,838 556,590
Credit’s, etc. 1 9 o n f 138.597 128,659
Tax prov’s’n j | 260,387 216,484
Final div. .. 62,500 63,542 75,000
Property ~ 316,013 825,279' 330,859
Plant, etc... 125,291 119,430 137,105
Stocks .. 896,318 723,095 1,456,436
Debtors .. 144,432 245,346 205,635
Cash, etc... 376 117,495 720
Goodwill, etc. 30,508 30,508 30,508
To help meet the outlay the co.
went to its bankers for an extra
£556,590. Since the close of
accounts trade has remained
sticky and competition keen in a
market oversupplied in some
lines. Still, turnover gives
grounds for “quiet optimism,”
the chairman says.
Mindful of the history of the
business and the wide margin
between last term’s net earnings
and distributions, the share-
market prices the f.-p. 10s, scrip
at 30s. 9d. (235. 1 Id. nine months
ago), to return 4 p.c. on a
12} p.c.-div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 19s. 2d. per share.
Northern Mines Development
This is a prospecting and
development concern, which is
on the stocks in Melbourne with
a nominal capital of £250,000 in
ss. shares, of which 500,000 are
offered, payable 2s. application
and allotment and the balance as
required. The issue has been
underwritten by Messrs.
Leonard G. May (Melbourne)
and Marriott and Treloar
(Adelaide) at l£d. per share. So
the co. will kick off with a paid
capital of £50,000, of which
£lO,OOO is to be spent on drilling
and other equipment and £4OOO
on preliminary exes., leaving
£36,000 for working capital, with
a further £75,000 at call. There
are no vendor’s or promoter’s
shares.
The co. will take over from
Mining Investment Syndicate,
without charge or loading,
options on half-a-dozen gold and
other mineral prospects on the
Warramunga field, Tennant
Creek, where Noble’s Nob, Peko
and Eldorado are present star
performers. Purchase - prices
range from £2OOO to £20,000, if
and when the options are exer-
cised. One of the properties is
already producing small
quantities of ore, assaying up to
3oz, gold per ton.
In a report on the field, Dr.
M. D. Garretty, who used to be
with North Broken Hill and who
will be in charge of this co.’s
operations, points out that until
recently gold was the only metal
sought at Tennant Creek. It has
been mined, with erratic results,
from the shallow, or oxidised,
portions of lodes which occur in
shears and fracture zones. It is
now considered that the under-
lying and unexplored sulphides
and probable secondarily
enriched zones offer attractive
possibilities in the way of gold-
and base-metal-bearing ore-
bodies. These are the targets at
which the co.’s test-drilling cam-
paign of geologically-favorable
areas aims. Where results
warrant, operating cos. are to be
formed to work and develop the
leases.
On the board are C. E.
Blackett, Dr. M. D. Garretty,
L. C. Keane and K. W. Craig.
Westralian Notes : Mount
Charlotte Gold Mines, which has
about £12,000 in kitty, is on the
hunt for a buyer for its gold
leases at the northern end of
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, where
extensive and wide but low-
grade (under 4dwt.) ore-bodies
exist; Wiluna abandoned its
option on this property a couple
of years ago... .North Kalgurli,
where some high values have
been recently disclosed at depth,
treated 238,165 tons (down
5903 tons) of slightly lower-
grade (4.9dwt.) ore for the 12
months of 1952, and is paying an
interim 6d. a share (25 p.c.);
two distributions of Is, each
(total 100 p.c.) were made in
1951....We5t Australian Petro-
leum Pty. spent £1,400,000 on
the hunt for oil in the Exmouth
Gulf area during 1952, and
expects to spend another
£1,000,000 during 1953
Norseman Gold Mines heavy-
media separation plant is not
expected to be in operation much
before the end of 1953, when
treatment capacity will be
increased by 20,000 tons p.a
Consolidated Gold Mining
Areas has taken up three leases
embracing the defunct Hill 60
mine and some 2000 ft. of the
supposed line of 10de... .There
has been a rush by Norseman
residents to peg prospecting areas
south of Higginsville, following
a find of some fine-grained black
rock containing about 40 p.c.
titanium oxide Shipments of
manganese ore from Geraldton
to the Eastern States has been
stepped up recently from the rate
of 1200 tons p.a. to about 30,000
tons p.a.; the stuff is mined
at Peak Hill, hauled by road to
Meekatharra and then railed to
Geraldton Anglo -Westralian
Mines, in which Mt. Isa and
others are interested, has called
tenders for removal of 1500
tons overburden, and for break-
ing, loading and transport of
5000 tons ore a month from
open-cuts to the treatment plant
at Horseshoe Gold Mine, Peak
Hill.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Some 1953 Royal Easter Show im-
pressions : The prosperity, the geniality,
the sunshine; the Grand Parade starting
with that magnificent guard-of-honor
from the Ist Field Regiment of George’s
Heights; the Governor’s arrival, with
Elizabeth Northcott and Sheila Collett
looking so slim and pretty all in black,
the Governor’s inspiring speech, the im-
pressive two minutes’ silence in homage
to late Queen Mary; the thrilling
moment when the mounted police and
rough-riders entered from one side of
the ring and the cattle were led in from
the other; that dramatic stillness when
the parade halted and the sudden burst
of applause which could have started a
panic; the Shield for the agricultural
exhibit being presented to Mr. K. Trevett
for the Western District’s win, the fact
that only 2.8 p.c. separated the first from
the fifth competitor in this section.
Then there were Mrs. C. M, McLean’s
dear old Burradoo Rex, born 1930 and
still going strong this year as champion
stallion, leading the ponies, among whom
were many of his own sons; the well-
dressed men from the country with their
wide hats and hacking jackets ; the con-
trast between Mrs. George Falkiner’s
informal riding outfit and Mrs. A. J. Pope’s
formal attire —high hat and skirted coat,
worn side-saddle —each judged best dressec
in her own section ; the tiny papillion
dogs, those bird whistles that all the little
boys were blowing, the queues for free
headache powders, the hot-water display
that everyone wanted to touch to see if
it was real—and everywhere ice-cream,
meat-pies, orangeade, chip potatoes, hot
dogs, waffles, apples-on-sticks, fairy floss
and scones, scones, scones,
☆ ☆ *
If the dressing at the first day of the
Autumn Meeting at Randwick was dull
the day was bright and the crowd gay.
The flowers and lawns looked delightful,
and in the members’ stand were hanging
baskets of beautiful double begonias.
Tailored suits in black or grey were every-
where, but few showed the new trend
towards straight waistless lines. Mrs.
Alan Copeland’s beautifully-cut grey suit
gave some intimation of this line and
was worn with a small lime hat in fur
felt. Mostly, „ however, the hats were
white and nearly all were tiny. Newest
fashion was the use of fur for hats, and
little feathers lying flat on top of one
another to form a cloche. Mrs. David
Klippel’s wide grey-and-white-check coat
with its red velvet collar was striking.
Her hat was a dark grey sailor.
Mrs. Alec Morgan also wore a sailor
hat (in black), with a grey suit. She
was with Mrs. J. R, Adams whose suit
of oatmeal color was worn with black
accessories. Mrs. D. Chrystal was in
black with an emerald-green velvet hat
like a little four-leaved clover which must
have been lucky, for the Chrystal family
had three wins with Jan, Tarien and
Sea Sovereign. , Wearers of the grey suit
were Mrs. C. M. Guiney and Mrs, W.
Kelly, whose horse Triclinium nearly
won the Doncaster and even so proved a
good friend to its each-way backers.
Sighted on this first day were Margaret
Quilty, Molly O’Neill, Mrs. Les George,
Mrs. George Dixon and Mrs. S, Lands,
whose cherry wool dress and netted string
hat were charming.
☆ ☆ ☆
Moya, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Carlyle Henderson, of Gorian,
Burren Junction, chose Show-time to an-
nounce her engagement to Bill Carter, of
Pera, Barraba, whose father is president
of the N. S. Wales Graziers’ Association.
And Moya’s sister, Mrs. P. B. Toose,
gave a party at the Killara Golf Club
on Thursday night to celebrate the occa-
sion. Of the seventy guests present,
many were country friends in Sydney
for the Show and the races.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wedding of the week took place at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, when Rosemary
Turnbull, only daughter of the Ernest
Turnbulls, married David, elder son of
Sir Charles and Lady Lloyd Jones. It
was an all-white wedding, the two brides-
maids, Susan King and Ann Livingston,
being dressed in white organza with a
fichu neckline and little feather-caps
sparkling here and there with diamente.
The bride’s dress was also silk organza,
but embroidered with daisies and cut
with a long taffeta train. Her flowers
were lily-of-the-valley, specially grown
for the occasion. Best man was Baillieu
Myer (Melbourne) and Dale Turnbull
groomsman. Reception was held at the
home of the bride’s parents, where 250
guests attended, including the Prime
Minister and Mrs. Menzies and their
daughter Heather.
& ☆ ☆
Many of the guests of the lurnbull-
Lloyd-Jones wedding came on later to
the dance which the Norman Readings, of
Wambidgee, Cootamundra, gave at the
Royal Sydney Golf Club for their
daughter Sarah. About 200 guests were
entertained, - including Marcia Moses,
Jennifer Chapman, Judy Crossing, Jill
and Beth Campbell, Sue Playfair and
Muriel Jackson. Mrs. Reading’s dress
was of grey lace and Sarah’s lovely satin
dress, with its swathed bodice and full
skirt, was in white.
Lady Sinclair, who with her husband,
R.A.S. president Sir Colin Sinclair, has
been having a strenuous week of official
duties and entertaining, on Wednesday
welcomed the Governor and Miss Eliza-
beth Northcott with other official guests
to the opening of the Show and after-
wards entertained at afternoon-tea in the
council club-rooms. Lady Sinclair wore
a dark-grey suit with a small hat of white
hatter’s-plush. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Back from America via the Aorangi is
Sydney girl Pamela Nettheim, younger
daughter of the Eric Nettheims, of Belle-
vue Hill. Pamela, who took a course in
modelling before she left, did what might
be called a “post-graduate” course in the
U.S., and also did some voluntary work
at the Shriner’s Hospital in Portland,
Oregon, From Portland, where she
stayed with family friends, Pamela toured
throughout America, and in Washington
met Joan Kennedy and Ann Buckle,
fellow ex-students of S.C.E.G.G.S. One
of the most interesting things she noticed
during her visit was the 1953 Audio Fair
in Los Angeles, where three-dimensions
in sound, she says, made the ordinary
tone of recordings flat and dull.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the strongest dramas to be seen
for some time is the Maxwell Anderson
play “Anne of a Thousand Days” at the
Independent. The two leading players,
Marie Rosenfeld as Anne Boleyn and
Marcel Wattel as Henry VIII, will be
remembered in Sydney’s repertory history
for these parts, played with vigor and
command. At the opening night the audi-
ence included Mrs. A. W. Keighley, the
Erik Langkers, Mrs. Mark Barnett and
Mr. Geoffrey Thomas.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guest-speaker at the musicale to be
held at St. Michael’s Hall, Hunter-street,
next Wednesday will be Mrs. S. Hayter,
who is so well known as Lorna Byrne.
The musicale, for which the programme
is being arranged by Anne Menzies, has
been organised by the Bank of N.S.W.
Women’s Auxiliary of the Royal Blind
Society, and will commence at 2 p.m.
Tv ☆ ☆
The 31st annual conference of the
Country Women’s Association will be
opened at the Town Hall, Sydney, next
Tuesday at 3 p.m. by his Excellency the
Governor, whose attendance will not be
affected by the period of court mourning,
since this is not regarded as a social
occasion. The State president, Mrs. J.
M. Gordon, will give her report, and the
guest-speaker will be Dame Enid Lyons,
D.B.E.
MCLBCIICNE
The true spirit of Easter was reflected
in this State in the splendid response to
an appeal, through a local broadcasting
station, for funds for the Children’s
Hospital. * Over £130,000 poured in.
☆ ☆ ☆
A big, very well-dressed house turned
up at the Princess for the opening night
of that snappy show “Ice Parade.” Mrs.
Garnet Carroll wore gold pleated nylon
tulle under a full-length black velvet
coat lined with matching gold satin;
Mrs. George Griffith’s lovely frock was
of white raffia woven with a gold thread ;
her daughter Carol teamed a pink tulle
skirt with a black velvet bodice. A
black velvet' top and emerald felt skirt
trimmed with black bobble-braid was
worn by Rosemary Yerburgh-Bonsey.
With her black velvet gown Mrs. Ray
Joseph wore a tiny white satin theatre-
hat. A gay Mexican stole highlighted
the simple black frock worn by Mrs.
Frank Martin.
J*
Mrs. Harold Holt, wife of the Minister
for Immigration, is petite and a smart
dresser. The mother of three children,
she not only runs a home but an exclusive
fashion-house. In the midst of planning
for the Coronation concert which will be
held in the Town Hall for Y.W.C.A.
funds, she is also preparing for her visit
overseas. Her husband, who is president
of the British Commonwealth Parlia-
mentary Association, will be host to
Queen Elizabeth at the luncheon the
association will give in London during
the Coronation festivities.
When Janet Margaret, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. H. B. E. Wild, of
Brighton, was married at St. Andrew’s
Church of England, to Surgeon-Lieut.
Wolfe Kildare Watkins, R.A.N.R., eight
of the ’groom’s fellow-officers formed a
guard-of-honor. The bride chose a gown
of pearl-tinted satin with the bell-shaped
skirt extending to a short train, the bodice
with a heart-shaped neckline being
covered by a matching long-sleeved
bolero. Her aunt, Mrs. K. Rice-Oxley,
lent the 160-year-old Limerick-lace veil,
which was held with a head-dress of
orange-blossom and eidelweiss. The
bouquet was of white roses and steph-
anotis. Bridesmaids Jillian Rosson and
Suzanne Israel wore grey marquisette
over gold taffeta and carried gold roses.
The bridegroom is the only son of Mr.
and Mrs. H. H. Watkins, of Bristol,
England. Lieut. John Barnard, R.A.N.,
was best man and Peter Wild groomsman.
☆' ☆ ☆
Forty guests were invited to the
cocktail-party given by Captain and Mrs.
Charles Burge at their Brighton home in
honor of Mrs. Burge’s mother, Mrs. I. C.
Seelt-Lagewaard, who was leaving in the
Arawa for her home in Rotterdam,
Holland. Both Mrs. Burge and her
mother wore black frocks. Among the
guests were the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. W.
J. Brens, whose choice was a navy chiffon
frock and large navy hat; Mrs. James
Balfe, whose jacket-suit was of black silk
shantung ; Mrs. F. Hobill Cole hi forest-
green angora and small matching velvet
hat ; Mrs. Sam McKay, who wore a
black lace-straw hat with her black-
spotted white silk frock; Mrs. F. H.
Wright, wife of the Netherlands Consul-
General, her jacket-suit of black faille ;
and Miss Hagendoorn in a jacket-suit of
dusty-pink shantung, who assisted her
cousin in entertaining.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Lady Brookes arrived at the
home of Dr. and Mrs. R. Wettenhall to
open the fete arranged to assist the Lort
Smith Animal Welfare Home she was
piped into the grounds and had a kilted
guard-of-honor of Scots College cadets
Mesdames Stanley Heywood, Gerald
Robinson, Albion Walkley and Rober
Hamilton, all members of the committe
which arranged the fete, received Lady
Brookes. Laura Nyulasy and Mrs. F
Brockhoff sold flowers; the Loui
Nelkens, with Mrs. Leo Quick and Mrs
R. A. Staughton, handled the fancy-good
stalls ; Mrs. B. Counsell took charge of
sweets ; and Mesdames Simon Fraser, E
Yencken and Miss Heath the produce
stall. Barbara Murray Smith sold soft-
drinks and ice-cream, and Miss E
Dumbleton had the well-stocked gift-
stall.
☆ * ☆
Once only in a year do the doors oi
the South Yarra Club open to admit
ladies. This year it was a cocktail-party
followed by a buffet-dinner, and the new
president, T. F. Cooke, with his wife,
received the guests. Mrs. Cooke wore a
navy satin-striped faille suit and a daffo-
dil velour cloche. Mrs. Colin Norman
whose husband was president for 17
years, was in black paper-taffeta and
small black velvet bonnet. Mrs. Derek
Goodall’s cocktail-frock was of deep-
green moire-taffeta; Mrs, Guy Living-
stone added a rust-and-gold-embroidered
mandarin-coat over her black frock ; Mrs.
Bill Cook, Mrs. Bill Cook Jnr. and Mrs.
Olga Moss wore black ensembles; Mrs.
Neil Rogers was in navy marquisette,
Mrs. Arthur Sayers in black-and-royal-
blue French tie-silk. Silver braid trimmed
the black hat Mrs. Harold Craig wore
with a black frock. Dr. Elizabeth
Kenney’s blue-and-gold brocades were
worn with a blue-sequined toque.
☆ ☆ ☆
William Beale’s hats showed many new
and unusual trends. Feathers, rhine-
stones, beads, sequins and diamente were
used with gay abandon to trim hats in
rich Coronation colors. He used velours,
velvets, lame and faille and fine woollen
Jersey in hats that were mostly tiny and
To some he added a spiral
•cone or a tall feather quill. On others
the spiral ended in opened petals glitter-
ing with jet-beads. There were umbrella-
covers to match the hat and stoles to
match Easter bonnets, one of which was
a scarlet “jellybag” model in soft velour
trimmed with black bobble-braid. Simi-
lar bobble-trimming was featured on a
flat crowned “matador” cap. A Kelly-
green felt cloche had a white bird in flight
across the front of the brim.
Worn well back on the head was a
miniature Cossack-cap of black velvet.
The tall crown was circled by a band of
white ermine and matched the outsize
muff carried by the mannequin. Red
feathers in the shape of a cockscomb
was set in front of a hat of white velour.
A tiny cap of peacock-green velour had
large ear-muffs composed of bronze
sequins, pearls and deep-red sequins.
Among large hats was a platter-shaped
one in abbey-purple satin, finely stitched
in mauve thread, and a chiffon Plan-
tagenet coronet in the same shade had a
long, matching wimple. Enchanting was
the large hat composed of white ostrich-
feathers. On a demure pillbox crown was
a tiny jewelled spike; this went with a
softly-draped wimple in matching chiffon.
A Mary Queen of Scots bonnet of black
velvet had as its only ornament a pearl-
drop centred in front of the curved brim.
☆ * ☆
Over 60 guests attended the soiree
given in the French manner by Paul
Lynch and Stanley Grant at No. 9
Darling-street. Among the guests were
Paul’s parents Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Lynch, Stanley’s sister, Mrs. Constance
Day, and his nephew, Neville Day. Mrs.
Lynch wore a cyclamen lace over white
pleated nylon. Mrs. Day’s ankle length
frock of bronze brown tulle earned
gold sequins; Mrs. Peter Lynch
wore an attractive ballerina frock.
Among the guests were Mrs. John
Newton, in dove-grey laces; Mrs.
Walter Ebstein, whose frock was ot
emerald chiffon ; Mrs. John Woodhouse,
in a gown of white French crepe; Mrs.
H. Jacobson, whose choice was a sheath-
frock of plum-toned taffeta which had a
black chenille coin spot; Janet Clayton,
attractive in ice-blue tulle; Margaret
Robinson, in full-skirted frock of grey-
and-black-checked gingham; and Valerie
Staley, her black taffeta worn with a red-
striped black taffeta stole.


i
m
tans
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
.AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT LIONEL STEELE formerly
of No. 85 Piper Street Bathurst Shearer.
—TAKE NOTICE that MERLEAN
SYLVIA STEELE has filed a Petition for
Divorce (No. 83 of 1950) on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 9th
day of June 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ALLAN
UTHER & COMPANY, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO OSWALD CLARENCE RICHARDS
late of Bonalbo in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ADELE
EVA RICHARDS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4099 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 17th
day" of June 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from NUGENT
WALLMAN & CO., 18-20 Martin Place.
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
'■■■
ft : '-
■
a
RADIO'S FUNNIEST "MR. & MRS."
There’s never a dull moment in the household of “Fred and Maggie Every-
body”—and never a dull moment in yours when you’ve tuned to these
evergreen radio favourites. As a radio serial “Fred and Maggie” still enjoy
front-rank popularity after many years of laugh-filled broadcasting.
“Fred and Maggie ” starring Edward
Howell and Therese Desmond, is
brought to you with the compliments
of the makers of Velvet Soap.
Produced by the Macquarie Broad-
casting Service.
II
FRED & MAGGIE
u
idays at 7,30 p,m.
2GB • SAW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2LF 2WL 2LT 2PK 2MG 2MW 3CV 4GY 6MD 6WB 7LA
SUNDRY SHOWS
Artbursts
Paris on Modernism
Paris has at last turned on its
self-begotten studio clowns. It
was inevitable, of course, that the
swing over from Modernistic
lunacy to sane painting had to
come, but it is nonetheless pleas-
ing to see it in action. “Arts,”
the leading French art journal,
has launched the attack, and that
by a number of critics of estab-
lished reputation. Herewith a
few extracts. M. Bourret, for
example:
The egocentric outpourings of
abstract artists might have been
avoided bnt for the army of “sen-
sation-mongers at all costs,” and
but for the fact that customers of
wealth have taken the place of cus-
tomers of taste. Here is the real
tragedy. It does not lie in the
creation of the artist, but in the
market which scatters to the four
winds good and bad in a general
delirium of newness, which serves
fashion but not art.
M. Louis Pauwels strikes at
the abstract artist himself,
accusing him of
-Iving in brackets. “Avant-garde”
is a term which offers the only com-
fortable billet between the unthink-
able past and a possibly catastrophic
future. If the artist dropped that
label, he would be compelled to live
and reason out the present, which
has put too many essential values in
jeopardy. He avoids the difficulty of
living. He takes the lukewarm
course which is the blind alley of
the “Avant-garde.”
Bernard Berenson, the author
of that standard work, Italian
Painters of the Renaissance,
says;—
If we do not succeed in loving
what through the ages has been
loved, it is useless to lie ourselves
into believing we do. A* good rough
test is whether we feel that it is
reconciling us to 1ife....N0 artifact
is a work of art if it does not help
to humanise us. Without art, visual,
verbal and musical, our world would
have remained a jungle.
Even Cocteau, once a violent
revoke, has said “We must
return to simplicity.”
In short, there is a sad time
coming for the parvenu intel-
lectuals, sensation - mongers;
experimentalists, expressionists,
newspaper art-critics and the
whole horde of retrogressive
mentalities which has cum-
bered the art world with its
insensate buffooneries for the last
50 years. These, instead of being
able to acclaim themselves the
“Avant-garde” of a new evangel
in art, are about to discover that
they are the tail-end of a defunct
generation whose works are
already on the way to Apollo’s
rubbish-tip.
Norman Lindsay.
♦jt •)s(■
Ethel Bames
Ethel Barnes, a cheerful little
lady who took up art in a spirit
of fun at the age of 65 and who
is now well in her seventies, is
showing the results of her inva-
sion of the sacred temple at the
Victorian Artists’, Melbourne,
Her prices are high, but, as the
money goes to charitable causes,
serious artists have no grounds
for complaining.
Those serious-minded artists
who are solemnly following this
or that modern fashion might be
surprised to know that Mrs.
Barnes can imitate them just as
well or ill as they can. Her
“Sitwells in Aspic,” “Mr. Attlee
and Mr. Churchill” and “The
Circus” could hang in any
modern exhibition, and her
“Cocteau and Sartre,” in which
the brilliant Cocteau is flinging
cynical piercing darts at Sartre,
is clever satire.
In fact, the whole show might
be said to be satire, because there
is evidence in some of her pic-
tures that she has far more skill
and sensitivity than most of the
artists she is satirising. Her
memory-sketch of boats on a
pale sea at St. Kilda gives more
of the effect she is trying to
express than the average
“modern” picture.
Stage and Music
Wirlhs
“The Greatest Show On
Earth” has taken up its stand in
Prince Alfred Park, Sydney, and
its lions, elephants, seals, horses,
acrobats, contortionists, clowns
and aerial performers are
currently amazing and delight-
ing the multitudes.
The only noticeable absentee
from the show is the Ringmaster
—who, by what seems a rather
sad concession to progress, has
been replaced by a microphone
and amplifier—but most of the
other institutions remain pretty
much unchanged. The elephants
—each disposes daily of 1551 b.
of oaten hay, half a bushel of
oats, seven pounds of bran, all
washed down with 40 gallons of
water —drill, dance and pose and
one of them walks a tightrope
consisting of a length of eight-
by-eight timber, while another
lies down on a young lady with
such admirable ponderous pre-
cision that she emerges
unscathed.
Five handsome lions snarl and
growl and roar and look as
though they might at any
moment devour their tamer,
Sulson, who, however, survives
to put them through their paces,
including, for one of them, a
wire-walking performance ; Toni
Smaha and twelve Australian-
bred Arab horses display
“equine activity at its very
highest standard,” and that, as
the neddies, prance, dance and
parade, seems like an understate-
ment ; and one of the best
animal acts of the night is pro-
vided by Max Morris and his
three seals —slim, graceful, agile
creatures whose anxiety to please
and affection for their master
seems equalled only by his affec-
tion for them.
The human stars are no less
attractive, June and Leo give a
flashing, graceful performance
on horseback ; Heddy and Anton
support and suspend each other
high above the ring, Anton doing
most of the supporting with his
teeth ; Mile Alicia displays some
extraordinary grace and dexterity
on the slackwire ; Bent and Ebon
contribute a remarkable juggling
act, most of it done while
balancing on midget bicycles or
lofty “unicycles” ; the Lepp Duo
are contortionists and the marvel
of their “graceful, coiling, curl-
ing, twisting human frames,” is
that they ever get them uncurled
or untwisted again ; Frank Doyle
swings and stunts while hanging
by only a heel or toe from a
single trapeze 40ft. above the
ring; and the Flying Dieslers
do something similar, hurling
and somersaulting from trapezes
in mid-air what time the audience
alternately gasps and holds it
collective breath.
The acts, of course, are punc-
tuated by a variety of clowns and
clowning; the smell of animals
mingles with that of woodshav-
ings and sawdust; and the off-
stage grumbling of the lions
makes a suitable background for
the sound of peanuts cracking
and all the other small noises of
an audience of all ages.
Musical Marathon
A musical marathon con-
ducted by three people has been
keeping the ushers moving at
Melbourne Town Hall, where
soprano Ermgard Seefried has
been passing the torch on to her
violinist husband Wolfgang
Schneiderhan, who has been
passing it back to the melodious
Seefried v/hile Gerald Moore has
alternately been accompanying
the lovely singer and giving con-
certs on his own in which he
demonstrates by word and action
and witty story just what an
accompanist is doing. Melbourne
has decided that his playing of
the songs of Schubert and Schu-
mann are examples of pure joy
and that his lectures are worth
walking miles to listen to. On
Saturday night the trio toed the
starting-line together.
Sandwiched in between was
the Passion of Our Lord accord-
ing to St- Matthew and Sebastian
Bach, sung excellently in chorus
by the Philharmonics and played
with accuracy if not much in-
spiration by the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra under Joseph
Post, who is filling-in the gap
left between the visits of “per-
manent” conductor Juan Jose
Castro.
If the soloists had been all up
to the same standard it would
have been a better evening.
Ronald Dowd, the Sydney
tenor, sang splendidly with per-
fect timing, Robert Payne put
plenty of tone into his resonant
baritone, but was often off key,
and Keith Neilson’s bass was
adequate to the occasion; but
Betty Fretwell, who made her
first appearance in oratorio after
singing in “La Tosca,” gave a
convincing demonstration that
what she needed was more train-
ing in religious singing, while
Joan Jones muffled her contralto,
and, as far as the diction of both
went, they could have been sing-
ing in any language. Mancel
Kirby at the harpsichord and
Harry Hutchins in the violin
obligato were outstanding.
Talkies
4 ‘Beauty and the Beast”
The Bulletin’s Melbourne
critic accorded this French film
a favorable review, and, now that
it has moved up to Sydney
Savoy, it is easy to agree with
him. Cocteau has put a lot of
artistry into producing the old
fairy tale, and there is a mixture
of terror and enchantment in his
scenes of mist-ridden forests anS
the vast, hollow, shadowy palace
where the Beast roams and
where detached arms perform
services and staring heads are
incorporated in the decorations
and watch silently as Betauty
moves about the place.
There is, also, in the scenes of
Beauty’s family, that uncannily
accurate perception of human
behavior which one has come to
expect from the best of French
films ; and the wastrel son and
the two selfish sisters are drawn
and acted with a good deal of
point and flourish.
Josette Day’s Beauty is all of
that gracefully, sensitively
feminine—and she fills the cry
“,Ma pauvre Bete” with anxiety
and love —though goodness
knows how it would go in
English. Jean Marais, as the
Beast, is, of course, successfully
hidden behind some elaborate
make-up for most of the time.
Often, with roaring throat,
gleaming fangs and smoking
claws, he seems quite fierce;
more often he seems like a large,
friendly tomcat, which is prob-
ably what Cocteau intended,
anyway.
For some reason the Savoy
management had its doubts
about the reception the film
would get from Sydney audi-
ences and booked it only for
brief run. The reception it got
on the occasion this commen-
tator attended seemed to suggest
it could pack ’em in for quite a
while.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“The Steel Trap”
Any bank executive who may
contemplate “tickling the peter”
to the tune of a million bucks
or its equivalent and bolting to
a pleasant country with no
extradition laws would do well to
see this film before embarking
on the project.
In the case which Joseph
Cotton propounds with admir-
able clarity the getting of the
bunce is the smallest worry ; the
subsequent operation involves
split-second timing, and plane
delays and several unexpected
circumstances soon have the
absconder almost sweating
blood. When, finally, a
suspicious Customs official at
one American airport wrecks his
chance of leaving the country in
time for safety, and his wife be-
comes aware of his' offence and
broken-heartedly goes home, he
realises his glorious dream has
become a nightmare.
His efforts to return the money
to the bank before the defalca-
tion can be discovered after the
weekend —the time he selected
for flight—is the highly-exciting
denouement of a film which is
studded with tensions along every
foot of it. Teresa Wright does
very well as the wife who, in
some well-chosen words, points
the utter futility of pursuing
happiness with ill-gotten gains.
At Sydney Esquire.


Open Sights
(I E. Macdonnell )
“ I OFTY” LANE—he was
about two kerosene-tins
I tall —nudged his oppo,
“Tiny” Waring—he was
built like a bulldozer —and
grinned across at “Kanga”
Roberts —who had been, just to
reverse the oppositeness of naval
sobriquets, a kangaroo-shooter
in Queensland before he thought
he’d like to have a shot at Tojo.
The destroyer’s midship tube-
space was filled with gunners,
listening, with life-saving intent-
ness, to the chief gunner’s-mate
lecturing on the omniscient
exactitude —though the C.G.M.
did not use that expression—of
the new radar-sets which had
recently been fitted to the ship’s
multiple Bofors guns.
“Look at him,” grinned Lofty,
“Poor old Kanga don’t know
whether he’s up in the mulga or
up the spout,”
Noting the twisted expression
of concentration on the brown,
lean Kanga’s dial, Tiny had to
agree.
“Tit bet me defenders,” he
whispered back, “that he’s
thinkin* that he managed his
aim-off and wind-allowances
against the Toos all right—with-
out no bloody radar! ”
TIfHICH, added to a desperate
TT sense of futility, was pre-
cisely what Kanga was thinking.
He rubbed his forehead with
long brown fingers, shifting his
troubled gaze* to the white-and-
blue water whipping past the
destroyer’s low side in quick
retreat. How the hell could he
have known he’d get tangled up
in all this guff about lock-on
radar sets, and dials and fuses
and scopes and strobes, when he
had oiled his cut-down .303 and
wrapped it up for the last time
back in Toowoomba?
If, he had foolishly thought,
I can bring down an old man
’roo doing 30-odd knots through
scrub and rocks and gullies,
surely then a Jap plane coming:
straight at you should be about
as hard as turning over in bed.
Which it. was—to Kanga. He
looked up at the C.G.M., busy
now with a stick and a chart
whose multiplicity of lines made
Clapham Junction look like a
billiard-table. He did not see
either instructor or chart —he
saw that Betty bomber off Biak,
felt Jhe shoulder-strap of the
Oerlikon shuddering his back
as he got off the first, sighting,
burst. He had waited till the
plane pulled up its dirty, oil-
streaked belly to clear the masts.
Then, eyes squinted, everything
he knew judging speed and aim-
off, Kanga had given him a long,
steady burst. The tracer had
flowed out in a graceful arch,
red-hot pincers needling into the
Jap plane. The Oerlikon
muzzle was still flaring redly
when a vivid splash of violent
scarlet blotted the target from
view—blown-up, bombs, petrol
and all.
No, he hadn’t needed radar
for that. Which, no doubt, the
Old Man was thinking when he
changed him from the Oerlikon
to this great, ugly, four-barrelled
Bofors when it was fitted in
Morotai by a British Fleet
repair-team. *
Kanga had gone over the
mounting wonderingly with
Tiny and Lofty. Apprehensive
at first, his assurance had
returned with his sighting of the
familiar webbed sight. He would
not need to worry about the
feeding of the thing—-the gun-
captain would look after the
loading and ammo - supply.
Kanga’s job was to position an
aircraft in the concentric rings
of the layer’s sight, and press
on his foot-pedal instead of
squeezing the finger-trigger of
the Oerlikon.
He had quite lost his initial
dread of the squat mounting,
when Lofty had remarked.
“What’s all this guff on top
here? This box gadget with the
dials and wheels?”
“That,” answered Tiny with
the authoritative superiority of
one who had come from a
cruiser, “is the 262 radar-set.
‘Lock-on,’ they call it. Once
the radar boy gets ‘on,’ the whole
mounting swings automatically.
The aircraft pulls the gun round
with it, so to speak.”
Both Kanga and Lofty had
answered rudely, definitely and
unanimously.
“All right, you smart-alecks,”
retorted Tiny, stung by this
irreverent assessment of his radar
knowledge. “Seen the gunnery
notice-board, ain’t you? All
close-range weapons crews are
to muster in the tube-space after
dinner. Not that I’ll need to be
there. But I’m gonner turn up
just to see those stupid
grins wiped off your stupid
dials! ”
A ND it was so.
Lofty, who had had some
experience of radar-controlled
mountings, though he had never
seen anything so revolutionary as
this one, cottoned-on quickly to
the chief gunner’s mate’s
explanations. Kanga, whose
knowledge of radar was as slight
as his experience of visual aim-
off was complete, was, as Lofty
indicated earlier, at sea —with a
vengeance.
The instructor finished. He
lowered his stick between his
feet, rested both hands on the
knob and looked over the up-
turned faces.
“Well, that’s that,” he said
briefly, “Any questions?”
Any questions! thought
Kanga. Oh, no—just the one
enormous query as to how the
hell I’m gonner lay the mount-
ing on the target! Nothing to
worry about, of course. A mere
detail. We’re only headin’ for
the Philippines. Suicide-bombers
and aU that. Any questions!
Yes, here’s one. Why the blue
blazes did I oil up me old .303
and join this science-mad outfit?
Wish I had the old girl here now
—probably have more chance of
gettin’ a zombie with her than
with that great, hulking, self-
propelling four - barrelled
Chicago-pianner.
Lofty rose. “Yes, chief.
When are we gonner have a
practice run?”
The instructor looked at his
watch. “In exactly ten minutes,”
he answered, “on© of the
carriers will fly off a plane tow-
ing a radar sleeve-target. When
we close-up I want to see some
smart drill. You all know what’s
happening at Leyte in the morn-
ing, just as well as you know
what the little yeller s will
send us in return.”
The instructor looked a
moment into the serious faces,
then climbed up on to the
Bofors-mounting to check its
radar gear. Kanga forgot his
apprehension at the drill-
incompetence the next few
minutes would reveal when he
looked over the guard-rail to
starb’d. It was a sight to quicken
the blood.
The invasion armada reached
back in ordered array, to the
almost imperceptible weld of
blue sky and bluer sea; a vast
concourse of battleships, carriers,
cruisers, sniffing destroyers and
packed-to-the-rail transports, all
marching steadily and with dread
purpose into the westering sun.
Into Leyte.
Kanga was an imaginative soul
—he had had plenty of time
pre-war for ruminating. So that
he could easily see, in his mind’s
eye, the radar aerials of all ships,
revolving smoothly, fanning out
their slices of electronic energy
into the, apparently, guiltless
sky. As the instructor scrambled
down from the Bofors-mounting
Kanga shortened his • mental
musings to take in the searching
radar set swinging above his own
bridge. Or, rather, the radar set
which should have been swing-
ing. He noted, completely with-
out alarm, that it was stationary,
pointing out over the port beam,
over the expanse of sea reach-
ing clear to the southern horizon
—the destroyer being on the
southern, seaward, wing of the
convoy.
Kanga idly followed the direc-
tion in which the aerial was star-
ing. He saw nothing. His head
was turned back to the business
in hand by the instructor’s voice.
“All right, then. Let’s see
what you don’t know.”
His mouth opened to emit the
bellow which would close-up the
gun-crew. It stayed open. The
nerve-shocking clangor of the
alarm-bells shrilled throughout
the ship, precursor to the magni-
fied voice of the gunnery-officer.
“Alarm port! Aircraft!
Coming towards. Bearing red
four-five. Angle of sight
seven-oh! ”
The Bofors crew scrambled.
TN his laying - seat Kanga
1 waited, subconsciously, for the
jolt which - would mean the
mounting had reached the
ordered bearing. When it came,
he screwed his face into the
rubber eye-socket of his sight,
staring in concentration out past
the four silent barrels. He could
see nothing but sky, sea, two
seagulls and a couple of patches
of downy clouds, pinned white
against the blue.
Then, suddenly, with no help
from him, the gun elevated.
Kanga pulled his face from the
sight in surprise. A shout woke
him up to the ghostly movements
of his gun.
“Radar—target!”
Kanga heard a faint whirring,
quiet and deadly as the
mechanism of a time-bomb. His
mouth half-open with the novelty
of it, he felt the gun train
slightly, then elevate, again with-
out his, the layer’s, help. He
noted also that his elevating-
handles did not move; and
remembered —about the only
thing he knew of the gun’s radar-
control —that you only had to
switch over a little lever to
unclutch the training and elevat-
ing handles. Radar and electric
motors then did the rest.
His lever was clutched, now,
to “power.”
Then he saw the plane.
Suicide-bomber. Falling grace-
fully over on to one red-balled
wingtip and beginning its un-
deviating plunge upon the ship.
He pressed into his sight, and
noted, again with surprise, that
the plane’s nose rested just about
on that concentric ring where he
would have placed it —had he
been really in command of the
gun’s laying instead of being
merely a blasted passenger.
But Kanga knew well enough
the drill which should follow the
control-officer’s shout which
now reached him above the
rising snarl of the plane’s power-
dive.
“Open fire!”
He waited for the loader’s
“Ready!” then pressed the
firing-pedal with his foot. The
four barrels woke to instant,
jerking life.
A red hose of tracer played
round the bomber, stitched into
its belly, broke the smooth
streamline into jagged holes.
The plane came on.
The four-barrelled mounting
was coughing viciously, each
cough spitting a high-explosive
high-velocity shell. Behind the
gun the empty cylinders hit the
steel deck in a clanging, brassy
cascade.
The plane came on.
Now it was so close that
Kanga could see the pilot. He
saw the scarf —emblem of the
suicide-squad knotted round
his neck. They were hitting the
plane continuously.
“God! ” Kanga almost
screamed. “The pilot! Get the
pilot!”
A vicious bellowing roar
crouched him down instinc-
tively. The bomber, its pilot
still alive, rocketed across the
quarter-deck and smashed itself
into the funnel. The whole ship
shuddered with the impact.
Kanga strained back in his
seat, staring over his shoulder at
the flames washing in yellow
waves round the. funnel. He
turned his head quickly as the
ship thrust on, to see what was
left of the bomber settling under
the creaming sea as the Bofors
drew level.
“We got the b , Kanga!
We got him!”
A Kanga saw Tiny’s face, alight
wit relaxed tension, grinning at
him through the barrels from
the trainer’s seat.
“We got him ?” Kanga
croaked. His throat was dry.
“What’s a bend in the funnel?
Damage-control parties will spit
on that fire and douse it. No
doub( about the old radar, eh,
Kanga boy?”
TT'ANGA stared ahead, past the
heat-hazed bafrels. He
nodded. Yes, they’d got him,
all right. Got the plane, that is.
With an ordinary pilot the radar-
controlled Bofors would have
saved the ship. No man could
have come on through that pour-
ing, devastatingly accurate hail
of steel. No normal man. But
it wasn’t the plane they had to
get here......
But Kanga breathed deeply,
the tension in his stomaci
gradually uncurling yo
couldn’t tell a radar-set tha
They had five minutes’ gra
before their next turn cam
Five minutes in which to sta
in awe at the barrage the fie
was mounting against the su
cide-squadron which was fallin
headlong out of the sky upon i.
The transports as yet were un
touched. The plan, obviously
was to disable the fleet wit i
suicide-bombers, then batter th
transports with high-leve
bombers at will.
The sky over the fleet wa
dark, dirty like a smoked cei-
ing, from the shell-bursts
Several ships, like their own
wore a plume of dirty-blacc
smoke. For some it was a tomb
stone marking the end.
The destroyer’s main-arma
ment four-point-seven’s engaged
their next attacker at long range
The six big shells burst rounc
him in flowers of smoke, brie::
stabs of flame in the centre of
each.
Though Kanga could see him
in his sights, the fire-control
officer waited till the bomber
peeled-off and began its dive
apparently untouched by the big
guns.
Again the shout, the foot
pedal pressed and the barrels
belching. At once Kanga, sit
ting motionless in his seat, eye
glued to his sight, saw that this
time the quarter-deck was the
target. Screws, rudder, depth-
charges, after-magazines. Anc
the multiple Bofors.
Again, in the few brief
seconds he had, Kanga noted
that they were hitting, continu-
ously. But hitting the plane’s
belly—because, he guessed, the
biggest part of the plane would
send back the biggest echo to
the radar-set. x
Every instinct of marksman-
ship in Kanga screamed “Ele-
vate !” Five thousand feet. He
saw a flicker of flame grow half-
way down the fat fuselage ; saw
it blossom into a wind-whipped
plume of flame. Still the bomber
bore in. What had that pilot to
worry about in a damaged tail-
section?
Three thousand feet. Kanga
acted. With no thought of pos-
sible disciplinary consequences
his right hand slid over, found
the lever and switched it to
“Hand.” His left hand was
already on the laying-handle.
T AID by a hand and brain
that had found livelihood in
the snap judgment of shooting at
a bounding target, the hose of
tracer rose, crept along the
plane’s belly, reached the wing-
join, then played in a pouring
stream through the perspex into
the cockpit.
The bomber seemed to stagger
in mid-flight— not from Kanga’s
shells but from the convulsive
jerking on the control-column
of a shattered pilot. It zoomed
up in a roaring climb, faltered at
the top, then slewed on one
wing-tip into the sea to starb’d,
fanning a cataract of white
water before it.
Kanga eased his face away
from the sweat-soaked sight, rub-
bing his eyes. He listened to the
jubilant voice of the loader,
standing on the platform behind
him.
“Boy, oh boy, oh boy! Is
she a humdinger! They can
send the whole bloody Jap Air
Force for mine!”
Kanga smiled, an ironical
twisting of his thin lips.
TTE reached over and quietly
switched the lever back to
“Power.” Yes, she was a hum-
dinger—up to, say, five thousand
feet. Must remember that, to-
morrow, when the real show
would be on. After five thous-
and? Well/ he’d learnt his
gunnery over open sights, and
friend Radar shouldn’t mind
coming a bit his way—after five
thousand.


“Everyone in Australia has a
vital interest in the
17th SECURITY LOAN”
§§gg
mm
■
mm
"Jt m
THESE ARE THE BASIC INVESTMENT FACTS
ABOUT THE COMMONWEALTH (17th SECURITY) LOAN
The Chairman of the Life Offices 9 Association
for Australasia , Mr, C. B, Hearn, C.8.E.,
commends Loan to all with Savings to Invest.,
“In Australia there is much work to be done,
including the increase in electric power resources,
improvement of water supplies, conservation and
irrigation, the building of more homes, schools
and hospitals, the modernisation and expansion
of railways and public transport generally,” said
Mr. Hearn recently.
“Everyone in Australia has a vital interest in
such work, which can be successfully accomplished
only by the employment of sufficient savings on the
part of the people to meet the necessary cost.
“The 17th Security Loan gives everyone in Australia the
opportunity to stake a claim in their country’s future progress
and development- Bonds are repayable in cash in full on the
date of maturity and are backed by the entire resources of the
Commonwealth.
“I commend this Loan to all those with savings to invest.”
AMOUNT SOUGHT: £77,000,000 in new cash and in
conversions of Two per cent. Commonwealth Securities matur-
ing on April 15, 1953 (see below).
INTEREST RATES: Investors may select:
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
3%
PER ANNUM
issued at £99/10/- per cent.,
and maturing on Decem-
ber 15, 1955, or
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
4i%
PER ANNUM
issued at par, and maturing
on September 15, 1962.
LOAN PURPOSES: The 17 th Security Loan will
provide money for public works and services of the Common-
wealth and the States and for redemption of unconverted
maturing Two per cent, securities.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: Bonds for the 4i per cent, issue Are
available in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
Minimum subscription for the longer term is £lO of Bonds or
£lOO of Inscribed Stock. Investors, who already hold £lOO of
Stock in any loan, may subscribe £lO or any multiple of £lO
for additional Stock. Minimum subscription for the short
term is £l,OOO, either for Bond| or Inscribed Stock, with
higher amounts in multiples of £l,OOO.
INSTALMENTS: Subscribers may deposit 10 per cent,
and pay the balance in either one or three instalments by
August 1, 1953.
REPAYMENT: Repayment in full at maturity of face
value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth
Government.
INCOME TAX REBATE: For the period during which
no Income Tax is levied under the law of a State, a rebate
of Commonwealth taxation of 2/- in respect of each £1 of
interest from this Loan will be allowed in accordance with
the provisions of the Income Tax and Social Services Contri-
bution Assessment Act, 1936-1952.
WHERE TO APPLY: Any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker will receive applications for
cash subscriptions or for conversions.
CONVERSION:
Holders of £47,000,000 of Two per cent. Bonds and
Inscribed Stock which mature on April 15, 1953, are
invited to convert their securities into the 17 th
Security Loan. Those who select Three per cent.
Bonds or Inscribed Stock will receive a cash payment
of 10/- per cent. The Two per cent, securities
affected are those issued in the Bth Security Loan
(September-October, 1949) and the 9th Security
Loan (March, 1950).
Invest
in the
(17th Security) Loan
Commonwealth


THAT CAD POCOCK
by FRANK
MIDDLEMISS
QUITE apart from how I
value it as a link with
Henry Settle, I should be
loath to leave the Bean-
stalk. There are occasions, I
confess, when I tire of the menu,
of Mr. Twemlow’s talks on the
virtues of a vegetarian diet —as
I see it, a cash desk is no place
for detailed discussion of the
workings of one’s alimentary
tract. None the less, I like a man
of principle, and would be the
last to wound him. I should
be sorry, too, to seem in any
way disloyal to Miss Quibble,
Mrs. Fibbing and Miss Clack.
Between the staff of the Bean-
stalk and those of us who lunch
at what has come to be spoken
of as “Mr. Settle’s table” there
have always prevailed the
happiest relations. Only once,
when Miss Clack had chanced
to drop her pencil, presenting to
Pocock what appeared to him
material for wit, can I remember
them being seriously threatened.
But every company, I suppose,
must have its coarser element,
its quota of George Pococks and
Fred Musks.
Only to Pocock could a remark
of such a character have
occurred. Goodness knows there
is nothing glum about our
gatherings. Both Whinny and
Sweeting have a fund of quite
excruciating humor, Alfred
Polkinghorne on his day has us
constantly a-titter, and even
Gentle, once he throws off that
sort of droopiness which often
clings, I think, to florists, will
sometimes set the table in a roar.
By neither Miss Clack nor Miss
Quibble (Mrs. Fibbing, of
course, is mostly in the servery)
had exception hitherto been
taken to our nonsense —indeed,
confident of its nature, they have
not infrequently provoked it.
To Pocock had it been left to
undermine that confidence, to go
beyond the border of good taste.
A stony silence rewarded his
sally. I can see Miss Clack now,
crimson with confusion and the
flush of blood from bending,
her primrose caplet all askew.
It was Sweeting, ever ready with
some tactful interjection, who
relieved the tension.
“And how,” he inquired
kindly, “is your brother doing
out at Bankstown with his
duclts?”
Actually, of course, it is
Miss Clack’s cousin Mervyn
who has ducks, and it is at
Blacktown, not at Bankstown,
that he has them, and it isn’t
really ducks he has, but fowls.
In the correction of these dis-
crepancies the girl recovered a
measure of composure, and
presently our talk resumed its
normal flow, and you would
scarcely have guessed that any-
thing untoward had happened,
except for the gravity of Henry’s
aspect and the mutterings of
Pewkleigh at his prunes.
A certain explosiveness has
always marked Pewkleigh’s
manner with his prunes, indeed
with all the drupe stewed fruits:
quite amiable utterances take on
a flavor of hostility when spat
between his sputterings of the
stones. But there was no doubt
now about the tenor of his
mutterings, and suddenly, in one
of those pauses you get in con-
versations, with pistol-like clear-
ness they sharpened into words:
“ . . . milk-bar manners. Ought
to blackball the blackguard—
beats me how Settle ever came to
tolerate the chap.”
For a moment there was
silence, except for the stupid
sniggerings of Musk.
“Meaning?” drawled Pocock,
pushing back his pudding and
taking out a nail-file, with that
cocking of his eyebrows that so
gets a fellow’s gorge.
One wonders why Pocock
keeps on coming to the Bean-
stalk: I can only attribute it to
that perverseness, that delight in
situations which other people
would find abhorrent, which
seems to be part and parcel of
the man. The atmosphere was
electric. In the lull that had
fallen on the other tables, like a
gramophone that has been left
running, came the voice of Mr.
Twemlow explaining to a person
in a mackintosh the functions of
the pancreas and spleen. You
felt that anything could happen
—if was a relief when the other
spoke.
“Meaning,” breathed Pewk-
leigh thickly, and I only wish I
could convey the sort of pot-
bound passion in his speech,
“whoever’s cap can wear it cares
to fit.”
It was a confusing way of put-
ting it, but he was laboring, one
must remember, under a well-
nigh ungovernable emotion.
With God knows what intention,
he had taken off his glasses, and
set .them, as if for safety, in
Suckle’s salad. I often ask
myself to what folly he might
eventually have been tempted
had it not been for the diversion
afforded by Mr. Twemlow’s
aunt.
She’s a dear old soul, Mrs.
Morphew, and it is surely to
her credit that rather than feel
herself, as she puts it, “just a
siphon and a burden,” she should
often pop in of a lunch-time to
help with the washing-up.
Washing-up, however, is one
thing and transport quite
another, and the conveying of
loaded trays from the kitchen to
the servery is quite beyorid her
province and her powers. Even
Mrs. Fibbing, long accustomed
to the swing-door, sometimes
gets a smart reminder of the
need for proper timing.
The whole place seemed to
roar, then sort of shiver. You
could hardly credit it was just
crockery —it sounded more like
the crashing of one of those
large crystal chandeliers.
AS Henry said afterwards, it
was a pity that such a hap-
pening should have bfeen neces-
sary for its ending, but it was
an incident well closed —there
were surely better ways of signi-
fying the feeling of the table,
the high esteem in which the
girl was held. He might almost
have known of the opportunity
approaching, for it was but a
few days later that the “Evening
Record” launched its “Back to
Courtesy” campaign and
announced its “What a
Waitress!” contest, and shortly
subsequent to this that the
health-food group of restaurants,
invited to nominate a candidate,
commenced its conversations
with Miss Clack.
I was a little late at the Bean-
stalk the day word of their out-
come came through, but I had
scarcely passed the cash-desk
before I was made conversant
with the news. I have never seen
Miss Quibble so excited. Laden
as she was, she needs must make
a detour to advise me:
“They’ve just rang—lrma's
been chose!”
I forget just what I answered.
I’ve been more than a little
cynical about the “Record”
contests since the business of
Louisa’s mulberry mould, but
any reservations I had been
harb'oring were dissipated by this
message, so simply couched, so
patently infused with pleasure
in its tribute to her friend. So
Irma had been chose—this frail
and indeed somewhat anaemic-
looking girl, so withdrawn, one
always felt, behind her glasses,
yet quick, as one might have
known, to any call in the name
of charity, was to submit her
modest claims to notice to the
rude appraisement of an evening-
newspaper poll.
But I had little time for such
musings—once Henry is fired
with a cause there is no
dawdling, either for Henry or
those partaking in his plans.
“Good boy!” he bubbled.
“Beginning to wonder if the old
tonsils Still behaving?
Splendid. You certainly must,
and so. I’m sure, must Mrs,
Spillsworth. Miss Quibble’s told
you? Mind you, I’d had a
whisper—been doing a bit of
spade-work. Let’s see, now —
that’s right: ‘Publicity, Spills-
worth and Suckle.’ Notions.
Rough as you like at this stage
—we can work ’em 'up in
committee.”
“Perhaps,” I ventured, “it
might be better”
But he had turned again to
Pewkleigh:
“Buttons, Basil —before I
forget it, make a note ‘photo,
quote for buttons, slogan.’
Something alliterative and
snappy, I was thinking—say
‘Clack for Courtesy’ or ‘We
Want’ Pity her name isn’t
Wanda, say, or Winnie.”
He supposed, suggested
Pewkleigh, you couldn’t —but he
could see, of course, you
couldn’t: at which point, what
with Sweeting’s argument with
Leamish, and Gentle’s disquisi-
tion on getting things on a
proper bedrock basis, and
Suckle explaining how they’d
eventually got the money for the
church hassocks, I lost the thread
of their discussion. The fellows
were certainly on their toes. The
whole atmosphere was of a quite
inebriating keenness. When the
thing had been brought a shade
more sharply into focus, I told
myself, there must surely emerge
a programme of signal service to
the interests of Miss Clack.
AND suddenly I became
conscious of her absence.
"“She’s on her butters,” con-
fided Mrs. Fibbing, as she set
down my nutmeat roast. “We’ve
gave her a nasprin—it’s just
nerves.”
How thoughtful, I reflected, is
woman of woman in extremity,
and how smoothly is her solici-
tude made operative—in this
case, apparently, thanks to the
readiness of a Miss Bolger, of
the Beehive Library and Bazaar,
just by the switching of Mrs.
Gumble from her sink, thus
releasing Mrs. Fibbing for the
table, and gaining for Miss Clack
the sanctuary of the little annexe
to the servery, the quieting com-
pany of spare cruets and the like.
One caught * glimpses of her
occasionally through the inter-
vening lattice, as of some Eastern
female or prisoned bird.
But the table was stirring, and,
with a word to Henry, Pewkleigh
had risen with quick detaining
hand.
“Hold her, Freddie,” muttered
Pocock. And with that offensive
allusion of which the fellow is a
master: “What’s got the old
walrus now?”
It will take more than such
taunts, one trusts, to turn Pewk-
leigh again from his moustache-.
Not everybody, of course, could
carry such an appendage, but
Pewkleigh has the stature, and it
not only adds, to my thinking,
to his presence, but lends to his
lower features just that sugges-
tion of remoteness that they
need. I shall not quickly forget
the day, after some nonsense
regarding hygiene, Pewkleigh
brought himself to shave. It was
a relief, I think, to all of us to
see the new growth gradually
gaining on his mouth and its
environs, to have once more
about us the familiar old Basil,
the Pewkleigh now poised for
speech.
“One moment, gentlemen,” he
begged. “This, I think you will
agree, is something of an
occasion. It is not necessary for
me, I am sure, to enlarge upon
the pleasure with which we rally
to the banner of our candidate.
One small formality seems still,
however, to be called for —a little
ceremony traditional to the
table.”
On which there issued from
the servery the figures of Mrs.
Fibbing and Miss Quibble, with
tumblers of fruit-cup.
It was amice idea, but rather
a pity we had not been warned,
for as those of us who had risen
were constrained to resume our
seats, some still seated elected to
stand up, and there was presently
engendered such a state of
irresolution as to give us a quite
ridiculous appearance. Nor
were things improved by Suckle’s
decision (goodness knows by
what disordered mental processes
arrived at) to break into “Rule
Britannia!” at such an altitude
that we could not possibly have
accompanied him even suppos-
ing we had wished. Nevertheless,
it was a happy gesture, and it
was in no lukewarm fashion that
we finally clinked our glasses,
and with the liveliest sense of
purpose that we presently broke
up.
■jpROM such a level of
enthusiasm there must, of
course, sooner or later be some
measure of decline, and by next
lunch-time, in point of fact, the
air was palpably less rare. Nor
was there just that concert that
had characterised our initiatory
talks. The discussions were quite
unnoteworthy. The hassocks
came up again, I remember, and
it was with something of the
asperity with which Pewkleigh
eventually disposed of them that
we dispersed.
With the announcement next
morning of Mr. Twemlow’s
donation to campaign funds,
things brightened up consider-
ably, and the flow of suggestions
to the committee during the week
following was all that could have
been wished so far as volume
was concerned. Reduction to
concrete form of such an
abundance of material was
obviously no small contract, and
it was not surprising that
the “Big Four,” as Pocock
facetiously dubbed them, should
presently have shown some
evidence of strain. Pewkleigh’s
temper, of course, is always
somewhat uncertain and Leamish
can be chillingly aloof, but even
Henry and the usually genial
Whinny would sometimes
respond with a touch of testiness
to questions concerning the
progress of their task. With
some unreason, as Gentle rather
sharply pointed out, for time was
passing, and the first progress
report of the poll could be
expected any day.
It was to Mrs. Fibbing’s
sister-in-law, Mrs. Stebbing, as
it happened, that we owed the
organisation of the first function,
hut the houses in Little Lupus-
street are hardly of a character
to lend themselves to a successful
garden fete. Nor, with all due
credit to the Misses Ffoljamb
and their pupils, could the dis-
play of eurhythmies by the girls
of St. Asaph’s be described as
other than financially disap-
pointing.
The buttons were bringing in
some revenue, but the Bean-
stalk customers are rather con-
servative, and not everyone
seemed too keen on declaring on
their lapels« “I’m for Irma!
Some fault in registration, more-
over, had done something to
CYCLONE AND AFTERMATH
Bowed shadows out of a universe of weeping
crouch on the gale through the rack of trees; repetitive
of disaster; procession of fugitives. Vanishing
downhill each on the vanishing heel of the other
they form and are gone.
Nothing else visible
but the despair of trees against wind.
Navigators
wise to this coast are careful in these months,
but nothing that the tall rose-gums,
annually enticed by summer’s languors
into an overplus of leaves, can do about it.
Misfortune ruins their pride. They implore, they gesture—
bent on the wheel, spring up at a moment’s mercy
and with flung arms accuse her, betrayer, destroyer,
from whose inescapable injustice the hooded shadows fly.
Drenched flowers, bruised unripe fruit, limb wrenching the
wound—
all that her summer contrived of cunning ornament
tossed drowning, the old witch is furious still,
aiming and pelting water and air in unbreathable mixture,
till entity fades to ghost, laboring to hold a shape
against thfe universal wet —a shape that frays out into water,
bruises into water at a touch, snaps at a pull.
This is her cruelty, that she has hung decay
like lace over the bridal flesh of summer.
Fungus and mould spread their webs in the hush when the
wind kas fallen
and the tree fallen; the tall tree that meditated
dance after dance for white limbs crossing in winds
is dissolved in intent silence;
that lovely building debased; that tower pulled down.
This is her wisdom; she is not one thing nor the other.
Praise her if you like in the season of flower and serenity,
for it is hers; reproach her, oppressor of those
weeping swift-running shadows, it’s she you are speaking of.
But look for-her too when evening darkens and wind drops.
The shattered flowers melt into industrious earth,
the heron watches the pool, the high clouds stand
arena for the light’s farewell. She is that figure
drawing the twilight’s hood about her;
that wise woman from the land past joy or grief.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDRTH WRIGHT.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K, WILLIAMS, General Manager.
1
•:'x ;>•
38888
CORRECTLY DRESSED!
Why not? No man to-day need be without a
smart, comfortable suit. You CAN now secure
a suit that is ALWAYS correct and right.
Using only pure Australian fleece wool, the
famous Crusader Mills have woven for us
Worsted Cloths bf beauty and strength; cloths
guaranteed never to fade or shrink. These attrac-
tive cloths, pre-tailored by Stamina into smart,
comfortable D.B. Suits, can be yours for only a
fraction of the cost you would reasonably expect
to pay. Yes, this suit is truly ideal for EVERY
WEAR everywhere. Stamina master-tailored De
Luxe Suits are available now at your own
Stamina Men’s-wear Store. With a rising wool
market and the prospect of a big drop in wool
production, you are certainly wise to buy NOW.
ASK FOR
Stcunlria.fr
D*B PUUS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
S4-U3
Miss Clack’s features, giving her
an expression completely foreign
to her countenance. It varied
with the buttons, from a look
you could only call wanton to
one faintly cynical and amused.
COME scepticism in our candi-
date was certainly justified at
this juncture, but we were all a
little taken aback when Whinny
came out with his plan.
“You don’t mean,” com-
menced Leamish, “just dis-
card”—
“That’s right—just ditch the
whole boiling. Cut out all this
chicken-feed and put on a proper
show.”
Fye always liked Arthur
Whinny. His language has a
color I sometimes find excessive,
and, like all artistic types (he is
a window-dresser at Fudge
Bros., the outfitters), he is a
little short of balance, but there
is a quality about him one
cannot but find refreshing—
much, indeed, of Henry’s
infectious sanguineness of out-
look. Unflattering as was his
reference to our efforts, we hung
on his further words.
Since their production of
“High Jinks,” said Whinny,
things hadn’t been too happy
with the Fudgeans, the staff’s
dramatic outfit, and from what
he’d heard from Aubrey
Throstle the breakaway faction
was just about set to go into
rehearsal. A little thing of
Throstle’s, from what he’d
gathered, which would save them
performance fees, of course, but
Throstle was looking out for
talent and a little financial back-
ing, and it should be possible to
come to some reciprocal arrange-
ment. As a matter of fact,
though no actual percentage had
been mentioned, he’d sounded
Throstle on the point.
Henry was obviously
intrigued: “By talent, Arthur,
I take it”
“Extras and bit-parts, mostly,”
explained Whinny, “though you
can bet old Aub has his eyes
out for any cases of exceptional
ability,”
Personally, I’ve never
cherished any Thespian ambi-
tions, but you could see from
the fellows’ expressions that the
proposal had appeal. There was
some cooling of their attitude
with the mooting of the matter
of a levy, but again Mr.
Twemlow very generously came
forward, and within a week
negotiations were concluded and
rehearsals under way.
He hoped, said Throstle by
way of preface to the reading of
his play, that he had managed
to knock up a vehicle worthy
of the talents of his cast. I can
only say of this preamble that
our pleasure in it diminished as
his handiwork took shape. By
no vehicular standard could you
have described it as other than
pretty ramshackle and rude.
That the man had invention there
was no denying, but it was never
half-sufficiently restrained. And,
quite careless of context, he was
for ever amending, elaborating,
adding: never a day passed
without some ill-considered
doctoring, the inclusion of some
“business” he had come by
overnight.
A DISINCLINATION to
** waste the material at his
command no doubt dictated
some of his innovations, and
Miss Sopwith’s solo in the
drawing-room scene was perhaps
more or less in place. Sweet-
ing’s conjuring, on the other
hand, was surely excrescent in
an offering of the character of
“Lady Winterbotham’s Secret,”
nor was the tap-dancing of the
Four Rosebuds, highly agreeable
as it was, calculated to give it
verisimilitude and force.
Such rough and ready tinker-
ings could only be hurtful to its
structure, but it was only
gradually that there became
evident certain ruptures in its
plot. Taxed flatly one evening
with the question of how
Cynthia’s fiance came to save
her from consignment to the
sewer. Throstle temporised a
moment, then assumed an air of
hauteur.
“Frankly” he started.
“All I’m saying,” persisted
Polkinghorne, “it’s peculiar,
when, according to this bird
Blennerhasset’s statement, the
chap’s still in Siam.”
“Ceylon,” cut in, George
Bortle quickly, “Tea-planting,
if you remember —might as well
be accurate as to facts.”
He spoke, I’m sure, in all good
faith, but anyone knowing
Polkinghorne could see that he
was nettled.
“When I use the word Siam,”
he retorted stiffly, “I’m not in
the habit of doing so excepting in
relation to Siam. Perhaps I’m
dull-witted”
Just how he intended develop-
ing this remark, one can only
conjecture. She did hope, said
Enid Entwistle, when the merri-
ment from Bortle’s comment had
subsided, everyone wasn’t start-
ing being horrid, with the night
only three nights off. As the
unhappy Myrtle, hers was a
gruelling, role, and I for one was
sensible of a merited rebuke.
There was nothing, he was sure,
said Henry quietly, that could
not be ironed out. On which we
turned again to the unstacking
of the Beanstalk chairs and
tables and let the matter drop.
|ZTND as'it had been of Mr.
Twemlow to place his
premises at our disposal, I think
we were all a little impatient to
terminate our tenancy, and glad
to come at last to the actual scene
of our performance.
“Good to smell the old grease-
paint,” breezed Bortle. “Never
seem to get my teeth into the
stuff' till my hoofs are on the
boards.”
I had been wondering what
the smell was, I murmured rather
awkwardly. It was a strange
sensation, I did not tell him
that for my own part it was my
first time on any stage.
Not a large stage, certainly —
even smaller perhaps than one
had visualised when Throstle
reported that he had managed
to get a booking at the Abbots-
fteld Scouts Hall. Nor were its
appointments lavish. The curtain
mechanism was obviously
erratic, and the decayed back-
drop revealed not only a scene in
Venice but large patches of
mildewed wall. Even supple-
mented by the pieces he had
come by from “East Lynne” and
“The Squatter’s Daughter,” I
told myself, it would take
Throstle all his time to give
authenticity to such settings as
the Earl’s library and the big
scene at the Casino.
“Pretty antediluvian! ”
muttered Leamish, a remark not
lost on the custodian a
roughish-looking fellow by the
name, apparently, of Cockle. It
had been good enough for the
Great Mervale and the Jubilee
Bellringers and Madame Fitch,
the Female Basso, he came back
tartly.
“Shows as was shows,” he
added, as he turned again to his
brooming and his mutterings:
“Them b Cubs an’ ther
b peanuts an’ oringe-peels! ”
The place was certainly a pig-
sty, but we resolutely put from
us any misgivings, and presently
invested it with some orderliness
and sweetness. The polling
situation, as revealed by that
afternoon’s “Record,” was not
such as to inspire us. There
had been some rather dramatic
changes on the higher levels, but
the most, I’m afraid, that could
be said about our candidate was
that she had somewhat consoli-
dated her position, bitter comfort
to one so humiliatingly placed.
Miss Cubby (Restaurants
General), I noticed, had - now
ousted from premier position
Miss Heppenstall (Canteens),
and Miss Featherstonehaugh
(Banks) had gained on Miss
Sorby (Railways), but the most
spectacular feature was the over-
hauling of Miss Simpkin
(Snooper’s Louvres) by Miss
Gudgeon (Grill Cafes).
“And by Gad, it wouldn't
sui p r i se ’me if those hamburger
beasts don’t land it!” burst out
Sweeting suddenly “You heal'd
what t h e y did at the Banks’
pageant ? Stink-bombs! Offal—
that > s a]l you can ca p t b em . I
onl hope we get through all
right tonight.”
Q ne trusted so I said shortly •
f or averse as { am to basher
ta J ics his own bitterness and
bigotry had shocked me. But
there was little time for such
exchanges if we were to make
the ladies’ dressing-room habit-
able and snatch a bite of tea.
Already Mrs. Peabody was sort-
ing out her pieces at the piano,
and in half-an-hour at most the
fellow Cockle would be opening
the doors.
With a little licence, reckoned
Throstle, our own wardrobes
should pretty well cover the
matter of costumes, but not all
the fellows boasted evening-
and he was still a bit
worried about the big scene at
the Casino, when the jaded
clientele fall back for picture and
curtain on Myrtle’s poignant:
“And what, Roger Purslove, of
your promise—and your child! ”
I was, in fact, still thinking of
this problem when Whinny
arrived.
“Had to wait till old Puncheon
pushed off,” he explained,
“Good job I’ve got the car.”
And with reference to his two
suitcases, in a mouth-comer
whisper: “Bit of stuff I
borrowed from the Pitt-street
window — have to nip back with
it when we finish. Couldn’t let
the old Aub down.”
For a moment I missed his
meaning, then I saw it for what
it was—a typical Whinny wild-
ness, fraught with the gravest
risk. Such borrowing, I told
him, might well cost him his
billet, and at that for the moment
left it; but the thought of it still
disturbed me, and I would not
sleep, I told myself as the first-
comers clattered in, until I had
accompanied him to Fudge
Bros,, and with my own eyes
seen the suits safely back. I
could fabricate some reason for
my remaining at the hall, and in
Frank and Ingrid Gawper, for-
tunately, Louisa would have an
escort to The Pines;
ONCE the curtain was up,
however, I had other things
to think of. Sweeting’s fears, as
it transpired, proved quite
unfounded. Occasionally there
would come some such stupid
interjection as “Pull yer ’ed in,
Fudgie!” or “No more spin-
nid § e ». Mummie,” but of
organised disturbance there was
happily no sign,
Indeed, for the first few
minutes, during the Earl’s
apostrophe to the portrait, there
was a rather trying silence, but
entrance of Cynthia and
pichard (he in topee and safan-
Jacket, to give color to his men-
tlon 0:t me rnoors ’ siie m suc h
{Continued on page 34)


100
YEARS
1852
mm
1952
Jhe dictates of elegance
and fashion have always
been reflected in the
beautiful designs of Lavina
Watches treasured by
generations of discritn n-
ating women as pieces
of exquisite personal
jewellery.
FDS
mum
WATCHES
-j jewelled
c,W' sS Masf er p j eces
LW26.61
fi
A
m
(Q
m
o*l
'ttj,
•**#*
n *9
Has
U *l
life
Will it ffyi
?
PARIS 1863
ANDELLE’S new design for a helicopter has
created a stir in aeronautical circles. Using
entirely new principles, it promises if
successful safe and steady flight. It will derive its lift from
horizontal screws, and its forward progress from a propeller
in the tail. Steam will be the source of power. Monsieur de
la Landelle, when interviewed today, was full of enthusiasm
for the project. “This design,” he said, “has everything
that an aeroplane should have, even parachutes to check
the descent should anything go wrong. Can you imagine
anything in aviation today more sure and efficient?”
“Yes,” we said, “the BP Aviation Service. Moreover,
we all know from experience that it works, and works well.”
“How right you are,” said Landelle, “or at least, how right
you will be.”
AVIATION
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED,
(Proprietors: Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Missing Friends
MEDHURST.—If this should come to the
notice of JAMES JOSEPH MEDHURST,
formerly of Armidale, N.S.W. (sometimes
known as McKenzie or McDonald) or
anyone knowing his address, please com-
municate with A. W. SIMPSON & CO.,
Solicitors, Armidale, when something of
advantage to J. J, Medhurst will be fur-
nished.
WOULD EDWARD JOHN O’FARRELL,
late of the R.A.N. and H.M.A.S. Albatross,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with JONES & KENNEDY,
Solicitors, 213 Nicholson Street, Footscray.
WILLIAM SCOTT (born at Greenock,
Scotland), son of JAMES SCOTT and
CATHERINE SCOTT (born McFAR-
LANE), died at Sydney, N.S.W., on Ist
June, 1942, Intestate. Supreme Court
of New South Wales has directed inquiry
to ascertain what persons are entitled to
share in Intestate’s estate. All persons
claiming so to share, whether in their
own right or as representatives of persons
deceased, must send their full names,
addresses and occupations and full par-
ticulars of their claims to the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, O’Connell Street, Sydney,
N.S.W., so as to reach him by 30th June,
1958. Adjudication on claims is fixed for
Wednesday, sth August. 1953, and,, claim-
ants must then attend in person or by
Solicitor to prove their claims before
Master in Equity at Supreme Court,, Syd-
ney, aforesaid. Claimants are advised
to send claims by two successive mails.
established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSUUJVAtf
Pos »»»5
trade
MARX
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Bulletin staff man, wife, two
children, wants to rent furnished or
unfurnished flat or cottage, anywhere
Sydney.—s 479.
Advertiser has early “Walkabout,”
June, Oct., 1936; Feb., April and
May, 1938; for anyone collecting
early editions.—s47B.
Words of poems “I Am a Hundred
Years Old” and “Mrs. Delaney Was
French.”—s477.
Words of Australian Jubilee
parody-poem and another, ridiculing
the penchant for indexes, containing
the line “It takes such a time to
index the cards we never get anything
done”; both by the late Alex Mel-
rose (“Bill o’ Costs”).—s476.
Information Supplied
Formula for black and tan shoe-
polishes ?
The base materials in all the flat-
tin polishes are shredded beeswax
and oil of turpentine (or ordinary
commercial turps) heated in a water-
bath to paste consistency and colored
black with lampblack or brown with
burnt umber or mahogany-brown. A
manufacturers’ recipe is as follows:
9 parts shredded beeswax, 20 parts
oil of turpentine, 1 part shredded
soap, 20 parts boiling water. Dis-
solve the wax in the turpentine in a
water-bath and the soap in the
water, then stir the two liquids
together until the mixture becomes
sufficiently cold to remain homo-
geneous; color black or brown with
lampblack or burnt umber. Experi-
ment with a small quantity at first.
The mixture is highly inflammable.
* * * *
Is it illegal to point an unloaded
firearm at a person ?
No. While it is a senseless action,
there is nothing illegal in merely
pointing a firearm at a person. It
may, in some circumstances, how-
ever, amount to an assault, i.e., an
offer of violence to another, or the
pointing of the gun may amount to
a menace, e.g., in the case of demand-
ing money by menaces. , But unless
there is some type of criminal intent
involved there is no penalty imposed
by law for the mere pointing of the
firearm. Where the pointing of a
gun believed to be unloaded is fol-
lowed by death to another the cir-
cumstances may be such as to leave
the holder of the gun open to a
charge of manslaughter if he was
reckless in not ascertaining whether
the gun was loaded or not.
* * * *
Although every reference-book
consulted gives the year of Roderic
Quinn's, birth as 1869 I have been
informed that the poet was born in
1867. Which is the correct year?
Also, my informant states that he
was christened Roderick, not Roderic.
Is this correct?
He was born in 1867, and not
1869, as is usually believed. Also,
he was christened Roderick; just
when he made, or decided upon, the
changes is not known. But the copy
of his birth-certificate, procured by
the Roderic Quinn Memorial Fund
Committee in 1951 at the instance
of Mrs. Lucy Cassidy, who has
always averred that he was born in
1867, shows his birthplace as East-
street, Sydney; the date, November
26, 1867. His father was Edward
Quinn and his mother’s maiden name
was Catherine McCarty, both hailing
from Co. Galway, in Ireland.
* * * *
(1) Is Sydney University in debt?
(2) How much do the State and
Federal Governments pay Sydney
University each year? (3) How does
Australia compare as to universities
with Great Britain and the U.S.A. ?
(1) The University of Sydney is not
in debt, though the 1953 Budget
anticipates a deficit by the end of
the year. (2) The. following para-
graph recently published in an article
by the vice-chancellor should answer
your question: “ Annual grants
[to the University of Sydney] have
been raised from £103,000 per annum
in 1939 to £235,000 in 1948 and t
the record total of £804,000 in 1952
Of the figure for 1952, £294,000 rep
resents grants made by the Com
monwealth Government. Before th
war no general funds were received
at all from Federal sources, the onl
Commonwealth moneys available t
the university at that time being i
the form of grants for special pur
poses, which in the case of the Un:
versity of Sydney amounted in 193
to no more than £9350.” (3) Ther
are in the U.K. 18 universities anc
10 university colleges, the latte
serving areas some distance away
from the mother university; th
population of Great Britain is a
present 50,429,300, In the Unitec
States there are some 900 universitie
and colleges. These are not a)
comparable with the British univer
sides in status or nature of courses
but it is difficult to classify them so
that a precise comparison may b
made. The population of the United
States of America is 156,981,000. In
Australia there are eight universitie
and two university colleges. Armidale
University College is a subsidiary o
the University of Sydney and the
Canberra University College is simi
larly associated with the University
of Melbourne. The present popula
tion of Australia is 8,700,000.
Brief Answers
L.C.Y.: Brian James’s The Ad
vancement of Spencer Button was
reviewed in “The Red Page” of The
Bulletin for January 3, 1951
Dymphna Cusack and Florence
James’s Come In Spinner was re-
viewed on April 18, 1951, and “Brent
of Bin Bin’s” Prelude to Waking
was reviewed on January 17, 1951...
A. 8.: The “P.L.A. Monthly,” obtain-
able from Port of London Authority
London, E.C.3; annual subscription
13s. 6d. (English) N.G.: Owners
of Elsey station were Arthur Bennett
(quarter-share), Tineas Gunn (quarter-
share) and Samuel Copley (half-share)
In 1903 it was sold to the Anglo-
African Co. H. E. Thonemann, of
Melbourne, is now part-owner....
P.T.G.: Pressmen and Governors by
E. Morris Miller, published by Angus
and Robertson, Sydney N.P.:
Write Mr, Charles W. Joyce, State
secretary, R.S.S. and A.1.L.A., Anzac
House, 4 Collins-street, Melbourne.
M.M.G.; Full particulars of the
Federation of British Industries Over-
seas Scholarship Scheme is obtain-
able from the Fairey Aviation Co.,
Ltd., 24 Bruton-street, London
N.J.: The article you probably have
in mind is “The Real Bully Hayes”
by Louis Becke, which appeared in
“The Lone Hand” for March, 1912.
A copy can be seen at the Public
Library of N.S.W., Sydney... .T. 0.:
The Sydney Harbor Trust is now
incorporated in the N.S.W. Maritime
Services Board J.Mc.: The fibula
is the posterior of the two bones
(the other one is the tibia) in the
shank of the hind-limb of a four-
footed animal. It is the lateral bone
in the lower leg of man. The human
fibula is, in proportion to its length,
the slenderest bone in the human
body; it corresponds to the ulna in
the arm F.J.C.: A chairman
usually has the right to remove or
order the removal of any disorderly
person, including those who are en-
titled to be present. If a member at
a club-meeting refuses to obey the
chair when his attention has been
drawn to a breach of rules, standing-
orders, etc., he should be asked by
the chairman to withdraw from the
meeting, preferably by motion of the
meeting. If he fails to withdraw
within a reasonable time he may be
removed by the exercise of reasonable
force Inquirer: Get in touch with
the N.S.W. Forestry Commission,
44 Margaret-street, Sydney ... .C.S. :
Unable to find out anything about
an artist named Malcolm Boyd.
Write Mr. Laurence Thomas, director,
Perth Art Gallery (W.A.), who may
be able to help L.: There was no
V.C.-winner of either world war
named Jack Flood D. 8.: Write
Dept, of Public Health, Sydney, for
leaflet “Cockroaches,” which outlines
preventive measures S.J.A.: Write
Mr. H. N. Sarina, registrar, Royal
Agricultural Society of N.S.W., En-
deavor House, Macquarie-place,
Sydney... .C.C.: The Australian
Language by Sidney J. Baker, pub-
lished by Angus and Robertson,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.D.: Your lizard seems to have
descended from D. H. Lawrence’s
“Snake”; and, like that poem, is too
thin and diffuse J.J.W.: “Low
Tide” at a very low ebb AJ.P.:
The tourist poems are just conven-
tional reflections P.D.: “The
Cyclone” stood a rough chance of
blowing in You know
your wildflowers, but the poem sug-
gests you’d do better to write about
them in prose J.W.: Poem equip-
ping T. S. Eliot’s Grishkin with the
new inflatable bra. will not appear in
print but is being earnestly examined
by the Religious Editor. ,H.W.:
Kathie McHagg is a sprightly old
lady, but you’ll have to make up
your mind whether you’re writing
ballad poetry or comic verse
R.M.: “If at all possible, please
give me a crit. on them.” Well,
they’re nice, but so slight they really
flit from a crit.; but if a bit of a
crit. will fit, this is it T.MacC.:
You’d need to think very carefully
•before rhyming “trunk” with
“defunct” A.S.: Thanks for the
compliment, but we should hesitate
to describe our contributors as
“Bulletin birds” Don John: No,
John 8.M.L.: Hardly makes a
story J.J.A.; A bit too magical.
. ...J.E.M.: Too casual... .E.N.:
Hardly 5.0. L.: Fifty-four pages
of dialogue that never was on sea
or land R.P.: Just silly A.M.:
A flat lead-up to a big let-down.
B.A.K.: Too much trimming of
an anecdote M.S.N.: You were
better on politicians than Maoris.
J.H.: Too hearty T.P.M.:
Won’t do H.S.: Chronicle, not a
story; but beautifully typed
E.N.: Hopeless Harriet J.C.S.:
Not ours R.8.N.: No paradisal
fantasies need apply Z.V.W.:
Your meal on “Mum’s Dinner Set”
left us torpid 5.G.8.: Well, that
sort of stuff may be good enough in
England R.M.: They all have
something of the gaiety of a 50-year-
old flirt L. 0.: Sorry A.J.G.:
Sorry again F.F.: “How Big is
My Mouth?” —well, you’ve bitten
off more than you can chew
H.T.G.: Like parents listening to
children’s jokes and riddles, we were
pleased to see you enjoying yourself.
... .L.G.: Machine-made Chinamen.
M.C.: Interesting, anyway, to
meet a real witch C.M.: Sorry;
you know all about ore-crushing,
but still not enough about story-
telling S.E.M.: It’s a long time
since we’ve seen such an inextricable
tangle T.M.H.: Something there,
but such things have to be done with
a delicacy you show no signs of.
R.R.: Your kookaburra was
not worth two in the bush
J.S.W.: A few direct observations,
but too many rough-and-ready impro-
visations G.A.D.: Terribly bright.


Australian Historical Sketches
The Year One
on Norfolk Island
By M. H. ELLIS
ON February 6, 1788, Cap-
tain Phillip, Governor of
New South Wales, sent
for his friend and ship-
captain, Lieutenant Philip Gidley
King, R.N., and instructed him
to leave for Norfolk Island in
the Supply (Lieutenant Ball,
commander). He was to settle
that island.
When he had been sworn-in
as superintendent and command-
ant and as a justice-of-the-peace
he embarked with half a dozen
officials, a weaver, two seamen,
two marines and nine male and
six female convicts, one of
whom he soon took as an
unofficial wife.
The little expedition sailed
from Sydney Cove at 7 a.m.
on February 15, and, having
passed close to Lord Howe
Island, they duly reached Nor-
folk on February 29. Two days
later, after several failures, they
succeeded in finding a spot on
which they could land on the
rocky coast, close to the point
on which it was supposed that
Captain Cook had landed many
years earlier. On March 6 two
boats carried all the new
colonists with tents, provisions
and tools into a bay on the south
side of the island, which had,
at first glance, seemed to be
entirely surrounded by a reef on
which the sea broke with great
violence.
The colors were hoisted, the
tents pitched, the small, lonely
band was assembled, the healths
of the King, Queen and Prince
of Wales were drunk, along with
success to the settlement, and,
“as we had no other way of testi-
fying our loyalty, we gave three
cheers on the occasion,”
And then the colors were
slowly hauled down at sunset as
they were being hauled down in
a thousand other military and
naval stations throughout the
British Imperial world. Next
morning the sea ran so high that
the colonists found themselves
marooned as they went ahead
clearing ground for their fowls.
They were rewarded in their
exploration by finding a handy
rivulet of water.
On the whole, however, their
situation was lonely and for-
bidding. The surf ringed them
in. Landing even on a clear day
was an adventure. The sky wept
tempestuously at intervals. And
all about them was scrub, almost
impenetrable from the size of
the trees and the tangled state
of their roots, which were, in
general, 2ft. above the ground
and ran along a considerable
distance.
In between the roots grew a
kind of supple-jack which often
was as thick as a man’s leg;
these supple-jacks ran up the
trees and, as they grew in every
direction, formed an impassable
network, bending some trees to
the ground, then taking root
again and squirming their way
round fresh trees until the whole
landscape was a tangled maze of
writhing vegetation.
The task of breaking into this
primeval loneliness, untrodden
till now by the foot of man and
untouched by the axe, was a
daunting one for a force of
12 workmen, of whom one was
72 years of age and one a boy
of 15.
By March 9 they had pro-
gressed far enough to have the
Lieutenant-Governor’s commis-
sion read and divine service per-
formed, together with the de-
livery of a simple homily in
which the tiny group of inhabit-
ants was told that the idle or
dishonest “would not escape that
punishment which was due to
the useless or destructive mem-
bers of society, while there
would be every encouragement
to those who behaved with
industry and propriety.”
Thus corporate life on Nor-
folk Island began. Every Sun-
day the church-bell —“a man
beating on the head of an empty
cask” —called them to worship,
and sometimes gave direction to
the lost. Every day they toiled
from daylight till 7.30, from
8.30 till 11.30 and from 2 p.m.
till sunset, with Saturdays off
so that all might cultivate their
own gardens. They were
heartened by finding that the
island grew large quantities of
native-flax, that the seas yielded
up abundance of fish when they
could go out to catch them, and
that turtles sometimes abounded
on a particular beach.
By April the first simple laws
of the island had been promul-
gated in the shape of orders—
compulsory attendance at public
worship, the hours of work de-
fined, the women to sweep round
houses and tents each morning
and to cook for the men. In-
habitants were to keep away
from the bay where the turtles
lived. Clothes were to be col-
lected on Fridays for washing
and repair and returned to their
owners clean and mended on
Sunday mornings. Nobody was
to cut down a banana-tree. No-
body was to exchange his clothes
with another. Tools were not
to be left in the open, and all
were tb be honest and obliging
towards each other —or else!
Such were the simple 10 com-
mandments of Norfolk’s pristine
State ; fortunately they made no
reference to the domestic virtues
or the laws of marriage.
+ +
Soon, under these conditions,
the population was busy: five
men clearing ground away on the
northt-east side of Mount
George; two making a road to
the water-supply; two sawing
timber for the commandant’s
house; two building huts ; and
the surgeon and the little boy
working to pave the way for
settlement in a valley in another
part of the island. But the little
boy was soon detected stealing
the surgeon’s rum, and they
cured his juvenile hide and his
inner sinfulness with a hundred
lashes (which the commandant
hoped “would have a good
effect”).
The boy, though, had not the
distinction of being the island’s
first criminal. That honor fell
not to a prisoner but to a
Marine, one John Bachelor, who
was led with solemnity by a
halter round his neck to an
appropriate place of punishment
and there given a hearty three-
dozen with the cat for an earlier
theft of liquor.
The struggle with Nature really
began. First, they had two for-
midable enemies to fight in the
rats and the grub-worms. When
they planted grain the rats
descended on it in swarms. And
what the rats left of the wheat,
the potatoes and the vegetables
the grub-worms cleaned-up with
enthusiasm.
*
At first they caught the rats
successfully in cask-traps and
scattered their bodies round the
gardens to deter the rest ;> but
the rodents became too cunning
to be trapped by this device,
though oatmeal and powdered
glass proved very effective. With
the grub-worm nothing could
be done save to set the women-
folk to pick them from the plants
by day and by night. While this
saved a few plants five out
of the island’s seven sheep died
of the scab, a sow was poisoned
in the woods and the stock was
reduced to two ewes, three sows,
two boars, four hens, a rooster,
three ducks, a drake and a goat.
It was certainly a tough fight
for existence. Food had to be
conserved, for they knew not
when they would see another
ship.
+ +
Fish the convicts liked, and
when they were given six pounds
in lieu of a pound of salt-beef,
as hard as the hobs of Hades
and no more palatable, they were
well pleased. But it was not
often the boat could be sent out,
so rough was the sea round the
coast, and the inhabitants were
given turtle, which they did not
approve, none of them having
ever been aldermen.
Thus it came about that one
day a convict was heard to re-
mark that “the people were fools
for suffering their salt provisions
to be stopped,” that the convicts
would soon be the strongest, and
then it would be seen who were
the masters. When King, how-
ever, lectured the people on the
needs of the situation, at the
same time doling out 40 lashes
to the loose-mouthed orator,
there was no protest.
The muttonbird was presently
discovered a species of
bird “which burrows in the
ground like rabbits, where they
hatch their eggs and rear their
young... ..they have not the least
fishy taste and their flesh is very
fine.”
By May 28 the whole settle-
ment was well sheltered, except
the surgeon and the midshipman.
The commandant himself
boasted the shell of a house 24ft.
long by 12ft, wide and Bft. under
the eaves; the sides and roof
weatherboarded. They were able
to plant out their sugarcane and
their oranges and Rio plaintains,
which hitherto they had kept in
tubs.
On June 4 they celebrated
King’s birthday and their first
holiday, hoisting the colors with
ceremony at sunrise, every per-
son fed with a good dinner, “the
produce of the island,” and rum
served out to all to drink Farmer
George’s health before the fes-
tivities closed with bonfires, in
which “we with pleasure saw
some large piles of wood burnt
that had been a long time col-
lecting, and which were a great
encumbrance to us.”
A fortnight later they lost
John Bachelor, their naughty
Marine, out of a boat, and the
rest of the crew almost perished,
too. Also, all their wheat went
rotten in the ground except 260
blades, a tragedy which came
on the day on which they opened
their last cask of salt-pork. They
were fortunate that the grub-
worms decided to play fair re-
garding their cabbages, lettuces
of three sorts, onions and other
vegetables, whose growth testi-
filed by now to the fertility of the
soil.
It was at this juncture that the
faithful little Supply hove in
sight, coming round Point Ross
from Sydney Cove, first visitor
they had had since she landed
them. She found the same diffi-
culty in anchoring as on the
earlier voyage, and it was nearly
a week before she was safely in
the Roads, after wandering
round the island in a gale.
A man sent out by King to
find her nearly lost his life. Even
then, the landing of supplies was
attended by tragedy. Cunning-
ham (the master’s mate of the
Sirius, the commandant’s friend
and righthand man), the sawyer
and one of the best of the con-
victs were drowned, as well as
a seaman from the Supply, when
a wave broke over their boat as
it was swept off its course.
By the time the Golden Grove
came in on October 13 at day-
light the inhabitants’ barley-crop
seemed to be assured, and they
had built a granary 18ft. long by
12ft. wide and dug a cellar under
the surgeon’s house for stowing
provisions. Every woman was
still employed picking grubs off
the corn.
The population was now in-
creased by Mr. Donovan, a mid-
shipman, a sergeant, corporal
and five ranker Marines, two
gardeners who were seamen
from the Sirius, and 21 men and
11 women convicts. But the
most welcome part of the cargo
landed was 126 casks of flour,
some sows and young pigs and
various other provender, not for-
getting five puncheons of rum.
They sent off in the vessel their
first exports—spars and planks
cut by the order of Governor
Phillip.
After the vessel left on Octo-
ber 29 the newly-arrived con-
victs were given time off to build
their own log-huts thatched with
“bullrushes and flaggs,” which
at the time appeared to have
made them very comfortable.
The population now consisted of
16 free persons, including the
eight Marines, 29 male and 22
female convicts —total 62.
It became possible to super-
vise work properly, but this
nearly led to serious rebellion, in
spite of , the fact that the popu-
lation was ruled with a benign
hand and had rum, double
rations and bonfires again at
Christmas, their first on the
island.
A system of task work was
adopted under which six men
were expected to cut down the
timber on an acre of ground in
a week; six meri to clear and
turn-up an acre fit for sowing in
28 days, and two sawyers to cut
100 ft. a day. The harder and
faster the teams worked the more
spare time they had for their
own gardens or pleasure.
In the meantime the first mili-
tary operations took place, the
commandant having reflected
that, as he had six muskets on
the island apart from the arms
of the Marines, he might as well
teach the civilian free men to
use them, lest any of the guard
fell sick. So the midshipman,
Mr. Donovan, was set to exer-
cise them every Saturday morn-
ing, with the intention that when
they should have become a little
expert they should “fire half a
dozen rounds a month.”
4- +
It was just about this time
that the need for precautions be-
gan to be apparent. A week
after the first child (the com-
mandant’s son by a convict
woman) was born out of wed-
lock on January 8 and christened
Norfolk, it was found politic
to flog-a convict for contemptu-
ously refusing to work. And on
January 23 the Articles of War
were read to the convicts, for it
was obvious that trouble was
brewing.
The next day a seaman,
Robert Webb, came to King,
asked to see him in’ private, and
related that a concerted plan
had been made among the con-
victs to surprise their controllers,
seize the public stores and any
vessel that might arrive (except
the Sirius) and make their escape
from the island.
It appeared that on the previ-
ous day Mistress Elizabeth
Anderson, when doing her wash-
ing, had sighed. A certain Wil-
liam Francis had asked her
what she sighed for. She
answered that she was “very
low.”
Mr. Francis asked whether she
would leave Webb, with whom
she was living, if he could get
her her liberty. And when she
answered “Yes,” he said that the
first ship that came, except the
Sirius, they should all have their
liberty, “every man and woman
of us, to which we were all
sworn last Saturday” ; also that
since the day Watts was flogged
it had been intended to make Mr.
King and the free people
prisoners.
Miss Anderson carried the
story to Webb, who then hid
himself behind a bed-curtain
while she trapped Francis into
a fuller statement about the
matter.
“Come, Bill,” she called, “sit
down and drink a little rum and
we’ll drink to the ship that will
take us from here.”
And so it was that she drew
the whole story from him of
how, when the civilians and
Marines were out “a-cabbaging”
he would step into King’s house,
distribute arms, put the masters
of the settlement “in irons, two
and two together, when they will
be as helpless as bees.” They
had all the plans for taking the
ship worked out in detail, and
they proposed to maroon on two
little islands next to the coast
such of the complement as were
not necessary to help them work
her.
Even though it seemed that
the whole tale might be an in-
vention, King acted promptly.
He moved the stores close to his
house, organised a perpetual
guard under the redoubtable
Midshipman Donovan, brought
everybody into town to live and
interrogated a well-behaved
Catholic convict “on the Cross,”
with the result that everything
that Webb and Mistress Ander-
son had alleged was confirmed.
+ +
What followed was character-
istic of King. He “must own
that he had not been sufficiently
on his guard against the descrip-
tion of people he had to deal
with,” as their obvious prefer-
ence for Norfolk Island over
Port Jackson and their apparent
satisfaction at the indulgences
they received had lulled his sus-
picions. He thought their plan
for taking the ship impracticable,
but he also thought they might
have succeeded on the island, in
which case it would be “diffi-
cult to say what fatal conse-
quences might have ensued from
the drunken state they would
have been in while the rum
lasted.”
However, he reflected, “he
must in justice observe that no
sanguinary measures had been
thought of; on the contrary,
they proposed good treatment
of himself,” though how far
such resolutions would have
been observed by such a set of
men in a state of drunken mad-
ness he thought might easily be
conceived.
Therefore he read the whole
population a lecture on “the
absurdity of their plan and ex-
horted them by their future con-
duct to wipe away the present
impropriety of their behavior.”
The two ringleaders were de-
prived of their garden grounds,
one of them had 50 lashes for
stealing corn, another three
dozen for insolence to officers.
And on the first anniversary
of their sailing from Port Jack-
son to colonise the island all
were forgiven at a Sabbath ser-
vice and prayers of gratitude
were .said for their survival,
though no doubt with some
asides directed against the rain
which poured down on them
that month in torrents.
The Norfolk Island settlement
was at last firmly established.


r
«...
fm
the name is
(DTdllams
the whisky is
m
m ’&& ■ mm
iti i MW
OJS
S
..Z^hisk
s.
■ ■ ;•
Distilled and blended in Scotland
Flat To Let
MANLY —Modern s.-c. furnished
holiday flat; h.w.s., delightful winter
position, ocean views, one minute
beach. Will accommodate four maxi-
mum. N Reply,
D. B. McCALLUM,
39 BOWER ST.,
MANLY.
SPORTING NOTIONS
It’s a long time since an
A.J.C. Doncaster Handicap
zavorite had such an effortless
win as did imported mare
Tarien. She simply toyed with
the opposition and won easing
up in 1.35*, equalling the race
record made in 1941 by Mil-
dura. The track must have been
fast in 1941, because Lucrative’s
St. Leger was also run in record
time that day, 2.57*, and was
equalled on Saturday by the St.
Leger winner, Sea Sovereign.
Tarien had a big pull in the
weights, had won in handicap
and w.f.a. company after the
declaration of weights, and had
run second in the V.R.C. New-
market when suffering from
boils. Bookmakers were “riding”
the 100-to-l pacemaker Tri-
clinium hard, but their hopes
quickly faded when Moore gave
Tarien more rein and she
bounded away to easy victory.
Triclinium and Iroquois ran
their best race at one mile, a
distance over which they have
not been seen to advantage.
Tarien has won 12 races in Aus-
tralia for £10,490, of which the
Doncaster was worth £5078.
Leading Randwick trainer
Tommy Smith, who had won
44 races this season up till last
Saturday, probably was not a
little surprised when his repre-
sentative, Sea Sovereign, landed
the A.J.C. St. Leger at 25 to 1
from the heavily-backed Advo-
cate and Arbroath. Jockey
Moore won by clearing out from
his six opponents and setting his
own pace all the way, making
an exhibition of the field.
Arbroath might have been feel-
ing the effects of recent hard
racing in Melbourne, but backers
of both the Victorian colt and
of Advocate were not exactly
delighted by the riding tactics of
their respective jockeys. As
things turned out neither might
have downed the winner, but
they certainly gave him a big
start and left it late to try and
catch him. There is far too
much watching of the other fel-
low in these long-distance races
and not sufficient attention to
what a fast pacemaker is doing
in front.
Sea Sovereign has an interest-
ing background, and his blood-
lines are those of a staying
three-year-old. A product of
Kia-Ora Stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
and costing llOOgns as a yearl-
ing, he is by Midstream
(imp.) from Sidonia (imp.) and
is closely related to Amigo, a
winner of the Swedish Derby
and St. Leger. Sidonia (a win-
ner at Newmarket, England) was
got by Noble Star from Sabrina
by Colombo from Lac d’Amour
by Son-in-law. Several English
and French winners are listed in
the family lines, two stayers
being Teresina (Newmarket
Jockey Club Stakes, 1| mile and
Goodwood Cup, two miles five
furlongs) and Shahpoor (New-
market Jockey Club Cup 2}
miles).
The A.J.C. Plate, which it is
hoped will be a truly-run con-
test over the 2 \ miles at Rand-
wick this Saturday—that is the
objective of the club in staging
it—has been won by the greatest
horses to have worn a bridle. It
isn’t necessary to enumerate the
list in full, but here’s a bunch
of notable Plate winners:
David (three wins), Poseidon,
Trafalgar (three), Poitrel
(two). Windbag (two), Phar
Lap, Peter Pan, Flight and
Russia. The Munro brothers,
Jim and Darby, found the race
most satisfying from a financial
viewpoint. Between them they
won it on nine occasions.
Darby’s first of six wins was in
1937 on Allunga. Aristocrat,
winner of the 1952 Plate, is
among the entrants this Satur-
day. Clutha and Hydrogen,
which followed him home, are
also listed among likely starters.
This long-distance weight-for-
age event has on occasions been
farcical from an onlooker’s
viewpoint. It has sometimes
taken four minutes to run, the
jockeys coasting along to the
half-mile or so then making a
dash for the winning-post. How-
ever, the rule now is that if the
race takes longer than 4.15 the
stake is halved, but stewards
have power to make allowances
for a heavy track. Record time
is 3min. 47isec. When the
Plate was three miles Poitrel,
crack stayer of his day, went at
such a snail’s-pace in 1920 that
his time was 6.32}! Some
punters actually adjourned to
the liquor-bars before the race
was over. Even the present
fixed limit for the 2| miles is
overgenerous.
Field for the Autumn Stakes
at Randwick was probably the
weakest for years, and comprised
seven, mostly handicappers.
However, as winner Jan was
backed from 10s to 11 to 2 many
picked the right one. Favorite
Peshawar was a distant fourth.
His Caulfield Cup success
pointed to him as the likely
winner in the poor field, but he
never flattered supporters. Jan
appreciates small fields, and the
“Hey, lady, did a footle come in here?”
successful T. J. Smith stable
intends to retain her for w.f.a.
races. However, there won’t be
too many of these, the mare will
be a six-year-old on August 1
and younger stuff will be
appearing on the scene, Jan
may again contest the rich Bris-
bane Cup next month. She
finished second last year to
Putoko, with Catchfree third.
• • • •
The mile All-aged Stakes,
highlight of today’s racing at
Randwick, has been won by the
best horses in the land. Twelve
months ago a field of six went
to the post, but the class was
some removes from the usual
standard. Second favorite, San
Domenico (D. Munro), was a
narrow winner over Forest Beau
and Oversight. The track was
heavy. Achilles won two years
ago, and going back a few sea-
sons when there were some great
milers in action the winning list
reveals the names of Murray
Stream, Bernborough, Yaralla
(two wins), Ajax (three), Peter
Pan, Chatham, Winooka,
Amounis, Mollison and Valicare.
Fastest time, 1.35}, is credited to
both Ajax and Peter Pan. This
is a second outside Australia’s
best, held by Shannon and made
at Randwick in October, 1946.
• • • •
Dark Elegance, winner of the
A.J.C. December Stakes and the
Kirkham Stakes, each by half a
dozen lengths, besides other
sprints at two years, is dam of
a smart looking yearling colt by
the new English sire Turkaris,
which is to be auctioned by Wil-
liam Inglis and Son tomorrow
(Thursday), second day of the
Randwick annual sale of
thoroughbred yearlings. The
sale will extend over Friday and
Monday next. The Dark
Elegance colt is a half-brother
to Persian Prince. Turkaris has
one other yearling in the cata-
logue, a colt from Grey Day, a
half-sister to The Cause (dam of
Blue Ensign and Blue Flag).
Turkaris is a son of Turkhan
(winner of the Irish Derby and
second in the English Derby) and
Saraikala by Salamis, Foaled in
1944, he is located at Bill Mac-
kay’s Tingaroo Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.).
Melbourne racing over early
autumn indicated that the two-
year-old fillies were superior to
the colts, but it didn’t turn out
that way in the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes at Randwick.
Colts filled the three places.
Surang, winner of the V.R.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, was an
uneasy favorite over Sydney’s
best filly. Love To All, but
neither ran the seven furlongs
out, their performances being
much below expectations,
especially Surang’s. Cromis,
which had recorded a sequence
of seconds in Melbourne, over-
came his hoodoo and raced from
the rear of the field to a brilliant
victory over Royal Stream, which
added just one more second to
his sequence, with Cortauld
third. First money (£5900) was
a handsome stake for two-year-
olds. Since 1922 Victorians
have won the A.J.C. Sires Pro-
duce Stakes on 12 occasions—
an excellent winning average.
Best known of the Melbourne
winners were Pure Fire, True
Course, Lucrative, Nuffield and
Ajax. Cromis ran the seven
furlongs in \.2A}, fastest time
for 11 years. The race record
of 1.231 was made by the flying
Ajax in 1937.
• • • •
Good to see Pure Fire return
to the winning list in Melbourne,
Best two - year - old of last
season with six wins, five
of them consecutive, including
the A.J.C. and the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, Pure Fire vin-
dicated W. Williamson’s judg-
ment in staying in Melbourne to
take the mount instead of riding
on the opening day of the A.J.C.
carnival. Pure Fire won the
seven-furlong Victoria Handi-
cap from the consistent Bytact
and Laurie Hussar, starting
favorite at 4 to 1 in an open-
betting race. Williamson also
won the last race of the pro-
gramme, the Hampton High-
weight, on another favorite, St.
Joel. The £3OOO Victoria
Handicap was the highlight of
Flemington’s Saturday racing.
Real Charm proved best filly at
Flemington by winning the
Juvenile Stakes for fillies, and
was a well-backed second-favor-
ite at sto 1. Real Charm was
a winner in the spring, and on
9st, was handicapped to best
form. She is a daughter of Sans
Tache (imp.) and Narbonne by
Burnewang (imp.) from Langue-
doc by Blankney II from Mistral
by Cyklon (imp.), and comes
from a speedy family.
Sprinters and stayers are get-
ting ready for Brisbane’s big
meetings beginning with the
£lO,OOO Stradbroke Handicap
on Saturday, May 2. The Bris-
bane Cup will be run on the
second day. May 4, and the
Moreton Handicap on the final
day. May 9. Many southern
owners have designs on the main
double. Weights were jpsued
this week, and a pre-post market
will soon be established. Run-
ning at current A.J.C. autumn
meeting is certain to have an
important bearing upon the Bris-
bane double. Racing at Eagle
Farm last Saturday showed that
some Stradbroke and Cup
horses were well forward in con-
dition, especially Basha Felika, a
former Melbourne galloper who
won the Easter Handicap, nine
furlongs, a 7-to-4 favor-
ite. He beat Pale Tip and Vital
Link, both of which are well
known to Sydney racegoers.
Basha Felika carried 9st. to easy
victory. Grand Topic won the
Toorak Handicap at 9 to 4 from
Merry Scout and Maltmaid.
Plato, stylish winner of the Vau-
cluse Handicap at Randwick, is
an entrant for the Stradbroke,
and Doncaster winner Tarien
is also engaged in Brisbane.
Admiral’s Lady, a smart Syd-
ney filly, which gave promise at
two years but went through that
season without winning, opened
her account at latest Hawkesbury
fixture when she won the first
Maiden for Bill Etherington,
who acquired her in New Zea-
land in January of last year. The
filly is a daughter of imported
Admiral’s luck, a son of Pre-
cipitation and a grandson of
Hurry On, from Many Melodies
by Hunting Song (imp.) from
Little Melody by Lucullus (imp.).
An interesting feature of her
bloodlines is that she is related
to Playboy, a winner of the
A.J.C. Derby and the St. Leger
and which recently returned to
training after a long absence.
When in training at Rosebery
there was no faster sprinter in
work than Snow Star, and his
times over three furlongs—best
was 35 seconds on the course
proper—have not since been
bettered. Snow Star, a grey
flyer, was raced by Jim Bendrodt,
who trained some pretty fast
ones in his time. Snow Star
sired his first winner when
Juggler scored in the First Two-
year-old Maiden at the latest
Hawkesbury meeting. Lady
Rosehill, dam of Juggler, is a
Pentheus mare from Cool Melba
by Metal (imp.). Pentheus sired
many speedsters, so Juggler
should soon win in much better
company. Claude Moore’s
Driftwood, who won the Second
Division of the Two-year-old
Maiden, cost 1900gns. as a year-
ling. The colt is by Delville
Wood (imp.) from Current by
Midstream (imp.) from Vivere
by Heroic, and is related to a
galaxy of talent, including
Murray Stream, Hall Mark,
Trivalve and Nuffield. Moore
has had a long association with
racing, particularly with the
Moorefield course. He is a
member of the committee of the
Sydney Turf Club.
* * ♦
Although Ray Coleman will
be only 26 next August he has
been boxing for almost a decade
and should be well past his
prime. Coleman (9.1) fought the
best fight of his career when de-
cisively outpointing Ron Varcoe
(8.11) at Leichhardt, however,
and he is now eager to fight
Elley Bennett again for the Aus-
tralian featherweight champion-
ship. Landing plenty of left
hooks and right uppercuts on
Varcoe’s chin or head, Coleman
won the first six, and a right
uppercut in the sixth session
went close to scoring a knock-
down. In the seventh Varcoe
decided to stand and fight in-
stead of continually backing
away, and a nicely-timed right
cross rocked Coleman in round
eight. His rights won rounds
nine and 10 for Varcoe, but Cole-
man took the 11th and 12th by
such a wide margin that referee
Mawson’s decision was the only
one possible.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
TRADE MARA I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
O During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
» DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
• DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
eJ'r"
fa P”
ttflS'*
heum
tica
SCIA
ob |T,s
PI
130,0°
LOW
pen* B
f,91 f
REU
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box J 552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
DA.I
Barmaid Fanny Briggs Was Murdered
Gulliver’s Gambols
By J. E. MURPHY
IN the course of painstaking,
though possibly inexpert,
research in connection with
the compilation of the
History of the Queensland South
Burnett and Kilkivan Districts,
written by colleague E. W.
Easton, M.A., and self, I came
across much information rela-
tive to the operations of the
Queensland Native > Mounted
Police in the early days of the
adjoining Dawson River country.
One particular bit of Dawson
River information I gathered
shows, I think, that Henry
Lamond was a little bushed in
saying that the boy Willie was
the only member of the Fraser
family not massacred in the
holocaust of Hornet Bank.
William Fraser, the eldest son
of the widowed Mrs. Fraser, who
had recently purchased Hornet
Bank, was, in fact, away with
dray - teams bringing rations
from Limestone, later Ipswich,
on the day of the massacre, led
by the treacherous old “Boney,”
the trusted retainer of the
Frasers. -
The member of the family who
survived the massacre was
“West” Fraser, a lad who, after
a brutal smash with a nulla-
nulla, slipped between the bed
and a wall, and so was over-
looked by the murderers.
“West” Fraser, though he
survived, was subject ever after-
wards to periodical mental
lapses, during which he was,
however, quite helpless rather
than violent. Nevertheless, dur-
ing the long period in which he
worked on northern and western
properties, some of them in
H.G.L.’s own stamping-ground
of some decades later, the onset
of one of his spells sent the
station blacks scurrying for the
horizon.
It was William Fraser who
was commonly supposed to hold
an unofficial Government permit
to shoot blacks on sight. Had
such an informal permit been
held, it would have been issued
to William Fraser by the Gov-
ernment of N.S.W. and not
Queensland. I tried unsuccess-
fully to sight an official record
of the issue of this startling
document, but, because of the
very nature of the “authority,”
my failure to discover it does
not disprove its existence.
There is also a story, of which
I failed to find official authenti-
cation, that one day in the
street of Drayton* afterwards
Toowoomba, William Fraser
shot dead', within sight of a
sergeant and two troopers of
N.M.P., a gin who was wearing
a dress which he recognised as
having been worn by his mother
on the day of the Hornet Bank
raid. According to the story,
William Fraser’s action was not
questioned by the members of
the N.M.P.
Though the issue of the
“shoot-on-sight” authority and
the Drayton incident may be
apocryphal, it is certain that
William Fraser subsequently be-
came a commissioned officer of
the N.M.P. He was posted to
Rockhampton, under the com-
mand of Lieutenant John
Murray, though he was not on
the depot strength at the same
time as Trooper Gulliver, who
ultimately left the corps with a
farewell salute fired at him by
his late comrades-in-arms.
Because of the manner of his
exit. Trooper Gulliver assumes
in the history of the corps a
somewhat larger place than his
white officers, Morisset, Murray,
Fraser, Powell, Walker or any
others who staffed the Rock-
hampton Depot in the late ’fifties
and early ’sixties.
Gulliver’s exit followed the
earlier demise of Fanny Briggs,
imported for the Sportsman’s
Arms Hotel, on the outskirts of
Rockhampton, by enterprising
publican J, A. Watt.
From the Royal Hotel, Sydney,
Fanny Briggs made the last part
of the journey to Rockhampton
on top of a dray-load of beer-
barrels. Her arrival quad-
rupled the beer sales at the
Sportsman’s Arms, so popular
was she with the clientele of
squatters, stockmen, shepherds
and diggers.
But the hectic trading period
was short-lived. After about a
week the Sportsman’s Arms
drawcard vanished into thin air.
The last man to have seen her
at the pub was host J. A. Watt,
who swore that she had set out
on foot to catch the horse on
which she was accustomed to
take a daily canter.
Just when the publican was
beginning to feel uneasy under
the meaningful glances of his
enraged clientele, his story re-
ceived official corroboration in
the form of a report by Trooper
Gulliver, who said that he had,
on the day of her disappearance,
seen Fanny Briggs making on
foot in the direction indicated
by Watt, and that she had told
him and another trooper that
she was in search of her horse.
Trooper Gulliver then led a
search-party in the direction of
Scrubby Creek, where, bearing
injuries attesting a desperate
struggle against her attacker, the
mutilated body of Fanny Briggs
was found. Trooper Gulliver
effected a reconstruction of the
crime, whose authorship he
assigned, on account of the
nulla-nulla marks on the corpse,
to natives. He named a round
dozen who were capable of the
murder.
The investigation of the
murder Was entrusted to Lieut.
Powell, who had a good deal
of local experience before join-
ing the N.M.P. The investi-
gation was a laborious process,
which meant that for Trooper
Gulliver and his black o.r.s there
was quite a long spell from long
patrols in regions far removed
from the fleshpots of Rockhamp-
ton.
The relaxing troopers whiled
away the time in the blacks’
camp on the banks of the Fitz-
roy, where a flourishing black-
market in rum was in existence.
In his N.M.P. regimentals Gul-
liver cut quite a dash among the
lubra s. But for all his sophisti-
cation he had a conservative
respect for the old order of
things, and, in resentment of the
alcoholically-inspired Argument
of a young gin, closed the debate
with a stout clout.
The black feminist naturally
lost temporarily all interest in
the argument, but her first wak-
ing reaction was a screamed
threat to name to the white
officers of the N.M.P. the real
murderers of the “white missus
stop long Gracemere pub.”
A few hours after the debate
at the blacks’ camp on the Fitz-
roy, Lieut. Morisset ordered a
parade without arms of the
entire troop of the N.M.P. at
the Rockhampton Depot. At
the call of their names Sergeant
Toby and Trooper Gulliver and
Johnny Reed stepped smartly
out from the ranks, to receive
an extra article of equipment,
in the form of a pair of hand-
cuffs snapped around their re-
spective wrists.
Lieut. Powell then left for
Maryborough, some three
hundred miles south, and there
arrested Trooper Alma, who
had also been named in the dis-
closures of the resentful lubra.
Meanwhile, in Rockhampton
jail under the custody of white
Constable Quirk, Gulliver,
stripped of his regimentals, sug-
gested to Constable Quirk:
“More better you take me long
bush and I bin pinish show you
where me and other fellas bin
altogether pinish white girl ’e
stop longa pub.”
In the absence of the officer in
charge of the jail (Chief Con-
stable Griffin, who was to later
die at a rope’s end for the
murder of his own two white
troopers, Powell and Cahill, of
the Clermont gold escort). Con-
stable Quirk decided to take
advantage of the co-operation
offered by Gulliver.
With the assistance of another
armed constable, Quirk escorted
Gulliver to Scrubby Creek,
where from hollow logs and
other hiding-places the black
troopers retrieved several
articles of clothing worn by
Fanny Briggs on the afternoon
of her fatal ride.
Gulliver then pointed to a
medium-sized tree, down the
trunk of which, he said, a green
veil worn by the girl had been
jammed. Jo allow him to shin
up the tree Quirk obligingly un-
locked one of the handcuffs.
From aloft Gulliver groped down
the trunk, but claimed that he
could not - reach the veil, and
asked for a tomahawk to hack
away some of the dead \Vood.
With the tomahawk Gulliver
hacked furiously at the tree-top,
sending down a cascade of chips
under which the white constables
momentarily ducked in an in-
stinctive desire to protect their
eyes.
A split-second later Gulliver
plummeted from the tree, spread-
eagling the constables in his
descent. When they regained
the perpendicular they were in
time to fire only an aimless
volley into Gulliver’s wake as
he disappeared into the scrub.
The job of recapturing Gul-
liver was assigned to Lieut.
Powell, who co-opted for the
purpose three black troopers
from the New England (N.S.W.)
district, who had received their
rookie training under himself,
and were excellent trackers.
Powell followed a long trail
which eventually brought him
to the sloping banks of the Dee
River, where the officer carefully
disposed his three troopers in
ambush. Towards late after-
noon Gulliver, coming down to
the river for a billy of water,
walked into the centre of the
strategic circle. Instead of
obeying Lieut. Powell’s call to
surrender, Gulliver bounded for
the scrub in a retreat whose
very bull-headedness saved his
bacon, since his violent collision
with one of the concealed
troopers upset the latter and
opened the way to Gulliver’s
successful dash for the scrub.
Gulliver’s next move showed
him as a strategist of no mean
order. Instead of making
further bushwards, he doubled
on his tracks back towards Rock-
hampton. Sipme miles along
the track he climbed a tree to
make a reconnaissance and saw
in the distance a dray-train
making for Rockhampton.
Half an hour later the rear
vehicle in the dray-train carried
a stowaway, Gulliver having
simply dropped into it as it
passed under his arboreal
observation-post.
Next morning Lieut, Powell
met and stopped the dray-train
and was, in all honesty, told by
the teamsters that they had seen
nothing of Gulliver. '
This ignorance of the where-
abouts of ex-trooper Gulliver
was not shared by every member
of the company manning the
dray-train. The fugitive’s
presence had been discovered on
the previous night by one
Remus, an aboriginal employed
by the teamsters. Under horrible
threats as to his fate if he dis-
closed the stowaway’s presence,
Remus had agseed to keep
silent.
After the stopping of the dray-
trkin by Lieut. Powell, Remus’s
fear of Gulliver’s reprisals was
overcome by his fear of the
Law, and in the course of the
day he told his boss of the pas-
senger concealed in the loading
of the last dray.
After a discreetly convened
and conducted council-of-war
the teamsters enjoined Remus
to continue to behave as though
he was still guarding Gulliver’s
secret, and it was decided to en-
list the aid of the Demon Rum
in his capture. Remus, acting
under boss’s orders, “sneaked” a
bottle of good 0.-p. under the
tarpaulin on the last dray.
An hour later a dead-drunk
deadweight was lifted out of the
last dray and securely trussed-
up. A horseman took the news
of the capture to Lieut. Powell’s
camp, and the officer arrived
shortly afterwards and took
charge of the comatose prisoner.
On his sober awakening, Gul-
liver showed no resentment
against his captors. He seemed
anxious to save them as much
trouble as he could, and to this
end he suggested to Lieut.
Powell; “Shoot me here!”
Lieut. Powell may possibly
have, felt an impulse to gratify
the simple request of a former
comrade-in-arms, but, the
N.M.P. being an admirably dis-
ciplined body, he felt himself
duty-bound to take him alive to
Rockhampton jail. When Gul-
liver refused to budge a step
Lieut. Powell had him again
trussed-up and heaved aboard a
passing buggy.
Somewhere en route Gulliver
managed to slip his bonds, and
as they passed the Calliungal-
road Junction, adjacent to a de-
pression which for a long time
was known as Gulliver’s Water-
lole, he bounded from the buggy.
Lieut. Powell and his three
troopers had been riding with
their carbines at the ready, and
when Gulliver ignored their first
warning shot the officer complied
with the request he had previ-
ously refused. And Gulliver
ceased travelling.
Of his three companions sus-
pected of the murder of Fanny
Briggs, Trooper Johnny Reed
was discharged because of the
lack of real evidence against
him. Trooper Alma was shot
by the Rockhampton lock-up
keeper while trying to escape by
the river to which he had been
sent to draw a bucket of water.
Sergeant Toby cheated the gal-
lows by a stratagem involving
the triumph of mind over
matter. He simply died in jail
from no physical cause known
to medical science.
Some cynics—and possibly
old maids of both sexes —might
use the death of Sergeant Toby
as an argument that even the
superb discipline of the Queens-
and Native Mounted Police
could not prevent primitive en-
listees from reverting on occa-
sion to the primitive.
AUTHOR’S NOTE
Though this is an unassailably documented account of
a few of the bad boys of the Queensland Native Mounted
Police, it is not an attempt to bespatter the N.M.P.
escutcheon, so ably presented in all its Simon-purity by
Henry G. Lamond in ‘The Bulletin’ of 28/l/’53. H.G.L.’s
story dealt in the main with the Big Brass of the corps;
the beat of the N.M.P. was a large one, and it was not
always possible to maintain officer-surveillance over the
doings of the black troopers on isolated patrols.”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TOMORROW'S DREAD BOMBS
“We are being hurried
forward, in our mastery of the
atom, from one discovery to
another, toward yet unforesee-
able peaks of destructive power,”
— Truman, in one of his last
messages as President.
“The problems are unbear-
ably unpleasant, which is the
real reason why nobody is think-
ing about them. But they have
got to be thought about all the
same, if only because they are
problems of life and death for
us all.” —New York “Herald
Tribune” writers Joseph and
Stewart Alsop.
The latest bomb-tests in
America marked another step to-
wards the “unforeseeable peaks”
—if “peaks” is quite the right
word. Truman said of the
previous test —of the hydrogen-
bomb at Eniwetok —that it sign-
posted explosions of a magnitude
“dwarfing the mushroom clouds
of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.”
Those atom-bombs are now
spoken of as “primitive.” They
were enough to have left the
world in a state of shudder ever
since. They had an explosive
power of 20,000 tons of TNT,
stated to have since been in-
creased by at least 10 times, to
200,000 tons of TNT, perhaps
more, leaving the hydrogen-
bomb out of the reckoning.
The hydrogen-bomb uses one
of the “ordinary” atom-bombs
as a “trigger.”
Yet, London “Daily Tele-
graph’s” science correspondent
points out as a curious comment
on present-day affairs, “the news
of what was almost certainly the
successful testing of the world’s
first hydrogen - bomb last
November passed almost urn
noticed. The hydrogen-bomb
does, after all, pave the way to
destruction and horror of com-
pletely incomprehensible magni-
tude. Its unprecedented power
has even required a new word,
‘megaton,’ to describe it.
“ Megas , of course, is Greek
for great, and scientists, always
rpady to borrow new words from
the dead languages, have long
since found it convenient to talk
of mega-watts and mega-volts
when they mean millions. The
atomic-bomb’s power is assessed
in ‘kilotons,’ or thousands of
tons of TNT, the standard
military high - explosive. The
hydrogen - bomb, a thousand
times more powerful, is classified
in megatons.
“In one step we have jumped
to weapons capable of releasing
energy equal, probably, to that
from two or three million tonsi
of TNT. What is more, there
is no sign that this astronomical
rise in the power of weapons is
likely to be checked.”
“One ton of exploding
hydrogen,” a “New York Times”
writer has stated, “would
produce an explosion equal to
20,000,000 tons of TNT—a
weapon 1000 times as powerful
as the ‘model-T’ bombs dropped
in Japan.”
According to the Alsop
brothers, the hydrogen-bomb
tested at Eniwetok developed the
totally unexpected and unpre-
cedented power of three to five
megatons which is the
explosive force of three to five
million tons of TNT, That test
is believed to have proved the
possibility of building usable
hydrogen - bombs of almost
infinitely greater power:
“The simple development of
infinitely destructive weapons
automatically revolutionises all
our world’s complex strategic
relationships. When the greatest
nations, such as the United States
and the Soviet Union, can be
reduced to nothingness by a
single, short, successful attack.
the world we live in has ceased
to be the world we used to
know.”
Of what they called “the
special, horrible characteristics
peculiar to the hydrogen-bomb,”
the Alsops emphasised really
shuddersome details:
“The radioactive residues of
a rather moderate number of H-
bombs, such as might be
exploded in a fairly long war,
can attack the reproductive pro-
cesses of the higher animals, and
so end the race of men on earth.
Some of the scientists contend
that the dust-cloud from the
explosion of only a few H-
bombs, which have been encased
in certain metals, will be noxious
enough to depopulate half a
continent,
“It is putting it mildly to say
that grave issues of national
policy are raised by any
weapons-test which, if repeated
a few hundred times, can close
the chapter of human history and
leave this planet to the insects.”
The hydrogen-bomb already
exploded, they further stated,
conceivably presaged “a night-
mare time, when the race of men
will become wholly sterile, or
will breed only monster-
mutations. Perhaps the era when
the praying-mantis will rule over
the earth may not be very far
off. If people understood that
the Eniwetok explosion has
taken us a small but quite
measurable distance down this
road, they might give way to
paroxysms of needless fear, but
they would certainly be unlikely
to suffer from ennui.”
“The meaning of such a
weapon,” a “New York Times”
special correspondent has stated,
“is that war has undergone a
change that makes it a very dif-
ferent thing from what it used
to be. A twenty ‘megaton’
hydrogen-bomb could devastate
an area of more than 300 square
miles by blast and 1200 square
miles by fire. It could extinguish
millions of lives at one blow,
demolish the great cities of the
world, wipe out the cultural
achievements of the past. It is
hard to believe that these state-
ments are literally true. But
they are,”
Invisible radiation, the corres-
pondent added, can produce
“monstrous offspring” or
sterility:
“If encased in a shell of
cobalt, a powerful hydrogen-
bomb could produce a radio-
active cloud equal to 5,000,000
pounds of radium. The heavy
cobalt dust would settle down,
spreading death and devastation
over thousands of miles. If a
number of cobalt bombs were
placed along a north-south line
on the earth and exploded simul-
taneously, they could wipe out
all life on a hemisphere as the
winds carried the dust across a
continent or two continents.”
Russia has the atom-bomb
and is expected to soon have
the hydrogen-bomb—with no
inhibitions against using such
weapons. And, as the Alsops put
it, “Who then will be the gainer
—the United States, which
cannot launch a surprise attack,
or the Soviet Union, which can
attack by surprise as soon as the
rapidly-growing Russian strategic
air force is ready for the task?”
For the present the U.S., with
its continuously increasing stock-
pile, holds the lead —at a
financial cost no other country
or combination of countries not
served by slavedom could have
met. The U.S. Atomic Energy
Commission has reported that
from June, 1940, to June, 1952,
the grand total of atomic cost
was $7,963,373,536, which,
“New York Times” has
editorially noted, “includes only
the funds allotted to agencies
that have been specificially
charged with carrying out the
atomic - energy programme.
Never in the history of science
and technology has anything like
this sum been spent in little more
than a decade on the exploita-
tion of a single discovery.”
Also, the commission is spend-
a further $4,144,000,000 in the
current fiscal year ending June 30
next —“a kind of insurance that
peace will be at least precariously
maintained.”
East German Army
Why U.S. State Secretary
Dulles has been insisting on
speed in West European defence,
editorially explained by “New
York Times”:
“According to both American
and British estimates the Soviet
zone has already built Up a cadre
army of more than 100,000 men
disguised as police. This army
could be expanded quickly from
paramilitary reserves, and the
steadily rising East German
budget indicates that this expan-
sion is already under way.
“Behind this army stand 60
or 70 satellite divisions, which
are being constantly improved
in effectiveness. And behind the
satellite forces stand the 200 or
more divisions of the Soviet
Army, backed by an air armada
which is capable of carrying
atomic bombs. Furthermore,
the whole economy of both
Soviet Russia and its satellites is
geared to provide modern mili-
tary equipment.
“All this may or may not
mean that the Soviets are pre-
—New York “Herald Tribune ”
“STAND ASIDE—I TAKE OVER FROM HERE!"
paring for an assault on the
West. It does mean that the
Soviets are determined to pur-
sue their aggressive policies and
at the least are seeking to build
up a military might that would
deter the West from ‘interfer-
ing’ with their designs in any
new Korean ventures, for which
an unarmed Western Germany
or the Middle East might provide
the next stage-setting.
“Such new ventures could
well spark a new world war,
and that is what the American
Government is trying to pre-
vent.”
The Bonn correspondent of
New York “Herald Tribune” re-
ports Mr. Dulles as having given
the West European Governments
definite notice that America ex-
pected to see the European De-
fence Community treaty ratified
by the end of April. Otherwise
American aid was likely to be
curtailed.
Toronto “Globe and Mail”
names April 20 as the date by
when America wants to see the
West European Governments
“well on the way tc/ a merger
of their fighting forces.”
On the West European side
of it, “New York Times’s” chief
foreign correspondent, C. L.
Sulzberger, has reported, in
effect, that after getting off their
chests their resentment at
Dulles’s shock tactics the leaders
are displaying a “fever of
activity” and once again view-
ing Washington as a “dynamic
force.”
Carrier Hermes
Britain’s latest aircraft-carrier,
Hermes, is the R.N.’s first to
embody three post-war develop-
ments : the angled deck, the
steam catapult, and the side lift.
She will (reports a London
“Times” correspondent) be able
to operate efficiently the most
powerful naval aircraft avail-
able.
Of 18,000 tons, the new
Hermes (tenth R.N. vessel of
her name) has a total length of
741 ft. 6in. and a beam of 90ft.
Her speed will be about 30
knots, some five knots more than
that of earlier light fleet-carriers.
She would take a war-time com-
plement of about 1400 men, most
of them sleeping in bunks instead
of hammocks.
Both the angled deck and the
steam catapult are recent British
developments. The former is an
arrangement of the flight deck
which permits aircraft to land at
an angle of about Bdeg., so that,
should they overshoot the
arrester wires, they can fly
straight off over the port sidfe.
The latter is a high-powered
catapult driven by steam from
the main boilers which can, if
necessary, launch heavy aircraft
while the ship is lying at anchor.
Both these developments have
been adopted by the United
States Navy.
More Mau Mau
A correspondent in Kenya,
stating in a “Manchester
Guardian” report that the
strength of the Mau Mau
terrorists is growing, notes that
it is very difficult even for the
settlers there, let alone people
elsewhere, to realise “how heavy
is the Mau Mau oath in the
minds of the Kikuyu.”
“Recently,” adds the corres-
pondent, “a Mau Mau oath-
taking ceremony was held on the
farm next to my home. A good
Kikuyu escaped to the police
and told his tale.
“He had been badly beaten-
up and forced, to the point of
death, to take the oath.
“During the horrible
ceremony he had to hold the
eyes of sheep between his toes,
and he was required to eat four
pieces of meat. He ate only two
pieces and was able to hide the
other two pieces in his clothes.
‘lf I had eaten all four pieces,’
he said. T should have been for
ever sworn to Man Mau and I
should have had to do whatever
I was told to do, even to
murder.’
“Once a Kikuyu has taken the
oath free-will ceases for him;
there is no option in his mind
save to obey the orders of Mau
Mau; and it seems that no con-
fidence can be placed in the
worth of the cleansing
ceremonies.”
The "Mushroom"
Science
Noting that Eisenhower and
many American military leaders
“are great believers in the mush-
room science of psychological
warfare,” London “Financial
Times” takes a poor view of it:
“For the benefit of the
uninitiated, this pretentious term
simply means propaganda.
“At the beginning of the
second world war there were few
eminent generals either in Britain
or in the United States who did
not froth at the mouth at the
suggestion that propaganda
could advantage men at arms.
But towards the end of the war
a most surprising conversion had
taken place. The generals were
baptised in platoons ; they prac-
tically elbowed professional
propagandists out of their seats
before the microphones, and
wonderful were some of the
proposals that were hatched by
the military mind.
“It was a good thing for this
country [Britain] that Sir William
Haley was Director-General of
the 8.8. C. when some of the
Allied generals wished to use it
for putting over their ideas of
psychological warfare, for firmly
did he resist them.”
An American Retort
How Americans felt about the
uproar in the British Press —and
Parliament —when Ike moved the
U.S. Seventh Fleet from Formosa
Strait can be gathered from
comments in “New York Times”
by Arthur Krock, one of the
sanest of American commen-
tators and anything but anti-
British :
“The implication by some
British politicians and publicists
that prior agreement by the
United Kingdom to the change
of orders should have been made
a sine qua non by the Eisen-
hower Administration was a
show of effrontery which, to its
great credit. Congress has largely
ignored.
“It is strange that the British
still do not seem to realise that
the American people are through
with the negative conduct of
foreign policies that has been
attended by a bloody stalemate
of almost a year’s duration in
Korea and the same period of
foot-dragging on the European
path of collective security.
“It is even stranger that the
British still do not seem to
realise that to millions of
Americans their continued policy
of recognising in China the
Communist regime that went to
war against their troops as well
as ours in Korea finds no
sufficient justification here in the
economic importance to Britain
of holding Hong Kong and its
trade.”
An Army of Spies
Anyone who may ever find
an Australian Army sarnmajor a
bit hard to get on with might
console himself with the thought
that it could be worse. He could
be in the Soviet Army.
There he would have a con-
siderable addition to the fiercest
his sarnmajor could possibly do
(or threaten). He would find that
the high command of the Soviet
security services has its own
private army in the Soviet Army
—there specially to keep a
watchful eye on him.
His mate might be a member
of it; he himself might become a
member, keeping an eye on his
mate.
Known as “special sections,'
the branches of that armv-within-


m
ft- I
i
Sn
(R
¥, I -2—<»
I^'
W
£t»
1
WITH
THE
5 AT-
TRACTOR
U
High road speed between jobs is almost as important to you as
a good drawbar pull on the job! The Nuffield Universal tractor
has both! With a top speed of 18 m.p.h,, the Nuffield Universal,
with 6-way power, is the ideal tractor for Australian conditions.
Completely equipped with swinging drawbar, belt pulley, power
take-off, five forward speeds, hydraulically-operated 3-point
linkage, and full electrical equipment, the Nuffield Universal
handles the work of a 10-horse team at an average fuel con-
sumption of from 1-1/3 gallons per hour. Kerosene operated.
“Cold Start” Diesel models also available.
IT HAS EVERYTHING! IT DOES EVERYTHING!
DISTRIBUTORS -
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South
Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia : PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Wifi*
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
DEALER
NTII-24-52
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND, N.S.W
an-Army (as described by a
London “Economist” expert) are
there to ensure that the Soviet
soldier does not come into
contact with any “contaminating
influence,” and to take drastic
action against him if he does.
“Contaminating influence” is
apparently a wide term, covering
anything that might lead Private
Ivan to stray into deviationism in
any conceivable manner, from
fraternising with female Zionists
to speaking disrespectful of the
cook. The “special sections”
earn their keep:
“They are organised in a
hierarchy entirely separate from
the military command and from
the political administration,
neither of which has the power
to appoint or dismiss their
officials. The commanding
officer of a unit must supply his
‘special section’ with uniforms,
food and accommodation, but
has no control over its activities.
“In order to carry out his
duties, the head of a ‘special
section’ is provided with con-
siderable rights and privileges.
He wears the uniform of the unit
to which he is attached, although
sooner or later most officers and
men get to know who he is. His
pay is usually well above the
standard for an officer of his
rank—most heads of sections are
majors or captains—and fie can
choose his staff and collaborators
from the personnel of the unit
without hindrance. His com-
manding officer must furnish him
with copies of all the unit’s orders
and directives* and keep him
informed of all training plans.
“The head of the ‘special
section’ also receives copies of
all administrative arrangements,
all political, restricted or secret
documents, including those
exchanged between the com-
mander and his military
superiors. He can demand to be
present at any unit meeting, poli-
tical lecture or military-training
exercise, and has the right to
enter any unit building without
warning at any time of the day
or night. He can summon any
officer or man for interrogation
and can force him to give up any
letter, paper or book in his
possession. In all this, he is
under no obligation to keep his
commanding officer or any other
officer informed of his plans.
“That is, of course, only one
side of his work. Even more
important is the efficiency of the
secret network of spying which
he has to build up inside his
unit. For this purpose he
‘recruits’ officers, N.C.O.s and
men as ‘agents’ or ‘antennas.’
Often these agents are men who
already have some black mark
on their personal files and can
thus be coerced into spying on
their fellow-soldiers. In other
cases the agents are volunteers,
young men anxious to prove
their keenness.”
In brief, in the Soviet Army it
would pay to call the cook a
cook.
Action Against China
While in general British Press
comment expressed advance
fears of the Eisenhower moves
against China, a notable excep-
tion was London “Twentieth
Century,” editorially refuting the
chief arguments against action:
“If further pressure is to be
applied to China to end the war
on the basis of the armistice
terms which have been approved
by the United Nations, it is diffi-
cult to see how it can be done
by any action limited to Korea ;
d° ne b Y making
the Chinese aware (as they are
not yet aware) that they are
waging war against a coalition
of Great Powers and that war is
not an affair in Which one side
has the right to choose when,
where and how it will fight.
“There are two objections
commonly made against any use
of the naval and air arms against
China. One is that the history
of the Japanese invasion of
China shows that China is un-
conquerable and that it is vain
to hope that its rulers could be
induced to modify their policy
by anything that hostile warships
or aircraft could do.
“The analogy of the Japanese
invasion, however, is not rele-
vant ; China may be unconquer-
able, but nobody is now pro-
posing to conquer China. The
only aim is to compel the
Peking Government to stop
demanding the forcible repatria-
tion of prisoners-of-war as the
price of an armistice. Any
operations against China should
be preceded by intensive radio
propaganda explaining the Indian
plan [for a Korea armistice] and
making it clear that nothing but
Peking’s intransigence on this
question prevents the cessation
of hostilities.
“The second and graver objec-
tion to direct action against
China is the fear that Russia
might intervene and thus bring
about a new world war. But
Britain and America took a
greater risk of war when they
resisted .the blockade of Berlin,
and Russia then stopped short of
the irrevocable step.
“There would indeed be
danger, especially with the high
speeds of modern aircraft, in
any operations approaching the
Soviet frontier or a Soviet mili-
tary base, and for this reason
it would be expedient to exclude
Manchuria from any air-offen-
sive against China. But there
does not seem to be any reason
why the Russians should be more
concerned about the bombing of
Tsingtao or Amoy than they are
now about the bombing of
Pyongyang or the Yalu power-
stations.
“It is impossible to prove that
there is no risk at all in an
extended Far Eastern strategy.
But it has to be weighed against
the greater risk which would be
incurred by an ultimate accept-
ance of defeat in Korea. A
world war came in 1939, not
because the democracies had
been 'bold in opposing aggres-
sion over the previous eight
years, but because their policies
had been timid and indecisive.
Nothing would now be so likely
to encourage Russia and China
to courses of action leading to
universal warfare as a humiliat-
ing fiasco in a collective opera-
tion which has the clear moral
support of the entire non-
Communist world.”
AS Others See Us
“ New Y ork Times” takes an
editorial look at Australia:
“Xh e economic situation still
s h ows critical maladjustments
and imba i ances> and the Govern-
ment j n power is paying the
cus tomary political price for the
unpopularity of deflationary
measures.
“Since there is essentially a
two-party system the swing must
as always go to the party out of
power, in this case to Labor,
Naturally, this would cure
nothing, since the Laborites are
even less likely than the Liberal-
Cdtmtry coalition to carry out
the deflation and readjustments
which alone could bring about
a healthy economy.
“Australia is going through
difficult times, and her politics
are a reflection of these
difficulties.”
Dragnet Digest
U.S. Defeat. —History will no
doubt note a number of great
decisions to the credit of Tru-
—Richmond ( U.S.A .) “News-Leader"
CHINESE PUZZLE
man as President, but (suggests
“U.S. News and World Report”)
these will probably be regarded
as overshadowed by the loss of
China to Communist Russia, so
soon after fighting a war to save
China from Japan: “This is the
first great defeat in U.S. history.”
Germany in World Trade. —-
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun,” on the
re-emergence of a major com-
petitor in world trade: “West
Germany has re-entered inter
national trade • with vigor—no
to say with a vengeance—anc
can be expected henceforwarc
to fight hard and well for a con
siderable stake in the markets o:
the world.”
Corns in Africa. —“Officials
Winston Churchill’s Govemmen
scoff at reports of Communis
activities in Kenya, but British
intelligence agents report other
wise,” states “U.S. News anc
World Report.” “A link has
been discovered between African
leaders in Kenya and the Com
munist party of India.”
Japs Depend on Korea. —“lt is
not too much' to say,” reports
London “Economist’s” Tokyo
correspondent, “that if the
Korean war ended tomorrow anc
some improbable understanding
with the Soviet Union resulted in
an easing of world rearmament
Japan’s superficially resurgent
but precarious economy would
collapse. The candid headline,
‘Threat of Peace in Korea,’
which appeared once in a Tokyo
daily newspaper during a decep-
tive Panmunjon [armistice con-
ference] session, still best
expresses the attitude of Japanese
industry and finance towards the
hot fighting and the cold war.”
Generalisations. —“New York
Times” military writer Hanson
W. Baldwin sees U.S. policies as
“too often dictated by generalisa-
tions, such as ‘The French won't
fight,’ or ‘The Turks are the best
army in Nato.’ ”
O n Russia’s Side. —Th e
Russians, suggests London
“Economist,” probably consider
General Time as one of their
allies: “Every year, they claim,
their industry is developing pro-
portionately faster than that of
the West and the gap in eco-
nomic potential between the two
camps is thus being bridged.
Because the Soviet economy is
more used to ploughing back
into investment a large share of
its national product, the planners
expect to get rich rewards in ! the
expansion of basic industries.”
High-priority Problem. —lt
mightn’t explain why Britain
won’t join-up in the European
Army, but it’s going to be a
headache for the rest: finding
what London “Daily Tele-
graph’s” Paris correspondent re-
fers to as “a uniform method of
saluting” from the “15 different
ways now used by the six
nations.”
Taking Risks. —Mr. Dulles (re-
ports London “Sunday Times’s”
Washington correspondent) “be-
lieves that America’s power
advantage will be greatest during
the next two years, and on the
strength of this he is willing to
take rjsks. His foreign policy,
indeed, is one of ‘calculated
risks.’ ”
Chiang’s Last Hope.— “ The
aims of Chiang and the [Eisen-
hower] Administration,” in the
view of “Washington Post,” “are
poles apart. The Administration
wants to take the pressure off the
front in Korea. That has become
necessary in its mind since the
Peking regime rebuffed the effort
to pursue the path of peace
shaped in the Indian resolution
[in U.N.O.], But Chiang is not
interested in relieving any
pressure in Korea. He wants a
war between the United States
and Soviet Russia —the only
hope left to him of a return to
power on the Chinese main-
land.”
In Israel. —Today (reports a
London “News Chronicle”
correspondent) Israel’s popula-
tion numbers 1,600,000, of whom
roughly 600,000 have come from
Eastern Europe, 300,000 from
Asia, 100,000 from Africa and
100.000 from Western Europe,
the rest being Palestine-bom —
350.000 Jews and 165,000 Arabs.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
, D
Australia s Road System
The lately-formed Australian branch
of the International, Road Federation, a
body concerned with the planning and
co-ordination of road transport, is timely.
With the melancholy example of a
multi-gauged rail-system before their
eyes, Australians should make certain
that their national highways are designed
to serve the continent and not short-
sighted sectional interests.
The extreme vulnerability of railways
in war-time has been amply demonstrated,
During World War I Colonel T. E. Law-
fence made child’s work of repeatedly
cutting the Damascus-Baghda.d line on
which the Turks relied for their supplies,
while the R.A.F.’s attention to rail-
junctions and marshalling-yards in
1939-45 helped materially in putting Hitler
out of business.
With gauges changing at every State
boundary, Australia’s position would be
desperate if enemy bombers got within
operational reach of our industrial areas.
A medium-sized bomb at Albury, for
instance, would cripple the rail-connec-
tion between Brisbane and Sydney with
the southern cities. .
Roads, of course, have the immediate
advantage of being easily repaired after
attack. Holes filled in with dirt and
covered with wire-netting quickly got
fiucks on the move again in the Middle
East campaigns, and by-passes can be
quickly constructed around torn-up road
ar l as V T e , u ,
E. T. Lennon, a Sydney haulier who
operates trailer trucks in all States, has
put up a constructive plan that the newly-
formed federation should hear about.
Lennon suggests that the ultimate aim
should be.an inland highway completely
circling Australia, far enough away from
the coast to be immune from naval and
short-range air attack, and connected with
coastal centres by feeder highways.
Lennon does not advocate the build-
iqg of such a highway as one great pro-
ject. His idea is that when new roads
are being built they should be co-
ordinated with the existing road system
in such a way that the master highway
will form gradually in peace-time, to be
completed hurriedly in the event of war.
The increasing importance of Northern
Australia, both as a productive area and
as the most likely point of attack in
war-time, lends point to this scheme—
which so far does not seem to have
“ Nonsense , dear—think how handy he’ll be about the house.”
attracted the attention it deserves. The
expansion of beef-cattle raising, the
currently publicised possibilities of large-
scale rice-growing and the search for oil,
not to mention uranium—all accent the
need for efficient transport links with that
part of the Commonwealth.
Lennon has done his best to interest
politicians in his ideas, but they seem
more concerned with taxing road-hauliers
out of business to bolster the finances of
an archaic rail-system.— Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Tobacco
The tobacco people, growers and
manufacturers, are still wrangling and
wrangling over the vexed questions of
quality and prices. It takes me back
to a trip I made in 1910 to report on a
scheme to throw open some land near
Texas (Q.) as tobacco-farms.
We did the survey and collected the
gen. Land was good, water adequate
and climate suitable, yet there seemed
to be something not quite right. Passing
through Fraser’s Creek station we noticed
Ah Fong working on his tobacco share-
farm, We hailed him.
He listened attentively, answered a
number of technical questions courteously
and then gave his opinion as to why
white men would not grow tobacco suc-
cessfully, “White man can grow tobacco,
will not grow tobacco. Chinaman grow
tobacco all right, white man no good.
White man come along tobacco, see
cloud along sky, he say ‘perhaps rain
today,’ he no water tobacco-plants he
die. White man come along fence, same
you, other white man along tobacco he
stop, he come along fence, talk-talk,
talk-talk all same you me. No good, too
much time waste. Me go work along
tobacco. Goodbye.” And back Ah
Fong went to the backbending care of
his plants.
If anyone says the average Australian
doesn’t want to work like a Chinese, the
answer is that Chinese do not work hard.
They are rather slow workers, but they
keep at it and pay attention to what they
are doing. They don’t make gun
shearers. On contract work the white
man will beat them almost every time, if
the price is good, but for steady applica-
tion, rain or shine, all day and every
day, the Chinese wins, or rather won,
almost every time —there are no more
Chinese “along bush.”—T. K. 11l (Q.).
Street-planning
“S.N.P.” (B. 25/3/’53), who com-
plains about the lack of made streets
and footpaths in Melbourne’s new
suburbs, has not grasped what has been
happening in the city since the end of
the war.
In that time new suburbs have been
created out of what was orchard and
farmland, and approximately 100,000
houses have been built in these fringe
areas. The rate of growth has been
beyond the physical and financial ability
of all service authorities. The Board
of Works alone has spent more than
£6i million in water and sewerage exten-
sions, but admits that it is years behind.
Meanwhile, 60,000 vacant blocks of
land in areas which are sewered, roaded
and serviced in every way have been
by-passed.
Urban sprawl has also brought to Mel-
bourne’s transport services, and to traffic
generally, undreamed-of headaches,
which nothing short of a major reorgani-
sation can remedy.
Several years ago British townplanner
Sir Patrick Abercrombie warned Mel-
bourne about its dangerous middle-aged
sprawl and urged immediate limitation
of outward development. But his advice
was ignored and consequently thousands
of new householders wallow in mud, do
without sewerage and put up with all
sorts of primitive living conditions
thought to have been banished 30 years
age. *
Sixty per cent, of Victoria’s population
now crowds uncomfortably into Mel-
bourne, decentralisation to country areas
being very little more than a political
catchword. The city has, as a result.
added to. its questionable list of “firsts”
the fact that it now occupies 684 square
“He wanted to see what made the tune.”
miles, or a greater area than any other
city in the world except Los Angeles.
'The Greater Melbourne Plan now be-
ing prepared by the Board of Works will
deal with the situation, but hopes for its
realisation are not bright. Attempts last
year to limit further sprawl by creating
a “green belt” met with vicious opposi-
tion from pressure-groups. And the
Victorian Parliament, which permitted the
board to collect £200,000 from rate-
payers to pay for the plan, has no
legislation in hand to implement it. —
R. A. G. (Vic.).
ni « i
Kea
I lately spoke to a member of the
timber trade about this beautiful timber,
suggesting, as did J. J. Alderson (B.
25/3/’53), that it should be planted,
thinly mixed, through stands of other
timber.
He was a man concerned with both the
cutting and planting of timbers and he
has a good aesthetic taste, but he opined
that, by the time the trees matured, they
would be of little value. In another 30
or 40 years, he held, beautiful timbers
for cabinetmaking and interior-decorat-
ing will have been replaced by synthetic
materials, beautifully marked and
polished, and made chiefly from sawdust
and unmillable lengths of the cheapest
timbers available.
When you consider the progress of
plastics over the last 30 years, he could
be right. —Mullum (N.S.W-)-
Education
The late Professor “lummy ’ Wilson,
on whose teaching of anatomy the
successful operations of hundreds of
Australian surgeons has depended, used
to tell us: “You must know your
anatomy so well that if I woke you in
the middle of the night and asked you
the relations of the vagus' nerve you
would start to answer correctly before
you became really awake.”
There was a lot in his remark: What-
ever your profession, trade or even busi-
ness, there is a mass of basic knowledge
that must be acquired for keeps. * You
must know it, know that you know it
and know it for all time.
That sort of knowledge is not acquired
by listening to lectures, looking at movies
or even seeing and hearing talkies or
T.V. It is acquired by reading, doing,
discussing and thinking over the matter
to be learned. Especially thinking it
over. You must know and understand,
or without illustrations, can be anything
but an entertaining accessory is invited
to obtain and examine the reports ot
20 to 30 persons on the talkies they have
just seen. Some very scrappy reports
will be received.
Very few people have good hearing
memories, a greater proportion have fair-
to-good seeing memories. The so-ca e
photographic memory is invaluable tor
passing examinations and making reports,
but does not necessarily imply under-
standing. To be a good lawyer, elec-
trician or even salesman a lot of essen-
tial data must be memorised and under-
stood, and that means reading and writing
it oip and thinking it over thoroiignly.
Practical skill depends on actually doing
things till skill and understanding are
acquired. From then on originality may
come with discussion and thought and
experiment.
The study method is essentially that of
the professions—the mass of basic know-
ledge is too big to be acquired economi-
cally by any other method. The prac-
tical method is essentially that of the
skilled trades, to which a long apprentice-
ship must be served. In every case the
one must have some support from the
other. All educationists know these
things, and all aspirants to a profession
or skilled trade find them out fairly soon.
They also find that short-cuts, such
as study systems, pictures, etc., are only
incidental and occasionally entertaining
aids. There is no substitute for hard
work in acquiring knowledge,—E. M.
p yR j C (Q.).
Ah® Scots rarfiament
The old Scots Parliament would not be
a satisfactory model for Australia under
the present system of equal electorates
and universal suffrage (B. 18/2/’53).
Combination of these , with a one-
Chamber Parliament—as was the Scots—
has been condemned, with reason, by all
the soundest Constitutional authorities,
The Scots Parliament was not thus
elected. It represented a balance of
interests—the spiritual lords, temporal
lords and royal burghs,
Ah important feature of the Scots Par-
liament was the committee known as the
Lords of the Articles. This committee,
consisting of spiritual and lay peers, did
all the legislative work of the Parliament.
The bulk of the members met merely to
nominate it and register its decrees. The
Parliament was entitled to refuse passage
t 0 any legislative Act of the Lords of the
Articles, but that was rarely done. The
me thod of selection of this committee
gave t h e Crown strong influence over it.
Lay peers who sat bn it were selected by
t h e spiritual peers, the spiritual members
hy t he lay peers. The bishops, especially
a f ter t h e Reformation, were closely asso-
ciated with the Crown. They took care
to nominate only temporal peers who
could be trusted to be co-operative. The
tension often found between Parliament
and Crown in England, until the estab-
lishment of Parliamentary supremacy in
the 18th century, had scarcely a parallel
in Scotland.
Indeed the Scots Parliament was hard y
a Parliament in the English sense a a .
It corresponded more to the Parliame
of Paris (a court for registering ro>
decrees, which, also, by custom, ha s
political functions) after the echp
States-General of Fran e u
"producing 'an equivalent
En Hs y h House 0 f Commons, in
burgesses and representatives of
the coundes should sit. His effort failed,
Constitution continued unmodified
down to the ending of the Scots Parlia-
rrffent in 1706. —Morris the Tinker
(N.S.W.).


Too Much Waiting
The accumulation of wasted time in
our modern age (B, 18/3/’53) can be
greatly added to. Curiously enough our
modern traffic provides some of the most
astronomic figures —figures which must
be growing in proportion to the engineer-
ing efficiency which builds more speed-
potential into our cars.
A recent survey in Sydney showed that
150,000 man-hours are wasted each day
by people sitting in stationary vehicles
while traffic jams untangle, intersection-
lights change, passengers alight from
trams and so forth. Three-quarters of a
million man-hours wasted each week by
Sydneysiders—many of Whom are on
duty at the time —must take a small
chunk out of everybody’s pay envelope.
It is a waste which must be paid for in
the cost of goods.
In the last 20 years cities have spread
out enormously, and now occupy
hundreds of square miles. In Sydney
this sprawl has added to time wasted,
so that the average Working-journey time
has increased by 30 p.c. In the same
period the working week has been re-
duced by 10 per cent., so that we now
take longer and longer to go to our
work and spend less and less time at it.
Overseas cities have the same problems,
but they are tackling them because they
realise that wasted time is an enemy
of prosperity. The new New York
“Thru-way,’’Tor instance, is a six-lane
highway which will run for over 500
miles to beyond Buffalo. This road is
being built so that curves can be taken
at 70 miles an hour, and as all intersect-
ing roads pass over or under the highway,
and opposing streams of traffic are
separated by a plantation-strip, accidents
should be few.
Chicago now has standard specifica-
tions for its new highways, one important
feature of which is that they must be
designed for 60-m.p.h. movement of
traffic. -
Compare these with our Australian
roads, in which traffic muddles hopelessly.
Capital spent on highways to allow traffic
to flow comfortably would pay dividends
to the whole community.— Rag (Vic.).
Lincoln’s Generals
No doubt “Ek Dum” was pointing a
modern bone when he wrote of the
American Civil War (B. 11/3/’53) that
“if the North had possessed even two
or three divisions of trained and organised
soldiers at the beginning there would
have scarcely been any war at all.”
But the North did have 14,000 regular
troops, plus a further 75,000 militia
troops on call, plus the resources to con-
script yet another 65,000 men within a
matter of a few months. The odds were
always four to one in its favor. What
the North lacked were morale and sound
“ You'll have to pay extra for private bath."
military leadership free from political
interference.
The real lesson from the Civil War—
and one which Australian politicians
needed to have known in 1942—can be
found in the Shenandoah Valley campaign
of 1&62. Stonewall Jackson, trained at
West Point and blooded in the Mexican
affair, had turned in 1851 to teaching,
The Civil War brought him back to
soldiering. In the Valley campaign he
applied established doctrine with mathe-
matical precision. His task was to dis-
tract the Federals from their impending
attack on Richmond. His method was
to combine offensive action with flexi-
bility of movement. Keeping his small
force concentrated, he was careful never
to hold ground, no matter how strategi-
cally or tactically tempting it appeared.
Had he done so, the Federals would
have massed against him and his defeat
would have been inevitable. He was up
and down the Valley—attacking, with-
drawing, counter-attacking—and every
manoeuvre drew more and more of the
Northern Army from its real aim.
The officer of today still studies Jack-
son, and profits thereby, but Heaven
help him if he were to apply some of
his methods. War-correspondents and
politicians —interested only in flags stuck
in war-maps—would quickly “bowler-hat”
the modem general who deliberately
refused to be trapped on the ground he
had captured. Anybody who doubts this
criticism should think of the outcry that
resulted from Montgomery’s plan to use
Caen as bait when the Press insisted on
regarding it as fish.
, President Lincoln was deceived
by Jackson’s bluff. Against the advice of
his own generals, he insisted that masses
of Federal troops should be dispersed
along the full length of the Potomac
River. This clumsy, amateurish attempt
to “defend” Washington weakened his
own forces moving against Richmond,
and the lack of concentration turned
certain victory into crushing defeat.
Much the same thing coul,d have hap-
pened in 1942 when the Australian forces
were split by political interference and
when tramcar' tacticians —inside and out-
side the House —were clamoring for an-
other potentially disastrous Potomac
Line. Three more bloody and costly
years were to pass before Lincoln agreed
to give General Grant the free hand he
needed if victory were to be gained.
Washington or Canberra; Potomac
or Papua; 1862 or 1942; the lesson re-
mains that troops cannot win battles if
politicians insist on regarding themselves
as strategists.— Peter Mike (W.A.).
Free Trade
There is food for thought in the fact
that the Detroit (U.S.A.) Board of#Com-
merce, speaking for 6000 industrialists
and supporting the movement for “trade
not aid,” has issued a report calling for
the reduction and eventual abolition of
U.S. tariffs. The present generation will
hardly recall that-“ Free Trade or Pro-
tection” was one© a fierce issue in British
politics. .
The professed purpose of our tariffs is
to shelter both new industries and our
standard of living. The Detroit Board
admits that new industries need protec-
tion in their initial stages, but contends
that, once they are established, they
should be able to meet all competition
by efficiency. It declares that the old
bogy of unfair competition from low-
wage countries no longer exists, that high-
wage countries, with modern mechanisa-
tion and streamlining of industry, should
be able to meet any challenge, and would,
if compelled by the withdrawal of pro-
tective tariffs.
Is a standard of living really preserved
by a policy which keeps prices up by
excluding a cheaper imported article?
Does it depend on the amount of wages
we receive, or on the quantity of goods
those wages will buy? Supposing we
relaxed tariffs so that cheaper imported
goods could come onto our markets (and
bring down the cost of living)? Is our
industry so feeble that it would fold up
and perish, or would it gird itself to
meet the challenge?
Certainly an industry here and there
“Now they won't get lost!"
would close down—those which should
never have been undertaken because
conditions in this country would never
permit them to function economically.
It is certainly arguable that judicious
foreign competition might bring down
the cost of living; that money wages
would fall without decreasing their buy-
ing-power ; that eventually we might
even be able to recover some of our
export trade —provided, of course, that
we decide to work more than about 30
hours a week— Reddit (N.S.W.).
. %
War Service Homes
Forsaking the desk for country life a
year ago, I sold my home six months later
through the war-service scheme, receiv-
ing the agent’s assurance that three
months would be the limit of the trans-
action. Deducting mortgage, about
£llOO would be coming to me to develop
the block I have.
. So far, after a letter from the local
member to the authorities in Canberra,
the only result has been a request for a
fee for title search to the present occupier
of the house—the hopeful owner-to-be.
He wants to make a few improvements,
but daren’t alter the scheme of things as
when he took over on a nominal rent.
, / have lost the best part of £7OO cold
on the deal already. Irrigation is neces-
sary on my property, and deep bores have
to be sunk during the August-November
dry. It is utterly useless to plant a crop
unless water is available, so full develop-
ment is impossible until later on this year.
This year’s crop of tropical fruit was not
planted, and a valuable source of income
lost.
Meanwhile, the deposit placed on the
house by the purchaser is “in chancery”
and untouchable ; my plans are upset to
the extent of not knowing whether I’ll
have twopence or £2OO at the end
of the year; commitments based on a
regular salary have to be met; and life
has become a round of stew and bread-
and-margarine.
Eventually someone in Canberra will
fill in the blue form with the red pencil
and the green form with the blue pencil,
endorse the lot with the appropriate
rubber-stamp and all will be well —we
hope.
But that doesn’t alter the fact that my
wife and I have been on short commons
for six months, and cans which could
have been filled for export remain
unfilled. — Pineap (Q.).
Potatoes and “Controls”
The threat by N.S.W. Prices Minister
Landa to reimpose price-“control” on
potatoes is a retrograde step, to no-
body’s interest, which should be opposed
by both producer and consumer.
Potatoes have recently been selling
retail in Sydney shops at 9d. a pound —
a bit too much, admittedly—whereas here
in Victoria, where they are still con-
trolled,” their price, despite a recen
increase, was only half that. lhat is
the reason Landa gives for wanting to
reintroduce control, but he well knows
that at the Victorian price the murphies
were absolutely unobtainable. There were
none on sale.
Vic. C.P. member White pointed out in
Parliament that the £2O-a-ton fixed price
to the producer did not meet the costs
of production. A survey document
issued by the Vic. Prices Branch, "said
White, proved that production-cost last
December was £27 16s. 3d. a ton! Even
Vic. “Labor” Premier Cain he
thought the price of potatoes was “too
low.”
The spud position has been aggravated
this season by the potato-moth grub,
which has been ravaging crops in both
Vic. and Tassie. On Tassie’s north coast
the crop will be down to half last year’s
production. “The worst season in
memory,” say some growers there.
“Controls” will not give a fair return
to the producer or put spuds into the
shops—nor will they counter the grub.
The law of supply-and-demand, if allowed
to operate, will, in time, bring about an
equitable retail price and allow the
grower decent reward for his labor.
Roscoe (Vic.).
Unemployment
A good deal of so-called unemploy-
ment in Australia could be the result of
fraudulent practice (B. 18/3/’53). On
March 21 it was reported in “S. M.
Herald” that both Commonwealth and
private employment-officers claimed that
the Department of Social Services was
paying thousands of pounds in unem-
ployment-benefit to tradesmen who had
refused jobs and were no longer entitled
to it. These tradesmen were making
such good tax-free money by drawing
benefits and doing jobs on the side that
they were not interested in permanent
employment.
The employment officer of a large
Sydney factory was reported as saying
that he had applied at three local em-
ployment offices, each of which had a
number of men on its books with the
required qualifications.
Each office sent telegrams to four men
requesting them to call, but we received .
only five applications.
The five applicants were interviewed, and,
although they were offered wages in excess
of the award, each man admitted, with
some hesitation, that he did not. want to
accept any form of employment because
he was making far more than the £l5 a
week my company was offering.
It appears that many so-called unem-
ployed tradesmen are making most lucrative
tax-free incomes by doing all classes of
painting, plumbing and odd jobs. On top
of this they are collecting their unemploy-
ment-relief under social services.
This matter ha§ been reported to the
local Commonwealth employment-officers,
who quite frankly admit they know the
practice is going on.
The officers say that where an applicant
refuses to accept a position, Common-
wealth employment head-office is notified,
and although the unemployment benefit
should cease, it seldom does.
The Commonwealth Employment
Service has no authority to strike anyone
off benefit. That is the job of the Depart-
ment of Social Services.
Mr. A. Affleck, Director of Social
Services, has been reported as promising
a thorough investigation into the com-
plaints. —Tom (N.S.W.).


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
DFH
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY , HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY'
NECESSARY
DFG
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple Instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator l)ist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.'
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers.
Lome Street, Auckland.
The time we live by
What makes time pass slowly
on some occasions, swiftly on
others? Mental time —the time
you feel by—is not measured
by mechanical clocks but by a
sensitive physiological clock in
the time measurement centres
of your brain.
In April Reader’s Digest,
John Gibson tells how we
really live by these mental
clocks (people with slow ones
are habitually late) . . . and
how your mental' time’s affected
when you drink a cup of coffee,
get overheated, are busy and
happy or “in the dumps.”
Also in the April issue—3l
other stimulating articles of
lasting interest condensed from
world’s leading magazines and
current books.
Don’t miss Reader’s Digest
for April —on sale now one
shilling and sixpence at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
HOME
LIGHTING
PLANTS
uo
Brilliant light at the press of a button
with AMPLITE Home Lighting Units.
12 Volt 300 Watt, 32 Volt 400 Watt,
£B9/10/0; 32 Volt 750 Watt, £142/10/0
(A'ASIA)
A
PTY. LTD.
36-40 PARRAMATTA ROAD,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SYDNEY CATTLE SHOW
“Wobilly”: Other observers
seemed to think there never had
been, and probably never would
be again, beef-cattle of such
magnificence and splendor as
were in the judging-rings at
Sydney Royal Show this year.
Which is rubbish! As good, if
not better, beasts will be seen in
Brisbane next August, if only
because cattle show better in
spring than in autumn.
Further, this observer fully
expects as good if not better
beasts at Sydney next year, he
has seen as good if not better
at Sydney in past years, and
from the 1953 prize-lists this year
were absences both of old and
new breeders, which can only
cause concern to those who
believe that the show-ring is a
criterion of both breeding
progress and development.
Thus, having got the thing
down to a more-or-less common-
sense basis where such fantastic
descriptions as “smooth in their
fleshing and plenty of bone, with
a leg at each corner” (evidently
a four-legged beast is an achieve-
ment) can be dismissed, along
with “The display of beef-
cattle.... was undoubtedly
superior in quality to anything
we have ever seen before”
(apparently lifted straight from
an advt. for somebody’s custard-
powder), it can be said that the
cattle on show were very fine
specimens of their respective
breeds, and even the worst of
them were not as painfully
obvious as tails have been in
other years.
It would, however, be a matter
for astonishment and comment
if anything other than fine beasts
got the prizes. After all, show
cattle have as much money, time
and labor lavished on them as
did kings’ favorites in olden
days, patterns and tastes in
breeding are almost rigidly
standardised, and the com-
mercial side of the industry puts
a keen and knowing eye on the
studs which seek show ribbons.
Shorthorns
In the Shorthorns, for
instance, it seemed to be all
McCaughey’s Coonong or Fair-
bairn’s Woomargama, both
Riverina studs, and from both
of which show addicts have
learned what to expect during
their long show-ring career.
Coonong’s square, low-set and
well-handling Umberto won the
bull championship, with
Woomargama’s Quiberon com-
pletely undisturbed by being
runner-up, probably because he
knew there wasn’t much in it,
anyhow.
Both the older studs, however,
had to give way to Lithgow and
Ross, who waltzed off with
junior bull and reserve ribbons
for Dauntless President and D.
Snow Cloud. The partners won
the Sires’ Progeny prize, but it
was McCaughey’s Coonong
Lustre Queen 3rd which took
senior and' junior female honors,
F. Hood’s Kywannah Cherry-
wood’s 7th gathering both
reserves.
Poll Shorthorns >
Both the Poll Shorthorn
Society and the R.A.S. showed
want of judgment in staging this
event at all. It would have been
much simpler to have sent all
the major awards to Jim
Scrymgeour, the blind breeder
of Netherby stud, on the Darling
Downs, whacked up what was
left in as fair' a manner as
possible and then rented the Poll
Shorthorn ring to a sideshow.
Because the way it turned out
Scrymgeour literally wiped the
floor of major prizes, bull
championship, reserve junior bull
and reserve cow ribbons,
American Poll Shorthorn
Society’s trophy, Teegardin and
Sons (Ohio, U.S.A.) trophy and
most successful exhibitor prize.
Peel River won bull reserve,
Antrim trophy and the Poll
Shorthorn Society trophy.
Kalunga won junior bull and
junior heifer reserve and a group
prize, Karoola had champion
and junior champion cows.
It can safely be said of these
cattle that they’re improving
with marked rapidity. The beasts
on show last week were a long
way ahead of the Poll Short-
horns of five years ago, particu-
larly in beef-carrying capabilities
and that air of pre-potency so
well stamped on the older
breeds.
Herefords
Here, as in the Shorthorns,
top competition was limited to
two studs —Windsor and Golf
Hill. After a fair bit of ponder-
ing the judge made Windsor
March On and Windsor Royal
“That’s the end of the fruit-fly for y', Mr. Jones.”
Crest champion and runner-up
respectively—March On winning
sundry other trophies. This
marked a return to Show
honors for W. Mcllrath, both
bulls being by the imported
Armscote Duncan. The same
awards in the junior section went
to Golf Hill Highness and
G. H. Illustrious in that order.
Golf Hill then lined up Marinda
108th for cow championship,
with Miss T. McMaster’s Dal-
keith Glory 2nd as reserve, the
young lady having earlier won
the junior ribbon ahead of Mrsi
Biddlecombe’s G. H. Pearly
Gates 45th.
Poll Herefords
The Kansan judge, Walter M.
Lewis, seemed to be somewhat
disappointed to find the line-up
not all modelled on the Ameri-
can types he is used to; all the
same, the cattle were not far
short of it —they were certainly
very good examples of the type
being bred here and of the
marked forward movement in
polls.
Merawah Battleship, a Bris-
bane champion, sired the young
Sydney champion M. Renown.
Renown came from winning the
strong 15- to 18-months’ class
for the J. H. Doyle Estate, then
won the junior championship,
lined-up with the oldsters and
won the grand championship.
Reserve junior champion was
W. J. Lenehan’s Brewarrina
Stanley, and this good youngster
was reserve champion to M.
Renown.
A. Hordern’s Milton stud was
well among the ribbons with
most successful exhibitor’s prize,
champion cow, Milton Hyacinth
5th —a heifer which had won
the junior championship—and
winning a bull prize with Milton
Duntroon 4th against the Mel-
bourne junior and senior cham-
pion Wantabadgery Truman.
Ribbons went also to Wanta-
badgery, Blandford, Kiewa, J.
W. Williamson, W- O. Fairfax,
R. Simson and W. J. Lenehan.
Aberdeen-Angus
The little blacks not only hold
their own as beef-producers and
in popularity, they also produce
good competition in the show-
ring. Their breeders apparently
get as much enjoyment out of
displaying them, as in winning
ribbons. No fewer than 16 dif-
ferent breeders —Booroomooka,
Trangie (Government experi-
ment farms), Narrangullen,
Kahlua, Nailsworth, Curra-
widgen, Terrinallum, Naranghi,
Wambanumba, Ardgour, Battery
Park, Wallah, Texas, Milong,
D. B. Reid and R. N. Clarke—
sharing awards among them.
There was keen interest in the
judging when it became obvious
that the Wallah and Booroo-
mooka teams had the champions
among them. Sanderson, boss of
Wallah, went to Scotland, judged
at Perth show there and bought
the champion Benes of Gaidrew.
In the ring was Wallah Viscount,
a son of Benes. Munro, boss of
Booroomooka, had earlier been
to the U.S.A. and there is
American blood in his blacks.
Judging was J. L. Herrick, from
Perth (Scot.).
In the end Sanderson’s Wallah
Vernon won the top prize, with
his Viscount in reserve. Munro’s
Booroomooka Vulcan won the
junior championship, with Wam-
banumba Vanguard m reserve.
Munro added to his honors with
champion cow (B. Verity) and
reserve junior cow (B. Valmai),
Narrangullen’s Eleanor 2nd
being reserve to Verity and
Battery Park Lassie Bth collect-
ing the junior heifer ribbon.
Devons
In Devons, as has long been
the case at Sydney, the competi-
tion was mainly between
Havilah, Table Top and Ban
Ban. The cattle were attractive
and well up to the standards set
at earlier Sydney shows. Havilah
won both bull championships,
Table Top both reserves. Ban
Ban won the cow championship
and the English Devon Society’s
special prize with Ban Ban
Princess 6th. This stud also
showed the reserve cow
champion, junior and reserve
junior cow ribbons going to
Havilah.
Red Polls
This breed, which is regarded
in N. S. Wales purely as a beef-
breed, whereas in Victoria it is
valued for its milk and beef
qualities, is usually limited in
Sydney to stock from Perry
Bros.’ Bundaleer stud. How-
ever, Brigadier Hurst sent some
of his Larkhill animals this year
and managed to collect reserve
cow and junior cow ribbons, the
rest going to Bundaleer.
Dairy Cattle
Entries and quality in all five
breeds of dairy-cattle on show
were satisfactory, though the
prizewinners were pretty well
limited to the well-known studs.
In N. S. Wales, at least, there is
not the progressiveness in creat-
ing new and expanding old studs
that there should be, nor do
dairy-breeders go after the kudos
and reputation which comes
from successful show-exhibiting.
Compared with the prominence
given beef-cattle studs, both at
show-time and normally, dairy-
breeders are practically a secret
society.
Yet splendid dairy-cattle are
being bred in Australia. At
Royals and lesser shows this is
so evident that it is accepted
without question. And some
breeds of dairy-cattle are far
more spectacular than beef
breeds. What can compare with
the coloring and carriage of an
Ayrshire bull, unless it is a
Friesian? And what claims to
fame has any beef breed against
those of the Australian Illawarra
Shorthorn?
A New Zealander, A. C. Love-
lock, from Waikato, judged the
Jerseys and found those on show
not as uniform as he’d have liked,
though the best of them dis-
played high quality. In his view
Australian Jerseys, if the Sydney
Show cattle were typical, are
somewhat too big-boned and not
as well uddered as the N.Z. type.
All the same, Chegwidden's
champion cow, Austral Park
Ivy, was an excellent beast and
only just shaded Mutton and
Son’s Jersey Mead Jester’s Lily.
The champion had an official test
of 76951 b. of milk for 396.91 b. of
butterfat in 273 days. She is
rising five, and the standard for
her class of cow is 2901 b. of


POST-HOLE DIGGING
AT ITS LOWEST COST!
THE MOBILCO POST-HOLE DIGGER WITH ELECTRIC POST BORER gives
ELECTRIC
POST-HOLE
BORER
you really low cost fencing. With it, one man
digs 30 clean, clear holes per hour —2 feet
8 inches deep and 6 to 12 inches in diameter.
Here's a machine which is easy to handle and
which operates at very low cost. 7 b.h.p.,
4-stroke engine. Guaranteed for 6
months.
YOURS FOR CASH OR ON TERMS.
WRITE NOW FOR PARTICULARS OF THE
MOBILCO
POST-HOLE DIGGER
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
£ sou™ PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD. MITCHAM, VIC. PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
SYNCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS - - • • f - ALL MAIM TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
♦
Take Full Advantage of
HADDON RIG’S
HF
GH
DRTBH
71 YEARS
OF
SUPREMACY
IN
MERINO BREEDING
The breeder or grower who worries
overmuch about future demand risks
overlooking the importance of future
supply. The size of your wool cheques
will be determined by the clips you offer.
Their quantity and quality depend on
the amount of foresight you use to-day.
The more you rely on Haddon Rig Blood,
the more substantial your returns are
going to be.
Haddon Rig Rams are robust, true to
type, adaptable, and carry a dense fleece
of soft-handling, high-grade wool that is
unequalled in evenness. It is well known
that the highest priced wethers, both in
N.S.W. and Queensland, come from
flocks enriched with Haddon Rig Blood.
This Stud’s remarkable records at the
Sydney Ram Sales emphasise the
soundness of Haddon Rig Blood as
an investment . Last year’s top aggre-
gate £31,436 was secured by
Haddon Rig for the thirteenth year
in succession!
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W
• Telephone: Warren 74
HR2-53
butterfat in 273 days. With
eight firsts, a second, a third and
two fourth prizes, Sir F.
Stewart’s St. Cloud (Narrabeen)
stud was most successful Jersey
exhibitor.
Guernseys were in fine fettle,
the old “golden breed” maintain-
ing its friends year after year.
E. E. Cooke’s Moongi Pleasant
Lad won his championship be-
cause he was simply the best bull
there. This was no great sur-
prise, since Moongi cattle have
been prominent in the Guernsey
field for many years, this being
Cooke’s sixth bull championship
in succession. Reserve was
Moongi Morning Star, from
R. G. Watson’s stud at Frank-
ston (Vic.). E. W. Everett’s
Meadowbank stud was very
prominent in the cow awards,
his Meadowbank Kathleen
sweeping everything before her.
A.I.S. were judged by H. L.
Graham, of Dunmore, who has
been at pretty well every Sydney
Show for a generation, some-
times judging, sometimes show-
ing and sometimes just looking.
He classed the A.I.S. as being
ahead of the parades of the past
three or four years, and gave
top honors to the well-known
Alne Bank stud of‘G. E. Chit-
tick for Dorothy 45th, an excep-
tional five-year-old. This cow’s
udder might have been modelled
as the perfect type. The equally
well-known Dudgeon and Son
were runners-up with Parkview
Fussy 82nd, who lost a little on
hindquarters against the cham-
pion. The Parkview stud had
the best day. J. H. Haddin and
Richardson Bros, also did well,
and Mcßaron and Sons, the
O’Keefe Estate and K. J. Dwyer
collected ribbons.
The handsome Ayrshires were
judged by a Queenslander, R. M.
Anderson, of Pittsworth, who
found the numbers fewer but
the quality equal to that of previ-
ous Shows. He noted that where
the records showed the infusion
of imported blood the breeding
had nicked well. Again the top
honors went to well-known
breeders, Mclntosh Bros., of
Denbigh Stud, Narellan, who
showed top bull Uroonda Master
Jean, junior and reserve bulls,
and champion and reserve cows,
D. Everlasting and D. Autumn
Tent. Reserve bull was J. E.
Pye’s Uroonda Majestic. F. A.
Mclntosh’s Kerlie Park Butter-
cup was best cow, with C. J.
Clark’s Epping Forest Gracie in
reserve. The Department of
Agriculture and A. E. Garratty
won the Peters’ butter-fat prizes,
C. J. Clark the Lindsay Memorial
and Mclntosh Bros, won
breeders’ prizes.
In the big, pied Friesians V. J,
Lamond, of Brundee, Nowra,
and Shearer and Son, of Wyom-
ing, Singleton, had their usual
field day, Lamond winning his
23rd consecutive cow champion-
ship with Brundee Damsel’s
Pride and four first prizes, while
Shearer showed the champion
bull, Wyoming Pretty Pal, plus
10 firsts for females and two for
bulls. Other ribbons went to the
Department of Agriculture, W.
Clifton, Mrs. D. J. Edwards and
Sons, D. R. Nelson, J. H. Wilson,
Ray Bros., Buckley Bros, and
W- G. Ryan and A. A.
Walker. The South Australian
judge, P. C. Giles, picked the
aged cows and bulls as the out-
standing animals of the section.
Hints for the Farm
“Hux”: Mineral deficiency in
a cow’s diet is often indicated by
her walking in a jerky way and
using the heel of the foot. The
muscles on the rump may appear
wasted, the back becomes arched
and the hooves long. Cure de-
pends on the extent and dura-
tion of the trouble. A lick
which will forestall trouble con-
sists of 50 parts of bone-meal
or bone-char, 50 parts of salt
and 15 parts of limonite.
“Bill C.”: After water has
been applied to ftestily-trans-
planted seedlings the surface soil
generally packs. Loosen the soil
with a stick and brush dry soil
from the sides over the moist
earth. This conserves a lot of
moisture, as will show in the
quick recovery of the seedlings.
“C.A.A.”: Roundworms may
be guarded against by dosing
pullets before they come into
lay with carbon-tetrachloride
capsules, using 2 c.c. capsules for
birds 16 weeks of age and older.
“Billjim”: Seed of lawns
sown in autumn will germinate
more quickly than if sown in
spring.. Work the soil well, and
for Victoria sow two parts of
fescue-grass with one part of
browntop at loz. per square
yard. In established lawns an
autumn mixture of three parts of
sulphate-of-ammonia to one part
of super, at loz. to the square
yard will maintain healthy
growth. Repeat at three-monthly
intervals if the lawn is not doing
well.
“Valeman”: No outstanding
new variety of rhubarb has been
evolved for many years. The
same strains have persisted in
yielding good stalks provided
the right treatment is given,
Haulms last on an average three
to four years ; if not then dug
up they yield poor harvests.
Autumn is the time to lift out
haulms, subdivide, replant and
heavily manure around each new
crown. Cover it with straw.
“Mr.”: Using an “anti-
sprout” dust of 2.4 per cent,
isopropyl phenyl carbamate at
the rate of 31b. per ton, Victorian
potato experts Mattingley and
Downie totally prevented sprout-
formation in tubers stored for
six months. Opened in
December, the potatoes were
firm and fresh and of excellent
cookihg - quality. Untreated
tubers stored under identical
conditions were shrivelled and
flabby, having lost 23 per cent,
of their weight and developed
sprouts up to 9in. in length. The
dust costs Bs. a pound,
“Billjim”: If animal manure
is not available for activating
the compost heap a dressing of
iin. of blood-and-bone on an
inch of urinated earth is a useful
substitute. Slower and not quite
as good is a mixture of super,
and sulphate-of-ammonia (two
to one), a handful on each layer,
“Toggenburg”: A goat will
bleat when tied to a stake by
herself because she is pining for
company. Although it is possible
to keep one goat she will not be
content unless she is petted
frequently. A place near the
house is ideal. The animal will
call to those coming and going,
and will be quite happy if she is
spoken’to at these times. A
contented animal is one that will
produce well. With all milch
animals it is necessary to keep
them untroubled, comfortable
and to handle with kindness.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The distortion of the cycle renders April rains to some
extent problematical, although they are likely. A wet April
is common to both cycles, but in the longer Crohamhurst
Cycle the April rains fall early. The seasonal sequence in
Victoria suggests that there is a shift to the longer cycle, in
which case the later one may cause some flooding in June
but not much later. North of the Tropics both cycles show
heavy rains lasting into May, but in the shorter cycle the
impending dry spell over most of Queensland and northern
New South Wales would be a trouble, but in the longer
cycle would be relieved by some rain, so that the position
must be watched for further signs of the change.


garments as had seemed to her
suggestive of the hounds) there
came a murmur of interest, and
on Bortle’s aside: “How like
her mother! God grant a
father’s sin? be not visited on
his daughter, a sordid Ethiopian
folly never smirch that English
sweetness!” there was quite a
little whistling at the back.
But it was not, until the Earl
had made his exit that pne really
felt the ice was broken—until,
with a smothered “Must it
always be in secret, darling?”
Richard set down his rifle,
kindly loaned by Major Busbee
at the drill-hall, and gathered
Cynthia in his arms.
From this point onward there
was no stinting of the approval
of the house. Nor was it only
the principals who partook of
these ovations. Suckle, I noticed,
miscast though he seemed to me
as Seth Pethybridge, the black-
smith, could always be certain of
a delighted hand. As for Pewk-
leigh, things got to such a pass
that whether in his role of
Prendergast, the butler, or as
Simeon Sneeth, Purslove’s despic-
able agent, he could scarcely put
a foot upon the stage except to
the sound of quite hysterical
applause.
No audience, certainly, could
have been in better humor, but
to convey that we ever engaged
its emotions in just the manner
Throstle had aimed at would be
to speak with less than frank-
ness—from the very outset, to
an ear at all delicately attuned,
there was a certain note of levity
in its approach. Even the
sewer-scene, with Sneeth and his
swooning victim edging each
moment nearer to the manhole,
failed to touch it in any serious
connotation of the word.
THE sewer-scene, at least, had
been written with some
power, and Pewkleigh, you could
see, was giving it all he had. It
made one feel quite sick to hear
the labored sawings of his
breathing, see the globules of
moisture tremble a while on his
forehead, then hurry to the
dark thicket of his moustache.
It was a striking performance,
but when, in clever hint of the
seizure so shortly to undo him,
he freed one hand from Miss
Partridge and clapped it to the
region of his heart, and a youth
just behind Louisa cried “My
gorsh, ’e done ’is, wallet!” we
could no longer delude ourselves
that we played to a house fully
en rapport with Aubrey
Throstle’s work.
She was sorry, said Louisa
afterwards, that she had for-
gotten to bring her ear-aid, for
on account of these irruptions
there were many lines she
missed. It had seemed to her,
too, particularly as the evening
proceeded, that some of the
characters were Inclined to a
slurring of their words. I’m
afraid I was too occupied to
give the point much notice.
. More than once, I confess, for
the evening was particularly
humid, I was glad to resort to
the bucket in which, with the aid
of Whinny and to the accom-
paniment of much giggling from
his audience, Pocock had con-
cocted what he referred to as a
brew of Pocock’s Special Lemon
Crush.
Whatever one’s view of the
brewer, it was certainly refresh-
ing.
“Mos’ ’freshing,” echoed
Leamish, in rather a formal sort
of voice.
It should be, said Pocock, as
he poured into it what he affected
to be a further stiffening of gin.
“But reelly, Mr. Whinny, it is
reelly only water, isn’t it?”
pleaded the red-haired Rosebud
when the merriment at his non-
sense had abated. Mavis, I think
her name was (or was it the dark
one that I’m thinking of, or
possibly the blonde one from the
Corsets?) —quite an attractive
little creature.
But all were pleasant, person-
able girls, charged with the
highest spirits, and so quickly
did the time pass in the jollity
ensuing that almost before one
knew it little Selma Clack was
handing her posies to the
principals and the show was at
an end.
Practically* speaking. It was a
pity that time should not have
permitted the presentation of the
final act, but regulations were
regulations and he had his job
to think of, pointed out Cockle,
scarcely recognisable now as the
curmudgeon who had met us on
our arrival at the hall.
“Only wish I ’adn’t,” he added,
mastering another paroxysm of
mirth. “I seen some comics, but
’e’s on ’is own, that bald gent. —
’im wiy the ’andle-bar mo.”
WHAT with the suitcases, and
our own belongings, and
the large replica of the button
with which we had decorated the
proscenium, it was quite a busi-
ness getting the stuff into
Whinny’s Wasp. Even then he
seemed disposed to dawdle.
“L’il drop in bucket,” he
explained as we turned back.
“Can’t leave it fr ole Cockle —
ole Cockle sad enough.”
And suddenly something told
me he had been drinking. It did
not enhance my pleasure in our
journey to the city, and it was
with little stomach that I
presently saw the winking red
and blue caption “Sure to Find
It at Fudge 8r05.,” and Whinny
fumbling for his key, obtained
by goodness knows what ques-.
tionable means.
Once inside, I breathed more
freely, but a certain buoyancy
of which I had been conscious
in the febrile atmosphere of the
hall had quite departed, and
there possessed me such a lassi-
tude as scarcely to leave me
master of my legs. Nor was the
going easy, especially after
Whinny dropped his torch. It
seemed an age before we finally
gained the window.
With the moonlight filtering
faintly through the curtains,
close drawn against the com-
pletion of the display, and
Whinny standing there with his
suitcases amid the dim divested
figures of the dummies, it was an
eerie scene. For all their nudity,
there was a certain nightmarish
lifelikeness about them. There
was one with arm upstretched.
It was as if, it suddenly came to
me with a shiver, we had arrived
at some Wellsian planet, and it
was advising us of the location
of our rooms.
But no aspect of the scene was
stranger than that of the man
himself; one would not have
believed his pleasant counten-
ance could have taken on a look
of so repellent a vacuity. For
a moment he stood there sway-
ing ; then, finger to lips, before I
could grasp his intention, lurched
to the cord governing the
draping.
I . Shall never hear the
“Pagliacci” prologue without see-
ing Whinny standing there de-
claiming it.
It is my last memory of that
evening, some repercussion from
his collapse bringing my con-
sciousness of it to a close.
THERE was nothing to be said
—to Mr. Puncheon, to
Louisa, or to the world at large.
The whole shameful business was
crystallised in the picture in the
npxt morning’s “Mirror,” with
Whinny draped across the otto-
man and me pillowed on a suit-
case at his feet.
And yet I take comfort that in
my hand, like some knightly
shield, there still remained the
large replica of the button —a
witness to my fealty, an
unequivocal announcement of
the cause that I espoused. I can
see Miss Clack now the day I
finally brought myself to lunch
again at the Beanstalk —her
primrose caplet a little crooked,
a crumb of egg-yolk on her nose.
“Fve saved you some treacle
pudding,” she said as she set
down my nutmeat roast.
And with that swift mantling
of the blood that so trans-
figures her fragile features:
“I’ve been wanting to thank
you, Mr. Spillsworth”
It was Pocock, of course, who
must barge in and desecrate this
moment: .
“Another fruit-cup, if I might
trouble you, when you’ve got a
tick, Miss Clack. Talking of
tipples, Spillsworth-—ever try
that Pocock’s Special Lemon
Crush?”
CUCKOO
by WILL LAWSON
OLD JOHN SEGGARS,
familiarly known as
Bango, from his habit of
having a bang with his
shotgun at anything that annoyed
him, was one of the old school,
and lived in a small bay on
Bnmy Island in “the channel”
outside the Derwent River,
about twenty miles from Hobart.
From Barnes Bay near by a
steamer ran to and from
Hobart and other channel ports.
Bango’s wife was dead, but
his family of three grown-up
girls and two boys were very
much alive. In spite of their
outlandish place of living, they
enjoyed life. One of them
worked in Hobart, making daily
trips; and she kept them all in
touch with life outside the
channel.
Bango had a small farm, and
was also a fisherman, being aided
in his industry by his sons. In
the scallop-season they made big
money, the channel being the
home of the scallop. When the
season was opened at midnight
on a certain summer day with
the firing of a gun by the
warden, their launch was always
first away.
The great worry of the family
was Bango’s shotgun. If a cat
caterwauled, or a rooster
crowed, or a dog barked, bang
went the shotgun, usually with
mortal results. Hiding the gun
was no use; he always found it
and fired at something for
devilment.
He had another fad, too. At
parties in Barnes Bay hall, he
always wanted to sing and took
a lot of persuading not to do so.
TN fact, Bango was a stubborn
old man. And when he
decided to buy a piano, nothing
would hold him back. His
daughters really made him
decide to do this, though they
did not do so openly. In fact
they openly tried to dissuade
him, which was a sure way to
make him do a thing. Anyway,
it was decided he would go to
Hobart and buy the piano, which
Lucy, his eldest girl, had
inspected in a music-store and
liked. Lucy did not go with
him, being on holiday, but she
arranged it.
“Mind, Dad,” she said, “I
don’t say get the piano. Only I
like the one I chose best of them
all. It’s for you to decide.”
“That’s all right,” he said.
“I’ll take Joe” —his eldest son,
“Joe’s got a good ear. We’ll go
in the morning. The boat comes
early on Tuesday. Sure that’s
the right time? That new dam’
clock Lucy bought ain’t as good
as the old one.”
“But the old one fell to bits,”
Joe said. “That’s the latest kind
of clock —what they call a
cuck”
He got a warning look from
one of the girls and stopped.
The clock was a cuckoo-clock,
but the cuckoo part was never
used, lest the old man get his
shotgun and shoot the cuckoo.
“All right, all right,” Old
Bango said. “Four o’clock we’ll
turn out, Joe. You get some
breakfast. The boat leaves at
seven, by the old clock—God
knows what time by this new
contrivance.”
“Don’t worry; it’s a good
cloqk,” Amelia, the youngest
girl, said. “Have you got all the
money ready for the piano?” ,
“That reminds me,” Bango
said to his sons ; “we got to wrap
all the two-bobs in paper, one-
quid in each packet. That’s
right, ain’t it, Lucy?"
“Yes, Dad. The man said he
would rather have a cheque or
notes, but silver will do if it’s
wrapped like I said.”
“Cheques? Notes? Banks?”
Old Bango roared. “If I had my
way. I’d shoot every banker.
Robbers, that’s all they are.
You give ’em gold and silver
and what do you get? Dirty
banknotes —promises to pay they
are —and cheques, just the same,
only a bit worse. Ninety-quid
that piano is, ain’t it, Lucy?”
“That’s it. Dad. Ninety
packets of silver you’ve got to
make up.”
“As if they couldn’ count it
their dam’ selves. Anyway, boys,
get to work and wrap up that
money. That darn clock says
it’s eight o’clock and I’m going
to bed.”
WHEN he had gone, the
’ ' family started wrapping the
silver in paper rolls.
“Why don’t you tell him it’s
a cuckoo-clock?” Joe asked.
“No fear,” Jack, his brother,
said. “He’d shoot that cuckoo
and ruin the clock. Lucy paid
five-quid for it, she did.”
“What’ll he do to the piano?”
Amelia asked.
“Nothing, if we let him sing.
I’m hoping to change his war-
like nature with that piano;
teach him to sing—anyway, to
make a better try than he does
now. Only don’t let on we’re
hoping.”
“If you ask me,” Jack said,
“he’s got a real good voice—
very powerful, anyway.”
“It pleases you, of course,”
Lucy sneered. “But you love
foghorns,”
“Too right I do. You know
where you are with a foghorn.”
“How’ll we get the piano here
from Barnes Bay is what I want
to know,” Jack remarked
presently as he finished his
twentieth roll of money. Jack
was a quick boy. Clever, too.
“Get Sangster’s cart, I
suppose, then carry it down the
track,” Joe said. “There’ll be
four of us, four men should be
able to carry a piano.”
“That’s right,” Jack agreed.
“Well, I done my whack, I’m
going to bunk.”
“Wind up the clock, Jack,”
Amelia said; “but be sure you
don’t wind up the cuckoo side.”
Jack sniggered.
'T'HEY were all out early next
morning to pack the silver
into two small suitcases. Then
Bango and Joe set off for the
steamer, which was to sail at
seven. As they went but of the
door. Old Bango growled:
“Sure that clock’s right? Six
o’clock, it says; and it’s a good
threequarters-of-an-hour’s walk
to Barnes Bay.”
“Absolutely right,” Lucy
declared. “I checked it yester-
day when the steamer whistled.”
The two men, father and son,
each with a fair weight of silver
to carry, walked steadily along
the track to the road. Progress
from there was better.
But even so, time passed too
quickly, for when they were half-
a-mile from the jetty, they heard
the steamer whistle. With their
load they could not run. She
sailed out while Bango cursed.
“Wait till I get back,” he
roared. “I’ll shoot that dam’
clock, I will.”
Nothing his son could say
would* soothe him. All Joe
could hope was that Tack at
home they had heard the early
whistle, too, and hidden Dad’s
gun.
They had heard the whistle all
right, and knew that unless a
passing cart had given them a
lift their- father and brother
could not have caught the boat.
: Jack was a clever lad and
went for his father’s gun. “No
good hiding it,” he said. ‘Til
cake out the shot and fill the
cartridge with red-currant jam.
Then when he shoots the clpck
he’ll see it all red with blood.”
Lucy was worried about her
clock. “What can have hap-
pened to it?” she said. “Did any
of you touch it?”
“Well, * I did just move it,”
Amelia said. “Honestly, I didn’t
move it more than an inch.”
“And it stopped?” Lucy said
sadly,
“Yes, it did. But as soon as I
saw it had stopped I started it
again and moved the hands a
little, too.”
“You might have told me.
Why, Jack, what are you doing?”
Jack was winding-up the
cuckoo side of the clock.
“I’m going to scare the lights
out of the old man. When he
rushes in and gets his gun he’ll
fire at the clock.”
“That’s pretty certain.”,
“Well, I’m stopping the clock
just half a minute from eight
o’clock. As soon as he comes
in I’ll start the clock, and when
he fires . . . Look out. Here he
comes. Must have run all the
way. Gee, he must be wild! ”
"DANGO was wild. Roaring
•*-* incoherent words, he rushed
into the back room where he
kept his gun. Jack just had time
to start the clock. As he did he
heard the dick of the cuckoo
approaching the instant of strik-
ing. Then into the room rushed
a tornado of wrath —Bango at
his maddest.
“Stick up your hands, you
pudden-faced monstrosity, and
I’ll blow your lights out! ”
The gun roared, deafening
those in the room. As it did the
tiny doors above the clock-face
clicked open and the cuckoo
danced out, bowing and turn-
ing.
“Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Cuckoo! ”
it called.
Against the scarlet of the jam
on the clock-face it was very
clear. Then it danced back into
its little house.
Banjo stood aghast. Then, still
carrying his gun, he ran out of
the house. His family laughed
till they cried.
66T DO hope he hasn’t shot
himself. He’s shot almost
everything else,” Amelia said,
“Wouldn’t it be wonderful if
he did!” Jack said. “Save such
a lot of gunpowder and trouble.
Anyway, the shock this gave
him might cure him of the habit
of popping at anything that riles
him. I’ll go and find him.”
The old man was very quiet all
evening. Next day he and Joe
got the piano, all right; and
Bango’s attention was diverted
from trivialities. They got him
to sing, too, but he would only
sing sad songs. Old Bango never
fired a shot after that last one
at the cuckoo. He was like a
man who has lost something or
had a bad dream, and was try-
ing to puzzle it out.
“What beats me,” he said to
Joe, “is how that dam’ bird sung
out after I shot it dead. Blood
all over the place, and the dam’
clock went on ticking! Uncanny,
eh?”


BOOKS YOU HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR
UNDER THE BED SEA.
Hans Hass 30/- (Post lid.)
DIVING TO ADVENTURE.
Hans Hass 20/- (Post lid.)
THE BIG SHOW. Pierre
Clostennann, D.E.U. 16/- (Post lid.)
FLAMES IN THE SKY. Pierre
Clostermann, D.E.C. 16/- (Post lid.)
THE COSIPEETE SHORT STORIES.
VV. Somerset Maugham (3 vols.).
each 18/9 (Post 1/1)
THE NAKED ISLAND.
Russell Braddon .... 18/9 (Post lid.)
THE “CAINE” MUTINY.
Herman Wonk 18/9 (Post lid.)
MOULIN KOUGE.
Pierre La Mure .... 16/- (Post lid.)
THE LITTLE WORLD OF DON
CAMILLO. Giovanni Guareschi.
13/6 (Post 9d.)
DON CAMILLO AND THE
PRODIGAL SON. Giovanni
Guareschi 13/6 (Post 9d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
THE CREST OF THE BROKEN WAVE
JAMES BARKE 16s.
IT ISN’T CRICKET
SID BARNES 16s.
COLLINS
PUBLISHERS
Frieda gathered whole armfuls of wild-
flowers and filled the sulky with them.
Lawrence kept jumping out from among
the flowers to plunge into the bush for
a new one. This is in the last chapter
of Kangaroo called “Adieu Australia.”
This chapter was written and added in
September at Taos, New Mexico. It is
ecstatic, intoxicated with the sights and
scents of the Australian bush in flower.
“They splashed through a clear, clear
stream, and walked up a bank into the
nowhere, the pony peacefully marching.”
They found “the little, pale sulphur
wattle with a reddish stem that sends its
lovely sprays so aerial out of the sand
of the trail. Then beautiful heath-plants
with small bells, like white heather, in
tall straight tufts, and above them the
gold sprays of the intensely gold bush
mimosa, with here and there, on long
thin stalks like hairs almost, beautiful
blue flowers, with gold grains, three-
petalled, like reed-flowers, and blue, blue
with a touch of Australian darkness.”
Then “great flowers, twelve feet high,
like sticky dark lilies in bulb-buds at the
top of the shaft, dark, blood-red.” Then
“queer gold red bushes of the bottle-
brush-tree, like soft-bristly golden bottle-
brushes standing stiffly up, and the queer
black-boys on one black leg with dark-
green spears, sending up the high stick of
a seed-stalk, much taller than a man.”
. . . “Yet a stillness, and a manlessness,
and an elation, the bush flowering at the
gates of Heaven.”
Yet always in this Writing is the
ominous note that is even more truly
Australia. “Sometimes from the interior
came a wind that seemed to her evil.
Out of the silver, paradisical freedom, un-
tamed evil winds would come, cold, like
a stone hatchet murdering you. Some-
times a heavy, reptile hostility came off
the sombre land, something gruesome
and infinitely repulsive. All the un-
controlled gentleness and uncontaminated
freedom of Australia, was it going to
turn and bite her like the ghastly bite
of some unclean-mouthed reptile, an
iguana, a great newt? Had it already
bitten her?”
But the novel ends on praise and
nostalgic regret at leaving, with Lawrence
looking out from the ship until he could
see the dark shape of the mountain, far
away behind Coo-ee, and thinking of
the empty house, the dark tor, the bush
and the Australian spring. Then, “It
was only four days to New Zealand,
over a dark, inhospitable sea.”
Comparing the result of this writer’s
three months’ stay in Australia with the
product and knowledge of indigenous
writers, Lawrence is by net means shamed.
It is no easy matter- to absorb and ex-
press such a harsh and enigmatical coun-
try as Australia. Lawrence once defined
genius as “the ability to absorb,” Endur-
ing prosecution and then dire poverty
as the results of his writing, and then
enough recognition and recompense
to make it possible for him to obey the
dictates of his “daimon” and travel the
world and pour out his novels, travel
books, essays and poems, his writing
reveals that he possessed chameleonic
powers when it came to absorbing and
expressing the widely different geo-
graphical and spiritual entities of the
earth.
Each country has its own indigenous
human voices, creators who, long-
looking, long-loving, long-desiring, win
to the inmost being of their love and
speak from that authentic source.
England has such voices as Clare, Cob-
bett, Jeffries, Hardy and Thomas who
are the very earth and flowering of Eng-
land. In Australia writers have been
confronted with what was at first to them
“a barren accurst land.” In the evolu-
tionary development of a national litera-
ture there were, as in our painting, .pain-
ful adaptations, selections and survivals
before we in Australia produced even
the beginnings of an expression that was
the unmistakable voice of this strange new
world.
These observations make D. H. Law-
rence’s achievements all the more re-
markable. An Englishman, he produced
novels, stories, essays and poems that are
lyrically and intensely English. No
English writers have given us the vividly
alive flowering, character and mytho-
logical significance of Italy as Lawrence
has done. This is true of his writings
in Mexico and, again, of Kangaroo and
the poem, also of that name, which is
included in so many English-speaking
anthologies.
A passage from one of Lawrence’s
travel books. Twilight in Italy, reveals his
sensitivity to the different “spirit of
place” that is the inmost being and
emanation of each country of the earth:
Each country has its own flowers, that
shine out specially there. In England it is
daisies and buttercups, hawthorn and cow-
slips. In America it is goldenrod, star-
grass, June daisies, Mayapple and asters,
that we call Michaelmas daisies. In India
hibiscus and datura and champa flowers,
and in Australia mimosa, that they call
wattle, and sharp-tongued, strange heath
flowers. In Mexico it is cactus flowers,
that they call roses of the desert, lovely
and crystalline among thorns; and also
the dangling, yard-long clusters of the
cream bells of the yucca, like dropping
froth.
Kangaroo contains much of Lawrence’s
best writing. In plot and form it may
not compare with the great English novels,
but it is in sequence with the very essence
of Lawrence: such inspired writing as
Twilight in Italy, Sea and Sardinia and
Etruscan Places. Lawrence used all the
forms of literature to express himself, the
sensitive, personal, intensely vivid self
that could enter into the very soul of
man and woman, beasts, birds, flowers
and landscape.
A walk into the bush at night in
Western Australia, the journey by train
from Sydney to Thirroul, excursions,
driving into the bush around Thirroul
and the stay in the cottage on the edge
of the Pacific, formed the conception and
background for Lawrence’s novel. He
had no other experience of Australia, he
knew only the fringe of “Australis In-
cognita,” yet, from this experience, he
was able to produce the novel which
causes Lawrence’s most recent biographer,
Richard Aldington, to report Australians
as saying that its evocations of the
country are the most vivid and perceptive
yet written.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON
Alarming Farming
Farming Is Fun, by A. Bertram Cox
(Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide), is an Adelaide
accountant’s story of how in 1939 he
bought a farm of 65 acres six miles out-
side the city for £950 and set out to
lead the life of a sheep-king. His success
is nicely tabulated in true accountant-
fashion at the end:
£ s. d.
Loss for 1941 .. ... 299 7 7
Loss for 1945 .. .. 1296 19 6
Loss for 1947 .. .. 960 0 2
Loss for 1948 .. .. 912 19 0
Loss for 1949 .. .. 682 9 2
In spite of these dolorous figures Mr.
Cox possesses an abounding—not to say
bounding—sense of humor; which, to
tell the truth, pained this reviewer much
more than anything that happened to the
ducklings, the turkeys, the lambs, the
grapes or the farmer. Full of the spirit
of fecundity, Mr. Cox is so direly deter-
mined to make ten words grow where
one would have done very well;
Whenever I motored through the country,
anywhere within ten miles of the Obelisk,
Estate, I had one eye on the road and, the
other was continually roving around look-
ing for lost sheep with “BC” in black on
the rump. Little Bo Peep had a sinecure
compared with my task.
It was only a few short months pre-
viously that I had stood on the range of
mountains and surveyed my flock, almost
bursting with pride and enthusiasm.
“Sheep to the right of me—sheep to the
left of me —sheep all round me” and all
mine! To me the sight of these surging
and eddying ranks closing, opening and
closing again was somehow inspiring. The
Duke of Wellington probably had a similar
feeling when reviewing his troops prior
to the Battle of Waterloo; Omar Khayyam
speaks of eternal bliss represented by a
cup of wine and a crust of bread under a
shady tree and in the same way those
woolly bodies had become a cherished part
of my life.
Those, however, who can break through
the barbed-wire of wisecracks and ignore
such trespassers as Little Bo Peep, the
Duke of Wellington, Omar Khayyam and
co. will find Mr. Cox’s farm a pleasant
and—as a warning—profitable little place.
There are precise facts and figures to
show the perils of such a venture, a
genuine love for the land to show the
compensating pleasures, and a picture of
farming life with much to interest the
general reader: how Mr. Cox was
accused by the auctioneer at a sheep-sale
of making a bid; how they built the
woolshed 33 inches out of alignment;
how a farmhand wrestled with a snake
in the dark down a well; how the ewes
ate deadly-nightshade, which killed 50
of them ; how the turkeys drowned them-
selves in the dip or were run-over or
taken by foxes; how the ducklings died
because they went swimming too soon ;
how 2000 beetroot seedlings, bought for
£l, would have returned a net profit of
precisely £3 15s. —if they hadn’t all run
to seed; how stray dogs worried the
sheep; how bees were taken, or not
taken, from a wild hive when a wind
blew a tree down and smashed the
garage ; and how Mr. Cox, when first
he joined the squattocracy, once erected
200 yards of sheep-proof Cyclone fencing
upside-down.
Reviewed Briefly
The God of the Witches: Margaret
Murray (Faber). A reprint, with addi-
tional material, of the book in which
Dr. Murray (since followed by other
writers) first argued that the witch-cult
was a survival of the religious beliefs and
practices of the Palaeolithic, Neolithic
and Bronze Age peoples who worshipped
the Horned God afterwards misconstrued
as the Devil and who figure in English
folklore as the fairies as well as the
witches. Some surprising developments
of the theory are that Robin Hood and
his Merry Men were a “coven” of
witches or witch-worshippers composed
of twelve men and one woman ; also that,
“Viewed in the light of a Pagan religion
the characters and deaths of Rufus,
Becket, Joan of Arc and Gilles de Rais
are reasonable and consistent. In each
of them the Dying God was incarnate ;
Rufus died as the actual king, the other
three as substitutes in order that their
royal masters might live and reign for a
further term of years.”
* * * *
Bill Brown, C.1.D.: Alan Brock (Dent).
The story for boys of a boy who joins
London’s police-force; it is really a
documentary of his enlistment, training
and early experiences, with a hated rival,
Whitey, a former classmate who has
gone to the bad and become a spiv and
a crook, thrown in for contrast. Obvi-
ously done with the aid and connivance
of the Force, its authenticity makes it
interesting all the way.
* * * *
This Is Jezebel: Desmond Cory (Shake-
speare Head). Young Mr. Cory, who
wrote so well and bloodily after leaving
the Army, has not been improved by his
sojourn at Oxford. In this, his fourth
whodunit, he tracks down the forger of
old Dutch paintings; but his murders
and seductions are both growing anaemic:
half-way through his exposition, one
ceased to care.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 220
Across
I—The winner and I have a State
carriage. (8)
4—Croupy one surrounded by a
croup owner. (6)
B—Digging8—Digging out roots to provide
tucker to Crosby. (8)
11 —Knock about the meal-counter.
< (6 >
13 —Bat suit against a chirper feature
of Marylebone. (7, 4)
15 —South with rotten spirit. (5)
18— Exist for a king of Italy. (3)
19— Mixed paste feature of the
starter’s barrier. (5)
20— Barker taken in hand by the
canoeist prelude to swimming.
(3-6)
23 —Tasteless namby-pamby loafing
on a steamer. (9)
28 —Ruth often hit this old poet, (5)
31— Wrinkle dump. (3)
32 That is about a girl cuckoo. (5)
33 A party of infrequent occurrence?
(ID
34 The husbands and wives with
muscles. (6)
35 — General French he interposes
between a traveller on the ark
and more modern transport. (8)
37 — Brags versus relatives. (6)
38 — How the “outspoken” might get
in a word for the border sage.
(«)
Down
1 — The obscurest make little Vir-
ginia an acceptor of hospitality.
(7)
2 Bark louder and fork out. (5-2)
3 Sovereign creature noted for
laying off heroin. (3)
5 It is nothing to have a bet before
I accompany a prickly pear. (7)
6 Annoyed trump placed first upon
the table. (7)
7 Comestible east on a piece of
furniture. (7)
9 —Little English county is made of
money—dollars, in fact —and
does love them. (5)
10 —Fairy turning up an ego adver-
tisement. (5)
12 —Wild-plum takes the promontory
from the Lincolnshire port barrel
to the south. (4)
14 —How would you change an L to
a T or get to the other end of
the bridge with irritable Clara
Bow’s attribute. (5, 2)
16 — Pulpy food over a parent. (4)
17 — Italian lake district where Diana
was originally worshipped and a
Jainite saint changes mine. (4)
21 — Boucicault. (4)
22 Land right in the Nile. (4)
23 Russian city introduces Sally to
five. (7)
24 — Raven up changing an upstart.
25 — The most dexterous are fed up
with the international match. (7)
26 Produce works of art collected
by wolves? (4)
27 — Ear of wheat is a star of the
first magnitude. (5)
28 — Quadruped ego gives tongue. (5)
29 Hebrew prophet. (7)
30— Back about poetry. (7)
36 —Unskilled exponent in a vessel.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 219


#
ns
v*
ft
/'S
m
m
/y
v
m
S
w
to
.nN">
>o V'N.N
m
X . -v
//
\\
32
&
: < -
••VsV^
.‘ x
• ~ *s*vS
cN^Vct§
A
■» ~ *— *■'' •,
Vr>-V’ J2y
f-r:t ►»-.;,
-v* • • ** /•:
r -:
>J»
SC
and DEVELOPMENT
vs
V
r.
p
urJt
0
;\
X
nv;
Vi
>1
iiPr
s.
Wa-.
Hastings peering
m\
911
n
“Nothing in this world powerful
as an idea whose time has come”
That was one of Victor Hugo's thoughts, and it has a
special meaning for Australians today. The time has
come. It has come for us to rise above the ordinary;
to turn ideas into achievements; to make something really
great of this country.
Fifty years have passed since the States federated to put
Australia on the way to nationhood. What have we
done with that half century?
Certainly we have made progress. Economically, indus-
trially, socially, culturally, we have come a fair way.
But we are still in the stage of development. Greater —
much greater—things lie ahead.
We have ridden two wars on the side of victory. We
have been assailed from the north and been delivered
to continue our way in freedom. And now we face the
longer challenge.
With political unrest in the world, with millions of people
coming up to national conscious-
ness in Asia, we have to justify the
holding of a large part of the
earth which is capable of produc-
ing food'. Food production is the
big effort for Australia now. It
will be for many years.
Certainly the TIME has come.
And the IDEA? Production, and yet more production,
of beef and grains and other foods, as well as the things
of allied industry without which no country can go on
to a balanced prosperity.
What we have done with Australia so far has been
limited by a variety of things. The greatest of them has
been the ever-present need for water in the interior,
whence comes the beef to eat, the wool to wear the
wealth to maintain our standards of living.
Flush season, poor season, drought. That has been the
cycle, in varying order, from the start. That has been
the barometer of our hopes and achievements, the
measure of our failures and fears.
We could go on viewing it in different ways again and
again. But you see what I mean . . . the “time,” the
“idea.”
And so 1 say, let us capture the inspiration of opportunity.
Science has not yet given us the means of making rain,
but we can conserve water and control to the maximum
what does come to the land in wet seasons.
Scoop the earth, build the dams, sink the tanks, and all
else will flow. Produce the beef, strengthen the herds
and flocks, enrich the pastures, multiply the crops.
For if ever Australians had an opportunity to exhibit the
qualities of practical patriotism, the time is now.
m
DBRG
