

FOR PORT WINE OF BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
WILD DUCKS AND PASSENGER PIGEONS
"The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3837
Wednesday, August 26, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
EDINBURGH’S PRINCES STREET,
THE STREET MAGNIFICENT
ONE of the most striking features of
the beautiful city of Edinburgh is the
way in which it so readily displays itself
to the stroller along Princes Street, that
celebrated thoroughfare which separates
the old town from the new. Its great
length is flanked on one side by the
finest shops and restaurants, and on the
other by sweeping lawns and gardens,
which show off to perfection the
romantic background of the castle and
the pinnacled skyline of the Old Town.
On a sunny day with the shadows strik-
ing across the roadway, this famous
street reveals itself in all its glory.
Princes Street Gardens, which occupy
the site of a lake-bed, are a blaze of
colour in summer. The Gardens contain
many memorials to eminent Scotsmen:
the most conspicuous being the Scott
Monument, which was likened by
Dickens to “the spire of a Gothic
Church taken off and stuck in the
ground.”
The spire is two hundred feet high and
is supported by four arches which form a
canopy for the seated figure of Sir Walter
Scott below. Incorporated in the monu-
ment are statuettes of the principal
characters in the Waverley Novels and
in the great writer’s poems; there is also
a small museum of Scott relics. An
interior staircase leads to a series of open
galleries which command magnificent
views of the city. The monument was
designed by George Meikle Kemp, a
young self-taught artist who started life
as a shepherd and was drowned shortly
before the inauguration of the monu-
ment in 1844.
East of the Gardens stand the two
classical buildings which house the Royal
Scottish Academy and the National Art
Gallery, both of which were designed by
W. H. Playfair (1789-1857). The National
Gallery contains an important collection
of all schools, the most valuable being
“Christ in the House of Martha and
Mary” by the great painter Jan Vermeer,
of Delft. The works of Degas, Monet,
Gauguin, Van Gogh, Rembrandt, Van
Dyck, Reynolds, Romney, Turner, Con-
stable, Gainsborough, Sir Henry Raeburn
and the great but insufficiently known
eighteenth-century Scottish artist Allan
Ramsay are well represented.


The Red Page
COLETTE'S
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
There are very few books one comes
across in a year’s reading so wholly
delightful as My Mothers House (Seeker
and Warburg) by the 80-year-old French
novelist Colette.
The fourth volume in a uniform edition
of Colette’s prose, translated by Roger
Senhouse, it is made-up of two short
books of autobiography which were first
published in France in 1922 and 1929,
both evocations of Colette’s childhood in
the French countryside and portrait-
studies of her captivating mother, whom
she calls Sido.
As Colette grows up and her mother
walks gaily and courageously into old-
age the book takes on the continuity and
sustained interest of a novel; we know
the principal characters —the mother, the
daughter, the other members of the
family—and each fresh glimpse of them
helps to fix them in the mind as firm
and beautiful portraits. But in method
of construction it is like a Series of short-
stories ; which seems the perfect way to
write an autobiography—instead of
grimly following the writer through every
step of her career, through the whole
wilderness 'of events and people that
crowd into a life, here we have only the
most interesting, the most amusing or the
most charming incidents preserved, each
one complete in itself as a little story,
and all helping to build the complete
picture.
There is the lovely opening in the
garden-—the scents and colors of which
pervade the whole book—when Sido
comes to look for her scattered young:
It was then, from beneath the ancient
iron trellis sagging to the left under the
wistaria, that my mother would make her
appearance, small and plump in those days
when age had not yet wasted her. She
would scan the thick green clumps and,
raising her head, fling her call into the
air: “Children! Where are the children?”
“Where are the children?” She would
suddenly appear like an over-solicitous
mother-bitch breathlessly pursuing her con-
stant quest, head lifted and scenting the
breeze. Sometimes her white linen sleeves
bore witness that she had come from knead-
ing dough for cakes or making the pud-
ding that had a velvety hot sauce of rum
and jam. If she had been washing the
Havanese bitch, she would be enveloped
in a long blue apron, and sometimes she
would be waving a banner of rustling yellow
paper, the paper used round the butcher’s
meat, which meant that she hoped to
reassemble, at the same time as her elusive
children, her carnivorous family of vaga-
bond cats.
“Where . . . ? Children , . .?” No-
where. My mother would throw back her
head and gaze heavenwards, as though
waiting for a flock of winged children to
alight from the skies. After a moment she
would repeat her call; then, grown tired
of questioning the heavens, she would crack
a dry poppy-head with her fingernail, rub
the greenfly from a rose-shoot, fill her
pocket with unripe walnuts, and return to
the house shaking her head over the
vanished children.
And all the while, from among the leaves
of the walnut-tree above her, gleamed the
pale, pointed face of a child who lay
stretched like a tomcat along a big branch,
and never uttered a word.
Then there are the stories of Side’s
first husband, “the Savage,” whom the
never loved but who nevertheless was
kindly remembered for once, when she
was a young bride weeping in his lonely
house, riding many miles to buy her a
present of a Cashmere shawl and a
mortar for pounding almonds; of Colette,
who had been sleeping alone in an
attic, waking in the morning in a strange
little bedroom adjoining her mother’s,
where Sido had transported her in the
night, and calling out “Mother, come
quick! I’ve been abducted!”; of the
child seizing, as a child will, upon the
resounding new word “presbytery,” and
shouting to invisible enemies from the
top of the garden-wall, “Begone! You
are all presbyteries” ; of her fainting on
reading Zola, and of her mother, in her
quiet, tolerant wisdom, explaining that
childbirth wasn’t nearly so horrible as
the novelist had described it-—“ The
suffering, is so quickly forgotten, you’ll
see! The proof that all women forget
is that it is only the men—and what
business was it of Zola’s anyway?—
who write stories about it” ; of the child
getting beatifically drunk when her
admirable one-legged father, the old
soldier who at 70 was still jealous
of Sido when she went shopping
to the village, took his small
daughter around the countryside
at night to help him in. his election-
campaign ; of Madame Bruno, who had
to stop visiting the house because,
secretly longing for love, she was afraid
of the father’s joking gallantries ; of the
tame swallows—“a single shrill cry of
‘Ti-i-inies’ would bring them cleaving
the wind like two arrows, to alight in my
hair, to which they would cling with all
the strength of their little curved black
steel claws”—and the cat which ate
strawberries and loved the smell of
violets, and the spider, which, every night
when Sido had her chocolate in bed,
would lower itself from the ceiling to
sip at the hot drink ; nf Colette’s small
brother, who had a passion for decorat-
ing the garden with miniature gravestones,
on which he would write such moving in-
scriptions as “O thou model of Christian
spouses! Reft from us at the age of
eighteen, already four times a mother! ” ;
of the servant’s wedding; of Side’s
strange physical agony, alone in the
garden at night, when the other daughter,
then married and “not speaking” to her
family, was having her first child; of
the handsome actor who taught the
village ladies to sew; of the little
Bouilloux girl from the village, so
beautiful that she didn’t go wrong as
everyone confidently predicted, but grew
to an old-maid in solitary adoration of
her own loveliness; of the famous Spahi’s
cloak which the father brought back from
the wars and which, when the moths de-
stroyed it, he proudly remade into a pen-
wiper ; of Sido quarrelling with the priest
for the right to take her dog into church ;
and of Sido in her gallant old-age:
So she lived on, swept by shadow and
sunshine, bowed by bodily torments,
resigned, unpredictable and generous, rich
in children, flowers and animals like a
fruitful domain.... It was not until one
morning when I found the kitchen un-
wanted and the blue enamel saucepan
hanging on the wall, that I felt my mother’s
end to be near... .Whereupon my brother
insisted that my mother should keep still
and that an old servant should sleep in
the little house. But how could an old
servant prevail against a vital energy so
youthful and mischievous that it contrived
to tempt and lead astray a body already
half-fettered by death? My brother, return-
ing before sunrise from attending a distant
patient, one day caught my mother red-
handed in the most wanton of crimes.
Dressed in her nightgown, but wearing
heavy gardening sabots, her little grey
septuagenarian’s plait of hair turning up
like a scorpion’s tail on the nape of her
neck, one foot firmly planted on the cross-
piece of the beech trestle, her back bent
in the attitude of the expert jobber, my
mother, rejuvenated by an indescribable
expression of guilty enjoyment, in defiance
of all her promises and of the freezing
morning dew, was sawing logs in her own
yard.
In style, in artistry, in poetry of
atmosphere and warmth of humanity,
everything about this book is not only
delightful but has also the feeling of per-
manent literature. The general effect is
not unlike that of Katherine Mansfield’s
short-stories of her New Zealand child-
hood, but warmer and more mature.
Flowery Cop
Arthur Upfield’s half-caste aboriginal
detective, Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte,
grows more and more mellifluous with
the years. In his latest case, Venom
House (Heinemann), for instance, he has
a conversation with an old man who, like
himself, has endured the hardships of the
Australian interior:
“Yes, I understand, Blaze [says the half-
caste]. A tale of woe, to be sure, hut we
must now confine our thoughts to the tragic
demise of the second Mrs. Jacob Answerth.
Or he sets out to put the local copper
at his ease :
“I understand you have been stationed
here eight years, and therefore would know
the district and the people as well as your
own quarters and your family....ln addi-
tion to facts, Mawson, I shall want from
you opinions, suppositions, ideas. I shall
want you to treat me as a colleague, and
eventually as a friend. Thus we shall
succeed.”
We can only think that Mawson had
his tongue well in his cheek when he
replied: .
“Glad to hear it, sir. It’s like breathing
fresh air to listen to you.”
The other people are all good bush-
Australians, each with the true accent
and slang of his type; and the story is
set in Queensland. “Venom House” is
an old squatting mansion, begun by con-
vict labor, beautifully designed and
finished, with a history of suicides and
murders. It is inhabited by the last
descendants: two middle-aged sisters and
their stepbrother, with their stepmother.
Mary is huge and powerful; she knocks
men of her own size about and handles
stock as well as a man. Janet is small and
feminine and dabbles in art and men.
Morris is a huge and powerful half-wit
kept locked in his room, dressed like a
schoolboy in Eton jacket and Eton collar.
The town butcher, beloved and sub-
sidised by Janet, and suspected of stealing
his meat on the hoof, is found drowned
in the waters of a blocked river which
surrounds the house. Then the step-
mother is found strangled, dragged by
the noose into the river. Inspector Bona-
parte’s investigations disclose that Janet
is training the half-wit Morris to crack
sister Mary’s neck “like a carrot,” that
the butcher has been stealing fleeces from
the woolclip, and so on; and the con-
clusion is an eerie vigil of comings-and-
goings by night in the dark rooms and
passages of the old house.
As is usual in Mr. Upfield’s books, the
country scenes and people are vivid and
authentic, and the mystery is full of un-
usual incident and surprise ; but, as is
also usual, the detection is not convinc-
ing. Inspector Bonaparte does little more
S it an unS. eaC . h P t hase 0f
as it unfolds itself; he allows the
the doe/ of “ d th ™
the doer of this half-justice with the aid
Iht n :T Ute °? e Which mi § ht all
right in a thousand-word short-story, but
not in a novel.
Three from the Sea
SMALL FRY
I saw such tiny fish: they’d take a year
To swim a dish. And they were swimming, where?
Their journey did not there and then Appear
To matter; but I have thought since, and share
Amazement—not with them, I’m sure. Going,
They were coming to that very point, I’ll swear,
Where river and sea meet: a balanced flowing
In and out, a tide of chances. Washed up, washed inj
Never could arrive at a destination before death,
Unless by Waterspout. Sucked up, splashed in
Some country town, with fragments of rare
Hail and rainwhich take the cowhand’s breath. . ..
Who’d gasp, “Fancy it raining fish!” and say
“Isn’t it the Father’s gift, and Friday.”
THE LIGHTHOUSE
The lighthouse stands nipple-raised in the wind
On the rock. Straight, with the spine of youth
At her back (the stairway) ; and the kind
Spectacles of benignancy beaming truth,
Honesty, and pride in all who ride
The sea the right way. Keen young lady,
Clean, sweet, gleaming white. For those on the shady
Side, her red looks; lots of flashing lights; pride
Blushing; anger for the lazy louts, neglectful boats,
And bits of debris on the larboard.
But who will gaze with her to starboard.
Steer the straight course? The lady waits!
—Always, in Sunday-school, I felt such eyes on me
As there I knelt; and feel them in the world, now, free.
STONEFISH AND STARFISH
These are the first shapes: stonefish and starfish.
Imagine the stone falling, tumbling down the scree
Through the upper atmosphere. Here you may wish
To see a stone move, too; but the cobbles under the sea
Stare patently dead pupils. Oh, roll a cobble
To life, even such lowly life, till it swims like a bubble...
I looked, longing, too, into the lonely deeps
But knew I watched ages after the first star.
If I could will life there, raise it by steps
To perfection, it would be as we are.
Starfish, I know you, now, staring as I have,
Where a star would long gaze for its image to move...
These are the first shapes, life iA its first steps.
See, now, man gazes into the outer deeps.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
A Medley Medley
J. D. G. Medley’s An Amtrnlinn
Alphabet (Melbourne University Pres™
illustrated by Armstrong, consists of light,
bright, cheerful satire in verse on most
ot the targets that conspicuously offer
themselves for such amiable buffering in
Australia today. There are Parliamentary
broadcasts, for instance:
£ r - A-BU. which strives
lo brighten up our humdrum lives
By putting over on the mike
The kind of things we Ought To Like.
And this is why the welkin’s rent
By what goes on in Parliament . . .
There is the Egg Board:
Eggs, thought our fathers, poor deluded men,
a unaided from the humble hen.
S' j e • * nnocen ce, when Nature’s gait
Strolled unimpeded by the Welfare State.
No hen today can possibly afford
To lay an egg till licensed by a Board.
There are betting and beer, income-
tax and road-accidents, wages that soar
higher and higher while less and less
work gets done, conferences which
accomplish nothing except speeches, the
koala and the platypus, the commer-
cialisation of Christmas; and, on one of
the several occasions in which the learned
author (former vice-chancellor of the
University of Melbourne) takes the
unheard-of liberty of breaking into free-
verse, there are the Olympic Games—
concerning which the gods in council on
Olympus repeatedly send their congratu-
lations to the Melbourne organisers on
the progress (if any) made, while Venus
reveals a natural affection for Sydney:
Amendment moved by Venus, seconded
Great God Pan:
That the games be transferred to Sydney as
she would feel more at home there.
Amendment lost on show of hands.
If one is asked, on one’s oath and
before the nine Muses, have we here
another Alexander Pope?—one must say
no: the book is not aimed so high. An
Ogden Nash?—the free-verse, though
entertaining and useful for variety, is
much too free. An A. P. Herbert?—
well, in spots. There are moments with
the bite, the precision and the wit of
genuine epigram, mixed with a lot of
much lighter verse... which, if it is not
meant to be taken too seriously from the
literary viewpoint, is amusingly turned,
likely to be popular and almost certain
(one trusts) to reform the nation.
Three Submarine Books
There are several strong points about
Alastair Mars’s Unbroken (Frederick
Muller), It is one of the few submarine
books to have surfaced after the war;
the characters are clearly presented ; and,
as Mars (how admirable a name for a
war-writer) in his steel cigar sank 30,000
tons of enemy shipping, the book is as
packed with incident as the ship is with
instruments.
The psychological reactions of a body
of men jammed into a steel hull, all about
them the pressured deeps of the Mediter-
ranean, with bursting depth-charges com-
pressing the sea into an almOst-solid,
crushing hand, are, naturally, of import-
ance if the lay reader is to get a satisfying
insight into submariners’ life. Mars, who
captained the boat, is obviously conscious
of how his team reacts, and now-and-
then spares time from his periscope to
take a look around him.
He and his first-lieutenant are tempera-
mentally unsuited. The first-lieutenant,
once, questions an order. Acting deci-
sively, conceding that his officer is a
first-class seaman, Mars gets rid of him.
The asdic-operator, disobeying an order
not to climb to the bridge with a Bren-
gun in surface-action, almost causes
catastrophe when, in an emergency dive,
his presence blocks the hurried rush down
the control-room ladder. Mars orders
the offender arrested.
Shortly afterwards, from the torpedo-
room, the prisoner reports that he can
hear asdic impulses from another ship.
Disbelieving that human ears can detect
the supersonic impulses, Mars ignores
him—until the boat’s own instrument
picks them up. The captain raises his
periscope, to see “The biggest tanker
you’ve ever seen!” Result: torpedoes
into the tanker, asdic-operator back on
his set.
With most British subs in the area
killed, and Malta almost the same, Un-
broken is sent desperately on the prowl.
She sights two enemy cruisers, escorted
{“Red Page’ continued on page 35)


Senior Store News Bulletin
weehly news of activities , values and advantages from Anthony Horderns 9
“Everythingfront a fox decou
tvhistle to « high-powered rifle 99
A. .22 Hornet Sako rifle, with Mauser type action, ramp
foresight peep or open rear sight, the Sako is a powerful, hard
hitting, accurate rifle, used for small or big game. £57/6/'
B. .22 Beretta automatic rifle. The mechanism follows the
famous Karl Walther principle. It is a single shot, repeater,
or automatic. 5 and 8 cartridge box type magazines, £3l/5/'
C. .22 calibre Lithgow repeating bolt action rifle. A lovely-
rifle, with a 25in. heavy barrel and elevating sight. It has a
box magazine. An accurate rifle. Priced at only £lB/19/6
D. .22 calibre Lithgow single shot bolt action rifle. It has a
24in. tapered barrel, elevating rear sight and with a positive
safety. Designed to fire .22 long rifle rim fire ammo. £lO/11/'
News far Bulletin Readers
New shipment ai ttntnte. arrives
S £* l
-M
mmsmMm.s
m
dsig
m
£3®
£
Gun Cartridges
12 gauge English smokeless
Red Seal iin. deep shell cart.
Size-shot, .3, 4.6, 2jin. case
27/6, 2lin. case Price 32/6,
12 gauge Eley Grand Prix
smokeless cartridges li inch
Price 19/4 25, 12 gauge Eley
Maximum smokeless cartridges
2£in. heavy load 22/3 25..
Baschieri and Pellagri (Ital-
ian) smokeless 4, 5, 6, 7 2iin.
13/- packet of 10. 12 gauge
super DD 2fin., 4+6 shot,
all metal heavy load smokeless
oartridges. 2?/- box of 25.
Rifle Cartridges
.22 short smokeless I.C.L, 12/3-100
.22 long smokeless I.C.L 13/4—loo
.22 long rifle 1.C.1 14/4-100
.22 long rifle shotted I.C.L, 19/2-100
.22 Hornet C.F. ..... 110/-100
25/20 C.F. cartridges ... 115/-100
30/30 C.F. cartridges —. £7/17/6-100
7.33 Sako C.F 95/-100
6.5 C.F. cartridges £l2/5/—lOO
.32 S&W Kynock revolver, 67/6-100
320 Kynock revolver ............ 37/6-100
.38 Kynock revolver , 77/6-100
450 S5s?W Kynock revolver, 105/—lOO
Special accessories
Wh
V/
*2
i
M.\ v i
\ \ ''C/ ///»;.«
An excellent idea for night
shooting, a spotlight that clamps
on to the rifle. For use with a
6'volt wet cell cycle battery.
With flex, aZj 8.
Okeh hunting knife. A must
for every hunter; it has a sin.
blade and comes in a fine leather
sheath. Priced at only 15/6
French Unique, a beautiful
knife in stainless steel, with a
blade in a leather sheath,
chrome finish. Price only 30/6
Cartridge Belts
Leather cartridge belts for all
sizes of ammunition, .22 10/-,
.22 Hornet 14/-, 25/20 14A,
32 14A, .303 14A, .410
14/', 12 gauge 17/6.
m
m
Cleaning Tools
12 gauge cleaning rods, 3
piece complete 23/6, 2 piece
21/6, .303 ball bearing clean'
ing rods, with jag, 20A, .22
3 piece cleaning rod, with rag
holder, 13/6, .22 one piece
steel cleaning rod, with rag
holder, 3/6, pull throughs,
,22 3A, .32 3/6, .303 3/6,
.410 4/3, 12 gauge 5/6.
0-1
Do your
Shopping through
T.O.P.S.
Ring T.0.P.5., our new
Telephone Order Service de'
signed for your shopping
convenience. Dial M 2401
and can shop at any counter
in our store. T.O.P.S. trained
assistants shop for "you. We
will deliver your order to your
home or office. There's no
easier way to shop than
through T.O.P.S. House-
wives, executives, shift, fac-
tory and office workers, all
use T.O.P.S.
Gun Repairs
If you leave your guns in our
repair department, the gun
and sights will be repaired
for you, and you can be
assured of a good job, because
all repairs are carried out
under expert supervision.
fg
iu;
GUNS AND AMMUNITION, LWR. GROUND FLR., PITT ST. M 2401.
BOX 2712, G.l


A Warning Lesson for Australia
PASSING OF
THE PASSENGER PIGEON
By TOM LUSCOMBE
EACH year great publicity is given
to the opening of the duck season,
with pictures of shooting-parties,
boats, guns, dogs and strings of
dead ducks.
As dawn breaks -an the swamplands
and along the river fronts a barrage of
gunfire heralds the fact that the duck-
shooters’ great day has arrived. The
slaughter of birds mounts rapidly.
Success is measured in terms of dead
birds. In some country regions the
slaughter is so successful that local ice-
works have their freezing-chambers com-
pletely filled with birds,
A lone individual here and there raises
a voice of protest, but it sounds feeble
against the roar of the guns. One autho-
rity has gone so far as to predict that
the time is not far distant when the wild
duck will no longer exist in Australia,
The melancholy forecast brings to mind
the remarkable story of another con-
tinent . . .
On September 1, 1914, there died in
the Cincinnati Zoological Gardens,
U.S.A., a pigeon which the keepers knew
as Martha. They even knew her age,
which was twenty-nine. For years there
had been a public offer of a thousand
dollars for one live male specimen as a
mate for her. The reward was never
claimed, and thus died Martha, the last
of the now-legendary passenger-pigeons.
When the first European settlers arrived
in the New World the passenger-pigeon
was probably the most abundant species
of bird in the world. It was found
throughout the forest that covered
eastern North America, breeding in the
northern reaches of the forest and winter-
ing in the southern.
Passenger-pigeons congregated in flocks
at all seasons, and these flocks were of
such magnitude that nothing resembling
them, had ever been seen by white men.
Early descriptions of the flocks border on
the fantastic, yet the reports come from
highly reliable sources.
Some of the nesting-sites of these
pigeon colonies were three miles wide
and thirty miles long. From descriptions
of the density of the nests which dotted
every tree, sometimes up to a hundred
in each, it has been computed that one
\such zone of ninety square miles must
have been occupied by 57 million birds.
Describing one of the winter roosts
in the south, an English traveller in
1819 declared that within a circumference
of between four and six miles the trees
were bent and broken under the hosts of
pigeons “piled upon them like swarming
bees.”
When the pigeons began their seasonal
migration the spectacle is said to have
been almost incredible. The sun was
obscured and the sky darkened by the
moving mass. Their flight was marked
by “a wind and rushing sound like that
of the greatest cataracts.”
Alexander Wilson, the Scottish ornitho-
logist, calculated that one migratory
flock stretched over a distance of 240
miles. Basing his calculations on rate of
flight, density of flock and time taken
in flying past a given point, he arrived
at the estimate that “two billion, two
hundred and thirty million, two hundred
and seventy two thousand pigeons” made
up that particular flight.
The passenger-pigeon had one unfortu-
nate characteristic; it was eminently
edible. And that marked its ultimate
doom.
The Indians had long recognised its
value, but, despite its astronomical
numbers, they still refrained from molest-
ing the birds during certain periods, such
as the annual breeding, when they took
only fat young squabs.
Not so the white men. The conserva-
tion of a species of wild life did not
enter into their considerations, and the
great slaughter commenced. Just as
descriptions of the numbers of the birds
stagger the imagination, later descrip-
tions of the slaughter leave one with an
appalled sense of outrage.
Every conceivable method of killing
was employed, both in the breeding
colonies and winter colonies, and by
every village and farm over which the
migrating birds passed in spring and
autumn. The netting of pigeons became
a minor industry.
The whites camped near the nesting-
sites. Not content with the slow process
of dislodging the squabs with poles, how-
ever, they cut down the trees and took
the dead away in cart-loads.
Unsatisfied by even these returns, they
resorted to a method of mass butchery
which left no room for improvement.
Approaching at night, the hunting parties
set fire to the grass and underbrush in a
circle around a portion of the nesting
colony, upon which the flames would
then close in. The pigeons, driven mad
by panic, would fly into the flames and
be roasted alive. Next morning they
would be gathered from heaps two feet
deep.
The slaughter appears to have pro-
ceeded over the years at an ever-accele-
rating pace. The climax came in the
1870’s, when some 5000 trappers were
devoting their full time to the destruction
of the pigeons, following them from their
summer to their winter homes and back
again—these in addition to the un-
numbered thousands who simply killed
when the opportunity offered.
The growth of cities assured a con-
stant demand for the recognised delicacy.
From 1866 to 1876 ten million young
birds were shipped each nesting season
from the great Middle Western flocks.
Millions more were left to die in the
nests when the parent birds were
wantonly slaughtered.
The peak of the slaughter was reached
in 1878 with the complete eradication of
one mighty colony. Five freight-car
loads of pigeons were dispatched from
the area every day for thirty days.
From then on the decline of the pas-
senger-pigeon was precipitous. Apart
from the colossal slaughter, there was
the complete disruption of the breeding
cycle of the species. The major flocks
sought new grounds, but were followed
relentlessly and with a sort of savage
fury.
The last large nesting was near Michi-
gan in 1880, and probably included a
million birds. The dry bark of the trees
was deliberately ignited and most of die
birds perished in the leaping flames. In
addition to the larger number killed in
this fashion, 20,000 were trapped and
sent to Coney Island, where, weakened
by confinement, they were released to
be shot down in a trapshooting contest
After that there were only scattered
remnants of the once-incredible numbers.
But even these were pursued. By the
end of the century the distracted flocks
were broken up into small bands or stray
pairs. Fourteen years later the last of
the species, Martha, died in captivity.
It was the end of a story of grim
slaughter . . .
Our own closed seasons and general
policy of protection should ensure that
the tragic story of the American pas-
senger-pigeon will not be repeated in
Australia with our remaining species of
wild life. But it is well for us to recall
the warning. Senseless slaughter brings
its inevitable retribution, no matter what
the species involved.
The legend of inexhaustibility is a
dangerous one. It was the legend of its
inexhaustibility which finally doomed the
passenger-pigeon.
Those Gardening Tools
ONE of the best features about
gardening as'a hobby is that
it gives to its devotees the true
philosophic outlook one
simply has to be a philosopher to
spend time raising seedlings which
will later be either scratched up by
the cat or the dog, felled by cut-
worms, sucked to death by aphides or
chewed away by grubs, or even killed
by excessive kindness.
But the philosophy undoubtedly
gets its greatest test when the
gardener takes out his mattock to
turn a bed over and, on raising it
slowly above his head for the first
stroke, the heavy blade slips off the
shrunken handle and slides down to
clunk on his knuckles.
He is faced here with alternatives,
If he is the lazy type he might avoid
the necessity to do repair-work on it
simply by swinging the mattock up
quickly and bringing it down even
more so before the blade has time to
start slipping down the handle while
it is still vertical. Being lazy, how-
' ever, he will be opposed to doing
anything fast, so he will naturally
look to other means of making the
thing secure.
He can make the handle swell by
soaking it in water, letting it absorb
only so much as will ensure its being
a tight fit. A few weeks later he will
take it out again to use. Again he
will raise it slowly; the momentary
pause at the apex of his swing will be
sufficient for the dried-out handle to
again slip off, and again will come
the familiar clunk on knuckles.
Driving a stout nail between the
thick part of the handle and the blade
will be quite effective—until, at the
first using thereafter, he connects
with a subterranean gibber. At the
apex of the next upward stroke there
will come a —
But you know all that. He will
look for the nail—in vain. But it will
not be lost. The mower will
unerringly pick it up near the edge
of the bed next time it’s in use.
Now let us turn to the rake.
Wishing to level-off a newly-turned
bed, the gardener makes his usual
search of garage or tool-shed. He
then begins a slow, careful circum-
ambulation of his garden, finally
running the missing weapon to earth
underneath the choko-vine, where he
had left it a few months before.
The handle, which he had intended
to preserve by giving it several coats
of oil when he bought it some years
before, will, through exposure to
wind and sun, be all cracked and
splintered. As whittling it down with
a scraper will render the handle so
tenuous as to be dangerous to lean
on while he yarns to the bloke next
door, and as the wearing of garden-
ing-gloves would expose him to the
suspicion that he was a bit of a
pansy, his only alternative is to dis-
pense with a handle altogether.
And why not? Is a long handle
so necessary in a rake? I had trodden
on the upturned prongs of my own
rake so many times, each time my
clock being woodened by the up-
rearing handle, that I decided once
for all to have done with the tyranny,
Now, lying flat on my stomach, I can
rake a bed not only with no strain,
as formerly, on my leg-muscles, but
in the right attitude to drop off to
slumber whenever that beautiful
soporific feeling creeps over me in
the warm sunshine,
It is a wonder others don’t follow
my example. The only ones whose
faces are safe from the onslaught of
the swiftly-rushing handle are gar-
deners whose aldermanic paunches
afford them protection. I have heard
of gardeners trying, as it were, to
save face by cutting their rake-
handles short, so that they only get
belted in the shin. This compels them
to bend double while raking. They
may as well save the permanent wave
in the cervical vertebras by dispens-
ing with the handle and doing it
prone.
The tines of the garden-fork.
through continually getting stuck in
solid objects when driven under-
ground, often get curled edges, and
some gardeners follow the silly prac-
tice of banging these out straight with
the hammer. With what result?
Their wives give the cuppa callr and
with thankfulness and an. over-
eagerness which too often means
careless marksmanship, they hurl the
blasted fork down and spear them-
selves. The tines of my fork, which
turn under at all angles, bounce
harmlessly off my boots,
The worst feature of the handfork
is its diabolical habit of losing itself,
Before I went in desperation and
bought four of them, to distribute in
chosen strategic spots around the
garden, I used to spend up to half
an hour searching for my only hand-
fork. Now I am able to find one
after only ten minutes,
Some gardeners throw a handfork
away when one of the four tines
breaks off. Sheer waste. Even a
two-tine fork can be used efficiently,
and on such occasions as I fail to
find any of the four forks I fall back
on a one-tine veteran. Slightly more
tedious, perhaps, than with one
having all its fangs, but still a fork,
I have been going to buy a pruning-
saw for the past 12 years, but, as I
always say, a full-sized rip-saw is a
man’s saw. Moreover, it tests my
powers of manoeuvring while doing
a rosebush, as no pruning-saw could
ever test them,
The tomahawk is another imple-
ment about which there is fbo much
fuzzy-mindedness. Some fellows are
always putting the thing on the stone
to get a razor-sharp edge, thus
inviting accidents,
My own, which was last sharpened
by the manufacturer 20 years ago,
is able to chew sufficient bluntness off
the bottom of my garden-stakes to
allow them to be driven into the
ground immediately after we have
had 12in. of rain. And at least it is
humane. The last time I set out to
decapitate an elderly Australorp that
had been failing in its matutinal
duties the bird bent on me quite a
reproachful look as the blade
bounced off her neck. She is still
laying an average of one egg a
month.
. Always clean the compost-pit out
at intervals of no more than a year,
The last time I cleaned mine out I
recovered two handforks, a pair of
secateurs, a hammer, a hacksaw and
—I had wondered who on earth I’d
lent the thing to—my Stanley plane,
Bo.
PAVEMENT MIRACLE
CROSSING the Harbor Bridge by
bus every morning I marvel at the
size of the city and what it con-
tains; the complexity of its vast
design, its industry and its bewildering
capacity for absorbing the raw materials
of a continent and transforming them
into the things by which we live, from
mousetraps to locomotives, from pickled
cucumbers to flash-frozen turkeys.
This morning, walking down Jamieson-
street from the bus to my office, I noticed
a small green plant, less than an inch
high, which had found and pushed
Sn°nfnhahiv re h ICe .on t • h h
will probably be gone tomght, crushed
under a thousand busy feetf but it was
not its brief life which caught my atten-
tion, nor the tact that it and its kind
could, if left alone, engulf and destroy
the city.
The intriguing thing about those three
small green leaves struggling for life in
the shadowed, dusty canyon of a city
street was that the infinitely delicate hairs
of their roots were, by the strange pro-
cess of osmosis, finding and absorbing
water in the infertile darkness beneath
the pavement and sending it up to the
leaves. The leaves, in their turn, were
breathing carbon dioxide from the air
and, by the agency of that magical sub-
stance chlorophyll which can turn sun-
light into energy, changing the water and
carbon dioxide into sugar, starch and
oxygen,
There, through a crack in the asphalt,
t h e mos t important process in the world
was taking place; the transformation of
water and Carbon dioxide-of earth and
■ f „• „.t p
Me - m f to fo^,
chemistry is performed by the humblest
blade of grass, the meanest green weed,
but, no matter how high and wide we
build or how many atoms we split, it is
beyond the bodies of us poor animals,
even though we depend upon it tor our
very lives,
OLIVER FILTER.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 26, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3837
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
. Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
* Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
OUR OPEN DOOR
Mr. Don Barrett, member for the New Guinea
Islands in the Legislative Council at Moresby, a few
days ago advocated in the council the liquidation of
the trusteeship of the old Mandated Territory of New
Guinea and inclusion of the territory in the Com-
monwealth of Australia. It must have taken courage
to raise the question, since it is a matter about which
Canberra is highly sensitive. But it is one which must
be faced before long.
German New Guinea was captured entirely by
Australian effort in 1914, It has been governed and
partly financed by Australia ever since. It is now
ruled in common with Papua under a joint legislature
and administration (subject to the Federal Parlia-
ment), a system which prejudices the constitu-
tional status and progress of Papua. It is not
Australia’s possession, though it is Australia’s respon-
sibility ; it belongs to the gabbling mob of quarrelling
nations which humorously describe themselves as the
“United” Nations, While the Communist section of
this body is not charged with the duty of organising,
managing and financing this vital territory, it is dowered
with the right to interfere with the arrangements which
we make for it, and even with its defence. Wandering
and long-haired groups of busybodies authorised by
U.N.O. are able to wander through it, censure its
Administration and generally teach New Guinea
grandmothers how to suck coconuts. The U.S.S.R.
could veto our defence arrangements there, and, short
of that, its member-delegate on the trusteeship com-
mittee has the right to poke into any corner of it he
wishes. Moreover, it would be difficult, if it were
made an issue, to exclude Russians or Chinese in bulk
from the territory.
In respect of all this it needs to be remembered
that Papua and New Guinea territory, not to mention
the Solomons and New Hebrides, form a group of
islands which will become more and more a tempta-
tion to others as their exploration progressively
uncovers their almost untouched resources. The two
New Guinea territories hold the main chances of oil-
discovery within the Australian ambit, and it has yet
to be revealed what atomic resources there are in these
two groups of territories which —leaving out the
Solomons and Hebrides —are in size nearly four times
as large as England and Wales.
It is from a defence point of view that New
Guinea must be primarily considered, as this country
learnt to its cost first a decade ago when the Aus-
tralian 7th and 9th Divisions were on the eve of
launching their attack on the Huon Peninsula. The
development of the guided-missile and atomic base at
Woomera has brought Australia right into the No. 1
priority line for attack in a major war henceforward;
and New Guinea is the doormat over which any
enemy would strike from Eastern Asia. The recent
flight records .made by an Australian-built Canberra
bomber show that Sydney is now within four-
hours’ light-bomber range of New Guinea, Townsville
within two hours, and Brisbane within three.
It would be fat|l to believe that the Communist
bloc has never taken a real interest in the Pacific
Ocean and its affairs. Before the sub-committee of
the Judicial Committee of the Congress of the
United States, which heard voluminous evidence last
year and the year before, it was established to the
satisfaction of the committee that the headquarters of
the Institute of Pacific Relations, which has since 1925
co-ordinated an affiliation of several national bodies,
including one in Australia, supported by funds
obtained in the most conservative quarters, had been
virtually captured by a group of Communists. Such
diverse authorities as Major-General Willoughby,
General Macarthur’s Chief of Intelligence, Brigadier
Barmine, a refugee from the Red Army, and Louis
Budenz (formerly a member of the Politbureau of
the American Communist party) agreed that the Soviet
Union considered the I.P.A. as a Communist-run body
and used it as cover for Russian military intelligence.
In the face of facts like these it becomes impera-
tive that Australia should tighten its grip on the points
through which an enemy might attack, and its control
over those areas capable of being infiltrated during
peace-time by spies and saboteurs protected in their
work by a connection with U.N.O. Australia will
never be able to provide for the defence of New Guinea
with the requisite secrecy while Russians and other
people from outside can wander in at will, and go
where they like, under the authority of the Trustee
Council.
Both New Guinea and Papua should be admitted
to the Commonwealth as territories and given repre-
sentation in the Commonwealth Parliament.
,
THE MORTE D'ARTHUR
Then spake King Arthur to Sir Bedivere:
“The sequel of today unsolders all
The goodliest fellowship of famous knights
Whereof the world holds record. Such a sleep
They sleep—the men I loved. I think that we
Shall never more, at any future time,
Delight our souls with talk of knightly deeds,
Walking about the gardens and the halls
Of Camelot, as in the days that were.
I perish by this people which I made—
Tho’ Merlin swore that I should come again
To rule once more; but, let what will be, be,
I am so deeply smitten through the helm
That without help I cannot last till mom.
Thou therefore take my brand Excalibur
Which was my pride.”
— Tennyson’s “The Passing of Arthur."
What Ails Australia?
, x . . ... • A ...
Criticisms levelled at Australia by visiting American
joumalist ■ Robert Sherrod in a Saturday Evening
Post” article figured in cables a few weeks back and
sounded fierce, and also familiar. Visitors
and especially Sherrod, who makes this very
point one of his themes—could P| e^ c > “V*
anything they might say would, being printable, be
mild to what is said about the place by its own
inhabitants. Sherrod, whose article in full turns out
to be an exceptionally able and accurate doing of us
over, was astonished by the prevalence of self-
denigration he found here. It seems we know our
name is mud but haven’t the will to wash it.
It might be thought, perhaps, that they must
surely go in for some very refined sport in America
when Australian Rules football can be considered “a
form of unalloyed mayhem.” Obviously Sherrod didn’t
manage to be present when anybody’s ear got chewed
off and spat out on a Rugby League field, or, for that
matter, never had a close-up view of a Rugby Union
pack really enjoying the opportunities of a boggy,
boggy duel.
Still, Australian Rules fans would fully endorse
this minor Sherrod and be willing to fight
anyone who suggested that their game was refined,
As he says, we’re addicted to fighting among ourselves,
and this could be shortened to “we’re addicted to
fighting,” He was greatly impressed by the internal
fighting over the Olympic Games as an example of our
eternal fighting over everything, particularly every-
thing Australian. The implication here is that we
fight merely for the £ake of fighting , not because the
things fought over are worth fighting about, but
because anything is preferable to getting on with the
job It is easier to fight, in this sense, for five hours
than to work for five minutes, and ease has become
the national fetish.
The accommodation, or lack of it, which we offer
visitors (and endure ourselves) in what we are pleased
to call our hotels also greatly impressed Sherrod: he
advises prospective visitors to the Olympic Games to
bring their own tents. No one is likely
to dispute Sherrod’s findings on this score
of wretched accommodation at the general
level. If he yarns some pore with Yanks
who were here for the war he will probably learn that
some Bungs presiding in these headquarters of mhos-
pitality and squalor proved in that testing period the
most shameless and disgraceful bleeders, racketeers and
bounders of all, and that s saying a good deal.
Nor is anyone likely to dispute Sherrod’s finding
that here athletes are accorded more respect than
Ministers of State or of the Gospel, even though it
might be thought that there is something generally
clean about athletes which doesn’t always adhere to
Ministers of State. Nor is there likely to be any
great dispute, either, over his finding that, in the war-
time contacts, the Australians, “a race of frustrated
individualists if ever there was one,” envied the Yanks
for their “ability to get things done,” meaning their
contempt for the bureaucratic controls and prohibi-
tions, which go on multiplying all the time, levelling
down to the very lowest initiativeless unionist
mentality, frustrating the individualist at every turn.
He suggests this is why so few of the Yanks elected
to stay or come back here, and perhaps there’s no
disputing that, either.
There is, as Sherrod sees it, an explanation for
this state of things: simply, it’s easier being pushed
around, and Australians like it easy. They’ve “had it
easy for a long time,” and here “a lazy man can live
as well and respectably as the bloke with brains and
energy.” This is “peachy for the sluggard,” but “it’s
not necessarily good for the country,” a finding
Sherrod supports with quotation from “a seventy-three-
year-old, politically independent weekly magazine pub-
lished in Sydney” ; that is. The Bulletin. The quoted
comments said, in fact, much of what Sherrod says;
he’s surprised that “Nobody suggested lynching the
editor.” Maybe this comes into the category of lack
of initiative in private enterprise.
The Bulletin comment on “life exile” for “those
Australians who rise above the ruck” led Sherrod to
do some research, with the conclusion that “more dis-
tinguished Australians do live outside the country than
inside it.” The undistinguished and others remaining
“lash themselves to the torture-wheel” of high costs
and consequent shortages of all kinds, along with lazy
acceptance of the second-rate standards which those
and other instruments of frustration impose:
Time after dismal time this pattern Is repeated
in the everyday life of the Australian. Hotel servants
are unwilling to work after 8 p.m. without the over-
time granted them by the Arbitration Court, capital
is timid about venturing into something new and
untried, the public Is reluctant to pay for anything
superior.
Hence the Sherrodian conclusion, paying such
honor as is due:
Unencumbered by culture, higher learning or
overwork, the Australian is by any standard the most
avid sports fan on earth. If he is short on
philosophy, he produces ten times his share of out-
standing athletes.
Which, in its way, is a remarkable enough product
of a state of national lotus-eating laziness, considering
the sum-total of energy expended by the athletes in
general, to say nothing of the sometimes even greater
expenditure of energy by those who look on with
“flaring nostrils, fevered brows.” But that isn’t quite
the kind of energy which Sherrod (and not only
Sherrod) regrets as the missing ingredient in the
Australian individual, national and economic make-up.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cahill and the Arthur Case
The N. S. Wales Goyernment is coming
out of the task of dealing with the Doyle-
Arthur royal commission very badly.
When charges were first made against
Mr. Arthur the Premier, Mr. Cahill,
denounced the Opposition which made
them as “quite careless of men’s
characters, which they tried to destroy.”
He called the charges “scurrilous,” and
he was grudging in granting an inquiry
—he gave it only because “the Govern-
ment had no course but to agree to the
clamor of the Leader of the Opposition.”
Moreover, without a tittle of evidence,
he made a feint of having included in
the terms of the inquiry a charge that
a Commonwealth Minister had been
guilty of association with Doyle as well
as Arthur, but made no attempt to stand
up to this wicked furphy after he had
publicised it throughout the country. The
Government saw to it that the terms of
the commission made a really full inquiry
difficult or impossible.
Under responsible government it is a
Premier who receives the commission to
form a Ministry, and he is responsible
for the conduct of Ministers to the
Crown. But Mr. Cahill obviously takes
his duties lightly. It was imperatively
his duty to be on the spot while the
inquiry was in progress,' especially after
his own name was mentioned by a wit-
ness. But during its progress he has
been joyriding abroad, and is still joy-
riding. He has left the conduct of affairs
during its progress to Mr. Heffron, who
refused to allow an extension of the
terms of the commission to inquire into
some activities and associations of an ex-
jailbird who has received large contracts
for building with a Government depart-
ment which he controls as Minister.
Judge Amsberg’s report was lengthy,
and moderate in its expressions and sum-
maries, While clearing everybody at
Parliament House concerned, except
Arthur, of all charges of impropriety or
neglect, he held that Arthur had acted
improperly in not breaking off an asso-
ciation he had with Doyle after discover-
ing that the latter had misappropriated
£l4OO, the proceeds of the sale of a car
owned by Construction Services, Ltd. He
declared that in 1952 Arthur knew that
Doyle was a completely worthless indi-
vidual, undeserving of any kind of trust
or confidence, and that his subsequent
association with him and acts in connec-
tion with him passed bounds of indiscre-
tion, constituted a substantial breach of
the recognised standards of right-dealing
to be expected of a Minister of the
Crown, and were discreditable or
seriously reprehensible in a Minister.
Regarding money totalling £2475 received
from Doyle, his Honor reported:
I do not accept the given explanations,
but am convinced, beyond reasonable
doubt, that they were paid and received
for different reasons or considerations
which, on the evidence, I am unable to
state or define. Although the trans-
actions are highly suspicious, and I have
not accepted Mr. Arthur’s explanations in
regard to these sums, in law there is a
presumption of innocence. Rejection of
an innocent explanation does not neces-
sarily involve the acceptance of a guilty
one.
After ninety minutes of histrionic ex-
culpation in the Assembly, during which
he expressed no contrition for his con-
duct, admitted no wrongdoing, and even
attacked the judge for his “fundamental
and disastrous mistakes,” Arthur was
allowed to keep the initiative. His
resignation was accepted without ques-
tion. There was no word of condemna-
tion of him by members of the Ministry.
There was no suggestion that he
should be asked to bear part of
the heavy costs which . his impropriety
has chalked up against the tax-
payers. Mr. Heffron said that expenses
due to him for services done by him
for the Government while abroad on his
honeymoon would be paid—it is to be
hoped the Auditor-General will be in a
strict mood when he examines them. And
it seems that Mr. Arthur will retire on
a £9-a-week pension largely provided
by the taxpayers. There is even a pre-
sumption, not yet denied, that the Govern-
ment will pay his personal costs, said to
be about £4OOO.
Arthur, after announcing to Parliament
that he would appeal to his electors,
thought better of his intention when the
A.L.P. expelled him after refusing his
resignation.
Army Coup in Persia
Somewhat hidden from public view by
Malenkov’s claims to have the hydrogen-
bomb —Russian industrial effort has, of
course, always been devoted entirely to
“peaceful” objectives, as any Communist-
led peacelover will explain—the Kinsey
report, the A.J.C. finding on doping,
and the Sydney inquest on the thallium
poisonings, the Persian revolution might
turn out to be the most important event
of the month.
There is obviously a vacuum in that
decadent medievalised country ; the people
strike the Western visitor as more than
half-demented.
In a brief week the Shah and his Queen
had fled to Europe to suffer “the shortest
exile in history.” This, instead of being
the final triumph of the evil Dr. Moussa-
dek, proved his downfall. Persia is
not very loyal or devoted to anything
except its quarrelling and its eating and
drinking, but it has a peculiar devotion
to Shahs, and will stand nonsense from
them that it stands from nobody else.
Within four days after the Shah’s flight
Moussadek was a prisoner of General
Zahedi, confined in pink pyjamas in the
Officers’ Club in Tehran, and occasion-
ally having fainting-fits while his captors
decided his ultimate fate.
Some quarters blamed British-American
intervention to prevent a Moussadek-
Tudeh (Communist Party) alliance for
the monarchist coup; but the fact prob-
ably was that apart from a feeling for
the Shah, who is popular, the Prime
Minister’s flirting with Communism
roused the religious hackles of Persia’s
fanatical Moslem sects, a fact which gave
some popular backing to a coup on
behalf of the Shah by the Army.
The new position does not settle inter-
national relationships. Provided the
Shah can hold his position, however, it
makes problems such as the Anglo-
Persian oil problem negotiable on more
reasonable terms, though the Shah pro-
fesses that the company “exists no more
in Persia” and that oil “remains nation-
alised.”
The Communists and Russia are not
likely to allow the position to remain
where it is, if they can help it. They have
lost a tortuous friend who, intentionally
or unintentionally, was gradually liquid-
ating every element (including the defence
forces) which stood in the way of Persia
being reduced to the status of Soviet
satellite. And it is one of the Soviet’s
prime ambitions that Persia should be-
come a Russian corridor to the Indian
Ocean with de facto possession of Iranian
oilfields and command of the sea-routes
to the Orient from Europe and of the
approaches by sea, land and air to India
and the Suez Canal and Egypt.
It still remains to be seen where the
situation is going. It might just as easily
as not be that next week General Zahedi
will be wearing Dr. Moussadek’s pink
pyjamas and be throwing fainting-fits in
the Officers’ Club. Army coups rarely
achieve permanent results, as even the
Cromwells learned, and this one has very
unstable material with which to build
anything enduring.
Speak Up, Evatt!
Among numerous fugitives from behind
the iron curtain of the N. S. Wales Labor
party the frankest has been T. A. Sherley,
now resigned from being Federal A.L.P.
candidate for Mackellar (N. S. Wales),
which he was to contest against W. C.
Wentworth, M.P.
Mr. Sherley does not wish to leave
the party —he preferred to reform it by
criticism from within. But Dr. Evatt
and his commissars tolerate criticism in
their organisation no more than the
Malenkovs in Moscow, and both his local
branch and the A.L.P. executive have
censured him.
He is still a member of the A.L.P.,
but one would imagine not for long, for
he declares that Labor policy has allowed
itself at times to become “the vehicle of
opportunists,” and that “one matter
which has alarmed me more than any
other has been the succession of scandals
involving Labor men.” He complains
that such scandals as the Doyle-Arthur
case become easy because of the party’s
old theory of “my party right or wrong,
which makes it mandatory that you must
not criticise the party publicly.”
He said that the type of facts which
came marching out of the Doyle inquiry
disclosed “an absolute lack of the proprie-
ties of the people’s Parliament House,”
adding “I don’t hold Mr. Arthur entirely
responsible for the fact that a criminal
like Mr. Doyle could be so closely asso-
ciated with the leaders of State.” And
while he commended the action of the
A.L.P. executive in expelling Mr. Arthur,
he said that this kind of action had
“been dodged too often in the past with
a tendency to turn a blind eye and fail
to get at the truth.”
Labor supporters who have tried to see
a Minister and been fobbed off on to some
liaison-officer may be excused for wonder-
ing how a trickster like Doyle could
have the run of the House for so long.
He referred to the “notable scandal of the
day, the royal commission on liquor,” and
its mysterious delays; the City Council,
where Labor control has produced “dis-
turbing rumors of corruption, bribery
and other irregularities” —about the
“allocation of licences for fruit-barrows,’
of which he had “no evidence other than
my own observation.”
The N.S.W. A.L.P. executive has pro-
duced no answer to his criticisms. In
the Doyle matter, after expelling Mr.
Arthur, it solemnly “rejected the sugges-
tion that, due to failure of one individual
of the party, the party as a whole should
be condemned.” If there were only the
Arthur case to be considered that might
hold water, but Sherley’s strictures reach
much further.
One fact which has not been suffi-
ciently stressed as yet is that Sherley’s
attack brings the whole matter into the
Federal sphere, and it thus becomes an
issue on which Dr. Evatt should be heard.'
He is not tongue-tied, as a rule. Scarcely
a day goes by without an attack by him
on the Menzies Government —on Satur-
day last he was very vocal on the “tragic
decline of the pound.” It would be
interesting to hear from him about the
tragic decline of “Labor”-party standards
and cohesion.
Confusion in High Places
I -
Discovering that overseas shipping firms
had not increased their freight-rates on
New Zealand and South African runs to
the same extent as on the Australian run,
where they will shortly go up by 1\ p.c.,
T. G. Carter, president Of N.S.W.
Graziers’ Association, said it was “mani-
festly wrong” and that such cost-rises
should be “borne jointly by Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa.”
Mr. Carter, whose opinion was pub-
lished in the Graziers’ organ, “Muster,”
was reported as commenting on what
Minister for Commerce and Agriculture
McEwen said when he heard of the in-
creases :
A very thorough survey by senior officers
of my department discloses that a ?Fper-
cent. increase is greater than can be justified
on facts and figures in respect of freight-
increases since 1951 at the Australian end
of the round voyage only, and I am greatly
concerned that no increase in freights is
proposed on the New Zealand run or the
South African route, as both these countries
are competitors of in a number
of the products concerned. In fact, there
has been no increase in South African
freights for several years.
It happened that another Federal
Minister was interested. Senator McLeay.
He’s Minister for Shipping and Trans-
port, and he has made a “personal in-
vestigation of the problem to satisfy
myself whether current high freights are
in fact justified.” Unlike the “senior
officers” of McEwen, McLeay found:
Wages were never higher. Hours were
never shorter. The loading-rate was never
slower. Incidence of strikes was never more
serious. It is estimated that stevedoring
alone costs shipowners at least 500 p.c.
more than in 1939, and seamen’s wages
400 p.c. more. Because of shorter hours
70 p.c. of seamen’s wages are overtime.
In the first six months of this year 996
“disputes” on ships had lost 745,720 man-
hours. As an example of all this, a recent
Brisbane-Hobart-Brisbane trip by one ship
cost £24,000, of which nearly half was cost
of loading and unloading.
This, of course, applies to Australian
coastal shipping. But although over-
seas ships may escape the seamen’s wages
and overtime costs of coastwise ships,
they cannot escape the stevedoring and
other costs, much of which arises from
the deadly slow turnround of ships in
Australian ports.
“Muster” was told by shipowners that
stevedoring costs had increased more
than 30 p.c. at Australian ports since
1951, whereas N.Z. costs had increased
only 10 p.c., and had since decreased by
improved turnround. Nobody need be
told that port costs in South Africa are
away below Australian. Nor need Mr.
Carter dream for an instant that N.Z.
and S. African producers would agree
to subsidise Australian producers’ ship-
ping costs.
Mr. McEwen’s “senior officers” ought
to know that. They ought also to know
what Senator McLeay found by his
personal investigation. The position in
Australian ports, what with loafing, over-
time, strikes, shocking delays and all the
rest of it, is reaching breaking-point.
Competitors on Australian export
markets couldn’t care less; the Com-
munist-run unions responsible for much
of it couldn’t care less. And we’ll get
nowhere while Commonwealth Ministers
contradict each other.
Another English Recovery
Once to pretty well every man there
comes a moment of triumph in life.
Len Hutton, captain of the England
cricket team which won the Ashes last
week, has had at least three such moments
e in his first Test
match in 1938, when he made a Test
record of 364 that same year, and
Wednesday of last week, when his team
recovered the Ashes after 20 years
Wednesday’s triumph, however, was
much more than a personal one. When
Hutton stood receiving the crowd’s
acclamation he was part of what may
come to be known as England’s wonder-
ful year the year of the Coronation, of
the conquest of Everest, of a fresh re-
surgence of the English spirit, of a re-
covery of cricket supremacy.
Non-cricketing peoples can’t quite
make out this cricket ‘‘fever” which in-
fects all British peoples, whatever their
race or color. It is a minor phenomenon
of history that cricket followed the flag
just as surely as trade, and though the
British have removed their suzerainty
from once-subject races their cricket re-
mains. Little lads in India and Pakistan
today may grow up ignorant of British
ways, but they still know what leg-
byes and square-cuts are, and why a
man named Hutton is famous.
Hutton, perhaps, is the typical English
cricketer. There is a little Yorkshire
dourness in him, he is reserved, unassum-
ing, a master of the game as well as of
his own emotions, very much that English
type which smiles at defeat and comes
up again and somehow gets there in the
end. He got there last Wednesday, the
first professional cricketer to captain
an English Test (Hammond turned
amateur before becoming captain), the
first English captain to win the Ashes in
20 years. And even when he might
justifiably have skited a little after the
match, all he did was give high praise to
our own Hassett and his Australians.
Australian cricket-lovers generally
thoroughly enjoyed the English win be-
cause most of them remember the re-
appearance of an English team here after
the war. Half-starved, bomb-happy,
their homeland cities in ruins, their
national economy much the same, suffer-
ing war-strain, they came to “get the
good old game going again,” took their
defeats manfully and, with old hands
dropping out and new ones coming in—
but always with Hutton —built steadily
to Wednesday’s triumph.
Thirty Days* Notice
The New England New-State movement
means business. At Tamworth last week
it decided to ask the N.S.W. Government
to hold a referendum on a new State,
and, if the request is “evaded or ignored,
after four weeks the movement will ask
local-government bodies in the area to
hold a referendum in conjunction with
the l.g. elections this year.
L. Abrahams, of Grafton, putting a
resolution to that effect, said finality had
to come one way or the other, and dele-
gates didn’t intend to keep attending con-
ventions, passing resolutions and having
them brushed aside.
So it looks as though the Sydney
Government will have to face the thing
at last. That’s what very many people
have been wanting Sydney Governments
to do for 30 years or more. What’s more,
a referendum, whether State-wide or
limited to the New England area, should
set the people really thinking about new
States and making up their minds about
it.
The Aiihand Case
The Annand case has had embarrassing
results for the N. S. Wales legal authori-
ties. Sergeant Cameron charged Mr.
Douglas Shanton Annand, a well-known
and respected commercial artist, with
soliciting him for an immoral purpose m
a suburban lavatory at night and with
subsequent assaults on the police, resist-
ing arrest and damaging their uniforms.
On the evidence of the sergeant and
another policeman, the defendant was
convicted, but appealed to the Quarter
Sessions Appeal Court, whose chairman.
Judge Nield, expressed the opinion, after
seeing the locale of the supposed offence,
that “the most lynx-eyed sergeant in the
force could not have seen what Sergeant
Cameron saw,” adding that,
forming that view of Sergeant Cameron s
evidence on a vital matter I disbeUeve
the whole of his evidence... The sergeam
gSBt-2 sssfc
ss aa?
(Continued on next page)


I saw of the site of the incident last
night that it is a wicked and dastardly
lie.
Judge Nield upheld the appeal and
quashed the conviction (by a magistrate)
of Mr. Annand. The Commissioner of
Police first suspended and then dismissed
Sergeant Cameron . from the force,
apparently to put him in a position to
appeal to the Crown Employees Appeal
Board, which he did. The Police Asso-
ciation announced that, following the
passing of several resolutions by its
branches, it would pay the costs of the
sergeant’s legal representation, and a
Q.C. was briefed for him.
The tribunal was presided over by Mr.
Justice Weir, of the Industrial Court,
Superintendent Ramus, “representing the
Police Department,” and the “President
of the Police Association,” Sergeant
Boston, “representing the Police Associa-
tion,” were the other members. The
Police Department was represented by
an advocate. Inspector Allan, as well as
on the Bench.
As clearly stated by Mr. Justice Weir,
the matter before the tribunal was “in
strictness an appeal against the decision
of the employing authority... .not against
the decision of any other person.” In
other words, it was an appeal directed
against the Commissioner for dismissing
Cameron, not an appeal against the
opinion of Judge Nield. But just as
clearly neither Judge Nield nor Mr.
Annand had the chance, at this Crown
Employees’ Appeal Board inquiry, to pro-
duce, object to or rebut evidence, test
witnesses or have his case put by counsel.
After hearing “an avalanche of unim-
peachable evidence” about the state of
visibility on the scene of the supposed
offence contrary to Judge Nield’s view
the tribunal found it “must come to the
conclusion that the stated grounds of
disbelief in Cameron’s evidence could not
be supported by the evidence given at the
sergeant’s appeal.” It recommended that
he be restored not only to the force but
to his former position.
Whilst the tribunal’s inquiry was in
progress the Crown applied to the Full
Court to have the Annand case reopened
in the Supreme Court, partly on the
ground that Judge Nield had, allegedly,
substituted his own opinion, as a result
of viewing the locality, for evidence that
was before him. The Full Court dis-
missed the application. Street, C.J., say-
ing that the principle had been clearly
laid down that when a party had been
acquitted by a properly constituted
tribunal that was the end of the matter
so far as a writ of certiorari was con-
cerned.
POLITICAL POINTS
Rumored remark by flustered N. S.
Wales Cabinet Minister after the Doyle
Inquiry debate: “I’ve been so bustled I
don’t know whether I’m Arthur or
Martha; but I hope I’m not Arthur.”
• •
“Costs in Australian industry are
bigger and have grown faster than those
of any other country.”—R. Parry-
Okeden, president N.S.W. Chamber of
Manufactures. “A reduction in Aus-
tralia’s cost structure is fast becoming
imperative,”—E. R. Knox, chairman of
the Commercial Bank of Sydney. “After
a period of marked changes and uncer-
tainties... .there is the hangover from
the past two years, when costs and prices
were rising more rapidly than those in
overseas countries,” —Bank of N.S.W.
And still people like Dr. Evatt harp
about the delay in “putting value back
in the pound.”
• •
Former Chief Justice Latham told the
Royal Australasian College of Surgeons
that the basic wage should be fixed on
the value of a worker’s output and not
on the cost of living. But that would
mean some people wouldn’t get any pay
at all.
• •
It shows “Labor” up for what it is
when one compares “Labor” propaganda
this year with last year. Then Menzies
was being accused of putting people out
of work, ruining business and industry,
and attacking wages. Today he’s being
attacked by “Labor” and some of its
silly sympathisers because industry is
making profits and wages are higher.
“Labor” politics is bookmaker politics:
you create a false favorite and when it
gets beaten blame the stewards.
a #
Those newspapers which a few months
ago were given to running banner head-
lines every time the handful of unem-
ployed increased a digit or two give
nothing like the same publicity to the
steadily improving employment figures
of the last three or four months. On
July 31 the unemployed figure
dropped for the seventh successive month,
a tribute to the Menzies-Fadden stabilis-
ing policy if ever there was one. But
they get little credit for it from those
who screamed calamity at them earlier
this year.
0 0
Menzies told a Colac (Vic.) audience
—Colac is in the Corangamite electorate,
where a by-election campaign is running
—that his Government had assisted State
works by more than £3OO million from
revenue in three years, one reason why
taxation has not been reduced in that
time. How the money was spent is an-
other matter. No Premier ever details
his works programme to the Common-
wealth, and no Premier would accept
Commonwealth advice on how to spend
the money.
0 0
One of those public-opinion polls has
discovered that 55 p.c. of the people be-
lieve the Commonwealth Government
should hold a referendum on whether or
not it should sell the Commonwealth
shipping line. Question and answer are
both silly. No Government could carry
on if it had to hold a referendum every
time it wanted to dispose of, or acquire,
something.
0 0
Caines offsider Galvin, hit by a storm
of opposition to his proposed lottery, got
this off: “We don’t want to bring in a
lottery, but we are compelled to by our
economic position.” The next time a
cashier goes punting with the firm’s
money he ought to try that on the jury.
0 0
Towards the end of a long wrangle
in Melbourne over the price of beer,
Corrigan, “Labor” M.L.A. for Port Mel-
bourne, proclaimed that the only solu-
tion was to nationalise the breweries,
because the workers “are tired of drink-
ing their beer at luxury prices.” What
he meant, of course, was that they are
tired of paying luxury prices for the
beer they drink. That is quite under-
standable, but what makes Corrigan think
a Government brew would be any
cheaper? All the evidence available from
past experience of Government enter-
prises suggests it would be dearer still.
0 0
Tonkin, Acting-Premier of West Aus-
tralia, some time ago said his Govern-
ment couldn’t finance its share of the
Kwinana oil-refinery establishment and
demanded that Canberra should spar up.
A little later he said his Government
couldn’t finance school repairs and build-
ing, though both were badly needed.
Now, back in his job as Minister for
Works, he’s announced that his Govern-
ment will build a State pub to keep the
Kwinana workers in beer. Maybe his
colleague for Education will give the
schools a half-holiday the day the pub
is officially opened.
0 0
France, Italy and Japan have told
Canberra in polite terms that unless
Australia buys more of their goods they’ll
»8&
g
M
%
g N.S.W-J
fcABOB!
INSANITARY
have to see whether they can go on buy-
ing the same volume of Australian goods.
Since all three are heavy buyers of wool
—in fact wool would comprise the bulk
of their purchases from Australia —there’s
a stronger threat in their demands than
appears.
• •
Arthur Calwell has returned from a
tour of North Queensland and Northern
Territory, refreshed but alarmed. He
wants a Northern Defence Council set
up at once to plan the defence of North
Australia, though who told him where
the danger lies or whether he proposes
a fine of forts or thinks the Common-
wealth merchant ships should be armed
instead of being sold isn’t clear. In any
case he seems convinced North Australia
is no longer a part of the continent, for
he wants a hundred million or so set
aside for its special defence. Still, all
jokes apart, whoever means to attack
will certainly think again, now that
Arthur is awake to the situation.
• •
“Ten people had died in a heat-wave
on Persia’s south coast Business has
slowed down because most employees
have fled to the cooler hills” (Hobart
“Mercury,” 11/8/’53). A few days later
the heat was on again; in the American
sense, caused by murdering mobs, some
backing the Shah, some for Dr. Moussa-
dek. All was confusion for , a while, the
weeping Premier being in the saddle one
minute and out the next. So the hills
were again popular for those who found
Tehran far too torrid. It simmered down
when the military took over and sent for
the Shah. Moussadek is now in the
cooler awaiting trial.
• •
During a debate on something or other
in the Sydney Parliament a Cahill
member named O’Neill loudly asserted
that the 200 million bricks made at the
State brickworks had been a “major con-
tributor to alleviating the shortage of
materials for houses.” The losses on the
project have also been a big contributor
to the Cahill deficit, but O’Neill didnt
say that.
0 0
Lloyd Ross, of the N.S.W. branch of
the A.R.U., holds that “transport-workers
should think twice before they caused in-
dustrial unrest. Workers in a nationalised
industry should realise that its success
would be to their interests.” Press and
people have been saying the same thing
for years without response from strikers
and go-slow artists who run transport
unions. Now is the chance for unionists
to listen to one of their own officials.
0 0
In 1886 Cobb and Co. ran two coaches
daily from Brisbane to Toowoomba. In
1953 Queensland “Labor” railways run
two trains over the same route. Cobb
and Co. made a profit. The railways,
even with competition from road-hauliers
strangled by discriminating taxes and
licence fees, don’t.
The most intriguing recriminations of
the week were those in which R. J.
Heffron, the wandering Premier Cahill’s
seatwarmer in N. S, Wales, and once the
Communist party’s official tutor in
public-speaking, blasted some disruptionist
A.L.P. comrades as “Communists” and
“fellow-travellers.” The maligned com-
rades’ riposte was to accuse Heffron
of “McCarthyism.” Any time now
Arthur Calwell may call Dr. Evatt a
“Menzies warmonger.”
• •
The Cahill-Heffron Government seems
to have missed the opportunity of its
life when it refused the request of its
persecutor, Wentworth, M.H.R., to extend
the Amsberg Commission’s terms of
reference so as to permit inquiry into
the activities of a Mr. Vitnell, whose
contracts with Heffron’s Department of
Education are the subject of a depart-
mental investigation. That a group of
King’s Ministers should have missed such
a sterling chance of confounding its
libellers is almost unbelievable.
• •
Many of the critics who accuse
America of dictating foreign policy to
Britain and Australia seem only too eager
to dictate foreign policy to America.
• •
There was a meeting of the State
Council of the Vic. L.C.P. in Melbourne.
Two of those Hollway Liberals, Dennett
and To veil, were stopped from entering.
One had been a colonel, the other a
brigadier, in the war, so they tried a
rear attack. No go. Back at the front
again Dennett got the names of men
and women guards on the door and was
told they were employees of the Liberal
party. Meantime the delegates inside, by
275 to 25, approved the State executive’s
expulsion of Hollway and Co. from the
party.
Last week well over 100,000 tons of
raw sugar was banked up at Queensland
sugar ports waiting for wharfies to finish
their spring siesta or winter dormancy
or whatever it is. Last year at this time
the lag was 63,000 tons. Next year at
this time !
0 0
A newspaper reporter in Melbourne
ran into “potato experts from four States
who hope to complete a Commonwealth-
wide scheme to end potato famines.” By
abolishing controls? Don’t be silly! By
“planning to regulate the flow of potatoes
betyveen States, prevent shortages and
blackmarketing, control production, and
ensure reasonable prices to growers.”
That’s the plan we’ve been working under
for years; it has resulted in shortages,
high prices and blackmarketing.
0 0
Soviet newspapers are featuring official
appeals for increased output. This must
seem rather strange to readers of Com-
muhist papers printed in Australia ; these
always give the impression that every
worker in Russia has been willingly
working to the utmost of his ability for
years, singing merry Communist songs
the while.
0 #
“0.G.”: At Canberra one Acting-
Premier referred to the offer of £142
million to the States as like “carving-up
a crow.” “More like a tomtit,” chipped
in another. How many millions —or
billions —they would need to make it look
like a Bird of Paradise!
0 0
Almost as fearfully as its counterpart
in N.S.W., the Queensland “Labor” Gov-
ernment has let it be known that with-
drawal of the Commonwealth subsidy to
pay the administrative costs of price-
control means that price-control is oil
the way out. What “Labor” has to per-
suade its double-dyed Socialist element is
that you can’t have Socialism unless
someone else pays for it.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Cine Ma”: It may be some comfort
to filmgoers who have seen 3-D through
glasses to know that if they practise
hard enough they may some day be able
to dispense with the glasses and see their
favorite filmstar stark and in true per-
spective. N. H. Rosenthal, Director of
Visual Aids at the University of Mel-
bourne, and his assistants have become
so expert at crossing their eyes that they
can now, without using glasses, see be-
tween the stereoscopic pairs a third image
which is in perfect stereoscopic relief.
Whether a generation will arrive with
permanently-crossed eyes is a question
for the future.
“Bo”: So far as I know there have
been no memorials erected to the memory
of “Steele Rudd” except an intangible
one that has lasted at least four .decades
and shows no sign yet of disappearing.
The same memorial is shared by another
Australian figure once distinguished in
the arts. After all, someone, up and
down the land, is always asking someone
else to “lend me some Oscar,” just as
“Steele Rudds” are still dug and peeled
and boiled —and they are used by a
generation many of whom don’t know
the identities of those whose memory is
thus perpetuated. And no doubt author
Arthur Hoey Davis and actor Oscar
“She hasn't done much riding before."
Asche would feel honored if they could
know that rhyming slang has helped to
, keep their names alive.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Flat B.”: They breed ’em tough in
the Apple Isle. Awning of a Hobart
suburban shop carries the sign: “The
Complete Food Store . . . Hardware, etc.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Macquarie”: Within 15 minutes of
our starting to build a public shelter-
shed in a Sydney suburb the barrage had
begun. The opening sentence never
varied: “What are you building here?”
But from there on! Growled one old
chap: “Huh, why couldn’t they leave
our seat here? It was in the sun —
feller’ll freeze inside that.” Another:
“Wouldn’t occur to ’em to put a draught-
board in it so’s we can pass the time
away.” A woman: “Women won’t be
able to get in it to rest their feet —
it’ll always be full of deadbeats.” A
happy-looking cove: “Ah, well, it’s nice
to see them looking after the old folks.”
A street-sweeper: “Another place for
plonk-ohs to mess up with broken bottles
and prawns’-heads.” But one elderly
dame really had blood in her eyes:
“You think nothing of taking away the
poor pensioners’ seat to make way for
your building, do you?” she attacked me.
I hastened to explain that the new seats
would be inside, comfortable, out of the
elements, etc. “Oh, will they?” she
said with rising voice. “And who pays
for all these things? Me! Because I
was fool enough to buy my own home
I have to pay rates to build shelters for
no-hopers.”
❖ ♦>
“Dash”: At a formal dinner-party he
was holding forth to the bright young
lass at his side on ants and their habits.
“Theirs,” he was saying, “is one of the
most rigidly-regulated and highly-
organised societies in existence. There
is even an army and a police-force to
ensure the territorial rights of the com-
munity.” “Wot, no navy?” inquired the
lass.
❖ ❖
“8.5.”: Born and bred in Hotspur’s
county, Northumberland, where even to
this day grammar-school boys speak his
name with bated breath, and where every
troop of Boy Scouts can sport at least
one patrol named after him, I can tell
“Cauboy” (B. 5/8/’53) that legend has it
that “that spirit Hotspur” had an impedi-
ment in his speech in so far as he couldn’t
pronounce the rolling “r” sound. The
story goes that all the young bloods of
Hotspur’s day copied his way of speak-
ing, and over the years that affectation
gave rise to the sound known to the
phonetic students as the “Northumbrian
T.’ ” The only way to describe it is that
it sounds like the beginnings of a decent
gargle. It’s almost impossible for any-
one save a Northumbrian to manage.
Ted Scorfield of The Bulletin is the
only man I’ve met out here who can
make a good shot at it. I think Keith
Michell played safe in shifting the
impediment from “r” to “w. If Cau-
boy” will provide me with a pint or two
I’ll repeat Hotspur’s glorious line “I had
Rather hear Lady my bßach, howl in
IRish,” for him in the legendary manner.
But he had better stand to one side for,
like his Alan Wilkie, I’ll set the spray
flying in the telling.
“Airs-crew”: I, too, heard Olivier give
Hotspur the stuttering “w” at the Old
Vic. in 1945. James Agate commented
in the “Sunday Times,” “It was a stroke
of genius to make the bright youth
“He'll be a politician — I won't have my son Working for a living!"
stammer at the letter £ w’ ” This seems
to imply that Agate, at any rate, heard
it for the first time from' Olivier—and
he had been a dramatic critic for forty
years. The clue is found in “Henry IV
Part II.” In Act II scene iii Lady Percy
refers to the dead Hotspur as one who
had a way of “speaking thick, which
nature made his blemish ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sackfair”: Years ago, in a war-film,
I saw two Danes drink a toast; both
solemnly raised their glasses and uttered
one word: “Skoll,” or something
similar. I was intrigued ; there was some-
thing about the utterance that suggested
an oath of allegiance; a sealed pact; a
resolution to see some grim business
through no matter what came up.
Recently I attended a function which in-
cluded two Swedes among the guests ;
every time they lifted their glasses the
same toast was exchanged: “Skoll.” My
curiosity overcame a natural diffidence ;
I asked the meaning and origin of this
Scandinavian pledge. With amused smiles
both answers were provided. Loosely
translated the word meant “bowl,” and
it was merely the name of the vessel in
which drinks used to be served. How
utterly ridiculous! Especially to us —a
people whose toasts have always been
sane and sensible. “Here’s how,” for
instance, or “Mud in your eye.”
* * ❖
“0.W.W.”: Spending most weekends
in hotels in various parts of New Zealand,
I have only to take one look along the
rows of bedroom doors, when I retire
late, to know what the boarders are like
—young and perhaps noisy, or older folks
with quiet ways. If I see shoes outside
many doors I know guests are the latter
type. Only middle-aged or elderly folks
“put out” their footwear nowadays. Not
that the shoes get cleaned in these care-
less times, but the older generation has
to be optimistic about something.
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.K.D.”: Old bank-ledgers (B.
29/7/’53) can be quite fascinating. The
first signature-book of the Lismore
branch of the Bank of New South Wales,
which celebrated its 75th birthday in
July, is no exception. Publicans seem
to have been the most numerous class of
depositor, followed closely by timber-
getters, general-merchants and miners.
There are several “can’t-write” customers,
each with a succinct, descriptive comment
beside his name and mark. One is
recorded as “having his upper lip
the copperplate handwriting Whm I
came across an unsightly Wot amid the
neat rows of entries the bank officer “t-
-ting beside me said: “That meant the
sack for somebody I n those days a blot
was ilnforgivable! ” 3
i a Eyen fp : ancient bank-
ledgers (B. 29/7/ 53) as records of the
times are chemists’ prescription-books.
* “5} my stint as an apprentice in one
of Victoria s oldest provincial pharmacies.
We had scores of ledger-like tomes on
our shelves, dating back to 1867. It was
interesting to trace the various ills which
had afflicted the town’s early citizens—
the ailments were, of course, not named,
but it was usually possible to tell from
the ingredients the prescriptions contained
why they were prescribed. Many of them
would be museum curios today, but some
of the remedies are still prescribed.
* * *
“Sparks”: On my first ship with a
brand-new wireless-operator’s ticket and
a far-from-brand-new radio I tried to
get a weather report after we’d run into
a cyclone a couple of days out of port.
No go! I worked at the radio while the
ship sheltered near Inskip Point and
managed at last to produce a faint sem-
blance of a signal. This proved insuffi-
cient to raise Brisbane, so when I heard
a well-known passenger-ship talking to
Townsville I seized my opportunity. It
couldn’t have been more than a couple
of miles away when I rattled in a call.
Back came a haughty, inquiring jumble
of morse. Sorting it out, I sent a request
for the liner to advise Brisbane that we
were sheltering from the storm. Back
came an enraged clatter which made the
headphones rattle. Puzzled, I asked very
timidly for a repeat. Another angry burst
of unintelligible morse. In desperation,
I asked him to indicate whether or not
he would pass on the information. A
longer and even more wrathful chatter
ensued. Unable to sort it out, I aban-
doned the cultured morse I had been
taught at radio school and indicated to
the liner’s operator that I didn t really
care whether he did as requested or no
and concluded with a time-honored sug-
gestion, Back came the reply in “copper-
plate” morse, “O.K. Will do.” I still
don’t know which request he referred to.
* * ❖
“Taffy”: I don’t know whether the
animal depicted in artist Scorfields ine
tank’s gone dry!” (B. 12/8/ 53) is in-
tended for a dromedary or an Arabian
camel. He hasn’t the breed of the tormei
and has far too benign an expression
for the latter. In any case, his reserve
water-supply would not be located in
his hump; that is the repository tor the
beast’s spare fat, which is used up on
journeys through barren areas after the
manner of an iron-ration. Worse still,
the Arabs are drawn with flat feet.
It is the boast of every son of the desert
that he can be distinguished from slave
and infidel by the fact that a nvukt
could flow beneath his instep.
DAD’S COMPLAINT
“Bert Bailey, who brought Steele Rudd’s On
Our Selection to stage and screen, left £32,527
to his daughter.”
“Well, stone the crows!” said Dad to
Dave ;
“Now old Bert Bailey’s in his grave
It looks like destiny has did
Us out of thirty thousand quid.
“We share-farmed on for ruddy Rudd;
If we’d had acting in our blood
We might have kept the L. s. d.
Strictly within the family.
“But fate keeps cockies in subjection;
Our free-will ends with Our Selection;
Along arrives some city cuss
To make selections out of us : —
“The stock-inspector, journalist,
The banker, the agronomist,
The windmill-salesman, politician,
City-agent, quack-physician ”
“I know there’s many a city quack,”
Said Dave, “lives on the cocky’s back.
But Bailey was of different stock — he’s
Made us both immortal cockies!”
“Yes, there I’ve got it over Bert,”
Said Dad; “but somehow I feel hurt.
After a lifetime of endeavor.
That’s all I’ve got to live for — ever!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Dalmore”; I really enjoy these winter
evenings—a comfortable chair, a good
book in front of the fire, and I’m happy.
What’s that? Would I like a cup of tea?
Yes, it would be very nice, but who’ll make
it? It’s cold in the kitchen. If no one had
mentioned it I could have done without
that cup of tea, but, now I’ve thought
about it, I’ll have to have it and I’ll be
the one who goes into the cold kitchen
to make it. Then, before long, it’ll be
time to go to bed, and I’ll have to go
to the cold bedroom, get undressed, and
climb in between icy sheets. I wish it
was January again.
“All those lovely officers on the ship and I had to land You!”
“Mark O’Polo”: The understudy in
“Othello” who apologised and “corrected”
himself by saying “that cunning one of
Venice” (B. 29/7/’53) can hardly be said
to have fallen at the first hurdle. Othello
uses That Word with reference to Desde-
mona once in Act 111 and thrice more
in Act IV before coming to the lines
quoted. Also “strumpet” twice.
4
*** v v
“Strict Veg.”: Some time ago I told
on this page of the plight of the Edin-
burgh corporation, which had been
burdened with the duty of discharging
the 50-year-old will of a merchant who
left £6OOO to be divided among 12 tailors
who had to be “poor, deserving and total
abstainers.” Either the three qualities
don’t go together in clothes-smiths or they
are self-contradictory, for the corpora-
tion reported to the courts four years
ago that not one such tailor, let alone
12, could be discovered. It was
ordered to try again, however, and it has
at last found one who is t.t. and at the
same time poor and deserving. I per-
sonally can’t help feeling sorry for all
those Edinburgh tailors who 50 years
ago went off the grog in order to qualify
for the bequest and ended up by becom-
ing rich or non-deserving.
+;♦ ❖ ❖
“B. A. Ker”: Last year a Sydney man
inadvertently built his home on the
wrong block of land. The owners
demanded a huge price for their block
and a long legal battle seemed inevitable.
However, the case was settled out of
court, with an exchange of blocks and a
cash payment. Such mistakes are not
as rare as might be imagined. One has
merely to tape-off from the wrong side
of a surveyor’s peg and the damage is
done. I recall an amateur home-builder
who got a sickening shock when the
financing company sent a surveyor out.
His 66ft. block was in a new subdivision
backing on to a river. He had found a
peg with his block-number on it, chained-
off 66ft. and, striking another peg,
had concluded he was right to go ahead.
What he had forgotten was that streets,
too, are generally 66ft. wide. He had
built his house in the middle of an
unformed road! Fortunately it was of
weatherboard —the whole structure was
moved bodily to its rightful possie.
* *• ❖
“Billy S.”: I’ve had some queer meals
in some queer places, but a seafaring
friend tells of a place that beats all
mine—a quayside dive in South America
where all the eating-irons were chained
to the tables. The purpose was three-
fold. Souveniring was cut out and,
should a hot-headed Latin customer feel
the urge to insert a knife among his
pal’s ribs, his swing would be restricted.
Finally it was a labor-saving idea, as the
washing-up was very easily taken care
of. At infrequent intervals, when the
“Sheffield” was really dirty and a fastidi-
ous client complained, a kitchenman
entered carrying a bucket of greasy water.
He would grab a knife, fork and spoon
by the chains, dangle them in the bucket
for a brief second, then, with a quick flip
of the wrist, swing the “clean” cutlery
back on to the table where it would
drain off and dry ready for the next
customer.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Curate’s Egg” : I’m no poker-player,
but there was an occasion when a dead-
pan expression stood me in good stead.
With an asthmatic car, I just managed
to make the township, much to the relief
of the nurse from the local hospital, who
had accompanied me to a dance on an
outlying station-property. Although it
was about 2 a.m. I knocked up the local
garageman, who turned out immediately
—in fact, a little too immediately, in that
he walked into the glare of the headlights
as naked as Adam. It was a hot night
and it was not his habit to -wear pyjamas,
and I don’t suppose he expected any
females to be about at that hour. Seeing
that he had not observed her presence,
my companion sat back while the nudest
mechanic in Australia tinkered with the
innards of the car as I handed him the
tools. Thanks to my preservation of the
deadpan expression, he was able to finish
the job naked and unashamed, which
would hardly have been likely had he
known that he had a feminine spectator.
♦♦♦ ♦> A*
“Sister Ellell”: I had apprised the
patients of my base-hospital ward that
we were to be honored by a visit from
V.I.P. (female), and would they please
help get the ward shipshape? They
agreed, but as the morning wore on there
“Change my bed, nurse. That kid snores."
was a good deal of nattering and not
much w B ork done. At first I asked, then
I caioled then a little fed-up, I delivered
myself of statemenf’ which left
no doubt as to what had to be done, in
the minds of my “rather-be-playmg-
cards” star-boarders. Eventually all was
finished, and I had a quick look-see. One
laddie muttered as I passed, “Is that all
right. Sister Haversack?” “What did
you call me?” I asked. “Well,” he said,
“you have been on our backs this morn-
ing haven’t you?”
*** ***'
“8.D.”: Although Hilaire Belloc was
a good horseman, “C. 8.” (B. 29/7/’53)
is not correct in describing him as a
“cavalryman.” He served his military
training as a driver with the French
artillery Although Belloc, like most other
military experts, made some wild pre-
dictions in his writings on the First
World War, his articles in “Land and
Water” were highly regarded. When
Eisenhower’s chief of staff, General
Bedell Smith, arrived in England he was
very anxious to obtain a copy of Belloc’s
Six English Battles, which was out of
print. He eventually got a copy
from Belloc’s daughter. General Bedell
Smith described Belloc as the only writer
on military subjects who realised the
importance of topography. Bellocs
description of Austerlitz, and other
battles, are among the finest descriptive
writings on military subjects.
* * *
“Fairf”: On rare occasions my wife
decides to go to a does’ night. Good.
I’ll catch up on some writing. I’m gener-
ally still polishing-off the rice-pudding
when she dashes from the bedroom, pecks
me a wifely “Good-bye,” and at the door
turns to fling back: “Don’t bother about
the washing-up—just put the things in
the sink.” Then she is gone. But the
rub is: I’d had no intention of washing-
up. Still, obviously she’d thought I had.
In other words, she thought me a more
considerate husband than I reallyiam. So
Ido the washing-up. My spouse is sur-
prised and appreciative. But a nagging
little voice inside me insists that I’ve
been got at. Fifteen years of married
life have failed to produce a satisfying
solution—except the brutal one: take her
at her word and see what happens. One
night I will do that—but I’ve been say-
ing that for 15 years!
* + *
* v v
“F.”: Slumped on a railway seat,
the drunk woke just as the guard blew
his whistle. Crazily he wobbled to his
feet, reeled across the platform, and
arrived at the carriage-door just as the
train started. How he contrived to
lift both feet off the ground at once could
ne ver be explained, but as the tram
gathered speed he was standing with his
toes in the doorway, arms at full stretch
anc i body leaning away from the carriage.
The guard stood with finger on the bell,
but not pressing it, either because he was
too shocked, or because he realised what
might happen if the tram jerked to a
halt. A chap standing on the P la^ f ° r ,
took in the situation, and as the dn
was swept past, placed a firm hand m
the middle of the teetering back an
pushed violently. Too violently! The
last we saw of the blotto one was a
glimpse of him in exactly the same plight
on the other side of the carriage. The
morrow’s paper recorded no railway
fatality, so the guardian angel who looks
after drunks and schoolboys must have
been keeping up the good work.
*:♦ * ❖
“P.O.M.C:”: Positive though the warn-
ing is, “Death is so permanent” is wear-
ing threadbare through overuse as road-
safety propaganda. But a Sydney brakes
organisation’s variation of the theme is
worth recording—“ Death is so personal.
❖
“Pat”: Traditionally, woman’s habit
of slicing a few years off her age has
been credited to vanity. With men it
apparently works the other way. One
I know invariably adds ten years to his
chronological score. Reason? Well,
according to him people, upon being
informed of his years, always say My
word, you do look young for your age!
$♦ ■ ♦
“Ceg”: As a forerunner of chlorophyll
remember those small packets of Sen Sen,
decorated with a gaily printed bow, which
were sold by chemists and confectioners
many years ago? They were much in
demand by bucolic swains, and others
not so bucolic. Armed with a packet of
these breath-sweetening cachous, and six-
pennorth of conversation-lollies, whole
realms of amorous dalliance were thrown
open to the amateur Don Juans of those
days. Other refinements of the period
were the small dishes of cloves and coffee-
beans which used to grace saloon-bars.
Possibly the six-o’clock swill doesn’t
now permit of such niceties in drinking ’,
the counter being accessible only to those
in the front row.
* * ❖
“Sack”: With a friend in the boot-and-
leather trade I was enjoying an inspection
of the Nicholson Museum of Antiquities
at Sydney University. “Tanning—one of
the oldest of all trades,” remarked my
companion. “See those goat-skin scrolls?
Thousands of years old and both leather
and script in perfect condition.” Before
some ancient slippers he pointed out;
“Stitched exactly the same as we do
pump soles today—what are you grinning
at?” I couldn’t tell him until the two
flappers had moved on, but one of the
girls had said: A cent’s only about a
ha’penny, isn’t it? Gosh, shoes were
cheap in those days!” It was sheer
hypocrisy that made me grin. At first
glance I, too, had been puzzled by the
typewritten tag: “V and VI cents.”
DOG’S LIFE
“Petitioner said her husband was ‘greyhound-
mad.’ He was out every night exercising the
dog, which had been the cause of endless argu-
ments. She left him when he said he thought
more of it than he did of her.” —Court report.
When a husband skips at night,
Destination undisclosed.
And whistling blithe and gay like a
canary.
Such an action must excite
Deep suspicion. It’s supposed
By his long-haired mate he’s going
to meet his “fairy,”
Probably she’d be correct.
If she’d win him back she’d need
To register true feminine reaction,
And with beauty-aids effect
Transformation — for, indeed,
It’s a “must" to beat her rival in
attraction.
But when pooch so long and lean
Which devotes its working life
To chasing hare it can’t see is syn-
thetic,
Pokes its bony frame between
Husband and his faithful wife
What use then is glamorous perm.,
costly cosmetic ?
It, not she, will set the pace.
And it’s likely to be found,
That four-legs will run out an easy
winner ;
She’s not really in the race.
More especially if the hound
Happens to be a top-notch money-
spinner.
Ah! What spouse would not revile
Against Fate, knowing that she
Was forced to play a very second
fiddle
To a lowly animile.
It remains now but to see
How she will finally resolve the
riddle.
Growling’s been no use, that’s plain.
But a blow she yet may strike
For other helpmeets placed in like
rejection
Though her lord is off the chain,
She could try suing the tyke
For alienation of her man’s affec-
tion.
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


Keep in
good
SPIRl TS
g
p hoSPITAL
br andy
PERSONAL ITEMS
A man whose name has been as much
in the papers over the past weeks as the
Prime Minister’s, Harold Shelling, Q.C.,
becomes N.S.W. Solicitor-General.
Recent publicity stemmed from the
Doyle Royal Commission, in which the
new S.-G. assisted Judge Amsberg.
Backing his appointment is much first-
class experience of law. He won
honors and the J. B. Dailey Prize
at Sydney University, and built up a
large practice in Common Law and
Equity. In another sphere he rose to be
a lieut.-colonel of ordnance, serving with
the A.I.F. for three years in War II.
An Old Boy of Sydney’s Waverley
College, G. J. Schmitt, becomes secretary
of the Tasman Paper and Pulp Co* of
New Zealand. He’s packed quite a bit
into his 32 years—attending U.N. trade
and employment conferences at Havana,
France, Geneva and Torquay; the U.S.
in 1946 for discussions on the ending of
lend-lease; and negotiating the double-
tax agreements between his country,
Britain, the U.S. and Canada. At the
moment attached to the N.Z. Treasury,
Schmitt served with the Enzed Navy in
War II as a radar-officer, and gets his
interest in things commercial from his
dad —L. J. Schmitt, one-time secretary of
Industries and Commerce and New Zea-
land Trade Commissioner in Australia.
Alasdair Alpin MacGregor, the noted
British author (B. 29/7/’53), has com-
menced a series of Sunday-night song
recitals for the A.8.C., titled “Scotland
in Song and Story.” He returned to
Sydney recently after several months with
notebook and camera among the Mac-
donnell Ranges in Centralia.
One of those whom Queen Salote of
Tonga met during her one-day visit to
Perth and Fremantle was a cheery little
ex-naval man, Harry (“Tug”) Wilson,
full-time secretary of the Fremantle R.S.L.
Wilson served in the R.N. for years
before coming to Australia on loan to
the R.A.N. in 1912. His earlier service
took him on voyages to both the Arctic
and the Antarctic, and through all the
oceans between. It was during a Pacific
cruise that he saw Tonga, and the Queen,
then a girl. He served with the R.A.N.
throughout the Kaiser’s War, and is a
Freeman of the City of London, a dis-
tinction also held by his son, a dis-
tinguished science graduate who spent
some years doing post-grad, research
work in England.
This isn’t the first time the New Zea-
land-born Alan Loyeday, the 25-year-old
violinist here with his pianist wife under
A.B.C. auspices, has played in Australia.
His father crossed the Tasman when
Alan was three and opened a school for
music at Katoomba; Alan’s acquaint-
ance with the instrument began at that
age. Today he is one of the most promis-
ing of post-war violinists, and after his
Australian tour he will take part in a
Royal Command performance at the
Festival Hall in London, along with
Eileen Joyce, William Herbert and Sylvia
Fisher. Loveday owns a 250-year-old
Strad for which he paid £3OOO, and which
he tried out on appro, at the Albert Hall.
But the fiddle he used in Melbourne was
a £75 instrument made in Fernland—
reason, his doubts about the acoustics of
the Town Hall.
“Centurion”: When, at 18, Peter
Crowley became one of the first West-
ralians to join the 2nd A.1.F., he was
paid five-bob a day. Now he’s been
appointed mines-manager for Anglo-
Oriental, Ltd., in Malaya, at £SOOO a
year. Selected from a field of 200
engineers, Crowley had already made
mining his career when he joined the
2/Ist m.-g. battalion. He worked his
Vickers through the Middle East, and,
joining the 2/33rd Battalion, had a
similar friend at Kokoda and Buna. In-
juries received invalided him out, but as
soon as he could walk he returned to his
old love, becoming a C.R.T.S. student at
Kalgoorlie. Underground-work by day
and long hours of study by night have
now paid-off.
Bruce Harry Stinear, chosen to join
the Australian Research Expedition to
go to the Antarctic next summer as its
geologist, is a 40-year-old New Zealander
who served as a navigator with the
R.N.Z. Air Force during the big blue,
and later had field experience in geo-
logical surveys in Australia and New
Guinea, as well as in New Zealand. After
three years as petroleum technologist
with the Australian Bureau of Mineral
Resources, he became acting-chemist in
charge of the chemicals and engineering
section of the Department of Defence
Production in Melbourne.
New Guinea old-timers will regret to
hear of the passing of Edward Thomas
Brennan —he was a medico up there for
just under 20 years, the last 14 as Director
of Public Health. That was an interest-
ing enough life, but Brennan packed
much more into his 64 years. He gradu-
ated M. 8., B.S. from Melbourne Uni-
versity, and was superintendent of Fre-
mantle Hospital when War I broke out.
He served for the whole of the war over-
seas, ended up commanding the Ist Aus-
tralian Field Ambulance, and came but
with a lieutenant-colonelcy, D. 5.0., M.C.
and four “mentions,” and then got into
the R.A.N. to serve as surgeon aboard
cruiser Sydney for two years before sett-
ling down in New Guinea. Later (1933)
he became M.L.C. He died at Cronulla,
out of Sydney.
Back in April this year it was reported
here that Squadron-leader P. Raw had
become the first man to be posted to the
R.A.A.F.’s Long Distance Flight—formed
specially to nut out problems associated
with the R.A.A.F.’s crack at the U.K.-
N.Z. Air Race. Raw is the chap who, in
his Canberra jet, has flashed over a size-
able curve of the globe, 3145 miles from
Perth to Christchurch, in 5 hours 42
minutes, a world-record nonstop flight
for a jet. After which he flew 1520 miles
back to base at Laverton. Thirty, schooled
at Melbourne Boys’ High, the jetman has
been in the service 12 years, and was
one of the few Australian pilots to be
trained in Rhodesia in War 11, where
he stayed on instructing. He changed
precept for practice in 1944 —Liberators
in Palestine —and then changed to 178
Squadron, in Italy—Distinguished Flying
Cross. Holder also of the Polish Cross
of Valor, he has done advanced specialist
courses in that handy science, navigation.
Peeling off his guernsey at the end of
the year, W. R. Orr, secretary of the
W.A. National Football League, will
leave a job he has held since 1914, ex-
cept for one interruption. That came
when the whistle blew for a bigger game
against the Kaiser. Orr served over-
seas with the 51st Battalion, A.1.F., and
returned to the football-field from the
battlefield.
Though he mightn’t have delved much
into differentials, there’s little else about
motor-cars that Gordon Wark hasn’t
handled. Now managing-director of John
McGrath Motors (the Humber-Hillman
people in N.S.W.), and with something of
the solid bigness of a Humber about
him, Wark, Old Fortian, started with
Perdriau Rubber in 1917, shifted to a
WARK, of McGrath Motors
motorbody-building concern, and got his
first managership in Melbourne at 25.
He’s had manager on his door ever since
—sales-manager for Masse Batteries,
manager of Olympic Tyres in Sydney for
12 years, then, in Brisbane, Queensland
manager of his present concern from
1946 to date. Seeing enough of cars
through the week, he spends his week-
ends navigating a fishing-boat. A cousin
of Wark, V.C.
The distinguished-looking gentleman
with the pointed beard hereunder Coven-
trated is not, as he appears, a Frenchman.
Metis non, although he is French
consular-agent in S. Australia. Norbert
Griffin was born in England, married
a Frenchwoman in London, and their
two daughters were born in Indo-China.
As cosmopolitan as he looks, Griffin
lived much of his early life as an engineer
with the Shell company, in France, Hol-
GRIFFIN, of many places
land, Germany and elsewhere in Europe,
and later shifted to Indo-China for 16
years. In 1941 he was one of the last
Britishers to leave Hanoi, one jump ahead
of the Japs. He landed in Adelaide.
At Honolulu, on his return
journey from the Coronation, the N.Z.
Minister of Internal Affairs, E. B. Cor-
bett* took delivery of the ashes of Sir
Peter Buck for interment in the
Dominion. Since Sir Peter’s death Lady
Buck was loath to send the ashes to New
Zealand owing to a disagreement as to
their place of burial, the Maoris desiring
that they be buried alongside the ashes
of his great Maori colleague, Sir Maui
Pomare, who also died abroad. How-
ever, an assurance was given that the
urn would be buried alongside the grave
of his mother, in accordance with Sir
Peter’s wish. This has been carried out
at Urenui, a native village 20 miles from
New Plymouth (Taranaki),
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 52, Malcolm Leo Austin, Com-
missioner of the Westralian Rural and Indus-
tries Bank. Before being appointed commis-
sioner, he’d been well and widely known among
Diggers and other settlers as the bank’s valuer
for the wheat-belt.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 76, Alexander
Roderick Fraser, teacher of sculpture at Welling-
ton Technical College and executor of the
sculptural decorations of New Zealand’s
pavilion at the Wembley Exhibition. One of
his best works is the bust of Sir Apirana Ngata
in the vestibule of Parliament Buildings.
In Essex (Eng.), at 75, Dr. A. N. Fell, a
Maorilander who skippered the Scotch Rugby
teams of 1901-3; his first-season team won
15 out of 16 matches. For two years he was
mile-champion of the Scotch universities. In
the field of medicine, he held appointments at
the Royal Infirmary and the Corstophine Con-
valescent Hospital at Edinburgh, as well as
several administrative jobs in Essex. In the
Kaiser’s war he was with R.A.M.C. in the
Balkans and the Caucasus.
Alfred Toyer, N.S.W. Commissioner for Main
Roads, who passed on while inspecting a bridge
near Murrurundi, had had a lifetime of public
service, in the Public Works, then with the Mam
Roads Board when it was formed close on 30
years ago. An engineering graduate of Sydney
University, he was a Ist-A.I.F. ranker in
France and Belgium, and a colonel of Royal
Australian Engineers, mainly in the south-west
Pacific area, in War 11.
In Perth, at 85, Arthur Edward Hewlett,
one of the founders and the oldest resident of
the Braille Rest Home for Aged Blind at Vic-
toria Park (W.A.). Born at Norwich (Eng.),
he was 14 when he accompanied his parents
to Westralia, and 19 when he lost his <pwn
sight through a premature explosion when sink-
ing a well on his father’s property.
“Fitz” farewells J.H.M.A.:
J. H. M. Abbott, who has passed on in
Sydney, was a Bulletin personality for so long
—more than 50 years—that most outsiders
thought of him as one of the staff; but John
was never a staff man. He remained a free-
lance writer all his life. His association with
The Bulletin went back to May 15, 1897,
when his first contribution, a poem called
“Lord, Think of the Lambs!” appeared in
the long-vanished “Bards of the Backblocks”
JOHN ABBOTT, as seen by Low
column. John first read his poem in print
while riding a mare named Polly. She stumbled
and threw him, and he broke a finger. “I
suppose it was a form of poetic justice,” was
John’s comment. A. G. Stephens often told
the story with great relish, and with embellish-
ments of his own.
Born in the Hunter Valley (N.S.W.), John
no doubt inherited his stalwart physique and
rugged countenance from his father, knight
Joseph Abbott, who was for 10 years Speaker
in the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly. John always
had a strong love for his boyhood haunts; no
less was his appreciation of The King’s School
at Parramatta, where he was a pupil—it’s the
location of one of his books and of many of
his short stories. A Ist Australian Horse
trooper in the Boer War, he ended there as
a second-lieutenant in the Royal Field Artillery.
Before that he had jackerooed on an Upper
Hunter River sheep-station; there he began
to write for The Bulletin, and he only ceased
to do so when illness forced aside his pen in
1948. As an author of historical novels and
of short stories of early Australian life John
Abbott made an important contribution to the
literature of his country. A “Red Page” article
on his literary career will appear in a future
Bulletin.
Had he lived he would have been 79 next
Boxing Day. He married Rena Wallace, a
Sydney newspaper-woman and There
was a streak of toughness and aggressiveness
in him more in keeping with the wild Macquarie
days which he portrayed so vividly than in
the more sedate period in which he lived. I
personally found that for all his contrariness —
and none could be more contrary than John
at times—he had the redeeming virtue of a
natural winning charm when not in one of his
black moods, and it was impossible not to
forgive him as he readily forgave others. John
Higginson, a Bulletin staff man, and a fellow-
soldier of the Boer War, used to say: “Jack
was born out of his time. He is really a
throwback to the days of the Rum Corps
and Gallows Hill.” And that, in a fashion,
summed-up a good part of John’s personal
character.


ENGLAND’S YEAR!


ABORIGINALITIES
“Horseless Horseman”: Cairns (Q.)
has just lost a landmark—the giant 700-
year-old fig-tree in Abbott-street. For
years the outsize in shrubs had cost the
council hundreds of pounds in damage
to roadways and drains, so, one day,
without notice, employees with the aid
of fire-brigade extension-ladders began
cutting it down limb by limb. It took
days to remove, and all the while hun-
dreds of citizens looked on in protest
and street musicians played such airs as
“They Cut Down the Old Pine-tree.”
There was no tree quite like this fig in
any other Australian town. Its shade was
the rendezvous of cattlemen from out the
Gulf way, sugar-workers, and men from
the Barrier Reef. The last living relic of
it is a pencil-orchid found growing on
it, which now occupies an honored place
in the Cairns city gardens.
♦ * ♦ *
“Bass”: The ancestry of our wild dogs
is probably put even more in doubt by
the latest reports from east of the War-
burton Ranges in mid-eastern W.A.
Between there and the S.A.-N.T. border,
north of the Nullarbor, there’s a breed-
ing-ground from which the dogs migrate
south and west. There are four distinct
types. There’s a brindle, with a tail like
a kangaroo-dog’s, heavy jaws and high
forequarters. It lives in the limestone
blowholes and will cover up the entrance
once it’s inside. The natives call it
“marru” and prize it as a hunting-dog,
claiming that it’s the best killer and won’t
leave a scent once it gets on it. There’s
a white dog, which the natives call “bill-
baroo.” It looks rather like a kelpie,
having a much smaller head and ears
than the brindle, and with a bushy tail.
The other two types are a yellow and
a black —the natives know them both
as “warragoo”—which seem to be
rather similar, and typically dingo. The
main point of interest, apart from where
they came from in the first place, is how
the four types have remained distinct.
“Ohinemuri”: When the “blue” started
among the girls and their escorts down
near Stretcher’s corner of the bar, he
snatched his schooner and shot through.
Returning after peace was restored, he
was twitted by one of his friends about
bolting. “Look, mate,” he said, ‘77/ be in
an all-in go with blokes any time,
’specially if there is no sides and you can
hit anywhere you see a face, but once
sheilas com© into it I’m out. Learned me
lesson down at the ’Loo one time when a
crowd of us was cutting out our shearing-
cheques. We get stuck into a mob of
Cockney firemen and are doin’ all right,
too, till a bunch of local girls comes
along. They whipped off them brassiere
things they wear, put a rock in each com-
partment, hopped in on the Cockneys’
side and dominoed the lot of us!”
* * * *
“1.N.L.”: The efficacy of trampling
hoofs in soil-consolidation (B. 5/8/’53)
was never better exemplified than in a
dam constructed by my grandfather on
his old property, Wangoom Park, near
Warrnambool (Vic.). At first it would
brim over with every good rain and then
dry to a mud-puddle within a week. But
he knew the remedy. He fenced the dam
and penned inside it for several nights
60-odd bullocks. So well did it set that
the dam is as good today as when those
bullocks did the job over 80 years ago.
* * * *
“Jackstay”: There’s a school of scad
—or cowanyoung—just outside the
breakers, and above them the air and
water are thick with screaming, gorging
gulls. Then, suddenly, on the face
of a blue roller half a mile to sea-
ward, there’s the flash of a dozen
or so gleaming, streamlined shapes, white
puffs jetting as they breathe —porpoises
heading for the slaughter. They know
where they’re going—that couldn’t be
more obvious —but how did they know,
perhaps from a mile or more away, what
was going on? The only answer seems to
be an acute sense of hearing, picking up
the splashing of the fish and the plunging
of the gulls. Or is it that, if fish can
make sounds, as they’re believed to do,
those scad are yelling blue murder and
the porpoises are homing on sounds of
terror and alarm?
* * » *
“Emjai”; With my first D.B. 12-bore
I also got five main injunctions from
Dad: (1) Never assume it isn’t loaded;
make sure. (2) Break it before entering
a vehicle or climbing through a fence.
(3) Don’t practise snapping with an empty
gun. (4) Keep it clean and never fire
with an obstruction in the barrel, (5)
Never lend it. Shortly after, Dad him-
self, under pressure, broke Rule Five with
his own gun. They brought the borrower
home with a shattered left hand. He
“Cork-tipped or plain?”
had poked the barrels into the ground
and omitted to clear before firing. With
this' impressive demonstration of Four
and Five, I accepted all as command-
ments never to be broken, and lived to
tell the tale. But I was too close to
be happy when a chap alongside at a
duck-opening slipped in the mud, re-
covered by leaning on his gun, and lost
about a foot of the barrels at the next
shot. I don’t doubt there was sound
reason behind the third commandment
also, and speed in putting the gun on a
bird was acquired by practice in snapping
with spent cartridges in the breech. An-
other warning was sometimes heard if a
shooter pulled on a duck out of range:
“Careful, laddie, or you will be straining
your gun.” And I did just that. At an
opening on Laanecoorie Weir the ducks,
chivvied before dawn, were high in the
ceiling. After hours with an empty bag,
I slipped a wire cartridge into the modified
choxe- barrel, and wfien the next mob
came over let go. I got my only duck,
but the jolt stretched me on my back and
“Quiet, please — I'M dictating this letter!"
broke the backblock off the gun. So
there’s a sixth “don’t.”
* * * ♦
“Taswegian”: The settlers at Sydney
Cove weren’t the only ones to note the
“perseverance” of mutton-birds (B.
5/8/’53). Back at the start of things
hereabouts the 500 persons on Norfolk
Island were on half-rations, with starva-
tion looming grimly, when, search-
ing for food, someone found Mt.
Pitt covered with birds which flew out
to sea each day, returning at dusk to
their burrows in the mountain. The
hungry people killed thousands as
they landed. They called them
Pittites; Hunter had a better name
for them —in his journal he calls them
“Birds of Providence,” and providential
they certainly were for the Norfolk
Islanders, for it wasn’t until four months
later that Justinian and Surprise turned
up with provisions.
* ♦ * *
“8.A.K.”: I didn’t know the little
bloke in the flash car —he’d picked me
up without even being thumbed. Along
the road he stopped to boil the billy. I
was stoking, and he’d got through a
wayside fence to gather some sticks, when
a belligerent 14-stoner came- charging
down the paddock. “Right-oh, drop ’em
and get out!” opened up the big bloke
in a nasty tone. The little fellow smiled
gently. “I’m only getting a few dead
sticks,” he explained. “I don’t care what
y’re gettin’. Get out!” roared the owner.
“Very well,” said the other cheerfully,
and got out. But the big fellow wasn’t
satisfied with that; he followed him down
to the fence. “You blind, or somethin’
—or can’t y’ read?” he went on. “I’m
afraid I don’t get what you mean,” the
little bloke replied mildly. “Well, there's
‘keep-out’ notices all along this fence —
that’s what I mean!” snarled the big-’un.
“I’ve had youse blokes —breakin’ down
a man’s fences, startin’ bushfires, shootin’
stock. A man oughtn’t to warn yez, he
oughter give yez a charge of shot”—
Suddenly the little cove blew up. “And
I’ve had you!” he yelled. “Hop through
that fence and put your hands up—and
you’ll get the biggest surprise you’ve ever
had in your life!” Big-’un was halfway
through before he seemed to think better
of it. “Come in here again and I’ll give
you both barrels,” he threatened as a
face-saver, and withdrew with mocking
laughter following him. “You’ve done
a bit of pugging, eh?” I asked admiringly.
“Never had a fight in my life,” the little
spitfire grinned. “That’s the surprise he
would’ve got.”
* * *
“Faarex”; It’s not so easy to break
things by dropping them from aircraft
(B. 3/6/’53). In September, 1941, our
squadron in the M.E. hit the jack-pot
with two dozen cases of a southern
brew. That night the queue outside the
troops’ canteen comprised the 0.-r.
strength of the squadron, minus three
characters on roving patrol among the
dispersed Tomahawks. First to come out
with a bottle was Squizzy, a noted
banana-bender, leading in the other hand
the invisible man’s dog (Squizzy had been
10 months in the desert, and was a bit
troppo). “Strike me purple!” he roared,
spitting out the first mouthful. “Why
can’t we get some real beer, like Fourex
or something? We ought to drop this
on the bloody Ities; do them a lot more
no-good than a few adjectival bombs.”
To cut it short, we did that; used one
bottle (empty, of course) in each
parachute-flare locker, and pulled the tit
when we saw the bombs leave the first
Blenheim. In each was a note “A present
for Musso,” or “Menzies’ secret weapon,”
or some other pearl of wit, and I for one
got a kick out of the mental picture of
the gutless Ities diving for their arp-
holes, while the sky rained bombs and
bottles, the latter screaming like —well,
like screaming bombs. Rex was test-flying
his Tommy next day, and offered to drop
a couple outside the mess at lunch-time.
The “screaming bomb” sounded more
like the whispering baritone, and when
we pelted outside to watch them burst
we saw two bottles land 50yds. away
with their necks buried in the sand, but
unbroken. “There y’ are,” shouted
Squizzy excitedly, “they have t’ case-
harden them, or that stinkin’ brew would
eat right through ’em before they got
here!”
♦ ♦ * •
“Salmon Gums”: Does a man lost in
the bush always travel in a circle, and,
if so, does he turn to the right or the
left? That was a vital question in a
recent search for a man lost near a sou’-
Westralian township, and the really
experienced bushmen who asked it
couldn’t agree on an answer. From my
own experience I’d say that anyone who’s
really lost almost invariably travels in an
arc and bears to the left; and an
old bushman has told me that in
new country, without being even remotely
lost, he’d noticed that he had a tendency
to bear left, too. He reasoned that if
he approached an obstacle —which might
be anything from a tree or a log to a
sandhill —he automatically makes to pass
it on the left. After passing a dozen or
so obstacles his course has altered appre-
ciably. He reckons it takes an effort of
will to overcome the tendency and pass
every other object on the right. And a
lost man doesn’t wake up to it.
THE LEADER OF THE MOB
We pushed our horses’ shoulders
Through the mass of granite boulders
And came to hilly ground,
The mob of cattle standing,
With one white steer demanding
Why we were hanging round:
A big and daring fellow
Who would not deign to bellow
But raised his sullen head,
His nostrils streamers blowing,
His angry red eyes showing
1 Before the mob he led.
He was ready to give battle,
Wheeled round, then led the cattle —
The hills took the attack
As hide and horn went smashing
Through saplings bent and crashing
That stood in their wild track;
But we were there to mind them,
Our horses close behind them,
And, when we reached a rise,
The wild mob stopped a second
Till their white leader beckoned
With his tail against the skies
And went like hell and blazes
For the far and purple hazes,
The mob close on his tail:
That heavy, pounding giant,
With red heart most defiant
And speed that did not fail.
With hooves that struck like thunder
And burnt the dry earth under,
He led them to the west.
Their tails before us flying,
The echoes round us lying,
And waking slope and crest.
Now with the plains before us,
We heard the steady chorus
Of their even, rhythmic rush
Where long soft grass was clinging
And fragrant breezes bringing
The smell of grass and bush.
Here our horses, in good fettle,
On the job began to settle
And we headed that white steer;
Went for him helter-skelter
Where there was no place to shelter
And the way was straight and clear;
Had the mob now safely guarded
Till the lot of them were yarded,
Each brown and brindled, hide
Showing a streak of yellow,
All except the big white fellow,
Who still looked angry-eyed;
Red eyes, defiance gleaming,
Saliva from him streaming;
And as we stood to view him,
The others drooping by,
His massive horns held high,
We took our hats off to him.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“H.H.”: The only place I know
where graves are actually in the
middle of a highway is near Struan
House on the Naracoorte - Penola
road, a main arterial between Mt.
Gambler and Adelaide. Struan was
taken up in 1842 by the Robertson family
—it was the first run in the Naracoorte
district—and it has its own private
cemetery. Today nobody rightly knows
the history of those road-graves, though
the most recent of the three headstones
i$ inscribed: “Dougall Cameron of Kil-
mallie, North Britain, who died in 1856.”
Yet when the blokes rebuilding the
road decided to shift these relics there
was such an outcry that they had to
leave them there and put the metal each
side of them.
♦ * ♦ *
“Betcha”: Any of the Council struck
a disease in foxes of which the most
obvious symptom is sore eyes? For
some years in this East Gippsland
district they have ■■had mange, but now
this is clearing, and in its place comes
the sore-eyes trouble. I doubt if the
diseases are related. Foxes with the new
disease are weak, slow, and more easily
caught, and the last three that have fallen
victim to my old dog have worn well-
furred pelts without sign of mange. One,
I suspect, had difficulty with his sight;
it seemed stupid, and failed to run from
the dog even when it had a wide-open
opportunity. Apparently it is contagious.
The dog that pulled the fox down has
since developed sore eyes.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We’d agreed to take the
mob of bullocks throdgh the rough
country and hand over to a down-country
drover. They travelled pretty well on
the four-day trip; but at the place where
we were to hand over nothing
showed but a green car and caravan,
a line of pegged lace fal-dals and
a female peeling fruit into a pot.
“Helluva place t’ picnic,” remarked
Seventyfiver, as, passing, we glimpsed a
satin-quilted bed, a row of books, a tiny
stove, and caught a savory whiff of
hot stew. He was pointing a stick to
toast his damper a bit later when a voice
drawled: “Mob look well.” He glanced
“Are you casting aspersions?”
up at a figure in white shirt and shorts,
and grunted. “All bullocks, aren’t they?
I think” “Ain’t seen a bloke around
’ere, ’ave y’?” Seventyfiver interrupted,
“Bloke? No* only myself and the missus,
I’m to take this mob on from here,
Though, if you ask me, for all the trouble
and hardship of these droving jobs
they really aren’t worth it.” The down-
country drover thereupon moved off,
leaving SeVentyfiver goggling like a
landed trout.
♦ * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “B.A.K.’s” boss
who hoodwinked the architect with his iron
bars (B. 5/8/’53) would have been given
a job by a road-contractor who employed
me during the depresh. The contract
stipulated that where culverts were built
a piece of six-by-four jarrah was to run
the entire width of the road to serve as
a bed for the pipes. On the morning
when the culverts were dug the inspector
always seemed to become involved in a
dispute on some other part of the job;
and when he finally got around to inspect-
ing them the pipes were in position and
covered over, with the ends of the jarrah
bed-logs visible at each end. Short of
ordering the removal of the pipes he
had no way of knowing that the timber
extended only eighteen inches in from
each end. That wasn’t a trick you could
put across a really experienced inspector,
but in those days even small jobs some-
times went by political favor and all the
supervisors weren’t experienced.
♦ ♦ * *
“Salmon Gums”: Over a short
distance, at any rate, the bee must come
close to winning the homing-instinct
contest (B. 19/8/’53). It returns in
a dead-straight line to the hive,
and whether the sun is shining or not it
can impart to the other workers the exact
direction and distance of the nectar-
supply. Attempts to confuse it by turn-
ing the hive around have failed —it still
knows and indicates the correct direc-
tion. This has been found out by watch-
ing bees working behind glass. But
before that, of course, it was found out
by the bees.
♦ ♦ * *
“Rooster”: The discovery of fossil
ferns at Kojonup (W.A.), estimated to be
60 million years old, will give Australian
palteobotanists their greatest opportunity
in modern times of assessing the extent
and nature of the flora then flourishing.
After the last Ice Age a new flora
took over, wrought out of the passing
ferns, a low and weedy growth, able to
withstand extreme climatic ranges. Some
samples of these were found in the col-
lection of Captain Scott’s fossils from
Antarctica, Those from W.A. may be
closely related to them, and ancestors
of all modern flora.
* * * *
“Bass”: Perth’s zoo has acquired a
shoal of mud-skippers, among the most
curious fish to come out of the sea,
inasmuch as they come out voluntarily,
and can walk and climb. Tropical fish,
they live in the tidal waters along WA.’s
north coast, and they leave the water at
low tides and skip about on the mud-
flats and around the mangrove swamps.
They actually seem to revel in the hot
tropical sun and apparently get enough
moisture from an occasional dip in a
shallow pool. Growing out from just
behind the head are what look like two
legs but are really modified fins
which they use for both swimming and
walking. They even use them to climb
up the aerial roots of mangroves. You
can’t chase them off the mud, and if you
manoeuvre them into a stream they’ll
skip across its surface to the far bank,
They seem to be able to breathe out of
water, so they’re probably in an interest-
ing stage of evolution, and their attitude
towards their fellows seems well adapted
to life on land. Whenever two of them
meet, as they sometimes do when they
dive into the same shallow pool, they
scrap. There are no preliminaries, beg-
pardons, or holts barred, and it’s a fight
to the death. If the Perth zoo provides
them with simulated tidal-waters and
“Hey, Bill, there goes a car like ours —same number 'n' everything."
mud-flats they should prove a decided
draw. Those fights are worth watching.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Old-timer”: “Mutton, mutton,
mutton! ” snorted Fleming. “Boiled,
roast, fried, corned, stewed —blimey, it’s
a wonder a man don’t grow wool instead
of hair. When are we” “What’s
wrong with you?” the cook demanded.
“Ruddy mutton,” roared Fleming. “Ain’t
we ever going to get a change? Ain’t
there any other kind of meat?” Three
days later the boss told Fleming, Pocket-
knife gnd me to head for Moonlight and
muster it. “Take y’ about a week,” he
said. “Arrange with the babbler about
tucker.” When we got to Moonlight
and opened the tucker-box it was stacked
with tinned fish, tinned beef, tinned ham
and tinned soups. “Whacko!” chortled
Fleming. “The good old babbler must
ha’ remembered me going crook about
so much mutton.” Three days later the
boss arrived to see how we were getting
on. He brought us some fresh bread,
milk and fruit. “Gripes,” Fleming com-
plained, “y* could ha’ shoved in a bit
of cold mutton. A man gets sick of fish
an’ stuff.”
« * * *
“Emjai”: Wattle grew profusely
through the auriferous belt in Victoria
50 to 60 years ago, and the gum was col-
lected and diluted for use as a household
adhesive, but was never a commercial
proposition. It was, however, a delicacy
favored by the kids in the days before
White Knights and All-day Suckers,
despite parental prohibitions on the
ground that it would gum up the works.
And that is how we Victorians came by
the name “Gumsuckers.” The freshly-
exuded blobs, with hard sugary crusts
and liquid honey-like centres, were delect-
able sweetmeats. I doubt, though,
whether this true wattle-gum is the
“manna-gum” referred to as being sought
by a German fifm at £175 a ton (B.
15/7/’53). What they are after sounds
more like the yacca-gum. In pre-War-I
days practically every farmer on Kangaroo
Island, while struggling to clear and
develop his property, had a welcome pot-
boiler in income from yacca-gum, which
was dug from the ground under the grass-
trees or “blackboys,” which abounded.
The gum went to Germany, where it was
supposed to be used in the manufacture
of picric acid, an ingredient in explosives.
«** * .
“Jackstay”: With the boat’s fish-room
full of snapper and a bottle of rum not
quite as full as it had been when he had
set out. Big Tom was feeling pretty good
as the purring diesel pushed him home
through the early evening, a mile or so
off the coast. Night and the
level of the rum-bottle had fallen
simultaneously, when he located the
break in the fuel-line. Well, so what!
A rocket would bring a boat out from
the shore to tow him in, so down went
another rum and up went a rocket,
answered immediately by one from the
shore, and another, and then to Tom’s
astonishment, yet another—but no rescu-
mg boat. So he sank another rum, and
sent up a flare, getting another rocket
from the shore. He skied a brace of
rockets. The shore did likewise. He
drank more rum, lit handflares, and
waved them round until he looked like
a human pin-wheel; he lit oily rags and
waved them, set off every flare and rocket
in the locker. Each brilliant display
brought an equally splendid response
from the shore, but ,not even a dinghy
came out to take him off. At last, with
rum, rockets and vocabulary exhausted,
he reeled below to turn in until day-
light . . Well, Big Tom will still go
to sea in the worst of weather; he’ll
go out on any Friday, the 13tb
or otherwise. But, despite the con-
gratulations showered on him for his
display by the folks on shore when they
came out next morning, you’ll never get
him to sea again on Cracker Night —not
even with a barrel of rum.
* • ♦ •
“Sebak”: The only time Paddy ever
got drunk was when he went to a
wedding, and then he was transformed
from an easygoing, second-generation
Australian to a son of Erin seething with
desire to wipe out the accumulated in-
justices to the “Quid Sod.” When his
daughter Mary married, the reception
was going convivially till Paddy broke
out, strode up to the pianist and, with
a creditable attempt at his deceased grand-
father’s accent, demanded: “Play ‘The
Battle of Boyne Water.’ And if ye play
it well it’s filling ye up with Oirish
whisky Oi’U be. And if ye don’t, ’tis
meself’U be bashin’
ye over the head with
your own piano, no
less! ” His indigna-
tion at the “disgress-
ful” rendition led to
a free-for-all equal
to anything Donny-
brook ever saw. At
Young Tess’s wed-
ding he sprang the
same thing on the
violinist —and, the
instrument being
somewhat lighter,
nearly succeeded in
carrying out hi s
threat. But when.
at Dolly’s reception, he marched up to
the accordion-player, the assembly held
its breath. The young fellow answered
cheerily: “Never heard of it, Pop.”
Paddy nearly exploded. “Ye spal-
peen ” he was roaring, when the
accordion was shoved into his hands
with: “Show us how it goes, Pop.”
Paddy stood stumped. Then a slow grin
spread across his phiz.' Suddenly the
instrument burst into rollicking music.
We’d never heard “The Cock of the
North’’ played with such vim.
THE HOUSE BETWEEN THE HILLS
The old house caught between the hills
trembles in the blue daylight.
I thought I heard the pine-tree say
that grumbled in its old man s way:
this house is very alone and half-afraid.
I found the house against the wind
between the tight and huddled hills,
the grass grown tall beneath the air,
the apple-tree was twisted bare,
O crooked finger in my mind.
The gate had rusted to a creak
swinging against the fretted stone.
The house was alone with a memory
too old, too true to show to me.
The house was caught between the hills
in the uncertain blue daylight.
Go out, the gate creaked in the air.
You are wrong, the pine-tree grumbled.
We are alone against the air
but hills and trees come down in here
and memory is lost and caught in us
like a frightened bird in a room.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
SONG OF THE ROBIN
Watch while I burst the delicate globe of the
morning
(And your lungs, thbught I, but who was I to
say?)
With a whirl of notes like splintered sequins
whirling
To scatter against the firm blue glass of the
day. , .
The sun-solid crucible for the frosts’ melting
Where ordinary lumbering things must work
to exist,
But this world was fashioned for me and my
singing
Out of a crystallised bubble of silver mist.
N.S.W,
OLGA SCHLUNKE.


m
(7
TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
ġ
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining TILIjKY
products.
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 2461 Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero, 300 Candle Power,
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL X 246
(“THE GUARDSMAN")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
BariK of New South Wales
After shooting up around £43
following announcement of the
new issue. Bank of New South
Wales £2O shares have dropped
to under £42, ex div., and
are . only £3 above the last
July selling-price. At £42,
cum rights to the new
one-for-two cash issue at a
premium of £7 10s., the net cost
falls to about £37 to the in-
vestor who buys now. At that
price the yield is 4.9 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis; and that rate
would appear to be indicated, in
view of the fact that it was
established only just before the
new issue was announced. The
issue has yet to receive Capital
Issues approval.
The rights, on the present
market, would have a theoretical
value of about £9 10s. Prob-
ably, with 219,500 shares and
£6,036,250 involved (apart from
the cost of the rights), the market
assumes that, when the issue is
afloat, it will be cheaper to buy
the rights than to buy the “old”
shares now. Bought now or
later, ’Wales shares look attrac-
tive when offering 5 p.c. or there-
abouts.
The did shares, on book-
values, have a net tangible back-
ing of £36 14s. 4d. This is prob-
ably only half their replacement-
value.
But assets, whatever their
market-value, are, in the eyes of
short-term investors or investors
for immediate income, worth
only what they will earn. And
bank premises, which form a
substantial part of the share-
holders’ equity in the ’Wales, are
occupied by the bank in its busi-
ness activities (which are subject
to a kind of profit-control) or let
to tenants (and subject to State
rent-control).
However, the undoubted
strength of the bank is a comfort
to any intending buyer. Though
introduction of new capital at a
premium of £7 10s. a share will
bring down the book-value of
the net tangibles to about
£33 10s, over the new share-
register, the market will realise
that that figure, too, is nominal.
Paid capital will become
£13,170,000. Business of the
bank has been developing
rapidly and one purpose of the
proposed issue is to “enable the
bank to sustain its lending
capacity in support of expanding
economies” in Australia and
New Zealand.
Reliable Economic Facts
In his George Adlington Syme
oration at Sydney University the
former Chief Justice of the High
Court, Sir John Latham, said
that what all Australians needed
to learn and to apply was that a
high standard of living depended
upon a high standard of work-
ing. He added that wages were
fixed by reference to the con-
sumption of goods and services
by the wage-earner, not on his
production. The prosperity of
the community had made it
possible to continue this system,
but the principle that consump-
tion is to be maintained at a
particular level, whatever the
cost, cannot itself be main-
tained indefinitely, unless we
have already entered the
millennium.
Sir John went on to say:
One of the obstacles to the estab-
lishment of social relations and,
therefore, of fully efficient and
pleasant work, is due to the deliber-
ate cultivation in some quarters of
hostility to employers.
There are political propagandists
who teach that the boss is the enemy
of the worker.
What prospect is there lor a
worker who really believes it is his
duty to oppose and fight an em-
ployer whenever he has the oppor-
tunity ?
Employers, as a class, are becom-
ing more conscious of the import-
ance, even from a purely economic
point of view, of good relations with
their employees. But some em-
ployers are mean and grasping and
selfish. They are principaUy to
blame for the hostility of so many
workers towards employers in
general.
The former C.J. added that
high taxation was another factor
which mitigated against wage-
“Take Mr. Slasher and his bags up to cell seventeen A."
earners working harder. He de-
clared that the whole subject of
industrial regulation required
reconsideration. “The establish-
ment of an economic and
financial bureau which would
provide reliable statements of
fact upon which policy could be
determined would be an
advantage. But it would be
worse than useless unless a high-
grade staff could be secured.”
At the annual general meeting
of the Chamber of .Manufac-
tures of N.S.W. president R.
Parry-Okedeq said that costs in
Australian industry were bigger,
and had grown faster, than in
any other country. The situa-
tion was grave. TO tackle the
problem of costs, all Australian
Governments should join in the
attack. No Australian Govern-
ment had given the Arbitration
Court the facts of the snowbal-
ling effects of Australia’s still-
rising costs-structure. Yet the
Governments, as the greatest
employers of labor, had the
facts. This was a sad com-
mentary on the hypocrisy of
present-day politics.
The whole position without
doubt is very serious. Thb chief
disrupting factor in our economy
today is trade-union politics, but
the corrupt politics of various
State “Labor” Governments are
almost equally to blame. At the
same time employers need to put
their own house in order. They
speak with many voices, and are
not always unanimous even on
matters of major policy. They
might, among themselves, try to
set up that very economic and
financial bureau which Sir John
Latham spoke about, so that
reliable statements of fact could
be got on which policies could
be based.
Hard Ware Companies
From slightly lower profits,
John Mdlwraith Industries
(Melbourne) has maintained its
\2\ p.c. div., with a good margin'.
The 10s. shares .have been
changing hands at 215., cum div.,
to yield 6.1 p.c. Frederic Ash
(Newcastle) has also declared
12i p.c. (5 p.c, interim, p.c,
final). Its accounts come later.
Meanwhile its shares are sought
after at 455. At 465., allowing
for the div. (payable Sept. 8), the
return is £5 13s. per cent.
Swans’ accounts have already
been presented and the div.
announced at \2\ p.c. for the
year (final 1\ p.c,). The shares
are in demand at 435., with no
sellers. All three of these hard-
ware cos. have done well during
the past generally uncertain year,
and the current term looks more
promising.
In the manufacturing field,
R, B. Davies has yet to present
its accounts. The div. is usually
paid in September. During the
two years to June 30, 1953,
it paid 8 p.c. If the
8 p.c. is maintained (it is
usually paid in one distri-
bution) the fully-paids at 265. 6d.
would be bought at present for
about 255. net, which would
show a yield of 6.4 p.c. The
“new” paids are entitled to one-
third the past year’s dividend.
They are sought after at 245. 9d.,
no sellers.
Minster, Ltd.
Consolidated profit of
£112,544 earned by Minster,
Ltd., and its subsidiaries was
arrived at after providing
£22,352 for depreciation and
£96,194 for taxation. The net
figure was equal to 21.2 p.c. on
the £530,000 capital, and the
div. was 15 p.c. for the year.
Reserves are visibly £99,943.
Freehold and plant are in at
£556,479, stocks at £179,910,
debtors, etc., at £87,035, and
cash at £38,717. Creditors are
£78,461, tax provision £98,168,
and final div. £46,375. There
is a contingent liability for de-
ferred taxation of £16,200.
Intangibles figure at £6506.
Net current assets are £66,458,
net tangibles 11s. lOd. per 10s.
stock-unit.
Minster, Ltd., owns all the
shares in Westminster Carpets
Pty. and Whitehead Chemical
Co. The factories are con-
tiguous, at Dandenong, in Vic-
toria. The output of West-
minster Carpets is still unequal
to the demand, and the co. is
working 142 hours a week.
The 10s. stock-units of Min-
ster, Ltd., are at 225., ex div.,
to yield 6.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis.
Uranium
“P. Mobile”: Although the
State Department of Mines in
South Australia has shown itself
efficient and successful in its
quest for uranium ore from
which concentrates can be pro-
duced commercially, Premier
Playford insists on the necessity
for intensifying the search for
this element, which has such
great (though still largely
untested) civil and military
possibilities.
Owing to “security” restric-
tions (which are justified in some
instances) little is known of the
real progress made outside S.A.,
although Press announcements
have laid emphasis on the large
areas of radioactive country de-
limited by Geiger-counter, and
scintillometer surveys undertaken
in the Northern Territory by the
Department of National
Development. Unfortunately,
the type of instrument adopted
by this body is not only cumber-
some to carry, but is far too
sensitive for normal field use; it
reacts to ores of too low a grade
—through content or the nature
of dispersal for economic
exploitation. Even radioactive
material containing no uranium
is detectable.
There can be no reasonable
doubt, however, that parts of the
Australian mainland are a
veritable treasure-house of
utilisable uranium deposits.
Such bodies are discoverable by
small, lightweight and relatively
inexpensive detectors such as
those employed in the field by
both the S.A. and N.S.W.
Departments of Mines. Owing
to their greater portability and
selectivity, these instruments
enable the mapping of worth-
while and not-too-deep-seated
blocks of ore to be completed
with much less labor and in a
shorter time.
Long before such deposits are
exhausted, the technique of the
search for and the employment
of uranium will probably have
been revolutionised.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
r
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices 3
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
PERTH
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
:
m
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
“You can hank
on the ‘Wales’”
“The busier a man is, the less time he can
give to details and the more he must rely on
the advice of experts. The successful business
man is the one who knows how to choose
his advisers.
“Frankly, much of our success is due to
our choice of the Bank of New South Wales
as our bankers.”
t*.A
For any banking
problems, consult and
use—
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5317C
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
m jmuKtl
♦
"THE BULLETIN"
£l/16/- for 12 months
18/6 for 6 „
9/6 for 3
THE "WOMAN'S MIRROR"
£l/6/- for 12 months
13/- for 6
7/- for 3 „
These prices include postage, and apply
whether the subscription is paid direct to
"The Bulletin" Office or to any newsagent
in Australia.
♦
DO NOT PAY MORE
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
“Free”-medicine Farce
Medicine-drinking as an easy,
but delusive, way to health is
becoming a bad habit in many
countries, not least in New
Zealand, which is now spending
about 255. a head yearly, against
6s. a decade ago. This skyrocket-
ing in cost, which has increased
the bill on a scale that dwarfs
even the steep rise in prices,
although that has been bad
enough, suggests that Maori-
landers have been acquiring the
habit at an alarming rate, or that
there’s a good deal of waste in
M.L.’s system of “free” medicine.
When so much of the tax-
payer’s money goes into drugs
the idea that a medicine scheme
is free becomes a farce, and the
time must come when something
will have to be done to stop the
snowballing trend. Whether the
stuff is going down Maori-
landers’ throats, down kitchen-
sinks or cluttering-up household
cupboards or medicine-chests, it
all adds up to gross extrava-
gance, which benefits no one but
the drug cos. and chemists who
cater for the flourishing trade.
Doctors and patients seem
equally to blame for the abuse,
but the State is a guilty party for
encouraging it. This is one of the
worst blots on M.L.’s 15-year-old
“social-security” system, which
is not living up to its name or
realising the high hopes of its
Socialist founders.
State Houses
State houses could have been
one of New Zealand’s finest
national assets if properly
financed and rented on an
economic basis, but as things
have turned out they’ve cost tax-
payers millions in subsidies that
have gone to benefit privileged
tenants, and, lately, buyers.
Since 1936, when the Socialists
embarked on their ambitious
housing programme, with the
ultimate aim of converting all
N.Z. wage-earners into State
tenants, 44,100 of these houses
have been built, at a total cost of
more than £lOO million. The
funds to pay for them have been
raised mainly at current market-
rates, but the State Housing
Account has been charged only
1 p.c. to lj p.c., or less than
half the interest, taxpayers being
left with the balance. As if the
first loss wasn’t enough, the
Socialists rented the places below
post-war costs, which, as the
years have gone by, have made
them a growing liability.
When the Holland Govern-
ment took over nearly four years
ago it didn’t dare to put things
on a sound business-like footing
for fear of signing its political
death-warrant, but decided to get
rid of the houses as quickly as
possible. Its method has been
to offer them at prices far below
present replacement costs, thus
making a straightout gift of
hundreds of pounds to each of
the lucky buyers. New State
houses have been going below
cost, too, yet even these ludi-
crously generous terms haven’t
been sufficient to tempt more
than a small proportion of the
occupiers during the three years
the offer has been open. The
number of houses sold so far is
only 7500, or about one in every
six, which suggests that the great
majority are content to be State
tenants in perpetuity.
Population
As new settlers come in at a
rate of 18,000 yearly and Maori-
land’s population rises by
40,000 when the natural increase
is added, there’s conflict on
whether the little country can
hold its high living standards,
yet by tests which count else-
where it should be able to carry
a population of ten to twenty
million, and is still in the early
stages of development. Workers
who have grown soft or been
spoilt by inflated pay are the
chief Jeremiahs, and the 40-hour
week has been the root-cause,
even in directions like agricul-
ture, where operations have to
go on more or less continuously.
No branch of production can
be insulated against the effects,
although staple exports—butter,
cheese, dried milk and meat —
have been more than keeping
pace so far. When it comes to
wheat, potatoes, vegetables and
fruit, consumers have been win-
ning hands-down. Malthus, who
saw hunger ahead for the older
countries, would be baffled by
the case of N.Z., which should
be self-supporting in food for a
long while yet, instead of de-
pending on Australia for two-
thirds of its yearly supply of 12
million bushels of wheat, some
hundreds of tons of potatoes and
a good quantity of canned stuff.
One of the handicaps at this
stage is the high proportion of
infants and juveniles, with big
appetites. When these young
New Zealanders reach the
employable age, there will be a
change, late this decade, with
gradually lessening difficulty in
the meanwhile. With every
mouth there comes a pair of
hands, but hands don’t count
much in production until after
school age, which in N.Z. is 15.
Textiles Manufacturers
Textile cos. in New Zealand
have been breathing more freely
this year as demand has come
their way again after chasing
trade for the greater part of 18
months. The carpet industry,
which came to a standstill early
in 1952, and expected the market
to be overloaded for several
years, can’t cope with orders, and
all mills in this and other sections
of the trade are working at
capacity. Last year’s gloomy
forecasts are being quickly for-
gottep as business reaches new
peaks and profits keep nicely in
step for all but a few.
One of the leading cos.. Felt
and Textiles of N.Z., Ltd., in
which the Australian concern has
a big interest, made up quite a
bit of leeway in the last half of
its term (to March 31), after a
weak start, and finished with a
total turnover of £4.9 million,
helped by a new subsidiary.
Consolidated profit was on the
low side, at £69,721, but was
£5383 better than in 1952, and
only £7300 below the 1951-mark.
If the current term finishes as
well as it has begun the group
should improve a good deal on
recent performance. Before the
setback there was a decade of
unbroken expansion, following
consolidation of all N.Z. acti-
vities of the Australian parent in
1941. Next year will be the silver
jubilee of Felt and Textiles’ entry
into N.Z. As turnover has
grown to two and a half times
the value in the post-war years
there is no lack of vigor at the
helm. The div. on ords. was held
at 8 p.c. during the dip in profits,
and investors have been
impressed by the way the co.
weathered the storm. Under
stress it put plenty of drive into
selling and distribution. Steadier
values for wool and other
materials are helping today, but
high overheads are a hurdle for
textile as for other cos. Import
and exchange controls, now
being eased a trifle, are an
artificial stimulus which will
some day disappear.
Korma Textiles (N.Z.), Ltd.,
the big Auckland combine
(capital £1 million), which started
with a flourish of trumpets in the
first post-war year, is still find-
ing the going hard. Whopping
overheads have been swallow-
ing up nearly the whole of its
earnings, and will take years to
work off at the present rate,
based on sales of about £1.3
million yearly, which are far
below the economic level for a
concern of its size. Outside
liabilities add up to £1.2 million,
of which a shade under half is
bank 0.d., £335,954 mortgages
and £236,236 bills payable, after
wiping off £300,000 in the past
twelvemonth by liquidating
heavy stocks, of equivalent
amount. Plant and premises
acquired at high post-war costs
have been steadily written down
and should be sound assets at
today’s £910,000, but their value
as industrial equipment is limited
by the volume of goods the
combine can sell.
So far Korma hasn’t been able
to show its real mettle because
turnover has never approached
plant-capacity. Three years ago
Felt and Textiles of Aust. sold
out its controlling-interest to
N.Z. shareholders, and sub-
sequent events have shown that
it did the right thing in getting
out. The shares have drifted
back until the ords. lately have
been worth only about 11s.
When the big deal was made they
stood around 18s. Korma has
been living in dread of dumping
from abroad, which would be a
double blow to its mills in need
of a roomy market and steady
prices. It was rocked badly by
the ’5l-’52 import boom. Like
most of its N.Z. rivals it is now
working mainly against firm
orders, and trade is going more
smoothly.
State-owned Enterprises
Maoriland’s top financial
institution, the Bank of N.Z.,
which has been State-owned
since the Socialists bought out
8600 private shareholders in
1945 for £9,140,000, today
accounts for rather more than
half the £23.5 million of State
money sunk in corporation
investments. The B.N.Z.’s share
is £12,018,296. If £1.5 million
in the Reserve Bank of N.Z. is
added, banks have a total of
£l3| million, against £lO
million for all other concerns,
which looks like a financially
sound and healthy balance. As
the banks are growing all the
time there should be steady
capital-appreciation not disclosed
in the figures, but reflected in
earningrcapacity.
The B.N.Z. netted £457,189 in
the latest twelvemonth (to March
31), a £40,641 rise, comfortably
covering the usual 7 p.c. div. on
ords.
Here is a fist of other State
corporation investments: State
Advances Corporation £3.7
million, N.Z. National Airways
Corporation £1.2 million. Linen
Flax Corporation £300,000,
British Commonwealth Pacific
Airlines (30 p.c. share) £541,935,
Tasman Empire Airways (50
p.c.) £375,000, British Phos-
phate Commissioners (16 p.c.)
£603,872, Christmas Island
Phosphate Commission (50 p.c.)
£1,428,568, British Petroleum
Co. of N-Z. (51 p.c.) £1,275,000,
Tasman Pulp and Paper Co.
£200,000, shares in other cos.
£305,000.
Altogether, these enterprises
should pay well and should have
a big future. They combine
internal and external assets
which ought to be worth double
the amount at today’s market-
values.


How much time will your
Executor have for your affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet;
“trust estates and their management^*
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. FavielU
E. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland,
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart^
S /
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. selves. Reserves.
£i SL £» &
1947.. 215,439 73 p.c. = 202,500 12,939 1,255,711
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,245,711
1948.. 244,973 8 p.c. = 221,928 23,045 1,268,756
To provident fund, £20,419 .. .. 1,248,337
1949.. 380,687 10 p.c. = 277,410 103,277 1,351,614
1950. . 641,367 12 „ „ 339,156 302,211 1,653,825
To provident fund, £25,000 .. 1,628,825
1951.. 727,362 15 p.c. = 423,945 803,417 1,932,242
To provident fund, £52,000 .. ..1,880,242
1952.. 419,095 10 p.c. = 282,630 136,466 2,016,707
To provident fund, £25,000 .. ..1,991,707
1953.. 585,740 10 p.c. = 282,630 303,110 2,294,817
To provident fund, £45,000 .. 2,249,817
This more-than-century-old Adelaide-
controlled woolbroking, pastoral-finance,
stock-and-station and other agency and
merchandising business is the third-
biggest thing of its kind in the Common-
wealth, and is still expanding. It handles
more of the staple in its home State and
Westralia than any other broker, and is
second on the fist in Victoria. The
branches at Sydney, Brisbane and London
are concerned mainly with merchandising
and shipping-agency activities.
The season was good again last term,
for the seventh year in succession, and
prices for a record clip strengthened as
the year advanced, the cheque for the
Commonwealth being second-best in the
history of the trade:
Australia.
Bales Amount Av. Price
Sold. Realised. Per lb.*
1949- .. 3,593,756 £286,628,911 63.35 d.
1950- .. 3,547,195 636,330,574 144.19 d.
1951- . . 3,409,312 307,787.401 72.89 d.
1952- .. 3,888,753 404,756,387 82.26 d.
* Greasy.
The improvement in last season’s figures
was 14 p.c. in volume and 31.5 p.c. in
value.
The quantity of wool and livestock
auctioned by the co. was as follows:
Wool, Bales. Sheep. Cattle. Pigs.
1950 .. 377,525 3,813,708 196,542 109,344
1951 .. 393,603 3,905,830 195,135 115,605
1952 ~ 422,389 3,037,790 179,914 114,858
1953 . . 457,355 4,009,952 171.502 118,153
Gross turnover for the year increased by
over £4,000,000, reaching £93,500,000, of
which wool accounted for £45,719,890,
merchandise for £21,081,000, livestock
for £16,640,000, produce for £5,000,000,
and the co.’s chemical, engineering,
machinery and sundry other agencies,
etc., for the balance.
After writing £163,843 (up £35,667) off
the book-value of premises and plant and
allowing an unstated amount for bad
and doubtful debts, etc., gross earnings
(up £752,616) were a record:
Exes. p.c.
Gross.* Exes.t Gross. Net.
1950 .. £2,614,020 £1,972,653 75.4 £641,367
1951 . . 3,884,562 3,157,200 81.3 727.362
1952 .. 3,274,793 2,855,698 87.2 419,095
1953 . . 4,027,409 3,441,669 85.5 585,740
* After providing for contingencies and depreciation
of premises and plant. t Includes provision for
taxation, etc.
Including £765,000 (up £400,000) set
aside for taxation, exes, made off with
£585,971 of the gain, leaving the net
result £166,645 stronger at £585,740,
third-best showing in the co.’s history.
It was equal to 11.5 p.c, on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined), or
20.7 p.c. on the £2,826,300 of capital
alone, as against 14.8, 25.7, 22.6, 13.7,
8.8 and 7.9 p.c. back to 1947. f The div.
was kept at 10 p.c.,-average distribution
for the last six years being 10.8 p.c. com-
pared with an average of 6.6 p.c. for the
preceding decade. The board’s declared
policy is to “maintain a steady and re-
liable dividend which it feels it has every
prospect of maintaining.”
There were big changes in Jpalance-
sheet figures, due chiefly to seasonal and
economic influences and to preparations
for still bigger trading:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £2,826,306 £2,826,300 £2,826,300
Deposits, etc. .. 824,469 692,642 598,563
Sundry cr’tors, etc. 13,703,393 15.257,186 12,115,609
Tax provision .. 1,190,250 455,509 907,427
Pinal div. .. 282,630 169,578 141,315
Freeholds, plant, etc. 2,006,172 2,303,947 2,531,169
Govt. sec. and cash 8,080,657 7,517,474 7,259,653
Advances, etc. ..8,206,082 7,872,865 6,475,909
Stocks . . . . 1,955.731 3,213,437 2,074.749
Shares other cos... 458,642 485,099 497,551
The contraction of £ 1,396,956 in advances
and of £3,141,577 in the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., are interrelated,
being due mainly to the fatness of the
season and prices. The reduction of
£1,138,688 in stocks brought the wide-
spread holding of merchandise more into
fine with current conditions, of which a
better flow of goods is one symptom.
The net addition of £227,222 to free-
holds and plant reflects additions to
merchandise stores at Sydney and Fre-
mantle and to the wool store at Geelong,
etc. Including tax provision, outsiders
could see 10s. Bd. of every £1 coming
to them in Government securities and
cash alone when the books closed. It is a
strong position, and the co. is well
equipped to assist clients further when
the need arises.
In association with other woolbroking
houses and sugar and other interests, the
co. is experimenting with production of
Kenaf in Papua. Kenaf is a fibre from
which it is hoped to successfully make
wool-packs and bags for sugar, wheat,
etc., on a commercial scale, and so over-
come the jute problem.
The current term has got away to a
good start from the seasonal point of
view, and a generally sound statistical
background gives promise of good clear-
ances of the coming clip. The prospect
for prices needs to be viewed with more
reserve, owing to a complex of inter-
national factors; much will depend upon
the strength of Japanese, Russian and
other buying. Last season wool was
able to resist the pressures which brought
down the prices of metals, rubber and
some other commodities.
The market prices the co.’s £1 shares
paid to 12s. each at 245. 4d. (245. 9d.
a year ago) to return 4.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div, basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 21s. 7d.
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
April. Profit. r Dividends serves, serves.
£ £» & ' &
1946 .. 9,700 10 p.c. = 6,970 3,730 28,899
Reserves capitalised, £9602 .. .. 28,899
Unexplained addition to res., £2947 23,244
1947 .. 21,448 15 p.c. = 12,000 9,448 32.692
To inner reserves, £21,996 .. .. 10,696
Pref. Ord. Total,
p.c. p.c. £
1948 .. 50,089 5 l 5 13,500 86,589 47,285
1949 .. 107,272 5 15 13,500 83,772 141,057
To stock reserve, £30,000 .. .. 111,057
1950 .. 379,427 5 50 41,500 337,927 448,984
To stock reserve, £150,000 .. .. 298,984
Revaluation property, £49,500 . . 348,484
Surplus sale assets, £4032 .. .. 352,516
1951 ~ 303,446 5 30 62,000 241,446 593,962
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 543,962
1952 .. 263,248 5 30 62,000 201,248 745,210
Stock reserve written back, £250,000 995,210
Additional depreciation, £35,000 .. 960,210
Tax overprovided, £86,098 .. .. 1,045,308
1953 .. 182,564 5 30 62,000 70,564 1,115,872
The figures in the table tell the story
of the phenomenal post-war boom in the
motor trade, which passed its peak in
1951. The co. is engaged in the im-
portation and distribution in N. S. Wales
(except portion of the Northern Rivers
and Riverina) of Austin cars, utilities,
lorries, etc., in manufacture of commer-
cial motor-vehicle bodies, and the
assembly of vehicles and ancillary func-
tions, as well as sale of replacement parts
and provision of servicing facilities.
The vehicles are imported either com-
plete or in chassis form. The chassis
are assembled at the co.’s new produc-
tion plant at Enfield, about eight miles
from Sydney, where the vehicle-bodies
just referred to are also turned out. These
works, which cover an area of 198,000
square feet, came into full production
early in the last term, and considerable
savings in overhead followed. They are
designed to handle up to 400 passenger
and a like number of commercial vehicles
a month.
The co.’s vehicle sales, which shot up
like a rocket from 719 in the 1947 term
to a peak of 12,920 in 1951, fell to
10,729 in 1952 and to 4580 for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts,
when, early in the term, a ■ balance-of-
payments crisis in the country’s external
accounts created an ugly but temporary
situation. Thanks to a number of stabilis-
ing factors, including import-restrictions,
easing of credit, strengthening of import
income and of trade activity, and main-
tenance of a high level of employment
at rising wage-rates, the position im-
proved as the year advanced. So the
co. was able to clear a big pile of re-
dundant stocks, reduce the outside debt
and strengthen its liquid position, with-
out making inroads into the £250,000
the board had set aside against possible
stock-revaluation.
The slip in the year’s turnover
(£5,690,369) was £7,803,634, or 57.8 p.c.
The'contraction in net earnings (£132,564)
was £130,684, or-49.6 p.c.; that was after
setting aside £40,000 (down £10,000) for
depreciation and £85,000 (down £415,000)
for taxation. The £132,564 of profit was
enough to pay the small pref. div.
(£2000) and show 65.2 p.c, on the
£200,000 of ord. capital as against 130.7,
150.7, 472, 132.2, 60.7 and 26.8 p.c. back
to 1947. The distribution was kept at
30 p.c., of which 10 p.c. is called bonus,
for the third year in succession, making
the average 35 p.c. over the last four
years. Of the £70,564 that remained,
£35,000 was earmarked as “additional
depreciation,” leaving £35,564 to further
strengthen free reserves, which also
benefited by £85,098 previously over-
provided for taxation and by the special
stock reserve of £250,000 'built up during
the five years to 1951. Reserves total-
ling no less than £1,115,872 had been
piled up at April 30, 1953.
The next table shows how the financial
structure was brought into better balance;
, 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £240,000 £240,000 £240,000
Creditors, etc.*.. 1,946,756 2,514,514 1,618,594
Overdraft .. - 1,127,675
Tax provision .. 473,619 448,874 85,000
Final divs. 41,000 41,000 41,000
Freeholds .. 197,945 585,728 590,020
Plant, etc. .. 49,244 175,223 178,550
Stocks .. .. 1,221,897 2.912,522 1,153,748
Debtors .. 145,971 308,427 235,629
Investments .. 190,154 684,729 767,680
Cash, etc. . . 1,440,126 500,644 174,839
* Includes provision for “sundries,” £415,000 at
30/4/’52.
Stocks, in at cost or under, were reduced
by £1,758,774 (60.3 p.c.), book-debts by
£72,798 and cash, etc., by £325,805. The
co. was thus able to eliminate the over-
draft (£1,127,675 at the previous balance),
lop £895,920 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc,, and add £57,619
to premises and plant and £82,951 to
investments, which include £522,188 of
shares in and advances to subsidiaries.
The offshoots, which are mainly con-
cerned with properties, paid no div. last
term.
The current term has opened with
sales of Austin vehicles in N. S. Wales
running a little ahead of last term’s
monthly average. The chairman has
made a strong plea for a cut in sales tax
on motor-vehicles, and against Govern-
ment restrictions on road transport,
which have forced some operators out
of business. The fact that road-users are
pillaged while only a small fraction of
what they pay in taxes is spent on road-
upkeep is a good answer to the com-
plaints of the railway authorities. So
far as can be seen at present the co.’s
future is bright, the chairman added.
At 18s. 3d. (15s. a year ago) the f.-p.
ss. ords. return 8.2 p.c. as long as the
30 p.c, distribution continues. The £1
5 p.c. prefs. at 17s. yield 5.9 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £3 3-odd prefs. and
275. sd. ords.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends, Written To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 12i p.c. Off, Etc. serves, serves.
„ £ £ £ £ £
1946 .. 29,192 25,000 2,500 1,692 296,283
1947 .. 27,895 25,000 1,250 1,645 297,878
1948 ~ 27,354 25,000 2,354 300,232
1949 .. 26,123 25,000 1,123 301,355
1950 .. 28,180 25,000 3,180 304,534
8 p.c.
1951 .. 17,973 16,000 1,973 306,507
4 p.c.
1952 .. 586 B,uoo 299,093
53 p.c.
1953 .. 10,329 11,000 298,422
A heartening recovery, and, subject
to what happens in connection with
costs (mainly wage-rates in this case),
further but gradual improvement may
be expected. The collapse of net earn-
ings and drop in the div, during the
two years to the close of accounts in
1952 were due to the increasing pressure
of costs against a ceiling of fixed corpus
and other commission charges, which,
excepting a few minor adjustments, had
remained unaltered for over half a cen-
tury. Before the war the gains from ex-
panding turnover had more than taken
care of the growth in costs. Then the
picture gradually changed until it became
the other way about, due to inflation and
Government procrastination.
The change came in April, 1952, with
a belated amendment to the scale of
corpus and other charges set out in the
N.S.W. Trustee Companies Act:
Old Scale. New Scale.
£> &
2J p.c. on first 50,000 3f p.c. on first 25,000
l| „ on next 50,000 3 „ on next 25,000
1 „ on excess 100,000 2 „ on next 50,000
1 „ on excess 100,000
Income commission remained unaltered
at 5 p.c. on the first £20,000 and 2\ p.c.
on the balance, except in the case of
rents, on which the rate is 5 p.c. through-
out, or 2 \ p.c. if collected through an
agent. Provision is also made for special
charges, to be approved by an Equity
Court judge, in respect of any business
carried on in connection with an estate
administered by a trustee co. The new
rates, however, apply only to new busi-
ness.
Last term the value of estates wound
up exceeded the value of new business
entrusted to the co.’s expert care by
£754,051:
Year Exes.,
Ended Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1939 ~£57,144,759 £178,385 £162,299 85.3
1949 .. 68,326,006 262,817 236,837 90.1
1950 .. 70,636,805 282,494 257,370 91.1
1951 .. 72,134,670 304,758 289,659 95.0
1952 .. 73,603,774 320,878 322,996 100.7
1953 . . 72.849,723 329,055 316,435 96.2
Including £2291 transferred from the
corpus commission reserve, income from
all sources increased by £8177, and exes,
were reduced by £6561, leaving the
declared profit at £12,620, Leaving the
movement in reserves out of the reckon-
ing, the net result was £10,329 (up £9743),
equal to 5.2 p.c. on capital, or a wink
over 2 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). Ob-
viously the trustee section of the business
is still being run at a loss. But owing
to the improvement in outlook the board
lifted the div. from 4 p.c. to 5£ p.c.
For the five years to 1950 a steady 12i
p.c. was paid, and 10 p.c. for the nine
years before that.
The wide, complex and exacting nature
of the services provided by corporate
trustees is not always realised or appre-
ciated. To deal with their undertakings
in a competent and businesslike manner
the cos. employ a staff of experts, which
must have a sound knowledge of the law
relating to trusts, of the intricacies of
death-duty valuation coupled with Estate
Duty Office practice, and be able to deal
with all types of assets and liabilities.
They must also be expert in investment
matters, and endeavor to produce the
maximum income without sacrificing any
of the capital. Furthermore they must
be both counsellor and guide, ready at
all times with advice and sympathy on
problems affecting the financial well-
being of the family and dependants. Each


A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
■■in
fMTi
Mill
!H||
Ulll
Mill
Every Year
a Bonus Year
Providing profit-
able protection
for policyhold-
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO -DAY'S PROTECTION TO-MORROWS SECURITY
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
Manufacturers of:—
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overband and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
We manufacture the “ Curvilinear” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER GORDON McDONALD
late of Boorowa and 78 Joseph Street
Lidcombe in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that LONA
ISABEL McDonald has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1239 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under s. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
30th October 1953 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from R. H.
RICHARDS, Solicitor, of 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes No. 311 of 1953.
TO RAYMOND BARR-SMITH address
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ANNE BARR-SMITH has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for divorce
on the ground of desertion If you desire
to defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court Perth within thirty clear
days from the date of this publication
In default of your so doing the case
may proceed and the Court may pro-
nounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence DATED
this 13th day of August 1953. —O. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
MESSRS. HARDWICK, GIBSON & GIB-
SON, of Victoria House, St. George’s
Terrace. Perth, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Position Vacant
Require Junior Geologist for
Tennant Creek field. To map
prospects and lay out Drill Holes.
Job will last at least six months.
Salary £BO per month.
Apply:
A. MCDONALD, Box 38 P. 0..
TENNANT CREEK, N.T.
GUARD,
oa^y
els
ğg
Soluble for every type of basinets II record*
•II Sale*. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full deUils
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
g
“When Peace breaks out”—l am not being
cynical, for this world has not known serenity in the
eight years since the World War ended —when Peace
breaks out, I say, Australia will have its grand oppor-
tunity.
It will have to set itself in earnest to practising
the arts of peace, which, as Marshal Foch once said,
“transcend the arts of war.”
And what are the arts of peace? Pursuit of the
industrious in our many ways—in agriculture,
commerce and manufacture; in the fuller using of
our share of the earth so that we may contribute in
production to the needs of mankind as a whole; in
fostering that spirit of goodwill between nations
which is more than mere tolerance.
Australians must realise the tremendous effects
the last war had on the political and economic structure
of the world. The deepest effects have been on the
thousand million people in southern and eastern Asia,
to which we are neighbor
Nationalist movements have come up, people have
asserted their independence, the claim for better
standards of living among them becomes stronger.
That is history, which none can deny. And it has
placed upon the food-producing countries of the world
a particular responsibility.
Not the least of the arts of peace is to learn to
guard against the possibility of war. For who would
so rashly forget the lessons of history as to suggest
that the future will hold no potential aggressors?
We must strengthen and maintain our Defence
services—Military, Naval and Air. But, while we
do it, let us remember that Defence has many forms:
that Development is Defence and Food is an Ammu-
nition, in the peacefully prepared world of which we
are thinking.
The nations have now almost passed through one
of the “shake-down” periods that invariably follow
all wars.
Australia has much to do—in the North, in New
Guinea, in the interior, in Defence and to satisfy its
trust to humanity. One thing will carry us on to that
trust’s fulfilment—Faith in ourselves and in the Future.
trust portfolio must, therefore,
be kept constantly under review.
Trustee investment does not lend
itself to standardisation; each
case has to be treated on its
merits.
The Perpetual’s own funds,
etc., which are a protection for
clients as well as source of
income for shareholders, are
employed in this way:
1951. 1962. 1953.
££ £ n
Paid capital ~ 200,000 200,000 200,000
Creditors, etc.* 53,493 33,832 35,557
Final div. .. 6,000 8,000 6,000
Premises, etc... 113,434 114,153 11J>932
Mortgages, etc. 109,547 101,297 85,956
Sundry debtors. 3,259 3,314 2,228
Govt, securities 236,784 226,093 226,093
Cash, etc. .. 102,976 96.068 107,765
* Includes provision for income tax, etc.
Premises, which appear at cost
less depreciation, are worth a lot
more than their book-value.
The co.’s £lO shares paid to
£2 each —£5 of the remaining £8
is a reserve liability callable only
in the event of liquidation—are
priced at 50s. (48s. a year ago)
to yield 4.4 p.c. on a 5|- p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks
for 5.2 p.c. on his money counts
on a 61 p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
995. Bd.
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields
This big Malayan tin-dredger
is a merger of the old Kuala
Kampar, Malim Nawar South
and Tanjong Tualong cos. in the
Kinta Valley. It has three
modern electric deep - digging
dredges at work —No. 3 got into
production again in October,
1947, No. 1 in May, 1949, and
No. 2 in August, 1949, and all
operated efficiently since.
Here are the combined treat-
ment and recovery figures and
costs per c.y.:
Recoveries.
Year Treated A — —\ Cost,
Maf.3l. ’OOO Tons lb. Pence
c.y. t.o. c.y. c.y.
1949 .. 5,315 999.5 0.44 6.08
1950 . . 8,419 2412.0 0.64 6.25
1951 .. 10,105 2514.2 0.56 6.61
1952 .. • 9,879 2037.8 0.47 7.66
1953 .. 9,012 2195.3 0.55 9.36
Last term No. 1 dredge was shut
down from nearly three months
for repairs, hence the drop in
yardage treated. But the grade
improved, and an extra 157.5
tons of tin ore, assaying 75.6 p.c.
tin, were produced. Total pro-
duction was equivalent to
1659.39 tons of metallic tin,
which realised an average of
£932.9 per ton.
Gains from the bigger recovery
more than offset the sharp rise in
costs, and net earnings were
£35,391 better at £541,317,
equal to 88 p.c. on the £615,000
of share capital:
Mar.3l, Income. Exes.* Profit. Div.
£ £ £ &
(80%)
1950.1,057,890 749,817 308,073 147^600
1951.1,769,149 1,152,014 617,135 448,950
(110%)
1952.1,491,470 985,544 505,926 473,550
(120 /o)
1953.1,598,066 1,056,749 541,317 516,600
* Includes provision for taxation,
£262,000, 1952 ; £244,000, 1953.
The nominal rate of dividend
was stepped up from 110 p.c. to
120 p.c., subject to Malayan tax
of 30 p.c., which reduced the net
rates in the hands of share-
holders to 77 p.c, and 84 p.c.
respectively. Excluding pro-
vision for taxation (£244,000),
but including export duty
(£235,582) and depreciation
(£66,152), last term’s exes,
amounted to £812,749. That
was equal to £489.8 per ton, and
the tax provision £147 per ton,
total £645.8 per ton of metallic
tin produced.
Ore reserves aren’t mentioned
in the report, but appearances
are that more than 700 acres of
the co.’s own ground, averaging
about 0.51 b. per c.y., await treat-
ment. Area worked last term
was 100.7 acres.
Financially the co. is well
equipped to weather the diffi-
culties ahead of the industry,
owing to the severe fall in the
price of tin and other things. At
March 31 last stores figured at
£318,389, and cash, debtors’
balances, etc., totalled
£1,577,640. Outside liabilities,
including tax provision and the
final div., amounted to £619,855.
The London average spot price
of tin per ton, which was £946.5
for 1952, tumbled from £957.2
for Jan., 1953, to £578.7 on
July 29, and had recovered to
£620 on Aug. 19. On the basis of
last term’s figures, and allowing
for some reduction in taxation,
appearances are that the co. can
earn little, if any, profit with tin
at £620 a ton. Costs are always
a difficult item to reduce quickly.
Selective mining could, of
course, make a difference to
results, though it would reduce
the life of the property by wiping
out marginal ore reserves.
With production of the metal
running ahead of consumption,
a fluid international background,
and the U.S. stockpile pro-
gramme approaching vanishing-
point, the immediate outlook for
the industry is not encouraging.
Some high-cost Malayan pro-
ducers, chiefly Chinese-owned
gravel-pump mines, are already
being forced out of production,
and Government revenue is
beginning to shrink. Hopes are
that an international agreement
for the regulation of tin-produc-
tion might be reached in the not-
too-distant future, and so help
to stabilise the position.
Central Norseman Gold
This co. is the star performer
of the four gold-producing con-
cerns in Western Mining Corp.’s
stable. It has a paid capital of
£650,000 in f.-p. ss. shares, of
which W-M-C. owns 51 p.c.,
and works the Phoenix, Princess
Royal and Lady Miller mines at
Norseman (W.A.). It is just
beginning to reap the benefits of
recent heavy expenditure on
development and shaft-sinking,
the target being higher-grade ore
at depth.
A bigger crushing and sharp'
rise in the average grade of mill-
feed, helped by the premium
which the yellow metal has
fetched on the open market, sent
net earnings up with a rush last
term, and shareholders
benefited:
Ore .-—Recoveries—*
Treated. Gold, Silver. Profit. Divs.
Tons. Oz. Oz. £ £
25%
’50.137,689 44,921 31,789 182,628 162,500
15%
’51.153,928 41,429 40,536 115,927 97.500
10%
’52.149,088 49,091 47,198 207,987 65,000
50%
’53.161,444 78,591 53,581 614,745 325,000
About 66 p.c. of the year’s ore
came from the Phoenix, and was
hauled through the new Regent
shaft, which was deepened a
further 190 ft. to 3515 ft, Most
of the balance was drawn from
the Princess Royal. Recoveries
per ton (96.4 p.c.) averaged
9.74dwt. gold and 6.64dwt. silver,
compared with 6.59dwt. and
6.33dwt. respectively for the
previous term. Costs (mining,
milling and development) in-
creased by 5.25., reaching 83.45.
per ton, of which 14s. was for
development.
The £614,745 (up £406,758) of
profit was 94.6 p.c. on capital as
against 32 p.c. and 18.6 p.c. for
the two preceding years. The
div. was lifted from 10 p.c. to
50 p.c., and another Is. 6d. per
share (30 p.c.) has been sent out
since the close of accounts. The
profit benefited by gold
premiums totalling £71,512, or
17.45. an ounce. The net outlay
on development, charged against
earnings, was £113,011 (up
£12,373), the footage being
10,304 ft. (up 1268 ft.), of which
1656 ft. was in ore, averaging
10.6dwt. over a width of 56in.,
in the Mararoa vein, and 3022 ft.
was in 27,9dwt. stuff, width
57in., in the Princess Royal vein.
Exploration is still in progress on
Nos. 29 and 34 levels in the
Mararoa.
Ore reserves at last two
balancing - dates compare as
follows:
f 1952 f —■—l9s3 y
y Ore, Grade, Ore, Gde.,
Tons. Dwt. Tons. Dwt.
Phoenix .. 148,500 7.3 138,683 7.0
Princess Royal 176,500 9.6 245,409 10.5
Lady Miller.. 3,000 4.2 7,221 4.5
Total .. 328,000 8.5 891.313 9.0
There is thus about 2\ years’
work for the mill at last term’s
rate of throughput measured up,
with prospects of a Jot more pay-
able stuff being developed.
When the books closed stores
stood at £153,825, and there was
£306,809 in cash, gold in course
of realisation and ore stocks, etc.
The amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., was £50,283.
Over the last 12 months the
price of the co.’s scrip has shot
up from 17s. 6d. to 335. 3d. in
the market.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
There was an overflow meeting of
the Women’s Auxiliary of the Royal
Empire Society last week to hear Mrs.
R. G. Menzies speak on the Coronation.
Mrs. Menzies, who may be said to have
had “a box-seat” as the wife of the
Prime Minister of Australia, gave a
detailed account of her experiences on
Coronation Day from 6.30 a.m., when
she and the P.M. “looked over” daughter
Heather’s evening-dress and tiara before
she set out for the Abbey, till 3 a.m.
the next morning, when she, Mrs,
Menzies, stood at her window overlook-
ing the Thames and said a prayer for
the young Queen.
Highlights of Mrs. Menzies’s recollec-
tions were how the very-well-dressed
Prime Ministers’ wives all suddenly felt
dowdy when Winston Churchill joined
them at Buckingham Palace, magnificent
in the uniform of the Warden of Cinque
Ports, a blue velvet cloak and the Great
George Medal (as big as two hands)
sparkling round his neck; the smallness
and antiquity of the coaches that took
them in the procession; how she lost
all physical sense of heat, cold, hunger
or thirst during the long wait in the
Abbey; how, just before the Royal
Family entered, four white uniformed
attendants came and swept the carpet;
how she didn’t see the actual moment of
crowning because the peers spread out
all round and she felt inclined to say
“sit down in front there”; the wave of
curtsies as the Queen left; the experi-
ence (strange for a Prime Minister of
Australia and his wife!) of driving
through cheering crowds ; the rain, and
the crowds feeding the guards-of-honor
lining the route; the picture of the Queen
trying to get out of the golden coach
and walk up the steps of Buckingham
Palace unassisted, wearing as she did a
heavy dress, crown and cloak and carry-
ing the orb in one hand and the sceptre
in the other (near the top Princess Mar-
garet ran to help her, which everyone
else had been longing to do all the
time).
Mrs. Menzies said that the ball at the
Savoy that night was magnificent, but
she would have preferred it some other
night, for the day’s memories clamored
for attention. The ladies who heard Mrs.
Menzies speak were spellbound, and
Mrs. A. W. Keighley said they could
have “sat another hour,” while Mrs.
David Lindsay remarked that she could
almost persuade herself now that she had
been personally present in the Abbey for
the Coronation.
☆ ☆ ☆
Jean Carling’s party to farewell 16-
year-old Brenda Bolton, who is off
to study ballet at Sadler’s Wells,
featured a witch’s good-luck incantation
(called down by Jean herself in a red-
and-black satin cloak) and a loving-cup
(strictly hygienic and non-alcoholic) which
was passed round the large circle of
friends who came to wish the young
dancer good-luck. Brenda, who, by the
way, has one of those complexions
England generally exports rather than
imports, danced the “Bluebird Variation”
from the “Sleeping Princess,” young
Rosemary Marriott, of Killara, sang
“Bluebird of Happiness” and the address-
book which was presented to Brenda
had a frontispiece of a flying bluebird
specially painted by Erik Langker.
Also farewelled at this party was Miss
Judy Lawless, who is returning to Eng-
land for some months after four years
in Australia.
☆ ☆ ☆
Speaking at the annual meeting of the
N.S.W. Council of Social Service, Ful-
bright scholar Miss Margaret Thornhill
said that the public should be better
informed about what social agencies are
doing, so that there would be a clearer
understanding of the causes and treat-
ment of social ills. Now, with every
respect for the good that social workers
do, may it be suggested that they them-
selves have made a gulf between them-
selves and other members of the com-
munity by inventing anew and strange
language.
Social-workers do not speak of “play”
but of “recreational activity” ; people to
them are not “poor” but “underprivi-
leged,” not “crippled” but “physically
handicapped,” not “troublesome” * but
“delinquent.” A child is not “neglected”
(unless charged as such) but “deprived.”
These words mostly have their fount in
a desire for tact and kindness, but they
seem to lack the human quality. Tact
comes from the heart, not the head (in
Ireland, for instance, an imbecile is called
“an innocent”), so it might be better if
our social-workers just tried to tell us
what they are doing in simple language
instead of tying it up in so much verbal
red-tape.
Here is one of Sydney’s promising
young singers, soprano Denise Thompson
of East Lindfield. She will be among
the finalists of the 1953 Mobil Quest to
be held in the Melbourne Town Hall
on Wednesday, September 2 (first prize
£1150). It is interesting to note that the
winners of the first and second Mobil
Quests are at present singing at Covent
Garden, so perhaps Denise may look
forward to a similar success in the future.
Photo by Noel Rubie.
Looking in at Sydney for a few days
last week, and visiting her friend Mrs. L.
Larbalestier, was Queensland girl Beth
Power, on her way home to Gympie
(Q.) after two and a half years abroad.
Her experiences during that time in-
cluded 18 months nursing in the British
Cameroons, West Africa, where she was
training the native nurses (all male) and
in charge of the hospital. Here she had
a fine modern house to herself, with a
cook, houseboy and washboy, and each
day she was wheeled on a trolly by two
boys from her home to the hospital.
Very few women are trained as nurses
in West Africa, she said, as their people
sell them as brides when the opportunity
arises, and no matter how well-educated
they, are they obey. The standard of
education among the meri is improving,
however, and already some have been
sent to England to study medicine under
a scholarship scheme arranged by the
British Government.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the most popular methods of
raising money and “getting together” in
Sydney, especially at this time of the year,
is the cocktail-party combined with the
mannequin-parade, the latest of these
being organised in aid of St. Vincent’s
Hospital at the Darling Point home of
Dr. and Mrs. H. C. Beckett last week.
There were about 180 people present, all
so fashionably dressed it was a bit hard
to pick out the mannequins who were
showing Frank Mitchell’s clothes and
Madame Anthony’s hats. Miss Kathleen
Cobcroft did the organising, with some
major help from Mrs. Richard Gloster
and Mrs. E. O’Halloran. A special
feature was the songs by i Marie Collier
and Stefan Haag, stars of the Mel-
bourne opera company at present in
Sydney.' Noted the preponderance of full
skirts in Mr. Mitchell’s collection. There
were only about six narrow ones, and
three of these really short. It seems
there won’t be any need to worry about
one’s kneecaps for a while yet.
☆ ☆ ☆
The combined Liberal Party Youth
Clubs of N.S.W. will hold their Fourth
Annual Ball in the Dungowan on Sep-
tember 5, when it is estimated that about
300 young people from the city and
near-by country clubs will attend.
Organising committee consists of Miriam
White, Audrey Murray and Jeannette
Sinclair, with whom reservations can be
made. The telephone-number is
XM5009.
MELBCUCNC
Not in admitted living memory has
grand opera been staged at Melbourne’s
Tivoli, but Sydney’s National Opera Com-
pany made of the innovation a highly
successful affair when they opened the
season with “Boheme.” The audience’s
dressing was rather mixed, patrons seem-
ing to be undecided as to what the occa-
sion demanded. Most women settled for
the short evening-frock, but notable
exceptions were Mrs. John Inkster,
whose full-length green-velvet coat was
worn over a frock of paler tonings, and
Glenda Raymond, who chose pink nylon
embroidered in pearls and brilliants. Mrs.
Charles Dorning’s ballerina frock was
of white nylon splashed with green-velvet
flowers, Mrs. Roy Lamb, of Sydney,
wore a gown of white tulle which had
a white-lace front-panel.
Mrs. Frank Tait allied black satin skirt
and pearl-embroidered blouse. Gertrude
Johnson, director of Melbourne’s National
Theatre, was very regal in a sweeping
gown of gold lame. Mrs; Tiber Paul,
whose husband is conductor of the
orchestra, chose a short frock of
bronze taffeta. Mrs. Simon Warrender
and Mrs. Frank Martin wore black
gowns. Mrs. C, T. Lorenz, the honorary
Director of the National Opera, wore
pastel-blue chiffon velvets.
Judith Anne, elder daughter of Mrs.
Hubberd-Brown-Elwood and Mr. W. B.
Taylor, of Tooradin, who has announced
her engagement to William, elder son of
Mr. and Mrs. W. D. Forbes, of East St.
Kilda, was educated at Mentone Grammar
School, which she represented at the Aus-
tralian Swimming Championship. She is
now studying interior-decorating and
leaves early next year for abroad with
her sister, Elizabeth. Judith is wearing a
sapphire-and-diamond ring.
A few days’ Wanderings took this Letter
to Canberra, lovely as ever, with rich
red berries rioting everywhere and the
pink and white and red of blossom show-
ing out. Meeting the new American
Ambassador, Mr. Amos Peaslee, was
one of the pleasures of Canberra. The
Ambassador, who has with astonishing
swiftness made himself acquainted with
some of our ways of life, is descended
from English Pilgrims who settled in
New Hampshire in 1662. Afternoon-tea
before a big log-fire at the home of the
newly-arrived High Commissioner for
Canada, Mr, Irwin, and Mrs. Irwin was
another highlight; of the Canberra visit.
Mrs. Irwin, a very charming person from
Canada’s middle-west, is interested in
music, and writes poetry and children’s
books. Friendships were renewed at the
home of Dr. T. C. Chen, China’s
Minister-Plenipotentiary, and Madame
Chen, both of whom send greetings to
friends in Melbourne. And it was de-
lightful to meet once again Air-Com-
modore Frank Lukis and his wife,
Florence —“Luke” manages an airways
company in the national capital.
In Sydney wonderful warm sunshine
put the calendar at least a month behind
time. At the lovely Vaucluse home of
Mr. and Mrs, Humbert Pugliese there
was pleasant hospitality, enjoyed also by
other Melbourne guests, Mr. and Mrs.
Grey Staley, Mrs, W. McDermott, Mrs.
Margaret Saker and Bill Forbes. Other
old friends visited were the Consul-
General for China, Martin Wang, and
his wife Phyllis, who live at Rose Bay.
Their son, Wei, who has grown very tall,
is still at Scots College. They expect to
be down south lateTn September.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wearing a very smart waisted suit of
navy-blue, the skirt of which was flared.
and a tiny velvet Tudor pill-box cap,
Mrs. Harold Holt was guest-speaker at
the crowded monthly meeting of the
Australian - American Association
Women s Group at Giro’s. Confessing
she was “no speaker,” Mrs. Holt gave
the denial to that modest claim when
she spoke on her Coronation visit, and
answered questions from the members
present. Mrs. R. G. Casey presided, and
at the official table were Mesdames
Henry E. Stebbins, Mrs. Rupert Downes
and Mrs. W. W. Killough. Three
visitors present were Mrs. Russell Kepple
of New York, Mrs. Stan McLean, of
New Zealand, and Mrs. J. Tuohy, a
member of the Perth Association.
* * ☆
At a late-aftemoon party given by the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra Sub-
scribers’ Committee at Majella, St. Kilda-
road, there were seven conductors
present. Guests-of-honor were Mr. Hans
Schmidt-Isserstedt, his son, Mr. Peter
Smith, and the Alan Lovedays (he is the
visiting New Zealand-born violinist and
his wife is pianist Ruth Stanfield). Presi-
dent E. C. Rigby, assisted by Mrs. John
Chaldjian and David Gale, received the
guests, who included Mr. and Mrs. Juan
Castro, Mr. and Mrs. David Felsman,
Paul McDermott and Harold Badger.
Mrs. Loveday is a Londoner, petite and
dark, and has been married little more
than 12 months. She met her husband
when she was a student at the Royal
College of Music in London, and will
be his accompanist at the recitals he will
give in Victoria’s provincial cities.
☆ ☆ ☆
The clever use of hand-made flowers
can transform a plain outfit into some-
thing glamorous and arresting, and this
was the theme of the Boutique collection
shown by “Dina” (Mrs. Dina Cutts) at a
luncheon parade at the Venezia. Prim-
roses, violets, roses and field-flowers
rioted on skirts, hats, gloves, blouses
and stoles in imaginative profusion. No
longer is it enough to pin a posy on a
handbag ; flowers are scattered over skirts
and bodices. For, instance, a chain of
yellow primroses and leaves outlined a
simulated apron-front on a slim-waisted
frock for a teenager. A white linen
blouse had its deep neckline bordered
with white daisies and was worn with
black pirate-pants. Black-and-white
ticking was used to make an effective
sleeveless sheath-frock with rounded neck,
large black dahlias cascading from bust-
line to half-way down the skirt. Velvet
rosebuds in benedictine-green were scat-
tered over the bodice and edged the hem
of a young girl’s simple cotton pique
frock.
The older woman could add glamor to
a shawl of white hand-crocheted fishnet
if she decked it all over with tight red-
velvet rosebuds. Sighs of admiration
came from the audience when a filmy
lilac-pink organza frock, bordered with
mauve- and pink-velvet roses, was
paraded. A delightful touch was given
to a plain black jersey stole by the addi-
tion of golden-toned wheat-ears. Other
flowers, gay as a spring day, or in muted
tonings, were used in this collection to
create exotic effects. White wood-violets
were used to cover the back of short
white gloves, and form a tiny hat. The
most effective frock had its bodice of
shaded mushroom-pink wood-violets
topping a three-tier tulle skirt in match-
ing shade. Very useful was a slimly-
cut black-linen frock with a detachable
overskirt, liberally sprinkled with black-
centred white daisies. A spray of the
same flowers was worn at one shoulder.
☆ * *
Members of the Chinese Soccer team,
which earlier in the afternoon had de-
feated their Victorian opponents, were
guests-of-honor at a late-afternoon party
given by the Chinese Consul, Mr. T. W.
Liu, and Madame Liu at their new
Ivanhoe home. The hostess wore a lovely
national costume of pale-mauve and silver
brocade, and among her Chinese guests
were Mrs. C. T. Tsing, whose national
costume of black satin was patterned
with gay flowers; Mrs. Andrew Chen in
pale-pink and silver brocade ; Mrs. D. L.
Shue, whose suit of pastel-pink crepe was
worn with silver-fox furs; and Mrs.
Wing Dann, who wore a black tailored
coat which had a beige fox collar. The
Lord Mayor, Cr. J. Brens, was present,
and with Mr, E. J. Coles was his wife,
whose dyed-ermine coat was worn with
a small black velvet hat. Mrs. Norman
Strange wore a tiny emerald jewelled hat
with her black frock. -


m
sSslSl&
m
m
THE GENERAL MOTORS HOUR
“Listening to the General Motors Hour” is already a Wednesday night
habit with hundreds of thousands of appreciative Australians. Drama,
comedy, romance, adventure —all from the pens of the world’s best
playwrights—are presented with topflight casts by noted producer Harry
Dearth. It’s a full hour of the finest dramatic .productions in radio—
and one you shouldn’t miss!
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS 8.30 TO 9.30
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR, 2 MW, 2LF, 2PK. 2 MG, 2WL, 2LT,
2CA, 3CV, 4GY, 6WB, 6MD, 6BY, 7LA
(Ml,
mm
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Watercolors
Some outstanding landscapes
at the Australian Watercolor
Institute’s show at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney, are
Frank McNamara’s suave
souvenir of England and glitter-
ing rediscovery of Australia;
also the entire set of gouaches
by G. K. Townshend—rather
turgid, not pure watercolor, but
an interesting variation in his
style: strong, sombre and dis-
tinctive.
Among the figure-studies there
are the paintings by Rah Fizelle
and Arthur Murch, both elusive,
both graceful. Fizelle’s are the
smoother and more finished
accomplishments (he has also a
delightful little picture of white
cattle from Spain); Murch’s are
essentially preliminary notes for
more elaborate treatment in oils,
but there is a lovely effect both
of color and movement in the
pink rocks and rushing white
water of his “Rock Gully.”
In the flower-studies there are
Margaret Coen’s “Iris,” crisp
with light and curiously
dramatised by the enlarged
shadow of the flower thrown
against the background; and
Nornie Gude’s “Flowerpiece,”
not on the scale of the roses she
exhibited in Sydney two or three
years ago but still finely
decorative.
Te c h n i c a 1 experiments,
abstracts and the like, are mostly
too cloggy for good watercolor
or, like F. C. Hinder’s panel,
mere criss-crossings of color
separated by an immense
distance from such effects as
man can produce with search-
lights and fireworks and Nature
with the aurora. Carl Plate’s
“Landscape with Birds” is an
amusing little oddity; Imre
Szigeti’s “Sultry Night” and Ivor
Hunt’s “Men Talking” have
rather more to say; Ronald
Steuart’s scraps of leaves and
twigs* though trivial beside his
earlier accomplishments, have a
spidery charm ; and perhaps Jean
Isherwood’s estimable collection
of “Sea Things,” though more
sincerely painted, should be
noticed in this category.
The show is, as usual, strongest
in landscapes. John Elder-
shaw’s two big paintings, lacking
the clear washes of his best work,
remain heavily impressive. There
are Yvonne du Moulin’s soft and
subdued harmonies of color.
J. W. Maund’s translation of
Hawkesbury willows and she-
oaks into smooth color-patterns
of light- and dark-green are a
new and an effective develop-
ment in his style. Max Ragless
has his usual dash ; and there
are also moments of force and
feeling in paintings by Robert
Campbell (too obviously under
the influence of McNamara’s
sea-pieces in the N. S. Wales
National Gallery), Jean Derrin
(a Townshend follower), Alan
Gamble, W. H. Kibble, Jean
Hewlett, Dora Jarret (a very
pleasant impression of “Spring
Flowers in Martin Place”), and
Mary McGregor,
With Norman Lindsay absent
(though reported by bush-
telegraph from Springwood to
have been painting a brilliant
new set of watercolors), and
Kenneth Macqueen and Maud
Sherwood also not represented,
the show as a whole is by no
means as strong as it could be;
but it looks more cheerful away
from the dingy Education
Department Gallery of former
years, and there are plenty of
good paintings to make it well
worth a visit.
Stage and Music
Bruckner’s Ninth Symphony
As a symphonist Anton
Bruckner has been the subject
of controversy since his first
creation, and certain it is that
his music has generally lacked
appreciation and understanding.
The protagonists of it claim that
his best falls little short of the
arch-symphonist Beethoven; his
antagonists have called him
charlatan.
If assessment of his eight com-
pleted symphonies showed
moiety for and against, his
unfinished ninth would surely tip
the scales in the Austrian’s
favor. It was played on Satur-
day night by the Sydney
Orchestra under Goossens for
the first time in Australia.
Like Schubert’s “Unfinished”
Eighth, Bruckner’s Ninth is to
all intents and purposes a
finished work, despite that it
falls short of the usual four
movements by one death
supervened when the composer
had sketched only a fragment
of the Finale. It is strange,
however, that of the religious
fervor which informs so much
of his music, and which stemmed
from the many visions he had,
this work, except perhaps in
parts of the third movement, has
practically none. His chief
idiom here is his love of Nature,
and in working it out he has
obviously been greatly influenced
by Wagner, as his use of the
brasses indicates.
The first movement is a
gigantic one, in which he
employs themes in three groups.
The long development section,
which is at times touched with
grandeur, has been telescoped
into the repetition, and the
composer’s use of the trumpets
in the introduction to the coda
is masterly, the middle move-
ment, a Scherzo, is most attrac-
tive, and the Adagio a structure
of splendid proportion and
engaging themes.
The orchestra’s playing was
exceptionally good, with the
brass choirs arid the woodwinds
standing out well.
There was also a most
vigorous reading of Tschai-
kowsky’s Symphonic Fantasia,
“Francesco da Rimini,” in which
Dantean hellfires roared and
storms raged, and in which the
percussion section must have
thought it was having a birthday.
The pipe-opener was Mozart’s
“II Seraglio” Overture, spark-
lingly played.
Joan Hammond was in beau-
tiful voice in operatic arias by
Verdi, Cilea and Tschaikowsky.
* ♦> ❖
“Cosi Fan Tutti”
Stefan Haag followed up his
success in “The Consul” with
another imaginative production
for the National Theatre Move-
ment of Mozart’s delightful two-
act opera buffa. By the in-
genious yet simple device of two
large, delicately-wrought gates
Mr. Haag was able to switch his
scenes with ease and speed.
Moreover, the whole decor had
a chocolate-box prettiness which
sorted well with the 18th-cen-
tury courtliness and elegance,
the powdered wigs and hooped
skirts.
The dressing was excellent,
“mt, more important, all the
principals wore them as to the
manner born. The exaggerated
mannerisms of the period had
been well mastered, and every
detail, even to the languorous use
of the fragile handkerchiefs
caught at the wrist, looked to.
In this, the last of a series of
collaborations without peer in
grand opera, Lorenzo da Ponte
wrote a libretto replete with
absurd situations and nourished
by wit, and for it Mozart com-
posed a score of captivating
.joyousness that fits it like a
glove. In this, more than any
other Mozart opera, there is a
rich /preponderance of con-
certed numbers, from duets to
sextets.
A feature of the production
was the fine duet-singing by
Betty Fretwell and Wilma Whit-
ney ; while the men, Leslie
Adams and Leonard Delaney,
were also- in good voice and
carried their share of the quar-
tets with distinction. Barbara
Wilson was a pert saucy maid
who aided the intrigue under
the direction of the drily
cynical Don Alfonso, main-
spring of the plot. This role
was played and sung with a
rare understanding of Mozart
needs by Stefan Haag.
*> ❖ ❖
“Miss Julie”
Sally Gilmour, who retired
from the Ballet Rambert and
settled down in Melbourne a
few years ago, returned to the
stage the other evening in “Miss
Julie,” put on by the Tana
Company at the National
Theatre, and proved herself as
sensitive an actress as she was
a ballerina.
Strindberg’s play is a wonder-
ful play to start with. The
Swedish playwright is concerned
with the conflict between be-
liefs and feelings exemplified in
the 25-year old countess who
tries to seduce her butler and,'
when she succeeds, is revolted
by him, and the author works
it out to the last drop. Miss
Gilmour reflected all the changes
of feeling with the same in-
tensity she put into her dancing,
and the only thing she needs to
get rid of to become a first-rate
actress is the fixed smile which
is de rigueur in ballet but a
trifle inexplicable in a spoken
drama. Another hangover from
ballet was the occasional dancing
movements which crept into her
gestures, but that did not seem
so much out of place in a
character as neurotic as Miss
Julie.
George Pravda did the butler,
and acting as good as his is
seldom seen in either amateur
or professional circles, native or
imported. In fact, it wasn’t
acting. There was no trace of
the traditional actor about him
whatsoever. He was not a
butler, but this particular butler,
and while he was raving and
ranting and standing on his
servant’s dignity in the countess’s
kitchen you could forget the
character in the human being.
Mr. Pravda was the same as
the viceroy of Peru in the play
that followed —“Golden Car-
riage.” Prosper Merimee’s
comedy about the gout-stricken
viceroy, who is cajoled by his
unfaithful mistress into giving
her a golden carriage presented
to him by the King of
Spain, isn’t a very good
play, but from the depths of the
invalid chair in which he sat
throughout the proceedings, Mr.
Pravda made it seem so by his
impotent bellowings, sly smiles
and inward chuckles, and he
even conveyed the dignity and
power of a great viceroy, unlike
Bill Levis, whose Archbishop of
Lima had as much force as, a
bellboy.
*X* ♦>
“Hedda Gabler”
Alan Burke’s production of
“Hedda Gabler” for Canberra
Rep. brought the old Ibsen
classic to life with a performance
which achieved a balance be-
tween the tragedy, which is the
dominant tone of the play, and
the underlying note of parochial
comedy which it cannot wholly
escape the frustration of
second-rate sensitive souls has in
it something inevitably comic, no
matter how tragic the situations
and no matter how intensely
they feel.
Dorothy Moore’s Hedda was
at once perceptive and just: she
brought out Hedda’s real
passion, her love for Lovborg,
her neurotic lust for power over
others and her pathetic yearning
for beauty and aristocratic
action. But it also brought out
Ibsen’s point: that Hedda com-
prehends none of these things,
and that her idea of them is
sentimental and second-rate.
Murray Todd’s Lovborg, though
too staccato, gave the part the
force of character which it must
have if Hedda’s infatuation is to
be taken seriously.
Lloyd Thomson imparted the
right combination of the fatuous
and the sinister to Judge Brack.
Robert Mason as Tesman was a
little too callow —Tesman is a
guileless pedant, but he is a
scholar. Mason made him a
rather smooth undergraduate.
The supporting roles played by
Ronnie Cheyne, Helen Woodger
and Peggie Marr were clear,
satisfying and finished, and the
sets symbolised the full horror
of life in Ibsen’s Scandinavia, It
was a pity that the lighting did
not do them or the actors justice.
Talkies
“White Corridors” (Sydney
Lyceum): This outstanding
English film, easily the best yet
made on hospital life —the set-
ting throughout is a big English
country hospital—has themes
subsidiary to the chief one,
which is the hospital research-
doctor’s fight against time to
find a culture to beat blood-
poisoning that is resistant to
penicillin. The other themes,
which deal with the personal
relations between members of
the medical staff and with two
patients, have been cleverly
interwoven. Godfrey Tearle,
James Donald and Googie
Withers handle the chief roles
with beautiful naturalness.
* * * *
“Woman of Antwerp” (Syd-
ney Savoy): There are no
punches pulled in this starkly
realistic Continental film on the
red-light district of Antwerp’s
dockside. It is the story of a
young brothel-inmate whose
hopes of gaining release from
her life of vice are shattered
when the man who is to take
her away from it falls victim to
the bullets of her “protector.”
Simone Signoret makes a first-
rate portrayal of a most difficult
role.
* * * *
“Military Policeman” (Sydney
Prince Edward): Bob Hope,
with some better-than-expected
help from Mickey Rooney,
makes the most of the oppor-
tunities afforded him as a fight-
trainer who joins the Army to
be with his champ.
* * * *
“Small Town Girl” (Sydney
St. James): A pleasant enough
musical with good dancing and
some singing by Jane Powell
which would have been more
listenable had it been less nasal.
The story, that of a rich play-
boy given 30 days for speeding,
plus contempt, by a small-town
judge whose daughter makes the
speedster’s languishing in dur-
ance not only less vile but even
enjoyable, is the thinnest of
threads from which dangles the
songapdance.


"Dad and Dave" In The Original
ON OUR SELECTION
A Splendid Year for
Corn
By "STEELE RUDD"
(ARTHUR H. DAVIS)
had just finished supper.
* * Supper! Dry bread and
sugarless tea. Dad was tired out
and was resting at one end of
the sofa. Joe was stretched at
the other, without a pillow and
his legs tangled up among Dad’s.
Bill and Tom squatted in the
ashes, while Mother tried to put
the fat-lamp into burning order
by poking it with a table-fork.
Dad was silent. He seemed
sad, and lay for some time gaz-
ing at the roof. He might have
been watching the blaze of the
glorious moon or counting the
stars through the gaps in the
shingles, but he wasn’t. There
was no such sentiment in Dad.
He was thinking how his long
years of toil and worry had been
rewarded again and again by dis-
appointment, wondering if ever
ther% would be a turn in his luck,
and how he was going to get
enough out of the land that
season to pay interest and keep
Mother and us in bread and
meat.
At last he spoke, or rather
njuttered, disjointedly, “Plen-ty
—to eat —in the safe.” Then
suddenly, in a strange and hollow
voice, he shouted “They’re dead
—all of them! I starved them !”
Mother did get a fright. She
screamed. Then Dad jumped
up, rubbing his eyes, and asked
what was the matter. Nothing
was the matter then . He had
dozed and talked in his sleep,
that was all. He hadn’t starved
anyone. Joe didn’t jump up
when Mother screamed —not
altogether. He raised himself
and reached for Dad’s pillow,
then lay down and snored
serenely till bed-time.
Dad sat gloomily by the fire
and meditated. Mother spoke
pleadingly to him and asked him
not to fret. He ran his fingers
uneasily through his hair and
spat in the ashes. “Don’t fret?
When there’s not a bit to eat in
the place, when there’s no way
of getting anything, and when —
merciful God! —every year sees
things worse than they were
before.”
“It’s only fancy,” Mother went
on. “And you’ve been brooding
and brooding till it seems far
worse than it really is.”
“It’s no fancy, Ellen.” Then,
after a pause, “Was the thirty
acres of wheat that didn’t come
up fancy? Is it only fancy that
we’ve lost nearly every beast in
the paddock? Was the drought
itself a fancy? No —no.” And
he shook his head sadly and
stared again into the fire.
Dad’s inclination was to leave
the selection, but Mother pleaded
for another trial of it—just one
more. She had .wonderful faith
in the selection, had Mother.
She pleaded until the fire burnt
low. Then Dad rose and said
“Well, we’ll try it once more
with corn, and if nothing comes
of it, why then we must give it
up.”
Then he took the spade and
raked the fire together and
covered it with ashes. We always
covered the fire over before go-
ing to bed so as to keep it alight.
Some mornings, though, it would
be out, when one of us would
have to go across to Anderson’s
and borrow a firestick. Any of
us but Joe —he was sent only
once, and on that occasion he
stayed at Anderson's for break-
fast, and on his way back suc-
cessfully burnt out two grass-
paddocks belonging to a JJP.
So we began to prepare the
soil for another crop of corn,
and Dad started over the same
old ground with the same old
plough. How I remember that
old, screwed and twisted plough!
The land was very hard and the
horses out of condition. We
wanted a furrow-horse. Smith
had one —a good one. “Put him
in the furrow,” he said to Dad,
“and you can’t pull him out of
it.” Dad wished to have such a
horse. Smith offered to exchange
his for our roan saddle-mare —
one that we had found running
in the lane, and advertised as
being in our paddock, and that
no one had claimed. Dad
exchanged.
He yoked the new horse to the
plough, and it took to the
furrow splendidly, but that was
all. It didn’t take to anything
else. Dad gripped the handles.
“Git up!” he said, and tapped
Smith’s horse with the rein.
Smith’s horse pranced and
marked time well, but didn’t
tighten the chains. Dad touched
him again. Then he stood on his
forelegs and threw about a
hundredweight of mud that clung
to his heels at Dad’s head. That
aggravated Dad, and he seized
the plough-scraper, and, using
both hands, calmly belted
Smith’s horse over the ribs for
two minutes, by the sun. He
tried him again. The horse threw
himself down in the furrow.
Dad took the scraper again,
welted him on the rump, dug it
into his backbone, prodded him
in the side, then threw it at him
disgustedly. Then Dad sat down
a while and breathed heavily.
He rose again and pulled Smith’s
horse by the head. He was pull-
ing hard when Dave and Joe
came up. Joe had a bow and
arrow in his hand and said “He's
a good furrer-’orse, eh, Dad?
Smith said you couldn’t pull him
out of it.”
Shall I ever forget the look
on Dad’s face! He brandished
the scraper and sprang wildly at
Joe and yelled “Damn y’, you
whelp! What do you want
here?”
Joe left. The horse lay in the
furrow. Blood was dropping
from its mouth. Dave pointed
it out, and Dad opened the
brute’s jaws and examined them.
No teeth were there. He looked
on the ground round about —
none there either. He looked at
the horse’s mouth again, then hit
him viciously with his clenched
fist and said “The old , he
never did have any! ” At length
he unharnessed the brute as it
lay, pulled the winkers off, hurled
them at its head, kicked it once,
twice, three times, and the
furrow-horse jumped up, trotted
away triumphantly, and joyously
rolled in the dam where all our
vsViter came from, drinking-water
included.
Dad went straight away to
Smith’s place, and told Smith he
was a dirty, mean, despicable
swindler or something like
that. Smith smiled. Dad put one
leg through the sliprails and
promised Smith, if he’d only
come along, to split palings out
of him. But Smith didn’t. The
instinct of self - preservation
must have been deep in that man
Smith. Then Dad went home
and said he would shoot the
horse there and then and went
looking for the gun. The horse
died in the paddock of old age,
but Dad never ploughed with
him again.
Dad followed the plough early
and late. One day he was giving
the horses a spell after some
hours’ work, when Joe came to
say that a policeman was at the
house wanting to see him. Dad
thought of the roan mare and
Smith and turned very pale. Joe
said “There’s ‘Q.P.’ on his
saddlecloth. What’s that for,
Dad?” But he didn’t answer —
he was thinking hard. “And,”
Joe went on, “there’s somethin’
slickin’ out of his pocket, Dave
thinks it’ll be ’an’cuffs.”
Dad shuddered. On the way
to the house Joe wished to speak
about the policeman, but Dad
seemed to have lockjaw. When
he found the officer of the law
only wanted to know the number
of stock he owned, he talked
freely. He was delighted. He
said “Yes, sir,” “No, sir,” and
“Jus’ so, sir,” to everything the
policeman said.
Dad wished to learn some law.
He said “Now, tell me this.
Supposing a horse gets into my
paddock—or into your paddock
—and I advertise that horse and
nobody claims him, can’t I put
my brand on him?” The police-
man jerked back his head and
stared at the shingles long
enough to recall all the robberies
he had committed and said “Ye
can—that’s so—ye can.”
“I knew it,” answered Dad,
“but a lawyer in town told
Maloney, over there, y’
couldn’t.”
“Couldn’t?” And the police-
man laughed till he nearly had
the house down, only stopping
to ask, while the tears ran over
his well-fed cheeks, “Did he
charge him forrit?” and
laughed again. He went away
laughing, and for all I know the
wooden-head may be laughing
yet.
Everything was favorable to a
good harvest. The rain fell just
when it was wanted, and one
could almost see the corn grow-
ing. How it encouraged Dad,
and what new life it seemed to
give him! In the cool of the
evenings he would walk along
the headlands and admire the
forming cobs, and listen to the
rustling of the rows of drooping
blades as they swayed and beat
against each other in the breeze.
Then he would go home filled
with fresh hopes and talk of
nothing but the good prospect of
that crop.
And how we worked! Joe
was the only one who played. I
remember his finding something
on a chain one day. He had
never seen anything like it
before. Dad told him it was a
steel trap and explained the
working of it. Joe was entranced
—an invaluable possession! A
treasure, he felt, that the Lqrd
must specially have sent him to
catch things with. He caught
many things with it—willie-
wagtails, laughing jackasses,
fowls and mostly the dog. Joe
“Fun! There WAS fun!”
was a born naturalist, a perfect
McCooey in his way, and a close
observer of the habits and
customs of animals and living
things. He observed that when-
ever Jacob Lipp came to our
place he always, when going
home, ran along the fence and
touched the top of every post
with his hand. The Lipps had
newly arrived from Germany,
and their selection adjoined ours’
Jacob was their eldest, about
fourteen, and a fat, jabbering,
jolly-faced youth. He often came
to our place and followed Joe
about. Joe never cared much
for the company of anyone
younger than himself, and there-
fore fiercely resented the
indignity. Jacob could speak
only German; Joe understood
only pure unadulterated Aus-
tralian. Still, Jacob insisted on
talking and telling Joe his private
affairs.
This day, Mrs. Lipp accom-
panied Jacob. She came to have
a yarn with Mother. They didn’t
understand each other either, but
it didn’t matter much to them.
It never d&es matter much to
women whether they understand
or not. Anyway, they laughed
most of the time and seemed to
enjoy themselves greatly. Out-
side Jacob and Joe mixed up ip
an argument. Jacob shoved his
face close to Joe’s and gesticu-
lated and talked German at the
rate of two-hundred words a
minute. Joe thought he under-
stood him and said “You want
to fight?” Jacob seemed to have
a nightmare in German.
“Orright, then,” Joe said, and
knocked him down.
Jacob seemed to understand
Australian better when he got
up, for he ran inside, and Joe
put his ear to a crack, but didn t
hear him tell Mother.
Joe had an idea. He would
set the steel trap on a wire-post
and catch Jacob. He set it.
Jacob started home. One, two,
three posts he hit. Then he hit
the trap. It grabbed him faith-
fully by three fingers.
Angels of Love! Did ever a
boy of fourteen yell like it
before! He sprang in the air,
threw himself on the ground like
a roped brumby, jumped up
again and ran for all he knew,
frantically wringing the hand the
trap clung to. What Jacob
(i Continued on page 34)
KNIGHT’S SONG
Softly sleep, deeply sleep
After sweet surprise.
Dear dark head, lie a-bed
Until bright sunrise.
You and I, you and I
Made a thread of light
In the darkness of the world
When we said goodnight.
Old was I, cold was I,
When we were apart.
I will fight Sir Life-is-Death,
You make bold my heart.
Prouder than an army’s march
Is your soft white knee:
Magic more than Merlin knows
Softly lies by me.
Dark your hair, dark your eyes,
White you are, and red.
I hold the firmness of the earth
In your narrow bed.
Witches fly and wizards yell,
Shivery shines the moon:
All this grace of dark and white
Is flesh that cools too soon.
Dark and fair, fire and air
Is my love for you,
All the dreams of men unborn
Surely join us two.
From Camelot, dark Camelot
Tall grey castles rise.
Loud cocks crow and chargers
stamp,
I must leave niy prize.
Coldly blows the morning wind
Still my mistress sleeps.
Cold the armor, keen my
sword—
Now she wakes, and weeps.
Weep no more, my brave dark
love,
Do not even sigh.
I go gaily from your side,
Now am fit to die.
N.S.W.
JOHN HENRY.


The Chisel with
a Difference I
YOU can see and feel the difference in a Titan Wood Chisel.
The gleaming, forged tool steel blade with its promise
of superb edge-holding qualities, the handsome hardwood
handle, the inherent strength and balance of a fine
chisel . . . these are qualities that come only from the
best in materials and workmanship.
And you know you are getting the best, because
every Titan Chisel is guaranteed against defects
in workmanship and materials. Only Titan
Chisels carry this guarantee proof of their
outstanding quality and value.
Furthermore, they are more economical.
Titan Chisels cost no more, and their
keen, long-lasting cutting edges, strength
and balance help you do a better Job
quicker.
You save every way with Titan
Chisels . . . guaranteed, fine,
forged tools made by Aus-
tralians for Australians.
Write today to Dept . B,
P.O, Box 86A , Melbourne,
for your free illustrated
Titan Catalogue .
Strength
to Spare
■ ■ *-.V •*..
■
M
■
MMm
■
' ■
a ill
- -
Hi ■ \
'
i
■
-
. :
i
/■■/ >v,
* >ll >■- W |
SP
■
, »
mm
■ fel
mm
mm
f
i ■. mM&sMP&xM’
'
■ u
‘
k:
mm
Wsr
t
w
s! ■• ■•
r
1 i*&f
&/
ft '
Forged from
B.H.P. Steel
Every Titan Chisel blade
is genuinely forged tool
steel, processed from
B.H.P. special steel.
Expertly hardened and tempered
blades with a Rockwell C Scale
hardness rating of 59-61, ensur-
ing a keen, fracture-resisting
edge.
Handles of specially selected and
seasoned hardwood, finished with three
coats of clear lacquer.
Strengthening and protective ferrules of bright
drawn seamless steel tube.
'ft Constant control of every manufacturing stage and
rigid factory tests guarantee the quality and work-
manship of your Titan Chisel.
Every Titan Chisel is (* MI A. ttA. WTEEMI
and trill be replaced free if found
faulty in material or workmanship
See the full range
of Titan Chisels at your hardware store
MADE AT HOBART, TASMANIA, BY THE TITAN MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD,


The RIVETERS
Hugh V. Clark
THESE days I spend most of
my time sitting at a desk.
The other week I men-
tioned to the fellow who
sits next to me that I had once
built a ship. He was sceptical.
Although I admitted having had
some assistance, he scoffed out-
right when I told him it was an
8000-ton cargo-vessel which
could also be used as an oil-
tanker.
“I suppose you learned ship-
building in twelve easy lessons?”
he sneered.
Being a sensitive person I
dropped the subject for fear of
further ridicule.
In a way, the war was respon-
sible. Had I not been taken
prisoner by the Japs in Singa-
pore, I certainly would have
never voluntarily spent any time
at all in the Kowinami dockyards
at Nagasaki.
We arrived in Japan from
Thailand after an unpleasant
seventy-day voyage jammed in
the hold of a Japanese tramp-
steamer. We were taken to a
camp which already held British,
American and Dutch prisoners.
I remember my first conversation
with one of the old residents of
Nagasaki camp.
“Whatever you do, pal, don’t
be a riveter.” The warning was
issued by a grotesque character
clad in a threadbare hessian suit.
His face was coated with a film
of black grease, and the legs of
his pants shaped like twin stove-
pipes failed to reach his ankles.
His feet were encased in a pair
of canoe-shaped sandboots
fastened by clips at the back,
and on his shaven head was
perched a shoddy replica of a
Japanese soldier’s cap. Alto-
gether the American looked like
one of Walt Disney’s more
fantastic creations.
“What the hell is a riveter?”
I asked.
“Boy, you’ll know after you’ve
been to that goddam ddekyard
as often as I have,” he answered.
“Thanks for the tip, mate,” I
said, as I moved off to find my
two cobbers.
Don Rush and Pat Murphy
refused to believe that the Japs
could think up anything worse
than our recent boat trip.
“Well, that’s what the Yank
said,” I insisted.
DAWN of our second day in
Nagasaki was ruptured by
the squealing of a bugle, calling
unwilling prisoners from bed to
do another day’s toil for the
Emperor. ,
“Cripes!—don’t these b s
believe in sleep?” wailed John.
No one answered, for at that
instant a burly figure cannoned
into the room grunting like a
prize boar.
“Speedo! Speedo! ”
It emphasised its request by
smiting several snoring heads
with a rifle-barrel, and in no
time the room was seething with
hastily-dressed prisoners, A cup
of rice slid easily down each
hungry throat, and soon the long
work-column stood in the
parade-ground. The Australians,
who formed the tail of the
column, were told to wait whilst
the British and American old-
stagers moved off.
“Here comes the selection
committee,” whispered Don, as
a group of Japanese briskly
approached.
“Boko Go,” the camp
sergeant-major, led the party.
Boko resembled a large baboon
—in fact he might have been
one. Behind him followed the
camp doctor, a hairy interpreter
called Golliwog, and an official
from the dockyard. Like show-
ponies they trotted down the
ranks pushing men into various
groups as they went.
“Riveter riveter riveter.”
Don, Pat and myself groaned as
the interpreter uttered the words,
herding us towards a bunch of
men near the fence. A guard
then took over and marched us
towards the dockyard, which
occupied over half of an island
covered by five giant docks and
acres of factory buildings.
Near the gates a group of
Japanese marines dressed in
white uniforms, Nelson-collars
and white leggings waited.
The dockyard noise grew
louder until it became a crashing
metallic assault on our eardrums,
“Keiri!”
With a self-conscious “eyes-
right” we marched through the
gates into a world of antlike
industry, noise and smoke, halt-
ing in front of a squat wooden
building where a band of stubby
Japanese officials were waiting.
“Be on the zombie,” whispered
John. The “zombie,” who was
none other than a former citizen
of the Philippines and now
official dockyard interpreter,
began to address the prisoners.
He was a thin corpse-like
creature. His face was flat —
featureless —and the color of a
dead snake’s belly. His clothes
were characterless drapes of
hessian, and he wore the cheap
cloth cap which betokened the
impoverished Japanese civilian,
“You will work diligently,
huh?” he began. “You will not
play with the little girls working
in the dockyard, huh, or an
accident might befall you, huh?”
He ended his litany of threats
and exhortations by introducing
The Utmost Commander of the
Dockyard.
The “Utmost” gabbled
energetically in Japanese for the
best part of half an hour before
he sat down again,
“God, here goes Rigor
Mortis,” groaned John, shifting
his weight on to the other leg.
The interpreter wound up the
ceremony: “You captives are
most favored. Nippon will teach
you the art of riveting. You
will go to school, and we will
teach you to be tradesmen.
You are fortunate!”
The Utmost Commander and
his aides then vanished behind a
pile of scrap-iron, whilst the
embryo riveters were marched
to the dockyard schoolroom to
begin the course.
/"'OBVIOUSLY designed for the
education of children, our
classroom was small and dainty.
Shambling into the classroom we
overpowered the diminutive
desks, A serious-faced Japanese
instructor stood nervously at the
blackboard waiting for his
barbaric pupils to quieten down,
“I think I’ll do my play-lunch
over now,” piped John in falsetto
tones.
At length the instructor grew
tired of waiting for order to
emerge naturally, and timidly
emitted the Japanese equivalent
for “Quiet, gentlemen, please.”
His pupils were not gentlemen,
desks continued to wiggle and
crude jests were loudly bandied
around the classroom, until the
timely arrival of Rigor Mortis
brought silence. The Australians
looked at him, half expecting
worms to pop out of his ears, as
he stood wordlessly surveying the
class. After he had gone it took
several minutes for his funereal
influence to pass.
The instructor had drawn on
the blackboard a chalk diagram
of a riveter’s gun and its com-
ponent parts. He painstakingly
described the parts in Japanese,
and our careers as riveters had
begun.
A FORTNIGHT passed
rapidly ; then came gradua-
tion-day, I shall never forget the
day I graduated. The Utmost
Commander presented me with a
pair of white cotton gloves—the
symbol of proficiency ; the mark
of the aristocrat of the dockyard.
Drillers, welders, platers, gas-
cutters and riggers also contri-
buted in a small degree to the
construction of ships, but the
riveter well, without the
riveter there could be no ship.
Pat, Don, myself and the
fourth member of our team,
Jesse Jones, arrived at the
hancho’s office to collect our
equipment. Here we met our
boss—a wizened old gentleman
fitted with monkey-glands. His
mean face was corrugated by a
thousand wrinkles and his
peculiarly-shaped upper-lip was
disfigured by an abortive attempt
to grow a moustache. His name
was Hamamito.
Jesse, a tall, sturdy bushman
with a hard face, was given a
riveting-gun. Pat was handed a
similar type of gun called a
backer. Don, as fireman, col-
lected a coke oven, a basket of
coke and a pair of longhandled
tongs. Being the least skilled
member of the team, I was given
a small pair of tongs and a metal
funnel with which to catch the
rivets Don would soon be hurl-
ing through the air. In addition
we carried four long air-hoses
which were to be connected from
an air-compressor to the
riveting-hammers.
Hamamito never walked ; he
ran. We followed him as fast as
our load would permit through
a smoky labyrinth of cranes and
scrap-iron until we reached the
top of number-two dock.
“A man should have been born
a bloody horse,” mumbled Pat,
sagging beneath his equipment.
The dock looked like a vast
concrete grave nearly forty feet
deep. The waters of the bay
lapped level with the top of the
far end, kept out by a large
concrete lock. Looking down
we observed a long row of
tressels on which lay a line of
overlapping flat sheets of steel —
the keel of a new ship.
During the following fortnight
the ship grew from a keel to a
great, steel-ribbed skeleton. We
learned much in these two
weeks. We discovered that bolts
and undersized rivets belted into
an oversized hole didn’t look too
bad at all —provided Hamamito
did not come along and tap them
with his testing-hammer. We
found that overheated rivets
tended to crumble under pressure
like stale bread.
The sulphurous fumes of
poor - grade coke almost
asphyxiated us, and the prying
eyes of the Gestapo, the hanchos,
marines and the camp guards
prevented outright idling. We
riveted away, turning out each
day half the quota of rivets
expected from us by Hamamito,
/'AUR monster grew. We were
now sticking down the deck-
ing around the top of the hold.
Jesse, the hammer-man, perched
on top of the deck. Pat stood
beneath it—balanced on a plank
suspended across a scaffold, I
sat beside Pat, my legs dangling
in space, waiting to catch with
my funnel the red-hot rivets
Don was hurling up from the
bottom of the ship forty feet
below.
I was enjoying Pat’s fluent
commentary as each time he
applied his hammer to a rivet a
shower of scalding sparks
cascaded down the sleeve of his
coat. The idea, of course, was
that with Pat’s hammer pound-
ing from below and Jesse’s from
above, the molten rivet was
squeezed flat and tight through
a hole in the overlapping plates.
“How’s the coast?” Pat
shouted, lowering his aching
arms. “I could do with a draw.”
He had to shout to be heard
above the shattering noise which
Avas the normal sound of the
dockyard. I peered through the
heavy curtain of smoke raised
by a dozen coke-fires in the
bottom of the hold, and saw no
sign of a hostile watcher.
“You should be right, Pat,”
I said. “A bit more smoke won’t
be noticed here.”
Squatting on top of the deck,
Jesse did not have the privacy
we enjoyed below, and he had to
manufacture a fault in his rivet-
ing-hammer to cover the few
minutes’ silence from his team,
Pat Jit his grease-stained
cigarette-end on a red-hot rivet,
“I wouldn’t be on this, ship
for quids if she ever puts to sea,”
he screamed.
“Why?” I yelled.
“Something tells me the boys
on the gas torches have been
busy cutting squares half-way
through the bottom of the ship.
They crawl through holes in the
bilge plates and go to work in
places where the Nips aren’t
likely to look.”
A' sudden rat-tat-tat on the
deck above warned us that Jesse
had company; so I signalled to
Don for more rivets and work
got under way again.
Answering the call of nature
was a hazardous operation for a
prisoner. He had to run the
gauntlet of guards, marines,
honchos and Gestapo on his
journey to the one toilet-centre
several hundred yards away
from the ship. Any one of these
gentlemen might accuse the
prisoner of sabotage by being
absent from his task—and
usually the accusation was
enough to land the unlucky one
in the punishment-centre at the
camp gate. There the interpreter
would ask the prisoner if he
thought his offence deserved
punishment. If he said “Yes,” he
was obligingly beaten with a
baseball bat. If he said “No,”
he was doubly beaten.
As the ship developed we
found a solution to this problem.
Our curiosity had been aroused
when Japanese workers installed
a large tank in the bottom of the
second hold. The tank contained
an elaborate mechanism which
we had not seen because the
work had been confined to
Japanese riveters. It was sealed,
except for a large round role at
the top, and when an indiscreet
Jap welder told one of the boys
that it was the sounding device
of a submarine-detector, to be
connected later to the rest of its
works in the bridge, our sanitary
troubles were solved. Indeed, it
became every man’s solemn duty
to pay it at least one daily visit.
Each day at lunch-time the
iron-throated roar of the dock-
yard subsided into a loud silence
for twenty minutes, during which
interval we climbed from our
perch and joined Don at the fire
to eat.
“My favorite dish,” Don
would snarl, ripping the lid off
his fish-tin and contemplating a
cold, gluey lump of rice. We
ate our “meal,” and soon the
metallic symphony began again.
We had been working for per-
haps an hour after lunch, one
day, when a new sound pene-
trated the familiar overtones of
riveting-hammers and whirring
cranes. Jesse and Pat stopped
hammering. The Japs working
around us had downed their
tools and were scuttling up
ladders and girders to the top of
the deck, where they headed for
the gangway leading from the
top of the ship to the ground.
Cripes—it’s a bloody air-
raid ! ” exclaimed Pat,
“You beaut!” shouted Don
from below, leaving his fire and
climbing to join us.
We dragged ourselves up on
deck and beheld an amazing
spectacle. A single plank twelve
inches wide spanned the twelve-
foot gap between the ship and
the top of the gangway. Beneath
the plank was forty feet of space
with concrete at the end of it.
Across the plank our Jap fellow-
riveters were racing.
“I think we are safer here,”
commented Jesse, as a group of
American fighter-bombers dived
overhead to strafe and bomb an
attractive collection of ships and
tankers lying at anchor in the
harbor.
Such interruptions were
pleasant reminders that our work
was to be only temporary.
THE great day arrived at last
1 —our ship was ready. The
final fittings, of course, would be
installed after she was afloat. She
was our creation, with all her
skilfully concealed flaws,
crumbly rivets, sabotaged plates
and a sounding-tank which was
by now more like a septic-tank.
The Utmost Commander,
Hamamito, and everybody else of
any importance were delighted,
and had arranged a special
ceremony for the launching. It
was to be the climax of three
months’ conscientious loafing
and mild sabotage, and we were
graciously invited to be there.
We arrived at work that morn-
ing to find our ship riding high
in a dock full of water. The
retaining-wall at the seaward
end had been removed, and only
a couple of steel hawsers held
our ship from the open waters
of the bay.
From her bow half a dozen
flagpoles protruded, flying the
fried egg of Nippon and the
naval ensign. Beneath the flags
hung a gigantic many-colored
paper balloon, a long ropelike
streamer connecting it to the
official stand. Facing the ship
on the dockyard floor a wooden
platform had been erected and
decorated with colored paper. A
tinny gramophone supplied
martial music; and officials of
the shipyard paraded in their
Sunday suits.
As we stood admiring our
handiwork, someone rigged up
a microphone. To the accom-
paniment of shouts, salutes, bow-
ing and scraping, three
splendidly - uniformed naval
officers appeared. The music
stopped, and the senior of the
three officers made a short
speech.
He had barely finished speak-
ing when a piercing scream,
followed by a horrible pulpy
thud, startled the entire gather-
ing. From the top of a near-by
six-story factory building an
unfortunate Japanese sightseer
had plunged to his death. The
moment of horror was soon
over, and a group of workers
rushed up and apologetically
swept the remains on to a
stretcher.
It seemed to me that the three
officers regarded the incident as
a regrettable exhibition of poor
taste on the part of the deceased.
The admiral—for I suppose he
was an admiral —drew his sword
and severed the streamer. To
our delight the balloon burst,
releasing a flock of pigeons
which flew around the deck.
Simultaneously a shower of con-
fetti and colored paper fluttered
down and the ship slowly moved
into the harbor.
I felt disposed to stand and
think about the ceremony, but
Hamamito had another keel
waiting.
THAT bloke who sits next to
me won’t believe this story,
but, believe it or not, it’s the
truth.


Famed Among the Famous
Here Come
the Forty-Second!
By "EK DUM"
THE 42nd Battalion, A.1.F.,
was never officially affiliated
to the Black Watch, the
old 42nd, Am Freceadan
Dhu; but a lot the 42nd Bat-
talion, A.1.F., cares. The Black
Watch might agree to affiliate
with the 30th Battalion if it
wanted to. But the 42nd decided
from the beginning that it was
going to be the Australian Black
Watch, the “Queensland
Scottish” on its own. Not even
the 61st Queensland Cameron
Highlanders could stop it.
It bought itself a pipe-band
almost as soon as men had begun
to enlist in it in 1915 at
Enoggera (Q.), with dreadful
results to the morale of adjacent
units. It did not have “God Save
the King” played on its parades,
because, like Scottish regiments,
it couldn’t. And when over 30
years after its formation the real
Black Watch sent its band to
Australia and didn’t call it by its
historic number the Queens-
landers sent its commander one
of its dark-and-light-blue eggs-a-
cook badges to remind him of
the omission.
The commander thanked them
and said he was sorry he could
not wear it, but he sounded
humble, like a man who has been
justly reproved. In France
Colonel Woolcock had almost to
use force to prevent his men
wearing the tartan ribbons. To-
day the 3 / 42nd is officially allied
to the Black Watch.
There were a good many
strange things about the 42nd in
its early days. It was a
chameleon-like unit which
somehow changed its number for
36th overnight. It was one of
the 3rd Division lots which
looked strange at first because it
didn’t turn up its hat and
wore the rising-sun badge on the
front of the band. It was half
northern New South Wales and
half polyglot Queensland. It ran
to all sorts and sizes, but it was
a matter of pride with its men in
camp from the beginning that
they were free and white and
took night leave at will.
It had so many a.w.l.s drawn
by the bright lights of the
Parisian-like capital of the
Banana State that its CO.
had a special rod in pickle
waiting and dipped in vinegar on
a mild bright evening when he
knew that the legal 10 per cent,
of leave-pass holders would look
amid the forest of defaulters
like the plums in a babbler’s
duff.
He knew what to expect. First
the late-night train would whistle
near Enoggera station. About
20 minutes later the city
picket would be heard arriv-
ing with stately tread, its
weary officer seeking to bring
it into camp without showing the
effects of a night of pavement-
pounding. “Come along, men —
march at attention! ” “City
picket, right wheel. .. Halt! ...
City picket, right turn! . . .
Now, you boys, no noise getting
into your bunks —remember the
men sleeping ... Dis-miss!”
And then the rush of feet. After
that the a.w.l.s would begin to
sneak in.
This particular night every-
thing went to order up to this
point, and the commandant, when
zero-hour had passed, licked
his chops and waited for the
stealthy steps, the quick run, the
ribald and uninhibited ballad to
betray the night-birds as they
leaked unsteadily homewards.
But instead there was a puzzling
repetition of what had already
taken place.
Apparently the city picket was
twins. The C.O, went forth in
person to investigate.
He found the genuine picket in
process of dissolution, and it was
only then that it dawned on him
that the first arrivals had been his
defaulters, who had somehow
received a mulga-wire and acted
with a creditable sense of
organisation.
+ +
That latter habit proved
chronic with the battalion in the
succeeding years, after it had
braved the rigors of the old
s.s. Borda, become the “Lark
Hill Lancers,” eke the “Floun-
derers of Flanders,” and joined
the Eggs-a-Cook Division under
Monash, in the 11th Brigade of
Jim Cannan, which ran in bat-
talion-numbers from 41st to
44th, and through three years of
war steadfastly defied all the
most skilled plots to destroy it,
whether hatched by the enemy
or by its own side, whose
impulses proved almost as
dangerous.
It soon learnt that to survive
it needed not only a team-spirit
but a family-spirit. And with
many officers from the Brisbane,
Maryborough and Rockhampton
Grammar Schools, trained in
friendly cadet corps in which
there was equality, with others,
like the two Dibdins, accustomed
to handle men in the raw on Mt.
Morgan, they very soon
acquired it. The fact that they
had a single commanding officer,
Arthur Woolcock, throughout
helped, especially as he fitted-in
in temperament with everybody
under him.
For the best part of the war
it was only the Germans the 42nd
feared. It went to the trenches
on December 6, 1916, in front
of Armentieres and had its first
casualty on December 10. It
went through Messines (Black
Line Jesus Farm) without
losing many men, and won
eight Military Medals in the
Warneton stunt. It started
entraining at Poperinghe for
the third battle of Ypres 43
officers and 978 other-ranks
strong. It came out of Brood-
seinde on October 7, 1916, short
of four officers killed' and seven
wounded, with 220 other-ranks
killed and wounded total
remaining strength, 32 officers
and 773 other-ranks.
It began next day to organise
itself into the battle of Passchen-
daele and relieved British troops,
with the 44th Battalion, on the
night of October 10-11. It went
through barrages and gas. The
snipers were two-a-penny. The
cover was any old shellhole, and
in its first 12 hours of front-line
experience it had to send no less
than 33 per cent, of strength to
the rear and fill the gaps with
any ancillary who could be
picked up. It went into reserve
on October 16, and five days
later was relieved by the
Canadians and moved into a
rear camp.
It had lost in 17 days five
officers killed and 10 wounded,
62 other-ranks killed and 361
wounded, sick and missing: total
casualties 438, the fighting
strength being reduced to 11
officers and 180 other-ranks.
These staggered back in none-
too - good weather, doing one
18i-mile march in a day, to
Korte-Pyp, where, amid shouts
of the battalion war-cry of
“Potato - tomato - banana -
tobacco,” they played football,
dodged Gothas and brought their
strength up to 40 officers and
742 men.
A week before Christmas they
were back at Jesus Farm, and
were moved about through the
bitter 1917 winter until, on
March 21, 1918, they were served
with news of the German attack
on the British Fifth Army, after
which they were hurled in buses
through France, crossed the
Ancre and dug-in on a 2000 yd.
line in fighting order at Sailly-
le-Sec, in a countryside of
marvellous beauty, far different
from the shell-pounded mud-pie
of the north —a fat country, with
pork and hens for the taking
until the first German patrols
hove in sight among the green
fields on March 28.
Soon Sailly-le-Sec was a desic-
cated ruin, too burnt-out even
to smoulder as the thunder and
lightning rolled round from
Hamel on top of them, and the
enemy began to advance and
throw a whole line against a
42nd at its highest pitch, losing
500 men for his pains, but taking
a severe toll with his machine-
guns.
Then came Heilly, and the
patrolling incidental to Villers-
Bret.; Abbey Wood, and the
gas-attacks which made every
man of “A” and “B” company a
cot-case; Hamel, and their first
co-operation with the Americans
and the start of the Rat Race of
August 8, 1918, as left-flank
battalion of the Australian
Corps.
+ +
Followed Corbie, Mont St.
Quentin—Tincourt—and onward
until they were relieved on Sep-
tember 7 about Roisel and
Bernes by the Ist Australian
Brigade, a staggering shadow of
their former selves, their* ranks
sadly depleted, every man just
about exhausted, but not too
much so to prevent them getting
down to football and having fun
at the expense of the crooning
Gothas as they lay at Doingt a
few days later.
It was here that the news
began to get about that their
own side and not the Germans
were after their blood. The
powers-that-were prescribed the
immolation of one depleted
battalion in each brigade, the
dismembered regiments to be
used to strengthen others.
The 42nd at two separate
execution-parades refused to die.
Their C. 0., no doubt with tears
on his cheeks if he had any left
after three years of such a com-
mand, told them of his regrets at
having to hand them over to the
Philistines. They obeyed the pre-
paratory commands which were
to carry them into other hands —
until the order “March” was
given.
And then they stood firm as
rocks and refused to budge . . .
some other battalions did the
same.
No exhortation that lack of
reinforcements made the break-
up inevitable would move them.
They survived, with three
platoons apiece instead of four,
each platoon 21 men instead of
60, and so went to their final
battle the assault on the
Hindenburg Line.
In October the struggle was
renewed to extinguish them, but
even this was not successful, until
they were starved into submis-
sion by the taking-away of their
cookers, though all that remained
of them was 273 men. 'piese
were transferred temporarily to
become “B” company of the
41st Battalion, the Byron
Scottish.
This did not matter much, for
they had finished their fighting
career, while still the 42nd.
And it was as the 42nd
that they came back to fife
in peace-time under their own
old C. 0., A. R. Woolcock —by
that time D. 5.0., C. de G
with an adjutant of their
own, sailing on Friday, June
13, 1919, via Cape Town,
and approaching Port Phillip on
August 4, the fifth anniversary
of the outbreak of war.
Few who went away as
originals had come through
scatheless. Out of their total
nominal roll of 2954, they had
lost 544 dead or died of wounds
or sickness. They had had 1130
wounded, 254 wounded twice,
53 wounded three times, 13
wounded four times. But they
were proud that the whole might
of Germany had only succeeded
in capturing two of them.
They had won 151 decorations,
including 12 D.C.M.s, 22 M.C.s,
five D.S.O.s and 90 M.M.s.
They had had Lieut. Albert
Keysor, V.C., attached to them,
an inveterate parapet-walker
whom the Huns apparently
could not hit.
After they came home they
began to prove how little hope
officialdom had of killing them
off. Thanks to enthusiasts,
tireless in effort, they began to
achieve a new cohesion. Their
“Battalion News” is still coming
out, 20-24 pages of solid per-
sonal news, largely the result of
the devoted service of Viv
Brahms, the Tardents, Bert
Fisher in Sydney, the Dibdins
(both once adjutants and E.J. a
2 i./cj in Melbourne. In fact,
though many of them, like
Captain John Leahy (retired
down near Stanthorpe), are
now described as “silver-
haired,” they still stick together
like glue. They became a
family with a habitat. There
had previously been some de
facto relationship between them
and Central Queensland, but
after the war it received official
sanction, and they proceeded to
produce offspring. Thus the old
42nd not only fathered a
Second 42nd, which went off to
World War II marching to one
of the old side-drums of France,
and was led successively by the
peerless Alec Heron, C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., and Charlie Davidson,
D. 5.0., now Federal member for
Capricornia, but it is by this
time a grandpappy, and there is a
Third 42nd.
Central Queensland is a fit
cradle for these offsprings—a
district whose capital at Rock-
hampton calls itself proudly “the
city of sin, sweat and sorrow,”
where the local mountains are
named the Berserkers and it used
to be said, in the days when old
Lakes Creek meatworks was
really dark and bloody ground,
that you could be bitten by a
crocodile on one side of the
river, by a shark on the other
and then get carried home on a
stretcher by the mosquitoes.
+ +
Mount Morgan, which boasts
that it had the first fatal casualty
in South Africa —Victor Jones,
killed at Sunnyside, New Year’s
Day, 1900 —belongs to it. So
does Mackay—Alec Heron’s
home town. And out beyond
the sinister-sounding hamlets of
Dingo, Blackwater and Jericho,
all in the unit’s bailiwick, is
Longreach, where all the water
is naturally boiling and defaulters
walk the Tropic of Capricorn
instead of the chalk-line.
Be it said that battalion’s
breeding of battalions is well sup-
ported by individuals. The
“Social Notes” in the “42nd
Battalion News,” which is all
social notes —about 200-250
names seem to be mentioned in a
24-page issue—contains entries
like this:
My eldest son George did his bit
in World War II and came through
O.K. My second son Greg has been
in Korea since July, 1953. My third
son, who is only 80, has been in the
army for the past 3i years, anxious
to get overseas. He can decide for
himself next year. My other son
Neville, who is only 14, joins the
Boy Scouts this year, I wonder if
it is the Spirit of the 42nd again?
Thus Danny Price, whose
offspring don’t seem precocious in
the light of records produced in
the perennial competition which
goes on to decide the youngest
recruit of the “old lot.” When
they had dug out L. A. Nipperess
(Maclean, N.S.W.), who had
had three years, 272 days service,
with three years, 37 days
“active,” and had been twice
wounded —Messines and Villers-
Bret.—before he was 20 they
began to limit competition, so as
to debar nippers who had some-
how got into the battalion, but
whom a callous command
insisted on holding in England
till they could prove that they
shaved.
And at that stage a young
fellow named Dave Thorley, in
Whyalla (S.A.), announced that,
whoever might have been the
youngest in the battalion, he was
certainly the oldest: “I will, if
spared, be 90 on January 14,
1953. Regards to all my old
cobbers.” It is no wonder that
Dave chose to end his days in
the State in which the crows fly
backwards.
Taken all round, the remain-
ing plentiful survivors of the
42nd in contact with the bat-
talion seem to form a pretty good
cross-section of Australian life.
Some of them are in veterans’
homes, of course, for they are
getting on and time and the
world has not dealt kindly with
them. Some are in Greenslopes
Military Hospital. But most,
generally speaking, show the
same ability to cope with circum-
stance as they did to cope with
Jerry. A sampling:
Stan Warry runs the only
ginger factory—fit job for a
company C.O. —in Queensland
on Buderim Mountain. Len
Grenier is the local postmaster
at Nambour. .Bill Lang is cane-
cutting. Hunter King, who gave
up his job as an accountant and
supply - officer at Concord
Hospital, is now connected
with a riding-school whose
pupils won every prize in their
classes at last Sydney Show.
Eric Paterson has just been
transferred from the position of
stationmaster at Cloncurry.
“Ginger Dick” Holland took a
dainty English bride to the
nether fastnesses of Cape York
a few years after the war
and has been there ever since,
except when they evacuated him
and his family during the Jap
war.
Jim Condie, who served in
both wars, is a solicitor at
Mackay. Jim Groundwater, of
“B” company, had a nice farm
at Monto until they stole it for
an aerodrome. He is now retired
at Jundiah. Tom O’Brien has
retired from the police. The late
Captain John Finlay, who used
to pilot the slippery old Bingera
on the “Northern Run,” was
afterwards a T.L pilot.
Stan Tickle manages Roneo
in Brisbane and has apparently
a reputation for great wealth,
since he always seems to be get-
ting burgled. Mick Gardner
topped the poll for aldermen and
the Harbor Board in Rock-
hampton in the 1952 elections.
Jack Binnington is mayor of
Mackay, and Jack Thompson,
hon. secretary of the Melbourne
branch of the Battalion Associa-
tion, is Cliief Excise Inspector
there.
Les Cutler is a district
inspector of schools. Charlie
Hall a lecturer in music at the
Teachers’ Training College in
Brisbane. “Nobby” Boorman—
Lieut. Arthur Charles Boorman,
M.C. —is one of London’s lead-
ing comedians, associate of
Robertson Hare, under the name
of Arthur Riscoe. Harry
Lambert is droving in the west
(Q.), Bert Fisher manages the
Sydney office of the Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” and looks after
the affairs of the battalion there.
{Continued on page 25)


FOR PLEASURE IN LEISURE
00***/
/
R
Tailored For
Your Comfort
Over the centuries, craftsmen,
expert in the art of Trouser,
construction, have been seek-
ing to tailor the Ideal Trouser
for men. Gathering up their
experience and knowledge.
Stamina’s stylists have created
a Trouser that is literally
Tailored for your comfort.
You will enjoy the snug fit, the
smart appearance, but above
all, as you sink into your chair
you will enjoy the luxury of
the Tailored Comfort that is
the Joy of wearing Trousers
by Stamina. And here
good news there is a pair
pre-tailored for You . . . , .
is
ASK FOR
Stamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
Tt-113
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA — In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
BETWEEN MICHALINA GNATEK Peti-
tioner and JAN GNATEK Respondent.
TO JAN GNATEK formerly of Launceston
in the State of Tasmania.—TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this
Court endorsed with a Notice to you to
appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of MICHALINA GNATEK of 53
Bladen Street Launceston in the State of
Tasmania praying for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the grounds of
desertion In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereof AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid within thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance
must be entered at the Principal Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Frank-
lin Square Hobart or at the Launceston
District Registry Cameron Street Laun-
ceston.—(sen.) D. W. SHIELDS, Dis-
trict Registrar.
N.B. Friends of the abovenamed JAN
GNATEK who may see this advertisement
are requested to bring it under his notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD BROGAN (also known as
EDWARD GEORGE ALLEN ALLSTON)
late of Darlinghurst Road Darlinghurst.
—TAKE NOTICE that LILLIAN MAY
BROGAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2484 of 1953 on the ground of your
adultery with GRACE GOOLMEZ If you
intend to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
21st October 1953 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from J.
BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES, Solici-
tors, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— IN Divorce.
TO WILLIAM FARRELL DOYLE late
of Bondi.—TAKE NOTICE that GRACE
AGNES DOYLE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1078 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 2nd
day of November 1953 and obtain a copy
of * the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Solici-
tors, of 18 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
Some information on the hit-wicket
ruling in cricket?
The batsman is out “hit wicket”
if, playing at the ball, he has hit the
wicket with his bat or any part of his
body. A player will be ruled out “hit
wicket” if he breaks the wicket in
making a second stroke to prevent
a ball from hitting his wicket. He
is also out under the “hit-wicket”
law if, while playing at a ball, his
cap or hat breaks the wicket. A
batsman is not ruled out if he breaks
the wicket while running.
* * * *
Was “Ashtaroth” or “Sea Spray
and Smoke Drift v Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s first book?
Early writers on this poet were
divided on the question. However,
it has been established, following a
check of copyright entries, that
Ashtaroth preceded Sea Spray and
Smoke Drift (both published in
1867); but neither was his first book.
In 1864 at Mount Gambier The Feud,
“A Ballad dedicated to Noel Paton,
R.S.A., as a key to his Illustrations
of ‘The Dowie Dens of Yarrow,’ ”
by A. Lindsay, was published in an
edition of about thirty copies. This
was Gordon’s first book and was
listed as such in A Bibliography of
Adam Lindsay Gordon issued
recently by the Commonwealth
National Library, Canberra.
* * * * <►
Who was “Ichneumon” ? What did
he write?
Thomas Livingstone Mitchell, son
of Sir T. L. Mitchell, the explorer.
According to P. R. Serle’s Biblio-
graphy of Australasian Poetry and
Verse his only published work was
a 30-page satire in verse which “pre-
sented a fair picture of a certain
section of Society in Sydney at the
time (1855).” Its full title was
“To Bourke’s Statue, This Appro-
priate Effusion of Unprofitable Brass
is Unceremoniously Dedicated by
Ichneumon, anxious to instruct his
Grandmothers in the Inductive Science
of Sucking Eggs.” There were three
editions,
* * * *
Some details about the Skye
terrier ?
The Skye terrier, bred in the isle
of Skye as a vermin dog, and even
after years of petting as a lap-dog
and muffling in long hair, is a
courageous animal, keen for sport,
while it is a good-tempered and intelli-
gent dog and an excellent guard.
The modern type has a long head
with a powerful jaw. The skull is
wide at the front of the brow, narrow
between the ears, and tapering
towards the muzzle. The eyes are
dark and rather close, and the nose
is black. The body is long and low,
the shoulders broad, chest deep, legs
short, straight and muscular, and feet
small. The coat is long and straight,
with a soft woolly undercoat, the
colors dark or light blue or grey
or fawn with black points. There
are two varieties: the prick-eared, in
which the ears are erect, and the
drop-eared, in which they hang down
at the side of the head.
* * * ♦
Some particulars about Robert
Emmet, the Irish patriot ?
Robert Emmet, born 1778, dis-
tinguished himself at Trinity College,
Dublin, by his brilliant oratory. As
a protest against the visitation of
Lord Clare and Dr. Dulgenan in
1798 to investigate the political ten-
dencies of the students, he withdrew
his name from the books. Like his
brother, Thomas Addis Emmet, he
was an enthusiastic United Irishman,
and after a visit to Paris in 1802,
where he interviewed Napoleon and
Talleyrand, he engineered a rising
in Ireland. The idea was to seize
Dublin Castle, and to hold the lord-
lieutenant as a hostage; but the
insurrection was ill-planned. Only a
small body of revolutionaries
assembled, and these committed such
crimes of violence that Emmet,
broken-hearted, fled. He was cap-
tured, tried, found guilty and hanged.
The poignant story of his love for
Sarah Curran has been told by John
Brophy in his novel Sarah (1948).
♦ * * *
' Who was Henry David Thoreau ?
Thoreau was born at Concord,
Massachusetts (U.S.A.), in 1817,
educated at Harvard, and devoted
himself to a literary life, supporting
himself by surveying, carpentering,
and engineering. He was a friend
of Emerson and an ascetic, a revolu-
tionary, and something of a wild man.
He rebelled against the Puritanism of
New England, and against the State
in the matter of slavery, refusing to
pay his poll-tax, and going to prison
in consequence. He also rebelled
against society, and built himself a
solitary hut on the shore of the
Walden pond, where he lived on an
expenditure of a few dollars for two
and a half years. He was an ardent
lover and observer of Nature, and his
Walden or Life in the Woods (1854),
his best-known work, is admirable
chiefly for his descriptions of natural
phenomena. His other works include
A Week on the Concord and
Merrimac Rivers (1849), Excursions
in Field and Forest (1863), The Maine
Woods (1864) and Cape Cod (1865).
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the phrase: “A watch-
dog on the towers of the Western
w0r1d”?—5559.
Wants
To buy copies of Barbara Baynton’s
Bush Studies, W. G. Hay’s Life and
Escape of Sir William Means, Robert
Ross’s Eureka: Freedom’s Fight of
’54 and W. E. Murphy’s History of
the Eight Hours Movement. —5558.
To buy, copy of Saturdee by Nor-
man Lindsay.—sss6.
Words of verse beginning:-
1 was raised on a selection
On a product of a man,
For my old man kept a dairy where we
milked the cows by hand,
They used to take some finding when
the morn was cold and bleak,
For they’d hide among the willows in
the paddock by the creek.
—5557.
Drawings by old-time black-and-
white artist who signed his work
“Ziff.”—ss6l.
Seeds or cuttings of tarragon
(ArVe/msiu dracunculus ) plants.—
Business lady, Sydney, wants small
furnished self-contained flat. Northern
side of Harbor—ss62.
Bulletin staff man wants furnished
flat or cottage anywhere Sydney.—
5563.
Brief Answers
NT.A.: Write Gaston C. Renard,
Antiquarian Bookseller, P.O. Box
529588, G.P.0., Melbourne, for
catalogues of new and second-hand
Australian books.. . .K. 8.: Write A.
E. Smith and Co. Pty., Ltd., 9
Hunter-street, Sydney 8.J.H.; The
tax payable by each partner on £390
personal-exertion and £2300 property
would be £1623 12s. This calculation
is based on rates applicable to the
year ended June 30, 1952, and pro-
visional tax has not been taken into
consideration..C.M.; We have
been unable to locate any source of
supply of seeds or plants of tarragon
( Artemisia dracunculus). They very
rarely set seed, but can be grown
from cuttings taken in the spring and
summer A.S.: Hastings Diesels:
Last div. 39 p.c., on a paid-up capital
of £lOO,OOO, for the year to August
31, 1952. Present paid capital is
about £600,000. Next div. should be
announced when the accounts for the
present year are published. The shares
are' not yet quoted on the Stock
Exchange. Tip Top Paints (Melb.):
Last div. 4£ p.c. paid in March, ’52
—this was an interim in respect of
the 1951-52 financial year; nd» final
was paid. Accounts for the 1952-53
year due very soon; no div. has yet
been paid for that year. Present
market; 4s. buyer, 4s. 6d. seller (ss.
shares)... .H.R.; Write Journalists’
Club, 166 Phillip-street, Sydney....
L.C.V.: To resist steam, heat and
grease, scrape off the kalsomine or
paint and apply one coat of cement-
sealer, followed by two coats of
paint or enamel T.H.S.: Can’t be
done. Best plan is to mix your own
paint. Make it from carbon-black
and turpentine, as required, adding a
little gold-size to assist drying and
give it binding-qualities J.M.:
Each clef-form now in use was
derived from the letter by which it
is known. The dots in the F (or
bass) clef have been retained in the
process of evolution. The G (or
treble) clef never had dots E. 8.8.:
The seminar on “Science in Aus-
tralia” organised by the Australian
National University at Canberra was
held at the university from July 24
to July 27, 1951. Its purpose was
to enable the review of progress in
scientific research and study in Aus-
tralia, and to afford Australian scien-
tists the opportunity of discussions
with distinguished scientists from
abroad. It was the first occasion in
Australia when so comprehensive a
review of scientific progress could be
made J.D.: The population of the
United Kingdom (excluding the Isle
of Man and the Channel Islands), at
the April 8, 1951, census, was
50,210,472... .T.F.G.: The correct
version has been posted to you.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary,
N. 8.: Neither the sympathetic
mouse nor the puller-of-girls-out-of-
nvers... .N.G.: n.g..,. .t.H.C.; Too
many fighting little boy-migrants....
A.E.Y.: It would be all right if life
were a circus.... .M.MacL.: Liked
the homecoming, but the theft
seemed unjustified... .P.W.J.F : A
bit too tall for u 5.... J.M.H.: Vague.
. —R.I.L.: Goes off in three direc-
tions to nowhere F.H.H.: Besides
being typed on both sides of the
paper in single-space, it hardly makes
a story M.L.: Twitters.... R.W.:
Stage-Irish....J.C.H.: Handling a
comic committee-meeting in which
nothing happens so as to make a
packed story is at present beyond
your powers.... E.M.W.: Hoopy-
goop.,,, .L.D.: The rule for repeat-
ing an old formula is that one must
do it better, not worse F.R.:
Never be indignant.. . .H.K.: Slight
—and do girls still drop their hand-
kerchiefs? L. 8.: Well-intentioned.
. ...K.H.H.: Words A.L.: No
second-rights, especially to suicides.
... .G.V.K.: Too much 1.M.E.:
No catty conversations E.P.: No
escapes past iron-curtains F.J.C.:
Depressing R. de B.: Might do
elsewhere... .K.G.: Those machina-
tions much too simple for Rugby
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
League... .F.E.C.: Stage-Irish again.
. ...J.L.: You say nothing new
about the climate W. 8.: Our
advice is to devote your evenings
chasing snails R.McG.: Perhaps
people do talk like that in real life,
but it is very wearisome when put
down in 'print at such great length.
T.C.S.: Let off with a caution.
E.V.S.: More suited for a
journal for undertakers A.H.:
Couldn’t you think of anything more
original than a lottery win to solve
the difficulty? R.J.J.: It wasn’t
even a starter ....J.C.R.: Can see
no reason why we should inflict it
upon our readers H.H.: Go
ahead, if you must write, but pick
an Australian subject L.W.:
Grandfather was laid gently to rest
in the basket A.R.: We trust that
you have no more skeletons in the
cupboard like that one H.M.:
“Red Light District” too strong for
our sedate columns W.D.: As
much as we would like to start you
on a literary career, we must decline
the honor until you learn to write.
. ...T.J.: Any wife who serves
scallops for dinner three nights run-
ning deserves what is coming to her.
. ...P.M.: Condense and resubmit.
C.C.B.: No hope for you while
you continue in that strain E.G.:
Hold hard, Ned. That idea was
patented by Lance Skuthorpe—
N.K.F.: You missed the target by
several miles.


% 1
a*
"Cyclone” Screenwire on doors and
windows keeps homes healthy, insect-free
“Cyclone” Wrought Iron Doors and
Balustrades lend beauty and distinction
C\V
• <
rm
*
“Cyclone" Front Fences and Gates
add value and protection
m
day
Every
ways
many
so
in
serves
one
c
Australia
tel
8
y
i)
&
m
/
»W
h
&»
6#C
i
XV
m
m
H
J*
Mimmm
ia;«n
i
H
"Cyclone” Playground Equipment
keeps children safe and happy
“Cyclone” Ringlock Farm Fences
provide economy and ease of erection
“Cyclone” Prefabricated Frames
for economical temporary or
permanent buildings
“Cyclone” Factory Fences
protect property and plant
Behind the simple, ruggedly
built and almost everlasting
“Cyclone” Field Gate stands
more than 50 years’ manu-
facturing experience. Be-
cause of this wealth of ex-
perience, Cyclone Company
of Australia Ltd. are experts
in the construction of a wide
range of products serving
Farm, Home and Industry.
A few only are illustrated.
You can be confident that a
“Cyclone” product is a good
product. The size and effi-
ciency of the “Cyclone”
organisation assures you of
soundness of design and
quality of workmanship.
Put your trust in “Cyclone.”
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
CISI/75/S3B
Herb Hifton is “green director”
at Maroochydore Bowling Club,
Reading the reports of the
social functions held so regu-
larly by the battalion branches
in the various capitals and towns
with their solos and guessing
competitions one might imagine
that the Old Guard have gone
a little soft, but close inspection
of the record proves that this is
not true. There is plenty of fight
in the old boys yet. Not for
nothing does The Bulletin keep
Colonel Clyde Moyes, M.C.
(known to the battalion as
Aubrey) and original commander
of “D” company and later of
“A” company to control its
“Wild Cat.”
By way of further proof
hearken to the tale of George
Akers of “B” company, who
“expresses regret for having been
unable to attend one of our com-
mittee meetings”:
Two days after I last saw you a
telegram called me home. It told
of a severe bushfire that had de-
stroyed 18,000 acres of young mulga ;
24 miles of fencing, 891 ewes and
80 per cent, of lambs at foot were
burnt. Many more likely to die.
Apart from World War I I have
never seen such suffering .... Sixty
per cent, of the sheep showed signs
of hums. This was all very dis-
tressing to me and I forgot you
all. Please apologise for my non-
attendance at meeting.
And last year Jim Brebner
missed two committee meetings
because an ungrateful cow which
he was trying to drag out of a
bog broke three of his ribs.
The prize tale of toughness in
1953, however, is that of Eric
Eggins, one of the tightly-knit
group , which holes-up at
Maroochydore: —-
With a companion I was out fish-
ing when a whale took a dislike to
my launch and smashed the side in.
The boat sank like a stone, leaving
my mate and I swimming in the
wide Pacific, six or seven miles from
shore.... I knew the chance of sur-
vival was very slim—at a time when
sharks were plentiful. I had been
much more hopeful in the trenches
and aboard a transport in the Bay
of Biscay with the subs around.
Then ,out of the blue came the only
other fishing-boat that went out that
day-4-and she picked us up after
hours in the water.... I lost my
only means of livelihood. The local
branch of the League raised about
£5O for a new boat for me, but it is
a hard road back. 1 am not so
Joung as I used to be... .My
friends reckon I’m “dippy” to con-
tinue deep-sea fishing. But I have
3o other calling and am “50 per
sent. disability.”
The Maroochy whale which
had a look at Eric and gave him
best surely must have felt for-
tunate that it did not tackle a
“Flanders Flounderer” in good
health instead of a half-invalid.
Yes, the 42nd are a tough
survival, though they are being
sadly depleted now, and the
lament is played at the Anzac
ceremony with more feeling
every year. But at any rate its
members will not leaVe the
country depopulated, while out
at Blackall there dwells
“Darkie”- Peacock. He is a
member of a family known from
Mt. Morgan to the old well-
boring track of the Barklys and
himself a bullock conductor
and, at 66, still noted as a
drover. “Darkie” appears in the
battalion records under the
names “John Clarence,” with
the letters M.M. after his name,
as evidence that on September
29, 1918, during operations south
of Bony, he climbed out on the
parapet with a Lewis gun, and,
“although under the direct fire
of at least five enemy machine-
guns, put out of action a hostile
machine-gun which was firing
right down” on the cursing 42nd.
Early this year the Blackall
Coronation Celebration Com-
mittee offered a silver medallion
to the child born in Blackall
Hospital nearest to Queen
Elizabeth’s actual crowning-
time. The prize was won by a
certain “Philip George Peacock,
20th child of Mr. Clarence John
Peacock, M.M., and Mrs.
Peacock.” The “42nd Battalion
News” adds mildly that “Mrs.
Peacock, his second wife, is 44,
and that ‘Darkie’ and his first
wife had three children.” And
young Philip at birth was “the
uncle of 14.”
The prospects of filling the
ranks of the 5/42nd Battalion
seem bright.


No. 5 of a Series
make Capittoi
—The Dependable Tobacco
Before cutting into the well-known “ Capstan”
broadflake for fine cut or pipe tobacco, prepared
leaf of definite weight is placed into a mould
and by means of carefully controlled hydraulic
pressure is compressed into a large flat “cake,”
which is then placed into a retaining press to
set, Mr. George Alt has had 27 years’ experience
in this important phase of making “ Capstan’s
own blend.” Other advertisements in this series
explain other interesting phases of the manu-
facture of Capstan Tobacco—watch for them.
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
M Blended Better 99
SPORTING NOTIONS
At Warwick Farm on Satur-
day four heavily-backed favor-
ites were successful in seven
races. Few bookmakers laid
bets against Barfleur, and not
many backers profited from
High Law’s success, though a
few stable-followers had nice
wins at 50 and 33 to 1 ; best
price at the finish was 25’s.
Tarien’s effortless win in v the
Warwick Stakes brought her to
the first line of favoritism for
the Epsom, followed by
Carioca; Silver Phantom, Bird-
wood and High Law are next.
Carioca remains at the top of the
list for the Metropolitan, while
Advocate has firmed sharply to
second favoritism, followed
closely by Sea Sovereign, then
Friendly Feeling and Gallant
Archer. It will take a pretty
smart effort by one of Tarien’s
opponents to weaken her position
for the mile.
Carioca is a great horse, but he
is now a six-year-old entire, and
he found the task of coming
back to seven furlongs after his
two-miles Sydney Cup success
too much of a task. He might
rise to the occasion and land the
Epsom—the next two or three
starts might determine that —but
it would seem from his first run
of the spring season that
CariocaV best handicap pros-
pects in the immediate future
will be in events over a middle-
distance, with the Metropolitan
as the best bet. He will, of
course, make it tough for
opponents in any weight-for-age
event.
An indication of Tarien’s fit-
ness was her equalling of the
track record, for the
seven furlongs, and the going
was a bit damp.
• • • •
Speedy beginners seldom win
the A.J.C. Derby, but Barfleur,
a front runner and winner of the
Warwick Farm Hobartville
Stakes, is now regarded as a
Derby prospect. He is noted for
speed, but he ran the seven
furlongs right out and beat
another speedy galloper. Gay
Vista. In finishing third,
Cortauld drew attention to his
Derby chance, as did Connaught,
who was right behind the place-
getters and had come from a
rearward position.
Barfleur had been unplaced in
modest company at Canterbury
Park at his prior run when
heavily backed, and as he had
then failed to see six furlongs out
there was no incentive to back
him at seven and he was a
neglected outsider. He will be
further tested in the Canterbury
or the Rosehill Guineas. Bar-
fleur, a son of imported
Valognes, who won races in
England up to lj miles, cost
1650gns. and already has won
more than that in stakes* As
he pomes from the same family
as The Trump (Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups), he should see
the Derby mile-and-a-half right
out.
Connaught, owned by knight
Sydney Snow and A. C. Lewis,
has been set for the A.J.C.
Derby, and close observers see
in him a likely one for the
classic or for an important
handicap of the spring round,
maybe one of the Cups. The
colt is by Genetout (imp.) from
Pegaway by Marconigram
(imp.), so he has staying blood
in his favor.
• • • •
Sydney owner E. R. Williams,
who races Hydrogen, may have
another big-stakes winner in
Electro. The Delville Wood
(imp.) colt cost him 1600gns. as
a yearling at the Randwick sales
last autumn and won his first
race at Warwick Farm on Satur-
day, the Three-year-old Handi-
cap. Electro hasn’t raced much,
but he looked a fair wager after
his close second at Randwick at
his prior start, A well-developed
colt, he comes from a staying
pedigree and could be a Derby
prospect. From the same family
“There goes me last two-bob down the sink!”
as former champion mare Flight,
and also that of St. Razzle, a
dual winner of the Futurity
Stakes, the colt is from Lady
Lume by St. Magnus (imp.) from
Lume by Night Raid (imp.), sire
of Phar Lap.
An owner who places £3OOO
at even money on his horse must
feel pretty confident of success,
but confidence doesn’t win races.
It was reported at Warwick
Farm that Joy Lad’s owner had
made that huge wager on this
four-year-old sprinter for the
Campbelltown Handicap and
the horse started at odds-on.
However, Joy Lad wasn’t equal
to a place ; actually he was the
first horse beaten. Consequently,
Joy Lad’s Epsom stocks have
slumped. It is likely the outside
barrier position, and being
forced to race several horses
wide, contributed to his defeat.
Sydney racegoers had ex-
pected to see Melbourne galloper
Macfarlane in action at Canter-
bury Park last Saturday week,
but owner Cyril Wilkie changed
his plans and returned the five-
year-old Tuhitarata horse to
Flemington without a Sydney
start. He considered Macfar-
lane wouldn’t handle the reverse
way of racing, and maybe made
a wise decision, the horse win-
ning the six-furlongs Chester-
field Handicap at Flemington on
Saturday, at the nice price of
8 to 1, He gave Bill William-
son an easy ride. Williamson
also scored on Bytact in the J. J,
Liston Stakes, while Ron
Hutchinson also had two wins
—on Sunish and Anouk.
Favorite for the J. J. Liston
Stakes, Flying Halo ran into a
spot of bother when making his
run soon after turning for
home. Of the also-ran expected
to improve soon, best efforts
were those by Ellerslie, Aider-
shot, Welloch, Arbroath and
Morse Code. For most of these
there was little or no money,
indicating the stable didn’t fancy
them so early in the season.
Welloch is one of the favorites
for the Melbourne Cup.
A. A. Murrell, owner of the
Brisbane galloper Valley Vista,
winner of the Eagle Farm First
Maiden on Saturday, was at
Warwick Farm, but had a nice
win on the Port Vista three-
year-old, who started at 9 to 2
and scored by seven lengths. Bill
Briscoe, who had the mount,
was also successful in the fol-
lowing event, the Second
Maiden, on favorite Bernwood.
Casa, winner of the third divi-
sion of the Maiden, raced earlier
in Sydney and was placed at
Hawkesbury in April. By Port
Vista (imp.), Valley Vista is
from Grose Valley by Mosaic.
Bernwood is a four-year-old
Murray Stream gelding, while
Casa is a three-year-old gelding
by Roadhouse (imp.) from
Borough Vale by Emborough
(imp.).
Sydney Turf Club ended the
1952-53 season with a profit of
£6393, which seems quite satis-
factory considering the heavy
expenses over the 12 months,
plus taxation. It paid £404,650
in taxes ; prizemoney and sweep-
stakes for 26 race-meetings
amounted to £209,564. A total
of £3,294,323 passed through
the totalisators and £10,368 was
distributed for trophies, jockeys’
premierships and trainers’ prizes.
From 1926 till 1937 the
Warwick Stakes distance was
one mile, but it reverted to seven
furlongs in 1938. Best time for
the seven, Imin. 24£sec., was
made by Beaulivre and by San
Domenico and equalled on
Saturday last by Tarien, but the
race was run at Randwick when
Beaulivre and San Domenico
won it. The Stakes has seen
quite a number of upsets. In
1947 Shannon, 3 to 1 on, was
beaten by Victory Lad at level
weights. In 1930 three of the
greatest horses to have worn a
bridle filled the places in the
following order: Amounis, Phar
Lap, Nightmarch.
* * *
A couple of surprises Were
handed put in the V.F.L. games
on Saturday. Geelong, which
seems to have gone stale after a
brilliant run through the season,
was beaten by South Melbourne,
14,14-8.7, though nobody had
taken South seriously this
season. Next surprise came
when North Melbourne, mixing
it with Essendon from the start,
went to the front in the second
quarter, and, point by point and
kick by kick, stayed there to get
home by one point, 12.7 to 12.6.
Collingwood beat Richmond,
13.17-12.9, and Footscray beat
St Kilda, 12.18-4.5, and these
twain meet on Saturday in what
should be the game of the
season, as it will be to see who
gets a second chance in the
finals, Carlton beat Hawthorn,
12.15 to 6.9, and Melbourne
beat Fitzroy, 9.10 to 6.13, in
games of rather academic
interest.
“H.”: Playing for Toora
(Vic.) in the Alberton League
(Australian Rules), full-forward
Frank Salmon bagged 34 of his
team’s 35 goals—a record for the
league.
* * *
The Chinese Soccer team beat
Victoria 4-0 at St. Kilda. The
speed and science of the visitors
were too much for the Vic-
torians, and, in the second half,
they went to pieces,
♦ * *
In the First Rugby Union
Test, at Johannesburg, South
Africa beat Australia 25-3.
Australia’s points came from a
penalty goal by Sweeney in the
first half.
There were a couple of deter-
mined bids by Australia, but
the defences were too solid
Hosier and Tate started a move-
ment that gave Stapleton an
opening, but the winger was
tackled by Buchler (fullback).
Hosier and Sweeney showed de-
termination, picking up the ball
from the feet of the mighty
Springbok forwards, and
Shehadie battled magnificently
in the forwards.
The Australian Rugby Union
team in Fiji met the all-Fijian
Northern Districts team at Lau-
toka and found them tougher
than the European team, which
they beat last week. The locals
won 39-6.
In Sydney Rugby Union club
games Manly beat Gordon,
11-8; Randwick and Drum-
moyne drew, 6-all; Eastern
Suburbs beat St. George, 41-6;
Eastwood beat Parramatta’,
22-3; and Northern Suburbs
beat University, 12-3.
* * *
Fittingly, for Coronation year,
England won back the Ashes, for
the first time in 20 years,
Princess Margaret proving a
better prophet than perhaps she
or anyone else expected when she
said to Hassett before the Tests,
“It’s time we won again.”
Lindwall, Miller and the rest
play cricket one way only—flat-
out to win. England’s men won
by the simple prescription of
playing better cricket.
Special negotiations between
the two sets of cricket-controllers
had extended the Test to six
days. The extra time wasn't
needed ; it was well and truly
over in four days. Scores: Aus-
tralia 275 and 162 ; England 306
and 2-132.
England was skippered in all
five Tests by its first professional
captain, Hutton, Hutton scored
well throughout the series, and
hit-up 82 in the final game
(highest score of the match). His
captaincy has been criticised (by
critics who, as Bradman has said,
are responsible to no one and,
anyway, are often wise after the
event). There wasn’t much fault
that you’d notice in his tactics
and handling of the team in this
last Test.
England’s bowlers did a fine
job. It wasn’t Bedser so much
this time. Spinners Lock and
Laker, by routing Australia in
the second innings, turned the
game England’s way. Trueman
made an impressive debut in
Anglo-Australian Tests (he made
a couple of good catches, too).
Lindwall, still a great bowler,
was best for Australia (in the
series he took 26 wickets at 18.8
each),
Bedser, with 39 wickets, broke
Maurice Tate’s 1924-25 record
of 38. Arthur Mailey has taken
most wickets by an Australian
(36 wickets in 1920-21). In the
second Test of that series Mailey
was not given a bowl, Armstrong
doing all the slow-bowling.
* * *
Freddie Dawson may not now
be rated as a world-beater, as he
could be on previous visits to
Australia, but the cullud
customer from Chicago is still
too classy for the local lads, as
he demonstrated in again defeat-
ing Harry Hayes at Leichhardt.
Hayes outpointed him decisively
for four rounds, but a left to the
chin dropped Harry in the fifth.
On hands and knees at “eight,”
Hayes again crashed to the
canvas and was disqualified for
going down without being hit.
Hayes scored his major share of
the points mostly with his better
work at close-quarters; in fact,
in round three Dawson was
knocked half-way through the
ropes. Freddie, however, didnt
really start fighting till the fifth
round, then he had at Harry
with much enthusiasm and it was
soon over.


It Still Lures Them Out
The Leichhardt
Mystery
By A. H. CHISHOLM
THE fairies were in an impish
mood when, in 1841, they
caused a young English
medical .student, William
Nicholson, to make a generous
gesture towards an eccentric
fellow-student, a 28-year-old
German named Friedrich Wil-
helm Ludwig Leichhardt.
Either in spite or because of
the fact that he had already sup-
ported Leichhardt for six years,
Nicholson provided passage-
money and expenses, plus £200,
and packed him off to Australia ;
and by so doing he laid the basis
for some of the most fantastic
events in Australian annals, the
whole culminating in tragedy
and mystery.
“Culminating” should be
applied, perhaps, only to the
tragedy. For, of course, the
mystery of Leichhardt remains
unsolved. It is being attacked
again even now, the latest Rich-
monds to take the field being a
party, led by Mr. W. Grayden,
M.P., which has high hopes of
finding a solution to the puzzle
in wild country in the central-
east of Western Australia.
Those hopes, in my judgment,
are ill-based. If there is in fact
a mysterious “box” awaiting dis-
covery in that region, it did not
belong to Leichhardt, one reason
being that he did not carry a
box and a second being that, on
the evidence available, he could
not possibly have reached the
centre of W.A.
As for the suggestion that the
remains of a vehicle might be
found, Leichhardt had no fancy
for carts following his experi-
ence with one when starting out
in 1844—it became bogged a few
miles from Brisbane and then the
horses bolted and broke the
springs, after which the useless
article was traded to a settler for
a couple of bullocks.
Nevertheless, the Grayden
party merits a cheer —however
modified. It may discover some-
thing of interest, and if it fails
to ease the Leichhardt problem
it will be merely following a
precedent established by quite a
batch of earlier expeditions.
The Service Department of
The Bulletin declared recently,
in reply to a question, that the
number of expeditions sent out
to search for traces of the
Leichhardt party was four. That
answer understated the case.
Setting aside the fact that various
explorers who were doing other
jobs also “looked for Leichhardt”
as a sideline, there have been at
least ten major searches and an
indefinite number of minor ones.
An assessment on the subject
seems desirable. It should be
preceded, perhaps, by a sum-
mary of Leichhardt’s Australian
career.
When the young German
reached Sydney, on February 14,
1842, he tried to get employment
at the Botanic Gardens. Failing
in that, he did not attempt to
practise medicine —for, in fact,
although he became known as
“Dr.” Leichhardt he had no
degree of any kind and knew
little of the subject—and pre-
sently he wandered north to the
Darling Downs and Moreton
Bay.
There he conceived the idea
of blazing a track overland to
the military station at Port
Essington, and in 1844-45 he
actually fulfilled that mission;
his odd /-little party, though
handicapped by scanty equip-
ment, inadequate supplies, and
inefficient leadership, contrived
to reach its destination after an
appalling journey extending over
14 months and 17 days. One
life had been lost; the naturalist
John Gilbert, most competent
white bushman of the party, had
been killed by an aboriginal
spear, near the Mitchell River,
on the night of June 28, 1845.
Sydney was completely aston-
ished when, in March of 1846,
a ship from the north dis-
embarked Leichhardt and Co.
They had long since been given
up as lost. In any event, ho one
had expected them to achieve
anything. Yet here they were,
not only “back from the grave,”
but bearing (as the leader pro-
claimed) “a heap of moun-
tainous ranges, rivers and rivu-
lets” in their shabby pockets.
In the weeks and months that
followed, Leichhardt was the
most famous man in Australia.
He was freely feted. He was a
favorite subject of artists and
rhymesters. He received, through
the Government and public sub-
scriptions, £1454 (the first money
he had ever earned), leaving
£1064 to be shared by the other
five members of the party.
At this stage “the great Dr.
Leichhardt” was advised that his
English benefactor, William
Nicholson, had fallen upon bad
times and needed money.
“Luddy” remained unmoved.
He simply put his cash aside,
wrote a book of his experiences
(with geographical and literary
assistance from P. P. King and
S. A. Perry), and planned for
another expedition.
+ +
He started out again at the end
of 1846. This time, naturally,
he had more experienced com-
panions. But the enterprise
crashed heavily. Designed to
strike across the top of the con-
tinent and then down the west
coast to Perth, it collapsed when
the few hundred miles from the
Darling Downs to central
Queensland had been covered.
Shortage of food and medicines,
bad weather, and freakish leader-
ship had combined to bring
about a series of quarrels and
other troubles, and within eight
months the party, having accom-
plished nothing, was back at the
point where it started.
Returning to Sydney near the
end of ’47, now something less
than the hero of the previous
year, Leichhardt gave no public
account of his journey. He did,
however, write to Germany let-
ters in which he attacked most
of his companions (he had done
the same thing after the first
expedition), and when these
became current several of the
assailed men hit back heartily.
One result of the disclosure
was that Leichhardt lost (post-
humously) a couple of statues
to his memory! The odd thing,
in fact, was that the Parliaments
of both New South Wales and
Queensland meditated action of
the kind but eventually pigeon-
holed the proposals.
Was the enterprising German
(now aged 34) daunted by
failure? Not particularly. He
still had his mind fixed on cross-
ing the continent, and so within
a few months he got himself
some makeshift colleagues and
returned to the Darling Downs.
This third Leichhardtian enter-
prise, launched from a station
near the present town of Roma,
in the first week of April, 1848,
was virtually doomed from the
beginning. It resulted in the
deaths of seven men at the time
(and those of others later) and
it provided Australia /with its
choicest bush mystery.
Out in the wastes of the Never-
Never,
That’s where the dead men lie.
Shortly before leaving Sydney,
Leichhardt related some of his
woes in a letter to William Mac-
arthur. “I suffered,” he wrote,
“of a strange fit of melancholy,
which was no doubt connected
with annoyances originating in
my dissatisfied companions of
both expeditions, and I almost
despaired of being able to form a
party which would suit me..
He therefore started out with
only two white companions,
both Germans and both inex-
perienced.
One, Adolf Classen, newly
arrived, partially deaf, and aged
about 35, was described variously
by Leichhardt as his cousin and
brother-in-law; actually he was
a brother-in-law of Leichhardt’s
sister. The other, Arthur Hentig,
described by Leichhardt as a
“gentleman,” and aged about 30,
appears to have been a farm
overseer in the Hunter Valley.
Later additions to the party
were two aborigines, Wommai
(or Killali) and Billy Bombat
(Flash Billy), and two “hired
laborers,” William (or Donald)
Stewart and a bush-worker
named Kelly. Of thf entire
batch, Stewart promised to be
the most useful; a former con-
vict at Moreton Bay, he had
escaped and lived for twelve
years with aborigines, later
working among cattle on the
Darling Downs; and so he knew
bush-life very well.
That completed the group.
The belief that a man named
Thomas Hands was also enrolled
may be discounted. What hap-
pened (as revealed by a letter
now in the Mitchell Library)
was that a ticket-of-leave holder
of that name was released for
Leichhardt’s service, but, luckily
for the man himself, the permit
was not granted until April 18
(1848), by which time the ex-
pedition had vanished.
Equipment for the journey,
according to P. P. King, was
composed mainly of the wreck
of the expedition of 1847. Stock
comprised fifty bullocks, twenty
mules, and seven horses. No
provision was made for replac-
ing horses that might be lost —
this on a journey calculated to
occupy two years.
With Leichhardt as leader and
Classen as second-in-command,
the party of seven left McPher-
son’s station on or about April
5 and struck northward.
The rest is silence.
+ +
It does not appear that Aus-
tralia worried to any extent
regarding the welfare of the
Leichhardt party during 1848-49.
Early in 1851, however, the
Government of New South
Wales sent Captain J. Beckford
Simpson in the barque General
Palmer to the far north to seek
for traces of the missing men.
The search concentrated on Port
Essington. Nothing was found.
Early in ’52, following vague
reports of a massacre of white
men in the interior, the Govern-
ment organised a land search:
it equipped seven white men and 1
three aborigines under the i
leadership of Hovenden Hely (a 1
bushman who had clashed with ;
Leichhardt on the second ex- ;
pedition), and sent them into the
central-west of Queensland.
Again, nothing was found. Hely
became convinced, from stories
told by natives, that a massacre
had occurred, but he failed to
recover any relics.
The next search, begun in
1855, with the Victoria River
(Northern Territory) as a start-
ing-point, was led by A. C-
Gregory, whose well-equipped
company included the eminent
botanist F. von Mueller and the
surgeon-birdman J. R- Elsey,
from whom Elsey Creek and
Elsey station (of We of the
Never-Never) took their names.
The only relevant discovery,
made in the Roper River
country, was the remains of a
camp that showed “great simi-
larity to those of Leichhardt.”
Again in 1858 Gregory went
bush, this time (with eight com-
panions and forty horses) striking
from Brisbane into the centre of
Queensland and then south-west
past Mount Hopeless and Lake
Torrens to Adelaide. During the
journey the party discovered
another old camp and a tree
carrying the L mark (the site is
near the present town of
Blackall), and it was conjectured
that Leichhardt had made north-
west from that point and
perished from thirst in the
desert.
t +
In the early 1860’s seekers for
Burke and Wills notably
Landsborough, McKinlay, and
Walker —also sought for traces
of Leichhardt, and in 1864 a
wandering pastoralist named
Duncan Mclntyre reported hav-
ing found a couple of L-marked
trees, as well as two old saddle-
horses, in the Flinders River
country.
By this time the centre of
exploratory energy had shifted
to Victoria, and in 1865 the
women of that colony “sent
round the hat,” collected £4OOO,
and persuaded Mclntyre to go
north again to see what could
be found. That journey was
both unpleasant and fruitless,
and in the end Mclntyre caught
fever and died.
From Victoria in ’65 activities
switched to Western Australia
in ’69 and Queensland in ’7l.
The W.A. journey, a long trek
by a party having “Big John”
Forrest as leader, shed no light
at all on the Leichhardt problem,
but the Queensland enterprise,
conducted by Sub-inspector J.
M. Gilmour of the Native
Mounted Police, made dis-
coveries that appear to have
been distinctly significant.
The cause of Gilmour’s
searching was a persistent report
that a white man, supposedly a
survivor of the Leichhardt party,
was living with natives in the
far west of the colony.
Instructed to investigate this
rumor, the sub-inspector took a
white constable and five native
troopers (equipped with twenty-
four saddle- and pack-horses)
from Bulloo Barracks to the
Diamantina country. He did
that journey, in fact, twice in the
one year, the first beginning in
the heat of January and the
second in September, and he
covered, through very tough
country, a total of 1862 miles.
The much-travelled policemen
did not find any survivor of the
Leichhardt party. But they did
find, at and near Wantata water-
hole, on what is now Monkira
station, -a number of human
bones, an iron tomahawk, some
very old scraps of cloth, portion
of a blanket, and fragments of
white men’s hair woven into a
pituri bag.
Were these relics related to
the Leichhardt expedition? Gil-
; mour, assessing the spot to be
, about five hundred miles west-
; north-west from where the lost
, party started out, became con-
; vinced that they were,
s The Queensland Government
■ had no opinion. Nor did it
have any desire to hoard human
bones. Accordingly, it sent the
relics to von Mueller in Mel-
bourne, breathed a sigh of relief,
and then proceeded to forget
about the matter.
But, of course, the drama of
the wild white man did not end
at that point. It continued
through the medium of Andrew
Hume (“the Black Prince”) and
it extended through the claims
of another fantastic bushman,
Dick Skuthorpe.
The story of Hume, who in
1874 sacrificed his own life and
that of-Timothy O’Hea, V.C., in
an attempt to find a Leichhardt
survivor in the far west of
Queensland, is too involved to
be told here. So is that of Sku-
thorpe. One may say, however,
that their claims were so assured
that they could scarcely have
been baseless, and therefore the
possibility is that Adolf Classen
did live with aborigines, in the
far interior, for rather more than
twenty years.
As to the fate of other mem-
bers of the lost party — well, The
Bulletin sagely remarked in
1880 that “Leichhardt and his
men must have been killed over
and over again”! And even
.after that period the yarns con-
tinued to accumulate.
There was, for example, the
case of Ali Blooch, ex-custodian
of the Burke and Wills camels
and later attached to Duncan
Mclntyre. This faithful Afghan
(so the tale ran) had promised
the dying Scot to continue
searching for relics of the lost
German —a striking example of
international co-operation!
and he had done so to such pur-
pose that he found, in the late
1880’s, skeletons and accom-
panying articles up in the Powell
Creek country.
There was also a tale that, in
1896, a gun-plate inscribed with
the name of Leichhardt (who,
incidentally, could not handle a
gun) had been found in a bottle-
tree in the Territory.
And, among many other
claims, there was a yarn long
ago to the effect that natives in
the central-east of W.A. had
found, and were afraid to open,
a large box which —so someone
guessed wildly—was probably
Leichhardt’s medicine - chest.
(This tale appears to have been
the father, or maybe the grand-
father, of the one that has
caused the Grayden party to
take the field in recent weeks.)
During the present century
scores of wanderers in the free
spaces have kept an eye alert for
traces of the Leichhardt party,
and in the same period several
more or less orderly expeditions
have been organised. One of
these, conducted in 1938, was
important.
Sponsored by the South Aus-
tralian Government —' which
thereby followed the nineteenth-
century precedents of New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, and
WesternAAustraliaa —a strong
party led by Dr. A. Grenfell
Price went up to Edwin Lowe’s
Mount Dare station, on the
south-western edge of the Simp-
son Desert, to examine old
bones, supposedly human, and
certain other material.
Wide interest was aroused by
the activities of that “Skeleton
Party,” largely, perhaps, because
it was the first of its kind to
issue progress reports by radio.
Even politicians were impressed.
They began to argue whether
the honor of owning the bones
rested with the Commonwealth,
South Australia, New South
Wales, or Queensland!
The searchers did in fact find
some human bones and teeth.
Moreover, they uncovered old
scraps of leather, a saddle-ring,
and two coins of pre-Leichhardt
age, one a half-sovereign which
had apparently been worn on a
chain and the other a Maundy
threepence.
That small coin was issued in
England at Easter, 1841. Leich-
hardt left England in October of
the same year. Possibly, there-
fore, something more than mere
coincidence attaches to the find-
’ ing of the little token (which
(i Continued on page 34)


established 18G8
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
.JACKSOM
O'SIiUJVAIV. /
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
READ OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
KOREA: TRUCE, AND AFTER
Representative examples of
the very varied overseas assess-
ments of the Korean achieve-
ment or failure have already
been given here. The following
extracts represent some of the
more striking or curious points
made in reaction to the truce and
what’s ahead:
* ♦ ♦.
London “News Chronicle”:
“Eric Linklater records that
when he went to report on the
Korean war he attended a
gathering at which a Turkish
major spoke. ‘We Anzacs,’ said
the major, and his gesture en-
compassed the British, the Turks,
the Australians and the New
Zealanders who were present
round the table. Apparently,
says Linklater, something unsus-
pected was won on the beaches
of Gallipoli. The years to come
will show if anything of this sort
has been accomplished in
Korea.”
•• • •
The same: “The truce in
Korea is far more than the con-
sequence of a local stalemate.
It is one manifestation —among
many others —of a world-wide
change in Communist policy.
Response to that change should
not be too parochial.”
Same: “There are two salient
points in the current and pros-
pective trouble over the post-
Korean-war meetings with the
Chinese Communists. The first
and more evident point is that
the United States on one hand
and Britain and some other
United Nations partners on the
other hand are approaching the
meetings in different states of
mind. But the second and less
evident point is of supreme im-
portance, It is that no local
settlement anywhere in the
world, welcome as it might be,
could compensate for the disaster
that would be represented by a
serious falling-out of the United
States and Britain.”
Same: “Nearly 350,000 men
have been killed or wounded
in the United Nations cause. Of
these 700 dead and 2400
wounded have been British;
24,000 dead and 100,000
wounded have been American.
* * *
“New York Times” corres-
pondent in Korea: “The [South
Korean] Government’s estimate
of civilian lives lost runs some-
where between 1,000,000 and
1,500,000. Approximately 700,000
homes are believed to have been
levelled by fire, bombing or
shelling. Perhaps 40 per cent,
of the population are still refu-
gees who are largely destitute.
About 100,000 children have
been orphaned Entire cities
have been levelled and industrial
developments as well, and hos-
pitals and social institutions
have been wiped out in a single
night. By any appraisal, the
situation could be described as
desperate.”
* * *
Arthur Krock (one of the
soundest of American com-
mentators) : “It is reliably re-
ported that, in an official top-
level discussion of the post-
armistice courses of the United
States in Korea, was
general that the Eisenhower Ad-
ministration will not allow this
nation to be bound by the
policies of our allies in the
United Nations to anything like
the degree the Truman Adminis-
tration was bound. One piece of
evidence pointing to this agree-
ment is the news that the United
States will join South Korea in
leaving the political peace con-
ference ninety days after it opens
if we are convinced the Com-
munists are negotiating in bad
faith.” [As an addendum to the
Krock report, it needs noting
that when U.S. Secretary of State
Dulles, at a Press conference,
gave out, much the same as
American policy the bulk of the
British Press was furious. Even
the most charitable put it down
to blundering or kite-flying by
Dulles (he is no hero to the
British Press, as Acheson some-
times was). Apparently it was
no kite.]
* * *
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “There will still be a
million or more Chinese Com-
munist aggressors on Korean
soil. There is, unfortunately, no
reason to assume or hope that
they will not take advantage of
the truce to strengthen their posi-
tion by such things, for example,
as the building of ‘non-military’
airfields. There is little reason
to believe that they will, in a
gesture of goodwill, abandon any
of the gains that they have made,
and especially those that were
made as bait to trap the United
Nations into inactivity while
Communist strengthening went
on.”
• • • •
The same : “Under the terms
of the truce the airfields north of
the Parallel can be repaired ‘for
civilian use,’ with the repair sub-
ject to no inspection from with-
out.”
Same: “There is no irresistible
cry this time to ‘bring the boys
home,’ as there was in 1945, and
though the men who fought the
war have every right to be re-
lieved, there is general agree-
ment that they must be replaced
by others, and that we shall stay
for a long time not only in Korea
but also in all our other far-
flung defence posts until peace
is assured.”
Same: “This is an armistice
of agreement, based on a defen-
sive victory ending in a military
stalemate which we have ac-
cepted for overriding world-
political reasons in order to
avert a larger war. Such an
armistice, recognising neither
victors nor vanquished, puts both
sides on equal terms and accords
to both equal rights and equal
obligations. What is more, this
particular armistice, being made
under United Nations auspices,
goes beyond the actual combat-
ants and interposes between
them an unprecedented sereen
furnished by ‘neutral nations, to
make certain that this equality
is observed.
Same : “There may be a truce
on the Korean battlefields. There
is as yet no peace in Asia. One
phase of the engagement on be-
half of liberty may draw to its
close. The long struggle is not
V et won-
* * *
London "Times” cones-
pondent: “The South Koreans
demand, among other things,
that the Chinese Army withdraw
London “Daily Express”
“GENTLY, GENTLY ...”
completely from Korea; that
the United Nations undertake
to prevent any third Power from
assisting North Korea militarily,
financially or otherwise; that
the Republic of Korea partici-
pate officially in any inter-
national discussions on any
phase of Korean affairs; and
that the United Nations recog-
nise the Republic’s political
sovereignty and territorial
integrity. To list these claims is
to realise the formidable task
which faces the would-be
negotiators of a Korean peace,”
Same: “While North Korea,
formerly the more industrialised
area, has been devastated by air
attack to the point where the
United States Air Force feels
there are no worth-while targets
left, South Korea is rebuilding
its shattered economy at a steady
pace.
“For the future, it will cost
the free world a great deal of
money and effort to raise South
Korea’s standard of living to
such a moderate level of well-
being as will serve as an object-
lesson in the working of United
Nations assistance and convince
Koreans that the Western con-
cept of democracy confers real
economic and social benefits. It
is estimated that an effective pro-
gramme of reconstruction for
South Korea spread over the
next seven years will cost about
$2OOO million, but it should be
remembered that the cost of
ammunition fired in one year’s
fighting in Korea amounted to
$3OOO million. The price of
peace, at less than one-seventh
of this expenditure annually over
the next few years, is surely not
too high,”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman ” ; “The
Communists will have an incen-
tive to prolong negotiations, if
there is a chance of provoking
more disagreement in the U.N,
camp.”
• • • •
Same: “During the seemingly
interminable truce negotiations
the U.N. delegates were freely
criticised by the Opposition in
this country [Britain]. It was
just, therefore, that Lord Salis-
bury should pay tribute to their
patience in the long sessions at
Panmunjom. The U.N. negotia-
tors kept the talks going in the
face of every discouragement;
they made concessions where
these were possible; and they
stood firm on the principle of
voluntary repatriation, which
could not be abandoned without
? lshono ( F .° r ‘ he satlsfac ‘??'
terms of the trace agreement the
Pf a e , s , a [?, entlt led to
considerat)le credit.
* • ♦
London ‘‘Daily Telegraph” *
“South Korea will haw large
assistance in repairing its ruins
and healing its wounds. What
the political conference will pro-
duce is still a matter of specula-
tion, but it may be taken for
granted that nothing the enemy
can do will induce the United
Nations to abandon their
stricken and heroic ally.”
Same: “It is idle to imagine
that there has been any change
of the Communist heart. If a
truce has been arranged, the only
reason is that the Communists
have taken more punishment
than they can well endure. Mas-
sive bombing has made North
Korea a liability to Communist
China, and Chinese troops have
suffered a rotation of demoralis-
ing martyrdom from the air.
Korea, which was meant to be,
and was, an ulcer in the Western
defensive system, also became a
mincing-machine for the Chinese
forces. Grappling with huge in-
ternal problems of many kinds,
the Chinese have had enough
and more than enough of the
Korean adventure,”
* ♦ ♦
Washington correspondent,
London “Daily Mail”: “All
information confirms the fact
that Mao was compelled, against
his wishes, by Stalin to inter-
vene in Korea. But, having
agreed to do so, he can now
calmly survey the conquest of
South-East Asia by economic
domination rather than by mili-
tary expenditure.”
• • • •
Same: “United States policy
towards Asia has been bedevilled
by the diplomatic failure to
recognise Mao Tse-tung’s regime
in Red China from the outset.
All sorts of explanations are
given for this failure, including
a suggestion that the late Ernest
Bevin jumped the gun and was
in too much of a hurry. But
there is no doubt he acted on
the same on-the-spot diplomatic
advice as was given to the State
Department at the time. Mr.
Dean Acheson, then Secretary
of State, wanted to make recog-
nition simultaneous, but was
frightened of Congress. His
failure and subsequent Congres-
sional stubbornness have led the
United States policy into an im-
passe which makes experts feel
a solution is well-nigh impos-
sible.”
London ‘‘Daily Mail” editorial
note: “We do not believe the
Chinese will divert large forces
to Indo-China. They could
have damaged the United
Nations much more had they
done that while the war in
Korea was raging.”
* * *
London Spectator": “They
[the United Nations side] stopped
J h a „„ re „ or . thev brousht the
Bghttof to a standstill; thly won
the lalt long-fought subsidiary
point that prisoners should not
be repatriated against their will;
and t h ey finally secured an
armistice which had been kept
ri S idl Y separate from a wider
Pitied agreement. Each one
of t f! ese + ga if had been secured
m ° f the .w rongest
resistan cc the Communists could
P ut U P -
Same : “A peace settlement in
Korea will not be achieved
easily, but on the assumption—
supported by the armistice itself
—that the Communists would
prefer not to go on fighting, that
settlement can be reached. It
will take time. It will take more
time for Americans to get used
to the idea that they have to put
all their relations with China on
a more sensible footing. It will
take still more time to convince
the Chinese Communists that
they stand to gain more by peace-
ful relations with the Western
world than they do by war—hot
or cold.”
* * *
Washington report in London
“Economist': “The American
people seem to have come round
to the view of the outgoing
chairman of their Joint Chiefs
of Staff, the wise and gentle
General Bradley, that the full-
scale war in the Far East, which
would be the logical consequence
of adopting Mr. Syngman Rhee’s
position, would be ‘the wrong
war, at the wrong time, in the
wrong place.’ ”
• • • •
Same: “No better piece of
work has been done by President
Eisenhower since he assumed
office than his repeated insist-
ence, both publicly and privately,
that a diplomatic solution is
more desirable than a military
solution for any international
problem. Among all the other
disappointments and failures of
the first six months of the new
Administration, great credit must
be given to both Mr. Eisenhower
and Mr. Dulles for the way in
which they have driven the
Korean troika of Mr. Syngman
Rhee, the American Congress
and the Communists —and, if a
four-horse sleigh is conceivable,
of the allies, too —while throw-
ing only minor titbits to the
wolves.”
• • ♦
London “Economist ” edi-
torial comment: “Wars never
do good; but they sometimes
prevent greater harm being
done; and for all its sordid


- "THE LETTERS
OF RACHEL HEHNIHG"
Over 9500 copies of this fascinating, factual and
intimate story of Australians a hundred years
ago have now been sold. Its historical and
entertainment value has been applauded by
critics in Australia and abroad. Rachel Henning
without doubt has become an enduring character
in Australian literature. The Norman Lindsay
illustrations in the book are superb.
7s. 6d., post-free
Copies of “The Letters of Rachel Henning” are
again available from “The Bulletin” offices in
Melbourne, Brisbane or Perth, or from The
Book Department, “The Bulletin,” Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
indecisiveness the war in Korea
clearly meets that test.”
Same: “To judge by the
speeches that have been made
in [the British] Parliament the
Labor party thinks that the right
way to approach a bargaining
match with oriental Communists
is to tell them in advance that
their main demand will be con-
ceded. Whether this attitude de-
rives from a carefully thought-
out new policy as yet unrevealed,
or from the usual muddle-headed
emotionalism, or merely from a
desire tQ do the Government
down at any cost to the public
interest, no one can say. The
one certain thing is that it could
not possibly suit the Kremlin’s
book better.”
Same: “The armistice arrange-
ments represent the filing-down
of a great mass of disagreement
into the smooth and polished
pages of the present compromise.
Study of their contents shows
that the negotiations, protracted
though they were, did accomp-
lish a great deal: both sides
moved from their original in-
compatible positions towards a
genuine compromise. It would
be wrong, in spite of the reser-
vations that so readily suggest
themselves, to assume in advance
that the same process cannot be
applied to the political negotia-
tions. But if, in the end, it is to
produce the same result, two
conditions are inescapable. The
first is that the negotiators for
the United Nations will have to
possess great patience; the
second is that they will have to
show united firmness. If the first
admonition is chiefly addressed
to American public opinion, it
is the second that should be
taken to heart in Britain.”
♦ * ♦
"Yorkshire Posf’: “All the
main sections of opinion in this
country [Britain] are fully alive
to the dangers of Anglo-United
States misunderstanding-fit this
critical juncture. The possi-
bility that Moscow and Peking
may be chiefly interested in
driving a wedge between Lon-
don and Washington is by no
means overlooked. Nor should
it be overlooked that opposition
to the immediate admission of
Communist China to the United
Nations is not confined to the
Republican party in the United
States. The Democrats are also
strongly against the proposal, as
was shown by Mr, Adlai Steven-
son, Democratic candidate for
the American Presidency at the
last election, in a recent television
interview.”
♦ * ♦
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“In the three fateful years since
the outbreak in Korea, no
further territories and no addi-
tional peoples have been sub-
jected to a regime of slavery.
The most seriously threatened
points around the perimeter of
the Communist sphere have held
fast. Within this sphere a spirit
of resistance has mounted, and
unexpected impulses of caution
and flexibility seem to have
found expression in the Kremlin
itself.”
• • • •
Same: “President Eisenhower
is not claiming victory in any
absolute sense; Mr. Dulles is
not claiming it, and the whole
attitude of the Administration
has been to insist that at most a
tentative step toward peace has
been made. The fault of Munich
was not that an unprepared
country compromised with what
it considered an overwhelming
force; the fault, fundamentally,
was that this inglorious but per-
haps inevitable compromise was
spoken of as assuring ‘peace in
our time.’ Today no responsible
person in this country [U.S.A.]
supposes for a moment that
peace is at hand,”
♦ * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “In
this country [Britain] the armis-
tice has been a signal for all
kinds of people, acting from all
kinds of motives, to urge an im-
mediate new effort at making
friends with China. Let the
Peking Government be ad-
mitted at once to the United
Nations, it is said. Let its revo-
lution be regarded as a salutary
event, say the sentimentalists —
or at least as an irreversible fact
of history, say the realists. Let
the Korean war be written off
as a dreadful mistake, and let us
hang our heads for crossing the
38th Parallel. Let the restrictions
on China trade be ended. There
may be a case for all these senti-
ments, but is this the moment to
air them? At the lowest, by
provoking American intransig-
ence, they are making it less, not
more, likely that China will be
brought into the United Nations,
Worse, they may invite a split
which would endanger all our
larger purposes.”
• • • •
Same: “Surveying the situa-
tion, Moscow must feel that it
has now found its best oppor-
tunity for many years of sowing
discord in the West. Both China
and Russia have given no sign
in their propaganda of the line
they will take at the political
conference. But it is to be ex-
pected that from now on Russia
will look on the conference as
one of its most treasured instru-
ments for causing dissension be-
tween the Western allies.”
Same : “It has been a strange
war to everybody, but stranger
still to the Americans. We have
had our casualties. But they
have had to see 25,000 of their
men killed, many thousands
more wounded, and hundreds of
thousands more mobilised for
the sake of war that was local
though bitter and incapable of
resolution in the old sense. They
have had to listen to charges of
‘germ warfare’ and the like and
yet to keep on talking to the
accusers. Lately they have had
to deal with a difficult ally whose
awkward strength is in part their
own creation. It has at times
seemed that impatience might
lead America into dangerous
acts. But patience has won the
day and has not always had due
credit.”
• • • •
Same: “The aggressor has
gained nothing of what he
sought and has had much of his
material power drained away.
Above all, he has lost the incal-
culable fruits outside Korea of
success in Korea.”
Same: “The attempt to reach
a settlement more clear-cut than
the substitution of a bloodless
for a bloody stalemate may turn
out to be as long and devious
and perhaps as indecisive as the
course of the war itself and of
London “News Chronicle”
“I DON’T RECOGNISE HIM—ALL CHINESE LOOK THE
SAME TO ME”
the negotiations that brought it
to a halt. It was in the last two
years, while the truce talks went
on and off and the period of
sweeping advances from one end
of Korea to the other was over,
that the war came to seem a par-
ticularly strange venture (though
no less bitter to those caught up
in it). In some ways it was a
return to what happened before
total war was thought of. It
took not two but six years to
draw up the Treaties of West-
phalia, which put a stop to the
Thirty Years War. Once wars
were localised and dragged out
by lack of means; this time the
fear on both sides of what might
happen if they used their war-
like resources to the full has had
something like the same effect.
The war called above all for
patience, and so will the time
that follows it.”
Churchill Today
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” quotes this “fresh apprai-
sal” by an “intimate friend” of
Sir Winston:
“The old gentleman is quite
serene these days. In 1946 when
he made his Fulton speech
warning against Russia it was
applauded in the U.S., but
wildly criticised in Britain. Now
the U.S. is critical of his idea
for an exploratory meeting with
Russia, while Britain applauds.
But history has an uncanny way
again and again of endorsing
the wisdom of Churchill. That
is likely to happen once more,
“If there’s a meeting, he
thinks there’s a chance to do
some good. If not, then the
record will show Russia ignoring
still another try for good re-
lations,
“Americans have got several
things about Churchill quite
wrong. It’s true the old gentle-
man will be 79 this autumn and
would like another try for peace
in his lifetime. Yet he also
risks a failure at the very end
of his career. It is silly to inter-
pret everything in terms of his
advanced age. That argument,
to those who know Churchill,
is not sound.
“And the ‘appeasement’ attack
is sheer nonsense. One of the
very few people who see
Churchill often is Lord Camrose,
who is publisher of the ‘Daily
Telegraph,’ of London. He
dealt significantly with the
‘appeasement’ charge in an
editorial in these words: ‘Noth-
ing is at once more ludicrous
and more disastrous than the
charge that British policy, de-
fined by Sir Winston Churchill
as unity, vigilance and fidelity,
reflects a reversion to the
Munich spirit by a Government
whose leader attacked Munich
and its every detail.’ You can
be pretty sure Churchill knew
Lord Camrose was publishing
that.”
The U.S. publication adds
that this appraisal of Churchill
by a close friend confirms what
is by now the general view in
London of both the Prime
Minister and his speech. The
only real change in Churchill
from his war-time personality, it
says, is that he hears less, eats
and drinks less, sees far fewer
people. His greatest personal
irritation is his deafness, not
fully corrected by a hearing-aid:
“Churchill’s goal now is a
firm peace with Soviet Russia.
He does go about this goal quite
serenely, as his friends say, be-
cause the big issues are the ones
he feels most self-assured
about.”
Honoring the Bards
The title-page of an ancient
tome on display in Tyrrell’s
window in Sydney makes no
bones about giving due honor:
“The Works,” it proclaims, “of
that Famous English Poet Mr.
Edmond Spenser.”
It isn’t done any more. Per-
haps the fault is with the bards
themselves, who these days go
to all sorts of lengths to keep
up the fiction that they’re like the
undistinguished rest, not only,
for instance, getting their hair
cut regularly like so many
penned sheep but actually pay-
ing professional desecrators to
impose this sacrilegious indignity
on them, perhaps as often as
two or three times a year.
Perhaps they can retort that this
is really so as not to hide the
light of their soap-beaming
countenances under a bushel of
hair.
However, they still do things
a bit better in Wales, where
(London “Times” report) this
year for the first time the bardic
silver crown has been won by a
woman, Dilys Cadwaladr.
The place was Rhyl. The
bards gathered together at 8
o’clock in the morning and
walked in procession through
the town to the Gorsedd circle
in the park. There a ceremony
was held in the open air with
the bards, in their colorful robes,
grouped around the enormous
stones which form the circle.
The 12 great blocks of stone
are traditionally brought one
from each of the 12 counties of
Wales, and it is the proud boast
of this county of Flint that it
always provides the most hand-
some stone.
There was an occasion in 1938.
at Cardiff, when the bards
arrived to find 12 blocks of con-
crete in place of the stones. This
heretic innovation was sternly
forbidden for future years, as
the bards complained that con-
crete was not conducive to poetic
thought. The 12 stones, arranged
in a circle, are too big for any-
one to throw.
In the early afternoon the
bards met in the pavilion with
an audience of 8000 to listen to
the adjudication, the award
being a silver crown and £25.
Dilys Cadwaladr received a tre-
mendous ovation when she was
conducted to the platform after
the result had been announced.
The subjects set for the ode
were “The Curtain” or “The
Fortress,” and there were 36
competitors. The winner, a
gifted writer in the Welsh
language, is the headmistress
and the complete staff of a
village school of 20 pupils.
Her poem was written on the
subject of “The Curtain.” In
her case the curtain had no
political significance, as it had
in those of several of the other
competitors, but was a curtain
of mystery. In the poem she
reflects oh the mysteries of life
as disclosed in fossils in the
rocks of the Caernarvonshire
mountains.
It came out later that the
gifted lady well deserved her
success, she having submitted
two separate poems under two
different pen-names; and her
other poem bagged second-prize.
Various Voices
Lord Samuel, on the Welfare
State : “One cannot expect much
mother-love from an incubator.”
General Mark Clark, U.N.
Commander in Korea: “It is
good to have the bloodshed end,
but the long and difficult road
still lies ahead. There are no
short-cuts.”
Lord Alexander of Tunis,
Britain’s Minister of Defence:
“No agreement with the Rus-
sians can be reached unless we
can retain our existing friend-
ship with our allies and unless
the free world maintains its
strength. At this stage we can-
not afford to lower the shield.”
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer, R. A. Butler: “Our
[Britain’s] conception of the
United Nations is that of a
family of nations and not an
anti-Communist alliance.”
Eisenhower: “We have won
an armistice on a single battle-
front —not peace in the world.
We may not now relax our guard
nor cease our quest,”
U.S. Ambassador to Britain,
Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr.: “The
U.N. is a good burglar-alarm. It
is as good as what we put into
it. After the bell rings, it’s up to
us.”
Nigel Birch, Parliamentary
Secretary to the British Ministry
of Defence: “Gallons of ink
have been spilt by the experts
in explaining what is going on in
the Kremlin. I suspect that the
sum-total of all they really know
could be clearly set out on a bit
of paper the size of a three-
penny-bit with a blunt nib.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Trading Hours
Overseas visitors to Melbourne’s 1956
Olympic Games will marvel at oui
strange and illogical trading laws. They
will ask why business enterprise should
be limited in most cases to specific trad-,
ing hours (with prescribed penalties for
contravention of the law) at the expense
of the public.
They will also consider the strange
discrimination which allows transport
services, entertainments, cafes and news-
paper offices to work day and night, while
prohibiting butchers, bakers, petrol-
sellers and the retailers of practically all
household requirements from doing the
same thing.
If a trader is prepared to stand the
overhead expenses involved in longer
trading hours —and adequate labor laws
protect the employee completely —why
should he be throttled down to opening
only in those hours which suit the weakest
or laziest trader?
Moreover, longer trading hours are one
practical solution of central city conges-
tion, transport overcrowding and car-
parking problems. Reducing all business
to the shortest possible hours has em-
phasised these problems as well as add-
ing millions to the deficits of transport
systems which must mass large numbers
of vehicles for short peak periods and
have them lying idle for the rest of the
time.
If Australia wants to earn a reputation
for enterprise and service with the
visitors it will attract to its shores in
1956 it must resolve these illogical trad-
ing laws and allow the average trader to
show that he is prepared to study the
purchasing public.—R. A. G. (Vic.),
Incentive Bonuses
According to W. I. Miskoe, managing-
director of the (Australian) Lincoln
Electric Co., whose parent co. is in
Cleveland (U.S.A.), the number of
American industries with incentive-bonus
schemes had increased tenfold in the last
four years. Miskoe prophesies “fabulous
success” for Australian industry if man-
agement and labor co-operate more, and
“incentive bonuses are one of the best
ways of getting co-operation.”
An incentive-bonus system seems to be
the only way to make and keep industry
efficient and competitive, said Mr.
Miskoe. “With bonus incentives Aus-
tralian industry should be able to com-
pete with any country.”
Incentive pay, wherever introduced,
has almost invariably raised output tre-
mendously. Everyone benefits —em-
ployer, employees and the community
“I bet if you could get among the big society bugs you'd make a
pile o' money."
generally for increased production must
have a beneficial effect on the economy
of the whole country.
A South Australian firm, Pope Pro-
ducts has paid in incentive bonuses to
its 1000 employees double the amount
paid in dividends to shareholders.
Yet the A.C.T.U. has lately reaffirmed
its opposition to and rejected out of hand
an incentive scheme introduced by Aus-
tralian Paper MiUs (by which employees
averaged £3 a week extra). Such short-
sighted opposition should not be ex-
pected from the A.C.T.U. It certainly
doesn’t help the worker and it plays
into the hands of the Communists
Maros (W.A.),
National Service Training
I wonder just how small is that “small
section of youths” which “Niheru” (B.
5/8 / ’53) says is peddling sensationalism
in its criticisms of National Service
Training. It seems to me that the
criticism is coming from the very people
who really know what N.S. training in
practice boils down to. .
The disputed issue is not the principle
of compulsory training itself, but the use
of the time and the resources allotted to
the scheme.* A friend and I made a
survey at the most recent catnp of the
Sydney University Regiment, and feel
that we obtained a representative opinion
of the trainees. The wide and common
criticism was directed against the tremen-
dous waste of time and money.
Three solid months of weapon-training
may be both physically and psychologi-
cally unwise; but are gardening and
gymkhana- and concert-practice, in time
scheduled for Army work, good substi-'
tutes for, say, tactical training, when
the nation is the paymaster?
Armchair commentators are backing
the wrong horse in defending a system
of training which could be almost halved
without any reduction in its military
value. If ever a constructive attack on
waste of public money and human
resources were warranted, it is here—
against a public instrumentality which
imagines itself aloof from and impervious
to the criticism of mere civilians. —
Malcolm Skilbeck (N.S.W.).
The Hard Way-
Most of us who had hard times in our
early years will agree with Matthew
Silvester (B. 15/7/’53) that they did us
no lasting harm. But “M.S.” poses an
unanswerable question when he wonders
if We are bringing our kids up the right
way. If he considers, as he appears to
do, that a dose of hardship is necessary
for the full development of character,
how is he going to administer it while he
has a good job and enough money to
give the kids what they want, in reason?
The hardest problem, I find, is to con-
vince my 14-year-old that you cannot get
anything worth while without working
for it. He hopes to get into the R.A.A.F.
via Point Cook, but his reactions at what
I consider merely mediocre marks in
essential subjects are more or less on the
line of “near enough is good enough.”
To some extent the Queensland school
system, where the disgracefully low mark
of 50 per cent, is considered a “pass”
and entitles a child to go on to secondary
education, is to blame. A child given the
right to secondary education because he
retains half of what is taught him m his
primary school finds it hard to believe
that other things are not given so easily.
I suppose the answer to that conten-
tion is that I am failing in my duty as a
parent if my child has not learnt the
necessity to work for anything he really
wants. .
“M.S.’s” problem really, m common
with many other thinking fathers, is that
he does not want to subscribe to the
usual cant about youth not being what
it was, yet he cannot help slightly
glamorising his early experiences and
thinking that they did him more good
than they really did. All that can really
be said about them is that they did him
less harm than they might have done.
An example of glamorising is his state-
ment that “occasionally we were forced
to eat dripping instead of butter.” Bless
my heart, we often ate dripping instead
of margarine—we never had butter—but
“How do you say 'I’m nuts about you' in Dutch?”
we liked dripping, and I still thoroughly
enjoy a plate of dripping-toast.
Anyway, I have faith that, in spite of
his apparent careless acceptance of things
that I never dreamed of having, my son
is a better young man than ever I was,
and if he is slightly casual about his
chosen career I remember that I was 35
before I managed to get into the type of
job that I had always wanted. My
father’s lack of sympathy with my dreams
was only partly to blame; my own
lethargy kept me a long time without an
opening.—No Sirrah (Q.).
Roads
I wonder if “Keima” could detail
those public-works on which “too much
money has been wasted in the past”
which might have otherwise and more
usefully been spent on roads (B. 5/8/’53).
Our roads are outdated for several
reasons, but mainly because of the short-
sightedness of public-service heads during
the depression and after, and because
of the war. The war caused a few fine
arterial roads to be built, but, generally,
main roads began to fall behind require-
ments during the war years.
In spite of millions invested in public-
works during the past eight years not
one major utility or undertaking even
approaches the demands made upon it.
Water-conservation, sewerage, electricity,
telephones, housing, hospitals, bridges,
suburban railways, schools, education,
etc., all need millions more to bring them
even up to current requirements. In-
deed, on a comparative “demand-and-
supply” basis, roads are ahead of most
other public utilities.
There is nothing to be gained by paring
finance for housing, telephones, electricity,
etc., for purposes of road-making. Nor
will the lag in all public-works be re-
duced by tightening the purse-strings.
But a great deal more use must be made
of the available money. Ruling oublic-
service administrative costs of roughly
4s. in the £ must be halved. Wages
must be earned, prices of materials and
services must fall to at least competitive
levels, production must increase and
income earned by any given utility must
go back into it.
Finally, even though bad roads may
cause a percentage of accidents (statistics
do not support that contention), it is vain
of John Citizen to murmur private com-
plaint unless he is prepared to do some-
thing about it. By getting together,
citizens could exert powerful influence
on public-works expenditure, while
strong public backing of existing roads
and motorists’ associations could achieve
much in the matter of road-construction
and, incidentally, learn what happens to
the bulk of revenue derived from road-
users.—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Talking
g
Most blind people can read braille,
but for those who cannot and for others
who enjoy being read to, the National
Institute for the Blind, London, and St.
Dunstan’s have arranged a talking-book
library which supplies blind people in
Britain and the Dominions. Most of
the books are made by men and women
who work in radio and are experienced in
creating pictures in the minds of their
listeners by voice alone. Recording is
done in a small studio in the offices of
the National Institute —a little room like
a study, with easy-chairs, books on the
shelves and an angled reading-lamp at
the reader’s elbow.
At the moment talking-books are
recorded on disks, very like ordinary
gramophone-records, each one taking 25
minutes of speech. Readers usually
record three 25-minute instalments at a
time and never make less than one record-
ing session a week when they are doing
a book. Some books take longer to
read than others, for none is cut or
edited in any way. When the recording
is finished, the records are processed and
copies made and sent to places where they
are needed. A machine, similar to a
gramophone and specially made for easy
manipulation by a blind person, is used
to play back the recordings. These are
either sold or hired at a very nominal
rate.
In the hope that talking-books can be
made lighter in physical weight, the
National Institute is now experimenting
with new techniques and trying to decide
whether future books will be recorded
on tape or film. Such experiments can
be appreciated when it realised that
an average novel may contain from 15
to 20 records. Tolstoy’s War and Peace,
recorded in the U.S.A., contained 119
records.
Readers do not choose the books
themselves; that is the job of a com-
mittee which gets quite a number of
useful ideas and suggestions from
people all over the world who have
heard and enjoyed the talking-
books. Authors sometimes read the
first two or three pages to give an added
attraction to the record; Jan Struther,
author of Mrs. Miniver, recorded her own
book.
The first talking-books in the U.S.A.
were developed by the American Founda-
tion for the Blind in 1934. Over 30,000
machines have now been distributed from
lending libraries for the blind scattered
all over the country. Music is used in
American recordings to create an atmos-
phere for the type of book being read,
and animal noises bring a lifelike touch
to children’s books. —M. G. Colwell
(S.A.).


Telephone
We haven’t waited quite seven years
for a telephone (B. 29/7/’53), but we
did put in an application—in a country
town, too—a good three years ago. After
the first six months we began a monoton-
ously regular correspondence with the
district phone H.Q. “Shortage of cables,”
“shortage of staff,” and so on, and we
were nowhere.
Eighteen months after our initial effort
they asked us for a year’s rent, and we
paid up with gusto, thinking the phone
was as good as on the hall-table. Soon
we began another regular correspondence,
and after another six months were told
that “instructions had been issued to
connect the telephone as soon as practic-
able.”
We thought this must surely be it, but
still nothing happened. More corres-
pondence. Then some friends said “Glad
to see you’ve got that phone at last,”
and we were sent a telephone-directory
in which we saw our name and number.
But the instrument itself? Who knows?
Who knows?—Mac (N.S.W.).
Canada-Australia
Australia’s Federal Constitution needs
overhauling (B. 8/7/’53), but it is a mis-
take to assume that Canada’s greater
wealth and population have been mainly
due to the far wider authority enjoyed
by the Canadian Federal Government.,
The U.S.A., where the respective
powers of the States and the Federal
Government are much the same as in
Australia, has made far more progress in
both than Australia and Canada com-
bined. On the other hand, in South
Africa, where the central Government has
wider powers than in Canada, there is a
far smaller European population than in
Australia, though Europeans have been
settled in Cape Colony since the 17th
century and began to spread into the far
interior in the early 19th century. Con-
stitutions aren’t responsible for these
different records.
It has been easy to create new Pro-
vinces in Canada, as new States in
U.S.A., because after Federation occurred
both countries secured control of wild
lands beyond the boundaries of existing
Provinces and States. These, until popu-
lous enough to enjoy self-government,
naturally came under the authority of
the Federal Government. Most of Aus-
tralia was already within State boundaries
when the Commonwealth was established.
The two Territories which the Common-
wealth secured (N.T. and New Guinea)
have not been developed sufficiently to
warrant being accorded Statehood.
The “imitation courts” in the State
capitals of Australia cannot seriously be
held to be any check on progress. Their
cost is small. They provide centres for
local social life. The State Governor
comes more intimately into touch with
the people than does that remote per-
sonage, the Governor-General. Anyhow,
“Our ace western-writer."
Canada has a Lieutenant-Governor for
every Province, and provincial councils,
while the number of members of the
Federal Parliament is substantially greater
than in Australia.
Taxation per head is also heavier in
Canada than in Australia.
There is nothing in the Canadian Con-
stitution to prevent the Senate causing
a deadlock such as would have happened
here had Menzies failed to win Queens-
land at the last Senate election. The
Canadian Senate’s powers are far from
being “little more than consultative.”
They are the same as those of the House
of Lords before the latter’s were limited
by the Parliament Act of 1911, save that
the Senate exercises no judicial functions.
Appointment is for life, but there is
limitation of the number of members,
and hence a Ministry cannot assert its
will against a recalcitrant Senate by
“swamping.”
That the Senate has used its powers
with discretion —indeed, as Robert
Mackay has shown in his The Un-
reformed Senate of Canada, it has
generally performed its function as a
house of review admirably—is due partly
to its being recruited by life nomination
and partly to its members being mainly
elder statesmen. Elder statesmen, when
secure from victimisation by party bosses,
will generally display a sense of respon-
sibility and a moderate outlook in their
political conduct.— Morris the Tinker
(N.S.W.).
Some Road!
I agree with “C.L.” (B. 15/7/’53) that
all revenue collected from petrol tax
by file Federal Government should be
paid over to the States instead of 55 per
cent, as at present. The practice of with-
holding 45 per cent, of petrol-tax col-
lections was started by the Chifley Gov-
ernment, but that doesn’t justify the
present Federal Government in keeping
it up. Petrol tax was originally imposed
for road-construction and -maintenance,
and it should be entirely devoted to those
purposes.
“C.L.’s” defence of Queensland
Labor’s road-building policy is vulnerable
on a number of points, the main one
being that, with gross receipts of
£7,827,829 in 1951-52, the Main Roads
Commission could only manage 674 miles
of road-work. That works out at over
£ll,OOO for each mile of road. Some
road! A miserable 1.7 miles of concrete
road, and barely 55 miles of bitumen
road were put down in 1951-52, the bulk
of the road-work done being clearing.
“C.L.’s” record of road-works accom-
plished under Labor is fair comment, but
even a bush ant, given 30 years, would
have-something to show for its work.
Queensland Labor’s road-building policy
is taking too long to do too little. It
put down the much-vaunted Condamine
Highway between Dalby and Roma and
claims that it is a. splendid contribution
to the defence of the Commonwealth.
Yet 70 miles of this highway is not bitu-
mined, and its main defence-value would
be to break the springs of enemy vehicles
moving along it in the dry, and to bog
them down in the wet.
If “C.L.” believes Queensland Labor
has made a fist of road-construction, let
him travel by car* flrom Brisbane to
Charlevilie, down through Cunnamulla,
across to Dirranbandi and Goondiwindi
and back to Brisbane. He would com-
plete the journey with his car in need of
a major overhaul and his views on
Queensland Labor road-construction
drastically altered. —D. J. K. (Q.).
Bush Plants
At a recent meeting of the Tree
Wardens’ League of N. S. Wales, The
Bulletin’s review of Thistle Y. Harris’s
Australian Plants far the Garden (B.
22/7/’53) received favorable comment —
in these days it is unusual for the Press
to give much publicity to the cultivation
of our native flora.
Most of our members, however,
thought it a pity that transplantation of
native plants from bush to home garden
received so much notice, as they hold
the view, shared by Miss Harris (Mrs.
Stead), that hush seedlings should be left
undisturbed. Our league encourages
the growth of native plants from seeds
or, where that is impossible, the pur-
chase of potted plants.
In these matters the general public
requires a good deal of education. —
S. T. Turner (N.S.W.).
Farming in Britain
The argument (B. 1/7/’53) that an
increase in Britain’s agricultural popula-
tion would push the country back into
the 18th century is absurd.
Granted, for such a programme, that
most of the new settlers would have to
be small-holders, but what’s wrong with
the small-holder anyway? Some of tl\p
best farming communities in the world
are composed mainly of small-farmers —
Denmark, Holland and Belgium for in-
stance. There are no better farmers in
England than the small-farmers of the
Vale of Evesham. In Canada, holdings
in Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia,
New Brunswick, Quebec and Ontario
are mainly of moderate size, but the
quality of the farming compares favor-
ably with larger farms.
Small-farming is far from being back-
ward farming. One well-trained in
scientific agriculture can make a good
living from a relatively few acres of land
if, as is the case in most parts of Britain,
the land is naturally of good quality and
is close to markets.
Even with a considerably increased agri-
cultural population, the British economy
would still be predominately industrial.
Belgium proves that a country can have
a large agricultural population and still
be industrially important. Belgium is as
thickly populated as Britain and her soil
is generally less fertile. Her great farm-
ing region, the Plain of Flanders, has been
thus described by an authority on
Belgium, R. C. K. Ensor:
The sandy soil is excessively barren.
Brief neglect makes it speedily revert to
desert. Yet the Flemings have made it
one of the most populous, the most
intensively cultivated, and the most pro-
ductive areas in the entire world.
Small peasant-farmers have been
mainly responsible for this fine achieve-
ment.
Several British farming authorities have
opined that, were Britain farmed as in-
tensively as possible, she could feed from
her own fields a larger population than
her present one. — Cunedda (N.S.W.).
Those Hole-diggers
Few complaints are more constant
than that deploring the repeated tearing-
up of footpaths, roads and right-of-ways
for the installation of the various
domestic services (B. 13/5/’53). Few
grumblers realise, however, that, as well
as permitting free flow of pedestrian and
vehicular traffic, carrying such installa-
tions is what thoroughfares are for.
People who make lawns and gardens
or plant shrubs beyond the street align-
ment of their properties do so at their
own risk; in fact, some councils frown
on the practice, and prosecution for
trespass could be sustained. As for such
instances as, say, the Water Board break-
ing a new footpath put down immediately
following excavations by, say, the
P.M.G., a workable co-operation between
all public-works organisations and muni-
cipal councils and each other has long
been established to minimise the over-
lapping of disturbance, obstruction or
closure of streets or paths.
Anyway, the route followed by one
service in any given street seldom serves
for another. Underground electricity
cables must be laid clear of telephone
cables, while practice has proved that,
in cases of serious leaks or bursts in one
or the other, water mains laid too close
to gas mains (or vice versa) can be costly
nuisances.
Yet the false (and nettled) idea persists
that when a trench is opened along the
length of Smith-street, all the various
undertakings should promptly lay pipes,
ducts, cables, fire-alarms, sewers, drains
and what-have-you in it and thereby
prevent future disturbance to the nice
new concrete or asphalt surface. That
would be wonderful if it made sense, par-
ticularly when every foot of breakage in
road or pavement is replaced at high cost
to the department opening it.
P. O. M.C. (N.S.W.).
Louis Becke
Louis Becke hasn’t been as neglected
by anthologists as “B.” seems to think
(B. 12/8/’53.). I quote from the last
paragraph of the biographical notes to
my forthcoming historical anthology of
Australian short stories, Australian
Round-Up:
Becke has been well represented in
anthologies. The first was Lala Fisher’s
By Creek and Gully Cl 899), followed by
A. G. Stephens’s Bulletin Story Book
(1901), in which “Long Charley’s Good
Little Wife” was reprinted. In 1928 George
Mackaness selected “The Fate of the
Alida” for his Australian Short Stories. In
the following year his annotated edition of
Louis Becke’s Tales of the South Seas,
containing 18 stories, was published by
Nelson.
As well, the titlepiece of Rodman the
Boatsteerer is included in Volume XI
of Sir John Hammerton’s Masterpiece
Library of Short Stories,
Becke, Lawson and Price Warung
share equally the largest amount of space
in the biographical notes to Australian
Round-Up, which is down for publica-
tion by Angus and Robertson on Sept. 4,
1953.
A biography of Becke bristles with
touchy points. There is plenty of
material available about him, a good
deal of it sensational, and “B.” may rest
assured that a biography of him has been
well-and-truly considered. He is one of
those writers whose biography cannot be
faithfully written for almost a century
after his death. A public figure some-
times leaves behind him an embarrassing
detail of legal pitfalls into which the rash
biographer would tumble with disastrous
results to himself. Such a figure was
Louis Becke,
Any new and complete edition of his
works, even a selected edition, would
heed to be preceded by a great deal of
investigation into the ultimate disposal of
the copyrights of Becke’s work. Most
often he sold his copyrights, and many
of these were resold until today it is
extremely difficult to arrive at the owner-
ship of many of his stories.
Material for a biography of Becke is
being collected by Phillip Gallagher, who
may be reached through this writer, —
COLIN RODERICK (N.S.W.).


LUMIIFS
Official Insurance
Brokers to the
Graziers’ Association
of N.S.W.
have the specialised
knowledge to provide
the best possible
Insurance for the
Man-On-The-land
/ Why not take advantage of \
\ lumley’s Free Advisory Service /
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS GZ;
263 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone B 0538.
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter St., Newcastle. 'Phone B 1810.
87 Woodlark St., Lismore. 'Phone 1962.
ELS.B.IB
BULLETS Special Offer
Fully Guaranteed .22 long title
This is your cMnce to buy first quality .22 long rifle
bullets at special low prices. Packed in quanfcties from
100 to 10,000, they can be sent immediately to any
address in Australia.
Price;
9/10
per 100
(P.O.R.
MELBOURNE)
Enquire through our Local Branch or write direct to
GOLDSBROUGH MORT & CO. LTD.
554 Bourke Street, Melbourne. C.l*
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BRISBANE ROYAL SHOW
“Yeoman”: Brisbane Royal
Show is more representative of
land industries than any other
in the Commonwealth. This one
produced a magnificent collec-
tion of fat cattle, stud beef
cattle, dairy cattle, pigs, stud
Merinos, wool and agricultural
products.
The 340 fat cattle belied the
fact that at the time the whole
of eastern Queensland was in
semi-drought condition. Wood-
lands Hereford Stud, Green-
mount, on the Darling Downs,
pulled off an unusual double —
champion steer and champion
Hereford bull —both the result
of line-breeding to Golf Hill
Vulcan, only successful breed-
ing son of the five times Sydney
champion, Hobartville Starlight.
The steer was a good example
of what good breeding and feed-
ing can achieve. A Hereford
(horned), its liveweight at 30
months was 16891 b., and it made
£l3O at auction. J. Sparkes,
Lyndley, Dalby, exhibited over
100 fats to win champion pen,
nine first, eight second and four
third prizes, while the Australian
Meat Board livestock and car-
cass competition for pen of three
pasture-fed bullocks was a real
family affair, Sparkes winning
first and third prizes and his 19-
year-old son, lan, second prize.
The champion pen of six
weighed more than 10,0001 b. and
sold for £6OO.
Herefords
Herefords, as usual, dominated
the beef-cattle section and were
judged by H. B. Fenwick, just
returned from England, where he
visited 80 studs in 5£ weeks.
Tops of the big classes were as
good as any Brisbane has seen,
but some gave a poor display of
walking ; slack backs were com-
mon, Champion bull was Wood-
lands Emperor, whose pedigree
is a first-class example of line-
breeding, both sire (Woodlands
Lion) and dam (Woodlands Em-
press 2nd) being by Golf Hill
Vulcan, The dam is a grand-
daughter of the famous Windsor
Puritan.
Hays Bros. (N.S.W.) had rea-
son to be pleased with their
northern trip. Their Bexley
Setrite was reserve champion,
and made lOOOgns. on a flat
market, while Bexley Fascinator
won the junior championship
and topped the auction sale at
1750gn5., the buyer being S. B.
Reynolds, whose Moorlands
Destiny was the last Queensland-
bred bull to win the Brisbane
championship. David Pratten’s
Turee Herefords made one of
their most successful showings,
winning the female champion-
ship with Turee Marinda, 15-18
months bull class (Turee Fame),
heifer class 6-12 months, most of
the group classes and sire’s-
progeny stakes with stock by
Bounds Quest (imp. in utero).
Weston Great Month was repre-
sented for the first time, to win
junior female championship and
first prize bull in the 10-12
months class for E. R. Reynolds.
Poll Herefords
Poll Hereford breeders were
not altogether happy that an
A.-A. man (H. G. Munro) had
been selected to judge their sec-
tion, now drawing close to
Herefords for entries. White
backs were too numerous ; other-
wise, the section was the best
ever. Mrs. N. P. Wright won
both senior and junior bull
championships with Lyndley Re-
flection and Blandford Favour-
ite. For the benefit of those
who claim show stock do not
breed on, it is worth noting that
the junior champion is by the
1952 Brisbane champion (Lynd-
ley Souvenir), which bull can be
expected to do for Poll Here-
fords what Free Town Director
(imp.) did for the hornies. In
addition to senior and junior
champion, Mrs. Wright won six
firsts, two seconds and two thirds
with eight head.
E. W. G. McCamley, of Cen-
tral Queensland, was most suc-
cessful exhibitor of females,
winning champion and reserve
with Eulogie Fancy 4th and
Eulogie Lydia sth, which were
afterwards sold for 500gns. each.
Shorthorns
Shorthorns had neither the
entries nor the outstanding indi-
viduals of the Poll Shorthorns,
and it will not be long now be-
fore the latter have entirely
supplanted their horned brothers
in the north. Best of the horned
bulls was the Bateses’ Dalguise
Dictator, by Kirkton Dictator
(imp.), ex Duncrahill Doris
Broadhooks (imp.). He won the
junior championship, but, being
under 18 months, was not elig-
ible for senior honors, which for
the fifth time went to Woomar-
gama stud, whose Quintuple was
a first exhibit of the progeny of
Cluny White Knight (imp.). The
latter’s stock pulled off the
junior female championship and
were first for sire’s progeny.
Poll Shorthorns
For the fifth successive year
the blind breeder, J. T. Scrym-
geour, won the senior male
championship (with Netherby
Mark Twain) and for the eighth
successive year the junior cham-
pionship (Prospect Achievement).
Both have an impressive back-
ground of Poll ancestry. Six-
teen-year-old Dell Langmore
exhibited the female champion
(Prospect Gay Lass).
Aberdeen-Angus
L. J. Graves proved a popular
Aberdeen-Angus judge, all ex-
hibitors taking prizes in the most
evenly-contested section yet seen
in Brisbane. Bald Blair Rowa
repeated his 1952 male cham-
pionship win. W. E. Webster’s
“perfect bull,” Sarum Graphic
Bth, took the junior champion-
ship. Scottish Australian Co,
won female champion and re-
serve with Texas Venus and
Undine, while F. H. Hutton won
the heifer junior championship
with Bingegang Wonder.
Dairy Cattle
Despite poor accommodation,
dairy cattle made an impressive
showing. Con O’Sullivan’s
A.I.S, cow, Brundah Tulip 2nd,
produced over B£lb. of butterfat
in 48 hours (8.70701 b. to be pre-
cise) to break the Common-
wealth record. She is only three
years old.
Over 350 A. 1.5., including 250
females, made a showing which
has never been surpassed any-
where. Veteran showman J.
Phillips won the purple sash for
A.I.S. cow with Sunny View
Princess 9th. A. Pickels had an
outstanding team which won re-
serve champion cow (Blacklands
Topsy 16th), also first and second
in sire’s-progeny stakes with get
of Blacklands Gloucester.
In Jerseys F. Sippell, of Mur-
gon, won the double, the first
exhibitor to do it since 1907.
Lynwood Samaritan’s Watfern
was champion cow, and she is a
daughter of the champion bull,
Grasmere Audrey’s Samaritan,
which won, for sire and progeny,
sire’s-progeny-stakes group and
“Care t' join me an' me mate in a game of bridge?”
exhibitor’s group. R. J. Craw-
ford and Sons won reserves for
cow and bull with Inverlaw
Morning Mist .and Dreaming
Ranger (imp.). Regal Design
(imp.), Queensland champion
bull on two previous occasions,
could not parade after injuring
a leg on the way from Helidon
to Brisbane.
Against stiff competition from
the State’s best Ayrshires, L.
Holmes, Benbecula stud, won
champion cow with Benbecula
Thistledown and champion bull
with Benbecula Flash Baron.
Champion Guernsey cow was
A. H. Knopke’s Rhodesleigh
Tilly and champion Guernsey
bull E. S. Black’s Laureldale
Standard.
Merinos
The stud - Merino section
attracted six studs, who exhibited
107 sheep, including several
Poll rams. Neilson Mills’s
Wahwoon stud proved too for-
midable for the locals, and piled
up 78 points against Strathdarr’s
40, Terricks 13, Victoria Downs
10, G. R. Lee 6. Mrs EDM
Brooks had the smail-breeder’s
section to herself Grand cham
pion ram was ’the Wahwoon
strong wool, which defeated
Walter Merriman’s Sydney grand
champion at Cootamundra
Strathdarr’s grand champion
ewe and Victoria Downs’ reserve
grand champion would have
held their own anywhere
according to the judge ’
A competitive section of 175
fleeces was somewhat over-
shadowed in the Wool Court by
a contest staged for the first
time for the Rogerson trophy.
A fleece is taken (by arrange-
ment between brokers and
buyers) from top-priced clips
sold on the Brisbane market
during the season, and a panel
of three judges selects what they
consider the best fleece, regard-
less of price. The trophy was
awarded to Mrs. D. I. Mc-
Donald, Woodbine, Nindigully,
whose wool made 137|d. per lb.
at the June sale. The flock com-
prises 4000 ewes, which are
joined with rams from J. E.
Tomlinson’s Kelvington stud,
Boomi. It was this stud which
bred the Sydney grand cham-
pion ram which made such a
stir a few years ago.
In the strongest fat-lamb sec-
tion ever staged in Brisbane, J.
and R. Grieve (Yandilla) ex-
hibited the champion pen com-
prising 10 lambs of the South-
down cross, aged 12 weeks and
estimated to dress just under
361 b. They made an Austra-
lasian record of £2B a head at
auction.
MELBOURNE SHEEP SHOW
“Mr.”: Excellent fine- and
mediura-woolled Merino sections
were a noteworthy feature of
Melbourne Sheep Show, but
superfine exhibits fell off a
little. Usually prominent in this
section, the Tasmanians failed
to take a major prize, although
they did well with their fine-
wool showings.
In the superfines S. L. Calvert,
Kalymna, Maroona (Vic.), got a
first with each of his four ram
entries, topping off with the ram
champion, which carried a nice-
handling fleece of great depth
and was almost perfect under-
neath. Reserve ram represented
the estate of A. Barber, Beau-
fort (Vic.). It had an excellent
covering, but not the conforma-
tion of the champion. Top
superfine ewe exhibited by J. T.
Hodge, Buchan (Vic.), was
nicely-formed with attractive,
soft-handling wool. Ewe re-
serve was shown by John Foster,
Pleasant Banks (Tas.).
The Merino fine-wool section
attracted 190 entries, largest
group in the show. The Tas-
manians here made up some of
the ground lost in the superfine
classes. Their sheep generally
were better prepared, although
not always, particularly in the
case of the ram champion. This
animal won for the young
Goroke (Vic.) breeder, R. G.
Walker, the championship for the
fourth successive year, a credit-
able achievement, as Walker's
Pleasant Park stud came into
being as recently as 1947. The
champion, bred from Merryville
blood on both sides, was out-
standing and beautifully covered.
Reserve ram was shown by John


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM j
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
■
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W, Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS. . NO EMPTYING. . NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
ĝ
YOU CAN INSTAL FT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
DISTRIBUTORS: . ~
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS. i Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty, Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore ; British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
wm>
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
COMPARE FOR YOURSELF THE FIGURES SHOWN IN THE FOLLOWING
TABLE INDICATING THE PERCENTAGE OF WORMS REMOVED FROM SHEEP
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey
as a simple story the results of many years of research.
Acknowledgement is made to many research workers
whose results have been published in the Australian
Veterinary Journal and elsewhere. \
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
1C
PHE. I2X. 8434*
Foster, of Pleasant Banks (Tas.).
Upstanding, stylish, with a good
head, this ram was well covered
with a dense, bright wool of
good character and quality.
First fine-wool ewe was shown
by R. R- Taylor and Son,
Valleyfield (Tas.), and reserve
by John Foster. The champion
was a heavy, matronly sheep of
high quality, in almost perfect
bloom.
In the medium-wool classes
competition was stronger. Main
contest was between Alec Rus-
sell, Mawallok, Beaufort (Vic.),
and Murray Downs, Swan Hill
(Vic.). Russell gained a slight
lead with five firsts, eight
seconds, three thirds and the
champion ram, against Murray
Downs with six firsts, two
seconds, three thirds and reserve
champion ewe. Murray Downs
fielded the ram champion last
year, and Mawallok took the
honors in 1950 and 1951. This
year’s champion was a well-
developed sire with some nice
neck-folds, carrying a heavy,
even fleece right down through
the belly-wool and points. Re-
serve ram was entered by J. J.
Hannan and Sons, Lower
Norton, via Horsham (Vic.). It
came from a strong class in the
small-owners’ section, but, while
of good quality, was not as true
and even as the Mawallok repre-
sentative. Top ewe was a four-
tooth by a Merryvale sire, bred
and shown by J. E. Hollonds,
Benambra (Vic.). This ewe’s
fleece was notable for its soft-
handling qualities, evenness of
color, length and character.
Female reserve went to a nice-
looking Murray Downs ewe
which, with a better underline,
would have given the champion
firmer opposition.
Conriedales
Cprriedale entries were fewer
and quality not quite up to 1952
standard, though tops were ex-
ceptional. Chief honors went to
M. Carroll and Sons, Redbank,
Molong (N.S.W.), with ram
championship and three thirds.
R. E. Wettenhall, Stanbury Stud,
Ceres (Vic.), won three firsts,
two seconds and ram reserve.
The Redbank champion, reserve
at Sydney in May, has a near-
perfect fleece carrying a broad,
definite lock. The reserve, which
was champion at Albury, is an
immense sheep with a good
covering of wool, but the cham-
pion was better underneath. Top
ewe, exhibited by R. H. R.
Baker, Booloola, Baringhup
(Vic.), won the Albury blue
ribbon in July, A well-balanced
ewe with an outstanding frame,
she had a nice, stylish, soft-
handling wool. A. C. Hookings,
Tantanoola (S.A.), showed the
reserve ewe which, although
lacking the size of the cham-
pion, has a bolder wool with a
more pronounced crimp. Hook-
ings won three firsts and a re-
serve championship. H. P.
Herman, Marma Glen, Rose-
bud (Vic.), was most successful
breeder in the small-owners’
section.
Polwarths
Champion and reserve horned
rams came from F. V. M. Youl
and Sons’ Elsdon Stud (Tas.).
The champion has excellent con-
formation, with well-shaped
hocks and hindlegs, a splendid
topline, a fleece of true Pol-
warth wool possessing outstand-
ing lustre and brightness. The
reserve ran him close. Polled
champion, entered by A. Dennis
and Sons, Eeyeuk, Terang
(Vic.), has a firm, well-balanced
frame and a nice fleece of true
sire’s wool. Reserve was shown
by L. and A. Burbury, Ormley
(Tas.). Executors of R. A.
Hood, Hexham (Vic.), showed
the champion Polwarth ewe,
densely covered with a fleece
of high quality. The reserve,
also a nice, evenly-fleeced ewe,
came from N. B. Thomson’s
Kooraweera Stud, Camperdown
(Vic.).
British Breeds
Champion Dorset ram from
K. G. Luke’s Deepfields Stud,
Romsey (Vic.), was an almost
faultless four-tooth, with a
broad, thick frame and shapely
head. His sire, Deepfields 314,
winner of the aged class, was a
winner in the 1952 Melbourne
show. Reserve ram came from
C. H. Piper’s Una Stud, Echuca.
The Dorset ewes were an even
lot, the champion being entered
by C. H. and S. T. Hawkins,
reserve by W. J. G. Beer and
Son.
Ryeland champion ram from
J. Mclntosh’s Burnwood Stud,
Merrigum (Vic.), is a true mut-
ton type. There was little be-
tween it and the reserve ram
shown by lan Mclntosh, Lorns-
hill, Merrigum. Top Ryeland
ewe also came from Burnwood,
and reserve ewe was shown by
K, Drummond, Talgarno,
Wodonga.
Ram championship and re-
serve in the Southdowns went
to E. F. Hancock, Alverton,
Warracknabeal (Vic.). The
champion, a four-tooth, has ex-
cellent conformation, is good
over the shoulder and has the
typical Southdown head. Cham-
pion ewe, shown by C. H. and
S. T. Hawkins, is an importation
from the stud of H. J. Andrew,
Maheno (N.Z.). She is an out-
standing sheep, compactly built,
with well-moulded hindquarters.
Reserve ewe, from the same
N.Z. source, was stablemate of
the champion. In the English
Leicester, Border Leicester and
Lincoln sections entries in each
were submitted by one owner
only.
Bela? Posts
“Ben Acre”: Belar may be as
good as pine for posts (experi-
ence in dismantling an old yard
confirms this), but there are rea-
sons for its not being more
popular.
It requires more labor to cut
and split. Forked sections of
the tree cannot be split, and
should be discarded. In com-
mon with other timber, only the
centre-wood will stand in the
ground, and many belar-trees
have a large proportion of sap-
wood. Old, dry belar is diffi-
cult, if not impossible, to bore.
Notwithstanding these faults,
belar can be used with confidence
if only the older portions of the
tree are cut.
Belar is excellent as round
timber for shed-building, but
small trees have too much sap-
wood to last long in the open.
To End Super. Shortage
“R.N.”: At Birkenhead
(S. Aus.) and at Newcastle the
firm is building
large sulphuric-acid plants, to be
completed towards the end of
1954. Together, the plants will
produce 400 tons of sulphuric-
acid a day, enough to make 1200
tons of super.
The plant at Birkenhead will
be the largest of its type in the
world, and will cost more than
£2 million. The one at New-
castle will cost £1 million. John
L. Green, of N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture, said “When the
Newcastle plant begins produc-
tion the super, shortage in New
South Wales will end.”
Hints for the Farm
“Rooster”; The cabbage-
moth !s a nocturnal pest which,
if not looked for, remains
unnoticed. The eggs are laid
on the underside of the leaves —
conspicuous by their bright
coloring and large clusters.
Destroy them by crushing before
the caterpillars hatch out and
give weekly applications of
derris-dust.
“Plane Creek”: Chinese long-
er “snake”-beans need a trellis
Bft. or 9ft. high running north
and south. They also revel in
summer heat when watered
freely, and will bear for months.
The beans are long, curved and
greyish white in color —quite a
tasty vegetable.
“Big Billy”: Spring is the time
to establish herbs. A narrow
border at the foot of a fence or
beside a path should be suffi-
cient. Dig the soil deeply and
manure heavily, as many herbs
are likely to occupy the bed for
several years. Sage, thyme,
mint, parsley and chives are a
good range. Plant mint where
it may be kept in check. This
can be done by enclosing it with
corrugated-iron or similar
boxing.
“Konanda”: When a new
floor-covering is being put down
all furniture must be removed
from the room; this makes it a
good time to do any painting or
other work the room has been
waiting for.
“My”; Half a gallon of
separated milk will take the
place of |lb. of meat-meal in
the diet of pigs. In its absence
feed that quantity of meat-meal
per pig daily from baconer- to
weaner-weight, irrespective of
size. The dry sow needs the
same quantity, but when in-pig
or with litter can take lib. daily.
These quantities will balance all
the cereal grain or meal a pig
can eat, i.e., 11b. daily for every
251 b. of its weight. Supplement
with a lick (four parts of ground
limestone and one part of salt)
at loz. daily for each growing
pig or dry sow and 2oz. daily
for a sow suckling a litter.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Great interest n'ow centres
around prospects of a break-
up of the dry spell in many
areas. Under the theory of
cyclical control, the dry spell
should end either late in
August or early in September.
The cycles also indicate a
good season from then with
some quite heavy rains in
November.
PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studiedl
indicates a strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
From his sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin”
Wool Type Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.


reckoned had hold of him
Heaven only can tell. His
mother thought he must have
gone mad and ran after him.
Our Mother fairly tore after her.
Dad and Dave left a dray-load
of corn and joined in the hunt.
Between them they got Jacob
down and took him out of the
trap. Dad smashed the infernal
machine, and then went to look
for Joe. But Joe wasn’t about.
The corn shelled out a hundred
bags—the best crop we had ever
had. But when Dad came to sell
it seemed as though every
farmer in every farming district
op earth had had a heavy crop,
for the market was glutted—there
was too much com in Egypt—
and he could get no price for it.
At last he was offered ninepence
halfpenny per bushel, delivered
at the railway-station. Nine-
pence halfpenny per bushel,
delivered at the railway-station!
Oh, my country! And fivepence
per bushel out of that to a carrier
to take it there! Australia, my
mother!
Dad sold because he couldn’t
afford to await a better market.
And when the letter came con-
taining a cheque, in payment, he
made a calculation, then looked
pitifully at Mother and muttered
“Seven pounds ten!”
may have been held as a keep-
sake), together with human
bones and other relics, in a wild
portion of Central Australia.
The unfortunate circumstance
was that the South Australian
Government lacked tenacity in
regard to skeletons. The search-
party was recalled too soon,
Had it been granted a few weeks’
more time it would probably
have made other discoveries and
have proved or disproved the
site.
As matters were, the leader
could say only that, the relics
were as likely to be the remains
of the Leichhardt expedition as
those of any other party that had
disappeared.
a i
i T
So there you are!
_ . ,
Of ten major searches con-
ducted during almost ninety
Hely
(1852), Gregory (1856 and 1858),
Mclntyre (1865), Forrest (1869),
Gilmour (two in 1871), Hume
(1874), and Price (1938)— only
those of Gilmour and Price re-
suited in relics of any kind. And,
if a choice is to be made, the
Diamantina and Simpson Desert
sites appear to be better bets
than any of the others.
It is possible, of course, that
various members of the Leich-
hardt party died in various
places. It is also possible that
the causes of death differed —
one man may have been killed
in a mutiny, another may have
died of thirst, and others may
have been caught by fire or
massacred by aborigines. The
remarkable thing is the absence
of definite relics and the failure
of searchers to find, with cer-
tainty, any trace of the seventy-
seven animals taken by the lost
expedition.
All in all, this Leichhardt
Mystery has been, and is, an
extraordinary drama. Played on
a vast stage, it has extended over
more than a hundred years,
and > x ge\y because it has pro-
moted many examples or
courage and resource, it has held
m l tei ' est , tke 1 ? atl0n during
the whole of that time -
On the practical side, it has
been productive by chance of
certain geographical discoveries,
but against those assets there has
to be counted a serious cost in
fives and money,
At this day, it seems, Leich-
fiardt’s name is more familiar
than are those of many better-
balanced explorers. But that is
no t because of his early success.
jf y OU asked a cross-section of
Australians including the
erudite patrons of the Leichhardt
stadium—for a trifle of informa-
tion on the man, would you be
told that he was an explorer who
pioneered a large part of
Queensland?
Not very likely! The answer
probably would run, “He was
the bloke whose party got itself
lost in the bush and has never
been found.”
Kate’s Wedding
/~VUR selection was a great
place for dancing. We could
all dance, from Dan down, and
there wasn’t a figure or a move-
ment we didn’t know. We learnt
young. Mother was a firm
believer in early tuition. She
used to say it was nice for young
people to know how to dance, to
be able to take their part when
they went out anywhere, and
not be awkward and stupid-
looking when they went into
society. It was awful, she
thought, to see young fellows
and big lumps of girls like the
Bradys stalk into a ballroom and
sit the whole night long in a
corner, without attempting to get
up. She didn’t know how
mothers could bring children up
so ignorantly, and didn’t wonder
at some of them not being able
to find husbands for their
daughters.
But we had a lot to feel
thankful for. Besides a sympa-
thetic mother, every other facility
was afforded us to become
accomplished: abundance of
freedom, enthusiastic sisters and
no matter how things were
going — whether the corn
wouldn’t come up, or the wheat
had failed, or the pumpkins had
given out, or the waterhole run
dry—we always had a con-
certina in the house. It never
failed to attract company, Paddy
Maloney and the well-sinkers,
after belting and blasting all day
long, used to drop in at night,
and throw the table outside, and
take the girls up, and prance
about the floor with them till all
hours.
Nearly every week Mother
gave a ball. It might have been
every night only for Dad. He
said the jumping about destroyed
the earth floor —wore it away
and made the room like a well.
And whenever it rained hard
and the water rushed in he had
to bail it out. Dad always looked
on the dark side of things. He
had no ear for muisic either.
His want of appreciation of
melody often made the home
miserable when it might have
been the merriest on earth.
Sometimes it happened that he
had to throw down the plough
reins for .half an hour or so to
run round the wheat paddock
after a horse or an old cow.
Then, if he found Dave or Sal,
or any of us sitting inside play-
ing the concertina when he came
to get a drink, he would nearly
gc mad.
“Can’t y’ find anything better
t’ do than everlastingly playing
at that damn’ thing?” he would
shout. And if we didn’t put the
instrument down immediately he
would tear it from our hands and
pitch it outside. If we did set
it down quietly he would snatch
it up and heave it out just as
hard. The next evening he would
devote all his time to patching
the fragments together with
sealing-wax.
Still, despite Dad’s antago-
nism, we all turned out good
players. It cost us nothing
either. We learnt from each
other. Kate was the first to
learn. She taught Sal. Sal taught
Dave and so on. Sandy Taylor
was Kate’s tutor. He passed our
place every evening going to his
selection, where he used to sleep
at night (fulfilling conditions),
and always stopped at the fence
to yam with Kate about dancing.
Sandy was a fine dancer himself,
very light on his feet and easy
to waltz with—so the girls made
out. When the dancing subject
was exhausted Sandy would drag
some hair out of his horse’s
mane and say “How’s the con-
certina?” “It’s in there,” Kate
would answer. Then turning
round she would call out “J — oe,
bring the concer’.”
In an instant Joe would strut
along with it. And Sandy, for
the fiftieth time, would examine
it and laugh at the kangaroo-
skin straps that Dave had tacked
to it, and the scraps of brown
paper that were plastered over
the ribs of it to keep the wind
in ; and, cocking his left leg over
the pommel of his saddle, he
would sound a full blast on it as
a preliminary. Then he would
strike up “The Rocky Road to
Dublin,” or “The Wind Among
the Barley,” or some other
beautiful air, and grind away
untiringly until it got dark —until
Mother came and asked him if
he wouldn’t come in and have
supper. Of course, he always
would. After supper he would
play some i more. Then there
would be a dance.
A ball was to be held at
Anderson’s one Friday night,
and only Kate and Dave were
asked from our place, Dave was
very pleased to be invited. It
was the first time he had been
asked anywhere, and he began
to practise vigorously. The even-
ing before the ball Dad sent him
to put the draught-horses in the
top paddock. He went off
merrily with them. The sun was
just going down when he let
them go, and save the noise of
the birds settling to rest the pad-
dock was quiet. Dave was filled
with emotion and enthusiastic
thoughts about the ball. He
threw the winkers down and
looked around. For a moment
or two he stood erect, then he
bowed gracefully to the saplings
on his right, then to the stumps
and trees on his left, and, hum-
ming a tune, ambled across a
small patch of ground that was
bare and black and pranced back
again. He opened his arms, and,
clasping some , beautiful
imaginary form in them, swung
round and round like a windmill.
Then he paused for breath,
embraced his partner again and
“galloped” up and down. And
young Johnson, who had been
watching him in wonder from
behind a fence, bolted for our
place.
“Mrs, Rudd! Mrs. Rudd!”
he shouted from the veranda.
Mother went out. •
“What’s what’s up with
Dave?”
Mother turned pale.
“There’s something /” ——
“My God! ” Mother
exclaimed. “What ever has
happened?”
Young Johnson hesitated. He
was in doubt.
“Oh! What is it?” Mother
moaned.
“Well” —he drew close to
her—“he’s —he’s mad!” .
“Oh-h!”
“He is. I seen ’im just now
up in your paddick, an’ he’s
clean off he’s pannikin.”
Just then Dave came down the
track, whistling. Young Johnson
saw him and fled.
For some time Mother
regarded Dave with grave
suspicion, then she questioned
him closely,
“Yairs,” he said, grinning
hard, “I was goin’ through the
fust set”
It was when Kate was married
to Sandy Taylor that we realised
what a blessing it is to be able
to dance. How we looked
forward to that wedding! We
were alwlays talking about it,
and were very pleased it would
be held in our own house,
because all of us could go then.
None of us could work for
thinking of it. Even Dad seemed
to forget his troubles about the
corn, and Mick Brennan’s threat
to summons him for half the
fence. Mother said we should
want plenty of water for the
people to drink, so Sandy yoked
his horse to the slide, and he,
Dad and Joe started for the
springs.
The slide was the fork of a
tree v alias a wheelless water-
trolly. The horse was hitched to
the butt-end, and a batten nailed
across the prongs kept the cask
from slipping off going uphill.
Sandy led the way and carried
the bucket, Dad went ahead to
clear the track of stones, and Joe
straddled the cask to keep her
steady.
It always took three to work
the slide.
The water they brought was a
little thick —old Anderson had
been down and stirred it up pull-
ing a bullock out —but Dad put
plenty of ashes in the cask to
clear it.
Each of us had his own work
to dp. Sandy knocked the parti-
tion down and decorated the
place with boughs, Mother and
the girls cooked and covered the
walls with newspapers and Dad
gathered cowdung and did the
floor.
Two days before the wedding.
All of us were still working hard.
Dad was up to his armpits in a
bucket of mixture, with a stack
of cowdung on one side, and a
heap of sand and the shovel on
the other. Dave and Joe were
burning a cow that had died just
in front of the house, and Sandy
had gone to town for his tweed
trousers.
A man in a long, black coat,
white collar, and new leggings
rode up, spoke to Dad and got
off. Dad straightened up and
looked awkward, with his arms
hanging wide and the mixture
dripping from them. Mother
came out. The cove shook
hands with her, but he didn’t
with Dad. They went inside —
not Dad, who washed himself
first.
Dave sent Joe to ask Dad who
the cove was. Dad spoke in a
whisper and said he was Mr.
Macpherson, the clergyman who
was to marry Kate and Sandy.
Dave whistled and piled more
wood on the dead cow. Mother
came out and called Dave and
Joe. Dave wouldn’t go, but sent
Joe.
Dave threw another log on the
cow, then thought he would see
what was going on inside.
He stood at the window and
looked in. He couldn’t believe
his eyes at first, and put his head
right in. There were Dad, Joe
and the lot of them down on
their marrow-bones saying some-
thing after the parson. Dave
was glad that he didn’t go in. ,
How the parson prayed! Just
when he said “Lead us not into
temptation,” the big kangaroo-
dog slipped in and grabbed all
the fresh meat on the table ; but
Dave managed to kick him in
the ribs at the door. Dad
groaned, and seemed very restless.
When the parson had gone
Dad said that what he had read
about “reaping the same as you
sow” was all rot, and spoke
about the time when we sowed
two bushels of barley in the
lower paddock and got a big
stack of rye from it.
The wedding was on a
Wednesday, and at three o’clock
in the afternoon. Most of the
people came before dinner. The
Hamiltons arrived just after
breakfast. Talk of drays! The
little paddock couldn’t hold
them.
Jim Mullins was the only one
who came in to dinner. The
others mostly sat in their heels
in a row and waited in the shade
of the wire fence. The parson
W£s the last to come, and as he
passed in he knocked his head
against the kangaroo leg hang-
ing under the veranda. Dad
saw it swinging, and said angrily
to Joe “Didn’t X tell you to take
that down this morning?”
Joe unhooked it and said
“But if I hang it anywhere else
the dog’ll get it.”
Dad tried to laugh at Joe, and
said loudly, “And what else is it
for?” Then he bustled Joe off
before he could answer him
again.
Joe didn’t understand.
Then Dad said, putting the leg
in a bag, “Do you want every-
one to know we eat it,
you?”
Joe understood.
The ceremony commenced.
Those who could squeeze inside
did so—the others looked in at
the window and through the
cracks in the chimney.
Mrs. McDoolan led Kate out
of the back room. Then Sandy
rose from the fireplace and stood
beside her. Everyone thought
Kate looked very nice. And
orange blossoms! You’d have
thought she was an orange-tree
with anew bed-curtain thrown
over it. Sandy looked well, too,
in his snake-belt and new tweeds,
but he seemed uncomfortable
when the pin that Dave had put
in the back of his collar came
out.
The parson didn’t take long,
and how they scrambled and
tumbled over each other at the
finish! Charlie Mace said that
he got the first kiss, Big George
said he did and Mrs. McDoolan
was certain she would have got
it only for the baby.
Fun! There was. fun! The
room was cleared and they
promenaded for a dance, Sandy
and Kate in the lead. They con-
tinued promenading until one of
the well-sinkers called for the
concertina ours had been
repaired till you could get only
three notes out of it. But Jim
Burke jumped on his horse and
went home for his accordion.
Dance! They did dance—
until sunrise! But unless you
were dancing you couldn’t stay
inside, because the floor broke
up. And talk about dust!
Before morning the room was
like a draughting-yard.
It was a great wedding, and
all the neighbors used to say it
was the best they were ever at.
(To be continued next week)
INMATES
Inside the house cross-currents rise and flow,
and seem a common pulse within the veins
that are aligned too close, as if -each heart
were neither separate nor its tides apart.
This man s light illuminates the walls,
the exits, entrances and curtained thoughts,
disclosing the secrets and the treasons till
they flare or shrivel underneath his will.
This woman is self-centred as his sun,,
and yet more cunning and more dominant;
exclaims her smoothness with a silver tongue.
In her a bell of savagery is rung.
This child has mastered sharper truth than fear;
chanting a nonsense-rhyme, creates a light;
snatches a glimpse of heaven, dark as sin,
and hides his soul lest heaven enter in.
This other presence, soundless and half-seen,
wanders by night the passages and rooms
herself vibrating like a yellow flower,
a catkin shaken from Jupiter’s gold shower.
She is the moon,” the child persists.
“She drops me silver.” “She drops me fire.”
Bending the golden sepals of her face,
she brings them nothing but the flower of grace.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


1953 AWARD WINNERS IN
’S BOOK OF THE YEAR” COMPETITION
GOOD LUCK TO THE RIDER
by Joan Phipson
This delightful story of 12 year-old
Barbara and her horse Rosinante has
an authentic Australian sheep station
setting, and a truly youthful simplicity.
Illustrations by Margaret Horder.
13/6 (post 5d.)
AIRCRAFT OF TODAY AND
TOMORROW
by J. H. and W. D. Martin
A comprehensive review of recent de
velopments in aviation, and a sound
indication of future achievements. With
hundreds of fine illustrations.
30/- (post 1/1)
89-95
Write, ’phone, or call in for these, or any other books for children to .. .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Castleteagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
NOW READY
AFTER THE FUNERAL
By AGATHA CHRISTIE
As ingenious as ever. Her writing still retains all its
peculiar vivacity and freshness
From all Booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
by eight destroyers and a covey of air-
craft. Periscope snapped up for seconds
at a time, she eases into attack-position
ahead of the targets, waiting for the tell-
tale pinging which will tell her the
destroyers have made contact. Almost
ready to fire, the author describes the
dramatic tableau in the control-room.
Then the action is described with a
reality almost suffocating in its tenseness.
About to fire, the captain, swinging his
underwater eye for a final check, sees
one destroyer bow-waving straight at
him:
A little voice nagged at the back of my
brain: Remember your command-course
training. A fast destroyer, head-on at
under 1000 yards. Go deep!— Go deep,
you fool!
Mars ignores his command-course
training. Mentally calculating the de-
stroyer’s draught, and ordering the other
periscope up if the one he is using is
chopped off, he continues lining-up his
targets. As the destroyer roars past his
stern, missing by an oar’s length, he lets
go four torpedoes—to collect two
cruisers, and a record for one salvo which
still stands.
Unbroken goes on unbroken—though
sometimes badly bent —to creep through
minefields, land saboteurs, blow-up trains,
be almost sunk by one of her own tor-
pedoes gone berserk, and to suffer the
explosions of 400 depth-charges. And to
receive a replacement:
Thirsk stayed on as first-lieutenant, while
Sub-Lieutenant Evatt, son of the Australian
statesman, came aboard to relieve Lanning
as navigator. He was an extremely efficient
young man, tough-looking and dark,
very certain of himself, surprisingly un-
demonstrative for an Aussie.
Another book of submersibles, Sub-
marine!, by Commander Edward Beach,
U. (Heinemann), details comple-
mentary exploits in the Pacific. As well
as those of his own valiant craft, Beach
records the exploits of several other U.S.
submarines, which between them
accounted for hundreds of thousands of
Jap tonnage.
The author, when about to attack,
changes to the present tense. It gives a
feeling of intimacy with the action — as
when submarine Wahoo creeps into
Wewak harbor, and the skipper deliber-
ately leaves his periscope up to attract a
Jap destroyer. As he rushes in to attack,
Wahoo’s bow will remain pointed at him,
and at the last possible minute will fire
a torpedo “right down his throat.”
The destroyer is only too willing to
play. He races straight for the periscope,
pouring out smoke from urgent engine-
rooms. The range is under half a mile—
the destroyer doing over 30 knots -when
torpedoes are fired:
Two twin streaks, almost merged into
one in the muddy waters, swiftly draw
. themselves towards the onrushing Jap.
Too late to take avoiding-action, the
sub.’s crew wait... Then a geyser of
dirty water rises in the middle of the
destroyer, breaks him exactly in half,
holds him suspended like a huge inverted
V. Wahoo clears for her life.
The author’s own boat, Trigger, gets
her underwater-eye on a big carrier,
escorted by two powerful destroyers. The
torpedoes leap eagerly out, and find their
fat-bellied mark. The resultant depth-
charges are just as eager, and almost as
accurate;
It seems inconceivable that any machine
can withstand such a vicious pounding.
The air is filled with fine particles of paint,
cork and dust. Ventilation-lines and pipe-
lines vibrate themselves out of sight and
fill the confined spaces with the discordant
hum of a hundred ill-matched tuning-forks.
The heavy steel pressure-bulkheads squeeze
inward with each blow and spring out
again. The whole hull rings and shudders,
whips and shakes itself, bounces sideways,
up and down. The lights go out.. ..
The Seawolf comes upon a tanker
loaded with aviation-spirit. The whole
sequence of creeping approach, periscope
up for brief seconds, range, deflection
and bearing-orders passed and set is
given with complete clarity, right up to
the moment of firing, with the submarine
jerking as thousands of pounds weight of
released torpedoes upset her buoyancy:
Seconds later the ship bursts into
incandescence. In the brilliant flame the
fascinated watchers on Seawolf’s bridge see
a mast topple to one side, the stack to
another, and then all is blotted out in a
screaming; searing flame which guts the
entire ship in a single white-hot second.
But Seawolf was to meet disaster—
from an American destroyer. Vainly try-
ing to identify herself with sub-surface
signals, she was hounded and depth-
chargeci, till, combined with the British-
invented hedgehogs, the charges pierce
her hull, “starting the hydrant flow of
black seawater, ending forever all hopes
of seeing sunlight again.”
Throughout the book, crammed with
sinking after sinking, all under different
circumstances, one is impressed with the
uncannily efficient aids to detection a
modern submarine carries. She can pick
up an enemy’s propellers, and from their
revolutions can determine his speed;
with a mine-seeking device which rings
ominous chimes when in contact, can
thread her way through a minefield;
with radar can pick up the presence of
a ship when surfaced, and from his radar-
pulses can exactly fix his position ; and
can hear even the bubbling, breaking-up
sounds of a stricken ship sinking.
Perhaps the best episode is the time
the Archerfish trapped the brand-new,
unblooded Jap carrier, the giant ShinanO'
on her maiden run. It was towards the
war’s end, and, as the dust-jacket claims,
it must have broken the heart of the Jap
Navy. Through his depiction of the
carrier’s life —her birth, the millions of
pounds, the skill and labor and hopes
built into her —the author builds his story
with the mounting climax of a dramatic
novel. Then, in comes Archerfish;
tracking the enormous target for .hours,
striving to get in firing-position, waiting
always for the pinging Which means that
the enemy destroyers have made contact.
One destroyer roars right overhead, and
Archerfish is inside the screen. From
somewhere beneath the sea spring the
wakes of six loosened torpedoes. They
spear for the wall-sided target like
arterial roads, converging; hit, and
reduce the costly carrier to a wallowing
shambles.
Owing to secrecy at the time, little was
known of the appalling and invaluable
depredations of American submarines in
the Pacific, so that the book, besides
being fine reading, will be news to many
Australian readers —and news of the
first importance.
Keeping company with these two docu-
mentary books comes a novel about sub-
marines: Surface (Peter Davies) by
Alexander Fullerton, a World War II
submariner who did sub-surface time in
the Mediterranean, the North Sea and
the Pacific. His boat was called Seadog:
the craft in his book is called Seahound.
For a first-book author, Lieutenant
Fullerton navigates his course creditably
enough, obviously loves his boat and
idolises his captain, and is at consider-
able pains to make understandable the
working of the one and the intentions of
the other. But his book is not a novel.
There is no plot, unless it is the growing
efficiency of the submarine, and the story
does not rise inevitably to one rewarding
climax. But the work is memorable for
two things. The sincere, unaffected and
unashamed love of a sailor for his ship,
and the tensely-described incident where
an officer, trapped in a forrard compart-
ment, gets his men safely up from a
submarine after she has sunk, ripped
open, into the cold, pressured depths.
MACNELL.
Reviewed Briefly
Feeding Farm Animals: A. C. T.
Hewitt (Angus and Robertson). A prac-
tical guide for livestock-owners and
students, with chapters on water-supply,
minerals, nutritive values, and the various
types of pastures and shrub-foods avail-
able in Australia, from cultivated crops
to saltbush; followed by specific instruc-
tions on feeding dairy- and beef-cattle,
sheep, horses, pigs, poultry, goats, dogs,
cats, ferrets and the more respectable
kinds of rabbit. Mr. Hewitt is livestock-
science-officer in the Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
* * * *
Flying Dutchmen: Frank Chine
(Angus and Robertson). “Come a-flying
with me,” says Mr. Clune, “to the low-
lying land, the Netherland.... to learn
how ten million people can live pros-
perously, at a high standard of civilisa-
tion, on an area not much bigger than
that of an Australian cattle-station” ; and
he suggests that Australia should try to
acquire a million Dutch immigrants.
Those who make the flight, undeterred by
the familiar bumps in Mr. Clune’s prose
style, will meet the Prime Minister of the
Netherlands, see tulips and Old Masters,
visit Tasman’s birthplace and learn every-
thing they ever need to learn about
Holland.
* * * *
The Voice: Dudley Barker (Heine-
mann). This novel is an account of the
well-contrived rise to fame and wealth
of a radio singer, Peter Lemon, as seen
through the eyes of a number of people
intimately concerned with his career.
Sam Kitto his agent; Anna Schurmann
his accompanist; Doris his wife; his
mother and Mary Fleming his society-
lady mistress: each has a chapter of
recollections on the day of his funeral.
His death seemed accidental, but each of
these people to whom the . dead man had
displayed a different facet has a private
reason for feeling and fearing that they
caused it, or that by having acted differ-
ently they could have prevented it. Peter
Lemon himself emerges from all this as
rather a confused figure: the novel fails
to present him entirely convincingly
in the round. In its account of modern
publicity methods in manufacturing a
popular hero the book is reminiscent of
Stephen Lister’s Softlee Softlee Catchee
*Monkey , but Barker’s approach, though
entertaining, is far less biting (if one may
use the term) and he lacks Lister’s won-
derful capacity for keeping a number of
factors before the reader’s attention at
one and the same time.
« * * «
Men, Clay and Courage: Louis H.
Clark (National Press, Melbourne). Col-
lection of poems, bush-ballads, a short
play and a short-story, with two photo-
graphs of the author, in costume as a
runner and as a male-nurse. Many of
the images are too sanguinary for good
taste ; other poems are sentimental; and
there is a general lack of both technical
and emotional discipline—even in a bush-
ballad there is no place for lines such
as:
“You’re wrong!” screamed Bill—then
blindly hurled a spanner in his terror,
“Get him . . . he’s armed . . .” Boots
thudded, thudded . . . very soon the
error
Of fury misapplied became an error ever-
more . . .
Black wings bore up the soul released to
just, eternal Law.
On the other hand —a few of the verses
were first printed in The Bulletin, as
also was the short-story —Mr. Clark can
write to a high standard both in verse
and prose when his Muse is under control.
He has a genuine gift of phrase, thoughts
that are often both deep and striking,
and his ballads, though confused and
over-colored, do tell stories.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 240
Across
I—Foundation1 —Foundation garment on a Mel-
bourne suburb and the bounder
part of a vehicle that may be
checked. (5-5)
6—Tucker town turns. (4)
10 — Any team in which everyone
scores centuries must seem so to
the fieldsmen. (9)
11— Fumbles covers for hands. (5)
12 — King Lear had to endure this
songster out in the windy dark-
ness of Florence. (11)
13 — Off color. (3)
14 — He is noted for his swimming
tutor although disorderly. (5)
15— Providing a foundation for a
graduate to chant and go wrong
in a sack. (6)
18—Delay an armed robbery. (4*2).
21 —Quoted citizen Edward. (5)
24 — Whale alternative with 100. (3)
25 — Loco personality is to exercise
coppers by the river. (5-6)
26 Damsel to tell tales for a Persian
apple. (5)
27 — Check unit of a federation is
put back. (9)
28 — Ivy-bush with nothing but fuss
and faire translation. (2-2)
29 Fit of ill-temper about perfume
becoming stone. (10)
Down
1— A garment being fried to bash
the pastoral piper over the head
and skull. (5-3) ....
2 In company with a hybrid
thoroughfare. (7)
3 Otto of Italy goes to the sheep
shelter and two times two times
two times. (9)
4 Snood lost in the rain, hidden
in earth, broken in heart. (4-3)
5 Inaccurately we blame Mary per-
haps, but certainly not her
brother Charles. (3-4)
7 A thug is to trump, a boy. (7)
8— Hasty, noisy activity in a garment
for the French bankrupt in the
first place. (6)
9 Half a day to be spent with
Hippocrates’s device for fixing
dislocated shoulders. (4)
16 — Sat with the flower-girls and
makes fun of deranged Sister Isa.
(9) J .
17— Not very far on a quadruped.
(4, 4)
19 —Fossilised whale address of fruit
cultivation. (7)
20 — I repair in a great plain. (7)
21— Shrewder alderman surrounds
Miss Laurie. (7)
22 Shift away from a certain course.
(7)
23 — Report on the favorite doll. (6)
25—A hat is raised in the presence
of this bird. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 239


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne. i
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide Stockowners’ Co-
operative Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA; William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
fcwpared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
August
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
ALIKE AS TWO PEAS IN A POD...
OR ARE THEY?
Modern Precision-Testing Machines mean Better,
more Efficient Machinery for the Man-on-the-land
What s one-thousandth of an inch? . . . Not very much! But one of the two parts shown
above was rejected because of this tiny variation from Moffat-Virtue’s exacting standard.
At Moffat-Virtue Ltd., the very latest devices for testing and measuring are used. They
ensure that each machine leaving the Moffat-Virtue factory is precision perfect in every
detail.
AT RIGHT: Some of the Moffat-Virtue Testing
Machines measuring parts for “TRIMMER” Hand-
pieces.
Satisfactory service can be expected only from a
product whose parts have been accurately measured
and checked during the process of manufacture. . .
and the term “measurement” embraces not only
dimensional measurement, which ensures inter-
changeability and smooth operation, but also the
measurement of the chemical properties and
of raw materials. The latter measure-
ments tell the engineer whether a material meets
the standards required by the designer. Measuring
“tensile strength,” “hardness,” etc, . .tells the
manufacturer whether the finished product will with-
stand wear, strains and stresses during use, and
ensures that the performance of a machine is in
keeping with the specifications under which it is
marketed.
Modern machines costing many
thousands of pounds are em-
ployed for measurements of -all
types. To test the “strength” of
metals and other materials, and
to examine depth of hardness and
condition of cores in high-grade
heat treated steels, a micro photo-
graphic process, in which samples
of the material are etched with
acid, then photographed under
powerful microscopes which
magnify the sample up to fifteen
hundred times, is used.
The tensile Testing Machine is
used to determine the force
required to pull a sample material,
commonly called a “testing
piece,” in two. The machine also
measured “fatigue,” that is, it
shows the load a material will
take without its usefulness being
destroyed.
The ability of a material to with-
stand wear can be measured by
use of a Hardness Tester. The
most popular type is the Brinell
Testing Machine, invented by a
Swedish engineer. This machine
forces a specially hardened steel
ball 0.39 3 Jin. in diameter onto
the “test piece” with a force of
exactly 66141 b. Microscopic
examination and measurement of
the indentation made gives the
hardness of the material.
Dimensional measurements are
continuously carried out during
the process of manufacture,
usually with Slide Caliphers,
V ernier Caliphers or Micro-
meters. Measurements accurate
to within l/10,000in. can be
made with these instruments.
However, modern mass-produc-
tion calls for rapid and highly
accurate checking, and many
ingenious machines, such as the
optical comparator and Electro-
limit Gauger, have recently been
developed.
The performance of a completed
product is determined by an
operational test. Experts subject
the product to loads in excess of
those expected during the pro-
duct’s life, and the results—fuel
consumption, temperatures, fric-
tion-loss, etc. —are measured.
Moffat-Virtue machinery is tested
according to the principles laid
out in this article. This ensures
that their products conform with
the highest standards of modern
industrial research.
MECHANISATION WILL SAFEGUARD OUR
PRIMARY INDUSTRIES MARKETS
The Chairman of the Liberal Parly’s Rural Committee, Senator
McMullin, warned recently that the necessity to reduce production
costs grows daily to meet fierce overseas competition for markets.
Mechanisation, pasture improvement and more scientific methods
could cut costs, Mr. McMullin suggested.
The basis for any mechanisation
project is the provision of reliable,
economical power. Moffat-Virtue
Ltd., aware of this need, have
developed a range of engines
unsurpassed anywhere in the
world for use by the Man on the
Land.
Scientific testing, and the practi-
cal experiences of Primary Pro-
ducers all over Australia, have
proved the all-round efficiency of
M.V. Engines, Moffat-Virtue’s
range of petrol, kerosene and
Diesel engines, made right here
in Australia, is marketed through
the Australia-wide Moffat-Virtue
distributing organisation.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., manufactures
and distributes engines ranging
in size from 2\ h.p. Petrol
Engines to a 16 h.p. Full Diesel.
The latest production techniques
are used in manufacture. . .cut-
ting costs. . .reducing the final
price. . . without in any way lower-
ing the highest standard of work-
manship.
Output of the “V 3” 3 h.p. Engine
alone runs into many thousands a
year. These . engines find their
way into everything from con-
The Moffat-
Virtue V3
Petrol-Kero-
sene Engine .
crete-mixers to Ferris- wheels •. •
as well as onto many thousands
of farms and pastoral properties.
You can get expert advice on
your power problems, and full
particulars of all Moffat- Virtue
Engines from any of the distribu-
tors listed below.
MEET THE MEN
BEHIND THE SCENES
Skilled hands, eyes and
brains direct the modern
machines at Moffat-Virtue,
turning out quality products
for your use.
We’d like you to meet one
of these men behind the
scenes, whose long experi-
ence and conscientious effort
pays off for you when you
buy a Moffat-Virtue Product.
Here is Mr. E. Chambers, who
has had 25 years’ experience with
Moffat-Virtue as a Fitter and
Turner, in charge of the testing
and finishing of parts prior to
their being built into the
machines.
