

FOR PORT WINE OF , BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
MACQUARIE FOUNDS A BANK-p4ge 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3839
Wednesday, September 9, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WARKWORTH CASTLE, ANCIENT
SEAT OF THE NOBLE PERCYS
"THE River Coquet rises in the eastern
slopes of the Cheviot Hills and winds
for forty miles through the heather and
bracken of the Northumberland moors
to its outlet in the North Sea, near the
village of Warkworth, Here, high above
the river, on a crown of rock stands the
ruins of Warkworth Castle, which was
one of the most formidable of the Border
strongholds during the war between the
Scots and English.
For almost six hundred years the castle
belonged to the powerful Percy family,
Earls of Northumberland who received it
from Edward 111 in 1332. Several scenes
from Shakespeare’s “King Henry IV” are
laid in Warkworth Castle, which Shake-
speare described as “this worm-eaten hall
of ragged stone.”
The whole history of the English castle
is contained in the Keep of Warkworth
from its early beginnings as a Norman
stronghold to its end as a fortified house
of the late Middle Ages. It covers an
area of five acres, and, although portions
of the earlier fortress are incorporated in
the castle, most of the present fabric
dates from the thirteenth century.
The dungeon is situated on the ground
floor of the Keep, from which a staircase
leads to the largest room, known as the
“Great Chamber.” Here, also, are the
chapel and the lofty banqueting hall
which is forty-one feet long. Adjoining
rooms served as kitchen and pantry. A
slender turret rises high above the Keep,
and is a landmark for many miles
around. Other notable features are the
massive gatehouse and the Lion Tower.
In the days of its greatest grandeur
Warkworth was the favourite residence
of the Percy family, whose immense
possessions also included Alnwick Castle
in the same county. The third Percy
became the first Earl of Northumberland
who is mentioned in Shakespeare’s
“Richard II” and with his son Hotspur
in “Henry IV,” in whose reign the Percys
were rewarded with the greater part of
South Scotland.
In 1672 much of the timber and lead
from the roof of Warkworth Castle
were removed and sold. In 1922, how-
ever, the castle was presented to the nation
by the Duke of Northumberland, and
it is now preserved as an ancient monu-
ment.


The Red Page
MISSING BALLADISTS
This is an appeal to anybody who may
know the whereabouts —or at least, since
many of them must be now among the
seraphs with “My Mate Bill,” the names
—of a surprising number of Australian
bush-balladists who are lost, stolen or
strayed beyond reach of identification.
Who, for instance, was the author of
that magnificent ballad on “The Death
of Ben Hall” which was printed in the
Australian Bush Recitations which “Bill
Bowyang” used to compile from his
column in the “North Queensland
Register” and which, as usual, he printed
without a clue as to its author or even
the source from which he got it?—the
ballad which runs, to quote a sample,
restoring in the first stanza what seems
to have been the original order of the
lines:
Ben Hall was out on the Lachlan side
With a thousand pounds on his head ;
A score of troopers were scattered wide
And a hundred more were ready to ride
Wherever a rumor led.
They had followed his track from the
Weddin heights
And north by the Weelong yards;
Through dazzling days and moonlit nights
They had sought him over their rifle-sights,
With their hands on their trigger-guards
But every night when the white stars rose
He crossed by the Gunning plain
To a stockman’s hut where the Gunning
flows,
And struck on the door three swift light
blows
And a hand unhooked the chain.
The reason for the appeal is this: for
the past eighteen months or so Miss
Nancy Keesing and myself have been
compiling an anthology of Australian
ballads to be published by Angus and
Robertson: or, rather, if present plans
come to fruit, two anthologies.
One volume, for which the material
has as yet been only roughly assembled
and for which publication plans are not
yet definite, is intended to cover the
primitive and often captivating begin-
nings of the Australian ballad (so far
as it did derive from this source) in the
songs and rhymes of the first immigrants
and the convicts: broadly speaking, what
we can add to the Old Bush Songs col-
lected by “Banjo” Paterson—with some
necessary subtractions of later ballads
which crept into Paterson’s material.
There is, incidentally, quite a lot of new
material to be published: in the search
for which we have been most generously
assisted by such authorities as Dr. Percy
Jones (who supplied Burl Ives with his
Australian songs), Dr. George Mackaness,
Mr. M. H. Ellis, Mr. W. E. Harney,
Mr. J. K. Moir, Mr. Walter Stone, Mr.
Russell Ward and others ; and of course
the librarian and staff of the Mitchell
Library.
Most of the items for this early-day
volume are anonymous and likely to
remain so, though Mr. Ward is now
engaged on tracking-down origins so far
as is possible. Many are importations
from the street-ballads of Dublin and
London and Liverpool, usually with local
variations. Others were doubtless com-
posed in outback shanties, shearers’ and
drovers’ camps and so-on, in circum-
stances likely to preserve for ever the
anonymity of their authors.
The only help we can ask in connec-
tion with this volume is for additional
material. We have already made this
request in The Bulletin and received
some useful replies ; but it is a large
field and I am sure we have not yet
covered it in full. The kind of things
we are looking for are; (a) any songs
or ballads obviously dating from the
earliest days of Australian settlement and
not included in Paterson’s Old Bush
Songs; and ( b ) any typical bush-songs,
whether ancient or recent, that may be
remembered from the past or that are
still sung in the outback today.
But the immediate problem is that of
the missing balladists of the later period.
This is for the volume which, if we
followed the order of time, would be the
second of the anthologies but which, since
the material has been much easier to
assemble and finalise, will be published
first. The selection, allowing for last-
minute alterations, is practically com-
plete ; the MSS. is in the publishers’
hands ; and the volume, containing about
200 ballads winnowed from some thou-
sands we have read, will be published
some time next year. It will be entitled
Australian Bush Ballads.
In period it ranges from the ’sixties
to the present day ; but the fundamental
purpose is to present what might be
called the ballad of the ’nineties when,
after the stimulus of Adam Lindsay
Gordon, the bush-ballad came to its full
flower in the works of Paterson, Ogilvie,
Henry Lawson, Barcroft Boake and
others ; a movement which, while there
were a few exceptions, some still flourish-
ing, fell into decline by about the time
of the First World War, when the ballad
ceased to be a vehicle for vigorous story-
telling and became largely a lament for
the “good old days”: like Sturge Moore’s
swan it sang its own dirge. Though later
ballads are included in the body of the
book, the anthology, as at present
arranged, concludes with that admirable
balladist “Gerardy” sending his _ “Lofty
Lane” to disappear fighting against the
Turks during the war in which so much
else of the traditional Australia of the
outback and the bush-ballads changed or
disappeared.
“The Death of Ben Hall” comes into
what, to my mind, is in many ways the
most interesting section of Australian
Bush Ballads (the anthology is divided
into sections by subject-matter
rangers,” “The Goldfields,” “The Blacks,”
“Droving,” “The Teams,” etc.) if only
because a great many of the bushranging
ballads, gathered from a number of
sources, are “new”—at least not at all
widely known-—and because the theme
naturally gives rise to dramatic story-
telling, which is the first requisite of the
true ballad. Also, covering amongst
others Morgan, Power, Bern Hall, Gilbert
and the complete adventures of the
Kellys from the first murders at Stringy-
bark Creek to the final collapse at Glen-
rowan, they make a remarkably complete
“saga” of the bushrangers, comparable
to the Robin Hood sequence in Quiller-
Couch’s Oxford Book of English ballads.
More of these are anonymous than in
any other section: partly because some
of them go a fair distance back in time,
being obviously contemporary with the
bushrangers ; and partly because not only
“Bill Bowyang” but also such sources
as “Melbourne Punch” printed their con-
tributions anonymously.
As with most of the early-day ballads,
I shall be agreeably surprised if the
authorship of some of these, such as the
naive sequence on the Kelly gang, can
be reliably established. But a ballad as
obviously “late” as “The Death of Ben
Hall,” sophisticated and in a style good
enough for Paterson, should surely have
an identifiable author somewhere. If
I had to guess its author I would, in
fact, like to attribute it to Paterson. It
is his style, his country and, since he
did write “How Gilbert Died,” his
theme. But there is no evidence to
connect Paterson with it in any way.
Here is a list, with titles, sources and
first-lines, of some of the other bush-
ranging ballads whose authors we have
been unable to trace: “Brave Ben Hall”
(from “Bowyang” and Jack Bradshaw’s
Highway Robbery Under Arms), begin-
ning “Come, all Australian sons with
me”; “Ballad of Ben Hall’s Gang”
(Frank Clune’s Wild Colonial Boys and
other sources), “Come all you wild
colonials”; “Frank Gardiner” (Brad-
shaw’s True History of Australian Bush-
rangers), “Frank Gardiner he is caught
at last” ; “The Diverting History of John
Gilbert” (“Melbourne Punch” and Pater-
son’s Old Bush Songs), “John Gilbert was
a bushranger” ; “The Bloody Field of
Wheogo” (“Bowyang” and Clune’s Wild
Colonial Boys, reprinted from “S. M.
Herald”), “The moon rides high in a
starry sky” ; “The Maids of the Moun-
tains” {Wild Colonial Boys), “In the wild
Weddin mountains”; “A Tail of a
Kangaroo” (“Melbourne Punch”), “It
wasn’t on the Chinee coast, nor yet upon
Japan”; “A Day’s Ride” (“Melbourne
Punch”), “Bold are the mounted robbers
who on stolen horses ride”; “A Night’s
Walk” (ditto), “Power, the noted high-
wayman, had long disturbed the peace” ;
“Over the Border” (“Sydney Punch”),
“Over the border to rifle and plunder” ;
“The Old Bark Hut” (“Bowyang”), “In
an old bark huf on the mountainside”;
“Stringybark Creek” (from various
sources; and with various titles), “A
sergeant and three constables set out from
Mansfield town”; “The Kelly Gang”
(“Bowyang” and other sources), “Oh,
Paddy dear, and did you hear” ; “The
Kellys” (Mr. J. K. Moir’s collection),
“Ye sons of Australia forget not your
braves”; “The Kennifs” (“Bowyang”),
“If you wish to hear a story, lads.”
Some ballads in other sections also in
search of an author are: “The Grave of
a Nigger” (“Bowyang”), “Yes, it’s true
that’s the grave of a nigger”;
“Moneenee” (“Bowyang”), “This is the
tale of one who lived, and suffered, long
ago”; “Corney’s Hut” (“Bowyang”),
“Old Corney built in Deadman’s Gap” ;
“How the Sailor Rode the Brumby”
(“Bowyang”), “There was an agile sailor
lad”; “The Little Worn-out Pony”
(“Bowyang”), “There’s a little worn-out
pony, this side of Hogan’s shack” ; “The
Mailman’s Ride” (“Bowyang”), “I
scanned the dark and lowering sky”;
“Holy Dan" ( Australian Bush Songs and
Ballads, edited by Will Lawson),/ It was
in the Queensland drought ; Squatters
and the Reduction” (Tibbs s Papular
Australian Songs and Poems), Some
squatters have commenced to shear ,
“Mad Jack’s Cockatoo” (“Bowyang ),
“There’s a man that went out in the
floodtime . and drought” ; “The Boss s
Wife” (“Bowyang”), “The warm wind
crossed from the Eastern coast ; A
Mailboy’s Ride” (“Bowyang’ V'He rode
from Port Bowen bravely” ; “The Stocic-
man’s Tale” (“Bowyang”), “The camp-
fire’s burning brightly, and the coals ate
glowing red” ; “The Delights of Possum
Hunting” (“Town and Country Journal ;
the ballad is initialled “F.O B ’), A
lovely night and the moon brightly shin-
ing” . 1- f
Finally there is a considerable list or
balladists from The Bulletin tiles—-the
principal single source for this anthology
—where the writers signed themselves
only with initials or nom-de-plumes.
It is difficult to establish their identity
in this office, but it is quite likely that
Bulletin readers —including, in some
cases, possibly the authors themselves
will remember who they are.
The list, with date of publication, etc.,
is: “The Mystery Man” by “N.Q.’
(21/10/1926), “Going home in the dusk
from the township”; “The Sleeping
Beauty,” unsigned (21/12/’B9), “‘Call
that a yarn!’ said old Tom Hugh” ; “On
the Arrow Track” by “J.H.G.” (7/9/ 95),
“Coming from the Arrow, 1” ; “Out from
Noonkanbah” by “Wilo” (6/12/1950),
“The coolibahs quiver” ; “A Tale of the
Bush” by “WJ.B.” from Wagga
(28/4/’B3), “It was twenty years last
autumn since my comrade and 1” ;
“Walks Like This” by "G.A.P.
(29/6/1901), “He was dry as Georgie’s
poodle and was quickly growing worse” ;
“Our Ancient Ruin” by “Crupper D.”
(12/4/1902), “The new-chum leaned
against the bar” ; “The Phantom Mob”
by “The Page” (4/5/1905), “‘Yes, I’m
Harry Black —Mad Harry —I often hear
’em say’ ”; “The Fallen Tree Hotel,”
unsigned (24/9/1908), “On the lonesome
line of traffic”,; “Horse-Bells” by
“8.D.G.,” Westralia (24/4/’97), “I love
to lie and listen to the horse-bells’ merry
sound”; “Bucked off its Brand” by
“R.A.F.” ( Bulletin Reciter), “Take my
word! he could buck, could Brown
Baron” ; “The Fire at Thompson’s Ford”
by “Wamba” (19/1/’95), “Hottest of hot
December’s days”; “Blanket Ned” by
“G.A.H.” (7/12/1912), “We were shear-
ing on the ’Bidgee” ; “The Sundowner’s
Sacrifice” by “J. 0.” (20/12/’9O), “Old
Jacky gazed on the setting sun” ; “His
Story” by “J.P.8.” (10/7/’B6), ‘“My
name?’ He was wizened and wrinkled
and grey” ; “His Last Stage” by “J.P.8.”
(24/4/’B7), “With steps that were limping
and slow” ; “Milkin’ ” by “P.,” Victoria
(18/7/1906), “It was a sunburned farmer
who was leaning on a plough” ; “Poly-
phemus and Galatea” by “Pierre Cassee”
(19/10/’95), “Come out, O miss, of
yonder ’omestead proud” ; “At Mac’s on
the Gulf” by “Jumbuck” (28/1 /’99), “I
could have stood Mac’s only the Gulf
was dull and lonely” ; “Far Cooktown,”
unsigned reprint from Brisbane “Review”
(B. 5/ 8 / ’99), “Things are quiet in far
Cooktown”; “The Christenin’ ” by
“Priam” (1/8/1907), “On the plains of
Tooraneedin, where the rabbits keep on
breedin’ ”; “Barry’s Calf” by “Jason”
(16/6/1904), “When Barry went upon the
land”; “Branded” by “Jackarandaio”
(21/12/’B9), “A swooning hot midsummer
day” ; “The Old Coolgardie Road” by
“The Prodigal” (2/6/1904), “A flitting
shadow follows.”
Anybody who knows the authorship
of any of these, and who will send along
the information to Miss Keesing at The
Bulletin office in Sydney, will receive
our most profound gratitude—and all due
acknowledgment.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Henry James in Australia
I have recently received from Professor
Laurence, of New York University, a
request for assistance in the bibliography
of Henry James which he and Professor
Leon Edel (the author of the recently
published The Untried Years, the first
volume of the first biography of Henry
James) are compiling. It occurs to me
that some reader of The Bulletin might
be able to answer the question as to
whether any James novels were serialised
in Australia.
Professor Laurence’s letter says, in
part: —
Professor Leon Edel and I are currently
completing a definitive bibliography of
Henry James, in connection with which we
are requesting assistance from our col-
leagues in all parts of the world. Knowing
from your excellent article on The Turn
of the Screw that you had an interest in
James, we felt that you might very possibly
be interested enough in our problems to
offer your co-operation. Although I per-
sonally have lived in, and loved, Australia
during and after World War 11, my visits
there are now in the dim “visitable” past
only, and it is difficult to seek material
from so many thousands of miles away,
What we seek, for the most part, is any
knowledge you may have of any James
publication in Australia, In the preface to
his The Landlord at Lion's Head (N.Y.
1911 —“Library Edition”), William Dean
Howells comments, “It was first serialised
in ‘Harper’s Weekly’ as well as in an
Australian newspaper—l forget which one."
This leads us to wonder whether any of
James’s novels were serialised down under?
Are there any available indexes or biblio-
graphies that might uncover such a fact?
I would be very grateful indeed for any
help your readers could give me in
this matter. Kathleen Fitzpatrick
(Assistant Professor of History, Uni-
versity of Melbourne).
Stefan von Kofze
Any personal or literary information
about Stefan von Kotze is sought by Mr.
G. F. James, manager of the Melbourne
University Press. Von Kotze, a German
who was in Australia in the nineties
and who contributed verse to The
Bulletin, wrote a little volume of Aus-
tralian Sketches which was published in
German in 1903 and translated and pub-
lished in English by L. L. Politzer in
Melbourne in 1945.
The American Duchess
An Englishwoman moving in the Duke
of Marlborough’s circles would hardly
know by what standards to criticise the
English'peerage and its social usages if
she decided to get out of it; only a
fabulously-rich American like Consuela
Vanderbilt, having separated from, and
divorced, a Duke of Marlborough, could
write an autobiography, The Glitter and
the Gold (Heinemann), in which one
who has seen the private social life of
the circle of King Edward VII and King
George V calmly and charitably assesses
the experience.
The eighteen-year-old New York
Duchess, coerced into the marriage by a
screaming and pleading mother, looked
the British over with the self-possession
shown some hundred years before by the
Bostonian, Abigail Adams. English-
women, Abigail noticed, were by no
means as elegant or as well-dressed as
Boston women ; Englishwomen, Consuela
found, were very poorly educated. Since
childhood she herself had travelled the
world in her father’s yachts. Gover-
nesses of several nationalities had culti-
vated her mind. She was early adept in
three languages. And whereas a British
peer thought himself lucky enough to have
the one ancestral mansion, Consuela’s
mothe' was always building them and
; filling them with the heirlooms of other
people, A.l, guaranteed works-df-art.
For her the British had only two
terrors: the honeymoon, which she dis-
misses with a quiet grimace,- and proto-
col. She seems to have been not alto-
gether unhappy in her early years of
marriage. She was responsible for the
running of the huge mansion, and her
description of its servants and their work-
ing- and living-quarters is excellent quiet
humor, rising to high comedy in its
description of dinner-for-two:
How I learned to dread and hate these
dinners, how ominous and wearisome they
loomed at,the end of a long day. They
were served with all the accustomed cere-
mony, but once a course had been passed
the servants retired to the hall; the door
was closed and only a ring of the bell
placed before Marlborough summoned
them. He had a way of piling food on
his plate; the next move was to push the
plate away, together with knives, forks,
spoons and glasses —all this in considered
gestures which took a long time; then he
backed his chair away from the table,
crossed one leg over the other and end-
lessly twirled the ring on his little finger.
While accomplishing these gestures he was
• absorbed in thought and quite oblivious
of any reactions 1 might have. Alter a
quarter of an. hour he would suddenly
return to earth, or perhaps I should say, to
food, and begin to eat very siowly, usually
complaining that the food was cold! And
how could it be otherwise? As a rule
neither of us spoke a word. I took to
knitting in desperation and the butler lead
detective-stories in the hall.
Such manners vanished, of course,
when there were guests. The American
Duchess had the straight back of a child
brought up to eat strapped, head and
shoulders, to an iron rod ; she mastered
protocol well enough to give lessons to
the English:
At one of my first dinner-parties, to
my surprise, I found the ladies rising at a
signal given by my husband’s aunt,. who
was sitting next to him. Immediatef
aware of a concerted plan to establish hei
dominance, and warned by my neighboi
(Continued on page 35)


#
★
weekly news of activities , values and advantages from Anthony Horderns
★
Don’t wait ’till it Grows
this long ....
If you wait ’till that grass looks more like an African jungle
than a lawn, you’ll probably end up like the optimist
in the picture at right . . . fighting a losing battle with an
out-of-date mower. So don’t wait ’till summer when
grass is long and tempers are short, come in and inspect our
large range of modern hand and motor mowers.
They can be bought on easy terms, too.
M
?-
rf-m
asm*
m
i
‘#Wl#
New 12in»-cut
Ransome “Minor”
Below
The revolutionary new Ransome “Minor” is
equipped with a full automatic clutch, which means
easier, cheaper cutting with simplified one control.
£25 deposit and 19/' a week. Cash £92/15/'.
Right
Ogden Motor (Woai’er. 14in. cutting width. 1/3 H.P, British
“T.O.R."’ engine. £l3 deposit, 14/' weekly. Cash £49/19/6).
Below
Qualcast Motor Mower, A sturdily built machine,
full 16 inches. It is a self propelled mower powered with
Villiers 2 stroke motor, complete with large capacity grass
£25 deposit, 19/- a week. £9O Cash.
it cuts a
a 98 c.c.
box. . . .
m
n"'-
mmmm
*»*%
i &
\$Wamal
K
Above
Lawnmaster Motor Mower. Is powered
by a 98 c.c. Villiers Engine and cuts a 14in.
swathe. £l7 deposit, 15/' weekly. Cash £69/10/'.
'
m
■
Super Rex Mower, (Below) Fea-
turing laminated steel construction for
added strength. Vulcanised solid rubber
tyres, self adjusting ball bearings. £2
deposit, 6/- weekly. Cash £ll/3/6.
m
ADVERTISING"
till
s *
£ -
S 5
THE SOUND BARRIER I,
Many, many of our radio
listeners have written com-
plimenting us on the differ-
ent and truly imaginative
radio programmes we have
been broadcasting. Here is a
“thumb index” of these
very popular programmes.
“Masters of Music”
One and a half hours of the
best in classical music of
popular appeal, presented by
Tom Jacobs, Station 2SM,
Sunday, 9.30-11 p.m.
“The Prince of Peace*’
The story of Christ’s life on
Earth. Listen to 2CH every
Thursday, 9.0 to 9.30 p.m.,
for this vivid dramatisation.
“The Children’s Party”
An hilarious half-hour of all
the fun from Australia’s
Biggest Birthday Party,
broadcast from our Hall by
Keith Walsh, from 2GB. Sat-
urday morning 10.15-10.4?.
New Electrical
Repair Shop
It’s dangerous to fiddle with
any electrical gadget! Instead
of exposing yourself to
shocks, let our experts re-
pair your iron, kettle ( radi-
ator, etc. Note the new
handy location of our repair
shop, near kitchenware dept.,
inside Pitt Street entrance.
Brickfield Edge
Trimmer Mower
Single wheel drive mower
cuts extremely close to walks,
corners, etc. Price £6/18/-,
£2/6/- deposit, 4/- weekly.
Lawnmower Repairs
Mower on the blink? . . .
then dial M 2401 and we’ll
pick it up, let our experts
attend to it, deliver it to you
almost new!! Electric, petrol
and “sweat models” all re-
paired. If there’s anything
even faintly wrong now, send
it to us before the grass
really weakens its morale!
<i?n
vxzr


Practitioners in Psychiatry
Old Style, New Style
By A SYDNEY PSYCHIATRIST
OLD men for counsel, young men
for action, Plato said. Let’s see
how this squares with modern
psychiatry.
With the outbreak of war in 1939, and
the popularity of psychiatry, the Army
decided to enlist its own psychiatrists.
For various reasons, among them the
prohibitions of man-power control, very
few men with mental-hospital experience
enlisted.
The Army was forced to include men
without specialised psychiatric training—•
residents from general hospitals, g.p.’s,
and the like. With the aid of textbooks,
a few lectures and by trial and error, they
picked up psychiatry. A few did the
diploma course after the war, but service
in the forces as a psychiatrist, even with-
out the diploma, is sufficient qualification
for membership of the Australasian
Association of Psychiatrists.
Now psychiatry, when one first touches
it, is fascinating. The writings of Freud,
for instance, are plausible, exciting, con-
vincing. They go to the head like strong
drink when one is young. Only the
bitterness of years of clinical experience
can demonstrate how inadequate these
theories are, either to account for e the
development of mental symptoms, dr to
cure them. Freud was a medical man:
but one effect of his teaching has been
the emergence of the academic psycholo-
gist, Briefly, the argument has been
that most forms of mental illnesses have
psychological causes: therefore a
psychologist is competent to treat them.
Opposed to this is the theory that all
mental ills have physical causes. To
take an example: every mother of a
young child knows that if the child de-
velops a high fever from measles it be-
comes delirious, is terrified, restless and
sees visions. In the morning the temp,
has gone down and the mental condi-
tion is normal. This is the simplest and
shortest form of mental disease, but it
has exactly the same basis as the delirium
produced by alcohol or poisons. The
longer the cause (the physical condition)
lasts the longer the mental illness. The
delirium of typhoid-fever, before the
discovery of sulpha drugs, sometimes
lasted three weeks or more.
Trauma (such as a head injury), toxins
(taken by the patient, as in drugs, or
manufactured within the body, as a
by-product of illness), vitamin-de-
ficiencies, glandular disorders, cerebral
tumors and so on can all cause mental
symptoms. A knowledge of these facts
has done much to take the terror, the
darkness of the unknown, from mental
illness.
There remains, however, a vast num-
ber of patients, including melancholics,
maniacs and schizophrenics, the cause of
whose condition is entirely unknown.
Patients may be divided into two types.
First there are those with mental diseases
of which the cause is known, and,
included with them, those with disease
entities (such as acute melancholia and
schizophrenia) the causes of which are
unknown, but which have a definite
clinical pattern. Then there are the large
number of neuroses (such as anxiety
state), hysteria, obsessional neuroses, and
so on. All these are definite diseases,
well-defined and well-known. Until 15
years or so ago these two groups made
up the bulk of patients seen by
psychiatrists.
But, as psychiatry became more popu-
lar, as psychologists wrote more and as
psychiatrists became more enthusiastic,
the scope of psychiatry was enlarged.
Psychiatrists now dealt with children’s
problems, with sexual incompatibility—
with practically anything, in fact, that
went to make up human unhappiness.
So we have been treated to the spec-
tacle of young men with very little know-
ledge of life outside textbooks acting as
arbiters of human conduct. If these
people had a solid grounding in logic,
metaphysics, or even in the guiding prin-
ciples of religion, they would have had
general principles to fall back on. But
it is possible to complete a medical
course with very little “education” in the
old, liberal sense of the word. These
rash young men gave weird and won-
derful advice to all manner of people on
all sorts of subjects. In getting away
from their classified diseases they were
getting out of their depth.
On war-time psychiatrists in England
the distinguished Australian surgeon and
physician Dr. (“Paddy”) Moran had some
hard things to say. And so did war-time
Prime Minister Churchill, who com-
mented :
i am sure it would bo sensible to re-
strict as much as possible the work of
these gentlemen, who are capable of doing
an immense amount of harm with what
may very easily degenerate Into char-
latanry. The tightest hand should be kept
over them, and they should not be allowed
to quarter themselves in large numbers
X*;r a"" v 'r SgK
recognisable cases which may benefit from
treatment of this kind, but it is very
wrong: to disturb large numbers of healthy.
normal men and women with the kind of
:“c,.n"“ I “Ti.e™ r. b . IC \X Ch » l . r S
hangers-on and camp-followers already.
Older psychiatrists have an apprecia-
tion of their own ignorance before the
enormous difficulties of their subject, and
of their liability to gross error in diag-
nosis and treatment. They stress, not so
much a patient’s symptoms as an answer
to the question: “Can the patient, in his
present condition, take his place in the
community?”
They see old patients in the streets,
knowing well that they have been in-
sane for years. Ex-patients have spoken
in Sydney Domain, telling Sunday crowds
of the failures and cruelty of the
psychiatrist who treated them. A young
psychiatrist would probably regard such
an orator as suffering from a mental
disease that shrieked out for treatment;
an older man may think: “So-and-so
is doing fairly well.”
The questions are: Can the patient
carry on in his ordinary, workaday life?
Is he a danger to himself or others? Is
treatment likely to benefit him? If the
answers are negative, why interfere? One
can always keep an eye on him as an out-
patient and, if his symptoms become
worse, interfere in the future.
Husbands and wives come to psychia-
trists with their matrimonial problems,
and the young psychiatrist is tempted to
give them the benefit of his wisdom. The
older man is more wary. His state of
masterly inactivity is the hardest lesson
to learn. Things will often right them-
selves, and hedging is an art developed
over the years. A psychiatrist must
master the technique (in certain cases)
of talking at length, satisfying the
patient and saying nothing.
Experience also teaches that a patient
with a neurosis, despite our best efforts,
will not recover unless it suits him. A
patient receiving what amounts to a per-
sonal compensation for a neurosis is diffi-
cult to cure. The woman who bullies her
family with her state of health is well
known. Her condition is the basis of her
power, and she will not surrender it, A
further example may be taken from the
obsessional neuroses. A common symp-
tom is the compulsion the patient has to
wash her hands after touching anything.
The condition is notoriously difficult to
cure, although, since it is a purely psycho-
logical one, it should, theoretically, yield
to prolonged psycho-analytical treatment.
But if we analyse the obsession we find
that it is marvellously convenient for
the patient. It is a good reason for not
going to certain places, not touching cer-
tain objects. It is a perfect excuse for
social lapses.
Diagnosis is important. But in
psychiatry, as in general medicine also,
the materialistic temper of the age lends
itself to a tendency to rely more and
more on pathological tests, X-rays, etc.,
less and less on human judgment. There
is a danger of forgetting that the patient
is a person.
Small signs can tell an experienced
man much. Tone of voice can set him
looking for a provisional diagnosis of
cerebral syphilis, a peculiar hallucina-
tion of sight or hearing can instantly sug-
gest alcohol or drugs such as bromide or
chloral. A patient’s demeanor, his
manner of answering questions, can often
give a remarkably clear picture of his
daily life and problems. The younger
man is inclined to rely more and more
on clinical tests, I.Q.’s, tests of character
and memory given by psychologists, and
on narco-analysis.
Psychiatrists have elaborated a vocabu-
lary which threatens to grow out of con-
trol. For instance, to the followers of
Kraepelin, the famous German classifier
of mental diseases, dementia pnecox
meant the disease we later knew as
schizophrenia. Personally, I never liked
the word. It means a splitting of the per-
sonality, and the personality, an in-
tangible, does not seem amenable to such
treatment. But the point is it did mean
a definite disease with a definite clinical
course. Now it is used to cover prac-
tically every form of mental disturbance
in a young person. Even the quiet,
thoughtful, “bad-mixer” type of man,
once called an “introvert,” became a
“schizoid personality.” If he had an
acute mental disease and recovered he
had an “acute schizoid reaction.” If he
had an acute melancholia and recovered
he had a “reactive melancholia.” If he
did not recover the melancholia was
“endogenous.”
Some of this terminology is too tech-
nical. There would appear to be a danger
of psychiatrists becoming a circle of
adepts speaking a sacred language incom-
prehensible to ordinary persons, and even
to other doctors. The older men believed
that if a person had a clear concept of a
disease he should be able to express it in
clear, concise and intelligible language.
New ground has been broken, and
now, perhaps, it is well to pause and take
sober stock of ourselves. The essentials
of psychiatric treatment remain, and
must not be swamped by any preoccu-
pation with technique.
Old men, no doubt, become conserva-
tive and complacent; young men over-
enthusiastic. The proper path lies some-
where in between —and in a proper
humility.
By Licence
THE wife had been pranging the
car a good bit lately, taking
chips off here and there and
putting dents in the fenders. In
fact, when she scraped the whole of
the near-side rear fender against a
pillar of the front brick fence she
was so mortified she threatened to
give up driving altogether.
It was only a day or two later
that her driver’s-licence renewal
came in, so I decided that a little
cunning might be in order.
She signed it as usual as I put it
before her, her threat —or promise—
forgotten. I rather prided myself on
my subtlety in not referring to it.
“What about these questions I’ve
got to answer?” she asked, indicat-
ing them.
“Oh,” I replied with careful
casualness, ‘77/ fill them in—they’re
the usual stereotyped things you just
say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to. No need for you
to bother.”
Before taking it up to the Trans-
port Department I got to work on the
answers. When I would tell her
later that they’d refused to renew
her licence Agapanthus would think
it was because the insurance people
had reported her to the depart-
ment or something. Women are
always vague about official matters.
It would make up her mind for her
not to drive any more.
Against the question whether the
licensee suffered, or had ever suffered,
from epilepsy I said Yes, and that
she couldn’t walk five yards without
falling down. That should settle the
application at the outset.
But for good measure there fol-
lowed the question about whether
the licensee was subject to fainting-
fits or giddiness. I assured the de-
partment emphatically that the appli-
cant would throw a sevener at the
slightest provocation. The sight of
a bulldog with a very flat face or a
man with a wart on his nose would
always make her keel over. As to
giddiness, she got that way so often
while at the wheel that she would
come-to to find herself driving
around in circles.
Diabetes? She was one of the
worst cases known to medical science.
She wouldn’t think of taking the car
out unless there was someone sitting
next to her to give her an emergency
injection or grab the wheel when she
got a blackout.
The section which required her to
disclose any limb disabilities offered
some scope. I let the Commissioner
know that her rheumatism was so
bad in her only foot that more often
than not she couldn’t tell whether
her foot was pressing down on the
accelerator, whilst synovitis in her
knees was so severe she couldn’t bend
them at all when sitting at the wheel.
But it was in the part requiring the
applicant to state whether he or she
had “any other disabilities” which
might render driving a danger, that
I was able to make a certainty of
things.
The clerk to whom I tossed it
opened it out and was just about to
tick them off automatically as usual
when he poised his pencil over the
formidable recital of deadly diseases.
“Wfliat’s all this?” he asked.
I leaped at the opportunity thus
afforded to make him so narked that
he would knock it back without
further ado,
“Can’t you read?” I snapped.
“Just mark it ‘renewal refused,’ that’s
all I want.”
“Oh, sarcastic, eh?” he said. Then
a good-natured grin spread slowly
over his face, and he leaned over
confidentially.
“I know how you feel, having to
answer a lot of damnfool questions
that they never even look at,” he
said. “Every time I get an official
form to fill-in I feel like doing the
same, scribbling a lot of rot in the
answer column. But you haven’t
filled in the bit about the eyes. Do
you wear glasses while driving?”
BO.
IT WASN'T MODERN ART
SON of the George Fife Angas who
was the real father of the province
of South Australia —Wakefield was
only a dreamer —George French
Angas had studied lithography as well as
painting and drawing, and for a few
years, first in southern Australia and then
in New Zealand, he sketched and painted
whenever a scene took his eye.
Modern artists dismiss his productions
as “Good second-class art of the period.”
Through the generosity of the late Dr.
Angas Johnson, Adelaide Art Gallery
and the South Australian Museum came
into possession of many of the originals.
And now scientists realise the priceless
value of those same paintings.
Angas had a wonderful flair for detail;
no matter whether it was the weave of
an aboriginal basket, the whorls of the
moko design tattooed on the face of a
famous old Maori chief or the individual
expressions of the manaia and ngututa
faces carved on the barge-boards of a
Maori house in the background, Angas
got each one down.
He thus passed on a faithful record of
scenes and peoples which have now
vanished. George Catlin did the same
thing for America by painting the Red
Indian, his clothing, weapons and tepees,
exactly as they were.
Angas’s landscapes show what the
country was like before domestic stock,
rabbits, bushfires and clearing changed
the face of Australia. Even if a tree
in the background is not much larger
than one of the letters on this page, you
can tell at a glance if it is a casuanna,
eucalypt or banksia. In the foreground
native grasses can be recognised in the
same way.
Hence, though artists seldom have
their names mentioned in scientific papers,
that of Angas is often quoted as an
irrefutable authority by our ethnologists
and anthropologists. “Angas shows
appears in their papers over and over
again. , 4
He wasn’t “modern,” but what ot tne
“moderns” 100 years from now?
H.A.L.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 9, 1953
V ol. 74 — No. 3839
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521 ;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite GJP.O.), Wellington.
OVER TO THE OFFENSIVE
Earlier this month fell the scarcely remembered
anniversary of the outbreak of World War II
and of the birth of the new world in which
there is work for all, paper-money to burn
and leisure abounding. The effects of the
changes wrought by the holocaust—the shortages,
the indiscipline, the inflation —are very much with us,
but the schoolboy of 1939 is the man of 30 today, with
only faint memories of what Australia was like when
the basic wage was £4 a week, when mother did not
“work” —the word has a different inference now—
when there were actually unemployed, the shops
opened on Friday night and a sound motor-car could
be bought for £350, It is difficult for any contem-
porary Australian to believe that his country was not
always the darling of the gods, loaded down with
glittering “wealth,” with over 100 million sheep pro-
viding help on a grand scale to keep the 40-hour week
and other anomalies in being.
The year in respect of which the Budget is pre-
sented this month promises to be the average post-war
year, with wool (for the present) slightly on the rise,
shares in consequence at prices which yield not more
than a moderate return, and the cost of living and of
industrial operation at the limit the country
can stand. It will be a v Federal election-
campaign year, and, therefore, extremely difficult
for the Commonwealth Government. It, how-
ever, on its record to date can be looked to to continue
its course of policy irrespective of the demands
of standover-men and vested interests. The
way of any Government going to the polls in these
days of organised pressure-groups is difficult and full
of temptation, especially when export incomes are
again high and the national Budget can swell tenfold
in 15 years without blowing up. It is somewhat harder
for the present Government in Canberra because it
lacks publicity sense and fails to explain itself properly
in advance. The Evatts and Calwells always seem
to be first in the publicity-race.
The Menzies Government has a great chance
to frame, before the election, a long-term
programme of principles which will endure and
which the people will understand. It has “Labor” at
a disadvantage in that “the movement” is in turmoil,
torn with sectarianism, internal Communism, its
leaders at loggerheads, its faith in its objective shaken.
The Government of the State in which its Federal
majorities are made is fighting with its reputation at
the lowest ebb, obviously unwilling to have the many
scandals which are alleged against its administration
investigated, and unable to deal with the drift to ruin
in its slovenly transport system and its building
programme.
While defence needs continue at their present level
the Federal Government will remain handicapped in
any attempt to lighten the burden of taxation and at
the same time discourage inflation. The best way to
lighten the taxation load is to expand production.
There are many types of production which can be
expanded—even wool, for which the world’s demand
still keeps up. And the chances for butter and meat
are good so far as the near future goes. But expan-
sion is dependent on cost of production, the availability
of labor and materials, and a reasonable level of
taxation. And the proper conditions will never be
attained until States cease to bleed tens of millions to
squander on electioneering Socialism and on works
carried out not for real development, but to advertise
their own officious busyness and justify their existence
as sovereign bodies. There is needed a national policy
which would drain off into private pockets of those
with the right objectives much of the tremendous
amounts which are now • spent on non-productive
administration and legislative frills and abortive
experiments in public enterprise.
The great advancements in economic wealth in
Australia, as in every other country, have come from
private effort. The countries which have recovered
most quickly from the war years are those in which
capitalism, supposedly dying, according to Russian
Communists like Malenkov and Australian Socialists
like Mr. Arthur Calwell, has been in the ascendant.
The marked change in the condition of Britain since
the Tory victory is enough to illustrate this fact even
if it were not brought home by the stupendous
advances which have taken place in the United States
and Canada during the past 15 years.
The Communists and their fellow-travellers for
years have had the initiative in politics in Australia.
Free enterprise has been on the defensive, and the task
"WHO'S AFRAID OF THE BIG, BAD WOLF?"
obviously be asked to consider a further extension.
which probably explains why the Prime Minister
announced a week or so ago that Australia intended
to press for “a general review” of GATT, aimed par-
ticularly at revising the provisions of the agreement
which prevent any increase in Empire-preferences.
On this subject Mr. Menzies said that his Govwn-
ment did not agree with the view, implicit in GATT,
that Empire-preferences conflict with multilateral
trade:
On the contrary, we consider that a strongly
trading British Commonwealth wiU strengthen total
world trade The last time the world had what, for
practical purposes, is multilateral trade was in the
pre-war era-—at a time when we had a flail system
of Empire preference,
He Prime Minister made the further point that
although GATT set itself against extensions of prefer-
ences it accepted the principle of Customs-unions
which established “a more complete system of prefer-
ences than anyone ever contemplated for Empire-
preferences.”
Mr. Menzies was referring, of course, to the Benelux
countries, which have a complete Customs-union and
have abolished all tariffs among themselves, yet remain
full members of GATT and can claim full advantage
from any bilateral concessions agreed upon by other
members, A further example is the permission granted
l a st November to the six countries comprising the
European Coal and Steel Community to eliminate
Customs-duties on coal and steel products among
themselves, without having to extend the benefit to
other countries. French overseas territories were
included in the permit, a fact which Commonwealth
countries should note with interest,
xhe truth is, as the Prime Minister emphasised,
tha( . con ai t ions of world trade have changed radically
since m 7 The sellers , market then existing has gone,
£ ar as many products are concerned ; for others
“ cy o£ war - time shortages ’
18 rapidly ai ppe g, t .
The chickens now coming home to roost are not
S o much GATT chickens as part of the general brood
0 f the generation of Socialists which rushed us
enthusiastically into that organisation and expected it
to work miracles, and to absolve them from the
responsibility ofgiving their attention to the condition
Q f the home nest. One of their most potent blunders
was t h e premature advocacy of the 40-hour week—
not s 0 muc h for the institution itself, which seems to
work efficiently enough in America, but because it
encourag ed the idea that less work and effort were
necessary w hen in fact, to keep down costs and to
make ’ the war-induced lag in production the very
oppos j te was t h e case. A comparison of index-figures
£ or retail-prices and wages tells its own story:
Retai i Prices _
Aust ' u.K. U.S.A.
June, 1947 .. .. 132 164 156
March, 1953 .. .. 256 228 188
17g lgl
r" ne ’, oae 251
March, 1953 .... . .
Mr. Menzies’s statement implies that his Gov-
ernment is seeking greater freedom in the mampula-
tion of tariffs; but these figures show that after that
is achieved Australia’s major problem of gettmg costs
down will still remain.
of Governments has been to defend it against
Socialist attack. For too long the defeatist theory
has been accepted in Liberal circles that Socialism is
inevitable, that the people want it and that every fresh
Liberal Administration must contribute, as a sop to
electors, something to its growth.
The time is ripe for free enterprise to go over to
the offensive and to start, under the leadership of the
Commonwealth Government, a campaign for the
liquidation of a good deal of the Socialistic experi-
ment and waste which is bound to crush the country
if there should be a further drop in world prices and
Australia is called on to carry its economy on a
working-class income from wool and declining
primary-product export-values. t
GATT and Its Begetters
Gatt, the explosive monosyllable used as a time-saver
for General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, was
one of the large brood of multi-initialled chicks
hatched in the early post-war years when the ducky
hens of Socialism ruled the roosts in many lands,
including Australia and Britain, and looked hopefully
forward to the day when the whole world would be a
Socialist barnyard. For Australia, Mr. Dedman, of
“little-capitalist” fame, was sitter-in-chief, although
Dr. Coombs led the delegation to Geneva, where
GATT was hatched after an incubation period extend-
ing over six months from April to October, 1947.
On paper GATT seemed quite a good thing. The
ultimate aim was reduced tariffs and greater stability
in world trade ; the parties to the agreement bound
themselves not to increase their tariffs without consul-
tation and not to extend preferences to one country
without granting the same privilege to all. The key-
note of Geneva and of subsequent meetings was the
encouragement of bilateral agreements, on the under-
standing that once an agreement was negotiated
between two member-countries any concessions agreed
upon became applicable equally to all other members.
A most important effect of this, as far as the Com-
monwealth countries were concerned, was that no
further extensions of Empire preference could be
made. Twenty-three nations signed the original
GATT, including Britain and all the Dominions,
U.S.A., France, Holland, Belgium and Norway.
Geneva was followed by the Havana Conference,
which lasted from November, 1947, to March, 1948,
and was attended by Mr. Dedman in person. The
object of Havana was to establish an International
Trade Organisation- as a specialised agency of U.N.O.
The Havana Charter, which embodied the principles
of Geneva, was drawn up but was not to come into
force until a sufficient number of countries had
ratified it. A sufficient number has not yet ratified
it; in fact, no country has ratified it. America, on
the contrary, has rejected it.
But although the Havana egg, despite a four-
months sitting, turned out to be addled, the GATT
chicken went merrily on its way. Further conferences
were held at Annecy, Torquay and Geneva.
At Torquay in September, 1950, it was agreed
that concessions already negotiated should be
given an assured life until the end of 1953. That
date is now drawing near, and the next meeting of
GATT, due to open at Geneva next week, will


PLAIN ENGLISH
Home to Trouble
N.S.W. Premier Cahill sailed home the
other day, after six months abroad, to a
job that must have looked less and less
attractive the closer he got to it. The
Government and party he left in reason-
ably good order are now shaken with
public scandals and internal rifts, one
Minister has gone into political obloquy,
others are frantically defending the
administration of their departments, and
out of one of Mr. Cahill’s own brain-
children —the amalgamation of muni-
cipalities—has risen charges leading to
prosecutions.
Before he left Mr. Cahill had some-
how managed to gloss over the revela-
tions of the Liquor Commission (though
the findings are yet to be published),
revelations which involved “Labor” poli-
ticians and high police-officers, and he
had something to say about his confi-
dence in his Minister for Mines, J. G.
Arthur. But that confidence didn’t save
Arthur when the Arthur Commission
(wrongly called the Doyle Commission)
condemned the Minister’s association
with a flagrant criminal. It may not
have saved others had not the commis-
sioner been severely limited in the scope
of his inquiries, though Mr. Cahill’s
Government was pressed to widen it.
Many questions were not answered by
that commission.
Meantime, other inquiries are being
held by the Public Service Board. One
concerns the associations and activities
of another convicted person with the
Education Department (administered by
Deputy-Premier Heffron), another has to
do with certain goings-on at State coal-
mines (under Heffron since Arthur
vanished from the scene), Attorney-
General Sheahan has ordered prosecu-
tion of sundry former aldermen and
officials of the Leichhardt Council, and
there are demands for investigation of
the “Labor” Sydney City Council,
Mr. Cahill’s party isn’t at all happy
with the position. Some members con-
fess to being very disturbed about “un-
ethical conduct” in high places, wide
splits have appeared in branches,
attempts made to form breakaway groups,
accusations of sectarianism and dicta-
tion fly about. In the middle of all this
the Government announced a land tax
on city and country property, said it
hadn’t any money to finish work on
Keepit and Blowering dams, had to deal
with incipient revolt when Minister for
Transport Martin, prior to his sudden
death, wanted to shunt transport white-
collar employees onto the Public Service
Board, received an ultimatum from New
England for a referendum on its wish to
secede from N.S.W., and discovered a
fellow “Labor” Premier, Cain, busily
setting up a lottery to compete with the
Sydney one.
Most of which, added to other things,
boils down to the fact that public confi-
dence in both the Cahill Government and
“Labor” local-government is about as
low as it can be. There is widespread
belief that political jobbery, waste,
nepotism and general political corrup-
tion are far more rife than any of these
limited inquiries have shown. There is,
in fact, such an odor about public
administration in N.S.W. as would have
caused any responsible Government to
have either cleaned out ruthlessly those
responsible or thrown in its hand.
Mr. Cahill has either of those choices,
and another one —he can continue to gloss
over, evade and side-step. His answers to
Press questions when he came ashore sug-
gest he will take the third choice.
Firmness Wins
Northern wharfies who for years have
been the monarchs of the ports, working
when and at whatever pace it suited
them, have had a shock during the past
week.
A sort of rolling go-slow technique
has been in operation in Comrade Healy’s
union for some time. That close corpora-
tion the Watersiders’ Federation had
steadily resisted attempts to bring the
labor force, on wharves where perishable
products were handled in North Queens-
land, to a sufficient strength to cope with
the flow of meat and sugar. When it
did give way it was too late. A fire at
the Inkerman mill which ships sugar from
Bowen had reduced storage-space. The
possibility had to be faced that the mill
would cease work at the end of the week
unless its production could be shipped.
To meet the shortage Mr. Holt,
Minister for Labor, very promptly
decided to send troops by air to Bowen
to load meat into the Port Wellington
so that the whole Watersiders’ strength
could be concentrated on sugar until
the emergency should have passed in
about a month’s time.
No civilian was being deprived of work
by the 24th Construction Squadron which
was flown to the port. It began its job
without producing any demonstration
from local unionists. But it would not
have been the Watersiders, with their
Communist leadership, if they had not
seized on the opportunity in the hope of
producing a general strike of 27,000
members in 52 Australian ports. It sud-
denly appeared, according to the union,
that somehow a full quota of wharfies
was ready—after the arrival of the troops
—to handle any emergency. But two
sugar ships were idle in Bowen while
the soldiers, many of them Korean
veterans, pitched in and set a pace which
must have made some wharfies fidget as
they watched.
The Government’s swift response to
union inertia and to a mass-meeting of
railway workers and a threat by the meat
unions at Townsville was to take over
the local railway yards, after which the
troops extended their operations to sugar
and loaded 600 tons into trucks. The
A.R.U. members, whose Federal head is
of the same rich red color as Mr. Healy,
had threatened not to report for work,
thus bringing about a blockage in the
North Queensland railway division.
Mr. Nolan, the State secretary of the
A.R.U., had remarked that “if we stand
this we may as well go out of existence.
If it means holding up the whole of the
railways, or whatever it means, my union
will see it out.” Mr. Healy said that
the dispute had extended to Townsville
and that the Alligator Creek works had
decided to send no more meat to Bowen
lest they become involved. Efforts were
made to bring out the miners in the
Bowen fields.
But it was obvious that Mr. Healy’s
tail was down. There was no fire in his
statements after the first outburst. He
now said with unprecedented, mildness
that if Mr. Holt had consulted the union
the situation would have been dealt with
by a civilian air-lift of wharfies from the
south. The N. S. Wales Labor Council
was equally pacific. Its resolution con-
demning Government action as an attack
on trade-unionism had an air of auto-
matism about it. It was obvious that the
rank-and-file of the unionists were behind
the Government.
And then at a conference in Melbourne
between the Minister, Mr. Monk of the
A.C.T.U. and the leaders of unions
affected, after the advocates of strike had
found even Dr. Evatt on the Government
side —something like a miracle —the
Watersiders agreed to send another 44
men to take over when the 50 troops
were withdrawn over the weekend. The
A.C.T.U. agreed to watch the situation
through the rest of the season to see
that port quotas are fulfilled and cargoes
properly and promptly loaded.
The feature of the whole business was
the manner in which public opinion
demonstrated its support of the Minister
and proved that the Communist unions
and their fellow-traveller supporters in
other unions have ceased to be the real
Government as they were for nearly a
decade after 1941.
Germany the Test
The impending meeting of the United
Nations Assembly will find its main de-
liberations focused not so much on Korea
as on the prime question of Central
Europe. Until German unity is assured
and Austria free of foreign troops, there
can be no settling-down in Europe and
no peace. The attitude of Russia on the
question is therefore a test of its attitude
on world settlement and will prove far
more illuminating than all the bleating
about warmongers and the display of
formalised effigies of doves which is
sweeping the world afresh since the
recent Budapest conference in the guise
of a series of local movements spontane-
ously generated under the leadership of
the phalanx of clergy, writers and uni-
versity lecturers who are always the dupes
Of these Communist-bom essays in world
disturbance.
As Mr. Dulles remarked last week, the
three German occupation-zones of
Britain, France and the United States
have been put together. The West Ger-
mans have been helped on to their feet
and given freedom of government which
goes as far as it can go short of a unified
administration for all Germany. But the
Russians hold and isolate East Germany
tightly behind the Iron Curtain. They
have steadfastly refused to allow the
East Germans to govern themselves but
have kept them subservient to a band
of Moscow commissars, most of them
left-overs from the defunct Comintern.
So far from a win by Dr. Adenauer
at the weekend’s elections serving to
bring unity nearer, it seems likely that
it will put fresh obstacles in the way,
despite the fact that the West German
leader professes to have a scheme for a
treaty-like arrangement within the frame-
work of the United Nations which will
provide Soviet security needs. The fact
that about two-thirds of the population
of all Germany, East and West, will have
produced a majority for Dr. Adenauer
and his plans means nothing in Moscow,
where the majority is a tommy-gun.
Moscow will have no united Germany
which is not Communist. It will have
no world which is not Communist. It
refuses under any circumstances to con-
cede that any country which provides
for its defence, other than those within
the Iron Curtain, can long ardently for
peace and quiet.
The official Soviet Government organ
“Tass” warned the world on the eve of
the election that “should Dr. Adenauer
win the elections and West Germany
move into the European Defence Com-
munity, it would be no longer, possible
to consider Wesk Germany as a peace-
loving nation”; that it “would become
a weapon in the aggressive plans of the
North Atlantic bloc, and finally enter the
road of preparing a new war in Europe,”
The Western nations last week invited
the Kremlin to a conference with the
three great Powers of the West in
Switzerland in October to discuss the
fate of both Germany and Austria. But
hopes seem to be bleak.
The fear is that Moscow is holding
both pieces of territory as jumping-off
places for attack on the West when
ready. And Malenkov and his associates
are doing nothing to dispel ugly suspicion.
This attitude in the next two months will
test their sincerity. What happens
in respect of Germany before the U.N.O.
Assembly will give a final test of that
rickety body.
"Spudding-in"
“Yer won’t git any oil,” croaked the
hoarsest voice in Carnarvon (W.A.) as
its owner lurched out of the hotel bar
last Saturday morning and staggered
across the footpath towards the group of
oilmen and journalists about to board
the airport bus. “Yer won’t git any oil
up at Exmouth. I’ll bet yer any money
y’ like.”
The party climbed aboard the bus
without accepting the wager and moved
off towards the airport with the challenge
still honking after them. “Bet y’ any
money y’ like. Never mind about yT
geolo-logists. Y’ won’t git any oil up
there. / know! C’mon! Bet y’ any
money y’ like.”
There were no takers. If the throaty
offer had been repeated four hours later
when the party was assembled on the
deck of the drilling-rig towering 158 ft.
above the spinifex on Rough Range, 15
miles from Learmonth on the Exmouth
Gulf, it might have had a different recep-
tion —but not from the oilmen and scien-
tists associated with the West Australian
Petroleum Pty.’s first full-scale oil-drill.
In a sense, searching for oil is a
gamble, but oilmen don’t do their gamb-
ling by word-of-mouth bets. Their
wagering is done against Nature, and
they stake their money—millions of it —
in steel and concrete; high-powered
machinery; months and years of geo-
logical and geophysical research and field-
work ; knowledge and know-how based
on world-wide experience. They wager
all this, plus the organising ability neces-
sary to co-ordinate all these factors,
against tricks and moves made by Nature
geological ages ago.
Saturday’s “spudding-in” ceremony,
when the huge rotary drill bit into the
rocky soil of Rough Range for the first
time, was the culmination of six years
of preparatory work, and it epitomised
the partnership of Australian and Ameri-
can capital and technical skill and the
co-operation of Commonwealth and
Westralian Government scientists with
the experts of private enterprise.
Thus it was that Westralian Premier
Hawke and his Mines Minister Kelly, Dr.
Raggatt (secretary of the Department of
National Development) and Dr. N. H.
Fisher (chief geologist of the Common-
wealth Bureau of Mineral Resources)
pressed buttons and turned knobs whidh
released the 1200-h.p. engines and set the
giant drill revolving, while W. G. Walkley
of Ampol and J. Higgins of Caltex, with
two American technical men, guided,
patted and caressed the drill-bit into its
casing and watched until the flow of
gravel and “mud” signalled a successful
spud-in. ,
More than £H million and six years
work were behind the whitish slush that
poured through the fine-meshed screens.
How much more money and time the
associated companies will put into the
project is a subject on which the oilmen
are cannily silent —as they are on the
odds against the present drill hitting the
jackpot. But they are undoubtedly pre-
pared to use up a whole lot more of
both commodities before changing their
opinion—based on the best advice of
authorities of world standing —that the
Exmouth Gulf area offers the most favor-
able indications of giving Australia its
first oilfield.
Despite the opinion of Carnarvon’s
leather-lunged knocker, they are backing
their choice with real money.
The Cahills and the Country
Stirred by the parrot-like cry of N.S.W.
Minister for Lands Hawkins that closer-
settlement generally in his State had been
hamstrung by “restrictive loan policies”
of the Commonwealth Government,
N.S.W. Country party took the trouble
to get out relevant figures for the past
half-dozen financial years. They pro-
vide a pretty straight answer.
In the six financial years 1947-48 to
1952-53 N.S.W. received, in loan alloca-
tions and tax reimbursements, a total of
£426 million. In the same period its
Government allocated only £25 million
to land-settlement, roughly just under
6 p.c. But there is another aspect: in
1948-49 the sum allocated to land-
settlement was £5.46 million of a total
of £44.7 million from loans and
reimbursement. That was virtually the
beginning years of soldier-settlement
after War 11. Since then the settlement
allocation has gone steadily down, though
the loan and reimbursement totals rose
to record levels. In the last financial
year no less than £lO7 million was
got from loans and reimbursement, but
only £2 million went to settlement.
Nothing Mr. Hawkins or his colleagues
may say can explain that away. For
the past two years or so the Cahill Gov-
ernment has had much to say about
increasing land-production, including
threats to take over farms which, in its
opinion—in its opinion!—aren’t produc-
ing enough, and high-sounding claims
that it is encouraging land-production for
all it is worth. And though it blames
the Commonwealth Government for its
failure in land-settlement, it gives that
Government no credit for the financial
grants it has received to help step up
dairy and other production, though claim-
ing that its work in this regard, and with
that money, is a success.
Even where the huge sums not spent
on land-settlement have been spent there
is little to show for it, either in urban or
country areas. The State is littered with
“works” that are either slowing down to
a dead stop or are moribund, in general
the road system in city and country is, a
disgrace, ports and railways have become
bywords for congestion, loss and delay,
there is no vision or strength in the State
Government —nothing but a readiness to
evade issues, pass the buck, or put the
blame on Menzies. The most outstanding
thing about this particular “Labor”
Government is the close-knit determina-
tion of its members to avoid responsi-
bility and go to any lengths to hold the
huge urban votes.
Rural N. S. Wales today is in much
the same position as a distant Roman
colony of the time of Tiberius. It pays
tribute to Sydney and about all it can
expect in return is an arbitrary increase
in the tribute.
Movement on New England
The month allowed the N.S.W. Govern-
ment by the New England New-State
Movement in which to answer its request
for a referendum has almost elapsed
without a word coming out of Mac-
quarie-street. The Government, whose
Premier has just returned from abroad,
could truthfully say it has too many
worries just now, but whether that will
placate the secessionists is doubtful.
Anyhow, they’re asking New-Staters
in North Queensland, Riverina and Gipps-
land to join them in setting up a national
secretariat in Canberra with the idea ot
co-ordinating their plans and making
their presence felt in the national capital.
Further, they’ve asked the Prime
Minister to summon a constitutional
convention to discuss new States.
If, as seems extremely likely, the
Sydney Government refuses a referendum
in N.S.W., the New Englanders mean to
have one in their own area in conjunction
with the local-government elections m
(Continued on next page)


See the “Farmers’ Boy” exhibit at Grazcos’ Machinery
Display Stand, No. 109 Smith St., Itoyal Melbourne Show
I
Wet
m
mm**
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Rotary Hoe attached
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series II: Mark XII 1} h.p. Villiers Engine.
Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth. 2 hoeing blades, XOin.
Tool-bar, 3 universal standards, and power take-off.
Price F.0.R.-F.0.8. Capital City Ports, £124/18/9.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe.
Paspalum guillotined t
Plough
Lawnmowet
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co.-op. Ltd.. 46 Young St., Sydney.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
.5'.4.; CLUTTERBUCK BROS. Ltd., 61-63 Bindley St.,
tV,A. and Tasmania: Distributors to be appointed.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS; HUBERT STOKES & CO.
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Generator
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include:
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, spray-painting, etc., FURROWER,
TRAILER, SAWBENCH, DUSTER,
MILKING MACHINE AND DISC
HARROWS.
I
INFORMATION COUPON
{ (Please post to your State Distributor )
I Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
j BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
j NAME
I ADDRESS
December. Some of the latest Sydney
Government statements —land tax, work-
stops on big dams, etc. —and what is
coming out of Sydney in the way of
Government, departmental and council
scandals must be persuading more and
more people to the new-State cause.
POLITICAL POINTS
Claiming to speak on behalf of some
pretty big concerns and saying he would
be “lacking in his duty if he didn’t speak,”
G. G. Foletta, president of the Australian
Industries Development Association, told
Acting-Minister for Customs Senator
McLeay that unless the Commonwealth
Government increased certain tariffs, his
group would “do all in its power” to
elect a Government that would increase
them. Well, if the A.I.D.A. thinks it
can get under Socialism what it can’t get
under free enterprise that’s what it ought
to do.
• •
The Commonwealth Government
means to try and make land-men under-
stand that withdrawal of overseas Gov-
ernments from trading in Australian ex-
ports, and a return to trader-to-trader
standards, is on, and that henceforth
Australian exports will have to compete
with their rivals on both price and
quality. To that end Commerce Under-
secretary Swartz is to address a meeting
of representative Queensland producers.
The more the change is talked about
and the wider the fact of it is spread,
the sooner will some sense get into all
this whingeing about overseas prices.
• •
One of those boards went too far in
trying to dictate to people. It was the
Dental Board of S. Australia, and it de-
manded that the managing-editor of
Adelaide “Advertiser” tell it where he
got a certain picture. It took the news-
paperman to court, lost the case, appealed
to the State Full Court, and was thrown
out again, the Chief Justice saying, “The
Dental Board is not justified in doing
what the police are not authorised to do.”
A lot of other boards are overdue for a
similar reprimand.
• •
Wool has become a political football
in the U.S.A. Opposing teams are sheep
interests from the south-western and
western States and textile manufacturers.
The sheepmen want an import tax of
Is. 4d. a pound on foreign wool “to
protect U.S. woolgrowers,” and the tex-
tile men say if wool is made dearer
synthetics will “squeeze it off the mar-
ket.” The match is being played in
Washington, D.C.
• •
Commerce Minister McEwen has
invited the States to meet him in Can-
berra on Friday to “make a last effort to
preserve organised marketing for the com-
ing wheat crop.” Coming! It’s prac-
tically here,
• •
Thousands of galahs which were
plaguing Quorn (S. Aust.) have suddenly
left the area. Some of them will be
heard shrieking from Canberra after
Fadden delivers his Budget tonight.
• •
Sidelights on the deployment of troops
in the north: It takes a small freighter
nearly eight weeks to make a round-trip
from Sydney to North Queensland ports.
In 1939 it took 28 days. Queensland
Parliament has been in session during the
developing sugar- and meat-loading
crisis in N.Q., but nobody mentioned it.
Sugar worth £7 million and meat worth
£850,000 were awaiting shipment at N.O.
ports.
• •
„ u dden death of C. E. Martin, the
Cahills’ Transport Minister, comes at a
bad time for a party desperately trying
to escape public censure. Martin
was one of the few able men in the
side, and won public sympathy when he
was taken from the comparatively easy
Attorney-General portfolio to tackle the
Cahills biggest headache—Transport—
which had beaten O’Sullivan and Sheahan
before him.
In taking the job of Minister for Trans-
port (Sheahan, who had failed in Trans-
port, was given Martin’s former job as
Attorney-General) Clarrie Martin virtu-
ally accepted a death-sentence. He had
AUSTRALIA'S LIABILITY TRIAL
been a sick man for several years, follow-
ing a cerebral haemorrhage. Martin
frankly admitted that what he knew about
transport wouldn’t cover a postage-
stamp, and the turmoil and muddle of
the union-dominated Transport Depart-
ment was no place for a sick man.
9 9
This week’s prize for the most un-
political speech goes to Victorian
Minister for Health Barry, who told the
annual meeting of the Queen Victoria
Hospital (Melbourne) that his Govern-
ment intended to help the hospitals by
exploiting the gambling instincts of
“people in this wowser State.”
9 9
In the N.S.W. Parliament:
Mannix (Lab.) speaking on housing.
Willis (Lib.): That was while you were
the admiral’s cabin-boy.
Mr. Speaker Lamb: Order. I am a man
of the world, and when you have lived
longer you will be one. You evidently do
not know the imputation of your inter-
jection, but if you care to come to my
rooms afterwards I will explain it to you.
I ask you to withdraw and apologise
unreservedly to the member, the House and
the Chair.
Upon Willis refusing to apologise to
the member he was “escorted out,” but
later unreservedly apologised. Authori-
tative naval sources say the term simply
means “crawler.”
• •
Evatt knew that Lang would, and
vaguely hoped that Corangamite.
• •
Menzies has announced that the Lang
by-election results support the Senate-
vote indication of an N.S.W. turn towards
his Government, so he’ll be working up
rallies in N.S.W. and Queensland during
the next few months.
• •
Last week somebody came across the
Victorian Cabinet in the act of con-
sidering whether or not to extend the
hours for the consumption of liquor with
meals. As far as potatoes, eggs and some
other items are concerned it’s beginning
to look as though these State Cabinets
will have to consider where to get the
meals to take with the liquor.
• •
The Cains* propose to reform the
present Victorian licensing set-up by
appointing a judge to take charge of the
Licensing Court and make the whole
State a single licensing district. Is this
meant to sprag the wheels of those who
believe in local option?
• 9
Nobody knows whether writer Paul
McGuire is “Ambassador to Eire,”
“Ambassador to Southern Ireland,”
“Ambassador to Ireland,” or just Paul
McGuire. But he has been appointed
an Australian delegate to the U.N.
General Assembly, which opens in New
York on Saturday. Minister Casey says
the delegation will number 15 because
of a move for economy by his department.
It would be a lot more economical, and
just as useful, if Mr. McGuire went by
himself.
9 9
Among Cain’s gifts to Victoria before
Christmas are a uniform 30-m,p.h. speed-
limit in built-up areas and the centre-of-
the-road right-turn as practised in N.S.W.
The latter reform has been years over-
due, and it says something for the fixity
of regulations that it has taken all this
time to alter the old one. The fixity of
the Cains is not so assured.
• •
Little does her Majesty know the
effect her coming next year will have on
N.S.W. mayoral elections this year.
• •
The Victorian Executive Council re-
fused to allow ratepayers of Alton a, an
outer-bayside Melbourne suburb, to
secede from the Shire of Werribee, though
the ratepayers voted five to one for it.
Tis said the refusal was dictated by
“economic reasons.” On a guess that
was what dictated the application.
• •
Mr. Davis (Lab., Pirie) arose in the
Adelaide Parliament and asked Premier
Playford if he would help to obtain sup-
plies of cement for a Port Pirie merchant.
“The Government,” replied Playford,
“has no intention of setting up a mer-
chandising department for the supply of
cement.”
• •
In a broadcast Menzies said the Aus-
tralian worker was the best off in the
world, could buy more with his wages
than anyone else, had the best diet and
a greater proportion of homes. Now, if
only he could have added that the worker
also had the best political leaders!
• •
Costs are coming down. By order of
N.S.W. Prices Minister Landa, petrol is
a penny a gallon cheaper in Eltrick,
Tintenbar, South Woodburn, Green
Ridge, Meerschaumvale, Coffee Swamp,
Mallangannee, Dungarubba and their en-
virons on the N.S.W. North Coast. Just
before the next N.S.W. election the
people will be told how this has increased
the agricultural output of those areas and
thus contributed to Australia’s part in
the U.N. drive for more food for the
starving world.
e •
British migrants at the Bunnerong
(N.S.W.) hostel, having refused to pay
their board, were evicted. They promptly
installed themselves in tents and cara-
vans among the hostel buildings. Where-
upon the hostel’s management, announc-
ing that it feared the risks of fire and
other things on its lodgers, decided to
transfer them elsewhere and vacate the
premises. The rent-dodgers will thus be
left in sole possession, and, with nobody
to pick on, no rent to complain about and
no Communist purpose left to serve,
they’ll be happy —perhaps.
• •
“Build 200 Homes in Two Days.”
Readers of Adelaide “Advertiser” could
have been excused for thinking a State
election was nigh. But the job was done
in Michigan (U.S.A.). Nearest approach
here was when Admiral McGirr (then
N.S.W. Premier) conferred the benefit of
the 40-hour week on everyone and
promised N.S.W. 90,000 houses in three
years. On a five-day week, 50-week year,
that’s just 240 houses every two days.
That was the promise. The perform-
ance?—


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Nunk”: How pleasant to be a man-
in-the-street: I could buy Sydney “Sun”
any evening, while newspaper-nabobs
like Mr. Frank Packer and Mr. Warwick
Fairfax just couldn’t seem to manage.
* * *x* +>
“Bellfield”: Before the tram stopped,
the conductor dropped off and spoke to
a constable on the pavement; they both
walked to the tram, where the policeman
took by the arm as meek and refined an
elderly lady as ever you saw. The whole
tram stared as the policeman steered her
across the street and towards the police-
station. “Pinched her!” said a tough-
looking chap next to me. “Ain’t it just
their form?” The conductor swung
along. “What’s that all over?” demanded
the tough chap, aggressively. “Poor old
girl’s been riding up and do\yn for three
hours,” said the conductor. “Don’t
know where she wants to go ; don’t even
know her own name. The copper’s go-
ing to find out where she lives.”
“X.S.”: Anybody ever heard of
Basenjis, Keeshonds, Buhunds, Papillons,
Salukis, Schipperkes and Schnauzers
among the heterogeneous collection of
races included in the title “New Aus-
tralian”? Most of them have come out
since Mr. Calwell inaugurated his immi-
gration policy, and all will be seen in the
dog-pavilion at Melbourne Royal Show
this year. There will be 2242 entries, as
against 1907 last year—an all-time record.
“Nimrod”: Male conversation in
Wittenoom (W.A.) received a stimulus
with news of bargain-sales of beer at
Alice Springs. As these seemed to result
from an accumulation of old stock,
Wittenoom opinion holds little hope of
local reductions; the climate of Wit-
tenoom and its occupation of asbestos-
mining both operating against any
accretion of full bottles. Because of
a brief spell of cold weather, however,
there has been a slight local alleviation
in price, which in Wittenoom is four-
bob for “hotties,” and 4s. 2d. for
“coldies” out of the fridge. This has led
to a debate whether, if the cold weather
continues, the price of naturally-chilled
beer would rise to that of refrigerated
beer, or whether refrigerated beer would
fall in price through lack of sales.
+*♦ »!♦
“Loulalo”: Bathing naked (B, 12/8/’53)
was not ended completely by abolition
of ladies’ and gents’ preserves on beaches.
Twenty years ago at Wairnambool (Vic.)
a few hardy males continued to surf from
April to October, rain, hail or high
water, but without clothing—they said
they felt warmer uncovered. One morn-
ing they were about to leave the water
for the dressing-shed a hundred yards up
the beach when a woman’s figure
appeared over the dunes, the cold south
wind whipping her long skirts and heavy
coat against her. The swimmers shouted
to her to depart, but, the howling wind
and the veil tying her hat over her ears
apparently making her deaf, she strolled
to the water’s edge, where she waved gaily
in response to the swimmers’ urgent hand-
signals. Then she retreated to the dry
sand in front of the sheds and sat down.
The freezing swimmers chose dishonor
rather, than death, and dashed together
to the sheds. Emerging more warmly-
clad, they found the intrusive lady smok-
ing a pipe—a local bank-manager had
got home a week earlier than was ex-
pected from his holiday and, in his wife’s
clothes, had essayed to convince his
fellow-swimmers that there were colder
draughts than winter winds and over-
drafts.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“0.W.W.”: Word of warning scrawled
in whitewash on the window of a Levin
(N.Z.) cafe:
SAVAGELOYS.
❖ *z* ❖
“Phil Anthus”: Following his declara-
tion (B. 26/8/’53) that he knows of no
tangible memorial to Steele Rudd, “Bo”
will do well to conceal his identity if he
ever visits Toowoomba (Q.) or its vicinity.
He has, in fact, trodden on the collective
pet corn of members of the Toowoomba
Ladies’ Literary Society, who were
mainly responsible for having erected, in
1950, a cairn to the author’s memory near
his birthplace at Drayton. That memorial
is quite worthy; it carries an inscription
paying tribute to Arthur Davis as one
who brought to Australian life and letters
“the rich gift of honest laughter, with
undertones of the struggles and sorrows
of the pioneers.” Moreover, the spot is
the centre of an annual pilgrimage on
or about the author’s birth-date, Novem-
ber 18. Last year the oration was given
by the State Chief Justice, Neal Macros-
san, and he, having his share of the family
eloquence, spoke impressively on the
subject, “Steele Rudd, Interpreter of the
Pioneer Farmer.” Incidentally, his Honor
revealed that the Fryer Library within
the University of Queensland had been
unable to obtain a copy of On Our Selec-
tion, and he anticipated' the present action
of The Bulletin by urging that the book
should be republished.
❖ ❖ ♦!<
“Tom”: “Piper” repeats the popular
error that steeply-pitched roofs are to
slide-off snow (B. 19/8/’53). Professor
Hamlin points out in Architecture
“ Hussy—last week it Was the baker."
Through the Ages that the high roof is
found where rain is more a problem than
snow ; in England, France and Germany.
In Scandinavia and northern Japan it
has been found that a certain amount of
snow on the roof keeps the house
warmer; and roof-pitch is low enough
to stop snow sliding off easily, but steep
enough to prevent too heavy an accumu-
lation. Roof-pitch is low in southern
Europe, where there is more sunshine than
rain, and in North Africa and the Middle
East roofs are flat. But steep roofs are
found in some tropical lands where there
is heavy rainfall.
“Sorry Tm late , dear”
“Dash”: The announcement by the
British scientist J. G. Cook that alcohol-
loaded mice had a better chance of sur-
viving an atom-bomb explosion than their
teetotal relatives had early repercussions
at the local. Our Joe, who likes his beer
of an evening, was about to leave in a
bibulous state when, instead of suggest-
ing the usual “one for the road,” he
expansively shouted “two for the atom-
bomb!”
“Hor”: This year is the sesquicentenary
of horse-racing in Australia. Historical
records show that in 1803 the first horse-
race was held at Green Hills (N.S.W.)
on a property named Killarney, between
two horses named Parramatta and Bel-
fast. The first race reported in a news-
paper was run at Parramatta (N.S.W.)
on April 30, 1810. It was won by a
horse named Parramatta. The “Sydney
Gazette” and “New South Wales Adver-
tiser” published details on May 1, 1810.
Sydney’s first race-meeting was in Hyde
♦
Park on October 15, 17 and 19, 1810;
when Chase won the Ladies’ Cup (the
first trophy every given for any Aus-
tralian horse-race) and the Sydney Plate.
Scratch won the Sydney Purse. D’Arcy
Wentworth won an event each day of
the meeting with Gig. In another event
the horse was brought down by a dog
running in front of him. The first dead-
heat was in Sydney on August 12, 1811,
between Charston and Ratler, A Sydney
Turf Club, Australia’s first race-club, was
formed on March 25, 1825, and raced
for the first time on April 25 that year.
Other dates; first race-meeting in Tas-
mania at Richmond in 1814; first
Western Australian meeting at Fremantle
on October 2, 1833 ; first South Aus-
tralian meeting at Adelaide on New
Year’s Day, 1838 ; first Victorian meet-
ing at Batman’s Hill on March 6, 1838;
and Queensland’s first taste of horse-
racing was at Cooper’s Plains on July
17, 1843.
$ $ *
“W.P.T.”: The rising basic wage, and
increased margins and loadings, have
transmitted their frenzy to promoters of
functions where the charge for admission
is a silver coin. The other day one was
advertised with admission a large silver
coin.
❖ ❖
“Mercutio”: The McGrew-Hill en-
gineering magazine, U.S.A., most promi-
nent of its kind published anywhere, has
given third place in its annual selection
of the Seven Engineering Wonders of the
World to the 25ft.-diameter pinion cut
and machined by J. W. Welsh Pty., Ltd.,
of East Brunswick (Vic.). I asked railway-
workshop engineers and engineers of
other outfits, and they all said that
nothing near this pinion has ever been
before produced in Australia.
* ❖ ❖
“Deecee”: Two 17-year-old collectors
of pin-ups were pinned down at Gympie
(Q.) when the Beak put them on bonds
of £lO to be of good behavior for 12
months for stealing two picture-banners
and 10 movie-stills, valued at £2 45.,
from a picture-theatre. The pictures
were recovered from their bedroom
walls. When you consider how much is
original in a contemporary film, it’s a
great to-do over what is after all only
an extended form of plagiarism.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Barmore”: Matheson Lang stuttered
right through the part of Hotspur (B.
H9/8/’53) 40 years back; not merely on
“w’s,” but to show the rush of thought
too fast for the tongue: —Act 1, Scene
iii, Northumberland: “Imagination....
drives him beyond the bounds of
patience.” Worcester: “He apprehends a
world of figures here. But not the form
of what he should intend.” Harry s
thoughts rose like the froth on beer, and
the result was like what happens when
you knock the cap off a bottle that’s up.
Haven’t seen either Michell or Olivier in
this, but Olivier wouldn’t be within a
mile of Lang’s performance.
CROCODILE-TEARS
“Three hunters shot 1003 crocodiles in nine
nights on the Aramia River, near the Fly River;
at 6s. an inch the skins were worth more than
£4000.”
When you buy your old hag a crocodile
bag
To set off her racegoing frocks.
Do you ever feel near to a crocodile-tear
For a thousand-and-three dead crocs?
Those peaceful livers on northern rivers
Invoked no doors or locks {
They put no relations on thallium-rations,
Those thousand-and-three dead crocs .
They spent their day in harmless play,
They had no use for clocks;
They were never heard speak of the
forty-hour week,
Those thousand-and-three dead crocs.
They held no views on the daily news;
They’d gobble a horse or an ox.
But never type, photo, press, printer, in
toto,
Those thousand-and-three dead crocs.
Well, now they are dead; they’ve been
shot through the head,
And their skin has been cut into
blocks;
They say they’re a cinch to bring six-bob
an inch,
Those thousand-and-three dead crocs.
But in cities supplied with the kind of
hide
That’s an everyday Christmas-box,
It seems a sin to covet the skin
Of a thousand-and-three dead crocs.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Soc”: Last word (female, of course)
on Dr. Kinsey’s one-in-four-unfaithful
finding on women; “He can’t count.”
& ❖ *l*
“Birubi”; I asked my newsagent how
many women bought The Bulletin and
he said that as many women as men
took it. “Some women,” he said, “even
buy their husbands’ socks.” What that
had to do with it you can work out for
yourself. In our family, my father liked
to buy the grub, while mother bought
the men’s suits, razor-blades and tobacco.
She never bought too much; but Dad,
told to bring home a couple of rabbits,
arrived with two dozen. He told Ma
they were cheaper that way. I can still
see her face as Dad presented her —she
was skinning Number 18—with the bill
for the bunnies.
❖ ❖ $
“Flickers”: “Muskeen” (B. 19/8/’53)
erred in saying that John Gilbert made
only one talkie. The “princess-and-
peasant” film was probably the Garbo-
starring “Queen Christina,” shot in 1933.
Gilbert’s first talkie, directed by Lionel
Barrymore, predated this and was titled,
“His Glorious Night.” It was not
Gilbert’s glorious night. He appeared in
other movies to finish his contract. In
one early sound-revue he and Norma
Shearer did the “Romeo and Juliet”
balcony scene. His acting in “The
Captain Hates the Sea” (1934) received
the plaudits of British film-critic Paul
Rotha. But the handsome profile didn’t
offset the nasal twang.
* ❖
“Rann”: In a 12.30 news-bulletin the
A.B.C. said the Lord Mayor hoped that
as many as possible of the public would
be present to pay tribute to Sir Edmund
Hillary’s feat. At 1.30 it gave the same
item except that it had altered “feat” to
“achievement,”
“J.A.McC.”: I am puzzled by the
reference in M. H. Ellis’s admirable
review of a biography of Churchill (B.
19/8/ ’53) to “upstart Liberals of the
order of F. E. Smith and Lloyd George.”
This may convey the wrong impression
that F. E. Smith was a Liberal. He was
from his Oxford days until his death a
Conservative. He won Walton for the
Conservatives in 1906 —the year of
Campbell - Bannerman’s overwhelming
victory over Balfour and Joseph
Chamberlain and, following an audacious
maiden-speech, became “the rising hope
of the stern unbending Tories,” He was
right-hand man to Carson in opposition
to the Home Rule Bill, and during the
preparation for armed resistance in
Ulster , became known as “Galloper
Smith,” In opposing the Welsh Dis-
establishment Bill, which he said had
“shocked the conscience of every
Christian community in Europe,” he
drew the fire of G. K. Chesterton—then
a Liberal and an Anglican:
For your legal cause and civil,
You fight well, and get your fee,
For your God, or dream, or devil,
You will answer not to me,
Talk about the pews and steeples
And the cash that goes therewith,
But the souls of Christian peoples!
Chuck it, Smith.
I doubt whether anyone, Liberal or Con-
servative, could be described as “of the
order of F. E. Smith.” He was unique.
When he died J. L, Garvin wrote in the
“Observer” that no adequate biography
could be published until many years
after his death,
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Ceg”: Those chemists’ prescription-
books (B. 26/8/’53) reminded me of a
country doctor who disliked bookkeeping
—that was then. But an occasional
polite note from the bank drawing atten-
tion to the state of his account would
send him to the chemist, and from the
chemist’s prescription-book he would
concoct enough accounts to keep the
bank quiet. That was why patients
whose treatment did not call for medicine
did not get an account. Nowadays,
when “clinics”—their word, not mine—
comprise all the doctors in one town
working together, with a full-time book-
keeper keeping tag, such things couldn’t
happen. I have heard of one such clinic
going as far as garnisheeing a man’s
wages. Well, why not? The old-time
G.P. was often imposed upon.
*l* ❖ ♦>
“Peter R.”: The film-columns tell me
that Hollywood is having an economy-
blitz; but the last film I saw makes me
wonder. A U.S. submarine carrying the
master-spy is shown leaving its American
base; a reel or so later it is shown
arriving at Marseilles, where the same
sailor who cast off from the quay in
America is waiting to make her fast —
to the same quay. It seemed a needless
extravagance to have demolished that
quay and flown it, with attendant sailor,
across the Atlantic to be re-erected in
time for the sub.’s arrival. On the same
programme was an epic involving John
the Baptist, who was seen blessing the
multitude with fingers perceptibly stained
by nicotine. I didn’t know the prophets
smoked; but on the other hand the Bible
never comes right out and says they
didn’t.
“Irving”: Now a highly-respected man
of learning, he tells of a little misadven-
ture in the early days of radio when,
by a spot of early-morning news-reading,
he was helping to finance his ’Varsity
career. His copy was gleaned from the
early editions of the dailies, and one
morning, after a somewhat hectic night,
his misjuggling of the spread-out news-
sheets impelled him to a highly impatient
and improper ejaculation at his own
unhandiness. Then followed a sheer
panic at the lapsus linguage which had
been delivered cold on mike. At the end
of the reading he waited for the axe to
"His squadron Was in Korea.”
fall, but no comment was made during
the cup of tea which, as usual, he had
in the studio before going home. This
led him to clasp eagerly at the straw of
hope that he had only imagined uttering
the naughty word, but his wife shattered
that illusion by assuring him that she
had heard it. As no complaint ever
reached the station he can only assume
that those listeners who heard his out-
burst convinced themselves that they
imagined it.
A
** * v
“Furneaux”: Northern Tasmanian
branch of the Navy League has acquired
the romantic little steam-yacht Alvina,
to be moored on the Tamar near the
lower part of Launceston’s Royal Park
as a depot and training-school for cadets.
Built at Southampton, the Alvina was
presented to Lily Langtry in the ’nineties
by Edward VII, and she carried many
notables on Mediterranean cruises. Early
in this century she came to Australia,
“No, no, Doctor! Sore toe, not torso!”
served with the Port Phillip pilot-service,
also as a ferry, and achieved a seedy
sensation in middle-age when Harry
Stokes, the Melbourne gambler, steered
her outside the three-mile limit in Port
Phillip bay and ran her as a gambling-
casino. She has a 65ft. ballroom lined
with Queensland maple.
“Ron J.”; In a desperate hurry a few
months ago a lady-doctor parked her car
in the middle of the main street in a
country-town while she slipped into the
newsagent’s for a morning-paper. Her
breach of angle-parking regulations pass-
ing unnoticed, she made it a habit, so
that when she was shopping, no matter
for what or how long, her car forced all
other drivers into an awkward detour.
A new young cop pointed things out, but
the lady considered the law had lapsed
by default of prosecution; whereupon
the “blind eye” began to see red, and the
lady-doctor’s eyes were opened also.
“Sparks”: When the stokers on our
little troopship struck at Townsville, the
C.O. marched us to the Army pay-office
so that we could draw some morale-
booster. During the long wait without
which no war-time operation is complete,
Tommy, our platoon wag and a profes-
sional baritone in Civvy-street, entertained
with. light classic, and not-so-classic,
songs. Civilian and Army clerks showered
silver from office-windows; we collected
enough to make it hardly worth while to
draw our pay. Tommy quickly saw the
possibilities, and his voice provided free-
drinks for the platoon whenever we
stayed long enough in a town to visit
tbe Pub. But someone dug up an order
ma king the raising of funds in this
manner an Army crime; and Tommy
er *ded-up on a charge-sheet.
~ A
v v *
“Harry R.”: Long Alf was holding-
forth to our limch-time circle at the
foundry on Queensland long-service law,
which gives the worker three months'
holiday after 20 years’ service with one
firm. “I wish I’d stuck to my job at
the Wheat Board,” he lamented. “I was
ten years with them. Dunno what I left
for —just wanted a change, I suppose.
Then I was five years at the abattoirs,
and I’ve been with this joint for six.
So I suppose I miss-out on my long-
service pay.” He drew deeply on his
bumper and reflected on the wasted
years. Then something struck him. “I
know what I’ll do,” he said. “I’ll go and
see Sam Ogden ; he might pay me. I’ve
worked over twenty years for Sam
Ogden.” Sam Ogden is our town’s lead-
ing bookmaker.
<♦
“Eve”: The four-year-old was being
put through his paces for the edification
of the guests. His father pushed him
forward and told him to “recite the
numbers.” Off went the kid; he reeled
away at the house telephone-number,
Dad’s office phone-number. Dad’s car
number, bankbook number and the wire-
less-licence number. “You see?” his
parents gloated. “He’s got the makings
of a great mathematician!” The kid
set up a wail of protest: “Aw, gee, and
I learnt all that because I wanted to be a
parking-cop! ”
*l* *
“Sackville”: I travelled with a com-
plaining hatter: “Thirty years ago,” he
said, “there were five factories making
men’s hats in Sydney. Now there are
three. Yet population has increased by
almost half. Look down the carriage
and count the hats.” I did. Five, in-
cluding mine. “Not one young fellow
wearing a hat,” mourned the hatter. “The
trade must fade out.” Still, I see a
glimmer of hope. Unless thallium poison-
ing loses its popularity or predominant
symptom, an army of men will soon be
buying cadies. No one likes to be called
“Egg-head.”
❖ ❖ *
“Slob”: On a cross-State train, no
sleeping-berths, Ma was busy with
younger children when the ice-cream
came round, so she put a paper bucket
in one hand of her sleeping seven-year-
old and a wooden spatula in the other.
He dipped away to no purpose until a
passenger removed the lid. Then he was
off. Every time he bent his elbow bets
were laid whether the ice-cream would
arrive safely. Every time it did. The
empty, no hand to take it, fell to the
floor, and he relaxed until, half an hour
later, he sat up, rubbed his eyes and
yawned: “About time the ice-cream
came 'round, isn’t it, Mum?”
SOUND ADVICE
“Taurus; Between 2nd and 6th put energy
to work for domestic comfort, repairs, replace-
ments.” —Sydney “Sun” astrological blurb.
Oh, it’s thankful a husband should be
When his socks have no holes in the
heels.
And if he and his missus agree,
Or he hasn’t to wait for his meals.
But don’t let him think it’s just luck ;
That would be quite fallacious a view.
For this truth he never can buck;
To Taurus (the bull) it’s all due.
Just think ! Were it not for some stars
Wand’ring o’er their celestial course.
Some planet like Venus or Mars,
Exercising mysterious force
On our lives, why! the benedict would
{While his helpmeet enjoyed a good
laze)
Have to sew, cook and wash —as he
should —
Though only on specified days.
’Twixt the Second and Sixth (only then —
Let the rest of the month go to pot )
All Taurians among married men
Have been put on a rather hot spot
By sidereal tyrants on high.
That’s not a benevolent wink
Which they’re giving up there in the sky
Ah, no. But they are “on the blink.’’
There are times, though, one has to
admit —
And this is a rare enough case —
When astrology happens to hit
A bull—smack it fair in the face.
Taurus-borns the advice mustn’t show;
At domestic “ replacement ’’ they shine.
Let ’em trade-in the missus for one
Of a snappier, newer design.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Fly Faster by TAA pressurised CONVAiR-LIWER
7A A
J TO MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE (and on to Perth by DC4)
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Wellington (N.Z.) Central Library
has come in for a rare gift—a book pre-
sented by an Englishman, Colonel A. H.
Ronan, and his wife, who is a daughter
of the late David Nathan, a one-time
businessman in the city. The book. Our
Life in the Highlands, was written 84
years ago by Queen Victoria. It was
presented by the Queen to her daughter,
the Princess Beatrice, and is personally
inscribed by Victoria.
“Aileron”: Small and dapper,
Squadron-Leader C. W. (“Brack”)
Brackenridge will be released from flying
a mahogany bomber (chair to you) with
his appointment as Queen’s Navigator for
the Royal Tour. At present he is C.O.
of Sydney University Squadron. It will
be the renewal of a flying partnership
when he and John Cornish (the Queen’s
Pilot) step into the Royal Dakota. After
the end of the war Brack was posted to
No. 38 Squadron and went to China as
navigator to Cornish on the R.A.A.F.
air-lift then being carried out. He served
in the Pacific theatre during the war and
in 1946 was navigator on the original
R.A.A.F. courier service which operated
almost daily between Darwin and Japan.
A happy character. Brack reckons his
best flight was a tour of the U.S., Canada
and Bermuda, in the aircraft flying Air-
Chief-Marshal Sir Ralph Cochran, One
landing in a severe snowstorm at Goose
Bay, Labrador, he’s not so happy about.
His last flying job before the university
command was sole navigator for the two
B29’s ferried from the U.K. to Woomera ;
this meant a takeoff in the dark, flying
right through the day, and a night land-
ing to complete the trip.
Lieutenant Charles Yacopetti, of South
Perth, the first Australian officer to be
released by the Communists in Korea,
was also the first naturalised New Aus-
tralian to be commissioned in the Aus-
tralian Regular Army. Born in Italy,
naturalised before he entered Duntroon
in 1947, he went to Korea last November
and became a p.-o.-w, six months later.
Judge Horace Francis Markell went up
to Yokohama to visit the graves of his
parents, killed in the 1920 earthquake.
At Kure, on the way home to Sydney,
he died. Though in his physical appear-
ance —square-jawed, craggily-cut face —
he approached the popular idea of a
“Beak,” Markell retired last year from
18 years of District Court judging in
Sydney with a reputation for fairness
and warm-hearted humanity. It was
this quality which led him to help form
the first Prison Parole Board in N.S.W.,
with himself as chairman. He learnt
much in this line from his 1949 trip to
St. Quentin prison in the U.S. Son of
a Canadian father and a Boston mother,
Markell was called to the Bar in Sydney
in 1911, and went on to chair several
royal commissions, among them the
1936 s.-p. betting-inquiry and the 1952
Gosford investigation on greyhound-
racing. A founder of the Royal Motor
Yacht Club, he was an enthusiastic
orchid-grower, and developed his half-
acre or so up Sydney’s north-shore line
into one of the most valuable orchid-
collections in Australia. He was 68.
Recent orders telegraphed from bridge
to engine-room give Charles Carr Clark
a couple of “firsts.” He becomes the
first graduate of the R.A.N. College to
be appointed Third Naval Member, and
the first to reach rear-admiral’s rank in
the engineering branch. While at Navy
Office he’ll also be in charge of naval
construction, of which he knows a wrinkle
or two. As deputy-engineer-manager
when Hitler let go, Clark supervised the
extensive refitting required to turn such
heavies as Queen Mary, Queen Elizabeth
and Aquitania into troopers, as well as
fitting-out numerous armed-merchant-
cruisers, minelayers and infantry-landing-
ships, In action, the engineer has a
heavy responsibility in the field of
damage-control, firefighting, shoring-up
weakened bulkheads and so forth. Clark,
boss of cruiser Australia’s 80,000 boiler-
room horses, had his work cut out at
Leyte. Suicide-bombers had made the
cruiser’s upperworks—funnels, bridge,
4in. gundeck—a shambles. Clark got his
team to work and kept the ship in effec-
tive action. It brought him D.S.C. His
appointment came three days after his
51st birthday, the first of which he cele-
brated at EUinthorp, in Queensland.
Though born on the lonian island of
Kythera—which just escaped the recent
earthquake horror—Christy Freeleagus
has had Queensland for address since
1901, and has been, for the past 34 years,
Greek Consul for the State. He claims
that some 50,000 Greeks have migrated
AID FOR GREEKS
to Australia in the past 50 years, a size-
able proportion of the influx ending-up
in Queensland. Which should be helpful
—when artist Lambart called, the Consul
was busy deciphering a 500-word cable
from King Paulos 11, appealing for finan-
cial help from the northern Greek com-
munity for the lonian earthquake victims.
“Tonsi”: An overseas trip is planned
for Allan Walton Knight, Tasmania s
Hydroelectric Commissioner. There s
plenty of political football played with
electricity in the Speck, but Knight has
the confidence of both parties. He s_ a
great believer in visual aids; one oi ms
favorite plans for convincing politicians
of the need for loan funds for hydro-
schemes is to explain what’s got to be
done with the aid of scale models. He
was responsible for the revolutionary
design of Hobart bridge, which, despite
the predictions of local pessimists, is, still
carrying traffic.
Son of a journalist (first secretary of
the A.J.A., founder of A.U.P. in Sydney),
grandson of another, it was quite in the
course of things that young Paul Brickhill
should start on the Sydney “Sun, He
might have been there still but for a
wind which considerably altered the
course of things. It met him after a
Messerschmitt 109 had caused him to
forsake his Spitfire for a parachute over
the Mareth Line, wafted him away from
his own lines, and lobbed him in the
middle of a German minefield. The
result is publishing history. While p.-0.-w.,
Brickhill, surrounded by a treasure-house
of material, wrote a 70,000-word docu-
mentary in 17 days — Escape to Danger.
Then he started digging in tunnels, which
led him to The Great Escape. Followed
ESCAPES AND ROYALTIES
The Dam-Busters (upwards of a quarter
of a million sold, a million in the Reader’s
Digest Quarterly, and film-rights);
Escape or Die, and, due out shortly, a
biography of Douglas the British
fighter-pilot. It’s an ill wind ... A
shortish chap with a square face, deep-
set eyes and a restless way of talking,
Brickhill has also helped produce The
Sunburnt Country , a joint effort of the
Society of Australian Writers in London
whose main object is to give the Queen
(who’s already accepted a copy) an easily-
digestible insight into the country she’ll
tour next year. Brickhill hopes to make
the break from documentaries to novels
while in Australia.
“Macnell”: Sixteen-year-old sea-cadet
A. E. Dalrymple, of Yarraville (Vic.),
brought back, no doubt, imperishable
memories from his Coronation trip aboard
carrier Sydney. But in his kitbag—or,
by now, probably framed over the
mantelpiece—is a square of paper which
any sea-cadet worth his salt would give
his eye-teeth to own. For on his first
trip to sea, cadet Dalrymple qualified,
with the captain of the carrier’s approval
and signature, and under instruction of
the quartermaster, for his helmsman’s
certificate. This qualifies him to steer
any warship from corvette to 45,000-ton
battleship. Unfortunately the young
steersman is unlikely to use his newly-
acquired skill —an apprentice fitter and
turner at Williamstown naval-dockyard,
he hopes to be a marine-engineer in the
Merchant Navy. Though, in later years,
the engineer could have some fun at the
expense of upper-deck flatfoots and their
zigzag wakes.
When young Duncan Sandys first
entered the Commons in 1935, it was
remarked that he might bring some ginger
into the House, partly from his ginger
hair, partly from his energy and out-
spokenness. His hair’s still wholly ginger,.
ROCKETS AND JETS
his energy is evident in his brilliant career
and the forceful manner in which he
pushes out his lips when emphasising a
point, but, met here at Mascot, there
was, on this occasion at least, little out-
spokenness about him —not surprising,
considering his atom-business in
these parts. Eton and Oxford schooled
him, the Diplomatic Service polished him,
and appointment as Parliamentary Sec-
retary to the Ministry of Supply at the
height of War II gave him a useful edge
for his present post of Minister of Supply,
in which capacity he’s responsible for the
production of most of the equipment for
Britain’s defence forces. Recent dis-
closures of rockets, jets, guided-missiles
and cobalt-bombs indicate a very helpful
edge in that direction over the main enemy.
A soldier by training—lieut.-colonel
of artillery in the Norway campaign—
Sandys holds a civil-pilot’s certificate, was
in charge of the experiments which pro-
duced the rocket-gun, and married
Churchill’s eldest daughter in 1935, the
year he entered Parliament. He had a
good tutor in the facts of Parliamentary
life.
Alec W. Finlay, who defeated seven
other candidates to win the Bourke-ward
vacancy in the recent Melbourne City
Council election, is managing-director of
Finlay Brothers, motor-trade importers,
and a one-time confederate of “Oppy”
in the breaking of sundry cycling records.
He was also a motor-cycle speedster and
still holds the record for the fastest time
with sidecar between Sydney and Mel-
bourne—l 2 hours, 86 minutes.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 68, Roy Mackenzie Bell,
scion of one of Queensland’s leading pastoral
families, and owner of Eskdale South ana
Turkey stations. In 1933 he was elected State
C.P. member for Stanley, and retired in 1938.
He had been chairman of the Queensland Boara
of the A.M.P. for the past two years, and a
member of the board of directors of the Union
Trustees Co. for the past 20. In his younger
days a first-class polo-player, he’d captained
the Queensland polo team and had toured
abroad with the Ashton brothers.
In Perth, at 60, Christopher T. P. Ewing,
Old Digger and lawyer, who did his law-course
after returning from service with the Bth Battery,
A.F.A. A big, scholarly man, he was son ot
a former Westralian Minister, John Ewing,
M.L.C., and nephew of Thomas, early Aus-
tralian Defence Minister, and of Judge Norman
Ewing, former member of Tasmanian Minis-
tries. His brother is J. A. Ewing, Perth sur-
veyor and inventor of the tune-saving
stadialtimeter.
In Derby (W.A.), at 81, Darcy Ryder, one
of the best-known men of the north-west, a
Queenslander by birth, he went to the West
Kimberleys in 1903, started a small sheep-station
at Udialla, and for half a century maintained
great faith in the future of the Kimberleys.
He proved the district was fitted for agriculture
as well as stock-raising, by growing fruit ana
vegetables on land he irrigated from the Udialla
springs. After he sold Udialla to the Nativ
Affairs Department he put in two seasons
marketing kangaroo and freshwater crocoaue-
skins.
“Fitz”: Victorian poet Bernard O’Dowd died
at'the grand age of 87. An Australian of Irish
parentage, O’Dowd was born at Beaufort (Vic.).
At 14 he passed the Melbourne University
matriculation examination, and won an exhibi-
tion which took him to Grenville College,
Ballarat. Because of the death of his father his
formal education was suspended for several
years and he did not get his B.A. until he
was 23. In “A Personal Note” to O’Dowd’s
first book, Downward?, published by The
Bulletin in 1903, A. G. Stephens had this to
say: “O’Dowd is made of the stuff of prophets
and martyrs. His early manhood was a period
of mental turbulence in which hereditary and
religious forces encountered the shock of the
modern spirit, and were diverted from creed
and ceremonial into paths of social self-sacrifice
and democratic struggle... .He was at once
learner and teacher, studying law, history and
religion, interested in spiritualism. Socialism,
Communism, anarchism and mysticism, and
holding fervent Sunday classes in all manner
of subjects from poetry to ethics. As a writer
and lecturer he dabbled in politics, compiled
a Secularist service book called The Lyceum
Tutor, supported the Labor movement, spoke
for Australian independence, helped to found
the ‘Tocsin,’ penned verses and articles,
corresponded with Whitman and edited law-
books.”
Called to the Victorian Bar, O’Dowd became
a librarian instead, worked in the Victorian
Supreme Court Library for many years, and,
for 32 years, until his retirement in 1935, he
was a Parliamentary draftsman. Members of
Parliament once said his work gave the wording
of bills “a classical character.” ' O’Dowd was
one of The Bulletin poets of the ’nineties;
he had published seven books of verse.
Inactive as a poet for many years, he took up
his pen recently and began writing verse for
two Unitarian papers in Melbourne. His friend
Victor Kennedy was engaged on his biography,
but Kennedy died before completing the work.
His biography has now been undertaken by
Nettie Palmer, a lifelong friend and staunch
champion of his writings.


DARK HORSES


ABORIGINALITIES
“Reims”: Electric power-transmission
lines through sou'-Westralia have been
fitted with additional insulators and
longer crossarms as a concession to birds
which couldn’t, or wouldn’t, adapt them-
selves to the advances of Science. The
magpies Uked the new type of fence, but
took to perching on the iron tanks of
the transformers and cleaning their beaks
on the live wires on the closAt insulators.
° £ S ‘2. < S
magpies, so glass insulators were fitted
bird f*’* * ‘S 6 ,? 6
south near S .iT ea ? * Eurtler
.’STTI
Js hfl Sn y tftt 6 ne .f a ‘
h SfJ^.2 k £ g i” i lr
Vou oan’t B o.t ZiZZ
■ * . ,uf d ’;l°. Cha ”,f, f h f; ts
ESSfc and the Wlres cou ldn t take
S 2 L n .f r crossarm i s P rea . d tke
ZoLh S hC SWanS a ChanCe ‘° fly
g *
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”: The current ado about
perils and hazards confronting daring
“You can skip tomorrow's lesson."
drivers in a car-reliability trial out
through Queensland and back through
the Territory makes me wonder what kind
of super-courage inspired the hardy souls
who drove over much worse country in
less modern vehicles 30-odd years ago.
Michael Terry in the early ’twenties took
trucks into parts of the Kimberleys where
wheeled vehicles of any sort were rare.
Mrs. Bonney drove a car single-handed
round Australia about 1925 ; that was at
a time when filling-stations were unheard
of, and in these parts (nor’-west W.A.)
a main road was a sandy track into
whose rare creek-crossings a few loads
of stone had been dumped. Other roads
didn’t have the stone, just crossings, and
she drove over plenty of miles of those.
Nowadays, I believe, there are good
roads right across Queensland to Darwin ;
there’s bitumen (you’d have had to ex-
plain what that meant to the old-timers)
right down through the Territory; and
the greatest hazard is the risk of the
beer being off when you get to a pub.
There’s also the risk of some bushman’s
feelings getting the better of his manners,
and causing him to burst into ribald
laughter as the cortege of heroes pulls
into a check-point.
* * * *
“Tomerong”; We were burning-up the
road past Annie’s remodelled humpy
when old Peter waved us to stop. “Got
any tinsnips in y’r box?” he yelled.
“Quick, the old woman’s stuck!” We
happened to have a pair in the toolbox,
and followed him in. We should have
charged Peter for that half-hour of solid
work, for his Annie, who goes nearly 20
stone, was well wedged into the new tin
bath she had been trying out. When she
had settled in it the bottom bulged out
and the sides caved in, making the neatest
and tightest trap we’d seen.
♦ ♦ * *
“Old-timer”; I thought I’d heard about
most of the world’s outstanding horse-
rides. Browning’s trio that galloped
from Aix to Ghent, Turpin’s ride to
York, the effort, of Paul Revere,
Tchiffley’s ride from South to North
America, the ride of the Australian Light
Horse up the Jordan Valley in 1917,
and so forth, whether fact or fiction.
In our own outback I came across a
few unsung feats of horse and rider:
Lawson’s song and story of Ben Duggan’s
ride was certainly founded on fact; there
was Gordon’s leap at Mt, Gambier. In
another field the distances covered by
the flying hoofs of the American Pony
Express relays were incredible (unless
you know horses and riders), and some
of our own early-day mounted mailmen
put up epic journeys not so much for
speed as for endurance. In all modesty
I claim a fair ride or two myself in
times when my arteries were softer. But
the daddy of them all turned up in a
book from the local library, The Sea
Devil. It’s the biography of Count von
Luckner, the German sea-raider of
World War I. It tells of his youth, how
he was working for the lighthouse-
keeper at Cape Leeuwin (W.A.), and was
caught making love to the boss’s
daughter. There was a first-class row,
so, “That night I stole a horse and rode
to Port Augusta.” Trump that, you
skites!
“W.D.S.”: When the secretary of the
local show-committee confided in me
that the judge of the dog events would
be unable to attend I immediately recom-
mended big O’Donovan, of the Mulga-
doon station, whose knowledge of sheep-
and cattle-dogs was vast. We found him
—as we expected, after the Hunt Club
Ball—wrestling with a hangover, and it
spoke much for his powers of recovery
“What about doing ME?"
that we got him to the showground in
time for the first judging. His handling
of the border-collies, the kelpies and the
fox-terriers did credit to himself and to
the committee, but the single entry in
the corgies was a new and mysterious
type to him. “Walk him round, madam,”
he said to the owner, and around the
little ring went the district’s most
fashionable matron proudly leading her
unique exhibit. “Round again,” said
Pat, trying desperately to clear his head
and to recall any points he had read or
heard of this section of the canine world.
It was after his twelfth command for
circumnavigation that the now-harassed
judge bolted for the gate of the enclosure.
“Sorry,” he shouted over his shoulder, “I
can’t separate’em!”
* * * *
“Tazite”: “Lower Tops’!” (B. 19/8/’53)
is astray in his bird-identification. The
masked gannet which he says breeds on
the Mewstone Rock, Isle du Golfe, and
other desolate places south of Tasmania
never comes into Tasmanian waters. It
is the species known as the Australian
gannet that breeds on Cat Island —an
entirely different bird from the masked
and brown gannets of the Pacific and
Great Barrier Reef. As for the “gannets’
nests” he saw in Mallacoota Inlet, if he’d
left the pub and got a close look he’d
have recognised the domicile as that of
the Caspian tern.
* * * *
“G.”: As recently as 1925, to my
knowledge, there were still sections of
the back country where arms were carried
(B. 22/7/’53). Nearly all stockmen in
the Kimberleys (W.A.) and further north
wore pistols all the time, and, though I
never heard of there being any occasion
for them to be used, their presence had
a strongly deterrent effect on any buck
who might be getting ideas. In certain
parts of the same area it was always
considered wise to camp about sundown,
ostentatiously spread the swag, and then
after dark quietly repair to a different
spot to sleep. More than once a few
spears found, next morning, through the
decoy blanket left at the original spot
proved the wisdom of the precaution.
At the station store at Dalgety Downs,
on the Upper Gascoyne, in 1926, I
noticed behind the counter a rack of
rifles and a collection of handcuffs. With
the nearest trooper about 100 miles away,
their would be a source of great
comfort.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A couple of scientists
are making for Hall’s Creek, in the
Kimberleys, to look for insects and
meteorites. They’ll find plenty of in-
sects, and the insects will find them;
finding the meteorites will be a bigger
achievement, although they should know
pretty well where to look. About 64
miles due south of Hall’s Creek, at a
spot known as Wolf Creek, there’s a
crater which covers nearly 150 acres,
It’s roughly circular, about 150 ft. deep,
with a claypan bottom and some quite
big trees growing in it. A rim around it
rises in a gradual slope about 100 ft. above
the surrounding country; and if it wasn’t
caused by a meteorite plenty of com-
petent judges are wrong. If it is proved
to be a meteor-crater it’ll be the largest
in Australia. We have only one com-
parable crater known to be of meteoritic
origin—-in a group at Henbury, in Central
Australia, covering about 60 acres. Con-
sidering the number of meteorites that
plunge into the earth’s atmosphere—
about 8,000,000 daily—a surprisingly
small number are found.
♦ * ♦ *
“Gulliver”: The mud-skipper, which
is able to breathe while it basks on the
mud of mangrove swamps (B. 16/8/’53),
possesses the same gill-structure as the
crab and other Crustacea. Their gills are
capable of retaining a sufficient quantity
of water, for a considerable period, thus
supplying them with the oxygen they
require to keep alive. The rock-crayfish
(wrongly known as a lobster in eastern
waters) can live for long periods on the
deck of a boat, provided it is covered
and out of the direct rays of the sun;
but, strangely, it will die in short order
if placed in a bucket of sea-water ; being
apparently unable to conserve what water
it has, it exhausts of oxygen both that
and the fluid in the bucket, in quick
time. If the gills of “Bass’s” mud-skipper
look like a spongy mass, with feathery
edges, that’s the answer.
* * * ♦
“Macquarie”: The old corrugated-
iron-and-slab chimney finally burnt right
out, and young ’Arvey declaimed: “Bricks
cost money. Pise’s the stuff —costs you
nothing. Me old man built one and”
He talked himself into the job—seven
quid, and the work to be done in his
spare-time. The boss wasn’t too con-
fident about it. “I want it to be plumb
and straight, y’ know,” he reminded the
youthful engineer. “Leave it to me,”
’Arvey replied with assurance. Came
the day when the forming was removed.
How the stack managed to remain stand-
ing despite its list to leeward was an un-
explainable marvel. The trump stood
off, sighted it with a bluegum, then
turned to ’Arvey. “Didn’t you tell me
this was going to be a pise chimney?”
he asked. “Yair, that’s right,” ’Arvey
began. “Me old man” “You’ve
got mixed up with the names,” the boss
drawled. “You meant a Pisa.”
DEATH OF A DEVIL
He fought, while the early morning fogs
Moved from the face of day.
With half-a-dozen furious dogs,
Furiously at bay. I
He knew it for death, knew it the end,
He showed it as he stood
Among his enemies, never a friend,
That ugly unsubdued
Tasmanian devil, meeting his fate,
All murderous rage, unleashed.
I would not care for that look of hate
In the eyes of men or beast.
They battled back of the old fowl-pens
As stars began to fade.
Among the bodies of slaughtered hens,
Spoil of his nightly raid.
The dogs grew fiercer, yet feared his snap
As he whirled and glared his hate;
Then the bitch shot in between a gap
And made her snatch —too late.
He caught her jaws with his own,
Held on, would not let go.
She could not yell, she could not moan,
And the fight swayed to and fro.
The pack rushed in to savage his rear—
He dropped the victim, flew
In an awful silence to rip and tear
And louder the clamor grew.
Then someone moved in with a loaded stick . .
Oh, I knew the creature was evil
But I turned away, a little sick
For the death of a plucky devil.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Ohinemuri”: The all-Maori gang had
cut out their last shed and, having a few
beers at their first stop, had reached the
stage where everyone was doing bar-room
tricks. The publican, a great practical-
joker and amateur conjurer, had just re-
moved Hori’s shirt without taking his coat
or waistcoat off. Having no bar-room or
parlor-tricks, Hori felt a bit out of things.
Suddenly he up and bet the publican
drinks that he could remove the bar-
towel from under the few dozen glasses
draining on it without disturbing the
glasses. The wager was accepted, and
Hori gave the towel a strong jerk. As
Bung ruefully surveyed the mess on file
floor, and Hori’s few bob on the counter
to pay for the drinks, Hori exclaimed:
“By gorri, poss, firs’ time all te way—
firs’ time I try him, firs’ time you see te
trick, and firs’ time I miss her!”
“Mingari”; Men lost in desolate places
tend to walk in a wide circle primarily
because the body is rarely developed
equally on both sides —one leg or the
other will take a slightly longer stride, so
that the walker’s course must veer in-
sensibly with every step taken. The
majority of men are right-handed, and
will therefore be found to slide off to
the left. As for automatically bearing
left when approaching an obstacle (B.
26/8/’53) right-handedness comes into
that also. The natural tendency is to pass
it so that the right hand can be used, if
necessary, to fend the body away from
the obstacle; in some atavistic way to
have the right hand ready for defence
against a hidden enemy. Ambidextrous
myself, I have always been able to hold
a reasonably straight course—in the
bush, that is. In town, it’s more difficult.
There’s a fairly easy answer to that one,
too, but we won’t go into it now".
* * He *
“Bass”: Far from being “the land-
lubbers of the avian world” fB. 12/8/’53),
the majqoies that nest near some of the
Westralian swamps seem to get a big
part of their living from the shallows
around the swamp-edges. There is, of
course, a good reason why “B. A. Ker”
doesn’t see them on the sea-beach. Birds
spend almost their entire
waking-time seeking food,
and there’d be very little
feed on the beaches for
raaggies—or for any other
land birds, for that matter.
In fact, it speaks volumes
for their astuteness and
pioneering spirit that they
detected such an unusual
source of food as strange
beetles adventitiously
washed up on a beach.
And that probably ex-
plains their apparent
nervousness. They were
trespassing on some other
tribe’s domain and moving
in constant fear of re-
prisals. Magpies live in
communities, and each
group has its own terri-
tory, and will defend it
against strangers. That’s
why a pet maggie that’s released
is very quickly killed—he’s a trespasser.
In my part of Westralia these communi-
ties may consist of up to 20 birds, and
I haven’t noticed any pairing at mating-
time—they seem to mate promiscuously.
And that’s also how they court. You’ve
heard that particularly beautiful carolling
in which every member joins in what
seems to be a prearranged order? It’s
at its best during the mating season, just
before the females build their nests, and
it’s the communal love-song.
* * ♦ ♦
“Yapping Bushman”; The frame-
work of an old police-hut built in the
1860’s to stop Chow-smuggling from
Victoria into N.S.W. (B. 19/8/’53) stiff
stood a year or so ago at Tongar Bend
of the mid-Murray on what is now
Tammit. Incidentally, last century the
Chinese /ingbarked and fenced most of
the station country around Euston, but
they had to be watched like black-
fellows for pointing. The late A. J. Kil-
patrick, the uncrowned king of Euston
until the 1920’s —he was postmaster,
coroner, stock-inspector, etc., as well as
manager of Euston station —told me that
“How d ’ y' reckon I’d look in one o' them, Dave?"
when he selected his first run, Tammit,
in the ’eighties the yellow men put up
miles of fencing-posts for him a foot
short in the ground. They had cut off
the ends and burnt them! On the other
hand one gang he sent to Tongar cleared
2000 acres of huge redgums, destroying
thousands of mill logs but making the
best summer-grazing bend on the mid-
Murray. ,
* * * *
“Ida D.”: Eucalyptus in South
America (B. 19/8/’53)? In the valley of
the Rio Chubut, in the far south of Pata-
gonia, there is a legend, vague but per-
sistent, among the indigenes of the region
{not the later Spanish or Spanish-Indian
settlers) that “the lands” were once
joined—Australia and America conveyed
no meaning to them. And I have picked
up in this area, on the banks of a river
where not a tree is to be seen, pieces of
clear white sandstone on which the im-
press of eucalyptus leaves is clearly
visible. There is a magnificent grove of
eucalypts in Monte Grande, a “summer”
suburb of Buenos Aires; the seedlings
were imported. When I was there some
of the estancias in southern Patagonia
were trying to acclimatise eucalypts for
wind-breaks, but the trees were thriving
"It ain't a silo, mate — that's the two-up school"
only vertically, and not throwing out
the needed lower branches.
♦ * * ♦
“Chuck”: The lambing season, and I
was flat-out. Feed scarce, foxes plentiful,
crows hanging over the paddocks like a
pall, and the bullheaded, crossbred off-
spring bringing casualties to my maiden
flock. To help out, it was my practice
to. drift the daily crop down from the
camps into a small topdressed paddock
by the road. It took some doing. The
old dog hates wet ewes as they hate him,
and the air vibrated with orders, en-
treaties and murderous threats. I was
hazing a bunch of youngsters over the
ridges towards the gate, pushing rumps,
swiping at lambs, shooing, bawling at
the dog and going back for the scattered
string each time he started a rush in the
wrong direction. What a life! I breathed
a hope the lead had stopped at the gate,
as foot by foot we climbed the last slope,
topped the rise, and stopped. The road
below showed a glittering sedan; by the
gateway were a woman and three racing
kids. The lead ewes were turning in a
travelling circle 300yds. off, while a
chaos of lambed and unlambed milled.
bleated and raced everywhere. Then
slowly through the red swimming haze
of my spluttering came a voice: “Ai’m
shuah you doan’t maind us coming in,
but the children wanted to see these dear
little lambs.”
• ♦ ♦ ♦
I’ll back a Labrador dog as
egg-thief and -swallower. My bloke,
when he senses that a hen has laid,
sidles up and gently picks up the egg,
then, while you are watching, the goog
just slips almost imperceptibly down his
gullet whole, like a pill. Only a drought
in eggs and careful observation woke
me up to this trait. And the pup’s just
four months old I
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Sebak”: That gentle soul who spelt
out the mild profanity in “On Our Selec-
tion” (B, 5/ 8/ ’53) differed from the over-
righteous people I’ve encountered. Most
of them didn’t swear, but took great
pleasure in repeating verbatim the
choicest gems in the conversations of
those who did. The impression I got
was that St. Peter doesn’t book up against
the utterer anything which could be
claimed as a truthful repetition. But if
he does, a certain young Sunday-school
teacher must have had a fair splash of
red on her record around about the time
Shaw’s “Pygmalion” was filmed in our
district. The lass retailed Liza Doolittle’s
renowned punch-line to every friend, rela-
tive and acquaintance for months after;
and the way she rolled the adjective
around her tongue reminded me of a
connoisseur savoring a particularly rare
and mellow vintage. «
• ♦ ♦ *
“Sackfair”: When my neighbor, a true
lover of nature, found that the fancy
fish he kept in several outdoor tanks
were steadily becoming fewer, a black
fummy proved to be the culprit, hooking
out a fish meal when opportunity occurred.
He cursed bitterly, but spared the cat and
covered the tanks with wire-mesh. Then
somebody else put a bullet in the cat.
The unsightly wire coverings being no
longer necessary, they were removed.
Something promptly cleaned up half the
finny population. This time the villain
was a blue crane, swallowing gold-
fish as fast as it could spear
’em. The screens went on again.
Then something began disturbing the
budgerigars at night, frightening them
into flying to the wire, where they became
a target for sharp claws through the mesh.
Again cats were suspect—the technique
being a favorite one with felines —but
none was detected. Finally the bird-
lover found the marauder —and nearly
had a fit with the shock. A big, white
owl is a spooky sort of thing when it
flits noiselessly past your face in the
dark.
* * * *
“Wandana”: Residents of nor’-west
Tasmania were fascinated a while back by
a mysterious flying object which came
inland from Bass Strait. They watched
it dive from a high altitude at great
speed, then drift slowly westward along
the coastal fringe of hills towards Burnie.
One family described it as spinning
slowly, opening out like a big parachute
when it reached an altitude of about
800 ft, It turned out to be a huge flock
of birds, putting on an amazing per-
formance, Thousands were flying wing-
tip to wing-tip, forming a seemingly
solid mass, according to one observer.
Zooming about the sky, they would at
times fan out from the top, while the
birds at the bottom would pack into a
tight mass, forming a huge mushroom.
Then they would mass together in the
form of a giant top, and wheel straight
up. In fading light and against a grey
background of cloud they presented an
eerie sight, and it is more than likely
that such a manoeuvring flock in the
distance could be the origin of many
“flying-saucer” stories,
* * ♦ *
“Kelms”: Despite their serviceable
wing-span petrels can’t stand up indefi-
nitely to a strong headwind. They ride
out the storms by running before the
wind, and when a petrel is found dead
on the beach you can be pretty sure it
died either from lack of food as the fish
go deeper to avoid the storm, or exhaus-
tion from flying head-on into the wind
to avoid being blown inshore.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
“Ceg”: That bush-“hatter” who swept
round his domicile to show up snake
and other tracks (B. 19/8/’53) was in
good company. A wealthy Kerang
(Vic.) cocky, whose small mansion was
surrounded by nice gardens wherein the
owner and his visitors would walk after
dinner on warm moonlight nights, had
all the paths specially made of white
gravel and pebbles to show up any in-
truding tiger-snakes which had their
habitat around the near-by swamps.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
A BIT OF SURVEYING
The job of surveying the line for
Westralia’s No. 1 rabbit-proof fence was
given to A. W. Canning, the Melbourne-
born surveyor. He started it in 1901 and
finished it four years later, mapping a strip
of country up to 100 miles wide and 1150
miles long across the full depth of the
State.
Canning covered a tremendous area
looking for country in which fence-posts
could be found and sunk, and through
which a plough-furrow could be carved
to bury the bottom of the netting. At
the same time he had to locate water-
supplies—in desert country—for the men
who were to build the fence and those
who were to patrol it. That was the
biggest single survey job in the big State’s
history, and Canning followed it with
the second-biggest—the Canning Stock
Route between Wiluna and Hall’s Creek.
The idea was to find a route by which
stock could be overlanded from the
Kimberleys to the goldfields and the
southern parts of the State; a tough job,
for the 900 miles he had to survey com-
prised some of the worst country in
Australia, considered practically water-
less. Yet to him it yielded 52 wells
averaging 17 miles apart. Cattle were
driven over the route and reached Wiluna
in good condition. In 1929, 20 years
after it was surveyed, Canning led a
party over it repairing wells damaged
by the natives; it took 18 months.
The route was in use up to 1938, when
G. Lanagan brought 600 head of cattle
from Bililuna station, in the east Kimber-
leys, to Wiluna, and got them there in
good condition. A memorial to Canning
has been suggested more than once, but
it doesn’t seem necessary. His memory
lives in two of the biggest and best sur-
veying feats accomplished in Australia.
GRAVELSNATCHHR.
THE SILENT GROVE
The trees are bare,
their bent trunks pale and glistening.
No wild thing pauses, listening;
no bird sings there.
The cold, dry earth
reveals no track inviting,
is barren, unrequiting
its seeds with birth.
Its faded grass
no evidence discloses.
Pale light superimposes
a sheen like glass
which permeates
some other-worldly air,
as though it were dreamed there
and, patient, waits.
N.S.W,
E. NORMAN.


Ordering 5 herr/, Sveefc or Pry P
Is your -finest twy
LONDON STORY*
“ Trust TILLEY
to make something Better!"
sd
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better! ”
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt veiy proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better J!
No wires—no flexes 1
Burns 4 hours on £-pint of Kerosene—in
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives;—
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
128-196 William Street. Melbourne, C.l.
Business Rollery Etc.
The Budget and Shares
With the Budget due tonight
(9th), and with wool prices still
fairly firm, the sharemarket has
remained active at higher levels
for many stocks. Most annual
accounts have been the signal for
increased support for the co. con-
cerned. There have been excep-
tions, such as Drug Houses,
Metropolitan Cement and Peter
Lloyd Industries, but, generally
speaking, the movement has
been upward in second-line
industrials, even after the scrip
became ex div.
Some examples have been
John Mcllwraith, Patons and
Baldwins, Frederic Ash, Hotel
Metropole, Swans, Minster, Mal-
colm Moore, Street’s Ice Cream
and Australasian Paper. Yet to
present accounts, but firmer in
the market, are F. J. Walker,
Masonite, Yarra Falls, Bradford
Cotton, Wormald Industries and
Felt and Textiles.
Showing a drop are the ords.
in Mauri Bros, and Thomson
(Sydney). Since the bonus issue
these shares have been as high
as 545. Last week they were
down to 415., and looked excel-
lent buying for holding at the
figure, whatever the final div.
may turn out to be. The co. is
interested in Crown seals, corks,
shop-fittings, brewers’, butchers’
and bakers’ supplies, refrigera-
tion, malt, vinegar and other
well-chosen lines.
Sydney Newspaper Fight
On August 31 Gabriel Selmar
Reichenbach, Sydney solicitor,
and holder of 500 ord, shares in
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.,
sought an injunction in Equity to
restrain dealings by Associated
Newspapers and John Fairfax
and Sons in Associated News-
papers shares. An ex parte in-
junction was granted until Sep-
tember 2, when Mr. Acting
Justice Myers adjourned the
hearing until September 14.
According to an affidavit made
by Frank Packer, managing-
director of Consolidated Press,
negotiations for the purchase
of the whole or the majority
of Associated ordinary shares
on behalf of his company
began on August 10, when N.
Mac Donnell interviewed Sir
John Butters. Packer himself,
according tp his affidavit, on
August 19 interviewed Butters,
who informed him that his board
was considering the proposal,
and would press on with the
matter as soon as possible. On
August 27 Associated News-
papers announced that negotia-
tions had been completed with
Join! Fairfax and Sons for the
purchase of the whole of the
unissued ords. in Associated.
Sir John Butters on Sep-
tember 3 told shareholders in
his company that Reichen-
bach’s Equity suit prevented him
from giving shareholders “the
full report which I am most
anxious to do.” He added that
he was amazed still to see ad-
vertisements being published
inviting shareholders to call a
meeting in order to instruct the
directors not to proceed with the
issue to John Fairfax and Sons.
The issue had received Capital
Issues consent, and had been
paid for in full. Butters re-
peated his former statement that
it was not in the best interest of
Associated or its shareholders
that it should fall under the
dominance of Consolidated
Press.
On ’Change Associated ords.
continued to sell at around 20s.
From M. F, Dixon:
I can add a few tats and pieces to
The Bulletin story (B. 2/ 9/ ’53).
The burst of competition between the
“Sunday Sun” and “Sunday
Guardian” in 1929, when papers were
delivered to distant country centres
by air a few hours after publication
at a cost of about half-a-crown a
copy, was destined not to last long.
The shrewd Joynton Smith figured
that if he made the competition
strong enough the “Sun” people would
“I didn't REALLY Want shoes. 1 only wanted to he close
to you and hear your voice.”
soon come to light with an offer to
buy him out.
According to someone who was on
the inside of things at the time, the
deal over the “Daily Guardian” had
no sooner been concluded than Sir
Joynton suggested to Sir Hugh that
he should next tie up all the loose
ends by buying the “Sunday
Guardian,” too. The flabbergasted
Sir Hugh replied that that was
exactly what he had done; but Sir
Joynton was able to convince him
that his two papers were separate
concerns, and he had bought only the
“Daily Guardian.” A good bit of
the £575,000 which Associated News-
papers eventually paid for the two
“Guardians” covered the purchase of
the “Sunday Guardian.” Had the
“Sun” people been shrewd enough
to sit tight for a few months they
would probably have been able to buy
Joynton Smith’s two publications for
a song, assuming they still wanted
them.
The threat by the Packer (senr.)-
Theodore combination to bring out
a penny afternoon daily, the “Star,”
gave Associated Newspapers another
bad scare. I was managing-editor
of the Maitland “Daily Mercury” at
the time, and a “Mercury” director
was playing golf with Sir Hugh and
R. C. Packer when Packer broke the
disturbing news to Sir Hugh. Next
afternoon the “Daily Mercury” told
the story of the “Star’s” eclipse
by the weight of Associated
Newspapers money. We added that
Sir Htigh Denison and his fellow-
directors appeared to be the only
ones who took the Packer-Theodore
threat seriously. That soon became
the general feeling.
Associated Newspapers held a con-
trolling interest in the Newcastle
“Sun,” an afternoon daily, at the
time, and stepped up the com-
petition against the “Mercury.”
Both papers covered much the
same field on the northern coal-
fields, but the “Mercury” had the
advantage of being old-established.
We met the “Sun’s” competition by
placing our own street-sellers in New-
castle; but the bigger “Sun” boys
tore up their papers and drove them
off the streets. Then the “Mercury”
director previously mentioned again
met Sir Hugh Denison on the Royal
Sydney golf-links and Denison sug-
gested an early conference to put an
end to the competition between the
two papers in the north. The “Mer-
cury” board rejected the proposal be-
cause it couldn’t get an assurance of
security of employment for its staff;
and some considerable time later the
proprietors of the Newcastle “Morn-
ing Herald” took over the Newcastle
“Sun” and are still running it, but
reduced to five afternoons a week.
Since it was revealed that F. J.
Walker had offered to buy the
shares in Oldham Bros., Ltd.,
Newcastle butchers and ships’
providores, the 10s. shares in
the Walker concern have gone
up from 20s. 3d. to 225. 3d., and
Oldham ss. units have risen
from 6s. 9d. to Bs. 3d. Good
accounts are expected from
Walker’s in the near future, with
an increased dividend. Oldham’s
have already increased their div,.
and the scrip looks good buying
should the merger come off.
In B. 5/8/’53 it was men-
tioned that Street’s Ice Cream
(N.S.W.) was expected to show
good earnings for 1952-53, in
spite of the fall in turnover in
the industry as a whole. Profits
for the year have turned out to
be £86,274, an increase of
£57,872. Paid capital is £435,330,
and the net profit is about 20
p.c. on the present paid-up
amount. The div. has been
lifted from 5 p.c. to 11 p.c., of
which 5 p.c. is tax-free. The
£1 ords., which have sold as low
as 245. 3d. over the past eight
months, are now at 31s. 6d.
* * *
The final of 10 p.c. from Mal-
colm Moore, making 20 p.c.
(unchanged) for the year on a
larger capital, has satisfied the
market. The £1 ords. have
steadied at 475., cum div.
* * *
Turnover of Frederic Ash,
Ltd., which has its headquarters
in Newcastle and branches in
several country towns, showed
an increase of 8 p.c. last
term (Swans, in Sydney,
showed a slight drop), and
its net profit, after providing
£5065 less for taxation (at
£50,935), and slightly more
for depreciation (£2404), was
£1965 higher at £70,157 —equal
to a shade under 26 p.c. on
capital, compared with 25.2 p.c.
in the preceding year. The div.
was kept at 12£ p.c., and £Bll5
was set aside to provide for long-
service leave. Stocks (£261,293)
were worked down £59,173 dur-
ing the year, and the bank over-
draft (£51,016) was reduced by
£86,773. Frederic Ash shares
have been favored here as an
investment since they were listed.
They have sold as low as
40s. 6d. this year. Last week
buyers were offering 455, for
them (ex Is. 6d. div.), while
sellers asked 50s.
* * *
The offer of 50s. a share for
the capital of Chevron, Ltd. (the
Melbourne private hotel), has
been followed by other offers,
and offers of offers, and the scrip
has risen to over 555. Appar-
ently there is an idea of getting
a licence for the premises in the
minds of some of the would-be
new controllers. There was a
sale of the £1 shares at 265. in
May this year, and in July
buyers offered 28s. Last div. on
the £77,000 capital was 7 p.c.
The board remained open to
consider offers made up to
Sept. 3, and then proposed to
make a recommendation to
shareholders.
* :!: ♦
At the first annual meeting of
Minster, Ltd., in Melbourne,
the chairman told shareholders
that the administrative build-
ing facing Princes-highway,
Dandenong, was built on
portion of the 25 acres of
land owned by the co., and that
several cottages on the property
housed key personnel. Minster’s
main assets comprise all the
shares in Westminster Carpets
Pty., Ltd., and the Whitehead
Chemical Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
Westminster was incorporated
on November 29, 1946, and
commenced production of carpet
in July, 1949, and the Whitehead
Chemical Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
which was incorporated on De-
cember 14, 1948, started produc-
tion of rubber dispersion in
March, 1950. From the time of
first production there has been
a strong and growing demand
for Westminster carpet. Since
July 1, 1952, it has been possible
to maintain continuous produc-
tion, and the carpet-making
plant has for some time now
been working for 142 hours each
week. Demand for carpet con-
tinues to be well in excess of
plant capacity. While no
immediate extension of plant is
contemplated, the directors will
keep the matter under review.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPINK LIMITED
#*
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
AMD PERTH
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Be A Master
Of English
You are judged by the way you
speak and write.
Improve your English quickly
by post—the Regent Institute way.
Many students say that the
moderate fee charged for the
Effective English Course is the
best investment they have ever
made. The tuition is so planned
that you make noticeable progress
within a few hours.
Write today for a copy of
"WORD MASTERY"
Send today to the Regent Insti-
tute (Dept. 360), Palace Gate,
London, W.B, England, for a
free copy of “Word Mastery,”
which gives full details—includ-
ing the special arrangements for
Australian students.
S 3
'THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cl high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli
color will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BmiLt entirety tm Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SIDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE ~ Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00, (Aust.)
BEWARE !
)C
WEAR THE I M
LIMA
BELT
?r
0 0
Take heed of the
“Danger Curve”
of your abdominal wall
caused by long hours
spent SITTING.... at
the wheel or in your
office. Although seats
in modern cars are very
comfortable, the posi-
tion of the body is un-
healthy, as there is a
downward pressure in
the lower part of the
abdomen. This fre-
V\^
quently leads to stomach disorders, backache, and may
result in serious illness. The supporting action of the
Linia Belt, made from a patented woven Tricot is
therefore a great benefit to motorists. The Linia
method is world wide, and recommended by the
highest medical authorities.
Write Today for the “Danger Curve” Booklet
and Price'List.
LINIA BELTS
Manufactured and Distributed by
J. ROUSSEL of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.I. FA8357
Sydney Agents: W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO., LTD.
Small's Club
Chocolate breaks
with a clean loud
snap every time
—in cold weather
and hot. That's
the test of really
good chocolate.
\
-■i ’ ;
Men fall for the
not - so - sweet
flavour of Small's
Club Chocolate.
Women and kids
love it, too. Take
some home for
the family.
'.nPcHOCOIAre
four
You can enjoy
types of Club
Chocolate: Plain,
with Almonds,
Almond-Raisin, Fruit and Nut.
Small's Club Chocolate Is the best
chocolate of all for cooking . sc4
if any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Creeping Inflation
In little more than a year
N.Z.’s banking system has swung
from extreme tightness to super-
abundance of funds, and if the
present trend goes on N.Z. will
be spoiling for another spending
spree, which it won’t be able to
finance out of its rebuilt sterling
reserves.
The unbalance between
internal and external money is
an old complaint. It was this
that landed N.Z. in trouble
when it released the financial
brakes in 1951, and a recurrence
of the malady suggests that
those who pull the strings are
none the wiser for that lesson.
Instead of taking curative
measures, the Government, the
Treasury and the Reserve Bank
have relied on palliatives.
Monetary pressure now banking
up again behind exchange-
control must postpone the day
when N.Z.’s currency will be
restored to strength and trade
can be again carried on with
reasonable freedom. N.Z. i's
nowhere within reach of con-
vertibility, and is following the
wrong path.
The trading banks, which have
been stripped of most of the
powers they once possessed to
manage the money system pro-
perly, can’t do much to help
while the banking system is weak
at the centre and one of the
fundamental controls, interest-
adjustment, is not used. In 19
years since the birth of the
Reserve Bank the bright hopes
of its founders have faded away.
Nothing but a pale shadow of
independence remains as it serves
the purposes of a weak financial
policy. Although the Holland
Government pledged itself, when
it took over at the end of 1949,
to keep to the straight and
narrow way, it has gone back on
its principles to an extent which
makes it a convert to a policy of
creeping inflation. Lately one
of Mr. Holland’s Ministers, T.
Clifton Webb, let the cat out of
the bag when he said the Gov-
ernment should be able to get
through with its big national
development programme this
financial year by making
“limited use” of Reserve Bank,
credit, and it was clear that the
Government had placed itself in
a compromising position by con-
tinuing to cling to cheap money.
The interest - adjustment to
3| p.c., <which with a discount
worked out at £3 19s. p.c., for
the recent £2O million cash
and conversion loan, left N.Z.
monetarily in no-man’s-land,
solved no problems and kept
everyone guessing as to what the
Government was aiming at.
Today the barometer is point-
ing to more inflation, which the
banks can’t prevent, for the
simple and obvious reason that
they can’t stop money flowing
into the system as the Govern-
ment spends the proceeds of
lOU’s given to the Reserve
Bank. The only sound money is
that originating in exports* and
the savings of the people, both
of which have been buoyant, but
to make this money go round
higher interest-rates are needed.
Failing such an adjustment,
N.Z. has a record supply of idle
money, accumulated in deposi-
tors’ accounts at the trading
banks, in trading-bank deposits
at the Reserve Bank, and in the
savings banks.
This excess liquidity isn’t
healthy, and the trading banks
know it, A warning against
internal credit - inflation was
given by the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers’ Conference last
December, backed by powerful
expert opinion, but even without
such weighty authority it should
be plain to everyone that peg-
ging down interest-rates and
pouring in new credit to meet
ever-increasing demands for
money are not commonsense
ways to manage things.
Civil Servants Favored
Call it “stand-over” or what
you like, some civil servants have
been using persuasion or threats
to force retailers up and down
N.Z. to grant them discounts of
up to 10 p.c., or more, on goods
which make up a sizeable part of
total consumer trade. As N.Z.
breeds civil servants at a higher
rate than any other country, and
more than 100,000, all solidly
organised, most of them with
families, are on the State pay-
roll, they are a power some
sections of trade can’t stand up
against, particularly in Welling-
ton, where most of the higher-
paid civil servants are.
It’s usually fairly easy to find
a few retailers willing to oblige,
and they are used to bring others
into line. Any show of inde-
pendence is costly. Clothing,
footwear, furniture, jewellery,
motor-mowers, refrigerators and
radiograms are some of the
popular lines for discounts of
2j p.c. upwards, more than half
of them 10 p.c. or higher. When
traders first started granting
favors like this in the lean years
of the early 1930’s to help the
needy, they little guessed they
were laying the foundation for a
system which might one day
master them.
Money Strangely Cheap
One of the titbits of informa-
tion Prime Minister Holland
brought back from his Corona-
tion trip was that New Zealand
had the cheapest money in the
world. Strange that a country
with an unlimited programme of
costly projects should be able to
make a claim like this, but, con-
tradictory as it may seem,
Maoriland is still managing to
finance big works on terms that
would be laughed at elsewhere.
Reserves, annual rises for
exports and wool millions have
done the trick. When interest-
levels started climbing abroad
N.Z. took a two-year borrowing
holiday, which ended when the
market was tapped a few months
ago for a £2O million loan at
£3 19s. p.c. This was a hint of
what is ahead. Wait until the
next year or two. Some whop-
ping loans raised in war-time
will be maturing, and stock-
holders who coughed up then
from patriotic motives will be
wanting their money back.
In the next 10 years £460
million, or two-thirds of N.Z.’s
internal debt (a big part of it
spent on the war), will have to
be refinanced, .and there’ll be
hundreds of millions of new
money to find for State, muni-
cipal and county development.
Cheap money is likely to make a
hurried departure in the little
country, and Maorilanders who
have cherished ideas that rates
of 3 p.c. to 4 p.c. for gilt-edged
money are theirs by right will
get a surprise.
N.Z. Forest Products
Markets on both sides of the
Tasman will be fed by the £6.6
million pine-pulp and paper-
making plant now getting into
production for N.Z. Forest
Products, Ltd., at Kinleith,
alongside the co.’s 180,000-acre
plantations.
The first kraft-pulp was turned
out on August 10, and the paper-
plant should be running in
October. A sizeable part of the
yearly output of 45,000 tons of
chemical pulp will be shipped
under a 15-year contract to
supply 12,500 tons a year to
Australian Newsprint Mills.
The co. is now beginning to
feel as if it’s getting somewhere,
after years and years of plan-
ning, building and heavy spend-
ing, to harvest the fruits of its
enterprise. To help the co., the
Government has tightened
paper-import control and is
banking on N.Z. being self-
supporting in commercial paper
permanently. In 1956, when
three cos. —Forest Products,
Tasman Pulp and Paper and
Whakatane Board Mills —are in
full swing, the mills should be
producing a mountain of stuff.


Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B.
Heifer; W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Does your WILL still express your intentions?
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you consult your Solicitor and have your
Will revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing the Trustees Executors and Agency
Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a company with over 74 years’ specialised experience in the Administration
of Estates.
Write or call for free booklef.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY;
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
TIM3L3S
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
(PARENT CO. ONLY.)
Net To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1947.1.221,851 74 p.c. =1,041,369 179,982 5,310,389
Profit, sale assets, £61,899 .. .. 5,372,288
From tax provision, £125,000 .. 5,497,288
1948.1,255.388 84 p.c. =1,157,075 98,313 5,595,601
Profit, sale assets, £8622 ~ .. 5,604,223
1949.1,236,049 84 p.c. =1,157,075 78,974 5,688,197
Share premiums, £1,946,091 .. 7,629,288
Profit, sale assets, £49,073 .. .. 7,678,361
1950.1,286,742 84 p.c. =1,284,513 2,229 7,680,590
Share premiums, £1,587,608 9,218,198
Profit, sale assets. £8894 ~ ~ 9,227,092
Less prov’n forfeited divs., £2069.. 9,225,023
1951.1,716,925 84 p.c. i 1,539.391 177,534 9,402,557
Share premiums, £2,045,949 .. 11,448,506
Profit, sale assets, £19,741 • .. 11,468,247
1952.1,937,270 84 p.c. =1,810,074 127,196 11,595,443
Share premiums, £12,438 .. ..11,607,881
Profit sale assets, £28,041 .. .. 11,635,922
1953.2,336.055 84 p.c. =2,080,756 255,299 11,891,221
To meet the growing iron and steel
appetite of Australia’s expanding post-
war economy, the B.H.P. group has been
engaged ’ in a large and costly pro-
gramme of plant-expansion ever since
war ended; and the schedule, though now
well advanced, is not yet complete. The
cost has been met partly by issuing new
shares at a premium, partly by borrow-
ing on mortgage and overdraft, and
partly from surplus earnings, generous
allowances being made for depreciation,
taxation and other contingencies.
Partly because of all this, and partly
because new plant and the money in-
vested in it take time to get into pro-
duction and develop full earning-power,
the div. has been kept steady at a
moderate 8| p.c. for the last half-dozen
years. And short-run prospects of those
on the register have been modified to a
limited extent by the board’s decision of
a year or so ago to finance immediate
capital requirements of the chief sub-
sidiary—A.l. and S., whose still-expand-
ing plant at Port Kembla now rivals the
parent’s big steelworks at Newcastle —
on loan instead of share account. Later
on shareholders might be asked for more
to help finance completion of new tin-
plate plant at Kembla and erection of
a new 50,000-ton-p.a. steel-rolling mill
at Kwinana, on the shores of Cockburn
Sound, about 10 miles south ot Fre-
mantle (W.A.).
Meanwhile, earnings have responded to
steadily growing output, and the share-
market has been content to wait for its
benefits. The price of the co.’s f.-p. £1
shares, which fluctuated between 445. 6d,
and 40s. since the beginning of 1953,
stood at 435. 6d. last week. The return
at 435. 6d. is only 3.8 p.c. on an 8| p.c.
div. basis; so the investor who looks
for 5 p.c. on his money counts on a
distribution of 11 p.c. and/or other
benefits. Net tangible cover (book-value
combined accounts) is 345.
Behind the spring in last term’s earn-
ings was bigger output, a lift in selling-
prices, more adequate supply of raw
materials (especially coal) and of the
various grades of labor, as well as energy
and drive on the part of management in
overcoming marketing and other prob-
lems inseparable from the running-in of
new plant. The parent’s own accounts
show a profit of £2,336,055 (up £398,785),
or 9.3 p.c. on average capital. But that
leaves out of the reckoning undistributed
profits of the subsidiaries. # Here are
combined figures for the whole group,
including outside interests, whose pro-
portion of shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) is 5i p.c.:
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Working profit.. £7,645,466 £8,132,290 £11,051,542
Divs., etc. .. 447,636 371,616 278,533
Total .. £8,093,102 £8,503,906 £11,330,075
Depreciation .. 2,849,643 2,798,416 3,600,187
Taxation .. 2,580,315 3,092,877 4,420,714
Other exes. .. 341,524 825,781 381,801
Total exes. .. £5,771.482 £6,217,074 £8,402,702
Net Profit .. 2,321,620 2,286,832 2,927,373
Profit, sale assets .. 21,979 11,397 44,411
Of the £2,927,373 (up £640,541) of profit
claimed, £153,600-odd thus appears to
belong to outsiders. The remaining
£2,773,700 was equal to 11.1 p.c. on
B.H.P.’s average capital as against 10 p.c.
and 11.8 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
Concerning the heavy allowance for
depreciation (including provision for
repairs, etc.) and taxation, the chairman
says:—
Our policy over the years has been to
make adequate provision to cover the
expired or used life of certain major
expendable units of plant, and by this
means avoid artificial peaks and depressions
in costs The heavy inflationary trend of
late years has necessitated the setting aside
of increased funds to meet expenditure of
this nature as and when it occurs. The
taxation authorities do not allow these
charges as deduction from assessable income
until such time as the money is actually
spent, and as a result we are in some years
assessed on a greater or lesser figure of
income than appears in the accounts.
This is standard practice with heavy in-
dustries overseas. Last term’s allowance
for depreciation was 10 p.c. of the mean
book-value of plant, and for taxation
51 p.c. greater than the profit claimed.
A better supply of coal, despite a long
industrial hold-up at the co.’s John
Darling colliery, resulted in a bigger
pushing-rate at the coke-ovens and pro-
duction of a record quantity of pig-iron
and steel-ingots, etc. Here are the year’s
figures for the two big steel plants:
Steel Blooming
Coke. Pig-iron. ingots. Mill.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Newcastle 733,050 905,262 959,986 830,048
Port Kembla 890,029 772,748 807,565 721,042
Total 1,623,079 1,678,010 1,767,551 1,551,090
And the improvement was carried right
down the line, through the blooming,
plate, merchant-bar, rod and other mills.
More by-products—tar, benzol, ammo-
nium sulphate, etc. —came from the coke-
ovens, too.
For the first time since the war iron
and steel output ran ahead of local de-
mand, which was lighter than of recent
years. But a ready outlet for the surplus
was found in the export market, which
is a fine testimony to the efficiency of
both management and plant. According
to Government statistics Australian ex-
ports of iron and steel for the year to
June 30 last were valued at £10.2 million
as against £2.2 million for the previous
year. Local demand picked up again
toward and since the close of accounts,
and the long-term outlook is favorable.
At the shipyards at Whyalla two new
ore-carriers were launched, one of 12,500
tons and the other of 10,000 tons. And
another 10,000-tonner and two colliers of
4750 tons each are under construction.
The co.’s own fleet of 16 vessels in-
cludes four under charter.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial set-up of the group:
Consolidated Figures.
Outside • .
, B.H.P. Sundry-
Capital. Reserves. Interests.* Creditors.f
£££,£,
1949.. 13,884,902 9,895,799 2,259,863 9,387,045
1950.. 17,777,083 12,107,414 2,293,532 9,516,265
3951.. 20,852,300 14,443,636 2,310,002 12,095,927
1952.. 24,944,196 16,786,052 2,336,221 17,134,832
1963.. 24,969,074 17,553,565 2,358,463 26,758,048
Fixed Stocks, Book Other
Assets. Stores, Etc. Debts. Assets.
£,££>£
1949.. 18,959,926 7,641,989 2,174,700 6,650,884
1950.. 22,517.069 8,838,696 2,811.249 7,527,170
1951.. 26,389,915 10,593,218 8,001,402 9,717,380
1952.. 32,407,341 14,341,154 4,590,866 9,891,940
1953.. 41,019,278 19,145,584 6,072,277 5,402,066
* Including proportion reserves, t Includes tax
provision.
Last term’s growth in fixed assets (up
£8,611,932), stocks, etc. (up £4,804,380)
and book-debts (up £1,418,411) was met
mainly by an addition of £9,623,216 to
the amount coming to creditors, etc., and
a reduction of £4,489,874 in other assets.
The hot-roughing section of the new hot-
strip mill at Kembla is expected to com-
mence rolling heavy plates early next
year.
Waiter Reid & Co., Ltd. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1945 .. 27,778 104 p.c. = 22,500 5,278 834,531
1946 .. 31,251 134 „ „ 27,000 4,251 858,782
1947 . . 33,081 144 „ ~ 29,000 4,081 862,863
1948 .. 34,019 14| „ „ 29,600 6.019 367,882
Capital profit, £B3OB .. ••
To tax reserve, £8308.. .. •• 367,882
Unexplained addition, £77,000 .. 444,882
1949 .. 84,031 15 p.c. = 30,000 4,031 448,913
1950 .. 32,521 15 „ „ 30,000 2,521 451,434
Added contingency reserve, £50,000.. 501,434
1951 ~. 43,062 20 p.c. = 40,000 3,062 504,496
Added contingency reserve, £7821 .. 511,777
1952 .. 54,876 15 p.c. = 30,000 24,876 586,653
Unexplained additions, £4158 .. 540,812
1953 .. 42,648 20 p.c. = 40,000 2,648 543,460
A couple of years ago this well-
entrenched Rockhampton co. celebrated
its 50th anniversary with a sharp rise
in profit, a special 5 p.c. bonus to share-
holders (making 20 p.c. for the year),
and increased its nonginal capital from
£320,000 to £1,000,000 in I6s. shares.
The intention was to issue 250,000 of
the new shares at a premium of 10s. each
to finance erection of a new Brisbane
warehouse —the old one was destroyed
by fire in 1944. But Capital Issues Control
refused to consent to the issue, and a
year later (in 1952) the board said “it
was deemed advisable to postpone re-
building the warehouse, but that the
project must be proceeded with in due
course.” The latest report (August, 1953)
is that “ihuch careful thought has been
given to the question of further expan-
sion, bearing in mind the necessity of
providing new and additional sources of
income ; the necessity, however, has not
yet arisen to warrant calling-up fresh
capital.” No hint is given as to the
direction in which it is proposed to
further expand the undertaking, or of
the probable capital cost, additional to
the warehouse project.
It has been a very prosperous concern.
Paid capital advanced from £93,750
early in this century to £250,000 in 1918
with the aid of only £11,250 in cash
subscriptions. And shareholders have
never failed to receive a div. over the
last 48 years, the average being over
10 p.c., and for the last nine of them
15.3 p.c. Furthermore at June 30 last
paid capital had the support and assist-
ance of £543,460 of reserves.
The parent co., which trades through-
out Queensland, has strong connections
with the man-on-the-land, especially in
the central and central-west of the State.
And during the last five years or so
earnings have been given a fresh lustre
by purchase of retail establishments,
hotels and pastoral properties. Shares in
subsidiaries stepped up from £49,995 to
£407,402 during the 1949 term, and now
stand at £505,893. The curtain is kept
drawn over the subsidiaries’ figures and
their net earnings are taken into account
only to extent of dividends received.
Last term a dry spell affected the co.’s
pastoral interests, but stock losses were
not severe, and sales of wool and cattle
provided “a reasonable return on capital
involved.” On the merchandising side
stocks were worked down and the out-
side debt reduced. There was a slip of
£36,845 in gross earnings (£274,885),
which was partly offset by savings of
£24,617 in exes. (£232,237), which in-
cluded something for taxation and other
contingencies. The net result was thus
£42,648 (down £12,228), equal to 21.3 p.c.
on capital as against 27.4, 21.5, 16.2 and
17 p.c. back to 1949. That leaves out
of the reckoning £4158 dropped from
somewhere into the contingency reserve
(£61,439). The distribution was lifted
from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c., of which 10 p.c.
is called bonus. Obviously the cautious
board is satisfied with the immediate
outlook.
During the year stocks (in at cost) were
reduced by £106,384:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £ 200.000
Sndy. creditors* 120,275 113,701 163,476 115,702
’Due subside. . . 90,000 122,523 1 71.360 141,450
Tax provision 68,110 90,735 1 24,216 123,944
Pinal div. ~ 20,000 20,000 20,000 30,000
Freeholds and
plant .. 39,1% 44,253 51,005 52,422
Shares subsids. 600,902 500,902 505,897 505,893
Stocks .. 266,997 312,121 488,332 381,948
Book debts . . 105,945 167,028 168,033 192,382
Cash .. .. 84,501 34.872 159 19,631
Investments .. 2,280 2,280 2,280 2,280
* Includes overdraft.
The amounts coming to sundry creditors
and subsidiaries were reduced by £47,774
and £29,910 respectively, while book-debts
increased by £24,349 and cash by £19,472.
They are healthy movements.
As 575. 6d. the f.-p. 16s. shares give
an immediate return of 5.6 p.c. on a
20 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
is 595. 6d.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 26,824 6 p.c. = 26,622 202 145,123
1946.. 27,015 6 „ „ 26,622 393 145,516
1947.. 26,735 6 „ „ 26,622 113 145,629
1948.. 12,258 6 „ „ 26,622 131,265
1949.. 27,330 6 „ „ 26,622 708 131,973
Added replacement reserve, £lO,OOO ~ 141,973
1950.. 27,183 6 p.c. = 26,62 2 561 142,534
Added replacement reserve, £10,000.. 152,634
1951.. 26,982 6 p.c. = 26,62 2 360 152,894
Added replacement reserve, £10,000.. 162,894
1952.. 27,180 6 p.c. = 26,622 558 163,452
Loss.
1953.. 21,410 Nil 142,042
First things of their kind to show up
for over half a century, last term’s loss
of £21,410 and absence of a div. are
the summation of a variety of factors,
most immediate of which were adverse
seasonal conditions and economic de-
velopments, the evergreen industrial
troubles on the waterfront, rising costs
and savage competition from a Socialist
Government which runs its railways at
a loss.
A smaller output of sugar, owing to
a dry spell, reduced shipments of timber,
following the easing of activity in the
building trade, and lighter shipments of
merchandise, due firstly to the over-
stocked position of merchants at the be-
ginning of the term and later to rail
competition, all helped to slim the volume
of both inward and outward cargoes. It
is rail competition which threatens to
be the crippling factor. In February
last the railways offered consignors bulk-
loading contracts at prices said to be
50 p.c. below ordinary rail-freights. Com-
menting upon the position thus created,
the chairman says:
There appears little doubt that the Rail-
way Department is making a determined
effort to eliminate at all cost sea competi-
tion to and from the north coast of N. S.
Wales, irrespective of the effect on the
economy of the State. It will be realised
that private enterprise cannot trade profit-
ably when it has to compete with a Gov-
ernment instrumentality which is prepared
to operate with resulting heavy deficits.
Representations have been made to the
State Government, and the essential
necessity of shipping was very clearly
demonstrated. Cabinet decision on its
policy in this very vital matter is now
awaited.
As trustees for the shareholders, the
board cannot allow this now-65-year-old
and once-prosperous undertaking to go
on consuming its capital. So, unless
relief is soon obtained from present un-
favorable operating conditions, proposals
concerning the future of the business are
to be placed before shareholders before
long.
For the run of 6 p.c. divs. over the
eight years to the close of accounts in
1952, shareholders can largely thank the
board for liberal pre-war allowances for
depreciation. During and since the war
such allowances, spasmodically made,
have been inadequate to cover
actual replacement cost. No real
profit is earned by any trader until ade-
quate provision has been made for re-
placement of the assets concerned.
Officialdom’s failure to recognise this


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor.
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARREBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The keo-barrere
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
HVite today for FREE LITERATURE
BARREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3Y), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
V
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
«<£
Cjftifider
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL BMI HOSPITAL
BRANDY
1
m
No home
should be
without it
ft
£7
Sp/TAL
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
T5T.23.12
/> + '■*
<
t ~ w ..
gr*.- -s. v
i 1
Li
f i
-/T
m
PU. ft
sffiSS
n^s
v*fv;
r 4 \
S. cu Q□ -
• 5 S M :
■IlMi K*7i
‘l'i*
v:
m
in
(C
on precision
WITH PUMPS OPERATING at
pressures of 30 p.s.i.,and delivery
rates through each hofee being
above 200 gallons per minute
(900 litres per minute) the
operation of fuelling requires a
high degree of accuracy.
The trained BP man at the
controls is responsible for more
than merely opening and clos-
ing control valves. He is in
charge of a powerful machine
and he alone can ensure that it
is suitably controlled to meet
the particular requirements of
various types of aircraft. He is
ready, like all BP Aviation Ser-
vice crews, to act quickly and
with precision.
AVIATION
fsf
SERVICE
5/53
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
fundamental truth is something
for which trade and industry,
and all connected with it, will
pay dearly in the long-run.
The market prices the co.'s
f.-p. f 1 shares at 15s. each. Net
tangible cover is 265. 5d., and
assets are believed to be worth
more than their book-value:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £443,700 £143,700 £443,700
Liabilities* 93,417 123,225 106,731
Final div... 13,311 13,311
Ships .. 68,490 68,490 69,435
Freeholds .. 8,051 7,571 5,456
Liquids . . 626.781 667,627 617,582
* Includes provisions.
The fleet consists of four motor-
vessels and five steamers, average
book-value per unit being a
mere £7715. Liquids exceed out-
side liabilities, which include
something for “provisions,” by
£510,851 (235. per share), of
which £482,973 (21s. 9d. per
share) is represented by Govern-
ment securities.
Commonwealth Wool &
Produce (Sydney)
Re-
Mar., Profit. t —Dividends— >, serves.
£ £ £
1945.. 12,183 3 p.c. = 9,000 118,036
1946.. 9,092 3 „ „ 9,000 118,128
1947.. 8,015 3 „ ~ 9,000 117,143
1948.. 17,148 4 ~ .. 12,000 122,290
June,
1949.. 24,148 6J „ „ 18,750 127,689
Sale property, £130,000 .. 257,689
Share premiums, £5OOO .. 262,689
1950.. 33,577 7 p.c. = 28,000 268,266
1951. . 52,302 9 „ „ 86,000 284,568
1952.. 30,199 6 „ „ 24,000 290,767
1953.. 39,607 7 ~ ~28,000 302,374
The improvement (£9408) in last
term’s net earnings and the level
thereof (£39,607) were both
moderate considering the fatness
of the season and prices. The
volume and value of the N. S.
Wales wool-clip over the past
three seasons, of which the last
was second-best in the history
of the trade, were as follows:
Sold, Bales. Total Value.
1950- .. 1,265.038 £228,204,490
1951- .. 1,120,912 105,260,546
1952- ~ 1,393,219 151,347,756
Last season the improvement in
volume was 2.4 p.c. and in value
43.8 p.c.
The co.’s activities include
woolbroking, pastoral - finance,
merchandising and stock-and-
station and other agency busi-
ness, and cover the west and
south-west of N. S. Wales. It is
also interested in Nenco (New
England, North and North-West
Producers Co.), the pioneer New-
castle woolbrokers, and there is
an interlocking shareholding
with Elder Smith and Co., which
took over the Victorian section
of the Commonwealth co.’s busi-
ness in 1949.
Although Shareholders have
only twice (1921 and 1930) failed
to receive a div. since the begin-
ning of this century, they have
never had anything lush in the
way of returns. Over the five
years to the close of last
accounts, during which the trade
has enjoyed the greatest boom
in its long history, divs. have
averaged only a wink over 7 p.c.
For the 18 years before that the
average was a mere 3.6 p.c,,
sweetened, where shareholders
were also clients, by rebates on
carded commission-rates until
1941. Whatever rebates have
been made since then have not
appeared in the published
accounts. *
During the 12 months to
March 31 last the co. auctioned
87,228 bales (up 18,083 bales)
wool, 136,159 (up 37,927) sheep
and 6789 (up 1073) cattle. The
£39,607 of profit, which was
written after allowing unstated
amounts for taxation and other
contingencies, was 5.6 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined), or 9.9 p.c.
on capital %lone as against 7.5,
13.1, 8.4, 8 and 5.7 p.c. back to
1948. A point was added to the
div., making it 7 p.c., and the
£11,607 that remained lifted
reserves to £302,374.
Here are balance - sheet
figures:
1951. 1952. 1958.
Capital .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry ]
creditors i 777,678 614,036 821,684
O’draft, gtc* J
Final divs. ". 36,000 24,000 28,000
Freehold, etc. 402,029 420,516 434,856
Stocks .. 81,196 82,114 60,419
Advances, etc. 565,630 434,721 656,754
Govt, securities,
etc. .. 363,861 305,953 807,188
Shares subsid. 85,527 85,499 93,291
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last term’s net additions of
£207,598 to the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., and of
£222,033 to advances, etc., are
interrelated, and refer largely to
unsettled wool transactions
current at balancing-date.
Interest generally now centres
on the season which has just
begun. It has opened well from
the growing point of view,
though it is too early yet to form
a reliable estimate of what the
volume of the clip will be. As
for prices, opening sales were
around 5 p.c. stronger than
closing rates for last season, and
hopes are that there will be no
marked recession as the year
advances. Although there is
evidence that world consump-
tion of wool might be nearing
its peak, current demand will
have to be met mainly from
current production. In the
Bradford top-market stocks are
reported to be light, especially
for standard-grade 64’s, and
most of the big accumulation
of raw wool in the Argentine
was lifted last season by the
U.S. The effect of this transfer
of demand upon the Australian
market was offset by stronger
buying on Japanese account.
During the current season de-
mand is expected to ease on
Japanese and strengthen on U.S.
account. However, the U.S.
Administration has not yet de-
cided whether it will impose
additional duty on raw wool im-
ported into that country. Russia
and some of the Iron Curtain
satellites, which supported the
market during the latter half of
last season, are an unpredictable
factor.
At 225. (225. 9d. a year ago)
the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares return
6.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. .basis.
Net tangible cover is 355. Id.
Mt. Coolon (Q,), which gave
up active mining in 1939, when
the ore-body pinched out below
450 ft., still holds on in the hope
of a worth-while prospect turn-
ing up, but nothing sufficiently
attractive has yet come along.
Paid capital is £300,000 in f.-p.
10s. shares. Last div. was 6d. a
share in May, 1951. For the year
to December 31, 1952, nothing
was received from shareholdings,
and exes, exceed income from
Government securities by £523.
Assets consist of shares in other
cos. £30,042 (cost). Government
securities £5Oll, cash, etc., £321
and intangibles £304,844. There
was £3BO coming to outsiders.
Principal shareholding is 102,100
f.-p. 4s. shares in Morning Star,
Woods Point (Vic.), which
netted £109,316 (21.8 p,c. on its
capital) for the year to March
31 last It paid two divs. of Is.
each on March 27 and July 7
last, together worth £10,210 to
Mt. Coolon, on whose own
capital 6d. a share would call for
£15,000. The co. also holds
35,300 f.-p. 10s. shares in Great
Western Consolidated (W.A.),
bought at 7s. 7d. each, from
which satisfactory returns are
expected later on. Atlas Gold,
in which Mt. Coolon held
90,000 3s. shares paid to 9d.
each (£3375), has gone into
voluntary liquidation and has
made a first and final distribu-
tion of 1.75 d. a share, leaving
Mt. Coolon with a capital loss of
£2719. The market prices Morn-
ing Star shares at 325. each and
Great Western at 6s. 9d. Mt.
Coolon’s own shares are priced
at 4s. 7d. a piece,
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Hill 50 Extended has taken
? ve J two ore leases-
L^ roy a
at Mt Magnet (W.A., and
expects to begin its systematic
test-drilling campaign early
next month. With the Saturn
lea “’ *!»•<* held, the new
options will extend the co. s
B rou » d "ght f across the souftem
boundary.of the mam Hill 50
leases. 1116 line 01 IOuC being
SUCCCSSfuIIv Worked bv Hill 50
~ .« . .
™ ™ SOU . th ’ , Mr '
Morton Webber, a mine-valuer
with a wide international exneri-
t .i t , JA.
ence not recently under-
ground” manager of Lake View
R oq/7/’si
dnu olar » Z.7///0J Sdys
about 2500 ft. of the ore-channel
covered by the co.’s leases could
i U stifv drilline and that the ner-
She profi tabk oS SS.
dcpth j, a reasonable expec-
ration
'


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
September certainly “came in with the
wind'of the west,” making it so hot on
Sunday that there were crowds on the
beaches, mostly, however, in last season’s
swimsuits. The new stunning types, the
tartans and the bloomer-lines and the
resurrected “Annette Kellerman’s” are
being kept, it seems, for the official open-
ing of the season next month.
# V q-
The Woollahra Arts Centre makes a
perfect setting for the first exhibition of
the Society of Interior Designers, which
aims at improving the standard of fur-
nishing in Australia and bids fair to hit
the mark. The rooms of the centre,
which is the old home St. Brigid’s in New
South Head-road, have been furnished by
various members of the society, mostly
in the modern manner, so that one can
see how to combine the many new types
of furniture and furnishings that are now
available.
There is a desk, which swivels in all
directions, buttercup calico curtains which
don’t fall too well but look gay and
sunny, low-lying chairs, “butterfly,”
“batwing,” “rest,” “repose,” etc., etc.,
which seem to stretch out their arms like
voracious orchids, inviting one to be
enveloped. There is black iron and cane,
a wicker basket full of tropical fruit —
very decorative if one can keep the
darning and the children’s torn picture-
books out of it —a study by Marion Best
which is a wonderful accomplishment of
color, but has weird skeletonic lights such
as one imagines over an operating-table
or in the examination-room of a con-
centration-camp. The room is dominated
by a painting of a bullock’s carcass (very
grim) and the tiled floor is decorated with
frantic doodlings.
There is a beautiful 18th-century
sitting-room by Stuart Low, and another
by Ruth Sloane (which, by the way, con-
tains two figures of Kwan-yin, the
Chinese goddess of mercy. These are
very fashionable at present). There is
a brown-and-white-plaid dinner-service
with square cups, a sidetable with a
sunken trough for an indoor garden,
framed botanical prints, 18th-century
prints, early Italian prints (you can’t go
wrong at present if you have these),
chairs that can be pushed together and
taken apart (they look rather amputated
when you do, it must.be admitted), and
streamlining everywhere. It is a most
stimulating exhibition with new ideas
abounding. Well worth seeing, it can be
visited till next Sunday.
☆ * ☆
Joy Nichols’s mother and father were
“out front” when she made her return
appearance before a crowded house at
the Tivoli last week. She didn’t come
on till right at the end of the programme,
but most of the other turns were so good
it didn’t seem long to wait. She wore
a rose-pink satin dress with a draped
bodice, halter neckline and a full skirt
brilliantly embroidered with bunches of
silver and sparkling flowers. It cost
£l5O, one heard, and it certainly was
effective. The audience wasn’t dressed
to match, few indeed in gala get-up at
all; but Marie Collier, taking a busman’s
holiday from “The Consul” (which has
moved to the Royal for an extended
season), added a touch of glamor in her
bouffant dress of sand organza with
clusters of golden sequins on skirt and
stole.
# # #
The vogue for wide wedding-rings is
growing. Some of them are an inch wide,
thick and heavy and always of gold.
Sometimes the ring is in two parts and
the engagement-ring can be worn be-
tween them. A few are about iin. wide,
platinum in a leaf design, and studded
with diamonds—very lovely and very ex-
pensive.
☆ ☆ ☆
June McAlister, daughter of the J. O.
McAlisters, of Manly, and formerly of
Pine Ridge, Leadville (N.S.W.), is one
of the early contingent to arrive back
from the Coronation. Her intention
when she went abroad was to stay for
six months and to see the Dublin Horse
Show, the Grand National and the
Trooping of the Color (it is easily seen
what her main interest is), but she stayed
over two years and saw England, Ireland,
Scotland, Wales, Scandinavia (the youth-
hostel way with Diana Loveband, of
Coonabarabran, and Anne Wollstone-
holme, of Mildura), Italy with Lauri
Duly, of Sydney ; Paris, Geneva, Frank-
furt, Munich, Vienna and Brussels the
luxurious way with Mr. and Mrs. Rodney
Kent, of Luton (Eng.), who took a party
for a holiday on the Continent in their
private plane; and the Channel Isles,
where she stayed for five months to avoid
the English winter.
June went hunting in Somerset with
Jock Cadell, of Tamber Springs, and
Dooley Anderson, of Gunnedah, and
noted how well-trained the horses in
England are compared with Australian
horses. She travelled in Spain with Ruth
Nelson, of Toowoomba, saw the Oxford
and Cambridge boat-race, the Windsor
Horse Show and the Coronation, She
has collected charms, coffee-spoons, tiles
for a tabletop and miniature bottles from
every place she has been, 24 of each,
and now feels that she’d like to be an
air-hostess for a while before returning
to her work as a woolclasser.
Lovely Lorna Eager, well-known in
Sydney for her work in commercial films
and as a photographic model, is playing
in “Antigone,” the modern tragedy by
Jean Anouilh at the Metropolitan.
Anxious to play Shakspeare, for which
she has already won eisteddfod competi-
tions, Lorna is studying voice-production,
and thinks that the experience gained in
playing Ismene in ” Antigone” will be very
helpful , Photo by John Heartier.
With Lorna in this play are Melpo
Zaracosta, a new Greek actress of great
promise, who has been in Australia for
only four years but has overcome the
language difficulty admirably. Another
actress of interest in this play is Mione
Stewart, niece of Nellie Stewart, who
played in the original production of
“Maid of the Mountains” with Gladys
Moncrieff, and is now returning to the
stage after an absence of 25 years.
# ‘ #
Hair-styles from 1908 onwards were
an interesting feature of the mannequin
parade arranged by Mrs. C. M. Guiney
for the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund
last Friday. It is said that nothing
“dates” one so much as an outmoded
hairstyle, but there was very little to
choose between the “windswept” bobs
of the ’twenties and many of the present-
day styles, even if the dresses of that
period looked distinctly odd. Clothes by
Mercia King featured faille coats, hand-
embroidery and beading. Included in
the hats by James and Matthew Mc-
Dougall was one with layers and layers
(Si fringe, which promises to be very
fashionable this season. After the parade
a cocktail-party was given by the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Mr. and Mrs.
P. D. Hills) for the guests, who included
Mrs. James McGirr, Mrs. John Tate,
Dr. and Mrs. Redler, Mrs. E. O’Dea
and Mrs. W- V- Whitta.
☆ ☆ ☆
What an honor it was for an Aus-
tralian woman to be elected world presi-
dent of country women! Mrs. A. M.
Berry, of Brisbane and Charleville (Q.),
will hold the office for the next three
years, having been elected at the seventh
triennial conference of the Associated
Country Women of the World just com-
pleted at Toronto (Canada). There are
six million women in this association,
which has had only two other presidents
since its inception.
\
MELBOURNE
Event of the week was the opening
night of “Call Me Madam,” in which
Evie Hayes stars and wears some lovely
gowns. Most notable of these were a
short bouffant white tulle with pastel
flowers set on the strapless bodice and
cascading down one side to the hem; a
scarlet tulle, short in front but falling
into a peacock train at the back; and a
sheath of black velvet ending in a deep
flared hemline of black taffeta.
When the Prime Minister, accompanied
by Mrs. Menzies, took his seat in the
dress-circle he Was given an ovation.
Mrs. Menzies wore a beautiful gown of
deep-grey Chantilly lace. Notable also
were Betty Inwood’s scarlet-and-gold
embroidered sari; Lillian Wightman s
black lace, jet-encrusted blouse and black
skirt contrasted with a shocking-pink
stole of silk organza; Mrs. C. Curtain’s
black satin-and-amber gown, the fragile
pink lace ballerina frock worn by Lady
Snow,
Pink braid spider-webs decorated the
full skirt of Mrs. Frank Tait’s black
taffeta gown. Beril Jents, who created
the gowns worn by Evie, wore one of her
own designs, an emerald-green metal-
threaded organza short evening-gown.
Mrs, Lionel Newton’s frock was of dark-
grey satin patterned in large pink roses.
Her daughter, Mrs. Verna Lynton, chose
dove-grey chiffons. Mrs. W. H. Hors-
fall’s grey satin gown carried sequins.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Battle for Britain Ball will be
held at the Royale on September 15.
Decorations will be mixed spring flowers
and red, white and blue balloons. Among
prizes to be won are a blond leather
beauty-case, a petit-point evening-bag,
an inter-State air flight and costume-
jewellery. Mrs. K. Connolly (WA4535)
can supply tickets. These details were
disclosed at a luncheon hostessed by
Mrs. Eric Hewitt at her Toorak home,
when members of the committee met the
patroness cjf the Air Fojce Women’s
Association, Lady Hardman, whose
husband is Chief-of-Air-Staff. Mrs.
Hewitt wore a beige wool tailored frock.
Lady Hardman a suit of mushroom beige
checked in light blue.
Mrs. R. H. Solly, the new Lady
Mayoress, will be the city’s hostess to
the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh
early next year. A gardening-lover, Mrs.
Solly is active in charity work —she has
been a member of the Well-Wishers’
Auxiliary to St. Vincent’s Hospital since
its foundation, and has been a vice-presi-
dent for the past 14 years.
The first party attended by the new
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. R. H. Solly, was
at St. Vincent’s Hospital—she is a vice-
president of the Wellwishers’ Group.
The president of the hospital’s auxiliaries,
Mrs. L. R. Buxton, greeted the Lady
Mayoress and presented her with a
bouquet of flowers, tied with the
hospital’s colors of blue and gold. The
Mother Rectress also spoke glowingly
of the work the Lady Mayoress had done
for the hospital. Among members of
the group present were Dorothy O’Keefe,
Mary Dowling, Vera Garland, Katherine
Ryan and Mrs. M. Peddle.
* ☆ ☆
The luncheon-party given at the
White Ensign Club to women journalists
was hostessed by Mrs. David Harries,
whose husband, Commodore Harries,
has been appointed Australia’s defence
representative in Washington. Mrs.
Harries is president of the committee
organising this year's Navy dinner-dance
on November 5 at the Royale Ballroom.
Tickets will cost two guineas each, and
the Governor-General and Lady Slim
will be present. Ticket-secretaries are
Mrs. Gordon Darling, Mrs. E. Dechai-
neux, Mrs. Edward Campbell and Nancy
Woodrow.
☆ ☆ ☆
Artist Esther Paterson and Patricia
Murray gathered together a number of
authors, a woman politician, representa-
tives of the theatre and a few business-
women and gave them afternoon-tea at
the Wentworth. It was to launch Bertha
Johnstone’s book The Tarnished Gateway,
which has as its background Townsville
during the war, and for which Esther
has done the attractive dustjacket. At
the party were Senator Ivy Wedgwood,
Jean Campbell, Myra Morris, Zana Webb,
Dr. Mary Kent Hughes, Georgia Rivers,
Betty Paterson, sculptress Ola Cohn,
Lynetta Young and Dorothy Gitcham.
☆ ☆ *
Visiting American journalist Mrs.
Esther van Wagoner Tufty was guest-of-
honor at a luncheon organised by the
Australian-American Association at the
Royale Ballroom. She was received by
the Federal president. Sir John Latham,
and Lady Latham, and the Federal
patron, Mr. R, G. Casey, and Mrs. Casey.
Three hundred members and their friends
attended the luncheon, among the gather-
ing the Minister for Immigration, Harold
Holt, and his wife, she wearing a very
attractive coat of terra-cotta wool with a
small black hat; Senator Agnes Robert-
son and Senator Ivy Wedgwood ;’Lieut.-
General Sir Sydney Rowell and Mrs.
Rowell, Lieut.-General W. Bridgeford and
Mrs. Bridgeford (her large cerise melusine
hat was worn with a grey suit); U.S.
Consul-General Henry E. Stebbins and
Mrs, Stebbins and the U.S. Navy, Army
and Air Force Attaches, Sir Leslie and
Lady McConnan, Sir Samuel and Lady
Burston (she chose a beech-brown suit
and matching hat) and Mr. and Mrs.
Wesley Ince.
☆ * *
Mrs. Royden Honeyman gave a
luncheon at her Glen Iris home for Mrs.
John Langley, just home from the Coro-
nation. Mrs. Langley’s dove-grey crepe
frock was embroidered in an all-over
pattern with grey braid. The hostess
wore a filmy black lace blouse with a
draped black crepe skirt. Among the
guests were Mrs. Gray Staley, whose
black velvet cap was worn with a dyed
ermine coat; Mrs. S. Aarons, in tiny
white feather-cap and black tailored suit;
Mrs. Con Curtain, who wore with her
black outfit a little mushroom-pink beret;
Mrs. John Carrodus, who added an
emerald-green beret to her black frock;
and Mrs. Sue Cain in shocking-pink
chiffon and melusine cloche and grey
suit.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two well-known mannequins, Bambi
Shmith and Diane Masters, have started
a joint venture —their own agency, estab-
lished at No. 9 Collins-street. This was
formally opened with a sherry-party by
Frances Burke, famous textile-designer.
Bambi and Diane will keep a compre-
hensive record of photographic types on
file, and they will register fashion-models
—men and women, mothers, housewives,
children, even animals. There were
many guests at the opening, among them
Mrs. Kenneth Cole, Mrs. John Masters,
Dorothy Ganley and Sheila Scottar.
☆ ☆ ☆
Prince Henry’s Hospital will benefit
from the proceeds of the gala premiere
at the National Theatre of “Miss Julie,”
in which ballerina Sally Gilraour, fragile
and appealing, was seen in the title role.
Sally wore an 1890 costume of white
surah, heavily draped into a double-
folded bustle at the back. The tight-
fitting bodice had long sleeves, and a
black bow finished the high neckline.
Hana Pravda in “The Golden Carriage”
wore a colorful Spanish costume with a
black-lace mantilla. Mrs. W. K. Burn-
side, whose husband is president of
Prince Henry’s Hospital committee, was
in the audience. Bronze beads showed
at the neck of her iridescent shantung
gown, worn under a mink coat. Sir
Robert and Lady Knox were there, she
wearing a gown of black crepe. Mrs.
Louis Sallmann wore navy Chantilly lace,
the design outlined with navy sequins.
Mrs. Gladys Myer wore mink over a
bronze taffeta ballerina frock; her
daughter, Mrs. Simon Warrender, wore a
black taffeta ballerina with a short white
Persian-lamb jacket. Mrs. David Wynn's
tent-coat of stiff crocus-yellow brocade
had a bold self-pattern; she wore it
over a grey ballerina strapless frock of
brocade with a delicate Chinese pattern.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO DONALD LESLIE DOUGLAS late of
77 Hanbury Street Mayfield.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARIE DOUGLAS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1981 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards Ift you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 3rd November 1953 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from GOULD & SHAW, Solicitors, of 72
Pitt Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE.SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT STANLEY TYLER late of 18
Ewos Parade Cronulla. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOAN LESLIE TYLER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2542 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
18th November 1953 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from COL-
REAVA' & O’LEARY, Solicitors, Wingello
House, Angel Place, Sydney—J. DOUG-
HAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
Would anv descendants or relatives oi
EDWARD ' RICHTER formerly of Water-
loo, South Australia, please communicate
with the DISTRICT MANAGER, PUBLIC
TRUST OFFICE, Thames, New Zealand.
mm
mm
■»
■
THE GENERAL MOTORS HOUR
“Listening to the General Motors Hour” is already a Wednesday night
habit with hundreds of thousands of appreciative Australians. Drama,
comedy, romance, adventure —all from the pens of the world’s best
playwrights—-are presented with topflight casts by noted producer Harry
Dearth. It’s a full hour of the finest dramatic productions in radio—
and one you shouldn’t miss!
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS 8.30 TO 9.30
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
fw\
2HR, 2 MW, 2LF, ?<PK, 2 MG, 2WL. 2LT,
2CA, 3CV, 4GY, 6WB, 6MD, 6BY, 7LA
m
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
‘Take It From Me”
Sydney theatres having had
almost a surfeit of culture in one
form or another, vaudeville
made a welcome reappearance
the other evening when “Take It
From Me” opened at the Tiv.
The title of the show is a tribute
to its star, Joy Nichols, who has
just returned to Australia after
six years in England, where,
among other things, she figured
with Jimmy Edwards and Dick
Bentley in the 8.8.C.’s “Take It
From Here,” which the A.B.C.
turns on for appreciative Aus-
tralian audiences every Sunday
night.
Miss Nichols is a perky
blonde of agreeable proportions,
and, although one had to con-
cede her the right to be a little
sentimental on her opening
night—which she was, with a
rather corny ditty about old
Sydney town, with another about
London and with a few sweet
words with the audience —she is
much, much better when she
deals in mimicry and comedy.
Then she is a lively and spark-
ling comedienne —quite a bril-
liant little entertainer, in fact.
On her opening night she took
in Dorothy Lamour, Sophie
Tucker, Judy Garland and
others .delightfully, and when
she sajng the ditty about a
couple of amorous hippopotami
her voice went up and up to-
wards the cherubs on the Tiv.’s
ceiling, and then down and
down and down until it seemed
low enough to crawl under a
snake’s belly. And when, of
radio advertising, she said in
accents broad “This is Winsor,
Commissioner for Railways,”
she brought the house down.
Miss Nichols hasn’t the whole
show to herself by any means.
The bill is a good one by the
best Tiv. standards, and includes
a couple of clever and genial
fallabout comedians, the Cheva-
lier Brothers; Peter, a young
contortionist from New Zealand
who apparently possesses India-
rubber bones ; Jimae, a remark-
ably good sleight-of-hand per-
former who does extraordinary
things with cards, cigarettes and
whatnot in a most relaxed and
polished manner; and Bert
Duke and Joy Horsburgh in
some pleasant comedy-dancing-
acrobatics.
Wally Peterson puts over some
popular songs in smoothly en-
gaging fashion; Halama and
Konarski provide a striking
dance sequence; young Jimae
gets a startling amount of music
out of a couple of mouth-
organs ; Norman Vaughan keeps
the air pale blue with an infec-
tious line of chatter and anec-
dotes ; and, challenging Miss
Nichols for the high-spot of the
night, are Walton and O’Rourke
with a most ingratiating collec-
tion of puppets, including an
ageing and rowdy night-club
dame who comes perilously
close to being an uproarious
satire on some of the things
seen around town.
The whole show is charmingly
decorated by the Tiv. “lovelies”
or “adorables” and punctuated
in the right places by soubrette
Babs McKinnon, who also
appears to be punctuated in the
right places.
Melbourne Avalanche
Seven art shows, four or five
amateur theatrical productions
and three professional ones burst
upon Melbourne in the one
week, and The Bulletin is still
tracking them down.
“As Black As She’s Painted,”
at the Princess, is a farce or
burlesque by Philip King, and
provides ample justification for
the reappearance on the local
boards of Charles Norman. The
piece is so half-witted that the
long-legged comedian’s de-
mented style of acting seemed
almost realistic. Mr. Norman
is a bachelor delinquent who
lives with his two spinster sisters
in their country home near Lon-
don, and who has mysterious
business in the city. The busi-
ness turns up in the shape of
Blondie, a quarter-wit in crim-
son trousers who paints herself
black for some unexplained rea-
son. The two spinster sisters
are rivals for the affections of
the Rev. Norvil Nimblefoot, a
moronic parson who wants to
raise the besotted heathen of
Darkest Africa to his own intel-
lectual level, and there is much
climbing up and down stairs
and hiding under the grand
piano, while a parlormaid with
a voice like a rotary-hoe and a
jealous husband complete the
ensemble.
If all that isn’t life, at least it
is lively, whereas “The Hollow,”
by Agatha Christie, at the
Comedy, isn’t life and isn’t
lively, either. Sir Henry Angka-
tell. Lady Angkatell, Edward,
Henrietta, Doris, Gerda,
Veronica Craye, the film-star.
Inspector Colquhoun, Detective-
Sergeant Penny and, of course,
the chambermaid and the butler,
are all worrying about who
killed John Cristow, found with
a bullet in his head and with his
wife standing beside him with
the smoking pistol.
Jessica Noad, George
Randall, Bettina Welch, Ellis
Irving and the various other
pieces weren’t in the least like
human beings, but The
Bulletin got caught up in the
game, anyway, and stuck it out
to the finish.
“The Flying Dutchman,” at
the Tivoli, is essentially just as
unreal and is played in such an
amateurish way by the National
Opera of Australia people that
it seems more unreal than
usual. But it is at least glorified
by Wagner’s music, which gets
adequate consideration per
medium of Alan Light as
Daland, Gladys Mawson as his
daughter and Neil Easton as the
wandering Dutchman.
❖ ❖ ❖
William Kapell
The American pianist re-
vealed at his two Sydney recitals
not only less tendency to weave
about the keyboard than he did
in his concerto work but a
seething vitality in his playing,
plus a dazzling polish on his
technique. Nor was there any
impression that it is done purely
for virtuosity’s sake.
He opened with Bach’s rarely-
heard Suite in A Minor, a rather
severe work of less polyphonic
content than is usual with
Bach. The early section was
limpid and stately, the final
Gigue flashed through with
great elan.
Very alert and very vital was
his reading of Moussorgsky’s
“Pictures at an Exhibition.” An
incisive wit informed his fingers
in the episode of the two Polish
Jews, where the children quarrel
at play, and in the chicken
ballet.
A modern work which ex-
tended his splendid technique to
its limits was Prokofieff’s
Seventh Sonata, which has a
final movement in unusual
seven-eight time. In this the
pianist gave a brilliant exhibi-
tion of sustained fortissimo
playing on both hands, working
up to a stunning climax.
Two Mozart sonatas were
notable for the restraint and
tastefulness accorded them. The
scherzo of Chopin’s B Flat
Minor Sonata was a flood of
energy, the great threnody jet
black, the miniature epilogue
like a rushing of wind.
The most satisfying work of
the two concerts was Schubert’s
Posthumous Sonata in A Major,
written only a few months before
the composer’s death. Of struc-
tural strength to compare with
Beethoven’s late essays in the
forjn, and replete with superb
melodies, this work gives the
lie to the pedants who claim
that Schubert failed in the
larger forms for the keyboard.
The work is, for the most
part, an extended song-without-
words, and it was this singing
quality, so essentially Schu-
bertian, to which Kapell gave
emphasis. It was the best Schu-
bert playing heard in Sydney
for a long time.
♦Jt
Cammeray Music Group
Some singing of style and
polish were heard from colora-
tura soprano Betty Prentice and
bass Fritz Phillipsborn when
they appeared with this Sydney
group.
Miss Prentice, fresh from a
successful season of opera, made
light of the many technical diffi-
culties jvhich Mozart wrought
for the Queen of the Night aria
from “The Magic Flute,” whilst
the Bell Song from Delibes’s
“Lakme” was sung with fresh-
ness and charm.
Fritz Phillipsborn has a bass
of splendid quality, and he
brought to its aid much intellig-
ence and musicianship in the big
Ballad from Boito’s “Mefis-
tofele” sardonic singing of
merit. Another fine aria was
that of Count D’Arcos in
Gomez’s “Salvator Rosa.”
* ❖ ❖
“Fumed Oak”
“J.F.”; Something that struck
me about “Fumed Oak” (B.
2/9/’53) at the Mercury was
how that technically brilliant
one-acter reflects Coward’s atti-
tude to women. Apart from the
skill that could fuse the material
of three acts into one, the dia-
logue between the mother and
daughter is lively, amusing, good
theatre and, underneath the
polish, almost breathtakingly
penetrating.
But in the scene of violence
the action ceases —by a fraction
—to be good theatre. Violence,
when offered to an elderly
woman by a man, is not par-
ticularly amusing, after all; nor
is that great standby of English
wits, the word “bitch.” It was
instructive to hear the reaction
of the audience —the laughter, at
full peal, suddenly growing
ragged. It had ceased to be
funny.
Only for a moment; but that
moment sums up, in a way,
much of Coward’s weakness and
a part of his brilliance as a
playwright.
Talkies
“Seven Deadly Sins”
This tiptop French omnibus
film ranges over the gamut
of man’s weaknesses —to say
nothing of woman’s with
merciless realism. The seven
stories, each with a different
director and cast, are introduced
in a novel way.
“Anger and Avarice” are
telescoped in a savage little
comedy-drama about a music
professor who reaps an unex-
pected windfall because of a
woman’s rebellion against her
husband’s miserliness. “Lust”
deals with the awakening of
puberty in the 13-year-old
daughter of a widow. Its effect
on her mother and her lover,
and the young girl’s reaction
when she accidentally comes
upon the pair in flagrante
delicto, is handled with great
delicacy and insight.
“Envy” is a penetrating study
of the hatred aroused in the
bride of an artist because of her
husband’s affection for his cat.
When her attempt to destroy it
is discovered by him he realises
that her action is not jealous
but a symptom of the envy she
holds for his intellectual friends
and his art, with which she has
nothing in common.
“Pride” is a well-conceived
story of a girl who lives with
her mother in genteel poverty,
and who sets out to humble a
wealthy family who patronis-
ingly invite her to a ball. Michele
Morgan gives an arresting por-
trayal.
“Sloth” is a witty fantasy in
which Heaven’s Director, in the
form of a fussy, bearded French
bureaucrat, orders sloth, under
higher instructions, to become a
virtue instead of a vice with the
object of slowing down the mad
pace of the world. The Director
personally descends to Earth to
see how it works out. It is
carried through on a high note
of cynicism.
The best of the stories is
“Gluttony,” a delightful tale of
a young country doctor, caught
out in a storm, who is invited
by a cloddish peasant to share
his bed with himself, and his
attractive young wife.
This highly-diverting film, in
which the acting and directing
throughout are of rare quality,
is rounded off with a brilliant
little vignette, “The Eighth
Sin,” that of inferring evil where
none exists. At Sydney Savoy.
Artbursts
John A. Gardner, who was
Rex Battarbee’s offsider when
they first penetrated into the
Centre, is holding an exhibition
at Tye’s Gallery, Melbourne.
Battarbee stuck to the Never
Never, and by employing Albert
Namatjira as a camel-boy inad-
vertently started a school of
aboriginal painting that has since
become world-famous. Gardner’s
environment changed to the
Western District (Vic.), where he
became a farmer and painted
those surroundings, so it is inter-
esting to note that his work isn’t
essentially different from
Namatjira’s, It is smoother and
more sophisticated and occasion-
ally in a small landscape he sees
deeper than the surface and gets
the soft atmosphere of the
Kiewa Valley and the mellow-
ness of autumn.


"Dad and Dave" In The Original
ON OUR SELECTION
Our Circus
By "STEELE
RUDD"
(ARTHUR H. DAVIS)
T\AVE had been to town and
-‘"'came home full of circus. He
sat on the ground beside the tubs
while Mother and Sal were
waihing, and raved about the
riding and the tumbling he had
seen. He talked enthusiastically
to Joe about it every day for
three weeks. Dave rose very
high in Joe’s estimation.
Raining. All of us inside.
Sal on the sofa playing the con-
certina ; Dad squatting on the
edge of a flat stone at the corner
of the fireplace, Dave on another
opposite, both gazing into the
fire, which was almost out, and
listening intently to the music;
the dog, dripping wet, coiled at
their feet, shivering ; Mother sit-
ting dreamily at the table, her
palm pressed against her cheek,
also enjoying the music.
Sal played on until the con-
certina broke. Then there was a
silence.
For a while Dave played with
a piece of charcoal. At last he
spoke. “Well,” he said, looking
at Dad, “what about this
circus?”
Dad chuckled.
“But what d’ y’ think ?”
“Well” —Dad paused—“yes”
—chuckled again—“very well.”
“A circus!” Sal put in. “A
pretty circus youse ’d have! ”
Dave fired up. "You go and
ride the red heifer, strad-legs,
same as y’ did yesterday,” he
snarled, “an’ let all the country
see y’.”
Sal blushed.
Then to Dad, “I’m certain,
with Paddy Maloney in it, we
co.uld do it right enough and
make it pay, too.”
“Very well, then,” said Dad.
“Very well. There's the tar-
paulin there, and plenty bales
and old bags whenever you’re
ready.”
Dave was delighted, and he
and Dad and Joe ran out to see
where the tent could be pitched
and ran in again wetter than the
dog.
One day a circus tent went up
in our yard. It attracted a lot
of notice. Two of the Johnsons
and old Anderson and others
rode in on draught-horses and
inspected it. And Smith’s
spring-cart horse, which used to
be driven by every day, stopped
in the middle of the lane and
stared at it, and when Smith
stood up and belted him with the
double of the reins, he bolted
and upset the cart over a stump.
It wasn’t a very white tent. It
was made of bags and green
bushes, and Dad and Dave and
Paddy Maloney were two days
putting it up.
We all assisted in the prepara-
tions for the circus. Dad built
seats out of forked sticks and
slabs, and Joe gathered jam-tins
which Mother filled with fat and
moleskin wicks to light up with.
Everyone in the district knew
about our circus, and longed for
the opening night. It came. A
large fire near the sliprails,
shining across the lane and light-
ing up a corner of the wheat
paddock, showed the way in.
Dad stood at the door to take
the money. The Andersons—
eleven of them—arrived first.
They didn’t walk straight in.
They hung about for a while.
Then Anderson sidled up to
Dad and talked into his ear.
“Oh, that’s all right,” Dad said,
and passed them all in without
taking any money.
Next came the Maloneys, and,
as Paddy belonged to the circus,
they also walked in without pay-
ing and secured front seats.
Then Jim Brown and Sam
Holmes and Walter Nutt and
Steve Burton and eight others
strolled along. Dad owed all of
them money for binding, which
they happened to remember. “In
you go,” Dad said, and in the
lot went. The tent filled quickly,
and the crowd awaited the open-
ing act.
Paddy Maloney came forward
with his hair oiled and combed
and rang the cowbell.
Dave, barefooted and bare-
headed, in snow-white moles and
red shirt, entered standing
majestically upon old Ned's
back. He got a great reception.
But Ned was tired and refused
to canter. He jogged lazily
round the ring. Dave shouted at
him and rocked about. He was
very unsteady. Paddy Maloney
flogged Ned with the leg-rope.
But Ned had been flogged often
before. He got slower and
slower. Suddenly, he stood and
cocked his tail, and, to prevent
himself falling, Dave jumped off.
Then the audience yelled while
Dave dragged Ned into the
dressing-room and punched him
on the nose.
Paddy Maloney made a
speech. He said “Well, the next
item on the programme’ll knock
y’ bandy. Keep quiet, you
fellows, now, an’ y’ll see some-
thin’.”
They saw Joe. He stepped
backwards into the ring, pulling
at a string- There was something
on the string. “Come on!” Joe
said, tugging. The “something”
wouldn’t come. “Chuck ’im
in! ” Joe called out. Then the
pet kangaroo was heaved in
through the doorway, and fell
on its head and raised the dust.
A great many ugly dogs rushed
for it savagely. The kangaroo
jumped up and bounded round
the ring. The dogs pursued him
noisjly. “Gerrout!” Joe shouted,
and the crowd stood up and be-
came very enthusiastic. The dogs
caught the kangaroo, and were
dragging him to earth when Dad
rushed in and kicked them in
twos to the top of the tent
Then, while Johnson expostu-
lated with Dad for laming his
brindle slut, the kangaroo dived
through a hole in the tent and
rushed into the house and into
the bedroom, and sprang on the
bed among a lot of babies and
women’s hats.
When the commotion subsided
Paddy Maloney rang the cow-
bell again, and Dave and Podgy,
the pet sheep, rode out on
Nugget. Podgy sat with his hind-
legs astride the horse and his
head leaning back against Dave’s
chest. Dave (standing up) bent
over him witji a pair of shears
in his hand.. He was to shear
Podgy as the horse cantered
round.
Paddy Maloney touched
Nugget with the whip, and off
he went, “rump-ti-dee, dump-ti-
dee.” Dave rolled about a lot
the first time round, but soon
got his equilibrium. He
brandished the shears and
plunged the points of them into
Podgy’s belly-wool, also into
Podgy’s skin. “Bur -ur-r /”
Podgy blurted and struggled
violently. Dave began to topple
about. He dropped the shears.
The audience guffawed. Then
Dave jumped, but Podgy’s horns
got caught in his clothes and
made trouble. Dave hung on one
side of the horse and the sheep
dangled on the other. Dave
sang out, so did Podgy. And the
horse stopped and snorted, then
swung furiously round and round
until five or six pairs of hands
seized his head and held him.
Dave didn’t repeat the act. He
ran away holding his clothes
together.
It was a very successful circus.
Everyone enjoyed it and wished
to see it again—everyone but the
Maloneys. They said it was a
swindle, and ran Dad down be-
cause he didn’t divide with
Paddy the three and sixpence he
took at the door.
"Hold this kuk-kuk-cove, then.”
When Joe Was in
Charge
TOE was a naturalist. He spent
** a lot of time, time that Dad
considered should have been
employed putting burr or dig-
ging potatoes, in earmarking
bears and bandicoots, and catch-
ing goannas and letting them go
without their tails, or coupled
in pairs with pieces of greenhide.
The paddock was full of goannas
in harness and slit-eared bears.
They belonged to Joe.
Joe also took an interest in
snakes, and used to poke
amongst logs and brush fences
in search of rare specimens.
Whenever he secured a good one
he put it in a cage and left it
there until it died or got out,
or Dad threw it, cage and all,
right out of the parish.
One day, while Mother and
Sal were out with Dad, Joe came
home with a four-foot black
snake in his hand. It was a
beauty. So sleek and lithe and
lively! He carried it by the tail,
its head swinging close to his
bare leg, and the thing yearning
for a grab at him. But Joe
understood the ways of a reptile.
There was no cage—Dad had
burnt the last one —so Joe
walked round the room wonder-
ing where to put his prize. The
cat came out of the bedroom
and mewed and followed him for
the snake. He told her to go
away. She didn’t go. She
reached for the snake with her
paw. It bit her. She spat and
sprang in the air and rushed out-
side with her back up. Joe
giggled and wondered how long
the cat would live.
The Rev. Macpherson, on his
way to christen McKenzie’s
baby, called in for a drink, and
smilingly asked after Joe’s
health.
“Hold this kuk-kuk-cove,
then,” Joe said, handing the
parson the reptile, which was
wriggling and biting at space,
“an’ I’ll gug-gug-get y’ one.”
But when Mr. Macpherson saw
the thing was alive he jumped
back and fell over the dog which
was lying behind him in the
shade. Bluey grabbed him by the
leg, and the parson jumped up in
haste and made for his horse,
followed by Bluey, Joe cried
“Come ’ere!” then turned
inside.
Mother and Sal entered. They
had come to make Dad and
themselves a cup of tea. They
quarrelled with Joe, and he went
out and started playing with the
snake. He let it go, and went
to catch it by the tail again, but
the snake caught him —by the
finger.
“He’s bit me! ” Joe cried, turn-
ing pale. Mother screeched, and
Sal bolted off for Dad, while
the snake glided silently up the
yard.
Andersdn, passing on his old
mare, heard the noise and
came in. He examined Joe's
finger, bled the wound, and was
bandaging the arm when Dad
rushed in.
“Where is he?” he said. “Oh,
you damned whelp! You wretch
of a boy! My God!”
“ Twasn’ my fault.” And Joe
began to blubber.
But Anderson protested.
There was no time, he said, to
be lost barneying; and he told
Dad to take his old mare Jean
and go at once for Sweeney.
Sweeney was the publican at
Kangaroo Creek, with a reputa-
tion for curing snakebite. Dad
ran out, mounted Jean and
turned her head for Sweeney’s.
But, at the sliprails, Jean stuck
him up, and wouldn’t go farther.
Dad hit her between the ears
with his fist and got down and
rah back,
“The boy’ll be dead, Ander-
son,” he cried, rushing inside
again. /
“Come on, then,” Anderson
said, “we’ll take off his finger.”
Joe was looking drowsy. But,
when Anderson took hold of him
and placed the wounded fingef
on a block, and Dad faced him
with the hammer and a blunt,
rusty old chisel, he livened up.
“No, Dad, no!” he squealed,
straining and kicking like an
old-man kangaroo. Anderson
stuck to him, though, and with
Sal’s assistance held his finger on
the block till Dad carefully rested
the chisel on it and brought the
hammer down. It didn’t sever
the finger—it only scraped the
nail off —but it aid make Joe
buck. He struggled desperately
and got away.
Anderson couldn’t run at all.
Dad was little faster; Sal could
run like a greyhound in her bare
feet, but, before she could pull
her boots off, Joe had disap-
peared in the corn.
“Quick!” Dad shouted, and
the trio followed the patient.
They hunted through the corn
from end tp end, but found no
trace of him. Night came. The
search continued. They called,
and called, but nothing answered
save the ghostly echoes, the
rustling of leaves, the slow,
sonorous notes of a distant bear,
or the neighing of a horse in the
grass paddock.
At midnight they gave up and
went home, and sat inside and
listened and looked distracted.
While they sat, Whisky, a
black - fellow from Billson’s
station, dropped in. He was tak-
ing a horse down to town foe


From Australia —to 51 Countries!
8.0.A.C. rS Takes Good Care of You
Across the World
to
¥
&
4k
s
*sr
SO*
\7pms
S
&
IK
X
V
v\
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas Empire
Airways Ltd., ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia).
For Post Haste without waste —use Overseas Airmail
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
Consult your Travel Agent
for free advice.
Book from Australia to
Indonesia* Malaya* Burma
Thailand • Hong Kong
Japan * Ceylon • India
Pakistan • Middle East
Africa • Europe • Great
Britain • U.S.A. • Canada
Central and South America
Bermuda
Fly on one ticket all the way on
world-wide 8.0.A.C. services.
Fly at fine weather heights in
fully-pressurized airliners.
Enjoy traditionally good
8.0.A.C. service, 34 years
flying experience.
8.0.A.C. leads
with the
Comet.
his boss, and asked Dad if he
could stay till morning. Dad
said he could. He slept in Dave s
bed. Dave slept on the sofa.
“If Joe ain’t dead, and wuz t’
come in before mornin’ ,” Dave
said, “there won’t be room for
us all.”
And before morning Joe did
come in. He entered stealthily
by the back-door, and crawled
qpietly into bed.
At daybreak Joe awoke and
nudged his bed-mate and said
“Dave, the cocks has crowed!”
No answer. He nudged him
again. *
“Dave, the hens is all off the
roost!” Still no reply.
Daylight streamed in through
the cracks. Joe sat up l —he was
at the back—and stared about.
He glanced at the face of his
bed-mate and chuckled and said
“Who’s been blackenin’ y’,
Dave?”
He sat grinning a while, then
stood up and started pulling on
his trousers, which he drew from
under his pillow. He had put
one leg into them when his eyes
rested on a pair of black feet
uncovered at the foot of the bed.
He Stared at them and the black
face again—then plunged for the
door and fell. Whisky was
awake and grinned over the side
of the bed at him.
“What makit you so frightent
like that?” he said, grinning
more.
Joe ran into Mother’s room
and dived in behind her and
Dad. Dad swore, and kicked
Joe and jammed him against the
slabs with his heels, saying, “My
Gawd ! You devil of a feller, how
{kick) dare you {kick) run {kick)
run {kick, kick, kick) away
yesterday, eh?” {Kick).
But he was very glad to see
Joe all the same. We all felt
that Shingle Hut would not have
been the same place at all with-
out Joe.
It was when Dad and Dave
were away after kangaroo scalps
that Joe was most appreciated.
Mother and Sal felt it such a
comfort to have a man in the
house, even if it was only Joe.
Joe was proud of his male
prerogatives. He looked after
the selection, minded the corn,
kept Anderson’s and Dwyer’s
and Brown’s and old Mother
Murphy’s cows out of it, and
chased goannas away from the
front door the same as Dad used
to do —for Joe felt that he was
in Dad’s place, and postponed
his customary familiarities with
the goannas.
It was while Joe was in charge
that Casey came to our place. A
starved-looking, toothless little
old man with a restless eye,
talkative, ragged and grey, he
walked with a bend in his back
(not a hump), and carried his
chin in the air. We had never
seen a man like him before. He
spoke rapidly, too, and watched
us all as he talked. Not exactly
a traveller, he carried no swag
or billycan, and wore a pair of
boots much too large. He
seemed to have been well
brought up—he took off his hat
at the door and bowed low to
Mother and Sal, who were sit-
ting inside sewing. They gave
a start and stared. The dog,
lying at Mother’s feet, rose and
growled. Bluey wasn’t used to
the ways of people well brought
up.
The world had dealt harshly
with Casey, and his story went to
Moiher’s heart. “Good buless
y’,” he said when she told him
he could have some dinner, “but
I’ll cut y’r wood for it. Oh, I’ll
cut y’r wood! ” And he went to
the woodheap and started work.
A big heap and a blunt axe, but
it didn’t matter to Casey. He
worked hard, and didn’t stare
about, and didn’t reduce the
heap much either ; and when Sal
called him to dinner he couldn’t
hear—he was too busy. Joe had
to go and bring him away.
Casey sat at the table and
looked up at the holes in the
roof, through which the sun was
shining.
“Ought t’ be a cool house,”
he remarked.
Mother said it was.
“Quite a bush house.”
“Oh, yes,” Mother said, “we're
right in the bush here.”
He began to eat and, as he
ate, talked cheerfully of selec-
tions and crops and old times
and bad times and wire fences
and dead cattle. Casey was a
versatile ancient. When he was
finished he shifted to the sofa
and asked Mother how many
children she had. Mother con-
sidered and said “Twelve.” He
thought a dozen enough for any-
one, and said that his mother,
when he left home, had twenty-
one —all girls but him. That
was forty years ago, and he
didn’t know how many she’d had
since. Mother and Sal smiled.
They began to like old Casey.
Casey took up his hat and
went outside, and didn’t say
“Good day” or “Thanks” or any-
thing. He didn’t go away, either.
He looked about the yard. A
panel in the fence was broken.
It had been broken for five years.
Casey seemed to know it. He
started mending that panel. He
was mending it all the evening.
Mother called to Joe to bring
in some wood. Casey left the
fence, hurried to the woodheap,
carried in an armful, and asked
Mother if she wanted more.
Then he returned to the fence.
“J-oe,” Mother screeched a
little later, “look at those cows
tryin’ to eat the com.”
Casey left the fence again and
drove the cows away and mended
the wire on his way back.
At sundown Casey was cut-
ting more wood, and when we
were at supper he brought it in
and put some on the fire and
went out again slowly.
Mother and Sal talked about
him. “Better give him his
supper,” Sal said, and Mother
sent Joe to invite him in. He
didn’t come in at once. Casey
wasn’t a forward man. He
stayed to throw some pumpkin
to the pigs.
Casey slept in the barn that
night. He slept in it the next
night, too. He didn’t believe in
shifting from place to place, so
he stayed with us altogether. He
took a lively interest in the selec-
tion. The house, he said, was in
the wrong place, and he showed
Mother where it ought to have
been built. He suggested shift-
ing it, and setting a hedge and
ornamental-trees in front and
fruit-trees at the back, and mak-
ing a nice place of it. Little
things like that pleased Mother.
“Anyway,” she would some-
times say to Sal, “he’s a useful
old man, and knows how to look
after things about the place.”
Casey did. Whenever any water-
melons were ripe, he looked after
them and hid the skins in the
ground. And if a goanna or a
crow came and frightened a hen
from her nest Casey always got
the egg, and when he had
gobbled it pp he would chase
that crow’ or goanna for its life
and shout lustily.
Every day saw Casey more at
home at our place. He was a
very kind man and most oblig-
ing. If a traveller called for a
drink of water, Casey would give
him a cup of milk and ask him
to wait and have dinner. If
Maloney or old Anderson or
anybody wished to borrow a
horse or a dray or anything
about the place, Casey would
let them have it with pleasure,
and tell them not to be in a
hurry about returning it.
Joe got on well with Casey.
Casey’s views on hard work
were the same as Joe’s. Hard
work, Joe thought, wasn’t neces-
sary on a selection.
Casey knew a thing or two,
so he said. One fine morning,
when all the sky was blue and
the butcher-birds whistling
strong, Dwyer’s cows smashed
down a lot of the fence and
dragged it into the corn, Casey,
assisted by Joe, put them all in
the yard, and hammered them
with sticks. Dwyer came along.
“Those cattle belong to me,”
he said angrily.
“They belongs t’ me,” Casey
answered, “until you pay
damages.” Then he put his back
to the sliprails and looked up
aggressively into Dwyer’s face.
Dwyer was a giant beside Casey,
Dwyer didn’t say anything—he
wasn’t a man of words —but
started throwing the rails down
to let the cows out. Casey flew
at him. Dwyer quietly shoved
him away with his long, brown
arm. Casey came again and
fastened on to Dwyer. Joe
mounted the stockyard. Dwyer
seized Casey with both hands;
then there was a struggle, on
Casey’s part. Dwyer lifted him
up and carried him away and set
him down on his back, then
hastened to the rails. But before
he could throw them down
Casey , was upon him again.
Casey never knew when he was
beaten. Dwyer was getting
annoyed. He took CaSey by the
back of the neck and squeezed
him. Casey humped his
shoulders and gasped. Dwyer
stared about. A plough-rein
hung on the yard. Dwyer
reached for it. Casey yelled
“Murder! ” Dwyer fastened one
end of the rope round Casey’s
body—under the arms —and
stared about again. And again
“Murder!” from Casey. Joe
jumped off the yard to get farther
away. A tree with a high hori-
zontal limb stood near. Dad had
once used it as a butcher’s
gallows. Dwyer gathered the
loose rein into a coil and heaved
it over the limb, and hauled
Casey up. Then he tied the end
of the rope to the yard and
drove out the cows.
“When y’ want ’im down,”
Dwyer said to Joe as he walked
away, “cut the rope.”
Casey groaned, and one of his
boots dropped off. Then he
began to spin round —to wind up
and unwind and wind up again.
Joe came near and eyed the
twirling form with joy.
Mother and Sal arrived,
breathless and excited. They
screeched at Joe.
“Undo the r-r-rope,” Joe said,
“an’ he’ll come w-w-wop.”
Sal ran away and procured a
sheet, and Mother and she held
it under Casey, and told Joe to
unfasten the rope and lower him
as steadily as he could. Joe
unfastened the rope, but some-
how it pinched his fingers and
he let go, and Casey fell through
the sheet. For three weeks Casey
was an invalid at our place. He
would have been invalided there
for the rest of his days only
Dad came home and induced
him to leave. Casey didn’t want
to go, but Dad had a persuasive
way with him that generally
proved effectual.
Singularly enough. Dad com-
plained that kangaroos were get-
ting scarce where he was
camped, while our paddocks
were full of them. Joe started a
mob nearly every day, as he
walked round overseeing things,
and he pondered. Suddenly he
had an original inspiration —
originality was Joe’s strong
point. He turned the barn into
a workshop, and buried himself
there for two days. For two
whole days he was never “at
home,” except when he stepped
out to throw the hammer at the
dog for yelping for a drink. The
greedy brute! It wasn’t a week
since he’d had a billyful, Joe
told him. On the morning of the
third day the barn-door swung
open, and forth came a kangaroo
with a sharpened carving-knife
in its paws. It hopped across the
yard and sat up, bold and erect,
near the dog-kennel. Bluey
nearly broke his neck trying to
get at it. The kangaroo said
“Lay down, you useless hound! ”
—and started across the cultiva-
tion, heading for the grass pad-
dock in long, erratic jumps..
Half-way across the cultivation
it spotted a mob of other
kangaroos and took a firmer
grip of the carver,
Bluey howled and plunged
until Mother came out to see
what was the matter. She was
in time to see a solitary
kangaroo hop in a drunken
manner towards the fence, so she
let the dog go and cried “Sool
him, Bluey! Sool him!” Bluey
sooled him, and Mother fol-
lowed with the axe to get the
scalp. As the dog came racing
up, the kangaroo turned and
hissed “G’ home, y’ mongrel!”
Bluey took no notice, and only
when he had nailed the kangaroo
dextrously by the thigh and got
him down did it dawn upon the
marsupial that Bluey wasn’t in
the secret. Joe tore off his head-
gear, called the dog affectionately
by name and yelped for help
But Bluey had not had anything
substantial to eat for over a
week and he worried away
vigorously.
Then the kangaroo slashed out
with the carving-knife and
hacked a junk off Bluey’s nose.
Bluey shook his head, relaxed
his thigh-grip and grabbed the
kangaroo by the ribs. How that
kangaroo did squeal! Mother
arrived. She dropped the axe,
threw up both hands and
shrieked. “Pull him off! He’s
eating me! ” gasped the
kangaroo. Mother shrieked
louder and wrung her hands, but
it had no effect on Bluey. He
was a good dog, was Bluey!
At last. Mother got him by the
tail and dragged him off, but he
took a mouthful of kangaroo
with him as he went. Then the
kangaroo raised itself slowly on
to its hands and knees. It was
very white and sick-looking, and
Mother threw her arms round it
and cried “Oh, Joe, my child,
my child!”
It was several days before Joe
felt better. When he did, Bluey
and he went down the gully to-
gether and, after a while, Joe
came back —like Butler —alone.
(This is the concluding instal-
ment of what was originally
published in book-form as “On
Our Selection,” but in next
week’s issue the series “Our New
Selection” will begin.)


If
forV-^
Let us show
YOU how
Him Tractor
handles
YOUR
work with
YOUR
imploMeufs
OH
YOUR laud
Your Local Authorised
Nuffield Dealer will
arrange ifl
A
M. *
.- r /3Vy£&
«?
rw
"AmA
>u :
•v^
«vm
' •/' • f\
Twelve Furrow Twin Disc
Plough, being handled in
third gear by a Nuffield
Tractor.
The Nuffield Tractor is really "Universal."
It will take almost every type and make
of implement, drawn or otherwise.
Other features include 6-way-hydraulic
power ... adjustable track, front and
rear . . . speedy 4-wheel to 3-wheel
conversion ... high road speeds ... non-
slip power-weight distribution ... 5
power-packed forward speeds . . .
complete electrical equipment . . .
independent turning brakes .. . AND
great economy.
A Task Force in itself/
WPFFIEIP
\ UAf/VERSAL TRACTOR f
sdf
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD* LIMITED. Victoria.-
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NUFFIELD (AUST.) PTY. LTD., Victoria Park, Joynton Ave., Zetland, W.S.W.
NT.19.24
i.E
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
Missing Friend
TO ALBERT JOHN CURRAN formerly
of Sydney, New South Wales; Brisbane,
Queensland; Middle Brighton, Victoria;
and Darwin, Northern Territory; but
now of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife DOROTHY GERTRUDE
CURRAN has instituted proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of the
State of Victoria in its Divorce and
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction for a
dissolution of her marriage to you on the
ground of desertion AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that unless you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Protho-
notary of the Supreme Court of Victoria
on or before the Ist day of October 1953
and file an Answer thereto on or before
the 11th day of October 1953 the case
may proceed in your absence.
LLOYD P. GOODE. LL.B., of 475
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for
the abovenamed Petitioner.
Absent Friends
by ROSEMARY
DOBSON
CATHERINE was only
seven when Edward
Burren first came to live
with them, and though
she always called him Grand-
father he was not her grand-
father at all but a first, and
much older, cousin of her father.
To her mother, Millicent, he
was a “solution,”
“He’s such a solution,”
Cathie heard her saying to her
friends. “It means I’ll be able
to keep Tarree on now without
worrying at all.”
Tarree was the only good
thing Henry Webster had
brought to his marriage with
Millicent. Tarree and, of
course, there was Catherine.
Millicent loved both her
daughter and the house with
intensity ; but, whereas her affec-
tion for her daughter was half-
humorous and wholly reserved,
she loved Tarree passionately,
worked for it slavishly, and was
continually rewarded by its
beauty. The house was at Long
Hill, a suburb on the north
shore of Sydney Harbor. The
hill was a long, narrow
peninsula, and, because it was
difficult to reach, the suburb had
retained something of the
character of the outlying village
it had been in the early days of
settlement. Millicent and
Catherine sometimes went to
town by the infrequent ferry.
Edward Burren hardly went out
at all.
It was a strange coincidence
that Edward’s sister, Mary
Burren, should die two days
after Henry Webster, and not
unnatural that the solicitor who
looked after the affairs of both
families should suggest the solu-
tion to the problems made by
the two deaths. The Burrens’
house in one of the eastern
suburbs was sold, and old Mr.
Burren, bringing with him some
furniture and packing-cases,
installed himself in two of the
large rooms at the back of
Tarree.
HTHE house, a stone one, had
1 been built many, many years
ago, and Henry’s father and
grandfather had both lived in it
until their deaths. It was a
two-storied building, and from
the stone terrace before it the
lawn sloped gently down to the
water. Long-shuttered French
windows opened on to the
veranda which ran round two
sides of the house, and the water
threw up the sunlight which
glimmered on the pale, green
walls and high ceilings inside.
Wistaria and grape-vines twisted
over the columns supporting the
roof of the veranda, and about
the house there was always a stir
and shifting of shadows and
lights from the vines, the lattices
and the half-closed swinging
shutters.
Because of this soft animation
of light and shade Millicent had
cleared the accumulated decora-
tions from the walls, and
emptied the rooms of all but the
heavy furniture Grandfather
Webster had lhad made from
red Hawkesbury cedar. The
floorboards of Baltic-pine she
polished till they glowed with a
subdued golden light. Cathie
knew that she must keep clear
of her mother’s enthusiastic
energy on polishing days, which
were Saturdays. She slipped out
on to the veranda and round to
Grandfather’s room, tapping
lightly at the door into the
garden.
In this room there was the
same delicate movement of
shadow. The morning sunlight
slipped over and under the leaves
of the apple-tree outside the
window. Grandfather was the
still centre of this gentle, con-
tinuous movement. He was
engaged in his usual morning
occupation. Country newspapers
from all over New South Wales,
and the Melbourne papers as
well, arrived for him in the post
every day, and these he studied
for three or four hours, sitting
upright at the table in his high-
backed leather chair. At midday
he always turned on the wireless
and listened sagely to the
weather reports and river
heights. “Hastings, Hunter and
Manning ...” the announcer
would say, and Grandfather
would nod with the air of one
completely familiar with the
vagaries of rivers.
Cathie knew from his stories
that Grandfather had lived until
not very long ago in the country.
But she did not know that he
had bought Widgeewaa, that
famous Riverina property, with
borrowed money many years
ago, and had developed it to
such a degree that its efficiency
and productiveness had become
a legend.
When her mother called them
to lunch Cathie and Grandfather
had sat for nearly an hour in a
pleasant silence; he reading his
newspapers and she looking for
about the thousandth time at his
collection —photographs of prize
bulls and picnic races, clippings
from newspapers, family
portraits, and faded diary
entries and rainfall records in
Grandfather’s own disciplined,
distinguished hand. Now he
rose, stretched . himself,
straightened his coat and patted
the top, of Cathie’s head. It was
the only gesture of affection he
was ever known to make.
Before they left the room he
tidied the piled-up collection,
taking up in his hand for a
moment the photograph Cathie
had just put down. She knew
well enough what it was, having
asked and been told many times.
It was Miss Anna Mantini and
Mr. Edward Burren at the
Albury Picnic Races. How
handsome was Mr. Burren with
his dashing moustaches, his
bright brown eyes, his gloved
hand holding a riding-crop!
How elegant Miss Mantini in
her riding-habit, looking not at
Mr. Burren, not at the camera,
looking indeed right out of the
picture!
Grandfather put it gently
down on the table.
TN the dining-room Grand-
A father said grace and began
immediately to talk. It was one
of his anecdote days. Every-
thing that he spoke about on
such occasions seemed to Cathie
to be on the most tremendous
scale, and many things were
strange to her. If Grandfather
recalled a meal from his very
early days it was all pannikins
and shouting, packing - case
tables and saddles on the floor.
If he recalled a meal at
Widgeewaa he spoke of cruets,
decanters, side-dishes, epergnes
and finger-bowls.
Millicent ran her house to a
calculated degree of economy,
and her appointments for the
most part were of the simplest.
Twice a year, however, at
Christmas and on April the
seventh. Grandfather spent the
morning on his knees before the
sea-chest in his dressing-room.
From it he drew forth heavy
silver, wine-glasses of many
shapes 'and candlesticks. These
were polished and set on Grand-
father Webster’s oval table, and
a banquet was laid. And on
successive April - the - sevenths
(there had been three such
occasions at Tarree) Grand-
father rose, wine-glass in hand,
declaimed “Absent Friends,”
drank deeply and thereafter
appeared much moved.
Today, however, was merely
August the fifth, and Cathie,
after her uncommunicative
morning, was restless, bobbing
up and down in her chair, and
casting sidelong glances out of
the window. Grandfather leant
forward.
“You may have heard me
speak,” he said, “of Miss Anna
Mantini.”
Cathie wriggled. This was
how Grandfather began so many
of his courteous admonitory
talks. Always, “You may per-
haps have heard me mention
the name of Miss Anna
Mantini ...” or “Miss Anna
Mantini, about whom I have
probably spoken before ...”
Miss Anna Mantini, so high-
spirited, so elegant, always sat
at the table perfectly upright, so
slender, her hands folded quietly
in her lap. How beautiful she
wari How well could Cathie
imagine her!
“Why, I remember once,” said
Grandfather, “when I visited
the home of Miss Anna Man-
tini’s parents at Gundagai ...”
How many anecdotes there
were! The concerts in the home
of Miss Anna Mantini, the sing-
ing round the piano. The young
man who brought his music
secreted in his folded umbrella
whom nobody asked to sing,
and how when they departed
and it was raining . . .
Millicent thought; This
grown-up talk all the time must
be tiring for the child. She dis-
missed Cathie with a nod and
broke into the stream of
reminiscences.
“Edward,” she said, “I
thought that I might take Cathie
to Melbourne with me for two
weeks of her school holidays
next month. If I ask Mrs.
Bucket to come here and look
after you will you be all right?
I don’t want to leave the house
but Helen has asked me, and I
think it would do us both
good,”
“I quite agree. Do please go
by all means,” said Grandfather
in his courteous, precise voice.
“Mrs. Bucket and I will agree
very amicably to avoid each
other whenever possible, and I
shall be busy with my reading.”
He brushed his moustache and
passed his hand over his hair.
“But I shall, needless to say, be
very glad to see you back. One’s
friends, nowadays, so scat-
tered ...”
His voice trailed away. He
rose stiffly, patted Millicent on
the head and walked out into
the garden.
A/fILLICENT had sent the
luggage ahead the day
before so their departure from
Tarree was tranquil, though her
heart was wrenched as she
closed the front-door behind
them. Grandfather, the keys in
his pocket, accompanied them
down to the ferry. Cathie,
excited, ran ahead of them*
skittering from side to side of
the road. When they reached the
wharf the ferry drew in, and
for Cathie her brass was shining
in the sun, her woodwork was
like new-peeled bark, and her
whistle sounded out all the
music of a fun-fair.
“Oh, Grandfather,” she said,
“won’t you come with us on the
ferry into town? Then you
could go back again on the ferry,
you know.”
Grandfather shook his head.
“To tell you the truth,” he
replied, “I’m afraid I’m not very
good at walking up that narrow
little gangplank over the Water.”
“Poor Grandfather,” thought
Cathie. “Afraid of the water.”
Millicent and Edward stood
together a moment longer on
the wharf. “I have the address
here safely, Edward,” she said.
“Shall I give any message from
you?”
After dinner the previous
evening Edward had said to her
“I think you may have heard
me speak of”
“Yes, Edward,” she had
interrupted, “I have.” And their
eyes had met with a rare and
pleasing intimacy; hers, gently
humorous, his, disconcerted, but
grateful. “I would be pleased
if, while you are in Melbourne,
you would visit this lady. I have
here her address.” And handing
her a folded sheet of notepaper
he had * bidden her good-
night with a finality that closed
the subject.
Now she repeated “Is there
any message?”
“You must hurry on to the
ferry,” Edward answered, and


m
-Uf/Vj
<
1
m
mm
m
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
BVusaber
-(flotk-
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl 13.3
added “Only my very warmest
regards.”
IN Melbourne their days were
full of animation and excite-
ment. Helen, Millicent’s sister,
intended that she should have a
bright time. Eight years of
loveless marriage to the cold,
pale Henry—or, rather, Helen
explained to her husband, seven,
for she was sure that they had
loved each other in a puzzled,
dwindling way for a year—and
then three years devoted to
Cathie, Edward and the house,
well, it was time, she said, that
Millicent had a little gaiety.
Robert, Helen’s husband,
agreed, finding almost incom-
prehensible any other life than
their own easy, friendly one;
and they drew up a crowded
programme of entertainment.
To her surprise Millicent found
herself enjoying it all
immensely. Her face took on
color and liveliness. She
enjoyed compliments, and com-
pliments—except on her capa-
bility and efficiency in running
Tarree—had not come her way
for a long time. And it was
pleasing to be always so cer-
tainly the guest - of - honor.
Cathie, too, was happily
occupied, and was inseparable
from her young cousins.
Three days before* she was to
return to Sydney Millicent was
horrified to realise that she had
not undertaken the visit on
Edward’s behalf. Her sense of
defection was the only cloud in
that shining fortnight. On
Thursday they were to return.
Cathie, who had lost two fillings
owing to much unaccustomed
toffee-eating, must visit the
dentist twice more, Helen had
bought tickets for a concert, and
there was some shopping still to
be done.
At two o’clock on Wednesday
Millicent snatched Cathie from
the dentist, and bore, her rapidly
by train and taxi to the address
Edward had given. “We are
going to visit a friend of Grand-
father’s,” she explained hurriedly
in the taxi, and otherwise was
completely abstracted.
The name would not come
into her head. How maddening
of Edward, punctilious and
helpful in all matters but this,
to be so wilfully, blindly
unhelpful. He had given the
name “Miss Anna Mantini,”
Edward had never referred to it,
but of course Millicent was
familiar with the story. Miss
Mantini, the beautiful, the gay,
the beloved, had married
Another. It was then that the
stunned Edward had borrowed
so riskily and bought
Widgeewaa, channelling all his
furious grief, his strength and
his ambition into work, work,
and work, till he became the
wealthiest, the most eligible and
certainly the most irreversible
bachelor in the whole of the
Riverina.
The house was a large, rather
untidy one, set a little back in a
garden that fronted a busy main
road. To Millicent’s embarrass-
ment, unobserved by Cathie, who
dawdled on the path, she had to
word her inquiry in a most con-
fused manner. “I would like to
see an elderly lady whose
married name I do not
remember, but who was Miss
Anna Mantini many years ago.”
“You’d mean Mrs. Williams,
perhaps,” said the woman at the
door. Yes, Millicent remem-
bered now with relief.
“It’s on the second floor at the
top of the stairs, and her name’s
on the door.”
The woman closed the front
door behind them. Millicent,
suddenly smitten by Cathie’s
forlorn face and subdued air,
remembered that the child had
been to the dentist and held out
a hand to her. They started to-
gether up the stairs.
/"''ATHIE hung behind her
mother as they entered the
room. It was dark and so
crowded with furniture, pictures
and bric-a-brac that they hardly
knew where to stop. The woman
who rose from a chair by the
gasfire was stooped, and she held
her hands in front of her as
people sometimes do who have
difficulty in seeing.
Millicent at once apologised
for the suddenness of their
unannounced visit and murmured
Edward’s name. The old
woman cut her short, making
little fluttering movements with
hej hands.
“And this is Catherine,” she
said, bending a little towards the
child, “and in a moment we shall
have some tea. This is a very
comfortable place,” she went on,
turning to Millicent. “Oh, lam
very comfortable, all my things
round me, and three good meals
a day. Not dear, either. Yes, I
have heard of Miss Catherine
from Mr. Burren. Had things
been otherwise —yes, however.
And you know I hear from Mr.
Burren every year on my birth-
day. On April the seventh Mrs.
Pallent always says to me—a
very kind woman, she is—‘Here’s
your letter from Sydney.’ ”
Cathie from her stool in the
darkness seemed to explode on
a deep breath. Too concerned
in the taxi with the after-effects
of her visit to the dentist, she
had not pressed her mother for
information about “Grand-
father’s friend” whom they were
going to see. Now she said in
alarm. “Mother April the
seventh. And Grandfather —
then, this lady . . . ?”
“Yes, dear,” said Millicent
hurriedly, “p erhaps Mrs.
Williams will allow you to look
at the things on that little table.”
When Cathie visited with her
mother she always played the
same game, quietly, unobserved.
She would look all round the
room and decide what she would
choose if she were allowed to
take away from it any one thing.
Now, however, she was too con-
cerned, too puzzled to begin.
And it would have been such
an ideal room for the game.
There were calendars, pictures,
little pottery figures, a brass
knocker.
“From my daughter in Eng-
land,” said Mrs. Williams, seeing
the child’s gaze on the knocker.
“Such a good daughter she is,”
she said, turning again to Milli-
cent, “with her own three girls
now. You know that my two
sons —twins, they were—were
killed at Gallipoli. And
Kathleen” Here Millicent
stopped her, seeing her agitation.
Yes, Mary Burren had told her.
Kathleen was the daughter who
had run away at twenty; and
her mother had never heard
from her again.
“Ah, yes,” said Mrs. Williams.
“Well —had things been other-
wise. Now the little girl might
like to see my chess-set.”
C|HE rose slowly and brought
from a drawer a small
mahogany box which she gave
to Cathie.
“Mr. Edward Burren taught
me to play chess,” she told her.
“We had many, many good
games together.”
“Grandfather doesn’t play
chess any more,” said Cathie,
She opened the box where the
exquisitely-shaped ivory figures
lay in their bed of green velvet.
One by one she took them out
and ranged them on the table.
Fitted in the lid was a folding
chess-board, and this she took
out, too. From behind it
slipped a piece of notepaper. It
was a valentine.
There were two hearts linked
by an arrow, a wreath of roses,
two bluebirds and a shield-
shaped space in the centre. In
this space was written To AM.,
and then A wish, and under that
I wish as you wander the long
roads of Time
That your life be all Sweetness
and Roses and Rhyme.
Oh, Cathie knew the writing.
Yes, Cathie knew the writing.
It was Granfather’s, and this
lady, so old and bent and
fluttery, she was Miss Anna
Mantini of whom—Miss Anna
Mantini of the disciplined, lively
grace; Miss Mantini who held
herself so well, with hands
folded like two lilies in her lap!
Cold and bitter disappointment
welled up and became tears in
Cathie’s eyes. It was her first
great disillusionment. She
turned appealingly to her
mother, but Millicent was bent
forward listening to Miss
Mantini.
“And since that night when I
told him I was going to marry
Mr. Williams,” she was saying,
“I never saw Mr. Burren again.
He was so good, though, always.
You know, Mr. Williams and I
moved to our little holding out-
side Gundagai when we married.
Mr. Williams was often away.
And in the bad rains, at the time
when my sons were going to be
born, why, Mr. Burren swam
the river two nights a week fcir
six weeks with his clothes in a
bundle on his head, and my
husband’s letters with them, and
left the letters in the mailbox.
No, I never saw him again.”
Grandfather swimming a
flooded river! Grandfather,
who was afraid of the water
under the ferry-plank! Cathie,
her hands pressed palms down
on the stool on each side of
her, was astonished. She wanted
to hear more.
But Millicent rose, taking Miss
Mantini’s nervous hands in her
own. “We must go now,” she
told her, “or you’ll be tired out.”
“And no tea,” said the old
lady. “I was going to make you
some tea on my gas-ring. In
the old days in the country
nobody ever visited without
refreshment.”
“We are going back to Sydney
tomorrow,” said Millicent, “and
we’ll tell Mr. Burren, who so
often speaks of you, how well
you are looking Shall I give
him any message from you?”
Miss Anna Mantini looked
neither at Millicent nor Cathie,
nor indeed anywhere in the room
at all. To Cathie, for that
moment, it was exactly the
expression on her face in the
photograph taken at the Albury
Picnic Races. But her gaze
returned to Millicent.
“1 should like to be remem-
bered ... Yes, had things been
otherwise ... If you would
remember me most kindly to
Mr. Burren....”
ON the way back to Sydney
in the train the next day
Millicent tried to explain to
Cathie. “Old people like to
think of each other as they once
were,” she said. “Grandfather
remembers Mrs. Williams as she
was before she was married,
when she was Miss Mantini.”
Heavens, she thought, how bad
I am at this. She realised tha,t
she had very rarely tried to help
the child by taking her into her
confidence. And she thought :i
I must try to be better, to think
less about the house. After all,
Cathie and Edward are both
dependent on me, and I love
them both very dearly.
“It was a good story about
Grandfather swimming the river,
wasn’t it?”
“Oh, yes,” said Cathie with
emphasis. “Mother, when will
we be back?”
On Friday morning they
walked off the ferry and up the
familiar road, a little tired after
the night spent in the train.
Grandfather was waiting for
them in Tarree’s doorway.
Cathie ran down the path.,
“Grandfather,” she called out,
“we had a lovely time, and we
went and saw Miss Anna
Mantini, and she reminded me
of the photograph at the Albury
Picnic Races.”


Missing Friend
Would anyone knowing the whereabouts
of a Will dated 9th August, 1952, or any
later Will ot EVELINE MARGARET
FRIEND late of Voting advise the PUB-
LIC) TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALICE JESSIE WARD late of ; 41
Alexander Street Drummoyne.—TAKE
NOTICE that JOHN SALISBURY WARD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3065
of 1953 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 13th November 1953 and ob-
tain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. W. RENOUF, Solicitor,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ROSE RYAN late of 2 Blackall
Street Padstow.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDWARD RONALD THOMAS RYAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3066 of
1963 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 18th November 1953 and ob-
tain a copy of the Petition without charge
from E. W. RENOUF, Solicitor, 8a Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MERVYN CARROLL formerly of
George Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE
that WINIFRED EDITH CARROLL has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 431 of
1963 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 16th day of November 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from C. P. DIQNAM, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN ARD JOHNSON formerly of
Rockgidgiel Station Quirindi. —TAKE
NOTICE that AGNES CLARE JOHNSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 225
of 1952 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 16th day of November
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from C. P. DIGNAM,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar. t
/
- -1
■^C Xi *
/
<&!& » V y
3>
Gillette
DO DISPENSER
0
-.v-
>;v
SOOBW
51
Ten Blue Gillette Blades
ready for instant use!
o
f
A
%
and.. .a place to
hold used blades!
Speed up your shaving and end the used blade
nuisance at the , same time! The new Gillette 10-
Blade Dispenser gives you factory-sharp blades ready
for instant use. Sharpest edges in the world com-
pletely oil protected by new exclusive Gillette
process. Simply stow away your used blades in the
built-in compartment at the back.
SI7
blue
Gillette
blades
..j
ft
and it costs you nothing extra
... you pay only for Hie blades!
SEE!
NEW 10-Blade
DISPENSER ...
10 Blade PACKET . .
5 Blade PACKET . .
20 Blade DISPENSER
4'2
•Jtfl
. 8/4
"GOOD MORNINGS" BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
To buy copy of “Life” magazine
for June 1, 1953; also The Welsh
Singer by Raine.—5571,.
Information Sought
Some particulars about a religious
sect called the Shakers?
The Shakers is an American reli-
gious sect, calling itself “The Society
of Believers in Christ’s Second
Appearing,” which exists in the form
of mixed communities of men and
women living in celibacy. The first
of these communities was founded by
Anna Lee (1736-84), a factory hand
and afterwards a cook in Manchester,
who in 1758 joined a band of seceders
from the Society of Friends, nick-
named the “Shaking Quakers” or
“Shakers.” She discovered celibacy
to be the holy state, and was in time
acknowledged try the Shakers as their
spiritual head. In 1774 she emigrated
to America, where she founded the
first American Shaker Society in 1776.
The name, according to Charles
Dickens’s American Notes, was given
to the sect from their peculiar form
of adoration, consisting of a dance
by men and women arranged in
opposite parties.
* * * *
What does geology deal with?
It is the science that deals with the
earth, Geologists study the materials,
the structure and the history of the
development of the earth. They seek
to explain the changes that have been
effected by forces acting from inside
the earth and on the surface. Geology
consists of several subdivisions —they
include mineralogy (the study of
minerals); petrology (the study of
rocks); structural geology (study of
the modes of arrangement of rocks —■
which have often been tilted, folded,
broken or sheared by earth move-
ments); historical geology (study of
strata and living things, also volcanic
activities and changes due to earth’s
internal heat and pressure); physical
geology (study of agents and processes
acting on earth), etc.
* ♦ ♦ «
■
■
Did Amounts ever win a Caulfield
Cup? What were his stake-earnings?
How many races did he win ?
Amounis, a brown gelding by Mag-
pie (imp.) from Loved One, won the
1930 Caulfield Cup with 9.8, making
a weight-carrying record for the race.
He was ridden by W. Cook. His
stake-earnings amounted to £48,297,
which made him second to Phar Lap
on the list of Australasian stake-
earners. Amounis beat some great
horses, including Phar Lap. Others
were Gothic, Windbag, Pantheon,
Limerick, Spearfelt, Valicare, MoIIi-
son, Vaals and Fuji San. AH told,
out of 76 starts he won 33 races,
ran second 11 times and third eight
tunes. Some of the races he won
were the Caulfield Cup, Epsom
Handicap (twice), Cantala Stakes
(twice), Warwick Stakes (beating
Phar Lap) and Batman Stakes.
* * * *
(1) What course does the Hawkes-
bury River (N.S.W.) take ? (2) Why
is it known under different names in
different places ? (3) Length ?
(1) It has its source at the southern
end of Lake George, in the Mul-
warree Ponds. This creek runs north
to join the Wollondilly a little north
of Goulburn and under the latter
name traverses deep gorges (of which
Burragorang is the best known) in
the ranges west of Berrima and Picton
until it receives the Cox River from
the Blue Mountains. Thence known
as the Warragamba, it flows through
another gorge into the Nepean, takes
that name and proceeds N.E. past
Penrith to meet the Grose; from
the junction with this river the stream
is known 4 as the Hawkesbury, and
passes Richmond and Windsor to
enter the drowned estuary at Broken
Bay. (2) Because various portions
were discovered and named before
their connection was known. (3)
335 miles.
* * * *
(1) Did Walter Jeffery write any
novels on his own account? (2) What
else did he write? (3) What novels
did he write in collaboration with
Louis Becke?
(1) Walter James Jeffery was the
author of The King’s Yard: A Tale
of Old Portsmouth, published in
England by Everitt. (2) He also wrote
A Century of Our Sea Story. (3) A
First Fleet Family (1895), The
Mystery of Laughlin Islands (1896),
The Mutineer: A Romance of Pit-
cairn Island (1898), The Tapu of
Bander ah (1901).
* * ♦ *
Can you tell me anything about a
novel by Marcus Clarke called “Men
in Chains'’?
Men in Chains was published as a
Penguin book in 1944. According to
the publishers’ note it is a condensed
version of For the Term of His
Natural Life and appeared serially in
the “Evening Standard.” It is largely
rewritten and can scarcely be accepted
as a substitute for the original version.
There is an interesting reference to
Marcus Clarke in the note on the
author. It reads, “. From Victoria
he moved to Melbourne,” but by
what means we are not told.
♦ * * ♦
Some information on Field-Marshal
Sir Evelyn Wood, V.C. ?
Field-Marshal Wood, bora 1839,
died 1919, began his career in the
British Navy in 1852 and was in the
Crimean War in 1855. That same
year he transferred to the Army as
a cornet in the 13th Light Dragoons.
Six years later he was a captain in
the renowned “Death or Glory Boys.”
In the Indian Mutiny he served as
a major and earned a V.C. He
served in the Ashanti War of 1873,
and was made C.B. In the Zulu War
(1879)_ he was specially commended
and given a K.C.B. He also served
in the Boer War, 1880-81. In an
expedition to Egypt in 1882 he formed
the Egyptian Army, of which he be-
came sirdar. This was considered his
greatest achievement. He was also
Quartermaster - General, Adjutant -
General and Acting-Commander-in-
Chief of the British Army. He wrote
with professional skill on cavalry
matters and also on the Crimean
campaign. The “Times” featured his
articles On the Indian Mutiny. He
was appointed Constable of the
Tower in 1911.
* * * *
Some information on the de Gon-
courts, French novelists?
Two brothers, Edmond (1822-1896)
and Jules (1830-1870), they were
pioneers of naturalism, the 19th-
century school of French realistic
writers, of whom Maupassant and
Zola are perhaps the most famous.
Till the death of Jules, the de Gon-
courts always wrote in collaboration.
Their novels are not read nowadays,
and they are now principally noted
for their Journal which, running to
nine volumes and covering the period
1851-1895, gives a complete literary
history of France in that time, though
it also contains “much that is
uninteresting and much that is scan-
dalous and in execrable taste” (Drink-
water’s Outline of Literature). Most
of the famous French writers and
others of the period (Flaubert, Hugo,
Daudet, etc.) are mentioned in die
Journal, which is used as a basis for
research. Both the de Goncourts
were men of great industry and varied
artistic interests. They also introduced
Japanese art to France, and Edmond’s
last book was on Hokusai, the
Japanese painter.
Brief Answers
R.G.: John Morison wrote Aus-
tralia As It Is, by “A Clergyman,”
published by Longmanns, Green and
Cos. in 1867. According to the title-
page he was “thirteen years resident
in the interior of New South Wales.”
... .J.E.S.: At Dawn and Dusk by
Victor Daley was originally published
by Angus and Robertson in 1898 and
republished by The Bulletin in 1902.
S.L.L.: There is no known Aus-
tralian printing of Sweeney Todd, The
Demon Barber... .N.D.: Captain
Cook by Christopher Lloyd, obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Casllereagh-street, Sydney; price
13s. 6d R.C.C.: Try Tyrrell’s
Bookshop, 281 George-street, Sydney.
R.S.L.: Awoonga, “sheet of
water”; Elanora, “camp by the sea”;
Errabunga, “fish”; Iluka, “near the
sea”; Irbunga, “fishes”; Kayannie,
“water”; Kulanda, “salt water”;
Kuyonga, “fish”; Mooroopna, “deep
water” N.M.D.: “Old Jimbour”
by G. H. Routley, The Bulletin,
December 31, 1952; and “A Queens-
land Speaker” by G. H, Routley,
The Bulletin, January 7, 1953
T.F.: A widow, under 50 years of
age, who has no children under 16
years of age in her custody, care and
control, but who is in necessitous
circumstances, is entitled to a pension
of £2 15s. a week, payable for not
more than 26 weeks immediately
after the death of her husband
8.R.; Write Commonwealth National
Library, Canberra, for A Biblio-
graphy of Adam Lindsay Gordon.
....E.T,: Write Dept, of Agricul-
ture, Farrer-place, Sydney W. 8.:
Suggest you hand over your duties
as executor to one of the trustee
companies; your solicitor could
advise you as to this 8.L.D.:
Write N.S.W. Cricket Association,,
Sydney, for pamphlet “Turf Wickets:
Their Overhaul, Preparation and
Repair.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
8.C.: Economise on adjectives
G.F.: “O’Grady’s Ginger Cat” will
come back... .P.A.F.: A glimmer of
feeling, smothered by ponderous prose.
L.M.G.: No, we don’t think you
will ever become a great writer, but
your passion for describing the
preparation of meals could be turned
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
to good account writing cookery-
books... ,J.S.: Your hopes, like your
stories, are wildly improbable
V. 8.: Taking time off every second
paragraph to meditate on philo-
sophical questions may be good for
one’s analytical faculties, but it, ham-
strings a story A.H.: “Grand-
father’s Clock” needs winding
T.M.C.: Dull, dreary and dead....
P.McD.: Don’t model your Aus-
. tralian bush characters on American
cowboys, and don’t call them Hank,
Buddy, Broncho C.H.D.: We are
always out to that yarn-spinning com-
mercial-traveller W.N.R.: Sugary
romance more suitable for women’s
magazine.... W.T.S.; Humor adoles-
cent, style obsolescent, sentiments
sanctimonious, calligraphy almost
illegible, postage missing N.P.:
You’ll have to celebrate a lot more
birthdays before you break through.
U.S.: You should have spared
yourself the trouble of sending the
“insignificant efforts of an untrained
hand” P.G.H.: It was an abo.,
not a Chinaman, the last time we
heard it 8.P.T.: If there was any
humor present when the story was
posted it must have leaked out during
transit R.C.8.: Isn’t it about time
the old soak signed the pledge?
T.E.F.: Something in it, but central
figures obscured by a fog of whim-
sicalities S.C.C.: You discover
every pitfall the novice can tumble
into V.R.: Apart from several pic-
turesque oaths, and a passably faithful
description of a mullet, there was
nothing in it....R.N.: Bright and
light, but rather trite A.J.: Your
pen leads you into some fearful
tangles C.N.G.: Led timid, old
maiden lady gently to the d00r....
J.M.8.: Type double-space and leave
a reasonable margin—your last effort
didn’t leave sufficient room to insert
a comma... .A.McH.: “Do you
think that I should take up a course
of short-story writing?” No, learn
the bagpipes instead.


Australian Historical Sketches
Macquarie
Founds a Bank
By M. H. ELLIS
THE announcement by the
Bank of New South Wales
of a capital issue of about
£6,000,000, at the rate of
one share to every two shares
held, is a reminder of the first
beginnings of that mighty
financial institution.
It was not only the first bank
in Australasia but the first
chartered corporate commercial
body. It was born literally of
financial chaos on a day in 1817,
having been conceived at a
meeting held on November 19
the previous year.
Before the bank was founded
almost everybody in New
South Wales was his own
banker and that of any-
body else who would trust
him. The business was carried
on in old-fashioned Botany Bay
style, which even the stern
measures of Governor Mac-
quarie had failed to change when
he banned rum-currency and
issued regulations which decreed
that all promissory-notes should
be “expressed in specific terms
and payable in sterling,” apart
from creating his own coinage,
which consisted of Spanish
dollars with the centres re-
moved, passing as “holey”
dollars at their original value of
ss. The excised centres passed
as dumps and represented an in-
flation of Is. 3d. turned into a
new coin.
Neither sterling notes nor
dollars were altogether popular
in local commercial transactions.
Botany Bay had long found how
profitable the promissory-note
or “shin-plaster” could be. It
was issued in all sorts of terms —
sometimes in bushels of wheat
or barrels or gallons of rum, or
just in plain money. It was
issued by everybody, even
ticket-of-leave convicts. These
notes, in fact, were often “the
mere impositions of unprincipled
persons, possessed of no just
means to discharge them.”
The system, if such it could
be called, led to endless litiga-
tion. Much of the atmosphere
in which the storm which led to
the rebellion against Bligh was
brewed arose through a quarrel
between John Macarthur and
the convict magnate, Andrew
Thompson, of Windsor, over a
wheat - note expressed in
quantity, which Thompson de-
sired to reduce in terms of value
when wheat prices soared before
the note became due.
One feature of the financial
scene which became prominent
when, through Macquarie’s pro-
hibitions, the rum - currency
began to go out of fashion was
the public market in “shin-
plasters” and other forms of
currency-paper which depended
on the credit of individuals.
It was operated somewhat as
follows. Smith, a worthy
merchant, issued large quantities
of personal promissory-notes,
and when they were well in
circulation he would send a
whisperer round the local
Rialto and the public houses.
“Hear about poor old
Smith?” the whisperer would
ask behind his froth-soaked
hand. “Bills refused in London.
Him for the high-jump—not a
feather left to fly with, they tell
me! ”
In a Sydney responsive to
every rumor the news would fly.
There would be hasty prepara-
tions to unload Smith’s notes
before the bad news got about.
And, of course, the “mugs”
would turn up. Simple fellows.
employees to a man of the grin-
ning Smith, they would buy
back his paper for him from
hasty holders at a tithe of its
face-value and to his great profit.
Mr. Ellis Bent, the Judge
Advocate, who died in 1815, had
taken a high moral tone about
local currency when he first
arrived. He had shouted that
“every blackguard, though he
cannot write, issues currency-
notes, and they qre in great dis-
credit and at a very great dis-
count.” But presently he him-
self became implicated in the
traffic, and then “the old and
base method of fraud” returned
to the country through his
failure to apply the regulations.
After his death, when Mr.
Judge Advocate Wylde arrived
in Sydney in October, 1816, to
succeed him, he found New
South Wales “overflowing with
the currency circulation, which
by means of Mr. Bent’s
irregular and inconsistent
XCES
ww -
, .k 'MEAL
I jW*'
The reputed building in which the Bank of N. S. Wales was opened, April 8, 1817.
conduct had again grown into
use.”
The courts were choked with
“actions of an immense
amount” on paper issued “in
actual contravention of the
regulations,” but in good faith
on the basis of Mr. Bent’s
improper interpretation of the
local law. The thing was so
widespread that had the regu-
lations been enforced —if they
were enforceable, which perhaps
the authorities secretly doubted
—financial chaos would have
resulted and a huge amount of
property have been lost by
more-or-less honest citizens who
had acted in good faith in issu-
ing or accepting notes.
There was nothing to do but
to suspend the regulations
which made silver sterling the
basis of legal tender, to issue an
amnesty for past (breaches of
them, and to set the commercial
and legal brains of Sydney to
work to put colonial finance on
a better basis.
Thus, on November 19, 1816,
the Governor’s secretary, Mr.
J. T. Campbell, sent out a letter
to the following citizens: The
Judge Advocate (Mr. Wylde),
D. Wentworth, Alex Riley, S.
Lord —all justices of the peace—
and Messrs. Robert Campbell,
senior, Charles Hook, his
partner, J. R. O’Connor and
William Brown(e), enterprising
Indian traders; Thomas Mc-
Vitie, Richard Brooks, James
Birnie, Richard Jones, Robert
Jenkins. A final letter was
addressed by Mr. Campbell to
himself. The letter said that it
was “proposed that a friendly
consultation of the magistrates
and principal merchants of
Sydney should take place at the
office of the Honorable Judge
Advocate at the hour of twelve
noon (that day) on a subject of
much interest and importance in
a commercial point of view.”
The invited magnates hastened
to call a more public meeting for
November 22 in the judge’s
chambers in what is now Parlia-
ment House. The Lieut-
Governor, Lieut. - Colonel
George Molle, commander of
the 46th Regiment and a veteran
of Tippoo’s campaigns and
Egypt, presided. And after the
meeting had listened to the
“eloquent pleas” of the Judge
Advocate, Mr. Wylde—after-
wards Chief Justice of Cape
Colony and one of the founders
of responsible government in
South Africa —“the expediency
of founding a bank” in New
South Wales “stared every man
so completely in the face as the
only means whereby public
distress could be fully averted
(that) it was embraced by the
meeting at large,” and resolu-
tions were passed to put it into
effect.
The driving-force behind the
idea was probably Macquarie,
who, from the moment of his
arrival in the colony, had pro-
moted “my favorite measure of
a bank.” The father of it, how-
ever, was almost certainly John
Thomas Campbell, whom he had
employed on the recommenda-
tion of Lord Caledon, an
ancestor of Viscount Alexander,
the victor of North Africa in
World War 11. Campbell was
a North of Ireland man who
seems to have come out to the
Cape with Caledon, having
“served in every branch of the
Bank of Ireland,” and taken a
prominent part in the founda-
tion of the Bank of the Cape of
Good Hope, which had drawn
its inspiration and method from
the Bank of Pennsylvania.
Hitherto the Governor’s
transports about his bank had
been received without enthusiasm
in London, but this did not deter
him from giving his full
approval to the project, which he
afterwards believed to have
been “the saving of the colony
from ruin.”
Since it was necessary to
incorporate, a charter was at
once drafted by the Judge
Advocate, who advised that the
Governor had power to issue
it, and the Governor felt an
unjustified faith that the Home
Government would sanction a
proposal that “came so much
recommended both by the
Governor and by the public
opinion of the colony.”
The promoters soon had the
scheme in train for the purpose
of “providing a source of
pecuniary assistance to the
colonial trader, agriculturalist
and settler, as well as to afford a
safe repository on money com-
mitted to its security and
charge.” The “exclusives” of
the colony tried to limit the
shareholding to their own class,
but the Governor insisted that
the bank should be a popular
institution, open in every aspect
to the participation of every
element of the community,
including the “emancipists,” one
of whom, Simeon Lord, had
been among the select band of
the actual founders. He thus
established a principle which
from the beginning placed Aus-
tralian banking on a more
democratic basis than that of
any other country in the world.
It was soon clear that under
the presidency of Mr. J. T.
Campbell, the only experienced
banker in the colony, and with
the backing of the Government,
which was implicit from the
beginning and which has used
the bank ever since, there would
be no difficulty in v procuring as
much as necessary of the
£20,000 capital which it was
proposed to issue in £lOO shares.
Even the “poet laureate,” Mr.
Michael Robinson, once a noted
blackmailer, and Mr. George
Crossley, the ingenious attorney
who had placed a fly in a dead
man’s mouth so as to be able
to swear that there was life in
him when his will was made,
rallied to the support of the
institution with the rest of the
community. (It is a cynical fact
that the Sydney branch of the
Commonwealth Sub - Treasury
operates on part of the ground
on which <Mr. Crossley formerly
conducted his legal business and
domestic felicities in Sydney.)
The bank was opened with
£3625 paid-up capital.
It was decided to name the
new institution the Bank of
New South Wales, and its first
board was elected under Camp-
bell’s presidency on February 7,
1817. It included D’Arcy Went-
worth, father of W. C. Went-
worth, Robert Jenkins, a bright
young merchant, Dr. William
Redfern, who had been exiled
for his share in the mutiny of
the More, Dr. John Harris, a
pioneer surgeon of the N. S.
Wales Corps and squire of
Ultimo, Thomas Wylde, clerk
of the peace and father of the
Judge Advocate and of Lord
Truro, who defended Queen
Caroline and afterwards became
Lord Chancellor ; also Mr. Alex-
ander Riley. But Mr. Riley did
not sit long enough to see the
bank open. He discovered, with
feelings of outrage and insult,
that the new institution would
flatly refuse to accept his
promissory-notes as cash de-
posits, and he resigned forth-
with, after uttering a loud wail
of protest.
Fortified in their good inten-
tions by a friendly homily from
the Governor and the assurance
that he would lodge substantial
funds with them, the directors
advertised in the “Sydney
Gazette” for a “suitable, strong,
well-built house situated in or
near to George-street,” and also
for “two persons of respectable
character who can give good
security for their fidelity to fill
the positions of cashier and
principal accountant.”
It was not added that, since
the directors were bound to
keep their management expenses
within £6OO a year, both its
senior officials must be men of
modest needs. As it was pro-
posed to open the bank on
March 1 “no time is to be lost
in making tenders of houses or
services for the above purposes”
—before February 15, in fact,
which shows how simple the
preparations were expected to
be.
As cashier and manager, as a
result of this advertisement, Mr.
Edwin Smith Hall was appointed
and gave a fidelity-bond for
£l5OO. His chief qualification
seems to have been that he had
been secretary of the Benevolent
Society. His banking methods
were original. Once, when a
certain inflation was evident in
the note-issue, he was asked
whether he was in the habit of
recording the numbers of bank-
notes issued to the directors to
take home and sign after each of
their meetings. To which he
replied that he would never have
insulted the directors by such a
reflection on their honesty.
They were all, he said, gentle-
men.
For a home the board hired
Mrs. Reiby’s house, 6 Mac-
quarie-place, and no more
appropriate cradle could have
been found in which to bring up
the first Australian joint-stock
company, the first child of
organised Australian finance.
The building stood near the
original landing-place of the
First Fleet (if all the available
evidence produces the right
deduction), and probably almost
on the spot on which the captain
of the Lady Juliana, in June,
1790, opened the first shop in
Australasia. It had been built
by Thomas or Mrs. Reiby. He
had arrived first in the Royal
Admiral, East Indiaman, in
October, 1792, at the very
moment when the officers of the
N. S. Wales Corps, under the
management of their paymaster,
Captain John Macarthur, were
organising the first corporate
trading syndicate in N. S. Wales.
In the Royal Admiral had also
come Mary Haydock, the little <
girl who had been sentenced to
seven-years transportation for
having taken a neighbor’s pony
in a frolic, and who*now, as
Captain Reiby’s widow, was
willing to let the house to the
bank for £3 a week.
It seems to have stood # on the
site which is occupied by Reiby
Chambers, Reiby-place. It faced
towards the Tank Stream. It was
built of low-temperature sand-
stock brick, with shell-mortar
which was of poor quality, and,
like all buildings of its time,
cased heavily in white plaster
over the brick.
Having acquired this palace,
the board set out to equip it for
its immense concerns. It bought
an iron chest or safe to hold its
{Continued on page 34)


o
Want to Really
CATCH
FISH?
It’* positively uncanny ... this
electric decoy emits a buzz
similar to an insect or bee
which lures the fish from inac-
cessible places to a convenient
spot selected by the angler.
The “Buzzing Bee” does not
infringe the ethics of true
sportsmanship ... you simply
cast in its vicinity where the
fish are thickest. Priced at only
42/- post free, complete with
standard size torch battery.
Iteihg Bfi?
FISH COAXER
Send cheque, postal order or postal
note (please add exchange to inter-
state and country cheques) payable
to W. A. Smith, Post Office Box
885096, Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established' 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION. General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney racing returns to
Randwick this coming Saturday,
when the weight-for-age Chelms-
ford Stakes, the Tramway
Handicap and the Spring Handi-
cap will be features of the
Tattersall’s Club meeting. From
performances in these events
further light should be thrown
on prospects ifor the A.J.C’s
racing over the first weekend of
October.
Most of the Epsom and
Metropolitan fancies are engaged
at the Tatt’s meeting, and
Carioca is expected to return to
the winning-list in the Chelms-
ford. This race over nine
furlongs was won by Delta in
1950-’5l-’52 and has been won
by some of the best of horses,
including Phar Lap, Limerick,
Mollison, Rogilla, Gold Rod
and Bernborough.
Epsom supporters of the
speedy grey, Silver Phantom,
now second-favorite for the big
mile, are looking forward to his
winning the Tramway, for which
some of the smartest horses in
training have been nominated,
among them Sky Hawk (winner
of his last three races), High
Law, Plato and Iroquois; these
seem bound to run well.
Actually, the Tramway hasn’t
been a good guide to the Epsom.
Taking the years 1939 till 1952
inclusive, the only winners of
both events were Shannon
(1945), De La Salle (1948) and
High Law (1952). Most Tram-
way winners that have competed
in the Epsom haven’t even run
a place.
• • • •
The best horses are regularly
beaten when a penalty-and-
allowance clause applies to
weight - for - age conditions.
There was no penalty proviso in
the Canterbury Stakes, but there
was an allowance clause, and this
was mainly responsible for the
defeat of the 2-to-l-on Tarien,
still the most popular contestant
for the Epsom. Tarien’s 8.11,
against Regoli’s 7.13 (which
included an allowance of 141 b.),
turned the scales in favor of the
New Zealander, who, in addi-
tion, had last run at his three
opponents.
Tarien has 8.12 in the Epsom,
while Regoli has only lib, less
than her. Maybe Tarien’s Epsom
admirers will get a better idea
df her prospects from her next
engagement—probably the Hill
Stakes at RosehiU later in the
month.
The defeat of Tarien under
the special conditions applying
to the Canterbury Stakes recalls
a notable event at Flemington in
the autumn of 1931, when
Waterline, in the C. M. Lloyd
Stakes (one mile), carried Bst.,
started a| 7 to 2, and beat
champion Phar Lap 9.7 (includ-
ing a 71b. penalty) by a long
neck. Phar Lap went out at
3 to 1 on. Temoin Bst. (33’s)
was third. That race was decided
under penalty - and - allowance
conditions, and Waterline, at
same age as Phar Lap (four
years), had a 211 b. pull in weight.
It stopped the champion’s great
run of successes. Phar Lap had
at the time strung together 14
consecutive wins; three days
before running into Waterline
he had landed the King’s Plate
(H miles), carrying 9.7—there
was no betting on that event.
Prince Morvi’s owners, Joe
Harris and “H. Tanks,” have
issued a Melbourne Cup warn-
ing to any punters impressed by
the colt’s success in the Canter-
bury Guineas; the owners will
not determine his spring pro-
gramme till later. In the mean-
time he will most likely contest
the RosehiU Guineas before
tackling the £lO,OOO A.J.C.
Derby on October 3. He is
Derby favorite, and success in
the RosehiU Guineas would con-
solidate his position in the classic
market.
Some of the three-year-olds
that finished behind Prince
Morvi in the Canterbury
Guineas might be better suited
by the RosehiU Guineas or, at
any rate, over a longer journey
than nine furlongs. That, of
course, could also apply to the
winner of the Guineas, who is
bred to stay the Derby course.
He is by Gaekwar’s Pride (imp.)
from Sincerity by Beau Pere
(imp.) from Rossolis (imp.)
by Invershin. The last-named
will be remembered as a dual
winner of the famous Ascot
Gold Cup. Gaekwar-s Pride won
nine races in England, including
eight one-mile handicaps, in one
of which he carried the welter-
weight of 12,5.
High Forest, which cost
4500gns. as a yearling in the
autumn of last year, and was
one of the keenly-sought Kia-
Ora draft from Scone (N.S.W.),
won his first race at Canterbury,
the Campsie Graduation Stakes,
but there was no real McCarten
move for the colt and he went to
the post at 10 to 1, probably be-
cause of previous failure in
similar company. He won with-
out much effort. Another of the
successful Delville Wood’s, he is
from Murmur by Midstream
(imp.) from Idle Words by
Magpie (imp.). As Murmur is a
sister to Shannon and Bern-
brook, High Forest is related to
two grand gallopers. High
Forest may take his place in the
A.J.C. Derby field.
Jovial Lad, winner of the
Memsie Stakes over equal-
favorites Flying Halo and Ellers-
lie at Caulfield on Saturday,
might find Sydney weight-for-
age horses much tougher, but the
six-year-old will soon be getting
his chance to prove the Caulfield
form sound. The Memsie Stakes
has generally been a race for
Melbourne gallopers, because the
best Sydney horses are fully
occupied when it’s run. How-
ever, winners in other years have
included such brilliant per-
formers as Ajax (three suc-
cessive wins), Hall Mark,
“ Hello . Joe! Know anything good?”
Tranquil Star, Attley and Comic
Court (two wins).
Throttle, winner of the 1941
Williamstown Cup, is dam of
Carburettor, surprise winner of
the First Glen Eira Handicap at
Caulfield. The filly beat hot-
favorite Chickara and second-
favorite Carama. Lack of
racing was probably responsible
for the long odds; not many
“roughies” come to light from
the Lou Robertson stable. Car-
burettor is a daughter of
imported Neapolitan, a son of
Nearco, and brilliant winner of
several races in England.
Throttle is a Windbag mare from
Little Valve by Cyklon (imp.).
Family lines include Just
Caroline (V.R.C. Wakeful
Stakes).
Billet Doux, who added to
Caulfield punters’ woes in the
Second Glen Eira Handicap,
starting at 40 to 1, is a filly by
Billet (imp.) from Lovable by
Gilt Edge from Trey by The
Welkin (imp.). Billet won races
in England from six furlongs to
2\ miles, and is by Bois Roussel
from Equipoise by Bobsleigh.
Aged horses rarely win a Mel-
bourne Cup. Records show that
since the two-miler was first
staged in 1861 only seven horses
belonging to this group have
landed the big race, and only
two in the past 48 years,
Catalogue (1938) and 100-to-l
Old Rowley (1940). This should
be noted by many punters who
once again are sticking to the
“boom” Melbourne stayer,
Morse Code, for this year’s rich
Cup. Morse Code has been a
spring - headliner for three
seasons, and once more is in the
early Cup discussions, though
one minor placing has been his
Melbourne Cup share. He ran
a poor race in the Memsie
Stakes on Saturday.
Darby Munro returned to
racing success when, on
Saturday, he landed the New-
castle Cup on hot-favorite
Gallant Archer, a strongly
fancied Metrop. candidate. An
easy victory, it was Gallant
Archer’s second outing following
a winter spell. He has grown
into a handsome individual,
more solidly built than his close
relative Hydrogen.
Indian Myth, a sprint Maiden
winner at Hawkesbury, is from
the family which produced
Clarissimus, a winner of the
Two Thousand Guineas. He
didn’t take long to return a small
portion of the ITOOgns. paid for
him as a yearling in the autumn
>of last year. Raced by R. O.
Cummings (part - owner of
Tarien), Indian Myth is a son
of Nizami (imp.) and Dark
History (a half-sister to Passage,
dam of Boatman, a Randwick
and suburban winner) by Titan
(imp.) from Dark Way (imp.) by
Dark Legend.
* * * *
For the first time since the
war the Springboks have been
beaten in a Rugby Union Test,
the Wallabies taking the second
of the series-18-14. Queensland
winger Garth Jones scored the
decisive try with a 60yds. run,
two minutes to go—a spectacular
finish to a game with a lot of
action packed in the tail. Down
3-14, the Australians scored 10
points quickly from tries by
Cross and Johnson and goals by
Stapleton and Colbert.
Burke, half, and five-eighth
“Spanner” Brown replaced the
Bosler - Tate combination
according to some South African
critics, Tate, especially, has been
a bit slow. The victory was, in
a sense, a vindication of the fast,
open game as Australia’s best
chance of combating the Spring-
boks’ steamroller tactics, but
there must have been some
staunch work in the scrums.
Nick Shehadie, now playing
front row, said after the game
he had never struck such a
tough pack before. Both Cross
and Johnson are fast and deter-
mined forwards and solid de-
fenders. The pleasing feature of
the game—luck of the game
aside —was the ability of the
Wallabies to storm the line in
the last few minutes. The
Springboks are in the habit of
doing that. #
Two brilliant tries by former
Wallaby winger Charlie Bastes
were a big help to Manly in its
R.U. semi-final win over East-
wood (11-6) at North Sydney
oval. On his present form
Bastes would be worth his place
in the team in South Africa, but
his return to it seemed unlikely
when that team was picked. A
most unusual comeback.
* * * *
With 68,533 people watching
them, the young, fast and vigor-
ous Footscray beat their old
rivals, Essendon, by 6.13 to 5.11
in the first V.F.L. semi-final at
M.C.G. The victors now await
the Collingwood-Geelong semi-
final next Saturday, whereupon
they will play the losers of that
match, and the winner thereof
goes into the final.
A strong westerly influenced
the play and kept the scoring
down. ’Scray got first goal and
were never afterwards headed,
though the Dons got to within
a point at half-time. At the last
change the Dons trailed four
points, but could manage only
1.4 to the winner’s 2.2. From
start to finish Footscray shaded
Essendon on pace and vigor,
and the Dons’ star goal-kicker,
Coleman, was smothered by the
Scray backs.
• • • •
Victoria has produced one of
the rarest specimens of Homo
sapiens ever sighted, an Aussie
Rules football - umpire who
pleased both sides and all—yes,
all! —the barrackers. His name
is Sevior, and he was sent from
Melbourne to umpire the Violet
Town-Mulwala match in the
Benalla-Tungamah competition.
As Albury “Mail” put it:
“When the siren sounded to end
the first semi-final.. . .players
ran from all parts of the field to
shake the hand of the umpire
.... supporters of both sides
made a pathway and applauded
Sevior from the ground.” May
Sevior live for ever—and if his
time must eventually come, then
he should be embalmed and put
in the Melbourne Museum,
* * * *
Australia beat the Chinese
Soccer team in the Fifth Test at
Adelaide 5-nil. Nunn opened
the scoring with a shot from the
edge of the goal area; Aus-
tralia’s second goal came from a
spot kick from a penalty, and
then Robertson scored from the
wing, the ball bouncing from
the post into the net. Australian
defence was solid in the face of
one or two dazzling attacks.
* * * *
An English cricket team
under Hutton is to tour the West
Indies this year, and a “British
Commonwealth” side, as in
previous years, is going to India.
The India lot are to be skip-
pered by Ben Barnett, Australia's
No. 1 ’keeper in England in
1938 —he led “Minor Counties”
against Hassett’s Australians.
Most of the side for India are
Englishmen. To give the Com-
monwealth flavor there are
three West Indians (Worrell,
Ramadhin and Marshall, all
known to Australia) and two
Australians (Loxton and Meule-
man, besides Barnett).
Iverson was also asked to play,
and accepted, but was subse-
quently left out. Iverson’s first-
class career has been a series of
retirements and reappearances.
After a couple of games at the
beginning of the last Australian
season he dropped himself from
the Victorian XI, and so put
himself out of the running for
England. Into his place came
Jack Hill.
FINISHING TOUCH
“Several A.J.C. members have
ordered top-hats and dress for the
Derby meeting.”
I’m told the A.J.C. committee,
As social doyen of our city.
Wants patrons clad in raiment
proper.
With accent on the dove-grey
topper.
Thus to rekindle fashion’s
embers
On Randwick’s lawns would
smarten members.
But I’d be satisfied (a martyr
To form) if nags I backed were
smarter !
P.O.M.C.


Strange Craft, Strange Ways, Stranger Story
CHINA'S GRAND CANAL
By MABEL WALN SMITH
CHINA’S GRAND CANAL
is the longest canal in the
world. It connects Peking
in the north with Hang-
chow in the south —more or less.
More in the past and less in the
present because of the silting of
the northern channel and the
fractious behavior of the Yellow
River, which bursts its banks
through like tissue-paper when-
ever so inclined.
The distance from Peking to
Hangchow by air is 650 miles.
By Grand Canal it is 1200 miles,
due to the loops formed as the
canal-bed makes uses of natural
land - contours, meandering
through valleys, slipping between
cliffs and following tributaries —
a habit which also places the
waters of the canal on different
levels. In Western countries the
resulting intersections would be
called “locks,” and a craft
would be taken over them by
a system of flooding; in China
they are called “mud-slips,” and
a craft is taken over them by
hitching bamboo-ropes to it,
pointing its bows up the slip
and hauling it over by water-
buffalo.
Rivers in China flow from
west to east. The Grand Canal
was dug from north to south for
convenience in visiting the cen-
tral provinces, and for travel-
ling the length of the country
without incurring the dangers of
a long sea-voyage. So important
is this that most everyone spend-
ing time in China finds himself
using the Grand Canal.
My first contact with anything
but the northern half of this
waterway was in February,
1943, when, with other “enemy
civilians” caught in Shanghai
when World War II flowed out
to the Orient, my husband and
I were hustled from our home
and bustled up-country by five
well-armed Japanese guards.
Our destination was an intern-
ment-camp at Yangchow.
In making our snatching from
man’s sight less secret than our
guards had hoped, just before
leaving our house I spoke not
too broadly over the phone to a
Chinese friend. To my captor,
hanging quite firmly to my wrist,
it sounded harmless when I ex-
plained that we were being given
a free trip up China’s most his-
torical inland waterway, and
would no doubt be spending
some time at the place where
Marco Polo once had his seat
of government. My Chinese
listener knew what I meant all
right. She replied that the best
cooks came from that locality
—their specialty was “chicken
and chestnuts”; that Soochow,
Yangchow and Hangchow used
to be the cultural centres of
China; that the place we were
going to was noted for its beauti-
ful gardens.
At which juncture I was
jerked from the phone and away
to the internee-collecting centre.
We captives saw no beautiful
gardens, of course. And we were
given boiled eggplant or raw
squash to eat. In fact, the
nearest we got to the chicken
idea was when, having been
escorted by Japanese steamer
from the Shanghai Bund up the
lower reaches of the Yangtze
River to Chinkiang, an all-day
and overnight voyage with no
food or water, we were tran-
shipped to go further inland.
From Chinkiang to Yang-
chow, our destination, is eight
miles as the crow flies. But we
were not crows. By Grand Canal
the distance is 12 miles because
of the loops. We were to travel
by canal, and for this we were
jammed on to a native ferry-
boat —the kind nicknamed
“chicken-boat” because so many
live creatures can be crammed
thereon. Packed two layers deep
like chickens in a crate, we were
hauled up the canal by a little
steam-launch.
The width of the canal differs
greatly in different parts of the
country. Its biggest span, at
Hangchow, is 800 ft., but the sec-
tion along which we travelled is
80ft. —just wide enough for huge
junks loaded with bamboo to
scrape past our craft. Smaller
boats scuttled by quite easily,
their Chinese crews waving
gaily. Native men, women and
children ran along the banks
smiling and calling out friendly
greetings, pleased to see the
Foreigners getting a ride on
what they considered the canal’s
luxury liner.
We left the hills behind, their
bulky outlines fading into the
distance as lowland scenery un-
folded. Willows on the banks
showed the misty green of
spring, and many in this mild
climate were scattering their yel-
low bud-sheaths, “willow snow,”
thick on the water. Now and
then a plum-tree flowered in the
distance, pink peach-blossom
and gold rape would soon be
out. The air was faintly per-
fumed by the flowers of the
purple-bean sown the autumn
before. Cosy low grey farm-
houses with their heavy thatched
roofs, built closely together in
groups to the south of a bamboo
copse, sheltered the blue-coated
folk who live in them from a
sharp north-east wind which
told us that winter was not long
over.
Taken altogether, the country-
side looked delightful—not
grand, of course—but just
beautiful in the gentle, smiling
way that scenery in China can
be beautiful.
Arrived in Yangchow after
nine hours, our craft stopped
and a plank was run out from
our deck to the canal bank. We
were herded ashore on to a dirt
road and along its quiet, wind-
ing way through the village until
we reached the high brick walls
of a small Methodist hospital-
compound recently appropriated
from the missionaries.
Here we were subjected to a
speech from the leader of our
captors, who advised us to
“Love and cherish our home,
graciously given us as protec-
tive custody by his Highness the
Imperial Japanese Emperor, and
from which we would never
emerge.”
We were shoved inside those
grim walls of the small com-
pound. Heavy iron gates were
slammed shut. We heard them
locked.
Thus did I take up residence
on the Grand Canal.
There were 376 of us —
Eurasians of all shades with
British nationality, White Rus-
sians married to Britishers,
French married to Britishers,
myself an American married to
a Britisher, and straight British:
a fair slice of Shanghai’s middle-
class British population. Clean-
ing out the denuded one-patient
rooms (now to hold four people
each), the narrow passageways
(to hold dozens) and disentangl-
ing the few pieces of luggage
which our captors had allowed
to be sent ahead with them and
had dumped in a muddy heap
inside our prison compound, we
settled down to live as best we
could. Mostly on egg-plant and
squash tossed to us over our
high brick walls by our jailors.
One of the nicest things about
any civil internment-camp is that
you can find a specialist on most
any subject, if you hunt for him.
I found a man who had not only
been born on China’s Grand
Canal and spent his young life
roaming its full length but had
studied the habits of every craft
known to China’s inland water-
ways. So, although I was quite
busy doing the usual chores of
a peasant woman and teaching
in the children’s school which
we had successfully established,
without textbooks, paper or
pencils, in the attic, my spirit
soared quite freely all. up and
down the canal glimpsed from
one tiny attic window.
On its waters were every kind
of small craft imaginable:
timber-boats, sampans, flower-
boats, native houseboats, double-
jointed snake-boats built 200 ft.
long and hinged in the middle
so that with the kick from an
expert foot they became two
sections easy for rounding sharp
curves in the canal or boating-
in to the bank at night.
But the most common boat I
saw was one about 50ft. long,
square-brig sail with 16 bamboo
battens, a hooped bamboo
matting to shelter the midships
living-quarters, a rear galley
hanging over the stern, and on
this the family pig riding in his
wicker-basket. Lashed on be-
side him was often a basin of
earth containing a sweetly-
nodding clump of narcissus.
A crew of five are needed to
handle this type of boat. Two
act as trekkers to walk along the
tow-path pulling when there is
no wind for the sail; one
manages the sail; one is the
laodah who steers ; one a more
or less ancient crone who does
the cooking. And so capable
are these old Chinese sailor-
women that should anything
happen to the rest of the crew I
can well imagine her taking
adequate charge. With one big
bare toe she would control the
sail-rope; with one skinny
brown hand she would grip the
steering-pole; with the other
she would set the rice to boil
and stir the frying cabbage.
That would still leave her mouth
free to shout at necessary
trekkers along the tow-path,
curse other craft off her bows,
and if they came too near spit
in their cockpit..,
Because, when it comes to the
efficiency of a Chinese sailor-
woman, in her rolled-up sleeves
and flapping blue-cotton
trousers, getting a boat anywhere
across water, Tugboat Annie
simply isn’t in it!
Those who man the canal-
boats are boatman-farmers, with
roots planted in tenant-farms.
Here they leave the smallest of
the babies and the oldest of the
grandparents the year round.
Here are the ancestral graves.
During the planting or harvest-
ing of crops the entire family—
with the exception of a skele-
ton-crew left to pole the boat —
till the land. During the slack
season on the farm all strong
men and women work on the
boats. Some own big silk junks
that sail as far south as Annam.
These are too large to negotiate
inland waterways, so when the
owner wishes to visit his farm
he leaves his junk with the
Chinkiang boat guild and rides
up the canal on a
neighbor’s small craft.
The his( o r y of
China’s Grand Canal
dates from the year
486 8.C., when the
Marquis of Lu had 90
miles dug, thus connect-
ing some lakes with two rivers.
He was fond of boating, and
dreamed of private rowing
parties, but when he found the
common people using it to
transport themselves and their
merchandise he put nothing in
their way.
By the time of the Sui
Dynasty in a.d. 600 there was
so much public traffic on the
canal that the Emperor called
out 100,000 men to enlarge it
and face the banks with slabs of
stone, a-top which were planted
willows and elms for beauty and
strength-lending roots. Every
family had to give one man be-
tween 15 and 50 years old.
Driven by stupid cruelty, half
of these died at their work.
The last Sui Emperor became
so infatuated with the Grand
Canal that he spent his whole
time drifting along the great
waterway, and finally lost his
life because of it. He had an
ornamental barge like a dragon-
boat three stories high, very
long, carved and decorated. Yel-
low was the imperial color in
those days, no common person
dare use it. The Emperor dis-
played it everywhere: big yel-
low silk cushions to lean on,
gold cups to drink from, gold-
thread hangings leading into
the barge saloon, which was
padded with goose-feathers and
covered with rich yellow tapestry
and was where the one dozen
hand-picked singing maidens
lounged. Mummers were aboard
for evening entertainment, too,
and famous chefs to prepare
luscious dishes.
The Empress, her nine ladies-
in-waiting, the Ministers and
generals each had a barge just
as elaborate. They followed
their Emperor in style. When he
travelled they all travelled —
from the Sui capital
at Nanking, down the
Yangtze River to
where it crossed the
canal in those days at
Yangchow (instead of
at Chinkiang, where
it crosses today), and
up the Grand Canal,
their procession 100
miles long. Fifty horsemen rode
on each bank as escort, and
erected a stone tablet com-
memorating each place the Em-
peror’s barge tied up for the
night. Towns along the way
brought out their choicest pro-
visions for the royal party. •
The Chinese people finally
tired of an Emperor who never
stayed home enough to attend to
the nation’s business. Rebellion
broke out against him back at
the capital, and his subjects
along the canal, tired of feed-
ing those thousands of royal
travellers and pretending to like
it, failed to spring to the Em-
peror’s assistance. In fact they
hunted him up ashore in Yang-
chow and assassinated him.
Right after a good chicken
dinner, no doubt, because the
Chinese custom then was the
same as now: Feed your victim
before you slay him lest his
hungry spirit return to haunt
you after his body is dead. Thus
ended the Sui Dynasty.
Kublai Khan, the Mongol
Emperor, perfected the Grand
Canal. He came to the throne
in a,d. 1260 and spent seven
years digging the bed deeper
and extending it to the door of
hh capital in Peking. He con-
scripted labor: Men to balance
on their backs the huge slabs
of facing-stone ; women as pack-
animals to haul out the earth.
Kublai was a dictator, so
people had to do as he said-
stop talking half a mile away
when coming to see him, put on
fresh buckskins before entering
his palace so as not to soil his
carpets, etc. And if anyone
annoyed him too much he had
them placed between two heavy
rugs and shaken up and down
until the spirit parted from the
body. However, he was a good
ruler who did great things for
China. His concern over the
canal was because of the tribute-
rice.
The tribute-rice was a portion
of each farmer’s crop provided
for whatever royal family sat
on the throne. Two crops of rice
per year are harvested in middle
China, one crop in the south.
Ordinarily the grain was loaded
on to junks at Hangchow and
sent once a year up the sea-coast
to Taku Bar and overland to
the capital. But sea pirates had
begun to plunder the rice-junks.
So Kublai, by perfecting the
Grand Canal, made a peaceful
inland waterway for transport-
ing the rice directly from where
it was grown to the very gates
of Peking.
Fragments of tile unearthed
by internees at Yangchow while
digging a 20ft.-deep garbage-pit,
were proved by a camp specialist
to be of the Marco Polo period,
when Kublai Khan ruled. 'Hie
young Venetian came to China
when the Grand Canal was at
its best. Marco was 21,
courteous, wiry, intelligent and
attractive. Kublai took a great
liking to him, and made him
Governor over the richest
province, with Yangchow his
seat of government for three
years, and slender Golden B?lls,
one of the Khan’s beautiful
daughters, his bride.
All sons of Venice —a city
built on water —are sailors.
Hence Marco Polo, serving
Kublai Khan as secret messenger
over his empire of Turkey,
Turkestan, Persia, Tibet, Siberia,
Mongolia and China, travelled
whenever possible by water.
Among other interesting phe-
nomena, he recorded that where
the Yellow River crosses the
Grand Canal the currents are
so strong in both directions that
a straw laid at that point stays
still in the one place. Arrived
home in Venice after 17 years
in China, he told many rare tales
of birds, vegetation, precious
jewels, tapestry —all things the
Italians had never heard about;
(<Continued on pagt 34i


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUUJVA*
5
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Zncorporatlns
Watson, Ferguson & C*.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“iACKSUL,” BRIS'BANB
Why you have
"Ups and Downs"
For years psychologists have
known—as you know yourself
—that people react differently,
on different days: that we ex-
perience “ups and downs.”
In September Reader’s Digest
read how scientists who have
been studying emotional cycles
for years have discovered that
“highs and lows” fall into
regular patterns. How you
can turn a knowledge of body
rhythms to your advantage.
Also in September Reader’s
Digest, 29 other stimulating
articles plus a 22-page con-
densation of Bob Ruark’s thril-
ling new book “Horn of the
Hunter.” On sale now one
shilling and sixpence —at all
newsagents and bookstalls. Un-
paralleled reading value for all
the family.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RECOGNISING CHINA
The Korean truce confronts
the U.S, with what the U.N.O.
correspondent of “New York
Times” calls “perhaps the most
complex diplomatic problem in
its history.”
That is whether Communist
China should be allowed to take
over the U.N.O. membership
from Chiang Kai-shek’s repre-
sentatives.
“The difference in the views
of the United States and of the
Governments favoring the ad-
mission of Communist China,”
reports the correspondent, “is
such that a compromise will be
difficult. In a recent statement.
President Eisenhower implied
that the recognition of a Govern-
ment by the United States im-
plied approval, Sad presumably
the Administration holds the
same view about participation
in the United Nations.
“Those holding the opposing
view contend that, in view of the
fact that the United Nations al-
ready includes Communist and
democratic States, as well as
non-partisan dictatorships, the
test should be simply whether a
particular Government actually
exercises effective authority.
They hold that United Nations
membership involves obligations
as well as rights, and would give
Communist China an oppor-
tunity to establish contact with
the outside world—which they
believe is just what the Soviet
Union doesn’t want.”
Editorially the influential New
York paper states that the Con-
gress vote of 379 to 0 against
admission of Communist China
clearly expresses the sentiments
of the nation. “We are sure,”
it says, “that it is their [the
American people’s] profound
conviction that to admit Com-
munist China to the United
Nations immediately after a war
of aggression, and without any
change of the regime which
committed this international
crirfie, would be to put a reward
on aggression and to encourage
other aggressors to attempt to
shoot their way into the United
Nations where, incidentally,
they could join the bloc that
seeks to paralyse the most im-
portant function of the United
Nations —the maintenance of
peace, by force if necessary.
“The admission of Communist
China would mean paying a
price for a truce in Korea which
would undermine that truce
from the very start and enor-
mously weaken the United
Nations.
“The time may come when a
new China under a regime which
has a firmer hold on the country
than mere control through force
and terror, and which is both
willing and free to honor its
international obligations, may
qualify for membership in the
United Nations. But that time
is'not yet, and there is no such
regime in Peiping today. Until
there is, the real interests of
China are in better hands by
being represented by the [Chiang
Kai-shek] Nationalist Govern-
ment than by the Soviet puppets
who now rule the Chinese main-
land.”
If the U.S. attitude remains as
rigid as that interpretation of it
suggests, something of a strain
will be put on what has been
called “the remarkable capacity
of Britain and the United
States for misunderstanding each
other while remaining the best
of friends and allies.”
However, a London corres-
pondent of “New York Times”
holds that comparison of British
and American policies on
various aspects of the Far East-
ern problem does not disclose
very great differences in funda-
mental aims, although there are
differences in timing and atti-
tude.
That would seem to be belied
by the bulk of British Press com-
ment, but the New York paper’s
correspondent reports that,
though Laborites insist that once
peace is restored in Korea the
Peiping Government should
immediately and automatically
be seated in the Security Council,
the Conservative Government’s
policy, broadly speaking, is that
Communist China must “work
its passage” before being ad-
mitted to the United Nations:
“That means, among other
things, that the Peiping Govern-
ment must not renew the war in
Korea or transfer its support
for aggression to other parts of
Asia.”
It would also seem to mean
postponing decision on Com-
munist China’s admission in-
definitely, while waiting to see
if such things do happen, and
that doesn’t seem to accord
with British Far East
policy or British public opinion.
U.S. Recession
Surveying the U.S. economic
set-up, Edinburgh “Scotsman”
sees signs suggesting that “good
business will not last indefi-
nitely” ;
“Production in the U.S. is
being sustained by various Gov-
ernment measures to stimulate
industrial capital expenditure for
defence purposes, and some of
these will soon be nearing the
end of their term.
“Stocks of manufactured
gpods are reported to be rela-
tively high, and the popular
demand for consumer durable
goods, such as motor-cars and
household appliances, is stimu-
lated by instalment buying and
the Government’s farm-support
programme.
“Factors of this kind must
leave the United States position
vulnerable, and the Govern-
ment’s efforts to reduce the
Federal deficit, if continued,
would make for economic con-
traction rather than expansion.
“These influences could bring
about a recession in America
during the next year or so on a
scale which would depress busi-
ness elsewhere.”
South-east Asia Prize
The loss of all Korea could
not affect the security of the
West in any degree comparable
Communist Chinese control
or South-east Asia.
The stakes there (“New York
Times” correspondent Woodrow
Wyatt emphasises) are incom-
parabjy vast. In South-east
Asia there are 600 million
people and nearly all the world’s
natural rubber, a high proper-
tion of its tin, a substantial
quantity of its oil and large
W
Miami ( U.S.A. ) “Herald"
A NEST, ANYWAY
quantities of other strategic
products.
“Communist dominion over
such human and economic
resources would swing the
balance of world power sharply
toward the Moscow-Peiping
axis. From India and Pakistan
the Middle East would in turn
become highly vulnerable, and
Europe itself could be cut off
from Australia and New
Zealand. As the Japanese
demonstrated in World War 11,
the possession of Indo-China
and Indonesia gives the
possessor immense power in the
whole Pacific area.
“Any theory that the Chinese
Communists are eager to get
back to internal problems and
shun foreign adventure is ques-
tionable in the light of China’s
historic attitude toward her
southern neighbors. Chinese
outside China, though often
anti-Communist, remain essen-
tially Chinese in their outlook,
even to their contempt for
foreigners. In South-east Asia
are a number of Chinese
enclaves in Burma some
300.000 Chinese; in Thailand
2.500.000 ; Indo-China 850,000 ;
Malaya over 2,500,000 (approxi-
mately half the population);
and Indonesia 2,000,000.
“By Chinese law the Chinese
overseas cannot lose his nation-
ality. Recently the Communist
Government in China has made
arrangements for overseas
Chinese to elect representatives
to the new Parliament that the
Communists are constructing in
China itself. Clearly the over-
seas Chinese are valuable
adjuncts to any policy of
pressure that the Chinese may
desire to apply against South-
east Asia.
“From Peiping’s point of
view. South-east Asia now is a
peculiarly profitable field for
expansion. For the most part,
newly independent Governments
are weakly in control, easily
shaken by outside pressures and
internal disturbances. The
hideous poverty over so much
of the area affords promising
material for Communism. The
prize is a rich one, and the win-
ning of it would put China on
an equal footing with Russia.”
Cult of Optimism
Lord Vansittart, in a London
“Times” letter:
“The British have long shown
an increasing tendency to
optimism. We have had the
world ‘safe for democracy,’ the
assurance of the League of
Nations, the ‘peace’ of Munich,
and now ‘the liberalising ten-
dencies’ of Communism,
“A single speech has been
worked into the belief that
harmony with Russia like
prosperity in the inter-war
period ‘is just round the
corner.’ Then belief was
solidified into assumption and
subjected to one condition: that
there should be a meeting with-
out agenda ‘at the highest level,’
as the new jargon has it.
“The ground for such a sup-
position was always lacking. If
any of the illusionists had drawn
up his own balance-sheet, he
would have found nothing of
substance on the asset side. He
might also have asked himself
exactly how he supposed that
totalitarian regimes can undergo
swift changes of heart without a
change of doctrine.
“Our lack of balance is
defeating its own ends. Cannot
we get back to earth? We are
not playing for marbles but for
national safety Continual
exploitation of the public thirst
for good news is an insuperable
handicap to negotiation. It
makes the business of diplomacy
impossible, and may have a fatal
effect on our prospects.”
What Spain Offers
Mainly because of Leftish
memories of the Spanish civil
brawl, bringing Spain into the
Western defence scheme has
been a slow business. The steps
have been mainly engineered by
America, which otherwise has
been more full-blooded in its
anti-Communism than the Euro-
pean countries, in sundry of
which Communism and anti-
Spain sentiment still have such a
hold that they can decide elec-
tions.
Both elements are so strong in
fact—including the anti-Spain,
or at any rate feel-
ing in Britain —that the U.S. has
had to move much slower than
it wished. Even with U.S.-
Spanish agreement on American
establishment and use of bases
in Spain, in exchange for eco-
nomic help, there will still be a
long way to go before Spain is
an actual part of the Western
scheme, though war, of course,
would change that overnight,
with all hands and the cook for-
getting grudges and embracing
the not - altogether - lilywhite
Franco.
As for Spain’s actual value to
the Western side, an expert
examiner, Lawrence Fernsworth,
author of Dictators and Demo-
crats, finds in an extensive
“Foreign Affairs” survey that
the increased range and effective-
ness of sea-power, and especially
of air-power, have given Spain’s
role a new importance.
“One familiar with Spain,” he
comments, “may well under-
stand why this land of castles is
itself a vast redoubt in the eyes
of the military planners. It is
hemmed in by great walls of
mountains, and by the sea. Its
sierras drop down to the coast,
leaving only narrow strips of
land between them and the
water. Its interior is crisscrossed
by mountain ranges with their
deep valleys. The central area is
a mountainous tableland cover-
ing two-thirds of the country.
The average altitude of the
meseta at the base of its moun-
tains is 2000 ft. Highways and
railways climb up and along
precipitous sides of these moun-
tains, like the paths of the native
izards or wild goats. These are
the geographical features that
have kept the castle of Spain on
the margin of European wars,
except when armies have been
invited to enter by elements
within the castle itself.”
To what degree does this and
the rest make Spain “a bastion
of defence, a vital link in the
lifeline of a free and peaceful
Europe,” as the commander of
the U.S. Sixth Fleet, Vice-
Admiral Cassady, has described
it? In Fernsworth’s estimate it
is, from the air-traffic point of
view, at the very least an im-
portant “way-station” between
Europe and Africa, the connec-
tion between which in fighting
strategy the late war demon-
strated Also:
“Looked upon as an ‘outpost’
of Europe, Spain offers to mili-
tary strategists the promise of a
last-ditch European stand against
an invasion from the East, and
of an evacuation centre for
Allied forces and civilian popu-
lations which found themselves
forced to retreat. Any plans
for use of the peninsula in the
event that the Russians scored
a smashing victory in a drive
across Germany and France
are, of course, subject to the
charge of ‘defeatism’ by the
French and Germans, who are
alarmed at any suggestion that
Western defence calculations
embrace a theory of warfare
that involves the abandonment
of the Western European coun-
tries to Russian occupation.
“The fact remains that, should
the enemy reach the Pyrenees,
Europe’s last stand could be
made only on the Spanish
peninsula. The next line of de-
fence, and of counter-attack,
would lie in North Africa.”
Of Spain’s land forces, which
have figured extravagantly in the
estimates of some of the pro-
publicists, this expert on Spain
holds that, while they would be
invaluable on their own side of
the Pyrenees,* they’d be a very
doubtful quantity as any sort of
expeditionary force. He cuts
down estimates, which have put
their total number as high as
400,000 in being, to not more
than 250,000, or 22 divisions.
The Spanish promise of a mobi-
lised total of 2,000,000 he thinks
could not possibly be reached
without wrecking the country’s
economy.
The army is, in any case,
“poorly paid, insufficiently
trained, ill-clothed and -fed, and
entirely lacking in modern equip-
ment.” In the event of war in
Europe, Spain’s army could


FENCE FASTER
with
D.G.M.
DUPLEX
POST BORER
AND PORTABLE DRILL
TWO FORWARD SPEEDS AND INSTANT REVERSE
Double Cone Clutch Drive, giving 100 per cent, drive and
instant Clutch Control
Right or Left Hand operation
Low weight Blbs. lOozs. Easy to use in confined spaces
All working parts fully enclosed
These features make it
OUTSTANDINGLY SUCCESSFUL ON ALL TYPES
OF TUDBER
Sole Distributors for N.S.W. and Queensland:
DANGAR, GEDYE & NALLOCH LTD.
10-14 YOUNG STREET (Nr. Circular Quay) SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 509, Phone BU 5095.
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
P.D.6
“keep order at home, and would
defend the home soil in case of
invasion. It is unwise to count
on it for more than that”:
“The communications prob-
lem that would confront a
modern army in Spain is tre-
mendous. In fact, communica-
tions, as modern warfare com-
prehends that term, are almost
non-existent. The wide-gauge
railroads are single-tracked,
rolling-stock is antiquated and
road-beds are in disrepair; the
circuitous highways are largely
also in a state of neglect, and
telephone- and telegraph-lines
are patched up and of uncertain
utility.”
The cost of rehabilitating
Spain’s communications and
transport system “has been
placed as high as a billion dol-
lars, an estimate that does not
seem exaggerated”;
“The question of communica-
tions bears closely on the utility
of air-bases. They would have
a threefold function in Spain:
to support an army defending
the Pyrenees; to provide a
springboard for attack on an
enemy on the other side of the
mountains; and, most im-
portantly, to facilitate long-
distance bombing. Without
communications and transport,
the storage facilities, radar-
stations, warning - systems,
barracks and all the complicated
machinery of the air age cannot
be protected and supplied and
a base cannot function. But
the advantages of Spanish bases
for strategic warfare engage the
attention of military planners,
who consider ‘theatres of opera-
tion’ as component parts of
larger theatres. Thus Spain is
part of the European theatre of
operations, which in turn is the
core of the Atlantic theatre of
war. Strategic bombing from
bases within this European
theatre, whether in Morocco,
France or Spain, would aim at
protecting the Middle East cross-
roads, and at striking at the
major areas under enemy con-
trol —the Caspian region, for ex-
ample, with its oil-fields and its
traffic routes from Russia into
the Middle East by sea and by
land.”
For air purposes, which have
been the main American con-
sideration, Spain would be in-
valuable, if not vital. For sea-
power, too, it could have tre-
mendous importance, though “If
Spain were an ally the Western
Powers would either have to
write off the Spanish fleet or
give the country a new one.”
But, on the other hand, “use of
Spanish harbors would not only
greatly assist in defence of the
Mediterranean but would place
Allied naval units several hun-
dred miles nearer North Atlantic
objectives than would bases else-
where in the Mediterranean,”
In adding these advantages to
the Western defence set-up it is
generally agreed that the bill will
be terrific, and that Uncle Sam
will have to foot it.
The Wheat Drop
London “Daily Mail,” con-
gratulating Britain on benefits it
is reaping through having kept
out of the International Wheat
Agreement:
“In June, when the average
Chicago price was 1.92 dollars a
bushel, the British, now free to
range the markets, bought
80,000 tons of Argentine wheat
at 1.82 dollars, or 10 cents a
bushel less.
“No wonder the wheat-
producing interests are seriously
concerned. Here is a big break
in the artificially-maintained
price which could lead to an all-
round fall in a glutted market.
“About half the world’s
supplies are outside the agree-
ment and Britain can bid for
them at will. She is the world’s
largest buyer and her influence
is enormous
“There is a reverse side to the
medal, of course. Our Canadian
and Australian friends are much
concerned with the fall in wheat,
but as upholders of the free
system they will realise that
prices must depend upon supply
and demand.”
Which may be a doubtful con-
solation to those concerned
enough now and likely to be
even more concerned later on.
Fight: Round by Round
The new-eKctator, Stalin-
successor scrap in the Kremlin
has now lasted 26 rounds. It’s
still on, rather literally to the
death; one to win.
In the following round-by-
round account, from “U.S. News
and World Report” records, the
classy footwork and infighting
have had to be omitted, being
somewhat obscured by the Iron
or (as it begins to appear)
Hessian Curtain:
March 6: Malenkov was
named Premier, kept as Com-
munist-party secretary, Beria,
Molotov, Bulganin, Kaganovich
were named Vice-Premiers.
Party, secret police, Army, thus
all had recognition
March 7: People were warned
that party and Government
would prevent “any kind of dis-
order and panic.”
March 9; Malenkov, Beria,
Molotov delivered funeral
orations in that order.
March 10: A U.S. jet was
shot down over Germany by a
Communist MIG. “Tough”
policy was considered still on.
A British bomber was shot down
two days later.
March 14; Malenkov, new top
man, was relieved “at his own
request” as party secretary.
Khrushchev, another party man,
was named in his place.
March 15: Propaganda build-
up of Malenkov ended abruptly
in the Soviet Press,
March 21; Cuts in party
leadership were completed.
Secretariat was down to five
members from 10, Presidium
down to 10 from 25. Struggle
for power had narrowed.
April 1: Cuts in food prices
were ordered. No individual was
given credit for the change.
April 3: Beria’s Ministry
announced that 15 doctors,
arrested for murdering or plot-
ting to murder leaders, had been
“framed” by false evidence.
Beria’s police had been blamed
for failure to find that “plot.”
April 4: Marshals Zhukov
and Vasilevsky held top jobs
after a long period in disgrace.
A play to the Army.
April 7: A Malenkov favorite,
Ignatiev, was ousted from a top
party post, blamed for doctors’
“frame-up.” Beria won this
round.
April 14; Communist leaders
in the Caucasus were purged be-
cause they had “falsely” purged
their predecessors. First purge
had been Malenkov’s job. Beria,
again, was showing his power,
April 16; “Pravda” announced
that one-man rule was wrong,
that “collective leadership” is the
basis of the new policy.
April 18: Molotov, whom
Lenin called “the best file-clerk
in all Russia,” and Voroshilov,
an old general, were being men-
tioned in the Press more than
Malenkov.
May 1: Malenkov was still
alive. He appeared with all
Presidium members at the May
Day parade.
June 1; Malenkov’s name was
still out of the Press. Beria,
too, was seldom being men-
tioned. Idea created was of a
Beria-v.-Malenkov fight— secret
police v. party—with the Army
and others watching.
June 13: A leader in the
Ukraine, a friend of Malenkov,
was purged for failing to
encourage local leadership.
Beria had stressed this line,
Malenkov opposed.
June 17: Open revolt in East
Germany, trouble in Czecho-
slovakia both caught Moscow
off-guard. It was a setback for
Beria. His security system in the
satellites broke down,
June 18: Russian soldiers in
East Germany refused to fire on
German workers. Soviet Army,
apparently, had balked at orders
from non-Army leaders.
June 21: “Pravda” urged
greater vigilance in dealing with
“subversive activity” within the
U.S.S.R. —a confession of unrest
at the top.
June 28: Beria was missing
when top leaders, including
Malenkov and Molotov,
appeared publicly at the Bolshoi
Theatre in Moscow. No
explanation.
juqe 29: A new top official
was named for Byelorussia—a
Beria man,
July .1: Russian officials in
“New York Times”
INTERNAL TROUBLE
East Germany and i Soviet
Ambassadors to Western capitals
were summoned to Moscow.
July 6: “Izvestia,” party
newspaper, reported that “a
Soviet leader” who did not pay
attention to theory had his days
numbered.
July 9: The party’s Central
Committee announced Beria had
been dismissed as “an enemy of
the party and the Soviet people.”
July 10; Beria’s secret-police
job was taken by Kruglov, a
Malenkov man.
Latest: Long and interesting
suspension of hostilities.
Malenkov well ahead on points.
Dragnet Digest
No More Korea. — New York
“Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent’s consolation thought
on the draw in Korea: “The
fact that nobody won this
bitterly-fought struggle does not
point to a renewal of the
conflict; it points rather to a
balance of forces, recognised by
all, which may well lead to a
greater effective stability in the
Far East than a total victory
could have produced.” •
Chinese Casualties. —In the
weeks preceding the truce
negotiations the Chinese
(London “Sunday Times”
report) “suffered casualties
which in proportion to the
numbers engaged and the time
involved have possibly not been
exceeded in modern warfare.”
Russia's Atom - bombs.
According to a Washington
report in New York “Herald
Tribune,” the Kremlin will
stockpile its one - hundredth
atomic bomb of 80-kiloton
power during the current year.
An 80-kiloton bomb has the
explosive force of 80,000 tons of
TNT, or four times the force of
the Hiroshima bomb. Also, the
Kremlin’s ability to deliver these
bombs to American targets “is
not seriously questioned in any
official quarter.”
Speeding Air-travel. —Britain
(claims 8.0.A.C. chairman Sir
Miles Thomas in London
“Sunday Times”) has a five-year
lead in jet aircraft, and tests
“indicate that within a com-
paratively short time —say seven
years or so —we shall see 100-
seater aeroplanes flying non-stop
from London to Johannesburg.
Australia will be reached with
only two stops, say at Aden and
Singapore. A return daily
service London-New York non-
stop will be commonplace, the
same aircraft doing the double
journey six days a week, leaving
one clear day for maintenance
and with ample time daily for
refuelling and restocking the
canteen.”
Ike. Washington corres-
pondent of “Manchester
Guardian,” surveying current
U.S. views : “Public opinion had
grown weary of the brisk,
pugnacious challenge which
President Truman was ready to
utter at a moment’s warning.
Washington opinion may be
critical of President Eisenhower’s
lack of leadership; national
opinion rather likes his modesty,
his quiet dignity, his refusal to
make personal attacks and his
willingness to compromise.”
Feather-bedded Farmers.
London “Financial Times”
writer, commenting on the
savage U.S. criticisms of Britain
for staying out of the Wheat
Agreement: “If ever farmers
were feather-bedded, they are
American farmers, and we all
know the importance of the
farming vote in the American
electoral system. But it is hard
to understand why the United
States should expect to get fixed
and inflated prices for American
wheat while they impose cut-
throat prices on Malayan
rubber.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Concord Repatriation Hospital
Although my own experience of
repatriation treatment has been most
pleasant it was only after a spell in the
R.G.H. at Concord (N.S.'W.) that I
realised just how well Repat. is looking
after the ex-servicemen. No one
could complain about the treatment at
Concord. It is one hospital where the
physical and mental welfare of the patient
is all important. The patient’s comfort
even takes first place to the usual hospital
discipline and tidiness.
A new patient is impressed first of all
by the appearance and layout of the
hospital. It is a sprawling yet tidy
collection of huts spreading from the
large modern block to the bank of the
Parramatta River. Among the huts are
well-cared-for drives and shrub-filled
gardens. All this gives an atmosphere
of restfulness to the place—an atmos-
phere that is carried into the wards.
The wards are well-lighted and airy,
the beds comfortable and supplied with
a reading-lamp and with earphones which
give a choice of three city radio-stations.
The Digger who has had just a little too
much of the world outside finds that the
needed relaxation comes easily.
Except where the condition of the
patient demands, nothing is hurried in
the hospital. The average patient can
bank on a fortnight’s rest before facing
the array of tests (X-rays, etc.) that may
be ordered for him. This gives him time
to settle down before he suffers the dis-
comfort that many of these tests bring.
Many of those newly-admitted chafe at
the delay for a few days, but it is not
long before they begin to appreciate this
period of inaction.
The medical attention is thorough yet
friendly. There is nothing of the mass-
production of the public hospital system,
nor are the medical staff ever like those
occasional wartime R.M.O.s who re-
garded everyone on a sick parade as a
potential malingerer. No expense is
spared to get to the root of any trouble
—mention a sore toe and you’ll find
yourself being X-rayed.
The nursing staff, too, are experienced.
It is common to see as many as three
sisters on duty in a ward of 36 patients.
They feed you well. The food is first-
quality, well cooked and plentiful. The
only complaint is that it is at times too
“ Henry—have you got a ten for two fives ?”
plentiful. It is certainly more than the
average home could afford. I ate more
bacon (for example) in a month than
I’d eat in 12 months at home.
The Digger gets far more freedom
than he would in any other hospital. Pro-
vided he does nothing that adversely
affects his health or the comfort of
other patients, he finds that he is not
bound by many regulations. All that is
expected of anyone is commonsense and
fair play.
The Old Digger who is knocked about
by time rather than suffering from any
serious complaint finds it a haven.
The work of the Red Cross' is out-
standing. Tea-rooms, a cup of tea and
a plate of eats free to patients and at
a nominal price to visitors, a well-stocked
library, and reading, writing and rest-
rooms are just a few of the activities
of the Red Cross at Concord.
Repat. has made the R.G.H. at Con-
cord a place where the Digger feels he
is still as important as when he marched
onto the troopship. He knows he will
get every form of test and treatment his
condition warrants and he has no worry
over the expense.— Rann (N.S.W.),
T.B.
How Gilbertian a Government has
become when it compels people to submit
to X-ray examinations for t.b. which it
knows will disclose many cases of the
disease but at the same time makes little
or no provision for treatment for the
sufferers!
The mental misery of these people can
well be imagined—and the psychological
outlook is, X think, regarded as a very
important one in t.b. cases. In her novel
Say No to Death, Dymphna Cusack
describes clearly the feelings of a t.b.
patient in N. S. Wales who, unable to
secure proper hospital treatment, is
forced to exist in unsuitable living condi-
tions and is pushed from pillar to post
in quest of help. It is not a pleasant
picture.
The N. S. Wales Government might
surely take heed of the words used by
“Time” in reporting a somewhat parallel
position in Alabama (U.S.A.), where, “by
the most conservative standard,” at least
1000 more beds are needed, for the care
of t.b. patients.” “Time” sums it up
thus: “Without drugs, tuberculosis in
cattle was stamped out in a quarter-
century. Human tuberculosis can
go the same way, and sooner, if people
get as ipuch attention as cows.”— Una
Auld (N.S.W.).
“Those Jap Luggers”
“Wingella” (B. 5/8/’53) actually bears
out what I said —that the Jap luggers
were trespassing, all right, but our own
ships put on a farcical act with regard
to their arrest.
Living at Thursday Island while a lot
of poaching was going on before the
war, I had good opportunity of seeing
something of the show at first hand.
Certainly the Government patrols were
a joke. On one
occasion at least a
man-o’-war dashed
out from T.I. with
a great deal of fuss
to capture some
trespassing Japs
just outside; then
slow - motion de-
veloped in her
engines and the
Japs got away.
It was well
known in official
circles that Gov-
ernment policy at
that time was
against two things
—the possible loss
in wool-sales to
Japan, and the risk
of antagonising her
by stirring up “in-
ternational rela-
tions” the wrong
way. Thus, if a
poacher got caught
by chance (or
mischance), local
officials found
Canberra so slow
to act that, by the
time it did say
something, the
arrested vessel
would be free
again, since the
lawful period of
detention would have expired.
In one case a Jap captain was fined
£lO, but it was on a rather sketchy charge
of “not responding to signals”—head-
quarters were silent on the poaching
charge until about a week after.
It was this sort of thing that infuriated
local workers. Fines of £5 were inflicted,
for instance, if native or European fishers
were found with “chicken” trocus-shell
under the prescribed size; but the
sampan or lugger from Nippon could
pick up as much “chicken” as they liked
within territorial waters and put their
fingers to their nose.
There is, of course, this to be said —
Japan maintained that our three-mile
limit didn’t apply to other than the main-
land, and that the Queensland boundary-
line running up New Guinea way was
invalid. — Wandana (Tas.).
“I think your traffic's lousy.”
Car Insurance
“J.K.D.” (B. 8/7/’53) has his insur-
ance a bit mixed. He says if a driver
is convicted on negligent driving the in-
surance company certainly won’t pay.
Well, some time ago my car was stationary
at the kerb and a motor-lorry ran into
it, doing some pounds’-worth of damage.
Fortunately, I got the driver, who was
insured, and his company paid the
damage. If he had escaped, my insur-
ance company would have had to fork
up and my next insurance premium
would have been increased. I under-
stand any actions which are successful
have to be paid for by the insurance com-
pany, and not by the driver, as “J.K.D.”
says.—G.L.H. (N.S.W.).
Armaments
Despite sundry f contributors to The
Bulletin, invention is not an egg laid by
a genius. It usually begins as a bit of a
notion deriving from a, piece of know-
ledge in the mind of a chap who doesn’t
quite see how he is going to get a par-
ticular thing done. Presently it gets
worked up into something useful, and
the world is stricken with admiration.
The inventor grins to himself as he
remembers the wild sketches he made
and the bad starts he threw away under
the house.
The rifled barrel is a very old idea.
Arrows of the old longbow had their
feathers helically set to impart spin and
gain accuracy. A spinning arrow flew
true. Bullets from the early hand-guns
went wild.
“No spin,” it was pointed out.
“And, prithee. How wouldst thou
fledge a round bullet? Wouldst cut
grooves i’ the barrel for the feathers to
pass?”
“Grooves?”
“Ay, grooves, Numskull.”
Numskull carried his skinful of sack
home thinking hazily “But if the ball bit
tight on the grooves and the grooves
twisted as the arrow’s flight-feathers lie
on thp shaft, then the ball would spin
and fly true as it sped.” But he did
nothing about it.
Nevertheless, such an idea would soon
come to a gunsmith skilful enough to cut
rifling.
Late in the 17th century a scientist
pointed out that shot-tower-made bullets
tended to have an eccentric centre of
gravity, and that such bullets would
swerve in the air until the centre of
gravity went first. A spinning ball, how-
ever, would have a centre of gravity
created by the spin, as has a spinning
top, and would not swerve from the
direction given by the barrel.
The rifling idea was born in a
thousand brains. The first rifled barrel
came from the hands of a wise, patient
craftsman who thought his way step by
step, tried this method and that, devised
new gear and made his barrel. He was
not alone for long. By the end of the
18th century wherever men needed rifles
to earn their living or preserve their lives
there were gunsmiths cutting rifled
barrels and suiting their work to the
needs of the men who used them.
Of course, fancy bullets were invented;
but the spherical bullet held its own.
With it the loading was more dependable.
For that was the rifle’s weak point; it
had to be carefully loaded, and that took
time. It was this need of careful, un-
hurried loading that kept the rifle off the
battlefield as a dominant weapon. The
hunter needs accuracy, but the soldier
calls for sustained, heavy fire, and this
the smooth-bore fusil, the Brown Bess
musket, could give. The rifle could not.
But, with all the various riflings
and the ingenious gear that cut them,
the fancy bullets, the weird firing con-
trivances, snaphance, wheel-lock and
whatnot, why didn’t somebody think
of breech-loading action?
It was thought of, ail right. In fact,
small breech-loading cannon were
common enough in the 15th and 16th
centuries, but not rifles. Not all the
mechanical genius and craftsman’s skill
of the guild of gunsmiths could devise or
make a breech-action that was gas-tight.
Because of the tightly-fitting bullet, gas-
pressures in a rifle-barrel are extremely
high. All breech-actions flashed and
flared and presently blinded the shooter.
The rifle-barrel is indeed ancient, but
the modern rifle began with the inven-
tion of the percussion-cap by a sporting
parson in 1834. There may have been
precursors. All the parson wanted was
to do away with the misfires which were
so frequent with the flint-lock and
spoiled his sport. He certainly started
something.
A cap was used with every shot, and
soon enterprising gunsmiths were mak-
ing ready-to-fire cartridges incorporating
a percussion-cap in the base. To do this
the cartridge base had to be stamped out
of thin brass. And this brass cartridge-
base, expanding with the force of the
explosion, blocked every possible gas-
escape and made any kind of breech-
action gas-tight. In less than a genera-
tion muskets were out and rifles were in
—Minies, Enfields, Sharps, Springfields,
Sniders and the rest.
The round bullet now had to become
a flat-based, round-nosed cylinder, be-
cause round bullets were difficult to fix
in a paper cartridge. Then, of course, it
was found that the ample flanks of the
flat-based bullet were best suited to
shallow grooves and broad lands, thus
making for easier rifling and cheaper
barrels.
Improved world transport in the 19th
century made metals more plentiful and
cheaper, so that all-metal cartridges be-
came a practical possibility. It was this
that made possible the great advance in
small-arms. In all magazine rifles and
automatic weapons the cartridge must
form an integral part of the mechanism.
Only the all-metal cartridge can do this.
From the first rifled barrel to the first
percussion-cap was about 400 years,
during which any advance in the rifle’s
efficiency was due to improved crafts-
manship. From the first percussion-cap
to the Maxim glm and the Lee-Metford
rifle was little more than 40 years, during
which the great increase in small-arms
efficiency was due not so much to indi-
vidual inventiveness as to a one-thing-
leads-to-another sort of process in a
world of rapid increase in mechanical
and chemical knowledge and greatly
increased supplies of essential raw
materials. —S. McC. (N.S.W.).


Guide-dogs
I can assure Mr. Eckersley (B.
12/8/’53) that I lack neither sympathy
nor knowledge on the subject of guide-
dogs in Australia ; nor do I lack sympathy
with or knowledge of the blind people
of Australia, who have many times in
the past stated that they do not require
such dogs.
I can also assure Mr. Eckersley that
my estimate of £AISOO per dog is correct
and that that estimate includes cost for
land, buildings, the importation of dog-
trainers, etc. Perhaps his figure of
“something over £200” per dog does not
include such items of capital expenditure.
Mr. Eckersley states “the truth is that
thousands of other blind persons in Eng-
land would be only too pleased to have
dogs if they were available” and “today
there is a list of 300 approved persons
waiting for dogs.” ' That supports my
view that only a small percentage of
blind people can successfully use guide-
dogs, If thousahds of blind persons
would be only too pleased to have dogs,
how come that there are only 300
approved persons waiting?
Until it is proved that guide-dogs
could be used successfully by a larger
section of the Australian blind popula-
tion, my board will oppose any attempt
to establish a guide-dog training centre
in this country. We see no reason why
a scheme that has proved to be a failure
should be foisted on a generous and
sympathetic public.
On figures available, I estimate that
only 78 blind people in Australia could
successfully use guide-dogs, and the cost
would be £A 117,000. I can assure the
Australian public, and particularly those
who subscribe to my society, that their
moneys are used to assist a much larger
section of the blind than those who
would benefit from guide-dogs, I can
also assure the public that if this society
had £117,000, or is given it in the near
future, we will open a school and home
for multiple-handicapped blind children,
a hostel for blind men and build a new
wing to our Helen Keller Hostel for
blind women. These will cost approxi-
mately £lOO,OOO and would be much more
beneficial to the blind generally.—T. C.
Fairbairn, Organising Secretary, Royal
Blind Society of N. S. Wales.
Until I read of it, I had no idea that
there was a scheme for training dogs to
guide the blind. Many years ago, how-
ever, when I worked in the railway signal-
cabin at Annerly Junction on the south-
coast railway (Q.) I was right opposite
the blind institute, where many people
worked making baskets, brooms, etc.
Most of them had dogs to guide them.
I particularly remember one man,
about 50, who had a nondescript under-
sized terrier. When the knock-off bell
rang the pooch ambled along to his
master, who would stoop and attach a
lead to the little animal. The dog then
led the blind man across three lines of
railway-track and to a seat in the waiting-
shed, where they both waited until the
train for Melbourne-street came along.
The dog then led the blind man to the
second-class carriage.
After travelling about a mile the pair
had to change trains, which included
crossing an overbridge. When the train
reached the changing station the dog
would go to the carriage door and, after
it was opened, lead his master over the
bridge to a seat in the waiting-hall.
When the train to Logan-road arrived
the performance was repeated, and when
it reached that station the dog again led
his master off the train.
It all happened years ago, but so im-
pressed me that I have never forgotten
it.—G.L. (Q.).
Social Workers’ Terms
As a trained social worker I agree, in
general terms, with the criticism levied
against the “verbal red-tape” sometimes
employed by that profession (B.
26/8/’53). I have complained about it
bitterly myself in the past, while realis-
ing that a certain amount of “jargon” is
unfortunately unavoidable in any pro-
fession.
However, the selection of words com-
plained of in The Bulletin is, I think,
entirely justifiable, and, on this occa-
sion, I rise in the defence of my erstwhile
profession. “Recreational activity” is
used instead of “play” because it means
a great deal more: the term embraces
all activity undertaken by people in their
spare-time from gardening, evening
classes and picture-going to bending the
elbow at the local.
“Underprivileged” replaces “poor” for
the good reason that many under-
privileged people are not poor in the
monetary sense —you are underprivileged
if you live in a sub-standard house or
single room, even if you have the where-
withal to rent better, but are unable to
do so because of housing shortage, for
instance. The term “crippled” has
largely been abandoned at the request
of “cripples” themselves, and, also be-
cause “physically handicapped” has a
much wider reference: the term embraces,
for example, persons with conditions
other than physical deformities, such as
extremely poor eyesight or severe heart
disease.
“Delinquent” is not, and never has
been, synonymous with “troublesome.”
Both in law and in common usage
“delinquent” describes a particular degree
of criminality. The last term complained
of was “deprived” as applied to children
instead of “neglected.” Again, there is
no synonym here. The term “deprived”
has a special meaning in social psycho-
logy and can be applied to a child who,
in a superficial sense, is very well cared
for indeed. It means a child who is
deprived, usually unconsciously, of
genuine normal affection. Many de-
prived children come from private
families, but the most obvious example
is that of a youngster from a large in-
stitution who may be superlatively well
fed and clothed but quite starved for
individual attention and love. — Nancy
Keesing (N.S.W.).
The Pitt-strect Farmers
Of all the various pressure-groups
which form a sort of extra-Parliamentary
Government in Australia, the farm organ-
isations are the most essential.
Farmers are individualists, and there
have been times when their working con-
ditions and returns from effort were well
below those tolerated by trade-unions.
It is necessary, therefore, that they should
possess well-organised groups which
enable their influence to be felt between
elections, when they are universally
wooed by political parties of all colors.
The system of farm organisations in
N. S. Wales worked very well until a
few years ago, particularly when the two
biggest ones between them supported
their own political party, and were
accordingly forced to accept a measure
of political responsibility.
Since that arrangement ended, however
—principally to permit the organisations
to negotiate with all Governments
irrespective of party —there has been a
tendency to enthrone paid individuals
whose public utterances and actions
represent the pressure-group at its
worst. And the fact that Governments
have it in their power to cater to indi-
viduals, by means of trips abroad and
seats on marketing boards, etc., has been
bad for individuals concerned, and bad
for the farmers.
Until 1945 one large organisation had
been served throughout the years by
honorary officers—men who were pre-
pared to represent their industry without
reward, unless it was the eventual political
honor offered them by their fellows. That
was the situation throughout the depres-
sion years, and it is only since farmers
have become prosperous that certain of
their organisations have provided for
paid presidents.
In contrast to conditions of the past,
these men have no political responsibility
and pilot their organisations in such a
way that they are able to bargain with
Governments at the expense of the public.
There has also been a trend to support
Government controls. The wheatfaimers
are keen to retain the Australian Wheat
Board; a spokesman for the Australian
"It fair makes my mouth water when I think of those juicy peaches."
Potato Growers’ Association recently
warned potatogrowers to vote for the
retention of the Potato Marketing Board,
In fact, a group of professional
farmers’ representatives exists whose
counterpart can be found only in the
lobbying system practised in the U.S.A.
From the point of view of farmers and
everyone else concerned it would be
better if the organisations again be-*
“Great news for you , Jetley—your kite Was NOT a total loss."
came frankly political, supporting a party
of their own. It would not only give
them back a conscience, but would attract
a better type of representative.
The alternative is a further growth of
what could well be called the farm-
organisation bureaucracy.— Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Coolgardie Water Scheme
W. Chamley (B. 19/8/’53) says that
“The question of who first suggested the
Coolgardie Water Scheme bobs up regu-
larly in Westralia above all soars the
claim of Mat Harper, one-time mining
manager of Kanowna.”
He errs, however, in saying that Nat
(not Mat) Harper claims to have been
the first to suggest the pumping of fresh
water to the fields. What he does claim
—and he is able to prove it —is that it
was his proposal which put Forrest defi-
nitely on the way to give the big mining
centres the water they needed so desper-
ately.
It is true that a letter over the initials
“J.S.T.” appeared in the “West Aus-
tralian” in March, 1894* suggesting
somewhat nebulously a pumping station
near Northam and a pipeline along the
railway. The writer was a man named
Talbot.
It is also true that one John Maher
outlined a similar proposal in greater
detail; but why did he approach the
Minister for Lands instead of the all-
powerful Premier? Obviously Forrest
did not regard either scheme seriously,
if they were ever brought under his
notice. Actually, there was much
scepticism in regard to any such scheme,
and particularly on the goldfields. Even
when the tap was eventually turned on
at Mundaring prominent goldfielders
declared publicly that the water would
never reach its intended destination.
More than a year after the Talbot
and Maher suggestions Coolgardie and
Kalgoorlie were no nearer getting a
sufficient supply of water. Late in 1895
Forrest visited the fields again. He met
deputations at Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie
which demanded that the Government
do something to relieve the acute water
position.
These deputations were reported in the
local Press and also in the Perth news-
papers. In these reports there is no
mention of a pumping and pipeline
scheme, by Forrest or anyone else. Con-
servation of the water of Hannan’s Lake
(which- is not a lake) was suggested and
rejected by Forrest, who said that some-
thing might be achieved by deep boring.
Then he moved on to Kanowna and
was given a banquet at the leading pub
(not de Baun’s Great Western, Cool-
gardie, on this occasion). Replying to
the toast of his health he declared that
the fields must have an adequate supply
of good fresh water if the mining industry
was to survive. He said this must be
achieved and confessed that he did not
know how.
Nat Harper, speaking to the toast of
the mining industry, said that all the
water required could be had by con-
serving the winter surplus of the Avon
River and by installing a succession of
pumps. His audience was derisive.
Harper stuck to his guns ; explaining that
as a mining man in New Zealand and
Tasmania he had lifted water 300 ft. and
there was no essential difference in a
lift of 300 ft. and 300 miles ; it was merely
a matter of multiplication of lifting and
pumping-power.
Forrest was deeply interested. He took
Harper to his room after the banquet and
questioned him closely. It was then that
he said that if water could be taken
from the Avon, it might be lifted from
the Darling Ranges, where better water
and a more dependable supply were
available.
With customary caution, however,
Forrest pursued his inquiries into the
prospects of deep boring, getting S.A.
Government geologist H. G. L. Brown
over to advise him. Satisfied that this
project was no good, he got in touch
again with Nat Harper and kept in touch
with him until the enabling bill was
hammered through Parliament.
Harper has letters and telegrams from
Forrest thanking him for giving him
estimates of the daily supply of water
and the cost and his help generally. It
is on record that he acknowledged
Harper’s part in the scheme.
An engineer named Beveridge wrote to
the “West Australian” saying Forrest had
said to him that, while he was the “mother
of the scheme, Nat Harper was the
father.” Engineer-in-Chief C. Y.
O’Connor, by the way, disavowed any
part in originating the work which was
carried out under his direction.
What was suggested in 1894, or earlier,
is irrelevant, as until after the Kanowna
banquet in October, 1895, or thereabout,
Forrest had never referred to any pump-
ing scheme, although harassed by the
goldfields people and deeply concerned
in their plight and the development of
the mines. He was impressed by Nat
Harper’s practical knowledge and experi-
ence and turned to him when he was
convinced that less ambitious and less
costly projects had no hope of success.—»
G. Elburg (N.S.W.).


Best
Mineral
Supplement
1
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in T ri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
CM
BO»*
I***"*
4
y D*U’'@o£'Oi*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Af particulars gladly supplied—
Writ, to OAVIS GELATINE: S.PO 80. 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. «58. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
80. 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. BBS. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets. Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
IIJ
hi
vmmm ft
wmk I ite' I;,
ill
I
m
m
m
h- ■
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONIiY BAXES:
Single Booms—*
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams. Cables and
Wireless:
",METROPOLE
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Costs
“Noiler”: Wool clips sold in
N.S.W. last season realised an
average price of 85.76 d. per lb,;
but where it was produced last
season on properties ranging
from 600 acres to 6000 acres
(which represents more than 95*
per cent, of the wool-growing
properties in the State) the aver-
age cost of producing it was
50.08 d. per lb.
A Rural Bank economist
found this in statistics gathered
by 15 R.B. valuers from a cross-
section of the grazing areas
under the following classifica-
tions; (a) 600 acres, half under
improved pasture, carrying 800
crossbred ewes ; (b) 2000 acres
of natural pasturage, carrying
1500 wethers; (c) 4000 acres,
carrying 3000 wethers ; (d) 3000
acres, carrying 2000 mixed
sheep ; and (e) 6000 acres, carry-
ing 4000 mixed sheep.
Capital items, land and im-
provements, stock and plant,
were shown at (a) £19,728, ( b )
£24,821, (c) £46,426, (d) £40,643,
(e) £74,256. Total returns, in-
cluding sales of wool, lambs,
culls and c.f.a. stock, dead-
wool, skins, and cattle,
were respectively (a) £4343, (b)
£6359, (c) £12,787, (d) £7976 and
(e) £15,769.
Operating costs, including
shearing, woolpacks, cartage,
rail-freight, storage, brokerage,
wool levy, P.P. Board and shire
rates, insurance, dipping, crutch-
ing, stock medicines, flock re-
placements, plant repairs and
spare parts, sinking-fund replace-
ment, upkeep of buildings,
fences, yards, tanks, maintenance
of improved pastures, wages,
drought-feeding annual allow-
ance, horse-feed, rabbit- and
weed-control, telephone, station-
ery and accountancy and owner’s
wage allowance of £750 per
annum, plus 5 per cent, interest
on capital, less sideline income,
incurred total costs of (a) £3322
(of which wool’s share was
57.53 d. per lb.); (b) £3833
(62.1 Id.); (c) £6551 (52.95 d.);
(d) £3726 (49.33 d.) and (e)
£6192 (41.65 d.),
M. F. Bretnall, Dalgety’s
wool-manager, said the data
were collected during one of the
best seasons on record, when the
yield per head reached over 91b.
and fat lambs were selling
around £5 to £6. The total
realisation of £145,871,854 for
the season’s N.S.W. wool looks
good, but as 62£ p.c. of this
turnover represents costs of pro-
duction, it can be seen that a
falT in wool prices of about 40
per cent, would make woolgrow-
ing unprofitable.
It’s hardly necessary to add
that, though seasonal and mar-
ket prospects are very good,
individual growers and the
industry as a whole must get the
costs down.
Foot-rot Cure
“Longtoe”: At a conference
of veterinarians at Young
(N.S.W.), Dr. D. F. Stewart, of
C.5.1.R.0., gave the results of
preliminary trials with Chloro-
mycetin for treatment of foot-
rot.
Dr. Stewart said the results
must be accepted with caution,
but that he wished to announce
them now so that other veteri-
narians could test the treatment
thoroughly whilst foot-rot is
prevalent.
He had applied a 10 per cent,
solution Of Chloromycetin in
methylated-spirits to over 100
severely-affected feet and had
found that, provided the diseased
tissue and under-run horn was
first carefully removed, a single
treatment cured over 80 per
cent, of cases. Those which did
not respond to a single treatment
had a hidden pocket of infection
which was overlooked when the
foot was pared.
Although Chloromycetin is
expensive, very small quantities
of the 10 per cent, solution are
used, as it is applied with a small
stiff brush, and one pint is
enough to treat 250 to 300 feet.
Application of the treatment
in practice will hinge on a suit-
able Chloromycetin becoming
available at a reasonable price.
Chloromycetin is used in human
medicine, and is produced in
limited quantities in a highly
purified form. A less purified
product would do for foot-rot.
Dingo Research
“Bant”: The Graziers’
Federal Council wants 500
questionnaires on the dingo
answered by graziers throughout
the mainland. Idea is to collate
information to provide data for
a scientific approach to the
method of control. Use of
“Here's that new posthole-digger—he wouldn't last
two minutes with the bar and shovel!”
myxomatosis against the rabbit
bas inspired the notion that
something similar may be found
to knock the warrigals.
Anyone who feels he has
expert knowledge on the subject
and would like to assist is invited
to ask his State Graziers’ Asso-
ciation or the Graziers’ Federal
Council of Australia, 56 Young-
street, Sydney, for a question-
naire.
Early Shearing
“The Missus” : Four years ago
we began to run sheep. For the
first two years we shore a month
to six weeks before the ewes
were due to lamb. Despite jeers
of fellow-Gippslanders, we lost
no ewes and had no feeding
troubles with lambs. We pointed
out to sceptics that it was
standard practice in some parts
of America, but they remained
unconvinced, and, although our
losses were often less than their
own, they prophesied that it
wouldn’t last.
Last year we again shore be-
fore lambing, and again had a
good season. This year we
weakened. After shearing about
20 p.c. of the ewes we merely
crutched the remainder. We
have had little rain and some
severe frosts. We have also had
a good drop of lambs, and next
year we plan a late lambing of
ewes, once more shorn before
lambing.
The shorn 20 p.c. are doing
well, fine lambs and no mother-
ing troubles, ewes and lambs
alike in excellent condition. The
unshorn have "given a lot of
trouble. Some of the oldest
ones, burdened by an unborn
lamb and 101 b. to 121 b. of
fleece, went down before the
severe weather and failed to get
up. Some of the younger ones,
especially those on their first
lamb, have been restless, and
the lamb has found it hard to
locate the udder beneath the
thick woolly overhang. We have
found several starved or nearly
starved for this reason.
Some ewes are so poor from
producing the double crop of
lamb and fleece that they have
little milk, and neither ewe nor
lamb thrives. There are, of
course, good-doers which have
done well even with a heavy
fleece.
To the argument that a sud-
den cold snap might bring
disaster we have always been
able to reply that we have plenty
of shelter from whatever direc-
tion the weather comes ; on a
bleak or exposed property we
might be less fortunate,
especially if feed were scarce.
Given good feed, a newly-shorn
sheep keeps moving and feed-
ing, and stands up to cold, wet
conditions well.
“Dutchy”: Especially in dis-
tricts of spring lambing does pre-
larabing shearing make things
easier for the ewes. It is unneces-
sary for a ewe to carry 71b. to
101 b. of wool at lambing-time.
Weight of the wool is an extra
strain on her strength. If there
is plenty of rain and the lambing-
paddock consists of rich soil
which easily becomes muddy and
spongy, the ewe will have to
carry a couple of pounds of
extra weight in moisture, besides
the weight of her fleece and
maybe a pound or two of mud,
Wireworms
“Elator”; Treatment of the
soil for control of wireworms is
a somewhat expensive opera-
tion. Large seed, such as beans
and maize, can be more eco-
nomically and effectively treated
with lindane, the odorless pure
gamma isomer of 8.H.C., in
suitable formulations. Such
treatment, however, predisposes
the seed to decay in the soil, and
a fungicide should be used with
the insecticide.
Growing Blubber
“Oxo”: A former beef-
producers’ representative on the
Australian Meat Board, P. A.
Elliot, of Moolboolamon, near
Bundaberg (Q.), asks if cattle-
producers are thinking of
developing a trade with the
Eskimos, “who are reported
to be extremely fond of
blubber.” Recently he read a
eulogy of a line of bullocks
from N.S.W. which were killed
at the Brisbane abattoir and
dressed well over 10001 b. When
in London last year as a member
of a delegation from the Meat
Board they were informed, “with
much bitter comment, of the
elephantine carcasses being sent
from Australia,” and also were
told that nothing over 8001 b. was
released by the Food Ministry
on the ration.
British retail butchers would
not take big carcasses any more
than would Australian retail
butchers, and the carcasses “of
these wonderful bullocks” were
relegated to manufacturers for
sausages or canning. Elliot
asked how the Meat Board, at
the request of producers, could
get from the British Food
Ministry a premium for choice-
quality beef when a substantial
proportion of the beef now being
sent is unsaleable except as meat
for processing.
If a return to open trading was
imminent it was understandable
that the Ministry would not want
to be caught with stores filled
with overweight carcasses. For
months and months, said Elliot,
“prime heavyweights” had com-
manded top prices at the Cannon
Hill sales, although such beef
was practically unsaleable to
consumers. Elliot blames the
quota system operating at the
Brisbane abattoirs for the
present position. Each operator
is allocated a quota of so many
cattle per week irrespective of
size, quality or type, and obvi-
ously an operator, under such
conditions, would prefer to kill
100 cattle per week dressing out
at 10001 b. than 100 killing out at
6001 b could go into the
contract, and a premium was
being placed on size. If the
quota system must continue at
the abattoir he suggests each
operator should be allocated a
quota of so many thousand
pounds of beef weekly, instead
of so many head, and a penalty
be placed on all carcasses over
8001 b. ■
Vegetable Soils
“H.C.”: Allow plenty of lime
three to four weeks before plant-
ing the new crop, and follow
up with balanced fertilisers. If
organic manure is used replenish
the supply regularly.
To improve soil-tilth, dig deep
and cultivate at intervals; this
makes for better drainage. Do
not bring the subsoil to the top;
leave it in the right strata. If
it’s clayey break it up to fore-
stall waterlogging.
When stable manure or ferti-
liser is likely to be in short
supply sow some vacant patch
to a green-manure crop of blue
lupins or oats. Dug into the soil,
the lupins will hold the nitro-
gen ; oats will build up humus.
Both crops prevent leaching of
plant-food. Rotational crop-
ping ensures soil health and
prevents soil fungi and bacteria
developing.
Grain Sorghums
“Saw Go”: Martin is one of
the best varieties of grain
sorghum grown commercially in
N.S.W. at present. But, because
of its dark grain and bitter taste
of tannic-acid in the seed-coat, it
is quickly giving way to superior
new varieties in Texas (U.S.A.).
The best of these are Combine
Kafir and Red bine, the latter of
which has long head-stalks and
quick-drying heads, which allow
earlier and easier header
harvesting.
Sump-oil as Paint
“H. 8.8.”: Used sump-oil,
broken down with about one-
third of kerosene, is an excellent
paint for unpainted outside
woodwork. However, its appli-
cation by brush is slow and
costly. The mixture can be
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
My long-range forecasting system has now come good
with the successful prediction of a dry spell and its end
indicated months in advance. The rains arrived almost on
the hour forecast. Data are as yet far from complete and
there is always a possibility of changes from the long Nep-
tunian Cycle intruding. In this it is indicated that there
should be heavy rains in spring, that October and November
should be dry, and further rains in December. The data on
the shorter cycles show good rains in September, October
rather dry, and good storms in November rather than
December.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board,of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS. . .NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the' soil.
m
fds
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 23 years
■DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vie.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth. ,
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Baffles Place.
N.Z,: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
iMiIM
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
THE EFFECT OF WORMS ON
WOOL PRODUCTION.
WORM FREE
SHEEP
LIGHTLY INFESTED
SHEEP
HEAVILY INFESTED
SHEEP
fdsf
JEE3M
JH2ZZ2I
12 LBS.
WOOL
11 LBS.
wool
LBS.
WOOL
IT PAYS TO USE ‘PHENOVIS’.
One of a series of advertisements designed
to convey as a simple story the results of
many years of research. Acknowledgment
is made to many research workers whose
results have been published in the Aus-
tralian Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
PHE.2OX. 3492'
sprayed very quickly and easily
over large areas if one owns a
small pressure-vessel (writer uses
a disposals aeroplane oxygen-
container), and a water-pressure
of not less than about 501 b. per
square inch.
The water-supply is connected
to the vessel in such a way that it
will flow towards its bottom;
an ordinary plastic garden-hose
is taken from the topmost point
of the vessel to a garden-spray
nozzle of the type which can be
adjusted to a fine mist. The
vessel is first filled with oil-
kero. mixture, then the water-
pressure turned on, and one side
of a sft. paling fence can be
sprayed at about 10ft. per
minute. A gallon of mixture will
spray over about 200 sq. ft. It
is perhaps unnecessary to
explain that the water in the
vessel will not mix with the oil,
but merely forces it upwards out
of the spray-line.
If a thinner distribution is
desired, a small flow of pressure-
water (controlled by a separate
tap) can be teed into the spray-
hose line; the result is a finely-
mixed spray of water-oil. The
water has no detrimental effect
whatever in regard to the oil
mixture soaking into the wood-
work, but it allows the oil cover-
age to be thinned down to any
desired rate. However, for a fast
job where there is no desire to
save the sump-oil there is no
need to bother about water-
inclusion connections.
Sump-oil can be tinted, if
desired, by mixing with it some
ordinary ferric - red roofing-
paint; however, if it is desired
to use up any other types of
paint with the sump-oil, a trial
mix is a wise precaution to dis-
cover first that the two will not
separate out. Sump'-oil plus
ferric-red will dry out hard in a
couple of days when sprayed on
to previously unpainted wood-
work.
Rotational Grazing
“Roto”: Although no results
of any strictly comparable trials
of rotational and continuous
grazing of pastures in coastal
regions in Australia are avail-
able, there are many farmers
who have subdivided their farms
into many small paddocks (or
who are now using electric fenc-
ing) prepared to admit that they
have lost money by not doing
this subdividing long ago.
Some years ago the C.5.1.R.0.
found that continuous grazing
was better than rotational graz-
ing for sheep on natural
pastures. Those results do not,
however, apply to natural pas-
tures on the tablelands, where
experienced graziers find alter-
nate rotational grazing by cattle
and sheep better than by sheep
alone.
Much depends on the rate of
stocking. With heavy stocking
continuous grazing can eventu-
ally eliminate the best species of
pasture plants, whereas they may
be saved either by rotationally
grazing or light reserved grazing.
Honey Flow
“Breck”; ’ Migratory bee-
keepers should study reports
from the Department of Agricul-
ture and the Apiarists’ Associa-
tion before migrating into new
districts. In N.S.W., following
recent rains, improved honey
yields are promising in some
areas; in others prospects are
patchy, dry weather and heavy
frosts affecting the blooming of
eucalypts and honey flora.
Good flows from ironbarks in
northern districts have attracted
apiarists from the N.S.W.
central - west and southern
Queensland. At Bulahdelah,
Casino and Cessnock, spotted-
gum is flowering well, but other
eucalypts are staging lighter
blooming. Mullumbimby and
Taree report poor budding of
gums. .
At Raymond Terrace big
yields from ironbarks, which
have failed for the past two
years, are expected. Ironbarks
will also supply abundant flows
at Macksville, but lack of other
species to supplement the pollen
may render the season dangerous
for the bees.
Around Condobolin blossom-
ing of mugga and yellow-box is
expected to last throughout
September. Excellent flowering
of redgums is to be seen outside
Deniliquin, Black-box, which
budded thickly in January last,
made a second budding in May.
Sites there are in record demand.
Light to heavy blooming of
peppermints and stringybarks is
occurring at Glen Innes.
Mildura redgum stands,
flooded for the past two winters,
made vigorous growth and
lengthy blossoming is antici-
pated. Redgum and yellow-box
are carrying good flower-crops
in Mathoura district.
Catching Foxes
“Ben Acre”: When rabbit-
trappers are working there is
opportunity to destroy foxes.
Not only will they come to a
decoy, where they can be shot,
but they will take baits made
of the pieces of rabbit they have
left in the traps. It might be
best to lay the poison on the
rabbit without taking it from
the trap, but this is not always
necessary. It is well not to reset
traps hear by.
After trapping has ceased the
foxes might turn to killing
lambs, but are still open to be
poisoned with baits made of the
kill. Being used to the scent of
man about the traps, they are
not disturbed by the scent about
the bait.
Sometimes foxes hunt in
packs—usually a vixen and cubs
—killing a weak sheep and eat-
ing most of it in a night. These
are an easy catch with poison
on the remains of their kill.
The difficult proposition is
the killer fox —the one that kills
Tor sport as much as for meat,
and likes to make a fresh kill
each night. A trick that it might
fall for is to lay poison on its
kill and put the lambing ewes
under protection.
Hints for the Farm
“Big Billy”: Anaemia among
young pigs can be cured by pro-
viding them with a weekly dose
of powdered sulphate-of-iron
using enough of the mineral to
cover a 3d. piece. Alternatively,
swab the udder of the sow
daily with a mixture made up
as follows; sulphate-of-iron,
71b. ; sulphate-of-copper, 2|oz.;
sugar, lib.; water, three quarts.
“C.A.A.”: Tests in South
Australia indicate that a new
fungicide, T.M.T.D., is superior
to acid-swabbing as a weaker
treatment for control of black-
spot on vines. Experts recom-
mend spraying before budburst
with 51b. per lOOgal. if the out-
break is severe. If mild use only
31b. per lOOgal. After budburst
cover-spray any fresh infection
with lilb. Prunings from in-
fected vines should be burned.
“Sundowner”: Hydatids
usually snare a dog that is
allowed to eat raw offal from
ration sheep. Children get the
disease because of their habit of
handling dogs. Boil all offal
before it is fed to dogs. Wash
raw vegetables before eating and
keep dogs away from vegetable-
gardens. Boil drinking water of
doubtful origin. Handle dogs as
little as possible, and be careful
to wash the hands before eating
or smoking. Keep down house-
flies around the homestead.
“1.C.1.”: Lindane at the rate
of ilb. to the acre will stop
black-beetle. There is ilb. of
lindane in 251 b. of “Lindust” or
pint of “Gamaphex.” For
potatoes, dust the seed for an
acre with 101 b. before planting
and follow with the remaining
151 b. over the acre before scuffl-
ing or hilling. “Gamaphex” may
be simply sprayed over the
ground at T} pint per acre,
diluted to any volume conveni-
ent to apply. For maize, a broad-
cast application of 251 b. of
“Lindust” per acre before plant-
ing.
“Sarina”: Lima-beans are
vigorous growers, both in the
dwarf and climbing form. The
dwarf Lima grows into a com-
pact bush 3ft. to 4ft. high. Sow
the seeds at least 2ft. apart. Not
many plants of either variety
are required, since they bear
surprisingly heavy crops of long,
flat beans like broad-beans.
Usually the pods are left until
the beans are mature, where-
upon the beans are cooked and
the pods discarded. The pods,
however, may be split and
cooked like French-beans before
the beans develop.
“Big Billy”: Pick tomatoes as
they mature. Soft fruit is likely
to attract birds and other pests.
Too many near-mature fruits on
plants tend to check fruit-
growth and the plant’s produc-
tive life.
“Curl Curl”; For many years
there has been no sure check
of grubs in pasture or lawn. Now
they can be given a severe knock
by an application of D.D.T. or
B.H.C. at the rate of lib. to 21b.
of the active ingredient per acre.
It may have to be repeated every
year or two. Important point
about the application is getting
the stuff into the soil. It will be
largely wasted if it is just broad-
cast on to long grass. Fertiliser
combined with the insecticide is
very helpful in aiding recovery
of lawn- or pasture-growth.
“Old Nick”: The purpose for
which cement is intended affects
its mixing.' For floors, cowyards
or paths, mix Bgal. of water with
a bag of Portland cement
(124i1b. net.) and add sufficient
sand or gravel to make a good
consistency. For troughs, hard-
working floors or areas exposed
to milk-acid attack, allow 6gal.
of water to a bag of cement,
plus sand or gravel. For fence-*
posts, 7gal. of water to each bag.
When the concrete seems too
stiff after adding all the water,
add less sand; when it seems
too thin, thicken it up with sand
or gravel.
PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studied
indicates a strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
from his sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin”
Wool Type Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES
IU ADYUKt)
♦ .
"THE BULLETIN 11
£l/16/- for 12 months
18/6 for 6 „
9/6 for 3
THE "WOMAN'S MIRROR"
£l/6/- for 12 months
13/- for 6 „
7/- for 3
(These prices include postage, and apply
whether the subscription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” Office or to any newsagent
in Australia.
♦
DO NOT PAY MORE
booty, a cane-bottomed lounge
for the directors’ room, a pistol
for its watchman, for whom it
organised nightly access at the
eastern end of the building. It
arranged that all its banknotes
should bear the name of a
fictitious acceptor, one “J. Lee,”
and it printed tokens for small
change. Also, to inspire con-
fidence, it drafted a fetching
inscription to appear on each of
its notes:
Let us possess the public confi-
dence so long: only as, by a faithful
qf the honorable trust
imposed in us, we may show our-
selves worthy of it. Whenever any
one man can say with truth “the
Bank has broken faith,” be then
OUB ruin, and ours only, the im-
mediate consequences.
This looks like the work of
the philanthropic Mr. Hall, who
afterwards earned fame as the
editor of the “Monitor.”
April 8, 1817, had been fixed
as foundation-day, but three
days before that date Sergeant
Jeremiah Murphy, of the 46th
Regiment and attached to the
Blue Mountains Road Guard,
stepped briskly in the front door
with £5O in his fist and thus be-
came the first Australian bank-
depositor. The next appears to
have been Dr. John Harris
(April 7), one of the original
shareholders, who had come out
with John Macarthur in the
Second Fleet, acting as his
second in a duel with Captain
Gilbert at Plymouth on the way.
Business was not exactly brisk
in the days following. Dr.
William Redfern opened his
account on April 12, Frederick
Garling, one of the first two free
solicitors in the colony, on the
14th, J. T. Campbell, the presi-
dent, and Robert Townson,
LL.D., of Varroville on the
Campbelltown - road, on the
15th. Next day Mr. Michael
Massey Robinson, the “poet
laureate,” trusted £25 to the new
institution, and Mr. James
Smith, that adversary of Francis
Greenway, who was under con-
tract for considerable building
at Parramatta, was next, on the
25th—he later built Liverpool
Church. Greenway later had an
account with the bank. Mr.
Thomas Wylde, clerk of the
peace and a director, put his first
money in on the 28th.
The books in the years
1817-18 teemed with historic
names Gregory Blaxland ;
John Gill, who built the South
Head lighthouse which Green-
way designed in 1816-17;
Richard Brooks, of Denham
Court; James Atkinson, /who
wrote the first book on Aus-
tralian agriculture; Joshua
John Moore, the Waterloo
veteran from the “Ox and
Bucks” who was the first
resident of Canberra; Major
West, later the employer of Bold
Jack Donohoe, the “wild
colonial boy”; H. C. Antill,
who had carried the flag of the
73rd Regiment into the breach
at Seringapatam in 1799 ; John
Wylde. Chief Justice-to-be of
Cape Colony ; J. W. Lewin, the
artist and naturalist; Phillip
Parker King, explorer of the
Australian coasts, the first Aus-
tralian to become a rear-admiral
and a Fellow of the Royal
Society; Edward Eager, who
had been sentenced to death for
forgery in Ireland, and who
lived in New South Wales in
piety to become rich and one of
the founders of trial-by-jury;
Francis Greenway, architect
George Crossley of the dead man
and the fly; Potter McQueen,
who imported the first purebred
Shorthorn cattle and founded
Segenhoe ; D’Arcy Wentworth,
father of W. C. Wentworth,
father of responsible govern-
ment ; and John Macarthur.
.. °f 1817 things
indeed looked prosperous. On
one side of the ledger it was
entered that the bank’s stock
and Treasury - bills totalled
£173 11s. lid. It held store
receipts for £l4ls—issued by
the Commissariat in payment
for food sold by growers to the
Government. Its specie totalled
£293 15s. lid., making a cash-
total of £3613 2s. lOd. It had
56 bills of exchange, £5693.
Mortgages were entered at
£l3Bl. Office furniture and
goods had cost £340 10s, 4d. and
the bank expenses were set down
at £373 Is. lOd.
No fewer than 23 customers
were trusting the bank with their
hard cash, their personal
balances totalling £1859 4s. Bd.,
but £lOBl of this belonged to
three of them. Banknotes taken
into stock totalled £10,035, of
which £5635-worth were in cir-
culation.
Six months later personal
balances had risen to £13,136,
bills, store-receipts and specie
held to £16,718, bills falling due
to £11,948.
J. T. Bigge, the commissioner
of inquiry sent out by the
British Government, soon had
an account there. The explorer
Oxley, Terence Murray, Simeon
Lord and Prosper de Mestre,
one of the first two Americans
naturalised as Australians and
the future first winner of the
Melbourne Cup, became
customers.
However, it was not all
straight sailing. Following Mr.
Hall as cashier—he did not last
many months —and Mr. Bayly
came Mr. Francis Williams,
partner of Mr. Simeon Lord,
who was even more original in
his banking methods than his
benevolent predecessor.
A certain inflation being again
noticeable in the currency, it
was discovered that the bank
had been concerned in the
strangest transactions, out of
place even in an institution so
revolutionary that it had con-
ceded votes to “female proprie-
tors”—presumably in deference
to the fact that Elizabeth Mac-
quarie had become the first
woman-investor in an Australian
public company. It transpired
that shareholders had been giv-
ing the g.-m. “a little wine and
spirits and a variety of small
amounts of cash” at Christmas-
tide, “the ordinary acknowledg-
ments of a person in my situa-
tion,” with the result that Mr.
Williams’s accounts were in a
very peculiar condition.
It seems that he was issuing
loans without recording them,
taking his friends’ cheques,
meeting them and putting them
quietly in drawers until there
should be cash in hand for them.
And, moreover, he had been
taken to a club one night by
Mr. Robert Jenkins, a director,
and three or four other share-
holders and depositors, where
they put him up for membership
and he was “induced to make
promises overnight” to persons
whom he met there, “which 1
had not the resolution next day
to refuse.”
As it seemed that the bank,
had lost or had in jeopardy
amounts only £6OO short of its
paid capital, the directors sadly
jettisoned Mr. Williams, sold-up
his furniture and notified the
enraged Governor, who with-
drew the £3OOO of Government
funds lodged with the institution
temporarily. The position was
particularly awkward, since his
Majesty’s Law Servants in Eng-
land had coldly expressed the
opinion that his Excellency was
“not legally empowered either
by his commission or instruc-
tions to grant such a charter [to
the bank], and that it is conse-
quently null and void.” Mac-
quarie had, nevertheless, stood
staunchly by the institution and
refrained from cancelling the
charter until he should have a
reply* from the Colonial Office
to his further strong arguments
in its favor.
However, it was obvious even
at that gloomy stage in the pro-
ceedings that everything had not
gone so badly. The bank had
paid 12 per cent, in August,
1819, 9 per cent, in February,
1820, 6 per cent, in August,
1820, and another 6 per cent,
in the following December. Its
profit-and-loss account at the
end of 1820 showed a balance
of £lO3B. But the record seems
to have been in 1825, when 61|
p.c. p.a. was paid.
It received a fresh charter in
1823, this time sanctioned by
the Home Government, but it
had many vicissitudes before it
was firmly on its feet—it was
reconstituted in 1828 after a
deadly struggle with the “exclu-
sives” who founded the rival
Bank of Australia in 1826 under
Governor Darling’s patronage.
Darling did his best to destroy
the ’Wales, but found himself
unable to implement a Legisla-
tive Council order to have it
wound up. Again in 1850 it was
reconstituted, and it had to
weather many a financial storm
and depression. Even in the early
’fifties it was so homely an
institution —it moved twice
by that time, in 1822 to Mr.
Chisholm’s house, near where
the National Mutual buildipg
stands in George-street, and a
few years later to its present site
that, as Mr. Nehemiah
Bartley, an old employee,
recorded in his reminiscences,
customers sometimes found the
general - manager’s children
clinging round their legs. It
weathered the vicissitudes of the
nearly-bankrupt pastoral era of
the 1830’s, the hungry ’forties,
the depressed'later ’seventies, the
calamitous era of ’93, the de-
pression of 1929-33. And it
could be said of all the later
ones that if it had not stood like
a rock national finance would
almost certainly have dissolved
momentarily into chaos. Its last
issue of fresh capital, indeed,
during the 1929-33 depression,
was designed to take over a
weak sister in a state of collapse
and stem a tide of public panic
started by the breakdown of the
State Savings Bank and the
Primary Producers’ Bank, It
has not passed a dividend since
1819.
Emergence from each great
struggle and finally from the
struggle for actual existence in
1947-49, when the Chifley Gov-
ernment attempted to nationalise
the trading banks, has seen it
stronger than before, and that
at such a time as the present it
has sufficient confidence to
infuse £6,000,000 of new capital
into its being, and to ask its
shareholders to provide it, has
given a greater fillip to con-
fidence than any event in
finance in Australia for a very
long time.
The puny baby which started
with actual issued capital of not
much more than £3600 in 1817
will, when the new issue is com-
pleted, be capitalised in the
order of £13,000,000. Against
the £l2BO which, as the first
president, Mr. Campbell,
announced, was outstanding in
1818-19 as loans and advances
to customers, the figure in the
1952 balance - sheet was
£207,857,000. Its total assets
were £395,610,000 on a very
conservative accounting, apart
from contingent assets in the
shape of liabilities of customers
on letters-of-credit, guarantees,
etc., of £46,900,000.
Today its staff and their
families would populate a city
the size of Bathurst. Its 670-odd
branches are spread throughout
Australia and New Zealand. Its
agencies reach to the ends of the
earth. Holders of 13,000 share-
holdings and their dependants
make a more numerous total
than the whole of the white
population of Australasia when
the bank was founded. Over
73 p.c, of its shareholders own
25 shares or less.
Many of the families who
were associated with its founda-
tion are still concerned with its
affairs. It has one chief-
inspector descended from one of
those present at the first meeting
which Governor Macquarie
called together so hastily at
noon on November 19, 1816.
Others, including the Black
family, whose original member
associated with the bank was
employed in a very minor posi-
tion in the Reiby cottage in 1817
and rose to be g.-m. in 1829,
have played a long-term part
in its expansion.
The two oldest known bank
passbooks extant in Australia to-
day, their entries expressed in
Spanish dollars, are those with
the ’Wales of John Macarthur
and William Charles Went-
worth.
so they dubbed him “Marco Mil-
lions the Liar.” But when he
described China’s canal they
understood, and it is said that
many of the little bridges which
span the canals in Venice are
from Marco Polo’s copy of those
in China.
Perhaps the most remarkable
person ever to travel on China’s
Grand Canal was Yehanola, the
ten-year-old Manchu girl who
grew up to become Empress,
then Empress Dowager and
rule China for 50 years.
Nobody knows where Yeha-
nola was born, somewhere in
Anhui Province, though many
may know the story of her rise
to power—how at age 17 she,
along with 29 other lovely Man-
chu maidens, won the contest
for beauty and intelligence
which admitted them into the
Emperor’s harem in the For-
bidden City ; how by presenting
the Emperor with a son, she
rose from third-grade concubine
to Empress of the West; how
at the age of 26, upon the death
of the Emperor in a drunken
stupor at Jehol, she, as regent
to their six-year-old son, became
Empress DoWager. By hook
and by crook she held this posi-
tion for 50 years. Always she
reigned colorfully, often wisely.
She collected 16 titles for her-
self during her lifetime. But
her favorite name was Old
Buddha.
When the Empress Dowager
died superstitious folk said it
was because she had invited the
Dalai Lama down from Tibet
to Peking, where she gave him
a feast. No two reincarnations
of the living Buddha can exist
in the same district at one time;
there was the Dalai Lama and
the Empress Dowager Old
Buddha; one life had to be
snuffed out. The Empress
Dowager’s was snuffed. Doc-
tors have a different theory.
They say the Empress Dowager
died from overindulgence in her
favorite dish at the feast—little
sour green apples stewed with
cinnamon-bark, dredged with
sugar and eaten in the Manchu
fashion with clotted cream. This
brought on an attack of
dysentery.
Perhaps she died of old age.
After all, she was 76 and had
lived a full life. The Empress
Dowager gave the last flame of
glory to the old dynastic system
of government. After her came
the Republic of China. And
since then the northern end of
the Grand Canal has silted up.
Only a dictator, it seems, can
call out the conscript labor re-
quired for a big job like keeping
the canal dug out or controlling
the Yellow River, flood-wild
and the rpying k|nd
Human nature being what it
is and the body more durable
than one thinks, at the end of
seven months we internees at
Yangchow had dug wells,
mended roofs, encouraged grass
and flowers, made fresh clothes
from bolts of ticking and sheet-
ing the missionaries had secreted
in the rafters of their hospital
building before being ejected.
And now we sat comfortably
under spreading trees in autumn
leaf within our high brick walls.
Our captors, armed to the teeth,
perched uncomfortably in tree-
tops outside our walls guarding
us. Result; Important Japanese
Army officials coveted our liv-
ing - quarters. They would
scatter us amongst barb-wire
prisons near Shanghai. Pack
up!
Our five guards were
thoroughly soured by now. In
spite of the fact that they had
restricted us to starvation
rations while they gorged on
vitamin-giving vegetables, fowls
and fruit, abundant to the dis-
trict, only three of us had died
—of heart, of cancer, of exhaus-
tion. We remaining 373 were
skinny but very much alive. Out
on the canal once again, the
guards sulked below decks mak-
ing no attempt to pack us two
neat layers deep on to the
“chicken-boat.” We sprawled
about happily, thankful for small
mercies.
The Grand Canal was in our
blood by now. Aside from the
spot of sky directly above our
high brick walls, all we had seen
of the outside world was stolen
glimpses from our tiny attic
window at the canal. And now
luxuriating in our few hours’
respite between prisons, we
laughed and sang and decided
that when we were free to go
where we liked we would forge
further inland to learn more
about this country, China —take
a real voyage via Grand Canal.
We waxed quite hilarious
elaborating on our plan.,.
returning the gay greetings from
sampans, flower-boats, snake-
boats, from farms, from blue-
clad figures scurrying merrily
along the banks as we sped
through sparkling autumn air
down the golden loops of the
canal. On our voyage-to-come
there would be no luxurious
royal barge such as the ancient
emperors travelled on, but there
was still a wide choice of craft.
Our best bet would be a typical
canal-boat manned by a native
family of five. Then we could
rest assured that the old
Chinese sailor-woman would,
somehow, manage to deliver us
to wherever we wanted to go
along China’s Grand Canal.


Available from all booksellers
NO BARRIER
By ELEANOR DARK (16s. Od.)
Eleanor Dark’s latest historical novel which takes up the fascinating story
begun in “The Timeless Land” and continued in Storm Of Time.
‘‘Great in conception and achievement. Sydney Morning Herald.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
THE GIRLS FROM ESQUIRE
308 pages with 30 complimenting Esquire cartoons
The most exciting reading by the most brilliant authors —John Steinbeck, James
Jones, Ferenc Molnar, Paul Gallico and many others—about the most
interesting subject in the worId:—WOMEN!
Part I: Women the Necessary Evil, Part II: All for Love, Fart III: The Lady Speaks
Her Mind, Part IV: Women of the World, Part V: Sugar and Spice, Part VI:
Science and Sex „ 1S lo
At all booksellers, 18/9.
Published by ARTHUR BARKER Limited
MELBOURNE :: LONDON AUCKLAND
KOREAN TALES
by Melvin B. Voorhees
This book is a first-hand account of
the Korean War—a war unique in
history. It includes fictional stories
based on facts, and direct docu-
mentary reports. Many subjects are
dispassionately discussed, many per-
sonalities pictured.
15/6 (post 7d.)
THE GIRLS FROM ESQUIRE
Contains 35 articles and Stories by
famous Esquire writers, comple-
mented by 30 Esquire cartoons.
John Steinbeck, Ferenc Molnar and
Elliot Paul are included in the
authors who give us A Snake of
One’s Own, Glandbook For The
Questing Male (with chart) and
other information.
18/9 (post 1/3)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
Lord Chesterfield’s exclamation, “Never
have I seen anything so rude; don’t
move!” I nevertheless went to the door
and meeting her, inquired in dulcet tones,
“Are you ill, S.?” “111?” she shrilled,
“no, certainly not, why should 1 be ill?”
“There surely was no other excuse for
your hasty exit,” I said calmly. She had
the grace to blush; the other women hid
their smiles, and never again was I .thus
challenged!”
Again, when the Prince of Wales
(Edward VII) brought the Kaiser to
luncheon (one learns from Sir Osbert
Sitwell’s stories that only cads say
“lunch”) at Blenheim in 1899, it was the
American Duchess who pointed out to
the Duke of Marlborough that if he per-
sisted in riding escort beside the open
carriage from the station to the mansion,
the Kaiser, as guest-of-honor, would
have to be seated facing the way the
carriage was going. The Duchess, being
a lady and the hostess, would have to be
seated next to the Kaiser, and the Prince
would have to sit facing them, his back
to the horses. This, the Duchess pointed
out, the Prince would not like. But the
picture of himself in uniform on a fine
horse riding beside the carriage was too
pleasing to the Duke. He insisted ; so
the Duchess had to go in the carriage to
the station ; and, sure enough, the Prince
was annoyed:
As we' entered the waiting daumont the
Prince eyed me resentfully while refusing,
as I knew he w'ould, the seat next to the
Emperor... Just before luncheon, perhaps
in anticipation of further discomfitures, the
Prince of Wales drew me aside and asked
me how I had seated the guests.
“The Emperor opposite Marlborough,
myself at his right, your Royal Highness
at my right,” I told him.
“And where have you placed my
brother?” he asked, stressing tile r’s in
his German way.
“Opposite you, Sir,” 1 said, and when
I added, “With your permission .1 will not
come to the station,” he smiled his
approval.
Dinner with Queen Victoria, the Coro-
nation of Edward VII, a State visit to the
Court of Russia, a visit to India to be
present at the Coronation Durbar of
Edward VII, house-parties to royalty,
membership of “The Prince of Wales’s
set,” posing for magnificent picture with
the Duke and two children, by Sargent;
and for a brilliant study with her younger
son, by Boldini —after eleven years of all
this the Duke and Duchess separated ;
she to live in their hew London house.
The true cause of the separation is
only delicately hinted at. Her mother-
in-law and other friends helped steer her
through what might have been the awk-
ward early days of meeting Society after
the break. She took an active interest in
charities, in the aid of the families of
men in prison ; became the only lay-
member of the Nation! Commission into
the declining birthrate, became honorary
treasurer of the newly-formed Bedford
College for women at the University of
London, entertained the Asquiths, dined
with the Shaws, gave Wells his first big
London dinner-party, admired Yeats’s
talking, conferred on sweated women,
organised and ran hospitals during the
First World War, was elected a London
County Councillor for Southwark in
1919, saw her elder son married in 1920,
and secured a divorce.
In 1921 she married Colonel Balsan,
a member of a wealthy French cloth-
milling family. He had been one of her
suitors at one of her first dances in Paris
before she was married. Their life in
their Paris home, in the mansion they
built on the French Riviera, and in their
summer home, a Normandy chateau with
a moat (w'hich servants stirred with oars
for Winston so that he could photograph
it as it would look in windy weather for
a picture'he intended to paint of it) tends
to prove that happy people have no his-
tory--the real interest of her book is its
first half, with its reflections of a great-
ness which was in some ways petty, but,
taken altogether and in retrospect, con-
stituted probably the cultural and social
peak of our wave of civilisation.
Reviewed Briefly
The Beautiful Gunner: Norma Lee
(Werner Laurie). The heroine of
this novel advertises herself as a
bad girl, but does little to prove it;
she becomes a stooge for a handsome
F. 8.1. agent to get evidence of black-
mail. Her adventures in New York
and in Hollywood seem to be two
adventures telescoped into' one, and
written-up, possibly, from some Ameri-
can radio-serial.
* * * *
The Sojourner: Marjorie Kinnan
Rawlings (Heinemann). The author of
The Yearling has used “an old man (my
grandfather)” as model for Asahel
Linden, the central character of her new
novel —one of those long portrait-studies
which (when well done as this is) be-
come impressive by the accumulation of
detail and observation. The period
ranges from the 1880’s to the 1940’5.
Asahel’s family are born—and mostly as
they grow up turn out disappointingly.
His mad mother and absent brother Ben-
jamin dominate the scene considerably,
but not morbidly or to the exclusion of
gaiety and humor. The book’s suspense
is mainly a result of a confusing property
settlement which only the missing brother
could set to rights. Mrs. Rawlings’s
characterisation is adequate, her descrip-
tive prose good, but her main excellence
is sincerity.
« * ♦ ♦
The Judgment of Paris: Gore Vidal
(Heinemann). A young American writer
attempting the intellectualised, essayistic
novel of Huxley, without the charm of
early-Huxley and without the anguished
exaltations of the later-Huxley. His
young American spending a year in
Rome, on Capri and in Paris before
going home to practise law certainly
takes the lid off some European decad-
ences that Huxley didn’t treat much-
male brothels in Italy and similar enter-
tainments in Paris —-and the treatment of
his affairs with a Senator’s wife in
Rome, a woman-Egyptoiogist in Egypt
and a tycoon’s wife in Paris has an
objectivity at first of interest and later
of boredom.. There are even some comic
touches —a mad mission for a decadent
lord, and a series of well-meant efforts
by a best-seller American woman
thriller-writer to contrive a -suicide for
a fat man who is tired of life. But
altogether the book has a bit too much
of everything to give any unity of
effect, except of confusion and despair.
♦ ♦ * *
The Fire-Raisers: Marris Murray
(Seeker and Warburg). Although it has
some uncertainty of construction, this
much-discussed first novel by a young
South African woman is a “must” for
readers who regard this form of fiction
as art —a distillation of experience. The
book has been described as an account
of several sane people set in 1 a group of
neurotic and insane persons —this is not
so. Hemper, who hoped to discover life’s
secret by exact measurements of dead
forms and who denied his wife a child ;
Applesmith, who could make a doll
exactly like a bitch on heat, or another
like a human baby; Gregory spreading
fever; an old woman looking for her
lost dentures —these are symbols, not
maniacs. Neither are the unmarried ex-
pectant mother Agatha, or the good old
man Jacob who gives her, a home, or his
adopted son Etienne “normal.” The
book’s children and its black people de-
serve mention. The seven starving Klein-
stukkie children form a wonderful group-
characterisation and their fate is most
exact, although except for one they perish
before the devouring veldt-fires which pro-
vide the climax of the story and which
arise from the natures and actions of
those concerned.
* ♦ * *
* Lost Trail: Francis Cunynghame
(Faber). It seems an extraordinary coin-
cidence that the man who had most to
do with developing and consolidating the
Klondike goldfields should have been
named Treadgold ; but so he was —Arthur
Newton Christian Treadgold ; a collateral
descendant of Isaac Newton —and this is
his biography, by the founder and first
president of the company now controll-
ing the Klondike mines. A bare, grim
story of financial manoeuvres, litigation,
and Treadgold’s death in hospital in
England in 1951, bankrupt and roaring
with rage, it is essentially for readers with
a special interest in the subject (Major
Curiynghame corrects some of Jack
London’s misstatements) rather than for
the reader expecting a vigorous tale of
adventure.
* * * *
The Terror Machine : Gregory Klimov
(Faber). Formerly a Soviet advisory-
expert in Berlin, Klimov moved over to
the American zone to live as a private
individual “in the Germany he has come
to admire.” One of his stories is that
when Stalin heard the Allies had landed
in France he was said to have “stamped
his foot with rage” ; another is of “a
victorious Soviet general” in Moscow
who, a month after the war had ended,
was still afraid to switch-on his new radio
(a receiving-set only) “until the Kremlin
had expressly given him permission”;
another is of a Communist backslider —
one who, though not involved in any
conspiracy, had admitted hostility to the
regime—forced at pistol-point to sign a
false “confession,” then beaten-up with
the butt of the pistol, then sent away to
be tortured, after which his interrogator
admits to Klimov that he himself is a
waverer, haunted day and night by “the
scent of b100d”... .Terror and violent
death are necessarily the background to
the whole history, but there is no attempt
at sensationalism: it is a sober and
fascinating account of exactly how life
is lived today amidst the Soviet bureau-
cracy.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 242
Across
I—Priest of Shiloh quoted and
brought to light. (8)
6 —Dane pigling in the village. (6)
10- —Villain. (5)
11 — The serpent and I orate noisily
for this contender. (8)
,12 —Game noted between pairs of
pylons on Port Jackson’s shores.
(6)
13 — Mum and 1 have 31 days in
France. (3)
14— Declines to drink sailor blemishes.
(8)
15— 100 much talk in a one-time
Japanese base to Australians
north. (3)
18— How Mrs. Capone described
her son’s age on the day of his
birth, too? (4)
19— 141 b. saint among singles, (3, 5)
22 —He accepts recruits from Leinster
and makes a catalogue Of prin-
ter’s measures. (8)
24 —Generous-souled German boy. (4)
28 —Unit of, work. (3)
30r-r-A fellow to act with Lindsay for
a music-maker. (8)
32 — Object. (3)
33 — Where Divine Right used to be
, located staining the presses. (6)
34 Indian tongue gives a screen a
rearrangement. (8)
35 — Thirty across unmanned a famous
danseur. (5)
36 — Swear at an examination. (6)
37 These birds tin mutton. (8)
Down
1— Aboriginal Emily is tending to
emerge. (9)
2 Devil-like fur cannot be got
through. (10)
3 Dora’s described by such incur-
sions. (7) . .
4 In an Italian king upsetting this
Verdi opera. (6) ...
5 Morse makes much of this girl.
(3)
6 The nave of a wheel affirmative
for a Hungarian fiddler-composer.
(5)
7 Masts sometimes support them.
(7)
8 — A god rising in a Napoleonic
battlefield. (4)
9 The batting principle of tea. (5)
16— A Northern Territory insect. (3)
17 — Venetians in the idol region. (10)
20— Finish rages places in jeopardy
(9)
21— The result of some spinning
between thumb and forefinger.
(3)
23 —Sandy beaches and deserts. (7)
25 —Naiad described in this state for
the post-prandial location of the
Wynyard breakfast.. (7)
26 — Progenitor managed a South
American watercourse. (6)
27 — Land one on the chin. (5)
29—Light cart to turn a leg of
mutton. (5)
31—Burlesque equipment for winter
sport before tea. (4)
34 —Commander-in-Chief is 199. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 241


rmr.
/
/
/
i
* i
;* : sis
* ,y. <
liiliiliiiiiiilllii*
<V : <Xr.
• ••• ■; ••’••:
f -:ov
** 3BK - & '<•
»
I: V £||||| ••4v‘: ; ‘ :: '.'. : :.' ---
w
&
n
, -fISK. ' ;
,
ili?M
WM
>:-' *
'* . .
WmM
i®i|iii
liili
> i
&
:: x;::- ; ; V
1
liiillll
■* | ‘ ' i M
-
' fSL.’ w '
v
V B >.
- Hi
■
V:
fxi : ' - : :•
iWm
i.
to
:
.. ■• : . ySMx4
■
* V /
3?
SKIS
to
Mi
11
11111*1*1
<B^
.:
mmsi&s
" Jt
m
m
CATERPILLAR
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
means
mm
(g@gT
CATERPILLAR DtISCC
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
ASTINCS
la
v fee si d
HASTINGS PEERING - QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD.
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane
Phone J 1456 (6 lines)
BRANCH: ERNEST ST.. INNISFAIL
Phone 475
HASTINGS DIESELS LIMITED.
ALICE SPRINGS, NORTHERN TERRITORY
AND LAE. NEW GUINEA
