

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
PADDY LENNY’S BRUMBIES: HENRY G. LAMOND
“The Bulletin/’ Vol. 74 —No. 3819
Wednesday, April 22, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
IN THE CITY OF SPIRES STANDS
ENGLAND'S SMALLEST
CATHEDRAL
OXFORD is known as the City of Spires,
and one of these many spires belongs to
the Cathedral Church of Christ, which had its
early beginnings in the eighth-century church
founded by a Saxon prince for the use of his
daughter, St. Frideswide. This original church
was burnt by a party of marauding Danes
about the year a.d. 1000, but four years later
it was rebuilt by Ethelred II, and in 1800
further reconstruction took place under Robert
Cricklade, and the building as it appears today
dates mainly from that period. Fragments of
the original eighth-century church are, however,
embodied in the fabric,
A unique feature about the See of Oxford
is that the seat of the Bishop is in a building
which also serves as the chapel to the College
of Christ Church, so that the College Chapel
is also the Cathedral of Oxford, and the Dean
is at the same time head of the College and
of the Cathedral Chapter.
The approach to the Cathedral is through
the great quadrangle known as Tom Quad,
which, even in its unfinished state, indicates the
ambitious lines along which Wolsey planned
his Cardinal College in 1525.
A feature of tire interior is the magnificent
pendant-vaulted ceiling over the Nave which
is a splendid example of sixteenth-century
craftsmanship. In St. Lucy’s Chapel can be
seen widows in which glass dating from 1330
still survives. A figure representing Thomas
Becket is depicted, but without a head, which
was removed by order of Henry VIII. The
king had little sympathy for the Archbishop
who resisted royal tyranny so successfully, con-
sequently he ordered that all representations of
the favourite martyr of the English Church
should be destroyed. Near the Lady Chapel
are fragments qf the thirteenth-century shrine
of St. Frideswide, which attracted large numbers
of pilgrims to the church in those early days.
A Jacobean reading-desk and pulpit and a com-
plete range of fifteenth-century stalls are to be
seen in the Latin Chapel of Oxford Cathedral,
the smallest of the many English Cathedrals.


JLcarn
JSSS IMBIBE
at HOI
*01
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name .
Address
(S.B. 253) Age
THE NEW KYLIE TENNANT
It is an interesting fact that the nearer
the Australian novel gets to the large,
Dickensian view of city life, which is
probably what most people would like
to read and which is the likeliest develop-
ment from the pioneering and country
themes, the closer it gets to jail: where
indeed we do arrive in Kylie Tennant’s
new book The Joyful Condemned (Mac-
millan).
Before we say too hastily that this is a
recent development we should remember,
of course, that it was such works as Louis
Stone’s Jonah, Dyson’s Fact’ry ’Ands and
Lawson’s Arvie Aspinall stories which
set up the slum and larrikin tradition;
and before we regard ourselves, with
whatever pained surprise, as unique in our
passion for prisons, we should remember
that Fielding, Dickens and Defoe all had
a considerable interest in the same kind
of scenery.
But Dickens, at any rate, was chiefly
concerned with the Marshalsea, and it is
one thing to suppose a state of society
in which anyone is likely to find himself
in prison for debt and quite another thing
to find, as we do in The Joyful Con-
demned, all sections of society, from the
fashionable seaside playground Kylie
Tennant calls Palm Cove through the
slums of “Foveaux” to the mansions of
the rich in Sydney’s harbor suburbs,
revolving as it were around the core of
the jail she calls Sandy Bay. It suggests
a universal corruption where the good
citizen shines like a very small candle on
a dark night or, as happens to be the
case with all the goodies in The Joyful
Condemned, is actively fighting crime
while the rest of the community amuses
itself with pilfering from the wharves,
blackmarketeering, prostitution, the liquor
racket and murder. Except in an occa-
sional Brighton Rock there is certainly
nothing like this in the contemporary
English novel.
Nor can one doubt, though the initial
impetus may have come from the ’Nine-
ties, that there has been an increase in
this kind of writing in recent Australian
fiction. Consider what a lot of lowlife
we have had from lon Cleary’s You
Can’t See Round Corners, Ruth Park’s
The Harp in the South, the Melbourne
muckraker Power Without Glory, Dal
Stivens’s Jimmy Brockett, Dymphna
Cusack’s and Florence James’s Come in.
Spinner and Kylie Tennant’s own earlier
Foveaux.
Anybody who reads the newspapers
must admit that this is, at least up to a
point, a true picture of Sydney. Kylie
Tennant’s novel is, specifically, an analysis
of the corruption that spread through
the community like a disease while the
men were away at the war. But then,
the newspapers distort; they distort by
false emphasis; they focus on crime;
criminals and near-criminals are so photo-
graphed and written-up that they appear
almost as public heroes: and while the
little trollops of The Joyful Condemned
are skipping from brothel to reformatory
and back to the brothels again—not that
the story is unpleasantly handled ; and
not that Kylie Tennant has neglected
other aspects of Sydney life in other
novels —much more amiable activities
than that are going on in the big city;
and, whether amiable or not, much less
vulgar and much more interesting activi-
ties.
This reviewer, for one, cannot bring
himself to care very deeply for novels
about teenage tarts and petty criminals.
Perhaps they would make a theme for
Rabelaisian comedy ; perhaps—if the full
horrors of such a case as the Melbourne
murder for which a woman was lately
banged were brought in—they would
serve the super-realism of a Zola; but
subtlety, grace, intellectual profundity
are hardly possible in such a novel; and
after a succession of them at any rate —
The Joyful Condemned is so very much
ike Come in, Spinner; only better —one
is inclined to wish for something different.
Too many Australian novelists at the
moment, it may be, are social-workers in
disguise; or looking at life from a
journalistic viewpoint; or too many
writers are mistaking the hovel-novel, as
a colleague once called it, for the giant
comedy of Dickens.
But if this kind of novel is being over-
done, The Joyful Condemned is certainly
a good one in its kind ; the best of all
the recent crop, in this reviewer’s opinion.
It has not the slickness, the popular melo-
drama of Come in, Spinner , but its docu-
mentary interest, on which all novels of
the kind finally stand, seems more sincere,
more reliable, more thoroughly investi-
gated. Those who want to know exactly
what it is like out at “Sandy Bay,” or
in the girls’ reformatory at “Petworth,”
or in the superior type of reformatory
in a semi-rural suburb which Kylie Ten-
nant calls the Wade Memorial —and of
course everybody, without necessarily
having all his best friends in Long Bay,
has some curiosity about such places—•
will feel satisfied that Kylie Tennant
knows what she is writing about:
But when the prison tram ran under the
dark arch of the jail and they filed from
the evil-smelling cage and were lined up in
the reception room he was heartened to be
with the other objectors, amid the harsh
routine of roll-call, the entering of names,
addresses and previous convictions, the
stripping and passing naked into the cloth-
ing room. He dressed in the grey prison
coat and trousers, ill-fitting and without
pockets, accepted the big boots and old
hat, and trudged off where the warder took
him....
The door crashed to, and David found
himself gasping for breath. He had never
in his life been locked in a narrow space.
The only light came from a small barred
window, eight feet up. It seemed that the
monstrous weight of the towering stone
building with its steel staircases, its rows
of cells above his head, was pressing
slowly down; the walls were closing in, the
whole space was diminishing as in a night-
mare to squeeze the breath out of his lungs.
There are scenes in some Government
department in Sydney; scenes of war-
time cafes and dancehalls; scenes in the
homes of wealthy philanthropists, and
out at “Palm Cove” ; gangsters at a pub
in the slums; dozens of pictures of the
delinquent girls on whom the story is
based ; all with the same impression of
authenticity, and some, as when the
girls rebel in the reformatory at “Pet-
worth” and have to be washed off the
roofs by a fireman’s hose, exceptionally
well re-created. Animating the docu-
mentary information there are, too, as
one would expect in a Kylie Tennant
novel, warmth and depth of feeling, an
illumination of compassion, so that the
story becomes, in its way, a minor epic
of the unfortunate:
The other woman made no reply. She
gave Miss Pressberg a threatening look and
scuttled back towards the main courtyard.
Miss Pressberg, with a heavy heart, stayed
at her post. She felt as though some un-
canny, stifling and perilous evil stalked
through the old stone corridors. Something
risen from centuries of cellars and dark-
ness was crying, “Let me out!”
As a novel, apart from its documentary
interest, The Joyful Condemned is very
readable but somewhat blunted in its
impact. It has a large, complicated plot,
many characters with their lives all inter-
locking in the Dickensian manner -too
large, as it is handled, for any one theme
to sustain dramatic interest or be fully
developed; except Kylie Tennant’s
familiar centralisation, the picaresque
adventures of her heroine. There is some
over-emphasis of the squalor, as when
that innocent breath from heaven the
southerly is described as “a wind that
snivelled around street corners and blew
its nose on wayfarers as though they were
so many dirty pocket-handkerchiefs,” and
there are occasions when burlesque
humor is allowed to destroy credibility,
as when the tough criminal Mort is
knocked-out by Margot Manusey with a
golf-trophy and cries out, in the stage
tradition of the comic Cockney, “Don’t
hit me, lady.”
In spite of the apparent frankness of
the story there a steady blurring of
the scenes of sex —it is amazing how
little really happens at the three-day party
when the girls are living with the U.S.
soldiers —and these scenes do need to be
described more fully, at whatever peril,
if we are to see the trollops in their full
reality. Such scenes may be done with
tact as in Madame Telder's Establish-
ment but they can’t just be skipped over.
Credibility is too often destroyed again,
or at least interrupted, by the mechanics
of the story. It is hard to believe, for
instance, that the girl Marie, who has
run away with her baby from people who
were going to adopt it because she loves
it too much to part with it, should
straightway decide to kill both herself
and the child by turning on the gas in
her room. It is impossible to believe
that the two doctors in the scene towards
the close would so lightly commit a sane
Terry Lago to a lunatic asylum.
Kylie Tennant seems to be able to see
the surface of her characters clearly —
their appearance, their mannerisms—but
she doesn’t so often see deeply into them,
nor does she seem to care very much
whether they are behaving plausibly or
not. There is nothing really to explain
why David Aumbry is a pacifist and
chooses to spend the war in jail—the
brief analysis by a psychologist isn’t
nearly enough to show his true nature;
nor is it quite credible, even if Yanks
were Yanks, that Hotspot should want
to marry Big Rene, the trollop-heroine,
at the end, when at their last meeting
he had seen her dragged-off to prison
by the Vice Squad.
In secondrate magazine-writing these
points would not be worth noting. They
matter in this novel because, accepting
its genre, it is so full of genuine quality
—the convincing reportage, the excel-
lence of some of the portraits of social-
workers, the freshness, the humanity, the
bold pattern of Sydney landscape and the
large and robust view of life. The book
does, of course, live and move strongly
through its weaknesses; and in its
development towards a more compact
and dramatic plot and a more robust type
of heroine it is much the soundest novel
Kylie Tennant has written for many
years.
The Red Page
Mr. Crummles's Dickens
Dickens the Dramatist by Dubrez
Fawcett (W. H. Allen, London), is one
of those works written for the wrong
readers of Dickens; the people who make
up Dickens Societies, and who, like those
who constitute Browning Societies, find a
fatal attraction in all that is least worthy
in the works of their idolatry.
No doubt Dickens had an obsession
for the stage and Mr, Fawcett com-
placently enumerates instances of what
he calls “Dickens’s dramatic sense in the
big mbments of his tales” when he groups
his characters for a final curtain, as in
the unmasking of Pecksniff by old
Martin Chuzzlewit, or when the hounds
of the law close in on Jonas Chuzzlewit,
or when retribution overtakes Sampson
and Sally Brass and , . .
Oh yes, there is plenty of that sort of
thing in Dickens, and it is one aspect of
his novels which makes an understand-
ing reader of them groan aloud. I don’t
suppose there was ever a worse stage
than in Dickens’s period. Melodrama
was at its apex Of fustian, and the test
of virtuosity in an actor was his ability
to chill the spines of an audience with
horror or make it burst into sobs at the
nobility of his elocution.
I saw the tag-end of melodrama in
the ’nineties, and very terrible, it was,
but by that time stage-technique was
beginning to use the human voice as it
is normally used off-stage, and to relate
gesture to its observed effect in actuality,
and we used to attend Bland Holt’s
bellowdramas at the old Theatre Royal
in Melbourne to enjoy a good laugh. I
am quite sure no slapstick comedians
were ever funnier on the stage than those
old-time actors who boomed out their
parts in rich and rolling cadences, and
whose heart-throbs at a crisis of bathos
were an acrobatic exercise of the vocal
chords.
In short, the stage technique of
Dickens’s era was very much that of the
Revivalist meeting, designed to throw an
audience off its emotional balance and
induce a temporary state erf hysteria.
Dickens himself, as an amateur actor,
must have been a barnstormer of the
first magnitude, by the contemporary
accounts of his acting in “The Light-
house,” a melodrama written by himself
and Wilkie Collins; and even in his read-
ings, his rendering of the murder of
Nancy by Bill Sikes caused ladies in the
audience to swoon. There is no doubt
that the physical exhaustion he inflicted
on himself after one of those emotional
debauches was the major cause of his
death.
The plots of many of Dickens’s novels
are stage plots of the period and are so
badly constructed that to this day I don’t
know what murder the mysterious
murderer who appears in the opening of
Barnaby Rudge perpetrated, or what he
is doing in the novel at all, as he dis-
appears out of it and is seen no more.
Or what part Miss Wade has in
the plot of Little Dorrit, or what
the plot itself is, or how Blandois—a
stage villain of the period in cloak and
brigand’s hat, who does nothing in the
novel save make his nose come down
and his moustache go up—arrives at
blackmailing Mrs. Clennarn.
I don’t know what nemesis for villainy
made Ralph Nickleby hang himself, and
I don’t believe Dickens himself knew.
The truth appears to be that he started
his novels with some vague notion of a
plot in his head, but once he introduced
his great characters they took charge
of his pen and ran away with the story,
and it was only at intervals he re-
membered that he had a plot, and tried
to drag it into the novel by some im-
probable relation, and then let it go
again to get on with his really inspired
subject-matter.
But the truly amazing aspect of
Dickens’s obsession over the stage is that
he never introduces it into his novels
without roaring with laughter at it. Mr.
Wopsle as Hamlet is one of the funniest
episodes in Great Expectations, and in
Nicholas Nickleby the whole stage of
his era, actors and acting, from the
Snevellicci family circle to the immortal
Crummies and his company of barn-
stormers, is viewed from first to last as
the subject-matter of pure comedy.
Yet in that same novel Dickens reverts
to rank melodrama over the villainy of
Sir Mulberry Hawk, though all his
villainy amounts to is having made a
casual remark about Kate Nickleby in
a pub parlor, which is overheard by
Nicholas, who thereupon proceeds to
denounce the traducer of his sister’s repu-
tation by beating him over the head with
his own buggy-whip in a perfect frenzy
of stage heroics.
Nicholas himself, all through the novel,
talks and acts like the stock presentation
of a stage hero, while all the other char-
acters about him are using a purely
realistic idiom, with those amazing vari-
ations on idiosyncratic speech with which
only Dickens, of all novelists, had the
power to invest his characters.
In short, wherever the stage intrudes
on the construction of a novel by
Dickens, that greatest of all humorists in
the whole range of the novel completely
loses his sense of humor. As Quiller-
Couch has pointed out in the best essay
yet written on Dickens, in the very act
of creating Crummies, Dickens out-does
Crummies in the fustian dramatics of
Sir Muberry Hawk and Lord Verisopht.
By compiling evidence of the effect of
the stage on Dickens Mr, Fawcett is
merely tabulating the source of all that
is worst in his novels.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
The Aga Khan
For those who think of the Aga Khan
as merely the achiever of four wives, five
Derby winners and Prince Aly, The Aga
Khan, Prime, Prophet and Sportsman by
Stanley Jackson (Odhams) is a mild
corrective. Mr. Jackson’s racy, uncritical
biography is good popular reading, and
uncovers many interesting facts.
Mouiana Hazar Imam, Sarkar Saheb
His Highness the Right Honorable Aga
Sultan Sir Mohammed Shah, P.C.,
G.C.5.1., G.C.1.E., G.C.V.0., LL.D.
(Hon. Cantab.), 48th in the direct line
of descent through the daughter of the
Prophet Mohammed, ruler, because of
this, of ten million Moslems of the Ismaili
sect, mainly in Asia and Africa, was
bom in Karachi in 1877.
The title “Aga Khan,” meaning “Lord
Chief,” was conferred upon his grand-
father by the Shah of Persia, also the
Shah’s daughter ; but when the Aga Khan
tried to take the Persian throne on the
death of his father-in-law, he was
defeated, and escaped to India. There,
the warlike aid he brought Sir Charles
Napier, in the capture of Sind, brought
him a British pension of £75 a month and
the hereditary British title of “His High-
ness.”
Settling in Bombay, he became the
vigorous and busy arbiter of the religious
observances of his sect, and indulged his
cavalryman’s passion for horses with
stables of racehorses—Arabs and horses
imported from England and France:
One of the present Aga Khan’s earliest
memories is of his fiercely-moustached
grandfather, then well over eighty, driving
with him on the Bombay racecourse in a
dashing coach-and-four. To the day of his
death the old man retained his love of
horses. Mounted on a favorite charger, he
would insist on riding round the courses
before each meeting, listening to the
familiar sounds and still trying to judge
the fine points of the animals from almost
sightless eyes.
With the love of horse-racing in his
blood, which was to make him the greatest
owner-breeder of his times, the young
Aga Khan 111, succeeding to the Imamate
at the age of eight, was brought up under
the strict eye of his mother, the Lady
Ali Shah. He had to know the Koran
well enough to decide disputes between
its professors; a squad of tutors taught
him five languages; he studied alike
Hafiz and Shakspeare, rejoiced in
Dickens, Macaulay, and Scott and took
a theoretical and practical interest in
mechanics. At sixteen, bathed in a huge
{"Red Page” continued on page 35)


aw
R
,
- -
m
S
<P y$
m i
m
*0
m
9 m
uMSiF
mA
m
sgS
iifessssi IlllsPi
-V
IHUi
it
r
B
fe*f::»S¥« ;g :': :'SS®S SgSggi®:
i-SH
v : : a
& 4.' r*:® I
ii,
SP ■•; ;
m
m
'■<* ’ ? s
Tt
,v„
: :<y;
L
1C
«S
■
&S
m
msmm
rv
i
■HIPS
m
Urf • ;* £.*• • » * *
• V’ C i < •> *J • V ♦ :
jk > y ~y~i J~X> J~*
» . *■ i
a
■ ..<■■.
SBS
g
,h* '
’^-t.
■
m
m
m
j y-mfmi
m
m&
m
.&...
r>)
~
iSR¥i?
: ;
a
m
‘j
m
!#*a
f " y :i ~ #
i mmm
Plastic Shower and
X’over Curtains
Plastic Shower Curtains dry
in a whisk after they’re
used, give you privacy . . .
leave your bathroom floor
scrupulously clean. Our two
roomy sizes capture all excess
water (and, remember, plas'
tic doesn’t shrink). 6ft. x
3 ft. 16/8. 6ft. x 6ft. 32/6.
Fish, Swan Lake, Sea Shells,
Yachts, Florals, Flamingoes
in almost every colour.
Crossover Curtains for kit'
chen or bathroom (you can
match them to shower cur'
tains), 3ft. 6in. 35/', 4ft.
6in. 37/6, 6ft. 47/6.
Dutch Set style, too, in
same patterns as Crossovers.
3ft. 6in. 39/6, 4ft. 6in.
42A, 6ft. 52/6.
Plastic Ruffles
7ft. length, these ruffles
stretch to 15 ft., so they’ll
border any curtain. Colour
schemes in all favourite
tonings in spots and
florals. 32/6.
r
5" *
v v-
k. V
9
<#>
fc
m
w
15
5*
&
Willow Pat . Cloth 9 16/11
You pay so little for plastic, yet it
gives you so much . . . long wear, it
stays gleaming clean. A flick of a
damp cloth keeps it clean, it needs no
ironing. Blue, green, or gold printed
on opaque white cloth. 42 x 54. 16/11.
S*? ' ■ $
m
m
mm
MM
m
..
m
Clear Plastic as cloth cover, 12/11.
Put this pretty translucent plastic over
a white cloth to keep it clean, give it
a new look. Pink, blue, green or
amber printed on white. 48 x 52.
Plastic Tablecloths, Pitt St. Floor.
ita
Gold Ptd. T’cloth, 12/6
Imagine how pretty these gold'printed
designs will look on a blue or white
cloth. We’ve either colour in 48in.
x 52in. size. Opaque every one. 13/6.
Plastic is pretty as curtains, ruffles, table cloths,
bath robes, shower curtains, needs no washing!
Pamper yourself and your home with plastic. Plastic’s a labour-saver; is pretty, too, and it looks
even better with wear! Deliberately pretty because we’ve made it so; we’ve chosen designs
_ „ for your every room, every use. Original patterns, Prices start at only 4/9!
Ballerina 4/9
m
'"'W
9
m
Urn
x :
w
m
m
m
&
:
1
m
Mm
m
: :
m
'4^k
■ dip^
- -
Swan La\e 4/9
Floral 4/9
«
Plastic by the yard
from 4'9 yard
Versatile plastic comes by the yard, too, now!
Just so you can turn a nimble thimble on
curtains, table cloths, shower curtains, bath
robes, we’ve .designs for every purpose in 36in.
widths. Swan Lake, Fish, Ballerina, Florals,
Flamingoes. In every colour combination you
can imagine. You’ll buy plastic not only be'
cause it’s inexpensive—our prices start from
4/9 yard—but because it’s clean, needs no
washing, only a rub'over, needs no ironing.
Because its loveliness lasts and lasts and still
looks good; because it’s so easily yours!
mtH m
irons'
*53
PLASTIC CURTAINS, MATERIAL, THIRD FLOOR. TELEPHONE; M 2401. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


They Were Yarded-Once!
Paddy Lenny’s Brumbies
By HENRY G. LAMOND
OVER the first couple of decades
of this century the most noted
figure on Queensland’s Barkly
Tableland was Paddy Lenny. Big
pastoral names took second place to a
man few ever saw and fewer knew.
Paddy, according to reports, had been
a big man, raw-boned, gingery hair and
whiskers; a good man on the grass when
the fists were bare and knuckles cocked ;
a willing worker behind a corkscrew;
and a good blade-shearer.
If so, by the time I first encountered
him he had shrunk. Perhaps years of
hard living, semi-starvation and a bitter
mentality had had their effects. He was
then about middle-size. His hair was
hacked rather than cut; his whiskers had
a grey streak through them and were
tangled. His most noticeable feature
was his eyes: they were dingo-like; he
could not, or would not, look straight at
a man.
Paddy Lenny drifted to the Barkly
during the late ’eighties or early ’nineties.
He shore a couple of times at Avon
Downs when that was a sheep-station.
His main reason for coming to that area
was to worship at the shrine of his gods:
the Kilgour brothers, William and Arthur,
who then owned and managed Herbert-
vale station, up about the head of the
Georgina River (William was later
general-manager for Dalgety and Co.).
To Lenny, what the Kilgours, particu-
larly William, said was the Law.
Lenny, like most men who have no
general outlet for a single-track mind,
had an abnormal memory—particularly
for horses. That was his big love, his
only love, the reason why he lived (if his
life could be called living) ... his love
of his horses.
I gathered that William Kilgour once
owned a block of land on Lome Creek,
between Alexandria and Avon Downs,
but later the block was absorbed by the
two big stations. Round about ’94 he
had given Lenny the right to take his
horses and run them on the Lome Creek
block, and thereafter no one could ever
convince Lenny that Kilgour did not still
own the country, and that he, Lenny,
did nbt have full rights to the property
on Kilgour’s word.
Lenny went there to live. He took
with him about 15 mares and a fairly
well-bred, stallion. He was happy. He
had no other ambition.
That was the start of the mobs of
wild horses which later became known as
“Paddy Lenny’s brumbies.” No one
knew what their numbers were. They
were estimated at 1200, 2000, 3000 and
anything else the imagination liked to
name.
Those horses roamed over Alexandria,
Brunette and Avon Downs; worked as
far east and south as Lake Nash. Austral
Downs, the property which I controlled,
was fairly free of them. Otherwise they
went where they wished and did what
they liked: destroyed waters, ate grass
which could have fed stock, broke
troughs at bores, lured mares from
station camps, and maimed and crippled
geldings which were the pride of stock-
men.
Lenny in due course deserted Lome
Creek —and followed his hordes of
horses. He was seen occasionally, riding
over the open and treeless downs. It
was said he always rode at a trot; that
his saddle was held together with tie-
wire from the Avon sheep-fences; that
the bit of his bridle was another piece
of wire, the reins rope; his clothes
tattered remnants; his trousers torn and
patched; his boots odd members. He
did not bother about socks.
It was reported of him, and was prob-
ably true, that he always picked up an
empty bottle. He would fill it with
water, cork it, hide it in the hollow trunk
of some coolibah-tree on a dry stage.
When he had rations, which was rarely,
he would plant them in the body of a
dead beast —no other person would
touch them; they were protected by the
hide of the carcass in the wet season.
He was said to have the instinctive sense
of locality of a homing pigeon; he could
return to his plants unerringly,
Lenny had few friends. A man could
not afford to be on friendly terms with
him: he was on the cadge all the time
—food, tobacco, clothing. The abo-
rigines hated him: they claimed that he
killed the goannas which were their staple
food. Lenny had to eat something to
keep alive.
Ohe of his main peculiarities—an un-
breakable characteristic —was that he
would never sell a horse. He loved
them. He felt perhaps he would be
breaking faith with them if he sold any.
About 1913, or a little earlier, “Johnny-
cake” Miller, who was buying for Kid-
man, told me he had offered Lenny £8
a head for 150 of his horses. He turned
down the £l2OO without thanks. At that
time £l2OO was a moderate fortune.
Paddy could have lived on it in reason-
able comfort for the rest of his life. And
no doubt, as the Avon Downs shearing
was cutting out at that time, he followed
his usual routine; went to the shed,
fossicked among cast-offs to supply him
wjth a wardrobe to keep him going until
next shearing.
Always, as he followed the tracks of
travelling mobs of cattle on his way to
Avon, he would search each camp, rake
fireplaces, probe like a bower-bird for
anything which the drover’s men may
have left behind. Yet he could turn
down that £1200!
One myth attached to Lenny —sworn
by many bushmen to be a fact —was that
no one could ever yard a mob of his
horses without Lenny showing up, riding
at a trot as usual, before the horses were
drafted. Probably he’d fluked a yarding
once or twice; anyway, that was the
legend. And, for my part, I have lived
too long among stock, have been too
often struck by their occult powers, to
consider anything impossible to a man
who lived closer to them than I ever did,
who thought as his horses thought, with
them constantly in his mind. Paddy
would not sell a horse. He would, and
did, starve rather than part with one.
The stations most concerned looked
on Lenny and his horses as a curse.
Laws in the Territory were lax in those
days. For all practical purposes, apart
from cutting a man’s throat when he
wasn’t looking, there were no laws. The
stations could not get rid of Lenny.
After a bit, and with the numbers of the
brumbies growing all the time, certain
"buttons were pushed and some wires were
pulled: a pound-yard was erected at the
Ranken police-station (the river, named
after the Avon pioneer, G. Ranken, is
now spelled Rankine on maps).
Word spread around that Lenny’s
horses were to be had for the taking.
Men had round campfires and over bars
given them an excellence they never re-
motely possessed: they were, in fact,
plain brumbies.
The credulous flocked to the Barkly in
the hope of being in at the pickings when
Lenny’s horses were cut up and distri-
buted.' They camped on the Ranken,
got their horses fit to take part in the
first run of the brumbies.
Lenny was seen occasionally during
that time. He was getting on in years;
the love of his life was about to be
shattered. He was one old man against
many.
And he was mad. There is no doubt
his mania was a form of insanity.
The yard was built; the pound was
proclaimed. “Banjo” Paterson could not
have written of them that the best and
noted riders had gathered to the fray.
There were some good stockmen, but the
majority were there to gain at another’s
expense. When the horses were yarded
these had pacts among themselves not to
bid against each other. Each would
acquire a mob of good horses for the
price of a song. That was the idea.
The first run was good: about 300
horses were yarded. The horse-seekers
made merry that night—there was a store
with a bottle-licence at the Ranken, They
told boastfully of what they were going
to do at the sale on the morrow.
When they went to the yard in the
morning, ready to buy horses in dozens,
they found not a single brumby there!
Someone, and it could possibly have been
Lenny, had sneaked to the yard during
the night and let down the back of it!
Perhaps the assembled company con-
sidered how much harder. those horses
would be to yard next time they were
run. They rolled their swags, saddied-
up and rode away.
Lenny, a lonely figure, distraught, old
and sick, turned to that mystical thing
which is known as the Law. He decided
to go to Darwin and seek its protection
for his horses. Anyone might feel for
that old man setting out on his long ride
to Darwin. He had one horse (he might
possibly have had two); he had no
rations —nothing that any other man
would consider necessary.
No one will ever know how he died.
His body was found beside the track
out from Top Spring, in the MacArtbur
River
The Fine Art of Burgling
FAILURE to include in the
curricula of the institutions of
our higher-education classes
wherein members of this old-
established profession could improve
the standard of their work can only
be deplored by those who see at first-
hand the slipshod methods and lack
of true craftsmanship which mark
so many of the burglaries of today.
Perhaps this lack of educational
facilities is due to the realisation
that prospective scholars would be
unable, through the exigencies of
their calling, to attend night-classes,
and that they would be too fatigued
after their nocturnal labors to give
intelligent attention to their tutors
during day-classes.
To fill this vacuum the following
valuable hints have been compiled,
and it is hoped that diligent applica-
tion to them will result in a greater
output —or should we say out-take
—being achieved, and less unprofit-
able time being spent by a craftsman
in wondering if he can get a hack-
saw smuggled into his cell inside a
hamburger.
The method adopted by some prac-
titioners of using a housebrick to
bash a window is open to severe
criticism. In some cases the burglar
may have to carry it half a mile to
the residence he proposes breaking.
In one case a burglar took along two
bricks—he had to break two win-
dows —and by the time he had
reached his destination his arm was
completely useless, ,
It was half an hour before he
could get it denumbed, by which
time the people had returned, and
he was forced to decamp.
Half a brick is sufficient for all
except very heavy glass. So as not
to attract attention by carrying it
openly—for it won’t quite fit into a
hip-pocket—the burglar should dis-
guise it as a bottle of pickles or a
dozen bananas and carry it in a
string-bag.
This has the added advantage of
making it appear that he is a .mild-
mannered paterfamilias going about
his domestic chores.
The half-brick before being used
should be carefully wrapped in some
soft material like swami—the wife’s
slip or nightie will suit the purpose
admirably—which will effectively
deaden the sound of the glass break-
ing.
Should he feel that he lacks the
necessary athleticism to leap through
the hole he thus creates and catch
the falling glass before it can hit the
floor the heaver may easily disguise
the tell-tale sound either by sneezing
loudly at the moment of the brick’s
impact—for this he will need to sniff
some pepper approximately two
seconds before smashing—or by
making a distracting noise like a
cat engaged in violent contest with
a fellow-feline.
Sometimes the trick of getting the
backdoor key out by slipping a piece
of paper under the door and pushing
the key out of the lock with a bit of
wire so that the key will fall on the
paper will be foiled because space
between door-bottom and floor is too
narrow to allow extraction.
This, of course, will necessitate
cutting a hole in the bottom of the
door with a key-hole saw. In such a
case the burglar must have a ready,
assured answer for the snooping
neighbor who may poke his head
over the fence to inquire what he is
doing. Should he stammer out some
confused answer he might arouse
suspicion., All he need say, with a
calmness that should command
respect and dissipate all doubts, is
that he has been engaged to repair
the pigeon-loft and that he is first
testing out his tools on a harder
timber.
The burglar who follows the
method favored by writers of popu-
lar crime-fiction and selects the
pantry as his point of ingress, and
who in entering unwittingly treads
in a half-set jelly, might be tempted
to take his boot out of it immedi-
ately and go on with his unlawful
occasions.
Now, it is possible that if he does
this a keen-eyed, keen-minded detec-
tive might deduce from the footprints
through the house that jelly would
still be adhering to the boot-welts,
alert all boot-repairers and pick him
up later when he next goes to get his
trilbies half-soled.
The burglar’s best plan in such
a case would be to walk about the
house with his boot still in the jelly-
mould. If the jelly is not sufficiently
stiff to form a good suction he may
have to tie the mould on to his boot.
Whilst this will necessarily restrict his
quick mobility it will lead to the
almost hopeless confusion of the
sleuths, who will still be looking for
a man wearing one boot of normal
shape and the other a circular one.
The |purglar has only to discard
the jelly-mould after walking unob-
trusively for a block or so to com-
pletely fool any pursuer.
The burglar who enters a married
couple’s bedroom in the early hours
will do best to concentrate on the
lady’s handbag and jewellery-case.
He should avoid as the plague the
pair of strides (male) hanging over
the end of the bed. To rat them is
not only usually futile but can be
positively dangerous.
One burglar in our suburb who
tried it suddenly lost all interest in
the proceedings when a rolled-up
pair of corsets bounced off his bean.
When he came to, trussed up, the
beefy woman who had donged him
snarled “That’s what you get,
brother, for trying to beat me to it!”
Keen pre-cracking intelligence-
work is a requisite for the safe-
buster. The most bitter burglar I
have met paid rent for a month for a
vacant office next to that of a
diamond-buyer whose safe, he found
out, was pushed against their divid-
ing-wall. He spent all that time
patiently chiselling his way through,
having to use a padded hammer to
deaden the noise. Eventually, one
night, he blow-torched through the
back of the safe, only to get as his
reward eightpence in a tin and a
bundle of paper patterns —in the
meantime the office had changed
tenants.
Foolishly, he took the patterns
home, thinking to save something
from the wreck. His wife made a
dress to one of them, but they were
size 44 bust and she took a 38. She
made him buy her an inflatable bra,
and the poor cow has to pump it up
every time his missus wears the dress.
Bo.
Next Week
“Among the Skyscrapers”
by
Rose Lindsay
This instalment of the fascinating
memoirs of Mrs. Norman Lindsay
shifts the scene from Australia to
an almost fabulous setting among
artists, writers' and book-pub-
lishers in the New York of the
1930’5, on to England, and back
home to Springwood.
“Mulvaney Throws
a Party”
Short Story
by A. C. Headley
A stirring account of the shooting
affray at a party thrown to cele-
brate a new batch of home-brew.
In next week’s “Bulletin.”


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 22, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3819
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior ,
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 ;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington,
STABILITY-OR CHAOS?
Mr. Menzies was re-elected to office in 1949 by an
overwhelming majority and with a decisive mandate.
He set out to fulfill the plans approved by the elec-
torate, beginning with the most urgent matter, the
suppression of Communism, which was causing dis-
ruption of production, particularly of coal, which is
the heart of everything: blackouts, shortages of
housing and household goods, high freights and a
general hold-up of industry.
He found himself faced with a Senate deadlock
deliberately and cunningly made certain by “Labor”
during its last term of office. He was forced to the
country and came back with another overwhelming
majority and another overwhelming mandate in April,
1951 —to encounter a niggling Press, more concerned
with the rights of freedom of Communists, who
concede none to anybody else, than with the welfare
of the community. Also he met the solid opposition
of the A.L.P., and particularly of Dr. Evatt, on behalf
of Moscow’s agents.
The total result was two years lost in a fight for
the right to begin on the programme for which a
mandate was received in 1949 ; and at this point the
Government was compelled to pause again to deal
with raging inflation, which suddenly appeared, largely
the aftermath of 10 years of extravagant “Labor"
Government and the unbridled vote-buying of
“Labor” State Governments. Once more, though it
acted on the advice of public-service heads and experts
whom “Labor" itself had in the main appointed, and
whose advice “Labor” had followed, it was compelled
to implement its measures in the face of furious
opposition from “Labor,” joined by every pressure-
group with anything to gain, and by a Press prepared
to take every opportunity to work off its grudges and
its dislikes of individuals in the Cabinet.
And now, with that situation met and overcome,
the Government is again called on to pause. At a
crucial point in its career —and in the history of the
British Commonwealth—marked by the favorable turn
of the tide brought about by the new policies of the
United Kingdom and of Australia, it must fight still
another election. Not a full-sized election in which it
needs to ask for a mandate or could receive one, but
a pint-pot election, conducted on a voting system
entirely averse from the intentions of the Constitution,
for only half a house, the outcome of which election
could be either complete stalemate or a perilously
small majority, constantly in danger through the ill-
ness or absence of members, for one side or the other.
The Press and the Opposition regard this as an
occasion on which the Prime Minister should oblige
them by fighting a general-election type of campaign,
setting out a full, new programme of action, which he
would have very little chance of completing, since he
must go to the country again for a full mandate in
not much more than a year.
Mr. Menzies has very sensibly refused to do so,
in his speech opening the campaign. He also sensibly
refused to be panicked into offering bribes and fore-
shadowing the details of the 1953-54 Budget, which
cannot be brought down until the results of this year
and the needs, resources and atmosphere of the new
year have become fully apparent. Mr. Menzies did,
however, go as far in specific promise of tax relief in
this year’s Budget as any responsible leader could
possibly go. The moonshine pretence of Dr. Evatt is,
of course, that “Labor” enforced this already fore-
shadowed and universally expected announcement —
“Labor” will as speciously seek to take the credit for
the tax reduction when in due course it is made.
Mr. Menzies gave the lie to “Labor’s” barrage of
accusation that in 1949 he promised to reduce taxa-
tion. He recalled that he said then that “we still
believe that rates of taxation must be steadily reduced
as national production and income rise and economies
are affected in administration.” This policy the Gov-
ernment has faithfully followed.
In 1950 it reduced taxation in accord with
improvement. In 1951, with the Korean war on its
hands and changed economic conditions, it increased
it slightly. In 1952 its reduction again followed trends.
KING FALSESTUFF
“This chair shall be my State, this dagger my Sceptre, and this cushion my Crown."
—“Henry IV, Part One,” Act II, Scene IV.
And in 1953 it proposes to continue on the same line,
undeterred by the pressure for specific promises before
it knows exactly what can be done. It will “make
important and valuable tax reductions in the next
Budget,” paying special attention to “those who live
on fixed incomes, so many of whom have families
and educational responsibilities.” But it can give
no undertaking on exact figures or details. These
only excepted, Mr. Menzies was specific almost to the
point of being riskily so. He said:
Our 1953 Budget win be presented, in the normal
way, at or about the beginning of September. You
would like to hear me announce a precise and definite
reduction of taxation. I would Uke nothing better
than to be able to make one. But no responsible
Government can produce a Budget four months ahead
of its time. We are conducting the most important
rS™",*. 8
In, it. next ,«»,•. dividend before it. current re.v.
accounts had closed, and before it had estimated what
next year’s business would be.
it is unfortunate that there should be so much
unauthorised speculation about what is going to
happen in the next Budget, about customs or excise
or sales tax. Speculations of this kind do infinite
harm to business, and tend to damage the sale of
commodities for a considerable period.
Our principle, plainly stated in 1949, is that
, rS«o”.b“ a .Xc°. d^;.r™. Vl “.%r.rr. d -.h.ri
production increases, and the national income grows,
rates of taxation can be reduced without reducing the
total tax yield. I want to emphasise this vital point.
in other words, as the volume and value of produc-
tion gro up, the burden of taxation on each pound of
income can and should be reduced.
The second is that in certain cases a reduction of
*“ S.r*b “iT, .' n S“ T .y.‘° in< ""“' d
We shall act upon both of these principles to the
limit of our capacity, we shall make important and
valuable tax reductions in the next Budget, in doing
se, we shall not act in a conservative or overcautious
spirit. We shall, on the contrary, go as far as we
can, or as any other responsible and honest Govern-
financial soundness of government or to weaken the
attack upon inflation.
Does Dr. Evatt propose to exceed these limits?
”po d „ ‘«U r r•>
pensioners, and millions of housewives, wish him
to do so?
The-answer to those questions is that, on his vote-
bait pronouncements, that is precisely what Dr. Evatt
does propose to do.
~.... £ „ T , , „
P IS . S “b “ f Lab °, rs
attack, the fttme Minister pointed out that unemploy-
ment, despite Dr Eva t, is almost non-existent
Whereas in 1945 Mr. Leslie _ Haylen. who would be a
a" ? !„ e ™„l^,L a „, ?„n,.l £ o C^in e t, decared
that if unemp oyment could be to the 5 per
cent level M employment could be regarded as hav-
’JS^ 1 P “
’ a "f„£ lS l°fl dti t onS f ° llowln S the ” eces ;
f ■ a e . b tt n / lmOS n t
tor workers is steadily increasing.
The main point of the Prime Minister’s speech,
however, was his squarely-stated presentation of the
of choice. His own record he set out in
detail; Communism in the unions has been dealt with,
if not fully, at least to such an extent through the secret
ballot which he perfected that Communist strikes are
almost a thing of the past. Coal-production, which
was down in “Labor’s” years to bedrock, and iron and
steel outputs, “down to something between 60 and
70 per cent, capacity,” are now at full steam. Today,
for the first time for many years, Australia, which
three years ago was starving for coal, is beginning to
export it.
Petrol, which was rationed under “Labor,” was —
against “Labor’s” bitter opposition-taken off the
ration and supplied in plenty without reducing defence
Stocks. There are 500,000 more mOtOf-CarS OH the
rnaf k than when thf* Government took office and
IOaUS man WUen tne UOVemmeni lOOK Olllte, dim
overseas refining companies are showing their con-
fidence in the expansion of demand for oil fuels by an
investment o£ more than £80,000,000 in new refineries.
The Government’s new health scheme has been
, , . ... ' . , , . . ■ ..
pronounced by visiting experts to be the best in the
world. The expenditure on social services has doubled
since 1949, and great progress has been made with the
preparation of a plan to abolish the means test and
- 1 . , f. ’ , . i • T'klo „,;il
give pensions to all on a contributory basis This will
be submitted as part of the programme calling tor a
mandate at the general election next year.
Repatriation benefits and administration have
bed! improved OUt Of Sight (this is a department OI
which a complaint is rarely heard), and housing has
, * f* . _ • , „ Tt, fl UJQr
been expanded to a point without paral. el. The
service homes built under the Commonwealth financial
scheme in the years since 1949 represent 80 per cent, of
a JJ the War-Service homes built during the 30 years
v,MUm the scheme has been in operation.
All this has been accomplished while the Govern-
ment has had the problem of inflation on its hands,
together with the unforeseen and considerable expan-
. 6 ;, * umwwbvu “
sion of defence enforced by the Korean war. The short
period in which it has been achieved has been marked
fierce political struggle organised by an Opposition
bent on making it impossible tor any Government but
one 0 f its own to govern and aided and abetted by
an array of selfish and irresponsible pressure-groups,
“ Commonwealth has never before expert-
enced.
These facts put before them by Mr. Menzies
make the alternatives for electors plain. They can
vote to support a Government which has a pretty good
record to show in the most adverse circumstances; or
they can vote to put a new obstruction in the way of
that Government to hamper it in carrying out the
mandates it received in ft 49 and 195 f. B And the
obstruction choice could only mean paving the way
f lhe return ot - Xabor y ,. Admi £ is t ra son, com-
mitted to sodalisation by its objective; one which
dey measure ,J ro ht j; orward t 0 destroy
c^munist i y flue „ce, including the secret-ballot plait
a>« has cleansed Communist-run unions; which
fought against the Pacific Pact and other defence
measures, including the brilliantly successful national-
service ; « hkh demanded the withdrawal of
United Nations troops from Korea . and which is
seeking to create depression and industrial unrest by
scaremongering and horror propaganda for the
express purpose of regaining office and irrespective
of who suffers.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Eisenhower's Offer
With the sick prisoners-of-war being
exchanged in Korea, President Eisen-
hower has issued an offer to Russia to
prove the sincerity of recent peace over-
tures by joining in a world movement to
ensure disarmament and the devotion of
a substantial part of the consequent
savings to a fund for world-aid and
-reconstruction.
While Moscow makes its gestures, in-
cluding the one to international Jewry
involved in the release of the Soviet doc-
tors who supposedly connived in the
murder of Zhdanov and other Russian
leaders, there is no change in background
policy. Soviet Radio, in what it con-
siders appropriate areas, continues to
fulminate against American “imperial-
ism.” In the United Nations on April
15 Vishinsky, the Russian delegate, de-
clared that Russia would never accept
the West’s disarmament proposals:
We have not been able to agree, we
do not agree and will never be able to
agree.
Those proposals call for general dis-
armament under a system of full dis-
closure of strength and a mutual inspec-
tion to assure that reduction of arma-
ments is real and faithfully imple-
mented. The Polish scheme, which
Vishinsky and his Government support,
refuses inspection and calls for a per-
centage reduction in present strengths—-
which would leave Russia in a dominat-
ing position —and for a prohibition of
the atom-bomb.
Vishinsky holds that the world is not
interested in small-arms; the experience
of Korea makes clear the exact meaning
of this stand. It is unthinkable that if
the Russians were far advanced in atom-
bomb production the bomb would not
have been used against the U.N.O.
Allies there, the Russians never having
exhibited any Westernised scruples. They
are fully aware that in major war the
atom-bomb is a secondary weapon and
that, in the kind of dispersed continental
fighting in which the world would be
involved in World War 111, manpower,
armed with the normal weapons, could
be the deciding factor, as always.
The present world “peace” drive by
Moscow looks very much like the Korean
“peace drive” of 1951-52 —a drive to
convince dupes that Russia’s opponents
are aggressors who won’t make peace.
The practical certainty is that, if
Eisenhower’s offer is not ignored, negotia-
tions will be used exactly in the same
way as the Korean negotiations—to offer
a solution which cannot be accepted, as
a basis for internal Communist propa-
ganda in “capitalist” and “colonial”
countries.
The Communist invasion of Laos in
Indo-China—a move on the direct route
to Thailand and Malaya—is a bad pre-
liminary course to serve up before doves
and olive-branches. It is as cynically
wanton an attack as that on South Korea
—surely an adventure of aggressive con-
quest.
At the same time, £S Mr. Churchill
says, “We must not throw away a single
hope, based on peace feelers made in
good faith.”
Dr. Malan Wins
The results of the S. African elections
add considerably to the problems of the
British Commonwealth in that Dr.
Malan’s policy has been endorsed with
an increased majority by the electorates.
Though the main issue was native
policy, the fight is mainly nationalist, as
between the Uitlander elements, largely
urban-dwellers, and the Afrikanders, pre-
dominantly country-dwellers, with whom
the native question has a different angle
from that of the towns. • The suggestion,
constantly propagandised, that the Gov-
ernment’s victory will be followed by a
drift from the Commonwealth to inde-
pendent Commonwealth status, or that
civil war may result has yet to be realised.
Feeling runs strong on the issues
which divide South Africans, and as
strongly outside the country, where the
atmosphere has been poisoned by a com-
bination of elements opposed to the
Malan policies. As with the Argentine,
much of the flavoring of world opinion
is supplied by the Communists, who in
Africa have always made a special issue
of native questions. Moscow’s eyes have
from the beginning been turned with
longing to the resources and enslavable
peoples of Africa; the Kremlin’s first
active attempt at fomenting rebellion in
a British country was in 1922, when the
outbreak on the mining-fields of the
Rand, quelled with military force, was
sheeted home beyond question to the
Soviet Union by a judicial commission.
Generally, so diverse are the popula-
tions and so clear-cut the issues in the
Union that they will be difficult to re-
solve. In the predominantly British
province of Natal there have been mut-
terings of secession and of a mooted
request to the United Kingdom to in-
clude the territory among British Crown
colonies. But there has been no sub-
stantive move, and it is doubtful whether
Natal economically could survive alone.
The campaign was fought in all parts
of the Union with much extremist
propaganda on both sides. The heart of
it was in the industrial and commercial
hundred square miles which holds Pre-
toria and Johannesburg and in which
there are more than a dozen marginal
seats. It was there that the United
parties hoped to gain most of the seven
seats they needed to put Dr. Malan out of
office, the Free State Province being
solidly Nationalist, and the Cape likely
from the beginning to return a small
Nationalist majority.
In a record poll Dr. Malan won 97
seats against 85 held in the old House,
and the United Party 57 against 64 pre-
viously. He is in for another five years.
Whatever the world thinks of the result,
the elections decisively dispel the fiction,
so ardently propagated abroad, that the
Nationalists are a brutal minority who
achieved office through a fluke and
would be hurled out by an enraged
electorate at the first chance.
Coronation Art
Anybody who saw Arthur Murch’s
“Spear Fisherman” lately exhibited in
Brisbane would pick it for a certainty to
be included in the 56 paintings by 12
Australian artists to be shown in London
during the Coronation. It was superb
in modelling and brush-work, brilliant in
stylisation, brimming with Australian
feeling, and it even had the sensational,
dramatic quality on which the directors
of the National Galleries in the various
States have obviously based their selec-
tions.
But Murch is not even included among
the artists chosen. Nor is Lance Solo-
mon, the sensitivity and authenticity of
whose Australian landscapes, whether of
the sea or the bush, have never remotely
been approached by any of the artists
selected, however much may be said for
some of them in other respects. Nor is
Ivor Hele, the best of the war artists of
World-War 11.
Nor are Norman Lindsay and Hans
Heysen; a staggering omission of two
painters of genius which could only be
justified on the grounds that it was
desired to represent the younger painters,
and which cannot be justified at all when
their contemporary Lloyd Rees is
included. Meldrum is another omission,
and the list could be extended. It is
significant that watercolor, a medium
which does not lend itself to slapdash
sensationalism, is nowhere represented.
With some of the selections everybody
will be in agreement: Dobell, Drysdale,
Lloyd Rees. Donald Friend has a
genuine claim to consideration, as pos-
sibly, though he has still to prove his
technical capacity, has the exuberant
Sidney Nolan. But when the list goes
on to include such names as Justin
O’Brien, Jean Bellette, Arthur Boyd,
Frank Hinder and the abstract-painter
Ralph Balson it is obvious that only one
school has been given a hearing; a
group of minor experimenters. There
are dozens of painters of established
reputation with infinitely higher quali-
fications, and so narrow, unjust and pro-
pagandist a choice is scandalously in-
appropriate on the great national occa-
sion of the Coronation.
Art in Australia at the moment is hope-
lessly under the domination of the daily
newspapers, which are interested only in
novelty, and of the big department-
stores, which are interested in new hats ;
and over all is that provincial snobbery
which is determined to show the world
that Australia knows all the latest
fashions. But when the “Times Literary
Supplement” lately gave high praise to
some contemporary Australian poetry,
including Francis Webb’s Leichhardt in
. Theatre, the very thing on which it con-
gratulated Australian writing was in
avoiding the imitation of Eliot and Auden
and working out a vigorous narrative
style of its own.
Scarcely a Master-mind
When Reginald Aubrey Doyle hit the
headlines early this year the magnitude of
the sums involved in the charges against
him and the ease with which he seemed
to have won the confidence of men of
substance and position encouraged the
belief that here was a kind of master-
mind of crime: “He must have been
clever to have got away with it so long.”
When Doyle’s record was read out at
Darlinghurst Quarter Sessions, where
Stacy, J., sentenced him to ten years’ im-
prisonment after he had pleaded guilty
to 14 charges of fraud and one of steal-
ing—the total amount involved being
£92,806—it became clear that he was
no master-mind at all and that he had
never “got away with it” for long.
Since his 18th birthday Doyle has spent
nearly as much time in jail as out of it,
and between 1930 and 1940 the time
between his release from one sentence
and his committal for the next —usually
on a charge of stealing or false pretences
—was seldom more than a few months.
It is ten years since he was last in jail
and in that time the charges proved
against him were confined to offences
against income-tax and Customs Act,
involving fines of several hundred pounds.
Doyle’s story is that he was going straight
and that these incidents forced him first
into heavy gambling and then into large-
scale frauds. The Judge commented:
The only excuse advanced for you is that
having got into certain difficulties, through
doing things you had no right to do, you
then started to defraud people right and
left... .You are apparently a plausible liar,
and your plausibility was such that you
were able to convince people you were
acting honestly.
The plausibility of which His Honor
spoke seems to have enabled Doyle either
to get to know the right people for the
success of his schemes or to convince
others that he knew the right people. It
is partly to determine the balance between
these two alternatives that the Royal
Commission will commence its inquiry on
May 18.
Jeff James
Newspapermen throughout Australia —
employers and employees—as well as
union secretaries, politicians, industrial
advocates and others must often have
wondered what it was in Jeff James,
secretary of the N.S.W. District of the
Aust. Journalists’ Association, who died
in Sydney last Sunday, that made him so
well-liked and respected by all.
It was, most probably, his honesty of
purpose and his conviction that our tradi-
tion of mateship is as good a way of
life as a man could find.
Fourteen years ago James came to the
secretaryship of the N. S. Wales A.J.A.
from the old “Labor Daily,” then on the
way out. He took hold of A.J.A. affairs
when they badly needed just such a man.
Journalists not on the big Sydney dailies
suspected that the A.J.A. was careless of
their interests, country journalists felt
neglected, the new and expanding fields
of radio and advertising awaited A.J.A.
attention, so did conditions of work and
pay for many journalists.
Jeff James was not content to sit in
his office when he heard of things in need
of doing. He went and did them. Keen
and indefatigable, he was as ready to
talk to a newspaper magnate as to a
country cadet, as ready with good advice
for one as for the other. And his singu-
larly open and Cheerful countenance was
irresistible.
The amount of work of which he was
capable may be gathered from the fact
that in addition to his A.J.A. work —
enough for one man in itself —he man-
aged the foundation and conduct of the
Sydney Journalists’ Club and while an
R.A.A.F. public-relations officer during
the war still kept his hand on both union
and club.
When it was announced that he had
not long to live an astonishing number
of public men declared their affection for
and appreciation of him. He wrote a
deathbed article which moved all who
read it. In it he made an impressive plea
for euthenasia, stated his belief in the
value of mateship between men, expressed
his loyalty to the Labor cause in politics,
complained of nothing, and faced his
end without fear.
Butler's Budget
When the Churchill Government took
office in October, 1951, like the Menzies
Government here it inherited a large
parcel of trouble.
The people of Britain, six years after
the end of a war in which victory had
been made possible largely by their
efforts and endurance and of which they
had, at the darkest period of the conflict,
borne the entire burden almost unaided,
were the most heavily-taxed and most
severely-rationed folk in the free world.
From the once proud position of the
world’s creditor the United Kingdom had
become the biggest debtor nation and in
his first speech to the new Parliament
Mr. Churchill had to tell the House that
the country’s external deficit was increas-
ing at the rate of £7OO million a year.
Much, but not all, of the trouble was
due directly or indirectly to the war;
part of it stemmed from the costly
attempt of the Socialist Government to
impose the expensive luxury of the Wel-
fare State.
Retailing the outside pressure on the
nation’s economy, the then new Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer, R, A. B. Butler,
said that they emphasised the necessity
for flexibility in the domestic economy
and that this was absent, for three
reasons; inadequate output of coal, steel
and transport; the impact of defence on
exports; the general overloading of the
internal economy. His remedy was ex-
pansion ; the first essential, greater pro-
duction. He proposed immediate
measures to save £350 million a year in
order to build up gold and sterling
reserves and, after a conference of Com-
monwealth Finance Ministers had dis-
cussed similar steps for conserving sterling
funds, additional measures to save a
further £l5O million.
Import licences were introduced ; Gov-
ernment buying of foodstuffs was cut;
there was a slowing-down of strategic
stockpiling. To counter the inflation
which this might induce. Government
expenditure was cut, interest rates raised
and a policy of credit-restriction adopted
in which the emphasis for new investment
was on defence and export. In addition
charges were imposed for certain classes
of benefits under the National Health
Scheme
By the lime Mr. Butler presented his
first Budget, in March, 1952, though
sterling reserves were still falling, the
rate of fall was slowing down. When
he presented his second Budget last week
the Government’s promise to increase
production of coal and steel had been
made good. There was an increase of
45,000 in the number of new homes, the
total for the year being 240,000. In pre-
election speeches the Government had
set an ultimate goal of 300,000 homes a
year; it considers this figure may be
reached in 1953.
Despite the gloomy forecasts of Labor
ex-Chancellors Gaitskell and Dalton
inflation had not occurred; the retail-
price index rose only a few points in
the twelve months. As to the external
balance —the reason for the drastic
measures—the fall in the gold and dollar
reserves was arrested last September and
the funds are now climbing again.
Britain’s balance of payments had been
changed from a deficit of £398 million in
1951 to a surplus of £291 million in 1952.
All this emboldened the Chancellor to
present the first Budget since the war
in which there were no tax increases, but
instead all-round decreases. This “incen-
tive Budget” is a guarantee of the Gov-
ernment’s confidence in Britain’s ability
to recover from the aftermath of the war
and the Cold Peace, and of the peoples’
ability to do the job under a free
economy. The Chancellor, while admit-
ting that the country had not yet reached
a level “which can be called even moder-
ate,” spoke of the need for greater efforts
and of his confidence of the public
response.
We step out from the confines of re-
strictions to the almost forgotten but
beckoning prospects of freer endeavor and
greater reward for effort.
Britain has always been a country of
great resilience and with tremendous
powers of recuperation. It may well be
that history will one day rank the nation’s
present economic struggle as of equal
importance with —though less spectacular
than —its lone stand against armed
tyranny in 1940-41.
No Parallel
The unfairness of some of the criticism
levelled at the Commonwealth Govern-
ment by a section of the “capitalist”
Press which is doing its best to help
“Labor” win the Senate election is typi-
fied by “S.M. Herald’s” cry that Mr.
Butler “played a bold stroke by produc-
ing the most cheering and stimulating
Budget submitted to the House of Com-
mons for many years” and had “set an
example that Mr. Menzies would be wise
to follow.”
Actually both the Churchill and the
Menzies Governments have followed the
same policy. Their taxation levels have
run with economic levels, which, how-
ever, have been strongly in favor of the
Menzies Government, and thus strongly
to the advantage of the Australian tax-
payer, who has had reductions in taxa-
tion in two out of three of the Menzies
Budget years, with only a slight increase
o Continued on next page)


to meet the unforseen exigencies of de-
fence, military and financial, in the third.
“S.M- Herald” is enthusiastic about
the “Surprisingly widespread and varied”
concessions made by Mr. Butler ; but if
Mr. Menzies suggested some similar ones
he would be chased off the course. It
needs no imagination to predict the re-
sult to the Menzies Government if—
even though it has twice reduced taxation
already and its imposts are infinitely
lower than those of the U.K. —it came
forward with an offer to the electors of
an income-tax reduction of £7 a year or
6d. in the £ to bachelors receiving £5OO
a year and a £lO cut to earners of £.lOOO
a year. At the £5OO-level in these days
income tax scarcely exists in Australia,
and the present Government has shone
particularly in its removal of tax from
the lower grades of income, a point on
which the Socialist Opposition in the
United Kingdom is bitterly attacking
the U.K. Government.
The Australian Government has given
“a firm and unqualified undertaking” to
reduce taxation in the next Budget to an
extent “as large as our Budget position
permits.” No promise which went further
would be either prudent or honest.
“Labor,” of course, has a “solution”
—issue bank credit in preference to col-
lecting from the taxpayer. But that policy
in any circumstances is imprudent, as
living on 1.0.U5. always is. In the pre-
sent unstable world-economic position
it would be sheer madness and would
undoubtedly produce wild inflation. No
Government with the slightest regard for
its life would attempt it, especially one
which, unlike the British Government, is
not fully sovereign and its own master,
but which has to budget hampered by the
incalculable demands of half a dozen
hungry States which hang round its neck,
some with the deliberate desire to
strangle it.
POLITICAL POINTS
Sydney people don’t know whether to
call it “Evattism” or “Grannyism.”
• •
On paper the Government won the
big lottery of the Senate draw, but in
reality the luck was with “Labor.” The
Government team drew first position in
Tasmania, W.A. and S.A. As the first
two of these are each electing six Senators
—which means that anything between
42.8 per cent, and 57.2 per cent, of the
votes will ensure a three-three result —
position on the card is of little moment
The Libs, are no doubt happy to have
won the draw in S.A., but two years ago
with the same advantage they finishec
behind the combined “Labor”-Com
munist vote, and their stocks were much
higher then than now.
Of the other three States, the Com-
munists drew No. 1 position in New
South Wales and Victoria and the Demo
crats in Queensland. As minor parties
are unlikely to win a seat, the importam;
question is who fills No. 2 place anc
thus inherits the pass-on votes of the
down-the-card voters. That’s where
“Labor” comes in ; it has drawn No. 2
marble in all three States. Vic. anc.
N.S.W. don’t matter, but in Queensland
the draw may be vital.
First place on the card seems to be
worth about 2 per cent. That’s not
wild guess. It’s based on the votes
polled by the Communist party at the
last two Senate elections. The Com-
rades drew first place on the Victorian
card in 1949 and first in N. S. Wales in
1951. Their percentages of total votes
were;
1949. 1951.
Victoria 3.54 1.4
N. S. Wales 1.7 3.6
Taking the Commonwealth as a whole
the Communist vote was almost identical
for the two elections—2.o9 per cent, in
1949 ; 2.11 per cent, in 1951. It is there-
fore reasonable to say that first place
was worth 2.14 per cent, to the Victorian
Commos in 1949 and 1.9 per cent, to
their N. S. Wales colleagues in 1951.
• •
The mystery of what happened to
Leichhardt has now been replaced by the
mystery of what happened in Leichhardt.
• •
A ludicrous point about “Labor’s”
campaign is that it is demanding a Senate
majority to “compel the Government to
carry out its election promises”—which
“Labor” opposed tooth-and-nail in 1949
and 1951. To complicate the position
still further, it is censuring the Govern-
ment for carrying out some of its
promises—banking-policy and disposal
of Government-owned ventures—while
blaming it for not carrying out others.
It all makes sense according to the rule
that any stick is good enough to hit your
opponent with.
• •
Somebody can’t count. Japan claims
that there are still 300,000 Jap prisoners
unaccounted for by the Russians. Mos-
cow says that only 1478 are held and
that these are “war criminals or suspects.”
• •
Condon, an Adelaide M.L.C. and
union president, has been saying that the
Federal Government shouldn’t have
given Pakistan 45,000 tons of wheat
worth £2- million; it should first have
given Australians work grinding the
wheat into flour. Apparently the gentle-
man doesn’t believe in Pakistanis getting
work, nor does he appreciate that, as the
gift was fixed at £2 million, Pakistan
would have got a lot less wheat if the
cost of making it into flour had to be
deducted.
• o
Queensland Transport Minister Duggan
say 2 that although electrification of Bris-
bane’s suburban railways has been cut
from the programme this year, the scheme
will continue to be designed. In a few
years from now Brisbane will under-
stand why Sydney laughs hollowly every
;ime a politician talks about its Eastern
Suburbs railway.
• •
In the Evatt brand of political economy
there’s a double-standard currency. First
there is the depreciated Menzies'‘pound,
which the Doc. says is worth less than
half of what it was three years ago. He
uses that pound when talking about
pensioners, wage-earners and the cost of
living. But when he turns to complain
of high taxation he seems to think taxes
are by some means paid in terms of the
good old pound of long ago.
• •
Ward has been boasting again about
his spies inside the department of Labor
and National Service, at the same time
implying that the officials in charge of
that department are conspiring with the
Government to issue fake figures on un-
employment. Ward’s argument seems
to be that because the Commonwealth
Employment Service was established
while he was Minister he is entitled to
complete access to its confidential files.
By the same argument King O’Malley
could demand the most confidential in-
formation from the Governor of the
Commonwealth Bank.
The truth is that despite “Labor’s” pro-
testations of pure-heartedness a decline
in unemployment at the present time does
not suit its political book, and there can
HAT-SWAP
(For this year’s Anzac Day commemoration—it’s 38 years since!—eight Turkish
officers, flown down from Korea, will join Diggers in the marches.)
be no disputing that the employment
position is improving. The Common-
wealth Statistician is not interested in
politics ; he merely churns out figures be-
cause it is his job to do so. His latest
word on unemployment is that the
number of persons in private employ-
ment at the end of February was higher
than in any month since July and that
the total number employed (including
Government employment) increased by
21,000 during the month. There is no
reason —except those that come naturally
to “Labor” politicians—for doubting Mr.
Holt’s figures, which show; a further im-
provement in March,
• •
In a Brisbane court a New Australian
told the magistrate “Every party is a good
party.” He was right, of course, but he
was talking about drinking parties, not
political parties.
• •
Cahill’s nominee, Mallam, won the
“Labor” preselection for the Dulwich
Hill seat in the N. S. Wales Assembly.
No date has been fixed for the by-
election. Maljam’s the man who has
been violating “Labor” principles by
working for nothing in the Transport
Department.
• •
Announcement of the basic-wage
adjustment—up 2s. in Brisbane and Perth,
3s. in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide,
7s. in Hobart —was no doubt a disappoint-
ment to the Government, but Evatt’s
comment, “It is obvious that inflation is
still on the march,” has little validity.
The Statistician’s figures show that higher
rents were mainly responsible for the
rise and increased rents are not a sign of
present inflation; they merely reflect
official recognition that rents have been
forced to lag behind all other elements
of the cost of living. New figures are:
Rise. New Wage.
Sydney ~ .. 3/- ' £l2 Is.
Melbourne .. .. 3/- 11 12s.
Adelaide ~ .. 3/- 11 Bs.
Brisbane .. .. 2/- 10 17s.
Perth .. .. 2/- 11 11s.
Hobart .. .. 7/- 11 19s.
Six Capitals .. .. 3/- 11 14s.^
• •
The Senate fight in N. S. Wales should
have a special flavor. Under the present
farcical system the two leading Liberal-
C.P. and the two leading “Labor” men
are as good as elected. The battle is
therefore in reality between Mrs, Kirkby,
the Country-party candidate, backed by
a legion of members of the Country
Women’s Association, and Donald
Grant, erstwhile of the I.W.W. and gifted
author of “Through Six Gaols,” who
secured his party nomination only at a
second try after he had been rejected in
the original ballot. The women’s vote
looks like deciding the contest.
• •
Once again a challenge to State, road-
transport laws on the ground that they
breach Section 92 of the Commonwealth
Constitution has been defeated by the
High Court, again on the precedents set
by earlier decisions. The plaintiffs, a
Sydney transport firm, talk of appealing
to the Privy Council. The High Court’s
decision was a majority one—four to
three against the plaintiffs.
• •
There’s to be a public inquiry into
allegations that a building firm known as
Perficut, Ltd., run by Reginald Vitnell,
performed private building jobs for two
senior officers of the N. S. Wales Educa-
tion Department, who then recommended
the letting to Vitnell of contracts for
school buildings. The inquiry is to be
held by the Public Service Board and
will open on May 1. In the course of
Press discussion somebody declared
that former Minister for Mines Arthur
had been a fellow-director of Vitnell in
a company known as Cipla Products
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd, Arthur’s response was
that he “had nothing to hide and nothing
to fear” and that he had told the Premier
he would welcome an extension of the
Doyle Royal Commission terms to in-
clude this fellow-directorship.
• •
Menzies has described Evatt, Calwell
and Ward as professional mourners.
Whingers is a better word.
• •
Ward told a meeting of transport
workers in Perth that the unemployment
position was worse than it looked and
that he had inside information about it.
Transport workers! Aren’t these the
people the tJ.S.W. “Labor” Government
sacked from the railways in thousands
and put out of work in hundreds by
driving private road-trucks out of busi-
ness?
Evatt minor and his Housing Com-
mission seem to be at loggerheads again.
According to the managing-director of
Vandyke Bros. Pty., Ltd,, his concern
holds a letter, signed by Clive, ordering
1000 prefabs. According to Cahill no
contract has been let by the Housing
Commission, which is the authority re-
sponsible for contracts of that nature.
According to the Treasury there are no
funds available for the purpose; the
figure spoken of is round the million
mark. According to Hoyle it looks like
a misdeal.
• •
Northern Miners’ Federation, fearing
overproduction of coal, with unemploy-
ment as a consequence, is urging that a
35-hour week (with a pay rise of £2)
might mean the salvation of the industry.
Why not make it a 30-hour week and
put the industry right on its feet? And
other industries flat on their backs.
• •
At Renmark (S.A.)) a conference of
the Australian Citrus Growers’ Federa-
tion was “disappointed” because the
Federal Government knocked back its
request for a remission of sales-tax on
fruit-juice cordials. Before going lemony
the citrus men should realise that if the
Government yields to everybody who
wants “remission” of sales tax there’ll
be no sales tax.
A row in the Vic. Parliament over
barley was drawing to a close when
Mitchell, C.P.-meraber for Benambra, re-
minded the House that Premier Cain had
said he approached the task of Premier
with humility. “It was the false humility
of a super-charged, jet-propelled Uriah
Heep,” cried Mitch. That must stand
a chance of being the Parliamentary quip
of the year.
• •
“Chevroford”: Victoria, which at
Easter had the highest total of road kill-
ings of all the States, spends least on
public safety—sevenpence a head against
an all-State average of Is. 4d, and a
Queensland peak of 2s. 4d. Police-
Commissioner Duncan has asked the
public to send him suggestions as to how
to cope with the problem. Mine is that
he investigate these figures and then
presents his findings to Cain.
• •
If Evatt wants to keep * “full-employ-
ment” going he’d better get on to the
Korean Communists and urge them to
keep the war going. When peace comes
prices for wool will very likely fall and
when wool prices go down Australia
will have to tighten its financial belt.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Mullum”: The New South Wales
railway authorities are awake to the
value of radio-advertising. One Wednes-
day I heard this: “Plan your Easter
Holiday now. And plan to travel by
train.” Not a bad “plug,” except for
one detail; it was the Wednesday after
Easter.
“Dalmore”: “What was your first
outing with your fiance?” the radio
“quiz-master” asked a contestant.
“Well,” the lady replied, “I thought we
were going to the pictures, but it turned
out to be a wrestling-match.” Pressed
for further details she explained that in-
stead of going to the cinema, they had
gone to the Stadium,
“C.Q.”; The forms of “squeeze” vary
with the ages (B. 8/3/’53). The house in
which I was born was full of pictures;
they were upstairs, downstairs, in the
passages, and even half a dozen in the
bathroom. One might imagine that my
father was a collector of very catholic
tastes, but I doubt if he ever bought a
painting. It was the custom in his day
for the artist to present,one of his picture s
SiP BiACK,
“How much longer are y ’ gonna sulk?"
to the critic after his exhibitions. From
this source a constant stream of works of
art poured into our small suburban dwell-
ing. My father was a kindly man who
liked to encourage talent and the worse
the show the more favorable was his
notice. This probably explains the fact
that, while some may have been good,
most were bad and some were awful.
4*4 4*4 4+4
“Ceg”: Scene: +Anzac Cove on a
bright, sunny morning in 1915, with a
batch of the residents of those small
desirable bijou marine residences known
“Hey, mister, you've got a leak."
as dugouts crawling out into the sun-
light after the usual restless sleep. Out
in the cove a very small steamer, which
was not there the night before and which
seemed to the residents to be much too
close to the shore —a sitter for “Beachy
Bill.” After all these years I can still
see her as she looked when the first shell
from Beachy lobbed a few yards short
of her. A couple of figures appeared on
deck and hastily disappeared again.
Almost immediately a thin wisp of smoke
came from the ship’s funnel, and then
activity on deck began in earnest. There
was much running to and fro as another
shell just cleared her and exploded,
spattering the sea with shrapnel. Mean-
while the smoke from the funnel became
denser, and soon was issuing in clouds
as further shells plonked into the sea all
round her. One could almost imagine
the skipper trying to turn her screw by
hand in his anxiety to be away. Even-
tually she moved, but not quick enough
to avoid one dusting of confetti from
the Turkish gun. The shrapnel seemed
to bounce off her like ping-pong balls.
I’ve an idea that breakfast on board was
delayed a little that morning.
<4 4+4 <4
“G. Elburg”: The featuring of Marble
Bar’s heat (B. 1/4/’53) by Perth news-
papers was a sore point with George
Miles, for many years member for North
Province in the West’s Legislative
Council. Miles owned the pub and the
store in Marble Bar; but he claimed
warmly to be interested in the North-West
generally. When he met a Perth editor
at a cricket match, in a club, a pub or
on the “Terrace,” he invariably assailed
him for headlining temperatures at the
Bar. “Here,” he would roar, “we are
doing our best to develop and populate
the north, and you newspaper blighters
picture Marble Bar as hotter than hell
and impossible for a white man, to live
in.” One early winter Miles was visiting
his electorate and wired to the editor of
the “Daily News”: “Maximum tempera-
ture Marble Bar today .68.8 degrees.”
At that time Perth’s Lord Mayor was
sponsoring a Sheepskins for Russia
appeal. The editor telegraphed in reply
to Miles: “Deeply sympathise sufferings
people in Marble Bar, Trying persuade
Lord Mayor divert sheepskins from
Moscow to Marble Bar.” George re-
fused to be amused ; in fact, it was a
case of pouring oil on the flames.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: According to an answer
given in the Commons, Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders, who paraded as
supers for the making of a Walt Disney
battle film, got nothing beyond their
service pay, although the War Office did
receive “some compensation.” Australian
soldiers who acted as supers in stage
productions when the century was young
were on a much better wicket. Bland
Holt and others staged a number of
military melodramas, for which members
of the permanent, militia and volunteer
forces were engaged at the then stan-
dard 2s. 6d. a night. One I remember
was a “Tale of the Transvaal,” a melo-
dramatised version of Rider Haggard’s
“Jess.” One big scene was the defeat of
the enemy by British and Colonial troops
in scarlet and khaki; the half-crown
supers won the fight and also beefed out
the chorus when a red-coated vocalist
sang “Soldiers of the Queen.” Another
play, “The Ladder of Life,” which
featured the charge of the Gordons at
Dargai, was a windfall for members of
the old Sydney Scottish Rifles. Probably
the best treated of all these supers were
a dozen or so members of the R.A.A.,
who were engaged by The Firm for the
first production of “Girls of Gothen-
burg.” When the season ended, the
troops were given a harbor picnic by
George Lauri and Florence Young, The
sergeant in charge of the party was
“Ernie” Brown, a fine soldier who later
became a lieutenant-colonel and was
killed on Gallipoli.
❖ *> ❖
“C.W.0.”; Just a little correction
on the C. J. Dennis r discussion (B.
11/3 / ’53), It wasn’t a cable-tram the
poet lived in, but an old horse-omnibus.
A. H, Chisholm says bus, and the picture
opposite page 41 of his book places the
matter beyond doubt. The buses were
used by the Melbourne Tramway and
Omnibus Company in the city streets
before the first cable line opened, in
1885. Thereafter they acted as feeder
services to the cables. I can remember
seeing what must have been one of the
last of them at the North Carlton ter-
minus round about 1910. The pas-
sengers entered at the back through a
swing-door, which was closed by the
driver by a strap attached to a pedal on
his seat. An apron under the door
covered the steps to prevent boys riding
on them. The driver sat outside on a
high open seat and fares were handed
up to him through a hole in the roof.
In Dennis’s day the cable-system was in
full operation; abandoned dummies and
trailers did not begin to dot the Vic-
torian countryside until after conversion
to electric trams began in 1925.
“Wingella”; Ancient liquors (B.
18/3/’53)? For many years a barrel of
beer remained in the cellar of the Hotel
Victoria, Darwin, untouched, as it was
labelled undrinkable. As it was in a
convenient position for other barrels to
rest upon it, it was left there. Finally,
on a day when Darwin was completely
out of beer, someone suggested sampling
the old barrel. “No good,” said the
licensee. “I tried it, months ago, and it
was bitter as gall. You just can’t drink
the stuff.” However, egged on by
a few thirsty souls, he tapped the
barrel; and the stuff was the finest
beer anyone ever tasted, and good
to the last drop. To this day the
pubkeeper can’t explain the miracle.
More than once, in times of short-
age, it had been sampled, hopefully,
and always discarded as utterly un-
drinkable. How, then, when finally
drunk, had it become a beer-
drinkers’ nectar?
4*4 *t* *t*
“Spokeshave”: There are nice
bureaucrats as well as nasty. A
young ex-p.-0.-w. of my acquaint-
ance travelled twenty miles into the
city to apply for unemployment
relief. “There are plenty of jobs
available at present,” said the
official. “I’ve tried for half a
dozen,” said my friend, “but they’re
either a long way from my place
or they don’t suit me.” “What are
you doing now?” said the official.
“I’m budding myself a house,”
“Well, that’s something,” said
the official. “I’ll put you down for
the full figure. Have you a wife?”
“Well, I’ve got a girl friend, but
we’re not exactly married.” “Good,”
said the official. “De facto wife—
that’s another thirty shillings.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Tarp”: Among the devices thought
up by the Admiralty for the defence of
merchant ships against dive-bombers was
the Heath Robinson affair of a thin wire
held up by a huge box-kite of bamboo
and canvas. This pre-dated the use of
balloons. Most ships gave them up as a
bad job. Kite-flying is an art and after
they had fouled the ship astern once or
twice, ship’s captains decided they’d
rather risk a bomb than the megaphoned
oaths from the vessel behind. Our
skipper wasn’t one of these; we regu-
larly bore our protective wire along. Our
kite sailed above us like Bleriot’s plane
with the wire descending to the taffrail
in a perfect parabola. On a series of
convoys from Gib. to the Clyde, to Cape
Wrath, to Methil and thence to ,the
Thames estuary,- we never gave the fol-
lowing captain a moment’s anxiety. But
then, we had a Chinese crew with thou-
sands of years tradition of kite-flying
behind them.
♦♦♦
“Fink”; “Ceg’s” list of lesser-known
occupations (B. 8/4/’53) was quite im-
pressive, but I still have to meet one
more unintelligible to the layman than the
following, which was advertised not so
long ago. It read; “Man up
backs, women’s, cement process.”
♦> 4+4 ❖
“Piper”: Always a bit behind the times,
it was not until last week that I sampled
the delights of one of the new air-con-
ditioned trains which are supposed to
make rail-travelling in N.S.W. a joyful
experience. Yes, it was clean and com-
fortable, and the temperature was pleasant,
neither too hot nor too cold. But never
again. It is true you can talk in a normal
voice, so soundproof and rattle-less are
these monsters. But any day I’d prefer
the clashes and bangs of yesteryear to
the inane giggles of two women half a
carriage away, and the wailing laments
of various children bored by twelve hours
travel.
THE BROKEN-DOWN
SQUATTER
“The High Court has ruled that £66 million
dispersed by the Wool Realisation Commission
since the war is not taxable income.”
I was only a broken-down squatter
With four limousines to my name,
'And twenty square miles with a lotta
Fat sheep roaming over the same ;
I tell you, it made me feel grumpy
To wonder where I was to rest —
In my twenty-room up-country humpy.
Or my two-story Sydney love-nest.
It was left to my kind-hearted agents
In the city to buy me a drink;
There’s things I would rather not say,
gents.
To which a poor squatter can sink;
But Sydney beer failed to unravel
My problems, or drown my despair,
So I went on a bout of world-travel
To see what the beer was like there.
I managed to stay looking decent,
And no one suspected my woe
’Till the Government made me a present
Of sixty-six millions or so;
I can’t say I’m filled with elation,
But a dog doesn’t sniff at his bone —
VU be off to the Queen’s coronation
And come back with a crown of my
own. *
For I’m only a broken-down squatter
With four limousines to my name.
And twenty square miles with a lotta
Fat sheep roaming over the same;
But a poor poet, sharing a toddy
At the pub told me enviously
If there happened to be anybody
He’d like to see crowned it was me.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
SAD SONG
How saddening it is to age
Without once having been the rage
With members of the opposex.
If ever I am born again
And am not handsome, but still plain,
Gee, I’ll be vex.
N.S.W.
LAN HEALY.


“Nunk”: In a Sydney racing suburb
the junior schoolboys aijp weighting them-
selves by filling their pockets with marbles
to make the 5 stone 71b. football team.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Cosmo”; It was very early one morn-
ing when I ran for an “all-night” train
and just caught it. When the ticket-
inspector came to me, he shook his head
sadly, and informed ipe that I was on
the East Hills train. While I was figuring
how to get off, I heard him say to a
second passenger, “Either you’re on the
wrong train or I am!” Just for the
record— he was!
“NX Mick”: What sort of wedding-
gift does one buy for an unknown bride
and bridegroom? The only trouble my
defective hearing gives me when using
a phone is inability to distinguish be-
tween different voices or to catch un-
familiar names. I usually ask for a
repeat and, if I still don’t catch on, give
the speaker the go-ahead, hoping that
only a couple of sentences will be needed
to provide the clue. The wife and I
are going to a wedding next Saturday.
We know the church, the time, and the
reception address—but we don’t know
whose wedding it is because I didn’t get
any clues.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Night-time on a hospital-ship
bound from Anzac Cove to Alexandria.
The nurses have departed for their dinner
and medical orderlies are left in charge.
Lights are low, and from the next ward
can be heard moans from wounded
Ghurkas. In our ward most of us are
typhoid cases. Presently round comes an
orderly, who in a hoarse whisper in-
quires “Eh, choom, could you do with a
couple of rock-cakes?” Many of the
men, thoroughly sick of a liquid diet,
answer “Yes.” Soon the orderly returns
with an apron-full of large, piping-hot
rock-cakes, complete with currants, which
he proceeds to peddle at threepence each,
with strict injunctions to “Say nowt to
Sister when she cooms back.” Well, I
didn’t hear of any subsequent deaths, but
feel I should have. Maybe rock-cakes
are correct diet for typhoid cases; I
know I enjoyed mine.
+♦♦ ❖ *
“X.S.”: Melbourne magistrate to a
police witness in a drunk case: “Would
you call the accused an habitual
drunkard?” “Well, no, sir. He’s drunk
every day of the year except his birthday.
He likes to make that a red-letter day,
Y’ Honor.”
*2+
“Teeperce”: Driving through Cyrenaica
in the wake of Musso’s flying legions
our battalion sighted an apparently
deserted fort
standing in the
centre of a per-
fect Foreign
Legion setting.
Though our 1.0.
reported that the
structure was a
survival of the
Turkish era and
had never been
manned by the
Italians, Brigade
said it had to be
taken “just in
case.” At this
stage our boots
had more or less
disintegrated and
those obtained
from Italian
sources were so
ill-fitting that we
were a sore-
footed lot when
we received
orders to storm
the fort. Most of
us had our rifles
at the slung posi-
tion and, as an aid to locomotion, were
using the knobbed sticks whose official
function was that of supports for camou-
flage nets. As the forward platoon
climbed the rise leading to the fort they
looked like a bunch of leisurely-moving
tourists, with walking-sticks, ambling up
to inspect a ruin. The same impression
must have been registered by the briga-
dier. As a result of a brigade order
which arrived next day we found our-
selves on a three days course of rookie
training, bayonet fighting and assault
training—without walking-sticks.
♦2+
“Mac”: The drunk with the smoulder-
ing cushion (B. l/4/’53) reminds me.
Some time ago my cigarette-ash ignited
a kapok cushion. I thought I had
thoroughly extinguished it by removing
portion of the kapok, but when I sat on
“Must be one of those carrier-pigeons."
it again, a friend with business experience
of kapok said, “I advise you to put that
cushion outside; it is almost impossible
to extinguish fire in a kapok cushion
without tearing the cushion apart.”
Although no sign of smouldering could
be seen, I thoroughly soaked the cushion
in water and hung it on a fence to dry.
Next morning we found the cushion-
cover hanging limp, without the slightest
sign that it had ever contained kapok.
I have heard that petrol is the only liquid
which will penetrate kapok.
“Gulliver”: Londoners got more than a
bit fed-iip with the beaming Billy Brown
of London Town and his little verses
(B. 1/4/’53). One of his efforts was
aimed at instructing would-be passengers
in the correct method of hailing a bus.
It showed Billy with his hand raised in
the correct manner and wearing his usual
irritating smirk. He was remarking;
Just face the bus and raise your hand;
The driver then will understand.
Beneath it, some frustrated traveller
wrote;
I know he will, you silly cuss,
But will he stop the bloody bus?
“No Sirrah”; Just in the interests of
accuracy, I don’t think David Langdon
“Would y' mind raisin' me hat , sarge?”
was the artist responsible for Billy Brown
of London Town. Fougasse was his
creator. Langdon was in the R.A.F. at
the time, and drawing quite a few good
cartoons of service life, too. Fougasse
(C. K. Bird) had been a “Punch” artist
for a long, long time and he later be-
came editor.
“Fairf”; Books on etiquette stead-
fastly evade the biggest problem of the
train-traveller; what to do about the co-
reader of your book. If he happens to
be a fast reader there is no problem—he
just finishes the page and waits patiently
for you to turn over; but, a medium-
paced reader myself, I invariably find
myself alongside the slow, ponderous,
lip-mumbling type. To turn the page
and callously leave him wallowing three
paragraphs behind would be the action
of a cad. On the other hand, to wait
for a little while, then ask him if he has
finished may seem like sarcasm. I’ve
tried staring out of the window until he
looks up from the page, but it is not a
success: he invariably looks to see what
you’re looking at, thereby creating a dead-
lock. Only once has the problem solved
itself for me. Nobody but myself re-
mained interested in that book. Many
got their necks screwed to the right posi-
tion, then out of the corner of my eye
I would see a blush spread over their
faces, followed by instant averting of
the head. Maybe it was the title printed
on the top of every page: The Reader
Over Your Shoulder.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Lancewood I”: We have been told
that some Scots consider that our young
Queen should be entitled in their country
Elizabeth I as there has never been a
Queen Elizabeth of Scotland before. The
sight of a poem by “Lancewood” in
Bulletin 8 / 4/’53 roused some\#iat
similar feelings in me. In the early years
of the century many stories, sketches, in
the weekly journals, the occasional
“pome” in a backblocks rag and even
pars in The . Bulletin appeared above
that name which now I sign—“Lance-
wood I.”
♦♦♦
“Jasby”; A court recently ruled that
a man could not be convicted of offensive
behavior merely because he dressed as
a woman. I feel that this ruling is long
overdue. Not that I have any desire to
get around in skirts, but because it is
time the balance between the sexes, too
long weighted in favor of the female, was
restored to an even keel. Women of all
ages from nine to ninety parade nowa-
days in trousers —“slacks” is a misnomer
because in nine cases out of ten they fill
’em so amply that there’s no slackness
anywhere—without anyone saying them
nay, but let a man appear in public
in feminine attire and he is immediately
suspected of all sorts of ulterior motives.
Still, the way things are going, we mere
males may find ourselves forced to take
to skirts to maintain our self-respect and
the wearing of trousers may come to be
regarded as a sign of effeminacy. The
once manly habit of smoking has already
been degraded to that level.
❖ * ❖
“Tamana”: Mick’s mate dropped in to
the office of our local weekly and re-
minded us that a while back we ran
a par, about Mick getting bowled over
in an accident. After being well on the
way to recovery Mick had had a relapse
and his mate told us about it. Mick
had said, “Give that paper bloke the oil
about me being laid up again, and he
might give me another mention. Fair
dinkum, it’ll do me real good to read
in the local rag how crook I am.”
“Bo”: A New Australian acquaintance
who had often been bewildered by the
intricacies of English syntax, he came to
me and said, almost brokenly; “Eet
eesn’t true —it garndt be.” I asked him
what wasn’t true, and he pointed to an
item in the daily paper he was carrying.
It was a report that three prelates had
engaged in a “symposium” in the Great
Hall of Sydney University during the
Eucharistic Congress. When I con-
firmed it he grew even more agitated. A
bit of probing got to the bottom of it.
Following the advice I had given him
always to turn up in his dictionary any
new word he came across which puzzled
him, he had been informed by Mr.
Webster that a symposium was “a drink-
ing party, a drinking together, a com-
potation, usually following the banquet
proper, with music, singing and conver-
sation.” Apparently he had visualised
the hierarchy of his church indulging in
a bacchanalian orgy, tossing opinions
during the wild carousal. I was able to
restore his faith in church morals by
pointing out that this meaning applied
only to the customs of ancient Greece,
and that the symposium indulged in by
the prelates was a model of academic
sobriety; in short, that in modern usage
a symposium was simply “a conference
at which a particular topic is discussed
and various opinions gathered.”
♦> ❖ ♦!+
“Kingsbro”: Despite a lack of inner-
spring mattress and a final glass of port,
some of the soundest slumbers of my life
were enjoyed during my military career.
I shared the best of all with Private Andy
on a Sidi-Bishr sandhill, where we closely
surrounded ourselves with 10 rolled-up
tents, each weighing 1801 b. Four tents
were missing when consciousness
returned, and tracks indicated that a
donkey-cart had been used for the get-
away, “What were your instructions?”
asked the president of the court of
inquiry. “We were told to take our
rifles and sleep with the tents, sir—and,
well, we did.” “I’ll say you did,” said the
president. Are there any other members
of the A.I.F. who almost went to boob
for obeying a lawful order?
NOT UNDERSTOOD
“A woman in the Divorce Court said neigh-
bors had been unfriendly towards her since she
had taken proceedings against her husband, who
was always well-mannered and polite with them.
But she had supported him for years because he
was too lazy to work, and if she didn’t give him
money to bet with he knocked her about.”
Although for years he’d never earned a
tanner
C For he regarded toil as something low).
He was a toff, a chap of charming
manner —
At least, when from his roof-tree he
would go.
Especially when his missus had been
paid he
Would throw his smiles around where
e’er he went.
He’d never fail to elevate his cady
In suave acknowledgment of passing lady.
He was a gent.
Though selfishly she went to her employ-
ment.
Letting him, all day long, fend for him-
self.
He never grudged her the divine enjoy-
ment
Of bringing in the necessary pelf.
One must admit that very sad his case is;
No wonder he thought marriage was
the bunk.
Although her lord had all the social
graces.
She wouldn’t give him money for the
races !
She was a skunk.
Had she been like himself, very fair-
minded,
Instead of holding such a bilious view,
To all his virtues she’d have not been
blinded —
Virtues so obvious to me and you.
He didn’t reprimand her when, on rising
To go to work, his slumbers she’d
disturb.
Though this to him was very agonising.
Now such restraint, one must be recognis-
ing,
Is quite superb.
On such occasions in his life domestic
As called for disciplinary action, he
Noble of mien — aye, even majestic —
Would demonstrate his smooth urbanity
By asking where she’d take it, ere pro-
ceeding
„ With gallantry to lam into her hide.
And surely none could question his good
breeding.
Because, rather than stop and watch her
bleeding
He’d go outside.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Stepping down after a dozen years as
Warden of Melbourne University,
R. R. P. Barbour was born in Sydney,
spent his early years in Queensland, and
was that State’s Rhodes Scholar for 1920.
His B.A. came from Queensland Univer-
sity, his M.A. from Oxford; his instruc-
tional experience from Geelong Grammar
and Melbourne and Adelaide Universi-
ties. His sporting career is as versatile
as his teaching—Queensland rep. in
cricket and tennis, S, Australian in tennis
and hockey, Oxford in cricket, tennis
and lacrosse. But then he’s the son of
that grand old man who died in 1951,
G. P. Barbour, head of Toowoomba
Grammar (Q.) for a quarter of a century,
first chairman of the Cricket Board of
Control, and N.S.W. rep. in football,
tennis and cricket.
As well-known in Australian publish-
ing circles as the firm he represents
(Collins), Freddie Howe sails this week
for England and the U.S. Nephew of
historian Sir Ernest Scott, Howe has
been Australian manager for Collins for
the past six years, London export sales-
BOOKS
manager before that. He reckons his firm
has found lush fields in Australian
authors. So much so that his trip to
. London is mainly to discuss there the
talent that’s here. Collins already
has many Australians on its lists—Brick-
hill, Cleary, Catherine Gaskin, Eleanor
Dark, Chester Wihnott, among them —
and hopes for more. Of Bant Singer
(The Bulletin’s Charles Shaw), whose
You're Wrong, Delaney, was Redpaged
last week, Howe is unreservedly enthusi-
astic. He claims Shaw to be the natural
successor to Peter Cheyney. Very nice
for Collins, very nice for Shaw. Howe
remembers when a first edition of Ghey-
ney ran to 3000. Now they sell 100,000.
“Cauboy”: Back in Melbourne, the
indomitable Victoria Wilson. Winner of
a Melba scholarship in 1927, she lost a
leg, like Sarah Bernhardt, and, like Sarah,
didn’t give up on that account Deter-
mined to reach Europe, she designed a
motor-trike, strapped her wooden leg to
it and toured 2000 miles over the Con-
tinent and England, singing professionally
and attracting great interest. In Aus-
tralia she intends to give up public sing-
ing to train younger people, write a book
about her travels and do something to
help rehabilitate civilian cripples.
The Rev. W. L. Collins has been in-
ducted as moderator of the General
Assembly of the S. Australian Presby-
terian Church. Tobruk Rodents might
smile at the sonorous title —the cheerily
übiquitous padre they remember was
“P.K.” Collins, so-named from the
pocketfuls of chewing-gum he distributed,
with his clerical offerings, around
the perimeter. Long mixed-up with
Diggers, the new Moderator served with
several artillery units before War II
(noted for his horsemanship then), and
after Tobruk became senior Scotchby-
terian chaplain in the Middle East. By
war’s end he was assistant Chaplain-
General to the First Australian Army,
with a “mention” for faithful work in
New Guinea.
Of the Double-Seven Squadron in
Korea, Flight-Lieutenant C. J. Sugden,
Meteorite, has won an immediate award
of D.F.C. He got his first taste against
the Japs flying with the Double-Two
Squadron in the s.-w. Pacific. He hails
from Windsor, out of Sydney.
Paul Marella came to Sydney as
Apostolic Delegate in 1949 after 15 years
in Japan. Born in Rome, he studied at
the Pontifical Seminary there, had three
years of canonical and civil law at the
city’s university, then was appointed to
Washington, After 11 years he found
himself in Japan. Now, after a reviving
week of the Eucharistic Congress in
Sydney, he’s off to Paris, Apostolic
Nuncio. When The Bulletin inter-
viewed the small, energetic, lively pre-
late, it found him worried about the
moaning of what he took to be an
escaped animal from Taronga Park Zoo,
not far from his residence in North
Sydney. Casting back, and remembering
no news items of escaped beasties, the
interviewer allayed his apprehension by
concluding that the moans stemmed from
the Milson’s Point fog-horn.
A. G. Langdon, Tasmania’s new
Director of Industrial Development, had
been head of the Department of Manage-
ment of the S. Australian School of
Mines for the past eight years. Langton,
who established the show, has in that
time trained some 6000 managers and
executives for industry and commerce.
In War II he was called on to open-up
bottlenecks in aircraft-production.
Absent from the March next Saturday,
the Little Digger and another who had
a big share of what it takes. This
month, in 1917, Corporal Bede Kenny,
of Sydney, was advancing with the 2nd
Battalion towards the French village of
Hermies. Ahead of the crouching troops
a German gun opened up with killing
accuracy from a heavily sandbagged pit.
Range, 100 yards. Freeing his bombs as
he went, Kenny made his run. When his
mob caught up with him the corp. was
in the pit, with the gun crew —what was
left from his bombing—kamerading
emphatically. Kenny himself was badly
wounded. One of the best-known of
N. S. Wales V.C.’s, Kenny for close on
30 years marched with his cobber Snowy
Howell at the head of the select Cross-
holding group. 111-health over the past
four years had laid him up. He died,
among Diggers, at Concord Repatriation
Hospital, aged 56.
Wide as a church-door, a cheery
R.C. cleric, pipesmoking, linguistically
clever, a man of obvious culture—Dr,
Percy Jones, musical-director of the
Eucharistic Congress in Sydney and
director, as well, of the mm’s choir of
250 voices which has been cheer-leading
(his own phrase) the Faithful in Sydney
with chants which go back in history
as far as the coronation of Charle-
magne. Dr. Jones got his passion for
music from his father, who taught the
piano in Geelong and was onetime cham-
pion cornet-player of Australia. With
many prizes from South-street competi-
tions in his music-case, young Jones got
MUSIC
a leaving honors exhibition from Mel-
bourne University, and then took holy
orders. The year 1930 found him in
Rome, with a commission from Arch-
bishop Mannix to study music. Some 10
years later the Pontifical Institute of
Sacred Music in that city granted him
a Doctorate of Sacred Music. Burl Ives
found him a goldmine when the trou-
badour was in Melbourne looking for
folk-songs. In that connection, Dr.
Jones has recently put to song four Aus-
tralian poems, to be published by Allen’s,
of Melbourne. Authors are Mary Gil-
more, J. Devaney, C. J. Dennis and E, J.
Brady.
Appointed—in the same week —one of
the five Royal Commissioners on T.V.,
and one of the five members of the re-
constituted Metropolitan Tramways Trust
of S. Australia, Norman S, Young, here
Coventrated. A Glaswegian whose first
job in Australia was rouseabout in the
office of the present Works Minister,
Young later entered the Taxation Depart-
TELEVISION
ment, and there found a yen for account-
ancy—it brought him a commerce
diploma from Adelaide University, and
runnerupship for the Joseph Fisher
Medal. In the depression years organiser
of the Bankruptcy Trustees’ Association,
he put what he’d learned into a book,
Bankruptcy Practice in Australia, now
a standard work for students of the
science. In 1946 the Chifley Govern-
ment retained him to settle the claims
of owners in the Darwin acquisition
of privately-owned property; later
the Menzies’ crowd appointed him to
handle the sale of that property back to
private owners. He’s played soccer for
his State.
Died on Easter Sunday at Kioloa, on
N.S.W.’s south coast, Mrs. Susannah
Bryen, aged 102 last January, one of the
family of Crane whose tribe —there is no
other name for it—along with similar
tribes of the Kentwells, Tuckwells and
Jameses, made up most of the population
of Castle Hill in Queen Victoria’s cen-
tury. Mrs. Bryen was the last of five
brothers and five sisters. They lived to
the ages of (brothers) 95, 93, 91, 88 and
86, and (sisters) 102, 88, 83, 78 (or 79;
uncertain this one) and 36, the last cut
short by a mishap during childbirth.
Their father and mother died respectively
at 76 and 93. The combined ages of this
family, with an average of 84 for each
child, total with those of the father and
mother 1009 years, which would cover a
span reaching back to a century and a
quarter before 1066 and all that. Among
the third generation, the children of the
son who died at 95 still live off part of
the farm which their grandfather
acquired in the district in 1836 from an
original grantee. Most of the second
generation of these Cranes also had large
families, at least two of them numbering
12 children each.
The 25th anniversary of the Flying
Doctor service (in June next) will be
commemorated by an official history by
Melbourne artist Harry Hudson. It was
in June, 1928, that Dr. George Simpson
chartered a Qantas aircraft to succor a
man with a broken pelvis at Mount Isa,
and bring him back to Cloncurry. To
cover his subject, artist Hudson flew
18,000 miles in T.A.A. aircraft round the
Kimberleys and north Queensland and
made 150 drawings. Half the proceeds
from his book wifi go to the F.D.S.
With what’s on his birth certificate —b.
Carl Creek Police Station, Gregory
Creek, n.-Queensland Henry George
Lamond could hardly help but turn out
the way he has. Adventurer, bushman,
expert horse-breaker, and, as evidenced
by his recent Page Four articles and his
latest book, Big Red (Redpaged on March
25), a first-class interpreter of animal life.
His name is on the title-pages of
just under a dozen books, one of which,
Amathea, a book of the outback with a
horse as central character, was serialised
in The Bulletin just before it went into
covers in 1937. Three of his latest have
had New York publication. Bushmen in
Queensland knew his son, Henry James
Lamond. In 1942 he was posted “missing,
believed killed.” An R.A.A.F. man,
young Henry was transferred to the
R.A.F. as a sergeant, and was waiting for
his commission to be gazetted when he
was shot down over the Netherlands East
Indies. His brother Bill was also in it,
a lieutenant of artillery. Now 67, H.G.
lives in Brisbane.
Passed on in Melbourne, Kenneth
Mansfield Niall, one of the top men in
Australian pastoral and mining indust-
tries. He had the same fine presence and
personality as his father, J. M. Niall,
whom he succeeded as g.-m. of Golds-
brough Mort in 1935, going on to
chair or direct just under a dozen well-
known concerns, with interests ranging
from wool, lead and bronze to railways
an 4 fertiliser. K.M, had an unusual uni-
versity training for the managership of
one of the country’s biggest wool busi-
nesses—he was a Bachelor of Engineer-
ing.
Twenty-one-year-old lan Packham has
been judged champion junior farmer of
Australia, in a competition staged by the
A.B.C. Contestants were judged on their
general education, radio voice and know-
ledge of practical farming. One of the
judges was Everett Mitchell of the Ameri-
can National Broadcasting Company. A
Hale School (Perth) product, the champ,
learnt his farming on his father’s wheat
property near Tammin (W.A.).
Limned to the life by Prior, Valerian
Gracias, R.C. Archbishop of Bom-
bay and India’s first to be elevated to
the College of Cardinals. Not shown—
the Sydney visitor’s lean length. With
that goes scholarly manner and urbanity of
speech and gesture. He was consecrated
auxiliary bishop in 1948, when in the
Church, as in other phases of India’s life,
Indians were taking over from the
British the responsibilities of guiding the
CONGRESS
nation. He met Cardinal Gilroy at a
public meeting in Bombay on New Year’s
Day, 1950, at which the Sydney prelate
was guest of honor.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 64, John Adams, Deputy-Director
of the Commonwealth Investigation Service in
Westralia, who entered the Commonwealth
Public Service shortly after landing from
England in 1915. For the rest of War Ihe
was with Military Intelligence in Brisbane.
At Springbank (S.A.), at 65, Lt.-Colonel
Joseph Johnstone, D. 5.0., whom Old Diggers
of the 3rd Light Horse will remember as the
regiment’s 2 L/C. at the end of their war. In
War II he was a Commonwealth Security officer.
At 65, in Sydney, Timothy Detudamo, for
the past 23 years head-chief of the Naum
Trusteeship Territory, and a great help in liaison
between the Commonwealth Government and
his people. One of his best works was translat-
ing the Old and New Testaments into the
Nauruan language while in the U.S. He was
educated at a mission-school on Nauru.
At Penang (Malaya), at 49, William John
Ellis, a big figure in the gold-dredging industry
in Australia, New Zealand and the East.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 60, W. M. Jones,
director of the Oceanographic Observatory at
Kelbura. An M.Sc. and Rhodes Scholar of
1914, in War I he served with the Royal Field
Artillery and later with the N.Z. Engineers,
joining the staff of the Dominion Observatory
after the Armistice. In 1950 he was put on
developing oceanographic research.
At Wagga (N.S.W.), H. E. Gissing, Old
Digger-mayor of the city for seven years from
1937. He was with the Ist Field Ambulance
on Gallipoli, and the 14th in France. Recruit-
ing and raising patriotic funds in Wagga an
parts thereabouts made up a sizeable War u
effort.
In London, at 82, Sir Leopold Savile, one-
time pupil of Brunei, and, between 1919-3 A
Civil Engineer-in-Chief to the Admiralty. OR
of the works completed under his supervise
was the Singapore naval base. Joining "
Alexander Gibb and Partners m 1932, he began
an association with world-wide engineering jods,
including the Captain Cook graving-dock at
Garden Island. The Sydney site was chosen
after Savile had personally inspected 16 pos
sible areas. Design and construction-supervision
was also by his firm.


THESE WOMEN!


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Late one night we pull
in to the bend just above the Tapalin
vineyard. It is one of those warm,
still Murray nights and we’re dog-tired,
so we boil the billy quick and pretty
soon we’re in our naps. By this time
a night breeze has come, just strong
enough to keep the mosquitoes quiet and
freshen things up a bit. We’ve hardly
hit the blankets when a confounded
horse-bell starts tonking and clinking
close to us. After a bit Mat lets out a
curse, hops out and yells at the nag.
The bell keeps on tonking. It stops
for a bit, then starts up again. There
isn’t much chance of sleeping, so we
pull our boots on and get out in the dark
to find that horse. It takes us over an
hour, stumbling about in the dark, falling
over logs, running into trees, barging into
shallow water, before we locate that
bell. Some bloke had found it and
hooked it on a gum sucker. What Mat
said shocked a more-pork four miles away
into silence.
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: Ever tried buckwheat cakes?
They’re an ingredient of most novels of
American outback life, but I’ve never
met a Yank who’s tasted one. A
Balingup (W.A.) man who came from
Italy a quarter of a century ago still
retains a taste for buckwheat cakes which
he acquired as a lad. Apparently he
brought some seed to Australia with him
and he’s managed to keep himself in
buckwheat flour ever since. Now his
seed has run out, so he’s sent back to
Italy for some more. W.A.’s Agriculture
Department has experimented with buck-
wheat as a crop for light land or light-
rainfall areas, but so far no one has been
very impressed. It’s not a cereal by the
way—it belongs to the rhubarb family—
and it’s reputed to produce a particularly
“Sorry I can't ask you up. The missus has
locked me out."
fine type of honey. In some countries it’s
grown as much for its honey-flow as for
its flour, and more as a stock-feed than
either.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“5.4. E”: Have been looking over
some of the Royal Show riders —and as
show ring riders I’ll give ’em full marks.
They’ve good firm seats, straight backs,
good hands, hold the reins low, and all
the rest of it. But for long days in the
saddle, and week after week of chasing
stock, give me the sloppy-looking bush-
man’s style. He slouches in the saddle,
long legs almost at full stretch in the
stirrups, and his feet in their “larfin’
sides” jammed right home in the irons.
His reins are flapping loosely most of
the time, and they’re twisted round a
hand that’s usually up in the air in the
region of his breastbone —when they’re
not hooked over his arm while he’s
rolling a smoke. Of course, you can only
ride that way in a deep-seated stock-
saddle —try it in a park saddle and you
feel about as secure as a fried egg on
the wrong side of a tin plate. But the
short stirrups you must use with those
saddles tire the legs after a few hours;
the low cantle gives no support for the
back, and the absence of thigh- and knee-
pads means that you’ve got to “sit close”
all the time. I know people ride across
country in the things; they even do _it
in English hunting saddles, and they’re
even worse. I admire them for their
determination to do things the hard way,
but I’ll settle for the old stock-saddle
any day of the week.
* * ♦ •
“Harbel”: We were crossing a paddock
and the damsel in our party was obvi-
ously nervous of the stock. “Are they
bulls?” she asked. “No,” scoffed
Chicker. “They’re only bullocks.”
“Only bullocks!” exclaimed the lass.
“What’s the difference?” It was a deli-
cate question and a wise man would
have changed the subject; but Chick
was not a wise man. He tried to get
out of it with “Well, a heifer is a teen-
ager cow —you know that, don’t you?
And a bullock is a teen-ager bull; it’s
the same difference.” The girl wasn’t
convinced. “They’re no teen-agers,” she
declared. “They’re full-grown. You’re
trying to put something over on me.”
Chicker was looking decidedly uncom-
fortable. Unexpectedly Big Norm
chipped in. “What Chick means,” he
said in his soft drawl, “is, a cow’s the
mother and a heifer is the daughter ; a
bull’s the father and a bullock would be
a father but” —we all stared at him —
“he’s not the marrying kind,” he went
on. “He’s sort of an uncle.” The lass
was silent for a thoughtful minute, then,
to our boundless relief, she began &)
discuss the mushrooms.
“Bass” The cyclone that
Inigo Jones tipped for nor’
Westralia in March duly
arrived. It struck the coast
at Onslow and swung in a
slow curve through Car-
narvon, past Geraldton
and then inland to Kal-
goorlie—about 1000 miles.
On the way it brought
downpours to places that
don’t usually get them, and
late in March a flood was
advancing towards Three
Springs and Morawa on a
two-mile front. The last
time it did that was hi
1921. Then Lake Austin,
to the south of Cue, over-
flowed in a wide stream
that came down a valley,
passed Mt. Magnet and
flowed into Yarra Yarra
Lake, about 200 miles to-
wards the coast. It even-
tually found its way to the
Indian Ocean via the
Arrowsmith River. The
stream followed a course
from one lake to another,
just as this stream is doing,
and just as other floods
further inland have done.
The Pontoon River, that
dry stream whose course
vanishes in the Nullarbor,
has two branches. One
starts in Lakes Way and
Violet, near Wiluna, and
the other in the 300-mile-
long Lake Raeside, which
starts west of Leonora.
In 1921 the Pontoon
ran through most of its course,
through lakes. The inference in every
case is that the floods follow the course
of old rivers, of which the lakes are the
remnants; and that’s the most satisfactory
explanation of the lakes we have. But
at least one prominent geologist thinks
that those courses may not be the same
as they were a few thousand years ago.
In fact, he thinks the lakes themselves
may have moved, and may still be
moving, westward
towards the Indian
Ocean. According
to his theory the
breakaways on the
western margins of
lakes are being
worn away by
wind - action and
sand-blast, forming
a smooth rock floor
at water-level which
becomes part of the
lake-bed. At the
same time the wind-
blown sands are ad-
vancing, so that the
lakes are in a state
of slow but constant
migration to lee-
ward. As the lakes
are almost always
dry, this theory is
tenable ; and if it’s
right the floodwaters
aren’t following
exactly in the course
of the ancient rivers.
* *
“H.C.8.”: “She’s
overcharging,” Ted
informed me, look-
ing at the battered
dashboard of his
ancient utility. “I’ll
put the lights on.”
He did. About three
minutes later a car
coming towards us
blinked its lights on
and off, on and off.
Ted waved acknow-
ledgment as we passed. “The courtesy
of the road,” he grinned. “That
bloke thought I didn’t know they
were on.” Less than half a mile farther
on the same thing happened again. Ted
raised a forefinger in thanks. A big
truck came thundering towards us ; ten
yards away its driver leaned right out of
the cabin to yell “L-i-ghts! ” as he swept
past. Ted courteously waved his right
hand for the benefit of the receding
truck’s rear-vision mirror. His grin was
growing wider with every* “courtesy.”
Towards us sped a fast-looking sports
model. The driver gave no sign. Ted
was obviously disappointed. I saw him
look in the rear-vision—and the grin
came back. “He’s turning round,” he
chuckled. “I’ll give him something to
catch.” He stamped down on the old
girl’s accelerator. With the lead she had
it took the sports job some time to catch
up. Ted, completely ignoring the loot-
ings, gave me a running commentary
from his studies of the rear-vision. I
didn’t take much notice; I was too busy
urging him to slow down or keep his
eyes on the road. A red bonnet crept
up alongside, farther, farther it inched.
Now the young driver was almost abreast.
I caught one of the words he shouted:
“Light,” and wondered why Ted’s grin
was suddenly washed off. The moment
we skidded to a stop I understood: the
whole of our tail was on fire.
* * * *
“j. 8.”: According to a souvenir book-
let issued by the Charleville centenary
committee, the town of Quilpie (B.
25/ 3/ ’53) gets its name from a corrup-
tion of Coorilpie, meaning “whistling
duck.” Other towns on the Charleville-
Quilpie rail-link which owe their names
to the abos are Cooladdi (black duck),
Cheepie (teal), and Yallamurra (wood
duck), while Kyra, nearer Quilpie itself,
means boss. The tribes were probably
either the Beechal or Comongin.
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M ”: When seeking the cause
of a mysterious bushfire outbreak don’t
overlook the rubbish-dump. Passing one
of them I caught an odor like that of
paint burning, but, close-up, could see no
sign of flame or smoke. Then I noticed
what seemed to be heat-waves rising in
one place where a small drum lay beneath
a tangle of old netting. I managed to
haul it out with the aid of a green stick;
for it was too hot to handle. Cut open,
it had, as I suspected, oily rags inside
it. When I told the owner of the property
he was at first incredulous; but any
“That settles it —I THOUGHT he Wasn't qualified to
lead our Everest expedition."
oily cotton material left in a tin is liable
to take fire by spontaneous combustion.
This was proved in a striking fashion in
America some years ago. Fire-brigades
were puzzled by the fact that several out-
breaks in office- and warehouse-buildings
all seemed to start at the cupboards
where the cleaners stored their brooms
and mops. The cause was soon located
in a new floor-polish which had appeared
on the market. The makers were highly
indignant until a test, carried out by an
insurance company, showed that a mop
left standing in a tin of the polish would
burst into flames within 24 hours.
* ♦ • ♦
“Villefair”: I used to regard as plain
silly the claim that the kangaroo and
emu were chosen for our coat of arms,
not because both are indigenous and the
logical fauna for the honor, but because
neither can go backwards. The roo
certainly wasn’t designed for leaping
to the rear, but I’ll warrant he could back
out of trouble if his life depended'on
it, and, anyway, if he didn’t have brains
enough to evolve such a method he would
be a poor choice to represent the nation.
As for the emu, I’ve often demanded:
What bird can walk backwards? Now
I’ve found one—a blue budgerigar. While
not strictly a “runner” (runners never
develop flight-feathers and remain “earth-
bound” all their lives) the youngster is
very backward in learning to fly properly.
Every morning he gets under a wooden
ledge that stands about three inches above
the floor of the aviary, runs briskly to
the other end, then
backwards. And reverse gear is every
bit as fast as forward. Why does he
do it? Well, if I knew that I’d prob-
ably know why another budgie carries
out the daily routine of manoeuvring a
lump of cuttlefish to the water-bowl,
laboriously hoisting it on to the edge,
dropping it in, then waddling away in
obvious satisfaction. As I see it there are
four answers. (1) It’s a pastime. (2):
It strikes them as a good joke. (3)>
They do it for exercise. (4): They re
nuts.
NIGHT-PIECE
Hark! Ah, the motor-bike,
the brawny-throated!
Philomela, the motor-bike,
jug-jug-jug tereu.
Strange how, in other time,
when music floated
about Toowong, toowong would shout,
for that’s cuckoo.
Still, now, in winter-time
I hear him calling
toowong, toowong, while orchestras
clang, crash and shiver
as in a theatre;
bright arc-lights falling
where once the blackfellow
watched the dark river.
QUEENSLAND.
J. M. COUPER.
NIGHT-FLOWERING FIG-TREE
I do not sleep but, in the hot still night,
look up and see the pattern of the leaves
and watch the red fire-beetles winking out
and in and out among the dark still leaves.
It is the crimson fig-tree secretly
secretly loosing her fragrances into the nigm-
loosing those star-like cnmsonflowers I
drifting on morning waters out of the nig
N.S.W,
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


“Shamuseen”: The English spoken in
various islands of the Torres Straits is
usually a good guide as to the personality
of their first mentor. On one island I
was struck by the strangely effeminate
utterances of hairy men-mountains whose
bearing in every other way was ultra
masculine, I learned that they had thei
English many years before from a lady
schoolteacher. A London Missionary
Society divine told me of the shock
which, as a young curate, he sustainec
on first acquaintance with his dusky
parishioners who, he had understood,
were a model community as the resuli
of the labors of his predecessor. The
shock came from their habit of interlard
mg their quite dispassionate utterances
even in the Missionary House itself, with
hair-raising deep-sea expletives. The
habit, dating from the time they hac
picked up their first English from
Yankee bucko mate gone native, hac
survived a decade of missionary work.
* ♦ # *
“Barg”: Constantly late for work
Shorty one morning was upbraided by
the furious mine-manager and asked for
a watertight explanation. Completely
dead-pan. Shorty responded instantly,
“It’s that horse of mine, Mr. Cliff. Takes
me all me time to catch him, and then
I have to stand about waitin’ for the
so-and-so to yawn so I can get the bit
in!”
♦ ♦ * ns
“E.”; “Will you give me a hand to
put the ducks out of the garden before
you go. Dad?” The old bloke turned
back slowly, “Awright,” he agreed.
“Where’d you want ’em put? Through
this gate? Right, you bring ’em up.
Mum, and I’ll stop ’em goin’ past ’ere.”
He parked himself by the gateway and
Mum went for the waddlers. “Quick,
Mum, run, or they’ll get round the house
there,” Dad instructed urgently. “That’s
it. Now hop round be’ind that bush, or
they’ll double back on y’.” The ducks
neared the open gate. “Shoo, shoo!”
Dad flapped wildly and the ducks turned
at right angles and dived under the tank-
stand. “Y’ll have to crawl after ’em.
Mum; they’ll never come out ’emselves,”
he directed. “Chase ’em out this side.”
Mum crawled forth eventually on the
tail of a duck, followed the mob back
up the yard, and three times round the
wash-house. A skirmish near the water
tub—a slippery place—and thereafter
Mum’s trail was well defined. Across
the potato patch, round the wheelbarrow
and again the ducks took refuge beneath
the tank. Mum emerged from her second
excursion minus her hairpins, and hold-
ing a barked shin. “Quick, Mum, round
the comer there. That’s it, run. Steady
now, steady, and we’ve got ’em.” As
the last duck made through the opening
“You may undress here in the reception-room."
Dad jumped forward exultantly and shut
the gate. “Gripes, they’re flamin’ nuis-
ances awright,” he growled after the
ducks. “Any time at all you want ’em
out, y’ better tell me, Mum,” he decided.
“It’s too hard f’r you on your own.”
* * * ♦
“Sackville”; It’s a good wind that blows
nobody ill; and in Burragorang Valley
(N.S.W.) the mixed-farmers are beginning
to regard myxomatosis as a mixed bless-
ing. As small graziers they appreciate
that the disease has undoubtedly thinned
out the rabbit population, but as spare-
time trappers, with winter coming on,
they are a little thoughtful. It is as early-
starters in an up-and-coming industry,
however, that they are really sprouting
grey hairs. Brer Fox is the villain of the
piece; he doesn’t like myxomatosis with
his meals, so he no longer eats rabbits.
Even healthy rabbits have ceased to
attract him. He has discovered a far
more delectable diet and an infinitely
more exhilarating blood-sport. Old hands
declare the Valley has never known such
hordes of foxes, nor were they ever so
individually audacious. Meanwhile,
potential dollar-eamers are being
slaughtered night after night—one breeder
had 200 head wantonly murdered in one
swift, savage raid. Yes, in time, Burra-
gorang turkeys could become as well-
known as Leeton canned fruits, Mildura
grapes or Orange cherries, but first some
method must be found to dissuade Bushy-
tail from wiping out the potential for-
bears. The only one I can see is to
innoculate the turkeys with myxomatosis.
* * ♦ ♦
“Old-timer”: Massey, a simple sort
of soul, was the lone lumper at Red
Bend, an unattended siding on the
Forbes-Stockinbingal line (N.S.W.). In
between wheat deliveries there was no-
body there but Massey. One hot day
there was a longer hiatus than usual
between deliveries and Massey drowsed
on the bags in a half-filled truck on the
single loop. In came the mixed from
the south, with
its string of trucks
and single pas-
senger car.
Massey cocked a
drowsy eye at the
carriage as the
engine, up ahead,
shunted to pick
up a couple of
wheat trucks.
Massey’s eyes
opened as a
young woman, alone in the compartment
opposite him, suddenly took off her
blouse and appeared to dust the carriage
with it. He sat up when she slipped the
blouse on, slipped her skirt off and put
her head and shoulders out of the window
and flogged the side of the carriage with
the skirt. As she drew the skirt in she
caught Massey’s wide eyes on her. She
stared back at him, then, “Ants!” she
said succintly and withdrew.
* * * *
“Coomeroo”; Sandy, for years the
station foreman, was retired, with an
income, his keep and a room in the men’s
hut for life. But he couldn’t have been a
bigger pest if he’d kept on working. He
didn’t exactly tell tales ; but when he saw
something being done the wrong way his
horror and astonishment were so loudly
voiced that the boss immediately landed
Dn the culprit like a falling tree. As a
result, Sandy was not exactly beloved,
Came the evening when he failed to
mswer the tea-bell, but we took the sad
“ What's it matter if they get a few hailstones too ?”
news gamely, even forbearing to mutler
“Well, he wasn’t a bad poor blankard”
—the bushman’s usual requiem. Late
that evening the overseer came to the
quarters. “Who wants to go to Sandy’s
funeral tomorrow?” Nobody seemed
keen. He continued; “Those who don’t
work all day. Those who do, knock off
at noon.” Grief for our late comrade
swept over us; it was unthinkable that
he should go unattended to his rest. The
last rites duly took place— at low tide,
incidentally, for on the Western Aus-
tralian coast there’s sometimes a foot or
so of water in the grave at high tide.
Then the boss asked if we were return-
ing to the station immediately, but when
we hinted that a feed of steak-and-eggs
would be a welcome change from mutton,
he left us to our own devices, which were
varied and numerous. It was a sick and
sorry troupe which faced the boss in the
stable-yard next morning and heard with
incredulous ears the list of duties for the
day. We were detailed to climb and
repair windmills ; to dig great holes and
plant massive posts in them ; to mend, in
blazing sun and scorching sand, the river-
crossing. And as “we crept, shaking and
sick, to what seemed a fate worse than
death, we knew one thing for a cer-
tainty. Even from the grave old Sandy
had landed the last blow—we could
almost hear the old so-and-so chuckling.
♦ * ♦ *
“Kelms”: “Boondall” marvels at cats
living 20 miles from water (B. 4/3/’53).
On the Nullarbor Plains rabbits subsist
for months through a drought, long
after the surface water has all gone, and
the way they do it suggests intelligence
rather than instinct. Out on the plains
there are small valleys, or dongas, usually
only a few feet deep, in which grows a
shrub with a long taproot. When every
other source of moisture has dried up,
the rabbits eat the shrub down to the
ground and then draw moisture from
the taproot.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Yet another search
is on for the Gilt Dragon treasure on the
Westralian coast. The latest party of
optimists has found some rusty hinges
which could have belonged to the Dutch
treasure-ship—or to any of scores of
other wrecks along that coast during the
last few hundred years. The exact lati-
tude and longitude of the wreck are
known, but a search made from Batavia
only a few months after the foundering
failed to find any trace. There are two
thedries to account for this ‘ one, that the
ship disintegrated in heavy seas and the
pieces were taken by strong currents,
survivors sheltering in a cave which
buried them; two, survivors were taken
off by pirates attracted to the wreck,
which they blew up with powder to ensure
dispersal. Either theory is tenable. One
that isn’t —and it’s the one most gener-
ally accepted—is that the survivors
buried the treasure before dying of thirst.
There should have been plenty of water
and food along that coast, and those
sailors were tough and resourceful. Some
of them may even have been thereabouts
before, and it’s almost certain that,
failing some calamity, they would have
lived until the rescue-party arrived. As
for the treasure, who’d dig a hole to bury
it where there are plenty of big caves?
And some of the caves along the West-
ralian coast can collapse with treacherous
suddenness through erosion.
* * * *
“Solitude”: “Where’ve you been
lately?” I found Seventyfiver propped
squarely against a box-stump near his hut.
One boot was hooked backward against
the support, and his eyes gazed listlessly
at a cloud-bank across the sunset. My
approach brought no sign of recogni-
tion. “We been wondering \yhere you’d
got to,” I continued. “The old man’s
been looking out for you. Got some
work waiting.” Still there was no re-
sponse. “Aren’t you going droving any
more?” Slowly he removed his pipe,
and his head nodded a couple of times.
“I’ll be back, Sol,” he said simply. It
was then I noticed the new pup.
“Where’s Blue?” I inquired ; but the old
bloke’s eyes were once more on the
cloud-bank, and a glance at his granite
face set me off again. “This here flea-
bitten pup you’ve got looks like the
makings of a dog,” I babbled. “Him!”
Seventyfiver’s disgust reached a few in-
coherent mutterings, and presently I went
on with scraps of local news. “Bung’s
got a bloke on,” I ventured. Perhaps
he hadn’t heard. “And Steve at the
garage has bought a big new transport.
Gripes, can he send it!” The muscles
in the old bloke’s jaw tightened, and
there came a mumbled string of oaths
interspersed with threats of violence. So
that was it. A motor truck. Looking
back from the ridge I noted the grim old
figure still standing alone by the hut. He
looked indomitable, but shaken—like a
tree threshed by a bad storm—and I
knew things would never be quite the
same for Seventyfiver again, without old
Blue.
SEA-SWALLOWS
Utopia, it seems to me,
This fortress where the birds go free
Gf sky and water, air and sea.
Such joy from being they derive.
About the blue they whirl and hive,
So beautiful and so alive.
They take the wind’s way, and it follows,
Make free of any wave’s green hollows.
Ocean is pastured by the swallows.
Earth has its uses too, as if
Erected specially, staunch and stiff
For mud-nests in the clayey cliff.
Beside their mad beatitude,
So uninhibited, unsubdued,
I feel a creature made of wood.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.
WILD WHITE SEALERS
Between 1800 and 1840 the islands in
Bass Strait and off the coast of the main-
land to the Recherche Archipelago in
W.A. carried a wild, lawless white popu-
lation.
The biggest settlement was on Kan-
garoo Island. Some were sailors who had
deserted from whaling vessels, others
were convicts who had escaped from
Tasmania by making hazardous voyages
in stolen open boats. Their-female com-
panions were lubras from Tasmania or
the mainland, either kidnapped or ob-
tained by barter.
They dressed in wallaby skins, lived
on fish and game and traded the skins of
fur-seals or salt scraped on dry lakes
for rum and tobacco whenever a trading-
ship called.
In odd places, if you know where to
look, there are scraps of reference to
them. One account says the master of
an American whaling brig, which had
called at Hobart for stores, allowed five
escaped convicts to stow away on board.
He dumped them ashore probably on
Thistle Island off Eyre Peninsula (S.A.),
promising them passages to America
when each had secured 300 skins of
the fur-seal. He called back a few
months later to find they had only 900
skins among them. He took the skins,
but refused to take the men off the
island until they had secured another
600 skins, though they pleaded that they
could get no more, having killed every
seal on the island.
When he called next year he found
only two men. They said their com-
panions had been washed off the rocks
and drowned, but it doesn’t need much
imagination to guess that they were prob-
ably knocked on the head so the sur-
vivors could get to America. Anyhow,
he took them away.
On Kangaroo l Island the sealers were
ruled by a man known as Abyssinia,
evidently a mulatto. The others put
up with his bullying for a long time, but
the end of Abyssinia came when they
went off in their whaleboat to Wedge
Island. The boss was lowered on a rope
to the rocks at the bottom of the 400 ft.
cliffs, where he killed some fur-seals, and
his mates hauled up the carcases. Then
they hauled Abyssinia up until he was
a few feet below the brink of the cliff,
told him what they thought of him and
cut the rope.
Long after the Tasmanian natives
were thought to be extinct one of
the sealer’s lubras was living on Kanga-
roo Island. Nobody ever put her stories
on record, although my grandfather
drew the attention of at least one-
scientist to the fact that a Tasmanian
aborigine was still alive in 1890. She
died in 1895. Today, even the site of
her grave is forgotten.
H. A. L.


Orderinqsheiry, Sveet or Pry
is your Unest buy
fg
5 5
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
ct high-priced Imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Bmilt tntirtly I* Autt'tUxm by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SIDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing AgeM»—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
\
c»vu.is^' oN
pi
V
BN
m
mjhf
wfs
:*k
/T-r^
■■ f r->
Hata-Do-Ge,
Polonnaruwa.
Thrill to fhe
magnificent wonders of
CEYLON
WHERE EAST MEETS WEST . . .
WHERE TO-DAY MEETS YESTERDAY
Second only to the great works of ancient Greece,
the lost cities of Ceylon stand to-day as a living
link with the past —revealing the obvious magnifi-
cence of the civilisation that first dwelt
upon the magic isle some two
thousand years ago.
The 1,000 granite pillars which
once supported a glittering
Brazen Palace of nine stories
and a thousand rooms . . . the
sacred 80-tree, the oldest
authenticated tree in the
world, sprung from a branch
of the original tree under
which Lord Buddha attained
enlightenment . . . and a
hundred and one more
majestic relics stand to-day
as mute evidence of a
vanished glory.
m
m
.1
Further Information, free maps and literature can be obtained
by writing toX cEYLON GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
or Travel Agents. Shipping and Airlines in Australia.
Tours can be booked on all Registered Travel Agents through
the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau, free of commission.
Business. Rollery. etc.
PROGRESS AND PROSPERITY
The Need for Private Capital
Australian economic teachers
and advisers, and all public men,
should read without delay at
least the last 100 pages of
Human Action, a treatise on
economics, by Ludwig von
Mises. The book was first pub-
lished in Britain by William
Hodge and Co. in 1949.
Von Mises was the head of the
“Austrian school” of economic
thought; Hayek (author of The
Road to Serfdom) was his
student. Von Mises is one of the
world’s greatest champions of
free enterprise and what he calls
“the market economy,” as op-
posed to State interventionism.
He knows only too well the
results of the “planned economy”
as seen in Germany and Italy
during the regimes of Hitler and
Mussolini.
But Mises is not concerned
only with the evils of the fully-
developed totalitarian State. He
is just as much interested in the
half-way house; the economy
where State interventionism is in
its first budding. His conclu-
sions in connection with the
Welfare State concern Australia
and New Zealand as much as
thpy do any Continental country.
Australia, indeed, is now at that
point in its semi-Socialist career
where the advice and observa-
tions of this mature economist
should be of the utmost value
to us.
Mises expresses his essential
beliefs emphatically when he
says:—
A society that chooses between
capitalism and socialism does not
choose between two social systems;
it chooses between social co-opera-
tion and the disintegration of society.
Socialism is not an alternative to
capitalism; it is the alternative to
any system under which men can live
as human beings.
He considers, undoubtedly
correctly, that there is no middle
course for an enlightened com-
munity.
The Bulletin for several years
past has been stressing the effect
of “Welfare State” policies upon
production and upon the creation
of capital for national develop-
ment. It has pointed out that
there is not enough production,
not enough profit, not enough
saving, not enough investment in
this country. In all it has said
it is supported by Mises in
Human Action. For instance: —-
What are the effects of confiscatory
taxation on capital accumulation?
The greater part of that portion of
the higher incomes which is taxed
away would have been used for
the accumulation of additional capital.
If the treasury employs the proceeds
for current expenditure, the result is
a drop in the amount of capital
accumulation. The same is valid,
even to a greater extent, for death
taxes. They force the heirs to sell a
considerable part of the testator’s
estate. The capital is, of course, not
destroyed; it merely changes owner-
ship. But the savings of the pur-
chasers, which are spent for the
acquisition of the capital sold by the
heirs, would have constituted a net
increment in capital available. Thus
the accumulation of new capital is
slowed down. The realisation of
technological improvement is im-
paired; the quota of capital invested
per worker employed is reduced; a
check is placed upon the rise in the
productivity of labor and upon the
concomitant rise in real wage-rates.
It is obvious that the popular belief
that this mode of confiscatory taxa-
tion harms only the immediate vic-
tims, the rich, is false.
Step by carefully-placed step
the author proceeds to demolish
the fallacies and sophistries of
the Welfare State:
Saving, capital accumulation and
investment withhold the amount con-
cerned from current consumption and
dedicate it to the improvement of
future conditions. The saver forgoes
the increase in present satisfaction in
order to improve his own well-being
and that of his family in the more
distant future. His intentions are
certainly selfish in the popular con-
notation of the term. But the effects
of his selfish conduct are beneficial
to the lasting secular interests of the
whole of society as well as to all its
members. His conduct produces all
“Take me, f'r instance. I work a forty-hour Week
with BOTH hands .”
those phenomena to which even the
most bigoted welfare propagandist
attributes the epithets “economic
improvement” and “progress.”
The policies advocated by the
“welfare” school remove the incen-
tive to saving on the part of private
citizens. On one hand, the measures
directed towards a curtailment of big
incomes and fortunes seriously reduce
or destroy entirely the wealthier
people’s power to save. On the other
hand, the snips which people with
modejate incomes previously con-
tributed to capital accumulation are
manipulated in such a way as to
channel them into the lines of con-
sumption. When in the past a man
saved by entrusting money to a
savings-bank or by taking out an
insurance policy, the bank or the
insurance company invested the
equivalent. Even if the saver at a
later date consumed the sums saved,
no disinvestment and capital consump-
tion resulted. The total investment
of the savings-banks and insurance
companies steadily increased, in spite
of these withdrawals.
You can’t have your cake and
eat it:
It is obvious that if governments
make it impossible for their subjects
to accumulate and to invest additional
capital, responsibility for the forma-
tion of new capital, if there is to be
any, devolves on the government.
The “welfare” propagandist, in whose
opinion government control is a
synonym for God’s providential care
that wisely and imperceptibly leads
mankind to higher and more perfect
stages of an inescapable evolutionary
progress, fails to see the intricacy of
the problem and its ramifications.
Not only further saving and ac-
cumulation of additional capital, but
no less the maintenance of capital
at its present level, require curtailing
today’s consumption in order to be
more amply supplied later. It is
abstinence, a refraining from satis-
factions which could be reaped
instantly. The market economy brings
about an environment in which such
abstinence is practised to a certain
extent, and in which its product, the
accumulated capital, is invested in
those lines in which it best satisfies
the most urgent needs of the con-
sumers. The questions arise as to
Whether government accumulation of
capital can be substituted for private
accumulation, and in what way a
government would invest additional
capital
Let us consider the case of a
government that has got control of
the employment of a considerable part
of the citizens’ savings. The invest-
ments of the social-security system,
of the private insurance companies,
of savings-banks, and of commercial
banks, are to a great extent determined
by the authorities and channelled
into the public debt. The private
citizens are still savers, but whether
or not their savings bring about
capital accumulation and thus increase
the quantity of capital goods avail-
able for an improvement of the
apparatus of production depends on
the employment of the funds bor-
rowed by the government. If the
government squanders these sums
either by spending them for current
expenditure or by malinvestment, the
process of capital-accumulation as
inaugurated by the savings of indi-
viduals and continued by the invest-
ment operations of banks and
insurance offices is cut off.
The shufflings and confusion
of the Welfare State advocates :
The Santa Claus fables of the
welfare school are characterised by
their failure to grasp the problems
of capital. It is precisely this defect
that makes it imperative to deny them
the appelation welfare economics
with which they describe their doc-
trines. He who does not take into
consideration the scarcity of capital
goods is not an economist but a
fabulist. He does not deal with
reality but with a, fabulous world of
plenty. All the effusions of the con-
temporary welfare school are >
those of the socialist authors based
on the implicit assumption that there
is an abundant supply of capital
goods. Then, of course, it seems
easy to find a remedy for all ills,
to give to everybody according to
his needs” and to make everybody
perfectly happy.
Socialist policy eats up capital;
Santa Claus can’t function on
air:
If such a [semi-socialist] country
is under democratic government, the
problems of capital-preservation and
accumulation of additional capital
become the main issue of political
antagonisms. There will be dema-
gogues to contend that more could
be dedicated to current consumption
than those who happen to beJn power
will be disposed to allow, ihey will
always be ready to declare that “in
the present emergency” there cannot
be any question of piling up capital
for later days and that, on the con-
trary, consumption of a part of the
capital already available is fully
justified. The various parties will
outbid one another in promising the
voters more government spending and
at the same time a reduction of all
taxes which do not exclusively burden
the rich.
In the days of laissez faire people
looked upon government as an insti-
tution whose operations required an
expenditure of money which must be
defrayed by taxes paid by the citizens.
In the individual citizens’ budgets the
state was an item of expenditure.
Today the majority of citizens look
upon government as an agency for
dispensing benefits. The wage-earners
and the farmers expect to receive
from the treasury more than they
contribute to its revenue. The state
is in their eyes a spender, not a taker.
These popular tenets were rationalised
and elevated to the rank of quasl-
economic doctrine by Lord Keynes
and his disciples.
Spending and unbalanced budgets
are merely synonyms for capital-
consumption. If current expenditure,
however beneficial it may be con-
sidered, is financed by taking away
those parts of higher incomes which
would have been employed for invest-
ment, by inheritance taxes, or by
borrowing, the government becomes
a factor making for capital-consump-
tion.
Private enterprise accumu-
lates ; governments dissipate:
The much-talked-about plans of
the Soviet and Nazi dictators involved
restriction of current consumption


From a banker’s diary
Thursday: Opened a cheque account
for newlywed Mrs. ■■■■■■l who.
wishes to simplify her house-
keeping and keep a record of
expenses.
mg
m
m
m
The business of running a home
Starting a new life, this young housewife
was rightly determined to carry the tried and
proven principles of "business into her home.
Paying butcher, baker, milkman, and grocer,
insurance, and all other expenses will be so
much easier by cheque. Cheque butts and bank
statements will provide a permanent record of
expenditure.
I know she will find her cheque account very
useful, not only now, but right through her
married life.
too, should consult and use—
*
\(J&
df
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5307C
if any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Elements of an Industry .. . No. 16 of a Series
m
lODINE The element iodine, best known in the form of the
antiseptic solution “tincture of iodine”, is found only in combination
with other substance's. Discovered in 1811, it was later identified as
one of the elements by Sir Humphry Davy and by the French scientist,
Gay-Lussac. lodine is present in minute quantities in sea water, and is
recovered from kelp, the ash of certain kinds of seaweed. Small but
valuable quantities of the element are also obtained from brine wells
in America and Java, but by far the greater part of the world’s supply
is extracted from caliche a natural form of sodium nitrate found in
the desert region of Northern Chile. Because iodine is essential to
health, it is sometimes added, in the form of potassium iodide, to
table salt and animal feeding-stuffs. It is widely used as an antiseptic,
and in the treatment of thyroid deficiency. Other iodine compounds
play an important part in the sensitising of photographic films and
plates, and in chemical analysis.
1.C.1. makes iodised table salt, and iodised salt licks for livestock. It
also uses iodine compounds in the manufacture of certain aniline dyes
for the textile industry.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
'L. 4QC. 3122'
for the sake of “investment.” The
Nazis never tried to suppress the
truth that all these investments were
designed as preparation for the wars
of aggression that they planned. The
Soviets were less outspoken at the
beginning. But today they proudly
declare that all their planning was
directed by consideration of war
preparedness. History does not pro-
vide any example of capital accumula-
tion brought about by a government.
As far as governments invested in the
construction of roads, railroads and
other useful public works, the capital
needed was provided by the savings
of individual citizens and borrowed
by the government. But the greater-
part of the public debts was spent
for current expenditure. What indi-
viduals had saved was dissipated by
the government.
Even those who look upon the
inequality of wealth and incomes as
a deplorable thing cannot deny that
it makes for progressing capital
accumulation. And it is additional
capital accumulation alone that brings
about technological improvement,
rising wage-rates and a higher standard
of living.
Capitalism and humanitarian-
ism:—
The truth is that capitalism has not
only multiplied population figures but
at the same time has improved the
people’s standard of living in an
unprecedented way. Neither economic
thinking nor historical experience
suggests that any other social system
could be more beneficial to the masses
than capitalism. The results speak
for themselves.
To save or to spend?:
There is no need to tell us that an,
ampler supply of various commodi-
ties would be welcome to all the
people. The question is whether there
is any means of achieving a greater
supply other than by increasing the
productivity of labor by the invest-
ment of additional capital. All the
babble of the welfare propagandists
aims only at one end, namely, obscur-
ing this point, the point that alone
matters. While the accumulation of
additional capital is the indispensable
means for any further economic pro-
gress, these people speak of “over-
saving” and “overinvestment,” of the
necessity of spending more and re-
stricting output. Thus they are the
harbingers of economic retrogression,
preaching-a philosophy of decay and
social disintegration. A society
arranged according to their precepts
may appear to some people as fair
from the point of view of an arbitrary
standard of social justice. But it cer-
tainly will be a society of progressing
poverty for all its members.
The obstacles to the creation
of capital by progressive young
industrialists today are enor-
mous. Australia knows this
story too well;
Every ingenious man is free to
start new business projects. He may
be poor, his funds may be modest
and most of them may be borrowed.
But if he fills the wants of consumers
in the best and cheapest way he will
succeed by means of “excessive”
profits. He ploughs back the greater
part of his profits into his business,
thus making it grow rapidly. It is
the activity of such enterprising
parvenus that provides the market
economy with its “dynamism.” The
nouveau riches are the harbingers
of economic improvement. Their
threatening competition forces the old
firms and big corporations either to
adjust their conduct to the best pos-
sible service of the public or to go
out , of business.
But today taxes often absorb the
greater part of the newcomer’s
“excessive” profits. He cannot
accumulate capital; he cannot expand
his own business; he will never
become big business and a match foi
the vested interests. The old firms
do not fear his competition; they
are sheltered by the tax-collector.
The)? may with impunity indulge in
routine, they may defy the wishes
of the public and become conservative.
It is true the income tax prevents
them, too, from accumulating new
capital. But what is more important
for them is that it prevents the
dangerous newcomer from accumulat-
ing any capital. They are virtually
privileged by the tax system. In this
sense progressive taxation checks
economic progress and makes for
rigidity
Profits are the driving-force of the
market economy. The greater the
profits the better the needs of the
consumers are supplied. For profits
can only be reaped by removing dis-
crepancies between the demands of
the consumers and the previous state
of production activities. He who
serves the public best makes the
highest profits. In fighting profits,
governments deliberately sabotage the
operation of the market economy.
Von Mises’s book is one of the
most lucid, emphatic and em-
bracing works on economics
written in our generation. It
pays its greatest respects to ex-
perience, not to experiment. If
Western civilisation and living
standards are to survive—and, in
particular, if Australia is not to
slide into progressively worsen-
ing industrial decrepitude—then
people (and Parliaments) will
need to take prompt notice of
the principles enunciated in
Human Action.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
N.Z.’s Sterling Balances
A good seasonal build-up of
exchange reserves in the current
half-year should place New
Zealand in a reasonably strong
position to withstand a rundown
in the second half —this cyclical
movement is a normal feature of
the country’s trade. The cream
from the exchange viewpoint
has been coming from the three
outstanding contributors, namely,
dairy products, meat and wool.
For the first time, the dairy
industry has topped £lOO million
for value of its products, includ-
ing milk and butter and cheese
locally consumed, and the export
cheque should reach £75 million.
Wool should run a good second,
much to the relief of growers
and brokers, who didn’t expect
things to pan out so well.
With money coming in freely
,there shouldn’t be much trouble
in buying imports based on
estimates 10 to 20 million below
the mark that now seems pos-
sible. At this stage importers are
working partly on surplus funds
carried over from 1952 ; and
there’s activity behind the scenes,
where funds are being passed
from hand to hand, sometimes at
a premium, which is illegal. The
Reserve Bank is uneasy about
this, and is trying to check it by
appealing to traders to surrender
any funds they have to spare ;
but control doesn’t encourage
holders to disclose that they were
granted too much, lest they be
rationed on a lower basis next
time. An assurance by the R.B.
that they will win goodwill in
its eyes, and certainly won’t be
prejudiced, doesn’t overcome all
hesitancy and doubt. They can’t
forget that they lost in the past
by being unlucky enough to be
rationed on a base year in which
their figures were down. The
R.B. would be much more con-
cerned about this reluctance to
play ball if the season had been
less buoyant; as things are it
shouldn’t mind a little leakage.
Tricks of the Trade
For thirsty Maorilanders beer
still costs only sixpence a glass.
But the glass has been slimmed,
reducing it from lOoz. to 90z.,
which is equivalent to a 10 p.c.
lift in the selling-price, and bar
patrons have been wroth about
it. However, total consumption,
which is around 40 million gal-
lons annually, isn’t likely to be
affected much. And since 750 of
M.L.’s hotels are “tied houses,”
most of the benefit will go to the
brewery cos., among which the
two giants are N.Z. Breweries,
Ltd., and Dominion Breweries,
Ltd. These cos. have been
most vocal about rising costs
and controlled prices for beer
and hotel-service for years past.
Still, divs. have continued at a
steady rate of 8| p.c. for N.Z.B.
and 13 p.c. for D. 8., its younger
and vigorous rival. Even with
swollen overheads, which have
forced net returns on bar and
other business in many hotels
below 5 p.c., which the cos. con-
tend is the economic minimum,
they don’t seem to have been
doing too badly. The key to
profits is to be found in low
capitalisation, based on prewar
costs or on still lower
outlay further back when
hotels could be built for a few
thousand. In this solid position
the cos. are holding a tight rein
on capital spending while costs
are at present inflated levels, and
are waiting for a downturn be-
fore embarking on big new
building schemes to provide
M.L. with up to a dozen badly-
needed hotels of modern type.
Half the takings in bars go
straight to the Government in
taxes, a penny out of the remain-
ing threepence goes to the
brewers, and the other two-
pence covers freight, overhead
and retailers’ profits, a basis for
dividing the gains which seems
to be subject to only fractional
variations.
The Lure of Gold
For a decade or more N.Z.’s
gold industry has been in the
doldrums, and prospects of re-
vival are still mainly dreams
based on visions of a vast
hoard of the precious metal in
the beds of the Shotover and
Kawarau Rivers (South Island),
where prospectors once struck-
it-rich in days gone by. Today
a scheme is afoot to lower the
levels of the two rivers, and
thus lay bare any hidden wealth.
The idea, backed by a Christ-
church syndicate, is to divert the
flow of the rivers during
the latter part of this year,
to allow prospecting to be-
gin in the summer months. If
anything comes of this venture it
would bring the first flutter in
gold shares in N.Z. since the
“little boom” in the 1930’s
which followed devaluation of
the N.Z. pound and was helped
along by low costs. Since then
costs have soared to points
where there’s not much, if any-
thing, in the way of profit to be
won from mining or dredging
the yellow metal. The Govern-
ment could come in for a size-
able part of the remaining
alluvial gold down Otago way
if the big Roxburgh hydro-
electric dam exposed rich de-
posits in the river-bed below,
and it has made it clear that
whatever lies there belongs to
it. Private prospectors have been
left in no doubt by its warning
to keep out.


1 blr* 2**s
: J f ? t,
gjg ?7Tr
0
Rill
f i
33-39 HUNTER ST-
SYDNEY.
Offices at!
WAGGA WAGGA,
TA MW ORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73.000,000.
Have you chosen your Executor wisely?
THE qualifications of an Executor who can be
depended upon to administer an Estate, efficiently
and economically, are many and varied. It is imperative
also that he should be immediately available, in good
health, and of sound judgment, when called on to apt.
If you have already appointed a relative or friend,
you may be sure that he will welcome your suggestion
that you should appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as Co-Executor. It will relieve him of a heavy
burden of responsibility.
There is an interesting and helpful booklet on this
important subject, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It
explains the services offered by the Company—and its
charges. ’Phone 80377, or write for a copy to-day..
DIRECTORS
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAER, M.L.C.. Chairman;
E. R. KNOX: ALLEN C. LEWIS:
D. B. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
r JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. O. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS. Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, A6EW UNDBT POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
Holeproof and Subsidiaries.)
, Dividends N Nominal
/ Pref. N Ord. Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 8 p.c. serves.*
'47.. 38,701 2214 3000 1823 13,760 106,275
Share premiums, £21,500 .. .. 127.775
Wage subsidy, £1287 .. .. 129,062
Net reduction reserves, £3476 .. 125,586
10$ p.c.
’48.. 51,730 2214 3000 7084 19,189 145,829
Share premiums, £23,650 .. .. 169,479
Added reserves, £1367.. .. .. 170,846
’49., 77,223 2215 3000 8750 24,268 209,836
Share premiums, £36,650 .. .. 246,486
Added reserves, £1627 .. .. 248,113
To contingencies, £35,000 .. .. 213,113
’50.. 187,243 2215 3000 9624 33,287 302,230
Share premiums, £57,000 .. .. 359,280
Expenses written off, £lBBO .. 357,350
Added reserves, £181,7 .. ~ 359,167
To outside interests, £22,198 .. 336,969
Less adjustments, £10,867 .. .. 326,102
6 p.c.
’51.. 130,816 2215 3000 13,000 24,926 413,277
Added reserves, £584 .. .. .. 413,816
8 p.c.
’52.. 88,787 2215 3000 15,500 41,120 440,813
To contingencies, £30,000 .. .. 410,813
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
* Subject to intangibles, £21,390 at Dec. 31, 1952.
The lift in the div. from 6 p.c. to 8 p.c.
in the face of a sharp drop of £41,529
(31.8 p.c.) in net earnings can be taken
as an indication that the cautious yet
enterprising board is satisfied that the
worst of the co.’s troubles, and those of
its offshoots, have been left behind, and
that the organisation is well-equipped
to both hold its own and make further
progress as opportunity offers.
The parent and its two main operat-
ing subsidiaries —Holeproof (N.S.W.),
Ltd., and Holeproof Apparel, Ltd. —are
engaged in production of women’s
hosiery (chiefly nylons), men’s socks,
rainwear, ties, shirts and other apparel.
The resilience of post-war earnings of
the group is an outcome of the manage-
ment’s vigorous and successful policy of
expansion in a sheltered and growing
market under favorable economic condi-
tions.
A run of 8 p.c. divs. was followed
by three lots of 1(H p.c, to the close
of accounts in 1950, then 6 p.c. and 8 p.c.
for two following years. The cut was
due not to failure of net earnings to
adequately cover the higher rate, but be-
cause surplus earnings, and more besides,
were tied up in an accumulation of stocks,
brought about by the import boom and
its concomitants, including consumer re-
sistadfce and tighter credit conditions.
Thus the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts opened with ugly possi-
bilities. However, import restrictions,
imposed in March, 1952, insulated local
manufacturers and others against severe
competition from overseas, and so pro-
vided a breathing space in which traders
were able to work down swollen in-
ventories. At the same time the growth
in Australia’s overseas balances eased the
money and credit position, and trade
generally improved as the year advanced.
The co. was able to maintain maximum
output of women’s hosiery throughout
the year, and demand had overtaken pro-
duction for several other lines toward
the close of accounts. Selling-prices for
most of the co.’s products had been re-
duced early in the term, but the upward
creep in wage-rates was continuous.
All told, the group did well to show
aggregate net earnings of £88,787, which
was enough to pay the pref. divs.
(£20,715) and show 13.1 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 27.7, 38.6, 27.3, 21.6
and 15.5 p.c. back to 1947. That was
after eliminating outside shareholders’
interests, and allowing £111,019 (up
£18,820) for depreciation and £112,158
(down £66,078) for taxation, but dis-
regards £30,000 set aside for contin-
gencies—mainly to offset the effects of
the fall in cotton-prices upon stocks in
the Apparel co.
Profits claimed by the three main units
of the group were Holeproof, Ltd.,
£85,797 (down £23,562), Holeproof
(N.S.W.), Ltd., £BllO (down £22,316) and
Holeproof Apparel, Ltd., £1378 (down
£12,048), a total of £95,285. The differ-
ence between this figure and the £88,787
shown in the consolidated accounts is
mainly in respect of outside interests.
Stocks (in at the lower of cost or
market value) increased by £239,178,
book debts by £97,709 and fixed assets
(chiefly on account of plant) by £73,926
net:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1959. 1951. 1952.
Ord. .. .. £371,000 £514,000 £514,000
Pref. .. .. 287,685 387,685 387,685
Outside interests .. 177,083 282,198 283,412
Mortgages .. .. 219,780 259,060 263,340
Overdraft . . .. 79,946 104,201 282,753
Creditors . . .. 393,913 410,185 431,464
Inter-co. balances .. 106,226
Tax reserves* .. .. 219,881 346,284 358,652
Final divs 29,719 27,756 32,798
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 906,582 1,140,770 1,214,696
Shares other cos. .. 275 275 4,175
Stocks 943,492 1,262,298 1,501,471
Inter-co. balances .. 88,260
Book debts .. .. 192,900 231,101 328,810
Cash, etc 14,723 562 596
Goodwill . . .. 23,265 21,385 21,390
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Stocks dominate the position. Much
therefore depends upon what happens in
connection with the easing of import re-
strictions and potential overseas compe-
tition. In this respect the Government
can be expected to act prudently. Still,
there is the concealed threat that present
selling-prices of most imported goods do
not reveal the more serious competitive
position that could develop later. Hence
the need to reduce power, transport and
other costs, and so get internal selling-
prices back.
Provided nothing unexpected happens
—the background is very fluid —
prospects of a better showing at next
balance are encouraging. The market
prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at 6s. 9d. (6s. 7d.
a year ago) to return 5.9 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. At 275. 6d., 19s 6d. and
15s. 6d. the 8 p.c. A, 6 p.c. B and 5 p.c.
C prefs. yield 5.8 p.c,, 6.1 p.c. and 6.4 p.c.
respectively. Net tangible cover is A’s
£46 12s. Bd., B’s £25 ss. 4d., C’s £3 18s.
3d. and ords. Bs. 9d,
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ • £
1942 .. 41,423 8 p.c. 12$ p.O. 37,390 4,033 219,406
1943 .. 44,101 8 „ 12$ „ 37,391 6,710 226,116
To staff fund, £lO,OOO,
1944 .. 47,642 8 p.c. 12$ p.c. 37,891 10,251 236,367
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1945 .. 59,237 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 14,528 250,895
1946 ~ 51,830 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 7,121 258,016
1947 .. 76,328 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 31,619 289,635
1948 . . 87,737 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 43,028 332,663
1949 .. 89,530 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 44,821 377,484
1950 .. 70,868 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 26,159 403,643
1951 .. 78,910 8 „ 15 „ 53.491 25.419 429.062
1952 . . 72,187 8 „ 15 „ 53,490 18,697 447,759
1953 .. 70,398 8 „ 15 „ 53,491 16,907 464,666
This well-handled drapery business —the
shop is at one of the busiest intersections
in the city, facing King- and George-
street —ranks high as a profit-earner and
dividend-payer, and its scrip offers one
of the best immediate returns obtainable
in the retail field, too. The price of the
f.,p. £1 ords. has followed the trend of
the market, of course, dropping from a
peak of 655. to a low of 495. 3d. during
1952. Last week the figure had advanced
to 555., giving a return of 5.4 p.c. on a
15 p.c. distribution. And there is nothing
at the moment to suggest that the 15 p.c.,
of which 5 p.c. is labelled bonus, is likely
to be interfered with during the current
term. Net tangible cover is visibly
465. sd. The well-protected 8 p.c. prefs.
(£lO,OOO in a paid capital of £361,271)
are tightly held.
Shareholders have never failed to re-
ceive a div. over the last 33 years, the
rate being steady at 15 p.c. for the last
eight of them, making the average over
the whole period 11.8 p.c. The only
distribution of bonus-scrip was a one-
for-five issue in 1950 to celebrate the
diamond jubilee of the business. It was
made from excess tax provisions during
the war years, leaving the large accumu-
lation of free reserves intact. At £464,666
they now exceed paid capital by
£103,395 ; so the two combined need
turn in only 6.5 p.c. to covgr the pref.
div. and 15 p.c. to the ords. There is
also a large inner reserve in the freehold
item, and stocks and other assets appear
at figures which can be accepted “with
every confidence,” the board says.
Last term ushered in a crop of diffi-
culties —including a swollen inventory
following the import flood, buyer resist-
ance, narrower gross margins, buoyant
operating costs and tightening of credit
—which the management successfully met
by adopting a carefully-planned policy
of stock reduction, by shutting-down the
mail-order section and by installing a
self-service frock department along
American lines. It all resulted in a con-
siderable saving in overhead, and turn-
over picked up as the year advanced
and conditions improved, thanks largely
to import restrictions and the strengthen-
ing of export income.
A slip of £82,483 in gross profit was
mostly offset by savings of £57,494 in
exes, (despite rising wage-rates) and by a
cut of £23,000 in tax provision:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Gross profit .. .. £712,878 £834,141 £751,658
Exes 538,768 666,754 609,260
Depreciation . . • • 5,200 5,200 5,200
Tax provision .. .. 90,000 90.00®
Net profit .. • • 78,910 72,187 70,398
The £70,398 (down £1789) of profit
claimed was enough to pay the small
pref. div. (£800) and show 18.2 p.c. on
ord. capita] as against 20.2, 22.2, 23.9,
30.3 and 29.7 p.c. back to 1948.
The cautious trading and keen mer-
chandising policies already referred to are
further reflected in the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital.. £302,726 £361,271 £361,271 £361,271
Overdraft .. 20,808 28.031 23,487
S’dry creditors 165,970 210,411 246,645 173,740
Tax reserve .. 122,509 154,069 175,906 171,260
Final div. .. 29,673 35,527 35,527 35,52<
Freeholds, etc. 378,330 383,108 405,550 127,696
Stocks .. 350,271 415,912 582,450 293,079
Book debts .. 166,730 211,112 179,895 180,336
Investments .. 47,400 98,172 13,142 130.594
Cash. etc. .. 11,694 19,104 18,604 78,851
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903 90,903
Stocks were reduced by £289,371, the
overdraft (£23,487 at the previous
balance) was wiped out, £72,900 was
snipped off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, and cash and investments were
strengthened by £182,649. The co, is
thus in a position to take prompt advant-
age of any trading opportunity that offers.
Purchase of a suburban site to “provide
for future expansion” of the business
sent freeholds, etc., up by £22,146.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
c Dividends To Re- De-
Dec.. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. flcit-T
£ £ £ £
1943.. 18,514 6.2 p.c. 5 p.c. 8,203 10,311 8,609
1944.. 14,209 6.2 „ 5 ~ 8,203 6,006 2,603
Res.f
1945.. 13,086 6.2 „ 5 ~ 8.203 4,883 2,280
/ From staff reserve, £lO,OOO .. ~ 12,280
1946.. 16,702 6.2 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,238 7,464 19,744
1947.. 27,587 7.5 „ 7* ~ 11,424 16.163 35,907
1948.. 36,190 8 „ 8 „ 12,186 24,004 59,911
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. •• 69,911
1949.. 29,967 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 18,254 11,713 81,624
1960.. 26.809 8 „ 10 „ 18,254 8,555 90,179
Unexplained addition, £5144 .. .. 95,323
1951.. 28,881 8 & 5 „ 10 „ 22,500 6,381 101,704
1952.. 27,563 8 & 5 „ 10 „ 22,500 5.063 106,767
t After deducting goodwill (now £25,000).
Financially and otherwise Caldwells is
now in better trim than before or
during the war to win whatever profits
are to be had from the trade. In the
post-war period, growth in local demand
for wines and brandy more than offset
the shrinkage in the export trade which
followed a steep rise in British excise.
And the co.’s production, earnings and
dividends kept in step with the bigger
and firmer trading, as a glance at the
table shows.
Substantial additions were made to
plant and storage capacity during the last
few years. The Yenda winery and dis-
tillery is claimed to be one of the most
up-to-date in the Commonwealth; the
co. also owns large vineyards and wineries
at Corowa and Mandalsea, and there are
big cellars at Camperdown, near Sydney,
where the co. owns a number of licensed
leasehold and other properties, thus help-
ing to widen an anchor turnover. And
there is a selling branch at Brisbane,
whose contribution, if anything, to net
earnings, isn’t mentioned.
At the production end a good season
resulted in a record vintage last term.
There was some contraction in wine and
brandy sales, the trade being more sen-
sitive to changes in the economic climate
and price-level than is beer. So, for the
first time for several years, the co.’s cellars
were filled with “adequate quantities of
matured and maturing wines.”
The slip in gross profit was £16,632,
which was almost offset by a saving of
£16,333 in provision for taxation:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Gross profit .. .. £103,780 £155,272 £138,640
Exes 66,644 86,684 89,230
Depreciation .. .. 10,26 3 6,7 8 5 5,258
Tax allowance .. .. 10,064 32,922 16,589
Total .. .. £76,971 £126,391 £111,077
Net profit -. . . 26,809 28,881 27,563
The net result was thus only £l3lB lighter
at £27,563. After paying the pref. divs.
(£6500), enough remained to show 13.1
p.c, on the £160,000 of ord. capital as
against 14, 15.9, 18.1, 31.2 and 23.7 p.c.
back to 1947. The div. remained steady
at 10 p.c. for the fourth year in succes-
sion, compared with an average of 5.5
p.c. for the seven preceding years. For
ten of the 13 years before that the ords.
were shown an empty basket.
Chief balance-sheet movements were
additions to stock (up £86,086) and free-
holds (up £23,606), the latter on account
of trading properties:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £192,326 £192,326 £260,000 £260,000
Overdraft .. 71,663 13,326 75,512
Creditors . . 42,479 51,239 32,911 61,074
Tax provision 36,004 29,000 45,000 47,000
Staff funds .. 7,797 9,441 10,215 11.673
Pinal divs. .. 10,561 10,561 12,850 12,850
Freeholds .. 125,042 154,332 158,227 181,833
Leaseholds .. 32,005 33,562 31,943 31,118
Plant . . 30,628 42,699 4 8,02 1 46,098
Stocks .. 142,530 189,246 189,432 275,518
Debtors . . 24,745 32,889 46,683 39,255
Cash, etc. .. 15,835 1,681 1,700 1,054
Goodwill . . 25,000 25,000 25,000 25,000
The tightening of the market shows up
in a drop of £7428 in book-debts. The
co. went to its bankers for an extra
£62,186 and increased the amount coming
to sundry creditors by £28,163.
Trade has improved since the close of
accounts, and wage-costs have become
less troublesome. But the market,
doubtful of what the future holds, prices
the f.-p. £1 ords. at 245. 3d. (275. 6d. a
year ago) to return 8.2 p.c. so long as the
10 p.c. distribution continues, or 6.6 p.c.
should the rate drop to 8 p.c. The
8 p.c. first prefs. at 255. v yield 6.4 p.c.
The 5 p.c. seconds are not listed on
’Change. Net tangible cover is £7 6s. Bd.
first’s and 335. 4d. ord’s.
Peninsular Tin, N.L.
Peninsular (paid capital £199,387 in
f.-p. 15s. shares) stood out of the big •
link-up of a year or so ago which merged
the interests of nine other Australian-
owned tin cos. operating in south-east
Asia, and appearances are that it doesn’t
stand to lose anything as a result of its
isolationist policy. Its property is at
Langsuan (Thailand), where it got its
160,000-ton-a-month dredge into com-
mercial production again in August, 1949.
The machine has since worked only
55-60 p.c. possible working time, due
mainly to shortage and poor steaming
quality of firewood. To help overcome
the difficulty, a diesel engine was installed
early in 1952, and dredging operations
ceased for two months during the, process.


FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
* «r M
Have you ever thought how strong is the bridge
of experience that lies between the ancient and the
modern? What is ancient today was modern once.
So let us learn what the past has to teach, as from it
we can apply so much in our living today.
My thinking, reading and travelling have taught
me that courage, enthusiasm and enterprise, in the
framework of Belief, were as necessary in other ages
as they are now, and will be in the future.
These were my thoughts when I was in Greece:
It was here that St. Paul taught; it was here that the
vote was first used. St. Paul’s teaching is used in the
woirld today, just as the vote is in the democracies.
Turn your thoughts to Athens. In the Athens
of the classical period the democracy of the common
people met and voted on the fate of the Acropolis.
At the common wish, Ictinus designed a temple of
Athene which should be a fitting crown to the greatest
city of the world.
Of pure marble, perfectly proportioned, from the
seventy-foot wide white steps at the base, the fluted
pillars rose above the market-place to carry the figure
of the goddess, gazing out over the Piraeus towards the
sea in which Aphrodite had cradled the glory that was
Greece.
Every rising sun picked out first the golden glitter
of the spear which she held against the emerald of the
western sky. Then the virgin goddess of wisdom,
Athena Parthenos, and finally her temple, The
Parthenon, shone against the deepening blue of the
high heavens.
Below this vision of beauty lay the mean, higgledy-
piggledy streets of the artisans and tradespeople
huddled round the market-place. But those who
looked up from the day-to-day routine of the city
could catch a glimpse of some corner of the gleaming
purity.
Out of the dreams of a workaday world had
sprung the wonder which dominated even the meanest
of Athenians. And every one of them knew that he
had a part in its creation.
So it is with all beauty. First it is seen only as a
vague dream, then in a mind it crystallises into shapes,
and at last, with the sweat of workmen and the acumen
of merchants, it takes visible form. Thereafter, it is
the property of great and small: it is all things to all
men, the topmost in every scale of worth.
Dream, vision, labour and love. All of these are
needed for every art. But-first and foremost we must
learn to throw away every care —and to dream.
/V. /MeZS/in^S
B-13
LAKE VIEW AND STAR,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
INTERIM DIVIDEND, No. 75
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
the Directors have declared an
INTERIM DIVIDEND in respect of
the year ending 30th June, 1953, of
SIXPENCE per share sterling, less
United Kingdom Income Tax at
Standard rate in force at date of
payment, now NINE SHILLINGS
AND SIXPENCE in the £l, the net
amount of Dividend being THREE
DECIMAL POINT ONE FIVE
PENCE per share sterling, payable
on 19th May, 1953.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from 28th to 30th April, 1953, both
days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of exchange ruling on 28th April,
1953.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR,
LIMITED,
R, J. AGNEW,
Attorney.
Fijniston,
7th April, 1953.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
fitter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
ii
m
mm
Only the best
in this house
The discriminating host can
offer i toth ing better than
good Scotch Whisky. And
how very good it is when the
choice is “Black & White.”
100% distilled and blended
in Scotland in the special
“Black & White” way, this
fine Scotch Whisky is right
for any occasion.
■•V'T
ft&SfHlTV
"BUMK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
From Scotland—every precious drop.
fh«
By App'; ■
. Lata Ki
c'ntment to
g Ge.irga VI
gd
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
James Buchanan & Go. Ltd,
JAMES Bl SHANAN & CO. LTD.. GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
, JB4
e< wtete
The Metropolitan Deferred Assurance Plan enables you
to ,p xy minimum premiums for your child, and on his
majority, he can carry on the policy ... an inducement
to thrift and a protection for his future years. Ask for
Table “Q.”
Today’s Protection —Tomorrow’s Security
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co. Ltd.
HUNTER & B£IGH STREETS. SYDNEY*
incorporated in Queensland, 1593 .
This was the chief factor respon-
sible for last term’s drop of
52,300 c.y. in dirt treated and
of 3.5 tons in t.o. recovered, as
well as for the rise of 1.83 d. per
c.y. in average costs.
Dredging performances since
April 30, 1951, have been as
follows;
Tear to April 30,
1951. 1952.
Treated, c.y, .. .. 804,200 751,900
Recovery, t. 0., tons .. 299.9 296.4
Yield, c.y., lbs. .. ,83 .88
Costs, c.y., pence .. 30.19 32.02
Profit, £ .. . . 70,096 65,337
Last term’s ore assayed 73.11 p.c.
metallic tin. On a metallic basis
the average price realised was
£903 (down £26) per ton, and
operating costs were £338.5 per
ton. After allowing £13,487
(down £3118) for depreciation
and £14,000 (up £2000) for taxa-
tion, the profit was £65,337
(down £4759), or 4s. 10.9 d. per
share, equal to 32.8 p.c. on capi-
tal. Two divs. of Is. each (total
13.3 p.c.), the first since 1941,
called for £26,584.
Settlement of the co.’s war-
damage and compensation
claims enabled the loan from
the Thai Government (£63,931)
to be repaid, and the balance,
together with £24,117 of the
year’s profit, was used to rub out
the rehabilitation account. At
end April, 1952, the property
figured at £84,220, dredge, plant,
etc., at £124,459, and current
assets totalled £197,441. There
was £60,595 coming to sundry
creditors.
In October last another Is.
per share was paid, and for the
eight months to December 31,
1952, 126.75 tons of tin concen-
trates had been produced. The
London average price of tin per
ton dropped from £S 1079.8 for
1951 to £5964.5 for 1952. The
figure had eased to £5949 on
March 17, and then fell pre-
cipitiously !to £S74O on April
17. The collapse followed Com-
munist “peace” moves in Korea,
and knowledge that demand on
Government account in the U.S.
had sustained the price at what
was considered an artificial level,
and that world production of
the metal was running well
ahead of world commercial'con-
sumption during 1952. Owing to
widespread repercussions in both
the political and economic fields,
international action to arrest the
drift can be expected before
long.
Meanwhile appearances are
that the co. can still operate at
a satisfactory profit with the
metal at its present price. For
the f.-p. 15s. shares, which sold
at 225. in January, buyers re-
cently offered 16s. with sellers
standing off at 18s. 6d.
Ampol Exploration, Ltd.
This recently-formed offshoot
of Ampol, Ltd,, will be on the
market early next week with
1.200.000 ss. shares at par, pay-
able 6d. application, a further
6d. immediately following allot-
ment and the balance as
required in Is. calls over a period
of a year. Those on Ampol’s
register (pref. and ord.) are to
have priority of application for
600.000 of the new shares. When
fully paid, the issue will lift
Ampol Exploration’s paid
capital to £1,000,000, of which
£700,000 represents f.-p. vendor’s
shares for transfer of rights, etc.
Brokers for the issue are A. D.
Meares and Bishop, Sydney.
The money is wanted to
enable the co. to take up its
proportion of fresh capital being
raised by Westralian Petroleum
Pty., Ltd,, the oil prospecting
concern which took over the oil
exploration rights, etc., of
Ampol, Ltd., covering some 350
square miles of the Westralian
coastal belt from Cape Leeuwin
in the south to Bonaparte Gulf,
next door to the Northern
Territory, in the north.
The proprietary, or prospect-
ing co. has a nominal capital of
£2,000,000, and is jointly owned
by California Texas Corp., U.S.
and Ampol Exploration in the
proportions of 80 p.c. and 20 p.c.
respectively. Ampol, Ltd.,
induced the American people to
come in and shoulder the major
part of the cost of the venture.
To end January last the pro-
prietary had spent £1,227,000-odd
on geological and geophysical
surveys of the area, and on
expensive drilling and ancilliary
equipment, which is capable of
going to a depth of 15,000 ft., and
is now at the co.’s headquarters
at Learmouth Bay, Exmouth
Gulf (W.A.), preparatory to
transport and erection at the
first drilling site, exact location
of which is to be announced at
an early date.
If everything goes according
to plan, drilling should begin
within the next four months.
The work, together with further
geological and geophysical pros-
pecting, etc., is expected to run
off with an additional £675,000
or more by the end of 1953.
The co.’s area has been
examined by a number of pro-
minent American and other oil
geologists, who consider the
present site, which is at the
northern end of the north-west
basin, possesses the geological
features essential to discovery of
flow-oil in commercial quantities.
All good Australians will wish
the venture success.
Mt. Isa’s new copper smelter,
which started up during the
second week in February last, is
rapidly overcoming the “teeth-
ing” troubles usually experienced
in running-in a new plant.
Roasting, smelting and convert-
ing operations are now settling
down to a smooth and satis-
factory routine, with output
at the rate of 15,000 tons or
more blister per annum. The
plant is designed for straight-line
smelting operations, comprising
charge make-up, roasting, rever-
beratory smelting, converting and
casting. A system of proportion-
ing bins prepares the feed-
mixture of sulphide concentrates
for the roasters, whose lay-out
allows a short-haul of calcines to
the furnace on a straight run of
track. The furnace is 17ft. wide
by 90ft. long, inside measure-
ments, with 18in. thick crucible,
24in. thick silica sidewalls, and
a 20in. sprung silica arch. The
converter department consists of
two 10ft, by 20ft. basic lined
Pierce Smith converters, serviced
by two 40-ton overhead travel-
ling cranes. The blister is cast
into 2501 b. cakes by a casting
wheel from a holding furnace
with the aid of a tilting spoon
ladle, all of which are controlled
from a shielded operator’s pulpit,
from which the operator has a
complete view of the whole
process.


Women’s Letters
MEILECUIPNE
Most enjoyable party of the week was
that given by those popular Americans,
Col. John Sullivan, U.S. Army Air Force
Attache, and Mrs. Sullivan at their lovely
Eaglemont home. The hostess wore a
white, pearl-embroidered evening sweater
with a short black sheath-skirt. Among
the guests were Mrs. David Cheadle, who
allied a bouffant brown skirt with a rust-
toned blouse; Mrs. John Thoman, in
silvergrey tissue-shantung frock and small
black hat; Mrs. Tom Blarney, who added
to her black frock a Dutch bonnet of
embroidery in gay colors ; Mrs. Selwyn
Jensen (her husband is attached to the
New Zealand Legation), whose white
silks were patterned in cerise and green.
Mrs. Jim Clarke, who wore a gold em-
broidered belt with her slim black frock ;
Mrs. Lloyd JDavies, her tie-silks in green
and black ; Mrs. Heathercote
Wright, whose black frock was worn with
a small white hat; Mrs. W.
in mole-grey wool and black chapeau ;
and Thelma Passo and Mary Draskin,
two smart Americans in black.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests-of-honor at the monthly
luncheon of the English Speaking Union,
presided over by Sir Charles Lowe, were
U.S. Consul Charles Millett and Mrs.
Millett. They have spent three years in
Melbourne and have now been recalled
to Washington prior to taking up another
Consular post. Lady Lowe wore a
white navy-spotted frock under a powder-
blue wool coat; her hat was small and
white. Mrs. Millett’s hat and frock were
navy and white. With the U.S. Consul-
General, Henry Stebbins, was Mrs. Steb-
bins, wearing a charcoal-grey Honan
silk jacket-suit and a black hat. Mrs.
E. Vance’s grey-and-white floral frock
was worn with a black velvet cap.
☆ ☆ ☆
Over 1000 attended the Metropolitan
and Country Trotting Association’s annual
ball at St. Kilda Town E(all. Huge bowls
of mixed flowers and autumn foliage
decorated the foyer, and supper tables
were decorated with the racing colors
of owners and tiny bowls of flowers.
Mrs. A. A. Lord, wife of the president,
wore a full-skirted black triple-ninon
gown which had a front panel of brilliant
Indian embroidery; the swathed bodice
was caught with a diamond and gold
sapphire brooch. Guests included the
chairman of the Trotting Control Board
(Mr. A. G. Hunter) and Mrs. Hunter, she
in dove-grey tulle worn with a matching
stole; Mrs. A. S. McDonald, wife of
the Mayor of Essendon, whose satins
were deep-amethyst; Mrs. A. V. Dunn,
whose choice was pastel-pink satins;
Mrs. Keith Turnbull, in pale gold
brocades; Mrs. R. T. White, who wore
black lace over white satin ; Mrs. A. A.
Lancaster (her husband was hon.
organiser of the ball), who chose black
taffeta, and her daughter Elsie, who
danced in red cotton splashed with large
blue flowers.
☆ ☆ ☆
In the Henry Haskin showing of
spring styles at the Australia, the chief
materials used were surah (plain, floral
or spotted) tissue-shantung, filmy nylons
and nylon-organza, double-clothes (tulle
backing a taffeta surface), velvet-
embossed organza and powdered-glass
gleaming on pure-silk organza. These
last two materials are for cocktail- and
short dinner-frocks. Cotton everglaze,
linen and heavy shantung were also
featured.
The latest trends include low neck-
lines, full skirts over stiffened petticoats,
trimmings of pleats and tucks, guipure
lace on faille and coats lined with frock
material. This was seen in an ensemble
comprising a black faille coat and surah
frock.
Aqua-blue surah patterned in a black
feather-design was worn under the coat,
which was lined with the matching surah.
Incidentally, surah was much used by
great-grandmother and is very like a tie-
silk. One corn-gold everglaze cotton
frock had a very full skirt with the
bodice cut high at the back and plunged
in front. A black faille coat worn over
a yellow-and-black-patterned shantung
was embroidered at the high neckline
with gold wheat-ears. The floral nylons
carried bold, gay designs, with the design
splashed all over the material. Nothing
extreme was seen ; frocks and coats were
all very wearable.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Frank Tait is busy organising
her third Mother’s Day concert, which
will be held on May 10 in the Town
Hall, all proceeds, as usual, going to
the Women’s Hospital. First meeting
was held in the foyer of the Comedy
Theatre and president of the Women’s
Hospital, Mrs. W, S. Cox, was there.
Others who pledged support were Mrs.
John Casson, Mrs. W. K. Burnside and
Mrs. J. Bowen Pain. Stars from the cast
of “South Pacific,” ballerina Sally Gil-
mour, pianist Margaret Schofield and
Edwin Styles (he will fly down from
Brisbane specially for the concert) will
be among artists appearing. Ticket-
secretaries are Mrs. Reg Ansett (Mt.
Eliza 332), Mrs. Carty Salmon (Win
5985) and Mrs. Leonard Smith (Win
7751). Reserved seats by donation may
be booked at His Majesty’s Theatre and
with Mr. W. Dooley at the Victorian
fcClub.
•Ar rV W
English actress Pamela Page, who stars
in “Dial M for Murder,” which opens
at the Comedy on April 29, has gained
most of her experience in repertory and
with towing companies. At 11 years of
age she played the name part in a London
production of “Alice in Wonderland.”
Two years study at the Royal Academy
of Dramatic Art was followed by a
period with the Oxford repertory com-
pany, with which she graduated to
juvenile lead. Her plays in the West End
included “The Barretts of Wimpole
Street.” She toured with Jessie Matthews
in “Love In Idleness” and was lead Hi
Agatha Christie’s “Ten Little Niggers.”
Recently she has been running her own
company at Weston-super-Mare. In
“Dial M for Murder” she plays the only
woman in a cast of five.
When Rosemary Beatrice Champion de
Crespigny was married to Timbthy
Gordon Baylis at Holy Trinity, Ararat,
she was the fourth generation of brides
to wear the old Limerick lace veil belong-
ing to her grandmother, Mrs. J. S. Court.
Rosemary, only daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. F. Champion de Crespigny, wore
with it a long-sleeved gown of parchment
satin, the bodice having a wide “V”-neck-
line, the full skirt extending into a train.
The veil was held with a coronet of
pearls and her shower-bouquet was of
frangipani and tuberoses. Matromof-
honor, Mrs. Paul Griffiths, and brides-
maids Ailsa Holy man and Valerie Her-
miston wore parchment organdie with
tiny hats of the same material. Diana
de Crespigny and Susan Porter, the
flower-girls, wore cherry-red sashes with
their parchment organdie frocks, whilst
page-boys Philip and Lachlan de Cres-
pigny were dressed in red velvet trousers
and cream silk shirts. The ’groom is
the elder son of Mr. and Mrs. D. G.
Baylis of Balmoral.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sir Norman Brookes acted as his wife’s
deputy at the late-afternoon party and
meeting held at Kurneh, South Yarra,
when plans for the supper-party and con-
cert on May 3 were finalised. Proceeds
from this function will help the Queen
Victoria Hospital, of which Lady Brookes
is president. Vice-president Mrs. F. R.
Hamer was in the chair, supported by
Mrs. Arnold Isaacson, who is hon.
organiser; June Cocking is secretary and
tickets may be booked with her (FB2031).
Mrs. Simon Fraser is organising the
supper part, and helping her are Lady
Hyde and Lady Snow. Other helpers
are Mesdames Albion Walkley, Arthur
Wenzel, Mickey Paxton and Lady
Gengoult Smith.
SYDNEY
To many people the week may have
seemed a quiet one, a lull after the Easter
Show crowds and the race meetings and
parties, but to those interested in the
Eucharistic Congress it was a week
brimful with activity.
In the multiplicity of functions or-
ganised by every section of the Catholic
community women played an important
part. Overseas women visitors were Miss
Catherine Schaefer, who represents the
World Union of Catholic Women at
United Nations, and Mrs. H. R. Swann,
president of the Catholic Women of
England and Wales. From New Zealand
came Miss Kathleen O’Connor and from
Tasmania Mrs. T. Traynor, who was a
guest-of-honor as the Federal President
of the Catholic Women’s Organisations
of Australia.
At the Women’s Symposium held at
the Town Hall on Thursday Mrs. Swann
(a speaker of great warmth and per-
sonality) presented illuminated addresses
from the women of England and Wales,
Scotland and British women in Germany.
Archbishop Duhig was the speaker (at
some length) and stressed the need for
Catholic women to be more vocal. Car-
dinal Gilroy apologised for not having
brought the other two Cardinals, “But
frankly,” he added, “I didn’t have the
heart.” All the Cardinals were on the
go from 5 a.m. till midnight throughout
the week and respite was rare. How-
ever, they seemed to like it.
At the Cardinal’s Reception on Tues-
day night the tall Indian, Cardinal
Gracias, who speaks English perfectly,
is full of witty sayings, amusing anec-
dotes and an English type of humor, said
that there were four things he liked—'
cricket, hockey, music and making
speeches. He had made seven speeches
that day and had no intention of being
brief (as Cardinal Gilroy had promised),
and no intention of being silent (as Car-
dinal Agagianian had said was appro-
priate after the beautiful music). His
remarks brought down the house.
The Women’s Luncheon at the Troca-
dero attracted 1750 women (which was
about 100 too many) and representatives
of 18 women’s organisations, including
the Red Cross, the Salvation Army and
the Country Women’s Association, were
welcomed as guests. Mrs. K. Burrow,
president of the Legion of Catholic
Women, introduced the speaker. Miss
Catherine Schaefer, and Mrs. H. Metcalfe,
president of the National Council of
Women, replied. After the luncheon
many of the guests went on to the garden
party at Sancta Sophia College which
resolved itself into a sort of giant reunion.
With the Cardinal’s Garden Party on
the following Saturday, this was one of
the “best-dressed” functions of the Con-
gress. Dr. Grace Eastmuir, as president
of the ex-students of Sancta Sophia Col-
lege, and Miss Joan Delaney, secretary
of the Newman Society, helped the prin-
cipal of the College to receive the 600
guests.
Little bits that flash back to the mind
from the Congress; The mellow voice
and Dublin-English accent of Archbishop
McQuaid at the Symposium in the Great
Hall; the practical realism of youthful,
Australian - born, Australian - educated
Archbishop Young; the little girls form-
ing a colored, illuminated tableau at the
Showground on Citizen’s Night; the con-
trast between the organised formality of
the women’s assembly at the Showgrounc)
and easy-going, carefree attitude of the
men; the beautiful national dresses in
the procession ; the colorful Polish group,
the Dutch in clogs with an 18th-century
Dutch sailor in white and a wide red
hat, the little ones in national dress;
the Daughters of Charity on the
Cathedral steps, their white headdresses,
starched to within an inch of their lives,
like a flight of birds; the crowds and the
silence at the moment of Benediction
broken by the sudden fanfare of trumpets.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Frank Green, whose husband is
deputy Lord Mayor, received the guests
when aldermen’s wives and the wives of
heads of departments gave a party last
week to say goodbye to the Lady
Mayoress. A presentation was made to
her of a scarlet hat-box bound and lined
in grey, and a vote of thanks was given
by Mrs. J. P. Tate and seconded by Mrs.
E. O’Dea The Lady Mayoress’s rooms
were decorated with maiden-hair fern
and roses, and among the guests present
.were the mothers of the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Hills and Mrs.
K. Smith.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Scots’ College ball which is to be
held next Fiday at the Trocadero will
again be opened in the traditional way
with a waltz for which the music will be
played by the Pipe Band in full
dress uniform. Decorations will include
a giant gold lion rampant on a blue back-
ground, and members of the Younger Set,
including Barbara Bennett (Bellevue Hill)
and Alison Williams (Bellevue Hill), will
distribute souvenir menus during the
evening. The ball is in aid of the
College’s War Memorial Chapel Fund.
☆ ☆ *
Mrs. S. Hayter (Lorna Byrne) was
guest-speaker at the pleasant musicale
which the Bank of N.S.W. Women’s
Auxiliary of the Royal Blind Society
held at St. Michael’s Hall on Wed-
nesday last, and kept the audience
enthralled with her account of
her travels abroad. She observed
that with everyone going off to
the Coronation the unique person these
days is she who hasn’t had a trip abroad,
and she prophesied that next year there
would be an embarrassment of people
only too willing to “say a few words.”
Mrs. Chester Hopkins presided in the
absence of the president, Mrs. S. J.
Gandon, The musical programme was
arranged by Anne Menzies, herself an
accomplished clarinettist, and whose
mother, Mrs. R. Menzies, is a member
of the committee.
Barbara Jefford, who plays leading
feminine roles in “Othello,” “As You
Like It” and “Henry IV, Part I” with
the Stratford-upon-Avon Shakspeare
Memorial Company, will also be one of
the speakers at the lunch-time lectures
which the Arts Council of Australia will
hold at St. James Hall every Thursday
commencing April 30. With Leo Mc-
Kern and Jack Gwilliam she will discuss
her views on acting in Shakspeare and
will he followed by Anthony Quayle on
May 21 with “The Direction and Policy
of the Theatre
In order to foster the traditions of
Anzac through the arts the Anzac Eye
Festival will be held again this year in
the great Hall of the University, when
“Stars of Anzac” by Lloyd Williams,
which won the song contest, will be
featured. It is interesting to note that
Lloyd Williams, who comes from Essen-
don (Vic.), won this contest 20 years ago
also. Winners in the essay competition
were Dorothy Ward (Gilberton, S.A.) and
Dawn Ryan (Casino, N.S.W.). The
Carillon will be played throughout the
concert on Anzac Eve by John Gordon,
who composed the music for the winning
song, and there will be carols and Bach’s
“Magnificat” by the University Choir.
The winning play by Mi§s K. E. Murray
will also be given. Plans are at Palings.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two nephews of the bridegroom,
Christopher Logan and Peter Browne,
were acolytes at the Nuptial Mass when
Kathleen Caples married John Ryan, of
East Orange, at the Chapel of St. Joseph's
College, Hunter’s Hill, on Saturday. The
bride, who is the second daughter of
Mr. T. J. Caples, of Bondi, and the late
Mrs. Caples, wore white embossed
brocade, and her bridesmaid, Patricia
Cloke, was in pink brocade. Attending
the reception at Jonroe, Ashfield, were
many visitors from the Dubbo and
Orange districts.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EILEEN EUGENE JONES (formerly
BURGIN) late of Repatriation Hospital,
Concord.'—TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR
WILLIAM OWEN JONES has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce against you No. 2334 of
1951 on the ground of desertion without
reasonable cause by reason of your failure
to comply with a decree for restitution
of conjugal rights made in Suit No. 2123
of 1949 on the 20th February 1950 If
you wish to defend this suit you must
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 12th June 1953 and you may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from F. W. EWART, Solicitor,
21 George Street, Parramatta.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
\
x
X
V
V'"'
i
5®
SS!
•■■■..■
sac b&
a«
Most of us live our lives quietly, without heroics. Crisis comes to us—or
sharp aching tragedy... .but in the long run, great events touch us only
lightly, and our problems are—as they always have been—the problems of
ordinary folk. This outstanding half-hour presentation dramatises the
SKi ry ? ay truths > the doubts, the fears of every thinking man and woman.
•Mission to the Nation’ is arresting, powerful. It offers a challenge to
all who tune to Its complete dramatic story every Tuesday night at 8.30.
2GB • SAW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
Vis
fg
2HR. 2MW, 2LF. 2PK, 2MG, 2WL 2LT,
2CA, 3CV, 4GY, 6WB, 6MD, 7LA
and many other commercial broadcasting stations
throughout the Nation.
M aeqmm broadcasting Service
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Ring Round the Moon”
“Ring Round the Moon” in
Robin Lovejoy’s production for
Sydney Mercury is more like
bread than French pastry, more
like beer than champagne, more
like a kookaburra in broad day-
light than a butterfly in the
moonlight.
To step it up to the level of
exquisite enchantment on which
Anouilh wrote or Fry trans-
lated it—it is said to be more
Fry than Anouilh; though it
gives the impression of a per-
fect harmony—there would be
needed, principally, a very much
larger stage than the Mercury
has; trees, moonlight, a full
orchestra in the distance, space
for many dancers, a true winter-
garden setting instead of what
looks like a small, pretty
drawing-room.
Within the Mercury’s limits,
most of it still could have had
a finer edge: softer lighting,
sweeter and more audible music,
a shade more of the grande
dame in Lyndall Barbour’s
robust Madame Desmermortes,
more diabolic sparkle and less
caddish conceit in Barrie Cook-
son’s Hugo, more radiance in
the charming waif portrayed by
Rosemary Miller, for after ail
Isabelle has to be queen of the
ball. More life in the dancers
or else not quite so much of
them ; a better dress for a mil-
lionaire’s daughter than the one
provided for Diana Davidson.
More passion and less gro-
tesquerie in Bob Reardon’s mil-
lionaire.
But bread, beer and kooka-
burras are all very pleasant
phenomena. There is no serious
fault to be found , with the pro-
duction ; all of it is enjoyable
and parts delightful. Zelle
Gordon had the house applaud-
ing after almost every major
speech, so well did she play the
half-comic, half-pathetic com-
panion to the great lady; Mary
Hosking was equally funny as
the dancer’s impossible mother ;
and butlers, roues, secretaries
and other such fauna were all
amiably done by Dennis
Glenny, Owep Weingott,
Patricia Martin and John
Barnard.
♦> ♦♦♦
“Anne of a Thousand Days”
What with Marcel Wattel
going off like a prolonged
explosion as Henry VIII; and
Marie Rosenfeld, as Anne
Boleyn, dramatically dodging or
repulsing his advances and then,
just as dramatically, fighting with
a good deal of anger and passion
for the crown and for legitimacy
for her child, Doris Fitton’s pro-
duction of Maxwell Anderson’s
“Anne of a Thousand Days” at
the Independent Theatre, North
Sydney, is a vigorous, melo-
dramatic and occasionally
improbable piece of work.
In one way, the rush and
vigor of the acting and produc-
tion made the concluding calm
—where Henry ponders over the
execution order and where Anne
waits wonderingjy for death —
all the more terrifying; in
another, it was all too sustainec
—a reflective pause here anc
there, an occasional lowering o:
voices and a whispered threa
instead of all the shouting woulc
have strengthened the characters
and the performance itself. I
was, in fact, mainly by those
means that Miss Rosenfek
injected so much tragedy into
her last scene.
The production needed a much
stronger supporting cast. Charles
Caspersonn’s Wolsey went a
little of the way towards the
power and dignity of the role
but was ill-served by a querulous
voice ; for the rest, there was
never a suggestion of the wealth
and brains and strength and cun-
ning that surrounded the throne.
❖ *t* *X*
“Thieves* Carnival”
Kuringai Theatre Guild is also
currently presenting an Anouilh
play, “Thieves’ Carnival” —which
has to do with three thieves
masquerading as Spanish nobilitv
in the villa of Lady Hurf, which
is also occupied by two beautiful
heiresses and a fortune-hunting
banker and his son.
What it is about doesn’t matter
half as much as the way it is
done —it is all so light, so airy
and so fanciful that it seems,
almost, as though it should be
sung, danced or blown around
the stage with a breath of
laughter. That, in fact, appeared
to be the approach of Peter
MacDonald, who produced it,
and although he fell a long way
short of his object—limited
mainly by stage, cast and other
things beyond his control—he
went close enough to show the
piece for the delightful little
fancy it is or could be.
Clarice Mason, as Lady Hurf,
went along with a nice balance
of grace, wit and boredom, an
example which might have been
followed more closely by Pauline
Patrick as a disillusioned young
woman; Jocelyn Harbutt gave
a very fresh and appealing
picture of a girl in love; and
Brian Gill, who played the
French leader of the thieves as
a Cockney scallywag, contrived
nevertheless to make a passable
job of the translation. There
was too much obvious clowning
about Peter Barclay’s Lord
Edgard and John Adrew’s
Hector ; not enough grace to the
melancholy of Les Edmonds as
the thief who falls in love; and
too much squeaky immaturity
about Brett Hall and Stephen
Schoffhauser as the Gallic
fortune-hunters.
❖ ❖ ❖
Schneiderhan and Seefried
The joint recital given in
Sydney by this man-and-wife
team —the best to come to Aus-
tralia in living memory—was on
the highest artistic plane.
Schneiderhan started the pro-
ceedings with the unaccompanied
Chaconne from Bach’s Partita
in D Minor. This was sound
rather than brilliant playing, with
the variations built up monu-
mentally on a ground bass that
remained very clear throughout.
Miss Seefried brought to a
group of Mozart songs an
ineffable delicacy and refinement.
Nothing in her season has been
more charming than the singer’s
restrained rapture in “To
Chloe,” her calmly meditative
air in “Contentment.” Her
husband supplied the violin
obbligato to the beautiful rondo-
form aria “My Love is Forever
True” from the same composer’s
“II Re Pastore.”
Some songs of Richard Strauss
included .the splendid “Thou
Crown of My Heart,” in which
the singer employed wonderful
legato phrasing and the deeply-
felt “My Vision.” The violinist
combined with Raymond
Lambert in Schubert’s Duo in
A Major, Op. 162, a lyrical and
graceful work which has a
scherzo of unusual piano
strength.
This collaboration was
extended in the violinist solo
recital a few nights later into
three exacting sonatas.
The first was the ebullient E
Minor, K 305 by Mozart, in
which the syncopated-passage
work and swiftly changing
moods were handled with ease
and authority.
The D Major Sonata Op. 94
by Prokofieff has none of the
harsh dissonances of some of the
composer’s previous works in
this medium. Clear in design,
lyrical throughout, it-was given
a virile reading by the two
players.
Beethoven’s Sonata No. 9
(“The Kreutzer”) was the big
work of the night, and in this
Lambert seemed to have the edge
on the violinist. Always was his
playing boldly vigorous, his
phrasing of crystal clarity. It
was quite the best chamber-
music pianism that Lambert has
given. Schneiderhan was at his
best in the broad reaches of the
Andante.
❖ ❖
Isidor Goodman
At his Sydney Con. recital—
his second for the season —the
pianist selected two works which
together constitute as severe a test
of technical and interpretative
ability as could be put on one
programme: the Brahms-Handel
Variations and Chopin’s B. Flat
Minor Sonata.
The Brahms work, the greatest
in this form, with its 25 varia-
tions sandwiched between the
theme and the monumental
figure which is the keystone to
the great musical arch, was
attacked confidently by Good-
man. This pianist has shown
repeatedly that the challenge of
big works brings out the best in
him, and this was no exception.
His assessment of the value due
to each variation according to its
mood was always keen, his fugal
playing of fine strength.
In the Chopin works Good-
man’s playing in the scherzo was
explosive, his left-hand technique
being particularly effective. The -
bell-rolling sonorities in the
Funeral March was excellent
tone-painting, and nothing was
better than the tenor effect he
obtained in the Presto, through-
out which the rushing hands play
single notes an octave apart.
Even at tremendous speed the
harmonic structure remained
clearcut.
Talkies
“The Quiet Man”
It’s a weary load the Irish
have to bear, and this current
item at Sydney Regent can be
added to the burden.
It looked promising enough—
a yarn about an American pug
who retires and returns to his
native Irish village in search of
peace and quiet and finds instead
a fiery Irish lass, her vast, pug-
nacious brother and a string of
charming Irish people and
manners and customs. It was
directed by John Ford, who
made such an excellent job of
the filmed version of Liam
O’Flaherty’s “The Informer,”
and acted by Victor McLaglan—
who played the Informer —and
by other such likely starters as
John Wayne, Barry Fitz Gerald,
Maureen O’Hara and a string of
very good Irish players them-
selves, indeed.
So it had most of the
ingredients for an engaging folk
comedy of the kind the British
film-smiths make so well when
they get on to something like
“Whisky Galore.” But in this
case Hollywood hasn’t gone an
inch beneath the surface, with
the result that the people and
their delightful customs, such as
the marriage-broker, the court-
ing, the fighting, the marriage
and the pother over the dowry,
are all offered, rather archly, as
funny jokes instead of rich
human comedy.
It’s a great pity, indeed it is,
to have gone to Ireland for all
that technicolor scenery and to
have come back with so little
else.
❖ ❖ *
“Be Your Age”
The uproarious nonsense,
carried along at a brisk pace
throughout, is in the hands of
three competent dispensers of
comedy: Cary Grant as an
industrial chemist who. thinks he
has hit on an Elixir of Life,
Ginger Rogers as his wife who
does the guinea-pig act, and
Charles Coburn as the head of
the chemical firm-
The fun starts when a
laboratory monkey gets out of
its cage, mixes up chemicals
haphazardly and, unobserved,
empties the mixture into a tank
of drinking-water. When the
staid scientist decides to try out
his own formula on himself, and
as a consequence starts acting
like a wild teenager, he naturally
assumes that his experiment is
a success. His wife tries it, with
even more startling effects.
Neither is aware that the water
they took it in is the secret. The
consequences which flow from
this misleading assumption offer
scope for farce of which the
three principles take full
advantage. Marilyn Monroe is
dragged into the cast to supply
a few curves. At Sydney
Mayfair.
♦ * ❖
“My Pal Gus”
This, at Sydney Esquire, is
about a millionaire whose
problem child, Gus, goes to a
play-school run by a delectable
teacher. The dollar-fancier
fancies her quite honorably, for
hadn’t he gotten a divorce from
the wife who had foully deserted
him when he hadn’t a cracker?
Then, just as ro-mance is bud-
ding back drifts the ex.,
announces that her lawyer has
discovered they weren’t really
divorced and demands most of
his dough.
There is a weird example of
the dispensing of American
justice in a court case, and weav-
ing in and out of these doings
is the brat Gus, who flies into
tantrums every few feet of the
fillum.
Richard Widmark, as a fond
millionaire-father, is about as
convincing as Schnozzle Durant
would be as* King Lear.
♦J* ♦!+
“Worm’s Eye View”
Carried through very happily,
this film version of the play has
a cast of English players who,
though they are not well-known,
get the most out of the story of
some R.A.F. rankers being
billeted with a waspish virago,
her worm of a husband who
eventually turns, the poisonous
civic-official son on whom she
dotes and her charming step-
daughter.
The R.A.F. characters are well
drawn, the situations move
briskly and are never squeezed
dry. At Sydney Victory.


The Bell Place
By M.G. VINCENT
THE Bell place lay in the
bowl of the valley, which at
this time of the year was
filled with the froth of
peach and plum blossoms.
Down by the creek stood the
grey weatherboard house, its
roof laden with the ever-
spreading wistaria-vine. Two
huge willows showered silken
green mist over the great beds
of violets and freesias, the
clumps of foxgloves and the
posies of primroses.
It was very peaceful on the
dim, cool veranda; but Nonie
Sanderson, with her notebook in
her hand and a pencil darted
through the loose binding, found
no surcease from the peevish
revolt which made her mouth
sullen and her eyes angry. This
was the third time this week that
she had been sent out to get
obituary particulars, and she
found herself wishing that she
were back at her old job with
gruff, kind-hearted Venables.
On the smaller paper she had
enjoyed a greater variety of
tasks; but on the “Tribune” it
seemed as though she were to
spend her time producing social
notes or collecting material for
obituaries.
“They palm all the unpleasant
jobs on to me,” she thought
rebelliously as she waited for her
ring to be answered. There was
an awful lingering about Death,
she decided. Even days later a
musty sorrow clung to even the
sunniest house, dimming the
windows with curtains which
had become shrouds, and sough-
ing from the very springs of the
lounge-chairs when they de-
pressed beneath her tense body.
People whispered, eyes dim,
mouths tremulous, voices hoarse
from spent tears, and there she
sat listening unwillingly to their
bitter regrets:
“If only I had known.” Or
“I wish I‘had.” Or “I wish I
hadn’t.” Or “It was only a little
thing to do but I didn’t think.”
It was not the asking of the
questions which was so distress-
ing, because generally these were
answered eagerly: it was these
embarrassing . confidences and
the inevitable cry for comfort
which appalled her.
When she heard the footsteps
approaching she felt an urge to
run from the place; to go back
to the office and resign. But of
course she stayed right where
she was and began to roll the
pencil in its leather channel.
UNLOCKED and drawn
slowly inwards like the leaf
of a book, the door disclosed an
immobile woman drawn in white
against a grey background. She
was very tall and thin, with a
long, scraggy neck, and the over-
all she wore was white and very
large, as though it had been
intended for a much plumper
person. Her black-stockinged
feet protruded from it much the
same as a heron’s spindles
emerge from its plumage. The
most extraordinary thing about
her, however, was a sort of
turban which she had contrived
from a towel, whose heaviness
seemed to be pulling her head
very much to one side, so that
only one eye was visible; and
this, bright, round and small,
seemed mesmerised by the top
button of Nome’s blouse. Alto-
gether she looked remarkably
like Cruikshank’s illustration of
Dickens’s Aunt Sally.
“No donations,” she grated.
“No, don’t waste my time asking
for any donations. Funerals,
weddings, doctors, dentists,
contract-ploughing and with
fruit-cases the price they are!”
Nonie opened her mouth in
futile effort, for Mrs. Bell did
not give her a chance to speak.
“It’s not that I’m mean. It’s
just that I can’t. It’s no use
saying one . thing and meaning
another. So I’m telling you
straight I’m not giving you a
penny whatever it’s for. And
don’t pick any-blossom on your
way out. I know it looks pretty,
but that’s our living, and a pretty
poor one it is because you can
take it from me that we’re not
getting anything like those fancy
prices they’re asking in the
shops.” She began to shut the
door and Nonie cried out in
alarm: “I’m not col-
lecting. I’m from the
‘Tribune.’ ”
“Well, now, why
didn’t you say so in-
stead of wasting my
time,” cried Mrs.
Bell, at last dragging
her away from the
button. “Oh, yes,
you’re the new re-
porter. It seems a
funny sort of occu-
pation for a girl, I
must say. Well,
come in, I suppose
you’ve come about
the wedding. We’ll
go to the kitchen.
I’m busy. Now wipe
your feet.” She
sniffed quickly two
or three times and
cried out “Hurry up.
Those scones’ll be burnt.”
When she had turned the key
in the door, she hurried along
the hall calling out “Follow me,
and be careful of the floor. It’s
slippery. I certainly don’t want
anyone else falling and killing
themselves in my house.”
The long dark hall opened into
a vast, sunny kitchen, barely-
furnished. By the stove was a
long narrow table, and above
it were open shelves filled with
an assortment of tins of all sizes
and shapes. A long form stood
under the window and two more
flanked a colossal table, which
was almost as wide as the room
and occupied the northern wall.
Both tables had been scoured so
vigorously that their surface was
finely furred. They were bare
of adornment and were in keep-
ing with the rest of the room.
Not even an almanac hung on
the unpainted walls.
Nonie sat on the edge of one
of the stools, placing her note-
book beside her, and rested her
elbow on the table.
“1 hope you’re not sweating,”
commented Mrs. Bell, bending
in front of the oven, a piece of
clean hessian in her hands. “Oh,
I don’t think so,” said Nonie,
perplexed.
“Well, I hope' not. Sweat
leaves nasty marks on that
table.”
Nonie felt that the woman
must have an eye secreted in the
back folds of the turban. Flush-
ing, she removed her elbow and
thought “What a coughdrop of
a woman.” She opened her note-
book and looked at the headings
she had scribbled down to jog
her memory. While she was
reading through them, the batch
of scones was cascaded on to a
clean cloth, which had been laid
in readiness on the narrow table.
Instantly the room was filled
with the tantalising fragrance of
crisp baking and involuntarily
Nonie cried:
“Golly, they smell good.”
“They might smell good,” was
the tart reply, “but when they’re
hot they’re good for no one.
That’s why I make them when
everyone’s out of the house. I
always had a dreadful trouble
with Mr. Bell’s mother about
them. She knew very well I
disapproved of hot scones
plastered with butter, and she
would persist in trying to get
one every time, although she
knew as well as I did they were
bad for her. Filled her up with
wind till she nearly burst. And
she would have, if she hadn’t
given in and forgotten her
manners.
“I was never so ashamed in my
life as the time the parson called
unexpectedly and there I was
baking. And of course she took
advantage of him being here
and ate four of them saturated,
just saturated with butter. And
there it is, 4s. 2d. a pound.
Well, of course, in no time she
was belching there like I don’t
know what, and if I hadn’t taken
him out to see the vegetable-
garden she’d probably have
made a bigger disgrace of her-
self. No, I always say, hot
scones are no good to anyone.”
By this time the scones were
bundled up and placed on the
far corner of the table, and Mrs.
Bell had begun to whisk a beater
in a big bowl of cream. “Now,
you just ask me what you want
to know about the wedding,” she
said, “I started to write it up
myself, as a matter of fact, but
I’m not much of a hand at that
sort of thing. If I’d known you’d
be coming out I wouldn’t have
wasted my time last night. Tired
out I was, too, after the trip, but
I thought I better get it down
while it was fresh in my mind.”
NONIE said faintly “Well, as
a matter of fact, I really
came out for details about Mrs.
Bell. But of course we’ll be very
pleased to have the details about
the wedding, too.”
“Oh,” said the woman in a
flat voice. She gazed at Nonie
blankly for a moment, then
turned back to the basin.
“Well, there’s not much to
tell about Mrs. Bell,” she said.
“She was eighty-eight, and she’d
been more or less crippled with
arthritis for the past ten years.
And that made it very awkward
for me, I can tell you. She just
hobbled around most of the
time, hut if you ask me, she
wasn’t as bad as she made out.
She was crippled the worst when
it suited her the best. But there
you are, she’s gone now and we
mustn’t speak ill of the dead.
“Now, I’m not exactly
surprised you didn’t know about
the wedding because it was held
at Tallingbar yesterday. It was
held there because that’s where
Estella’s been nursing. And very
popular she is there, too, I can
tell you. Most of her friends
are there. She’s been away from
here for eight years now, so she
doesn’t know many people here,
and anyrate they never did
appreciate her. I always felt
they were jealous of her. Any-
rate I didn’t see how I was going
to accommodate all the people
she wanted to ask from Tailing-
bar, so in the end it was decided
to hold it there. And a beautiful
day it was there, too.
“She looked like an angel.
Her father wasn’t too pleased
about it coming so close on the
funeral, but as I said to him it
wasn’t fair to upset all Estella’s
plans because the old lady was
gone at last, and all due to her
downright carelessness. Any-
rate, with the invitations out and
the catering half-done and the
honeymoon reservations made,
and as I said money doesn’t
grow on trees, and certainly not
on fruit-trees, and whatever her
faults the old lady wouldn’t have
wanted to interfere with the
wedding.
“She was terribly keen on it,
as a matter of fact, and was
making herself a regular
nuisance by insisting that she
was going. She was pleased
Estella was making such a good
match. Of course she just
couldn’t realise that people these
days don’t get married as early
in life as they used to, so it was
downright stupid of her to think
a girl like Estella was going to
be left on the shelf. Well, as I
was saying, I’m sure the old lady
wouldn’t have wanted the wed-
ding postponed just for her.”
“I’m sure she wouldn’t,”
murmured Nonie, dazed. “From
all accounts she was a darling
and so good-natured.”
Mrs. Bell’s bitter lips slanted
obliquely from nose to chin, giv-
ing her face a lopsided look.
“Oh, yes,” she said, bitingly,
‘‘she knew how to make herself
pleasant when she wanted to.”
Somewhat flustered, Nonie
gazed at her notes for inspira-
tion. “She was bora in Man-
chester, wasn’t she?” she asked.
“Yes. And came out here
when she was fifteen. And don’t
ask me why, because I don’t
know.” Her tone insinuated
that she had her suspicions, but
her silence inferred that she was
a wise woman and could keep a
still tongue in her head.
“And she came here as a bride
in 1880, I believe. What a
journey it must have been in
those days. No roads and not a
house for fifty miles after they
left the coast. What a heroine
she must have been.”
“I dare say it sounds that way
to a romantic young girl,” said
Mrs. Bell, tartly. “But she had
her head screwed on all right, I
can tell you, and I can’t see her
doing anything she didn’t want
to. After the work she’d been
doing in the pubs on the water-
front in Sydney I dare say she
was more than pleased to get
hold of a man like Jonah Bell
Buttons in the Shape of Little Men
Polly’s blouse has seven buttons
Fastened tidy down the front.
They always yield to seven kisses,
Four made sharp and three made blunt.
Two that tingle on her ears,
Two that laugh into her eyes
And chuckle there in quaint surprise,
One that whispers on her brow
And roams into her hair and- sighs
That it may amble on her chin
Where ever six does enter in
To laugh and shout and gad about
Till it meets with seven on her neck
Who grows so bold and won’t stay quiet
But says it must, it must go down
Shopping in the bulgy town
Which just has sprung the morning mist
And pleads the sun that it be kissed.
But I love Kay’s four little men
Who guard her with the strength of ten
And must be charmed to open up.
Each demands a different fable
By one who knows and who is able
To hook it from a cloud-shot sky
And reel it in with whip and flurry,
A fable that for many years
Has grown in laughter and in tears;
But today, oh dear, I fooled them well
And had never caught a word to tell.
I said to the first I came as a wind
Who knew no guile but could only tat
The long smoke threads from the chimney-
tops.
I blew before and blew behind,
Then gusty began to blow blow blow.
The first little man reached up for his
hat
And the first little man let go.
N.S.W.
To the second I said I came as the rain
Tickles on a window pane.
He said Oh no, oh no, no, no.
It is gentle on the window pane.
So I dropped two drops upon his head.
They ran together on his nose
And hand in hand and up on toes
Crept along to the very tip
Then jumped upon his upper lip.
He sneezed, he sneezed and ho ho ho
The second little man let go.
To the third little man I went as the sun
Lazily, lazily, nor had begun
To tell him my tale when he fumbled
about
To loosen his coat. He was over-stout.
I leaped and took him by the throat,
Spun him round and threw him out.
Oh the fourth was ancient wise.
He said you may come in any guise,
The garden’s shut, you’ll never pass
To tramp your boots about the grass.
What, you old liar! There’s not a sprout
Of grass in your garden but all about
There’s soil that hungers for the seed.
Let me in. I’ve what you need
To make it bear with never a weed.
His head bent down with the weight of his
thinking,
Solemn eyes were crinkled and blinking.
I dived and took him by the heels
Pulled him out and I went in.
Kay was behind the gate.
Oh dear, oh dear, oh verily,
I believe young Kay is out to tea.—
A game we play. She sprang to me
Slamming shut the garden gate
And oh, I stayed there very late.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


tMkjofr
The MOBILCO ELECTRO Posi Borer
a time and money saver if ever there was one! This is a machine which moves
quickly and easily along the fence line for new work or repairs. The heavy
duty drill is light in weight and being an all electric drive it is reliable, smooth
and easy to operate. Bores %" holes in hardwood. Special compound wound
generator is the last word in performance
and dependability. WRITE FOR A
CATALOGUE NOW.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE; LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES .... BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
who had some money of his own
and some land to take her to
and a decent man at that. Not
everyone falls on their feet like
that.
“Now, whatever Estella might
have she’s earned. It’s not just
luck. It wasn’t just luck she got
her husband, I can tell you. She
worked hard and got on well at
that hospital. She must have, or
a man in Clifton’s position, that’s
her husband, who could have
had the pick of the district,
wouldn’t have been impressed by
her. Do you want his full
name?”
“Yes,” murmured Nonie,
hastily turning over a few leaves
and scrawling “Wedding” on the
top of the page.
6wpLIFTON MARCUS
SPEARING. He’s a J.P.,
but I don’t suppose you put that
in a wedding. But let me tell
you, you have to be an upright,
well-thought-of man to become
a J.P.' They won’t have anyone
a J.P. And Estella Mary (that’s
after me). You don’t want their
ages, do you? And the church
was St. John’s, and a very
historic place it is, too. Built
by the convicts, and people come
from miles around, all the nobs
you know, squatters and so on,
to get married there.
“Decorated beautifully it was
with fruit-blossom. They don’t
have to watch every penny there,
I can tell you. Armloads of it.
And arum-lilies at the altar-
rails and on the altar and a big
bell all covered with blossom.
I’ll give you what I’ve written
about the dress, because I put it
all down, and then you won’t
get it muddled up and it won’t
waste my time. I’ve seen
mistakes in the paper before to-
day, and now the price has gone
up I think they could take a
bit more care.
“But that’s what everything’s
like today. More money and
not as much work put into it.
That’s what I said to Jim about
the breakfast. Little flibber-
tigibbet things that wouldn’t fill
a mouse. Nice, of course, but
what’s in an oyster-patty or a
cocktail-sausage?—there’s prac-
tically only the taste! And .they
cost four times as much as a
sandwich or a scone. I’ve put
down all the supper. And the
bridesmaids’ dresses and what I
wore at the reception.
“Clifton hasn’t any parents.
They died when he was at
college—is that the tractor?” she
asked suddenly, .rushing to the
window.
“Yes it is. Now, wait till I
put down when he started. You
can’t trust anyone these days.”
She scribbled on a piece of paper
and placed it half under a tin.
“Now, where was I? Oh, yes.
But J can tell you they didn’t
leave him in want. A real nice
home lie has for Estella. Two
acres of land and a brick house.
He’s comfortable, I can tell you,
and no wonder. He knows how
a business should be run. First
thing I saw when I walked into
his shop was a big notice. Six
feet square it must have been.
‘Don’t cause embarrassment by
asking for credit.’ And then as
you’re going out, there’s another
above the door. ‘More customers
mean bigger turnover. Bigger
turnover means lower prices.
So tell your friends if you’re
satisfied. Not us.’
“Yes, he’s got a good head
for business. That’s what I said
to Jim when he said it was a
pity he was so small and he
hoped the children wouldn’t be
midgets. Not that he’s a midget,
mind you, but he’s a bit on the
small side. Would you believe
it, he takes only a three shoe!
But as I said, and I still say
‘Better a big brain and a small
body, than a big lump of brawn
and no brain.’ Yes. Estella
won’t want for anything. That’s
certain.”
Nonie asked, rather breath-
lessly, “And what about the
minister’s name and the time of
the ceremony?”
“I’ve got all that in. And
about the honeymoon. Of
course it’s not written in the
proper way. You’ll have to fix
that up. And I’ve just put some-
thing about many costly present
including a great number o
cheques.”
Nonie sighed. “Well, tha
covers all about the wedding
then,” she said, turning back to
the page marked “Obituary.’
“Now we’ll finish about Mrs
Bell.”
heaven’s sake! Wha
A else do you want?” Mrs
Bell’s daughter-in-law cried
draining the buttermilk from
the bowl into a big jug.'
“Oh, well,” said Nonie, ill a
ease, “I just want to check abou
her children for one thing.”
“Seven there were, but only
three alive.” Mrs. Bell slappec
furiously at the butter with
wooden spoon. “Cecil anc
Violet, that’s Mrs, Herb Gun
ning. But she wouldn’t budge
from this house and give them
turn and turn about. Sometimes
I think she just stayed here for
spite.” The slapping of the
spoon was the only sound in the
room.
“She just lived to poke her
nose into things, and the things
she got Jim to do from time to
time used to make my blood
boil. Here have I been scrimp-
ing and saving to make ends
meet, and even going withoui
essential things, and she’d be all
set for doing something down-
right ridiculous. She simply
overlooked the fact that Jim had
actually bought the place from
her. V.-G. price and all, so
there wasn’t *any concession
made for us.
“Jim even wanted to pay over
the prifce, mind you, but I wasn't
standing that, and told them so,
and after she’d heard what I had
to say she could see it wasn’t
any use trading on Jim’s good
nature, so she said to Jim that
he could have the extra as a
present, and he’s silly enough to
swallow that. He still holds out
that she was generous, even
when the will was read and he
found out she'd left all the
money to Cecil and Violet.
“But / say, how’s that for
gratitude? Not a penny for
Estella! Of course if she’d left
the lot to Estella, it’d be a drop
in the ocean to her now. She
can sniff at one-thousand pounds
now.”
She turned the butter on to a
dish and walked briskly to a big
netted safe* standing between the
two doors. When she opened the
door a rpw of butter-mounds
met Nonie’s startled glance.
There were twelve high shining
mounds if there was one. The
netted door closed. She faced
Nonie, wiping her hands on the
piece of hessian. “If I hadn’t
been here to keep my eye on
Jim, we’d be in the poorhouse.
“But half the time as it was
she was able to get her own way.
She saw to that. The old
orchard for instance. Four
acres of it, and only eight-
hundred cases of second-class
fruit off it in the best season,
but not a tree allowed to be cut
down because she had planted
them and they were the start of
the orchard. And she wanted to
turn over the harvest to the
school last year. To help buy
those spoiled brats a projector,
if you please. I don’t know what
the world’s coming to. As
though we haven’t enough
expenses to meet without going
batty. Old Dobbin out there
eating his head off. Too old for
anything else, and we have to get
in a tractor to do the ploughing.
“And three dogs, mind you,
living on the fat of the land,
and all too old and too lazy to
even bark when the larrikins
come stealing the fruit. Why,
I’ve seen her and the dogs all
sitting on the front veranda just
watching those louts fill their
stomachs and their shirts as full
as they could stuff them, and not
a peep out of any of them. She
couldn’t be trusted with those
trees at all. Every spring she’d
be hankering after a vase of
blossom, and she always got her
way, mind you, even last year
when Jim was in hospital with
his h , well, operation, down
she hobbled while I was feeding
the chickens, and before I could
get to her she had ten sprays if
she had one. And all she said
was that it only meant a couple
of dozen peaches at the most,
and it only came once a year!
6 course, most of the time
Jim was silly enough to
do just what she wanted. People
might think butter wouldn’t melt
in her mouth, but she #ad iron
in her will, I can tell you. Take
Estella’s wedding. She’d mlde
up her mind to go, and go she
would have. She probably would
have made a speech and told
everyone those revolting high-
flown tales of hers about the old
days. And she didn’t mind
sacrificing the truth a little to
make a good tale, I can tell you.
“They’d have all heard about
that dreadful pub where she
worked and the fellows who
tried (so she says) to make up to
her, and how she laid one out
cold (that’s her words, not
mine) with a chamber, mind
you. And all about how she
trekked up here in the buggy
with Jim’s father just about
passing out with dysentery, but
she always called it diarrhoea,
and staying the night in a blacks’
camp. And then about all those
dreadful confinements she
reckoned she attended with all
sorts of details. And about
Jim’s father being a bullocky.
“And he wasn’t, at all. He
owned a couple of teams, but as
for being a common bullocky
I can tell you he wasn’t. She
might have made uneducated
people laugh, but I’ve always said
to Jim that anyone with even a
breath of refinement would be
disgusted by her tales. And you
can take it from me that Estella’s
friends are refined. I can just
imagine what that wedding
would have been like. When I
found out she was going, I
couldn’t go to sleep at night for
worrying what people would say.
“And I didn’t get any comfort
from Jim, I can t?ll you, because
he could never see any harm in
his mother at all. But I can tell
you she made my life a misery,
and just before the wedding I got
that way I couldn’t help wishing
her arthritis would get real bad,
or she’d twist an ankle or some-
thing and have to go to hospital.
She wouldn’t have been unhappy
there, either. Let me tell you,
she’d have revelled in it, so I
didn’t feel wicked hoping that
she would land up therejust till
the wedding was out of the way,
nothing serious, of course. I
wouldn’t wish that on my worst
enemy.”
She dive'd a hand into the
voluminous pocket of her over-
all and drew out a ring of keys.
“Just come with me, and I’ll get
you the report of the wedding,”
she said.
Bemused, Nonie prepared to
follow her. She took a couple
of hasty steps and skidded a little
on the glassy floor.
Mrs. Bell turned around, her
face a ghastly white. “For
heaven’s sake,” she said sharply,
“I told you to be careful on that
floor, didn’t I?”
6 6T’M sorry,” Nonie murmured,
not knowing why she
should apologise, but perturbed
by the fear on the woman’s face.
“I’d have thought a young
person like you would be able to
keep her feet. After all, it’s not
that slippery,” Mrs. Bell
muttered, as though to reassure
herself. “But there you are!
You _can warn a person a
thousand times. I was always
at Mother. Telling her she’d fall
and break a limb, but I never
thought she’d fall and kill her-
self.” She was obviously very
distressed.
“Jim went on at me dreadfully
when it happened. I couldn t
believe it was him. Anyone
would have thought that she
wasn’t used to the floors being
polished. And it wasn’t as
though there were any mats to
slip on. I had to take them up
years ago so she wouldn’t slidA
on them. Estella didn’t like the
look of the place, I can tell you,
when she came home the first
time. She said it looked as
though we were too poor to buy
any.
“But there you are; your
house isn’t your own when
you’ve got an outsider to con-
sider all the time. Of course she’s
gone now, but I’m used to the
place without them, but I’m not
giving up the polishing for any-
one. As I said to Jim, if a floor
isn’t polished you’re washing it
every, day. A man can’t under-
stand these things. Or he won’t.
One or the other.”
She turned into the hall.
“Now, be careful!”
Nonie followed her to the
front of the house, and paused
behind her at a side-door while
she selected a key and unlocked
the door. “I always keep the
rooms locked,” she said in a
matter-of-fact voice. “I always
say it’s all very well for people
to set-up a hue-and-cry when
their house has been burgled. If
they took the proper precau-
tions there wouldn’t be enough
pickings for burglars and they’d
die out.” She turned to Nonie.
“Wait here, and I’ll get the
report. I don’t want the room
getting all disturbed.”
Mesmerised, Nonie stared into
the lounge-room. It held a
brown leather lounge-suite, a
fawn carpet-square, on the pre-
cise centre of which stood a
highly-polished occasional-table.
A cabinet with curtained doors
and a palm - stand sprouting
sprays of artificial flowers which
looked like outsize hollyhocks
were crammed into a corner.
As though able to follow
Nonie’s gaze, although she was
standing with her back to the
door, the woman said “Now,
those flowers are the only sort
to have in a house. They’re nice
for years and they don’t make
work. I have no time for these
women who are always fiddling
with flowers and then haven’t
{Continued on page 34)


A Poem for Anzac Day by W. M. B . Laycock
OTHER WORLDS
The palm-trees and the river and the black
Mountains beyond, star-crested, and the harsh
Dry whisper of the trade-wind in the tall
Bamboos, and the wild scent of betelnut
Blossoms spicing the air, while far away
The Sulu Sea moans on the reef and I
Sit back, and smoke my pipe, and mark it all
As but a scene out of a play presented
So often it would seem that I am grown
Too critical and note with too sharp dispraise
Small faults in stagecraft— stars too gaudy-bright
Even for the Tropics; scent of betelnut
Blossoms too strong and headyj and the sea’s moaning
Less like the surge of combers on a reef
Than the deep throb and thunder of far guns;
The merest make-believe, and not one tenth
As true and real as idle, foolish things
That happened half a world away and more
Lost years ago than I would care to reckon.
• • • •
Still glimmer down the years untarnished by
The dust of time those blue Australian mornings
When in the sun-spiced, frost-crisped mountain air
Two boys astride their sleek bush-ponies stood
High in their stirrups that they might outlaugh
The kookaburras in the tall belars.
And I recall the day
We ran the dingo down
Hard by where box-trees grey
Arched deep the road to town,
While over Crawney mountain
The red dawn came,
A surging, soaring fountain
Of tawny flame.
Under the sighing sheoaks by the river
How good it was, at dinner-camp, to laze
An idle hour away, and mark the sun-
And shadow-stippled water, and the way
The swallows skimmed the sunlight-lacquered shallows
While the black quart-pot boiled, and to the fruity
Lush scent of native clover and wild thyme
Was added, as an evocation of
Australia’s very heart, the necromantic,
Wild, pagan, acrid tang of burning gumleaves.
How fair now, looking back.
It seems, that day afar.
When on the bridle track
That led to Yulgilbar
We found the wild bush honey
That never cloys
When eaten on a sunny
Hillside by two small boys.
On moony nights the possums used to churr
And scold each other tetchily among
The branches of an ancient bluegum-tree
Arching, as if in benison, above
The homestead’s broad veranda—mostly, too,
On such a night you’d hear the drumbeat thunder
Of horses, in the distance, galloping.
Quite mad with pride, and moonlight, and the mettle
Of their Australian pastures; sometimes, too,
From mountains laved in moonlight, far away,
You’d hear a dingo keening to the moon
A timeless and immitigable sorrow.
Mocked by the nearby airy trills and twitters
Of willy-wagtails in a brigalow
Whose leaves while soft the west wind turned them
oyer
Became a glimmering haze of fallen stars.
The grey doves used to croon a
Rebuke from tall belars
As we rode home from Moona
Beneath the dying stars.
And saw, at last, a far light,
A glim beneath the dome
Of sky-bedappled starlight
The lights of home.
And so, by devious and destined ways,
By lush, fat seasons when the clover burr
And crowfoot burgeoned stirrup-highAby other
Seasons of drought, or fire, or flood, one came
At last to Flanders fields, therefrom to glean
Of comradeship, and beauty, and of mud.
And blood, and laughter splashed with tears, such
golden
Harvest of memories as may not ever
Be pillaged by the myrmidons of time.
Nor winnowed in one lifetime’s little span.
How bright a brazier in France would glow
On autumn eves, and in its cherry-red
Gay glim (while high the great shells moaned or
whimpered.
And British guns by Ypres bayed sullenly),
How strangely in accord with time and place,
How raffish and Elizabethan seemed
The bold, hard Anzac faces glimmering up
Hawk-wild, hawk-tameless in the brazier s gleam.
The sun, that morning after Villers-Bretonneux,
Was like a blood-gorged bubble in the sky,
But straight before us lay the white road winding
Into Peronne, and out beyond Peronne,
Beyond the smoke, and shell-holes, and barb-wire.
Somewhere, we dreamed, where lay, awaiting us,
Apres-la-Guerre-Land, and new worlds for old.
And, truth to tell, when at last the dogs of war
Were leashed and kennelled, France seemed as far
away
And long ago as Troy, and when spring came
Again to a certain wide Australian valley
Dimpled with little hills, and the wattle-trees
In bloom became a tremulous, misty glow
That laved the sun-bright air with faery gold—
Oh! if a lad and lass should pass that way
What else, then, could their fate be but to dream
That youth and love and spring would last forever?
Heigh-ho! the years! the years! these things are old;
But that’s the way a life goes till, at last,
That hour tolls when youth has come to seem
A lost, enchanted island in a lost
Enchanted sea—no matter! a man lives
More lives than one, and there are other worlds
More strange, more wide than this, enticing him
To Odysseys beyond the utmost range
Of any aeroplane . . .
And so, tonight,
As I sit here, and smoke my pipe, and seem
Thrall to the rich hour’s magic, the Sulu Sea
Roaring upon the reef all night grows more
And more to be the muffled, rolling thunder
Of gunfire with forever running through it
The broken, breathless laughter of men who fight
Short-handed, and stand and die, but ere they fall
Toss high their colt-proud heads and make death seem
Their lackey, not their lord; and, even in dying,
Flash to the the mettle of the pastures
That bred them . . . from the unbreached battlements
Of their great hearts break out upon the gale
Of death the imperial banners of their race
And so like warrior-kings from the old poems
Pass from our ken • • .
But there! I do them wrong
Somewhat —they were not kings, they were but men.
And they are dead, and I sit here and mourn
And envy them, and stare in vague surmise
Into the star-helmed dark, and wonder a little
Sadly if there abides in time and space,
By death precipitated, of their proud
And gallant dust some ultimate residue
That pays no toll to time, but leavens life
With comeliness and grace, and adds a braver
And richer pattern to the dreams of men.
First Voyage South, Last Voyage North
The Old Aorangi
By WILL LAWSON
r\ FTER spending a year in California
f~\ and British Columbia I sailed from
( I Vancouver in the new motorship
Aorangi in February, 1925. She
had come from London by way of the
West Indies, Panama Canal and Cali-
fornia to enter the All-Red mail-service
across the Pacific, and had a full comple-
ment of passengers—about 700 of us.
Some were making a world tour, and
would join a P. and O. liner at Sydney
for London.
The round-fare was very low—only
£l2o—and all seemed happy as we
cleared Vancouver and motored down
Puget Sound, every passing ship blowing
sirens to welcome the new ship into the
Pacific. She had been well tested in a
hurricane off the West Indies, and Cap-
tain Robert Crawford, her skipper, had
lived up to his reputation and name of
“Stonily Bob, 1 whom no storm could
daunt. And he still had much to do in
that capacity, for we had no sooner
passed Cape Flattery when we ran into
a terrific storm.
, . f . ,
It began with a wind which raised
short, steep seas into which the new ship
dived and pitched So she
was paid-off and rolled hke a tipsy man
It was a night of terror for the passengers
on the upper decks, where the suites and
de lu *f cabins were. Down m E-deck,
near the keel, it was much better. As the
vessel ran at full speed with four great
propellers thundering and roaring beneath
her transom, huge seas swept her upper
decks-even her bridge rail, 60 feet above
the water, was bent when one breaking
sea wrenched it badly. It was twisted
like a piece of string,
Lights went out through short-circuits,
furniture broke loose in the lounge, but
the Aorangi still ran at full speed all
night. Even down on E-deck we imagined
she went right round once or twice,
But as daylight broke, with the
engines still humming away at full speed,
people took heart. I know we did when
our steward—George Lawry, Australian
—came swaying along the alleyway, with
a tray of teacups and toast,
“What, are you still right side up?”
he asked. “You’d have laughed if you’d
heard the praying in the smoke-room
i ast n j g ht—dinkum prayers, too,” he
added. “They meant it.”
j g ot a s hock when I went topside and
saw the ship roll her main-deck under.
An A.B. to whom I expressed my amaze-
ment said:
“That’s nothing. During the night she
roded her promenade-deck under.”
Which was worse s still; but there was
a reason for this heavy ro Umg, as I dis-
covered j ater on>
strolling along the swaying deck, hang-
a good deal, I ran into Stormy
®. & ’
’ . , , ~
How many special correspondents
& ave on . board lhls trl P> do I™ 1
know? he asked.
„ j sajd (Inddentally j was
h ship ’ as representative of the New
Tourist Department and the
t 0 help make things right
f to ™ N< f w Zea-
Press
} - why do you ask?” I added,
& J , .. .
Sparks has been bringing me messag
aU mght to authorise their dispatofi. One
man said our steering-chains had carried
away-and we never had any chains !
She steers by hydraulic power,
“Did you let all the messages go?
“Every one. They can’t do any/harm,”
“I noticed she ran full speed all night,”
I said.
“Yes, we’ve got the mails—have to
keep up our contract speed, seventeen
knots. So I put her on her course, no
use heaving-to. Nothing to heave her
to, only wind. After all, she’s a good
ship— cost a million pounds and has over
1000 people on board. Also, she’s got
500 tons of steel-rails in her belly, for
Honolulu.”
So that was one reason why the ship
was safe —she could not turn over. But
those same steel-rails also made her roll,
as their weight acted as a pendulum, far
down below her waterline; but it was
safe rolling.
We had five knights on board that
voyage—four Australian and one British.
The Australians were Sir Samuel Hordern,
Sir John Vicars, Sir Benjamin Fuller and
Sir Hugh Denison. The fifth was Sir
Westby Brook Percival. All berthed on
A deck, where the motion was worst.
We reached Honolulu right on time,
where a great Hawaiian welcome was
given us and the ship. Hawaiian girls
with leis for hundreds of passengers to
Last week the old Aorangi left Sydney on
what is scheduled as her last northward
voyage. She is due back in the port that
has known her for well over a quarter of a
century some time in June; thereafter her
fate is apparently in the lap of the watery gods.
wear. And after she got rid of her
“bottom load” the Aorangi trimmed
like a yacht and reached Suva, the port
of Fiji, also right on time. There, the
ship’s purser called a meeting for me
in the saloon, and I explained to pas-
sengers what they would be able to see
of New Zealand for £lO between arrival
at Auckland and departure from Welling-
ton for Sydney five days later. Many
took the tour.
There had been complaints about the
stewards’ poor service in the ship (it
arose from discontent regarding plans
for repatriating crew members who
wished to return to Britain from Sydney),
and one of the knights on board had
threatened to expose the matter as soon
as he reached port, which he never did;
but I did. In all innocence, too,
As soon as I landed I went to the
Auckland “Herald” office to see press-
men with whom I had worked many
years earlier. The night editor. Jack
Hardcastle, asked what the trouble was
in the Aorangi; he had had radio-
messages from passengers. So I ex-
plained the whole affair, and he published
what I said, without saying where he got
the news.
Naturally, the men thought the knight
had carried out his threat, and went on
strike, or at any rate, refused to serve
dinner that evening. However, the police
took a hand, in the way they do in New
Zealand —or did then —and when two
huge policemen walked up the gangway,
just before dinner, the stewards ran into
the saloon and began taking orders. The
strike was over.
The voyage from Auckland to Welling-
ton was a delight—calm seas and sunny
days with the lovely New Zealand coast-
land and mountains in clear, bright
colors. And here we had a chance to
see the automatic steersman at work
Iron Mike, it was called. It was uncanny,
as we watched, to see nobody touch the
wheel, yet it turned and the steam steer-
ing-gear hissed and clattered, while the
ship’s head swung to round a cape or
swerved from a shoal. The course had
been “set” somehow beforehand and the
automatic gear did the rest. The officer
on watch told me that Iron Mike was
steering all through the great storm off
Flattery.
The Aorangi’s engines were diesel-
driven. They sent four great propellers
roaring under her stern, each on its
separate shaft. In the engine-room it
was hard to believe the diesel engines
were driving those four great propellers
which were roaring their thunderous song
in our ears when we went along the wide
tunnel, right to the ship’s stern-post. It
was as though great sea monsters were
quarrelling outside. And we were told
that this was the first passenger motor-
liner in the world. There have been many
since then.
I left the ship at Wellington, but went
to see her go, looking so new and smart
and efficient, with cheering people on
wharf and ship. And she made a fast
run to Sydney. There some of the
Canadians and Americans who had been
so severe in their condemnation during
the great storm went and saw her in dry-
dock, and admired her lovely, shapely
hull and wonderful lines. They had never
seen such perfect lines they said.


From Australia - to 51 Countries !
8.0.A.C.
gdf
Takes Good Care of You
Across the World
Fly on one ticket all the way on
world-wide 8.0.A.C. services.
Fly at fine weather heights in
fully-pressurized airliners.
Enjoy traditionally good
8.0.A.C. service. 34 year*
flying experience.
Ws
-lT
\
X
s
%
m
%
&
sA
A
V
\
8.0.A.C. leads with the
Co met. World's first Jetliner
now operating to 17 countries.
Consult your Travel Agent
for free advice.
Book from Australia to
Indonesia • Malaya . Hong
Kong • Japan • Ceylon
India • Pakistan • Middle
East • Africa • Europe
Great Britain • U.S.A.
Canada . Central and
South America • Bermuda
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas Empire
Airways Ltd., ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia ).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
——————— A3B/A U
Episode ZOI
by Elizabeth
parsons
‘ i \ OU know that wonderful
\ I story about Barry-
y more,” said the young
C actor.
“No?”
The man in the red corduroy
jacket undid a packet of sand-
wiches and threw the greasy bag
across the recording-studio. It
fell just short of the empty box
that said Smokers Please, and
which was surrounded by
cigarette-butts, matches, torn
scripts—relics of the day’s work.
“They call this liverwurst,” he
said, peering disgustedly into the
meagre sandwiches. “I wish we
were through with this ghastly
serial.”
“It pays the rent, dear,” said
the actress. “Don’t abuse it. It’s
a lovely serial.” She’d opened a
bag of peas and was shelling
them into a jar. The shucks she
built in a mound on a piece of
brown paper at her feet. “What
about Barrymore?” she asked.
“Well,” said the young actor,
“when he was playing
Hamlet . . . oh, you must have
heard it, I can’t think that you
haven’t heard it!”
“Get on with it, dear,” said
the actress.
He shot her an anguished
look.
“Well, it seems that one
day ...” He stepped back and
flung his arms wide in a magni-
ficent gesture. The others
watched him languidly.
The old actor stood apart, a
stiff figure, trim in his blue suit.
“Hamlet! Barrymore! ” he
thought. “What do these people
know of greatness? Velvet
coats, greasy cravats, eating
sandwiches, shelling paas!
Barrymore, Irving, Bernhardt
Tree—the words trip off thei
tongues. Stories of the cele
brated. Stories they’ve heard a
tenth-hand. Stories that go the
rounds. Nothing first-hand
Now there’s the difference
Why, with me ... ”
He made a move into the
group as the young actor bowec
the end of his story.
“Now I can tell you something
that actually happened,” he said
“I remember back in nineteen-
twelve ~ . ”
But he didn’t get any further
The felt-covered door of the
studio opened and they al
looked round as the producer
came in, distributing a bundle
of scripts.
T HAVING the rest of the
group, the young actor
moved over eagerly,
“Give those out for you,
Joe?”
“Thanks, Harold, I’m not
cripple ,” said the producer.
The man in the corduroy
jacket looked across, amused.
“Uh-huh, that’s how it is,” he
thought. “Good enough, too, for
young Willys. Always the
sycophant.”
The actress raised her eye-
brows and began marking her
script.
“Let’s get through this as fast
as we can,” said the producer.
“Last one for the day.”
“What a crazy mob,” he
thought. He was tired. He’d
had eight hours of coping with a
boss who was working-up a fine
ulcer living from one crisis to
the next. He’d had a batch of
scripts returned from the sponsor
—a headache-powder merchant
with an extreme sense of moral
obligation to his public and no
dramatic perception. He’d had
a writer crying on his shoulder
because he couldn’t keep up the
payments on his car, and it
worried him so that his ideas had
dried-up. He’d interviewed
a stream of actors —an age-
ing woman who told him
she was twenty - eight and
excelled in ingenue roles; a
society boy who had a sudden
urge to act and had grown a
beard to prove it; an eighteen-
year-old girl who thrust her
burgeoning body at him —a score
of them, using any pretext to
get into his office to be heard,
to be seen, to have their faces
remembered. It bad been a
heavy day. He was tired ; and
at home his wife would be wait-
ing, and he’d only been married
three months, this time.
“Let’s get a few directions
straight,” he said. “It’s the same
old thing—the Man-in-the-Cloak
doing the impossible in his usual
insane fashion. Keep it moving
along. Good rugged stuff. Bill.”
“Right,” said the actor in the
red corduroy jacket, known to
his listeners throughout the
country as Wystan Hughes,
solver of a hundred mysteries,
captor of a thousand hearts.
The Man-in-the-Cloak was, at
the moment, deciding he’d buy a
steamed chicken if he finished
this cut before the shops closed
—and be hanged to the expense.
The producer turned to the
actress.
“Now, Jane, this girl, Use
Christensen. Play her Scandi-
navian ...”
“European, dear,” said the
actress. “What’s all this Scandi-
navian nonsense? We’ll have
my good European accent.”
C|HE was a competent woman
who knew her job of drop-
ping into sentiment, heavy
emotion or comedy to delight the
housewives who would listen £o
her voice daily—the voice of th
glamorous Jane Hamilton.
“ , . . And don’t lay on the
sex too thickly,” he said.
“Remember the sponsor—don’
give your all.”
“Trust Mumma,” she said
thinking “Get on with it, do
man.”
Her husband worked in an
insurance office, a neat man in
pin-striped suit, who was jealous
of her profession. She was
banking on the fact that he’d go
out for a drink with the boys
after work, and she’d be home
from the studio in time to cook
his dinner.
The producer smiled at her.
Yes, he could trust Jane to turn
in a good performance. He
passed to the young man.
“Now, this young fellow
you’re playing, Harold.
Mother’s boy gone on the road
to ruin with drink and women.
Usual weak stuff.”
“Is that a crack, Joe?” said
the young actor.
“It’s in the script,” said the
producer wearily, knowing that
Harold had that week left his
doting family with full drama,
and would be meeting a woman
ten years his senior in the pub
over the road at the end of the
day’s work. Bad luck, he
thought, blit I’m too busy to
worry about their sensibilities —
or the absurd life they choose to
lead.
“Now, are you all with me?”
he said moving quickly through
the rest of the cast, the minor
characters.
Finally he came to the old
actor who’d stood stiffly marking
every word, every direction, with
meticulous care on his script.
“Now you, Gordon,” he said.
“I’m afraid it’s not a very big
part ...”
“That’s quite all right, my
boy,” said the old man. “One
takes the great with the small in
this business —and I’ve had my
share of the great. I’m proud to
say.”
“Yes, that’s good. Well, now,
as I was saying,” said the pro-
ducer. “There’s not much, but
it’s mighty important for all that.
In fact, this episode really hinges
on you.”
The actress looked up quickly.
“Quite, quite, my boy,” said
the old man. .
“Let me explain,” said the
producer. “You’re the janitor.
You hear a screech of brakes
and recognise Use Christensen
speeding away in her car. You
must come in dead on my signal
with your line to identify Ilse
or the whole point of the scene
is lost. Remember to look at
me for a signal and come in
dead on cue. Right?” \
“Perfectly,” said the old
actor. “Perfectly.”
“Good. Well, then, I think
we can fly this one. No need
to waste time rehearsing it. We
all know what’s required. We’ll
put it straight on record. I guess
everyone wants to get away.”
“I’ve always plenty of time
to do a job properly,” said the
old actor.
“Thanks, Gordon,” said the
producer.
He left the studio and reap-
peared a few seconds later in
the glassed-in control-room.
“Stand-by,” he said.
His voice came through the
monitoring-cabinet in the studio.
The engineer sat beside him at
the operating-panel.
HTHE man in the red-corduroy
-*■ jacket sauntered to the
microphone, flicking his
cigarette-butt across the room to
the sand-tray. The actress looked
at her watch.
The old actor stood apart,
angrily comparing this scene be-
fore him with what he chose to
remember of his work in the
theatre thirty years ago. “They
call this acting, he thought.
Voices —that’s all they are. They
can read, and there’s an end to
it. Could they hold an audience
with a look, a gesture?.....”
“Recording in five seconds,”
came the producer’s voice. His
hand dropped in signal and the
familiar theme music that had
already played two hundred
times heralded the two-hundred-
and-first episode of “The Man
in the Cloak.”
The hand dropped again.
What new adventures will befall
the Man-in-the-Cloak in to-
night’s thrilling episode, asked
the announcer. Surely Wystan
Hughes had earned a little rest?
But, no! Mr. Hughes could
soon be heard promising to
rescue the handsome heir to the
Garnett fortune from the toils of
Use Christensen, a designing
Scandinavian woman.
Jane Hamilton picked up her
script and faded into a scene
with the young actor. Fade to
Wystan Hughes swiftly formulat-
ing a plan. Fade to Man in
Cloak in gripping action.
The producer glanced at his
watch. All was going well.
With luck they’d be through in
eight minutes, and he’d be home
in half an hour. He sat back,
automatically giving hand-sig-
nals as they appeared in his
script.
Five minutes.
He’d got the cast lined up for
tomorrow’s recordings, notes
ready for a script conference in
the morning, placating letter off
to the sponsor. Everything
seemed to be set.
Three minutes.
Jane Hamilton’s voice dripped
with emotion as Use bade fare-
well in her shining limousine to
the handsome heir. Pause while
a recorded gear-change indicated
her driving off. Then a sudden
screech of brakes as she all but
ran down the old janitor.
Hand-signal for the identifica-
tion.
Use had said her last words,
the brakes had gone, the pro-
ducer had signalled—and the old
actor stood dumb, his eyes fixed
in horror on the seductress he
was to identify casually stuffing
a jar of green-peas into an old
string-bag.
The producer signalled again
wildly. Someone pushed the old
actor to the microphone. Too
late—he fumbled for the line on
the page ; but for him it was
not there.
6 6f\ 17- Wipe it.”
vy«JV« 'pkg producer
slammed his hand on the speak-
back and his voice came through
coldly. He and the engineer
spoke quickly together.
The young actor threw his
script in the air with a mighty
gesture.
“You’ll get your pages out of
order,” said the actress, who was
already picking up the script she
had laid on a chair at her final
word.
“God help us! ” declaimed the
young man. “Must we always
have crocks in the studio to keep
us back?”
“Temper!” said the actress.
“Now, is that nice ?”
“Crocks every time!” he
shouted. “Nothing but crocks!”
Suddenly the actor in the red
corduroy jacket strode across the
studio as the producer came in.
“I demand an apology,” he
(Continued on page 34)


Wlten Mott wont a fyowi tufa
jHofe® Atm the nwWuxd 16
v fm
(Lrusabcr
TRADE MARK
of Quality
For 44 years Crusader has been weav-
ing cloth that competes with the best
made anywhere in the World.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, her prize-winning Worsted
Cloths have easily become the standard
of Quality throughout our land.
You are cordially invited to inspect
the new 1952-53 range of Crusader
Suitings which are now available* Ask
your favourite tailor to show you his
attractive Crusader Pattern Book.
Every cloth is fully guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. Your tailor will
tell you Crusader Worsteds tailor well,
for they are the product of a Mill that
is proud of its Cloths.
So, when you want a good suit—a suit
you will want to wear because you
look your best in it, make sure your
material is Crusader —the Cloth that
has behind it 44 years of service and
satisfaction.
(This at) er doth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
CI-113
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
AIT EN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vi^-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. H. M. DOUGLASS
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Full words of the verse, part of
which is quoted on a notice at the
Eagle’s Nest Geyser, at Wairakex
(N.Z.), the last of the verse being,
“Like an eagle’s nest hangs on the
crest of the purple Appenines.”—ssB3.
To buy copy of Prospecting for
Gold by lon L. Idriess.—s4B4.
Words of recitation “The Green
Eye of the Little Yellow God.” —
5486.
Does Anybody Know?
When were corrugated-iron roofs
first introduced into Australia? —
5485.
Information Sought
Correct spelling of millennium —
with one “it" or two?
“Millennium” is correct, but the
word is often misspelled with one “n.”
Derivation is from the Latin mille (a
thousand) and annus (a year). The
words “millenary,” “millenarist” and
“millenarian” (meaning, variously, “of
or a believer in the millennium”)
have only one “n” —they are derived
from millenarius, which in turn comes
from milleni (a thousand each). A
similar difference in derivation ac-
counts for the similar difference in
spelling of “centenary” and “cen-
tennial.”
♦ * * •
Who wrote the long semi-historical
novel “Lorna Doone” ?
Richard Doddridge Blackmore
(1825-1900). Educated at Blundell’s
school, Tiverton —the hero of Lorna
Doone, John Ridd, was also educated
at Tiverton —and Exeter College, Ox-
ford, he was called to the bar in 1852.
A few years later, however, he suffered
a complete breakdown in health and
removed from London to Teddington,
where he combined a literary career
and the life of a market-gardener. He
published several volumes of verse
and a number of ijovels, of which
Lorna Doone (first pub. 1869) is the
best-known. Other novels include
Clara Vaughan, Cradock Nowell, The
Maid of Sker and Springhaven. The
last is a pleasant tale of adventure
and romance set in a small south-of-
England port in the days of the
Napoleonic wars, and presenting
George 111, Wellington and Napoleon.
Lorna Doone is an adventurous
romance of singular charm, vigor and
imagination. It is a classic of the
English west-country, and many pil-
grimages have been made to Doone
valley (which in fact differs materially
from the descriptions given in the
novel). A memorial window and
tablet were erected to Blackmore’s
memory in Exeter Cathedral in 1904.
What is the pallium in religious
dress ?
The pallium, or pall, is worn by the
Pope and archbishops about the neck
and over shoulders. It consists of a
narrow circular strip of cloth, about
2in. wide, with two pendants about
12in. long, one hanging over the
breast, the other at the back. These
strips are weighted with small pieces
of lead wrapped in black silk. The
pallium is made of white wool, taken
from lambs blessed by the Pope at
the feast of St. Agnes. The Pope
may wear it on all occasions, but the
times of its use by archbishops are
strictly regulated. It is granted only
by the Pope, and symbolises the
supreme pastoral power. The pallium
has been used since at least the fifth
century.
* * ♦ *
Difference between euphemism and
euphuism ? Meaning of both words ?
Euphemism is the avoidance of
unpleasant or indelicate words or
expressions by use of ones which are
less direct and which evoke a less
disagreeable image in the mind. Thus
the use of “to pass away” for “to
die.” Euphuism is an excessiyely
florid mode of speaking and writing,
particularly prevalent towards the end
of Elizabeth I’s reign. It was popu-
larised by the romance Eup hues,
written in 1578 by John Lyly.
Euphuism did not attempt to render
the simplicity of nature, but to be
artificial and affected in the search
for refinement.
* * * *
What is the “Alexiad v ?
A life of the Byzantine Emperor
Alexius Comnenus (reigned 1081-
1118), one of the most able of the
Byzantine rulers, whose military
prowess delayed for several centuries
the inevitable break-up of that
empire. The Alexiad was written by
his daughter, Anna Comnena, and her
husband, Nicephorus Bryennius, and
is one of the treasures of the Byzan-
tine collection. It is a history of the
First Crusade (1097-99) and a defence
of Alexius against the accusations of
his enemies. From this life of Alexius,
Scott drew material for his novel
Count Robert of Paris.
* * * *
(1) What were the results of the
Tests against the Yugoslav soccer
team which toured Australia in 1949?
(2) How many games in all did the
Yugoslavs play, and what were their
biggest wins?
(1) Ist Test, Yugoslavia won, 3-2;
2nd, Yugoslavia won, 3-0; 3rd, Yugo.
won, 6-3; 4th, Aust. won, 2-1; sth,
Yugo. won, 3-2. (2) Played 20 games,
won 18, lost one, drew one. They
kicked 110 goals to opponents’ 22.
Best wins were 10-0 v. Queensland,
14-1 and 12-1 v. WA.
* * * *
Brief account of the ancient battle
of Marathon, and in what way is the
name linked with the modern long-
distance race?
At Marathon, n.-e. of Athens, in
490 b.c., an army of 9000 Athenian
and 1000 Plataean heavy infantry de-
feated part of an invading Persian
host. (They then marched back to
Athens, and had to forestall a landing
by the main Persian body.) Phei-
dippides, an Athenian courier, had
been sent to Sparta for aid —the Spar-
tans, however, were too late for the
battle at Marathon. Pheidippides had
covered the distance to Sparta (well
over 100 miles by the circuitous route
he had to follow) in two days, by
foot all the way. He then returned
the same way and fought at Mara-
than and, when victory was won, ran
back to Athens (22 miles) with the
glad tidings. This is the run which
is the inspiration of the modern
marathon-race. Legend has it that,
after gasping out “Rejoice, we con-
quer!” he fell dead on the outskirts
of the N city. The distance of the
marathon, as run now, is 26 miles
385yds.
Brief Answers
S.F.: Arthur W. Upfield’s Wings
Above the Diamantina was reviewed
in The Bulletin of October 14, 1936.
His The Mystery of Swordfish Reef
was reviewed on July 5, 1939
E.A.Q.: You will require to register
the name by filing a notice in a
proper form which may be obtained
by writing to Registrar-General’s
Dept., Brisbane J.C.N.: Write
Inigo Jones, Crohamhurst Observa-
tory, Beerwah, Queensland D.W.:
James Oliver Curwood was an
American novelist, born Owosso,
Michigan, 1878, died 1927, author
especially of stories of adventure in
the American north-west, as The
Courage of Captain Plum, Kazan,
The Grizzly King, Nomads of the
North, A Gentleman of Courage and
The Black Hunter F.J.R.: Henry
Lawson’s “The Song of a Prison”
appeared in The Bulletin of De-
cember 23, 1909... .G.H.W.: The
mere fact that a ballot-paper bears a
number does not necessarily make the
ballot other than secret, since there
would have to be kept also a record
of the persons to whom each num-
bered ballot-paper was issued. If
any sign of this were detected~and
it should be possible to check whether
anyone was keeping such a record —
an immediate protest to the returning-
officer should be made. The object
of the numbering is probably to keep
a check upon the number of ballot-
papers issued at any booth so that
it may be compared with the number
of voters marked off the roll there
as having voted. If you feel strongly
on the matter, you should write either
to the local returning-officer or to the
Chief Electoral Officer in Brisbane.
S.D.: Write Secretary, Occupa-
tional Therapy Training Centre, 539
Elizabeth-street, Sydney F.M.G.:
“Ratsak,” manufactured by the
George C. \Varner Laboratories,
Pound-road, Hornsby, N. S. Wales.
....R.A.: Vic. Department of Agri-
culture has no knowledge of any
carbide method for killing trees
M.M.0’8.: Write Paint and Varnish
Section, Defence Research Labora-
tories, Maribyrnong, Vic W.A.C.;
Take a piece of broken brick which
has one flat face, and with the flat
part rub the bricks clean of all
mortar, etc. Then wash them with a
solution of muriatic acid (spirits of
salt), seven parts water to one part
acid. Apply with a mop to each
brick separately, and keep it off the
joints, as it is destructive to mortar;
it is dangerous also to the hands, and
gloves should be worn. Finally wipe
the bricks clean with clear water
J.McM.: There are many formulas
for that glue, one of the simplest
being 100 parts cabinetmakers’ glue,
100 parts gelatine, 25 parts alcohol,
2 parts alum, 800 parts acetic acid,
20 per cent. Soak the gelatine and
glue with the acetic acid and heat
on a water bath until fluid; then
add the alum and alcohol E.J.8.:
Records for staying under water, taken
from Miller’s Sporting Annual, arc:
M. Poliquan, Paris, in 1912, 6mm.
2945ec.; Prof. Enoch, America, in
1896, 4min. 46|sec.; Prof. Beaumont,
Melbourne, in 1892, 4min. 35±sec.
F.McL.: Thomas William Heney
was born 1862 in Sydney, and died
in 1928, He published several books
of verse, and for a considerable time
was the editor of the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald”... .M.S.: Uncle Piper of
Piper’s Hill (1889) was written by
“Tasma” (Mrs. J. C. Couvreur). It
was her first novel, and is considered
by many critics as her best M.M.:
C. J. Brennan: An Essay in Values
by Randolph Hughes, published by
P, R. Stephensen, Sydney, 1934
T.T.: Richard Hengist Horne
(“Orion”) was born on January 1,
1803 N.W.: Bernard O’Dowd’s
nom-de-plumes when he was writing
verse for The Bulletin 50 years ago
were “Danton,” “D. Fenton,"
“Imray,” “Lucian” and “Aloheringa.”
~. .8.M.R.: See Morris Miller’s Aus-
tralian Literature (1941), vol. 2, page
753 ; Goldberg’s Havelock Ellis (1920),
pages 48-52; H. Peterson’s Havelock
Ellis (1928), pages 79-80; Havelock
Ellis’s My Life (1940), pages 93-139;
and Nettie Palmer’s Fourteen Years
(1940), page 184.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
8.5.: Tiddliwinks.... K.H.: Hold-
ing back the explanation, you turn a
stirring story into a gasp of insincere
wonder... .L.G.H.t Not ours....
G. : Well, we’ve had a somewhat
similar line in whales, and the other
one hardly makes the grade....
D.F.M.: Sorry, on behalf of what
you call our “humorous readers”
R. : “Off the Chain” is on the nose.
P.H.: Too simple for even us.
D.K.: Only a paragraph
H. Maybe your typewriter wasn’t
feeling in the m00d... .E.P.: Too
much about too 1itt1e....A.D.: Too
far away K.McA.: A string of
incidents doesn’t make a story....
T.L.: No way to treat a lady....
S. : Stilted W.R.: Terribly ex-
citing E.L.H.: Nope... .P.J.D.:
“The Gun” was a blunderbus....
M.F.K.: Sorry A.C.: Anyway,
Dad loved her....W.8.: Well told,
but the point’s too thin R.F.:
Good sketch, but in a story you never
let anything happen by accident
J. Nightmare in plain day....
B. : Bright idea, but you don’t quite
bring it off... .A.D.P.: Those over-
worked old times! N.C.: Pleasant
sketch J.A.: Not ours. ...H.8.:
Much too much about far too little.
.... R.C.: Ditto L.R.D.: He
wasn’t much, but his wife loved him
—what’s unusual about that?....
K. A detective who’s only got to
go into the wash-house to find the
iron bar with the blood and hairs
on it is being grossly underworked.
....A.N.A.: Artificial tough boys.
T.R.: You don’t treat it right.
L.H.E.: The situation’s there,
but you don’t get the people right.
J.A.: “The Teacher and the
Yank” is too long and, as you tell
it, too unlikely... .P.N.; You add
no new ingredient to an old bromide.
W.O’R.: It merely goes on and
on and on and gets nowhere....
R.F.D.: We hope that the girl who
took the wrong turning gets home
safely.. . .C.J.: A literary feather-
weight R.P.W.: We seem to have
met that mother-in-law before—
C. You seem merely to have
written the story in order to show
that you can compose a funeral
oration... .M.O’D.: A flood, a bush-
fire and a bank-robbery is more than
one short story can carry W.P.:
Thanks for the congratulations, sorry
that we cannot return them so far as
your story is concerned W. 8.: It
is about time that Robert was pen-
sioned off R.W.C.: Just another
wife-tied-to-the-kitchen-sink yarn....
M.G.: We were unable to make out
what it was all about L.S.F.: No
one in real life makes speeches like
that D.L.G.: So Daddy bought
little Sylvia a doll’s house, got drunk
and raffled it in a pub. It made our
heart bleed C.T.: It got away to
a flying start, but just crawled along
after the first couple of pages....
D. At no time do any of the
characters ever come to life... .R.G.:
“A Wash Out” was aptly titled....
H.M.H.: Not dipping into the till
for that effort F.M.: Nancy
should win the heart of the editor of
a flapper’s paper C.P.: Whenever
a writer tells us that he just dashed
something off, we know that it will
be no dashed good.


Australian Historical Sketches
Round the World with
Captain Hunter
By M. H. ELLIS
IN September/ 1788, Captain
Arthur Phillip, Governor
and Captain-General of the
nine-months-old Botany Bay
settlement, found his stores run-
ning so short that he felt bound
to send a ship to the Cape of
Good Hope to replenish sup-
plies.
No sooner said than done, for
to British seamen of the
eighteenth century the world
was their harbor. The oceans
held no more terrors for them
than city traffic has in the
twentieth centufy for the hardy
suburbanite of Sydney or Mel-
bourne,
The Sirius was detailed for
the job. Her captain, John
Hunter, a hard-bitten Lowland
Scot from Leith, was seasoned t
such enterprises; for he had 30
years of toughening experienc
behind him—had been in th
Rochefort expedition in 1757
had seen the capture of Quebec
had served as a master unde
Hood and Howe, in the Dogge
Bank battle of 1781 and at the
relief of Gibraltar the year fol
lowing.
He had come out a post-cap
tain, second-captain of the
Sirius, under Phillip as com
modore, the first naval officer to
be appointed under such con
ditions. To him as to route and
method Phillip deeded a free
hand.
The Sirius was not the norma
ship for such a service. She
was a frigate, a sixth-rate, “ful
round built” and capacious, al
of 540 tons, mounting 20 guns
with a sjpar deck over them ; bui:
her sheathing had had no atten-
tion, since it was put on eighi:
years before; her caulking had
been little attended to, and then
only by amateurs while she lay
at Port Jackson, for her car-
penters were needed on other
tasks ashore. She had been
through the gruelling pioneer
voyage from England as flag-
ship of the First Fleet.
She had, therefore, been
several months at sea and
several months in harbor;
scarcely the vehicle which a man
careful of his life might choose
to carry him round the world
even on known and peopled
routes, much less through
uncharted and tempestuous
southern seas.
It was no wonder that, having
lightened the ship and provided
more storage-room by removing
eight guns, 24 rounds per gun
and 20 half-barrels of powder,
to make room and lighten the
ship, Captain Hunter was re-
luctant to leave behind the
ship’s longboat; but such was
the order, and the oak-hardened
old seaman obeyed.
On Wednesday, October 1,
1788, they unmoored the ship
and, with her complement of
160 men, said farewell to Aus-
tralia. The Governor and his
staff came on board to dinner,
and they worked down harbor
to be ready to take advantage of
the land breeze next morning,
when, on the south-westerly,
they sailed out of Port Jackson,
which their captain had been
the first man to chart.
The adventure they were em-
barking on was certainly no
light one. In days of sail the
seasons, not the man, made the
choice of routes. The voyage
did not involve merely travers-
ing charted seas to the Cape of
Good Hope and then turning
round and coming back at will.
Time was the essence of the
contract, and the only way fb
make the journey expeditously
was to follow the winds and
round the world in the Antarc-
tic ; down south of New Zea-
land into the Icy Fifties, remain-
ing there until long after they
had weathered Cape Horn and
emerged into the warmer lati-
tudes, after passing into the
Atlantic and by New Georgia to
make the north-east run to the
Cape; then back to Australia
through the Roaring Forties,
passing between the lonely
island of St. Paul and Kergue-
len and far south of the Leeu-
win to the southern tip of Van
Diemen’s Land and up the
east coast for home.
This route the vessel actually
took, her mean latitude during
the whole voyage being in the
region of 45 degrees south.
Sometimes she was nearer the
South Pole than the 56th
degree.
The ship’s company, from
having been so long on salt
ration without vegetables of any
sort, was in poor shape. The
ship had provisions for only four
months, though with some
articles for only a fortnight,
since she had been compelled to
leave behind as much as pos-
sible for the succor of the
already almost starving settle-
ment. This in itself was a rea-
son why as quick a passage as
possible be made and the
risk of long delay in beating
against the westerlies of the
Indian Ocean on the outward
voyage avoided.
From the first day out the
attempt seemed a gamble, for
the wind veered to the south
and thick, dirty weather came
up with a heavy haze. Their
sailing was affected because the
ship, they found, was Raking
especially when on the larboarc
tack, on which it was necessary
to pump her every two hours,
during which time she made
foot of water. The leak was
under the forechannel, caused
by the corrosion of a butt-bolt,
rotted by corrosion of the cop-
per, which had not been removed
since the ship had first been
sheathed.
The wind shifted round. The
squalls came faster. And pre-
sently they came into the
Forties, having run down about
180 miles out parallel to the
Australian coast. They were
nearly level with the bottom of
Van Diemen’s Land when
Hunter veered off to steer for
the South Coast Cape of New
Zealand. It had become cold,
and slops were served as extra
clothing to the crew. On Octo-
ber 12 they passed the South
Cape, giving it a wide berth by
100 miles, but still met by a
cloud of birds—albatrosses,
divers, petrels and a variety of
gulls, some strange, some not,
together with large patches of
seaweed which advertised their
nearness to land.
They had settled down by this
time. The men were receiving
essence of malt against scurvy.
They snuggled themselves
against the advancing Antarctic
chill. And each day brought a
fresh loneliness upon them, with
no life visible external to the
ship save the diver-birds, “of
the penguin kind,” unable to
fly but travelling, it seemed,
thousands of miles from shore,
unless there were islands of
which they knew nothing. The
birds’ eerie cheeping was heard
sometimes in the night, and they
popped out of the ocean by day,
the sole signs that surface-life
existed in these latitudes.
November came in colder.
They were now in 55 18'
south and halfway to the
Horn. There was nothing
on their charts between the
South Pole and Tahiti. By
the middle of the month they
were in strong gales and dark,
hazy weather, with frequent
gusty showers of hail and snow
coming up on the south wind ;
though, strangely enough, it was
the north wind which was the
icier blast. On deck now the
temperature was round 35 de-
grees’ mitigated to 42 degrees
in the cabin by occasional fires.
The variation of their com-
pass increased fast. Their perils
multiplied as they fell in with
many a high peak of ice and
went looking for the phantom
Diego Ramirez Island laid down
on all charts. On November 26
they saw the first loom of land
since they had left Port Jack-
son two months before, a ghostly
unreality cloaked by sullen
black squalls. Strings of wild-
ducks flew past the ship, and in
the evening, when the horizon
cleared, they “set the extremes
of Terra del Fuego from north-
by-west and to west-north-west,
distant about 10 leagues.” They
had proved to their own satis-
faction that the island of Diego
Ramirez, if existent, was not
where it was said by the map to
be.
There was the usual struggle
with prevailing winds, set con-
stantly in the north-east, to get
round the Horn, though but very
few English ships /had made it
until that day; a tedious busi-
ness, more irritating because of
the appearance of scurvy, for
which they had no antidote save
the inadequate and rapidly-
dwindling essence - of - malt.
Hunter was not surprised, with
a crew which during 13 or 14
months had “not tasted a bit of
fresh provision of any kind, nor
had they touched a single blade
of vegetable.”
All that could be hoped for
now was a swift passage to the
Cape. The voyage had become
a real race against death. But
they lost time beating to the
north-east, anxious to get out
of the dank and muggy freeze
into latitudes so that they could
feel again the benefit of the life-
giving sun. Where they were it
was like rotting in a refrigerator.
Gradually they made pro-
gress, a few minutes of space
each day, through eerie seas in
which the whales came up
spouting in droves a cable-
length from the ship, sometimes
so near that it would have been
possible to harpoon them from
the bows. On December 1:
they had their first death, tha
of a consumptive seaman, Henry
Fitzgerald, who finally suc-
cumbed to scurvy and was sent
to his rest in the cold waters by
the largest iceberg they hac
seen, one three miles in length
and 350 ft. high.
More gales, more showers of
sleet and hail and snow, more
changing winds. Now a com-
bination of icebergs and stern
breezes which sent them forward
at 180 to 250 miles a day for
several days together through a
“lane pr street of ice islands”
2400 miles long. They sighed
with relief when, in latitude 44,
they saw their last berg, having
Ijeen 28 days amid the dangers
of the ice-strewn sea among
little bergs merely the size of
the ship but “in general the size
of a country church,” big ones
“two or three miles round” and
“proportionately high.” There
was sober justice in the hardy
captain’s remark:
Were it not that at this season of
the year we had in such high lati-
tudes very short nights, and scarcely
an hour that could be called dark,
it would certainly be attended with
considerable danger to run in the
night; the. ice islands were in such
vast numbers; indeed, we seldom
sailed more than three or four miles,
without having several upon each
beam.
They were of infinite variety,
these islands; some half-black
from having drifted off a mud
bottom on some adjacent land,
others having large and distinct
portions thoroughly ringed with
“beautiful sea green, or bright
verdigrease [j/c] color.”
At last the Sirius was out of
the grip of the Cape winds. The
erratic variation of the compass
ceased and favorable westerlies
came behind them in what had
become a desperate race with
scurvy. Their men were falling
fast. In the meridian of Green-
wich, they experienced two
Christmas Days, but not filled
with good cheer. They would
have preferred a supply of
vegetable acids to plum-duff, but
both were lacking. On
December 30 a seaman died, next
day another.
Then at daylight on New
Year’s Day, 1789, they saw the
land. Bearing south-by-east, nine
or 10 leagues off, the square-cut
edge of Table Mountain slicing
across the sky. That afternoon
they lay off Robin Island. They
were nearly finished:
The weakly condition of that part
of the ship's company who were able
to do duty upon deck, and the very
dejected state of those who were con-
fined to the beds, determined me,
if possible, to bring the ship to an
anchor before night; as the very idea
of being in port sometimes has an
exceeding good effect upon the
spirits of people who are reduced
low by scurvy, which was the case
with a great many of our ship’s
company, and indeed a considerable
number were in the last stage of it.
had but 12 men to each
watch left upon their legs, and onlv
half .those fit to go aloft. Even when
they came to haven and anchored
inside the reef at sundown it was
impossible to persuade some of the
invalids that they were safe. Thev
believed it a tale to buoy their
spirits.
Capetown, of course, pre-
sented the usual anxieties for
voyaging British seamen in
1789. Were they still good
friends with the Dutch? Was
their old Scottish-Netherland
friend, Colonel Gordon, still in
command of the Cape troops?
All proved well. The first-
lieutenant on Robin Island wore
an orange cockade and was
affable. The English and Dutch
were “very good friends again,”
it seemed. The French “had no
connection at all with Holland.”
A huge basket of fruit was
hastily sent on board for the
poor scorbutics. They sailed up
to Table Bay on a fine breeze.
Here was abundance, civilisa-
tion such as none of them had
seen since they had left Eng-
land in May, 1787, in the mean-
time having helped to found a
new country and more than
circled the globe.
Here, too, was news of the
world. Here their chance to send
letters to Old England in a
vessel sailing in a day or two
for The Hague. Here wers
orange cockades everywhere in
hats and orange ribbons at
breast or button-hole or sleeve
to mark the resurgence of the
House of William and Mary and
the consequent Anglo-Nether-
land accord.
Their 40 invalids were quickly
placed ashore. And all were
treated with the deference due
to those who had performed a
great feat of seamanship in hav-
ing achieved a speedy voyage of
91 days through the loneliest
part of the navigable seas with
the loss of only three men. They
had beaten Lieutenant Short-
land, who had sailed seven
months earlier by way of
Batavia, and who did not turn
up till February 18, the day
before they themselves were due
to up-anchor.
They sailed from Table Bay
on February 20 (having pre-
sented the Dutch colony with its
first dingo, a lonely first-voyager
of its kind through the Antarc-
tic) with provisions
for the ship’s company, six-
months’ flour for the settlement
of Botany Bay and every cabin,
cranny, nook and alleyway
bulging with private consign-
ments.
They had first, however,
heeled the ship and stopped the
leak which they had to keep in
check throughout their voyage
by regular daily use of the
pumps. They found that a bolt
had dropped out, leaving them
with a hole in the bottom a full
inch in diameter, and that there
were many smaller leaks through
the decay of long spike-nails.’
For three weeks at the outset
they wrestled in the Roaring
Forties with squalls, and finally
had to lay the ship in the trough
of the sea under a balanced
mizzen. Their boats and booms
were in peril, and this sort of
experience was repeated again
off Van Diemen’s Land in
astonishingly high seas, with-
out sight of sun or star to tell
therh their position, and some-
times drifting to leeward peri-
lously near the island. But, as
usual in all crises, luck came
to their aid, and one afternoon
the sun and the land came out
of the haze and they saw the
breakers piling up with pro-
digious force against the Tas-
manian coast.
They were even then in hourly
danger of wreck upon the rocky
ledges round that tempestuous
shore, not always quite able to
control their courses.
On May 8 they were safely
home in the calm waters of Port
Jackson, after 219 days’ absence,
of which they had lain 51 in
Table Bay. Although they had
“fairly gone round the world,
we had only been 168 days in
describing that circle.” They
had been the first to encircle
the globe from Port Jackson..
In Botany Bay time had
wrought its changes. When Cap-
tain Hunter went ashore he
found the Governor at tea with
a few friends, and, sitting at the
table among therp, was Ara-
banoo, that gentle aborigine, a
“native man of this country, who
was decently clothed and
seemed to be as much at his ease
at the tea-table as any person
there, managing his cup and
saucer very well, as though he
had long been accustomed to
such entertainment.”
The sight of him seemed to
astonish and excite the good
captain far more than had the
icebergs and the whales.
MAGPIE
The magpie s mood is never surly;
Every morning, waking early,
He gargles music in his throat.
The liquid squabble of his note,
Its silver stridencies of sound.
The bright confusions and the round
Bell-cadences, are pealed
Over the frosty half-ploughed field.
Then swooping down self-confidently
From the fence-post or the tree,
He swaggers in pied feather coat
And slips the fat worms down his throat.
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.


CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC HUNS
quickly eased with
ttxsi lift!
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past fire years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
■ DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have beat administered throughout
the world.
. DOLCIN Is easy to take hi tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from yoor chemist.
¥ *
MA**** 1
SClAff^
gORf OS
o*oo
lU*
*<£
■o* IP
:
100 TABLETS FOR 12/5
DOLGlltf
Informative literature on Doldn
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
D 4.2
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
Though City Tattersall’s Club
(Sydney), as a club, had a most
profitable race-meeting at Rand-
wick last Saturday—there was
a remarkable crowd of 43,000
at the fixture—its bookmaking
members and those of “big”
Tattersall’s Club found results
not exactly to their liking. This
is not the usual result at fix-
tures conducted by sporting
clubs, which generally see two
or three comparative outsiders
win during the afternoon.
On Saturday six of the seven
Randwick winners started at
odds varying from 8 to 1 to
5 to 4, three of them being at
less than 3 to 1. Even Playtime,
winner of the Novice, was
backed from long odds down
to 15s. Playtime is raced by a'
Sydney hotel-keeper E. L. Isaacs
and is trained at Rosebery by
Harry Spence, a veteran mentor
of the old “pony” days. Isaacs
bred Playtime, a four-year-old
mare by School Tie (imp.) from
Ocean Swell by Sea Tonic (imp.)
from Dame Manfred by Man-
fred. Carbine blood figures in
the dam’s bloodlines.
It was rather fitting that the
owner of Gallant Archer,
winner of City Tattersall’s
Handicap, should have lifted the
handsome trophy attached to
the £lOOO stake; he was builder
of the Club’s Pitt-sttreet, Sydney,
premises. Racing under the
name of “A, C. Western,” he
has enjoyed a great run with
Gallant Archer, successful at his
last three starts, on each occa-
sion ridden by Darby Munro,
who leaves Sydney today for an
overseas tour which will take
in America, England and the
Continent.
Gallant Archer is now to con-
test the Q.T.C. St. Leger and
the Brisbane Cup, with Bill
Cook in the saddle. He will
meet AJ.C. St. Leger winner
Sea Sovereign in the classic, and
a keen tussle is certain. Sea
Sovereign, with 61b. weight
advantage, followed him home
at Raqdwick on Saturday, with
New Zealander Grand Boy
third.
It often pays not to run a two-
year-old at the early-season
meetings, especially a filly. This
plan was followed with Rand-
wick Nursery winner Hospitality,
who didn’t begin racing until
about six weeks ago. At her
start prior to last Saturday she
had displayed abundant speed,
and was narrowly defeated by
Redeswood at Randwick on
Sydney Cup day. In opening her
account she again showed a lot
of speed, which isn’t surprising,
as she is bred on lines similar to
Forest Beau and is a half-sister
to Sir Gregory, a Randwick
winner and a speedy type.
• • • •
Hospitality cost 1150gns., and
is raced by R. E. Miller, for
whom she is trained by Stan
Lamond, who completed a
double when Whirl won the Club
Welter. Hospitality is by the
successful imported sire Del-
ville Wood from Courtesy
(sister to Artois, a good winner
at Randwick) by Agincourt
(imp.). She earned a stake of
£715, but her win lifted many
thousands of pounds from the
ringmen. Melbourne Cup and
Caulfield Cup winner The
Trump figures in the pedigree.
Imported six-year-old horse
Sweet William, a winner in Eng-
land, was in surprisingly strong
demand for the Club Welter at
City Tattersall’s meeting at
Randwick when one analyses
his prior form in Sydney. In
four of his five starts he had
figured at odds between 100 to 1
and 250 to 1, and at his run be-
fore last Saturday started at
12 to 1, after easing from 6’s
for the Randwick Woollahra
Handicap won by Plato. His
eighth in that mile was closest
he had reached in the five out-
ings, yet he was backed from
10’s to favoritism at 4’s. The
confidence, or whatever it is
that brings horses into sudden
favoritism, was badly misplaced,
as Sweet William raced without
much dash and finished fourth.
Maybe he is just striking form,
and next start will prove whether
this is right or wrong. He had
plenty of weight, 9.10, on an
Bst. limit, but probably jockey
Neville Sellwood and trainer
Maurice McCarten expected
him to do a lot better.
As a result of his easy win in
the Doomben Flying, Brisbane
galloper Hallmaster, a Hall
Mark four-year-old gelding, is
firmer in the market for the
£lO,OOO Stradbroke Handicap to
be mn at Ascot, Brisbane, on
May 2. Hallmaster carried 7.5
and drops lib. in the big race.
Among those beaten in the
Doomben Flying were Strad-
broke candidates Merry Scout,
Highlea and Fox Gold. Last-
named is from Sydney, and sur-
prised by finishing third. He is
improving quickly following a
spell, and might soon rejoin the
winning list. Suncup, winner of
City Tattersall’s Denman
Stakes with 7.9, is similarly
weighted for the Stradbroke,
and is to contest that race, but
the seven furlongs might test
him.
• • • •
Crack Sydney lightweight
Noel McGrowdie went to Bris-
bane last Saturday and found
the afternoon financially bene-
ficial. He had experienced a
lean period in Sydney , lately.
McGrowdie won the opening
event at Doomben on Chestnut
King (10 to 9) and the Novice
Mile on Pre-Eminent, also
favorite at 7 to 2. Bill Briscoe,
who recently decided to return
to Brisbane from Sydney—he
was a crack Queensland horse-
man before taking up residence
in Sydney—was also among the
winning riders at Doomben.
Briscoe landed the Juvenile
Handicap on Wonder Blue.
The Queensland St. Leger is
run at the longest distance of
any similar classic in Australia
(If mile and 132yds.), which
accounts for the fastest time
being 3mins. 6isecs held
by Piastoon (1926). Piastoon
also won the Brisbane Cup that
year, and the following year
landed the Sydney Cup. Q.T.C.’s
“No, missus, I‘M not 'im. He's on show inside th' tent.”
St. Leger dates back to 1881.
Prior to 1892 it was run at If
miles, the usual distance for
this classic. Spear Chief (1938),
Seremite (1923), Rosard (1913)
and Goard (1912) were among
others to win the St. Leger-
Brisbane Cup double, a task to
be attempted by Sydney colts
Sea Sovereign and Gallant
Archer. Sea Sovereign already
has w,f.a., 8.3, following his St.
Leger success at Randwick, but
Gallant Archer at the moment
is on 7.11. If he wins the classic
he advances to &3 in the Cup.
Young Adelaide lightweight
jockey D. Coleman rode his
seventh winner in a month when
on Saturday he landed Magic
Mountain winner of the Caul-
field Katandra Two-year-old at
3 to 1, second favorite. Magic
Mountain beat Olympic Girl and
5 to 4 favorite Vychan, who
found 9.3 too severe over the
seven furlongs. Vychan had
won at his three prior outings,
a model of consistency. Magic
Mountain is trained by Des
Judd at Caulfield. Judd brought
Coleman from Adelaide to ride
for the stable, and he is making
an excellent fist of the job. Magic
Mountain had finished second
at his prior start and is a smart
High Peak (imp.) colt from
Golden Gossamer by Dhoti
(imp.) from Money Spider by
Paper Money (imp.). Money
Spider is dam of Ananzi, who
has won races in Sydney and
may not be long returning to
the list.
Successful punting on a big
scale rarely has a long reign.
Over the past 35 years or
so writer has seen crashes
of punters who were on
top of the world while their
selections kept doing the right
thing for them. Most didn’t
survive, and far from making a
fortune from the turf they re-
turned to work on ordinary
wages or at best saved a little
from the wreck. From betting
in thousands, or, at any rate, in
many hundreds of pounds a time,
some of these mammoth takers
of the odds are now betting in
single pounds, if at all. It was
refreshing to note over Rand-
wick Easter racing that a
dashing punter of file past
12 months had decided to
call it a day and retire from big
betting. He’s holding on to win-
nings, or most of them, and will
be missed by bookmakers. So
far as he’s concerned he’s made
the right decision, and will have
plenty of time for happy
memories—if he can stick to his
guns.
• • • •
Bred by Dr. John Gearin, of
Rose Bay, and sold on behalf of
him and his wife as a yearling
for 370gns., Reveniam (FernhiU
Handicap winner) is regarded
as a classic possibility in the
coming season, and on his breed-
ing he could stay the Derby dist-
ance. When sold at the autumn
sales last year Reveniam was
knocked down to the bid of his
trainer. Jack Morgan, who was
acting for the three joint owners.
Dr. J. Abbott and Mr. and Mrs.
J. Greentree. Reveniam is a
smart colt by MacArthur from
Johneen, a half-sister to Gang
Awa by John James (imp.) from
Farzand by Lord Paramount
(imp.) from Chamundi by
Constant Son (imp.), and comes
from the family which produced
two fine stayers, Akuna (Sydney
Cup) and Polycletan (AJ.C.
Metropolitan), Reared at the
Segenboe stud. Scone (N.S.W.),
he has staying bloodlines. He is
in the same stable as Headstock-
man. Prince o’ Scots, Lucky
Stride and other recent winners.
Reveniam’s half-sister by Nilo
(imp.), passed in at 900gns. at
Randwick’s Easter sales, has
been leased.
Majority of the Randwick
yearlings sold at the Easter sales
have settled down in their new
quarters. Others are on the way
to distant areas, even as far as
Japan, Malaya and Ceylon.
Sydney agents for owners in
those centres were particularly
active through the four days of
the sales, during which 631
yearlings were sold for
£341,590gn5., an average of
more than 540gns. per lot. This
year’s figures showed an all-
round sharp rise on 1952 sales.
♦ * *
Victorian Football League
opened the season with fast and
furious games, the players full
of enthusiasm, but needing the
rough edges knocked off, and
attendances pointing to another
big gate-money season.
Match of the day turned out
to be Richmond-Melbourne.
The Tigers, dragging at the start
of the last quarter, speeded up
and got there by 11.7 to 9.13.
Geelong (1952 premiers) wal-
loped Hawthorn 12.15-5.8, and
with goal-kicker Coleman on the
job, Essendon got 17.9 to Fitz-
roy’s 12.16. ' Footscray upset
Carlton by 9.11 to 7.18, North
Melbourne beat St. Kilda 14.21
to 8.9, and Collingwood downed
South Melbourne 17.16 to 11,11.
* * *
Country Rugby Union players
had their chance to catch the
selectors’ eyes (for the South
Africa trip) in Sydney on Satur-
day and Monday in “zone”
games. Next Saturday a coun-
try team will play Newcastle.
So far Eric Tweedale, who went
to England with the Wallabies
and is now at Forbes, and the
Laurie brothers, graziers from
Walcha, stand out. But in such
games anything can happen.
The selectors, in any case,
would be giving most serious
consideration to the club games.
Eastwood beat Randwick 6-3.
Randwick was over-confident
and, for a time, was without a
fullback. McHugh forgot his
togs. Nick Shehadie was the
outstanding man on the field.
University beat Manly 29-13.
Manly’s weakness was their half,
and University half Fisher, a
protege of the “running half”
Barney Walsh, was able to ex-
ploit the loophole, and five-
eight Jack Blomley enlarged it.
Fisher would not run so far
against sterner opposition, but
Blomley looks as though he is
coming back to form. A player
with some laziness in his foot-
ball makeup, he has the ability
to rise to the occasion.
In other games St. George
and Northern Suburbs finished
up 22 all, Gordon beat Parra-
matta 20-3 and Easts beat
Drummoyne 24-3.
* * *
Agitated water on the Swan
River in Perth (W.A.) and the
Barwon at Geelong (Vic.) held
the eyes of rowing fans at the
weekend. On the Swan, Peter
Evatt won the Australian sculling
championship—a thrill for his
father, Dr. Evatt, who reached
Perth on the Senate campaign the
next day—and Victoria won the
King’s Cup for champion eights.
On the Barwon Geelong
Grammar won the Melbourne
Head-of-the-River from Wesley,
with Geelong College third.
The distance is three chains short
of a mile and the winners cut it
out in 4.43.


An Unforgettable Experience
My First Whale
By OLAF RUHEN
MY first whale was a great
blue cow, placidly taking
a little brief sunshine in
Porpoise Bay, a stretch
of exposed water immediately
adjacent to the most southerly
portion- of the -South Island of
New Zealand. She was an
enormous beast, lying quiescent
in an area of dancing blue water
with one fin upraised; and I
knew she was a cow, because
she was suckling her calf.
I call her “my first whale”
because of the personal nature
of the relationship we estab-
lished, though I had, of course,
encountered other whales before
her.
Whales, indeed, have always
impressed me, even when, as in
my earliest years, they were
represented only by a flurry on
the distant horizon, where some
cruising cetacean fought or
frolicked with its attendant
killers, shovelling the ocean up
towards the sky with its great
flukes and generally behaving
like a small boy let loose. And,
like most other people, I have
seen them lifting their hundred-
odd tons clear of the water in
joyful leaping, or cruising
sociably alongside an ocean
liner.
+ +
I came to a closer acquaint-
ance of whales under my first
skipper, a great-hearted trawler-
man named George Tulloch,
who I am certain is, as of this
moment, a not unobtrusive
occupant of the Valhalla sec-
tion of Heaven. While he was
alive I was forever expecting
him to hoist the Jolly Roger on
his wallowing, rolling mon-
strosity of an undersized steam-
trawler. He was certainly closer,
spiritually, to an eighteenth-
century pirate than to a pre-
Christian Viking; but wherever
he is he is bound to be out of
his period.
It was small wonder that
those placid but stubborn indi-
vidualists, the whales, sought
George’s company. For a period
of four months, whenever we
sailed from Port Chalmers and
cleared Cape Saunders to head
south, we were met by a large,
snub-nosed whale of indeter-
minate variety but bearing an
individualistic, irregular, sulphur-
colored patch high on its port
beam. This friendly fellow
used to travel with us all the
way down the coast to the fish-
ing-grounds, flick a demonstra-
tive tail as we shot the trawl
and disappear. He was never
seen in the company of any
other boat, and we appreciated
the compliment.
On another occasion we
passed a school of blackfish —
little blunt-headed whales per-
haps 20ft. long, travelling -in
threes like an army, in a column
half a mile long. The leader,
out in front, spotted George
(for George was indissolubly
identified with his craft) and,
presumably with ecstatic cries of
joy, whipped round and rubbed
his back under the keel. For
quarter of an hour the little
ship protested as the following
files dived down to exploit the
back-scratching qualities of the
trawler, bumping and rubbing
with ardor and appreciation,
and then went on their way.
Once, too, we passed a school
of cowfish —smaller cetaceans
allied to the porpoises, but 15ft.
long, salty in color and having
a falcate dorsal-fin in place of
the more usual rounded one.
They were cow-cowfish, each
accompanied by a baby perhaps
a couple of feet long. And each
cow was teaching her calf those
delightful acrobatics with which
cowfish, porpoises and the black
animals mistakenly called gram-
puses herald a change in the
wind.
One mother leapt high, per-
formed a somersault-and-a-
half and landed solidly on her
side ; and immediately her baby
followed suit. Another simply
sunfished perhaps she had
given birth to an awkward
child. Another was doing
simple back-flips, and still
another performed an evolution
which I have since identified as
a “roll off the top.”
There were eight cows in all,
and eight calves, and each pair
was performing an entirely
different evolution, over and
over again, and all in unison.
It was noticeable that the babies
were fully as graceful as their
mothers, and also that they were
not breathing so hard. Even
more noticeable that there was
no sign of father.
But perhaps the closest I came
to making the acquaintance of
a whale—this, of course, before
my first whale —was on an occa-
sion when I had been fishing
for some months with Sucky
Smith, Sucky was not his real
name, but people called him
Sucky to distinguish him from
his brothers, who were called
Dummy and, with a change of
simile perhaps, ’Couta.
Sucky was a solid little
warrior, and reasonably imper-
turbable. He wore, habitually
at sea, a triple oilskin shirt
which pulled over his head with
no buttons to catch in nets and
lines, a sou’-wester and another
garment more like a school-
girl’s gym. tunic than anything
else. It was also of oilskin, and
stretched from just below his
shoulders past his knees, where
it yielded place to Sucky’s
thigh-boots. It was a very use-
ful garment, but Sucky always
wriggled out of it before he
came in sight of the fish-wharf
at nights, and hid it under a
pile of gear where people would
not see it.
It was early in the morning,
perhaps 5.30, and we were 30
miles out at sea with our first
20 lines fishing. I was inside
the engine-room attending to
chores there, and the figure of
Sucky, sitting in his ridiculous
outfit at the tiller, completely
filled my view of the great out-
doors.
Suddenly I saw Sucky leap
to his feet with a stricken ex-
pression, so old-fashioned as to
approach the childlike, on his
weather-beaten face. He was so
startled that he forgot about the
tiller absolutely.
+ +
He dropped the sandwich he
had been eating for lunch (we
always lunched before the sun
rose) and didn’t even bother to
try to rescue it from the sea-
water which washed about his
feet in the cockpit.
By all that I knew something
absolutely unforeseen had hap-
pened, so I put down the oilcan
and came out.
I was too late. The disturb-
ance had been a whale, and it
was still in view, but by now it
was perhaps 50 yards from the
boat. It looked enormous. I
twitted Sucky with being
frightened of a whale, and he
said very indignantly that the
beast had not frightened him.
It had sneaked up on him and
breathed out, and the noise of
the escaping gases, rather like
the vented steam from a railway-
engine (but kept from me, of
course, by the clatter of the
engine) had stood a good
chance, he thought, of ruining
his hearing.
While we talked, the whale
passed the buoy of one of our
dan-lines. It was a sgal. paint-
drum, which was connected by
70 fathoms of line to a 141 b-
. on the bottom, 65
fathoms down ; and we hoped
to pull about 3001 b. of fish on
it. It was stayed tight back by
a three-knot tide acting on all
that depth of line; but as the
whale passed close alongside
cutting out a steady 10 knots,
the buoy came to life, and spun
round in a slow circle perhaps
a chain in diameter, complet-
ing the circuit twice before com-
ing to rest again. The tre-
mendous surge of the whale’s
wake thus visually evidenced
sobered me, and from that
moment my respect for the
whale was born.
A month or two later a
fisherman I’ll call Spider was
leaving the harbor at one
o’clock in the morning when his
40ft craft ran hi § h and dl T in
an area supposed to be occu-
pied by deep water. At the
time Spider was at the tiller and
his mate was * n tke en §tne-
room in approximately the same N
position I had occupied in rela-
fion to Sucky, and in a similar
boat
The mate, believing they were
half a mile off course, yelled
some pleasantry to Spider about
wrecking the something-or-
otber i aunc h and received no
, , . .
Md° an* extensive
, A .
vocabulary and was quick to
ta ke offence. The boat was so
far out of the water that it had
rolled on its side, and the screw
was racing in dry air.
However, before things could
be righted, quite suddenly the
boat was launched again, spin-
n ing along at seven knots as
though nothing had happened.
The answer was that they had
run hard aground on the back
of a sleeping whale. Spider
was speechless for several
minutes. He had a long session
in the pub that afternoon, and
for several nights thereafter his
sleep was interrupted by the
returning vision of a set of great
flukes blotting out half the stars
in the sky.
These incidents have been
brought back to me by a series
of recent readings about whal-
ing, all purporting to present
modern whalers as perhaps the
last of the muscle-bound adven-
turers of the masculine world;
men who can shoot 2000 tons
of meat before dinner. This is
to me a wrong and impossibly
romantic view of mechanised
mariners who cruise up to un-
offending whales in 16-knot ves-
sels, shoot them with explosive
harpoons and radio the position
of the corpse to a tug. Svend
Foyn, who invented the proto-
type method, can be venerated
as a businessman, but as an
adventurer, never.
However, one of these writers
came up with an illustration
which lends some color to these
recollections of mine. A whale’s
tongue, he says, is the weight
and roughly the size of a whole
elephant!
It is even more impressive to
think of the blue-whale as the
possessor of a two-ton tongue
than, simply, as the greatest
creature that has ever inhabited
the earth.
And it makes you think of the
cold courage displayed by those
men who, not so long ago, used
to pull out to sea in small boats,
hook themselves to a whale
with a harpoon and a length of
manila and ride out the struggle
for a day or two, and now and
again pulling in under the
menace of that enormous tail to
tickle up the beast with a
stabbing-lance.
Those were the days, as
George Tullock and others used
to tell me, of wooden ships and
iron men; displaced forever by
the iron ships and blockheads of
the late 19th century. ,
In George’s store, amongst a
conglomeration of varied rub-
bish, Japanese glass-floats and
mechanical coffers, anchors and
shackles and ancient wicker-
baskets, was the head of a har-
poon, looped to take a light
mamla line. The flange of the
3in. barb was hinged and held
close to the lance by a wooden
match, which was intended to
bre a k after the point had pene-
trated tbe whale’s thin black
hide. The haft was open so
that the wooden shaft might’ fall
away immediately out of any
chance of interference with the
bne
with only this weapon, bare-
handed men f OU ght the greatest
creature on earth, and some-
times, as in the case of the killer
or the cachalot or others of the
toothed whales, it was a crea-
ture capable of great savagery,
An amateur blacksmith could
ba ve made one of these weapons
m an hour.
But to get back to the ani-
mal I call my first whale, I
was not surprised to find it
there in Porpoise Bay, because,
for some reason, although it
was open to almost every wind
that blew, Porpoise Bay was a
noted haunt of every warm-
blooded animal that swims the
Southern Oceans.
In those days, just under 20
years ago, it was no uncommon
thing to be invited to a game of
tig by a bunch of young and
trusting seals gambolling on the
beach where once 300 diggers
sifted the sands for gold; and
porpoises, grampus and whales
all waited there awhile on their
migrations. The bay was
shaped rather like a boat-
builder’s G-clamp; with a
ragged fringe of rocks, sharp
and ugly, in place of the screw.
At that end of the bay there
was no beach but a petrified
forest, to be found in the guide-
books under the name Curio
Bay; with stumps, fallen logs
and other curiosities faithfully
reproduced in hard, yellow
stone.
+ +
Much of it has since been
carried away by tourists, and
decorates dusty mantelpieces in
Invercargill and other towns of
the Southland. At the upper
end of the G, at just about the
position of the serif on the
letter, the Waikawa River
flowed into the sea. Its estuary
formed a harbor, once used by
commerce but now dilapidated
and delinquent. In the settle-
ment of Waikawa, a mile or
two up the river, I was trying
to establish myself as a fisher-
man.
I had a little 32ft. schooner,
a good sea-worthy craft which
I worked single-handed by
means of a number of jury-
rigged appliances which brought
the engine-controls to the tiller.
In this craft, which some for-
gotten owner had christened
Alice, I used to go drifting for
blue-cod, crayfishing in season,
setting dan-lines for groper all
about the southern ports and
even trawling from time to time.
In fact, my best successes were
with trawling, although, par-
ticularly in those days of low
prices (seven-and-six a hundred
pounds for lemon-soles), they
were nothing to write home
about.
I came out in the bay on this
morning, and inside the line of
reef, where the water continually
boiled, I saw the blue-whale.
There was something strange
about her, and I went closer to
investigate. As I came up I
saw that she was lying on her
beam-ends, as it were, with her
starboard fin deep in the water-
and her port fin in the air,
gesticulating from time to time.
When I was closer still I saw
she was feeding her calf.
I had never seen anything to
make me afraid of whales, ex-
cept for a rather shaken Spider
in the pub on that earlier occa-
sion, and I cruised up under
power to observe what I con-
sidered a rather rare phenome-
non of natural history.
I suppose I ght within 30
yards. It seemed much closer
at the time, and I estimated
with some coolness and clarity
that the whale was at least three
times the length of the schooner
and possessed a greater beam.
The calf was nuzzling under
the port flipper, and I was
approaching at slow speed from
the port quarter. At 30 yards,
as I say, the whale moved. With-
out disturbing the calf in the
least she turned and faced me,
very quietly and deliberately.
That was all.
I swung Alice round very
neatly, I thought, and applied
full throttle. Alice was capable
of eight knots, but it seemed to
me she was not delivering it. I
looked back at the whale, and
though she had not moved there
seemed a speculative look in her
eye, and there was no way of
telling what stage the baby had
reached in its feeding. I went
inside the engine-room and
found the spark was not fully
advanced. I adjusted it and
went outside. I had been right,
I found, and Alice was getting
along at least half a knot faster.
My first whale was well astern.
Sydney Domain, Sunday
Let nothing change.
The figtrees* velvet lane,
its leafy underpaintings gold on moss,
its tunnelled quarter-mile a daisy-chain
of Doric boles and Gothic roots criss-cross
of jigging sunlight on the asphalt path
thickset with this year’s figgy aftermath
—let nothing change.
Let nothing change.
Our city Hampdens stemmed
by the mute credence of the littered groups,
child-minding fathers, girls uneven-hemmed,
the family picnic where blue pigeon-troupes
frisk sideways like spring rain, the football train
quickening with lusty youth the wide domain
—let nothing change.
Let nothing change.
The girls with throbbing drums
and skirling pipes, cheeks rosy as their knees
(their drums’ soft victims) who, when Anzac comes,
will tune their bagpipes to our victories,
even the singlefiled Lascars, dark on green
seeking (for ’what she brings them) Sheba’s Queen,
—let nothing change.
n.s.w.
ETHEL ANDERSON.


established 186*
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
dSUWWA
lIJJVAN
muft
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS and offset printers
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPEUS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ALL-BRITISH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stswort fir Co. Ltd*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WAR RECEDING?
T\yice in a matter of months,
and preceding the current Rus-
sian “peace offensive,” Mr.
Churchill was reported as say-
ing he thought the danger of war
was receding.
In the view expressed by Lon-
don “Spectator,” and shared by
others, it is a mistake to say that
too often or too emphatically as
yet:
“The fact is that Russia is in-
scrutable and unpredictable. It
is easy to find arguments telling
against belief in imminent war,
but it is almost as easy to find
arguments telling in favor of it.
Russia may or may not be in-
creasing her own armed forces.
For that matter, she has little
need to. But she is trebling the
military strength of East Ger-
many,
“Add to this the steady pro-
gress in welding all the satellite
States into a single whole under
unchallenged and unquestioned
Russian domination and it will
be seen what incredible levity it
is to exchange blithe assurances
that Russia never means to
attack, and on the strength of
that to abandon all concern for
the (organisation of that defence
the absence of which forms a
clamant invitation to Russia to
take action.”
The Churchill statements, and
similar optimistic utterances by
Mr. Eden and others, coupled
with Malenkov’s protestations of
peaceful intent and other Rus-
sian “gestures,” would seem at
least contributory causes of a
general apathy in Europe re-
ported by “New York Times’s”
chief foreign correspondent,
C. L. Sulzberger.
Commenting on the ruthless
attacks by Soviet jets on British
and American planes over Ger-
many a month or so back, Sulz-
berger appraises them as being
at least “a useful reminder” of
the “overriding reality of our
time —that the Soviet menace
continues, regardless of which
individual leader rides the jugger-
naut.” Yet, in regard to Europe’s
defence, “the requisite urgency
seems to have gone”:
“An odd apathy appears to
have gripped Europe’s masses.
The earth is spinning into
another spring, but, instead of
recalling that this is the tradi-
tional season for bellicose activi-
ties, most people appear to be
regarding it in terms of the
approaching holidays.
“The fact is generally ignored
that forthcoming developments
within the U.S.S.R., where the
consolidation of the new
regime’s power has not yet been
effected, may conceivably pro-
duce serious global repercus-
sions.”
European Army
Some 300 experts, including
40 Germans, have been working
for about a year on the details
of the European Army, the first
practical step towards the
setting-up of which was the
ratification by Germany on
March 19 of the European
Defence Community Treaty.
Summarised from a general
survey by London “Daily Tele-
graph’s” Paris correspondent,
these would be some of the
E.D.C. Army’s features:
All members of the Army
would wear the same uniform,
probably khaki for the Army,
R.A.F. blue for its tactical Air
Force and dark blue for its
Naval Arm. Each soldier will
wear his national flag as a
shoulder-badge, as well as the
Army flash, most likely to be
green-and-white, the colors of
the Council of Europe at Stras-
bourg.
The troops, most of whom
will be conscripts, though
officers and men can also make
the Army a career if they wish,
will be incorporated in divisions
of their own nationality. These
divisions, about 13,000 strong in
peace-time and 15,000 in war,
will be integrated into Army
Corps, giving the whole its
European character, since no
Army Corps may have more
than two divisions of the same
nationality.
The headquarters staff and the
training of the troops, their
material and their organisation
will eventually all be on a Euro-
pean and not on a national basis.
Plans have been made for 43
divisions, of which France
would have 14, Germany 12,
Italy 11 and Benelux five.
In the tactical Air Force a
national unit is planned to be a
wing of 75 aircraft. The Naval
Arm will consist of light craft
for coastal defence, minesweep-
ing and coastal convoys.
The supreme authority over
this force will be the supra-
national Defence Board, prob-
ably of nine men, two of whom
will be French, two German,
two* Italian and one from each
of the Benelux countries. The
far-reaching powers of this
board show how different the
European Army will be from a
coalition.
The board is to comprise a
president, a vice-president and
commissioners for the armed
forces, finance, armaments and
general administration. One of
the first tasks of the board, after
the ratification of the treaty, will
be to place orders for equipment
and then to co-ordinate the
manufacture of armaments,
munitions and supplies of the
six nations. The board will have
a similar role to that of the High
Authority of the European Coal
and Steel Community.
It will also co-ordinate general
recruiting plans, which will be
carried out by the individual
nations. It will, after an agreed
transition stage, lay down uni-
form conditions of service, in-
cluding pay and a standard train-
ing system, for all six countries.
In any case, the length of service
will not be less than 18 months.
The experts have agreed on
the basis of a code df discipline.
Each nation will be respons-
ible for its own mobilisation
plans, but the board will be
responsible for the general prin-
ciples and timing. The national
units will most probably have
their own logistic services in the
transition stage.
High-ranking officers in the
Army will be appointed by the
board in agreement with the
individual Governments, who
will be responsible for their own
lower appointments. Among the
board’s other tasks are the equit-
able distribution of the cost of
armaments and forces among the
six nations.
The work of the Defence
Board in forming and adminis-
tering this international force
will be harmonised with the
views of the respective Govern-
ments by a Council of Ministers,
which will consist of the six
Defence Ministers. It is the
only high institution in the Euro-
pean Defence Community which
will retain a national character,
and it will be the connecting
link between the E.D.C. and the
national Governments, just as in
the Schuman Pool.
The Defence Board will be
responsible to a six-nation
assembly, and disputes will be
settled by a high court of justice.
J. Bull's Shipping Loss
In the last half-century the
share of the United* Kingdom
of the world’s shipping has
dwindled to less than a half of
what it was at the beginning.
Making this sobering state-
ment in the course of a detailed
survey of the decline, London
“Times’s” shipping correspon-
dent added that in 1905 the
United Kingdom owned just
over half the world’s shipping
and by the middle of 1951 this
had fallen to just over a fifth.
And there is no sign that the
fall has stopped.
Since 1905 the volume of
tonnage owned in the United
Kingdom has increased from
14,497,000 to 17,900,000, count-
ing only vessels of over 100 tons
gross.
Yet in the United States (ex-
cluding ships owned on the
shores of the Great Lakes, but
including the large reserves of
cargo ships comprising many of
the vessels built to meet the
emergency of the last war) the
mercantile marine has increased
from a mere 1,339,000 tons in
1905 to about 28 million tons;
shipping owned in other coun-
tries has risen from 12,907,000
tons to about 44 million tons.
and it increased by three million
tons in the past year.
"Disengagement"
Various U.S. moves Jhat have
taken place in the Far East, or
are cooking-up there, are ex-
plained in American Press com-
ment as part of the announced
Eisenhower “ disengagement ”
plan.
Washington correspondents of
New York “Herald Tribune” in-
terpret this plan as “bolder in
conception and more astute in
detail than anyone realises ex-
cept a few insiders.”
All disagree emphatically with
the Churchill idea that there
could be worse situations than
the deadlock in Korea —this
being accepted as a “policy” of
just letting things go on as they
are, indefinitely.
Leading foreign-affairs com-
mentators Joseph and Stewart
“SAVE OUR CHILD!”
—“De Volkskrant.” Amsterdam
Alsop have stated that the first
fruit of “disengagement” will be
to “revolutionise this hopeless
pattern”:
“The Chinese and the Soviets
are no longer to be rewarded for
their effort by the spectacle of
the flower of the American
ground forces peripherally
bogged-down in Korea.
“The main feature of the
scheme will be the gradual, but
eventually complete, withdrawal
of American divisions from the
fighting line. This is to be the
answer to the mounting political
pressure to bring the boys home,
now taking the form of a deluge
of White House mail demanding
that President Eisenhower ‘keep
his promise’ to end the Korean
war.
“The American divisions are
to be replaced, of course, with
South Korean divisions. In
some measure this process has
begun already. Complete re-
placement is the scheme’s real
novelty. In order to reduce the
substantial risk involved, 12 to
18 months will be allowed for
the replacement process. Even
after the American infantry have
been pulled out of the line
American heavy artillery and
other special components will
necessarily continue to support
the South Koreans. And
although certain American divi-
sions now in Korea may be re-
deployed to Japan or to the
U.S., a fighting reserve of
approximately three divisions
will be retained in Korean train-
ing areas in case of an enemy
offensive.
“Then, too, the South Koreans
will continue to receive full
American air and naval support
on the present scale. Further-
more, it will be clearly indicated
to the Soviets and the Chinese
Communists that no holds will
be barred —that all limitations
on American aid and naval
action will be brushed aside —in
the event of a major offensive-
effort by the enemy.”
In other words, Manchurian
bases and the Chinese mainland
would be bombed, and the war
could become general. Failing
such an enemy offensive, the
“disengagement” plan is ex-
pected to be at least better than
the present stalemate. Toronto
“Globe and Mail” has listed
anticipated advantages:
“It would stop American
casualties in Korea, to the great
benefit of American morale.
“It would end the strategic
advantage Russia gained by
forcing the Americans to keep a
large fraction of their fighting
strength pinned down in
Korea while Russian strength,
held in a central reserve,
remained quickly available for
service anywhere.
“It would enable the French
to bring their Indochina divi-
sions home to Europe; and so
it would forward the plan for a
West European defence union.
“And, finally, the Eisenhower
plan would relieve the Western
Powers of the odium which lying
Communist propaganda has been
able to fasten upon them in
Asia.
“Disengagement looks like a
policy that has much to recom-
mend it. Indeed, it may be the
only wise or feasible Far Eastern
policy open to the United States
and its allies.”
Giving a British view, Lon-
don “Economist” has stated
that “disengagement” “looks like
giving Japan a position of much
greater importance in relation to
Asia than West Germany is
likely to have in the near future
in Europe.
“If the United States continues
to maintain forces in Europe and
plans a strategy of concentration
there in the event of a general
war, there can be no question of
leaving Germany in charge of
European defence as the leading


Power on the continent. More-
over, a rearmed Britain and
France will be close at hand to
check any undue revival of Ger-
man power, and the division of
Germany into two separate
States makes a really strong Ger-
many hardly possible as long as
the two segments have not been
reunited.
“Japan, on the other hand,
remains a single State, and is
bound to become increasingly
solitary in the Far East in pro-
portion to the degree of Ameri-
can disengagement. If it rearms
substantially it will become by
far the strongest Asian State out-
side the Communist bloc, and if
the United States pursues a
policy of shifting responsibility
for Asian defence against Com-
munism on to Asian shoulders,
Japan will tend to acquire para-
mount influence over all the
smaller countries of the Far East
threatened by Communism.”
J. Bull Hands Over
Conservative member of the
House of Commons, C, J. M.
Alport, in London “World
Review” :
“I do not believe that the great
mass of the British people feel
any sense of resentment at the
fact that the United States has
assumed many of the burdens
which this country [Britain] bore
alone for so many decades.
“It is comforting to know that,
if we have lost some of the
glamor attached to world power,
we are also saved from some of
the anxieties and sacrifices which
it entails.
“I have no doubt that the
American nation in the years to
come will find equal consolation
in the knowledge that they are
not the only country to be
slandered, debunked and expro-
priated by peoples whose pros-
perity they made possible and
whose nationhood they built
up.
Both Sides in Korea
From a survey and assessment
of the present strength and posi-
tions of both sides in the Korea
war by London “Daily Tele-
graph’s” military correspondent,
Lt.-Gen. H. G. Martin:
Of die Eighth Army's 20
divisions, all of them up in the
battle zone, seven are American,
one is the British Commonwealth
Division and 12 are South
Korean. In all, the United
Nations and Republic of Korea
forces total nearly 550,000 men.
This figure includes 250,000
South Koreans and a large
United Nations “tail.” *
Against this the Communists
have no fewer than 1,050,000
men, almost all combat troops,
organised in 79 divisions. The
Chinese account for 51 infantry
and 10 support or artillery divi-
sions ; the rest are North Korean
divisions with not much fight
left in them.
Forward in the battle zone
there are seven Chinese corps,
each of three divisions, and on
the extreme eastern flank one
North Korean corps of two divi-
sions. All these total 350,000
.men, with ample artillery.
Along both coasts, to guard
against sea-borne landings, are
16 North Korean divisions,
amounting to 200,000 men.
Within three to seven days’
journey from the front there are
40 Chinese divisions, or 500,000
men, in reserve.
Through the never-ending
mountains along the 155-mile
front our forward-defended
localities and those of the enemy
are from 30 to 1000 yards apart.
Artillery and air strikes have
driven the Chinese to make a
fortress of every front-line hill-
top, and behind, to a depth of
10 miles or more, they have built
switch-lines and rear positions
hardly less elaborate.
The Eighth Army also is well
dug-in, though not so Well as the
enemy, and it has immense fire-
power. But it must keep all its
combat troops in, or very near,
the front all the time.
By systematically destroying
forward Communist airstrips as
soon as these are built, our air
forces have established complete
air-supremacy over all North
Korea except the contested area
in the extreme north-west known
as “MIG Alley.” Hence our air
forces are left free to pursue a
policy of interdiction as far
north as the Yalu, and so pre-
vent the Communists from build-
ing up overwhelming strength in
the battle zone.
Also, should the Communists
try another break-through they
must fight without air-support
and under incessant air attack.
So long, therefore —but only so
long—as we can count these two
blessings, we can rest assured
that the Communists will never
break through.
Suez Side
While some British papers
have condoned, and even
cheered, every step in J, Bull’s
retreat from Empire, one at least
of them —London “Time and
Tide”—has refused all through
to camouflage the retreat with
face-saving coverage.
Without (like London “Daily
Express”) calling for fire and
brimstone, “Time and Tide” has
bluntly shown-up every step as
a shrinkage of power, in much
the same terms as it now com-
ments oh the dickering over the
Suez.
It sees Egypt now becoming,
like Persia and the rest, part of
“the pattern of British retreat
and abandonment of responsi-
bility” by “processes every step
of which has now become dis-
mally familiar.”
It makes a curious statement
on the cancelling of Field-
Marshal Sir William Slim’s
appointment as military spokes-
man for Britain. Somebody, it
says, achieved masterpieces of
delay, with the result that the
Australian Government became
“markedly restive” over Sir
William’s being withheld from
his Governor-General’s job any
longer.
Then, it adds, an American
was included in the Cairo talks,
which amounted to handing
Neguib “a perfect pretext for
arrogance and insolence.” It
comments:
“It is tiresome cant to argue
that Neguib’s behavior has
brought about ‘complete agree-
ment between Britain and the
United States on a common
attitude to Egypt’—and as ten-
dentious as tiresome. To the
—London “Daily Herald"
“It isn’t the world situation that’s
getting Grandpa down — he’s
afraid the Aussies won’t bring
the Ashes with them.”
United States the Suez Canal
Zone is a base of some value in
global free-world strategy, a base
of whose value few United States
military thinkers have ever been
convinced—at its best expend-
able in a real emergency. To
Britain and the Commonwealth
it is vital; it is the one bridge-
head we still hold. That is the
simple fact which all the amiable
Foreign Office bromides cannot,
in _ the end, disguise. Are we
going to continue to hold it?
“Let us without equivocation
predict the course of events over
Egypt: tension will increase, the
diplomatic and socio-political
pressure will be augmented;
Egypt will discover new occa-
sions for ill-temper, her demands
will grow more numerous and
more insistent (and whether
General Neguib or another dic-
tator rules makes no difference
at all); the [British] Foreign
Office will grow more and more
expostulary, the Foreign Sec-
retary more and more reticent
and more and more irascible ;*
—London “News Chronicle”
“GENTLEMEN. THIS IS 1953, AND THINGS HAVE
CHANGED”
dishonor and humiliation will be
more sharply and fiercely our
position; and by appeasement
and retreat (which are inevitable)
we shall buy no rest and no
peace, but only more and more
dishonor.
“This is the stock pattern
of responsibility’s abandonment.
We experienced it in Burma,
India and Palestine. Let us at
least recognise it now for what
it is ; let us not, in the early
stages, join in the chorus of
futile praise for ‘courage’ and
‘statesmanship.’ ”
Neguib
Assessed by London “Daily
Mail” veteran correspondent
G, Ward Price, who likes him:
“In the critical negotiations
concerning the British base on
the Suez Canal Egypt’s trump
card will be the personality of
General Neguib.
“His good humor, modesty
and commonsense make up a
character that has much in
common with the British tem-
perament. This makes dealings
with him simpler and smoother
than with some of his more
violent colleagues, such as
Colonel Nasser and Salah Salem,
the dancing major,
“General Neguib, of course,
has enemies, although they are
lying low for the present. It is
impossible to get any mention
of them past the Egyptian
censor, but the truth of the inside
situation in Egypt is that
powerful influences are awaiting
the opportunity to revenge them-
selves on the Neguib regime.”
Yugoslavs-Greeks-
Turks
Though the Yugoslav-Greek-
Turkish Treaty has no military
clauses, London “Observer”
states that military understand-
ing between the three countries
is, in fact, far advanced.
“The solid alliance thus
achieved between three coun-
tries, each of which has, in its
own way, shown indomitable
spirit and courage as well as
physical toughness and fibre in
the crises of the last decade,
creates in south-east Europe a
real position of strength and a
deterrent to aggression which
Western Europe must view with
admiration and, indeed, with
envy.
“It is worth underlining that
the basis of the treaty is a
scrupulous respect for each coun-
try’s freedom to have the regime
it prefers. Yugoslavia remains
a Communist Republic, Greece
a Monarchist democracy,
Turkey a Republican democracy
....proof that classical diplo-
macy, which rejects interference
in internal affairs, can success-
fully overcome even the ideologi-
cal differences between Com-
munist and non-Communist
States.”
Apropos, in Edinburgh
“Scotsman” Chester Wilmot
notes that, although remaining
outside the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation, Yugoslavia
will now come under the broad
shield of this security system by
her military alliance with two
members of Nato. An unpro-
voked act of aggression against
would bring Greece
and Turkey to her aid and this
in turn would involve the other
Nato Powers. Similarly, if the
Greeks and Turks came into
conflict with Russia as a result
of their Nato commitments they
could call on the Yugoslavs to
help them in accordance with
the new pact’s provisions for
joint defence.
Export Families
Seeing the British-Australian
agreement on reciprocity of
social-service benefits as likely
to promote the migration of
families, with a barrier against
middle-aged people accompany-
ing their children removed,
London “Economist” has com-
mented ;
“While the balance outward
bound from Britain is so great,
the cost will fall mainly on Aus-
tralia ; but this seems equitable
since the cost of educating
migrants until they reach work-
ing age has always been borne
by Britain.
“Australia may now draw
more of the elderly also.
“Owing to differences in
method Australian social
services are non-contributory
and in some respects subject to
means tests —this agreements has
taken eight years to negotiate.
It may speed up equally drawn-
out negotiations with New
Zealand, which already has full
reciprocity with Australia.”
Unesco
A London “Daily Telegraph”
correspondent gives a couple of
examples of Unesco ventures
“perhaps too enlightened for the
retarded spirit of the age”:
“There was the grant for the
translation of ‘A Winter’s Tale’
into Arabic. There are many
people in Britain and even in the
good-natured United States who
take what is technically known
as a dim view of this project.
“They are also unenthusiastic
about the symposium held in
Calcutta to settle a vexed ques-
tion —‘Has Sri Amobindo re-
futed Mayavada?’ Their answer
to this question could be put in
a nutshell. They just don’t care.”
Dragnet Digest
A trifle Hollow. France,
severely summed-up by London
“Economist”: “M. Bidault’s
claim that France leads Europe
is hollow —more hollow than it
was when the single-mindedness
and honesty of M. Schuman
could be counted on.”
Typical Plan. —Comment in
“New York Times” on the Eden-
Butler visit to the U.S.: “Mr.
Butler has a plan for Common-
wealth trade which is so com-
plicated that Mr. Eden probably
understands 10 per cent, of it,
Mr. Butler about 40 per cent,
and their experts about 90 per
cent.”
German Refugees. Sugges-
tion by London “Economist”:
“It would be a dramatic and
profitable operation of psycho-
logical warfare to encourage
escapes from Eastern Europe
and Russia by admitting some
hundreds of thousands of Euro-
pean refugees and unemployed
each year into the United States,
Canada, Australia and South
America. Is there the will and
wish to do anything of this kind?
If not, then the accumulation of
landless, resentful, reckless
people in Western Germany will
lead to trouble as surely as the
accumulation of waste breeds
disease.”
U.S. Slump. —“ Even now the
boom is losing some of its zip.
Inflation is wearing out. It
appears that some time within
the next year there will be an
adjustment, with deflation taking
over in some degree,” London
“News Chronicle” financial
editor quotes this from “U.S.
News and World Report” as
“typical of a good deal which
is being thought and said in
America and beginning to be
thought and said in Britain.”
Cotton, Wool, etc. —Cotton
(notes London “Financial
Times”) still remains the princi-
pal fibre for the textile indus-
tries; “Speaking very roughly,
cotton accounts for about two-
thirds of total world consump-
tion, while wool and synthetic
fibres account for about one-
sixth each, synthetic fibres being
now slightly in the lead. Not
unnaturally, a good deal of atten-
tion is being devoted, especially
in the main wool-growing coun-
tries, to the problems which this
growth in man-made fibres pre-
sents to the producers of natural
fibres. Is the Australian wool-
grower —or the United States
woolgrower for that matter —to
foresee for himself the same fate
which has overtaken the silk
industry?”
Hong Kong Hit.—An London
“Observer,” Far East expert
O. M. Green notes: “How hard
Hong Kong was hit by the ban
on strategic materials imposed in
1951 —the first list of over 600
items has since been added to
considerably—is shown by the
drop in her exports to China
from £154 million in 1951 to
only £B3 million in 1952.” Cer-
tainly hard on Hong Kong; but
it surely indicates that the ban
was needed.
At Monte Bello. —Chester
Wilmot reports in London
“Observer”: “The ships at
Bikini are as contaminated today
as they were when atomic tests
were first made there in 1946.
So is the shore at Monte Bello.”
Austrian Deadlock. —Western
and Russian negotiators have
already abortively met 260 times
discussing an Austrian settle-
ment. The fact, says “New
York Times,” is that the
Russians don’t want peace
there: “As long as they occupy
Austria’s principal industrial
regions they can continue to
bleed that country of its princi-
pal economic assets in the hope
of making it ripe for Communist
conquest. Likewise, as long as
they have troops in Austria they
can claim the right to maintain
troops across all Eastern Europe
to ‘guard their communication-
lines,’ and in this process com-
plete their subjugation of the
East-European nations.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Education
All these modern visual “aids” to learn-
ing are nothing but “entertaining
accessories.” One of the most valuable
weapons with which the normal citizen
is equipped to face the exact, numerical
kind of world we live in today is his
knowledge of the multiplication table up
to 12-times-12. Its usefulness is con-
cealed by the very thoroughness with
which it is known —let any doubter reflect
on the number of times he uses it
through the week, in buying or selling,
counting his change, working out sport-
ing times and averages, taking the odds,
and a dozen other daily operations.
When I run across 8-times-9, I don’t
have to work it out; I know that the
answer is 72. It has become one of the
facts of life, like “30 days hath Sep-’
tember.” This extremely useful table
was imparted to me and to countless
others, at an early age, by having to
repeat it aloud, time after time, day after
day, in a rythmical chant, until each
phase became part of our vocabulary,
sunk deep and indelibly into the mind
and able to be evoked at will.
Such a method of teaching is probably
viewed by up-to-date education as
primitive, barbaric and even cruel. It
might be all of those, and it might have
permanently crippled my mind in some
dark way, but I do know that those
tables and other essential basic data, such
as grammar and spelling rules, pushed
into me in the same way, have never
been forgotten.
Bookshops today have piles of different
books on primary arithmetic, all seek-
ing to teach in the simplest, gentlest
terms possible. They are all beautifully
printed in large clear type, all lavishly
illustrated with heaps of oranges to be
added together, rows of houses to be
divided up and crates of eggs to be multi-
plied ; they all have dozens of examples
with blank space for answers, they are
til expensive, and all rather futile. Pretty
accessories, they teach nothing that can’t
be taught with less time, .expense and
misguided tenderness by chalk on a
blackboard.
At the school my boy attends it
appears there is a large board, sub-
divided into a lot of squares, each square
containing a little multiplication, such
as 9x4 =,Bx7 =, etc. The boys
stand off and each in turn throws darts
at the board. Whatever he hits he has
to work out and add up.
My boy explained it: “Well, y’ chuck
the dart an’ it hits seven-times-eight, an’
say its eighty-eight, well, y’ add that to
the on© y* already got an’ say it all
comes to seventy-free, well y’ gotta say
it see, ’fore Sir yells out. Anyway
Timmy chucked ’e’s darts outa the
winder”
At the age of 21, my boys will probably
be able to beat me at darts down at the
local, but if, after this method of teach-
ing, their mental arithmetic is as fast and
accurate as mine, developed by the less
athletic methods of the benighted past,
they can have my beer. — Millicent
(Vic.).
Melbourne’s Slums
Since the Cain Government came in
two new appointments have been made to
the Victorian Housing Commission —a
businessman with an engineering back-
ground has been replaced by a civil
engineer, and the sole architect on the
commission by the assistant-secretary of
the Carpenters’ Union. At the annual
meeting of the Royal Victorian
tute of Architects the president remarked
that in view of large-scale housing pro-
jects and slum-abolition, this was an
extraordinary omission.
It certainly is if the slum problem is
to be properly dealt with. After about
30 years of talking the Government has
made a start on the worst parts of Fitz-
roy, where hundreds of houses have been
marked for demolition. Some of the
families have been shifted, others are
staring hopelessly out of doorways. The
place is a wilderness of dilapidated tin
fences, narrow lanes and postage-stamp
backyards occupied with baths, shoddy
outside “conveniences” and empty
bottles, t
It looks at first sight like a clear case
for wiping the slate clean, but an archi-
tect might think differently about it.
Many of the houses are solidly con-
structed and, architecturally, look better
than the latest modern efforts of the com-
mission. If they were removed and
re-erected in another environment they
would be as much admired as Captain
Cook’s famous cottage.
Our rude forefathers didn’t have our
prejudices about light and air, and the
rooms are small with funny little passages
between them, but if a few walls were
knocked out, windows put in, passages
eliminated, proper mod. cons, installed,
backyards done away with and replaced
by communal gardens and the lanes
widened —well, then the area could be
converted into a charming garden suburb
at a cost in material, time and labor
“Why don't you buy Grannie a rocking-chair ?”
which would be nothing compared to
the cost of the wholesale removal that is
going on at present, —Bumpkin (Vic.).
Country Universities
Sir John Medley, former vice-
chancellor of Melbourne University, has
described suggestions for establishment
of country universities as impracticable.
His words recall those used at the time
of the struggle to form the New England
University College—it seems traditional
for central universities to oppose the for-
mation of new ones, or any extension of
their own activities. Sydney University
has rejected many requests for degrees
by correspondence, although both Mel-
bourne and Queensland Universities have
certain correspondence courses.
There is a need for the extension of
University education into country
districts. The overcrowding of city uni-
versities has been for some years a
problem that will not be overcome merely
by building larger lecture-halls. Admit-
tedly the enrolment peaks of the early
post-war years have passed, but enrol-
ments will never drop to the level of
pre-war years. It is easier to get to the
Uni, these days—easier financially and
academically. Commonwealth Scholar-
ships have brought it within the reach
of many families of moderate means, and
the change in matriculation requirements
has made matriculation itself easier.
“We better git the washin' done before the wind changes."
The dangers of overcrowding were
mentioned in B. 18/2/’53. When the
enrolment is too great the very thing the
Uni. is trying to preserve —the atmosphere
of scholarship—is destroyed. Sydney
Uni. is too crowded in every faculty,
and particularly in Arts and Medicine.
Lecturers are too detached from those
they are teaching They are all anxious
to meet the students individually and to
discuss their problems, but time is too
short and the numbers are too large.
The Uni.’s adherence to centralisation
is an anachronism in an age in which all
moves in education are the other way.
Teachers’ colleges have been established
in a number of country towns and the
Education Department is trying out an
area-commission scheme with its schools.
Sir John Medley listed a number of
objections to country universities, but
none of them appears insuperable. The
first is the cost. When one considers the
financial difficulties of Sydney University
that does appear a stumbling-block, yet
sufficient money was found to establish
the University College at Armidale. No
doubt it could be found again. The
argument that there would be lack of
facilities for research is hardly valid. Not
many students engage in much research
outside the Fisher Library, and by chang-
ing the staff occasionally they would be
given the chances for research in the
city.
It should not be as difficult to get
staff witn. the right qualifications as Sir
John suggests. There is never any trouble
in staffing the country teachers’ colleges
or the New England University College.
Provincial universities could be suc-
cessful, preferably as offshoots of
Sydney rather than new universities.
Then the high standard of Sydney Uni-
versity would be maintained. — Wack-
ford (N.S.W.).
Not Enough Waiting
It took me six minutes to read “Too
Much Waiting” (B. 8/4/’53). Thus,
computed on the modern technical-
baloney-unit of “man-hours,” every 10
persons who read the half-column
wasted among them a “man-hour.” For
every 240 readers a “man-day” drops
out of each week on account of those
who tarry to read such unimportant
statistical surveys as “Too Much Wait
ing ” • u-t
I see a pretty good case being built up
by road-accident statistics for not
enough waiting.” If we are going to
goad our successors to more and more
efficiency, to bigger, better and fuller
production of finer, truer and swifter
products we’re going to have an
lot of what C. J. Dennis called “gom
crook on Life and trampling on the
daisies at his feet.”
Many, like me, pity the youth of today.
Poor little devils, going to school in
trains and buses; each kid with a wrist-
watch geared to the “pip-pip-ing” radio
time-signal. No excuse now to be late
he or she cannot tarry in a leafy lane to
watch a train of caterpillars crossing the
path. I doubt whether many school kids
of the metropolis have ever watched the
emergence of a cicada from his chrysalis
in the early pre-school morning.
For my part, what Chicago does with
its 60 m.p.h. roadways banked so fool
necks will be safe on curves at 70 m.p.h.,
and what New York does with its six-
lane highways is beside the point. We’re
forgetting how to live. We compute
“man-hours” wasted instead of “leisure-
hours” saved in a world of “not enough
waiting.”— Spencer C. (N.S.W.).
Collective Farming
I’ve just read a statement to the effect
that wherever collective farming has been
tried it has failed, the implication
apparently being that individual farming
is usually a success.
If a farmer digs a hole in the ground
and rain fills it with yellow, muddy water,
he calls the result a dam. The water is
not very good and, in droughts, weakened
animals bog in the mud and crows pick
their eyes out. So the Government builds
a concrete wall in a river gorge, impound-
ing a million or so acre-feet of good,
clean water to be used for irrigation and
the watering of stock. The farmer’s darn
is an example of individual farming ; the
Government’s dam is an example of col-
lective farming, for its construction
requires the pooling of the financial
resources of the whole community and
the highly specialised and invaluable
knowledge of scientists, engineers and
inventors, to say nothing of the skill of
the manual workers engaged. From that
point of view collective farming may be
a striking success.
When, in 1817, Oxley was exploring the
country now known as the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area, he opined that there was
little possibility that “these desolate
plains” would ever again be visited by
civilised man. Oxley was wrong. The
individual farmer tried his hand first and,
in those days, the area supported 35
persons. Today the population numbers
21,000. By the individual farmer it was
classed as poor land, its carrying capacity
less than a sheep to the acre. Today, it
produces crops, wool, livestock, vege-
tables, fruits, wine and dairy products
to a total annual value of about
£5,000,000. This transformation was
wrought by collective farming, the build-
ing of the Burrinjuck Dam and the con-
struction of the vast system of weirs and
canals that divert and convey the life-
giving water to the land.
In a misguided moment, someone
introduced the prickly-pear to Australia.
This garden ornament developed into a
forest which, despite the utmost efforts
of the individual farmer, threatened to
take possession of all Australia. In
Queensland alone, it was swallowing up
a million acres a year. Then collective
farming took a hand. The Government
took over with scientific research, and
in a few years the menace of the pear
* was only a memory.
Experience with myxomatosis suggests
that if ever the rabbit is to be exter-
minated it will be collective farming and
the scientist that will do the job.
One more instance: Extending on both
sides of the border between S.A. and
Victoria is a vast area with a rainfall
of 17-22 inches. The individual farmer
took it in hand, but found that his crops
were sparse and spindly, fertiliser had no
effect, pastures withered and died and
animals would not thrive. He had neither
the knowledge nor the resources to solve
the problem. Once again collective farm-
ing found the solution. Years of patient
scientific experiments at last showed that
the sterility of the land was mainly due
to a lack of minute traces of zinc and
copper. Today what was formerly desert
land produces an abundance of good
pasture on which the grazing sheep thrive
two to the acre.
Rugged individualism is a good horse,
but the collective effort of the whole com-
munity, properly organised, co-ordinated
and applied, leaves him standing.—H. G.
(N.S.W.).


“Modern” Art
Norman Lindsay, Puritan that he is,
has rescued me from apostasy. My be-
lief in artistic sanity had nearly crumbled
under the combined onslaughts of
“modernist”-art propaganda and my own
misguided tolerance. Yet I opine that
the masterful and virile sermon, “An
Emetic In Oil Paint” (B. 18/3/’53), was
not a soul-winner. It thrilled the faith-
ful, but will only harden the heart of
the sinner.
When that particular Bulletin
arrived I had just finished re-reading
George Meredith’s “Essay on Comedy,”
whch, by the way, is much more stimu-
lating than any product of Sitwell or
Maugham. Providentially it proved to
be a perfect appetiser for the Lindsay
meal.
Why not enlist Meredith’s Spirit of
Comedy in the campaign against the
Devil’s modernistic rabble? Norman’s
cartoon crayon, duly consecrated, is
essential at the invocation. The Comic
Spirit awaits eagerly overhead, and
his angels are ready to cast an
oblique light on demented devotees
of Picasso and to save them from
damnation with volleys of silvery
laughter.— Ben Backslider (Vic.),
The poor in art are always with us— 1
the no-hopers who refuse to face the long
road of hard work to success. They are
the “bodgies” and “widgees” of art,
living in a wordy world of specious
jargon and vague theory. Both Alfred
Munnings and Norman Lindsay have
show them for what they’re worth.
Like arm-chair strategists, the art
critics of the daily Press give out with
spates of wonderful reviews and ex-
planations, gallery directors buy examples
in fear of being considered unprogres-
sive, and art-school teachers find it an
easy way past real knowledge and tech-
nical excellence. — Articus (Vic.).
Norman Lindsay states that he “saw
the first post-impressionist exhibition in
London away back in 1911,” and con-
tinues with the observation that “ex-
amples of the same crude infantilities
have been scattered broadcast ever since”
until “nobody will buy them.” In actual
fact, the post-impressionist painters were
Van Gogh, Renoir, Cezanne, Gauguin
and Degas, none of whom is represented
in the present exhibition of more recent
paintings. To refer to their work as
“crude infantility” and to state that
reproductions of it do not sell is a
palpable error. — Mary Quick (N.S.W.).
Pinus Radiata
Admittedly the reputation of Pinus
radiata was at a low ebb in the 19205,
but that was because of insufficient know-
ledge of the timber’s milling and season-
ing qualities. Experience gained since
then has resulted in improved techniques
in milling and, with modern machinery
adapted to handle the logs and correct
kiln-drying schedules, the finished pro-
duct will compete with overseas soft-
woods as a timber for housing construc-
tion and joinery work.
At the turn of this century all Aus-
tralian States, with the exception of
Queensland, northern N* S. Wales and,
to a lesser extent, Tasmania, were in
urgent need of softwoods, nature having
"No Wonder you crashed her — y’r brake ain't working .”
been niggardly in providing them. South
Australia, in the unenviable position of
having practically no commercial forests,
either softwoods or hardwoods, was first
in the field with plantations of exotic
conifers. The choice of P. radiata as the
main plantation species was not hap-
hazard and was certainly a wise one. It
was not long before all the States with
winter rainfall areas suitable and avail-
able for large scale plantations followed
that lead.
P. radiata, despite a very limited range
in its native California, when freed from
competition with its natural enemies
thrived in its new home on many diverse
soils over quite a wide range of climatic
conditions. Its ease of handling as a
nursery and plantation tree, its hardiness
over a wide range of conditions, its quick
growth, early maturity and the quality of
the wood —radiata provided the timber
with which San Francisco was originally
built —make it eminently suitable for
overcoming Australia’s softwood
deficiency.
Further, an adequate local timber in-
dustry is imperative and only when that
is in sight will we be able to afford
to concentrate on those other species
which will give our plantation forests the
balance nature would have intended.
The western States of the U.S.A. vrill
provide the bulk of these species—
Douglas fir, Western Yellow Pine mainly
supplemented by Redwood, Lodgepole
Pine, Sugar Pine and Sitka Spruce.
Europe’s contribution will be the Mari-
time Pine from Portugal, and Austrian
Pine. In the summer-rainfall areas the
Southern Pines of the U.S. Gulf States
and the central Americas are the logical
choice.
Careful attention is being paid to tree-
breeding, and this study will repay hand-
somely the money and energy expended,
but tree-breeding of pure lines and crosses
does not, with long-lived species such as
exotic conifers, reach finality overnight,
and the published results of experiments
should be recognised as such. The cost
of establishing plantations is high, and a
sound commercial investment should not
be jeopardised by misplaced enthusiasm.
Queensland, with a summer rainfall,
may be accused of a Hoop Pine or Finns
caribaea complex, but in that State also
the cry is for conifers, not exotic hard-
woods, so Queensland would be ill-
advised to undertake costly Teak plan-
tatlons, //ten the money is urgently re-
quired for raising coniferous plantations.
Teak wild be an extremely lucrative
crop—even if its silviculture were as easy
as “Ex-R.S. VI.” would have us believe—
were it not for the fact that Queensland
coastal hardwoods are still extant and in
dire need os’ some of the money “Ex-
R.S.M.” wou.d lavish on Teak. Let us
bring these forests to their full carrying
capacity, as th*.v also regenerate freely,
and were doing long before the name
Australia was coined.
E. H. F. Swain, one-time chairman of
the Provisional Forestry Board in Queens-
land, said, “Australian hardwoods stand
supreme among the constructional
timbers of the earth. In strength and
durability they equal the vaunted woods
of history. British Oak, Indian Teak,
the Lignum Vitae of the West Indies,
Djatti of Borneo, and the Hickory of
America, make place on their high
pedestal beside them.” — Pigi (Q.).
Farming not Mining
One of the shortcomings of Austrauan
farmers is that they pay too little atten-
tion to farming practices which have long
been the rule in older countries with
larger populations and which have to
make the best use of all available re-
sources.
In many cases our farmer simply mines
the land instead of farming it. This
mismanagement applies particularly to
the poorer soils —for there the deteriora-
tion is quicker—but it is also noticeable
in more favored areas.
The wide expanses of Victoria’s fertile
western district provide some pertinent
examples. There, despite all the propa-
ganda, there is little attempt to conserve
water, fodder or soil.
The attitude of some landholders to
erosion and rabbit-control is apathetic
because they regard those matters as a
Government responsibility. And yet
prompt measures by the individual could
deal with both before they became
problems. One landholder, before
myxomatosis, was in the centre of a
rabbit-infested district with nearby Crown
lands harboring the pest and accentuating
his difficulties. Yet regular control en-
abled him to boast that he never had a
rabbit on his property.
Another example of negative and
negligent farming is the general lack of
tree-mindedness in this vast province.
Despite the advantage which well-
planned clumps of trees are known to
give to any holding, few make any
attempt at long-term improvement in that
way.— Plain Australian (Vic.).
'Ware the Gold Fever!
GHOSTS OF THE ROARING DAYS
By IAN McDOUGALL
The two little villages of Sofala and
Hill End, nestling in the rough, mountain-
ous country north of Bathurst, have a
happy knack of breaking into the news.
Sofala had its bogus doctor a couple of
years ago, to the delight of Sydney’s
Sunday papers, while the recent discovery
of the Holtermann photographs, recalling
the early days of gold in N.S.W., earned
Hill End a place on the leader pages of
the dailies.
It is only right, perhaps, that the two
quiet little hamlets —Sofala musters 150
souls, Hill End about 300 —should appear
in the Press occasionally, for a hundred
years ago they were the most populous
centres in the State outside Sydney, and
produced more than their share of “copy”
during the great gold boom.
In its heyday during the height of the
rush there were 60,000 people of all
nationalities camped along the Turon near
Sofala, while Hill End was just as popu-
lous and boasted 50 pubs.
Today the towns have a pub apiece, a
store or two and little else.
To reach Sofala and Hill End the
motorist turns sharp right at Kelso, just
this side of Bathurst on the highway,
along what is a surprisingly good road.
It is a road that leads right back into
the past, and within a few miles the
traveller to Hill End is distant in time,
rather than space, from the busy Western
Highway./
The first settlement on the road is Peel,
where the roofless skeleton of an old
pub and empty houses tell their story
of more opulent days.
The road winds sharply up the
mountains to Wattle Flat, another old
mining town where, until recently, lived
the only man who ever went partners
with • the notorious Butler and escaped.
Butler botched the job of filling in the
shaft in which his mate was working.
There is a steep descent from' Wattle
Flat to the Turon Valley, where Sofala
nestles beside the river, 30 miles from
the highway.
It is impossible to escape the atmos-
phere of the roaring days in Sofala. The
hotel dates back to 1862, Many of the
old houses are of pise or mud bricks,
and there is an air of antiquity about
every building in the town except the
hospital.
There are no mines operating there
now—the last one, the Queenslander,
folded up about the outbreak of Hitler’s
show—but there is plenty of prospecting
and fossicking, and little talk of anything
else in the old bar-room, which is deco-
rated with old sporting prints and adver-
Wash a little gold.. .
tisements for long-forgotten brands of
Scotch.
Hill End is 30 miles further on, and is
the end of the road.
The single pub at Hill End still has
swinging outside its veranda an old
coaching-lantern of, the staging days.
Mine host Eyre, a genial, cigar-smoking
soul in his seventies, was bom and bred
in the district. ''He is a brother of artist
Eyre Senior, and uncle to “S. M. Herald”
cartoonist Hal Eyre.
Like Sofala, Hill End still talks mining,
and its inhabitants have their little
private claims, the location of which they
keep strictly to themselves, where they
wash a little gold when they feel like it.
It was at Hill End that the famous
Byers-Holtermann specimen was found.
The specimen, which could not be classed
as a nugget because it contained quartz
and other minerals, fetched £12,000 in
the days when gold was worth about a
quarter its present value. Byers showed
his gratitude to the town by planting
English trees along the principal street.
Holtermann apparently went into the
patent-medicine business. There is an
advertisement in the hotel’s bar for
Holtermann’s Life Preserving Drops,
which displays the lucky prospector with
his hand on the valuable specimen, and
claims miraculous powers for his medical
products. A wooden box on the bar
counter carries the inscription that it is
for donations for comforts for the Sudan
Contingent. Today it is used for the
Spastic Centre.
The old-timers claim that if the price
of gold rises the district might easily see
another rush. They say that if gold were
£23 an ounce, instead of £l5 as at present,
even worked-over ground and tailings
could be profitably treated.
Reminders of the little town’s former
substance are the number of two-storied
dwellings (many empty), and the post-
office and police-station, both built before
the turn of the century from solid
volcanic stone. The interiors are in cedar
that would make Sydney furniture-
dealers’ eyes goggle.
Hill End supported a working mine
until only six months ago, Devon Gold,
but this has been closed down and the
former mine-manager is now the town’s
baker. The battery and equipment lie
disused in a valley a couple of miles
from the town.
Although the palmy days of gold fled
long since, probably for good, the Hill
End-Sofala district is by no means played
out.
Those who live there like it, and say
they will never leave. They strongly
resent Press references to their towns as
“Cedar!”
ghost towns, and claim they are still
very much alive.
Most of them either run sheep or work
for someone who does. Wool from
nearby Pyramul has topped Sydney sales
on more than one occasion, and the
district produces a good, fine merino
staple.
Many of those with sheep properties
' live in the villages, where, far from being
scarce, houses are a drug on the market.
Across from Hill End, and in sight
from the town, is the old racecourse
where the bushranger Starlight entered
and won a race while the troopers were
searching for him. In Sofala cemetery
sleeps Bill Day, a lesser member of the
bushranging fraternity who lived to die
in bed at an advanced age.
Anyone with the time to spare, and a
desire to immerse himself in the atmos-
phere of the roaring days—or its after-
glow, anyway—could do worse than yield
to the signpost at Kelso. But beware of
the gold-fever—it’s still about in that
country.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
This self -contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS. . NO EMPTYING. . NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
■ The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
gd
fg
d
YOU CAN INSTALL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established jor 22 years
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
■DISTRIBUTORS;*
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.)-* .82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vie.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN; G. T. See Kee.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
VIC.
S.A.:
W.A.
TAS.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices!
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Zebu Crossbred's
“Beefo”; S. W. Poore, who
Spent many years in tropical
Eastern Bolivia and the border
of west-central Brazil breeding
Zebu crosses, said he obtained
the finest result not with f
Brahman and | Shorthorn —as
the Santa Gertrudis breed is—
but rather the reversed propor-
tions —f Brahman, | Shorthorn.
While he did not doubt that
western Queensland, which had
a climate more closely related to
Texas, would be admirably
suited to the Santa Gertrudis,
in Bolivia and Brazil he had
killed cattle which gave him
1501 b. of pure fat per carcass
(20 per cent, of total weight)—
these were | Zebu and | Short-
horn, and they were bred and
fattened on natural pastures.
Steers three years old weighed
6751 b. to 7001 b.
These natural pastures were
not to be found near the beaten
track, but they could be ob-
tained by anyone speaking
Spanish fluently, and the im-
portation of such grasses to New
Guinea and Fiji might go a long
way towards successful estab-
lishment of the cattle industry
in those and other Pacific
islands. The native grasses re-
ferred to grow in an area diffi-
cult of access, a country in-
habited by wild Indian tribes
and wild animals of all kinds,
but Poore considers them well
worth the trouble of obtain-
ing.
One grass grows to girth
height, can stand seasonal
flooding, grows on open prairie,,
withstands heat and is drough-
resistant. Another grows in
swamps subject to seasonal
heavy rainfall, grows through
the water and is very fattening.
Jersey and Guernsey cattle
crossed with Zebu should prove
successful in the islands, says
Poore, and for New Guinea he
would be inclined to advocate
Australia’s own Illawarra
(already acclimatised) crossed
with the Zebu.
Pleuro in Cattle
“Oxo”; Pleuro pneumonia
makes Queensland and Northern
Territory cattle unpopular in
other States and New Zealand,
but an investigation being Con-
ducted by Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture may over-
come this.
It is stated that where 100
per cent, inoculation has been
done deaths from pleuro have
been less than 1 per cent. On
those occasions when it was
suggested that the vaccine had
broken down it was found that
a faulty inoculation, or failure
to inoculate the herd 100 per
cent., had been the cause of
deaths.
D. P. Mahony, departmental
veterinary officer, who has been
investigating pleuro for some
considerable time, is returning to
Cloncurry to continue his in-
vestigations when Northern
Territory and other cattle start
to moye after the present wet
season.
Pasture Hay
“W.W.S.”: The making of
pasture-hay is essehtial with
large areas of sown pastures. In
lush seasons the mower has to be
used to control surplus growth,
and the hay, fed to sheep when
the pasture is very soft and
green, will keep them in good
health. It will prevent bloat in
cattle when mixed with the
dangerous pasture.
Making prime leafy hay needs
planning, but it; as
hay over-mature, leached by rain
or without leaf is very low in
feeding-value. Hay cut too soon
has to lie in the swathes and
windrows too long before it can
be baled and the risk of weather-
damage is great. If left too long
it becomes too dry, and if
handled in hot, dry weather the
leaf will be lost. In really good
seasons try cutting early, a
second cut may be obtained later
in the summer.
Mow phalaris and rye-grasses
as soon as the flower shows in
the heads and clovers when they
have been flowering for a week
or two. Rake into windrows
when still damp enough to avoid
losing the leaf from the clovers.
Clover will handle much better if
there is 40 per cent, to 50 per
cent, grasses in the hay. If
mowing or raking have been
delayed and the material is too
dry it will have to be raked while
the dew is on it or in damp
weather. If using a pick-up
baler make sure all the hay is
mown and sitting-up on the
stubble so that the pick-up will
make a clean job. Windrows
should be of a size to keep the
baler moving forward steadily
and continuously.
Baling can begin as soon as
the hay will rattle when taken in
“I take after me ole man —HE had itchy feet , too .”
the hands. Hay too damp will
pack into a solid mass, and the
press will begin to labor heavily.
If too dry, dust and leaves will
fly out with each stroke of the
rammer. Keep a close watch
weight of the bales, as the
press will have to be adjusted
according to the weather.
Once baled and the bales stood
on end, hay will stand a lot of
rain without damage. However,
once stacked it is very susceptible
to water-damage. If possible
erect a shed for storage. Failing
that, roof the stack securely
with iron. It pays to use sawn
timber and nail the iron down.
The material can be used to build
a shed later and the nail-holes
can easily be soldered-up.
It is very difficult to get really
good hay when depending on
contractors. On average-sized
properties there’s much to be
said for the cheap fork-in balers,
since the pasture can be mown
and raked to suit the capacity of
the baler. If a large area is mown
and raked, and the contractor
lets you down, losses can be
heavy. If experience shows that
there is real money in hay-
making expensive machinery can
be bought.
Wilgas of Fifty Years
“Old B.”; Since reaching
Yuleba (s.-w. Queensland) from
North Devon in 1901, I have
been in country where wilga, to-
gether with other edible scrubs,
has been a drought-time lifesaver
for sheep. Don’t know about its
qualities in blacksoil country
(B. 18/3/’53), but during 12
months in the 1902 drought I cut
solidly wilga, whitewood, rose-
wood and belah, saving enough
of my boss’s sheep and cattle for
him to make a flying start when
the drought broke.
Since I took up my property
south of Roma in 1906 no wilga
has been purposely destroyed.
Over the years many of the trees
have been lopped up to a dozen
times; very few have died and
the large number of dense,
luxuriant trees, especially since
the rung timber has fallen, make
the place look park-like.
Sheep will follow the axe as
ever when grass is scarce and
clean-up the cut wilga as well as
they did at the earlier loppings
of the same trees. In no season,
good or bad, do the wilgas lose
their shapeliness, for the sheep
keep them trimmed level at all
times, as well as picking up any
leaves that fall. These trees
provide ideal shade and shelter;
on these counts, as well as the
drought-fodder aspect, I regard
them as a most valuable asset.
During prickly-pear days
young wilgas became established
in the protection of the pear, but
nowadays sheep do not give them
a chance.
Food Pellets
“Silen”; Hitherto pigs have
been fed dry grains or coarse
meals as supplementary diet, but
at lowa College (U.S.A.) it has
been found that suckers will
start to eat sugar-coated pellets
at five days and a full ration at
10 days.
This eases the drain on the
sow, and as the pellets contain
a balanced starter ration, plus
antibiotics for growth gain,
quick growth is obtained, fewer
runts and more flesh gain per
pound of food than on ordinary
feeding.
Pigs like sugar, and it’s a
great fattening agent. It offers
great possibilities of sugar-
coating food - pellets with
molasses, which is comparatively
cheap and plentiful.
Weedicides
“Myrr”; Some care is neces-
sary in the use of the newer
hormone - type weedicides
(2,4,D.; 2,4,5-T.; M.C.P.A.) near
garden plants and trees. Damage
occurs from spray-drift, or the
use for insect or fungicidal
control of spray equipment con-
taminated with the chemicals.
As even the smallest quantities
of these weedicides can cause
serious malformation or death of
useful plants, it’s advisable to
keep any equipment used for
weed-spraying for that purpose
alone.
Where plants susceptible to
these chemicals are close to
weeds which are to be sprayed,
use the less volatile sodium or
amine salts of 2,4,D. or
M.C.P.A. and not the 2,4,D.
and 2,4,5-T. esters.
Onions
“Hortus”; April, May and
early June are the best months
for sowing onions. The old rule
was “Plant out on the shortest
day and harvest on the longest
day.” Weeds and onions don’t
agree, so get rid of all weed-
growth before you start planting.
The soil should be well-
drained. Best results come from
a volcanic soil, but even sandy
loam will produce a fair crop.
However, you will find the
lighter the soil, the less time the
onions will keep after maturity.
Keep working the ground, until
you have a nice fine tilth. Before
planting out, firm the soil well,
so that it may hold the bulb
tightly.
Trim straggly root-growth, if
it is too excessive, and nip off
the top'of the green shoot. This
will send more nourishment
down into the bulb. Don’t plant
the bulb too deeply, just cover
it lightly. Six inches in the
rows will be sufficient distance.
A mixture of super, and wood-
ashes is ideal for large bulb
development. Don’t have rows
too close to each other. You will
have a lot of intertillage to do
to keep weeds down. After six
months the tops should have
withered. Pull up and leave in
the sun until thoroughly dried.
If taken in too soon, bulbs will
start to shoot and there will be
no bulb left in a very short time.
Brown Spanish keep the longest,
but Prizetaker has a nice,
moderate flavor.
Lime in Orchards
“Valeman”; Lime is good on
many soils, but its effect on
trees is mainly indirect.
Ground limestone consists of
calcium carbonate, which obvi-
ously would increase the cal-
cium content of the soil, but
calcium deficiency in fruit-trees
is rare, so it’s doubtful if lime-
stone is of any direct benefit to
the trees.
Lime is mildly alkaline, and
when introduced into an acid
soil it reacts with substances
which cause this acidity and
neutralises it. Most fruit-trees,
however, grow well in either
slightly acid or alkaline soils,
provided the nitrogen content
is sufficient and drainage is up
to requirements. Here, again,
there is little or no direct benefit.
The indirect benefit of liming
lies in the reduction of acidity.
If leguminous green crops are
planted in orchards where the
soil is noticeably acid, the
weight of green crop can be
easily doubled by using lime.
It also assists the bacterial
activity necessary in breaking
down plant materials residual in
the soil. Composted manure or
straw is broken down more
rapidly by liming. Similarly,
when a green-manure crop is
ploughed- or disked-in at the
end of winter, it will decompose
more rapidly where lime has
been applied.
Another beneficial effect of
liming occurs on heavy clay


Proved by test . .
m
%
m
mm
m
m
■
■
i
Time-tested superiority of design
and construction! On-the-job tested
for strength and economy of fuel! Power-
ful enough for really heavy work, yet not so
heavy that transport becomes a serious problem!
These are the reasons why Ansaldo TCA7O fills
a wider range of applications than any other tractor.
The equipment available for Ansaldo TCA7O enables
it to undertake all classes of fearthmovmg, clearing,
logging, loading or belt work. Battleship-type hull construc-
tion in armourplate protects the engine, gearbox and transmission
from any possible damage by rocks, logs, and other heavy obstructions;
and allows complete and easy accessibility for service and repairs.
4 cylinder, Alfa Romeo direct in-
jection diesel engine, maximum
drawbar horsepower 60 M.P.H. at
1,600 R.P.M. Fuel consumption 1.6
gallons per hour. Tank capacity 32
gallons. Full pressure, dry sump
lubrication. 5 forward speeds and
reverse Inertia starting.
'■ <
:
1
. :
iii - g
■
■BH
■
rm
■<
1111
HE
* - ■ ■ ■
■
.
■O"
iew m\ Mm, mL*.
■■■■Mi
Sole Factory Representatives for Australia :
MATERIAL HANDLING PTY, LTD.,
61-65 Wentworth Ave., Sydney, N.S.W. MA 9141,
DOMINION'MOTORS, 52 William St., Sydney. MA 9017.
BROWN & BUREAU LTD., Graham St., Port Melbourne. MX 2171.
CLYDE MOTORS, Cnr. Grey & Glenelg Sts., Sth. Brisbane. L 1221.
POWER PLANT LTD., 100 Currie St., Adelaide. LA 2111.
HUDSON TAYLOR & CO., 606 Murray St., Perth. B. 7908.
soils, where it combines chemi-
cally with the clay particles.
Clay with calcium in it has a
much better texture than some
other types of clay, an import-
ant factor when improved water-
penetration and cultivation are
considered. The acidity of the
soil has an important influence
on the availability of the various
elements necessary for plant
nutrition. Excess lime can re-
sult in a deficiency of such
important minerals as boron,
manganese and iron.
Pampas Grass
“Sapmap”; Pampas - grass
has been grown for many years
on dairyfarms in New Zealand
as a reserve fodder, for use dur-
ing winter or any time of feed
shortage. It is only a ration of
maintenance level, but is far
better than the nothing with
which many Australian coastal
dairyfarmers are caught in a
droyght.
Pampas-grass is not superior
to cow-cane where the climate
allows that crop to be grown, as
in Queensland or on the upper
North Coast of N.S.W.
In regions farther south, how-
ever, pampas could well be the
stand-in of cow-cane. It also
makes an excellent shelter-belt.
Irrigated Pastures
“Big Billy”: The number of
times you water a permanent
pasture varies with the soil con-
cerned. Pastures containing
species such as perennial-rye and
white-clover require two to two-
and-a-half acre-feet of water per
acre annually, applied at fort-
nightly intervals, while sub.-
clover or Wimmera-rye needs
only one acre-foot per year in
two or four waterings, half in
autumn and half in spring.
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture points out that phaiaris-
sub.-clover is often watered
similarly, but two to three
summer waterings will assist the
phalaris. This treatment may
also be accorded strawberry-
clover-phalaris, while phalaris-
white-clover should be treated
the same as permanent
pasture. Japanese millet
will require the same quantity
as permanent pasture.
Leaf Vegetables
“Myrrhee”: In Victoria most
winter leaf - vegetables are
planted out in March and April.
The ideal seedling is one about
6in. high with a firm straight
stem and stiff leaves, properly
hardened-off to withstand severe
conditions.
The strike will be better if the
holes are made the day before
planting and filled with water
to saturate the surrounding soil.
To make the hole use a trowel
in preference to a dibber, which
often leaves a hole that remains
as an air-pocket, retarding root-
development.
Insert the seedling with the
lowest leaves at ground-level to
obviate “legginess”’ and wind-
wobble. Water the plants in
with a weak nutrient solution,
■£oz. of sulphate of ammonia in
Igal. of water, or a diluted
liquid animal manure.
Dingo-baiting
“Outback”: A West Aus-
tralian delegate to a dingo-
destruction conference in
Queensland said that aerial bait-
ing was such a success in his
State that the authorities there
intended to extend it.
After the first aerial-poisoning
campaign, he said, an inspector
sent put located over 300 car-
casses. Landholders attributed
the finding of so many carcasses
to disease, but it was subse-
quently proved that all the
carcasses were found along the
course baited by the aeroplane.
A trapper in the Hannersley
Range who usually obtained
about 400 scalps annually—-the
number varied very little from
year to year—obtained only 50
scalps in the year of the aerial-
baiting, and he promptly
resigned.
A South Australian delegate
said that, while it was difficult to
obtain direct evidence of the re-
suits of aerial-baiting in the Lake
Eyre region, it, was significant
that in their “vermin districts”
where aenal-poisonmg was done
last year there had been a con-
siderable reduction in bonus pay-
ments, whereas in other districts
the tendency had been for them
to increase,
M. Brebner (Q.) said that in
the south-west of Queensland
where aerial-baiting was done
simultaneously with a similar
campaign in South Australia,
bonus payments had been re-
duced by over 60 per cent., but
in adjoining areas there had been
an increase.
Linseed for Stock
“Humus”: “Dairy Farming in
Australia” says: “Cyanogenetic
glucosides are sometimes present
in linseed, and therefore it is ad-
visable to feed flax-boll chaff,
flax-seed refuse and linseed-
meal dry, because, when
moistened, prussic-acid may de-
velop. The digestive juices
destroy the dry glucosides, as
does thorough boiling.”
A good gruel for calves when
skim-milk is short is made by
scalding or boiling fib. of lin-
seed-meal with fib. of pollard
and adding sufficient water to
make up to a gallon. Or, alter-
natively, linseed-meal three
parts, crushed oats four parts,
pollard two parts. All parts by
weight.
Hints for the Farm
“Helianthus”; The Jerusalem
artichoke and sunflowers are
sisters under the skin, and it’s
strange that it has taken plant-
breeders so long to produce a
hybrid plant from them. It is
now announced from Germany
that this has been done, and
that the name of the new plant
is, topine. The hybrid is stated
to produce an abundance of
tubers suitable for man or beast,
and, in addition, to carry stalks
12ft. to 15ft. tall suitable for
fodder or ensilage.
“Can”: C.5.1.R.0. announces
a new log-edger unit which will
simplify the sawmilling of
small-girth logs. The log-edger
will take two cuts simultane-
ously, one from each side of the
log, and so avoids most of the
problems due to growth-stresses
which are so troublesome in
comparatively young eucalypt
logs. The machine is based on
an experimental unit produced
by W. Christensen and R.
Crozier, of Murrimbah, near
Mansfield (Vic,).
“Big Billy”: In winter rotate
the calves through the paddocks
ahead of the cows at intervals
of three or four days. Calves
managed in such a way will be
up to 1001 b. heavier as yearl-
ings than those kept confined
in a calf-paddock. This practice
also helps unthrifty and scour-
ing animals.
“Horsey”; If Olympic jump-
ing retains a place in Australian
shows no harm will have been
done. However, it appears
unlikely that this event will con-
tinue after the Olympic Games.
It would never be popular with
show committees because the
average show-ring is not suffi-
ciently large to enable Olympic-
style hurdles to remain erect in
the ring and still leave room for
other events to be run.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
There is important rain ahead, about the beginning of
May, after which the temperature should drop quickly and
permanently, with the first frosts of the season in the high
country and severe winter conditions at times in the Alps.
The sun is again clear of spots. The small one that was
seen in high latitude was of a very transitory nature, and
may portend the onset of another cycle. On the southern
littoral the rains of a wet winter should soon make them-
selves manifest.


c
u
m
f.
I •
Will flyi
PARIS 1865
ANDELLE’S new design for a helicopter has
created a stir in aeronautical circles. Using
entirely new principles, it promises if
successful safe and steady flight. It will derive its lift from
horizontal screws, and its forward progress from a propeller
in the tail. Steam will be the source of power. Monsieur de
la Landelle, when interviewed today, was full of enthusiasm
for the project. “This design,” he said, “has everything
that an aeroplane should have, even parachutes to check
the descent should anything go wrong. Can you imagine
anything in aviation today more sure and efficient?”
“Yes,” we said, “the BP Aviation Service. Moreover,
we all know from experience that it works, and works well.”
“How right you are,” said Landelle, “or at least, how right
you will be.”
AVIATION
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED,
(Proprietors: Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
time to do the darning. The
girls of today make poor wives,
most of them. Never save a
penny.
“And I’ll tell you why, because
they’re always wasting time on
unnecessary things like flowers
and doing themselves up and
going out. Threequarters of
them never darn a sock or patch
a sheet. They’d be ashamed to
hang a patched sheet on the line,
They never bottle fruit or make
a pot of jam. Now, Estella’s
different. I’ve often said to Jim
that it took a great load off my
mind to find that she took after
my side of the family and took
a practical view of things. There
won’t be any need for her rela-
tives to care for her in her old
age.”
"jyrONIE took the sheets of note-
' paper and slipped them into
her book.
“ That’s not a very safe place;,
is it?” The question was sharp,
“It’ll be all right,” said Nonie
brightly, turning towards the
front-door. She felt a great
longing to be out in the open
air, and when at last the door
was unlocked and she stood on
the veranda, she sighed.
“What on earth’s "wrong with
you ?” demanded the woman
suspiciously.
Confused, Nonie turned from
the bright, narrowed eyes. “It’s
the violets,” she said suddenly,
“Aren’t they simply lovely?”
Mrs. Bell sniffed: not to inhale
the perfume, but to express her
contempt. “With vegetables the
price they are, I have no time
for people who mess around with
flowers.”
Nonie looked at the path lead-
ing to the blossom-flanked road,
and with freedom so close she
found the courage to risk the
woman’s anger. She said “I
only saw Mrs. Bell once. Well,
I think it must have been her.
She reminded me of one of those
thistledown puffs with all that
lovely white hair. She was giving
Mrs. Tibbitt some bulbs.”
She kept her eyes on the path,
but she sensed the woman’s
instant fury.
‘Oh, yes, that’d be her all
right. She’d give the coat off
her back to outsiders just to
make herself popular, and then
she’d expect her relations to
keep her. What I always say is,
if everyone stood on their own
two feet and looked after them-
selves before doing the good-
Samaritan act, there’d be no
need to tax the hard workers so
as to pay old-age pensions and
such-like.” She started to close
the door. “I can’t waste any
more time,” she said. “And
don’t pick the blossom. I’ll be
watching you.”
“But just a minute,” cried
Nonie, suddenly making up her
mind. “Can you tell me where
to find Mr. Bell?”
The woman’s mouth sagged
open, and for the first time
Nonie saw the whites of her eyes
as the lids widened the habitual
narrow aperture. Nonie said
hurriedly “There are a few
things I’d like to ask him about
his mother. Mr. Morris says he
wants about a column.”
“A column! ” There was a
pause. Then tfle words rapped a
swift staccato like a weird Morse-
code. “He must be hard-up for
news. Why doesn’t he write
something that will do the dis-
trict some good? Something
that might get the fruitgrowers
a better deal. Anyrate you’ve
got the wedding. That’ll help
him out. Mr. Bell has more to
do than waste his time answering
questions. We’re not all work-
ing a forty-hour week, you
know.
“i n any case, it’s not nice for
a young girl to’ be going around
interviewing men. I don’t hold
with it at all. People around
here have nasty minds, and I’m
not going to have my husband’s
name bandied around just be-
cause you want to talk to him
out in the paddock miles from
anywhere.” The door slammed,
but almost instantly it was
opened and her voice rasped
“Remember what I said about
that blossom.”
As Nonie walked down the
path, an insistent unease made
her look back at the house, and
s he saw that the curtains of the
living-room were being held well
to one side. f
A desire to run took
possession of the girl, “She’s
nuts,” she thought. “Plain nuts.”
cjHE was glad when she came
wide road which led
between the fruit-trees to the
main road. When she was half-
way to the gate she once again
looked about her with some of
the old delight in the billowing
pink and white clouds,
She was practically at the gate
when she became aware of the
tractor, and as she watched it
lumbering towards her in a cloud
of fine dust she decided to ask
the man did he know of Mr.
Bell’s whereabouts. She waited
till he came to the end of the
row, then stepped on to the head-
land so that he must see her.
When he looked up to turn the
heavy machine, he stopped,
She went to the side of the
tractor and called out “You’re
not Mr. Bell, are you?”
“Cut it out,” he yelled, his
eyes dancing. “Do I look that
damn’ miserable! ”
“Well . .. I wanted to see Mr.
Bell. I was wondering if you
knew where he was.”
“Yep. At the boneyard.
Gone there with some blossom
for the old lady. But you better
not tell that missus of his or
she’ll whinge for a month.”
“I won’t be telling her any-
thing,” retorted Nonie, know-
ing she was indiscreet, but
unable to resist the opportunity
of relieving her pent-up resent-
men t.
“So you’ve seen the old battle-
axe, eh? Well, once a day is
enough for that medicine, I’d
reckon.”
“Once in a lifetime, you
mean,” cried Nonie, feeling
humor and vivacity surge back
thankfully.
The man switched off the
engine. He found his tobacco
and began to roll a smoke. “You
said it,” he told her, “Of course
I must say she’s not always as
vicious as she is just now. She
seems to have a bit extra on
her mind. Now you’d think
she’d be sweetened-up a bit now
the old lady’s got off her corns,
and she’s at last married off thaj
crow of a daughter. But she’s
worse. Something’s biting her.
I mean something bigger than
usual,
“Poor old Jim. Nice fellow
Jim. She’s at him all the time.
Gets quieter every day, "lie does,
But keeps going his own way,
mind you. Though I’ve never
heard him say a harsh word to
her or about her. Got a lot of
pride, Jim has. Like his mother,
Fine woman, his mother. A
rough-diamond, you know, but
if you can follow me, a real
lady. She started this place, you
know. If it hadn’t been for
her, Jim’s old man would have
lived and died a bullqpky, with-
out a farthing to his name. A
great one for the bottle was old
Jonah. But she kept a roof over
their heads and got them all on
well. But she always had some-
thing to give away to anyone
worse off than herself. Yes.
She was a grand old woman.”
“Everyone seems to think
that,” said Nonie, and gallantly
refrained from adding, “except
Mrs. Bell.” She glanced up at
the house and suddenly remem-
bered the lounge-room curtain,
She laughed.
“Our names’ll be mud,” she
said. “Mrs. Bell was keeping
an eye on me through the win-
dow to see I didn’t pick blossom,
I better get back to the office,
If you could, would you try and
get the chance to ask Mr. Bell
to either ring or call at the office
this afternoon or tonight? Mr.
Morris is very anxious to get full
details. He was able to write
only a par and he wants a full
column about Mrs. Bell senior.”
“Sure. I’ll see him on the
quiet.”
,
tim ® Nome was .on the
roa d the interview with Mrs.
b a d begun to take on the
glow of adventure that all un-
pleasant episodes S ain as sooa
as they are relegated to the past,
So it was with her usual air or
insouciance that she hailed > a
passing van for a lift,
“Oh, I thought you were the
dry-cleaners,” she said when she
looked into the unfamiliar lace
of a middle-aged woman.
“And I nearly didn t pull up
because I saw you come out ot
that orchard and I thought you
might be that dreadful woman.
Nonie got into the yan, and
as they moved off she asked
“Was she dreadful to you, too?
Did you call there today?”
“I called there on Monday,
I’m leaving samples, by the way,
of a new product, and I’m getting
housewives’ reactions. Sort of
advertising stunt,
“There was such a nice old
lady in the front garden. Gave
me some violets. She told me I
better go round the back—that
her daughter-in-law was polish-
iijg the kitchen. She said, with
a twinkle in her eye, that I’d
probably get a poor reception,
but she’d like to see a free
sample turned away—that it
might teach her a lesson.
“So round I went. She was
just putting a mat at the inside
door, then she faced to the stove,
took out some delicious smelling
scones. Raced back to the door
again ; yelled out in that dreadful
voice of hers ‘lf you want a
scone, you’d better hurry. I’m
just going to wrap them up. And
be sure to leave your dirty shoes
on the veranda. And shut the
front-door.’ Then . she turned
and happened to see me.
“You know, I think she’s mad.
she raced to the door and said
j n a positive fury ‘Nothing today.
And don’t hang around or I’ll
let the dogs off.’ And with that
she slammed the door in my
f aC e. When I got round the
f ront the old lady had gone, and
there were her shoes all right
j n f ron t of the closed door. I
f e lt so sorry. Poor old thing.”
/~)NE sentence tolled in Nonie’s
mind insistently: “She was
putting a mat at the inside door."
After a while she said, in a
high-pitched voice, “Yes, I think
she must be mad. Let’s talk of
something else. She gives me the
horrors.”
said. “I shall leave this studio
unless Mr. Willys apologises!”
“To you—or to Gordon?”
said the actress#
“I certainly don’t intend to
apologise,” said the young actor,
“It’s always the same. People
who’ve got past it hold us up.
We’re all here to do a job and
get away. What is this—a
charitable institution?”
“That’s enough, Harold,” said
the producer sharply.
“I demand an apology to
Gordon,” said the actor in red
corduroy. “I refuse to go on if
there is no apology. Those are
my words ”
“Come, now, Bill,” said the
producer. “Who are you? Sir
Galahad?”
“I’m the Man-in-the-Cloak,
and you can’t go on without
me j”
“And don’t let us forget you’re
the Man-in-the-Cloak, dear,”
said the actress. “You just keep
acting the part. Come on,
Harold. Speak up. A nice
apology. Get it over with. I’m
dead on my feet!”
The producer looked from
one to another, cursing them all,
cursing himself for having cast
the old man in a fit of pity—and
thought.
“The point is this, Harold,”
he sa id- “Do you want to lose
a job for yourself and everyone
e * se " ere • .. „ . ■ ,
. waiting,’ said the man
m the red jacket. Ml give you
exactly one minute.
“Dear people,” said the actress,
putting on her coat. “We’re all
so delightfully anti-social. Good
luck, boys.” She made for the
door.
“Wait a minute,” said the
young actor, suddenly flashing a
white boyish smile. “Don’t go.”
He walked across to the old
man and patted him affection-
ately oh the shoulder,
“I a Pologise, Gordon,” he
said. “I was very rude.”
~ , ,
6 6ViyELL, thats settled, said
VT the actress. “On with
the motley.”
The man in the red corduroy
shrugged his shoulders, picked
up his script and sauntered to
the microphone once more. The
producer returned to the glassed-
in box. . ~
“My deepest apologies, said
the young man again.
The old actor bowed stiffly,
“No training in the work, he
thought. No discipline. It s all
too easy.


DESIREE
By ANNEMARIE SELINKO
A novel of the Napoleonic era that is sweeping the world.
500,000 copies sold. Translated into 10 languages.
At All Booksellers 18/9 HEINEMANN
GODS, GRAVES AND
SCHOLARS
by C. W. Ceram
When reading these stories one can
realize why this book on such a dull
subject as archaeology has become
one of the world’s best sellers.
THE YOUNG QUEEN
by Godfrey Winn
The author, renowned for his por-
trait studies, has presented here a
human story of our young Queen,
which will make this book a most
treasured souvenir.
30/- (post 1/5) 18/9 (post 1/1)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
THE CREST OF THE BROKEN WAVE
JAMES BARKE 16s.
IT ISN’T CRICKET
SID BARNES 16s.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
silver bowl, invested in a richly-brocaded
coat with silk pyjamas, a magnificent fez
of gold on his head, he ascended for the
first time the Imam’s throne from which,
for a fortnight every year, he presided
over a gathering of Ismaili pilgrims from
all over the world, read passages from
the Koran, and expounded points of
Ismaili dogma which were solemnly
recorded for posterity:
His learning astonished the elders, but
even more remarkable was the judicial
quality of thought which lanced through
the many casuistries that had been grafted
onto the holy teachings. With quibblers
he was patient but decisive, yet always with
a princely courtesy that won admiration.
The Moslems of India nominated him
to present an address and a golden casket
to the Viceroy in Simla on the occasion
of Queen Victoria’s diamond jubilee;
and soon afterwards, still not twenty, he
married his cousin, a ceremony lasting
a fortnight, attended by 20,000 of the
world’s Ismailis and costing £50,000
“but half of this money was spent on
gifts to the poor.” The marriage soon
ended in divorce; and the Aga Khan
went to England.
The graciousness of the 80-years-old
Queen Victoria, who sat him beside her
at dinner at Windsor Castle, and the
attentions showered upon him by London
society, confirmed the traditional respect
his family owed to Britain ; and it was
always as loyally English that he later
met the Kaiser, the Emperor of Russia,
and visited America, where he was feted
at balls of real splendor. And it was
a policy of moderation favorable .to
England that for the most part opposed
him to Gandhi’s zeal; he was an early
petitioner of the administration for more
widespread education in India, but under
British administration. Although his
power was absolute among his own sect,
over whom he held the sword of excom-
munication, his politics were reactionary ;
the elegant and incisive Mr. Jinnah super-
seded him as political leader of India’s
Moslems.
Nevertheless the Aga Khan’s practical
contribution was considerable. During
World War I, for which he volunteered,
but was declared medically unfit, he
travelled great distances in India to raise
funds, enlist volunteers and especially to
combat plans for a “Holy War” which
German agents were trying to stir up
among India’s Moslems ; World War II
he spent in internment in Switzerland
while his son Aly rose to become
lieutenant-colonel in the British Army,
and won an American Bronze Star for
gallantry during the Sixth Army’s land-
ings in the South of France.
Between wars, he became President of
the League of Nations ; visited Hitler,
and wrote a letter to the “Times,” which
recorded his worst moment in his never-
very-successful political prophecy:
“Why not take him [Hitler] at his word?”
He did not begin racing horses until
1921, explaining later on:
At one time I could not afford to breed
and run horses—l had only £400,000 a year.
He had for some time been interested
in the experiments in scientific horse-
breeding of the Frenchman, Vuillier, and
stated, as his own principle.
The main care is the brood mare; too
many people think only of the sire. I
think of the dam.
He would pay 6000 guineas for a horse,
and dispose of it for 35 guineas if it
failed ; he offered Sir John Rutherford
£lOO,OOO for Solario, and later, after the
offer was refused, joined a syndicate
which bought the horse for £70,000. His
studs in France and Ireland were esti-
mated to be worth £1,500,000 arounc
1930, when he won his first Derby wit
Blenheim, at 18 to 1, although he hac
backed his other horse, Rustom Pasha
and had not a penny on the winner. Bu
in his view, betting is not horse-racing
but gambling. He liked to recoup som
of his expenditure, but in prize-money
By 1920 he had won more than £220,000
In the 1932 Doncaster he owned four o:
the first five horses. In 1935, Bahram
won him the Two Thousand Guineas, th
Derby and the St. Leger; in 1936 hi
Mahmoud, with a record of 2 minute
33 4/sth seconds, cut two seconds ol
Bahrain's time, and the second horse, Ta,
Akbar, was also the Aga Khan’s ; in 1948
My Love, with Rae Johnstone, the Aus
tralian jockey, up, won him his fourtl
Derby; and the fifth was won for him
in 1952 by Tulyar, the Aga Khan at tha
time lying ill and paralysed in his hill
top mansion in the south of France.
The Aga Khan’s income is estimated
to be about £500,000 a year; and tha
derived from his religious office is though
to have become greater with the increasec
prosperity of Moslems in India and
Africa in the ’thirties:
To this great revenue is added the income
which the Aga Khan has derived for so
many years from real estate and the hun-
dreds of industrial concerns in which he
is interested No accounts are ever issued
from Aga Hall, but it has been estimated
on good authority that he keeps approxi-
mately ten per cent, of his Ismaili income
for his personal use. The rest goes back
to his communities in India, Africa and
Malaya for the building of schools, hos-
pitals and for general welfare work.
In 1911 Teresa Magliano, the Italian
ballet-dancer and sculptress whom he hac
admired at Cannes Casino and who had
become, at 19, his second wife, bore him
Aly. She died in 1926. In 1929 he
married again, this time' Mile, Carron, a
Parisian dressmaker whom he had known
since she was a child in Aix, where her
restaurateur father served delicious fish ;
but this bride, unlike his second wife,
would not become a Moslem. They were
divorced in Switzerland during World
War 11. His third wife, Mile Yvette
Labrousse, whom he married in 1944,
had been “Miss France” in 1930—she
embraced the Faith.
From this book, also, one can learn
how Hitler tried to buy some of the Aga
Khan’s horses, and how, during World
War 11, he stole them from the Aga
Khan’s French stables; how the Aga
Khan was weighed against his own
weight in gold (£25,125) in 1936, and in
diamonds (£640,000) in 1946 ; how the
diamonds were merely lent by the
Diamond Syndicate, in plastic bullet-
proof boxes, for the occasion, but the
money subscribed by the Aga Khan’s
followers to that amount was used for
clinics and schools ; how the Begum wore
a white sari sewn with 1200 diamonds
at the ceremony; how the Aga Khan
loves to play golf in a white cloth hat
and grey flannels rolled up to the knees;
how the Aga Khan disapproved of the
conduct of the late Shah of Persia in
summoning the winning jockey and kick-
ing him hard in the stomach for beating
the favorite; how the Aga Khan was
held up by highwaymen ; how he played
chemin de fer in Cairo with Farouk,
about 1949, when Farouk’s income was
some £2,000,000 a year:
Farouk summoned a court chamberlain
and loudly demanded £5OO in notes. His
guest shrugged resignedly, called one of his
secretaries and murmured an aside. The
man returned with £5OOO. The King swal-
lowed hard and sent for an additional
£4500. Somewhat put out, he began to
bet with a reckless defiance which is almost
suicidal against so practised a card-player
as the Aga Khan. The evening wore on,
with the King losing more and more
heavily. At last the Aga Khan stood up
and announced that play was over.
“You must forgive me,” he said firmly,
“but I have a plane waiting to take me to
Nice.”
Farouk snapped his fingers impatiently.
“It can wait. After all, it’s your plane.”
“I’m afraid not,” rejoined the Aga Khan
gently. “It is chartered. As a matter of
fact, I don’t own an aeroplane.”
He gathered his winnings and made a
stately exit. Farouk, who prefers always
to continue playing until his luck changes,
no matter what the hour, watched his guest
depart with a certain wry admiration.
“Anyway,” he said gruffly to his A.D.C.,
“at least he doesn’t own an aeroplane.”
"Big Red"
Your reviewer of my book Big Red is
correct in surmising the main human
figure is that of Frank Gaunt. Frank
was a noted shooter, one of the most
observant men I’ve known —nothing
moved or flew in the bush without Frank
saw it. I feel it only fair to his memory
I should give a fuller picture of him.
Frank was not the semi-illiterate I
made of him. He used grammar which
was faultless, and he did not clip his
final g’s. I thought, to put a ’roo-shooter
on paper who could quote Latin phrases,
do mental arithmetic which would stagger
most men, and who made a hobby of
such things, was rather more than the
reading public would stand. For that
reason, and I know Frank would find
humor in the situation, I made him as
he is in the book.
I’m prepared to plead guilty to your
reviewer’s stricture of harsh writing,
toughness in general, and, perhaps, crudity
of style. I regret the omission of the
“blue” sky. Always I remember an
analysis which appeared years ago in
“The Australian Woman’s Mirror,” It
quoted the verse:
The rose is red.
The sky is blue.
Honey is sweet
And so are you.
“The Mirror” pointed out no fault could
be found with that for rhyme or any
other of the rules of poetry. But it was
all so obvious it was banal.
As for harshness of style—and I don’t
try and dodge the judgment. This is
what Norman Walker, of “The Daily
Sketch”, England, has to say about it:
It is a story which carries the reader
along with it, and not the least of its
charms is the rare and compelling imagery
with which Mr. Lamond interprets his
undoubted love and knowledge of Aus-
tralia’s bush life and wild creatures....
For this critic, at least, Big Red is the
book of the week without any qualification.
Of other flattering English reviews I
like best the phrase coined by Will H.
Ogilvie (Fair Girls and Gray Horses)
who, after a glowing review, deals with
the life of a ’roo “.... from Pouch to
Paradise.”
And, as an afterthought: Faber and
Faber, the publishers, wrote my agent
they considered the book so well written
they did not intend to edit at all: it
would be printed exactly as written. With
the exception of some obvious typo-
graphical errors, they have not altered a
word or shifted a comma. The retort
may be; It would have been better had
they done so. And, lest there be any
mistake about it: I say now I appreciate
your reviewer’s comments; I thank him
for pointing out errors to me; I promise
him future works will not have those
faults.
HENRY G. LAMOND.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 222
Across
I—A high catch to the outfield so
give the bush wings and skip
abroad. (3, 3,7) (
9—l make Diego drop a little girl.
(5)
10—The middle-aged spreads the com-
panies. (12)
12— An artist by'a poet’s country. (5)
13 — A vehicle I follow to a back-
ward mademoiselle before I finish
the darlingest description of
Gilbert’s “gondolieri.” (9)
14 — A sacred book managed with
striking success at first. (5)
16 — Squat down, ready for spring
perhaps. (6)
17 — American postmen have no
trouble imagining that ennsyl-
vani is in the middle of this pro-
genitor. (2)
19 — Negative. (2)
20 — Whose fate melted Katisha’s
heart. (6)
21 — Aphis disturbs an Algerian
cavalryman. (5)
23—Agricultural equipment has hers
holding Tell’s apple-splitter. (9)
25 —Disorderly brain child if male?
(5)
26 — This bird is to give the penniless
boy the “cat.” (4-4-4)
27 A duck to do when no longer
batting. (3)
28 — Benevolent folk drone to a louse’s
egg with those born under the
sign of the ram. (13)
Down.
2 The farmers give Ray money. (8)
3 Light - hearted pianissimo in
fodder. (5)
4 Attributive of a rare metallic
element gets a century “little by
little.” (5)
5 Be the least reticent! (9)
6 Sort rising to the Nuremburg
cobbler-poet in the beautiful
glen of Perthshire. (9)
7 Part of the vocabulary of black-
sheep. (6)
8 — Do I dress the hair countries
underclothing? (12)
11 —This is made for play boy giving
evidence. (4-2-3-3)
15 — A new word in some lingo. (9)
16 — It helps to fix the bicycle pedal
for a peasant’s leg. (6, 3)
18 —Do I battle with Jolson and the
District Attorney in this N.S.W.
town? (8)
22—Cancer prolific in the tropics? (6)
24 Stand a round and call out. (5)
25 — Arbor who bends forward respect-
fully for a strong knave in 500.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 221


"THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
BATTERIES
gd
REIGN SUPREME
• s - V J,
•:.< •! r-rXv!’ :*:<••'>>;*:•# vh*j
m. •?'r l^ f
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO. LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD*
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia:
AGENCE ALMA, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
TITCOMB & LEE. SUVA.
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone; MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
