

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
.•; ' v -' ■ ■ -;\.;v '< A "i v : ■:. . •■' ‘ • . ,4r\ •• ... C sthss- v ; .' y
The Bulletin
THE WILD COLONIAL BOY
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3811
Wednesday, February 25, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TREADWHEEL DONKEYS DRAW WATER AT CARISBROOKE
ONE of the few remaining treadwheels in Britain is to be found in twelfth-
century Carisbrooke Castle on the Isle of Wight. The large wooden
wheel, which is enclosed in the well-house, built in 1587, was for the purpose
of drawing water from the 160 ft.-deep well. Today, for the benefit of
visitors, it still serves this purpose, the motive power being provided by a
donkey walking inside the wheel, which draws up a bucket of water from
the cool depths below. This old-fashioned, yet highly effective, method of
drawing water is a constant source of interest and delight to all who visit
Carisbrooke. The castle donkeys are noted for their longevity. In 1798 one
died at the age of 32, another died in 1851 aged 21. Other members of this
srhall yet distinguished band have lived equally long, the last one dying in 1947,
at the age of 34. The water in the well is remarkable for its purity and coolness,
and at such a depth its temperature remains constant throughout the year.
This well owes its origin to the failure of an older one in the keep
during the siege of the castle by King Stephen’s forces in 1150; this failure
caused the surrender of the garrison, and, in order that a similar circumstance
might not occur again, the second and existing well was sunk.
Carisbrooke Castle was founded on the site of a Roman fort in early
Norman times for the defence of the island, and through the centuries it
served as an important fortress. Its chief claim to fame, however, is its
association with King Charles I, who was imprisoned here from November
12, 1647, to September 6, 1648. After two attempts at escape he was removed
first to Newport Grammar School and then to Hurst Castle. In August, 1650,
two of Charles’s children, Henry, Duke of Gloucester, and Princess Elizabeth,
were brought to Carisbrooke. Soon after her arrival the Princess, a child
of thirteen, caught a chill and died within the castle.


“Story Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
——— gut here and mail - ————
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 255) Age
The Red Page
WILL OGILVIE'S BALLADS
The influences that helped to form Will
Ogilvie’s poetry, tributary rills trickling in
to swell the clear, pure current of his
Highland burn as it dashed its surprising
course through the Australian out-
back, were as varied as in most writers.
One unsuspected exemplar, revealing
himself in one of the slighter pieces in
Saddle for a Throne, a collection of his
best verses (with also much that is in-
ferior and repetitive), lately compiled by
Thelma E. Williams and published by
R. M. Williams, Adelaide, is Swinburne:
Let our pathways part for ever,
I am all content with mine—
For when lips are tired of wine
As the long-dead dreamers tell,
There are poppies by the river,
There is hemlock in the dell.
Swinburne seems the oddest of all
parents for the Australian bush-ballad ;
yet he also (with Browning) notoriously
influenced Adam Lindsay Gordon; so,
with his wild red hair shooting up like
the firelight itself, must be given his due
meed of honor as one of the kindlers of
the campfire.
Kipling, of course, influenced many of
the later ballads as Bret Harte influenced
the earlier, and he is to be found fairly
often among Ogilvie’s verses: most
notably, perhaps, in a long and somewhat
uneasy narrative of a camel’s revenge
for the slaying of his Afghan master:
I was his riding camel; brut deep in my
heart there stirred
Something of lust and anger I could not
name in a word.
When he came to me swift and sudden,
the blood-red knife in his belt,
I could not kneel at his bidding as I and
my sires had knelt.
In rhymes printed in this collection
Ogilvie paid tribute to Gordon and
“Banjo” Paterson, and their influences,
too, may often be detected. Paterson
is in the horse-racing poems (“They
were boasting on the Greenhide
of their nags of fancy breed”)
and perhaps also in Ogilvie’s most
famous ballads, “Willanjie” and “From
the Gulf,” with their impetuous metres
and their Patersonian bush-epic quality.
Gordon is in “A Draft from Trin-
gadee,” which, with its blind horseman
and its slowed-down yarning rhythm, is
the old “Sick Stockrider” —the father of
how many dreary ancients, dying with
remorseless leisure in interminable ballads
—come to life again:
Lead me down to the stockyard, Jim, to
the butt of the old box-tree!
I would like to be there when they’re yard-
ing the bullocks from Tringadee.
“At the Back o’ Bourke” is an echo
from Barcroft Boake, a balladist with a
rare tragic depth who is too much
neglected today, being generally known
only by “Where the Dead Men Lie,” the
hammering lament which Ogilvie’s poem
resembles:
Whether the plains are deep or dry,
That’s where the struggling teams go by—
At the back o’ Bourke!
North and Southward in twos and threes,
Bullocks and horses down to the knees,
Wagons dipped to the axle-trees —
Out at the back o’ Bourke!
No doubt at the roots of all his verse,
though there seems to be no direct re-
writing of the old songs, moves that
soakage of crude pioneer, convict and
bushranging rhyme deriving from
English and Irish street-ballads —which
merged with the more respectable currents
from overseas to make the Australian
ballad. And, echoing from far deeper
sources in time, one hears in Ogilvie as
so often in Paterson (both Scots) the
ring of the old minstrelsy of the Border;
There shortening of the bridle, there is
tightening of the girth,
There is fondling of the idol that they love
the best on earth;
Northward from the Lachlan River and the
sun-dried Castlereagh,
Outward to the Never-Never ride the
ringers on their way.
But every poet draws some of his
nourishment out of the common pot;
and Ogilvie, who stands just a little
slighter than Paterson and Lawson in the
leading triumvirate of Australian
balladists, has a distinctive and original
voice through and beyond all influences.
When I try to isolate that voice, to
hear its distinctive music, I put aside
such epic ballads as “Willanjie” and
“From the Gulf” —for these are rarities;
these are not quite typical—and I think
of a Scot much later than the old Border
minstrels: Robert Bums: or, to be pre-
cise, of one poem by Robert Burns, that
loveliest of all love-lyrics “The Rigs o’
Barley” . . . and not because I think that
Ogilvie (who never wrote in the Scottish
dialect so far as I know) was in any
way directly influenced by Burns; but
because both wrote so beautifully about
moonlight, both had so gallant an adora-
tion for girls, and both could blend moon-
light and girls so harmoniously and clearly
and musically into a single glimmer of
enchantment. I am not saying that
Ogilvie is another Bums; he is a bush-
balladist and is to be appreciated on a
ballad level. But there are moments
when they meet. There may be some
racial affinity. It is this poem by Bums:
The sky was blue, the wind was still,
The moon was shining clearly;
1 set her down, wi’ right good will,
Amang the rigs o’ barley:
I kent her heart was a’ my ain;
I lov’d her most sincerely:
I kissed her owre and owre again,
Amang the rigs o’ barley . . ,
and this sort of lyric by Ogilvie:
O, who was it galloped White Star last night,
When gold stars jewelled the sky?
You can see the brand of saddle and brand
In sweat that is clotted and dry.
O, Somebody raced, with the world asleep,
’ To a tryst that Somebody knew,
And over the blue-grass fetlock-deep
The white hoofs scattered the dew.
As Vance Palmer says in his introduc-
tion to Saddle for a Throne, Ogilvie is
practically the only Australian balladist
who, in that stout masculine world of
the bush, dared mention the terrifying
subject of girls. There are some nice,
wistful bits of pathos in Lawson: the
farewell at the sliprails, and the girl left
waiting while Andy goes a-droving—not
to mention (as really past bearin’) the
lady who says she is “past carin’.”
Lawson had, too, one surprisingly
Rabelaisian adventure in “The Shearer’s
Dream.” Paterson ventured once upon
“A Mylora Elopement.” But by and
large it was only Ogilvie who caught the
grace of “A Wildflower by the Way”
(another poem that seems to have some
kinship with Burns):
I had no longer need to speak,
Chained by those eyes of brown
I kissed her once for Barwon Creek
And twice for Sydney town;
Then gathered bridle-rein once more
And heard a heart-beat say,
“The drover’s life were dull but for
The wildflowers by the way.”
And it was only Ogilvie, therefore, who
added to his balladry all the moonlight
and the grace, all the lyrical charm
and melody which flow from a lover’s
outlook on life and which cannot be
evoked by plodding from shanty to shanty
or pounding round the racetrack after
horses.
It would be enough to win him a
distinctive place in Australian balladry
if he had written, in his smooth,
light, lyrical style, no more than the songs
of outback love: “Where the Brumbies
Come to Water” with its queer touch of
drama, “The Township Lights,” “Home
by the Stars,” “Forty Miles for a Kiss,”
“A Wildflower by the Way” and that
loveliest of all the series “A Telltale
Tryst.”
But Ogilvie is something more than
the only poet of love, the only real
troubadour among the bush-balladists. It
is not only girls, not only girls in moon-
light that make the lyrical note running
all through his earliest and best verses ;
it is also moonlight itself,' the pure
element, the tranquil spaces of the night;
and the lyrics of love merge in the
end into the wider vision of night in the
bush which is Ogilvie’s major and unique
contribution to Australian balladry.
Other writers have touched upon the
night; Paterson in “Black Swans,” Dyson
in “The Old Whim Horse”; but nobody
else has made it his own private territory,
seeming to write direct from the camp-
fire where surely a bush-ballad should be
written, as Ogilvie has in “Bells Along
Macquarie,” “Starry Camp,” “The Last
Muster,” “The Bush My Love” and a
dozen other lovely nocturnes. He has
half the total magic of the bush —moon-
light and campfire —for his private pad-
dock ; and his verses, light as they are,
are like branches wrenched alive from
the moonlit gum-trees. Though it would
be hard to say which is the finest piece of
writing—perhaps “The Last Muster” for
its strange, compassionate picture of all
the dead cattle ; and the sense of the
balladist at his campfire in the back-
ground—l think that the poem which
most perfectly expresses his vision, be-
cause his girls and the moonlit bush have
blended into a single image, is “The Bush
My Love”:
The campfire gleams resistance
To every twinkling star;
The horsebells in the distance
Are jangling faint and far;
Through gum-boughs lorn and lonely
The passing breezes sigh;
In all the world are only
My star-crowned Love and 1.
The still night wraps Macquarie;
The white moon, drifting slow,
Takes back her silver glory
From watching waves below;
To dalliance 1 give over
Though half the world may chide,
And clasp my one true lover
Here on Macquarie side.
It is astonishing, indeed, how persis-
tently the images of night appear all
through his poetry; making, as in “From
the Gulf” and “Abandoned Selections,”
even when the setting is in daylight, its
most effective passages:
I see from your crumbling doorways
The whispering white forms pass,
And shiver to hear dead horses
Crop-cropping the long grey grass.
One of the claims made for Ogilvie by
Vance Palmer should be modified. He
points out, interestingly, that apart from
Paterson most of our horse-poetry has
been written by “strangers within our
gates,” Gordon, Morant and Ogilvie ; but
then he adds:
Where do you find even the faintest
rattle of hooves in the work of Lawson,
Daley, Brady, Quinn, not to mention
Brennan?
I don’t quite know why poor Brennan
should have been expected to gallop to
the University ; and the relevance of the
other names, except Lawson’s, could be
queried. But both Brady and Quinn did
in fact write some occasional ballads
about horses, and Lawson wrote many.
Surely there is a distinct rattle of hooves
in “Talbragar”:
But b'ig Ben Duggan saddled up, and
galloped fast and far,
To raise the biggest funeral yet seen on
Talbragar . . .
and again in “The Lights of Cobb and
C 0.,” in the bushranging “Taking His
Chance,” in “The Sliprails and the Spur,”
by implication at least in “Andy’s Gone
with Cattle” and distinctly again in “The
Bushfire,” “The Fire at Ross’s Farm,”
“Marshall’s Mate” and in what is prob-
ably Lawson’s most effective piece, “The
Ballad of the Drover”:
Across the flooded lowlands
And slopes of sodden loam
The packhorse struggles bravely
To take dumb tidings home;
And mud-stained, wet and weary,
He goes by rock and tree,
With clanging chains and tinware
All sounding eerily.
However, that is the sort of generalisa-
tion which may be false in fact and yet
substantially true in spirit. Though he
had a homely, pathetic note of his own,
I think Lawson’s best ballads of action,
which are comparatively rare, were in-
spired by Paterson, and most of his verse
is either political (not ballad at- all) or
else gives a rather dismal impression of
fishing among the dregs of bush shanties
for sparks of hope he thought he could
perceive in hopeless drunkards . . . His
genius lay in the short-story. His verse
in toto was certainly not a cavalier’s;
and Ogilvie’s, just as certainly, is:
The Coorong lay beside us as placid as a
pond;
The horses ran before us, and who so gay
as we,
With mallee to the right of us, a desert
waste beyond,
And sandhills to the left of us, and after
that the sea?
Ogilvie’s horsemanship, so appropriate
—indeed almost essential —to the swing-
ing rhythm of the true ballad of action,
is, of course, one of the elements of his
verse, beyond his themes of campfire and
moonlight, that has won for it the affec-
tion of Australian readers and a per-
manent place in authentic Australian
balladry. In “Willanjie,” “From the
Gulf” and “How the Fire Queen Crossed
the Swamp” he broadened and dramatised
his effects until he achieved much of the
epic rush and richness of “The Man from
Snowy River,” making immortal Aus-
tralian legends out of galloping horses,
stampeding mobs of cattle, and the cour-
age and resolution of men:
Store-cattle from Nelanjie! They’re mute
as milkers now;
But yonder grizzled drover, with the care-
lines on his brow,
Could tell of merry musters on the big
Nelanjie plains.
With blood upon the chestnut’s flanks and
foam upon the reins;
Could tell of nights upon -the road when
those same mild-eyed steers
Wen i ringing round the river-bend and
through the scrub like spears;
And if his words are rough and rude, we
know his words are true;
We know what wild Nelanjies are —and
we’ve been droving too!
Yet on the whole Ogilvie has rarely
been successful in the true ballad of
action. He had not the lively and
sardonic appreciation of character which
was Paterson’s great strength; he never
seems wholly to have understood—or by
temperament and by talent was not
equipped to employ—the fundamental
principle of the ballad, whether medieval
of Australian, which Paterson practised
by unerring instinct, and which is that
the ballad is not a description of a scene
or an industry, not an evocation of
personal or traditional bush-memories,
but a story of action ; a kind of miniature
drama, in verse suitable anciently for
chanting, today for speaking. Most of
Ogilvie’s stories, not being firmly based
in character, tend to be sentimental, melo-
dramatic and repetitive—“ How We Won
the Ribbon” and “Linden Lea” are both
based on the rescue of a child ; in “The
Overlander” the cattle trample a child
to death ; and essentially the same plot
is used again when the girl, after her sur-
prising appearance in the midst of the
stampede, is rescued in “Willanjie.” In
other attempted narratives, such as “The
Road to Adelaide” and “The Dingo of
Brigalow Gap,” a story of splendid
promise peters out into literal bush-
memories.
So, except -for a very few successful
ballads in the broad field of action, it is
to the poems of moonlight and those
(like “The Team Bullock” and “Solitude”)
akin to them in their images of loneliness
that one returns for Ogilvie’s finest and
most distinctive qualities ; among which,
as expressions of the same sensitivity that
makes him so intensely aware of girls,
moonlight, solitude and the romance of
reverie by the campfire, one should em-
phasise his rare compassion for the horses
and cattle that have suffered so much
since man took them into the heat-blasted
wilderness, and the spirit of fresh delight
which gleams through everything he
wrote in Australia:
Here is the joy no griefs rescind,
The thrill no time can take — _
Twice round the track on Rosalind
Before the world’s awake.
Ogilvie was only twelve years in Aus-
tralia, from 1889 to 1901. As well as his
latterday evocations of the bush which,
like most of his early ballads, have been
printed in The Bulletin, he has written
a great deal of verse on English and
Scottish themes, and is represented in
a recent national anthology of Scottish
poetry. His final stature, therefore, is
not to be assessed solely on his bush-
ballads ; but I am inclined to suspect,
with Vance Palmer, that, having him in
his youth when all the world was new,
Australia got the best of him.
It is a pity, since all the baliadists are
due for re-assessment, that Saddle for a
Throne is such an unsatisfactory collec-
tion ; being neither a Complete Works
which would be valuable to criticism
and scholarship nor a Selected Poems
which would present Will Ogilvie
at his best in the ballads that really
matter in Australian literature. However,
it is pleasant to see him in print once
more ; and all his best Australian poems
are at any rate included in the volume.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Martin's Bay
In the hundred pages of her Pioneers
of Martins Bay (Whitcombe and Tombs)
Mrs. Peter MacKenzie has the bones of
a really great pioneering novel. First
published in 1947, it now appears in a
revised edition maybe it will last longer
in this dry, cold and truthful concision
than if it were blown-up into a couple of
hundred thousand words.
Her father, Daniel McKenzie, was a
Scottish journalist who arrived in New
Zealand in 1866, and soon joined the
staff of the Hokitika “West Coast Times.
In 1875 he joined some 200 immigrants,
mostly Poles, Germans and Italians, who
were going to make fortunes raising
cattle at Jackson’s Bay, 150 miles south
of Hokitika on the west coast of the
South Island. There his wife and young
family joined him to share in his unlmed,
two-roomed shack ; no chimney; cook-
ing outside in a stone fireplace:
My father was schoolmaster for a short
time but he soon gave it up as he cou
not speak German, Italian or Polish, and
the children could not speak English. The
Poles and Germans went against the Italians
One day the schoolchildren quarrelled and
when they went home told their grievances
to their mothers. Very soon a number of
women were out on the beach carrying on
((Continued on page 35)


*5
•ftV.
U's
iwfi'
!
Iff
m
l»*U5
It IffferHy 11111 l
>*-j *, 'J. ''*y. >\ '£l
i ' '■ } W, * v.y ' ;• v": t
m
OUn
s yJWki
m
: -J
’ ■ , , '
•-. -..n'
- »
-> - ft-"'* 'iH-;
■ft
u
•: 1
»
ft, '-
m
i#
m
:
fey
y
a
1
Hftft
‘"X
v -
fIP
FT
>
*
<s.
■Sffi
44,
■
rtC'P?"
m-.
11
m
ffifS
m
Jl
■n’
&
O’
H
ft ft
m
si
ftvr
r
H
!S
«
M
m
n
M 7.
A
■'ft-,.
1
a
m
m
ft'vfe
r.
X
ft
i
fed 4? ft
SK
.?■ ,ft' r
i
'.■ 8
,■ : .
«
V
*
ft
Wi
I
;:-fty
&
i
ft ■■ ft-ft
Lei the magic ol Imported English wallpapers give beauty and colour to every
room in your home. You can make
WONDERWORK
WITH WALLPAPER!
It’s not so expensive to decorate your home this easy way! Our free booklet on
wallpapering is so simple to follow it almost does the work for you. Wallpaper our
easy way, save money and effort, create beauty in your home.
is- '«
& &
H;*;:
You, too, can hang your own wall-
papers! Write *for our free booklet
on wallpapering. And also samples.
We’ll send them to you immedia-
tely. Write now! ■ $
W-
m
* *
:
Vv 4
i
i
*y
"■='
m
s';
Floral wallpaper with a
trellis pattern. Wonder-
ful in bedrooms. Priced
only 7/- per roll.
e-\:
fi. A ) x $
I:
• : : % II |
I;
K*
1
y>’,< 5~,
■■’!
g:!;^«»: v : :
f ! SillP
>. *
V : ; \ ;: ■;: -:
-S ■ :
'<■ ;,: /;- ;■ ,;•
te®
&'
fej
...
~ ' ; ■"-■• ... ■. %>.
■•'o ‘ ' •
' ¥\ /FI. ' >
<. ■
if:
Plastic finish wallpaper,
with soft pastel designs.
Priced from 16/- per roll.
?
”7""
*
4aHSm£¥* «'#«**»#% i^sg-* «
iMJKf->/
pr,
fe**a-xgk.sV.ri' v . rwr ,^.f^%i
i
IBS*
« t /- is? >#*£
' : ' “''i. '&&&$& |
s**
2S
s?*
W«
'f
-••- ?;:
%5s
l*y»
i.-*sr.
;■ %%&&& 4
Ml
V3C*
r
*& ‘
Textured Cream wall-
paper in attractive self col-
oured designs. Attractively
priced from HO/- per roll.
M
iy
Floral wallpaper with a
coloured ground. For liv-
ing rooms. From 7/- roll.
j- t ~'
i *** im
.< V
rv: j
;
MMMIIHBaHMIIMHHHi
Delicate floral pattern on
spotted ground. Priced
from only 7/- per roll.
mf-
■■■
1
WTW^T^
ft., ,J ,>« j - U 1 1. vi
fci . I<C U- , - Av
■ f?W ,<■(/•/■• .
A
•Vy;
fcj
MSI
bqr i», v
■
'4t. :m
Textured Cream wallpaper
with coloured or self-col-
oured grounds. Priced at
from only 10/- per roll.
FD
Florals in plastic finished
paper. Spotted grounds.
From only 16/- per roll.
_ __
;
m
m
■
m
c
m
m
1
:
m
1
:
m
m
*
Striped wallpaper, satin
finish. From 11/- roll.
u
MkT*
"O'**
Nursery wallpaper, keenly
priced from 11/- per roll.
>
&
SJ
OlfW
i i •
iu
W
$ m
Glacier paper, 18in. wide.
Priced at 2/6 per yard.
CITY CUSTOMERS, TAKE BLUE AND YELLOW BUSES TO ANTHONY HORDERNS', FARE 4d
■~' ■ . ,
WALLPAPERS, THIRD FLOOR, ATOP ESCALATORS. BOX 2712, G.P.O. PHONE M 2401
F


Sport Round the World
DUCK-NETTING
AND HAI-ALAI
By STEPHEN KELEN
IN the world there are more than 500
branches of sport, counting only
, those that have more than a thou-
sand competitors. This number in-
eludes such fantastic events as fly-casting,
hai-alai, running backwards, duck-netting,
wrestling with animals and a host of
other games most people probably
haven’t even heard of.
Of all games, soccer appears to be the
most popular. Soccer originated in Eng-
land, and it is true that “the sun never
sets on the game of soccer.” Today there
is no civilised country in the world where
soccer is not gaining in popularity;
among the more recent, Australia, New
Zealand and the United States.
Other team ball-games are also spread-
ing in popularity. Cricket, however, is
played almost solely in the British
Empire. At one time it was expected to
become the national sport of the United
States. In London’s King’s Library a
drawing dated 1344 can be seen showing
a cricket bowler and a batter facing him.
Cricket was then a well-organised sport
in England ; later it aroused regal dis-
pleasure. Edward IV, in 1477, decided
that the game “hands in and hands out”
(apparently the name of cricket in those
days) interfered with the compulsory
practice of archery, and forbade its con-
tinuance. Anyone who broke the law
was liable to a heavy fine and two years’
imprisonment.
In world sport today ball games draw
the largest crowds, but none of them is
so thoroughly international as athletics
or water sports are. Wrestling and box-
ing are more of a business, and also a
question of fashion in many countries,
especially in South America.
New sports are received enthusiasti-
cally, then most of them fade out in a
comparatively short time. The six-day
bicycle-race in Buenos Aires at first drew
tremendous crowds, but it was not long
before a scant hundred were interested.
Here we find the difference between the
British sporting spirit and that of other
countries. In England, Australia and
New Zealand sports are not introduced
with a great ballyhoo ; most of them
have a silent entry; but they come to
stay. .
Probably nowhere else in the world has
sport more social significance than in
South America, especially in Brazil,
Argentina and Uruguay. There, great
clubs like the Gymnasia y Esqrima, the
Flamehgo or the Club Portuguese have
each more than 100,000 members. These
members obtain medical attention, enjoy
social benefits and are able to play all
manner of sports for a fee of four shil-
lings a month. The clubs are not only
sports-clubs but social institutions. In
the British Empire, clubs concentrate on
one specific sport; Continental and South
American clubs of the kind mentioned
are real “all-rounders.” They embody
all departments of sport. In most of
these countries soccer attracts the largest
crowds, but this doesn’t matter, because
soccer has the role of a “breadwinner,
and supports other, less popular, games.
In India the national sport is grass-
hockey ; nowhere else in the world is so
much hockey played. Cricket is their
other national sport. In the last decade
great efforts have been made by India’s
leaders to introduce sports to the masses,
but it will take a long time before the
people of India, Pakistan, Burma and
other such countries are going to be sport-
minded. Poverty there is so great that
obtaining the daily bread is a full-time
occupation, without thinking of pastimes.
Some of the most beautiful beaches in
the world are in India, lonely and de-
serted ; the Ganges at Benares, with all
its stench and filth, is the bathing-place
of millions of people in the religious sea-
sons of the year.
Further East, in China, there is almost
the same situation as in India; but to
me Japan was a real surprise.
Before the war swimming, tennis,
table-tennis, Rugby and other modern
sports were gaining popularity in Japan,
but summo-wrestling, fencing with
wooden sticks and ju-jutsu were the
national games. Since Japan’s surrender
the ancient sports have suffered a serious
setback, and mostly modern ball-games
attract large crowds.
The most remarkable sports I have
seen in all my travels were duck-netting
in Japan, and hai-alai in Shanghai and
Latin America.
It took me a great deal of time, and
called for the help of “influence,” to get
an “Imperial invitation” to a duck-netting
party.
Duck-netting is always .one of the
features of Japanese Imperial entertain-
ment. No distinguished visitor (I was
not one) ever gets away from Japan with-
out attending at least one duck-netting
party. There are special reserves in various
parts of Nippon. The one I attended
was in the grounds of the Harpa Palace,
in Tokyo.
Within the palace grounds, in a poetic
setting, are two lakes, from each of which
lead twisting, tortuous canals about 7ft.
wide, and rather shallow. At the end of
each canal is an embankment. Tame
ducks are kept on these lakes the year
round to act as decoys for wild ones.
Both tame and wild ducks are fed daily
at the ends of the canals’ low embank-
ments, which conceal the feeders.
Gradually the wild ducks become
accustomed to this trip from the lakes
down the canals to the feeding-grounds.
When a hunt is on, and while the ducks
are feeding, a man creeps stealthily to
the lake and quietly lowers a steel screen
into the water, cutting off . the return-
passage of the ducks by water to the
lake, thus confining them to a restricted
space. The netters, five on each side,
then cautiously take their assigned places
along the canal, keeping out of sight.
The ducks, sensing trouble, rise into the
air from the water. This is the time when
the “hunters” emerge from their hide-
outs, raise their long-handled nets and
try to catch the ducks, much in the same
way that butterflies are netted.
The ducks are slow in getting a start
when rising from the water, and you have
to be very clumsy not to be able to score
at least a couple of birds.
After the birds are netted comes the
sorting-out. The tame ducks, with a
special ring on the left leg, are put back
into the canal—they are too valuable to
be wasted in the frying-pan
Hai-alai is a mixture of handball and
squash-rackets, played in a court enclosed
within three high walls, while at the other
side of the hall the spectators sit —
behind a protecting screen. This precau-
tion is necessary; the ball they use in
hai-alai is a hard one. Singles, doubles
and triplets are played; and one of the
unusual features of the game is the
“cesta,” the racket they use, which looks
like a huge, curving fingernail, strapped
to the player’s arm. '
The players, facing the wall, wait for
the return of the ball, which bounces
back with lightning speed; the man
whose turn it is catches the ball in his
“basket,” lets it roll down to his hand,
takes a firm grip of it, and then shoots
it out towards the wall, giving it some
special spins.
Hai-alai i§ one of the fastest games in
the world. Its speed equals that of ice-
hockey or table-tennis. It is probably the
only sport—in its many variations —•
which is actually a combination of a
handball and a racquet game. But this
is not its only peculiarity. Hai-alai is
probably the only game in which age
and size of players don’t matter.
When I entered the hai-alai court in
Shanghai the players were just warming-
up. It was a triple game they were about
to start. One of them was a little man
with a goatee and another a tremendously
fat fellow ; the rest looked like normal
sportsmen.
“We are lucky, senor,” the Spaniard
who took me to see the match said. “This
is the best match tonight.”
“Then,” I inquired, with a certain
amount of misgiving, “what are the old
chap and that fat one doing on the
court?”
“Senor,” the Spaniard said, “those two
are outstanding players.”
Truly enough, the two played an
outstandingly good game.
“Just how old is he?” I asked, point-
ing at “senior.”
“Fifty-seven.”
“It’s hardly credible,” I remarked.
“Hai-alai seems to be a strenuous enough
game, and it ? s certainly very fast.”
“True,” the Spaniard explained. “But
you don’t have to move a great deal. It
is mostly a matter of concentration and
personal skill to catch the ball and throw
it out. You don’t need much strength
and running ability.”
Hai-alai is one of the greatest gambling
mediums in the Latin American countries
and in Florida, the only State in the
U.S.A. where it has gained popularity.
In Miami alone, during the winter sea-
son, the nightly betting goes up as high
as £35,000. Star players earn as much
as £lOOO a month. Bets and wagers in
Mexico and Cuba are even higher.
Amateur hai-alai has very few
adherents, because as soon as players
reach the professional class some im-
presario gets them. Professional games
are managed on the stable system. There
are several outstanding stables of hai-
alai players, the most famous “belonging”
to Pedro Mir, who is something of a
hai-alai potentate in Florida, where all
players are under his rule and his com-
mands are law. Any disobedience and
even the most outstanding champion is
out of a job, and, furthermore, inter-
nationally banned.
The balls used in hai-alai are of special
manufacture; hard rubber inside, goat-
skin for the cover. They cost up to £l2
each. The cestas are of different value,
depending on how fancy they are. You
can buy a cheap one for £l2, but a fancy
creation would cost you as much as £6O.
The time when new sports were dis-
covered, and old ones perfected, has
passed. But even so, the field of sport
is so rich, it’s so much in the pattern of
our civilisation, that sport will surely be
one of the means of paving the way
towards a happier era.
The Art of Guide-Baiting
50ME0NE on the tour, who
had more energy than sense,
suggested we join the big party
going over the smelters, and
before I could even register a pro-
test I was committed to it.
The guide herded us into a heap
and began reeling off some prelimin-
ary facts. He explained that the ore
came down from the mountain, that
they extracted copper and gold and
D.D.T. or something from it, and
to bob down as we were passing the
comer of the building on our left.
I ignored him, for I strongly object
to taking orders from total strangers.
The overhead waterpipe chipped my
scalp.
Outside a huge building the guide
stopped.
“It’s too noisy inside, so I’ll ex-
plain before we. go in,” he said.
He went on to tell us that the ore
came up into the place on conveyor-
belts, the entry-rate regulated by
huge chains, and that from there it
went into big drums in which were
steel balls which crushed the ore,
and that when it was reduced to
powder it was mixed with water.
Then he went ahead and we followed.
The din was like something that
might have been created by a few
thousand skeletons doing the rhumba
on a galvanised-iron roof to an
orchestra composed of a few dozen
concrete-mixers and jackhammers.
The women were, of course, able to
maintain a conversation without diffi-
culty.
I stepped up to the guide, pointed
to the giant chains as they roared up
and down, and shouted:
“What happens every Tuesday
fortnight—the higher or the fewer?”
He pointed to his ears and shrugged
his shoulders.
After we’d looked at what appeared
to be escalators without steps moving
backwards and forwards, pushing a
gooey mixture, and large drums
rushing around frenziedly, we left the
Hades-like scene and got outside.
There the guide stopped again.
“Anyone got any questions he’d
like to ask?”
Now, I had had to pay him four
shillings for guide-fees for the wife
and myself, so I was determined he’d
earn it.
“Yes,” I said. “What were the
drums going around for?”
“I told you before we went in,”
he said. “To crush the ore. The
steel balls going around inside them
do that.” ■
“Well,” I pursued, “I have heard
that steel is subject to ‘fatigue’—
what if the balls got too tired to
pound the ore, or you got some ore
in strong enough to pound the steel
balls?”
He opened his mouth, shut it again,
gave me a nasty look, then turned to
the mob.
“From here we will go to this
other building over there. You
have seen how the ore is pulverised
and mixed with water, pushed by the
agitators into a porridge-like sub-
stance, which is brought over to this
building by chute. Here you will see
it being roasted in th 6 big Bessemer
furnaces. This way, please.”
After we had watched for some
time the furnace doing its furnacing,
we emerged into the open air. Again
the guide asked if anyone had any
questions, and again I was the only
one.
“You say the or© is roasted. How
do you baste it?”
“We don’t.”
“Would you get the same results
by frying it?”
He swallowed hard. “No!” he
said loudly, and I rejoiced to detect a
note of defensiveness creeping into
his answers.
Before I could get another ques-
tion in he said quickly, addressing
the crowd. “If you’ll come this way
you’ll see the metal being poured
into the moulds.” Everyone moved
off.
He again asked, after we had seen
the process, if anyone would like any
point cleared up. Again I stepped
into the breech.
“Well,” I said, “I’d like to know
if penicillin is a by-product. I’ve
heard it grows on moulds,”
He glared at me, “No!”
and waved his hand towards another
building.
“Now well observe the electrolytic
process. This way.”
W© moved into a building full of
vats in which sheets of thin copper
were suspended in a green fluid. He
nattered something about high
amperage and low voltage and how
the process thickened the plates.
When he got outside he asked the
usual question, but there was a
distinct trepidation in his voice.
“After it comes out of the juice
is it hammered into angles and
joists?” I asked.
“This is copper —you don’t make
joists of that.”
“You don’t, perhaps, but how do
you know they don’t make them else-
where?”
He turned away. “No more ques-
tions?” his eye swept the mob,
“Yes,” I went on again. “Do you
put the verdigris on it before the
copper leaves the place?”
“No!” he shouted,
“Just one other point,” I said.
“Can you use the same ore twice?”
By that time he had a sort of
trapped look, like that of a man help-
ing his wife select a carpet.
As we filed out before proceed-
ing to the next building I happened
to be last. The guide dropped back.
With tears in his eyes he pressed a
ten-bob not© into my hand, and in
a broken voice said: “Look, for
so-an-so’s sake, mizzle off, will you,
you make the place look untidy.”
In the face of so courteous a re-
quest, who was I churlishly to de-
cline?
A look over the works, gratis, and
a profit of six-bob. Fair enough.
BO.
Next Week
ROSE LINDSAY'S
MEMOIRS
Second j instalment of extracts from
the fascinating memoirs of Mrs.
Norman Lindsay. Personal character-
portrayals of “Banjo” Paterson, Ran-
dolph Bedford, “Kodak” (Ernest
O’Ferrall), A. G. Stephens, Hugh D.
Mclntosh, John Dailey and other
studio visitors. The “Banjo” por-
trayal, a gem of character-depiction,
adds importantly to all hitherto set
down about the poet.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 25, 1953
VoL 74—No. 3811
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man *
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
‘Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan's Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEADLOCK GOVERNMENT
For the Federal Government the current session of
Parliament is vital. It has been dogged with ill luck to
a greater extent than any Administration within
memory.
It came into office at a time when the population
had been conditioned to expect the Golden Age at any
minute, and when rising prices and swelling markets
seemed to lend color to the promises so freely uttered
by Messrs. Chifley and Evatt. It was bound to carry
the burdens which were to come with inflation’s
aftermath. Its first term was mostly a conflict
i with a hostile Senate. Then its efforts were distracted by
the fight against Communism in which the “Labor”
Opposition fought on the enemy side. Its civil-service
army was honeycombed from the bottom upwards
with “Labor” sympathisers whose only qualification
for office was very often a sympathy with the “Labor”
party or a service rendered it.
It was forced to impose restrictions —and any
other Government in office would have beep equally
obliged to impose them—at a time when squandering
had become so normal as to seem like a part of
nature. It was compelled to keep taxation up to meet
the urgent and rapidly inflating financial needs of
defence and commitments to other countries in
U.N.0., including the inescapable ones connected with
the war in Korea and others due to the lighthearted
arrangements born in the brain of Dr, Evatt in the
days of his “greatness.” Almost everything it • was
compelled to do in the year which succeeded its second
election to office offended various pressure-groups and
gave propaganda material to the most unscrupulous
Opposition which the Federal Parliament has ever
known. And in attempting to reach many of its
objectives it has been thwarted by State “Labor”
Governments.
Added to its other troubles it has had to carry
the load incidental to weak support from State
Liberal-C.P. parties and the chaotic Government which
held Liberalism up to ridicule in Victoria.
Now, straight on top of a session which is being
hurried through so that political leaders throughout
the Commonwealth may go to the Coronation after
fighting State elections round the continent, it is faced
with a Senate poll which will almost certainly return
the Parliament to a state of deadlock or worse.
The preliminaries to this election are a series of
bills of which two at least are subjects of strong con-
tention among Liberals and C.P. men —banking and
television. The former is assailed with ferocity by
“Labor,” which obviously has the sympathy of„some
Commonwealth Bank “experts,” who under it will be
compelled to discard some of the dictatorial powers
with which they obviously have hoped to destroy the
private trading banks, “Labor’s” own opposition is
real, for every whittling or division of central-bank
powers makes the socialisation of banking, on which
it is grimly determined. Constitution or no Con-
stitution, progressively more difficult. On the Liberal
side there is a feeling among a number of members
that the bill is only a half-measure, and that the bank-
ing situation will never be secure until the trading-
bank section of the Commonwealth Bank is wiped
out or completely removed from the control of those
who manage the central Ijank and who would be able
to exert their will on the policy of the whole.
The banks, a powerful political influence, are
naturally not satisfied, particularly at the seeming
acceptance by the Government of the “Labor” theory
that institutions which are the property of large
numbers of private shareholders and whose controllers
obviously know as much about finance, Australian and
international, as anybody, and who have the duty of
supporting the economy in times of difficulty and
stress, must have no part in the framing of national
financial policy even as advisers. Under “Labor” they
were treated as rapacious animals with whom the
Government and the Commonwealth Bank could have
no concern except by way of discipline and
suppression.
The whole field of Federal government and
policy seems dotted with obstruction. The Parlia-
ment itself does not, and cannot, work smoothly
because its structure makes a regular Senate deadlock
almost always inevitable. The Federal financial system
cannot work because opposite parties govern States
and Commonwealth, and “Labor” State Governments
are more concerned with destroying the Common-
wealth Government than with smooth administration.
It is now a settled plan with “Labor” to refuse to agree
with any Government which is not a “Labor” Gov-
ernment and to recognise no national policy which
does not lead directly and imminently to socialisation.
Jhe taxation and borrowing systems can scarcely
WAITING THEIR CHANCE
work under the circumstances, whether collections and
the loan market are a divided or a single responsibility,
A long-term policy in borrowing and finance generally
cannot be created with the wolf-like States screaming
for more and doing their best at the same time to
shake confidence in the central flnaneia! authority and
to impugn its motives.
Something has to be done about all these things if
the Federation is to continue to exist. The Govern-
ment should take the bull by the horns. The great need
of the moment is for a Commonwealth convention on
the Constitution to evolve a workable system. All
other issues are suborditiate to the need to give what-
ever Federal Government may be in power a fair run
to carry out the mandates given to it without being
torn to pieces by pressure-groups and hampered by a
Senate elected under a system which looks as if it had
come out of a madhouse. A mandate to frame for a
convention a system which will work should be the
issue at the Senate elections, or at the early general
election which must almost certainly follow if the
Senate poll produces a stalemate or a “Labor” majority.
£A Devaluation?
Speculation as to whether a devaluation of the Aus-
tralian pound in relation to sterling is likely has come
as a surprise to many who only a year or so ago were
sponsoring the proposal to up-v alue the Australian
pound—in fact, to bring it back to par with sterling.
Since September, 1949, when both sterling and the
£A were devalued in relation to the dollar, there has
been a rise of 52.7 p.c, in the cost-of-living (C-series)
index. The wage index has shot up 61 p.c. in the same
time.
Between September, 1949, and November, 1952,
the price of wool showed a net gain of 73 p.c. It had
rocketed violently in between. The export price of
wheat has risen 10 p.c. in the same period.
It is clear that there has been a considerable change
in the costs-and-prices structure of the Australian
economy since 1949, which was the appropriate time,
if ever there was one, to bring the £A back to parity
with sterling and, incidentally, to have checked in the
bud much of our present inflation.
Wool prices have more than held their own with
costs since 1949. Not so wheat. And, whilst there is
still a ready market for both wool and wheat, the
same does not apply to many of our manufactured
products which, a short couple of years ago, could
have been readily sold abroad if we had any surplus
to export. There was an eager market in particular
for our woollen textiles, canned foods and steel
products. A decided contraction in our exports of
textiles and canned foods has recently occurred, and
competition is growing still keener.
Undoubtedly the pinch is being felt in respect of
many of our manufactures and processed foods. The
big rise in Australian wages since 1949 and the more
competitive overseas market has made exporting
understandably difficult. Very few things are scarce at
present provided “hard” currency is available to the
buyer of them. Even goods from sources alternative
to the U.S.A. and Canada —these alternative sources
a year ago were charging the equivalent of black-
market prices for their products by comparison with
dollar prices —are in many cases happy to do business
on the basis of quotations f.o.b. New York, and for
sterling currency.
The restriction of imports into Australia has had
most to do with the great improvement in our trade
balance for the seven months to the end of January.
For that period our exports exceeded our imports
to the value of £l7B million, compared with a trade
deficit of £265 million in the same period of 1951-52.
Imports for the later period were £299 million, com-
pared with £647 million in the earlier.
It has yet to be demonstrated fully whether
importing at the current rate is meeting Australian
requirements of overseas consumer goods. Probably
the 1951-52 figure was inflated by overbuying and
accelerated deliveries, and did not represent the rate
of Australian consumption of the goods concerned. It
is unlikely, however, that even the financially restricted
capital-goods demands of this country are being
satisfied with present imports. In other words, the
lifting of import-restrictions would probably result in
an increased buying of machinery, etc., abroad, and
that would increase the total bill for our imports.
But though our present favorable balance of trade
may not be quite all it seems and therefore suggestive
of a weakness in our export position, there should be
no temptation whatever to toy with the idea of a
devaluation of the pound in order to stimulate exports
and curb imports by making them more costly to buy.
Most of the weakness in our present economic position
—both as regards internal conditions and our trading
disadvantages overseas —arises from inadequate pro-
ductivity from the average employed person. Our
costs are too high, and to endeavor to cover this up by
currency manipulation would indicate gross national
laziness and ineptitude.
Currency devaluation generally amounts to national
self-deception and an indirect favoring of one class as
against another. The last thing in the world it is likely
to do is to “put value back into the pound.” It should
never be resorted to except in the case of a catastrophic
fall in world prices or a runaway rise in internal costs
and prices.
Those in favor of devaluation are usually the
export industries and trade-unions dependent upon
manufacturing. Often manufacturing industries them-
selves favor devaluation when imports become too
competitive and their export markets contract. But
where inflationary conditions still persist internally a
policy of currency devaluation is one of despair. The
fact that Australian production costs (in terms of our
currency) have slipped from an extremely competitive
position in 1947 to a very different one now indicates
that our problems are mostly internal, and not to be
solved by external currency-juggling.
Australians, instead of looking to currency mani-
pulation as a way out of their troubles, must recognise
the warning signs, dig their toes in and increase
quantity and quality of their output. If we cannot
go back to parity with sterling—and at this stage
that would seem to be quite out of the question —then
we must make a fighting stand on the £AI2S-to-
£stglOO line. That stand would be in keeping with the
Federal Government’s policy of stabilising prices and
costs and endeavoring to build up our strength and
solve our problems in the only logical way—that is, by
increasing our rate of production of essential goods
to the point where we can compete profitably with
overseas producers and at the same time provide, from
our own efforts, the sinews for the capital development
which is now so very urgently needed. We are becom-
ing run-down industrially and very shabby in our real
standard of living.


PLAIN ENGLISH
On the Up-and-Up
On the eve of leaving for America, first
to a preliminary exploration of Wash-
ington attitudes and then for the Ottawa
Conference, Mr. Butler, British Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer, said that “in
the last 12 months the sterling area as a
whole had experienced an improvement in
its affairs so striking that it afforded great
encouragement in tackling the pressing
and difficult problems that remained.”
The area has achieved “a state of
relative stability which, while it could not
automatically continue, must be used to
the full while it lasts” for the purpose of
working out and applying long-term Com-
monwealth policies.
The reflection of world opinion on the
changed outlook is to be seen in many
directions. Possibly the new fiscal policy
in the U.S. reflects the knowledge
that the United States is rapidly ceasing
to be the world’s economic dictator. And
the European attitude is one which would
have been unbelievable two or three years
ago. It is only a few months since a very
influential school in most of the, Con-
tinental countries concerned in the dis-
cussion of the development of the
Schumann Plan were afraid that Britain’s
slowness in recovery might make her an
embarrassing ally and a brake on the
restoration of Continental stability. To-
day the problem among the European
countries is obviously a new one —whether
Western Europe will presently be left
monetarily out in the cold and sterling
and the dollar made convertible in a way
which would exclude the European
countries.
There is an eager struggle to see that
this will not happen. This change of
front has largely come about since the
November Commonwealth Economic
Conference. Referring broadly to the
whole British Commonwealth and to the
difficulties of achieving a balance of trade
which confronted the greatest of them —
the U.K., Canada and Australia —Mr.
Butler said on February 11:
We have had proof that when all
countries involved show the necessary
spirit of determination and responsibility
they can cope even with circumstances
such as those of a year ago, which seemed
so adverse as to make even some of our
friends abroad doubt our power of
recovery.
Recovery is undoubtedly coming. The
British Commonwealth has an inestimable
advantage over the rest of the world.
It has the bulk of the unscratched primary
resources of the world, and room for
rapid expansions of population and the
establishment of high standards of living
on the basis of relatively low costs.
And as shown by its leadership in the
origination of radar, jet-propulsion and
antibiotic medicine, it has an unequalled
genius among nations in inventiveness and
scientific know-how which are pushing it
and the world ahead in an amazing
manner.
Statesmanship—" Labor"
Brand
Protesting that his taxation plan had
been torn to pieces by the Prime
Minister, Premier Cahill said that the
return of taxing powers was “a matter
for statesmanship. It should have been
decided on that level.”
The problem is certainly one for states-
manship, but Mr. Cahill did not take
much of that quality to the conference-
table —which is not surprising, as he had
just emerged from an election campaign
in which his policy did not assay one
haporth of that commodity, to the
thousand words. It is rather difficult to
switch overnight from the tricks of a
cheapjack political propagandist to the
words and actions of a statesman.
The essence of Cahill’s “plan” seems
to be that there should be tax-reductions
all round and that the cuts should appear
to come out of that part of the taxation-
field that is returned to the States, this
being made possible by an increase in the
Federal tax. That isn’t exactly what he
said, but as he indicated that he didn’t
want to tax up to the level of uniform
tax, he must have meant something close
to it, unless his intention was that the
Commonwealth Government should resort
to Treasury bills to meet its expenditure.
It was in that portion of his plan which
dealt with the split-up of taxpayers be-
tween State and Federal taxgatherers
that Cahill showed his real qualities of
statesmanship—of the type so highly
regarded in A.L.P. circles. Simplicity is
the keynote; Canberra taxes all incomes,
but the States tax only those in excess
of £BOO or £9OO a year. That would
leave the States fewer than a quarter of the
taxpaying (and voting) population to deal
with, but, being in the higher-income
brackets, they could be stripped to the
skin without fear of affecting the “Labor”
vote. From the point of view of a
Labor” man, what could be more states-
manlike? Under such a system a
‘ Labor” M.L.A. for an industrial electo-
rate would be able to lend a sympathetic
ear to his constituents without any fear of
recriminations. “Sorry, mate, but you
can’t blame us. We’re not taxing you
at all. We only go for the tall poppies
It’s that Menzies-Fadden mob that’s
slugging you.”
The Prime Minister’s word for the
Cahill scheme was “fantastic.” That
seems to err on the side of politeness.
Farewell to Cricketers
When the South African cricketers left
Rose Bay (Sydney) for New Zealand on
Sunday they took with them Australian
good wishes and gratitude.
They arrived in Australia at a time
when cricket critics were mixed up in an
inky brawl with the Australian con-
trollers of the game, were themselves
derided as a second-rate team hardly
worth bothering about, and heard sundry
public and private critics asserting that
cricket was “on the way out.”
Unaffected by this sort of thing the
South Africans went calmly ahead with
the purpose of their visit —playing cricket.
And how they played it! Their attitude
was rather reminiscent of that of the
West Indians here the previous season.
They really enjoyed the game. Indeed,
they seemed to enjoy their early defeats,
obviously admiring the players who had
beaten them.
In the field the South Africans revived
what had long been missing on Test
fields: keen and clever fielding. They
proved what seemed to have been
forgotten in the general concentration on
batsmen and bowlers —that smart and
intelligent fielding could win matches.
In the final result they did what no
South African team had done for 40-odd
years. They beat Australia not once,
but twice. They won two of the' five
Tests and drew one, something that had
not happened to Australia for years. The
last Test, when they began their first
innings 520 runs behind and then won by
six wickets, attracted the attention of the
whole continent.
There isn’t a cricket-lover in Australia
but knows how good their visit was both
for the game, and the feeling between
their country and ours.
No Provocation
It was reported over the weekend that
Mr. Eden, during his visit to Washing-
ton, is to warn the United States Govern-
ment of the danger of policies
provocative to the Kremlin in the Far
East and elsewhere. No doubt, if reports
are correct, the warning will be especially
concerned with the foreshadowed repudia-
tion of the Yalta Agreement, which was
forced on Britain by President Roose-
velt but which is still a binding agree-
ment ; the rumored proposal to blockade
Dairen; and support, of the Japanese
claim to the return of the Kurile Islands
and Saghalien, which the United States
itself was so offhand in giving away along
with Manchuria.
There are real grounds for worry and
for belief that the British Government
has information that changes taking place
inside the Kremlin render provocation
doubly dangerous. It scarcely needs
secret intelligence to mark that as true.
The purge in progress in Russia is
logically in line with bellicose intention.
It affects those close to Stalin and the
Government, a security measure which
has the double effect of putting fear into
weak vessels.
There is a purge of weak military
elements to open the way for promotions
which are not routine, and of those 'who
were associated with the birth of the
United Nations Organisation, Even
Molotov has “gone sick.” Also at the
higher level a transfer of command to
such men as Sokolovsky, the new Chief-
of-Staff, who are experts on the Western
European front.
There has been a purge of Jews which
has puzzled many observers but is quite
logical when it is understood that even
the Kremlin must know that Jewry could
be counted racially on the side of the
United States and Britain beyond ques-
tion in any world war.
There has also been the purge in the
European satellite countries, about which
there has been a common pattern—that
each of them has resulted in a tighten-
ing of the Russian grip on the local
Government and the replacement of any
civilian control that had existed by a
more frankly military one. Each bit of
unrest, too, has given a plausible excuse
for intensifying military strength on the
pretext of the need for greater internal
security. Eastern Europe is becoming a
Russian mobilisation camp.
The world attitude of the Communist
party also has its reasons. It is lulling
Governments into a sense of security
which actually has no basis of reality.
Make Way for Youth!
In ancient Rome the Senate was origin-
ally an assembly of elders —the word
itself derives ultimately from senis, old
—and when this country, following the
American model, adopted the name for
the Upper House of the Federal Parlia-
ment, something of the same connotation
stili clung to it, particularly as our Senate
was to be a House of Review, as well
as a States’ House —a function properly
within the province of elder statesmen,
full of years and wisdom. In practice,
the Senate has never fulfilled its intended
function; it has always been a party
House—but nonetheless it has usually
been regarded as a place for the aged
or ageing. There have been Senators
who could be described as more-or-less
youthful, but not many. One of the
oldsters was 85 when he retired in 1950 ;
another, whose six-year term was cut
short by the 1951 double-dissolution, was
73 when elected, and several of the
present Senators are in or near the
seventies.
But that now belongs to the past. From
now on the Senate will be a place for
young men, with a premium on candi-
dates with an A 1 medical classification.
reason for the change is the Evatt-
sponsored introduction of proportional-
representation'.
Publicity has been given to the posi-
tion in Westralia and Tasmania as the
result of the death of a Government six-
year Senator in each of those States,
where it is agreed that nothing but a
three-three result is now possible. It is
accepted that three of the other States
will give “Labor” a three-two win, and
that only by itself winning three-two in
Queensland can the Government avoid a
deadlocked Senate.
But death is no respecter of States or
parties. If a Government six-year
Senator should die in Queensland before
May the deadlock would be almost
certain. On the other hand, if a “Labor”
six-year Senator should die in Queens-
land, N. S. Wales, Victoria or South Aus-
tralia, then “Labor’s” chances of bringing
about a deadlock would be nil.
Between now and May party Whips
will doubtless be showing great concern
for the health of their Senators. It is no
longer sufficient for a Senator to give his
party his vote and to be faithful unto
death —he must also stay alive. And it
is obvious that in choosing future Senate
teams the selectors will have to pass over
the veterans and choose instead husky
young fellows, sound in wind and limb
and whose main qualification will be an
odds-on chance of living out their full
term. That is, of course, unless Parlia-
ment realises the utter stupidity of con-
tinuing a system under which the fortu-
itous death of one man can make such
a difference to the working of the whole
Parliament and Government.
The New England Flame
For thirty years the people of the New
England district of N. S. Wales have, as
they put it, “humbly, respectfully and
persistently” sought to obtain their rights
under the Commonwealth Constitution to
move for the creation of a new State.
They are more active about it now
than ever. Pointing out that in 1933 a
royal commission found that their area
was suitable for a new State and that they
should be allowed to hold a referendum
on it, they say that the advice has been
ignored by N.S.W. Governments.
They might have added that it has also
been ignored by the Sydney Press. How-
ever, now “frustrated in the achieve-
ment of their constitutional destiny,” the
New Englanders have issued a “Declara-
tion of New England Rights” in which
they appeal to the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment to revise the Constitution to enable
greater facility in the creation of new
States, demand from the N.S.W, Legis-
lature a referendum on the question, and
ask all New England local-government
bodies to co-operate in the movement
for a new State.
They claim, and are obviously ready
to back the claim, that their area, “rich
in production, fertile in resources,” would
rank fourth among the seven States, with
a “production income” greater than that
of South Australia, West Australia or
Tasmania.
There are other claims; but the main
point is that, a little tired of the years of
neglect and obstruction, although as
enthusiastic for their cause as ever, they
declare that “there may come a time in
the history of democratic communities
when the citizens assume a clear obliga-
tion to take all steps possible to remove
the obstacles erected to prevent the fulfil-
ment of the fundamental law,” and, as a
beginning, the New England Movement
states that if the Sydney and Canberra
legislatures continue to deny New Eng-
land its rights in this matter it “declares
its intention of taking decisive steps to
ensure the observance of the spirit and
letter of the Constitution.”
The movement has launched “an
avalanche ’ of letters on politicians,
organisations and individuals, will display
its declaration in prominent places, and
generally liven up everybody concerned.
And more, power to it.
Unrecorded Liberol Votes
Themselves unopposed in three Sydney
seats in the recent N.S.W. election, the
Liberals left 11 others entirely to
“Labor,” In three “Labor” was un-
opposed ; in eight all it had to face were
Communists or Independents of one kind
and other. This meant that in Cook’s
River, Maroubra and Phillip, Liberals
had no way of recording their opposition
to the Cahill party, while in those where
“Labor” was opposed by Communists,
Liberals had to give their votes to
“Labor.” In the country “Labor” was
unopposed in five seats and had only a
Communist to beat in one.
Thus in the final count for the election
the total Liberal votes recorded will be
far below the total “Labor” vote, and
when “Labor” chortles over this it will
be actually celebrating thousands of
Liberal votes forced upon it by the
Liberal failure to nominate candidates
for all seats.
In the metropolitan area, excluding
Gordon, Neutral Bay and Vaucluse,
where Liberals were unopposed, no
fewer than 256,438 electors were pre-
vented from giving a Liberal vote or
were forced to give a vote to “Labor”
against Communism. In six country
electorates with nearly 100,000 voters no
Liberal could vote Liberal, and in Cess-
nock all Liberals had to vote “Labor.”
The result of the election shows that,
had Liberal candidates stood in most or
all of the electorates they didn’t stand
in. Premier Cahill would still have won.
But the Liberals have only themselves
to blame when “Labor” claims a total
vote which, to the unthinking, makes the
Liberals’ total look small.
Changes at the A.B.C.
From M. F, Dixon, a former senior
officer of the commission:
The reshuffle of senior executives announced
by A.B.C. chairman R. J. F. Boyer has meant
a big step-up for two former sporting com-
mentators, Eric Shell and T. S. (Tal) Duck-
manton. Sholl moves from the position or
manager for Queensland to Controller ot
Administration at head office; and Duckmanton,
assistant Queensland manager, becomes manager
for Tasmania. Queensland has thus, at one
stroke, lost both its manager and assistant
manager, and two new appointments will have
to be made there.
Sholl was at head office many years ago as
secretary to A.B.C. general-manager Conder.
Following Conder’s resignation he held a
number of minor posts, filling in time with
sporting commentaries, including a trip to
England to cover a Test tour. At the outbreak
of war he joined the Navy, served in the North
Sea and attained the rank of lieutenant.
E. C. (Ewart) Chappie, husband of Mane
Bremner and one of the commission’s newer
managers, has won the coveted post of manager
for Victoria against allcomers. Chappie was
recently granted 12 months’ leave of absence
to go abroad, and his arrival. in London
will coincide with the temporary return to
Australia of the commission’s overseas manager,
T. W. Bearup, for a refresher course.
For Basil Kirke, who has been appointed
manager for West Australia again, alter an
interval of 17 or 18 years, the wheel has turned
full-circle. Before the war Kirke was m turn
manager for West Australia, Victoria and New
South Wales. When the latter position was
abolished he became Controller of Broadcasts
in External Territories, with headquarters at
Port Moresby; but, tiring of the tropics alter
a few years, he challenged Chappie for tn
managership of West Australia, but was rule
ineligible because his existing salary was higher.
About two years ago the commission appointed
him “inspector at head office”-—a specially
created position which is now likely to l a P s Jr-
There is much speculation amongst A.rs.v-.
senior officers whether some of the new a PP oia "
ments will stand the test of appeal. Charles
Wicks, manager for South Australia and
former acting manager for Victoria, was co -
sidered to have strong claims for the Victor
post; and the present assistant manager r
Victoria, D. Felsman, was thought likely t
carry off the Tasmanian appointment. ■
Duckmanton’s rise in the service has
meteoric. A couple of years ago he was m
spersing sporting commentaries with n
reading at head .office; his appomtmait
assistant manager for Queensland f° ’
now he has gone a step higher, as mci
for the Apple Island. It is a
the three lop A.B.C. men now at head oftce-
Moses, Finlay and Sholl—all began as sporting
commentators.


POLITICAL POINTS
Uniform tax seems a certainty to re-
main with us for another year. Tlie truth
is that no one appears to have made any
great effort to get the system changed
in time for a clear start by July 1. Be-
fore the Premiers took their sore heads
home from Canberra on Saturday they
agreed that their deputies should meet
some time in May to decide on next
year’s reimbursements.
• •
Politically, the Menzies-Fadden Gov-
ernment should gain a point by the
present failure to evolve a plan. Any
reduction in taxation that is found pos-
sible this year will be a Federal reduction.
• •
Only new faces in Cahill’s Cabinet are
Abram Landa and J. F. McGrath, who
replace F. J. Finnan (defeated in Albury)
and G. Weir, who apparently is to be
appointed to the Industrial Commission.
For the third time running Evatt minor
was last man in. Still, he’s improving;
this time the team didn’t have to be
enlarged to find him a place. Mines
Minister Arthur remains temporarily on
the shelf.
• •
Five L.C.P. and four “Labor” members
are unopposed in the South Australian
elections on March 7. addition,
Premier Playford can expect only token
resistance from the Communist medico.
Dr. Finger, who has nominated against
him for Gumeracha, and “Labor” mem-
bers can also count on walkovers against
the Comrades in Adelaide, Port Adelaide
and Stuart. F. W. C. Rieck, with a
long run of election losses in N. S. Wales
and S.A. behind him, is in the field again ;
he is unfurling his Independent flag in
Gawler, at present held by “Labor.”
There is no Liberal in the field, so Rieck
should poll well.
A former “Labor” Premier of South
Australia, R. S. Richards, is attempting
a comeback at this election. He was
Premier for two months back in 1933
and Leader of the Opposition from then
until 1949, when he was appointed
Administrator of Nauru. He has the
“Labor” endorsement for Burra and de-
scribes himself as of “no occupation.”
Taking a leaf from the book of L. T.
Mullett, who contested two seats at the
Victorian Assembly election last Decem-
ber, H. J. Schneider has nominated for
Angas and Ridley, one a Liberal strong-
hold, the other the preserve of Inde-
pendent T. C. Scott.
• •
Premier Gair’s policy speech to Queens-
landers boiled down to a statement that
his Government would stand on its record
and continue the development of the
State —or whatever it has beea doing.
Which means, in effect, that Queens-
landers are invited to vote the Gairs into
office on a policy which won’t be decided
until a fortnight after the election —
at the Labor-in-Politics convention on
March 23.
This Labor-in-Politics convention in
Queensland consists of one delegate from
each State electorate branch and dele-
gates from affiliated unions. The party’s
constitution says the convention should
be held during the last year of the term
of each Queensland Parliament, but the
central executive has power to vary that.
It varied it this time because the party
wants to capitalise, as did “Labor” in
N.S.W. and West Australia, on the “swing
against Menzies,” and because Gair
doesn’t want to answer questions on s.-p.
betting and other awkward subjects until
after March 7, election-day.
• •
Over two years ago the French Com-
munist leader Thorez went to Moscow
for medical treatment which the Com-
rades said could only be given him by
the advanced Soviet physicians; as far
as is known he is still in Russia. Now
it has come out that two of the doctors
who have been treating him are among
the nine accused of deliberately killing
high Soviet officials. Just where that puts
Thorez isn’t quite clear.. Perhaps Lance
Sharkey, also a beneficiary of Soviet
medical genius, might know. Lance
hasn’t released a list of his doctors.
Export trade in coal is looking up. The
sixth vessel this year to load coal at
Newcastle for Japan has just lifted 8800
tons, bringing the total since resumption
of mining on January 12 to 45,000 tons.
• •
The Thirtyniners’ Association, an or-
ganisation of 2nd A.I.F. originals, is
threatening to boycott Anzac Day cere-
monies in Victoria if the Japanese
Ambassador is invited to lay a wreath at
the Canberra Shrine of Remembrance.
The boycott idea is foolish and futile, but
the suggestion which prompted it is an
example of sentimentality gone mad.
• •
When a cargo of New Zealand beef
went on sale in the United States it was
judged to be as good as American beef
and was sold at prices so far below the
home-grown meat that Ohio cattle-
breeders said it had “demoralised” the
U.S. livestock market. There were
startled yelps in Washington, and the
Senate Agriculture Committee is to look
into the business. The American house-
wife naturally wants to know how meat
can come across the Pacific and be sold
at half the price of home meat, and the
sellers of home meat obviously don’t
want the N.Z. meat about the place.
Rather awkward, just when the Eisen-
OUT OF THE PAST
“Mr. Cahill said N.S.W. ‘Labor’ had more seats than at any other time in its history.
‘We had 55 seats in the 1930 elections... We lost more than 30 in the landslide against Lang
in 1932.'"
“Just like old times, eh, Joe?”
hower Administration is getting rid of
price-controls as fast as it can.
• •
Vic. Liberal-and-Country party is find-
ing it harder to get rid of Hollway than
to beat the fruitfly. Expelled from the
Parliamentary L.C.P. party for demand-
ing electoral reform, Hollway stood
against the leader, Norman, in Glen Iris,
and beat him. The other day the L.C.P.,
of which Hollway remained a member,
tried to expel him. The motion was
outed by about 280 to 20, whereupon
eight of the losers walked out. Some
thought it over and came back. Holl-
way’s face is one that falls easily into
a grin.
• •
L.C.P. members in the Victorian Par-
liament have their party’s permission to
vote as they please on the two-for-one
redistribution bill when Cain introduces
it. The effect of this is to allow the
Hollway “rebels” to keep their election
pledge and yet stay in the party. As
Hollway was quick to point out, if this
decision had been made in December
the credit of introducing electoral-reform
would have gone to the Libs, the election
would not have occurred until May or
June and the party might have gained
some seats. As it was, it lost 13. ,
• •
Doc. Evatt is, for once, in agreement
with The Bulletin that the dropping of
the word British from the Queen’s titles,
done apparently to sooth the tender sus-
ceptibilities of India, is a step in the
wrong direction. He pointed out in his
speech on the Royal Titles Bill that
“Commonwealth” without any qualifying
adjective is a most indefinite term. To
us in Australia it customarily means the
Australian Federation ; in Boston, U.S.A.,
it means the State of Massachusetts. If
Mr. Nehru doesn’t like the word British
surely that is no reason why Australia
and New Zealand —and even Britain —
should be forced to regard it as un-
touchable,
• •
Newspapers who find an excuse for
tax-reduction in Canada’s cut of 11 p.c. in
income-tax and other concessions caused
by “increased production, efficiency and
the plain hard work of the Canadian
people” were not so keen on Canadian
precedents a year or so ago. Not one
loud voice among them justified Can-
berra’s financial measures on the ground
of Canadian precedents when followed
in the unpopular Fadden Budgets.
• •
One Scharffenberg, secretary of the
American Temperance Society, is reported
to be on a world tour “to check person-
ally on how much U.S. diplomats drink.”
He should have an interesting trip,
• •
A bunch of Victorian dairymen, after
passing a resolution to kill all their cows
or something almost as drastic if the
Cain Government didn’t increase the
price of milk, called on Cain. But Cain
no longer depends on the Country party
to keep him in power; telling them that
in the past 10 years dairymen had risen
“from poverty to affluence” he more or
less intimated that they could go and
jump in their milk.
• •
Clarey, complains that there
is a tendency abroad, particularly in
Britain, “to believe that conditions in
Australia are unsettled.” Apparently he
has forgotten that his leader and col-
leagues have been howling themselves
hoarse for the past 12 months in an
attempt to convince the world that con-
ditions in this country are not only un-
settled, but verging on catastrophe and
collapse.
• •
Menzies on uniform taxation:
When one Government is called upon to
impose taxes for another Government to
spend, the troubles begin.... The spending
Government, free from all responsibility,
can promise the sun, moon and stars, and
blame the Commonwealth for not produc-
ing the Milky Way.
That sums up rather well what has been
going on ever since the Menzies Govern-
ment took office three years ago.
• •
“C. 8.”: Another anomaly in Victoria’s
anti-liquor laws has been discovered by
a Sorrento citizen who motored 130 miles
round Port Phillip Bay to Queenscliff on
a recent Sunday only to discover that he
couldn’t get a drink because the law says
that a bona fide traveller is one who
travels 20 miles as the crow flies from
his place of habitation. No crow has
ever been known to fly from Sorrento
to Queenscliff, because crows don’t fly
over water if they can help it. Sorrento?
~ . Perhaps they’d better make it seagulls.
e •
There is a general tendency to believe
that civil servants nowadays have a vested
interest in Socialism and therefore vote
“Labor.” Queensland Liberal-leader
Hiley doesn’t see it that way. He claims
that discontent among schoolteachers has
caused a flood of resignations, that the
official journal of the Public Service
Union accuses the Gair Government of
being “prepared to underpay its em-
ployees,” and that the police paper shows
similar discontent. He maintains that
Queensland civil servants are the lowest-
paid in Australia and have the worst
working conditions.
• •
A minor shot in Queensland election
campaign was fired by Lands Minister
Foley, who announced that two building-
blocks are available in the town of 1770.
The place is between Gladstone and
Bundaberg, and 1770 is the name, not
the population. The whole district is a
memorial park to Captain Cook. The
name first chosen was Round Hill, but
the Government made it 1770 in response
to “a last-minute suggestion from an
undisclosed source.” That’s one town
whose residents can’t deny they are
numbered.
• •
A sidelight on the new American immi-
gration law —called the McCarran-
Walter Immigration Act —under which
crews of foreign ships are screened be-
fore being allowed ashore in U.S. ports,
comes from the “Lewiston Daily Sun,”
published in Maine:
Another section of the law is causing
resentment in Washington and Aroostook
counties, where hitherto Americans and
Canadians living near the border have been
going back and forth daily without hin-
drance. From now on all Canadians visit-
ing this country periodically, or working
here, must submit to questioning, and carry
alien cards that must be displayed at each
crossing. The red-tape involved will be
enormous.
The paper is sure attempts will be made
to amend the Act during the next Con-
gress.
• •
Nicklin is promising “a purification”
of the State rolls, a “fair and equitable
redistribution of electorates” and a “sub-
stantial reduction” of seats. That last
offer should be popular. There are 75
members in the Queensland Assembly,
increased from 62 three years ago. South
Australia gets along all right with 39 and
Westralia with 50. Noo South, of course,
tops the list with 94 —a far greater number
than the Federal Reps mustered before
the last reshuffle.
• •
You can play “housie” in Victoria now
without breaking the law —provided the
profits go to. charity and no money-
prizes are offered. In the Supreme Court
test-case in which this was apparently
established the prizes offered were “green
articles” and “red articles.” Well, pound-
notes are green, and the ten-bobs, to
anyone but an artistic purist, unmistak-
ably red.
• •
Radium Hill, site of one of South Aus-
tralia’s new uranium fields, is to be linked
with the Broken Hill-Port Pirie railway
by a spur-line 12 miles long joining the
main line at Cutana. The field’s water-
supply is to come by pipeline from
Broken Hill.
• •
It might be that union between Argen-
tina and Chile as the first step to a
United States of Latin America would
be a good thing, but Juan Peron’s bull-
headed way of advocating it won’t hasten
the union. On the eve of a visit to
Chile to discuss, and most probably sign,
economic treaties, he told the Press that
nothing short of “total union” would
satisfy him.
• •
Latest we-were-the-first claim made by
Soviet researchers is that Russian navi-
gators got in ahead of Captain Cook in
most of his discoveries. Like the claims
that Russians invented the steam-engine,
the aeroplane, wireless, moving-pictures,
phonographs and all the rest of ’em the
yarn is obviously for home-consumption,
for the indoctrination of Soviet young-
sters. One day it may backfire; the
young Russkis may begin to wonder why,
when their ancestors were such a race of
supermen, there was any necessity for
the Communist Revolution.


Society
“Becks” : From an agency in Karachi
calling itself the Pakistan News Service
comes an offer of “a surprisingly cheap
news service from an area rich in news
of compelling interest”;
Over and above the usual run of news in
the political and economic fields which very
often hit the headlines of the world Press,
this country provides such unusual stories
as gipsy women dropping their trousers in
public to escape a pursuing crowd, a small
mill-owner slashing the throat of his
Chinese wife (at her own request) and of
his two children to spite harassing neighbors
jealous of his riches, the Dance of the
Nations at a swanky hotel, a medicine-man
sacrificing his son in the way of the biblical
patriarch Abraham, a washerman offering
his only daughter to God after having
dreamed that He wanted her. Then there
are the activities of the women, who lead
a peculiar life all their own.
My editor isn’t interested, but if I had
a few rupees I’d subscribe to it myself.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Irving”: Somewhere in Melbourne’s
shopping area I lost my just-filled
tobacco-pouch on which, in an idle
moment of doodling, I had once written
“ Didn't you know it Was a magic carpet?”
my name and business address. I dis-
, covered the loss on returning to my desk
at two o’clock. Exactly 20 minutes later
the office-boy brought it to me with the
explanation: “Some bloke chucked this
in to the liftman.” Inside the pouch was
a tram-ticket bearing the scrawled note:
“Took a fill myself, mate, but the rest is
all yours, (signed) Artie Fadden.”
Though I’ve no doubt Sir Arthur would
act equally creditably in similar circum-
stances, I think the finder of the pouch
was more likely some other bloke cloak-
ing his honesty under an assumed name.
Besides, why would Artie need to take a
fill? He gets his cut out of every packet
even before I open it, just as he gets
two-bob out of every three that I pass
over the pub counter.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bret Lawson”; I have always believed
that that “dinkum-Aussie” accent is non-
existent or, at least, a gross exaggeration.
I was somewhat shaken, therefore, when
a New Australian stopped me in Sydney
and asked, “Can you tell me ze wy to ze
rylwy-stytion, pleass, myte?”
“R.E.P.”; My class of New Australians
had made good progress, so I thought
I would try them out with something
more difficult. I asked if anyone could
tell me the meaning of the proverb: “A
miss is as good as a mile.” Blank ex-
pressions at first greeted my question,
then a broad grin spread over the face
of a buxom middlb-European lady. “I
know,” she said, picking her words care-
fully, “it means that a girl baby is just
as good as a boy baby” Perhaps Z’d
better take a course in vowel-pronuncia-
tion.
+> +> ♦£
“Phil Anthus”; Olaf Ruhen’s dis-
course on “The Blonde in the Bikini”
(B. 4/2/’53) is the most meaty, the most
sprightly, -■ and the most illuminating
review of a Great National Industry—
the newspaper marketing of beach-girls
—that has ever found its way into print.
Alas, though, it overlooked one vital
point. It neglected to mention the
cardinal rule that the legend of the pub-
lished picture must always describe the
girl as attractive. Use of this adjective,
preferably as the first word of the title,
appears to be a Medes-and-Persians rule.
It is just as mandatory as the proclama-
tion that every victim of an accident is
“rushed” to hospital. My hope is that
one day this principle will be extended
and that we will be told (a) whom the
wench most attracts, and (b) what par-
ticular points we should look for in
assessing the degree of her attractions.
“Ceg”: Bought myself an exercise-
book the other day bearing the endorse-
ment “Approved by the Education
Department.” It is one of those books
with arithmetical tables printed on the
back, With the idea of brushing up my
knowledge of such matters I read through
the tables and was astonished to find that
twenty shillings equal one sov. or one
pound. That was news to me, as 1 had
the idea that a sovereign was worth, at
the bank, about 725. Still, the Education
Department should know, and I am now
in the market as a buyer of sovereigns at
20s. each. Any sellers? Incidentally, the
department does not cater for potential
politicians; the numeration table doesn’t
go beyond the hundred millions, and what
use would that be to an embryo Federal
Treasurer?
❖ ❖
“Sackville”: I would like to hear the
uncensored views of banana-growers on
the “Banana Song,” which is broadcast
over commercial stations several times a
day. To me it sounds no worse —and
no better —than the average product of
Tin Pan Alley, which seems to defeat its
object. If it were really good the hearer
might be inspired to spend huge sums
on bananas; and, if it was really bad,
bananas might provide a means of for-
getting—psychologists claim that eating
establishes an emotional outlet. All I
can see that the tune achieves is a means
of spending the banana-growers’ money.
Still, these things have always been with
us. In an old wallet I recently found a
tram-ticket bearing this information;
“Winning Limerick, May: A widow who
lives at King’s Cross, for a slang-word
is ne’er at a loss, And language most
graphic is hurled at the traffic when this
cross widow crosses King’s Cross.” The
winner’s name and address follow. What
the prize was is not stated, but it had
to be paid out of 2d. a section. That
was somewhere around 1935.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Feng-Shui”: An Economic Commis-
sion for Asia and the Far East has met
at Bandung, Java, with members from
Australia, America, India and even Japan,
the burden of their discourse being that
there must be an all-out drive to in-
dustrialise all available parts of Asia,
develop their resources and, if possible,
turn them into first-class Powers. This
was what the Americans were going to
do with China and would have done if
the Communists had not forestalled them.
What grounds have these Asian well-
wishers for believing that if they succeed
they won’t have created a Frankenstein
monster- like Japan? Why would other
Asians be any less- ruthless, any less
aggressive, any more affectionate to white
authority than Japan was? The Euro-
peans did exactly the same to Japan as
these commissioners now propose to do
with the rest of Asia.
+> ♦> ♦♦♦
“An Chaidh”; Tell • “Morris the
Tinker” that most of the names he quotes
(B. 4/2/’53) are Irish, and the Irish are
entitled to wear the kilt and the tartan
and blow the pipes. Many nations have
at one time or another worn the kilt and
played pipes, though not exactly after
the Scottish pattern. Only the tartan as
a distinctive part of a family coat-of-arms
is purely Scottish, and then there are
tartans that are common property,
the most notable of these being the Royal
Stewart, which may be worn by any true
and loyal subject of the Queen. That is
probably why Quong Tart chose it.
Though why the Communist pipe-band
in the Glasgow May Day procession
wears Royal Stewart is probably a mystery
even to Uncle Joe.
*l* ❖ ♦>
“Vingter”: When the recommended
shorthand-expert arrived to cover a con-
ference of the bigwigs of our firm he
was sartorially splendid, but gloriously
potted. I phoned the agency for a
replacement. They suggested I wait until
I had viewed the typescript of the meet-
ing, which it appeared to me the sozzled
expert was incapable of recording. At
the luncheon-break the agency’s mes-
senger collected the sozzled one’s notes,
and the expert promptly made for the
pub, from which, more fishy-eyed than
ever, he returned just before the meeting
resumed. Coincidentally there arrived
the typescript, which was a perfect ver-
batim report of the meeting. Later I
congratulated the expert on the fidelity
of his record, mentioning some particu-
larly high-speed sequences which must
surely have tested him. “Never remember
a word,” he told me. “Thash why I’m
besh shorthand-writer in world. Try to
make shense of what they’re saying and
you’re sunk.”
♦♦♦
“A.L.D,”: Floods in England (B.
18/2/’53)? In 1571 there was a big in-
cursion of the sea in a part of Lincoln-
shire that suffered severely in this year’s
flooding—Maplethorpe and adjacent
areas. The disaster provided the nine-
teenth-century poetess Jean Ingelow with
the subject of her most moving poem
“The High Tide on the Coast of Lincoln-
shire.” That incursion, like this year’s,
began “on Saturday at Eventide.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: As we approached the
corner a red flag was the first warning;
then a notice “Five M.P.H.,” and, finally,
that oft-seen statement “Men at Work.”
Only two men were in sight, and they
had chosen the road for a heart-to-heart
talk. Steering round them we presently
found a steamroller tut-tutting busily,
then two more men, also talking. When
my daughter remarked that she couldn’t
see any men at work, I said pacifically,
“Well, the engine was doing something,”
only to be crushed by the retort that the
notice specifically stated men, not
machines.
$ $ $
“Billy S.”: “You’re mad,” he was
saying. “Wynyard is the best place to
get off.” “It’s you that’s mad,” she
replied. “Town Hall’s closer.” He spoke
up loud and strong. “You can get off
where you damn’-well like. I’m getting
off at Wynyard, and that’s that.” He
half-turned away, opened up the paper
and studied the race-results. “You
beaut!” I heard him say. “Ten to one
and eight to one, ten-bob on each of
them; that makes nine-quid. You little
beaut-ee!” She responded immediately
with “Two winners, dear? Isn’t that
lovely! ” They both fell silent, sitting
back in a happy haze; the world was a
lovely place once again. No doubt she
was mentally spending the £9 on hats
and stockings, and he was thinking what
he would do with the £lB (I’ll bet he’d
really staked a quid on each). Then she
spoke up in a soft, loving voice: “You
know dear, I think you’re right Wyn-
yard is closer. Well get off there.” No,
love,” he replied. “Town Hall is the shot,
well get off there:' In no time they were
at it again, and as I stepped out at Cem
tral I heard him yell, “You can get
where you damn’-weli like. I rti getting
off at Town Hall.”
EXPERIMENT
Wielding the daily razor, I had viewed
Too long a face worn always in the nude.
The scrub on it remorselessly Td felled,
By habit more than anything impelled.
But lately did I think I might equip
With hirsute camouflage my upper lip.
What style to choose ? A handle-bar risk
mo. ?
But that would make me one with Uncle
Joe !
The Air Force type, worn out beyond the
lugs ?
Twin Hitler things that look like nasal
plugs ?
Not these excrescences. Ah, no. My goal,
man,
A classic one, as worn by Ronald Caiman.
This soon I found: the bristles once that
blunted
My razor now grew weak and wan and
stunted —
At least, upon that portion of my rind
’Twixt upper lip and conk. ’Twas dis-
inclined
To come out fighting, full of rude aggres-
sion.
As if it feared an imminent repression.
It might perchance be reckoned second-
class
If viewed beneath a magnifying-glass.
In vain Tv e made a search for advertiser
Anxious to vend a zonker-fertiliser.-
I’ve one hope left: If it continues dilatory,
I’ll stimulate its growth with a depilatory /
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Wackford”; Ever since school began
this year I have been listening to the
complaints of the pupils at having to pay
the school sports fees and at the cost of
the books. “Mum says ‘Fancy calling it
free education!’,” they have been say-
ing scornfully. It was too much tonight
when at tea my wife said to me, “I
thought it was free education? I have
to give lan eighteen-and-six tomorrow to
buy text-books.”
*> *X* ❖
“Spokeshave”: Shock-treatment is so
fashionable among doctors nowadays that
they call psychiatrists electricians. The
same effects can sometimes be produced
without the intervention of a doctor. A
Melbourne man, bedridden for years, had
been told by his physician that he would
never walk again. From listening to
racing-sessions on the radio he caught
the racing-fever and commenced laying
small bets with the local s.-p. bookie.
One afternoon he was lying in bed when
the races came on. His wife found him
at the wireless, which had inadvertently
been left at the other end of the room.
“How on earth did you get here?” she
asked. “I don’t know,” he said, as
amazed as she was. “Somebody switched
it off and I wanted to hear the result of
the Highweight.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“R.H.G.”: As engineer for two W.A,
local authorities, I was inspecting the
frontage of a wayside service-station after
complaints of drainage-trouble. The pro-
prietor, a recently-arrived Londoner, was
voluble ; insisted that there was an old
culvert running the full length of his
frontage, traces of which he claimed to
have discovered. As this frontage, on
the Albany Highway, was fully five
chains, I felt that the presence of such a
super-culvert was extremely unlikely, but
he persisted. “Lord Forrest must have
put the blasted thing in, then,” I finally
exclaimed. “Blime! ’Go’s ’e?” was the
reply. This supplied me with a good
anecdote, but some time later I got
details of original survey from the
Surveyor-General’s office. The notation
of previous land-surveyor showed “J.
Forrest, 1871.”
♦> <* ❖
“Glen”: Small-fruit growers in Tas-
mania can’t get rid of their crop this
year, and the thorn in their side is their
old enemy, the blackberry. This pest
costs orchardists and councils thousands
of pounds a year to control, yet processors
are paying 7Jrd. a pound for blackberries,
and will even pay the freight, but will
take only a percentage of the raspberry
and blackcurrant crop ; there is no market
at all for gooseberries.
♦♦♦ * . ❖
“Spasebo”: Migrants don’t eat those
weed-salads (B. 4/2/’53) in order to beat
high prices. They do it for aesthetic, or
if you like gustatory, reasons. I was at
a friend’s house waiting for the arrival
of the guest of the evening, a New Aus-
tralian. He arrived, sniffed the air and
rushed straight into the kitchen and
shouted to the cook, “If you’re cooking
that in fat, back I go to the hotel.”
Even the cook felt that he was friendly
and didn’t take umbrage at him. Gener-
ally speaking, Continentals have a sensual
attitude to food; an asensual attitude
is much more common among English
people. My mother, born in England,
used to say: “Food should never be dis-
cussed at table —only in the kitchen
but a couple of Czechs I once dined with
talked of nothing else. They were both
world-famous musicians and first-class
cooks. One was Friedman and the other
was Goll. They told me that in Australia
they saw food everywhere. M. Guyot,
the French chef mentioned, used to go
down to the pier at St. Kilda and find
up to a dozen different varieties of shell-
fish which, he claimed, were as edible as
oysters. But, of course, he knew how
to cook them.
*l* ❖ ❖
“Blapc”; In 1917, when the big A.I.F.
field hospital was at Meteren, one of the
sisters was an outstanding musician, but
there was no piano. Because of her
vitality and charm Sister Parrish was
detailed to try to get one, and she made
the most of an evening in the Division
mess, mentioning the matter to several
C.O.s, but returned to Meteren dis-
appointed at not having received any
definite encouragement. Three days later,
however, she was called to the phone to
hear Divvy headquarters roar: “What do
you mean by having nine pianos sent
here? Come over as soon as you can!”
She went, and returned in a truck with
the best two of the pianos behind her.
When she lately visited Yaralla Hospital
to distribute comforts to the blind, I asked
Sister Parrish what happened to the other
seven pianos. “I haven’t the faintest,”
she told me with a reminiscent smile.
“Chay Jay”: Years ago I was told by l
A. H. Massina the elder, founder of
the “Australian Journal,” that the detec-
tive-stories published in that magazine
in its early years under the initials
“W.W.” (B. 14/l/’53) were written
by the widow of a well-known detective,
who got the details from her husband’s
journals and dressed them up for pub-
lication. I fancy the detective’s name was
Sinclair.
♦+♦ ***
“Bo”: As a home- and friendship-
wrecker booze has to take a back-seat
to a much more potent cause —the social
rendezvous made with the friend who
hasn’t a telephone. It goes something
like this, and could well deserve an
honored place among Famous Last
Words: “All right, then, that’s fixed.
We’ll expect you unless we hear to the
contrary” ; or “If we don’t hear from
you then we’ll know you’re coming.”
Within five minutes of their departure
after having made these arrangements the
first gnawing doubts assail you. Did they
say they’d ring if they were coming or
weren’t coming? The conviction becomes
stronger that they positively said they’d
ring if they were coming. You’d feel
an idiot sending them a telegram on the
day asking if they intended coming. So
you take a risk. You might even get
“I've just broken through the sound-barrier!”
away with it occasionally, but mostly you
pick the wrong one, and either you’re
out when they come or you wait in and
they don’t turn up. Our legislators might
well consider doing something useful for
a change by introducing a bill making it
compulsory to have all such arrange-
ments attested before a Commissioner of
Affidavits.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Uco”: The Bulletin scribe who
foretold that, after the plethora of first-
rate news-stories in the week February
8-14, Sydney news-editors would soon be
scratching for front-page headlines, saw
his prophecy come true almost before it
was published. On a damp afternoon
last week the posters of the two after-
noon papers stood, as usual, side by side.
One proclaimed “Tried to Elope: Two
in Court,” the other “Coogee Man Says
Wife Thrashed Him.”
*l* ❖ ❖
“Ben Ari”: Perth’s traffic blitz and
its haul of road offenders had put me
on my guard, and my spouse acted as
driver for the “persecution” period.
Approaching an uphill corrugated
intersection (speed-limit 15 m.p.h.),
she drove mightily in third-gear to
reach .25 m.p.h. when a sleek green
sedan purred by forcing us into
some potholes we wished to avoid.
Synchronising with the shriek of a police
motor-cycle siren we shuddered over a
particularly bad bump, the motor, simul-
taneously, jumping out of gear. We lost
speed rapidly and accidentally crossed the
intersection at less than the maximum.
The “speed-cop” drew alongside, mistak-
ing the slackening pace as purposeful.
“Not you, Madam,” he.spoke courteously
as the wife sought to slap the gear-stick
into its correct notch. “The green
sedan.” And he left us to go screaming
up the road after the fast-disappearing
offender.
+♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Tasmaniac”: “Emjai’s” complaint
about the lack of design in teapots (B.
21/1/ ’53) could be extended to many
articles in daily use. It’s difficult to buy
a milk-jug that holds plenty, pours well
and is easy to clean ; most saucepans and
frying-pans have bottoms that warp so
that they make contact at one or two
points, and handles that heat and grease
with facility ; packets and tins are hard
to open and easy to spill; and I’ve never
yet seen a saucer made so that when you
pick up the cup the teaspoon doesn’t
slide to where the cup has to stand.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Craiser”: Taking to a beard to save
himself from shaving, “Tom Trout” (B.
11 /2 / ’53) found himself variously mis-
taken for a sculptor, a painter and a
member of an esoteric jazz-group, Still,
he wasn’t taken for a woman. When
the commandos who took to the woods
on Timor during the Jap occupation, and
let their beards grow, reached Broome,
the wandering correspondent of a Mel-
bourne daily wired his surprise at the
effeminate appearance of the heroes.
* ❖ ❖
“Morris the Tinker”: Artist-historian
George Collingridge was convinced that
the Spaniards had discovered and charted
a good portion of the eastern coastline
of Australia (B. 28/l/’53). He argued
the case impressively in his fascinating
book The Discovery of Australia. It is
quite likely that evidence to prove him
right may yet be discovered in the Spanish
archives or in old provincial, university or
private libraries. Here would be a poten-
tially fruitful field for an Australian, in-
terested in historical research, able to
read Spanish, and possessed of sufficient
income or access to financial support to
enable a thorough search to be made.
$ ❖
“Hist”: Medical classification and a
failure to realise the advisability of under-
stating my age on enlistment doomed me
to home-service, and I finished up as
senior N.C.O. in a camp of the “Old and
Bold.” When the Army Education
Service reached in our direction for
pupils, the adjutant was full of
enthusiasm. The Old and Bold were not.
Nobody wanted a course in anything.
The adjt. diagnosed their reluctance as
due to diffidence. “Just needs someone to
break the ice,” he said. “It’s up to you,
sar’maior.” What I took at first for a
joke turned out to be an order, and I
selected “freelance journalism” as the
least of the evils on offer. The adjutant
subsequently accused me of neglecting
my duties in favor of my studies, but I
remained to the end the one and only
“pupil” in the unit.
* * ❖
“Emjai”: On the King River, near
Moyhu (n.-e. Vic.), is a property with
river-fiats running back to a steep and
high range of hills. Thirty years or so
ago the owner put on a gang to ringbark
a section of these green-timbered hills.
Engrossed in political and business
affairs, he gave only spasmodic super-
vision, and was soon in holts with the
gang regarding the progress of the work,
and ticked them off to some order. Work
went on a while longer, but instead of
working on a straight face they went up
the hillside ringing trees in separate
broad swathes. That didn’t suit the
owner at all, and the axe fell on the
axemen. But the laugh was on the boss
when the ringbarkfed trees died and
brought out the gigantic btters 1.X.L.,
reaching to the top of the hills. Fifteen
years later the sign still stood out, but
with fires and regrowth over the years
it was fading. The range is still known
as the I.X.L, hills.
♦♦♦ ❖
“H.C.8.”: I stared when the doctor
said laconically “No soap.” He had just
finished examining my hide, which looked
like a map of the world, with the red of
British possessions Surpassing the most
fervent jingoist’s dreams. In the cir-
cumstances an Americanism seemed
most unfitting. However, I’d got him
wrong ; he meant just what he said. But
how perverse life can be! Thirty-odd
years ago no words could have sounded
quite so sweet to my ears ; now, ordered
to abstain from the use of soap for 10
days, my soul craves for a big, hot bath
filled with rich, creamy lather.
A MOUSE—AND “RABBIE”
BURNS
And there, by the little blue clock on the
table,
a mouse.
With the house
all to himself. He had known
little of fear in the dark.
But now, eyes bright
in the light
of the globe switched on,
he is stricken, helpless, afraid.
Even his whiskers tremble ! My heart
melts at the sight of him. Before
that image, so tense, so small,
a figure looms up, homely, robust, tall,
stumbling with clodhopping feet
in a deep furrow under heathered hills.
He has a ruddy country face, and eyes
of blue, warm and compassionate.
All that you sang was true,
O bard of the misty north ! Because of
you,
at Destiny I play ;
darken the room, and stay
just long enough to hear those infinitesimal
feet
scamper away.
QUEENSLAND,
E.M. ENGLAND.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Albert Redvers George Hawke, who,
a couple of years back, stepped into
Frank Wise’s place as Leader of West-
ralia’s Labor Opposition, steps now into
Ross McLarty’s place as Leader of the
Government. A South Australian
migrant—he cut his political teeth with a
term as S.A. Assembly member for Burra
1 Burra—Hawke shifted west to make a
marked debut in politics there in 1933
by dethroning the Premier, James
I Mitchell, from the Northam seat, on
which Jimmy had held a lien for 28
years. One of the House’s finest debaters,
a hard hitter with the saving grace of
! humor, the new Premier is personally
[ popular, plays a pretty good set of tennis
| and occasionally takes a turn in the pulpit
of the Methodist church.
i Off to Egypt, Australian Minister, H. A.
! McClure Smith became associate-editor
of the “S, M. Herald” while still on the
bright side of 40, and a year later, in 1938,
I stepped up to editor-in-chief. He resigned
a few months ago. Wide travel away
from his native heath gave him a handy
j store of experience, his travels beginning
with a trip to Oxford University, whence
| he drifted into journalism on London
| “Times.” He is a good linguist and has
j made European politics a special study.
| Coventrated hereunder, Alfred John
j Gibb, appointed the other day South Aus-
| tralia’s representative on the Weapons
j and Equipment Advisory Committee,
!| established to assist the Defence Depart-
| ment in its production planning. Born
I in the Port Adelaide district 60 years
! ago, Gibb is president of the Metal Indus-
WEAPONS
tries Association and on the executive
committee of the South Australian
Chamber of Manufactures. He founded,
and managing-directs, the big Port
Adelaide engineering firm of Gibb,
Miller, Ltd.
Latest recruit from Melbourne to the
Flying Doctor service, Gordon Shaw
graduated from Melbourne University
last year. To be based at either Charle-
ville or Cloncurry, he is a son of a one-
time honorary surgeon to the Governor-
General, Dr. Gordon Shaw, who com-
manded the 2nd Field Ambulance in the
First A.1.F., and was D.D.M.S., Southern
Command, in the Second. Young Shaw
was a War II Digger.
From “Ek Dum”:
Dead at 74, in Folkestone, England, Charles
Wolfran Round-Turner, C. 8., C.M.G.—
“George” to some of his old Australian friends
—a vice-admiral of the Royal Navy and one
of the world’s premier gunnery specialists in his
day. He was an old Britannia boy, and from
the first a gun was his great love. During
1914-16, in a period when great ships were
being developed and turret techniques revolu-
tionised, he was experimental commander in
H.M.S. Excellent, and left to become executive
commander of the new Ramillies when she
came out of Dalmuir at a critical period of
the war. In 1920 he came to Australia for a
couple of years as Director of Plans and Opera-
tions, R.A.N., one of the first of a long string
of famous R.N- men who helped to make our
Naval service—Vian was here with him, and
Lane Poole, Fogarty Fegen, V.C., E. R. G.
Evans, Denis Boyd, Goolden, W. R. Patterson
were among those who followed on various
rungs of the ladder. Round-Turner commanded
Dauntless in Brand’s cruiser squadron with the
Atlantic Special Service Squadron when it
visited Australia in 1924 —W. R. Patterson
(“Prendergast”) was one of his lieutenants —and
on his return to England became head of
Chatham Gunnery School, and later Com-
modore, Royal Naval Barracks at Devonport,
a job which he left to join Sir Howard Kelly
as Flag-captain and Chief Staff Officer in the
Revenge in the Mediterranean. He became a
rear-admiral in 1930, and a vice-admiral on
retirement in 1935 after five years as Admiral-
Superintendent of Chatham Dockyard. He
returned to the service and commanded the
Folkestone Base (H.M.S. Lynx), 1940-45. Him-
self a son of the R.N., he left two sons to
continue the family tradition.
R. B. Boulter, new secretary of the Aus-
tralian Golf Club (Sydney), should be
able to handle the job well enough. On
the book-work side he’s an honors gradu-
ate of Cambridge. On the pill-smiting
side he was a golf-committeeman of the
Royal Bangkok Sports Club, manager of
the Huntingdale G.C. (conducting a State
championship and international exhibi-
tion matches), got his golfing blue at
Cambridge in 1936, and has cruised in
the fairways of England, Scotland,
Belgium, Malaya, Thailand, Egypt and
New Zealand. On the fighting side —
though, of course, there will be none of
that at the Australian—he privateered in
the A.I.F. in 1940, got his captaincy, was
a Tobruk rodent with the 2/23 Infantry
Battalion and had a taste of New Guinea.
A graduate of Cambridge, lecturer in
classics at universities in Nottingham
(Eng.) and Toronto (Canada), and, since
1946 (after four years in the war-time
Canadian Air Force) Professor of Latin
at Sydney University, Richard Edwin
Smith goes back to the Old Dart, his
berth this time the Chair of Ancient
History at Manchester University. He
was born in Moscow.
“Fitz”: The Sydney literary world lost
a cultured and picturesque character when
poet Geoffrey Cumine died at 63 at the
Bare Island war veterans’ home. La
Perouse (Sydney). Between the two
world wars Cumine was a regular con-
tributor of polished verse to The Bulle-
tin, “Smith’s Weekly,” “Aussie,” “The
Labor Daily” and other journals, and is
represented in various verse anthologies.
A friend of novelist Philip Lindsay and
artist George Finey, he was a quaint and
conspicuous figure in Bohemian circles,
with his sandals, red shirt, blue beret and
gold earrings. Tattooed on each side of
his forehead was a small bluebird, and
at one stage tattooed across his brow
were the words “To Let,” indicating that
his brains —and he had plenty of them —•
were available to the highest bidder. Yet,
for all his idosyncrasies, Cumine was a
matured fellow, full of good and lively
conversation and a lovable companion.
His handwriting, a small neat script, was
as individual as the man. An English-
man who served with the British forces in
War I, Cumine lost an arm in a motor-
cycle accident and thereafter was never
without pain. Yet few ever heard him
complain of his misfortunes, and he had
more than his share of hard blows.
In Melbourne, P. G. Law, director of
the Antarctic division of the Department
of External Affairs, is now spending a
summer in latitudes above 50 degrees for
the first time in five years. Every January
since 1947 he has sailed south to Heard
and Macquarie Islands, and in 1950 went
further into the deep south to Queen
Maud Land with the Norwegian-British-
Swedish expedition. He will be off again
next year.
Dropped in to The Bulletin to meet
the Marine Editor, Dr. Rhodes Fair-
bridge, back from an expedition in the
south Pacific organised by the University
of California and the Office of Naval Re-
search of the U.S. Navy. He’s been map-
ping the floor of the deep ocean, and
collecting rock samples by dredging and
coring. As well, the team had the job
of calculating the thickness of the earth’s
crust under the Pacific —they proved it
to be seven miles thick —and they
discovered the greatest deep in the
southern hemisphere, where the pressured
depths of the Pacific reach down to
34,000 ft. A modern submarine at this
depth would be treated like a tin-can
under a steamroller. At present lecturing
in geology at the Westralian University,
Fairbridge is a son of the founder of the
farm-schools project, and in a few months
will shoot off again, this time on an invita-
tion to the University of Illinois, in
Chicago, as visiting professor.
“M.G.”: The Victorian R.S.L. has
asked the Federal executive to sponsor its
recommendation that Captain Reg
Saunders be included in the Coronation
contingent. Australian aborigines have
visited London before on various missions
since the days of Macarthur, but
Saunders would be the first to go with an
Australian Army commission. He was
born at Purnim (Vic.), the son of an
aborigine who was in the First A.I.F.
Educated at Lake Condah State school,
the son fought in Libya and Greece, was
picked up when a bomber sank his trans-
port and spent a year hiding in caves
in Crete. Then New Guinea (where his
brother was killed) and, later, Korea,
where he was described as one of the
Australian contingent’s most efficient
soldiers. He has the quiet, unassuming
deportment of the typical Australian
aborigine, and soldiering is his only in-
terest. At present instructing at Wat-
sonia, he seems to have been in every
unit, from tanks to Army Information.
“Pip Tok” farewells a battler:
Taken the final count in Perth, at 63, Alt’
Morey, Old Digger and fast-hitting boxer,
who in his prime held every Westralian title
from lightweight upward, as well as Australian
light- and welterweight championships. Born
in Victoria in 1889, he moved to Perth while
still a lad, and started his fighting career at 18.
Never daunted by bigger and heavier opponents,
he shifted back east after exhausting the possi-
bilities of the west —to win the S. Australian
lightweight title in 1912 and to beat Jack Read
for the Australian title at the Sydney Stadium
in 1913. The following year was his year of
glory. He won the welterweight championship
from Fred Kay in Brisbane, beat Frank Thorn,
lost to Milburn Saylor, but turned the tables
very decisively on the American at their next
meeting. His next victory—over the English-
man, Johnny Summers—made him a logical
contender for the world lightweight crown,
then worn by Welshman Freddy Welsh. Para-
doxically enough, war ended a brilliant fighting
career, though Morey did find time to win a
British Army welterweight championship while
serving with the A.I.F. in Egypt. After the
war he lost to Harry Stone in Perth, but boxed
on, winning a number of minor events before
he finally threw in the towel and set up in
business as a p.t.- and boxing-instructor. More
recently he was engaged in running a farm at
Bridgetown.
With some experience behind him of
what it could be like. Sir Allen Daley,
'former honorary physician to George VI,
sat at a Royal Empire Society luncheon
in Melbourne the other day, and heard
Major-General F. Kingsley Norris,
Director-General of Army Medical Ser-
vices, utter a warning that Australia was
well within the range of atomic-bombing,
and that the bombs used in the London
blitzes were like Grandma’s bloomers
compared with those that could be used
today; yet no preparations were being
made for atomic attacks. Sir Allen was
in charge of the London section during
the blitz, when one and a half million had
to leave their bombed homes, many
hospitals were destroyed, 10 were evacu-
ated and water had to be carted round
from door to door because the supply
had been polluted. It was a miracle, he
said, that there had been no serious out-
breaks of disease. Part of the miracle
was Sir Allen’s organisation, which in-
cluded an ambulance-force of 900 stepped
up by 7000 volunteer drivers. In Aus-
tralia he’ll lecture on hospital administra-
tion and public health.
Herewith, George Arthur Davies, whose
appointment as manager of Australia’s
1953 Test team is a recognition of a life-
time of service to cricket and sport in
general. He started in the game after
World War I, played first-eleven cricket
for Essendon for 20 years, ending up with
the record aggregate and record high
score —208 n.o. In 1921 he represented
Victoria against England and in numerous
inter-State matches since then. He has
been on the V.C.A. for 25 years, been
on the executive committee, been vice-
president, was State selector until this
year and has been on the Australian
Board of Control for 10 years. President
WICKETS
of the Essendon club for six years, he
managed the recent Australian Eleven
tour of New Zealand. Something of an
all-rounder, Davies has captained Victoria
at two baseball carnivals, played pennant
tennis and bowls for his city and in
earlier years reached the pennant squad
for the Northern Golf Club. Most of
his business life has been spent in furni-
ture and timber.
Harpooned here by Prior, Ken Coonan,
11 years permanent R.A.N., and, for
three years from 1946, Australian Gov-
ernment observer with the Jap whaling-
fleets round about 74 degrees south. A
convoy yeoman in War ll—his job to see
that -signals from escorting cruiser or
destroyer were understood by sometimes
unappreciative merchant skippers—
Coonan took his discharge in 1946 ; went,
footloose, to see a friend in the Com-
monwealth Fisheries Department, was
WHALES
casually asked if he’d like to go to
the South Pole, casually answered “Yes,”
and a few hours later was in an aircraft
bound for Japan. Okayed by MacArthur,
who overcame opposition to Japs re-
engaging in whaling by appointing official
observers, Coonan went off to the cold
seas sizing-up blue whales and finbacks
with a 100 ft. steel tape-measure and super-
vising other requirements of the inter-
national regulations on whaling. He’s had
three trips down to the edge of the world,
and reckons there’s nothing like a tender
steak from a finback’s tail—looks like
beef-steak, though darker and white-
flecked, and tastes like prime veal. His
last trip necessitated an eye operation. So
the Navy sent out an air-sea-rescue boat
and a Lincoln bomber to locate the
factory-ship, and a frigate to bring him
in to Sydney. Now, with the Peace Treaty
signed, Coonan spends the whaling season
(May to October) in the three stations
off Westralia. He takes off shortly for
the blubbering and boiling off Carnarvon,
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 72, Albert Cayzer, from 1947
to 1951 associate-ProfesSor of Biology at the
Queensland University. One of the best-known
figures at the university—he lectured on his
subject for over 30 years to medical, dental,
agricultural and science students —he was a
product of Sydney University, and before
appointment to Brisbane was a lecturer at the
Westralian University. His painstaking labora-
tory manuals —one on botany, the other on
zoology—will be kindly remembered by first-
year students.
At 61, in Melbourne, knight Dalziel Kelly, a
director of the Herald and Weekly Times co.
and one of Australia’s best-known graziers. He
was the main drive behind the forming of the
Australian Wool Board, and chaired it for
seven years. Earlier a practising barrister, at
the end he was a director of close on a dozen
companies, with interests ranging from insur-
ance and oil to cotton.
In London, at 88, Professor J. P. Grossman,
who, born at Moruya (N.S.W.), crossed early
to New Zealand to become director of the
School of Commerce at Auckland University
College. Switching to journalism, leader-writer
for the Auckland “Star,” he was that paper s
correspondent in Sydney some 20 years back,
before drifting to London, freelance.
In Melbourne, Vernon Harold Mattingley,
chief-of-staff of Truth and Sportsman, He was
for some time with Melbourne “Herald,
and was a war-correspondent in the Darwin
area in 1942 when the Japs were active there-
over.
In London, at'73, Guy Innes, a former editor
of Melbourne “Herald,” for 30 years one
of Fleet-street’s best known Inky Wayfarers,
and still a Bulletin contributor while over
there. Born in Ballarat, he served on several
Australian papers, and inaugurated the “Herald
cable-service. Later he joined British Informa-
tion, and was closely associated with the
diplomatic service. In England he poured out
a stream of articles, verse and stories whose
touches of Australian wit and humor attracted
wide attention.
At 93, in Adelaide, Brigadier-General George
Henry Dean, who had his first military service
when, in 1877, he enlisted in the S. Australian
Mounted Rifles to resist the expected Russian
invasion. His next military affau was rea
enough, when, in command of the 13th Ligm
Horse Regiment, he landed on Gallipot
Typhoid-fever took him out of that, and to me
iob of O.C. troops on convoys to Europe.
A crack rifle-shot, his 1913 team won the
McKinnon Cup at Bisley and ran second tor
the Kolapore Cup. The S. Australian R.SL-
owes much to his interest m its foundation
days.
In Sydney, Frank Bradley, recognised m his
day as the artist of the vignette, one who coul
give significance to the smallest part and
it to the point of brilliance. A lead-player
with the Firm for years, when off the stage he
liked nothing better than to go out painting
the Australian landscape.


THE CATCH OF THE SEASON


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The boss sent Fleming
and Little Curl out into the Moonlight
country to see how things looked, the
sheep having been brought into the river
off it in December when the grass went
and an inch of rain having been reported
out there. Somewhere in the scrub and
sandhills the searchers ran into a camp
of three earnest young men studying the
botanic specimens of the locality. Little
Curl, always eager to learn, absorbed
their talk. A week later he and Fleming
rode into the head station. “Well, how’s
it going out there?” the boss asked.
“Well, boss,” said Little Curl, “there ain’t
much grass, but there’s a fair bit of
Portulaca oleracea, a patch or two of
Solarium opacum, and a bit of Curassa-
vica.” The boss’s mouth fell open. “He’s
been hobnobbin’ with a camp o’ them
scientific blokes we met out there,”
Fleming explained. “He’s talking about
pig-face, nightshade and cotton-bush.”
The boss’s mouth closed. “Is he!” he
exclaimed, “Well, tell him t’ turn round
an’ get out there an’ find some ruddy
“Go on, be a sport, Cranpa!"
grass or he’ll be a digit in the next statis-
tical exposition of the national economic
status, part two, rural employment,
decline.”
* * * *
“O. K. Lee”: I note that one Lazarus
Lami Lami, of Goulburn Island, the most
educated full-blooded native in the
northern part of the N.T., is to conduct
a preaching-tour of Sydney and Mel-
bourne under the auspices of the
“If’s NOT indiarubber!”
Methodist Overseas Mission. It brings
me a nostalgic recollection of Alligator,
a lay reader whose pulpit appeal drew
capacity congregations in the old London
Missionary Society mission-house on
Badu Island in Torres Straits. Alligator,
so named for his oral conformation, was
at his best in exposition of parables, as
witness his elucidation of the obstacles
besetting the rich man’s passage into
Heaven. Talking down to his congre-
gation, the erudite Alligator explained:
“You poor feller savee camel? Pickshur
b’long ’im ’e stop longa cigarette-packet
at trading-station. No. One smart feller
dat camel. You feller savee needle and
eye b’long him? Small feller too much.
Pig no go through eye b’long needle.
Horse no go through. White man no go
through because he got altogether cash
money in pocket b’long him. But —
camel! Clever feller dat one. ’E go
through eeasieee !”
* * * *
“Banker’s Wife”: Tasmania has its
Dunk Island, but you’d hardly call its
owner a beachcomber. When 63-year-old
German yachtsman George Dibbern cast
up on the beach near Bruny he sighted,
after sailing some 90,000 miles in his
ketch Te Rapunga, the island of his
dreams ; Woody Island in the D’Entre-
casteaux Channel. For some time it
remained only a dream, then George
struck Tatt’s. After he’d given half to
the fellow who had got him the ticket
he bought his island. It steps out about
76 acres, and Captain Dibbern has stocked
it with sheep and cattle, planning to form
a stud-farm there, where he is not
troubled by snakes, frosts or rabbits.
* * * *
“Arturo”: That lively bint whom Mat
struck en route to Inverell (B. 4/2/’53)
must have slewed him a bit, too, for
there’s no “blue mud” round that town
and less along the routes leading in.
Still, he was fortunate. We struck a five-
mile sea of mud while making for Birchip,
on the edge of the Victorian mallee. We
left the tourer when the mud started to
flow in over the door, and made back
to a lonely light one of us recalled seeing
a couple of miles back. It was still
shining through the rain and most wel-
come it W&s, too, even though it stood
half a mile back from the road. We let
out a yell when we reached the front of
the cottage and waited. For a second
nothing happened. Then the light snuffed
out. We yelled again, waited, then
squelched round the back. Everything
was dark, murky and forlorn. “We ain’t
welcome,” said Mac. “Let’s go.” And
there she was, just visible through the
murk of the night—a woman, fleeing
from the house and two terror-struck
kids clinging to her sodden clothes. She
talk for a while when we headed
her off; then all she could say for three
or four minutes was “I thought you were
swaggers” Back at the cottage we
got the rest of the story. They’d come
up from Melbourne, and her husband had
taken on the bunnies. Right now he was
running the line of traps. She was
terrified in the house alone. “But, for
Heaven’s sake, don’t tell George,” she
entreated. “He’ll never stop teasing me
about it.” We promised faithfully, but
George hadn’t finished knocking the rain
off his hat before she’d told him the lot
and was starting off for the third time.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Who told “Wog” that
yarn about Mac and his mates sneaking
a horse-and-buggy out of a pound (B.
18/2/’53)? Only straying stock are im-
pounded and a horse attached to a buggy
is not straying stock, even if it is wander-
ing without the driver. All the pound-
keeper could do would be to tie the horse
up until the driver was found.
* * * *
“Fairf”; We were indulging in siesta
at a holiday-camp on Lake Tabourie,
South Coast (N.S.W.), when the kids in
the party —four years and six, respec-
tively —came rushing up, greatly excited.
“We saw a big wobble-ie swimming in
the water!” they exclaimed shrilly. The
spear-fisherman in our party sat up sud-
denly. “A wobble-ie —a wobbie. Wobbe-
gong! ” he interpreted, and dived for his
outfit. With the kids as delighted guides
the cavalcade hot-footed (literally: the
sand was scorching) to the spot. “He
was swimming over there,” both eyewit-
nesses agreed. Looking like the Man
from Mars the spear-fisherman took the
water. Three optimists cast lines in.
Half-an-hour later the. M. from M. came
out to do a little cross-examining. “Are
you sure this was the place?” he asked.
They were—positively. “Funny,” he
mused. “Didn’t sound right from the first.
Wobbies like the rocks more than lakes
or lagoons. Where was he when you saw
him last?” “Over there,” said the kids
in unison, pointing across the lake. “He
went over that sandhill,” added the boy.
“The man said he was a wobble-ie,” said
the boy, “but I thought he was like a
kangaroo,” Belatedly I woke up. Last
summer, when fires were roaring through
the bush and sweeping across the camp-
ing-area, a mob of “wobble-ies” took
refuge in the lake; but why that indi-
vidual wallaby had decided to swim
across, in full view of at least one man
and two kids, had no obvious answer —
except the one applied to the legendary
chicken.
* * * *
“Mingari”: I’d feel happier about
“North-5-West’s” miners riding the pump-
rods to the surface (B. '4/2/’53) if he’d
mentioned that the length of each section
of pump-rod was equal to the length of
the stroke—6ft., in this case —as it would
have to be. But even then, that’s mighty
short for pump-rod sections—and it was
thoughtful of the blokes who sank the
shaft to leave a timber projecting at just
the right interval all the way to the sur-
face —and farsighted of them to know
just how long those rods were going to
be. And it must have been a mighty
pumping-engine that wouldn’t attract
attention by puffing a little harder when
an extra 160 or 170 pounds was added to
the load.
* * * ♦
*
“Kros”: Can’t explain just why
“Tamana’s” galahs, used to dining on
wheat and oats, should gorge on cuttlefish
when they could get it (B. 11/2/’53).
Probably it was the need for a change,
such as at times moves even humans.
Most birds live on a mixed vegetarian
and meat (or fish) diet; some fish-
preferring birds have been known to
change over completely to a vegetarian
diet, and vice versa. Changing from one
to the other therefore requires no great
dietary adaptation. Apropos, what
has long puzzled me is how the domestic
cat got its fondness for a finny-diet, see-
ing that it will rarely of its own free-will
dip a paw into water.
* * * *
“Ohinemuri”: The station had been
losing a lot of sheep and the Maori camp
down the river had been under suspicion,
but so far the management had nothing
on them. After an all-night vigil by
the manager and some shepherds, Hori
was caught “piggybacking” a fine big
wether away. When challenged by the
manager and
asked what he
was doing with
the she ep,
Ho r i asked,
“What seeps,
ehoa?” “That
sheep on your
back, you
thieving cow!”
stormed the
manager. Hori
peeped over
his shoulder, a look of amazement came
over his face as he gasped out, “By gorri,
poss, so he is. Pinchin’ a ride! Can’t
trust some o’ tese seep—they’ll pinch any-
thing.”
* * * *
Around the wharf at Samarai
(Papua) the water is 20ft. to 40ft. deep,
and tropically clear enough to read the
label on a milktin on the bottom. From
monthly steamer to the next one no
sharks approach the wharf, but keep to
the fairway and beyond. Yet almost
simultaneously with the natives’ cry of
“Sail-oh,” a huge 16-footer and its mate
cruise slowly toward the shadows beneath
the wharf. Farther out a polyglot bunch
of the breed loaf about; permitted to
remain there until the steamer turns
wharfward. Suddenly there is an under-
water flurry of twisting, riving shark-
bodies. It is the big feller and its mate
beating off the lesser lights. Together
they return towards the ship as it makes
fast, and sink to the ocean-bed beneath.
For 30 hours they gorge on the refuse
thrown overboard. With the steamers
departure they disappear into the depths
for another month.
MR. CUNEO’S COCKATOOS
[These cockatoos brightened Thirlmere (N.S.W.)
railway-station in the Naughty ’Nineties, Mr. Cuneo
being their owper. The mail-train was stopped to
let distinguished visitors hear them.]
Hide, pretty fledgling, Lesbia’s joy!
Venus, your team of doves must go!
You, Philip, you, the Lay Nun’s toy,
you, a sparrow, not a boy,
. Hide, Philip Sparrow!
Hide, Popinjay! Hide, Papingo!
Fly wide, sweet swallow!
Once-famous birds, abase your crests!
Off, little twitterers, to your nests!
Though long they’ve been in hiding, oh!
I sing anew
each cockatoo,
The pride of Thirlmere siding, oh!
Prime Ministers and Trotting Kings
would halt to hear the lurid strings
of oaths those birds would utter, oh!
Amazed, each Peer and Bishop heard
the salty daring of each word
—the cream of all the gutter, oh!
Men came from Bourke and Hobart both
to teach these birds the latest oath
—so famous they
in their heyday!
Stockmen would ride from Werris Creek
and Cairns and Perth to hear them speak,
—in their heyday
so famous they!
Whistle to the birds? They then began
swearing beyond the scope of man!
—The oaths those birds would utter, oh!
With one eye shut and scalding beak
each perching cockatoo would speak
—the cream of all the gutter, oh!
Their artistry would crack steel rails,
Their B —s and D—s,
their B—y—e’s
made iron roofs flake off like scales.
Hide, Chanticleer! Dame Perdelote, hide!
Leda, your naughty swan let be!
You, Jenny, you, Cock Robin’s bride,
Cuckoo and Phoenix—stand aside!
Brood, Bird of Liberty!
Go, pretty Turtles, cheek by jowl!
Go, hooting owl, Minerva’s fowl!
Away, all three!
Once-famous birds, abase your crests!
Off, little twitterers, to your nests!
Though long they’ve been in hiding, oh!
I sing anew
each cockatoo!
The pride of Thirlmere siding, oh!
N.S.W.
ETHEL ANDERSON.


[?]
“Mac Hoots”: I suppose the bulljoes
in French’s Forest develop odd tastes from
feeding on Sydney picnickers’ litter (and
picnickers), but I was still surprised to
see one ferocious red specimen, about
an inch long, dragging to his lair a
cigarette-butt; a noxious diet from which
most animals and insects wisely recoil.
The question is, did the white cylinder
appeal to his aesthetic sense as a decora-
tion for the nest, or (as wouldn’t after all
be surprising) do bulldog-ants chew
tobacco?
* * *
“Sack”: The mice were becoming a
bit too plentiful in the feedshed, so I
baited the trap —one of those patent
wooden ones with four holes in the sides
and loops that catch the rodents under
the throat. Before dusk one mouse was
caught; I left him there as a decoy for
others. In the morning the trap was
overturned and the cheese taken from all
the other triggers. Next day another
couple of mice paid the price, but at
night the triggers were sprung again and
the baits taken. It looked like the work
of a rat. But on the third night the
culprit committed an unhygienic act
which proved his identity. An ingeniously-
engineered trap baited with his favorite
weakness caught him alive —to the sub-
sequent delight of the neighbor’s kids.
Now I can catch the mice without inter-
ference, the kids get a great kick out of
feeding their pet with cheese, the said pet
is quite content to eat all the cheese forth-
coming, and everybody is happy—except
the kids’ mother, who reckons cheese is
too expensive to feed possums on. I’ve
. always regarded the silver-grey as a strict
vegetarian—which justified our calling
him a “possum,” thereby making a dis-
tinction from the American “opossum,”
which is carnivorous—but apparently
“Silver” follows the example of many a
human vegetarian and refuses to eat food
that comes direct from an animal, but
doesn’t mind wolfing into a choice piece
of animal-product.
* * * *
“J.F.”: Can anyone enlighten me as
to the etymology of the pronunciation
“yo” for ewe? Likewise, “elder” for
udder? Both pronunciations are usually
used by the same people, and there seems
to be some local emphasis in their popu-
larity. In southern N.S.W. a few old
hands use the words constantly, the young-
’uns mostly sticking to the orthodox pro-
nunciation. But in one central-western
district the words are general currency
and nobody, whether aware of the ortho-
dox pronunciation or not, would dream of
using anything else, for fear of being
misunderstood or offending. I’m not
objecting to the words ; they have a rich-
ness, a roundness, lacking in their ortho-
dox counterparts. But where do they
come from?
* * * *
“Cisticola”: The lovelorn reflections of
Ralph Clark regarding his “virtuous
Alicia” (B. 4/2/’53) are not the most im-
pressive portions of the somewhat in-
discreet journal which that Australian
pioneer inadvertently bequeathed to
posterity. More substance attaches to
the remarkable data he assembled, on
Norfolk Island in 1790, on the subject of
mutton-birds, otherwise “flying sheep”
and “birds of providence,”
all of which terms appear to
have had their origin on the
island, the first two from the
flesh “tasting like to mut-
ton,” and the other because
the birds actually saved all
lives at the settlement when
supply-ships failed to arrive.
Clark (who was quarter-
master-general and keeper
of stores on the island) re-
veals that in April 13,251
birds were killed; in May
82,321 ; in June 70,699 ; and
during part of July 5091.
These figures give a total of
171,362 birds slaughtered in
three months. It was not un-
common, Clark says, for
7000 or 8000 to be brought
in by sailors, marines and
convicts in one night. When
the birds flew over Mount
Pitt at dusk, before descend-
ing to their nesting-burrows,
they were “as thick as a
shower of hail,” a fact that
caused the diarist to suggest
(with a touch of Pepysian
piety) that his account
should “make the old story
of Moses being in the
wilderness be a little more
believed, respecting the
shower of quail.” Every
person on the island, it is emphasised,
owed his or her existence to the
“Mount Pitt birds.” Sadly, the
saving of the lives of the pioneers of
Norfolk Island sealed the doom of the
birds of providence. The convicts, wilful
and improvident, not only destroyed the
bird but its young and eggs, and so within
a few years, perhaps before 1800, the
providential petrel was exterminated from
the island.
* * * *
“G.K.W.”: Someone had left the slip-
rails down, and seven or eight from a
mob of mixed cattle travelling the road
had rushed the opening. As a lad I was
helping three others to get them out. We
were going nicely, with yells and waving
arms whenever a breakaway was
attempted, when a young three-year-old
bull put his head down and made straight
for me. When it was within two or three
yards of me my father’s strident yells
penetrated my startled brain: “Lie down,
quick, and he’ll jump you!” The beast
leaped me cleanly. That is the only time
I have tested “Mingari’s” theory (B.
21/l/’53) —my subsequent dealings with
unruly cattle have been from the back of
a. horse with a nice long stockwhip.
* *N * * .
“Laetltia”: The highly creditable per-
formance of two New Guinea patrol
officers in recently breaking up a fracas
between two groups each of about 500
warlike natives recalled the occasion in
late 1944 when those bad boys of the
Buna-Gona area, the Oracaivas, mustered
in strength for a little mayhem directed
at the extra-local boys working with the
Allied labor-lines. A detachment of U.S.
negroes stationed in the vicinity in which
the battle was about to break made an
appraisal of the situation and, in every
manner of vehicle which could be com-
mandeered, departed full-sail for all
points of the compass. On their late
bivouac overlooking the arena they had
abandoned a store of 44-gallon drums of
petrol, which gave a Digger corporal
attached to Angau a bright idea. After
lighting a fire a little distance down the
hill, he knocked the cap off a drum of
petrol and rolled it so that it traversed
the fire and then bounced down between
the about-to-join lines of battle. A few
seconds later he released another fiery
sequence of heralds of peace, though this
proved to be unnecessary, since a few
seconds after the first one had plummeted
across the battle area there wasn’t a
warring warrior in sight.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Some station-owners in the
Kimberleys are experimenting with rice-
growing, and dailies have enthused over
“millions of acres” of rice that may
eventuate. In the distant future some-
thing like that acreage may be sown
in the north, but few realise the diffi-
culties growers face. Small trial plots
have been grown, to the delight of
the local fauna. When the ibis invaded
the plots the growers netted them out —
and watched the cockatoos climb through
the netting. Smaller netting stopped them,
but wouldn’t hold the finches ; that took
|in. wire, and netting a million acres
isn’t a commercial proposition. This
summer plans to sow a couple of hun-
dred acres on Liveringa station went
astray because of the drought, and the
cockatoos got in amongst what was sown
and it didn’t germinate. Under normal
conditions it would have sprouted before
they got at it, but they’d been there at
the harvest. Still, the station people
reckon they can beat the pests, and any-
one who’s seen what they’ve already done
up there must give them at least an even-
money chance of winning. If they do,
Australia may be able to feed quite a
big part of Asia, and in doing so justify
our White Australia policy.
* * * *
“Ara Moana”: A recent find in New
Zealand suggests that Megalapteryx
didinus, the small, forest-dwelling species
of moa, was still living in the South
Island as late as 1800. In the valley where
Dr. Orbell found living specimens of
Notornis hochstetteri, a large bird thought
to have been long extinct, Ken Miers, a
wild-life field-officer, came across rock-
shelters in which Maori hunters had once
camped. An examination of their food
debris revealed moa-feathers. Dr. Falla,
of the Dominion Museum, visited the
spot, to be followed by Dr. H. D. Skinner,
and that authority on the moa-hunter
period of Maori culture Dr. Duff.
Sifting of the camp debris disclosed a
moa bone which might have been hacked
with a steel knife. The discovery of living
specimens of Notornis in 1948 created a
sensation in ornithological circles, but it
would be nothing to the stir which would
■follow if a live moa were discovered. The
chances are all against it, but unlikelier
things have happened.
* * *' *
“Abi Tonus”: Outsize pumpkins of a
mere 301 b.? Come north, “Blanc” (B.
24 /12 /’52), and see real ones at the
Bomana jail gardens, Port Moresby.
True, you must
come at the
right time, as
accommoda-
tion for Euro-
pea n s is
limited, and
boarders are
not kept for
more than a
couple of
months or so:
after that they
are sent south
to complete
their sentences. After the crop of hun-
dredweight pumpkins is harvested the
ground takes two years to flatten out.
With improved seed-selection and
adequate supports to prevent disappear-
ance into the rocky ground it only needs
the perfecting of a scheme for transfusing
the stems with raw sand and gravel for
the housing problem to be solved —but
maybe this will turn out to be just another
plan.
* * * *
“Flight”: Pelicans off the seaboard (B.
31/12/’52)? In W.Q. we regard the
pelican as our own bird. In a proper
season it’s rare to see a waterhole, dam
or an overshot without a few of them
on it. Down in what they now call the
channel country, the blacks used to feast
on young pelicans —they’d drive them to
a waterhole a mile or so distant from
any other, and the gins would be set
to watch them as a drover does cattle on
camp. The abos used to pick them to
kill just as their feathers were sprouting
and before they learned to fly.
“Shamuseen” :• “The Bunyip” states (B.
11/2/’53) that the male pawpaw-tree never
bears fruit. Wrong. Generally in their
fourth bearing-year many male trees pro-
duce a crop far surpassing in paya-
bility any yield of the females. The fruit
forms r not close against the trunk as
does that of the female tree, but on the
end of the long stalks just as Lusby drew
it in The Bulletin joke-block. It is
claimed that the sex of the tree
can be changed from male to female by
driving an iron spike into the trunk.
Apropos: like “The Bunyip” I noticed
the barrenness of female trees when the
usual swarms of pollinating bees failed to
show up; I remedied that by simply de-
canting the dust from the male flowers
into the female blossoms.
%
* * * *
“Irving”: The code which bound
the tribalised abo. to his native towri or
stamping-ground was as flexible as that
of the Medes and Persians. Unless an
incursion was a deliberate trespass under-
taken in the full expectation of warlike
repercussions, the Rubicons were never
crossed without observance of certain
courtesies. Nevertheless, the walkabout,
preceded by the prescribed formalities
of advising other tribes and receiving I
permission, was a regular feature in many |
areas. In some cases precedent of walk- j
abouts of previous years wiped out the
need for formal notification. Instance
the annual migration of the main tribes
of South Queensland to the Bunya Moun-
tains. They crossed the towri of the |
South Burnett tribes, perhaps the greatest 1
warriors among all Australian aborigines ;
but, arriving dog-poor and departing mud-
fat after gorging for weeks on the nuts
of the bunya-pines, they were never
molested, though etiquette demanded that
they go home after the harvesting of
the nuts.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The bloke who gave us
the lift in his car was a stern-looking old
cuss and had something to say about
blokes who didn’t seem able to settle
down and went about the country god-
less and careless. Mat fell silent as the
car and the homily rolled on, and, as it
ran into Bogan Gate, the driver said,
“I’ll be stopping here for a few minutes.
Then I’m going on to Forbes, if you’re
going that way.” It was a hot day and
Mat and I whipped into the pub for a
couple of quickies. We were on the
veranda when the car appeared. The
old cove gave us a disapproving look,
but took us in. It’s 28 miles fiom B.G.
"I assure you. Uncle, they're NOT up yet."
to Forbes, and we got a lecture on booze
for 28 of them. When we pulled up in
Forbes Mat said, “Thanks for the lift.
As for the beer, some like it and some
don't, that’s all.” The stern face lifted.
“I’m seventy-one,!’ he said proudly,
“and never had an intoxicating drink in
my life.” Mat pondefed. “Oh, well,”
he said, “I wouldn’t worry if I was you.
It ain’t likely t’ get y’ now.”
LITTLE MAUVE PIGEONS
In the buttercup field in gay spring weather
Little mauve pigeons lunch together,
Turn a curious gaze on the crow’s black feather
And rotting lamb in the strawberry heather,
A beak full of gut, an eye full of lust,
An insolent wing of sun-minted rust:
Emerald cypress serrating a sky
As bold as the gleam in the old crow’s eye.
N.S.W.
OLGA SCHLUNKE.


PENFOLDS
★ ★ ★
BRANDY
ill
HN FOLDS
QBgBBVp,
mm
PSQ/S3
LIVESTOCK MANAGER
The Commonwealth Wool and
Produce Company Limited,
89 Phillip Street, Sydney,
requires the services of a fully
experienced Manager for their Head
Office Livestock Department. Salary
will be appropriate to the position
and conditions of employment include
Provident Fund Benefits.
Applications to the General Manager
at the above address will be treated
as strictly confidential.
HYBOM
FD
N. AMERICA
CONTINENTS
Swift, sure, Speedbird services link 51 countries
on all six continents . . . save days, even weeks of
travelling time. You fly on one ticket all the way.
Four-engined Speedbird aircraft are pressurized
for smooth, oiowe-the-weather flying. You relax in
deep-seated comfort, enjoy complimentary meals
and meal-time drinks, and courteous, friendly
attention. No tips or extras.
o*e
8.0.A.G. —leads with the
Comet services now operating
Johannesburg London, Colombo London,
and Singapore London, are forerunners of
world-wide 8.0.A.C. Jetliner services.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA . MALAYA • HONG
KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON . INDIA • PAKISTAN
MIDDLE EAST . AFRICA . EUROPE • GREAT BRITAIN
U.S.A. . CANADA . CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
BERMUDA
Information & Bookings ; Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin
or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD,, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD., AMD SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
- *l7/AU
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Shares and Politics
Except for the return of the
“Labor” Government in N. S.
Wales with an increased majority
and the defeat of the McLarty
Ministry in W.A, by a narrow
margin, most of the news
affecting industry and the share-
market has been to the good.
Slowly efficiency, incentive and
productivity have been return-
ing to industry, and the halt in
the upward rush in the basic
wage has given a breather on
the budgeting side of business.
Politics —that is, “Labor” poli-
tics and Communism—remain
the bugbear of our industrial
outlook. State Government
will oppose Federal Government
with greater strength under the
new political set-up, and not a
word suggesting a knowledge of
prudent or enduring finance has
been heard from either Dr. Evatt
or Mr. Calwell in their frequent
attacks on the Menzies Admini-
stration. The investor should
by now have come to realise
that “Labor” government means
financial manipulation and in-
dustrial decay. Inflation in
share-prices is an indication of
almost nothing else.
With economic indexes
moving as they have been for
the past six months, ana with
interim-dividend rates mostly
stable or increased, the share-
market was entitled to regard
the future with some confidence.
Costs are not yet low enough,
but they have been moving the
right way. Money figures are
beginning to mean something.
How much further the country
will be permitted to improve its
economic health will depend a
very great deal upon the results
of the next Senate elections, and
upon how the Federal Govern-
ment comes off in its battle
with State “Labor” Premiers.
In the market itself, for the
past week or two business has
been slow. The Associated
Pulp issue has been fairly well
supported in the “right s”
market, and there has lately
been a slight firming in leading
issues—such as 8.H.P., A.C.L,
British Tobacco, Colonial Sugar
and Edwards Dunlop—but Bank
of N. S. Wales has come back
sharply.
Among the second-line stocks
the lOs.-paids in R. B. Davies
Industries are attractive at 155.,
and Swans at 41s. yield over
6 p.c. Bradford Cotton has
moved up strongly to 375. 6d,,
justifying the remarks made
here about the stock when it was
down around 30s. Newbold
Refractories rights at 7s. 9d.
(making 275. 9d. fully paid)
promise an ultimate yield of
5.7 p.c.
Many people are awaiting the
listing of Minster, Ltd., shares
(the co. controls Westminster
Carpets, which makes a rubber-
based, extremely durable carpet
by unusual but well-established
methods). Some of the £1
shares in the Westminster
co. were sold privately a
couple of years ago at 40s.
each. On the basis of con-
version that would represent 20s.
for each 10s. Minster share.
There are reports that buyers
are already making advance
offers at that figure. Yield on a
12i p.c. div. basis would be
6.2 p.c. at 20s.
More Imports
It was in no spirit of reckless-
ness or speculation that the
Federal Government eased
import restrictions. The £5O
million of extra imports granted
take on their true perspective
when the overall import-export
position is reviewed.
When restrictions were
imposed in March last year
imports for the year ended
June, 1952, were expected
to total £1250 million. A 50 p.c.
reduction in these was called for.
In fact, imports totalled £1053
million, representing a monthly
“It’s about time I got a bookplate .”
average of £87.8 million for the
year. Following the restrictions,
for the seven months to January
last imports totalled £299 million
-—a monthly average of £47.2
million. Imports were thus in
fact reduced by the required
50 p.c. The present relaxations
now allow for an increase in
imports of approximately
10 p.c.
But early in 1952 the expecta-
tion was for a declining income
from exports. While for the
year ended June, 1952, exports
totalled £675 million —£66.4
million less than in the preceding
year—for the seven months to
January this year exports have
risen. They have totalled £477
million, which is £94 million
more than in the corresponding
period in 1951-52, and have
made possible a surplus of
exports over imports of £l7B
million for the period. Such a
state of affairs was not envisaged
early in 1952.
Future prospects are bright.
Wool has had another good
season. For the seven-month
period turnover has risen by
14 p.c., bringing an increase of
over 20 p.c. in income. Seasonal
conditions now promise a larger
wheat harvest later this year.
The current harvest of about
160 million bushels is up on
estimates, and, on the strength
of this, Australia’s quota under
the I.W.A. has been raised from
60 to 80 million bushels.
There are also other agree-
ments. The country’s exportable
surplus of meat will find
guaranteed markets as far ahead
as 1967, and sugar, for which a
record harvest has resulted,
has markets in excess of supplies.
Last year the industry exported
442,665 tons less than its quota.
So that in the light of past
events and future prospects, not
to mention the promise made by
the Prime Minister that restric-
tions would be eased when
opportunity offered, the recent
relaxations were justified. And
though the relaxations were by
no means overdone, some
iimporters probably will not
avail themselves of their quota,
consumer-demand for many
things having fallen away since
1951.
Booth Industries, Ltd.
Formed in June last year to
take over the issued capital of
E. V. Campbell Pty., Ltd. (con-
tractors), J. S. Booth Pty., Ltd.
(sawmillers, timber and joinery
merchants), and Queensland
Cypress Pty., Ltd, (sawmillers
and timber-merchants), Booth
Industries, Ltd., has a present
paid capital of £100,007 in ss.
shares, and of these 160,000 are
now being offered at ss. 3d. each
in order to bring the co, into the
public - company class for
income-tax purposes and to
enable Stock Exchange listing.
J. S. Booth, the managing-
director, has been associated with
the three subsidiaries since their
inception and has been in the
timber trade since 1928. Com-
bined profits of the three
concerns (subject to taxation)
were. £23,874 for the year to
June 30, 1950, £37,747 for 1951
and £56,393 for 1952. The
sustained growth in earnings up
to June, 1952, was exceptional
when the general trend of busi-
ness conditions is considered. A
volume of contract work over a
lengthy period probably helped
to maintain earnings. The co.’s
own timber subsidiaries are
reported to be maintaining sales,
while the contracting subsidiary
mentions 18 months’ work in
hand, Queensland Cypress
operates five sawmills in Queens-
land and a planing depot at
Boggabilla. About 60 p.c. of
output is sold in Queensland, the
rest in N. S. Wales. Demand is
still in excess of supply.
At June 30 last the co. owed
the . bank £17,801, sundry
creditors £51,206, and had
£29,250 set aside to meet income
tax. Its stocks (£66,494, after
deducting' progress payments)
were not excessive. Most fixed
assets appear at cost, less depre-
ciation. On this basis net
tangible backing behind each
ss. share was 4s. 6|d, at June
30, which is increased to the
extent of profits earned since
June 30 last. Independent valua-
tions put net tangibles at 6s. 4f d,
a share.
Average earnings, after taxa-
tion, over the past three years
represent 23 p.c. on present
capital. No estimate of earnings
up to December 31 has been
given, but a dividend at the rate
of 10 p.c. p.a. will be paid as
soon as the 160,000 shares are
transferred to their new owners.
Upon completion of the transfer
a further 200,000 shares will be
issued at par, one for two.
Present shareholders have agreed
to take up their full quota of
the new issue.


From a banker’s diary
No. 10
Thursday: Opened a cheque account
for newlywed Mrs. 88808881 who
wishes to simplify her house-
keeping and keep a record of
expenses.
■
m
m
m
The business of running a home
Starting a new life, this young housewife
was rightly determined to carry the. tried and
proven principles of business into her home.
Paying butcher, baker, milkman, and grocer,
insurance, and all other expenses will be so
much easier by cheque. Cheque butts and bank
statements will provide a permanent record of
expenditure.
I know she will find her cheque account very
useful, not only now,, but right through her
married life.
You, too, should consult and use-
)
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SODTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5220C
V? 0
RUPTURED?
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture. A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
minal region.
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
F
Strong elastic pantl
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable scraps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
X3IJI9IU 3HX
Write or call for free illustrated booklet
“The Rigiflex Method
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
WASHINGTON H. SOUL
PATTINSON & CO. LTD.
160 PITT STREET AND BRANCHES
Telephone: BL 2684 Open Saturday Morning*
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Cement Costs
Cheaper cement should cut a
million or two off building and
construction costs in New
Zealand this year, as prices drop
back from the peak reached
when the country had to buy
heavily abroad to supplement
local output until its big cement
expansion programme reached
the reproductive stage.
As new plant gets into produc-
tion Maoriland will be able to
work its way towards indepen-
dence of outside sources, with a
good prospect of being self-
supporting in a couple of years’
time. The first instalment of
benefit was a cut of £1 a ton
when the new year opened. A
tip from the inside is that the
price might be down by anything
from £3 to £4 a ton before the
year is out.
On a total of, roughly, 400,000
tons, which is the extent of
M.L.’s yearly needs today, this
would mean a saving of close
to a million and a half, most of
which will go to the Govern-
ment on hydroelectric schemes,
bridges and other big jobs. The
balance of the gain will be
spread more-or-less thinly over
whole field of private en er-
P nS( p’ m the case of houses
mi B. amount to only e
equivalent of a week s or a or -
m Sht s wages. ror the ran -
and-file, who are more concerned
about the price of houses than
about anything else in the con-
struction line, this is a small
r phef when measured against
nse ~-*0 tor timber tor an
average house since sawmillers
raised their puces a short while
a S°-
For industry as a whole there
can be no belittling the import-
ance of a change in the price-
trend for such a key material as
cement. It has been a long
uphill struggle to reach this
stage. The three cos. that form
the production-chain—Wilson’s
Cement (Auckland), Golden Bay
(Wellington) and Milburn Lime
and Cement (Dunedin)—are
spending several millions in all
on enlarging their works, to
double their capacity to nearly
half a million tons a year, and
when they’re fully into their
stride N.Z. will rank as the
world’s largest cement-producer,
on a per capita basis.
Tariff Policy
Forces are massing for a full-
scale engagement on tariffs and
trade as the three-year-old
Board of Trade puts the finish-
ing touches to plans for its first
big public inquiry into issues
which concern every New
Zealand industry, large or small.
The month is March, and the
industry is footwear, which
ranks fourth in Dominion
manufacturing.
Since local enterprise was
given a monopoly of the
domestic market by the Socialist
ban on imports of leather foot-
wear (except infants’ and
children’s), which was clamped
down in the exchange crisis of
December, 1939, production of
boots and shoes in N.Z. factories
has gone ahead by leaps and
bounds, until today the industry
is turning out nearly a couple of
pairs a head annually, not count-
ing slippers, which amount to
another pair all round. Over the
past twelvemonth the industry
has had its first real taste of
competition since pre-control
years, and hasn’t found it to its
liking.
Strange as it may seem, tho
1952 import-boom gave a shake-
up to sheltered as well as un-
sheltered industries, through the
drain on spending-power at the
same time as the banks tightened
up their hold on credit. Today,
with the B. of T. inquiry in the
offing, manufacturers are work-
ing on short orders and are
unsure what the future has in
store. They declare they’re not
afraid of genuine competition,
but are scared of the risk of
dumping and of the possible
consequences of a cut-price war
with manufacturers in India,
Singapore and Hong Kong, who
qualify for a preferential tariff.
The difference in living
standards between N.Z. and
these potential rivals is the cause
of anxiety, and will present the
B. of T. with a problem which
will be a hard nut to crack.
Every industry will be affected by
the outcome, because the method
adopted will tend to become
standard practice in tariff-
making.
N.Z.’s tariff is very much in
need of reform, as it hasn’t been
overhauled since the days when
its main purpose was to raise
revenue, and protection of
industry was only a subordinate
matter. As things stand at the
moment, industry generally is
almost completely dependent on
import- and exchange-controls,
which in the opinion of , most
manufacturers are all right as
long as they last, but they won’t
last for ever.
*
Interest Rates
Since the new year opened,
Maoriland businessmen and
investors have been doing a good
deal of whistling in the dark.
There are still plenty of uncer-
tainties to have to reckon with
today, under tight credit, short
orders for industry, timid buying,
harder interest-rates and dearth
of capital.
Two outstanding factors right
at the outset were nervous
buoyancy in Australia and the
overshadowing prospect of an
early decision on a new gilt-
edged borrowing-rate in New
Zealand. It wasn’t easy to steer
a middle course. With forecasts
of a 4 p.c loan for national
projects within a few months, the
question was how this rate could
be achieved when long-term
scrip was selling on a yield basis
of 2s. 6d. to 3s. per cent, above
4 p.c., and there was a lot of
guessing going on. The Govern-
ment could hit the 4 p.c. target
with the help of a discount, or it
could come into the market with
funds that will be flooding into
State coffers during February in
annual income-tax payments,
and could use its buying-power
to push up the value of its stock,
which has been selling at a shade
under £9O for 15-year maturities
for some time past.
While the Treasury is holding
well, the odds should be all in
favor of support like this. When
the idea got around that gilt-
edged scrip might rise the market
lost no time in reacting, and most
sellers dived, for cover. If these
securities make headway it
shouldn’t be long before others
follow, but until the Government
shows its hand prospects will be
speculative. A loan for a shorter
term than 15 years —say, for 10
years —would be a fairly popular
compromise. All in all, the
market will have to pick its steps
carefully for at least a few
months until the outlook is
clearer.
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
Have you ever stopped to consider the size of
Queensland simply in the terms of an area on the face
of the earth?
It covers 670,500 square miles. You could take .
the whole of what was once united Germany,
Denmark, Holland, Belgium, France, Spain and
Portugal and fit them into Queensland with some space
to spare.
And in the arc of Europe that sweeps those
countries there are something like 175 million people.
Queensland’s population is round the million-and-a-
quarter mark.
I mention this because I think it’s time we did some
urgent thinking and planning—and acting.
Land is the commodity in shortest supply in
Europe today. Closer to our own shores, in man-
packed Java, it is the greatest want of people who
cultivate every available square yard of it for food.
More land will be the insistent demand of other
multiplying Asians.
Here in one State of Australia we have 429 million
acres of it; 50 million acres classed as capable of
agriculture, two million acres under crops.
Just lately I was reading a United Nations report
on world populations. Every year, according to this
estimate, there are 20 million more mouths in the world
to feed. At the present rate the world could double
its population in 70 years. And there is no sign of an
increase in food output to parallel the rise.
Think that over.
Yes, Australia is a big country. “The wide brown
land,” Dorothea Mackellar called it. I like to think
of it as a green land, with the plains sweet after rain ;
as the kind of green and chocolate mosaic one sees
from a plane when furrowed fields piece-in among the
verdure.
A mosaic. That’s what we’re making of Australia,
you know. And it’s as true of human types as of the
country. One sees striking diversities in the character
of the people in travelling from State to State.... the
climatic warmth, the chill. The city crowds, the rural
solitude. Distance they are bringing out types
almost as distinct as if our people Were of different
nationality ; different in minor ways, yet held together
by bonds of patriotism and a common way of speech.
Even the speech—the accent, the idiom —is taking
on the marks of the States that produce it. I’m not a
professor of phonetics, but I think I can pick a
Queenslander when I see and hear one.
Well, that’s not surprising. Look at the United
States, with all their regional accents. Look, indeed, at
tight little England, where provincial dialects were
formed in the days when transport was at the animal
stage and 20 miles was a grand journey.
This is the point. What we are making for
ourselves in this country now will carry on, whether
it be in speech or in positive action. The foundation
is laid. We are the builders of the edifice.
—H. Hastungs Deescing


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
i!
u
1111
i
lit
■
m
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLEr
Sydney.
Telephones;
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
D
Bamboo Slide Rules
available in both conventional
Mannheim and Duplex types, com-
bined with Engine Divided Scales or
the utmost precision and accuracy.
E. ESDAILE & SONS ltd.
42 Hunter St., Sydney. BW 8631.
HEMMI Slide Rules
are constructed from
laminated bamboo in
both stock and slide.
The wide range avail-
able ensures the selec-
tion of a rule for
every application.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
United Provisions, Ltd.
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1944.. 127.471 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 43,971 272,145
1945. .147,617 8 „ 8 ~ 112,000 35,617 307,762
1946! 8 „ 8 „ 112,000 \ g 023 315,735
To staff funds, £4700 .. Qlfi
1947.. 78,360 8 p.c. 7 p.c.102,500 303,01
Staff fund, £2426 .. ■■ ' ‘ 0q0’999
1948.. 62,009 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,600 298,999
To capital reserve, £19,852 . . • ■ |„ 8 ’ n o 7
Currency profit, £19,186 • • •• |~ n ’ Bt - fi
1949. .106,319 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 22 819 360,856
Unexpd. reduction reserves, £3123.. 357,/dd
1960.. 60.187 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83.500 324,370
Unexplained reduction, £1691 •• ’
Profit sale assets, £7503 .. •• 330,182
1951.. 78,163 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,500 324,845
Profit sale assets, £47,518 .. •• 37-.
Unexplained reduction, £4295 •• 868,068
1952 . . 108,226 t 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 93,000 i^- 226 383 ’ 2^ 4
* Subject to intangibles, £290,920 at 30/9/ 5
t Subject to revision.
The undertaking has been a dis-
appointment to shareholders ever since
it amalgamated the interests of Foggitt
Jones and J. C. Hutton in 1927. For
those on the ord. register, five out ot
the 11 years to 1938 were dry ones, the
average distribution for the period being
2.7 p.c. For the 14 years to the close of
last accounts the average was 4.6 p.c.,
lowest H p.c. in 1940 and highest 8 p.c.
in 1945 and 1946. Prices for the f.-p-
-£1 ords. fluctuated between 6s. lOd. and
10s. during the three years to end 1941,
then rose steadily to a peak of 245. 3d.
in 1947, and have since followed an
erratic course, dropping to 12s. -6d. m
1949, rising to 19s. in 1951 and dipping
to a low of 9s. Bd. in 1952. Last week the
figure stood at 135., giving a return ot
9.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Net tan-
gible cover is 21s. lid., mostly in fixed
assets, which in a going concern are
worth what they can earn.
The trouble lies not with management,
but with conditions in the trade, where
of recent years some of the co.’s com-
petitors have ceased operations. The
U.P. group, largest of its kind in Aus-
tralasia, turns out cured hams and bacon,
canned meats and smallgoods, etc., from
15 factories, which feed a dozen of the
group’s own warehouses scattered through-
out the Commonwealth and New Zea-
land. There has been no lack of demand
for these products, which have also won
an export market. On the buying side
keen competition and seasonal and other
conditions have kept prices for pig and
other meats high. At the same time
wage and other operating costs have con-
tinued to climb, steeply of recent years,
and selling-prices, still partly controlled
in the home market, have run a bad last
in the race, while the big co-operatives
enjoy certain tax advantages compared
with other traders.
Last term drought reduced available
supplies of livestock, and the output of
hams and bacon declined, but production
and sales of canned meats, etc., increased,
and the co.’s exports “substantially
assisted” overall returns. Operating costs
became less buoyant as the year ad-
vanced, and savings in overhead followed
closure of a Sydney warehouse. After
allowing £46,168 (up £1593) for deprecia-
tion and £85,000 (up £8411) for taxatiWt,
the net trading result was £30,063 stronger
at £108,226. That covered the pref. div.
and 7.6 p.c. on ord. capital as against
4.4, 1.7, 7.4 and 2.7 p.c. back to 1948.
A point was added to the ord. div.,
making it 6 p.c., leaving £15,226 for
reserves, which also benefited by £47,518
from sale of assets, of which £38,129 was
on account of the warehouse already
referred to. The £383,294 of reserves is
subject to £290,925 of intangibles.
The financial position improved, the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£648,255)
being £55,138 stronger;
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,400,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Outside interest 1,432 “ „„
Overdraft, etc. .. 712,443 857,286 967.098
Other creditors .. 192,292 206,526
Suspense account.. 850 3,366 268
Pinal divs. 46.500 46,500 93,000
Freeholds, etc. .. 351,566 615,669 617,595
Plant etc. .. 215,036 305,661 318,800
Stocks .. •• 1.084.837 1,219,061 1,287,522
Debtors .. .. 399,551 451,828 583,290
Cash etc • • 36.108 35,906 34,600
Intangibles* . . 642.302 290,890 290,925
* Mainly difference between book-value and par
value of inter-co. shareholdings.
Freeholds, etc., increased by £1926,
despite the sale already mentioned. To
add £13,139 to plant, £68,461 to stocks
(they appear at or below cost) and carry
£131,462 more book-debts the co. went
to its bankers for an extra £109,812.
Conditions in the trade at the moment
suggest that net earnings for the current
term will equal, if not exceed, last term’s
figure. Of the £1,400,000 of share capital
£450,000 carries a fixed cumulative 8 p.c.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
, —Dividends — N To Be- Ke-
June, Profit. Pref. Ords. serves, serves.
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 61,004 24,000 39,610 2,606 158,496
7 p.c.
1946.. 49,628 24,000 30,963 153,161
Share premiums, £517 163,678
Added reserves, £lO,OOO •• 163,6/8
1947.. 75,216 24,000 14,668 118,346
Profit on sale of assets, £5BBB . . . . 184,..34
1948.. 85,703 24,000 44/742 16,961 201,195
To staff fund. £5OOO .. .. •• 196,195
Profit on sale of assets, £1942 .. .. 198,137
CUihcrirHpß rPCGIV6d £17.651 • » • • 215*7 oo
1949.. 89,814 24,000 46,634 20,180 235,968
Surplus sale of assets, £2567 .. •• 238,535
Share premiums, £154 •• •• •• 238,689
1960.. 105,391 24,000 53,746 27,645 266,334
Surplus sale assets, £3679 .. •• 270,013
1951.. 118,371 24.000 66,882 27,489 297,502
Surplus sale assets, £2062 . . • • 299,564
1952.. 8,663 24,000 284,227
The collapse of net earnings last term
was due not to any inherent weakness in
the business itself but to a complexity of
factors, chief of which was the neec
to write down stocks to market-values at
balancing-date (amount involved not
mentioned), owing to the sharp fall in
prices for wool, raw cotton, sewing-
thread, etc. Other contributory causes
were rising costs and contraction of turn-
over, especially during the last half of
the term, when buyers became purchase-
shy following a flood of imports anc
down-trend of prices generally. After
allowing £62,494 (down £32,282) for de-
preciation and £16,000 (down £147,800)
for taxation, the net result was £8663
(down £109,708). So reserves had to be
drawn upon for £15,337 to pay the 8 p.c.
pref. div., and the ords. were passed by
for the first time since 1939.
The previous year’s profit was enough
to cover the pref. div. and show 12.7 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 13.6,
12.9, 12.4, 11.2 and 5.8 p.c. back to 1946.
And for the 12i years to the close of
accounts in 1951 ord. divs. averaged
8.8 p.c., the rate being 9 p.c. p.a. for
the last three of them. The eight years
before 1939 were dry ones.
But neithei* last term’s result nor the
performances of the preceding decade or
more can be taken as a reliable long-term
guide to the investment possibilities of
the scrip, because of the special economic
and other influences which affected them.
Nevertheless, since the close of last
accounts all sections of the business have
got back into “good production, turn-
over has steadily improved, costs have
flattened out, and there has been no
further decline in the value of raw
materials, thus eliminating the danger to
stocks from that quarter. Also, satis-
factory profits have been earned, an
interim div. at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. is
to go out on March 20, and the co. is
well-equipped to win its fair share of
business in a field which promises to
become increasingly competitive.
The co. took over in 1929 what then
looked like a hopeless proposition the
old G. A. Bond business. The corner
was turned in 1935, and the story since
has been one of progress. The policy
has been to improve quantity and quality
of output, assault costs and strengthen
competitive power by extensions and re-
newals of plant (chief earning asset) and
by invigorating the organisation on the
selling side. The main knitting- and
hosiery-mills are at Camperdown and
Rosebery (near Sydney), there are branch
factories at Dubbo and Cessnock, and a
cotton-spinning plant at Wentworthville,
and a subsidiary turns out towels from
yarns spun by the cotton section.
During the year stocks were reduced
by £186,740, book-debts'by £79,065, and
an extra £39,216 was raised on a 10-year
loan, while £140,338 was slashed off the
overdraft and the amount coming to
sundry creditors was reduced by £62,690:
Capital— 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref. . . £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord. .. 547,801 702,462 755,640 755,640
Depreciation.. 387,562 459,039 549,920 607,496
Long-term loan 362,122 401,338
Overdraft . . 419,045 560,813 988,832 848,494
Sndy. creditors , 53,346 71,887 173,232 110,542
Tax provision 89,632 143,322 193,505 153,678
Final divs. . . 35,129 40,374 46,004 12,000
Freehold . . 417,427 463,433 498,446 506,182
Plant, etc. . . 674,091 812,838 922,548 984,573
Shares subsid. 193,234 193,234 193,234 193,234
Stock . . 701,284 895,920 1,589,188 1,402,448
Debtors . . 170,514 267,770 555,787 476,722
Cash, etc. . . 11,933 11,036 7,554 10,256
The addition to fixed assets, mainly plant,
was £69,761. The slip in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£363,374, excluding shares
in the subsidiary) was only £26,460.
The long-term loan has been raised on
unsecured register stock, maturing in
1963, and holders have the option of
converting up to one-third of their hold-
ings into f.-p. £1 ords. at par on or
before maturity.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords., which
fell from 275. 9d. to 17s. during 1952,
stood at 225. last week. The return at
225. is 5.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, with
prospects. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 19s. 6d.
yield 6.1 p.c. Net tangible cover is 725.
prefs. and 275. 6d. ords.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
To Re Re-
Dec. Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 24,722 6.6 p.c. = 16,222 8,500 1,363
1943.. 25,318 10 „ „ 24,334 984 2.347
1944.. 14,800 3.8 „ „ 8,111 6,689 9,036
1945.. 9,684 3.3 „ „ 8,111 1,572 10,609
1946.. 24,912 . 6.6 „ „ 16,222 8,690 19.299
1947.. 56,812 16.6 40,556 16,256 36,555
1948.. 97,672 23.3 „ „ 56,779 40,893 76,448
Surplus sale assets, £27,162 .. •• 103,610
War-time disposals profit, £22,851 .. 126,461
1949. .140,057 36.6 p.c. = 89,224 50,833 177.294
1950. .274,628 46.6 „ „ 113,557 161,071 338.365
Loss realisation bonds, £13,692 .. 324,673
Refund wool change, £35,459 . • 360,132
1951. .141,219 46.6 p.c. = 113,557 27,662 387,794
Surplus tax provisions, £13,028 . . 400,822
Surplus sale assets, £22,816 . . . . 423,638
War-time disposals profit, £22,851.. 446,489
1952.. 91,971 83.3 p.c. = 81,112 10,859 457,348
The last five years are easily the most
glittering in the co.’s 70 years’ experience
as run-owner outback in N. S. Wales
and Queensland, thanks to a succession
of good and fair seasons and phenomenal
prices for wool and livestock, a com-
bination that cannot be expected to con-
tinue indefinitely. During this period
divs. averaging 37.3 p.c. were paid from
profits averaging 61.3 p.c. on capital. For
the preceding decade divs. averaged
6.8 p.c., and for the decade before that
3.8 p.c.
Another factor affecting the investment
possibilities of the scrip are the big
changes that have taken place in con-
nection with the co.’s holdings, follow-
ing Government resumption and sub-
division of the large leasehold properties,
etc. Tondeburine, 28,200-odd acres, in
western N. S. Wales, was taken over late
in 1948, and Thurulgoona, 421 square
miles near Cunnamulla (Q.), in 1951-52.
Compensation for improvements showed
a surplus over book-value of £27,162 and
£22,816 respectively. Early in 1954 and
1955 two other properties are to be re-
sumed, namely, Quantambone, 13 square
miles freehold and 306 square miles
leasehold near Brewarrina (N.S.W.), and
Teryawynia, 279,629 acres leasehold near
Menindee (N.S.WO- The last-named pro-
perty was bought in 1948 for £60,000
In 1950 Mundarra Park, a 6189-acre
freehold in western Victoria, was bought
for £117,750, and in 1952 Moral, an
8000-acre freehold in the Wimmera
district (Vic.), was acquired for £119,250.
A lot more money has yet to be spent
on development and stocking of Moral,
from which “adequate” returns are not
expected for some years. And since the
close of accounts the co. has bought
Burrongong, a 22,122-acre freehold in the
eastern Riverina (N.S.W.), for £186,600.
The co. has been able to pay for the
new properties out of its large holding of
cash, etc., which, at December 31 last,
was more than sufficient to cover the
Burrongong deal:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Capital .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities . . 2,753 6,516 2,478 5,069
Tax reserve .. 109,713 91,362 155,378 107.4,8
Pinal dlv. .. 81,113 97,335 97,335 64,890
Stations, plant,
etc. . . 118,781 111,558 108,330 292,762
Sheep, cattle,
horses . . 34,209 36,046 30,02t>„, 22,462
Wool unsold.. 2,415 50,840 960 325
Cash, etc. .. 463.806 578,472 747,008 562,574
The net addition to the book-value
of properties last term was £184,432, and
cash, etc., was drawn upon for a like
amount. Of the £292,762 at which pro-
perties appear, £197,291 represents free-
holds, and the balance leaseholds.
The slip of £49,248 in the year’s net
earnings was due mainly to a lighter
shearing following resumption of Thurul-
goona. The £91,971 of profit claimed
was 37.8 p.c. on capital as against 58 p.c.
for the previous term, and the div. was
lowered from 46.6 p.c. to 33.3 p.c, (20 p.c.
of it was labelled bonus), leaving £10,859
for reserves, which also benefited by
£13,028 overprovided for taxation in
1951, £22,816 surplus on Thurulgoona,
and £22,851 from J.O. profits on sales
of war-time wool stocks. When the
books closed reserves were piled £214,010
higher than paid capital.
Further shrinkage in net earnings for
the current term is likely, and it is doubt-
ful whether carrying-capacity of the new
properties, which are in better rainfall
areas than the old ones, will entirely
offset the loss of Quantambone and
Teryawynia.
With one eye on the possibility of a
part return of capital, the market prices
the f.-p. 30s. shares at 705., giving a
return of 14.2 p.c. so long as the 33.3 p.c.
distribution continues, or, say, a return
of 6.4 p.c. on an average distribution of
15 p.c. over a period. Net tangible cover
is 86s. sd.
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re- Defi-
June, Profit. f Dividends \ serves, cit.*
£ £ /£ £
1944 .. 8,565 6 p.c. = 6,556 2,009 6,161
1945 .. 9,628 6 „ „ 7,272 2,356 3,805
1946 .. 18,331 7i „ ~ 9,983 3,348 457
Reserves.*
1947 .. 19,206 10 „ „ 13,311 5,895 5,438
From tax reserve, £6718 . . .. 12,156
Profit sale Govt, securities, £655 .. 12,811
1948 .. 24,371 10 p.c. = 13,908 1 0,463 23,274
To staff fund, £5OOO .. •• 18,274
1949 .. 24,437 10 p.c. = 21,656 2,781 21,055
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. •• 19,065
Share premiums, £46,422 .. .. 65,477
1950 .. 47,673 10 p.c. = 33,659 14,014 79,491
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. ••
1951 .. 89,607 10 p.c. = 84,642 54,965 132,456
To staff fund, £7OOO 125.456
Share premiums, £57,709 .. • • 183,16 a
Profit sale assets, £1286 .. • • 184,4al
To taxation, £7990 .. .. •• 174,461
1952 . . 7,262 5 p.c. = 20,207 163,a16
To staff fund, £396 .. .. .. 163,120
* After deducting intangibles (now £7517) and
excluding depreciation reserve (now £140,978).
This 16-year-old manufacturer of high-
grade and standard Axminster carpets
and rugs from locally-spun yarn is just
emerging from the final stages of develop-
ment, and, until last term, it has given


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Position Vacant
DIAMOND DRILLER with comprehensive
experience all classes of diamond drilling.
Must be capable of training other men
as drillers and dealing with any type of
efficient job that may arise. Must be able
to prepare clear and concise reports.
Apply by letter stating age, details of ex-
perience and availability to Q’land Con-
tractors Pty. Ltd., 447 Gregory Terrace,
Brisbane.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy Z*Tg
OSUIUVAtf „ /
■ r »18, XJ
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Vatson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
READ OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL.” BRISBANE
Missing Friend
WILL TUI MARIA CARSWELL, nTe
LEYDEN, formerly of Invercargill, but
now somewhere in Australia, or anyone
knowing her whereabouts, please com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Invercargill, New Zealand?
NOW OPEN
State
Electricity Commission
of Victoria
POWER
LOAN
for optional term of
7 or 12 years
An amount of £2,250,000 is sought for
capital works now being constructed to
increase electric power resources. Since
these works are essential for national
development, subscription of funds on the
attractive terms offered merits the earnest
consideration of large and small investors.
HIGH INTEREST
Investors will obtain the benefit
of interest at the high rate of
£4/15/- per cent. Interest will
begin immediately funds are
lodged and will be paid half-
yearly on Ist February and Ist
August during the term selected
GELT-EDGED SECURITY
The loan will rank among the
highest class of Australian gilt-
edged investments. The princi-
pal and interest are secured
upon the revenues of the Com-
mission and guaranteed by the
Government of Victoria.
PRICE AND TERM
The price of issue is par, and
the term is either 7 or 12 years
at the option of the investor at
the time of application. Any
amount in multiples of £5O
may be subscribed. Inscribed
stock or debentures, as pre-
ferred, will be issued and will
be interchangeable at will of
the holder,
INSTALMENT PAYMENTS
Subscriptions will be accepted
in full or by a deposit of one-
tenth on application and the
balance by 30th April, 1953,
either in one amount or three
equal instalments.
FREE OF EXCHANGE
Lodgement of subscriptions
and payment of interest will be
free of exchange throughout
Australia. Repayment of prin-
cipal will be free of exchange
throughout Victoria and in the
capital cities of all States.
TRUSTEE INVESTMENTS j
The loan is an authorised in-
vestment for all trustee funds \
in Victoria, Queensland and
Tasmania,
STATUS OF COMMISSION
The Commission is Australia’s
largest electricity supply auth-
ority. Its investment in plant |
and equipment now stands at
£124,000,000. Its revenue for
this financial year will approxi-
mate £20,000,000. This loan
for capital works is raised un- j
der its own borrowing powers, j
Prospectus and Applications
The full prospectus can be obtained from and applications may be lodged with
any office in Australia of The National Bank of Australasia Ltd. (including The
Queensland National Bank Ltd.) or the Commonwealth Bank of Australia;
members of recognised Stock Exchanges ; or any of the Commission’s offices.
* The loan will close not later than Tuesday, 10th March, 1953.
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
STATE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION OF VICTORIA
HEAD OFFICE: 22 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
TRADE MARK
| Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
# During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Emm
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
. DOLCIN Is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
. DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
. 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
-*7
Aft®*
. SCI
d ao°
I.o**
, £ff
.Etf 00
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
GJ.O., Sydney.
D 4.2
a satisfactory account of itself.
A 5 p.c. div. was paid in the
third year of production, the
rate climbed by halting steps to
10 p.c. in 1947, and remained
steady until 1951, the average
over the dozen years being 7.7
p.c. The collapse of earnings
last term was due to a number
of factors, which the chairman
sums up in this way:
The carpet industry felt the effects
of the recent world-wide slump in
textiles, and in particular the abnormal
importations of carpets prior to
restrictions being introduced. Our
application for increased prices was
so delayed that, when granted, the
drop in overseas carpet prices had
prohibited the co. receiving the benefit
anticipated. Application has been
made for a protective tariff in lieu
of the existing revenue-duty on im-
parted carpets, as well as for the
release of the co. from price-control.
Credit-restrictions, conditions in
respect of home-building and
refurnishing and rising costs
played their parts, too.
The worst of the co.’s troubles,
which occurred during the
second ,half of the term, have
largely disappeared since the
close of accounts. Imports of
carpets, lino., etc., for the yeaf
to June 30 last were valued at
£AI6 million as against £ A 14.5
million for the preceding year.
For the six months to December
31, 1952, the figure was £AO.S
million as against £ A 10.0 for
the corresponding half of 1951.
Australian average monthly pro-
duction of wool felt, carpet and
lino, was 280,000 sq. yds. for the
six months to June 30, 1952, and
680,000 sq. yds. for the succeed-
ing half-year, during which costs
lost most of their former
buoyancy. Now that import-
restrictions are to be eased on a
selective basis, competition is
likely to get more of an edge
on it; much will depend, there-
fore, upon the level of costs and
the measure of protection
granted.
After allowing £30,687 (up
£1940) for depreciation and
£5OOO (down £49,000) for taxa-
tion, the net result of the parent’s
own operations was a loss of
£1791, as against a profit of
£80,555 for the previous terra.
The subsidiary, Sydney Woollen
Mills, Pty., netted £24,362 (down
£4897), or 24.7 p.c. on its
£98,605 of capital, of which the
carpet co. owns 51 p.c. It sent
along £9053 (same as previous
term) in tax-free divs., thus mak-
ing the carpet co.’s net profit
from all sources £7262 (down
£82,345), or 1.8 p.c. on average
capital as against 25.8, 14.1, 11.2,
17.5 and 14.4 p.c. back to 1947.
Owing to the change in outlook,
a 5 p.c. div. (£20,207) was paid
from tax-free reserves in
December last.
To help finance further addi-
tions to fixed assets (up £68,521)
and carry more stocks (up
£108,704) and book-debts (up
£15,780) the co. issued 115,474
new £1 shares at a stiff premium
of 10s. each early in the term:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital* £346,422 £346,422 £461,841
Mortgage .. 3,333 3,333 3,333
Overdraft .. 115,754 208,139 243,425
Sundry
creditors . 38,022 73,691 92,708
Tax reserve 31,748 51,453 5,000
Final div. .. 17,321 17,321 20,207
Premises .. 241,987 254,552 289,803
Plant . . 196,956 265,328 298,589
Shares subsid. 93,076 93,076 93,076
Stocks . . 135,910 259,612 368,316
Debtors .. 45,210 64,044 79,824
Cash, etc... 51 1,005 1,005
* Includes calls paid in advance—
£BlBs, 1948 ; £7107, 1949.
Also £35,286 was added to the
overdraft and £19,017 to the
amount coming to sundry
creditors. When the books closed
more-or-less liquids exceeded
liabilities by £84,472. Stocks
appear at or below cost, and
have been worked down since the
close of accounts.
Market price of the f.-p. £1
shares, which fluctuated between
375. and 255. during 1952, stood
at 295, last week. The return at
295, is 3.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 6.2 p.c. on a 9 p.c. dis-
tribution, which would call for
£41,571 on capital as it now
stands. Excluding the deprecia-
tion reserve (£140,978), net
tangible cover is 275.
Mt. Isa (Q.)
After long and careful plan-
ning and six years of arduous
work, hampered by shortages of
materials and skilled labor, and
rendered increasingly expensive
by rising wage and other costs
the co. got its big new copper
smelter into production during
the second week of February. It
is an achievement of which the
management has good reason to
feel proud. The cost, originally
estimated at £l£ million, is
expected to exceed £3 million.
. The initial output of 25 tons of
copper per day is soon to be
stepped up to between 40 and
50 tons daily. On a seven-day-a-
week basis this would give an
annual output of between 15,000
tons and 18,000 tons, thus just
about doubling Australia’s
present output of the red metal,
and so reducing the country’s
dependence of imports, which
totalled 26,170 tons in 1951,
mostly from Belgium and the
Belgian Congo. The other big
local producers of refined and
blister copper are Mt. Lyell
(Tas.), Mt. Morgan (Q.) and
Electrolytic Refining and Smelt-
ing Co., Port Kembla (N.S.W.),
which treats both ore and blister
on a customs basis.
The new plant is designed to
treat 30,000 tons of sulphide ore
a month, and ore reserves at
June 30 last were conservatively
estimated at 3,765,350 tons,
averaging 3.9 p.c. copper. It is
expected to turn out a 24 p.c.
copper concentrate, which will
be filtered and roasted, and then
fed to the new reverberatory
furnace, which in turn will pro-
duce two distinct products: (1)
Matte, containing copper, iron
and sulphur, and (2) slag, con-
taining the waste products of the
furnace. At the start the metal
is to be cast into blister cakes,
which will need further refining
before marketing. Later it is
proposed to erect a fire-refining
furnace to treat the whole of the
blister produced on the spot.


Women's Letters
STDNCy
Critics can’t understand why Gino
Mattera has attracted such large and
enthusiastic audiences in Sydney, for he
is really quite an indifferent singer. The
reason is his own exuberance —his evident
happiness and delight in living which
communicates itself to his audience. In
his looks, vitality and personality he seems
larger than life, and his ingenuous joyous-
ness makes his audience feel happy no
matter how much his mannerisms annoy
or his voice disappoints. No wonder the
crowd struggling to get his autograph and
a special smile could only be compared
to the ring at Randwick or the opening
of the summer sales.
☆ ☆ ☆
It is unusual to see crowds waiting for
cancellations at any of our little theatres,
but that’s just what is happening at the
Metropolitan Theatre to see their “Merry-
Go-Round.” Audiences on Saturday
night saw two new topical items “WeTe
Sorry We Won the Macquarie” (for
nobody talks to us now) and “Miss
N.S.W.” It is intended to have a few
changes each week so that those who go
back again and again can get something
fresh each time. A good idea, provided
they never cut out the sketch where the
technique of “Kiss Me, Kate” is imposed
on “Hamlet” (to Shakspeare’s horror),
or the one where “A Streetcar Named
Desire” gets mixed up with “The
Importance of Being Earnest,” or Queen
Victoria’s statue complaining of the
“hustle about me bustle.”
William Orr, who produced the Metro-
politan “Merry-Go-Round,” is Scottish,
or rather he comes from Glasgow, “which
is not quite the same thing,” he says. He
has been here for three years now, and
will be remembered for his production
of “A Sleep of Prisoners.” His next
venture is the production of that beautiful
religious play “The Old Man of the
Mountain” at the Assembly Hall on
March 4, 5 and 6 in aid of the World
Council of Churches’ Refugee Services
Fund. Later on he will produce another
show for the Metropolitan Theatre.
☆ ☆ *
The fashion report from Paris that
“Jacques Griffe’s suits have floating
waists resting on the hips and sleeves
mounted well below the shoulders” makes
one think that the modernist painters
might have something after all.
☆ ☆ ☆
'lhe World Conference of the Associ-
ated Country Women of the World is
to be held at Toronto, Canada, in August
this year, and representing N.S.W. will
be Miss M. E. Payne (Nundle), who will
lead the delegation ; Mrs. C. J. Tilden
(Sydney, formerly of Trangie); Mrs. Guy
Blake (Walgett); the president of the
Southern Tablelands Group, Miss Merle
Mould (Cooma); and the chairman of
the State Handicrafts Committee, Mrs.
W. F. Satchell (Sydney). All the dele-
gates will pay their own expenses, as is
the general custom.
Celling tickets for the McWilliam’s
-Wines £5OOO golf tournament are
younger-set members Wendy Birks, Libby
Chandler, Carlene Todman and Annette
Charley, as the tournament is in aid of
the N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children,
for which these girls work. The tourna-
ment is to be held at the Australian Golf
Club, Kensington, on March 19, 20 and
21, and has 173 competitors including 11
overseas stars.
\
☆ ☆ ☆
From “M’Lou” (Vic.) comes an in-
teresting paragraph about women who
compete successfully with men in the
academic sphere. “The Cape Town (South
Africa) University’s first woman professor
is Dr. Monica Wilson, who holds the
chair of Social Anthropology. Two
women have for the first time become
members of the Royal Dutch Academy
of Sciences; Professor C. MacGillavry,
Crystallographer of Amsterdam Univer-
sity, and Professor J. Westerdijk, plant
physiologist of both Amsterdam and
Utrecht Universities.”
There are no women professors alt
the University of Sydney, although Miss
Marjorie Jacobs is senior lecturer in his-
tory and Miss Mary L. Garde is senior
lecturer in histology in the faculty of
medicine. Miss Gladys Marks, who was
Acting-Professor and head of the French
department for two periods, is the only
woman who has held such a post at our
University, but several women graduates
from Sydney have won appointments as
professors in other parts of the world,
notable amongst them being Professor
Persia Campbell, who is Professor of
Economics of Queen’s College, Flushing,
New York (U.S.A.). ‘
This is Lenore O’Brien, who plays the
part of “Nash,an” in “Katinka,” which
opens at Mosman Town Hall on Friday
night and marks the 50th anniversary of
the foundation of the Mosman Musical
Society. This society, one of the oldest
amateur musical companies in Australia,
started with choral works and oratorios
but produced Gilbert and Sullivan operas
quite early in the piece and then
moved on to the light-opera pro-
ductions for which it is now famous.
It staged for the first time in Australia
Montague Phillips’s “Rebel Maid” and
Messager’s "Monsieur Beaucaire,” and
for Jubilee Year put on Varney Monk’s
“Collits’ Inn.” Producers have included
John Wallace, Spencer Barry, Frank
Alden, Maxwell Dunn and Len Gotting.
Conductors have been A. H, Norman,
Herbert H. Wyatt, Leo Packer and Ivan
Rixon. Kenneth Neate’s first stage
appearance was with the M.M.S., and
singers Ronald Neil, Geoffrey Chard and
Alan Light have all graduated from its
ranks. "Katinka,” which is the society’s
I4oth production, will run for seven
nights, ending March 6.
The heat (all right then, the humidity)
plus the rain and the discomfort at
any large gathering have caused a good
deal of anxiety about the behavior of
Sydney weather during the Queen’s visit
here next year. Resignation would be
more in order, for there is no doubt that
February sees Sydney weather at its
worst —such a pity when April and May
are so lovely in these parts.
☆ ☆ ☆
Interesting visitor to Sydney for the
past few weeks is Matron Margaret
Gilbert, of Kirra, Queensland. Matron
Gilbert, who speaks with a soft Scottish
burr, came originally from Edinburgh
but was trained in nursing at Manchester
(Eng.), For nine years, during and after
the World War 11, she was with the 14th
Army under the command of Field-
Marshal Slim (our new G.-G.) and served
in the 41st Indian General Base Hospital
at Imphal, where for two and a half years
seven nursing sisters looked after 2000
patients. Matron Gilbert came to Aus-
tralia to have a “look-see,” but this coun-
try seems to have attracted her, for she
has taken charge of the Kirra Border
Private Hospital and is proud of the
record of 112 Australian babies born
there during the past 11 months. She
is impressed with the standard of
work of Australian nurses, but says they
“go off to get married as a rule
and if you keep them six months you can
consider that a good spell.”
y. q.
It is to be hoped that all these people
making off to England at present, their
trunks packed with gala drapings, will
give a thought to Australia’s reputation
when they get into formal clothes in
London. For instance, the numbers of
Sydney men who wear a dark snap-brim
or Homburg with their tails must cease
to do so, for according to a reliable
authority the black-silk or opera hat is
the only one correct with this garb. (More
expense!)
The tuxedo probably won’t be worn
much in London, but if it is then a colored
bow-tie and perhaps a carnation will pass,
but a colored handkerchief to match will
find the wearer ostracised, and he won’t
know why. Men’s evening wear doesn’t
change much (although the single-breasted
dinner-suit is on its way out, they say), and
the rules are pretty definite, so women
can criticise their husbands’ clothes with
authority, unlike the men, who can’t find
any good reason for disparaging their
wives’ clothing except that “it looks
silly”—so illogical they are!
MELBOURNE
The spectacular gala centenary dinner
at Menzies’, which assisted funds of
Queen Victoria Hospital, opened what
promises to be a very gay Coronation
season.
Decorations were in the Coronation
motif, with a huge cream urn filled with
red and white gladioli and blue
hydrangeas set at the back of the official
table. Garlands of scarlet carnations
circled the pillars of the dining-room
and each table was gay with flowers.
Mrs. Frank Tait was responsible for the
parade of interesting personalities who
had stayed at Menzies’. Led by the
founder of the hotel, Archibald Menzies,
and his wife Caroline, there followed
famous guests, including Melba, Pavlova,
Anthony Trollope and Mark Twain,
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
greeted by a scarlet-clad, powder-wigged
footman and piped into the foyer.
They were then received by the president
of the Q.V. Hospital, Lady Brookes, and
Louis Nelken, hon. treasurer of the com-
mittee which organised the function.
The Governor’s wife wore a gown of
cream brocade woven with a gold thread.
Lady Brookes was in cream-and-gold
brocaded lame. Secretary to the com-
mittee, Mrs. Arnold Isaacson, had her
pale-champagne chiffon gown inset with
deep-cream hei|loom lace. Deep purple
pansies were splashed over Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh’s white chiffons.
Layers of gold-starred, midnight-blue
tulle allied to a matching satin top
covered with the tulle made striking effect
for Lady Disney. The bodice of the
lovely white silk faille gown worn by
Mrs. A. G. Silk was encrusted with ruby
rhinestones and silver crystal beads.
Lady Gengoult Smith wore a white
French crepe ensemble, Mrs. Frank Mc-
Donald, of Sydney, black velvet, and her
daughter Mary Anne grey, white-starred
organdie which had a ribbon motif
printed in flowers of blue and green with
bands of green and lemon. A feature
of the evening was the parade of Corona-
tion fashions staged by George’s.
Here lovely Sydney model Pam Clem-
son is wearing one of the Anne Collins
hats —a Jean Barthet Elizabeth-pink
plush beret. It is banded with the new
natural sealskin, and the pompom is also
of sealskin. Photo by Ray Leighton, of
Sydney.
Sydney milliner Anne Collins has been
showing some smart, lovely hats here,
including “cover-up” models, now the
rage of Paris. One delightful example
of the “hiding hat” is made with a pea-
cock-green suede crown and tight-knitted
band. It frames the face and completely
covers the hair.
Among other fascinating models
were Givenchy’s “coiffe” made in
iridescent sequins and showing the new,
softly-bunched back; a Vernier royal-
blue-and-black jersey, draped to conceal
neck and hair at the back ; Jacques Path’s
white feather-cap with its upswept wing
treatment; Paulette’s “fez”; Jean
Barthet’s new fitting cloche in tweed
trimmed with black velvet. This type of
hat is at home with either a plain or
tailored suit.
A Gilbert Orcel bonnet is of
beige hairy-felt with bronze sequins and
beads scattered on side and back.
Paulette’s fez is of the same material
but trimmed with black grosgrain.
A cloche in peacock-blue velours
features a pointed crown—it is a Madame
Vernier model. Another from the same
house, a black velvet cocktail-hat, has
simple rhinestone ornament.
Materials include long-haired, shiny-
and angora-felts, plush, black velvet,
tweed and suede; colors range through
black, bronze, peacock-blue and peacock-
green, rust, honey-beige, caramel-brown,
dull-gold, Elizabeth-pink and Elizabeth-
blue. Pill-boxes, cloches, turbans, the
fez, bonnets, cover-up hats and berets
are the newest shapes for the coming
season, and smart fashion notes are high,
flat and softly-squashed crowns.
☆ ☆ ☆
At St. Joseph’s Church, Fingal, Tas-
mania, Elizabeth, youngest daughter of
Mrs. J, E. McKenzie, of Fingal, and the
late Mr. McKenzie, was married to
Anthony, only son of Capt. and Mrs.
J. L. Bowen, of the Fleet, Hants, Eng-
land. The lovely bridal gown, cut on
classical lines with the skirt drawn to
the back into a full train and the long-
sleeved bodice cut with a heart-shaped
neckline, was of gold padded brocade.
From the Mary Queen of Scots bonnet
made of gold padded-brocade fell the
long tulle veil, and the bouquet was of
white waterlilies.
In attendance on the bride, her sister
Helen, her cousin Heather McKenie
and Lorna O’Brien wore white silk faille
patterned with gold thread, with full-
length pleated skirts and tight-fitting
bodices finished with a petal cuff and
short sleeves. Their picture-hats were
of fine white straw. Jill Marshall, in
white organdie, was flower-girl, and
Anthony Allingham, wearing a kilt of
the McKenzie tartan, was page-boy. Twc
hundred guests were at the reception at
Evercreech, home of the bride’s mother.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Lord Mayor and Mrs. Brens gave
a party to farewell wives of councillors
going abroad: Mrs. James Ferguson,
wearing a navy suit with a small
white satin hat; Mrs. P. L. Cole-
man, whose ice-blue linen frock was
worn with a large white straw hat; Mrs.
Maurice Nathan, in cinnamon-and-white-
patterned shantung and black tulle picture
hat ; and Mrs. Bernard Evans, wearing
a teal-blue suit with tiny black hat.
Among those invited to the party were
Mrs. Harry Tatnall, in smart black
ensemble; Mrs. George Hume, whose
white straw sailor hat was worn with a
black faille suit; Mrs. Wootton, wife of
the Town Clerk, who added a red platter
hat to her junior-blue jacket-suit; Mrs.
Gordon Coulter, whose anthracite-grey
shantung suit was contrasted with a
geranium-red straw hat; and Mrs.
Norman Carlyon, in black taffeta suit
and large white straw hat,
☆ ☆ *
Guests-of-honor at the cocktail-party
at the Victoria Palace, given by the newly-
formed Younger Group of the Overseas
League, were Air-Marshal Sir George
Jones and Lady Jones. The president of
the Younger Group, Kathleen Gentle,
wearing a grey ensemble, received the
guests, assisted by Betty Shirley, Mrs.
Verner Morgan, John Spencer and John
Phiicox. Guests included Brigadier and
Mrs. A. E. Brown, Brig, and Mrs. R.
Irving, their daughter Sheila and her
fiance, Frank Scott, Mrs. Jean McFarlane,
Janice Holmes and Mrs. Bertram Wood.
☆ ☆ ☆
To launch plans for the White Ensign
Ball on March 20 at the Royale, Mrs.
Ken Luke entertained at luncheon in the
club’s board-room. Mrs. J. M. Armstrong,
who recently returned with her husband,
Capt. Armstrong, after an absence abroad
of almost two years, has been elected
president of the women’s committee of
the White Ensign Club. Guests included
Mrs. Lou Green, Mrs. Royden Honey-
man, Mrs. Eric Cottrell, Mrs. Alf
Griffiths, Mrs. A. Peacock and Mrs. C.
Curtain. The W.E. Club is for sailors on
leave from ships and naval depots. A
feature of the ball will be a square-
dancing exhibition. Single tickets (355.
each) may be obtained from Miss D.
Alden (FJ3533) or Mrs, L. Green
(BJ2080).


TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut*
Special Latakia Pipe Mixture
in 2oz. packets at 28/6 per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz, tins at
31 /6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced Imported
machines at only a trac-
tion of their cost The
"National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BulU .nn/i/j fn A uriraha hr
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
before dinner...
Xrl
,
to
PV
<6“
l- 1 l/Miuo
ATJEy
?o
very
cot-"
Famous
since
1816
Cl HI
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE ARTHUR DUNN, late of
Yarrangobilly Oaves, via Tumut. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOAN DUNN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2497 of 1952
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 4th of May 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
COLLINS & POLLACK, Solicitors, Vic-
toria Street, Grafton, or their agents,
SMITHERS, WARREN & LYONS. Solici-
tors, 169 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Gino Mattera
This Italian tenor is a typical
product of the bel canto school :
the florid style, the melodramatic
surge up to a spectacular high
C, the arm-waving, the well-
contrived sob of emotion —of
these, admirably suited to the
operatic stage in the works of
Verdi, Donizetti, Leoncavallo
and Mascagni, he is the master.
These attributes alone, how-
ever, even though the voice itself
is of fairly good quality, do not
equip a singer for the art of
song as expressed on the
concert-platform.
This was made abundantly
clear in the opening group of
Mattera’s first Sydney recital.
He selected four 17th-century
Italian songs—an unfortunate
choice, for the first and third,
Cesti’s “Intorno All’ Idol Mil”
and Caccini’s “Amarilli,” are
gossamer-light songs demanding
a smooth, clear legato on the
half-voice. So much did the
tenor at times flounder here that
he obviously was struggling to
make his breath last out, and
the edges of many notes were
burred.
In the operatic group he was
on safer ground. The “Dal
Labbro” from “Falstaff” and the
carefree “Questa O Quella” from
“Rigoletto” found him full of
confidence and achieving some
ringing notes.
Three French songs failed
to penetrate to the requisite
Gallic subtlety, but Albeniz’s
“Granada” was better. Then
came the final group, some
Neapolitan folksongs, and there-
upon the tenor became a
dynamo of passion.
At his second recital Signor
Mattera plunged with supreme
optimism into lieder of Brahms
and Schumann. The hundreds
of his compatriots who came to
this concert were silent during
this massacre, but during the
operatic and Neapolitan offer-
ings they became so emotionally
superheated that a torrent of
“Bravos!” and “Vivas!” burst
into pauses following climaxes
in the middle of a song, and
even the singer’s upheld hands
couldn’t stop them.
Unquestionably Signor Mat-
tera is going to be enormously
popular. But the shades of
Faure, Caccini, Brahms and
Schumann will stir uneasily.
* * * *
National Grand Opera
The only things that weren’t
painfully inadequate in the
National Theatre’s production of
“Cosi Fan Tutte,” at the Mel-
bourne Princess, were Mozart’s
music, the playing of it by the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra
under Dr. Herman Schildberger’s
baton and some of the singing.
The decor designed and
executed by Tim Walton was as
out of tune as a cracked piano,
and the ferocious lighting only
served to show up the gim-
crackery of the alleged period
architecture of the settings. The
costumes, designed by Louis
Kahan and executed by Betty
Druitt, didn’t look as though
they were inspired by one of the
most elegant periods in history.
Although Lorenzo da Ponte’s
libretto is admittedly ineffably
silly, and the English text (by
special permission of the Metro-
politan Opera House, New
York) doesn’t make it any better,
it isn’t completely idiotic. It
certainly appeared so in the act-
ing of Leonard Delany and
Leslie Adams, as the two soldiers
who test out the fidelity of their
girl-friends by swapping places,
and, although their singing of
some of the most delicious arias
in the literature of music was not
unpleasant, it was difficult to
listen to because, generally,
whenever the gentlemen opened
their mouths, their ridiculous
moustaches slipped their moor-
ings.
Still, there was room for
admiration for the singing of
Betty Fretwell and Wilma
Whitney, though not for their
acting, and the same might be
said for Nancy Rasmussen, as
Despina, despite her make-up.
The only character who matched
in his singing and deportment
the dignity and swift grace of
Mozart’s music was Keith
Neilson.
* * ♦ *
Schubert Recitals
This year marks the 125th
anniversary of Schubert’s death,
and to commemorate it the Mel-
bourne pianist Gerhard Willner,
one of the foremost authorities
on Schubert’s piano music and a
particularly fine exponent, is to
give four recitals at Melbourne’s
Assembly Hall on March 3,6,
10 and 17, covering all the great
sonatas, the two sets of im-
promptus, the C Major Fantasy
(“The Wanderer”) and the Six
Moments Musicaux. This per-
formance of the whole gamut
of Schubert’s major works for
the keyboard is the first in Aus-
tralia, and it offers an unex-
ampled feast of some of the
master’s most enchanting music.
* * * *
“Metropolitan Merry-Go-
Round”
Although it shows no ac-
quaintance with the great rich
art of vaudeville —and, probably,
“intimate revues” aren’t meant
to, anyway—this cheerful stretch
of party fun at Sydney Metro-
politan goes down very well. , *
Unavoidably, it falters a bit on
the dancing side, but the ditties
and sketches are either tuneful,
or “intimately” witty, or both.
Such venerable Sydney -institu-
tions as “S. M. Herald’s” music
and dramatic critic, the inde-
pendent Theatre, the Mercury
Theatre and radio-stations and
radio-serials all come up for
reference, and some justly dread-
ful things are done to Chwis-
topher Wobin and “A Streetcar
Named Perspire.”
Then there are David Net-
theim as Queen Victoria’s statue
bemoaning “the hustle round me
bustle”; a tuneful little item
about Mary Queen of Scots
“going all French again” ; an-
other about a gentleman’s etch-
ings, including the anchor on
his chest; “Kiss Me, Hamlet,”
with well-merited apologies to
both Shakspeare and Cole
Porter ; some sad, sad stuff about
seagulls, cherry-orchards and
Moscow; and a tiptop number
about a pantomime, with an
American sailor trying to work
out why the Principal Boy is a
“dame,” and why the Dame is an
ugly old geezer.
Most of the work is done by
Leonard Thiele, Alistair Duncan,
Warren Rigney, Diana David-
son and Daphne Winslow and,
most of the time, they are ex-
ceedingly funny—Miss David-
son, of course, being under the
disadvantage that it is rather
difficult to pay attention to what
she is singing when she is doing
anything else.
* * ♦ *
“As You Like It”
A singularly ungraceful pro-
duction and, with a few excep-
tions, a good deal of undistin-
guished acting are the most
noticeable characteristics of this
latest addition to the repertoire
of Sydney Mercury. Admittedly
the small stage of the theatre is
a handicap, but it might have
been overcome by some stream-
lined mechanics and by simpler
sets than the dull, overdone
hotchpotch “inspired by the
paintings of Watteau.” Some
improvement might also be con-
trived by doing more of the
minor business in front of the
curtain and consigning to the
limbo the scene-changes affected
by the rickety rumblings of those
revolving boxes.
On the other hand there are
a few good performances. Owep
Weingott’s Jaques, for instance.
It is so well done that it seems
out of place ; seems to overbear
the production and the rest of
the company; and, though that
might be a bad thing, it is
hardly the fault of the actor.
Put the same performance in a
production where the dukes look
like dukes and the rest of the
lords like lords and it would fall
perfectly into place.
Likewise Roger Climpson’s
Orlando and Lyle O’Hara’s
Rosalind are essays in the right
direction, and would seem even
better in more co-operative com-
pany and surroundings; Ken
Hannam’s Touchstone has,
among other merits, that of
lucidity—a virtue not as com-
mon as it might be in those who
essay Shakspeare’s clowns;
Rosamund Waring’s Celia is a
pretty little skittering minx, but
she is inclined to set her voice
so high and fast that, often, her
charm dissolves into an unin-
telligible and slightly irritating
chatter.
For the rest —apart from such
minor touches as John Maxim’s
vigorous wrestler and the brief
appearances of Charles Tasman
and Brian Barnes —they are no
more convincing than the stage
they occupy. If they were they
might cast some enchantment
on the scene and make it more
of the Forest of Arden and less
of an overdecorated suburban
garden.
Talkies
“The Bad and the Beautiful”
The main substance of this
M.-G.-M. offering at Sydney St.
James is a character-study of
an extremely egotistical indi-
vidual who sacrifices friends and
associates with cheerful abandon
in his rush to the top as a film-
producer.
Kirk Douglas plays the young
man, and there are three given
examples of his perfidy. In the
first case he has a friend and
partner, a young director who
has prepared a masterly film-
script for himself to direct and
Mr. Douglas to produce. Mr.
Douglas sells the idea to their
company, but leaves his partner
out in favor of an older and
more-experienced director.
His next doublecross concerns
a young actress who is by turns
drowning her talents in drink or
wasting them on gentlemen
visitors to her bedroom. She is
quite a problem, even though
she falls in love with Mr.
Douglas, but he contrives to
steer her to success and complete
the picture he is producing by
pretending to fall for her him-
self. After which he leaves her
to stardom and her own devices
and returns to ladies more to his
liking.
His third offence occurs when
he brings to Hollywood a bril-
liant young author and his wife.
The wife is a twitter-brained
piece of baggage, and while she
is on the scene her husband’s
output averages about 25 words
a day ; to get the script he wants
Mr. Douglas arranges for a
handsome actor to keep the wife
out of the way by showing her
the town, and the pair of them
are killed in an air crash, pre-
sumably while on their way to
somewhere for a joyous week-
end.
Naturally, the three people
concerned the director, the
actress and the author —regard
Mr. Douglas as some sort of
inhuman fiend, and that seems
to be the sentiment approved of
by the film. To the present
commentator, however, it ap-
peared that Mr. Douglas’s real
offence was a complete lack of
sentimentality—and that, prob-
ably, in the eyes of Hollywood,
is the worst and biggest offence
of all.
As it goes, however, the film
is a pretty slick job, with
Douglas turning in a very nicely-
calculated performance. As he
demonstrated in “Champion”
and other items, he has a flair
for unsentimental acting, and for
thus getting the last fraction of
savagery and viciousness out of
a role. The people with whom
he deals on this occasion include
Lana Turner, Dick Powell,
Barry Sullivan and Walter
Pidgeon.
* * * if
“Tom Brown’s Schooldays”
Those who hold treasured
memories of Thomas Hughes’s
classic of a boy’s life at Rugby
will have no cause to cavil at
Noel Langley’s screen-play. In
his compression of it Langley
has laid the greater stress on
Tom’s feud with the bully Flash-
man, though the reforming zeal
of the headmaster. Dr. Arnold,
and the opposition he gets from
some of the reactionary masters
are given their place.
The strength of the film lies
chiefly in the perfect capturing
of the “atmosphere,” the faithful
characterisations, the naturalness
of the boys, and the restraint of
direction which makes the best
type of English film so appeal-
ing. Rtigby School itself was
made available for location, and
the photographic opportunities
thus afforded have not been
neglected.
An outstanding job of work is
done by John Howard Davies as
the central character. His per-
formance is sensitive, and he
cleverly builds up the impres-
sion of an inner strength that
sustains his physical limitations
in his jousts with the school
bully. And the moulding of his
character under the guidance of
the Head makes a fascinating
study.
Robert Newton abandons his
usual side-eyed craftiness to don
the dignity, strength and quiet
determination of the crusading
Dr. Arnold. It is Newton’s
most authoritative piece of work
yet. His handling of the scene
in which he confronts the bully
in his study with the two boys
who saved the bully’s life and the
rustic who offers the proof of
Flashman’s lying is a gem.
As Flashman John Forest
limns the sadistic persecutor
of the smaller fry with the exact
degree of sneering haughtiness.
Supernumerary roles are all
neatly polished, and the accents
are a joy to the ear. At Sydney
Embassy.
* * * *
“Francis Covers the Big
Town”
The possibilities for fun
offered by Donald O’Connor’s
getting a job as cub-reporter on
a N’ Yark daily, with his talking
mule feeding him with scoops
gleaned from his, Francis’s, hob-
nobbing with police-horses and
other equine mines of good oil,
are fully exploited in this latest
of the series at Sydney Victory.
Wisecracks delivered by a long-
eared quadruped in a deep drawl
are always good for a laugh, and
intermixed are some slabs of
shrewd mule-sense. A super-
imposed murder is, however, un-
convincing.


Hatred
by STANDBY
(R.S. PORTEOUS)
THE s.s. Caroona rolled her
way steadily down the
Inner Route on the last leg
of her voyage—Liverpool
to Brisbane via Singapore and
the Torres Straits. Apparently,
in her wandering years, rolling
had become a habit with her,
for the mild sea that was run-
ning in those sheltered waters
should have had no effect on a
well-laden vessel of ten-thousand
tons. But roll she did as she
thrust her way from drizzling
darkness into the clear light of
dawn.
Astern of her the double-
flashes of Russell Island Light
blinked feebly through the
murky curtain of rain—a pale
reminder of a night of worry,
of groping for half-seen lights
and vague landmarks. Ahead
lay an almost cloudless sky with
islands standing bold and clear
against a silver sea.
Captain Waterman, the coast
pilot on the Caroona’s bridge,
gave an audible sigh of relief.
The weather had been against
him ever since he boarded the
ship off Thursday Island, but
now his worries were practically
over. Compared with the night-
mare of hidden coral reefs that
lay behind him, navigation of
the island-studded route ahead
would be like pleasure-cruising.
“Do you think you could get
someone to rustle up a cup of
tea?” he asked Mr. Carlson, the
first-mate. “You and I have
earned something in the way of
a reviver.”
If Captain Waterman was
feeling the effects of the long,
anxious night on the bridge of
a ship not fitted with radar, he
didn’t show it. As he removed
his dripping oilskin, his stocky
figure looked tireless, a massive
support for the broad face per-
manently creased in a network
of good-natured lines.
“The tea should be here in a
moment, Pilot,” the mate told
him. “Captain Burton’s steward
always brings it up at daylight.”
“Good. He’ll be a welcome
sight this morning.”
Captain Waterman found him-
self wondering what Carlson
looked like when he smiled.
Carlson was a fine figure of a
man, over six feet in height and
quite good-looking except for
the frowning V between his eye-
brows and the droop at the
comers of his mouth. He looks
as though it would hurt him to
smile, the pilot thought. But,
come to think of it, all the
Caroona’s officers looked the
same. There was a gloomy,
depressing atmosphere about
the whole ship. In Waterman’s
opinion Captain Burton, the
master, was to blame for that ;
his overbearing, sarcastic
manner was enough to sour
anyone. The one thing in his
favor was his evident trust in
coast pilots, for he’d turned in
at eight o’clock last night and
hadn’t visited the bridge since.
“Tea, sir.” The steward’s
arrival was a welcome inter-
ruption to Waterman’s thoughts,
CARLSON handed a cup to
the pilot, took one himself
and said “The captain hasn’t
shown up yet, Miles. You’d
better take his tea down to him.”
Miles was a mournful-looking
little Cockney with a narrow
fringe of black hair encircling
a completely bald dome. It
would be incorrect to say that
he looked pained at the mate’s
suggestion, since that expression
was permanently stamped in his
pale face. He did, however,
manage to register some degree
of disapproval as he said: “I
wouldn’t like to do that, sir.
Cap’n Burton always ’as ’is tea
up ’ere.”
Carlson, who had to put up
with his captain’s company on
the bridge at this hour every
morning, grunted.
“You’d better tell him it’s
here,” he advised. “He’ll have
something to say if he comes
up and finds it’s cold.”
Evidently Miles thought so,
too; he scuttled down the
ladder. Thirty seconds later he
returned and gasped urgently.
“Mr. Carlson, can y’ c»me
below, sir? Quick! ”
Carlson put his cup down and
followed the steward down the
ladder, leaving Captain Water-
man to sip his tea and wonder
mildly what the trouble was.
When Carlson came back and
asked “Would it be safe for you
to leave the bridge and come
below for a moment. Pilot?”
Captain Waterman swallowed
the last of his tea and nodded.
There was a stretch of clear,
open water ahead and by now
his curiosity was aroused.
Carlson led the way to the
master’s quarters immediately
below the bridge, through the
day-cabin where the white-faced
steward waited nervously, and
into the adjoining bedroom.
“I need your advice, on this.
Pilot,” he said, pointing to the
figure on the bunk. “That’s how
Miles found him. You’ve had
more experience than I have.
What should I do?”
AT first glance it looked as if
Captain Burton were asleep.
He lay on his side: face to the
bulkhead, the collar and one
shoulder of his pyjama-jacket
showing above the blankets.
Moving closer, the pilot saw the
wide-open staring eyes, the thin
trickle of congealed blood lead-
ing from the nostrils and the
corner of the mouth, and the
expression, almost of amaze-
ment, stamped on the coarse
features. Undoubtedly Captain
Burton was dead.
Running his fingertips over
the large bruise showing through
the thin hair on the back of the
head Captain Waterman said
“My God, Carlson! Someone’s
clouted him a hell of a wallop.
His skull’s smashed in.”
tfinnHlS is Detective-Sergeant
JHague,” Carlson
announced to the company in the
saloon that night, when, on
orders from the Townsville
police, the Caroona had
anchored off Magnetic Island.
“He’s just arrived by air
from Brisbane to take charge of
this affair, so he’ll he staying
aboard with us. Came out on
the launch that’ll take the Old
Man’s body ashore. Detective,
this is Mr. Andrews, our chief-
engineer.” He started on the
round of introductions, but
when he got to the pilot he was
forestalled.
“We’re old friends, Mr.
Carlson,” Captain Waterman
told him, lumbering to his feet
and grasping the detective’s
hand. “Well, well, George!
Fancy ’em sending you up here 1
I hope you know a bit more
about solving murders than you
do about fishing.” He turned to
the Caroona’s officers. “This
chap’s a fellow-seaman,” he
explained. “Got as far as
second-mate before he swal-
lowed the anchor. Now he’s
some sort of a policeman; and
he and I go fishing together
when our weekends fit in. I
wouldn’t describe him as a good
fisherman, but he’s learning
slowly.”
"he detective’s face spread
into a grin, a grin so likeable
that the Caroona’s officers found
themselves warming to him. He
appeared to be in his early
thirties and was dressed in a
well-cut grey double-breasted
suit.
“I’m sorry about this
intrusion,” said the detective
“and I can assure you I don’t
want to delay you in this port.
I’ll have to ask a lot of ques-
tions, so just remember that any
assistance you can give me will
help to speed my departure —
and yours.” His engaging grin
came on again. “If any of you
have any ideas or suspicions that
might help to clear the matter
up I’d be glad to hear them,”
The chief-engineer finished
cramming tobacco into his pipe
and pointed the stem aggressively
at the detective’s lean waist.
“Young mon,” he growled.
“Dinna start wi ’any false ideas
about clearin’ this matter up
quickly. Ye might as well hear
this from me because sooner or
later ye’ll find it oot. Captain
Burton the late Captain
Burton —was an unmitigated
swine. There’s not a man
amongst us, myseT included,
that hasna felt like bashin’ his
thick skull in at some time or
other.”
AT ten o’clock, when the
detective walked into his
cabin, Waterman was lying on
his bunk reading “Finished for
the night?” he asked, glancing
over the top of his book.
“I’ve only started,” said
Hague. “Now, look: you were
one of the first to see the dead
man. Be a pal and see if you
can help me catch a murderer as
well as a fish. What did you
notice?”
“I noticed that he’d been
murdered in his sleep; the back
of his head had been bashed
with a —er —a blunt instrument,
I suppose you’d call it.”
“Did you see the blunt instru-
ment?”
“Of course not. I didn’t even
look for it. Damn it all, George,
you don’t think the murderer
would be fool enough to leave
it lying around when all he had
to do was dump it overboard!”
“Don’t forget that even that
might implicate him. On a well-
run ship everything has a definite
place and a definite use. Suppose
a check with the chief shows
that a heavy spanner is missing
from the engine-room . .
Another thing—did you examine
Captain Burton closely when
Carlson called you down?
Carlson says you were the only
one who actually touched him,
that you felt the dent in the back
of his skull.”
“Yes, I remember doing that.”
“Was it warm? Normally
warm, or cold?”
“Slowed if I noticed, George.”
“A pity. It might have helped
to establish the time of death.”
HAGUE shook a reproving
finger at his friend, “Weil,
the next question. Carlson says
you came through a lot of rain
during the night. Were you both
wearing oilskins when you went
into that cabin?”
“I wasn’t. I’d taken mine off
just before the tea arrived. I
think, I’m almost sure, Carlson
had his on. Is it important?”
“It might be. There was a
damp patch on the carpet along-
side the bunk. It could have
been caused by the drips from
Carlson’s oilskin.”
“Any more questions?”
“Only one. Did Burton come
up to the bridge at any time
during the night?”
“No. I’d have seen him if he
had. He announced he was turn-
ing-in at eight o’clock and that’s
the last I saw of him. I never
left the bridge till Carlson called
me below at six-thirty this
morning.”
“Yes, I was afraid we wouldn’t
get any help there. Not one of
the watch-keeping officers saw
anything of him. His slippers
were lying beside his bunk.
They were damp; and I was
hoping he’d visited the bridge
through the night. It would
have helped us narrow down the
time considerably.” Hague took
a heavy silver cigarette-case
from his pocket. “We found
this on him —this and a box of
matches —in the pocket of his
pyjama-jacket. Evidently a
heavy smoker, eh?”
“He was. A regular chain-
smoker from the little I saw of
him.”
“Right-oh. I’m afraid the
only othey thing we noticed was
that his towel was missing. I’ve
questioned his steward; he
swears he didn’t touch it.”
“The murderer might have
used it to wipe blood from his
hands,” Captain Waterman said
excitedly.
“I don’t think so, Sherlock.
How would he get blood on his
hands? Burton was lying on his
left side, facing the bulkhead.
He was hit once on the back
of the head —and you saw that
he only bled from the nose and
mouth. Very little there, either.”
“Since you’re so flaming
smart, George,” Captain Water-
man grunted, “why ask for my
help?”
“You did mention something
about a nightcap.”
“Ah, that! Yes, I told the
steward to bring a bottle of
beer up when you were
finished.”
“He’s probably asleep. I’ll
go and look for him.” Hague
handed the ship’s official log to
the pilot. “You’re fond of
reading, so you can help me by
reading something useful. Go
through it for anything that
strikes you as unusual while I
find the steward.”
Captain Waterman got out his
glasses and began to read
through the log entries —day-by-
day reports of the weather, the
distance run, and all the dull
routine of shipboard work and
life. His blunt forefinger ran
from one terse entry to another,
page after page of dull
monotony. Yet he was obviously
highly pleased with himself when
Hague returned with the news
that the steward was on the
way.
“Listen to this, George,” he
said. • “On the twenty-third of
last month —that’s twelve days
ago—Captain Burton logged a
seaman named Brady for
insubordination and threatening-
language. Brady’s final words
were ‘Go ahead and log me, but
I’ll have the last say and I’ll
be using something tougher than
a bloody pen.’ What do you
think of that?”
6 work, skipper. Quite
•f Va good start. Able-
Seaman Brady sounds like a
tough Irishman. We’ll have a
talk with him in the morning. .
This sounds like the drinks
arriving.”
Miles tapped lightly on the
door and stepped inside. He
carried a bottle of beer and two
glasses on a tray, and he still
wore the same pained expression.
“I ’ope you’ll be comfortable
there, sir,” he said, putting the
tray down and nodding his bald
head towards the neatly made-
up settee. “You’ll find a clean
towel beside Captain Water-
man’s.” $
“I couldn’t ask for more,”
Hague assured him. “Miles,
what was your opinion of
Captain Burton?”
“I ’ad no complaints, sir.” A
scared expression intruded on the
steward’s mournful face as he
glanced nervously over his
shoulder. “There was plenty as
didn’t like ’im, ’ad it in for
’im, as you might say, sir. But
I’ve shipped under worse, a lot
worse.”
“A widely-experienced man,’
Hague remarked, looking long;
ingly at the unopened bottle oi
beer. “Right-oh, Miles. I
won’t keep you out of bed any
longer.”
The steward moved towards
the door, but instead of leaving
he glanced quickly outside.
Satisfied that no one was within
hearing he blurted out “There’s
somethin’ you ought to know
Inspector. I feel it’s me dooty
to tell you.”
“Right-oh, Miles. Do your
duty.” Hague seemed reluctant
to tear his gaze away from the
beer.
“Well, sir. About a week ago
some of the officers was in the
saloon after Cap’n Burton walked
out and young Mr. Wilson, the
third-mate, ’e says ‘One o’ these
days ’e’ll be found murdered in
’is bed,’ ’e says. And ’e said it
((Continued on page 22)


PRODUCTS or THE
mm
CROUP
k-
cißp
-
-
s
H
«i
m
m- m
mm
imi
«
■
5 sSeri
mm* H 8 I
s^><X V - |«V «f fl * j
I)
I a
ii
■H
m \ x w * w ~ '-Pm, ■»* m. wmMm "
11" -
f
h/i* x
; - 7'-
: ■
MlHi
I- ** ' , ; f-
-f" :%: \£%
f* m
■
V .. .
... ■ ;
■ X
mm
M
m
V':^'
mmm
m
ii.-
m
H
JtZi
m ..
o.*'
i
■
r
m
'
4
'
w
. ■■
vr A
i
m
%
1
W
*■
The Australian factory of the Rootes Group at Fishermen’s
Bend, Victoria, is a guarantee that the Rootes standard of craftsmanship
is maintained on the spot by skilled Australian workers. It ensures that
Rootes Distributors and their Dealers are able to offer
competent service by factory-trained mechanics, quick availability of
genuine parts, and factory-rebuilt units for speedy re-fitting.
Designed for the roads of the world—proved on the roads of Australia
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT
COMMER, KARRIER, VULCAN, TILLING-STEVENS
«»****!**<»''•
d
\>l
p& s
\
iqo
6*2
. ** d
pv*
I*'
o<*
pe*
\e< s


>3
nm
tit
mvk
r
&
roof
m
'protection
Here’s the "roof” cut loose and lifted from an
Allis-Chalmers rolled bale. Like the curving
sheets of a Quonset hut, these curved outer layers
of hay protect the layers beneath from rain and
snow. Read what Mr. Body coat, of Wollert, says:
Dear Sirs , —Last year I arranged for Mr. L. Wheeler, who
has a Roto-Baler, to bale my hay, and I wish to tell you
how satisfied 1 am with the result.
The one-man power take-off
operated Roto-baier.
Due to illness, I was forced to leave the bales
in the paddock over two months, but because
of the way in which their curved surface
sheds water, the hay was not damaged—
only half an inch or so was discoloured.
This was the hay which, in the local Fodder
Conservation Competition, enabled me to share
with Mr. Wheeler the highest points awarded
for quality. Ours were the only two entries
with bales from a Roto-Baler. The bales were
compact and the hay of high quality, having
retained its colour to a remarkable degree.
The hay was relished by the cows to such an
extent that I was able to feed it straight into
the bails, without first having to put it through
a chaff cutter. Youfs faithflilly>
A. BODYCOAT.
ROTO-BALER is an Allis-Chalmers trademark.
AC
S-CHALMERS
N.S.W.: Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street, Homebush. VICTORIA: Mitchell
& Co. Pty. Ltd., Footscray. S. AUST,: John Shearer & Sons Pty. Ltd., Kilkenny, W. AUST.:
Westralian Farmers' Co-operative Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.,
Brisbane. TASMANIA; A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
11/83.:
real nasty-like, sir. Said it as
if ’e meant it.”
“Very interesting, Miles.”
Hague picked up the bottle and
held it up to the light. “Most
interesting. I’ll look into that
in the morning. Good night,
and thanks for your help.”
Captaip Waterman waited
until the door closed behind the
steward before remarking
“Suspect number two.”
“Meaning Miles or the third-
mate?”
“The third, of course. That
is, if Miles is telling the truth.”
“Ah, yes. If. Miles doesn’t
strike me as the sort of bird
who’d bother overmuch about
the truth. Doesn’t it strike you
as strange that he’s the only one
who has a good word to say for
his late captain?”
CARLSON put the hands on
daywork next day though he
realised he wouldn’t get much
real work done. The ship was
too full of rumors, of theories,
probable and improbable.
Hague spent most of the day
> interviewing members of the
crew. He started with the third-
mate, a fresh-faced, fair-headed
English lad who looked as
though he’d be more at home
in a bank than in a cargo-ship.
“Do you remember making a
prophecy in the saloon
recently?” Hague asked.
“A prophecy. Inspector?”
Obviously the lad was ill at ease.
“You flatter me. Third. I’m
just a plain detective —about as
far removed from inspector as
you are from master. Your exact
words were, I believe, ‘One of
these days he’ll be found
murdered in his bed.’ You were
referring to Captain Burton.”
The third stammered, looked
at his feet and a slow flush
spread over his face.
He’s blushing, actually blush-
ing, Hague said to himself.
Aloud he asked “Do you
remember the occasion?”
“Yes,” the third admitted
nervously.
“Had you any intention of—
let’s say —doing something to
make the prophecy come true?”
“Good heavens, no!” The
third managed a hesitant smile.
“If anything, sir, I suppose it
was a case of wishful-thinking.”
“You didn’t like Captain
Burton?”
“I didn’t. And I can’t
imagine any normal person lik-
ing him.”
“Did you at any time think
of doing anything to end your
associations with him?”
“Oh, yes. I couldn’t have
made apother voyage with him.
When this one ended I was
either going to transfer to
another company or chuck the
sea altogether, I hadn’t made
up my mind which to do.”
“I see.”
"DRADY, the seaman who had
been logged for threatening-
language, was a very different
type. He was not, as Hague
had suggested, a tough Irish-
man, but an Australian —the
only Australian on the ship’s
articles. However, he did look
tough. Over six feet tall, with
sandy hair and a long, out-
jutting jaw, he looked as if he’d
give a good account of himself
in a brawl, and—judging from
the humorous gleam in his bright
blue eyes—would thoroughly
enjoy doing it. Unlike the third -
mate he was completely at his
ease, cheerfully admitting that
he had used threatening words to
the master,
“Stone the flamin’ crows,
mister,” he said. “A manVgotter
stick up for himself some time.”
Captain Waterman, who was
present at the interview, found
himself smiling. Brady was so
obviously a man who would
never miss an opportunity of
sticking up for himself.
“Do you remember the cause
of the trouble on that
occasion?” Hague asked.
“Too right I do.” Brady
launched into a vivid and very
lurid account of how he had
jammed his finger in a block
while reeving a new fall for the
lifeboat outside Captain Burton’s
cabin. Naturally, he maintained,
he swore a bit. Hague struggled
to suppress a grin. Brady went
on to explain how Captain
Burton had come out and abused
him for spoiling his rest with a
string of nasty Australian oaths.
“It was the way ’e said it that
got my goat ,” Brady explained.
“And what did you say then?”
Hague asked.
“I says ‘Aw, pull y’r bloody
’ead in.’ ”
“Anything else?”
“Nothin’ much. We ’ad a few
words and then ’e calls the mate
along and logs me.”
“And you said you’d have last
say. Something about using some-
thing tougher than a pen, eh?”
“Thai’s right.”
“Meaning what?”
“Meanin’ if I ever ran into ’im
ashore I’d give ’im a punch on
the bloody nose.”
“Have you ever been in trouble
with the police?”
“Gripes, yes. I got jugged for
bein’ mixed up in a brawl in
Liverpool one night.” Brady’s
blue eyes sparkled at the
memory. “Slowed if I know
what started the fight, but it was
a bloody good one —till the cops
bust it up. Then, last voyage,
I got tangled-up with some
Wogs in Port Said over the price
of a flamin’ watermelon. The
thievin’ cows ...”
U ALL I can do at the
moment,” Hague admitted
to Captain Waterman that
night, “is to wait for someone
to talk, to drop some hint.”
“And how long might that
take?” Captain Waterman
growled. “There’s a limit to the
time a man can sit and watch a
ship swinging round her
anchor.”
“Look here, skipper,” said
Hague, “I’ll slip ashore when
the police launch comes off
in the morning and ask
permission to proceed to
Brisbane. The owners won’t
give Carlson the command, but
surely they’d be glad to let him
take the ship to Brisbane, especi-
ally with you aboard. I’ll have
to come, of course. What do
you think?”
“I think, George,” Captain
Waterman declared solemnly,
“that it’s the first really sensible
suggestion you’ve made since
you came aboard.”
When the Caroona hove-up and
proceeded shortly before noon
next day there was a totally dif-
ferent atmosphere aboard. Men
moved cheerfully about their
jobs and cracked jokes about
what they would do in Brisbane.
It was as though the first turn
of the main engines had shat-
tered their cares and even their
memories of Captain Burton’s
death. The ship herself
throbbed with energy and
became once more a living thing.
Hague, standing beside the
pilot on the bridge, felt the
easing of the tension as the ship
swung and steadied on her
course. “This is more like it,”
he remarked cheerfully. “1 think
I’ll go for a walk.”
Throughout the day he moved
casually about the ship,
occasionally yarning with some
member of the crew, but never
once mentioning the murder.
He might have been one of
them, the pilot thought, looking
down from the bridge. Hague,
dressed in an old khaki shirt and
trousers, was sitting on No. 2
hatch where Brady was stirring a
pot of red-lead. Hague said
something and Brady threw back
his head and roared with
laughter.
6wnr HE trouble with you,
George,” Waterman said
as they sat in his cabin after the
evening meal, “is that you don’t
look like a policeman. And
that infernal grin of yours.
Slowed if I know, but I can’t
see these chaps taking you
seriously.”
“It’s sometimes an advantage,
skipper. When people forget
I’m a policeman they’re apt to
talk more freely.”
“If some of these blokes don’t
start talking pretty soon you’ll
have your boss reminding you
that you are a policeman.”
“There’s so much truth in that
statement,” Hague said ruefully,
“that it hurts. When are you
due back on the bridge?”
“Not for an hour or more.
We’ve got a clear stretch ahead
6f us and Carlson’s up there with
the third-mate.”
“What sort of a seaman is
Carlson?”
“First-class. It’s my belief
that he’s been carrying this ship
for some time, doing Burton’s
job and his own, too. That’s
his trouble —too damned con-
scientious. Thinks his precious
company is the best in the
world, just because he’s never
been in any other. Keeps look-
ing at me as if I’m liable to pile
his blasted ship up. If he starts
fussing around me in the Whit-
sunday Passage tonight I’D
remind him that" I was taking
ships through there while he was
sitting for his second-mate’s
ticket . . . And talking of
second-mates, here’s one now.
Come in. Second. We weren’t
discussing you—just second-
mates in general.”
The Caroona’s second-mate
stood in the doorway and said
“Excuse me. Pilot, I’ve got a
man out here wanting to talk to
the detective. He says he has a
statement to make.”
“Bring him in. Second,”
Hague said. “Captain Water-
man won’t mind.”
The second ushered in a
scared-looking young seaman,
introduced him as Ordinary-
Seaman Cowley and left.
TTAGUE said “I understand
you have something to tell
me, Cowley. You don’t mind
speaking in front of Captain
Waterman, do you?”
Cowley shook his head. He
was struggling to control his
nervousness, anxious to get this
interview over. For a moment
he fidgeted and then, suddenly-
squaring his shoulders and star-
ing straight ahead at the bulk-
head, he burst out:
“Sir. On the night of the
fourth I was in the second-mate’s
watch. At twelve midnight pre-
cisely I relieved the lookout on
the starb’d wing of the
bridge ...”
The torrent of carefully
rehearsed words came to an
abrupt stop, leaving Cowley
floundering helplessly for his
cue.
“Take it easy,” Hague advised
soothingly. “There’s nothing
formal about this; just a
friendly talk. Tell the story in
your own words.” And then, as
Cowley still hesitated, “You
were lookout-man on the starb’d
wing of the bridge during the
twelve-to-four watch and you
saw something that might be
important?”
“That’s right, sir.” Cowley
found his tongue at last. “I
seen one o’ the stewards, Miles
it was, sneak into the master’s
quarters.”
“About what time would that
be?”
“Seven minutes to four, sir,
exactly.”
“Why are you so sure of the
time?”
“I’d just looked at the wheel-
’ouse clock, to see how long
before the end o’ the watch.”
Very mildly Hague said
“That’s interesting, Cowley. But
if you were in the starb’d wing
how could you possibly see any-
one going into those quarters?
The entrance is on the port side.”
“I —er —I walked over.”
Cowley shot a nervous glance at
the pilot and seemed unwilling
to commit himself any further.
“It was near the end of your
watch, almost time for your
relief to show up, and you were
getting restless,” Hague
prompted. “Don’t be frightened,
Cowley. Both Captain Water-
man and I know that a lookout-
man doesn’t always stay exactly
where he’s supposed to. Well,
you just tell me anything else
you can and then I might send
for this man Miles to have a
little chat. You’d better leave
me alone with him. Captain
Waterman,”
6 6VI7AS there somethin’ you
’’was wantin’, sir?”
nervously asked the steward
from the doorway ten minutes
later.
“Only a talk with you,” Hague
told him, sitting alone in the
cabin, “Come in, Miles, and
close the door behind you.” He
caught a fleeting glimpse of the
startled expression on the mans
face as he turned to close the
door. “Sit in that chair.”
He waited while Miles perched
himself nervously on the edge
of the chair. “What were you
doing in Captain Burtons
quarters at eight minutes to four
on the night of the murder?”
A look of surprise and then


W(tM you want a aoo<(/ Mufa
make Au/w the mate/uxd it
Wir -u*?*
r
%SXsX %.
<0
,
'■' eg
-.X
111
' I I
ss
■ . -1
TRADE MARK
of Quality
For 44 years Crusader has been weav-
ing cloth that competes with the best
made anywhere in the World.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, her prize-winning Worsted
Cloths have easily become the standard
of Quality throughout our land.
You are cordially invited to inspect
the new 1952-53 range of Crusader
Suitings which are now available. Ask
your favourite tailor to show you his
attractive Crusader Pattern Book.
Every cloth is fully guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. Your tailor will
tell you Crusader Worsteds tailor well,
for they are the product of a Mill that
is proud of its Cloths.
So, when you want a good suit—a suit
you will want to wear because you
look your best in it, make sure your
material is Crusader—the Cloth that
has behind it 44 years of service and
satisfaction.
Crusader Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
CM 13
terror flashed over the steward’s
face as he gasped “Me, sir? Not
me, sir. I wasn’t in there.”
“You were there.” There was
nothing genial or easygoin
about Hague now ; his grey eye
were cold and hard as the
forced the cringing steward t
look straight at him.
“S’welp me God, sir,
never”
“Stow it,” Hague snapped.
“You’re being questioned on
murder charge. Murder, do you
understand? You were seen
sneaking into those quarters, anc
two hours later Captain Burtoj
was found with his skull bashec
in. Well? Why did you go into
that cabin?”
“To get some whisky, for —er
—a sick shipmate.”
Bit by bit, under a battery of
questions, the whole story came
out. Miles had been running
profitable sideline selling
Captain Burton’s whisky to a
seaman named Porter. Whether
Porter had some hold over Miles
or whether the steward was
simply doing it for the money
he made out of it Hague was
unable to discover. Whatever
the reason, Porter apparently got
whisky whenever he demanded
it.
Miles could never steal any
in the day-time ; Captain Burton
kept it locked up. But at night
he always left a bottle out,
usually consuming a good deal
of it before morning. The
steward’s thefts were simplified
by the fact that Burton was a
heavy snorer. If he heard snores
Miles knew it was safe to slip
in and steal a couple of nips. No
snores, no whisky.
On the night of the murder
Porter had roused Miles at ten
to four and demanded a drink
before he went on watch. Miles
had grumbled, he claimed, and
had finally given in because
Portep had complained that he
was a sick man. However, he
was out of luck. The bottle was
empty and Porter had bee
pretty nasty about it. T
Hague the main point was tha::
Miles had gone to the cabin
And Miles was most emphati
that Captain Burton was snoriu
whije he was there.
“It wouldn’t ’ave been safe to
go in if ’e wasn’t,” Mile
reasoned.
Hague dismissed him and wem;
up to see Carlson on the bridge
“Have you ever had cause to
suspect a man named Porter o:
drinking on board?” he asked.
“Suspect him! ” Carlson
snorted. “I know damned wel
he does. I’ve never seen him
really drunk—l’d have been on
to him like a shot if I had—but
I’ve smelt grog on him even a
four in the morning. I’ve
searched the whole ship, but I’ve
never been able to find where
he keeps it planted.”
“Miles was selling it to him,”
Hague told him. “Pinching it
from the master’s private stock.
What time does Porter come on
duty tonight?”
“Four o’clock. If you want to
question him I’d rather you left
it until he comes off.”
“I’ll do that,” Hague promised
and moved over to Captain
Waterman.
Making no effort to conceal
his impatience the pilot said,
“For God’s sake, George, what
happened? Did you get a con-
fession out of him?”
“You mean Miles? Yes and
no. He confessed to petty thiev-
ing, but not to the murder.”
Hague explained what had taken
place and finished up “If Miles
was telling the truth we’ve at
least established the fact that
Burton was alive at eight
minutes to four.”
“If he was.”
“Yes. At present I’m inclined
to believe him.”
“George,” Captain Waterman
said ponderously, “I’m inclined
to believe you’re too easy on
these blokes. You believe any-
thing they tell you.”
“Not quite everything,
skipper.”
Toq darned much, anyhow.
According to you this blasted
steward is innocent now. What
next?”
“I’m going to enjoy th
scenery. It’s a lovely night.”
AS Hague had said, it was
lovely night—a soft moon!
night with stars hanging low
over the velvet smoothness of
calm sea. Ahead, Dent Islanc
Light blinked its welcome to th
almost landlocked Whitsunda
Passage; little more than a mil
away to port the towering mas
of Whitsunday Island cast
black shadow over the water
and to starboard the lights o
the holiday resort on South
Molle Island twinkled along the
beach.
As if lulled by the calm
serenity the Caroona steadied her
roll until only the faint lift anc
fall of the near-by islands tok
of her movement. Looking down
from the port wing of the bridge,
Hague could see the gleaming
curl of the bow-wave and hear
the gentle hiss of water along
the ship’s side. At the end of
each roll to port the lacework
of foam directly below him
changed to a rich ruby-red as
the swirling water caught and
momentarily held the warm
glow of the side light. Hague
would have been content to stay
there all night.
At midnight, when the watches
changed, he joined the pilot and
second-mate in a cup of cocoa.
Carlson had turned in over an
hour before, satisfied now that
the ship was once more in fairly
open water.
Captain Waterman finished his
cocoa and said “Well, there you
are, Second. You haven’t a thing
to worry about for an hour or
more, so I’ll go below and get
my feet up for a while. At my
age and weight they need
occasional spell. If you’re
any doubt don’t hesitate to giv
me a call, I won’t be asleep
He turned to the detectiv
“Coming, George, or are yo
making a night of it?”
“I’m coming,” Hague answere
and followed him down th
ladder.
“Been trying to figure out
new angle on the case?” Captai
Waterman asked when the
reached their cabin.
“No,” Hague admitted. ‘Tv
simply been enjoying myself. ;
never'saw a more perfect night.
Captain Waterman remove
his shoes and stretched out o
his bunk. “Ah,” he sighed
“That’s better.” He wiggled his
toes in relief. “It’s just as we;
you did chuck the sea, George
You’d have piled a ship up
admiring scenery when you
should have been watching the
bearing of a light.”
“I don’t believe in interfering
with an expert. It’s your job to
keep us off the rocks.”
“And it’s your job to find ou
who did this murder.”
“That’S true. Every man to
his own job.” Hague’s wide
grin should have given an indi-
cation of his feelings, but
Captain Waterman was busy
with his pipe. “And it may
surprise you to learn, my very
efficient pilot, that I’ve prac-
tically finished mine.”
“George! ” Captain Water-
man shot upright, scattering
tobacco over the carpet. “You
don’t mean that, do you?”
“I do,” Hague assured him.
He was serious now. “I’ve
narrowed it down to three
men. Before the morning watch
is over it will be one man.”
“You’re either bluffing or
you’ve been holding out on me,”
Captain Waterman accused.
“I haven’t held any facts back,
skipper; but I admit I’ve been
working on an entirely different
angle from the one you’ve got
fixed in your head. You’ve been
taking it for granted that
Captain Burton was murdered m
his bed, and that the weapon,
the blunt instrument, was tossed
overboard. You were wrong on
both points.”
“What the devil are you talk-
ing about, George? Don’t pry
to be so infernally mysterious."
Hague took a heavy silver
cigarette-case and a box of
matches from his pocket. “Til
prove my theory, skipper,” he
said “Or let you prove it. Put
these in your left-hand shirt-
pocket and lie down on your left-
side.”
“You see,” he said, as the pilot
squirmed uncomfortably. “It
hurts, doesn’t 1 it? You couldn’t
possibly sleep like that, could
you?”
“Of course I couldn’t,” Captain
Waterman answered testily.
“Yet we found Burton in
exactly that position. Another
thing—you noticed the expres-
sion on his face, didn’t you?”
“Yes. He looked sort of
startled or surprised.”
“Almost as if he’d seen the
murderer taking a swipe at him,
eh? I wouldn’t place too much
reliance on that, but it ties in
with several other things. Sup-
posing you were master and
you woke up during the night
and decided to visit the bridge.
It’s raining. How would you
dress?”
“An oilskin over my pyjamas
and a pair of slippers would do
me. An old cap, too, probably.”
“Anything else?”
“Eh? Oh, I usually shove a
towel around my neck first to
keep the water from running
down into my pyjamas.”
“That’s what I’m getting at.
Burton’s towel was missing, and
his slippers were damp. Yet
everyone swears he didn’t visit
the bridge.”
“He didn’t.”
“Because you didn’t see him?’
Hague wagged a reproving finge-
at his friend. “Captain Water-
man, you may be a very reliable
coast pilot, but I’m going to
prove to you that you’re an
absolutely, - unreliable witness
Did the chief-engineer visit the
bridge tonight?”
V/'ERY warily Captain Water-
t man ?aid “I didn’t see him.’”
“Getting canny now, eh? As
a matter of fact, he didn’t. But
there was one occasion when he
could have spent seven minutes
there without being seen by
anyone except me. You and
Carlson were up at the standard
compass and the third-mate was
in the chart-room.”
“It doesn’t prove a damn’
thing,” Captain Waterman
declared heatedly. ‘'lf the chief
felt like snooping around up
there, admiring the scenery or
some such rot, it’s his affair. But
if the master came up he’d make
a point of speaking to me or the
officer of the watch.”
“That’s a point I’ve been keep-
mg in mind. Now, let’s assume
that Miles was telling the truth
when he said Burton was alive
at eight minutes to four. Every-
thing you and Carlson did after
that may be vitally important.
Can you remember whether you
left the lower bridge between the
change of the watch and day-
light?”
“I can. And you can confirm
it from the rough log and the
chart. At twenty minutes to fiv?
there was a break in the rain
and I picked up the flash from
Russell Island Light. Carlson
and I went up to the standard
compass and I got three bear-
ings. After I’d read them off to
Carlson I said ‘You’d better put
her on the chart while I bring
her round. I’m altering course to
clear Russell now.’ Carlson
went down to the chart-room and
I stayed to steady her on her
new course.”
“How long were you up
there?”
“Blowed if I know, George.
Maybe five minutes or a bit
more with Carlson and about
the same after he left. That’s
only a rough guess.”
o Continued on page 34)


...
J
BLH
£
names
in a land of
opportuniti|
Your opportunity for assured profitable investment in Queensland's future is directly offered by the
90,000 shares available in Hastings Diesels Limited.
A wholly-owned subsidiary of this Company represents in Queensland the great Caterpillar Tractor
Co., the world-famous John Deere Tractors and Agricultural Implements, and other big names.
Queensland is big in EVERY way. Big
in area; big in natural wealth; big in
national development; big in its place
in Australia's future; and biggest of
all in OPPORTUNITY!
'
The national projects and primary
production development neces-
sary to Queensland's needs must
be conceived and carried out on
a large scale. Agricultural imple-
ments, together with world-
proven earth-moving equipment
and tractors necessary for this
work, are products of the
world's best-known names
Caterpillar, John Deere, Bald-
win-Lima-Hamilton, Michigan.
.. ■ o;Vf;vi:v;iS -: ■ ; ■ ■ i*OR
ORDINARY SHARES IN
510.000 ALREADY SUBSCRIBED • 90.000 AVAILABLE
0 0
i
0
REGULAR DIVIDENDS!
The Hastings Peering Group of Companies, by paying
regular dividends, has now returned to original
investors 100% of their original investment!
The new issue of Hastings Diesels Limited Shares at
£1 each offers investors the same golden opportunity.
The first 100,000 shares in Hastings Diesels Limited
were taken up by the Shareholders in our group of
companies within two weeks of publication of the
prospectus.
Hastings Peering Building, William Street, SYDNEY
Phone M 0412 (33 lines)
Hastings Deering’s have themselves taken up £325.000 of
the original authorised capital.
HASTINGS DIESELS PROFITS
PROFITS
1950 .. .. £8.136 5.5%'!
1951 .. .. £11,790 9.2%
1952 .. .. £48.779 39%j
Capital = £lOO,OOO
CATTLE PROPERTY: 50-year leases for 2.600
square miles adjacent to Alice Springs.
COUPON FOR APPLICATION FORM
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Limited,
William Street. Sydney.
Please forward me Prospectus for your new issue
of ordinary shares.
My name
Address : “
State ------
SERVICE
DEPARTMENT.
Wants
Copies of reviews of and references
in books to Havelock Ellis’s Kanga
Creek, published by the Golden
Cockerel Press in 1922.—5444.
To buy copy of Evening at Home
and books by Prof. A. M. Low. —
5443.
To buy copies of After Sixty Years
by Andrew Crombie, Dreadnought of
the Darling by C. E. W. Bean, Life
of Governor Eyre by Hamilton Hume
and Early Days of Windsor. —5439.
To buy copies of “The Lone Hand”
for February, 1913, and December,
1913.—5440.
To hear from Bulletin readers
interested in exchanging bookplates. —
5442.
To procure any books, newspaper-
cuttings or references to Jorgen Jor-
genson.—s44l.
Information Sought
(1) Where and when did Les Darcy
die, and what caused his death ? (2)
What championships did Darcy win,
and was his claim to the world middle-
weight title recognised overseas? (3)
Where and when was Darcy born?
(1) Les Darcy died in Memphis,
Tennessee, on May 24, 1917. General
opinion was that Darcy died from
mental breakdown and fever, but the
cause of his death was officially said
to be pneumonia. (2) Darcy gained
the Australian middleweight cham-
pionship by beating Mick King in
1915. This title reverted to King
when Australians recognised Darcy as
world middleweight champion after
he defeated Eddie McGoorty in 1915,
but McGoorty had no right to the
world 11.6 title then, as it was actually
held by A 1 McCoy, of Brooklyn
(U.S.A.). (3) Darcy was born in
Woodville, near Maitland (N.S.W.),
on October 28, 1895.
* * * *
In a book dealing with the Ireland
of 1848 I came across the term “clerk
of the hanaper.” What were his
duties ?
A “hanaper” is a case or basket
built to contain a “hanap” (a goblet
with a foot or stem). The word
“hanaper” had particular reference in
English chancery—it was used of a
wicker basket in which were kept
writs and other documents, and hence
it became the name of a department
of the chancery, now abolished, under
an officer known as the clerk or
warden of the hanaper, into which
were paid fees and other moneys for
the sealing of charters, patents, writs,
etc., and from which were issued
certain writs under the great seal. In
Ireland the clerk of the crown and
hanaper issued writs for the return
of members of Parliament for Ireland
(i.e., to the British House of Com-
mons).
* * * *
Who wrote “New South Wales: Its
Present State and Future Prospects” ?
This book, of some 600 pages, has
long been credited to James Mac-
arthur, son of John Macarthur, of
Camden, because of his signature to
the introduction. It has now been
fully established that Edward Edwards,
later to become a prominent English
librarian, wrote the book at
Macarthur’s instigation and that the
latter supplied much of the informa-
tion and corrected the proofs.
Macarthur’s letters to Edwards are
still in existence, and show that
Edwards received £BO for his work’.
John Metcalfe, of the Public Library
of New South Wales, has recently
published the text of a talk he gave
to the Royal Australian Historical
Society, Sydney, on the subject.
Brief Answers
A.8.W.: The pen-painting outfits
are obtainable from W. C. Penfold
and Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney....
H. 8.: Treatment of osteo-arthritis is
closely related to that of rheumatoid
arthritis. Prompt measures may arrest
progress of the disease, but there is
no specific cure. Both cortisone and
A.C.T. hormone give results under
medical supervision, especially when
associated with local treatment', but
the age factor is to be considered in
all cases. Your doctor will explain.
S.I.S.: Rat poison D-con (Wis-
consin) not marketed as such in Aus-
tralia. Close in results are the
thallium compounds (not yet con-
trolled) as Thall-rat, etc. Have noted
your address if above traced D.S.:
Condition is due to local vemous
congestion, constipation being an
aggravating factor in all cases. Treat
with compound hazeline suppositories
or the following ointment twice daily:
Bismuth subnitrate 1 drachm, fluid
extract witch-hazel 30 minims, solu-
tion of coal-tar 15 minims, gall and
opium ointment to 1 ounce. An
ointment of renaglandin (anaesthetic)
may be substituted if irritation per-
sists. Take liquid paraffin-oil at night.
L.H.: “Vision” was a literary
quarterly edited by Frank C. Johnson,
Jack Lindsay and Kenneth Slessor in
1923-24. Only four numbers were
published. A set of the four were
selling at £3 3s. in a Sydney second-
hand bookshop recently P.McK.:
Teach Yourself Book-keeping by D.
Cousins (10s. posted), obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney J.K.: A copy
of the dictionary of that date would
have no value to a dealer L.U. :
It is still a private home, occupied
by the family of the person who had
it built.... H. J.K.: Roderick Mac-
donald “Sydney Morning Herald”
wnr-rn remnnS was killed when
a land mine exploded while he was
cnS; h>hdn 2 in ltafy
covenng the hghtrg Scienl
lndustdTßeselrch Orgri-
afinn Albert-street East Mel-
hnnrne Vir A RB • Frank Same-
sonwas born‘in New Zealandinl9o3.
He Qualified as a solicitor and has
worked n law-offices, as a’civil ser-
vantand as a market-gardener. His
publications include A Man and His
Wife and That Summer I Saw in My
Dream. _______
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
D.R.: That yarn had whiskers
on it when we were in swaddling-
clothes F.X.C.: Albert Dorring-
ton wrote a similar yarn for The
Bulletin before the dawn of this
century.... w.A.; It would be a good
plan to begin by writing about things
you know... .L.G.: Sorry, but we
couldn’t detect any sign of life in
that i ong and ponderous effort. ..
F.McL.: We can quite believe that
eve n the author grew a trifle tired ot
Mrs, McTwaddle before he had
finished with her.. ...C.R.: Poems
“dashed off while waiting for my girl-
friend to put on her make-up” are
seldom worth the paper they are
written upon. G.G.: It didn’t raise
a laugh. .. .J.S.P.; The triplets
arrived at the wrong address
F.H.8.: Plot is old and the dialogue
unnatural P.M.H.: Yes, we read
them. Please spare us the other halt-
dozen you have up your sleeve....
M.C.: You can call in at your leisure
and collect the dog-poisoner, the
mad professor, the lady in the purple
kimono and the musical dwarf Also,
when you collect them lock them up
for keeps.


FOR SALE
1936 FORD HEARSE
1937 BUICK HEARSE
mm*
mwm
mm*
M
mm
V
1936 FORD IT wo availablel
These vehicles have been well cared for by our mech-
anical staff and are in first-class order. An inspection
is invited. Any reasonable offer will be considered.
m
1937 BUICK
MOTOR FUNERALS LTD.,
30 City Rd., Sydney - Tel: M 6277
Australian Historical Sketches
The Wild Colonial Boy
By M. H. ELLIS
VOUNG Mr. John Donohoe
was, according to the
convict Indent Book, born
in Dublin, that “city of
fair fame” as the song has it,
and on April 3, 1823, a promis-
ing career with the girls was cut
short by an indiscretion which
resulted in his being transported
in the good ship Ann and Amelia
for life to New South Wales.
His age was given in the
Indent Book as 19 when he
arrived in 1825; his hair was
flaxen, his complexion brown
and freckled and his eyes blue.
He was sft. 4in. high. His con-
dition when he landed was de-
scribed laconically as “well.”
.After the custom of the time
he was assigned as a servant to
Major West, a convivial surgeon
of Parramatta, who owned an
estate at Quaker’s Hill. Round
about there were plenty of lads
of his own kidney with just as
hopeless a prospect in front* of
them and just as much freedom
of movement. Young and
resourceful convicts attached to
a conviyial and neglectful master
on a private estate were able to
get about the country quite a lot,
if so inclined.
At the moment young Mr.
Donohoe reached New South
Wales one of the most fashion-
able sports of the more mettle-
some youths was bushranging.
The opportunities were legion.
All through the County of
Cumberland and beyond
desperadoes —escaped convicts,
or retired convicts, or just plain
convicts with unwatchful
custodians and with time on
their hands were roaming
around in bands to the distrac-
tion of the authorities, burgling,
robbing by the roadside and
occasionally murdering.
That a large bunch of them
were hanged a few months after
Mr. Donohoe’s arrival meant
very little to “the profession, ’
for, with the extension of long
and lonely roads, which meant
the provision of quick get-
aways, it was hard to catch a
highwayman now that horses
had become plentiful.
Sir Thomas Brisbane had
instituted the “horse-police,” and
presently bloodhounds appeared
on the scene; but the bush-
rangers led them a pretty chase.
While the limited posses were
chasing one lot up across the
Bulga Track to the Hunter River,
another lot would spring up and
frighten seven fits out of the
householders of the Upper
Nepean and the Stonequarry-
road.
It was not long before Mr.
Donohoe became involved in
the staple Botany Bay industry.
In Dr. West’s periods of inatten-
tion to his estate, .which were
frequent, he went abroad with
two or three boon companions
and filled his pockets at otjier
people’s expense, without earn-
ing notoriety, until one December
afternoon in 1827, on the
Windsor-road. There, with a
certain James Kilray or Kilroy
and George Smith, he stepped
boldly out of the bush waving a
cutlass in the path of two carts
which were travelling to
Windsor, and, with menaces,
robbed the occupants of money
and some brandy.
The robbery was a clumsy
affair, because bushranger Kilray
belonged to the district and was
instantly recognised, so that the
luckless three were soon in lock-
up, bound for one of the busiest
criminal assizes that Sydney had
seen. And at that festival of
retribution, Mr. Justice Stephen,
on March 1, 1828, sentenced
each of them to death twice—
once for each cart that they
robbed.
Amid the general flurry which
always succeeded sentencing—
all the criminals being saved up
to the end of the assize and
condemned in one glorious help-
ing, punctuated by the screams,
curses, moans and faintings of
the hapless victims—they were
led away in mournful procession
to the jail in Sussex-street to
await March 24, when they
were to be “hanged on the
gallows-tree so high.” Mr.
Donohoe did not reach the
jail;
When they came to call the roll they
missed Jack Donohoe.
He had succeeded in slipping
quietly off the end of the line
and never was prisoner more
missed.
A reward was at once offered
for his capture, but in no time
he had formed a gang of ruffians
and seemed to be everywhere at
once. Nobody knows how much
blame he took for other bush-
rangers’ work. He and his com-
panions, Walmsley and Webber,
were so ferocious in their opera-
tions that wayfarers, whenever
“BOLD JACK DONOHOE”
The only likeness of the bushranger. A
sketch made after death by Sir Thomas
Mitchell (original in the Mitchell Library,
Sydney ).
robbed, took it for granted that
they were their interceptors. It
would not have been fashion-
able by the end of 1829 to be
robbed by any other gang.
They were reputed to have
dispatched a fourth member of
their brotherhood, Jacky Under-
wood, whom they allegedly dis-
covered recording their move-
ments on paper; but the corpse
seems to have turned up alive
to stop a bullet in 1832 after the
rest of the gang had gone west.
As 1830 advanced there was a
great outcry at the failure of the
Government to capture Donohoe
and his companions:
Every week in the newspapers you
read of something new
Concerning this dauntless hero, the
bold Jack Donohoe.
Now it was that he and his
merry men had wantonly
murdered somebody ; now that
they had turned up at the
Twelve-mile Hollow on the
Wollombi-road beyond the
Hawkesbury and Wiseman’s
Ferry, where they had stopped
an old shipmate of Walmsley, a
messenger from an “iron gang,”
and robbed him of a cake which
he was carrying, but left him a
Government blanket because if
they took it (they said) the
authorities might believe that the
convict himself had made away
with it and punish him.
Then they switched their
venue 50 miles away to the
Campbelltown district, en route
“firing at Messrs. Erskine and
Scott in a gig near Longbottom”
and robbing a farm at Prospect.
It was unlucky for themselves
that they fired wantonly on well-
known citizens in broad daylight
on the open highway. It was
too much, for this atrocity was
committed on a road frequented
by many very distinguished
citizens.
Who knew, if this sort of thing
went on, but that they might
even shoot a| the Colonial
Secretary, Mr. Alexander
Macleay, who was in process of
acquiring an estate at Brownlow
Hill, or at Mr. Cordeaux? The
Government really bestirred
itself. Messengers went post-
haste to Major Coldeu Antill,
the magistrate at Stonequarry
(Picton), Macquarie’s old
brigade-major, who had carried
the colors of the 73rd Highland
Regiment into the breach on the
hot noonday when Seringapatam
was taken and Tippoo Sahib
slain. Redcoats of the Die
Hards (57th), magistrates and
local constables, police, private
citizens and settlers were soon
combing the bush inside the
Nepean and along the
Southern- and Cow-
pasture-roads.
For a fortnight the
patrols found nothing.
Then, on a late after-
noon as the shadows
were lengthening, a
weary police party was
camping down in the
bush about a mile-and-
a-half from Mr. Robert
Lowe’s Birling pro-
perty near Bringelly.
There were eight in the
party six mounted
troopers from the 57th
Regiment (which
recently has been fight-
ing beside our own
troops in Korea),
Michael Gorman, a
ticket-of-leave constable
to Major Antill, and
another.
About five o’clock
their sentry sighted a
man a long way off
with a horse which
seemed to be a pack-
horse. At first he
thought he was seeing
Mr. Farley, the Chief
Constable, who had
gone away for rations; but
Farley’s horse was grey and
this one was black. Then two
more men were seen.
In a moment all was bustle in
the camp. Sergeant William
Hodson, who was acting under
the orders of Messrs. Macarthur
and M’Allister (a lieutenant of
his regiment) to scour the bush
and not come home until he had
laid Donohoe by the heels, was
certain that at last his quarry
was in sight.
The bandits were near a creek
which runs from the south-west
into South Creek through a farm
of the Wentworth family.
The police party divided into
two. One section of five men
went cautiously after the robber-
band, keeping to the right bank
while the sergeant and two of
his men swept off to the left to
catch them if they should cross
the creek. The bushrangers were
in a hollow nearly closed in by
trees, and so did not see their
pursuers until they were a
hundred yards away. Then each
bushranger jumped up and got
behind a tree, but not before
Mr. Donohoe had thrown his
hat in the air and shouted:
“Come on, you cowardly rascals,
we’re ready, even if there’s a dozen
of you!”
As Constable Gorman put it
cautiously in his evidence, “a
conversation of some length then
ensued about fighting,” each side
yelling challenges to the other
what time the shadows leng-
thened and the sun began to
disappear behind the Blue
Mountains a few miles to the
west.
After about half-an-hour of
these exchanges, one of the
police fired and chipped some
bark off the tree behind which
Webber was ensconced. Con-
table Gorman then fired almost
at the same moment as two of
the bushrangers pulled their
triggers. And finally Private
John Mucjdeston, of the 57th,
fired his carbine, which was
loaded with a carbine-ball and
a pistol-ball.
They saw Donohoe fall; the
other two ruffians made off into
the gathering darkness and,
though pursued, escaped. When
the pursuers returned to the
hollow Donohoe was in his last
agonies. His body was left
where it was for the night and
next morning taken to Liverpool
and thence to the General
Hospital, in Sydney. The pack-
horse proved to be laden with
goods stolen from a man named
Begley at Rokeby, Prospect, the
week before. It included a
watch, some deeds, 1501 b. of
flour and some meat, as well as
a “quantity of female wearing
apparel.”
A singular fact was that
though Sergeant Hodson recog-
nised Webber and Walmsley,
who were disposed of within
the next two months, the former
captured and hanged and the
other shot, nobody seemed sure
about Donohoe, whose counten-
ance “bore the imprint of strong
passions and a determined
mind.” Some said it was he,
others not. It was not until he
lay at Sydney Hospital that Dr.
Gibson, who had been on the
jury at his trial in 1828, positively
identified him.
His send-off was all he could
have wished. He was the object
of a very pleasant inquest held
by Major Smeathman and a
jury at the Fox and Hounds, a
hostelry which flourished on the
corner of Castlereagh- and King-
street opposite the Supreme
Court. The town’s leading
maker of clay-pipes was allowed
to take a model of his head,
from it he moulded a very
popular line of clay dudeens
which perpetuated the likeness of
the “dauntless hero” —“one of
the most dangerous spirits that
ever infested this colony”—
with lifelike fidelity even to the
bullet-hole in the middle of the
forehead.
This unnatural embellishment
is missing from the striking
portrait sketched, when Jack
Donohoe had ceased to be bold,
by no less an artist than Sir
Thomas Mitchell, the explorer,
as his subject lay dead in the
hospital.
However, the “Sydney
Gazette” was wrong in saying
that after the coroner’s jury had
consulted for five minutes and
brought in a verdict of justifiable
homicide, the country was “rid”
of Mr. Donohoe, He continued
to haunt it for many a year in
spirit, an inspiration to every
lawless youth, and some of his
many admirers made up a song
about how, when challenged to
surrender:
“Resign to you—you cowardly dogs,
a thing I’ll never do!
I’ll fight this night with all my might! ”
cried Bold Jack Donohoe.
“I’d rather roam the bush for life,
like dingo or kangaroo,
Than work one day for the Govern-
ment ! ” cried Bold Jack Donohoe.
After which it appeared that
he had fought six rounds with
the horse-police “until the fatal
ball, which pierced his heart and
made him start, caused Donohoe
to fall.”
This ditty was howled to such
effect to the tune of the “Wear-
ing of the Green” that it was
officially prohibited, and it be-
came an offence punishable with
forfeiture of licence for it to be
sung on public-house premises.
It was presumably then that
it was disguised as the “Wild
Colonial Boy,” retaining the
form and main original lines but
with the refrain bowdlerised to
go encouragingly;
Then come away, my hearties, we’ll
roam the hills so high,
Together we will plunder, together we
will die.
We’ll cross the wild Blue Mountains
and scour the Bathurst Plains,
For we scorn to live in slavery, bound
down with iron chains.
The adapters temporarily
suppressed the hero’s name,
changed his birthplace from
“Dublin, that city of fair fame”
to “Castlemaine,” which is an
engaging Irish township at the
head of Dingle Bay in Kerry
between Tralee and Macgilli-
cuddy’s Reeks. Also they took
the words “Bold Jack Donohoe”
out of the end of the last line of
every verse and replaced it with
“The Wild Colonial Boy.” And
under his nom de guerre young
Mr. Donohoe has lived in the
hearts of his grateful country-
men to the present time.
After it had ceased to be
dangerous to celebrate him in
song his admirers managed to
restore his name to their hymn.


eP
az
*
a
%
£
<3?
'^555-^r
D
®j
ae=
-<
r-; 3WT- > C )
-
'#) I
')/
m
m
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
KB. itfc. 18.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COHPANV LIMITED
TIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
general
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE
and PERTH
SPORTING NOTIONS
Dashing Melbourne sprinter
Winlake, second to Regal Scout
in the 1951 Oakleigh Plate and
unplaced in the race last year,
was successful (at 7 to 1) at
third attempt at Caulfield on
Saturday when he beat favorite
Sir Isfahan (5 to 2), with Desert
Breeze (25 to 1) third. It made
three wins in his last four starts
for the washy-looking chestnut,
prior successes being at Kyneton
and at Caulfield.
Now a six-year-old, Winlake
is by Caithness (imp.) from
Vanessa, a daughter of Winooka
and Hermina by Rossendale
(imp.) from Hasten Home (imp.)
by St. Frusquin, His half-sister
by Faircourt (imp.) is among the
yearlings to be offered for sale
at the Melbourne auction early
next month.
• • • •
One double rarely accom-
plished is that of the Caulfield
Oakleigh Plate and the V.R.C.
Newmarket Handicap. Since’
the ’eighties only five horses have
won both events in the same year
and four of them were high-class
performers. Malua, who landed
the first Oakleigh Plate in 1884
carrying 9.7, won the New-
market a couple of weeks later
with 8.7. His time for the
Flemington sprint, 1,15, was a
then record, but it was soon
reduced. The other four winners
of the double were William Tell
(1886), Wakeful (1901), Auric's
Star (1j937) and Cromwell (last
year). Winlake is engaged in the
Newmarket, and might bring off
the double.
Start of the Oakleigh was
delayed about 10 minutes,
several horses playing up badly
and the line repeatedly disor-
ganised—a fine advertisement for
the electric starting-gates. Valu-
able horses risk permanent injury
when kickers are placed along-
side them in open barriers, and
Cultured, a prominent Sydney
mare, was kicked, and her with-
drawal from the race was
ordered by the stewards. The
stable had taken her 600 miles
for the race. Bets on the filly
were refunded.
In Melbourne bookmakers
generally are ordered to pay the
winner at tote odds in circum-
stances similar to those involv-
ing Cultured’s withdrawal, but
this time stewards ordered all
bets to stand. It would be a
good idea to make a set Mel-
bourne ruling on this betting
angle. In Sydney bookmakers
would pay at the original prices.
• Hydrogen, engaged in the
Doncaster with 9.3 and the
Sydney Cup with 8.10, will next
face one of his hardest tasks,
meeting last spring’s Melbourne
Cup winner and New Zealand
champion, Dalray, in the V.R.C.
Ercildoune Stakes at Elemington
on Saturday week. As Dalray
is reported brighter and bigger
than ever, and ready to win, the
meeting of this pair should be
the afternoon’s highlight. In the
St. George Stakes at Caulfield
Hydrogen started a warm
favorite at 5 to 4 and simply
toyed with opponents, beating
Flying Halo by three lengths,
with Advocate third.
Advocate drew attention to
his chance of lifting the V.R.C.
St. Leger next Saturday week.
He won the Victoria Derby in
the spring, and is one of the
best three-year-olds in this
country.
Jim Cummings, who trained
Comic Court for his Melbourne
Cup and other races, has a smart
filly in work in Melbourne —
Stormcrest, winner at her last
two starts, the latest in the
Caulfield Second Teppo Stakes,
for which she started at 7 to 2
and won by half-a-head from
Yungawee, with Real Charm
third. The filly will have an-
other run before going for a
spell. Her trainer is also going
for a spell—a trip to England
and the Continent. Stormcrest
is by Sun Storm (imp.) from Sun
Fast, an Agincourt (imp.) mare
from Quarto (imp.) by Paper
Money (imp.).
Carioca must be a great race-
horse. After winning seven races
in a row —the final two being
the A.J.C. summer double at
Randwick, Villiers Stakes and
Summer Cup, the latter run at
13 furlongs on December 26 —
he was produced at Rosehill on
Saturday following a brief spell,
and was backed with the utmost
confidence to win the six-fur-
longs Civic Handicap.
Early punters had 10 to 1
about Carioca’s chance, but that
was due to a feeling on the
part of the bookmakers that he
would not be ready, and espe-
cially not fully wound-up to win
at six furlongs after having
scored at his previous start at
13 furlongs. They were right
as things turned out. Carioca’s
price tumbled down to such
effect that he started favorite at
7 to 2. He did look above him-
self, but only slightly, and he
ran a great race from the tail
of the field to fill third place.
With another half-furlong to go
he would have won easily;
that was what beat him. A
meritorious effort with 9.5 on a
rain-sodden track.
Carioca is bound to run well
in the more important events of
the autumn. He has 9.2 in the
Doncaster and 8.9 in the Sydney
Cup, but immediate connections
are not telling, as yet, what it is
intended to do about the horse’s
programme. Whatever races he
does contest he will not lack an
army of backers.
Though Prince Dakhil didn’t
win prizemoney in the Civic
Handicap he lost no friends for
the Doncaster, in which he is
handicapped at 8.1, or one
pound less than he carried on
Saturday. He was cut out at the
start of the Civic Handicap, was
last in the early part, made a
dash in the middle stages, then
faded away. The run is bound
to do him a lot of good.
When Comedy King (imp.),
who subsequently landed the
Melbourne Cup, many thou-
sands in stakes and big bets for
Sol Green, won the Futurity
Stakes at Caulfield, he figured
in the weights on 6.7, which
included an allowance of 211 b.
Only other winner with 6.7 was
Playaway, in 1904, and he was
allowed 321 b. Despite the in-
volved conditions of the race
the best horses haven’t been
prevented from winning the
Futurity. Ajax was successful
three times, 1938-39-40. Other
high-class gallopers who figure
in the list include Phar Lap,
Amounis, Ammon Ra, Gold
Rod, Eurythmic, Mollison, High
Caste and Bernborough. Ajax
and Attley share the race time-
record, 1.24.
• « • •
Twenty to forty years ago it
was not unusual to find high-
class importations competing in
the Futurity, but during recent
seasons they have rarely taken
part in this more-or-less glorified
handicap. Run at seven fur-
longs, it is a weight-for-age con-
test with penalties and allow-
ances, and late entries may be
made. One of these for next
Saturday’s race is six-year-old
Bob Cherry, who will represent
the McCarten stable, and on his
English record should have a
good chance. Sharpening runs in
Sydney have brought him to top-
class racing condition, and
Victorian racegoers will be im-
pressed by his striking appear-
ance, Imported horses on the
list of Futurity winners include
Comedy King, Eudorus, Flash of
Steel, Lucknow, Top Gallant,
Gothic (1928, last of the over-
seas brigade to win this sprint).
* * * *
With only a day’s break after
the fifth Test, the S’Africans took
on South Aus. Browned-off no
doubt, they plodded through to
a draw—they were a run behind
on the first innings. At one time,
when five were out for 88 in
their second knock, they seemed
to be facing certain defeat. The
steady, reliable Endean and his
skipper then held on till stumps,
at times a bit too lifelessly. Best
knock of the match was Hole’s
century. S. Aus. 258 (Dansie 73,
Trowse 56 ; Murray 5-63, Melle
4- and 311 (Hole 102,
Favell 67, Langley 59, Manning
53 n. 0.); S’Africa 257 (Endean
76, Innes 58 ; Noblet 5-71) and
5- (Cheetham 52 n. 0., Endean
50 n.o*).
The visitors then rounded off
the main part of their Australian
tour by trouncing some local
lads at Port Lincoln (SA.). That
affair disposed of, they left for a
month’s stay in N.Z.', on the
way home they will drop in at
Perth for a three-day return-
game with W.A,
In the Tests Harvey was by fax
the best batsman of both sides —
total runs 834, highest score 205,
av. 92.66. Following him
among the Australians was
Craig, whose two knocks gave
him 100 runs, av. 50. McDonald
(437), Hassett (346) and Morris
(370) all averaged over 40. Of
the bowlers Bill Johnston got
most wickets (21), av. 35.09;
Lindwall bagged 19 at 20.15.
Miller and Ring each took 13
wickets—Miller’s (at 18.5 each?
much the cheaper.
Endean was the only Test
century - maker among the
Springboks—l 62 n.o. in the
second. He hit up 438 runs all
told (their biggest tally), av.
48.66. Keith, who only had two
innings, took out the average
(50). McLean was third in the
list —388 runs, av. 43.11.
Funston and Watkins (each with
a top-score of 92) both made
well over 300. Fuller had the
best bowling average (10 wickets
for 271); Tayfield, who did
twice as much bowling as any
one of his mates, took most
wickets (30), av. 28.1. Melle
took 14 at 37.9 each.
The Board of Control is not
accepting an invitation to send
a team to India next summer.
Nor will there be any visiting
side here next year, after
successive visits in the last three
seasons —to the too great neglect,
some fear, of Sheffield Shield
cricket. South Africa and West
Indies have also asked for visits ;
but the boarff is not setting any
definite date yet for either trip.
“K.R.”: lan Craig, at is
the youngest Australian to be
selected for a tour of England.
Previous youngest was Clem
Hill, just 19 when he went to
England in 1896. Not many have
been under 20. Others at 19
have been Neil Harvey (in 1948)
and Tom Garrett, of the first
Australian team (1878); Ron
Archer, of the present team, is
the same age. Bradman, when
he went on his first English
trip (1930), was 21; Archie
Jackson, also in 1930, was 20.
Apropos, I failed in an attempt
to find the oldest player ever
chosen to tour. My nomination
for the honor is Warren
Bardsley, who had his fourth
trip in 1926 at 42.
$ * * *
Featherweights Ray Coleman
(9. If) and Ron Varcoe (8.11)
fought like an unfriendly brace
of wildcats at Leichhardt, and
when their torrid 12-rounder
ended ref. Jack Burns declared
it a draw. It’s just a fond old
Leichhardt custom to hoot deci-
sions, however correct, and the
verdict met with such a hostile
reception you’d have thought the
ref. had done the customers out
of their night’s pleasure. Ac-
tually he ensured it for them —
and would have done so no
matter what he’d decided. In
this case he decided right. It
was such, a fine scrap that it
would have been sheer robbery
of either one to have given the
decision to the other.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
-fltOT'
“Thank you for
your praise . .
“On behalf of my fellow producers,
Lawrence H. Cecil and Myles Wright, and
myself, please accept our warmest thanks
for your appreciation of our Caltex plays,”
says E. Mason Wood, senior producer of the
Macquarie Broadcasting Service. Listening
to “the play” on Sunday nights at eight has
become a “must” with more than a million
Australians who regularly enjoy the world’s
outstanding plays presented by the country’s
foremost dramatic artists in
THE
GALTEX
THEATRE
Produced by
THE MACQUARIE
BROADCASTING SERVICE
2GB SAW 4BH SDN 6IX 7HO 7LA 2HR 2CA
2MW 2PK 2MG 2LF 3CV 4GY 6BY 6WB 6MD
Behind the Iron Curtain
THE
SOVIET PURSES
By B. D. SINGER
THERE are now clear signs
that the Soviet Union is on
the eve of a wave of purges.
The first clues were already
to be seen in -the middle of last
year, when a campaign of “dry-
cleaning” within the Soviet
Communist-party ranks was
launched before the All-Union
Congress.
The drive was directed
primarily against corruption,
nepotism and laxity. Its scope
was subsequently extended from
the party to the whole of Soviet
life.
Then a specific attack was
started on economists who,
“dizzy with success,” designed
grandiose plans without due
regard to hard economic facts.
The next move, last month,
was a bombshell: nine doctors,
most of them Jewish, were
accused of “shortening” the life
of two former Soviet leaders —
the late Zhdanov and Shcher-
bakov —and of unsuccessfully
trying to do the same to the
heads of the Red Army.
The net is being widened and
the campaign for vigilance
gathers momentum. Every day
new “culprits” are being dis-
covered who, intentionally or not,
have become the “tools of
foreign imperialism.”
These strange events in
Moscow have aroused much
comment by Western experts.
The mist surrounding the
Kremlin, however, is so thick,
the unknowns in the equation so
many, that various and often
conflicting explanations could be
and have been offered.
The whole affair has been seen
as a proof of a bitter struggle for
Stalin’s succession, and numerous
Soviet leaders were pointed to
as possible victims. It has also
been viewed as a conflict between
the war- and peace-parties within
the Kremlin, the victory being
ascribed alternatively to one or
to the other.
On one point there is general
agreement: the Soviet stage ; s
now set for a most important
act, and every glimpse that is
allowed behind the curtain is
therefore extremely interesting.
This article does not pretend
to disclose secrets or solve the
equation. It merely proposes io
disentangle fact from fancy in
the complicated web, and, with
the help of precedent, to put
together the available clues into
some general pattern.
The recent news from Russia
has been so startling as to excite,
for once, the layman’s as well
as the experts’ interest. This is
particularly true of “the plot of
the doctors.” If these nine
doctors really managed to get
rid of such important Soviet
personalities, says the layman,
then the notorious Russian
security services are not as
powerful as they are said to be:
By special arrangement with the “Economist,” this
Bulletin feature, giving up-to-the-minute informa-
tion on current developments “Behind the Iron
Curtain,” appears each month.
if they did not, then Stalin must
have had important reasons for
inventing such a complicated tale
of treason and poisoning and to
involve these, chiefly Jewish,
doctors in it.
There is, of course, yet a
third possibility, that the doctors
in fact injured their patients, but
on the Kremlin’s specific orders.
Indeed, only the last two possi-
bilities can be taken seriously,
and in both cases there must be
a special reason for preparing
the trial at this stage.
This atmosphere, reminiscent
of Borgia Rome or medieval
Byzantium, is not without pre-
cedent in Stalinist history. In a
trial staged in 1938 doctors
were accused of a similar crime.
Together with a former head of
Soviet security—H. Yagoda,
who himself stood in the dock —
they were alleged to have con-
spired to “shorten the life” of
such important Soviet person-
alities as the writer Gorki and
Yagoda’s predecessor at Security
headquarters.
At that time, too, impartial
observers were divided. Some
thought the whole accusation
was trumped up, others that
Stalin had merely removed
Gorki and others, and to do so
had followed the precedent set
by so many dictators. That
prosecution of doctors, how-
ever, was but a small episode in
a bigger trial, which, in turn, was
only one act in the Thermidor
of the Russian Revolution —the
notorious Moscow Trials and
purges of the late ’thirties.
In his climb to power, Stalin
had by then already crushed all
his opponents from the
Bolshevik old guard. Yet be-
tween 1936 and 1939 he
eliminated them completely,
sending them in successive
batches to face the prosecutor
Vishinsky. The whole sinister
process was carried through in
face of growing danger of war
from Germany, and therefore
had a dual purpose: to eliminate
all opposition (and so any
possible alternative Govern-
ment), and to increase the
vigilance of Stalin’s supporters.
Terror reigned supreme. Execu-
tion squads worked tirelessly
and the concentration-camps
were filled beyond capacity.
Is the latest trial of the doctors
a forerunner of a similar reign
of terror? Is the present cam-
paign of vigilance to degenerate
into a carnage, in which the new
leaders of the State will share
the fate of the former leaders of
the Revolution?
There are indications, at
least, that the prosecution’s net
is being cast for some bigger
fish than the minor “culprits”
mentioned hitherto. These clues,
naturally enough, are to be
found in the pronouncements of
Russia’s supreme ruler. On the
eve of last year’s congress
Stalin published a 50-page article
on “Soviet Economic Problems.”
This is now hailed within the
Soviet bloc, with even more ado
than usual, as the greatest poli-
tical and economic thinking of
the century.
In fact, it is a painful, if
revealing, scholastic attempt to
stretch Marxist theory so as to
fit it into Stalinist dogma. On
the one hand, Stalin must argue
that there are no contradictions
in Soviet society, because
Marxist theory allows of no
contradictions in a Socialist
society such as the Soviet Union
is officially claimed to be. On
the other hand, for reasons of
practical politics, Stalin must
point out the contradictions that
exist between State-ownership in
the towns and collective-owner-
ship in the country. While per-
forming his acrobatics in
Marxist theory, Stalin attacks
both those who deny this con-
tradiction and those who, exag-
gerating the influence of poli-
tical power over economic
realities, believe that the con-
tradiction can be got rid of now.
It has been disclosed, since his
article was published, that
Stalin’s attack on these
“comrades dizzy with success”
was aimed at a group headed by
N. A. Voznessensky. This
economist was Russia’s chief
planner in war-time and up co
1948, but was dismissed from
all his important posts in 1949
and has not been heard of since.
Now, the majority of well-
known Soviet economists and
planners have been accused, or
have accused themselves, of past
allegiance to Voznessensky; in
some cases they admit to persist-
ing in their “sins.” The violence
of the attack on the “Voznes-
sensky group” is significant, be-
cause Stalin does not disagree
in principle with their aims. He,
too, proclaims that the contra-
diction between town and
country must be finally eradi-
cated ; but, he insists, the
process must be slow and
gradual. The error of Voznes-
sensky, which made his plans
Utopian, was one of timing. He
seems to have underestimated —
again in Stalin’s view—the
world tension, and the danger
of war ; he counted on a long
breathing-space during which
Russia could carry out far-
reaching and radical reforms.
It seems, therefore, wrong to
argue that the present campaign
marks the victory of a peace- or
“appeasement” - party in the
Kremlin. If Stalin believed in
the possibility of a long spell of
peace, a possible detente, he
himself would fall into the
“Voznessensky sin,” Yet it has
been decided none the less to
concentrate all efforts on
increasing Russia’s economic
potential, wasting no strength on
desirable, but untimely, reforms.
This insistence on building
economic strength need not
mean victory for the war-party
(or rather “preventive-war”-
party) in the Kremlin, either.
The choice is not between an
immediate peace settlement
(which would mean concessions
to the West) and imminent war
(which would mean total military
preparation). There is a middle
way, which is to make economic
and psychological preparation
for eventual conflict which in
Stalin’s view may be approach-
ing quite fast. If Stalin really
sees the present situation as like
that of the late ’thirties, then the
many moves of the new cam-
paign fall into a general pattern.
Vigilance is obviously the
order of the day. The choice of
protagonists for the doctors’
trial makes sense. Jewish
doctors are chosen as villains,
because Jews are suspected of
ties with the West and pro-
American leanings. Army
leaders are chosen as heroes —as
first targets of enemies of the
State—because it is necessary to
restore the prestige of the Army
if the danger of war is growing.
The “imperialist enemy” is pre-
sented as a permanent eaves-
dropper, the paymaster of spies
and fifth-columnists. The un-
intentional “culprits” must be
made aware of the gravity of
their offences. It is no longer
only the Russian admirer of
Western culture who is assailed
by the critics; it is also the
party-member who loses some
documents, the naive writer who
reveals too much information.
Show trials of such “offenders”
are now being prepared all over
the Soviet Union.
Will the - vast campaign for
vigilance stop there? The next
group of victims can be fore-
seen. The Ministry of Health
and the Security organs can
easily be involved in the doctors’
trial (though, contrary to
rumor, the position of Beria, the
overseer of security, seems as
unassailable as anyone’s can be
in Russia now). There are also
signs of a campaign against the
legal profession.
Even bigger personalities will
get entangled in the web', but
the question is—how many and
how important?
In the French Revolution
Thermidor came five years after
the fall of the Bastille, and
marked the beginning of the
end of the revolution. In Russia
the “guillotine” did not start
functioning until some twenty
years after the October rising;
and the revolution, however
degenerate, has survived that
ordeal. Having devoured
almost all its original leaders,
it has produced some new ones
—the bureaucratic leaders of the
stratified Soviet State. Will the
revolution now devour another
generation and, if so, can it
survive a Thermidor?
Stalin, in me late ’thirties, was
eliminating every possible rival
claimant to power. Now, on the
contrary, he is undoubtedly pre-
paring the way for his suc-
cessors. His hair, or rather his
team of heirs, may take advan-
tage of the present purges to
eliminate potential rivals. Yet
as long as Stalin is alive any
blood-letting at the top will have
to have his approval; so long
as he reigns supreme he has no
reason for wanting a repetition
of the pre-war massacre.
Some members of the former
Politbureau intimately con-
nected with the Voznessensky
group may be sacrificed, and the
trial of the doctors in Moscow
should provide some further
clues to their identity. But
Stalin, if he is really in control,
will probably try to arrange that
his second purge will be milder
than the first.


A Group of Experts to Manage
w.
a
m
ii
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
, F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. /. R. Faviell.
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary : P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-35 O’Connell SL, Sydney
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WITH BRITAIN ALOOF
The now - functioning
Schuman pool (a common
market for steel and coal among
the participating West European
countries), the projected Euro-
pean Army, the political union
of France, Germany, Italy and
the Benelux countries—all are
in some stage of development or
trial.
Altogether they represent as
fascinating a drama of history
actually in the making as the
most inventive playwright could
concoct; not the least dramatic
figure Britain, aloof but hover-
ingly watchful.
French (mainly) in origin,
with enthusiastic U.S. back-
ing from the start, the revolu-
tionary experiment as a whole
was recently summarised in a
London “Times” article by its
chief instigator and advocate,
M. Schuman, Foreign Minister
of France from 1948 till last
month. Referring specifically
to the coal-and-steel pool, he
wrote ;
“The distinctive character is
that, for the first time, without
any outside compulsion, fully
sovereign States submit, on
specified matters, but in a lasting
fashion, to powers other than
the national authorities. Until
1952 we knew of only one
solitary precedent, confined to
the legal sphere—the Interna-
tional Court of Justice. Now
we shall be dealing not only with
a jurisdiction whose task is to
resolve conflicts that arise be-
tween States, but with an organi-
sation whose purpose is to
ensure concrete and positive
co-operation between European
States in matters which have so
far been the exclusive preroga-
tive of national initiative and
national decisions. Furthermore,
this organisation is under the
direction and the responsibility
of an institution independent of
Governments.”
Sovereignty Out
Dealing further with the
general principles underlying the
coal-and-steel pool and the other
two elements of what is really a
joint whole (the projected Euro-
pean Union or Community of
States), M. Schuman explained
thus:
“The innovation consisted in
requiring each member-State to
give up a portion of its
sovereignty to a community of
States, each of which would
consent to the same Sacrifice.
Thus it was that in 1952 six
States agreed that an organism
of nine members, appointed by
Governments yet completely
independent—that is to say,
responsible neither to the Gov-
ernments nor to the national
Parliaments—should wield the
extensive powers provided for
in the treaty, powers which each
member-country is pledged to
respect. The defence treaty, as
it has been signed by the same
six Governments [it is yet to be
ratified], provides for the crea-
tion of an Army which is to be
neither a national army nor a
coalition of national armies, but
instead a common autonomous
institution, not subject to the
authority of any one State.
Lastly, the Political Community
aims at conferring wide powers
of decision on a single Parlia-
ment, directly elected by the
peoples of member-countries.”
J. Bull Aloof
On Britain’s stand-off role, M.
Schuman added;
“In each of these systems there
exists —or provision is made for
—a supranational authority.
—London "Daily Mail”
“Very receptive class, this, very receptive. Just finished a session of contemporary history —
U.N.O. and all that.”
That is what our British friends
seem to find unacceptable.”
That, “Manchester Guardian”
(as one of many) has thus
endorsed:
“The obstacle to British entry
is not so much the shape of the
proposed European Army—in
which national contingents could
be kept whole—as the Federal
Administration that will make
policy.”
“I am convinced,” M.
Schuman commented, “that the
[British] refusal is not due solely
to the existence of the Common-
wealth.... Even if there were
no Commonwealth, or if the
Dominions agreed to British
membership of a European com-
munity, would it not go against
the grain? This is a question
of political psychology
Frenchmen,” he concluded, “will
feel easy in their minds only
when Britain stands close by their
side. The feeling of solidarity,
and the desire for full co-
operation, have never been so
keen among us as they are now.
If Britain, out of set policy,
were to keep absolutely
detached, that woqjd gravely
threaten the success of the
projects now launched,”
Watching Role
Despite such urging, Britain
maintains its role of watching
aloofness and looks like con-
tinuing to do so. This role, main-
tained against other, and
constant. Continental pressure,
subscribed to by successive,
politically-opposite British Gov-
ernments, proclaimed again in
the House of Commons only the
other day by Anthony Eden (to
all-round applause), and, it is
safe to say, still endorsed by the
overwhelming majority of
British people, is typically
expressed in the London “Daily
Telegraph’s” comment ;
“British opinion may well be
puzzled by the proliferation of
organisation after organisation
and assembly after assembly
including the word ‘European.’
If, however, the question is
whether the British Government
is to be responsible to such
organisations or assemblies
rather than to the British Parlia-
ment, the answer is clear and
predictable—No.”
Too Soon to Plunge
That accurately sums-up cn
the political-union idea, or
European Federation. In regard
to Britain’s continued aloofness
from both Schuman pool (its
coal section on trial since
February 10) and European
Army there are some doubters,
though the “Economist” makes
out a hard-headed case for still
staying out of the pool:
“The alternative is to come
into the Coal and Steel Com-
munity now and share in all the
risks of its success or failure, or
to stay out until the advantages
of coming in are demonstrated
beyond question. The latter has
been the policy of the British
Government so far, and there is
no reason for changing it now
that was not equally valid
months ago. The Coal and Steel
Community is going ahead, but
it has not yet become a proved
success. Naturally, if it can be
shown that it is bound to be a
success on purely economic
grounds, and if it can be shown
in addition that Britain has more
to gain by entering a European
common market than she has
to lose by giving up the existing
Commonwealth preferences,
there will be a strong case for
revising the cautious policy to-
wards the Coal and Steel Com-
munity that has so far been
followed.”
As a matter of fact, the Coal
and Steel Community has'lately
been negotiating afresh with the
British Government, seeking a
form of association which, with-
out placing the British economy
under the powers of the High
Authority controlling tb. e
Schuman pool, may ensure
definite co-operation on a con-
tractual basis.
Vast Experiment
Meanwhile, London “News
Chronicle,” for one, has com-
mented favorably on the opera-
tions of the pool:
“Coal and steel will [now]
begin to move freely between
France and Germany as it does
between Yorkshire and Durham,
between Belgium and Italy, as
between Scotland and Wales.
Protection, subsidies, preferences
and tariffs will all disappear. In
two vital, basic raw materials
of modern industry, national
Parliaments, national employers
and national trade-unionists will
no longer have the ultimate
power.
“Here, surely, is scope in
plenty for trouble-making. Per-
haps—but scope, too, for the
kind of industrial progress which
can raise living standards every-
where, and leave trouble-makers
speechless and impotent.
“No wonder our own
[British] coal and steel interests
are beginning to open their eyes,
asking themselves just where they
may hope to fit in with the new
blueprint for industrial Europe!
No wonder the ‘Times,’ which
for years past has cast a cold
and sceptical eye at the New
Europe, now suggests that per-
haps it would be a good thing
to jump on M. Monnet’s band-
wagon ! ”
Mr. Eden’s '‘Bones”
As for doubts about Britain’s
continued aloofness from the
European Army, no other than
Field - Marshal Montgomery
has (as Edinburgh “Scotsman”
puts it) “intimated his conver-
sion to the view that Britain’s
participation in the European
Army would be a logical exten-
sion of the military commit-
ments already undertaken in
Europe. Some Parliaments, be
observed, would not ratify the
treaty unless Britain were a party
to it.”
The “Scotsman” itself com-
mented ;
“ The refusal of successive
British Governments to enter the
European Army appears to be
based more on prejudices and
instinct than on solid reasons.
Mr. Eden once said that he ‘felt
in his bones’ that we [British]
should not become entangled in
European projects. But such
instincts are not understood by
our European allies.
“Another argument is that
Britain is only partly a Euro-
pean Power, and that member-
ship of the European Army
would conflict with our Com-
monwealth interests. France,
however, has overseas respon-
sibilities. In any case there is
no suggestion that all our forces
would be earmarked for the
European Army. Our contri-
bution would depend on our
commitments elsewhere. Britain
is already so deeply pledged to
defend Western Europe that
entry into the European Army
would make little difference, and
would certainly not give the
Dominions any more reason to
complain about our entangle-
ment in European affairs. Not
that there is evidence of any
objections on the part of the
Qthdr Commonwealth countries
to Britain’s European commit-
ments.”
Backroom Revolution
Despite Britain’s stand, the
Schuman pool, at least, is now
away to a fair start —a great
adventure in itself; part of
what must, if it all comes off,
revolutionise Western Europe.
“Thus,” further comments the
“News Chronicle,” “the revolu-
tion moves on apace—a good
deal faster in fact than public
opinion generally realises. It
is a silent revolution because it
is a revolution by consent. Each
stage is being hammered out
slowly and painfully: not by the
sharp edicts of a dictator, not by
the old-fashioned persuasions of
machine-guns and barricades,
but by consultation, by com-
mittees, by paper reports and
by ‘reference back.’ It is a back-
room revolution, scrupulously
democratic.”
Balkan Entente
While most European-unity
projects have been stalled, “New
York Times” reports encourag-
ing developments taking place in
the traditional cockpit of Europe,
the Balkans.
Greece, Turkey and Yugo-
slavia are working towards the
goal of a Balkan entente backed
by a mutual defence pact.
Such an entente would put at


Colgate Chlorophyll
Toothpaste
DESTROYS MOUTH ODOURS
t**
m
Now! The Full Benefits of a Full-Strength
Chlorophyll Green Toothpaste in
Exclusive Colgate Formula
This new green Colgate
Chlorophyll Toothpaste,
in most cases, acts
quickly, acts thoroughly
and the purifying action
lasts for hours! Keeps
your mouth fresh and
sweet longer. Use it
after meals before
every date! You’ll love
its freshy, minty flavour.
Fights Tooth Decay
Colgate Chlorophyll Tooth-
paste acts against destruc-
tive acids and actually helps
retard their formation.
CHECKS COMMON GUM DIS-
ORDERS. Colgate Chlorophyll
Toothpaste brings you effec-
tive benefits to help care for
sore, tender gums and pro-
mote healthy gum tissues.
Gives You A Clean Fresh Mouth That Lasts For Hours and Hours!
COLGATE’S GUARANTEE
Try Colgate Chloro-
phyll Toothpaste for
one week. If you are
not. entirely satisfied
send back the tube
and Colgate will
give you double your
money back, plus
postage. Colgate
Palmolive Pty. Ltd.,
Colgate Avenue,
Balmain.
s7 sosTti
fOU
Iv
c
Guaranteed b
COLGATE!
LM
the disposal of Nato a total of
some seventy divisions, compris-
ing nearly a million men, on the
flank of any Soviet advance
towards the West.
London “Times’s” Athens
correspondent reports that the
general situation in the Balkan
peninsula is in striking con-
trast to the uncertainty and
unpreparedness which prevailed
before the German invasion of
Yugoslavia and Greece in 1941.
Greek-Yugoslav staff contact
was then arranged just a month
before the attack, and Lieu-
tenant-Colonel Peresich, of the
Yugoslav General Staff, went to
Greece to try to co-ordinate the
plans of the two armies in a very
few days. But it was too late.
When the present co-ordinated
defence plans of the Balkans are
ready, probably towards the
middle of this year, they will be
submitted for approval to Nato.
Supreme Allied Headquarters is
then expected to align them with
those of Central Europe and
Italy, and possibly a joint staff
committee for Greece, Yugo-
slavia and Turkey will be formed
to keep in touch with one of the
Nato agencies.
The London “Times” man
adds, however, that all three
Balkan armies seem to have
severe shortcomings in equip-
ment and ground installations,
while the continuous armament
of Bulgaria with the most
modern Russian weapons is re-
garded with apprehension.
Soviet Shake-up
Overseas comment continues
to indicate a special interest in
the latest Soviet purges and, par-
ticularly, what lies behind the
charges against the doctors
(mostly Jewish) of having mur-
dered Zhdanov:
“Yorkshire Post” correspon-
dent : “Stalin is unlikely to feel
happy about the anti-Jewish
note. He was married to a
Jewess, the sister of Lazar
Kaganovich, member of the new
Presidium and the old Politburo
and as loyal a minion as Beria.
In his fight against Jewish rivals
like Trotsky, Bukharin, Kamenev
and Zinoviev, Stalin did not
exploit anti-Semitic feelings.
Neither did he worry unduly
about Zionists, although these
were banned even then as
‘agents of British Imperialism’
and their supporters sent to
labor-camps. It would not have
been hard for Stalin to rouse
anti-Jewish feelings among the
Communist lower ranks. He
need only have cited the ghost
of Dora Kaplan, the young
social revolutionary who shot
and wounded Lenin twice, thus
causing his death.”
The same: “It seems reason-
ably certain that Malenkov —
and without him these arrests
could not have been made —does
not want to take any chances
about the succession.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post” editorial
comment: “Their methods offer
an object-lesson for those many
Left-wing politicians in the West
who have thought that they
could win Russian co-operation.
The fellow-travellers are learn-
ing that the gallows stand at the
end of their journey, and that
to travel hopefully is indeed
better than to arrive.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“It is credibly reported that the
British Communist party, whose
muster Mr. Harry Pollitt lately
put at 35,000, has been losing
members at a spanking rate in
the last few weeks, most notably
in the London areas. If, as
seems likely, a similar disen-
chantment is in progress in the
countries of Western Europe a
long and steady decline in Com-
munist membership and voting-
power may be suddenly accele-
rated.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”
writer, Sefton Delmer: “A
stenographer who took down
every word his master spoke
during his mealtime conversa-
tions records Hitler as having
said to his friends at supper on
July 27, 1942: ‘Even Stalin made
no secret of it to Ribbentrop
that he was only waiting for
—New York “Herald Tribune’ 1 ’
FOR THAT INTERNAL INSECURITY FEELING!
the moment when enough of
his own Russian intelligentsia
reaches maturity to do away with
the Jewish element which he still,
for the moment, needs as a
leader class.’ ”
The same : “When I last visited
Soviet Russia in 1947 I found
Jews in key positions every-
where. I found them in the
Foreign Office, in factories* in
the secret police and in univer-
sities. Not only in Moscow and
Leningrad, either, but even in
provincial Stalingrad. They were
there because they had the
quickest brains, because for
generations and generations the
Jews have paid attention to the
education of their people.
Abroad, the attraction of Com-
munism for the generous, revo-
lutionary and idealistic impulse
of young Jews has enabled
Stalin to use Jews as a spear-
head of his spy-rings and sabo-
tage agencies. Does he willingly
now forgo the services of future
Rosenbergs, Greenglasses and
Pontecorvos?”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” special
correspondent: “No longer are
Jews among the factory workers
who sign letters appearing in the
Soviet Press addressed to Stalin.
Indeed, Russian newspapers have
begun publishing an unusually
large number of reports of
abuses and deceits invariably
involving Jews. Wherever the
culprits bear Russian names
their previous Jewish names are
printed in brackets —a practice
first introduced by Hitler’s
Press. A similar technique has
been used in the drive against
‘cosmopolitans,’ who are the
counterpart of Hitler’s ‘lnterna-
tional Jew.’ ”
Same: “Despite official anti-
Jewish trends, substantial num-
bers of Jews, particularly physi-
cians and engineers, still remain
in important positions in the
professions, Israel experts put
the number of Jewish doctors at
30,000, or some eight per cent,
of the total in the Soviet Union ;
Jewish engineers are believed to
number 25,000, or 10 per cent.
of the total.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “In
the 1938 trial the doctors Levin,
Pletnev and Kazakov, all high
in Kremlin favor, were accused
of four deaths. The ‘victims’
were, first, Menzhinsky, a wreck
of a man suffering from angina
pectoris and bronchial asthma ;
secondly, Gorky’s son, a drun-
kard who was supposed to have
been killed by being made
drunk and exposed on a bench
in the open air, ‘croupous pneu-
monia’ following ; thirdly, Kui-
byshev, a sufferer from angina ;
and, fourthly, Maxim Gorky, a
confirmed invalid. Medically
the stories were distinctly
curious, and they left the im-
pression that it was not so much
the doctors who were aimed at
but the high Soviet functionaries
who inspired them. So it will
probably appear when the new
‘doctors’ plot’ unfolds itself. It
will be what was frankly de-
scribed in the 1938 trial as an
attempted ‘palace coup’ a
struggle between the rulers of
the Kremlin in which the doc-
tors are mere pawns.”
Dragnet Digest
New Policy. —An already
evident “new policy” for the
West has shifted some of the
emphasis from the military to
the economic side. “U.S. News
and World Report” tips that
there will be “a major economic
conference of the free countries”
probably about the middle of the
year. The aim is “to confront
the Kremlin with overwhelming
economic strength by, say,
1956.”
Appeaser Warmongers.
Former U.S. Assistant Secretary
of State Edward W. Barrett
quotes Adlai Stevenson to the
effect that world developments in
the next four years will probably
be such that a courageous,
responsible U.S. President and
Secretary of State would be
branded either as “appeasers” on
one hand, or as “warmongers”
on the other. Probably they
would be called both. Barrett
adds: “President Eisenhower
presumably realises this now. If
he doesn’t, he soon will. The
odds are that his Secretary of
State, John Foster Dulles, will
be coming in for round-house
denunciation within a year.”
Jets for Arabs. —On Britain
now supplying jet aircraft to the
Arab League countries, London
“Daily Telegraph” puts the
Israeli case: “Not only Egypt
but three other members of the
Arab League are apparently
receiving jet aircraft, and the
balance of modem fighters is
being adjusted to the Arab
advantage in a ratio of four to
one. Should we feel secure if
Britain had a near and hostile
neighbor with four times our
modern fighter strength?”
Sam’s Best Ally. —Assessment
by “New York Times” military
writer Hanson W. Baldwin: “In
terms of fighting characteristics
and combat potential the United
Kingdom is still America’s
staunchest ally. If there is a slump
in Britain the camp of Aneurin
Bevan may come to power and
the Soviet Union will then have
driven its greatest wedge through
the heart of the West.”
United Europe. —What’s now
in the process of being decided,
before the next step can be taken
towards European unity, is
whether Europe shall be
organised from the start as a
federation with “supranational”
federal executive, legislative and
judicial organs to which the
member-States delegate a good
part of their sovereignty, includ-
ing defence, or whether it must
pass, as did the United States,
through a preliminary confedera-
tion stage, based on the virtually
intact sovereignty of individual
States attempting to act in
concert. '
U.S. Colossus. —A very large
amount of the huge Budget on
which Eisenhower is now work-
ing is devoted to defence (in the
widest sense), both American
and global. U.S. Presidents
inherit Budgets from the retiring
outfits and shape them to their
own ideas, and the stupendous
growth of America in world
affairs is indicated by the fact
that, whereas Roosevelt in 1933
inherited a Budget of
$3,000,000,000, the one Truman
handed Ike tops $78,000,000,000.
Ike and Persia. —A New York
correspondent of London “Time
and Tide” reports that President
Eisenhower and his colleagues
are expected to appreciate better
than the Truman Administration
the attitude of the British Gov-
ernment on Anglo-Iranian oil;
“Eisenhower will not send a gun-
boat, or even a fleet of bombers,
to Tehran. But he is likely to
question the theory that hand-
outs from the U.S. public
Treasury are the answer to con-
fiscation of private British oil
properties in Iran.”
Acrobatic Corns. —-“Yorkshire
Post” views the gymnasts: “We
talk of Communists toeing the
party-line; but such an image
is far too static. Their case is
more like that of a man who is
trying to hold his own against a
moving stairway. He is con-
tinually having to leap from one
step to another as each is moved
away from under his feet. At
the moment the pace is accelerat-
ing : let us hope that the mental
gymnastics required will prove
too much for some of them.”
The So-called Commonwealth.
—“This anonymous Common-
wealth, often described by
courtesj as the British Common-
wealth,*’ comments London
“Financial Times,” “has now
become a muddled association
that any kind of State can join,
even though it may profess to
owe no loyalties to the centre.
Thus we have the extraordinary
situation in which India, accord-
ing to Mr. Nehru, is in the
superior position of enjoying all
the benefits of its links with the
Commonwealth while declaring
its intention of remaining neutral
in any future war and taking no
part in resisting Communist
aggression. Furthermore, at this
moment India is busily engaged
in attempting to bully Pakistan
into neutrality.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The External Affairs Department
Among the swarm of expensive pub-
lications handed out by successive Federal
Governments is “Current Notes on Inter-
national Affairs,” an unnecessary rehash
of redundant news-items and political
statements published by the Department
of External Affairs. It is distributed in
true bureaucratic style—my December
issue arrived in the middle of February.
Of the 18 items in the table of contents
of the current issue, 14 are statements by
Minister Casey, so that the 60-page book
is really a republication of his monthly
utterances.
The most disturbing section of the
book, however, is a page towards the end
headed “Calendar of Conferences,”
which is apparently a record of the
number of trips of public servants from
the department that the unfortunate tax-
payer has to underwrite. The list, which
covers December, January and February,
begins with an “F.A.O. Forestry and
Forest Products Meeting” in Singapore,
attended by no fewer than three lucky
officials. Next is the “1.L.0. Committee
on Productivity,” which was held on
December 1, and entailed a trip to
Geneva for a fortunate gentleman. Four
days later a lucky woman attended an
“International Study Conference on
Child Welfare” at Bombay.
Another child-welfare conference a
week later, also at Bombay, bore the
forbidding title of “Unesco Conference
on Compulsory Education.” Two blokes
went to that one. The lucky woman who
went to Bombay went on to Madras on
December 14 for the “Sixth International
Conference of Social Work,” while a
“Unesco Regional Conference on Ex-
change of Persons” was attended the fol-
lowing day at Bangkok by another for-
tunate fellow. That ended the December
calendar.
January opened with a meeting in Mel-
bourne, the “Second South-East Asian
and South Pacific' Regional Air Naviga-
tion Meeting.” Next came the “Ecosoc
Population Commission” (whatever that
means) at an undisclosed venue : On
January 26 the department was repre-
sented at the “Ecafe Committee on In-
dustry and Trade” at Bandung, while on
January 30 a team of six junketed to
Washington for the “International Wheat
Agreement Conference.”
The February list is the most awe-
inspiring of all, and embraces the “Ecosoc
Statistical Commission” meeting in New
York ; the “1.L.0. Textiles Committee”
at Geneva; “Ecafe” at Bandung;
“Ecosoc Committee on Non-Govern-
mental Organisations” at New York ; the
“1.L.0. Governing Body” at Geneva;
“Ecafe Conference on Trade Promotion”
at Manila; “Icao Air Navigation Con-
ference” at Montreal; and the U.N.O.
General Assembly at New York.
That’s a pretty fair programme for a
country like ours, particularly when most
of the conferences seem to promise as
much practical value to Australia as they
do to Tonga or Lapland. The expense-
accounts rendered by these fortunate
roving representatives must be staggering
—a peculiar anomaly for a country that
is losing prestige overseas by haggling
about the cost of the Olympic Games.
But the most tantalising announcement
in the book is the intelligence that a Mr.
T. K. Critchley has “assumed duty as
Australian representative on Uncurk.” It
sounds idyllic, whatever it is.
Dr. Evatt builded more enduringly
than he knew when he reorganised the
Department of External Affairs and filled
its staff-list with bright young ideologists,
mostly trained by fellow-doctor Burton.
But isn’t it time the Libs ended the
holiday with a good dose of economic
retrenchment? — Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Films and Comics
The Professor of Education at Sydney
University has also opined that the liking
for the “blood-and-thunder” and crime
stories is not peculiar to the present
generation of youngsters (B. 11/2/’53).
As a teacher, however, I object on
different grounds to the present mania for
“comic”-strips. They give children the
“looking”-habit instead of encouraging
the “reading”-habit. I don’t object to
films themselves but to the fact that they
entice children out night after night.
It has never been easy to teach children
to read worth-while literature, but comics
have made it nearly impossible. The
child’s attitude is simple. Why waste
time reading page after page of print
when an equally exciting story can be
looked at in a series of pictures? Book-
publishers, authors and librarians all com-
. plain that fewer books are being read
today. There are a number of reasons
for that, including radios, films, fun-
parks and so forth, and comics rank very
high on the list.
In a number of secondary schools we
have dropped the old system of foisting
a copy of Dickens on the boys and
making them read and reread it for six
months. They are now given such books
as Biggies, William and some of John
Buchan’s and are encouraged to read any-
thing up to a dozen books in a term.
The scheme has been reasonably success-
ful, but not to the extent hoped for.
Many boys, with half a dozen comics
sticking out of their hip-pockets, will
return book after book saying that they
don’t like that sort of story. After trying
every type of book he can get the teacher
realises that all those youngsters want
are stories told in pictures.
Classes taken into the school library
for a lesson also show the development
of the “looking”-habit. Very few boys
pick a book and read it for 40 minutes.
Most of them make for geographic and
other illustrated magazines and then flick
over page after page, looking quickly at
each picture.
Comics and films may not have a per-
nicious effect upon the minds and morals
of children, but they certainly have a
bad effect upon their education and their
training for leisure. Wackford
(N.S.W.),
Military Armament
Britain did not become a leader in
military armament until World War I
(B. 31/12/’52). In medieval times her
castles and castle-reducing machinery
were well below French standards. So
were her body-armor and arms, hence
the importation of Spanish yew-staves
for the longbow, and Bilbao, Toledo and
Ferrara blades.
Britain lagged badly when firearms
began to replace mangonel, trebuchet
and the bow and cross-bow. To resist
the Spanish invasion Elizabeth’s levies
were armed mostly with bows and would
have been shot to pieces by Palma’s
arquebusiers.
Britain has won most of her battles
not by superior arms but by superior
discipline and the use of available
weapons, plus a peculiar combination of
steadiness and elan produced by few
other nations.
Down through the ages the main con-
tributions to military armament have
been: The Greeks invented the phalanx,
"I’m just the result of the new edjercation system , Officer."
the first effective formation of drilled
soldiers; they fought with long spears
and went down before the Roman legion
with its long shields and short swords.
The Romans were the better psycho-
legists—they realised that poking at the
enemy with spears did not get results like
the knee-to-knee, breast-to-breast fight-
ing which the short sword compelled.
Tchaka, the Zulu chief, had the same idea.
When the indunas came out in front of
the impis and broke their assegai-shafts
off short, the warriors knew it was to
be a fight to a finish.
The Danes introduced the mounted in-
fantry. They fought on foot, but used
captured horses to travel on inland raids.
Many British men-at-arms were virtually
m.i. A “lance” was a mounted man,
plus two or three foot-soldiers who
“Try shifting the garage instead , Dad"
hitch-hiked on the march, one on the
crupper and the rest at the stirrups of
the horseman. They all fought on foot.
France, under Louis XIV, took the
lead in field artillery and has held it,
by a small margin, at many times until
World War I, when her 75’s were supreme
for “raffale” fire. Hei; Basque smugglers
also produced the bayonet, which solved
the problem of support for the
musketeers. Britain’s contribution was
the two-rank firing-formation for infantry.
Her steadier, better-disciplined troops
stood fast and loaded and fired, rank-
by-rank, under fire. Hence Minden,
where a British regiment shot three lines
of French cavalry out of their saddles.
The American frontiersmen have always
been small-arm conscious. About 1775
they produced the Kentucky rifle and
with it tamed the wilderness and twice
defeated the British. It was not so lethal
as “Brown Bess” and its Continental
prototypes, but more accurate and more
quickly loaded. About the same time
Britain missed a chance of attaining small-
arm supremacy. Major Ferguson in-
vented four new breech-loading
mechanisms, one of them so efficient that
it could be fired six times as fast as
“Brown Bess” and with greater accuracy.
The Army turned it down, probably be-
cause its adoption would have entailed
a new musketry drill.
In 1784 Britain produced the Shrapnel
shell, but it was not efficient until breech-
loading cannon permitted a cylindrical
shell in the 1870’s. The middle and
later decades of last century saw improved
machining of metals, and many new arms,
large and small, were produced. Ger-
many developed the Mauser (from the
needle-gun) and the Krupp sliding-block,
breech-loading cannon. France had the
interrupted-screw breech-action.
America, from a multitude of new
small-arms, produced the Sharps rifle —
hence the term “sharpshooter”— and the
Colt “frontier” revolver. Britain’s con-
tribution. was wire-wound big guns, the
Martini-Henry rifle and the Gatling
machine-gun.
The turn of the century brought out
the German Mauser, as the best military
rifle, and the Maxim. The latter was the
first efficient and really automatic weapon
and was produced in Britain by an
American-born inventor. The lessons of
the Boer War gave Britain, early in the
new century, the best military rifle yet—
the Short M.L.E. —but for the rest Britain
and Germany were roughly even. Ger-
many’s superiority was in quantity for
World War I, but during that war
Britain established leadership with her
Lewis-gun and the tank. That leadership
she has maintained in quality, if not in
quantity, ever since, except for some
transitory German superiority in tanks.
—Armorer (Q.).
Delinquency in Children
I agree with P. O. MacCabe (B.
11/2/’53) that horror films and blood-
and-thunder “comics” are not even minor
causes of the increase, real or alleged, of
delinquency in children. The reasons he
gives, however—declining parental and
school discipline and lowered moral
standards —aren’t any more adequate.
Where are there any signs of a lowering
of moral standards or of parental or
school discipline?
Most delinquency comes about quite
unconsciously through the lack of under-
standing of the child and the lack of
understanding of the parents, not from ill
intentions. A child has felt himself to
be unique in one environment. His en-
vironment changes—for instance, he may
be supplanted in his parents’ interest by
a younger brother —and he no longer feels
unique. He can’t be uniquely good with-
out a great deal of effort, but he can be
uniquely naughty quite easily.
That, in my experience, is, in nine cases
out of ten, the cause of what is tradition-
ally called delinquency in children.—
Pawang (Vic.).
Miles Franklin
An early novel by Miles Franklin (B.
14/1/’53) which always seems to escape
mention is Some Everyday Folk, and
Dawn. Its setting is Penrith (N.S.W.)
about 1902.
I had never heard of it when I found a
copy by chance in Sydney Municipal
Library some years ago. I liked it very
much —indeed, it appealed far more than
My Brilliant Career, Old Blastus of
Bandicoot and All That Swagger, which
seem to be the most praised of Miles
Franklin’s.
Though quiet in tone, the book is very
readable, and gives a good picture of a
middle-class household in a New South
Wales country town at the time. The
character-drawing is excellent, Dawns
grandmother being particularly outstand-
ing, though Dawn and her young brother,
too, are lifelike types.
The “suffragette philosophy,” noted by
“D.S.” as characteristic of Miles Frank-
lin’s other books, also appears in this
one, but it is not pressed to excess, and
is quite in keeping with the story.
If, as seems generally assumed, Miles
Franklin and “Brent of Bin Bin” are
identical, she gave Dawn a far more
appropriate marriage than Milly Saunders
of Ten Creeks Run. She gets as husband
a handsome young footballer-oarsman
who is well-to-do into the bargain.—
Dentonio (N.S.W.).


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS ELLEN MONTEITH late of
Coonee Creek near Armidale in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE ■ NOTICE
that WILLIAM DUNDAS GRANT MON-
TEITH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3788 of 1952 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend this suit you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney
by the 10th day of April 1953 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. COLREAVY & O’LEARY,
Solicitors, Wingello House, Angel Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD JUSTIN McFADDEN late
of Stanmore in the State of New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JUNE MARGARET McFADDEN haa filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 260 of 1953
on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Bth day of May 1953 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG, 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
ft o^ 30
\ft wo
uos l
• • •
cnoii
LOAN
OPEN
NOW
LOAN
GUARANTEED BY QUEENSLAND
GOVERNMENT
•
AUTHORISED TRUSTEE SECURITY
IN QUEENSLAND AND TASMANIA
•
REPAYABLE IN 7 OR 12 YEARS
15-0%
HIGHEST RETURN
C.E.L. loans have been traditionally successful,
and were popular with investors throughout the
Commonwealth.
This investment, now offered in the new name
of S.E.A., is equally attractive as a gilt edged
security.
The 4| per cent, interest rate is the best available
from any comparable investment, and is more
than double the highest interest on bank deposits.
Every £lOO invested will earn £33/5/- in seven
years, and £57 in 12 years, the interest being
payable half-yearly.
This Loan is underwritten by lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, with the assistance of members of
the Brisbane Stock Exchange. CLOSING
DATE NOT LATER THAN 9th MARCH,
1953.
D
INVEST
YOUR
SAVINGS
NOW
IN POWER
EASY INVESTMENT
You can invest as little as £5O or any
amount in multiples of £5O. Subscrip-
tions may be paid in full, or by a deposit
of 10 per cent, on application and the
balance in full, or in instalments of 30 per
cent, at any time up to 31st May, 1953.
The payment of subscriptions and the
ultimate repayment of the principal (as
well as interest payment) are free of
exchange at branches of the Company’s
bankers.
Prospectus and application forms are
available from any branch of the English,
Scottish and Australian Bank and the
National Bank of Australasia; or at any
office of The Southern Electric Authority
of Queensland.
OR MAIL THIS COUPON tOPAY
The Southern Electric Authority of Queensland
156 Boundary Street Brisbane, Queensland
Please forward me the Prospectus and Application
Forms for the Southern Electric Authority £4.15.0
Per Cent. Loan.
NAME
ADDRESS
I »•••**(
HEAD OFFICE: 156 BOUNDARY STREET, BRISBANE. PHONE 82333
A Tree Worth Growing
I’ve just seen some timber
samples and data which should
be of interest to the forestry
people of Queensland and the
N.T. They were taken from piles
which for 70 years had been in
the sea in a wharf at Pontianak
(West Borneo) without suffering
any damage whatever from rot
or borers.
The timber is known as billion
to the Dyaks, who use it for
house-building because it is
termite-proof. I haven’t yet
been able to discover its
botanical name, but we have a
good example of its lasting-
qualities in Australia —the piles
of the old Darwin wharf were
made from logs imported from
Borneo for the job.
The end-grain of the samples
shows annual rings averaging
over a quarter of an inch across,
so its growth is rapid enough to
make its growing a commercial
proposition. In color, weight,
ease of working, etc., it is so
like teak that it might be a
species of that most valuable
tree, but even more rot- and
borer-proof than the Burma
variety.
It is very adaptable, growing
on swampy river-margins as
well as on high ground, and it
could be grown along many of
the coastal rivers in the N.T., as
well as in the higher-rainfall
areas of north Queensland.
Our forestry people should get
samples from Borneo for
examination and testing, as well
as a supply of seed. A quick-
growing, termite-proof, teredo-
proof timber, which is also light,
strong and easily wrought, is an
urgent need for all classes of
buildings and structural work in
the tropics.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Hen Spreadability
Presumably after counting
them all —no small task in view
of the fact that there are prob-
ably 9,000,000 —a N.S.W. Gov-
ernment authority has found that
“the domestic fowl population is
found mainly in the coastal
regions of the State, with the
heaviest concentration in the
County of Cumberland, where
over 40 per cent, of the total
numbers are located.”
While this probably explains
the excessive crowing and
cackling always welling out of
the city of Sydney it has not
made easy “the task of illustrat-
ing the distribution of poultry
stock,” nor does it explain why
anybody should want it illus-
trated, One of the difficulties
appears to be that “the numbers
of stock are not spread evenly
over large areas of country.”
This seems to be a splendid
opportunity for a planner, and
it shouldn’t be difficult to per-
suade the N.S.W. Government to
make a regulation and set up a
board to see that the dashed
birds are spread evenly.
However, it seems that “in
country areas the distances
travelled by the stock from the
farm to the killing-works” some-
times involve “journeys of over
10 miles.” The drift of human
population to the cities has, of
course, reduced the number of
drovers outback, and there are
few men willing to undertake the
droving of poultry over such
distances except at prices which
render that aspect of the industry
uneconomic. Here again there
is need for planning, with
special emphasis on the availa-
bility of Queensland heelers, this
type of dog being far better
equipped for the task than the
general run of drovers’ dog.
Further, on a survey of killing
establishments it was found
that smaller ones, “with one
exception, are exclusively con-
cerned with the local trade, and
in some cases are actually
engaged in retail trading.”
Planning would soon stop that;
just as it would stop the direct
buying from farms which, as the
authority says, is “thus circum-
venting the wholesale poultry
markets in Sydney.”
Housewives may wonder what
all this has to do with the price
of eggs. The answer is:
Nothing! We’re not talking
about eggs. Besides, as every
housewife knows, there is an
Egg Board to attend to the price
of eggs, and every housewife
knows how it has attended to
them. However, it can be
admitted, with due caution and
with regard to future develop-
ments, that getting the chooks
spread evenly over large areas of
country may have an effect. The
position calls for skilful plan-
ning. The time for haphazard
methods is past/—O. T. (N.S.W.).


FD
FASTER RUING
IN 116 TIMM!
with the MOBILCO Fast DRAG SAW
18 FT. GIRTH (6 FT. DIA.) TREES are easy for this fast, portable, one-man drag
saw, designed for hard work in rough or flat country. Once locked to the tree, with
its hardened steel spike and spring-loaded hook, the machine requires little or no
attention. It docs the work for you, as spring tensioning puts up to 30 lbs. pressure
on the blade right through the cut.
Its 7 b.h.p. engine ensures ample power for^the biggest jobs. For smaller timber
(less than 3 ft. 6 in.'through) a circular saw attachment allows a quick, simple ehange-
pver for even faster felling and cross-cutting.
Whatever your need, clearing or timber-getting, the
MOBILCO FAST DRAG SAW fills every requirement.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE; LF 4209 - TELE £s«tfc :
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES - - - - BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS 5 ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
A TURN OF THE lEVER
ALLOWS YOU TO
CROSSCUT ON
THE SPOT . . .
WRITE FOR
PARTICULARS
NOW!
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE _ MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established JB~B.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS I
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD O^i^Chainna
C. C. GALE. STRUAN. ROBERTSON. General Manager.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MARI ’ Centres
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
DON'T WORRY I'M SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
Winter Feed for Ewes
“C.H.”: Proper feeding is the
main factor in the high lamb-
and wool-production of the
famous Canterbury province,
New Zealand.
There, the farmers are relying
more and more- on lucerne.
More lucerne makes it possible
to reduce the area of turnips or
other greenfeed. Where the soil
is light and the summer crop is
not always reliable, lucerne
provides ideal feed for fattening
lambs.
In winter, when protein levels
of grass are reduced, particularly
when turnips are a part of the
ration, lucerne-hay keeps up the
feeding standard. Lucerne-hay
can be used during winter or
held to tide the sheep over sub-
sequent lean periods.
Breeding-ewes need at least
lib. of hay per day for the last
four months of pregnancy.
This is equivalent to two bales
per ewe, or 50 to 60 tons per
1000 ewes.
N.Z. experts declare that
greenfeed of fresh autumn
pasture, with or without oats or
rape, is better than green cereals
on their own. Short-rotation
ryegrass planted on its own or in
pasture makes good growth in
winter months and is liked by
the sheep.
Canterbury farmers are being
encouraged to adopt controlled
grazing. Paddocks closed in
autumn will conserve good leafy
pasture for feeding in winter or
early spring. Those containing
greenfeeds should be control-
grazed in winter; ewes benefit
greatly if allowed in on them for
limited periods before lambing.
Proteins in Stock Feed
“Amino”; The constitution
of proteins and their role in
stock-feeding are neither well-
known nor understood. Proteins
are composed of amino acids,
of which 20 or more are known
to exist. They seldom occur
alone, being usually joined in
combinations of a few or many
in different proportions to give
differences in appearance, tex-
ture, taste and nutritive value to
the protein they form.
Ten of these amino acids (12
for poultry) are considered
essential for normal growth.
Tryptophane and lysine are two
of the most important, the
omission of either in the diet
actually causing loss of weight
in pigs and poultry, and also in
young calves and lambs before
their rumen is fully developed.
Most common proteins of
plant origin are deficient in
lysine, while those of animal
origin have it in abundance.
Ruminating animals, however,
have the ability to synthesise
the 10 essential amino acids from
plant proteins of poor quality.
In the critical periods of gesta-
tion, lactation and rapid growth
of all stock, the demand for
high-quality protein is great.
The practical and safe basis
for selecting feed is to use as
wide a variety as possible of
protein feeds of both animal and
vegetable origin consistent with
economy, at the same time keep-
ing a proper balance between
protein and carbohydrates for
the particular stock require-
ments.
More Beef
“C. Punch”: R. B. William-
son, of Umuna, West Dale,
Beverley (W.A.), a vice-president
of the Aberdeen-Angus Society,
says a lift to beef-production
“Coin t ’ give her a piggy-back, Dave? Looks like one
of them hitch-hikers"
would follow if fat-lamb raisers
carried more fat cattle. This is
sound agricultural practice.
“On my property I am carry-
ing more fat lambs and sheep
after increasing the number of
beef cattle on the same land,”
he said. To thus carry both
types of stock would call for
more careful pasture-manage-
ment and fodder-conservation,
which would result in higher
carrying-capacity and cut out
much of the waste which usually
occurs on grazing property not
fully utilised.
Storing Barley
“Hordeum”: A South Aus-
tralian maltster has stated
that barley grain stored
without access to air would
“suffocate and die.” That’s
against all scientific knowledge.
It has been known from time
immemorial that grain or seed
of any kind retains its viability
best when it, is kept in sealed
storage with as little oxygen as
possible. In fact, to keep grain
“alive” in sealed-tank storage,
the tank should be filled to the
brim and the grain even tightly
rammed to exclude air before
sealing.
It is true, as the maltster
states, that grain breathes-in
oxygen and breathes-out carbon-
dioxide, but it is the very
encouragement of this process
whith more quickly devitalises
it.
For long life or viability in
storage, therefore, grain must be
surrounded with an atmosphere
of carbon-dioxide as quickly as
possible. Hence the need for
filling the storage-tank, or seal-
ing it with a lighted candle or
two, to exhaust the oxygen
quickly, as many farmers experi-
enced in grain-storage well
know.
Farming in N.Z.
“Agric”: After motoring over
2500 miles in North and South
Islands of New Zealand, R. G.
Watson, a Queensland pig-
breeder, said he doubted whether
Queensland farmers would be-
lieve what he told them about it.
In the first place, the basic differ-
ence between New Zealand and
Australia was that in N.Z. every-
one was interested in farming—
legal men, medicoes, store-
keepers, builders, engineers, etc.
—because it was of such import-
ance in the economy of the
country.
All farming there was based
on grass. One farm of 1200
acres was carrying (winter and
summer) 1000 heavy bullocks
in addition to five ewes to the
acre, with 100 per cent, of lambs
in the spring. Another farm of
126 acres was carrying 121
milkers and 68 head of young
stock, and the cows averaged
3861 b. of butterfat per annum.
Watson saw a sow being
milked by a small electrically-
operated milking-machine, and
he was told that ~a reasonably
good sow gave 2£gal. of milk
daily, testing 9 to 14 per cent,
butterfat. He saw, too, the best
milking-sheds he has seen any-
where in the world (he recently
returned from a trip to Europe);
a meal could be eaten off the
floor! It was a great pity that
it was so expensive to visit N.Z.,
he concluded, as Australian
farmers could learn much there.
Working a Tractor
“Shadow-chaser”: Skidding
on muddy or frozen surfaces is
a major cause of trouble
when working a tractor. Once
mud collects on tyres, either
metal or rubber, it is no longer
safe to work, particularly on
steep grades. Always engage
gears very slowly when starting
with a heavy load up-hill. Too
abrupt a start may cause the
tractor to rear.
Avoid remote control when-
ever possible ; operate from the
tractor seat, not from the seat
of the implement being drawn.
Cut out haste ; slow down rather
than hurry when things go
wrong.
Make sure gears are in neutral
before cranking. Keep all
connections between tractor and
implements, particularly the
power take-off, in order, and
“shoo” all children and irre-
sponsibles away from the
machine when making adjust-
ments.
' Dragging implements behind
a tractor is a cause of many
accidents. With harvesting
machinery it increases traction
by side-draft. In cleared fields
(as agricultural land should
be) all machinery should be
pushed—right under the eyes of
the operator.
See that the sump-oil is at
right level (too high is almost as
bad as too low) and keep all
working parts oiled and clean.
A dirty engine, particularly when
idling, is a prolific source of
fire. Too rich a mixture adds to
the fire-risk.
When fire-risk is present
examine the spark-arrester each
morning and correct faults be-
fore starting.
In some makes of tractors, if
the small petrol-tank used for
starting is empty or low, while
the kerosene-tank is full, or
nearly so, and the connecting-
tap not securely closed, kero-
sene will find its way into the
petrol-tank. So, should the
engine fail to start, drain the
petrol-tank and refill if you
detect any kerosene odor.
Working Dogs
“Isis St.”: There is an erron-
eous belief that trial-dogs are
unsuitable for paddock and yard
work. Any sheepdog which
has the brains to be a successful
trial-dog can almost certainly be
developed, for ordinary station-
work. A lot of go®d trainers
break their dogs in on flock-
work before starting them on
the more intensive training for
trials.
It may be true that the border-
collie is favored for trial-work,
but it is certainly not true that
it is favored for station-work.
It is estimated that there are
approximately 75,000 kelpies or
part-kelpies working in Aus-
The border-collie is easier to
train for trial-work, and more
of them are worked in trials.
Notwithstanding, the kelpie wins
just as many trials as does the
border and has been winning
them since sheepdog trials were
begun at Forbes in the seventies.
The name kelpie, or kelp, is


IT’S SELF-CONTAINED!
IT’S PORTABLE!
THE NEW
'S.C/
ELECTRIC
AIR COMPRESSOR
To complete our range of AIR COMPRESSORS we
have introduced this portable, self-contained model.
The Compressor, belt driven by a i h.p. 240 volt
electric motor, is mounted within a tubular frame which
acts as an air receiver. It was designed principally for
low pressure spraying but will also operate high pressure
guns, and is suitable for tyre inflation up to a pressure
of 85 lbs.
Weight only 75 lbs. complete
Full details from
DANGAR,GEDYE & MALLOCH Ltd.
10-14 Young Street, Sydney. ’Phone BU 5095
Branches Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
AD 14
RO&STW 6
bww*® m
A SPECIAL
OVEN FOR EVERY
COOKING PURPOSE
It’s sheer heaven to cook with a
four-oven Aga! In addition to three
hotplates, you have a Roasting oven
big enough to take your Christmas
turkey; a Baking oven to bake cakes
and bread; a Simmering oven for
slow, economical, flavoursome cook-
ing such as soups and casseroles;
a Warming oven where food
waits unspoilt, hour after hour.
Each Aga oven automatically main-
tains correct temperature , and since
the Aga never goes out it’s always
"just right” for cooking.
P.S. Thermostatic control
guarantees fuel economy!
%
10 YEARS’ GUARANTEE
The British-built Ago is
guaranteed for 10 years
against faulty materials
or workmanship.
r..
THE 4 OVEN
AGA
COOKER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z, in 1841)
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR THE AGA COOKER
AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA _ _
OUEENSLAND _ _
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA _ _
_____ 45 King Street, Sydney
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
_ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
_ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
_ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
SB
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FDF
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
■ ..
A
FD
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple Instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
r
f
"DISTRIBUTORS:"
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Hist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building.
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St„ Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R, P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd.. 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
of great antiquity; and it
has a mythical background.
Chambers’ dictionary gives its
meaning as “a malignant water-
sprite haunting fiords in the
form of a horse.” The name
is Gaelic, of course, and in old
Scottish legends kelpie invari-
ably occurs in quotations refer-
ring to lochs and streams.
Spraying Equipment
“Big Billy”: Vic. Department
of Agriculture says that, where
possible, equipment used for
spraying the newer hormone
weedicides should not be used
for anything else, because of the
danger of contamination.
If this is not practicable,
where water-soluble amine or
sodium salts are used all equip-
ment should be thoroughly
washed in several changes of
water. Fill the vat with warm
soapy water, containing two
tablespoonfuls of ammonia to
the gallon, leave it to stand over-
night and then wash out care-
fully.
Where oil-based esters are
used wash out with kerosene,
then warm Soapy water and
finally flush with clean water.
Because it isn’t possible
thoroughly to decontaminate
wooden vats they shouldn’t be
used.
Bulbs on the Farm
“Sundowner”: Bulbs will do
well under most conditions and
will provide flowers in all
seasons. For winter, plant in
March or April. Dig the soil
over several times before plant-
ing ; if autumn rains are late
the plot should be heavily
watered several days after dig-
ging, then dig over and again
water. When the surface has
dried to a crumbly condition
planting may be done after a
light scratch of the surface.
Bulbs should have quick
drainage. Anemones and ran-
unculi may be planted 2in. deep
and drainage will be helped with
a little sand dropped in each
hole before planting. Press the
soil lightly over each bulb.
Plant freesias the same depth.
Don’t water until the leaves
appear. Daffodils 3in. deep,
tulips 3in. to 4in. according to
size, hyacinths 3in., gladiolus
3in. for small and 4in. for
flowering size, true lilies 3in. for
ordinary kinds and up to Sin. for
stem-rooting varieties.
From Sheep to Ship
“Rom Ney”: “M ater i a 1 s
Handling in the Wool Indus-
try,” published by the Depart-
ment of National Development
(distributed by Angus and
Robertson), is an abridged ver-
sion of a comprehensive docu-
ment prepared for use in the
planned inquiries being made.
It is based on studies of hand-
ling problems in the wool
industry, made over the past few
years.
Its purpose is to show how
large a part handling plays in
the preparation and marketing
of the wool clip, and to stimu-
late interest in the possibilities
of reducing handling costs by
improved and simplified
methods. It is in 'l4 sections,
deals with what happens to
wool from shearing to sale and
indicates some of the handling
problems which deserve
attention.
Handling of wool now costs
the industry at least £30,000,000
per year, or about £lO per bale.
The department claims that
handling costs can be reduced
substantially by study, trial and
experiment of the kind outlined
in the book. There are 31 pages
of pictures.
Insignia Wheat
“Mr.”: Insignia was bred at
the research-station at Walpeup
(Vic.), and first released by
Vic. Department of Agriculture
in 1946. It is now the outstand-
ing Mallee wheat. Last year it
was grown on 59 per cent, of
Mallee wheatlands, compared
with 27 per cent, sown to Quad-
rat, the next most popular
variety.
The department estimates
that average yields from Insignia
on Mallee farms last year were
at least 1£ bushels per acre
higher than the best of other
varieties.
Although Quadrat has not
proved the equal of Insignia in
the Mallee, it is the most pro-
lific of the later-maturing types.
Varieties recommended for
Mallee sowing this year are;
Insignia, Quadrat, Bencubbin
and Diadem.
Soybean
“Hen”: Soybean is all that is
claimed for it as a feedstuff for
stock, but the reason why 18
million acres of soybeans are
grown in U.S.A. and practically
none in Australia needs explain-
ing.
Because of its good edible oil
content (about 18 p.c.), a big
percentage of the beans pro-
duced in U.S.A. are used for
human consumption. In a long,
severe winter, edible oil is highly
essential, and is used in abund-
ance as a shortening with all
kinds of starchy foods, such as
cakes, biscuits, doughnuts,
fritters, flapjacks, etc., to
provide warmth in the human
metabolism. With our relatively
mild winter climate in Australia,
and with other good edible fats
abundant, only'a small quantity
of such food is required here.
Despite this basic difference
and the fact that there was 30
years’ experience of the crop
under Australian conditions
already available, war-time poli-
ticians, with thp peoples’ money
to spend, sent representatives to
America to learn all about it.
Some came back with the
notion that a million acres of
soybeans would be grown in
Australia. They were only about
a million acres out. There is still
little likelihood of more than a
few acres being grown here.
Hints for the Farm
“Billjim”: To tan a sheep-
skin for home use, use a pound
each of salt and alum, finely
mixed, sprinkling it over the
moist skin. Fold skin with
wool-side outwards, roll up,
wrap in paper and leave for 10
or 12 days. Then stretch on a
board and rub well until smooth.
If the skin is not clean sprinkle
it again with the mixture, leave
for a few days and repeat
rubbing treatment. Finally,
wash well in plenty of soapy
water and hang to dry.
“M.”; Prolonged contact be-
tween super, and pasture seeds
can seriously retard germination
of the seeds, which are best
mixed with the fertiliser and
sown at once. Subterranean-
clover seeds are very susceptible
to injury in this way, especially
if the super, is damp.
“My”: If the growth of leaf
crops slackens before maturity,
work in loz. of sulphate-of-
ammonia or blood manure per
square yard. For silver-beet,
Chinese cabbage and other vege-
tables which produce over an
extended period, use \oz. of sul-
phate-of-ammonia per plant
every month or §o. Lettuce and
other rapidly-growing leaf plants
will benefit from lighter, more
frequent applications, but the
manure should not be placed
within 6in, of the stems,
“My”: The Southern
Wimmera (Vic.) wheat-crop
championship this year went to
M. L. Longmire, a soldier-
settler of Drung Drung, with 50
acres of Pinnacle which yielded
64.3 bushels per acre, weighing
64|lb. to, the bushel. Another
crop of Pinnacle, shown by
Feeny Bros., of Swanwater, was
second with 62.6 bushels per
acre.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
General rains are due early in March, but after that the
cycle shows a rather long, dry period in Queensland, mainly
south of Capricorn and in northern N. S. Wales. The dry
spell should end in late winter, with a good spring to follow.
April weather seems to present interesting possibilities;
under the cycle April appears to be a very wet month,
but both Easter and Anzac Day seem to occur in fine
periods.


F
There’s still room
YOU
Though thousands of young men have swelled the ranks of
Australia’s Regular Army, its target strength has not yet
been reached.
If you are young and fit, ready and willing to add your weight
to that of the others now serving at home and abroad do it
now —enquire at once about Regular Army enlistment.
Think of it as a career
Young men to-day can approach Regular Army service not as
a mere passing phase in their lives but as a solid, worth-while
career. Assured continuity of employment, excellent pay rates
plus many fine extras, pension or gratuity on retirement, all
contribute to the modern soldier’s welfare and security. It’s a
proud career in the service of Australia.
Qualifications are simple
Briefly, medical fitness, reasonable education and age between
17 and 34 (43 for tradesmen) are the qualifications needed-
If you have these, act now.
JOI
THE \U AUSTRALIAN REGULAR ARMY
Enquire without obligation at
Combined Services Recruiting Depots or Defence Forces Information
Bureau in your Capital City
If unable to call, write to Box XYZ in any Capital City
Issued by the Director-General of Recruiting.
ARAI 1.83.13
Missing Friends
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts
of WILLIAM BEECROFT, formerly of
East Oakleigh, Victoria, kindly communi-
cate with R. J. TALBOT. 8.A.. LL.B.,
Solicitor, of 423 Little Collins Stre .
Melbourne, Victoria.
SOOULAR (or SOOWLER) MARY ANN.
WILL the next-of-kin of the abovenamea,
reported to have died in 1888, please com-
municate with the District Manager,
PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Levin, New
Zealand.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO IRENE JEAN RAPLEY late of
Griffith.—TAKE NOTICE that HENRI
DAVID RANDOLF RAPLEY has ffled »
Petition for Divorce No. 3164 of 1952 on
the ground of your adultery wun
GEORGE HONEYOHURCH and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretx
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance m
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 24th day oi
April 1953 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion free of charge from JOHN U.
NORTON. Solicitor, 393 George Street
Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
“What happened when you
came down?”
“I went straight to the chart-
room to check our position.
Carlson had laid it off on the
chart and put four-forty along-
side it. When I came out
Carlson was standing alongside
the helmsman. He said ‘Every-
thing all right, Pilot?’ and I
said ‘Yes. We were lucky to
get that break in the rain.’ ”
“Did you notice the lookout-
man?”
“Can’t say I did. What the
devil is all this about, George?
Can’t you come to the point?”
“Lie down and take it easy,”
Hague soothed. “I’m convinced
that Burton got up and left his
quarters. The damp slippers,
the missing towel and the
cigarettes in his pocket all point
to that. Even the heaviest
smoker would leave his cigarettes
on the table beside his bunk.
Burton put them in his pocket
because he was getting up. He
put his towel around his neck,
.pulled on his oilskin and slippers
and went out. He was killed
outside his quarters and the man
who did it carried him back and
put him to bed.”
“What about the towel?”
“My guess is that it had blood
on it. Burton didn’t bleed much
—you noticed that —but any
blood on that towel would have
been a give-away. A spot or
two on the wet deck wouldn’t
greatly matter ; the rain would
wash ij. off. And in any case
the ship would be hosed-down
soon after daylight.”
“It was. But why run the
risk of being caught putting the
man back to bed? Why not
dump him overboard?”
“There was very little risk;
but it would have been risky to
dump him overboard. Someone
might have heard the splash.
You might have looked down
from the standard compass and
actually seen the murderer
dumping the body over the rail.
No, since Burton had to be
moved out of sight, the safest
thing to do was to shove him
back in bed where suspicion
would fall on every member of
the crew.”
“And doesn’t it still?”
“No. Only three men could
possibly have been implicated.
And don’t ask me who they are
because if I did happen to be
wrong you’d never let me hear
the last of it. Work it out for
yourself.” Hague stretched him-
self out on the settee. “I’m going
to have a well-earned rest,’ v he
grinned. “Don’t let the problem
get you down. One way or the
other you’ll know the answer
long before we reach Brisbane.”
Nor could Captain Waterman
get another word out of him
After several vain attempts he
put on his shoes, called his friend
some rude names and went back
to the bridge.
WHEN the watches changed
at 4 a.m. Hague again turned
up. Carlson, who had just
taken over from the second-
mate, said:
“You’re making quite a night
of it There’s some cocoa in the
jug, but I don’t know whether
you’ll be able to find a clean
mug.”
“Thanks,” Hague said. “I’ll
use Captain Waterman’s when
he’s finished.”
A breeze had sprung up and
the Caroona’s rolling had in-
creased noticeably.
“She’d be a pig in a heavy
beam sea,” Captain Waterman
remarked.
“She is,” Carlson assured him
feelingly.
Since few people feel like con-
versation at four in the morning
no one spoke again until they
picked up the flash of Pine
Islet light at twenty-five minutes
to five. Carlson entered the
time in the log and joined the
pilot and Hague in the port
wing.
“Which is Porter?” Hague
asked him.
“The lookout man, on the
starb’d side.”
“A weedy-looking specimen,
isn’t he? I’d have said he
wouldn’t be strong enough for
the job.”
“An able-seaman doesn’t need
strength these days,” Captain
Waterman pointed out. “So
long as he can swing a paint-
brush he’s good enough.”
For several minutes they stood
watching the flashes of the light.
“They say a murderer will
always return to the scene of his
crime,” Hague remarked quietly.
“I don’t altogether hold with the
theory myself, but in this case
the poor bloke had to ; he could
never really get away from it.
He lived within sight of it, and
every time he came on duty he
had to actually stand on the
spot. You’d think the strain
would get him down, wouldn’t
you? You’d think he’d realise
that he was only making it worse
for himself by keeping quiet
about it.
“Of course it’s all very well to
hope the police will be too dumb
to reason it out. But even a
policeman will recognise a co-
incidence when he meets it.
Take this one —the exact time,
the exact place, the flash of a
lighthouse ahead and even the
‘blunt instrument’ that couldn’t
be disposed of.” He paused
and in the darkness it was im-
possible to tell which man he
was addressing. “It was so
simple, but why try to compli-
cate matters by dragging him
down to his cabin? Instead of
serving a useful purpose it has
only made things a damned
sight blacker for you.”
For perhaps thirty seconds
they stood there, three vague
shadowy figures, rigid with a
tenseness that could be felt.
It was Carlson who broke the
silence, not with the violent out-
burst Hague had been expecting,
but with a quiet, “You’re quite
right, Hague. I was a bloody
fool. I suppose you want a
statement?”
66T THINK it would be a big
•*- help—to you.”
“If it isn’t too late. Somehow
I guessed you were on to me,
and when you spoke about
Porter being a weed I was sure.
He hadn’t the strength. Yes, I
killed Burton, up here. And I
carried him down to his bunk.
For a while I thought I’d get
away with it; I was even glad
I’d killed him. But after you
started poking around I began to
realise what a stupid thing I’d
done and that it was only a
a matter of time before I’d have
to confess.”
“To wilful murder?” Hague
asked.
“No. I didn’t mean to kill
him. I’ll admit I felt like it at
the time. That’s my trouble ; I
lose my temper too easily. Al-
ways have.”
“Why not start at the begin-
ning, at what led up to this?”
“I intend to. Possibly be-
cause I realise it’s the only way
out for me now. You think
you know what Burton was like!
I’m telling you you can’t imagine
what a rotten swine the man
was. I made a bad slip with
him last voyage. Lost my
temper and damn’ nearly hit him
one morning in his own quarters.
Just pulled myself up in time.
“You may not believe it but
it actually amused him. He
saw that I’d only just saved my-
self from taking a crack at him
and he knew what stopped me.
If I’d hit him I’d have been
finished. A chief-officer laying
his captain out! I started as
apprentice with this company
and I’ve been with them ever
since. But that crack would
have finished me. Burton knew
it and he traded on it ; seemed
to take a fiendish delight in try-
ing to get under my skin.
“The other night I had just
come out of the chartroom. I’d
lit a cigarette in there and the
cursed thing wouldn’t draw —
damp, I expect, from the water
dripping off my cap. I bent
over, behind the dodger, and
took a couple of good pulls at it
and when I straightened up
Burton was standing watching
me. Don’t ask me his exact
words —I can’t remember them
—something about rather trust-
ing a steward with a watch than
me. Anyhow, I did what I’d
been wanting to do for six
months. I lashed out.
“I must have caught him on
the point of the chin just as the
ship rolled because he went
down with a hell of a wallop.
His head hit that valve.” Carl-
son pointed to the big hose-con-
nection at his feet. “When I
felt the crack in the back of his
skull and realised jhe was dead I
could only think ’of getting rid
of him before the pilot came
down. I did think of dumping
him overboard, but there was a
big risk of the pilot seeing me
from up top. That’s why I put
him back in his bunk. There
was blood on the towel so I
dumped it overboard after I’d
hung his oilskin up and put his
slippers beside his bed,”
Carlson walked into the
wheelhouse, glanced over the
helmsman’s shoulder at the
steering compass and came back.
“I suppose you’ll want to lock
me up,” he said.
“There’s no need for that,”
Hague assured him. “Our people
will be meeting the ship in Bris-
bane. Stick to your story and
you’ll be charged with man-
slaughter only. By the way,
there’s a steamer fine on the
port bow, coming north.”
“Yes,” Carlson answered.
“I’ve been watching her lights.
She’ll pass clear, don’t you think,
pilot? We’re dead on course.”
Captain Waterman jumped
and gasped, “Eh? Where?” And
after a moment, “Oh yes, she’ll
pass well clear.”
He moved away; and not
until he and Hague were resting
in their cabin after breakfast
did he mention the case.
6 6TT’S all very satisfactory,
George,” he said, propping
himself up on one elbow. “But
I still can’t see how you worked
it out.”
“It more or less worked itself
out,” Hague admitted. “That
is, after I’d accepted the two
main points—that Burton was
alive at four o’clock and that he
hadn’t been killed in his bed.
Would a master leave his
quarters on a wet night because
he wanted to take a stroll
around the deck?”
“Of course he wouldn’t.”
“Exactly. He’d go straight
to the bridge. And where, on
a ship’s bridge, would you find
something suitable for bashing a
man’s skull in? You couldnt
suggest that the murderer would
be lying in wait up there with
the weapon concealed under his
coat on the offchance that Bur-
ton would come up. The only
alternative was that it was a
heat-of-the-moment affair, more
or less accidental. The expres-
sion on Burton’s face supported
that theory. He saw the man
who hit him, yet the injury was
in the back of his skull. I’ll
admit that the hose-connection
was a guess, but the more I
looked at it the more convinced
I felt that it was the ‘blunt in-
strument’. It was in exactly the
right place.”
“But why pick Carlson?”
“Burton could only have gone
up there in the morning watch,
Carlson’s watch. There were
four men on duty —you, Carl-
son, the lookout and the helms-
man. Obviously the helmsman
couldn’t do it, so I was left with
three. Porter was on lookout
and apart from the fact that he s
a physical weed who couldn t
carry a heavy man down those
stairs he couldn’t have left his
post for the necessary time with-
out being spotted by Carlson.”
Hague grinned. “Faced with
the problem of choosing be-
tween you and Carlson I had to
settle for Carlson—not only
because he’s hot-tempered, but
because if I secured a conviction
against you I’d be left without
a fishing cobber.”


SOME SOUTHERN HOMES
OF N.S.W.
by G. Nesta Griffiths
This book leads us south among the
beautiful hills of Canberra, on to
Monaro and along the banks of the
Murrumbidgee.
35/- (Post 9d.)
LEGEND AND DREAMING
by Roland Robinson
Legends of the Dream-time of the
Australian Aborigines as related by
men of the Arnhem Land tribes. A
collector’s piece.
17/6 (Post 7d.j
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne,
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
Catherine Gaskin
A sincere and moving story of the destructive power of love. Misa
Gaskin at the age of 23, and in this her fifth novel, shows that she
now has a mature and warm understanding of problems of the heart.
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
Selections from
THOMAS WOLFE
Selected, Arranged and Introduced by Maxwell Geismar, this selection contains
episodes from Thomas Wolfe’s four great novels:
Look Homeward, Angel
The Web and the Rock
Of Time and the River
You Can’t Go Home Again
To these are added The Story of a Novel in its entirety, with six complete
short stories.
At all Booksellers, 16/- :: HEINEMANN
the children’s dispute. The men came
home, found their wives engaged in a violent
quarrel, and joined in the fray. The men
were soon fighting, some with knives in
their hands. Some of the women were
tearing each other’s hair, and some, pulling
off their stockings, put stones in them,
making a most unpleasant weapon.
After a year at Jackson’s Bay, Mr.
McKenzie saw no hope of things getting
better, so with typical Scottish logic he
decided to move ever further south, to
Martin’s Bay, which was a few years old,
and which some of the earlier settlers
were already leaving. He chartered a
paddle-steamer to take his family and
cattle there ; the captain said it would
be better to land at Big Bay, and there
he put thp-family, with their luggage and
furniture, ashore by boat, and pushed
the cattle overboard to swim ashore.
On landing, Mr. McKenzie learned
that Martin’s Bay was twelve miles away,
along a boulder-beach children could not
traverse, and with no track through the
bush, while his ultimate destination,
Jamestown, was a further six miles in-
land, up the Hollyford River, on the
shores of Lake McKerrow. So McKenzie
had to pay a miner £5 each for two
trips to Martin’s Bay in his whaleboat,
which took family and furniture round
the headland and up the river to James-
town, leaving the cattle behind.
Jamestown was the lakeside end of a
road from inland which had not been
built; the whole Martin’s Bay area was
enclosed by rugged, heavily-timbered
mountains and dangerous rivers, averse
from humans. Settlers relied on a
steamer on her way from Greymouth to
Dunedin for mail and provisions ; she
lay off the bay and sent a boat ashore;
and anyone wanting to join the steamer
had to be on the beach when the ship’s
boat arrived. Mrs. McKenzie, due to
have another baby, wanted to go to
Dunedin. Her husband took her down
to the beach when the steamer was due,
but it was too rough to land a boat. So
back they rowed, six miles up the river
to Jamestown, where Mrs. McKenzie had
the baby in the middle of a heavy storm,
the flooded lake pouring into the room,
furniture and slippers floating about the
floor.
Jamestown being almost deserted, Mc-
Kenzie built a fern -whare on the shores
of Martin’s Bay itself, against the time
when he could break up the four-roomed
house at Jamestown, float the materials
as rafts down the river, carry every piece
of wood and iron on his back a mile or
so further to the site on Martin’s Bay,
and set it up again.
The rest is the story of the family’s
life in that house; of the Webb family,
and how Mr. Webb rowed up to the
cemetery by the lake to bury two of his
children, dead from eating berries ; of
how Andrew Williamson’s whaleboat
went down and the bodies of five men
and a boy were sewn in blankets and
sails and buried, and how they broke
the news to Mrs. Dalziel and her four
children ; of the angry bull that kept Mrs.
McKenzie and family imprisoned for
two or three days until her husband came
home and shot it; of the author’s trip
at 13 years of age with her father cross-
country to Queenstown, sailing and row-
ing up the lake, pulling themselves in a
box slung on a wire rope across the Pyke
river, following a blazed trail over
mountains, carrying a tent, blankets and
provisions, camping on ground that was
always wet, lighting a fire on the beach
of Lake Wakatipu to signal the Queens-
town steamer.
There are records of the children grow-
ing up; a visitor killing himself with a
shot-gun ; a sister marrying ; the brothers
building a 23ft. whaleboat in which they
rowed their parents and the other children
70 miles up the coast to visit the married
sister at Okuru, stopping on the way to
kill seals for their pelts; a bad capsize
of the boat a quarter-mile out which left
the author with internal injuries that had
to be fixed by an operation much later
in life—a bleak and fine chronicle, full
of bravery.
Reviewed Briefly
Foxhunter: Pat Landsberg (Todd;
Harrap). The story of Colonel Harry
Llewellyn’s famous horse which, first sold
for £6O, jumped his way over every
obstacle to the Olympic Games at Hel-
sinki . . . which “will remain in the
minds of those privileged to see them —
in the British minds, that is—as Fox-
hunter’s Games.”
* * * *
Reader’s Digest Omnibus: foreword
by H. E. Bates (Deutsch). It opens with
Thor Heyerdahl on “Our Four Months
on an Ocean Raft” ; and some of the
other, contributors in a fabulous list of
famous names are Eisenhower, Carl
Sandburg, Quentin Reynolds, Mencken,
Steinbeck, Cronin, Julian Huxley, Stuart
Chase. Four hundred pages of articles
on every conceivable subject.
* * * *
The New Zealand Guide: compiled
by E. S. Dollimore (H. Wise and Co.,
Ltd., Dunedin). An immense volume of
nearly 1000 pages, listing and describing
towns, mountains, rivers, lakes, etc., the
tiniest hamlet as well as the cities, the
humblest creek as well as the great rivers,
with notes in each case on matters of
interest both to the tourist and the busi-
nessman, and with a historical back-
ground. Necessarily too compact to give
the full flavor of each locality; but for
a general, overall guide Jt is admirable.
* * * *
The Forsaken Idea: Edward Crank-
shaw (Longmans). A thoughtful and
well-written study of Viscount Milner,
who has long been attacked as “the man
who made the Boer War” but whom the
author, after reading his published papers,
sees rather as a patriot who believed that
“the survival of Britain through the pre-
servation and development of the Empire
was the supreme concern of all English-
men.” There is also an analysis of
Milner’s ideas on capital and labor in
which he expressed views which have
similarly become highly topical: briefly,
that improvement in working conditions
should by all means be encouraged but
that the Empire’s basic need was greater
production.
* ♦ * *
The Observer Prize Stories: (Heine-
mann). In 1951 the “Observer” con-
ducted a short-story competition for
stories of 3000 words to “deal in any
mood with any subject connected with
Christmas.” Out of an entry of 6700
the winning tale “The Seraph and the
Zambesi” and 20 runners-up are presented
in this volume. They range from the
British Isles to France, Malta and Aus-
tralia (Nigel Palethorpe). Elizabeth
Bowen in an introduction claims that the
book is “likely to be a landmark in the
modern history of the short story. Here
are examples of what is being done —a
cross-section of the imaginative mind of
the 1950’5.” If her claim is justified the
student of the future, consulting this
volume, might well suppose that in the
1950’s the “imaginative mind” was sad,
sentimental, frequently inapprehensible,
obsessed by the supernatural and entirely
devoid of gusto although occasionally
rising to a sort of sourly bilious
irony—its nearest approach to humor.
Christmas would seem a time when a
miserable world endured a religious im-
position ; a penance in which in the 1950’s
men had to try to be happy against their
inclination for one day. Admittedly
“Christmas” tends to be an emotional
theme. Then how much better if senti-
mental writers would be honest in mid-
Victorian fashion, rather than attempt to
disguise their sentimentality with a frost-
ing of slick malaise.
* * * *
Reflections on Life: Alexis Carrel
(Hamish Hamilton). Any new book by
the author of Man the Unknown is worth
attention, and this one is about as wise,
humane and knowledgeable a book on the
problems of modern life as anyone could
hope to read. It is in part ethical —how
to live the good life —and in part philo-
sophical, examining the “conflict” be-
tween science and religion and affirming
a belief in the importance of man in the
universe and the survival of the spirit;
“We may... .consider spirit as analogous
to the light produced by the tungsten
filament in an electric bulb... .When the
lamp is extinguished the photons it has
emitted do not perish. Astronomers in
California register photographically the
arrival of photons emitted by stars which
have been dead for perhaps four hundred
million light-years. It is not absurd to
believe that the spiritual energy radiated
by the brain into regions situated beyond
time and space continues its existence in
this unknown world after our death.”
* * * *
Caught by Revolution: George Sava
(Faber). This novel for children is a
sequel to A Boy in Samarkand. It is the
story of Peter Slavine’s experiences as a
naval cadet at the Imperial Russian Naval
Academy, where he is a student at the
time of the revolution and escapes to
Samarkand and thence to Persia. Sava,
himself a Russian emigre better known
for his books of popular medical remini-
scence, is not successful in this one. He
constantly has to interpret and justify
the autocratic and despotic manners of
the Russian aristocracy to which Peter,
his hero, belongs. Issues are raised which
cannot be sufficiently simplified for the
11-14 age group, and which must only
confuse young readers.
♦ * * *
Love and Fear: letters and diary-
extracts by “Elizabeth C.,” translated
from the French by Gerard Hopkins
(Cape). The intimate love-letters of a
girl, who eventually died of tuberculosis,
to a man in the same sanatorium. The
book has something of the painful beauty
and passionate intensity of the letters
of Katherine Mansfield, whose writings
the author had read.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 214
Across.
I—Pulverise1 —Pulverise the bobby tint during
a brawl over the ammunition.
(6-4)
6—A secret agent infested with ser-
pents. (4)
9 —Agnes the Tubby is stranded. (7)
10—Musket-dropper severely criticises
the Oriental craft. (7)
12 — Art sent back to legislators by
swagmen. (6)
13 — Game of golf during the boun-
dary dance. (8)
16 — Black spirit. (3)
17 — An incomplete calendar, and why
the Greek province associates
No. 1000 with Speaker Cameron.
(8)
19 — A Babylon god container to
finish the art of singing in the
Italian manner. (3, 5)
20 — Robin drops the Royal Navy for
a Japanese sash. (3)
22 — Metal label on the Spanish site
of King Arthur’s palace composi-
tion by Bax. (8)
23 — Blushing Poseidon’s domain?
(3.3)
25—Thus musical instruments are
dissolved substances. (7)
27 Parent flings clubs. (7)
28— Shop-breaker is swell. (4)
29 when the stock of scenery is
used up? (3, 2,5)
Down.
1— Xhe vegetable kingdom to snare
an English dynast. (11)
2 A twist in timber is not a battle
decoration. (3-5)
3 Balancing rig on the redback
insect. (13)
4 Commanded with a wicked direc-
tion. (4)
5 Hail upset a girl match of the
vowels. (3)
7 Salt vein of metal over one. (6)
8— Affirmative. (3)
10 — Cleaning,' up coursing another
way. (8)
11 — Noblewomen, do I walk in mili-
tary style on sibilants? (13)
14 — £5l donkey and the French
Napoleon brandy, perhaps, or
any stock of drinks capable of
quick disposal. (6, 5)
15 — They punish pounds for kissers.
(8)
18—Give the firm a bite driving with
gravity. (8)
21 —Sports commentator fishes for
original English. (6)
24 Victorian town runs rings around
me. (4>
25 — Step up, booby! (3)
26 (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 213


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Hobart and Launceston.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
Ehis entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Pteparei monthly hy MOFFAT-VIRTUB lAM7IKS
February
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture^
1953
EVOLUTION OF THE
MACHINE
Began With Stone-Age Man
Away back in the dim ages, long before the days of recorded history, men began to increase the efficiency of their
hands by the use of rude machines or tools embodying mechanical principles. They discovered accidentally that
sticks could be used as levers to move heavy objects, such as boulders and tree trunks, which were far too heavy for
human strength to lift unaided.
Following the use of the lever came the wedge. This
advancement led to the discovery that sharp edged stones
would split wood. This was turned to good account in
making sharp implements such as axes, knives, arrow heads
and so on.
To-day we use the wedge wheel, axe, pulley and screw, and
how many of us realise that these simple machines had been
invented before the dawn of history. They are in use every
day in our modem world, both in their simple form and as
elements of complicated mechanical devices as our modern
machinery.
An excellent modern example of
the use of a simple principle is the
lever jack, by which a car of great
weight can be raised by even a
small child, and this principle is
found to-day in hundreds of
articles in every-day use. The
wheel turning on an axle is merely
a special form of lever. Its
applications are endless, when we
consider the innumerable com-
binations for transmitting power
by toothed wheels, which again is
merely the old lever principle.
The wonderful progress made in
using the forces of nature is due
primarily to Galileo’s studies,
who, by his experiments, dis-
covered the law of the motion of
a body acted on by a constant
force. One hundred years later
Sir Isaac Newton stated the com-
plete facts connecting the motions
of bodies and their forces in his
great work “Principia,” published
in 1 687, and upon its results are
based all the principles and laws
of modern dynamics.
In modern mechanics our studies •
are devoted to such subjects as
the forces rotating machinery,
and all these varied motions
depend upon the laws of
dynamics derived from Newton’s
laws of motion, so that to under-
stand the action of an engine with
all its modern complications is to
use the very same laws we do in
explaining the lever, the wheel
and axle and other simple
primitive machines.
In modern times the forces of
nature have been mechanically
harnessed in so many ways. . .
From the time we wake until we
go to sleep, nature is working to
supply our wants through
machines.
“On the Land,” the tremendous
difference mechanised farming
methods have made is pbvious.
In Tractors, ploughs, rippers and
binders, to efficient power-plants
like the M.V. Petrol and Diesel
Engines, the simple laws of nature
first utilized by Stone-Age Man
are working, and giving one man
the power to do the work of
twenty.
A truck-load of Type
V3 Petrol Engines
leave Moffat-Virtue’s
Rosebery, N. S. W.
factory for interstate.
They are carried in
special steel frames
mounted on a semi-
trailer.
Our Engines Equal
To The World's Best!
Despite our national modesty about Australian products, the fact is we
are producing a complete range of petrol, kerosene and diesel engines,
right here in Australia, which are of the very highest quality.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., manufactures
and distributes engines ranging in
size from h.p. up to 55 h.p.
To-day mass production is the
only successful way of manu-
facturing cars. It is also the only
way we can produce engines of
high quality at a price the average
man can afford. That’s why
Moffat-Virtue built their huge,
modern Rosebery factory,
equipped with high-speed
machines and staffed by skilled
operators.
QUANTITY AND QUALITY
M.V. Engines are manufactured
on the most up-to-date mass-
production lines. They re pre-
cision tested every step of the
way, and final adjusting and
running-in are carried out with the
greatest care.
Yet, because Moffat-Virtue make
thousands every year, with their
highly-organised production tech-
niques, M.V. Engines sell at
prices to suit every man-on-the-
land.
M.V. Engines are scientifically
designed, solidly constructed,
cheap to maintain, and com-
pletely reliable. Get full particu-
lars of the M.V. range of engines
from any of the Distributors listed
at the foot of this page.
A section of the
Engine Test Benches
a t Moffat-Virtue’s
Rosebery (AT. S. W.)
factory. Here a line-
up of M.V. 24 h.p.
Petrol Engines is
being run-in under
the watchful eyes of
skilled tradesmen ...
to ensure that the
M.V. Engine you
buy will give you
never-failing service.
FORD!
Alone he built on
Industrial Empire
Henry Ford’s first car took!
seven years of nights to!
build. He gradually pieced j
it together with all sorts of>
scraps, from steam exhaust >
pipe to railroad washers, <
every night after his day s <
work at Edison Illuminating <
Co., where he was a main-<
tenance engineer. <
It worked too, but he often <
had to chain it to a lamp- 1
post when it stalled while he
rushed home for tools to
repair it!
Ford’s special genius, and
the way to his tremendous
success, lay in his refusal ever
to be satisfied, and in being
able to drive himself and his
.... The Old Model "T"
employees to accomplish the i
“impossible.” He was never!
beaten. There was always a]
faster, a cheaper, a
way to make everything that
goes into a car. He once
said: “Our new operations^
. are always directed by men <
who have had no previous <
knowledge of the subject <
and therefore have not had <
a chance to get on familiar (
terms with the impossible.
, The famous Ford assembly- <
,line method revolutionised,
> Industry, giving a tremend-
ous impetus not only to
Automotive manufacture,
> but to almost every branch
* of industrial activity, and
> brought cars, engines and
> countless other modern-
> wonders within the reach or
> the average man.
