

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
THE DIXSON BEQUEST
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3813
Wednesday, March 11, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
AMONG THE STATELIEST OF ENGLAND'S STATELY HOMES, COBHAM HALL
THE numerous homes in England now open to the public include many
which originated in the first Elizabethan period and have survived to
Ipnd orace and charm to the English countryside of today; Hardwick Hall
in Derbyshire- Lon Seat in Wiltshire, Chastleton House in Oxfordshire,
MontacmeTsomerfet and Cobham Hall in Kent. . . ■ .
Cobham Hall shown in the accompanying illustration, stands m a
magnificent park five miles west of Rochester, iri Kent, and is the property of
the Earl of Darnley. The original manor of Cobham Hall existed as far
hark as 1208 when it came into the possession of Henry de Cobham, whose
descendant, William Brooke, Lord Cobham, entertained Queen Elizabeth I
there on two occasions, once in 1559 and again in 1573. An ambitious
programme of building was begun by Lord Cobham in 1584 which transformed
the old manor house into one of the most imposing Elizabethan mansions in
Britain Two hundred tons of Caen stone were imported from Normandy to
build a handsome doorway in the north wing. Building was interrupted by
the threat of invasion by the Spanish Armada in 1588, and the central block,
designed by Inmo Jones, was not rebuilt until 1667. By this time, however,
the Hall had passed out of the Cobham family, for it was forfeited to the
Crown owing to .the treason of Henry, Lord Cobham, who became involved
with Sir Walter Raleigh in an abortive plot to place Lady Arabella Stuart on
the throne in place of James VI of Scotland.
In 1613 King James I granted Cobham Hall estate to his cousin Ludovic
Stuart, the second Duke of Lennox, and in 1661 it came into the possession
of Charles Stuart, sixth Duke of Lennox, who brought to Cobham Hall one
of the great romantic figures of history—La Belle Stuart. She was the reigning
beauty at the Court of Charles 11, and at his command she sat to the engraver
Roethir for the figure of Britannia. This likeness appeared first on the medals
struck to commemorate the naval victories in the Dutch wars. Afterwards
one of the designs was adapted for the reverse of the copper coinage of the
realm, so that today, on the back of a penny (British currency), the likeness
of La Belle Stuart may still be seen.
In 1713 Cobham Hall passed by marriage to the Earl of Darnley, whose
successors subsequently employed James Wyatt to improve and adorn this
great mansion, which contains a splendid collection of great paintings.


Storu Writing
J 3 U» M at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— - CUT HERE AND MAIL - ———-
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 253) Age
The Red Page
CHIN KEE ONN IN MALAYA
Chin Kee Onn is a Malayan Chinese
who has written, in English, a novel en-
titled Ma-rai-ee (Australasian Publishing
Co.) set in Malaya (called Ma-rai-ee by
the Japanese) under Japanese occupa-
tion.
The book is of particular interest for
several reasons: its “slant” on the
Japanese war is subtly different from that
taken by most British, American and
Australian authors ; the observations as
to the rise and probable course of Com-
munist groups are especially pertinent as
a background to the existing troubles.
Then, apart from these aspects and from
the excellent documentary account of
events, there is a flavor here of absolute
sincerity and of a degree of integrity
and careful observation which, being
rare, is always welcome.
Chin Kee Onn, himself a schoolteacher,
refused to work in “Japanese schools,”
and, by undertaking various jobs to keep
his wife and four children, gained a most
comprehensive insight into the whole
situation at the time.
The hero of his book, Liu Fong, is
a young Chinese-Malay of an educated
middle-class family who, when the
Japanese overrun his country, is separated
from his wife and newly-born son, having
gone to Ipoh to visit his dying mother.
From Ipoh he escapes with his uncle’s
family to a tinmine managed by a
Chinese friend. The Japanese arrive in
the district, massacre most of the people
at the mine, rape the women, who, with
some children, are all killed, and proceed
to repeat this brutality throughout the
countryside. Liu Fong, his uncle Liu
Lan and other survivors band together
and establish a guerrilla force in the
jungle, known as the A.J.O. (Anti-
Japanese Organisation). Financed largely
by the Lius and other wealthy Chinese
members, the A.J.O. becomes an effi-
cient and far-reaching force with city
spies and contacts. It appears to be
typical of many such units. Its member-
ship included Chinese, Malays, Indians
and Australian and British troops who
had escaped to the jungle. An Australian,
“a lanky fellow with the long, reddish-
brown face of a Queenslander” and
named by the group “Kolo” (tall man),
becomes one of its leading strategists.
The A.J.O. was a moderate group com-
prised of respectable citizens of all classes,
who viewed its functions as being purely
temporary; to fight the “shorties” both
from patriotism and for personal revenge.
For most of these people had witnessed
revolting cruelty practised against their
own families. The author, who respects
British rule because of its orderliness
and justice, constantly stress that the
Japanese blundered fantastically in so
embittering the population that “there’s
no man worthy of the name who can
like the Japs.”
Apropos the gradual rise of Com-
munism, a leader of the A.J.0., summing
up the great number of resistance-groups,
says: “The vendetta is a common one,
and the foe is a common one. But the
motives of the various groups are vastly
different.... We have no ulterior motives.
But the secret societies are out for power.
Communists talk of establishing a
Malayan Republic I would say that
the underground movement has become
hydra-headed with dangerous reper-
cussions for the future.” And elsewhere:
“Alas, the war has created a monster in
Malaya I thought the Jap.s were the
worst of devils, but now we have some-
thing worse than the Japs.”
And if the Japanese blundered in
antagonising the Malayans, so, the author
Tinks, did the British in failing to re-
iter and reorganise Malaya swiftly after
e Japanese defeat when responsible
wernment failed and Japs and civilians
ike lived in terror both of armed
mdits and gangs of Communists. “The
?ople in town were daily asking one an-
her: ‘When —oh, when, will the British
arrive? What’s happened to Lord
Mountbatten? What’s holding up the
good Lord Mountbatten?”’
Apart from its political interest there
is much that is warmly human in Ma-rai-
ee; Long Liu’s love-affair with Suet
Wan ending in her death in a guerrilla
battle, and his convincing sense of con-
tact with his absent and much-loved wife
Li Lan. Probably owing to the Chinese
acceptance of polygamy, this affair pro-
ceeds without the conflicts which Western
readers might expect.
Long Liu endures imprisonment and
torture, scenes well-described with a re-
straint that does not disguise their- horror.
The scope of the work allows of varied
characterisation: guerrillas, businessmen,
collaborators and Japanese soldiers
emerge as real people. On the remark-
ably few occasions when the English
prose limps a little the book itself pro-
ceeds with power and conviction.
"Flames in the Sky"
Pierre Clostermann’s Flames in the Sky
(Chatto and Windus), a slighter book than
The Big Show, is a record of individual
exploits in the air in World War 11,
crystallised from a mass of material which
the author studied for a projected “His-
tory of the War in the Air.”
Airmen of many nations jostle
shoulders in Flames in the Sky, and one
realises with a little shock of surprise, at
this distance, just what a tight little inter-
national ring the great names of aerial
warfare made; and how little known
some of those names are today . . .
especially when among the chosen few,
the cream of the cream, some dozen
names, several are Australians: airmen
who are virtually unknown outside ser-
vice circles in their own country.
Clostermann, in his pictures of courage,
does not confine himself to the Allies.
His chapter on the Luftwaffe’s last major
sortie is a fine piece of writing, and, in
his description of the kamikaze pilots, he
seems, in some extraordinary way, to get
into the skins of the doomed pilots. To
a lesser degree, his treatment of the
kamikaze pilots is typical of his writing
throughout the book. He gives facts and
figures, sharply presented, and then builds
up a glowing image of the central action.
In the chapter on the doomed rising
of the Poles in Warsaw, for instance, he
sketches the political background, includ-
ing Churchill’s furious suggestion that
Roosevelt land American planes on
Russian territory by force —“Stalin would
never have dared fire on them” —and
then describes the forlorn flight of the
Polish 138 “Special Duties” Squadron
from Brindisi, culminating in the powerful
image of burning Warsaw, seen from
afar and from almost roof-level as the
Halifaxes circled and swooped, searching
for their dropping-areas.
Some of his facts are surprising and,
to the general reader at least, new. The
story of the capture by chance, as early
as May, 1940, of the Japanese Navy’s
basic code, which led to the Americans
having precise information throughout
the war in the Pacific, for instance. On
November 28, 1941, Clostermann men-
tions in passing, Roosevelt, by means of
this code and the special department
which had been set up to deal with it,
had been informed of the impending
attack on Pearl Harbor —which came on
December 7.
Then there are the extraordinary story
of the Pearl Harbor attack itself, with
its division of command, inter-service
jealousies and individual heroism; the
fascinating story of the manhunt initiated
by Secretary of State Knox for Admiral
Yamamoto ; and the tremendous damage
—concealed at the time for good security
reasons —which the kamikazes inflicted
on the American fleet in the final stages
of the war.
Mountains of New Zealand
Nothing could be more pleasant than
to be reminded by John Pascbe’s Land
Uplifted High (Whitcombe and Tombs)
of such mountaineers as' Rod Syme of
Hawera, who has climbed Mount Egmont
more times than any man can calculate
—in the three years from 1933 to 1936
he strolled up it once every month with-
out a break, if not more often —and L.
V. Bryant (of the New Plymouth Boys’
High School when this reviewer, from
the depths of youth, watched his high
travels), who tackled Everest with the
1935 expedition.
But it must be said that Mr. Pascoe is
singularly disappointing on the mountain
itself; not criticising it, indeed, as he
does Ruapehu and the Tararuas, but stop-
ping short at the point where apprecia-
tion should begin:
As an artist’s and photographer’s model
Mount Egmont has suffered much. Prom
the early days when settlers drew her cone
as though it sloped up to 75 degrees
culminating in a needle-point, she has not
recovered from the vulgarity shown by
those who committed her to their canvas
or negatives. Her symmetry and form have
been overstated in so much bad art and
banal photography that I found it quite
refreshing to visit her and find that she
could look fresh, forbidding, and generally
dissociate herself from the gaudy posters
with which her name is tarnished.
Have the photographs and the paint-
ings always, in fact, been so bad? This
reviewer has seen at least one master-
piece, a large and richly sombre
watercolor of the ranges and the peak
from the New Plymouth side, painted in
the early days by a Miss Horne and now
owned by Mrs. King of Russell —a
painting which, though Miss Horne is
unknown to fame (and to the Auckland
Gallery), is quite in the class of a Ben-
nington or a Peter de Wint.
And are all the bad paintings and
posters, if they exist, really relevant? If
Mr. Pascoe has seen the tree-ferns and
giant rimus silvery with new-fallen snow
along the narrow road from Kaponga,
Bell’s Falls leaping like the White Doe
of Rylstone into the gorge far below, the
ice-blue pools in the high rivulets, the
tall bush giving way to that strange
leathery shrub on whose silver-green
leaves children write messages in pencil,
the breathtaking view from the summit
whether you look east across green
Taranaki to the far white ghost of
Ruapehu or west to the wild rock-faces
Cascading to the coast by Opunake—let
him say so. He has, in fact, climbed
Egmont by night, which must have been
a fine experience: then why not describe
it?
One makes the point in some anxiety
for Mr. Pascoe’s prose-style; for his
Unclimbed New Zealand, if one remem-
bers it rightly, was full of the most
beautiful landscapes, as also was his book
of photographs, The Mountains, the Bush
and the Sea. So, too, is much of the
present book; but Mr. Pascoe should
beware of letting his natural affection for
the tremendous mountain scenery of the
South Island betray him into an affecta-
tion of mere rugged, sarcastic humor
when confronted with the North. That
is all very well for alpine-club badinage ;
but it is not thus that great mountaineer-
ing books are written.
The best chapters, though the Tararua
one is very good under the crackle of
jocularity —full of rain and wind and
hard earth —are those written with serious
intent: a description of the professional
deer-killers of the South who have slain
the staggering total of 290,000 deer in a
period of 17 years; intimate glimpses of
the life of remote settlers in the high
country; and a glorious excursion
through the wild and little-known heights
of the Abel Tasman National Park in
Nelson.
WORDS AND LOVERS
The terror of God, of thought without
The sweet coupling of words and lovers!
A disembodied spirit dreams
In windy frames and vacant forms
Who sightless seeks a face for grief
And flesh to rid himself of love.
In the sea, on the shore, dreaming within
The cave of seeds, his children curl
And hear shell-voices whisper long
Forgotten words that sleepers sing
Where all the past is and the past
Wakes at their waking or is lost.
Take water, mineral. Take heed.
Nothing is made of nothing. See
Thought’s green articulation, dreams
Putting ori flesh—so summer storms
Suck up the ocean. Even fears
Must beg of sense and music ears.
This is thought’s miracle that word
Lies down with word and lover with lover.
The whirlwind courtship of great trees
Lovesick with honey, similes
That take in marriage and lips that kiss,
Bear witness to thought’s loneliness.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
A Farm in Tasmania
It seems unkind to find fault with a
book which begins with a glimpse of a
puritan family in England so severe that
the children were not allowed even to
play marbles; which describes the cere-
mony of “burning the dead horse” on
an immigrant voyage from England;
which arrives in Tasmania in 1883 and
tells of a woman, on foot, carrying her
fat child 23 miles to the doctor at Laun-
ceston ; another woman dying at 36 with
her 13th child; a farmer on holiday in
Sydney saying after three 'days that he
must rush back to Tasmania because
“the cocksfoot’!! be sbakin* at home”;
a blind settler who could chop wood and
make his own fire to cook his meals;
three old lags with the beautiful names of
Bandy Jimmy, Primrose Jimmy and
Jimmy the Rat; a man who was reputed
to have burned more than one house to
the ground with more than one wife in-
side it; another man who sent a tree
crashing through his kitchen; a cele-
brated strong-man who carried half a
ton of tin-ore on his back and was known
to eat a whole fowl, or two if they were
small, at a meal —(“ ‘There’s nothin’ in a
fowl,’ he said. ‘lt’s only ’oiler’ ”) . . . a
book which contains dozens of such
anecdotes and which gives, in the early
chapters, a very effective, amusing and
invigorating account of how two pioneers,
Rowland and Samuel Skemp, carved a
farm out of the bush on a patch of
Tasmania’s famous chocolate-soil.
But John Rowland Skemp’s Memories
of Myrtle Bank (Melbourne University
Press) is nevertheless rather a dry con-
tribution, as a whole, to the spate of
pioneering and historical meirtoirs which
have lately come in such a lively stream
from the publishers’ presses in Australia
and New Zealand. J
The early part, being the author’s
memories of his forebears’ memories, is
a comparatively thin distillation, lacking
the living force and charm of original
diaries or letters and depending too much
for its humor on anecdotes of gram-
matical errors and howlers, to the ex-
clusion of more vital material. The later
chapters, which are the author’s own
memories of Myrtle Bank, might have
had the living quality not possible in the
earlier reconstruction, but these are not,
except in bright patches, very rich with
the texture of life or as close as one
could wish to the earth.
It is delight in people and places that
makes the best autobiography, and here
the trend is essentially sociological, deal-
ing in scattered or impersonal generalities
after the manner of the average shire-
history as it chronicles the formation of
cricket-clubs and the like and laments
the gradual absorption of the old bush
community into “the general pattern of
modern life.” There is a progressive
decline in interest as the author loses
interest in his subject-matter. The strange
thing is that, as “an ardent bird-watcher”
and a naturalist who has worked at the
Launceston Museum, Mr. Skemp didn’t
take the opportunity to enrich these
later chapters with his observations from
Nature. He might well have taken for
his model Gilbert White’s Natural History
of Selborne.
Lincoln as Strategist
While the United States presses are
pouring out spates of heavy and hastily-
written tomes about the World War of
1941-45 the controversy still rages in
book-form over the Civil War of 1861-65.
The latest contribution, Lincoln and His
Generals, by T. Harry Williams, Pro-
fessor of History at Louisiana State Uni-
versity, revolves round the virtues or
otherwise as strategists of civilians and
military officers.
As in nearly all these debates the
author sets out with a fixed viewpoint,
which is that Lincoln in every way had a
naturally superior strategic brain which
functioned with devastating effect so
soon as he had gained confidence in him-
self—and, incidentally, found a general
whom among the talent available a blind
man could have, picked at the bottom of
a shaft, since there was only one real
choice on the Union side.
The young McClellan, whose ability as
an organiser Professor Williams cannot
deny, is held up as a timid coward, devoid
of dash and lacking strategic sense,
whereas in fact he seems to have been
a pretty good strategic soldier ready to
trade time to save lives, conscious of the
superiority of the resources the North
would ultimately muster. He was pre-
pared to press for them until his strength
became overwhelming, in preference to
entering into a bloody struggle at once
to please the politicians who wanted
“action.”
Professor Williams agrees with the
orthodox neutral historians of the Civil
War that real success came to the North
only when it had established a modern
command system, given it into the hands
of a competent general and achieved a
position in which Lincoln “intervened in
the management of it [the war] only at
rare intervals because in general he w r as
satisfied with Grant’s direction.” But his
expression of that fact is unorthodox.
Field-Marshal Wolseley probably put the
whole situation as sensibly as anybody,
and his words were applicable to many
another war:
In the first three years of the Secession
War, "when Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Stanton
(Continued on page 35)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns;
:■
MAIL. ORDERS TO BOX 2712, 0.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 2401
X'^X
>j
&.r¥§
L=
r :
u
m
m
n\ r
Regal Jetvellery for the Coronation. Our Pearl
Tiara is £*>/?/', the matching necklet is 90/'. Pendant
drop ear-rings are 43/- pair.
Pitt St. Floor
.V -
H linnHi
i6 Travelmaster” Luggage in Coronation Red!
Genuine cowhide, rustless English locks, cloth lined.
22in. £lO/3/-, 24in. £lO/19/9, 26in. £ll/18/9.
Hat Box £B/8/-.
Pitt St. Floor
Albion Rug of softest pure Merino wool. Rever-
sible . . . one side check pattern, the other is plain.
80 x 60, fringed ends. £7/5/6
Pitt St. Floor
f ' '
m
i
Beauty Case from Helena Rubinstein, fitted with
cosmetics to suit every complexion. Case colour:
Brown, red, tan, burgundy, navy, black. Lock,
mirror. £l3/13/-
Pitt St. Floor
Coronation calls
F©k *ll he watching
history* but remember history trill be watching you
You’ll want the best, the unusual, the impressive on your
Coronation Tour. You 11 be arriving in England in May, so
that means warm fine days equivalent to October in Australia.
Light-textured woollens and silks for the women, medium-weight
suits for men. But be sure to take along at least one overcoat
(one like our Aquascutum for £35), as London’s weather isn’t
the most reliable. And take elegance with you. Elegance in
fabulous furs, lightweight woollen suits, designed especially
for Coronation travellers (you’ll find them on our Second
Floor). And you’ll want elegant yet rugged luggage (especially
light if you’re flying). You’ve friends in England who’d adore
a koala or similar memento. Put one in your car as a mascot;
let London know Australia’s there! We’ve wished Coronation-
bound travellers bon voyage five times since our first days in
ft
1823 when clippers lined Sydney shores, but our longest
streamers and most resounding farewells are for you . . . you
who are going to England to see the Coronation of a Queen.
Zeiss “Deltrintem” Binoculars will
give you the clearest view possible of
the Coronation procession. They’re
8 x 30, in leather case. £5O/15/
Pitt St. Floor
LONDON
1
. .
“London for Everyman ” by
William Kent, is a practical and his-
torical guide book every traveller to
London needs. 48 colour maps. 13/9
Post 7d. Boo\s, Pitt St. Floor
m
3SS
Koala Bear that’s a Tea Cosy
in disguise! A wonderful
gift for your English friends.
And it’s priced at 59/11
Pitt St. Floor
-
We’ll pack delicacies and
scarce food for your English
friends. Our Grocery Dept
will give you full details.
Goulburn St. Floor
The “Diana” Darning Aid
will double the life of stock'
ings and socks aboard ship.
Saves time, effort. Only 6/It
Pitt St. Floor
f
i/y
Gold lettering on all your
Coronation luggage!
2 initials 2/3 initials 2/6
Travel Section, Pitt Street.
IT’S EASY SHOPPING BY ’PHONE OR MAIL AT ANTHONY HORDERNS.
’PHONE ORDERS TO M 2401. MAIL ORDERS, BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Per Spring-cart, Car or let
getting around the place
By GAVIN CASEY
PROBABLY the best way I ever
got around the place was in a
spring-cart, behind a reflective,
self-steering horse on twice-a-
week, seven-mile-each-way jaunts into
the Westralian wheat-town of Dowerin
and back to the farm where I was “the
boy.”
The old horse used to give me a terrific
sense of responsibility without any real
cause for worry. Of course, I used to
wish he was a high-stepping, flash brute,
and the old cart a sulky with red-spoked
wheels, but I realise now that there were
advantages to having those leisurely
trips, with plenty of time to think and
wonder about things, and to watch a
world that jogged past calmly and
serenely. Many people who were alive
during the tail-end of the long horse-age
must feel as I do.
Anyway, the horse-age is gone except
on racecourses, and perhaps in Spanish
bullrings, and getting sentimental about
it won’t bring it back. It had various
effects on the people who have survived
it, and in me it lodged for ever a love
of going slowly.
Some of my friends were shocked once
when, having to cross the Atlantic, I
chose neither air-travel nor one of the
Queens, but went on an old liner that
was then about the best Hitler had left
the French of their once-proud passenger
fleet. I had a ten-day holiday while it
wallowed happily from New York to
! Southampton, eating and drinking the
: best the clever French could provide,
and between meals watching with perfect
; contentment the water dawdling past.
| That journey ended in a pleasant sur-
prise. The old De Grasse went to Le
' Havre, and we who were for England
were taken off by a little ferry-steamer
at an ungodly hour of the morning. But
with typical British practical-mindedness
the stewards had the bar wide open be-
fore the sun had poked its nose through
the early fog. I have seldom enjoyed
drinks as well as I did those unexpected,
long-before-breakfast whiskies, swallowing
which I wished luck and fewer stomach-
ulcers to the three whole complements of
passengers who had been shifted by the
crack liners from their troubles in the
United States to their troubles in Britain,
or vice versa, while I’d been having my
ten-day rest.
Because the world is so large, and my
bosses are often in more of a hurry than
I am, I have flown a great deal, but not
from choice. Aircraft don’t scare me,
except when something goes wrong with
them in the air, but apart from their
ridiculously high speeds, I find no view
of the world and its people more boring
than looking down on the rooftops and
the crowns of their heads.
In the matter of fear while flying, I
had some nervous moments flitting
around war-time New Guinea, where,
as the troops used to say, “all the clouds
have dirty big rocks in them,” but they
were nothing to my feelings on the last
leg of a flight from Sydney to New York,
The first leg of that flight wasn’t too
pleasant, either, partly because we were
in a “converted” Liberator bomber, and
partly because of the crew. The bomber
had seats which might have been com-
fortable for kangaroos with their tails
cut off, but were no good for humans,
and slight leakages from the fuel-tank,
in the wing, kept the fuselage so full of
petrol-fumes that we couldn’t smoke.
The crew were fine fellows, but the
-war was still on, and they were R.A.F.
types who felt passionately that they
ought to be bombing Germany, not look-
ing after British post-war transport plans
by flying odd lots of politicians, pub-
keepers and civil servants across the
Pacific. When we struck them they
really hated passengers.
The old aircraft staggered as far as
Auckland, landed like a lame duck, and
had to stay there for a couple of days
while some part or other was flown from
Australia. During this wait, and others
which occurred whenever and wherever
the Liberator got safely to the ground,
the crew decided that their current herd
of passengers were not as evil as most,
and things were better.
They told us their troubles, announced
that we could smoke one at a time in
the tiny compartment one expects to
find at the back of a passenger aircraft,
and merely winked when they saw us
making the hours shorter over a huge
stock of gin produced by two British
Navy men in the rules under
which we flew.
After about a week in the air and on
the ground together, I was sorry to leave
the crew and the crowd at San Francisco,
and in a luxuriously-fitted American
commercial airliner going through—yes,
through, not over—the Rocky Mountains
in southern California, I was a good deal
sorrier.
The whole country was in the grip
of snowstorms, and only our safety-belts
kept us on the floor instead of the roof
of the plane. Through my window I
got occasional glimpses of a beacon on
a mountain-top that looked about 2000 ft.
higher than we were. Then, when the
machine made a particularly horrible
lurch and lay more or less on its side
for a while, I saw through the opposite
window another, equally lofty, beacon
on the other side of us. “What am I
doing here?” I thought. But it was
rather too late to get out.
On that trip across the United States
I saw nothing but the topsides of ugly
snow-clouds all the way. Whenever we
dropped through these on to an airport-
strip we were held up until the weather
cleared at the next stop ahead. We
reached La Guardia Airport, New York,
17 hours late, at 3.30 a.m., and slept in
our whiskers on the waiting-room seats
until some of the city woke up. My
conviction that Australia was a pretty
good country, comparatively flat to fly
over and with a minimum of snow-
clouds, was strengthened, and my dislike
of air-travel not weakened.
A thing that made the journey addi-
tionally miserable was that they serve no
hquor on American internal airlines.
This, I was told, was because not only
the 48 States, but many times that
number of counties within the States,
have differing liquor laws, so that at the
speed of an aircraft even thinking about
a drink was probably illegal, or would
be in a minute. After the war, when the
big United States airlines resumed flying
to Europe, South America and every-
where else, they ran “dry ships,” but not
for long, because nearly everybody went
British, or French, or Dutch, for one
simple reason which was promptly per-
ceived by America’s brighter business
brains.
In contrast with the planes, America’s
splendid trains are, of course, famous for
lounge-cars in which ice tinkles and
bottles gurgle merrily, and travel is much
happier than it can be in Australia,
glumly fishing lukewarm bottles out of
a bag. Such comfort on trains is avail-
able in all the parts of North America
and Europe I visited, and as a natural
consequence there are fewer drunks than
on any long Australian train-trip.
In most ways, the American trains are
superb, but the common, double-decked,
canvas - enclosed sleeping - berths are
atrocious. For a night journey you need
just a little more money, which will rent
a “roomette,” exclusive to you, fully
equipped, and as trimly economical of
space as the cabin of a yacht. People
who have a lot more money can buy all
sorts of luxury.
Nowadays some passenger-trains go
right across America non-stop, but a
few years ago it seemed strange to hurtle
along at 60 or 80 miles an hour whenever
you were moving, and still take almost
as long to get to the other side of the
country as you would to train it from
Perth to Sydney.
Various factors, like the staggering
Rocky Mountains, did a bit to slow
things down, but the main trouble was
Chicago, where it was not merely neces-
sary to change trains, but to go to the
depot of another railroad company, on
the other side of the city, to do it. Why
the progressive Yanks put up with this
nonsense for so long nobody can say,
but eventually a couple of transport-
tycoons had a rush of brains to the
head, and put theirs together.
Even if they served liquor, American
airlines would not be superior to Aus-
tralian ones, in any respect, but it seems
that almost every place in the world that
has trains can teach us a lot about them,
in spite of our Spirit of Progress and
one or two other good ones.
In a huge country like the United
States high speed over the rails does
not prevent certain journeys from being
Rose Lindsay’s Memoirs
Next Week
"IN PARIS WITH
HUGH D. MclNTOSH"
Another fascinating instalment
of extracts from the unpublished
memoirs of Mrs. Norman Lindsay.
long, and it is in making the passenger
comfortable at least as much as in getting
him there in a hurry that they score.
They have, of course, a great class of
colored porters, waiters and attendants
which is not available here, but much of
the comfort comes from such things as
scrupulous cleanliness and the easy avail-
ability of other modest requirements as
well as grog—among them, food on a
different level from lukewarm station
dining-room fare, towels, magazines and
smiling courtesy.
From some points of view it might be
an idea to sell our railways to the
Yanks —if they would buy after having a
look at them.
If they ever did, one American railroad
man told me, eventually gauge-unification
would probably be to a sft. Sin. track,
rather than the widely-popular 4ft. Sin.
I don’t know how many other experts
share his opinion, but it is that the occa-
sional fearful smashes that still sometimes
mar the American railroad records, and
change the passenger comfort into agony
and death, are partly caused by the
great length, weight and speed of modem
trains on tracks that should be a little
wider for safety.
Unusual Occupations
FOR those who view with no
little horror the continued pros-
pect of earning their living in
a humdrum, unromantic way,
choice may be made, according to
taste and adaptability, from among
some appealing careers outlined
hereunder.
There are a limited number of
lighthouses around our coastline
where the lights shine up and down
the coast but do not revolve so that
the deeply-indented, contiguous bays
are illuminated. The job of light-
house-beam-bender involves nothing
more strenuous than anchoring in a
rowing-boat during cyclonic dis-
turbances about half a mile off-
shore and holding aloft a pole to
which has been fastened a mirror,
held so as to deflect the beam into
the bays and thus give warning to
sheltering fishing-craft, shipwrecked
mariners, etc. One great advantage
wnich this profession has over
politics, medicine, law and s.-p.
betting is that it is never in danger
of becoming too overcrowded.
Few are aware that the poultry
industry offers scope for talents in
the statistical-research sphere. There
is, for example, a steadily-growing
demand for men whose job it is to
supply poultryfarmers with accurate
estimates (obtained by a continuing
poll) of the proportion among
poultry-eaters of right-handed and
left-handed carvers. Upon these
vital statistics are determined the
exact percentage of birds which have
to be fattened accordingly.
Computers at ice-rinks who are
not subject to giddiness are assured
of remunerative and—in view of the
popularity of the very brief skirts
worn by ice-skaters—extremely
pleasant work. The duties are rela-
tively simple. The computer has to
keep his eye fixed, when he is not
otherwise pleasantly sightseeing, oil
a circumscribed area in the centre of
the rink where skaters are doing their
figure-eights. When the number
performed reaches the maximum set
for thin-ice safety (these are calcu-
lated on an adding-machine held as
he is skating around unobtrusively
on the outskirts) the computer puts
these figures beside various other
factors which have an effect also
upon the ice: height above sea-level,
wind-resistance, estimated weight of
each figure-skater, number of
smokers sitting in the side-seats, etc.
He is then in a sound position to
advise the manager if he should shift
the mugs into the centre, where they
may fall over each other in comfort,
and transfer the figure-skaters to the
still-thick ice on the edges.
The job of fire-prevention adviser
to businesses dealing in celluloid
products which are threatened with
bankruptcy through inability to get
rid of heavily-accumulated stocks can
be highly profitable. All that this
requires is tact combined with a
skilled knowledge of how to sur-
reptitiously extract the liquid used
in fire-extinguishers and replace with
high-octane petrol.
For those with a keen ear and a
defective nose the profession of
cheese-listening in the Stilton and
Gorgonzola sections of a cheese-
factory can hold considerable attrac-
tion. Contrary to the general im-
pression held by the layman, the
approaching maturity of such cheeses
is determined not by the ocular or
olfactory senses, but solely by the
auricular. Modern practice makes
it unnecessary to fetter or in any
way restrict the natural movements
of those vintage cheeses —the exercise
thus gained in their rambles has a
most beneficial effect on the aggres-
sive pungency of the self-propelling
cheese without making it muscle-
bound.
With the aid of an ultra-sensitive
stethoscope the skilled cheese-listener
can detect the first movements of
the mites, and it depends on his
judgment of their condition whether
the cheese is drugged into a torpid
state for a little longer to allow the
mites to develop better, or whether
they are stimulated to greater activity
by hypodermic injection.
A complementary profession is
that of mite-jump-measurer. Those
with a strong leaning to field sports
will find this, work of absorbing in-
terest. Side-bets on the hurdling
capabilities of the mites can also
make it quite profitable.
Here excellence of sight is a re-
quisite, for the hurdles are calibrated
in one-thousandths of an inch. This
work, however, demands the sup-
pression of the jump-measurer’s finer
feelings, for the cheese-mite, being
naturally of aa -amiable nature, has
to be cuffed to get him into that
state of anger which he can register
only by leaping as high as he can.
The height which he thus attains is
an infallible guide to the mite’s
vigor and consequently to the
potency of the cheese which is its
habitat.
Mite-extracting is a separate pro-
fession, and the Cheeseworkers’
Union will not allow a cheese-listener
or a mite-jump-measurer to do this
work. Those with a sensitive touch,
such as violin virtuosi and pick-
pockets, do best at this. To prevent
the mites being injured while being
extracted from the cheese for their
jumping-tests the operator has to
wear boxing-gloves.
Twin brothers might carve out
quite interesting careers for them-
selves as ceiling-height-checkers.
Each, however, would have to be
exactly 4ft. 9in. high. With one
standing on the other’s head they
would reach exactly 9ft. 6in., the
present standard ceiling-height, and
would thus make themselves invalu-
able in the building trade.
By stunting our own growths with
constant applications of gin my twin
brother and myself standardised our
heights at 5ft. Sin. and broke into
this profession, but when some idiot
dropped the height of ceilings, for
economy purposes, from the then
standard 10ft. 6in. we were out of
jobs. We now have secured the
fascinating work of measuring the
freeze-waves given off by artists’
models while working in mid-winter.
We find it’s safer and less expensive
working as a team.
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 11, 1953
VoL 74—No. 3813
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K* J* Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
STALIN
The death of Stalin has removed from the scene the
most absolute dictator the world has known in modern
times. He was more absolute than Napoleon, whose
regime was always unstable save in war. The cost of
his existence in human lives and human misery was
probably without parallel in history, for tyrants of old
ruled in a universe less populated.
He must take much responsibility not only for his
own vast purges, for his deliberate starvations of popula-
tions such as that which occurred in the Ukraine in the
middle years of his rule, but probably also for World
War 11. It is doubtful if the Nazis would have
attacked if not assured of an agreement with Russia.
It is little understood yet that the hardening in
Hitler’s attitude after Munich began to manifest itself
only when the U.S.S.R. made its approaches for an
alliance of friendship and partnership following the
Congress of the Communist Party of Russia held in
March, 1939.
Stalin was an international politician of genius
with only one peer in his times ; but, unlike Churchill,
who was his equal in this realm, he was devotee!
to the destruction of systems. He was unhampered by
any of the scruples which curbed others. His main,
and in fact only, objective was world-wide revolution
(outside of Russia), and the evidence of his genius was
that over a long period he almost succeeded in cloaking
his real intentions by an appeal to human idealism
and general yearning for peace and freedom,
and to the natural kindness of the human heart, while
practising a policy of ruthless cruelty and fraud and
maintaining public moral standards under which the
end alone justified the means.
The past few years have made it evident that the
whole policy of the Kremlin is based on an imperialism
as selfish and complete as that of any of the Tsars.
The objective of Russian Communism is Russian
conquest and domination of the world, and for that
purpose Russia has always lived under Stalin as France
lived under Napoleon —virtually on a war footing.
If the reign of the tyrant has taught anything new
it has been the terrible power of propaganda when
served by modern facilities. With a mass mind already
subdued and conditioned it was probably no great
task to secure complete control of the Russian and
satellite peoples. With an already organised army oi
terrorists the job was as easy as it is for a man stand-
ing over a victim with an axe. But it was another
matter to beguile and deceive large bodies of humanity
everywhere to the point at which they were prepared
to accept as a potential savior of civilisation an enemy
virtually at war with them and promoting sabotage
and treason wherever his emissaries went. Even now a
gullible minority, not insignificant, is ready to believe
in him as a savior, and another very large section in
civilised Western countries still exists with whom the
Russians have succeeded in allying themselves by
creating a muddied confusion of thinking whica
prevents apprehension of the real dangers arising from
their plans.
Stalin’s career was based from the beginning on
fraud. He was a minor figure until the illness of
Lenin. But a falsified career has been invented lor
him so that he appears in Russian histories as the equal
collaborator, or even forerunner in planning, of his
predecessor.
Any prominence which he obtained in the days
during which Lenin attained power was earned as a
military leader, not as a thinker and planner. His
accession was in the nature of the capture of an
unsuspecting political machine by the methods of a
Chinese warlord. His subsequent reign was cameo
on under conditions, and with the kind of assistants,
to be found in an Oriental robber-barony.
He was primarily and always an Asiatic. Ethics
and spiritual values as understood in the West were
unknown to him. No international agreement lasted
one second if it served his purpose to discard it. The
solemn undertakings entered into at Yalta were
jettisoned with a cynicism not to be equalled in modern
history.
Having swallowed every word which he and his
agents had uttered about the blood-drunk murderers
of Berlin, he entered into the closest relations with
them to divide the world. There is no doubt of this as
revealed by the papers discovered in the German
archives and embodying Molotov’s proposed agree-
ment of March, 1940. Russia’s share was to be the
*
Middle East and access to Africa and India for a start,
and Stalin was prepared to"give Eastern Asia and the
Pacific Ocean, including Australia, to Japan. These
things are beyond dispute. It was also revealed about
the beginning of World War IX that while he had
descanted in his world-wide propaganda on the horrors
of Fascism and aggression he had been employing the
resources of Italy to design and partly build him a new
navy.
The death or permanent removal from the world
scene of Stalin will have enormous effects. Lightning
rarely strikes twice in the same place, nor do miracles
immediately repeat themselves. Even if another Stalin
were at once to arise it would take years before he
could attain prestige and before his ascendancy and
security in the saddle became complete. He would
be forced to immolate all the leaders of the old regime
as Stalin did those of the Lenin period. Malenkov
stands in his place. Speculation is idle about his
permanent successor until he is established. Before
long the imperial power must fall into the hands of
one of the younger and more vigorous warlords. But
whoever succeeds he can never have Stalin’s influence
either in Russia or among Russia’s satellites.
The change may not make the world immediately
safer or bring permanent peace instanter, for many an
aspiring Asiatic and Eastern European has risen to
power and secured the backing of the mob by a call
to arms in “defence” of his country. War is a maker
of tyrants. The change will, however, loosen the links
which hold the Communist structure together and
weaken the fifth-columns of Western countries, which
will find it difficult to promulgate the thesis that though
the greatest savior of mankind is dead another one
is ready-made to take his place.
Whatever mourning there will be for Stalin it can
be said of him that he himself created more mourners
than any other man in the period of recorded history.
Wherever he walked blood flowed and danger to
civilisation stalked. Without him there might be a
chance of a change of atmosphere.
The Credit Myth
Of all the fallacies that plague Australian political
■thinking, probably the most persistent and, because
of its insidious promise of something-for-nothing, the
most demoralising, is the doctrine that all our economic
ills can be cured by a dose of a magical specific called
credit. Usually the myth is supported by some
demagogic platitude such as “Money should be the
servant, not the master,” or “The only limit to, credit
should be the availability of men and resources,” both
of which are sufficiently vague to be made to mean
whatever the speaker or listener wants them to mean.
The success of the doctrine is due to a mixture of over-
simplication and overmystification. The over-
simplifying starts from the premise that banks create
credit and proceeds to the assumption that it is just
as easy and just as painless to create a hundred million
pounds as one. The overmystifymg is done by the
priestcraft of economic experts, near-experts and
pseudo-experts who contrive to obscure their subject
in a cloud-screen of jargon and hocus-pocus.
Australian history provides the perfect answer to
all this. If the credit story is valid today, it must have
been equally valid a century-and-a-half ago ; econoniic
truths do not change with changing years. Before the
white man came to Australia the aborigines had no
wages-system, no money-system. Each member of
the tribe did his appointed tasks. All were fed. If
drought came to the land it meant less food, lower
living standards. There was no means of storing food
for the lean years, so there was no system of credit,
since there can be no credit without stocks or reserves
on which to base it. It is obvious that no amount of
credit could have improved the lot of the blacks, or
have made their supplies go any further.
With the coming of the First Fleet the conditions
necessary for testing the theory that full employment
and full stomachs can be guaranteed through full use
of credit were surely introduced to the land. In
Captain Phillip’s day there was plenty of labor available
and unlimited work to be done. Rations were pro-
vided for everyone, bond or free. And the military-
penal-settlement organisation of the colony gave its
rulers all the powers of absolute direction of labor
which are deemed necessary for the success of the
Socialist-bureaucratic State. Yet, when rations ran
low, as they did on more than one occasion in the
early years, no system of credit could increase the
amount of food available or reduce the misery caused
by its shortage. Phillip’s only solution was to reduce
the ration-scale until relief-ships arrived, and no modern
economist would be able to offer any alternative
suggestion., Extra work could have helped, but only
if it resulted in the production of more food. Extra
work merely for the sake of maintaining full employ-
ment would have been useless.
In earlier times, when employer-employee rela-
tionships were more direct and the mechanism for t >-
exchange of goods relatively uncomplicated, no one
had any difficulty in recognising that credit was merely
a form of assistance given by one person to another.
No one pretended that it was conjured up out of thin
air without someone forgoing something. With the
increasing complication of modern industry this truth
is not so obvious. A largely artificial wages-system, a
complex monetary structure, plus, in Australia, an
obvious abundance of primary products, make plausible
the idea that credit-expansion can, of itself, create
wealth. It cannot. It can redistribute wealth and, if
the redistribution is too sudden or too drastic, it can
eventually destroy wealth. The linut of redistribution
is reached when so much rs taken from the real
producers and savers that their incentive to further
production is killed. If the taking is by means of
controls or taxation, the cause of the fallmg-off is
readily demonstrable. If inflation is the means—as in
the case of overenthusiastic expansion of credit—the
culprit is not so easily recognised.
If credit-expansion enthusiasts would put aside
their prejudices for a while they would realise that a
community cannot have or consume more than it
produces. A section of it may do so at the expense
of other sections, but that is a condition that cannot
continue indefinitely. Credit-expansion to permit
greater production means that some section of tb-
community forgoes a present benefit to secure a future
gain either for itself or others. If greater production
does not result, the loss is permanent. If production
falls, disaster is not far off.
In Australia the fosterers of the credit myth are
not all actuated by the same motives. Some preach
the creed in sheer ignorance of its dangers, others with
full knowledge, but in the hope that it will bring our
present social system tumbling down in ruins, thus
giving them a chance to build their own particular
brand of New Order on the wreckage of the old.
Others again have no real care one way or the other,
but merely use it as a convenient catch-cry to enable
them to scramble back to office.
Manipulation of credit is no substitute for work.
This was true when Australia belonged to the blacks ;
it was true in the days of the convict system. It
remains true under Menzies and Fadden and, despite
multi-tongued cries to the contrary, it would still be
true in the Socialist Utopia of the Evatt-Ward-Calwell
dreams.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Not So Gloomy
The five State elections held recently may
not be a true pointer to what the Senate
results will be next May.
Westralia’s poll resulted in a win for
“Labor” by a whisker ; but the swing was
not more than 1 per cent., and, as one
“Labor” M.P. remarked last week: “We
didn’t beat them. They beat themselves.”
The Victorian result was only what
was to be expected in the circumstances
surrounding State politics. The N.S.W.
poll, with 23 “Labor” men unopposed
and the electorates cut to pieces by gerry-
mandering, plus the manner in which the
campaign was fought in most electorates
by the Liberals (as opposed to the C.P.,
which had good organisation and achieved
good results), was again a poor guide to
the exact nature of the drift.
Nobody can judge Queensland. It does
not operate on the Federal roll, but has
its own peculiar lists divided in its own
very peculiar way. In 1950 the Govern-
ment polled 14,392 votes less than the
Liberal-C.P. parties, yet it won 43 seats
to the Liberal-C.P.’s 30. In June, 1951,
the year after this result was obtained, the
Liberal-C.P. won the Senate with 366,750
votes to 259,070, winning six seats to
“Labor’s” four, and in the Representa-
tives 14 seats to four. The votes cast last
Saturday gave “Labor” 292,054 to Liberal-
C.P. 228,832, with some thousands to
come. The total polling on Monday was
still at least 150,000 below the number
of the Senate votes cast in 1951 —676,850.
In 1951 there were 710,518 on the
Federal roll in Queensland. So that the
State poll means little. That sort of
thing has been happening ever since
1917-18, when T. J. Ryan won 48 to
24 in the State election and the
Nationalists virtually swept the State at
the Federal elections, winning all the
Senate seats and all the Lower House
seats except three.
In South Australia Mr. Playford went
to the poll with a handicap which he had
built up himself. His own encourage-
ment to industry has brought an influx
of porkers, the bulk of whom vote
“Labor.” The conditions which he faced
are illustrated by the fact that the Liberal
vote to Monday morning, when there
were still thousands of papers to come
in, showed an increase of 8000 compared
with 1950, but the “Labor” vote had
increased from 105,642 to 156,642 —total
on roll, 353,412— partly by increased
numbers, 'partly by the fact that “Labor”
contested some seats not fought in 1950.
However, from a Senate viewpoint the
election was a bad criterion, since only
15 seats were fought on party lines.
“Labor” did not stand against L.C.L.
in 12 seats, L.C.L. against “Labor” in
11 and neither against an independent in
Ridley.
On results of Australia-wide State elec-
tions the Commonwealth Government
has no reason for despair. But it does
need to improve its public-relations
set-up.
Bank Bills Pass
The banking bills passed their second-
reading and committee stages in Parlia-
ment last week in an atmosphere the like
of which is rarely seen.
Few Liberals or C.P. men were at all
satisfied with the bills. There was even
some dissatisfaction amongst Ministers.
The main bone-of-contention was the
failure to give the two branches of the
Commonwealth Bank separate boards.
As one critic remarked; “The Parlia-
ment has decreed that the two institutions
live on opposite sides of the passage but
in the same house. They will use the
same kitchen and dining-room, and no-
body will be in a position to know how
they interpret their relationship behind
the domestic doors.”
The Opposition was unable to take
full advantage of the situation. Any hope
it had of doing so was killed by the
devastating second-reading speech of Mr.
Holt, one of the best analytical efforts
heard in the House for many a day,
which clearly pictured the wide evident
difference in the expressed viewpoint of
Dr. Evatt, the leader, and his immediate
followers, and that of Mr. Calwell, the
Deputy Leader, and his followers. While
Dr. Evatt holds that nationalisation of
banking is dead, slain by the vote of
1949, Mr, Calwell continues to preach
and promise the destruction of the trad-
ing banks as soon as opportunity offers.
It has become a matter of taunt from
the Government benches.
The banking bills are likely to have
little effect on the Senate poll, and no
issue is in sight for the remainder of the
session which is likely to improve
Labor’s” position. On the whole, the
majority of ordinary members are in-
clined to feel that the main Senate-election
issues will be bread-and-butter ones such
as taxation, with tactics, independent
candidates carrying party labels and
measures for getting full polls of sup-
porters as the determining factors.
Voices and False Echoes
On those occasions when “Labor” decides
it is politic to walk warily and to play
down the more extreme planks of the
party platform there are usually a few
recalcitrants who, either to attract atten-
tion to themselves or because they suspect
their colleagues of acting a little too
realistically for a game of pretends, insist
on banging the big drum and making it
clear that, as far as they are concerned,
there will be no deviating from the party
objective—the socialisation of the means
of production, distribution and exchange.
Foremost among these bumble-footed
forthrights is East Sydney’s Eddie Ward,
ever ready to stub his toes by rushing in
where the tacticians of the party have
decided not to tread.
At the time the Chifley Bank Nationali-
sation Act was before the Privy Council,
Ward said:
Irrespective of the decision of the Privy
Council, once Labor has spoken and said
the banks" are to be nationalised the issue
is beyond doubt. It is only a question of
when we shall be able to do it,
In caucus a couple of weeks ago Ward
tried to persuade his colleagues to go
flat-out for nationalisation, but, the
current policy being to lie doggo, he got
no support. When he spoke in the
banking-bill debate last week he repeated
his prophecy of the inevitability of bank-
nationalisation, and there was a general
feeling that he was about to spill the
beans again. However, someone must
have been around with a muzzle or
soothing-powders, because Eddie stepped
right out of character and did a little
playing-down himself. Bank-nationalisa-
tion, it appears, “will be done by con-
stitutional methods” because “Labor”
would not do anything “against the
wishes of the people.” It would hold a
referendum on bank-nationalisation.
If that is the best Eddie can do in his
unaccustomed role of soft-soap merchant,
he had better stick to bean-spilling.
“Labor” has no intention of holding a
referendum on bank-nationalisation, and
when last in power it showed not the
slightest hesitancy about doing things
“against the wishes of the people.” The
1948 Eddie was the real voice; the 1953
version is merely a tongue-in-the-cheek
imitation. Another 1948 voice, that of
Senator Armstrong, did mention a
referendum. He said that if the Bank
Nationalisation Act was judged uncon-
stitutional it would be brought into effect
“by referendum or other means.” He
continued: “There are men of sufficient
ingenuity in the Cabinet who will see
that the Act is brought into existence.”
Senator Armstrong will get his chance
to speak on the pew banking bill this
week. It will be interesting to see whether
he, like Ward, promises that the party
will play fair, or whether he still pins his
faith to men of ingenuity.
Bulk-loading for Sugar
According to W. J. McKinley, of the
Sugar Board, the 1952 sugar-crop will
probably be worth just on £4O million
to Queensland. Mr. McKinley bases his
estimate on £19.75 million from Aus-
tralian consumption and £19.5 million
from export and carryover. Whatever
the final figure, it is clear that sugar is
second only to wool as an income-earner
from the State’s soil.
Sugar’s importance from other aspects
may be assessed from the fact that there
are more than 6000 sugargrowers, to
which must be added a very large labor
force engaged in growing, harvesting and
transporting cane, in crushing- and
refining-mills, on the sugar-port wharves,
and in a hundred other activities associ-
ated with sugar-production. The next-
largest number of crop-growers is in
wheat (3700), and nothing like the same
labor force is engaged.
Since 1945 both production and con-
sumption have increased. So has the
congestion at sugar ports. These, not
equipped for more than a leisurely
handling of pre-war tonnage, and with
the loading-rate per wharf-gang cut down
through union policy and the Communist
conspiracy to bottle-up or chokS-down
Australian industry wherever possible,
now face a hopeless problem of dispatch
and storage. All last season there were
loss and delay in getting rid of the sugar
(more than 933,000 tons), which came
in on top of the carryover from the
previous season, and Mr. McKinley fore-
casts that this year 300,000 tons more
will have to be transported.
More sugar-farms, bigger mill-peaks,
growing home and export demands and
bigger yields hang poised over an out-
moded handling-system .which is on the
blink. Already the mills have been told
by the board that they should provide
storage for at least 45 p.c. of their peaks
—a peak is the maximum amount of cane
a piill may contract for in a season.
The answer, obviously, is bulk-loading.
It was forced on the wheat States by
the very same factors which confront
the sugar State: Rapidly-expanding pro-
duction smothering handling facilities.
Manhandling facilities would be a better
term. And even if the present wharf-
labor force in the sugar ports doubled
the loading-rates, congestion would still
be there. Last season sugar was stored
in shire halls, houses, showground
pavilions and anywhere else that would
hold a bag or two. There is a very real
danger of mills being unable to handle
the coming harvest.
T.Y. In Australia
From M. F. Dixon, a former senior
officer of the Australian Broadcasting
Commission:
There is room for difference of opinion about
whether Australia should have a single or dual
system of television; the widely held view that
we cannot afford any system at all at the present
time is entitled to respect; but most people
will approve the Government’s decision not to
commit itself at this stage to naming the A.B.C.
as the national television authority. The pro-
vision in the bill that the A.B.C. “or some
other.... approved authority.... shall operate
the national service” leaves the Government free
to choose someone other than the commission
if it feels that this would bring better results.
No doubt it would have suited the A.B.C. to
have the matter decided in its favor now; but
so many important issues are at stake, and the
chairman of the commission has so frequently
expressed doubts about the wisdom of exposing
the Australian public to the influence of television
programmes, that a hasty decision to name the
A.B.C. as the national television authority could
have unfortunate consequences, both from a
financial and programme point of view.
For the public the choice of the national
licence-holder is even more important than the
commercial. Private enterprise will meet the
cost of the commercial service, but for a long
time national television will be a charge against
consolidated revenue; and it is imperative that
the operating authority should have the courage,
initiative and high-class showmanship to set a
new high standard for this latest form of home-
entertainment.
If the A.B.C. bases its claim on its broad-
casting record the case is not impressive. Over
the years it had a unique opportunity of
becoming the biggest entertainment force in
Australia, but failed to take advantage of it.
With the possible exception of news, its pro-
grammes have always lagged far behind leading
commercial stations in popular appeal. Its
achievements in music have been more or less
spectacular; but it could have served listeners
better and, incidentally, saved itself some
money by broadcasting its concert programmes
in full over the two networks instead of
stubbornly sticking to half-programme broad-
casts (and usually the second half at that)
on one network.
A few years ago the commission based its
case for a television service on its ability to
run it cheaper than anyone else. No one can
run a good television service cheaply, least of
all the A.8.C., which has developed over the
years an administrative system rivalling in com-
plexity and cost the organisation required to
produce programmes. With millions more to
spend, under television, the A.B.C. would soon
build another vast organisational network which
would absorb more than a reasonable propor-
tion of the money appropriated for pure enter-
tainment purposes.
In my opinion the A.B.C. has gone stale on
the job, and is in no way fitted to make a
success of television. Far better allow it to
potter along with its broadcasting problems and
create a new organisation fired with the courage,
initiative and enthusiasm necessary to make a
success of the great new entertainment medium
of television, whenever it is introduced.
No Cash, No Cars
It isn’t only in Sydney that American
cars, large bundles of notes, betting losses,
trustful people who don’t worry about
receipts, and bankruptcy proceedings go
hand-in-hand. Over in New Zealand
they are saying, with a certain amount of
justifiable pride, that Australians are
pikers compared with the home-grown
product.
At Invercargill, in Otago Province in
the South Island, Oliver Gibson Scott,
an adjudged bankrupt, has been giving a
meeting of creditors a few details of his
financial transactions. Invercargill is a
city with a population of about 25,000,
and its hinterland includes a number of
small towns. Scott’s creditors seem to be
scattered throughout the whole province,
with a few spilling over into Canterbury
—some as far afield as Christchurch—
but they apparently have, or had, one
thing in common —an ambition to possess
an American car.
There are over 60 names on the list
of unsecured creditors, but Scott inti-
mated that there might be more ; he had
prepared the list from memory, as he had
kept no books of account and had
destroyed the butts of cheque-books as
soon as the books were finished. The
list he handed in totalled £99,340, but
“there could be another £10,000. Some
creditors had written-off debts.”
Scott told the official assignee that
most of the money had been lost on the
races. He “bet heavily,” and “on a rough
estimate” had lost between £60,000 and
£70,000 —mostly to bookmakers. He
claimed that he now had no money or
investments ; no person was .holding any
money or security on his behalf, and he
had not made any gifts or sent any money
or securities out of the country in the
last five years. He would swear on oath
that he had no “plant.” Asked how he
accounted for the rest of the money,
Scott said he had given £20,000 in notes
to a man at the City Hotel in Dunedin.
He understood the man was connected*
with the motor-trade and would be able
to arrange the purchase of 20 American
cars. He did not get a receipt for the
money and he had not seen the man since.
After Scott had agreed that he had a
fair knowledge of business methods the
official assignee asked whether he wbuld
say it was normal to pay £20,000 in notes
to a man in a hotel without getting a
receipt. Scott replied: “At the time
money was plentiful and the people and
myself were willing to take the risk.”
When Scott said “I admit quite openly
that I have been a fool,” the official
assignee commented, “Like many of your
creditors.” One wonders whether he
heard a rueful chuckle coming from a
couple of thousand miles away.
What of the Lean Years?
In the Old Testament story of Joseph
and his rise to power in Egypt, Joseph
himself naturally occupies the limelight,
and thus appears as the wondrous inter-
preter of dreams and the able and honest
executive who saves Egypt from disaster
when the famine comes.
Not nearly enough credit is. given the
Pharaoh of the story. He dreamed of
seven fat cattle devoured'by seven lean
ones, and of seven, rich ears of wheat
devoured by seven withered ones. The
Hebrew writer of the story lets it go at
that, bringing his hero in to interpret
the dreams.
Modern psychologists would rightly see
in the Pharaoh’s dream the worries of a
ruler emerging from the subconscious
during sleep. This Pharaoh was plainly
worried by the situation. All Egypt was
thriving, agriculturally and commercially.
“The Land of Rameses” was the envy of
the countries round about it. Psychology
applied to the dream plainly suggests that
the Pharaoh was troubled by what might
happen when the good seasons ended and
commerce fell away.
The story also suggests that the Pharaoh
knew something about mass psychology.
Though his people—and priests—attached
the utmost significance to dreams it would
not do for the ruler to begin issuing
warnings of a bad time to come. There
would at least be murmurs against him,
and ancient Egypt had its pressure-groups.
He had heard of a foreign slave with a
reputation for wisdom and works of
wonder, so he called him in. The rest
we know.
There is no Pharaoh in Australia to-
day. But Australia has had seven re-
markable years. Seven years of lush
seasons generally, of high agricultural
years, of high prices for export land
products, of consequent rich commercial
returns, the whole employable community
working short hours for high pay, an
unprecedented era of prosperity.
The question of when the inevitable big
drought comes, together with the falling-
off in. exports and the consequent effect
on commerce and employment is not
nearly as important as the fact that un-
less a modern Pharaoh-Joseph combina-
tion gets busy to make provision for the
bad time, we’ll be caught short.
So far, there is no national effort to
store away riches, either in the form of
storable land products, cash or other
reserves. The spending jag goes on as
though the past seven years of good
season and general prosperity will repeat
themselves for a long time to come.
But, if past Australian weather history
means anything, the seven lean years are
almost ready to emerge from the Aus-
tralian Nile and begin their devastation
of the land.
Doyle Saga—Continued
George Malcolm Willmore, estate
agent, before the Bankruptcy Registrar
in Sydney on March 4, said among other
things: —
That on January 13 he cashed a cheque
for Reginald Aubrey Doyle, described as
professional punter and investor, for £3500
((Continued on page 7)


and it was subsequently met by the Rural
Bank.
That a further cheque for £3250 cashed
on January 15 was twice dishonored, as
was one for £3OOO tendered on January 16
and one for £6250 given on January 27,
though this was met on January 30.
That Doyle, in the Chairman of Com-
mittee’s room at State Parliament House,
had shown him two cheques, one for
£27,000 and one for £28,000. They were
apparently Government cheques, purporting
to be signed by Hawkins and Roland
Wilson. He said that Doyle had men-
tioned Placer shares to him in the office
of Mr, Joe Arthur, Mines Minister.
That Doyle “appeared to have two
offices in one building—Parliament House”
—and that he had seen him in one office
there on top of a stairway, “outside the
Chairman of Committees” and in the other
outside the office of the Minister for Mines
and Immigration (Mr. Arthur). He also
had telephoned him at the Parliament
House number, 80351, extension 277, and
at 8W9429.
Mr. Willmore added that Doyle was
acquainted with most of the State Ministers
of the Crown, and addressed them by their
Christian-names. He said that “he trusted
Doyle implicitly, and did not think Parliament
House would be a sanctuary for swindlers.”
On one occasion he declared that his firm
had a law suit with the Housing Commission,
and “because of Doyle’s great influence at
Parliament House” he suggested to him that
he might be able to do something about it.
As a result, he received a letter which appeared
to be signed by Mr. Clive Evatt, the Minister,
but Mr. Evatt later denied that it was his
signature.
Meanwhile Mr. Cahill assured the public
that the royal commission on the Doyle case
would sit as soon as possible, and received a
strange “deputation” from the Speaker and
President of the Legislative Council, Parlia-
mentary officers and the Crown Solicitor to
discuss “whether a reference to Reginald
Aubrey Doyle’s use of Parliamentary telephones,
rooms and privileges should be retained in the
terms of the royal commission.” He “asked
the deputation to put its submissions in writing
and he would submit them to Cabinet.”
The truth appears to be that the Government
has been from the first in a quandary about
privilege, which exists not to protect members
but to enable them to protect the public against
the Executive. If Mr. Arthur’s Ministerial
room in which administrative business is done
by him —and others, if the evidence before the
Bankruptcy Court is correct —is a place of
privilege, Parliamentary law and principle must
have been revolutionised. There also appears
to be considerable doubt about whether there
is much privilege for the State Parliament to
waive in some other parts of what purport to
be its precincts.
In any case, whatever privileges Parliament
has must be waived. The inquiry is serious
enough to be conducted not by a judge
appointed by the Government, but by three, as
is done in vital matters in England, appointed
by the Chief Justice. And Parliament should
remain in session while it is being held.
POLITICAL POINTS
Last Saturday’s elections: Gair and
Co, back with strongly reinforced seats ;
Playford somewhat tattered, but holding
up.
• •
In Queensland, “Labor” looks like hav-
ing almost two-thirds of the seats in the
new Parliament. On Monday the count
was: “Labor,” 47; Independent
“Labor,” 1 ; Country party, 15 ; Liberal,
8 ; Independent, 1; and there were three
seats still in doubt. In each of these —
Mulgrave, Roma and Somerset —the
Country-party man was trailing “Labor”,
by a couple of hundred votes, but was
expected to pick up as counting pro-
ceeded. The three seats could go to either
party by a handful of votes.
• •
“Labor” faced the task of winning seyen
or eight seats in the S.A. election to be
able to form a Government; it seems to
have won only three—Norwood, Prospect
and Victoria—and to have lost Murray.
This assumes that absentee votes enable
the Liberal sitting member for Unley,
Dunnage, to wipe out the deficit of 25
which stood against him on Monday.
Torrens is also a possible “Labor” gain.
The state of parties in the S.A. Parlia-
ment, barring last-minute upsets, should
be: Liberal Country League, 20;
“Labor,” 15 ; Independents, 4.
9 9
All who oppose Socialism will feel
better since S.A. Premier Playford
was able to stem the tide on Satur-
day and remain in office. If “Labor”s”
run of popularity elsewhere lasts into
next year he may find himself playing
the role he played in the early post-war
years—leader of the only non-“ Labor”
Government in Australia. The Liberal
win in South Australia means an end to
“Labor’s” hopes of introducing Socialism
by the back door —by passing identical
legislation in the six State Parliaments.
• •
Ward got on to one of his favorite
cheer-chasing schemes in the course of
the banking debate —the Commonwealth
Bank to “provide finance for home-
builders at interest sufficient only to
cover the cost of issuance and adminis-
tration, and certainly no greater than
1 to 1 i per cent.” These next-to-no-
interest theorists never trouble to advance
arguments why one section of home-
builders should be granted preferential
treatment (at the expense of the whole
community) over others or, for that
matter, why home-builders should get
preference over food-buyers or clothes-
buyers,
• •
After a one-day session the N, S.
Wales Parliament is to go into recess for
about four months. With public funds
so short it mightn’t be a bad idea to try
letting some of the vacant rooms for
the period of the recess. Office accommo-
dation in Sydney is still difficult to come
by, and “a room at Parliament House”
should command a good rental.
• o
Premier Cain has promised to “review”
his State’s marketing boards. If he’d
said “abolish” the yell of approval would
havt rung from Melbourne to the
Murray.
• •
Some “Labor” members interpret “full
employment” as meaning that once a man
is on the payroll no power on earth
should be able to remove him, no matter
what he does. That famous orator Dan
Curtin recently complained about dis-
missals from the Department of Supply,
and when Supply-Minister Beale replied
that about 30 men had been dismissed
from the Botany workshops for miscon-
duct Curtin demanded a withdrawal of
the statement and a list of the names.
Beale told the House that his stores and
transport section was being rid of
“thieves, boozers and no-hopers, who
have been spoiling the job for honest
people.” About: 30 men had been dis-
missed from Botany and elsewhere for
“misdemeanors ranging from theft to
drunkenness and insubordination.” He
said he was “staggered” by the request for
publication of the names.
Boss Ferguson, of Sydney Milk Board,
having issued an edict that all Sydney
must have its milk delivered in bottles,
will introduce into hitherto peaceful
homes a cry hitherto limited to pubs and
clubs: “Let’s knock the top off
another.”
• 0
Bunbury and Northam (W.A.) have
between them given their State five
Premiers. Bunbury was the birthplace
of John Forrest, first Premier of W.A.,
and Newton Moore, who took office in
1906 after Westralia had had seven Gov-
ernments in five years. His Administra-
tion lasted till 1910, when he was
appointed Agent-General; he later
entered the House of Commons and
died in England shortly before World
War 11. Northam’s first two Premiers
were George Throssell, whose term lasted
only three months, 12 days, and
Jimmy Mitchell, 1919-24 and 1930-33.
The third is Albert Hawke, who came
along in 1933 as a political unknown,
toppled Mitchell from the Northam seat
and has held it ever since.
• • ■
J. E. Marriott, selected to fill the
Senate vacancy caused by the death of
Tasmanian Senator Chamberlain, is a
son of Tasmania’s blind M.L.A. who sat
as member for Darwin from 1922 to
1941 and for Bass until 1946, when he
Was succeeded by another son, Francis.
All three are Liberals; J.E. has recently
been secretary to Opposition-leader
THE ROW IN OUR BOARDING-HOUSE
Townley. His first term in the Senate
will be a short one; he’ll have to face
the electors in May.
• •
The royal commission which was
appointed by the McDonald Government
to inquire into charges of alleged bribery
made against certain members of the
Victorian Parliament is now dead. A
post-mortem would probably reveal the
cause as malnutrition or inanition. The
last rites were performed in the Victorian
Assembly last week when Premier Cain,
announcing that the costs of the commis-
sion so far had been £9 6s. 4d., moved
a resolution limiting expenditure to £lO,
Carried without dissent. This typically
Parliamentary device for arriving at the
truth was received with laughter. Former
Liberal-leader Norman, who originally
laid the charges, is no longer in the
House and apparently none of his col-
leagues now wants the probe continued.
9 9
Calwell was asking one of those ques-
tions which begin with “Is it a fact?” A
Government member interjected “Well,
that’s wrong, for a start.” Calwell hit
back, “It is not.” In came Speaker
Cameron: “If the honorable member
knows the answer why is he asking the
question?”
• •
From Westminster:
Sir Hartley Shawcross, lately President of the
Board of Trade in the Attlee Cabinet and one-
time favorite for the Foreign Office, is a
Queen’s Counsel who, is reputed to be earning
£50,000 a year at the Bar. His defence of the
wealthy industrialist, Sir Bernard Docker, in
the currency case has added considerably to
his standing in the legal world. It has also
weakened his popularity, never very high, in
the Labor “movement.” For Sip Hartley’s
forensic skill is held to be misapplied since
his client was not “one of us.” Moreover, he
is so busy attending to his practice, and, pre-
sumably, making money that he can spare
little time for routine Parliamentary duties.
The implication is that he is ready enough to
accept high Cabinet office when such is avail-
able but not to take his share of the humdrum
and unrewarding duties of opposition. Also,
like the late John Maynard Keynes, his manner
of living differs widely from that of the
proletarian—the country estate rather than the
suburban villa. But, to say the least, his client’s
surname is unfortunate for his political future,
for he is already being referred to, wryly, as a
second Ernie Bevin: viz., as “the Dockers’
Q.C.”
• •
Queensland Liberals shouldn’t give up
hope of shifting the “Labor” incubus
from their State. After all, just when
prickly pear appeared to be permanently
established, cactoblastis was discovered.
• •
Aftermath of the Liquor Commission
—if an incomplete commission can have
an aftermath. During last year the
Licensing Reduction Board refused to
renew the licences of nine spirit merchants
and the permits of four restaurants be-
cause of information concerning them
given in evidence at the commission.
Incidentally, why do they call it the
Licensing Reduction Board? During the
year 41 new licences were issued.
• •
The old agitation to have the Sydney
fiying-boat base moved from Rose Bay
to Botany Bay arose again last week, and
on the same old grounds. Residents near
the base say they don’t like the noise.
It doesn’t occur to them that residents
around Botany Bay wouldn’t like the
noise, either. And for anyone proud of
their city it’s far better to land visitors
in Rose Bay than Botany Bay.
Acting-Premier Power told Queens-
landers their State got about £3 million
from tourists last year and that a lot
more is expected from them this year.
He must expect a big influx of southern
politicians this winter —all on special
missions and all accompanied by their
families.
• •
The New-State movement in New
England will ask the Commonwealth
to prepare a statement concerning the
national income of New England in com-
parison with the rest of New South
Wales and other existing States on the
basis of a five-year period. According
to the Government Statistician New Eng-
land has an annual production of nearly
£lOO million. This would make it the
fourth State of the Commonwealth.
• •
Opposition-leader O’Halloran accused
Playford of acting as if he had put the
uranium in the ground at Radium Hill.
Playford replied that Nature put it there,
but that his Government was the only
one that was doing anything about getting
ii out.
• •
Lacking a definite policy, Premier
Gair asked Queenslanders to vote for
his party’s “long-range policy.” Brisbane
“Courier - Mail” commented that
“Labor’s” policy had certainly had a very
long range—“ Labor” Governments had
been promising rapid expansion of water-
conservation and irrigation schemes for
more than 30 years. “Many people on
the land have grown old waiting for
them.” And it looks as if they’ll have
to go on waiting and growing old,
• •
One of McDonald’s Agrarians, loudly
asserting in the Victorian Legislative
Assembly that dairyfarmers are “being
robbed” because the Cain Government
won’t sanction a price-increase for milk,
asserted “Milk is cheaper than beer.” Is
it? Take the excise-duty from beer and
add the Commonwealth dairy subsidy to
milk and the pint-for-pint comparison
would be absurd.'
• •
Hawaii looks like becoming the 49th
State of the U.S.A. any moment now. A
Congressional committee has recom-
mended its admission, the President has
indicated approval of the idea and now
it is apparently just a matter of going
through the legal formalities and finding
a place on Old Glory for the extra star.
• •
Trapped on the Molonglo:
The most popular Standing Order of the
Reps, with “Labor” is No. 78, which provides
that the Speaker shall intervene when offensive
words are used about (inter alia ) the Parliament
or any of its members. It is the offended
member who decides whether he is offended.
He stands up and says that the “words are
offensive to me,” and asks for their with-
drawal. The Speaker automatically orders a
withdrawal of the words. If the user does
not withdraw, the Speaker names him.
Speaker Cameron has no love for the proceed-
ing—he himself fell a victim to it years ago
when, from the Treasury Bench, he described
Arthur Wilson, of Wimmera, as a “cleanskin,”
and, refusing to withdraw that innocent tribute
to independence, was named and sent out
without any of his fellow-Ministers, Mr.
Menzies included, coming to his aid. The
order remained a great standby of “Labor”
during the period when it was under accusa-
tion of Communist associations.
Last Friday Mr. Menzies, a member of the
Standing Orders Committee, accused “Labor”
of an organised smear campaign against A.N.A.
Up popped Mr. Calwell with Order 78. Mr.
Cameron, who has a long memory, told Mr.
Menzies that he must either withdraw or move
disagreement with his ruling. The Prime Minister
moved dissent, remarking that if statements
such as his were regarded as offensive political
debate would become impossible. The roar
which went up from the “Labor” benches was
like that of a whole truckful of tigers with
toothache, Mr. Calwell’s sweet tenor accents
soaring above the rest in an assurance that
he had never more reluctantly voted on the
side of the Speaker (who had not obliged him
by naming the P.M.). He sounded like a man
who would like to officiate on the 200th anni-
versary of the last beheading to take place in
Britain. The occasion falls this year; the
name of the victim of that execution was
Archie Cameron. Standing Order 78 now
seems in jeopardy.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Cauboy”: Strike me lucky! Chief
Secretary Galvin, after surveying the
Folies at Melbourne Tiv., made the state-
ment that alongside the Stiffy and Mo
shows of 30 years ago this was a Sunday-
school picnic. I attended many of Mo’s
shows as a critic. Within a few minutes
of his appearance that master of innuendo
created such an aroma of suggestion that
even the mention of such natural phe-
nomena as babies submerged the whole
house in convulsive laughter. The queer-
looking comedian showed up the futility
of censorship. It was not what was
revealed, but what was suggested that
produced the laughter, and a charge of
pornography wouldn’t have had a hope
in a law-court. Mo packed the place
twice daily for his last season, and The
Bulletin farewelled him with what was
probably the shortest dramatic notice in
history—“Melb. Tiv. —No Mo.”
☆ ☆ ☆
“Wackford”: On the rare occasions I
have to inflict corporal punishment on
pupils I ask the victim if he has any
physical disability that would be affected
by the cane. The answer is generally
“No,” but sometimes a boy will make an
attempt to evade the punishment. Till
recently I regarded as the best answer,
“Yes, sir. We don’t believe in the cane,
but I don’t suppose that will count.” But
now I’ve encountered a better —“Yes. It
hurts my fingers.”
“Tamana”: The plaque on the C. J.
Dennis memorial cairn recently erected
at the poet’s home, Arden, Toolangi
(Vic.), states that The Sentimental Bloke
was written there. The late J. G. Roberts,
a former chairman of the Melbourne
Tramways Board, told me that Dennis
wrote “the Bloke” in one of the old dis-
used Melbourne cable-trams that he (Mr.
Roberts) had had moved to his property
near the Sherbrooke Forest at Kallisfa.
“The Bloke,” in part, first appeared in The
Bulletin, and the first edition of the
book, illustrated by Hal Gye and dedi-
cated to Mr. and Mrs. Roberts, appeared
in Sydney in 1915. The question is: Did
Dennis know Toolangi in those days?
Or was Mr. Roberts’s statement correct?
If it was, then the inscription on the
plaque is wrong. The first film-version
of The Sentimental Bloke was made in
Sydney about 1920. Arthur Tauchert
was the Bloke and Lottie Lyell Doreen.
Cecil Scott was the Bloke in a later ver-
sion produced by Efftee Films, owned
by F. T, Thring, who bought the poet’s
home after Dennis died.
A. A A
V V V
“Feng-Shui”; Dr. Irving Lorge, of
Columbia University, U.S.A., claims that
Western society is forcing itself into a
hole with its fetish of retiring at 65 ;
because of it, he says, too many people
take the accepted retiring-age as the limit
of their useful life and withdraw from
productive activities too soon. As there
is no retiring-age for artists,
writers and thinkers, the
record of their lives should
be pretty conclusive evi-
dence for or against the
professor’s thesis. The
Faerie Queene was written
when Spenser was 63, and
at the same age Milton
wrote his Samson Agonistes.
Goethe finished the second
part of Faust at 81 and died
nine months later. Kant
was writing philosophical
works at 74, and Lamarck
completed his Natural
History of the Invertebrates
at 78. Gladstone published
eight volumes of reminis-
cences at 88. Some of the
best of Gluck’s music was
composed after he was 65,
Haydn’s after 66, and
Wagner was superintending
the production of “The
Ring” at Bayreuth at 63,
while Verdi wrote his “Ave
Maria,” “Stabat Mater” and
“Te Deum” at 85, and
Titian painted his greatest
masterpiece after he was 90.
Galileo was 68 and Newton
84 when they were at their
intellectual best; Darwin’s Descent of
Man was written at 62, and he was still
writing 10 years later. Edison found a
substitute for rubber at 83. We needn’t
mention Shaw. There are plenty of
examples of artists who didn’t get a
proper go on until they were in their
fifties. If I may cash-in on this exalted
company, I am writing this on my 67th
birthday.
❖ * ❖
“Piper”: Scene; a Chinese cafe.
Opposite is sitting a bewildered young
Dutchman who, unable to read Chinese
characters or their slightly-chancy Eng-
lish translations, has given up. Along
comes the Oriental waiter. “Pleez,” says
the Dutchman, “you ’ave rize?” “Fly
lice?” asks the waiter. This is where the
Dutchman’s girl-friend comes in. “No,
no,” she says, with a nauseated expres-
sion. “No, not the insec’, ’Ave you
rize?” “Fly lice,” says the waiter cheer-
fully, This is where I come in—comedy,
after all, should never be indulged at
the expense of international goodwill.
“The question IS: Can the wing-commander borrow it for
his son to play with?”
“Giris”; Overheard at the French-art
exhibition, where one of the paintings,
“Forty Eight,” by Jean Miro, consists
of the figures “48” done in bold black
fines in the bottom left-hand corner of a
4ft.-by-7ft. canvas, the ■ top right-hand
comer boasting a white, circular mass
with spiderweb-like fines crossing it.
Wife to husband: “The programme says
Miro entered Gali Academy in Barcelona,
where he drew from touch —he was not
permitted to see.” Husband: “That’s
obvious. But where did he feel a house-
number that size?”
*X* *X* ’*t*
“Pandanus”: Snakes in Melbourne
suburbs (B. 11/2/’53)? A suburbanite
was placidly weeding along his garden
fence when something swift and black
struck his hand. Rigid with horror, he
“Well, it's a very strange-looking mouse.”
sat back on his heels, but could find
no puncture-marks, nor see any sign of
the serpent. Then his neighbor looked
over the fence. “Did Tibby scare you?”
Tibby, the next-door kitten, intent on
stalking that scrabbling noise, had poked
an inquisitive paw through the palings and
given the gardener a playful pat.
♦♦♦
“Scooter”: A common vogue seems to
be for flash young fellows to give fancy
names to their motor-bikes. “Slo Mo
Shun” seems to be the favorite. Any
distortion of a name, its spelling twisted
half out of recognition, seems to pass.
One lad appealed to me to give him some-
thing no other rider had. I suggested
Mile Eater. That pleased him, but to
conform with the etiquette of the game
he twisted it to “My Leta.” He had the
name painted in gold letters with appro-
priate shadings and drove away with his
head back and shoulders squared. I saw
him a couple of days later. The name-
plate was missing. His explanation was
short and simple; “My girl’s name’s
Ethel.”
“Pat”; When I was at school, confer-
ring a nickname on the teacher was a
sign of affectionate regard rather than
opprobrium, but remarks overheard on a
bus indicate a reversal of this form.
“Awful fellow,” averred one lad. “Blue
pouches under his eyes, and his hair only
grows at the sides, and he always talks
in a whisper. We call him ‘Ghosty.’”
A /youthful companion asked what title
had been given some other master. “Oh,
gosh, we don’t call him anything. He’s
a decent chap,” came the reply.
❖ ❖
“H. A.L.”: The most crestfallen
“foreign-order” expert I ever saw was an
officer in a forestry unit. A magnificent
log of red-cedar was brought to the mill;
he had it sawn into 3in. boards, from
which a large packing-case was built, after
the planks had been painted to disguise
the wood. More cedar was packed inside
it. The case was then shipped through
Army channels to a confederate at a
mainland base. As luck would have it, a
visiting brasshat saw the crate before it
could be taken to pieces and the width of
the boards in it —24in. —made him
curious. He split off a splinter with his
pocket-knife, then requisitioned the case
for his own use.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rann”: After a night out on Wog
whisky and arrack at Homs (Syria) we
fumbled for our last 50-mil-piece,
clambered into a gharry and said “Home,
George,” to the driver. At the end of
a melodious drive we tumbled out and
I handed over the coin. When we had
got our bearings we found we were in
a street of bawdy-houses on the opposite
side of the town to the barracks. As
we trudged back along the two-mile walk
I wondered bitterly what we should have
said to that gharry-driver.
❖ ❖ ❖
“8.A.K.”: Whenever a prisoner
escapes or even attempts to escape from
jail the papers ring in the word
“ingenious” to describe the method used,
thereby helping to strengthen the popular
belief that, man for man, criminals are
more intelligent than law-abiding citizens.
I don’t agree. Considering their almost-
fanatical urge to escape and the leisure
they have to think out methods, convicted
prisoners have rarely displayed anything
like genius. In one N. S. Wales jail
I know of, only four prisoners have
succeeded in scaling the wall. But a
warder-well, this is the authenticated,
hitherto unprinted story: A new
officer, he approached the governor
with a simple statement: “If
a prisoner had initiative, sir,
he could get out of here in ten
minutes,” The governor was amused.
But the young warder insisted.
Finally he was allowed to prove his
point —if he could. After the
prisoners had been locked in for
the night, the governor left the in-
tending escapee in a high-walled yard
and retired to an office in the gate-
house. Just four minutes later there
was a knock at the huge, steel-clad
door. The warder was standing on
the pavement outside. How he
climbed the wall,.up and down again,
is strictly hush-hush, and precautions
have since been taken to defeat the
method, but the fact is undeniable:
no criminal “ingenuity” had per-
ceived the opportunity that had been
there for almost a century.
AUSTRALIA’S CAPACITY
“The U.N. Statistical Year Book for 1952
says southern Irishmen are the world’s heaviest
eaters (3500 calories a day in 1951); second-
heaviest, New Zealanders (3450); third-heaviest,
Australians (3280).”
We are the world’s third-heaviest eaters
(.Ireland and New Zealand beat us).
When the bells of mealtime ring
We can swallow anything.
Whatever order we may follow
Here is what A ustralians swallow:
Yankee horror-strips and comics,
Doctor Evatt’s economics.
Racing prophets’ superstitions,
Double-Dutch French exhibitions,
Mattera, the all-too-human
Sobbing through—my God! —through
Schumann
McGirr’s mistakes, and Cahill’s yelping
0 Coming back for a fifth helping),
Early-closing insobriety,
Sunday papers’ fake-society.
Radio toothpastes, soaps and fizzes,
Racing broadcasts, Dyer’s quizzes,
Cain’s Olympic gerrymander,
Hollywooden handypandery,
Clive’s foundations, so much gassier
Than the newest blow-up brassiere.
Reasons why the world’s upset, or
Promises to make it better.
Half the food at twice the prices,
Bad men’s virtues, good men’s vices'.
Trebled tramfares, crippled trams,
Egg Board eggs and aged lambs:
Such a vast, all-swallowing nation—
Who’s surprised we’ve got inflation ?
N.s.w,
SWILLIAM.


“Ida D,”: “Squeeze” is not confined to
the East. A story used to go the rounds
in Patagonia about the Jefe (local J.P.)
who had to decide a disputed claim about
a cattle deal between Jose and Juan.
“Well,” said the Jefe, when they finished
their harangues, “from what I hear, and
from what I see, Juan is right.” Juan
had left his sombrero on the Jefe’s table ;
he retrieved it later, minus the roll of
pesos he had stuck in the band.
+++ *x* >>
“Nivlek”: Any conscientious car-
penters looking for a job? Someone has
been advertising for a couple in our local
paper. If anyone interested likes to get
in touch with me I’ll send them the
address. The bloke doesn’t seem hard
to please. All he specifies is: —
No loafers, leadswingers, boozers, time-
wasters, pilferers, smart-alecs, thieves, slap-
dashers, jerry-builders, false promisers,
incompetents, politicians or bush lawyers
wanted. Good wages to good men. No
other kind wanted." ' v ,<
As I said, any conscientious carpenters
looking for a job?
* ❖ ❖
“Clooter”: I see my old town, St.
Amaud (Vic.), has invited the Jap swim-
ming star Furuhashi to swim there in
face of the ban put on him by the Vic.
Amateur Swimming Association. It’s
a long time since I swam at St, Arnaud,
so I don’t know whether the young
Oriental will cleave the yellow waters of
the old Lady Nelson dam or the black
waters by the eucalyptus-mill up the
Birchip-road. If the latter, he can sustain
himself, as we did, with wattle-gum on
the way there and watermelons from
Jimmy Su Si’s garden on the way back. I
disremember whether there were any Japs
in St. Arnaud in my time, but there were
plenty of Chinese out at Old Town, and
on Hospital Sundays half the place went
out there, led by the local band, and in-
dulged in Chinese cooking and Chinese
demonstrations of affection, which were
generally signalised by smoke-breathing
dragons and a marked depletion from
school the next day owing to a surfeit
of long-soup, lichee-nuts, ginger and a
queer pink cordial. Still, I suppose the
old mining town is modernised now, with
an Olympic pool and other things, though
I dare say a lost echo comes up from the
old Lord Nelson shafts now and then.
- ♦> ♦♦♦ ♦>
“X.M.N.”: Only once saw a cat take
to water of its own volition. We were
discharging grain in the Millwall Docks,
London —moored at buoys in the middle
of the docks with a floating grain-dis-
charging plant on each side of us. The
ship’s cat was prowling around in the
’tween-docks watching the carpenter and
his gang taking the shifting-boards down.
Suddenly the father of all rats broke
cover and made off, with the cat after
him. Going for his life, the rat
bounded up the vertical steel ladders,
across the deck, down the ladder on to
the grain-elevator and into the water,
striking out strongly for the quayside.
Puss followed him, and, cheered on by
the bargees, rapidly overhauled the rat,
caught him in her mouth and swam back
to the nearest barge, where she was
helped aboard, still clinging to her quarry.
♦j- +>
“Queenswegian”: A few years ago in
the Brisbane trams there was displayed
very prominently —for the benefit of
women shoppers —a verse that went some-
thing like this:
I know a lady, sweet and kind,
Who keeps the workers in her mind.
She hurries round from store to store
And reaches home just after four.
In one, some Brightbrain, no doubt
incensed by the hordes of housewives
that invade peak-hour trams, altered it
slightly so that the last two lines read;
She hurries round from store to flicks
And reaches home just after six.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Sebak”: If “Pate” had received his
primary education in an N.S.W., instead
of a Queensland, State school, he would
have been free of those disquieting
inhibitions when killing a fly—or even
a larger creature (B. 18/2/’53). A pas-
sage from the Second Primer comes back
after about 38 years: “‘Hark! I hear
an opossum in that tree.’ Jim got his
gun and shot it, and down it came with
a thump.” It was typical of the period
that the compiler would not dream of
dropping the “o” from “opossum,” but
he saw nothing wrong in leading kids to
believe that the correct thing to do when
a wild creature betrayed its presence was
shoot it.
❖ ❖
“Colonial Cove”: “Mark O’Polo”
remarks (B. 28/l/’53) that the only
Portuguese name on Australia’s west
coast is Abrolhos (or Abroholos), which
means, roughly, “Keep your eyes
skinned.” But even that name is half
Dutch if given in full—Houtman’s
Abrolhos. The original Abrolhos lies
off the “hump” of Brazil, right on the
track of old-time sail-ships making to
Rio Janeiro. Wrecks there were frequent,
so there was good reason for the warning
to keep your eyes skinned. The 17th-
century ships took up just about the
whole of the Atlantic in making the Cape
of Good Hope. After staggering down
the English Channel they made south-
west to the coast of Brazil, then across
south-east to the Cape. Quite often they
must have met difficulty in clearing the
"Tell me. Captain, just how many ships have you gone down with ?”
Brazilian Abrolhos. So when Frederik
de Houtman on July 29, 1619, with
11 ships under his command, nearly
grounded on a similar group off the, coast
of the Great South Land the name
immediately given to the group was the
obvious one.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rooster”: At one stage of the Tobruk
siege the razor-blades supply failed, so
our company commander issued an order
“No shaving until further notice.” A
curious effect of the enforced return to
the Age of Beards was that those who
“She only Wears that hig hat to attract attention."
were the owners of good to very goq,d
physiognomies looked, with their
stubbles, as rough as bags, while those
not so well blessed in facial charms wore
their whiskers with marked airs of dis-
tinction. The mirror told me which
category I came under.- I was sorry when
the “no-shaving” era ended.
♦> *X* ❖
“Cauboy”: Before the new batch of
Stratford Players settle down to work
I’d like to offer them a few tips gleaned
from personal observation of the last lot.
I hope they won’t come on looking as if
they had bought new suits just before the
curtain rose. This looks particularly
ridiculous where the opening scene depicts
warriors returning from battle without a
single dint in their armor. I also hope we
won’t have Renaissance palaces on ball-
bearings. They may be very efficient from
the point of view of scenery-changing but
they look all too like a Housing Com-
mission suburb. The actors will certainly
all have beautiful voices, but I hope they
won’t use them with an Oxford or
Cambridge accent.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Carp”: The young schoolteacher had
many New Australians in her class, and
their progress in learning English was so
rapid that an inspector went out to dis-
cover her methods. “There’s nothing in
the least marvellous about it,” said the
young woman. “You know how you
always have some kiddies who will talk
in school, no matter how you threaten
or punish them?” The inspector nodded.
“Well, I picked out the talkative ones
and gave each of them a New Australian 0
as a desk-mate. After that I didn’t
reprove them for talking in school unless
they were disturbing the rest of the class.
Within a few weeks all those Dutch and
German kiddies were as fluent in English
as if they’d been bom here!”
“Bamekaw”: Old Bill, at the top of a
ladder, dropped one of his precious
screws into the lush growth below.
Unperturbed, he let another fall from
the same position, but noted carefully
where it fell. He then clambered down
and found the pair within a few inches
of each other. I asked him whether he
had in mind the passage from Shak-
speare:
In my schooldays, when I had lost one
shaft, .
I shot his fellow of the self-same flight
The self-same way, with more advised
watch,
To find the other forth: and by adventuring
both
I oft found both.
“No,” said the old bloke. “I never had
much to do with arrows. It was all pea-
rifles when I was a boy. I got the tip
from my dad, who got it from Grandpa.
Shows you, though, how these modern
theorists are just beginning to catch up
with us handymen.”
* ❖ ❖
“Mib”: I was giving our new message-
boy directions how to find the house for
which the parcel was intended —it was
near the cemetery. “Oh, yes, I know,”
he said brightly. “It’s just past where
the dead people live.”
+t* ***
“Emjai”: Nowadays there are no
“tin-ohs,” but 50 or 60 years ago they
provided a source of pocket-money for
the youngsters. In our old mining-town
we gathered the old tins from all quarters
and burned them. Then the ashes of the
fire were panned off, the lumps and
globules of solder collected, re-melted
and run into depressions in the sand to
form sticks, which were traded to the
local plumber-carpenter-undertaker at a
bob a pound. And we soon learned that
we had to play straight, he had a quick
eye to reject any color in the smelting
by addition of scrap zinc or lead. Bones
were worth a bob a bag from an
orchardist, but the best money-making
lurk was specking after heavy rain, or,
with shovel and dish, washing the pot-
holes in water-worn gutters. With gold
at four-bob a pennyweight a good day
would be worth weeks of tin- and bone-
gathering.
♦> ❖ ❖
“H.A.L.”: An Australian visiting
London was given instructions for reach-
ing some spot in the city. He interrupted
the directions to say “Please, none of this
turn left or right business. Say north,
south, east or west.” The Londoner
looked surprised. “How on earth will
you tell the compass-points, with the
clouds hanging low like this and no sign
of the sun?” he inquired. “Quite
simple,” he was told. “When you live
in the bush in Australia you soon learn
to pick out the north any time of the
day, no matter what the weather may
be.” He glanced around at the lowering
sky. “Thdt’s north ” he said, pointing.
It was. Soon his bushcraft earned him
a wonderful reputation. Sometimes
people would contradict him, only to find
they were wrong. The explanation?
Well, in London you’re never far from
a spot from which you can get a glimpse
of a church steeple. The Londoners were
so used to seeing weathercocks on the
steeples that they were blind to what
they meant.
A SLIGHT DOUBT
“Children, particularly high-spirited ones, can
be very trying. Yet what parent would you
find who’d rather be without them?” Women s
paper.
The kids are a problem.
A man just can’t hobble ’em,
Though, why not, it’s quite hard to
figure
When shrilly they’re shouting
And climbing the spouting,
Or come home as black as a nigger.
When Johnny and Willie
In acting the silly
Tear clothes —what it costs you to
clad ’em ! —
Sift flour in the honey.
Or bite you for money,
You wonder why ever you had ’em.
With odd jobs you’re pestered.
The finger that’s festered
You work on to dig out the splinter;
They trot out the homework;
For you, it’s more dome-work
C Division sums, how much
“gazinter” ?);
The footy that’s busted,
The toys that have rusted,
The bike that’s developed a “flattie,”
Repairing and mending,
The jobs seem unending —
Oh, sometimes you fear you’ll go
batty.
On walls they’ll be scrawling;
You break up the brawling.
Then silence arouses suspicions;
You rush out; they’ve scattered;
You find your watch battered —
The kids have been playing
“magicians.”
There’s more misbehaving:
The cat they’ve been shaving.
Hot under the collar, you clout ’em.
The “strife” roars, declaring
You’re cruel. You start swearing
That — well —that you’d not be with-
out ’em I
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The pick
of the
bunch
smce
for/
-
gw
M
—
I *
’
0
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
“Uramao”; One of Britain’s war-time
minelayers, the Manxman, famous for
supplying Malta during a sticky period
in that island’s history, is to have a New
Zealand commander. He is Captain
R. E. Washbourn, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., R.N.,
a Nelsonian, who joined the Royal Navy
in 1928 and was gunnery-officer on the
Achilles in the River Plate affair. Later
jobs were executive-officer of H.M.N.Z.S.
Bellona and superintendent of Devonport
Naval Dockyard.
Perth accountant Charles W. M.
Court beat a field of six, including
former member Dave Grayden, for the
Nedlands seat in the W.A. elections. A
square-shouldered, fair-haired 40, Court
wore a captain’s pips in the Second A.I.F.
Director of several companies and
prominent in Perth musical and broad-
casting circles, he was, until recently,
bandmaster of the R.S.L. Memorial
Band.
RON CAMERON, Brisbane Business and
Rotary
“Blanc”: On May 3, 1915, the 13th
Bn. —well out on Deadman’s Ridge near
the Turkish Chessboard trenches —was
ordered to withdraw down Bloody Angle
to Monash Valley, having had 300
casualties, including 80 killed during the
previous night. The remaining wounded,
many out in the thin bullet-swept scrub
in n.m.1., were the first consideration.
Cpl. W. C. Francis —in private life a
minister—and Stretcher-bearer J. H.
Sorrell, a theological student, carried
back during the afternoon and evening
not only all the wounded but also all the
dead they could find. Francis received
his D.C.M. in the first small batch of
Gallipoli awards. The official citation
reads: “Francis carried back over 30
wounded, remarking, when the danger
was pointed out by his 0.C., ‘l’m pre-
pared to take the risk.’ ” Recently the
Rev. Francis, of Drummoyne, became
president of the N.S.W. Methodist Con-
gress ; the Rev. Sorrell, of North Sydney,
is State secretary.
In 1951 Victor Albert Bailey, Sydney
University’s Professor of Experimental
Physics, took the New Zealand Royal
Society’s Sidey Medal for his researching
into light and other solar emanations.
Holder also of the Walter Burfitt prize
of the N.S.W. Royal Society, he’s now
landed another—a year’s study-leave to
the lonosphere Research Laboratory in
Pennsylvania (U.S.), where he’ll make
personal contact with American develop-
ments in his sphere. An M.A. and
D.Phil. of Oxford, where he lectured for
a space on engineering science and
physics, Bailey was born in Egypt and
has held his present Chair in Sydney since
1936. Lindrum’s game is his pet pastime.
“Macnell”: The Board of Admiralty
has paid an extremely rare tribute. It
congratulated a naval officer on an anni-
versary, this itself extremely rare, for the
one honored was only the second British
Admiral of the Fleet to have served 25
years in that rank. To Sir Henry Oliver,
G.C.8., K.C.M.G., M.V.0., LL.D., the
Admiralty wrote;
The Admiralty conveys to you their warm
congratulations [on the anniversary]. They
and the whole of the Royal Navy take pride
in this notable and unique event They
believe that your work as Second Sea Lord
and as C.-in-C., Atlantic Fleet (after War I),
did much to lay the foundations of the
success of the R.N. iri the Second World
War. My Lords trust that the occasion
will recall for you happy memories of
the service in which you have had such a
long and distinguished career.
Sir Henry entered the Navy in 1878, so
his memories must be long and varied.
Throughout War I he was the Chief of
the Admiralty War Staff. Retired in
1933, he donned uniform again for the
Hitler attempt. He is 88.
After about six months as G.0.C.,
Seventh Military District (N.T.), Lieut.-
Colonel I. J. Hooker has taken the job
of comptroller to the new G.-G. A
Brisbane man in the militia when Hitler
started. Hooker hopped into the A.I.F,
and shoved off in charge of a sig. outfit,
the first active-service unit to leave
Brisbane for foreign parts. These took
in Libya and Greece, and a rearguard
post on Crete after its abandonment. A
few weeks afterwards he bobbed up in
Alexandria, got his majority and came
home to a post with corps signals.
Latterly he’d been technical staff officer
with the Australian military-mission in
Washington.
“Pip Tok”: Stalwart Tom Sten, super-
intendent of teachers’ training in the
Westralian Education Department, and
former R.S.L. president, is home again
from a long busman’s holiday in the
U.K. and Western Europe. Besides look-
ing over British, German, Dutch and
Italian educational methods, he was one
of 65 delegates from 28 countries who
attended a Unesco conference at Utrecht,
Holland, to get the score on how much
of the “Declaration of Human Rights”
could be absorbed by schoolchildren.
It was agreed that only senior high-school
pupils were mature enough to grasp the
full meaning, though the younger ones
could well be taught consideration for
other people. Sten also concerned him-
self with pre-embarkation for intending
migrants. He found that, both in Ger-
many and Holland, there is great interest
in everything British, with English taught
in secondary schools. Detailed' informa-
tion about Australia is also available. He
had not been in Europe since, versus
Wilhelm, he went there with the 44th Bat-
talion, A.I.F.
Back in 1937 Will Ashton succeeded
J. S. MacDonald as Director of Sydney’s
Art Gallery—he now takes _ over, after
Jimmy’s death, the chairmanship of the
Commonwealth Art Advisory Board.
Though regarding himself as Australian
—Adelaide taught him to read and write
—Will Ashton was bom in Yorkshire. He
got his real start by winning the Wynne
Prize in 1908. Since then he has ex-
hibited at the Royal Academy and the
Paris Salon. One of his pictures found
an unusual resting-place. A painting of
the landing-spot of La Perouse at Botany
Bay, commissioned by the Federal Gov-
ernment after War I, it now hangs in
the official residence of the President of
France.
New electees to the Art Advisory Board,
Bill Dargie and Douglas Pratt. Dargie
has fairly crowded exhibitions, commis-
sions for portraits and big-prize winning
into his 39 years. He won his first Archi-
bald at 29—and his seventh this year.
In between he painted scenes of violence
from the Middle East to India, from
Burma to New Guinea, official war-artist.
Pratt illustrated Miles Franklin’s S. H.
Prior Prize novel in The Bulletin in
1936. Earlier a jackeroo, later surveyor,
at 25 the itch to express the beauties
of the bush he surveyed, by eye, not
theodolite took him to Dattilo-Rubbo.
He’s now represented in all Australian
National Galleries,
New secretary of the Royal Agricul-
tural Society in Melbourne is H. T. Colin
Woodfull, barrister and solicitor and
brother of the cricketer. Served three
years with the R.A.A.F.
Retiring secretary Louis Monod has
been associated with the Victorian Royal
Agricultural Society since 1912, when
he joined it as junior clerk. He specialised
in stud-stock associations, acting as secre-
tary to 12 Victorian branches and 12
Federal organisations. Editor of Short-
horn Herd Book and associated with
Lt.-Col. Ewen T. Campbell in the prepara-
tion of the Draught Horse Stud Book of
A ustralia.
Arrived in Melbourne on the last leg
of an international lecturing tour. Dr. J.
Stanley White, idol of British children.
Former director of the Clinical Investiga-
tion Department of Parke Davis in
Europe, he earned the admiration of all
the kids of the U.K. when he saved the
lire of Rusty, the London Zoo elephant,
with an antibiotic produced in his
laboratories which was the first of its
kind to be manufactured cheaply enough
to be used in the hefty doses needed by
infected jumbos.
Lusby on an Old Identity:
Encountered at Cronulla, Joseph Mason’s
apple-red, weather-whipped phiz, peeking
through snow-white whiskers, topped by a
black cloth cap of impressive antiquity. Shrewd
little blue eyes give off a fierce kindliness. A
gnarled brown fist, clenched round the knob
of a walking-stick, jumped up and down,
driving the stick into the ground as Joe chided
his dog, a husky-like animal who seemed intent
on eating me. Everyone round Cronulla seemed
to think Joe should be in The Bulletin, so
here I was at his beach-side home to get a par.
Once inside, Joe didn’t beat about the bush.
He speaks with the laconic precision of a
combat-report. His English parents had lived
in Australia before Joe was born in Auckland
98 years ago, at the beginning of the Maori
wars. He remembers the warriors standing in
his home, holding him hostage—head-high in
large brown hands —while assessing the friend-
liness of Ma and Pa Mason. Several times
the family was “invited to tea” round its own
hearth —a trying entertainment when the “guests”
suspected that any sudden whimsy might con-
siderably alter their status. Australia called
Joe when he was 16. Horse-breaker and
MAORI WARS
overlander, he admits, as a kind of anticlimax,
clearing the virgin timber from what is now
Sydney’s Erskineville Oval. Joe’s Australian wife
gave Mm four sons and four daughters—all living
today. The old fellow is vague only when
asked about grandchildren—there are a good
many, he thinks. Having seen the little patriarch
ambling unescorted to the “local” for a beer, I
suggested that, at 98, his health was remarkable.
But he complains of arthritis; he doesn’t think
the doctors can do much about it. Also of
pioneer vintage, and well-preserved, is his birth
certificate —he still has it.
“Uramao”: Two Enzedders have
been handed big jobs abroad. Leslie F.
Hannon, who’s been footing the Inky
Way in Canada for the past four years,
has been appointed associate-editor of
“Maclean’s Magazine,” taking on the job
held, between 1925-44, by W. A. Irwin,
the new Canadian High Commissioner
to Australia. Fifty-year-old Dunedinite
Ronald Ormiston Sinclair, who was
admitted to the New Zealand Bar in
1924 and called to the Middle Temple
in 1939, has been appointed Chief Justice
of Nyasaland.
S.A. premier PLAYFORD—back again
“Fitz”: Whenever there’s discussion on
whether or not a kangaroo is born in its
mother’s pouch I remember the argument that
raged for weeks in “Aboriginalities” between
Donald E. Fraser and Nathan F. Spielvogel,
both bush dominies. Fraser (“Jimmie Pannikin”
of countless bush pars) has been dead these
many years, and when he died Spielvogel wrote
a moving tribute to him in The Bulletin.
Spielvogel—Bo next year; still going strong
in his native Ballarat —in 1896 was teaching
in a lonely school with six shy pupils in the
Victorian Grampians, and from there sent his
first offerings to this paper, winning an
enthusiastic letter from J. F. Archibald. In
later years Nat was one of the most prolific
of “Abo.” writers, under the nib-names of
“Eko,” “Genung,” “X Square” and others.
Fifty years ago he received a small legacy,
and busted the lot on a trip to Europe. Like
Randolph Bedford and A. G. Stephens, he put
his overseas impressions into a book A Gum-
sucker on the Tramp (1906), and a very readable
book it was, and quite a collectors’ item these
days. His next book, The Cocky Farmer (1907),
got him into hot water, since it was reckoned
to have libelled certain Wimmera farmers.
Other books are A Gumsucker at Home (1911),
The Affair at Eureka (1911), Old Eko’s Note-
book (1930), which he himself thinks is his best,
and Our Gum Trees, a selection of many verses
he wrote for The Bulletin and other journals.
On retiring from teaching in 1939 he set
about writing the histories of various institu-
tions in Ballarat, and has ready for publication
The Story of Ballarat. A Fellow of the
Ballarat Historical Society, he spends most of
his time these days collecing pictures, relics and
documents dealing with the city’s past.
Although not exactly an old salt, W. A.
Innes, recently arrived in Melbourne, has
some acquaintance with the stuff. Man-
aging-director and chairman of Cerebos,
he is in Australia to investigate the possi-
bilities of exploiting the enormous quan-
tities of the raw salt in South Australia.
It isn’t only used in salt-cellars in Eng-
land, but in farming and fishing indus-
tries and to clear roads and railways after
snowstorms.
Into the Silence:
In Gympie, at 95, Frederick Stonard
Schollick, last of the Sohollick brothers who
owned Oondooroo station (Q.) in the 1880 s.
At 69, in Wellington (N.Z.), J. M. Park,
Commissioner of Taxes from 1937 to 1944. A
native of Waitaki, he joined the Land and
Income Tax Department in 1902. A brother,
A. D. Park, was a financial adviser to the
Government and a director of the Reserve
Bank.
At 61, Leo Doyle, one of Melbourne’s
leading surgeons, and one who gave much of
his time to teaching and examination He was
a foundation member of the R.A.C.S., and
for 30 years an honorary at St. Vincent’s.
At 85, in Melbourne, William Admans,
M.8.E., the last of the original Hansard staff
which reported the opening of the first Federal
Parliament on May 9, 1901. Later he was
head of the reporting staff when King George
VI, then Duke of York, opened the first
Canberra sittings in 1927. He was a close
friend of all the P.M.s and political leaders.


OUTCLASSED


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Every time I read about
rabbits and myxomatosis I think of Ed
Tomins, Mallee cocky. Ed had more
ideas for destroying rabbits than any
other 10 men. His first was the concrete
fence round the farm. It had only to be
2ft. high, said Ed, and the rabbits out-
side couldn’t see in and therefore
wouldn’t bother about trying to jump
over or undermine it. Another idea was
a set of gramophones all playing dog-
barking records —Ed put one near the
local bore and kept watch one moonlight
night, but in spite of that someone
pinched the machine. Up in Mildura he
saw an orchard-spray at work and pro-
posed spraying the young wheat with
rum; the bunnies would eat the wheat,
get drunk and be picked up easily. Long
Ted Harris said if ever he came across a
rum-sprayed wheat-crop he’d take all
sorts of care no rabbit got near it. After
World War I Ed proposed buying all the
leftover Mills grenades and using them
to bowl down burrows with the pin out.
When the Government ran channels
through the Mallee, Ed reckoned our
troubles were over —all we had to do
was mount pumps, buy lengths of fire-
hose and swamp the warrens. He con-
sidered electric-fences, but gave them
away to work out a trapping system based
on the fly-paper idea. He had a lot of
other schemes. He got the right one in
the end ; he gave up wheatgrowing and,
with a truck, installed himself as district
agent for a skin firm. Last I heard of him
he was on a first-class trip round the
world.
* * * *
“Billjim Poilu” (Burma): Hunting wild
pigs on foot was common sport in
Malaya before the war. Two of us went
out one night on Sungei Kruit Estate,
Sungkai, and located many of assorted
size feeding on fallen rubber-nuts. We
approached them up what little wind
“ Didn't you see my signal ?”
there was, but one old boar scented us
and charged. I had no time to get my
rifle up, so, jumping behind a rubber-
tree just as he gave his sideways slash in
passing, I fired at him from the hip. I
missed. The big fellow continued on his
way, which was slightly downhill, and in
the dim light I saw him clear a big fallen
tree. As it appeared to be a good jump,
I returned next morning with a tape-
measure. The fallen tree was 4ft. Bin. in
diameter where he jumped, and the dis-
tance from the plainly-discernible take-off
to landing was 22ft., measured along
the ground.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: I’ve struck scores of
people who were willing to swear to the
healing qualities of goanna-oil, but met
only one who claimed dog-fat as a super-
liniment. He was an ex-pug,
and when an acquaintance of
mine injured a mitt in a boxing
tourney he vowed there was only
one certain cure. Like most
pugs, the young fellow would
have joyously knocked a fellow-
human’s block off, but couldn’t
bear the thought of hurting an
animal. An inquisitive, or
hungry, pooch and a quick-
tempered butcher broke the
deadlock. Four times in three
hours the hound had scratched,
over and spilt a cornbag full
of bones; the fourth time
Butch happened to come to the
backdoor just before the crash.
The wrathfully-flung knife was
not intended to inflict grievous
bodily harm, but it slew the
culprit before he had time to
emit a solitary yelp. Arrival of
the young boxer solved the
problem that confronts all
murderers; the body was dis-
posed of with satisfaction on
two sides. I happened on the
scene when the preliminary
dressing was nearly complete;
I’ve never seen a more gruesome
sight. And if anything smells
fouler than a dog’s carcass being
rendered-down into fat on an
open-air fire, it is the resultant mess
after it has been bottled-up for about 48
hours. Yes, the hand got right in due
course. The local doctor reckoned that
the dog-fat had not delayed the recovery
by more than two or three weeks.
* * * *
“Harbel”: A youth I once knew
would have had a fellow-feeling for that
bloke who was bitten by a dead shark
(B. 11/2/’53). Watching, from a dis-
creet distance, while the local snake-
charmer cautiously handled a freshly-
caught tiger-snake—one of the yellowish-
bellied variety—he enthused “Gripes,
wouldn’t it make a beaut belt? What
would it be worth to get me a skin like
it?” The ’charmer was a materialist.
“Well,” he said, “I can sell this bloke to
a menagerie for about fifteen-bob. Give
me the same price and I’ll lop his head
off and skin him for you.” The offer
was promptly accepted. One swipe with
a tomahawk on the chopping-block did
the dark deed, and the skinning was in
progress when the buyer emitted a scream
of horror. He had picked up the head,
opened the mouth with a stick, and,
growing bolder, felt the fangs with his
finger to see how sharp they were. No
doubt it was a nerve reaction similar to
that which causes a chook to open and
shut its beak when decapitated, but the
head bit him. Only prompt treatment for
snake-bite saved the young fellow’s life.
Still, he found out what he wanted to
know
“Rooster”: It was an old well which
had been driven through hardpan, partly
filled-in, yet still containing about a foot
of “rusty” water. An unusual rust, this,
not at all like the result of ordinary
precipitation ; it was streaked with yellow
and, when handled between the fingers,
quite slippery, almost like grease. That
yellow slime is the home of the earliest-
known form of life — Leptothrix— an
iron-absorbing autotroph, self-sufficient,
unaltered for a billion years in its simple
habit of fissional reproduction, and likely
still to outlive all other species of life.
Under the lens the ochreous ooze comes
to life; millions of root-hair-like tubes,
surrounded by a slimy, yellow halo, each
one definite in shape and purpose, with
walls of iron deposited by accretion sur-
rounding the living bacterial cells. The
cells are elliptical, with lashing polar tails,
with which they are enabled to escape
overcrowded colonies and start others for
themselves. In the iron-charged waters
that overlay the oldest rocks, Leptothrix
flourished in the dark without chloro-
phyll, by c/iemo-synthesis; the detritus
of its shards built up, through countless
“I say —could I borrow your fire-extinguisher, please?”
ages, an ooze which, under the terrific
pressure of the water above, became iron-
ore.
* * * *
“Downsman”; Charlie, working on a
long contract job in sheep-country east
of Cunnamulla (Q.), had been on a spec-
tacular bender, which probably accounted
for his forgetting to include motor-oil
when loading supplies on his old truck.
The truck demonstrated a thirst for oil
almost as insatiable as that of its owner
for beer, and after three weeks in the
back-country it threatened to seize-up.
Rendering-down some mutton-fat,
Charlie filled the sump; this worked
satisfactorily enough while the fat re-
mained liquid. On the following morn-
ing, after a cold night, the motor refused
even to attempt the churning-up of a rock-
like mass of dripping. Charlie therefore
had the tedious job of lighting a small
fire under the sump. He thought hard,
then hit on the solution. There were
hundreds of small gidyea-stumps around
his camp area, and each morning Charlie
set one of them alight. After returning
from a day’s work he parked the truck so
that the sump sat immediately above the
remains of the stump —by then a depres-
sion full of gently-glowing coals—to
simmer gently all night, ready to drive
away in the'morning.
* * * *
“1.N.L.”: Some 18 months ago I did
a certain amount of research into place-
names in the Buchan (Vic.) district for
an historical record the local C.W.A.
compiled for a competition. The origin
of the name Buchan itself was given
several different interpretations (B.
18/ 2/ ’53). The earliest settlers were
Scottish, and one school of thought in-
clines to the theory that they named the
place after a well-loved place at home.
The opponents of this say the name is
aboriginal, and comes from the black-
fellow term “bookin,” “bukkin” or
“bukan,” meaning a tuckerbag (some say
a dillybag, in which the gins carried food).
Personally I incline to the latter idea.
The area is still rich in game, and the
dillybag was probably always gratifyingly
full. “Munje” is a common termination
in these parts, and means “a camp.” I
found no record of its being connected
with Buchan, though it would make sense
coupled with the meaning of the first
word. The “munje” termination persists
in. names of near-by settlements such as*
Hinnomunje and Mullickmunje. It seems
hardly likely that it would be dropped
here.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: You never know when
a joke will backfire. Ted was a decent
old bachelor, living in a shack where he
made everyone welcome. We often
dropped in on our way home from duck-
shooting, and were always pressed to
stay to tea. The old boy had a horror
of firearms, however —his father had been
killed in a gun accident of the
“Didn’t-know-it-was-lpaded” type. He
always insisted on our parking the
weapons outside and made sure they were
empty. One night, as we approached
after dark, our humorist said; “Let’s
play a joke on the old fellow. I’ll take
the shot out of a cartridge. One of you
sneak up to the hut with it. We’ll stay
here by the fence. I’ll fire off the blank,
then the fellow with the shot can toss it
on to his roof.” I fell for it. The gun
flashed, the scattered shot fell on the iron
roof. From inside the hut came a roar
like that of a frightened mad bull. The
rest of the party came up laughing, but we
had no chance to explain things. Old
Ted wouldn’t listen; he ordered us to
get off his property and stay off. We
thought he’d calm down in a \yeek or
two, but he didn’t. Never again were
we invited in for a yarn and a feed;
even when neighbors tried to assure Ted
it had been all a joke, he wouldn’t listen.
“I know damn’ well one of ’em peppered
my hut with a charge fired from a gun,”
he’d growl. It cured me of all similar
jokes. I used to enjoy those yarns and
feeds at Ted’s place.
* * * *
“Chalk’ntalk”: The first time I tried
to get through Harry’s gate, which is
broken top and bottom and hangs from
one hinge, I gave it up after several
attempts to induce it to run in the circular
trench which surrounds it, and got
through the barbed-wire fence. The
next time I was with Harry in his
utility. He got out, rolled away the
stone that had acted as a temporary
stopper for the last couple of years and
signalled to me to give him a hand. After
much heaving and hauling and shoving
we managed to get it open wide enough
to squeeze through. Pushing it back
made the trench another inch or two
deeper. “These gates that swing both
ways are the best,” said Harry, panting.
“The old one I used to have on’y went
the one way, an’ I useter have a helluva
job to get it open!”
OUT OF TIME
The hills surge back like waves of frozen stone \
Once, out of time, I saw them move and change,
The rippling rocks take on their transient folds,
The stony crests rear up, the valleys form,
All undulating like a sea of grass.
Old as the hills! The hills are not so old:
The force that swells the grain and bursts the
pod
And hurls the endless specks of flurrying foam
Thrust up these forms; and soon will let them
sink
Beneath the sea, grave of all things that pass.
The present binds us; let us once break free.
We’d see the fixed stars fall like a shower of
gold
And suns wink off and on like traffic lights:
All deaths, all births, all falls of leaf and flower
So swift a flickering they could not be seen.
Life like a rainbow poised on the drifting rain
Endures, though endless drops fall down to
death;
The generations pass, the type remains,
And leaves and forests spread across the earth
In pulse after pulse of green.
And mountains are thrust up and worn away . . .
O great black waves against the moonlit sky!
For all your solid curves, in time you are
No more substantial than the wisps of cloud
That cross the moon, disintegrate and die.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.
THE MOUNTAIN
This clean, green air, over sleeps of snow,
Blue and deep and coralline;
With ribbed ice fuming emerald
Where walled stars glow;
This summer, frozen to crisp pinnacles,
Pillared in a colonnade,
Piercing high Australia;
These streaming miles
Of Time and silences; this sunlit cold;
Here flowing meets infinity.
And summits stand up deified,
Bright and old.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


“C.A.L.”: My vote for the place where
the most work is done in Australia goes
to the hotel-bar. There’s no other place
to touch it. Varying with the districts in
which the hostelries are situated, the jobs
range from cane-cutting in Cairns to coal-
hewing in the pubs of Cessnock (per-
haps!). Similarly, at Kalgoorlie mining
is always proceeding full blast, so muclF
so that one Bung has catered for the
taste by having murals depicting every
phase of underground work in a gold-
mine painted on the spacious walls of
his main bar. Aniid those surroundings
the miners can bore and blast, bog and
truck to their hearts’ content till 11 p.m.,
closing-time, at which hour a barman sets
off a few plugs of “jelly” to simulate
firing-time, which up on the “Mile”
marks the end of the shift.
* * * *
“5.D.8.”; Residents in our Victorian
hills district have a deep-rooted antipathy
towards licences, particularly log-licences.
The ranger doing his annual round is
bush-telegraphed long before he arrives,
and it must be a continual surprise to
him to note the rapid decline in the dog
population. All he ever seems to run
to earth are the diseased, the toothless
and the very young. The locals have
always knocked off spud-digging, pea-
picking or tree-falling to gather-in their
tykes and light out for the mulga with
all the able-bodied dogs, to return to their
respective households when the coast is
clear. Lately, however, he arrived at
one farm where two mongs were exhibited
and ten-bob duly paid, but the six-year-
old offspring blew the gaff when he piped
up, “What about the eleven dogs down
in the shed, Dad?” To the ranger
departing with a further £2 15s. came
the wails even before he was clear of the
home-paddock.
♦ * * #
“Metax”: Sydes Brothers, of Rose-
vale, in the Speck’s west Tamar district,
believe that retired horses can earn their
board on the farm. They have adopted
five veterans whose ages total 72 years.
Jolly, Cocky, Myrtle, Nelson and Albert
dragged dustcarts and sweepers around
Launceston for 10 years, and their legs
had begun to feel the effects of the hard
streets. Now they are to finish their
days on the more intermittent tasks and
softer walking around the farm. The
brothers expect to be able to extend
their hospitality to further four-footed
civic servants condemned by their years
to leave their city occupation.
* * * *
“Vakurai” (T.N.G.): Patrolling around
the western tip of New Hanover, I was
approached by a Luluai, who threw a
salute and after clearing his throat several
times said “What is it, Kiap, that has big
wings like this [arms outstretched], lands
and takes off like Qantas at Rabaul [the
Catalina service], walks around like Fee
Yong [a well-known and very portly
local Celestial], and under its mouth has
a kind of a rubber bag?” I couldn’t
hazard a guess, and further questioning
revealed that the kanakas had never seen
anything like it before and hence were
giving it a pretty wide berth. So next
day we set off in a stiff breeze for Mosson
Reef, right on the western tip of New
Hanover, to have a look at the “thing.’ 5
When we got there I went in close enough
to see six pelicans gravely investigating
the crevices in the reef. The local boongs
said they arrived in a stiff nor’-west blow.
It’s 200 miles from Manus Island. It
must have been quite a flight.
♦ * * *
“Ceg”: When in 1858 the Legislative
Council of the then Colony of Victoria
set up a select committee to inquire into
all aspects of aboriginal life, reputable
settlers were asked to give their views as
to native foods, etc. One Edward Crooke,
of Holey Plain, Gippsland, reported on
the Snowy Mountains tribe’s liking for
the “Booyong” moth, which used to
swarm on bare rocks a'fter the snows had
melted. The natives would trap and
smoke them. They were apparently
highly nutritious, for the blacks seemed
in better condition at that season than at
any other time. This season Bogong
moths have been in plague numbers in
“He must be going elephant-hunting .”
Victoria. I’m wondering if the two are
identical,
* * * *
“Inglegar”: There’s another wattle-
bird (B. 11/2/’53) which doesn’t make
such a beakful of its call as “Wippe-
gong’s” Wahku-pu-wahkas. This is the
little fellow of the N.S.W. North Coast
scrubs. Out of his bunk even earlier than
magpie or kookaburra, his call is “cooked
apple, cooked apple” when the weather’s
fine, and “go careful, go careful” (in a
much lower key) when the barometer is
about to drop. He’s smaller than his
Victorian kin, but has the same taste
for flower-nectar, especially among the
banksias.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Once stalked a fox
through wild-tobacco bush along an
inland lake shore. He was following a
sheep-pad, which seldom went straight
more than a couple of chains, and this
enabled me to keep pretty close, because,
while X could see over the low, thick
growth, the fox could see only either way
along the pad. All X had to do was keep
quiet. I wanted a head shot, as he
was a splendid young dog with a fur
worth good money. After about a
quarter-mile there came what I wanted —
an open patch in the wild-tobacco. When
he emerged on that I’d whistle, he’d stop
and look round and I’d have my target.
“ There's that super-charged job again!”
A chain short of the patch I stopped,
lifted the .22, and waited for him to come
out. He didn’t. After a time, certain
that he couldn’t have got back without
leaving ■ the pad, because of the thick
growth, I moved stealthily on. He was
lying on the pad, his head towards me,
sound asleep. His head was less than
15ft. away, a perfect target. I chose the
upper eye and drew a bead, taking my
time. I took too much time, for it became
impossible for me to shoot him in his
sleep, and when I yelled he went back
convulsively into the tobacco and the
bullet missed.
f
* * * *
“K.J.K.”: The storeman of our local
butter-factory, owner of one of the two
old model Terraplanes in the township,
was sipping a pot in the pub, and chancing
to glance out the door he spotted his
brown curly-coat retriever pad around
the pub corner, approach one of the
Terraplanes after a careful nasal in-
ventory and park in his usual position
of ease on the running-board. Which
seems to confirm the claim made by some
Aboliars recently that dogs are color-
blind, for the car he selected was the
royal-blue one of a neighboring farmer
—his boss’s car is green.
♦ * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”; On bushcraft instructing
during the war I was asked by an
. R.A.A.F. officer if I could give any tips
for obtaining food from the sea for use
by airmen who had to take to their rubber
dinghies. I had to admit I knew of none
save the use of the trolling-line for catch-
ing fish, or covering yourself with a sheet
in the hope of being able to grab a sea-
bird if one settled. A few days later I
saw a lad rowing about in a boat, towing
what looked like a jelly-bag. Every
quarter of an hour he would haul it in
and examine the contents with a lens.
He told me he was collecting plank-
ton, his hobby being marine biology.
I went out with him and found
that half an hour’s towing of the cheese-
cloth sack would gather about half a
teacup of small weed-plants and tiny
creatures which looked like shrimps.
Eaten raw, the jelly-like, squirming mix-
ture had quite a pleasant flavor and
proved very sustaining. I passed the tip
to the R.A.A.F. at once. Subsequent
tests showed that towing a woollen sock
with its top end held open with a stick
or wire spreader—the only plankton-
catcher which might be available in an
emergency—would catch enough to feed
a man, especially if he paddled or drifted
down those scummy-looking streaks
which are sometimes found at sea. When
I read Men Against the Sea, by Nordhoff
and Hall, I thought of Captain Bligh using
a pistol-bullet to weigh out little scraps
of biscuit as the daily allowance for his
men—and all the time they were sailing
through a sea teeming with plankton.
About two years later I looked through
an airman’s emergency kit and there, with
the usual rations, flashlight, apparatus
for making seawater drinkable by taking
the salt out of it, etc., I found a package
containing a very finely-woven net and
instructions for using it to trawl plank-
ton as the raft drifted before the wind.
I’ve been reminded of this by a somewhat
obscure reference to Polynesian canoe-
voyagers catching food by means of a
very finely-woven bag which they towed
astern. If authentic, it is yet another
example of natives knowing tricks which
civilised people are too clever to realise
until it’s shoved right under their noses.
* * * *
“R.M.K.”: The Torres Straits
Islanders’ differentiation between a “pre-
sent” and “proper present” (B. 18/2/’53)
can be matched by our mainland abos.
One afternoon on our n.-w. Queensland
station there arose the sounds of a fight,
I and a small lad came racing for me.
“Quick, missus,” he yelled. “Jimmy bin
killum Harry with a stick!” I ran back
with him, dreading what I might find,
but Harry was on his feet more than
holding his own. Exasperation replaced
relief, and I rounded on the alarmist.
“What for you tell me Jimmy bin kill
Harry?” I asked. “Him all right —no
more lie down longa ground. Not dead
fella! Look!” “Oh, no, missus,” the
child replied, shocked and indignant. “I
not bin say him dead fella! Jimmy bin
killum! Bin killum with a stick, but not
bin killum dead!” The fight dissolved
in shrieks of laughter at my silly mistake.
♦ * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: Still more objections to
that Pinus-radiata “complex” (B.
18/2/’53). Most conifers cast such a
deep shade that no other growth comes
under them, though a few unwanted
blackberries may straggle round the
edges of a plantation. Their needles make
the soil too acid for either Useful bac-
teria or earthworms to live in. The birds
that are the farmer’s friends don’t care
for pines, which means the insects have
a free run. If planted on a hillside a
marketable stand of Pinus will all be
felled at the same time, leaving bare
slopes open to erosion.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”; Son of a once-prominent
amateur horseman, I mounted the Burra-
gorang Valley guest-house hack, my first
in 25 years, nervously. My boy, seven
years old, whose only riding had been a
half-hour’s instruction a year before and
a few circuits of the paddock, me lead-
ing his horse, the previous day, climbed
hand-over-hand up the stirrup-leather,
grabbed the pommel, scrambled into the
saddle and kicked and licked his tall
mount with heels and a short strap straight
into a canter. I had to chase him all
the 10 miles of picnic-ride to the junction
of the Cox and Wollondilly rivers. On
our return, part of the way through
heavy rain, I dismounted sore and shaken
and justifiably worried about tomorrow’s
pains. But the boy, after his nag had
been unsaddled, was legged-up to ride
it bareback to the stockyard ; and lingered
about the saddle-shed for more than an
hour cadging short rides from returning
horsemen. Still, it’s nice having a born
horseman in the family.
* * * *
“Emjai”: I was hailed to come
and admire Nextdoor’s just-incubated
chickens. A delightful sight they
were; about 60 creamy little balls
of fluff chirruping with joy. About
an hour later I got a frantic call.
I answered it, to be shown an
empty chicken-house. The structure was
solid, with walls and floor of wood and
front of close-mesh wire. It was puzzling,
for seemingly nothing bigger than a fly
could get in. Closer investigation in the
darkest corner revealed a gnawed hole of
l|in. diameter ; then we heard a faint
“cheep, cheep.” We moved the house,
and beneath the wooden floor was a maze
of runways and holes in the earth sur-
face leading to a lower deck. A bit of
spadework, during which many rats were
knocked, disclosed a series of galleries
beneath the surface, with several off-
shoots lined with torn paper for nests
containing numerous young, and one
large chamber packed with the missing
chickens. Most were still alive, and
about half survived. The rats must have
organised a good relay-system to extract
60 chicks through one small hole and
along the narrow tunnel to the storage-
chamber in less than an hour. They also
had apparently anticipated the hatching.
RHYME FOR THE TWINS
Baa-baa, black sheep, have you any wool?
Yes, twins, yes, twins, three sacks full;
The third one for Stephen, next for Eleanor,
But the first for the Treasury man
Who keeps Canberra store.
And if the auctioneer
Should let his hammer fall
Before the bid makes forty pence,
There’ll be none for twins at all;
For the shearers and the shearers’ cooks,
The picker-up and classer
Dig deep into the greasy locks
Of every long-woolled wether.
The eaglets on the stony rise
They live on mutton pies,
The foxes and the sleazy crows
On lambs and sick ewes’ eyes.
And the twins have all that’s left
Of the black sheep culls
From saltbush Merinos,
Comebacks and Corriedales.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


immm
•Fit
(7
FINANCE
WRITER
WANTED
The Bulletin requires a
young accountant or economist
interested in financial journalism.
He must be interested in writing
as well as in finance. An opening
is offering on The Bulletin’s
financial pages for such a young
man, and prospects are excellent.
Inter-State applications will be
considered.
Address reply in own hand-
writing to
“Economisl,’*
“The Bulletin,”
Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
iAHm
THE DEPENDABLE CIGARETTE
CAPSTAN Special Mild
RED PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
973 D-11.52
f7*SS
Business. Rollery. etc.
Shares Quiet
Quietness again prevailed on
Australian sharemarkets last
week. But tribute was paid
wherever unexpectedly good re-
sults were shown. Rises have
taken place in the case of
Howard Smith, Carpet Manu-
facturers and F. J. Walker fol-
lowing distributions which were
in excess of expectations. And
though ICIANZ maintained its
ord. div. at 7 p.c., a weakening
in the scrip followed announce-
ment of a lower overall profit
from a record turnover.
It remains an interesting
sharemarket. There are oppor-
tunities for making something
through capital appreciation,
and at the same time there are
good yields offering from sound
stocks. In the forefront of
these is Swans, an old-estab-
lished Sydney hardware con-
cern. The shares at 40s. have
not been lower for several years.
Last term (to May 31, 1952) "a
12£ p.c. div. was paid from pro-
fits disclosed at 28.6 p.c. on ord.
capital. Conditions in the trade
appear to have been only slightly
less active during the present
term. The yield from Swans’
ords. is attractive at 6\ p.c., and
it has most of the virtues of an
industrial equity.
A well-managed, expanding
business is controlled by R. B.
Davies Industries. Its sub-
sidiaries represent the largest
organisation in the Southern
Hemi sphere manufacturing
builders’ hardware. The con-
tributing shares (lOs.-paid) at
14s. 9d. would give a yield of
6.4 p.c. when fully paid (on an
8 p.c. div. basis). A final call
is due on May 30,
There was a drop to 255. in
the shares of Linoleum Holdings
when a loss of £117,669 by the
operating co., Michael Nairn and
Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., was re-
vealed. For a long time shares
in Lino. Holdings were almost
unobtainable, sellers being hard
to find. Now buyers offer 205.,
sellers asking 295. On the basis
of last sales (255.) the scrip
should be worth buying. The
operating co., largely controlled
by the Scottish Nairn co., is very
conservatively handled on the
financial side, and inner strength
in assets is believed to be sub-
stantial. All the loss shown by
the operating co. was incurred
during the second half of the
year to September 30, 1952
Sales have improved consider-
ably since balancing-date.
Batons and Baldwins is
another Australian concern with
overseas affiliations that struck
trouble in its last term. It
will balance again in April,
better results are expected this
year. The shares have streng-
thened to 255., after dropping
below par in 1952. Assets in this
case are very conservatively
valued.
In Sydney the future of Metro-
politan Cement as an investment
remains in doubt. There have
been reports from the cement-
manufacturing authorities that
Australian production is
approaching the level of con-
sumption—for many years there
has been a shortage of cement
in Australia, more particularly
in Queensland and Victoria. No
doubt, once construction costs
stabilise in the Commonwealth,
there will be a higher demand
for cement-manufacturers to
meet. The trouble in Metropoli-
tan’s case is that i( is a high-cost
producer, and has had to get a
higher price for its cement than
that allowed by Price Control
to be charged by its competitors.
Metropolitan Cement £1 shares
have been changing hands at
6s. 3d. Its accounts to December
31 last have not yet been pre-
sented, and its present indebted-
ness to the Rural Bank of
N.S.W. (£2,413,124 at December
31, 1951) is not known."
In Melbourne John Mc-
Ilwraith 10s. shares were dealt
in at 21s. 9d., yielding 5.9 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis. .(Last
year the co. earned 18 p.c. on
capital. Turnover is reported to
be on a slightly reduced scale
during the present term.) It is
a sound stock.
Most of Australia’s investment
problems at present are wrapped
“Take them back, dear—they're nothing like the ad."
up in politics and trade-union
policy. There are great indus-
trial opportunities ahead if the
country will work hard enough,
“Easy Money” in Maoriland
Both friends and opponents of
the Holland Government have
been taking the Nationalists to
task lately for their lapse from
the original high standard they
set themselves on credit policy.
When business was being
squeezed by tight overdraft-
control last year, and the five
trading banks in N.Z. were
working their way back to a
more liquid position, the Govern-
ment was milking the Reserve
Bank for credit on a scale which
cancelled out most, if not all,
of the gain in monetary strength.
This wasn’t apparent at the time,
but it has come to light in figures
broadcast since the present year
opened, to the discredit of the
Government and the Treasury,
which have been putting pres-
sure on the Reserve Bank.
Credit-inflation, it seems, was
running at an average rate of
nearly a million a week in the
second half of 1952, and the
Government’s self-restraint in
letting the year go by without
borrowing for national works
doesn’t look as praiseworthy as
it did ; from a currency view-
point it loses all the merit it
appeared to have, interest-con-
trol and all included.
It was to be expected that the
Socialist financial “wizard,”
Walter Nash, would seize on this
heavy borrowing on current ac-
count to beat the back of the
Government, but the disapproval
which carried most weight was
that of leading economists who
in the past had given the Social-
ists a trouncing for their easy-
money practices. Said Prof. C.
G. F. Simkin (Auckland):
As one who joined In criticism of
the Labor Government’s nse of Re-
serve Bank credit to finance State
capital expenditures, I feel obliged
now to support Mr. Nash’s statement
that the National Government has
also resorted to large-scale borrow-
ing from the Reserve Bank in the
present fiscal year The original
strictures against such a policy still
apply. It is dangerous to expand
bank credit in a time of inflation and
wrong to do so when N.Z. has
pledged itself to join the rest of the
Commonwealth in fighting inflation
in order to strengthen sterling
The expedients of a patchwork eco-
nomic policy are wearing thin; it is
high time we bad something better.
Unlike Mr, Nash, I should seek this
not in further development of direct
controls, but in fiscal and monetary
measures which have had so much
recent success in other countries.
Taking a broad view of credit
policy in New Zealand over the
years, and leaving aside political
considerations, some other critics
find the results unimpressive,
and the Reserve Bank, which
has been too subject to Treasury
dictation, has come in for most
of the blame. It has been abused
for laxity in allowing credit to
expand and for severity in en-
forcing control, clearly an indi-
cation that it has not enhanced
its popularity in a rather un-
enviable role. Before it decided
to “get tough,” in December,
1951, it was guilty of weakness
in the period when bank advances
and discounts were trebled over
six years to £154 million (De-
cember, 1951), and after that its
order to “hold the line” had no
effect because goods flooding
into the/country had to be paid
for, however desirable it might
have been to pursue a stern
policy of credit-reform.
Throughout the years of credit-
inflation the Reserve Bank has
overlooked one weapon which
could have been most effective
in credit policy—the rate of dis-
count. For 12 years this rate
has stood unchanged at p.c.,
and for most of the time the
Reserve Bank has not been
interested in discounting bills.
The trading banks have generally
held a comfortable reserve of
deposits over their statutory
minimum with the Reserve
Bank, to make them independent
of discount funds, and today,
although the statutory minimum
has been raised since August (to
a modest extent), they are again
reasonably well equipped to
meet all demands. Hence the
Reserve Bank’s discount rate is
unimportant to them. One critic
has said that “as long as it is
as low as \\ p.c. it is of no
importance anyway.”
This is not flattering to the
Reserve Bank, and doesn’t help
to equip New Zealand to play
its part in the Commonwealth’s
new economic policy. As the
governing influence in banking,
it will have to do better, which
means it will have to be less sub-
servient to the Treasury in the
working-out of measures to
restore internal balance and a
healthy state of credit.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
mm
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD..
319 George Street
SYDNEY
CUARD
Os
PROTECTA
RtyUiUiTiiff'
ds
Suitable fur every type of busmen II record*
all Sales Credit*. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing m appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Oo e (Aunt.)
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
It is pleasant to wander back through the pathways
of a life’s years. To reach out and touch the memories,
fondling some with affection, passing over others that
have had their harshness barely smoothed by time; to
hear echoes ringing down the by-ways, at the captured
sound of a voice or the rising of a well-loved melody.
Those were my thoughts when one evening this
week I found an old fountain pen. It was a present
I had given my father. He liked it and used to write
his music with it.
He was youthful in his latter years, and spent the
evening of his life as most of us would like to
imagine one day we will spend ours —in the serenity
of his own home and garden.
“My garden is studded with fruit trees,” he used
to say. “With pears to remind me of that old veteran
down by the river in the days of my youthful swim-
ming. And peaches that are laden down in the ripening
days of December, and apricots turning saffron as they
did in the garden of my childhood home,
“And here in one corner I have found a place for
the Brunsfelsia shrub, on which white and mauve and
purple flowers, faded to their gradual hues by the light
of the sun, tell in themselves a philosophy: that all
things living must change.” It was that last phrase
that struck me, with all its pathos or promise, accord-
ing to how you view it. “All things living must
change,”
Here in Australia we are going to see tremendous
change in the lifetime of most of us. Nothing can
prevent our country’s progress, since life is not static.
But it rests with us whether we slow or hasten it.
I have my own vision of Australia —its fertile
lands made fruitful to capacity, its rivers locked to
precious water, its people more numerous, its com-
merce more prosperous. In that picture. Faith has a
foremost place.
It is well for us sometime to dwell on the past.
Indeed, we cannot appraise the futdre without knowing
what has gone into making up the present. We profit
from the trials and, yes, the errors of people who have
trod the path before us.
That is one reason why I am most respectful of
the aged and of the things for which they stand.
But it makes me more tolerant of the aspirations
of youth. My father was young in his time. He had
hopes which in their context were no diffierent from
those that fill the hearts of boys and girls today.
I believe that in his journeys back through the
years, he found satisfaction for those yearnings. I
suppose he saw that not all had gone according to his
adolescent planning. But his peace was plentiful, as
he could say: “I did my best for Australia with the
opportunities that came to me.”
And I hope that this may be said of all of us
when the time comes for us to sit in age and gaze out
beyond the farther hills.
fds
_
THE
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
March
to
27th
from
Open
April
7th
nights
DAYS
10
ELECTRIC OR DIESEL-ELECTRIC?
By Dr. L. J. A. Parr, M.L.A.
The question as to whether
main-line electrification or
partial dieselisation should be
the future policy of the New
South Wales railways is
important, as heavy expenditure
is involved, with a following
interest burden. It is urgently
necessary now to look to the
future.
In 1937 the British experts
Rendell, Palmer and Tritton
favored main-line electrification
in New South Wales. The war,
intervening, caused the project to
remain more or less dormant
until Commissioner for Railways
Garside again brought the matter
to the attention of the Transport
Minister. The railways were con-
cerned with the fact that they
would have to meet increased
traffic, and especially* increased
coal tonnage from the western
coalmines.
To meet this situation three
schemes were proposed:
1. More extensive use of existing
facilities for steam. The average age
of locomotives was 36 years; there-
fore many were ready for retirement.
2. Quadruplication. —A very costly
procedure, especially over the Blue
Mountains, and its cost could not be
justified.
3. Electrification —The advantages
of the latter would permit an increase
of 50 per cent, more traffic on exist-
ing tracks, so avoiding the costly
second scheme for many years to
come. Since electrification is costly
to instal unless traffic density is suffi-
cient to utilise to the full these facili-
ties, it was visualised that the fol-
lowing lines should be electrified:
Single Tracks
Sydney—Lithgow 350 miles -
„ Newcastle 200 „
„ Port Kemtfla 100 „
„ Goulburn 260 „
Total 910 „
The cost of this electrified
trackage at that time was esti-
mated at £17,750,000; the basic
wage was then 1245., but now is
2385. Therefore the cost today
as regards wages alone would be
almost double. This fact alone
may halt the scheme, and does
suggest a reappraisal of costs.
On April 2, 1949, Premier
McGirr said the main-line elec-
trification to Lithgow would be
completed in five years, and in
November, 1949, a survey-party
arrived in Lithgow for the
purpose of surveying the area for
electrification.
The electrification of the
western line has been stopped,
and the Commissioner for Rail-
ways has recommended an
inquiry into the advantages and
disadvantages of dieselisation.
Premier Cahill has lately said
that electrification will go on.
In U.S.A. diesel - electric
traction had increased as
follows:
Passenger 1% in 1936 —49% in 1949
Freight 5% „ 1944—35% „ „
Yard-
service 2% „ 1936—51% „ „
It should be repeated at this
juncture that the favorable report
on main-line electrification in
N. by the British experts
was made in 1937; at that time
dieselisation was in its infancy
in America.
On the ground of economy of
operation, U.S.A. is rapidly
dieselising, and this in a land
where electricity is abundant.
So rapid has been dieselisation
in U.S.A. that although in 1948
diesel units numbered 8089, by
July 1, 1952, they had increased
to 19,082 (approximately 11,000
in four years), and for the first
time had outstripped steam
(18,489 units). By 1956
American railroads will, accord-
ing to estimates, be almost fully
dieselised. In contrast, the
number of electric units rose by
618 to 829 between 1930 and
1948.
With increasing dieselisation
comes increasing efficiency, and
the Pennsylvania Railroad shows
that in 1947 net income per
dollar of operating revenue was
O. cents, whilst in 1951 it was
2.56 cents. The privately-owned
American railroads, having no
public purse (such as Consoli-
dated Revenue in New South
Wales) available to them, must
stand on their own financial feet
—and they are dieselising.
Canadian National Railways,
in its annual report for 1951,.
revealed that it is operating 280
diesel-electric locomotives as
well as steam, and states: “In
terms of equipment the diesel-
electric locomotive continues to
offer the most promising field for
improved efficiency. Following
the completion of a comprehen-
sive study, approval in principle
has been given to a five-year pro-
gramme of partial dieselisation
directed towards those freight,
passenger and yard services where
relatively intensive utilisation of
locomotives can be obtained and
advantage taken of this greater
availability and lower operating
costs of this type of power.”
The Canadian Pacific Railway
is rapidly dieselising, and in its
last annual report states that it
has bought its last steam loco.
In a country such as Canada,
with abundant hydroelectric
power, is it not significant that
main-Mne electrification is not
projected and that the policy is
dieselisation?
In Europe and England main-
line electrification is well
advanced and still proceeding,
but in the main it is the com-
pletion of partially electrified
lines. The concentration of
population in small areas is dif-
ferent from that in Australia, and
our policy should be moulded on
the North American continent
rather than on heavily-populated
Europe.
There are five factors chiefly
responsible in U.S.A. for the
present-day favored position of
the diesel-electric locomotive as
compared with the steam loco-
motive : namely, lower fuel costs,
lower repair and servicing costs,
greater availability, higher
utilisation of available horse-
power over the speed-range and
increased flexibility.
Illustrating its high degree of
fuel efficiency, the diesel-electric
engine can produce 625 gross
ton-miles of service with one
gallon of diesel oil, the average
automobile 20-30 gross ton-miles
on a gallon of petrol, whilst a
four-engine cargo aeroplane pro-
duces 30-40 gross ton-miles on a
gallon of high-octane gasoline.
The greatest advantage of the
diesel-electric over the steam
locomotive is its high availability,
and it can work more hours of
the day and more days of the
year without the time-out needed
by the steam loco, for attention
to fires, boilers, coal- and water-
replenishment. The average
annual mileage of the steam loco,
in N.S.W. is a little over 33,000
miles; but in U.S.A. annual
mileage for the freight-diesel is
104,000 miles and passenger-
diesel 230,000 miles.
The diesel-electric is essentially
an electric locomotive which
supplies its own power instead
of drawing it from a central
generating power-station, and
thus provides some of the
distinct operating advantages of
the electric locomotive, whilst
avoiding the high initial cost
required for electrification. It is
therefore a mobile power-station,
able to go wherever a pair of
rails have been laid sufficiently
strong to bear its weight. The
electric locomotive, on the other
hand (though powerful), is
limited by the extent of the over-
head wires by which power is
supplied.
The electric locomotive is
more powerful than the diesel-
electric and can, on down-grades,
generate electricity which flows
back into the power-line, and it
also has a high degree of avail-
ability.
The Trans-Australian Railway
(length of route 1108 miles) has
been dieselised, and 11 diesel-
electric locomotives have
replaced 43 steam locomotives.
Running-time has been reduced
from 43 hours to 25£ hours, and
for the first time since the Trans
was built it has made a profit.
The capital investment of the
New South Wales railways is
as follows:
Capital investment, 1926: £lO5 mil.
1951: £196 mil.
. 1952: £217 mil.
The freight carried in 1926
was 14i million tons, and in 1952
a little over 18 million. This
shows that, in spite of more than
double the capital expenditure,
freight traffic rose by approxi-
mately one-quarter. For this
reason alone railway policy
should be closely scrutinised.
The percentage of railway
working expenses to gross
earnings rose from 75.96
per cent, in 1938-39 to 99.43 pfcr
cent, in 1950-51 and was over
92 per cent, in 1951-52, whilst
the American railroads showed a
percentage of 77.4 per cent, in
1951.
Unless operating costs are
reduced, railway freight-
charges cannot be reduced,
and the rural industries
will remain stifled by heavy
transport costs. Transport costs
on wheat, up over 250 per cent.,
have helped reduce wheat-
acreage.
Since only partial dieselisation
is contemplated, only a small
amount of diesel oil is involved.
And if the absence of oil in Aus-
tralia is an argument against
partial dieselisation, then why
replace trams by buses and
horses on farms by tractors and
buy diesel package-plants?
The ability of the diesel-
electric locomotive to travel up
to 1000 miles without refuelling
makes it ideal for rural develop-
ment, as it can reduce coaling-
and water-points throughout
country areas and thus reduce
rural transport costs.


: m
zvccut
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
UNION TRUSTEE
protects and conserves
For the security of your dependants, the manage-
ment and protection of your assets is just as important
after your lifetime as it is now. Administration of
Estates is a specialised duty that Union Trustee has
faithfully performed for over 67 years. It is significant
that an increasing number of people in all walks of
life are appointing the Company as Executor or Trustee.
The Union Trustee Company’s charges are exceedingly
moderate. They are, in fact, limited by law. And, of
course, continuity of service is assured at all times.
Call for a personal interview with one of the Company’s senior
officers, or, if you prefer, write for a copy of the free booklet
“Important Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, TrusteesNo
charge—no obligation.
YOUR ASSETS
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
UXIB
The WILD CAT COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
f~ Dividends Nominal
■Pref. Ke-
Oct., Profit. p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
1945.. 948,915 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,478,126
Unexplained addition, £13,090 .. 1,491,216
1946.. 960,158 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,496,712
Unexplained reduction, £6083 ..1,490,629
1947.. 951,403 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,487,370
Unexplained addition, £736 ..1,488,106
1948.. 956,324 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,489,768
Share premiums, £1,338,848 .. 2,828,616
Unexplained reduction, £3OlB •. 2,825,598
1949.. 999,983 111,188 9 p.c. = 883,640 2,830,753
Unexplained addition, £6483 .. 2,837,286
1950.. 813,247 111,188 6Jp.c. = 696,201 2,843,094
Unexplained addition, £11,277 .. 2,854,371
1951.. 1,065,399 111,188 9 pc. = 963,970 2.844,612
From inner reserves, £1,694,015 ..4,538,627
From depreciation revenue, £933,240 5,471,867
1952.. 1,000,444 111,188 Bip.c. = 883.640 5,477,483
* After deducting outsiders’ interests.
+ Subject to intangibles (now £3,995,424).
Delay in bringing controlled selling-
prices—the co. has to deal with the
authorities in six different States —more
into line with advancing costs was the
main factor behind the slip of £64,955 in
the latest profit figure of this big and
efficient group, consisting of parent hold-
ing co. and five operating subsidiaries,
which enjoys a commanding position in
the Australian tobacco trade.
Despite a heavy inflow of cigarettes
from abroad during the first half of the
term, checked later by import-restric-
tions, output and sales of the group con-
tinued to expand. That was because of
the wide gap between the level of local
production and local demand, and the
fact that local brands of both cigarettes
and tobacco sell at lower prices than
imported ones.
The following table shows what hap-
pened in the import field for the year to
June 30, 1952, and for the ensuing six
months:
Imports.
Year
June 30, Cigarettes. Tobacco.*
£’ooo. £’ooo.
1951 .. .. 7,967 8,004
1952 .. 9,608 8,716
Six months
Dec. 81,
1951 .. .. 5,888 2,865
1952 .. .. 1.570 4,732
* Unmanufactured.
The heartening feature from the share-
holders’ point of view is the way in
which the figures for the six months to
December 31 last have moved. The
marked contraction in the inflow of
cigarettes and expansion in the arrival
of leaf (unmanufactured tobacco), which
is the cos.’ raw material, ought to mean
a substantial lift in output and reduced
competition. This and the delayed
adjustment of selling-prices, full benefits
of which will be reflected in the current
year’s figures, together with the easier
trend of costs, and “better understanding”
of the co.’s problems in official quarters,
suggest that the worst of its troubles
are now behind it, and augur well for
a better showing at next balance and
possible fractional lift in the dividend rate.
After allowing £267,274 (up £38,722)
for depreciation and whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation and other
contingencies, the cautious board figured
combined net earnings for the year at
£1,000,444. That was enough to pay the
pref. div, and then show 8.3 p.c. on the
£10,710,781 of ord. and B share capital,
compared with 8.9, 6.5, 9, 9 and 8.9 p.c,
back to 1947. The div., which had been
reduced from 9 p.c. in 1949 to 6% p.c. in
the following year and lifted to 9 p.c.
again in 1951, was lowered to 8i p.c.,
leaving only £5616 to put on the shelf.
In addition £2,627,255 was brought
from hiding and put in the window, of
which £933,240 was previous excess pro-
visions for depreciation, and £1,694,015
past accumulations for various liabilities
and contingencies “no longer likely to
occur.” Total reserves at October 31,
1952, were thus lifted to £5,477,483, of
which £1,472,555 (mostly share premiums)
was labelled capital reserves and the
balance revenue reserves, the lot subject
to £3,995,424 goodwill, etc. The cup-
board where the inner reserves are kept
isn’t likely to have been left bare, nor
is the old and sound habit of conser-
vatively stating the profit likely to have
been abandoned. However, there has
been lithe, if any, opportunity of adding
much to inner reserves of recent years.
To carry an extra £2,103,229 of stocks
—they appear at or below cost —and
make additions of £63,614 to debtors’
balances, £197,650 to plant, etc., and
£23,352 to freeholds, the co. increased
the amount coming to creditors, etc., by
£559,303 net:
Consolidated Figures.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £12,421,369 £12,421,369 £12,421,369
Outside shares* 91,174 90,199 80,150
Deprec. reserve 3,100,077 3,328,426 2,395,186
Creditors, etc. - ) 3,662,462 6,534,830 7,094,133
Pinal divs. .. 267,770 107,108 240,993
Freeholds .. 1,555,376 1,532,662 1,556,014
Plant, etc. . . 2,286,205 2,868,963 2,566,613
Stocks . . 13.507,626 15,587,405 17,690.634
Debtors . . 813,071 1,654,248 1.717,857
Shares other cos. 101 101 101
Cash, etc. . . 254,420 214,023 182,762
Goodwill, etc.. . 3,969,238 3,969,238 3,995,424
* Includes proportion of reserves, t Includes over-
draft and tax provision, etc.
The creditors, etc., item includes an
overdraft of £4,291,888 (up £616,746) and
£1,258,295 set aside as provision for taxa-
tion and “other liabilities.” On© of the
board’s most acute financial problems at
the moment is provision of adequate
working capital, the amount of which is
being constantly increased by the need
to carry heavier stocks of leaf, etc., at
high prices and more book-debts. When
the time is opportune, appropriate steps
will be taken to place the co.’s permanent
capita) requirements on a more permanent
basis, the chairman says.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords., which
fluctuated between 40s. and 30s. during
1952, stood at 345. 9d. last week, giving
a return of 4.7 p.c. on an 8i p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis the B shares
at 335. 6d. return 4.9 p.c. The 6i p.c.
prefs. at 245. 4d. yield 5.3 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £8 2s. 7d,
prefs. and 225, 9d. ords. The B shares
rank equally with the ords. for divs.,
but are deferred as to return of capital.
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd.
, Dividends N Nominal
June, Profit. Pref, Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1942 .. 7,723 7J Nil 3,875 152,830
1943 .. 19,508 7| 6 15,384 156,954
1944 .. 28,498 8 8 19,346 166,106
1945 . . 30,465 8 8 18,590 177,981
Advances written back, £11,000.. f
1946 .. 35,830 10 10 23,056 ) 201,755
Advances written back, £4000..]
Profit, sale of freehold, £24,743.. }• 240,554
1947 .. 83,494 10 10 24,196 I
From tax provision and advances ]
written back, £40,092 .. . . V 295,553
1948 .. 39,103 10 10 24,196 J
Share premiums, £2OOB .. 297,561
1949 .. 45,707 10 10 26,000 318,268
Unexplained additions, £15,000 333,268
1950 .. 59,985 10 12j 30,000 863,253
Capital profit, £70,000 .. .. 433,253
Share premiums, £56,250 .. 489,503
1951 .. 60,568 10 10 36,784 513,287
1952 .. 62,867 10 10 45,200 530,954
* Reserves are subject to book-values of patents
(£165,755) and of shares in overseas subsidiaries
( £105,097).
The co. has been engaged in the manu-
facture and operation of Julius “Premier”
totalisators for the last 34 years, and
it has never failed to show a profit during
that period. And on only three occa-
sions (1930, 1931 and 1942) since 1921
have shareholders failed to receive a
div., the average being 6.6 p.c. The
seven years to the close of last accounts
were the most prosperous, the ords. re-
ceiving an average of 10.3 p.c. —returns
from manufacture of precision-tools
helped swell those from the growing
totalisator business.
The co.’s machines have been installed
on many overseas racing tracks. The
French subsidiary, which met with a
run of unforeseen setbacks —war, German
occupation and a depreciated franc —
proved more of a hindrance than a help.
It passed to the racing authorities at
Longchamps {Paris) in 1948 in accord-
ance with the original agreement; under
a 'special arrangement the parent con-
tinues to manage the French co. on a
reduced profit basis until 1953. Last
term £15,000 was added to reserves on
account of remittances! from this offshoot.
Interest in the foreign field now centres
mainly in Automatic Totalisators (U.S.),
Ltd. It was registered at Sydney in
November, 1950, to develop use of the
Julius machines on the North American
continent, and now has a paid capital of
£807,602 in £1 shares, of which 707,602
are ords. and 100,000 deferreds. Auto-
matic Totalisators, Ltd., took 7595 ords.
and 70,000, deferreds, all f.-p., in con-
sideration for licences, plus 100,000 ords.
for cash, and 30,000 f.-p. deferreds were
handed to Automatic Totalisators Inc.
(New York) for assets taken over. The
Australian public put up £600,000 of
ord. capital at par at the end of 1951.
For the 18 months to June 30, 1952,
the new co.’s losses totalled £48,434. It
expects to turn the corner by the close
of next accounts, and thereafter to give
a satisfactory account of itself. The
prospectus put the development period at
two years or thereabouts. No royalties
are payable to Automatic Totalisators,
Ltd., which will supply all the new co.’s
equipment as it is needed. Hitherto over
90 p.c. of the tote equipment in use in
the U.S. was manufactured by an Ameri-
can co. Still, indications are that the
Australian co. can successfully com-
pete, the chairman says. On Sydney
’Change the new co.’s f.-p. £1 ords,
fetched 14s. 4d, last week.
A small wholly-owned subsidiary
(capital £5097) has also been formed in
Brazil. Hopes are that considerable
business will develop in South America
later on.
Last term the parent’s plant at Meadow-
bank, near Sydney, was, and still is, fully
occupied on a wide range of overseas
and local orders. And the volume of
betting through the tote in Australia,
swelled, too:
Toth Turnover ; Australia.
Yeai Year
June 30, June 30,
1947 . . £19,293,000 1949 . . £23,620,000
1948 . . 21,997,000 1950 . . 26,182,000
Australian figures for 1952 are not yet
available, but those for N. S. Wales alone
were £16,344,000, an increase of
£11,550,000, or over 41 p.c.
After allowing £48,571 (up £19,428)
for depreciation and £50,000 (down
£5000) for taxation, net earnings were
only £2299 better at £62,867. The pref.
div. called for £5OOO, and the balance
was equal to 14.4 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 17.4, 27.4, 20.3, 17.7
and 14.8 p.c. back to 1947. The div.
remained at 10 p.c., and the board expects
to keep it there. The £530,954 of reserves
includes £250,755 of specific provisions
against the book-value of goodwill
(£165,755) and shares in the French co.
(£85,000).
Principal balance-sheet movement was
the growth of £128,193 in book-debts,
reflecting expansion of overseas and
local business:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital—• „ „
Ordinary .. £200,000 £200,000 £402,000 £402.000
Pref. . . 50,000 50,000 50,000 50.000
Reserves—
General .. 76,843 106,843 248.258 278,258
Special . . 240,000 255,000 262,623 250,755
Overdraft . . 113,282 158,176 381,576 420,762
Creditors . . 254,340 819,805 148,481 228,085
Tax provision. 47,872 52,271 65,884 115,884
Final divs. . . 12,500 17,500 18,392 22,600
Freeholds .. 135.814 142,533 142,897 150,043
Plant . . 134,407 138,401 158,689 154,596
T °tions inStalla . 45,495 103,304 291,159 383,790
Stocks . . 324,668 432,616 491,432 400,216
Debtors . . 83,556 78,255 94,876 223,069
In’ments, etc. 10,919 3,638 137,945 187,720
Shares in over-
seas co. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000 105,091
Patents .. 161.103 162,258 162,623 165,755
Stocks were reduced by £91,216, and
£39,186 was added to the overdraft and
£79,604 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. Shareholdings are those in the
French and Brazilian cos. The holding
in the U.S. co. at balancing-date was
apparently included with investments
(£186,811, up £49,976).
To finance continued expansion of
overseas and other business, 148,000 new
£1 ords. were issued at par since the
close of accounts, raising paid capital to
£600,000 in 50,000 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and
550,000 ords.
At 275, 6d. the ords. return 7.2 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, and the prefs. at
28s. yield 7.9 p.c. Including the new
issue but excluding specific reserves, net
tangible cover is £l7 12s. 3d. prefs. and
30s. 2d. ords.
Richardson & Wrench, Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 8,482 6 p.c. = 3,150 332 12,825
1944.. 2,035 5 „ „ 2,625 12,235
1945.. 7,515 10 „ „ 5,250 7 KIK » Rn
Staff bonus, £1750 .. J 515 12 > 750
1946.. 1! 129 15 pc - 7,874 i 1250 um
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. j
1947.. 4,866 p.c. = 6,562 12,309
1948.. 8,128 12Jf „ „ 6,563 1565 13,874
Staff bonus, £1250 .. .. 12,624
1949.. 12,412 15 p.c. = 7,875 4537, 17,161
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. .. 15,161
1950.. 30,870 80 p.c. = 15,750 15,120 30,281
Staff bonus, £6023 .. •• 24.258
1951.. 22,915 30 p.c. = 15,750 7,165 31,423
Staff bonus, £5255 .. .. 26,168
1952.. 11,638 20 p.c. = 10,500 1,138 27,306
Earnings and dividends of this 93-year-
old, which is one of Sydney’s leading real-
estate businesses, follow the ups and
down of the metropolitan property mar-
ket. Last term sales totalled £2,648,969
compared with £4,149,762 and £4,385,667
for the two preceding boom years.
Tighter credit thinned the ranks of
buyers, and property values dropped from
boom to more reasonable levels, especially
in the over-£5OOO class, where some
speculators and others have found their
commitments, based on the artificial con-
ditions of the preceding few years,
burdensome.
All sections of the business—auction
and private sales, stock-and-station,
valuations, fair-rent appraisals, property-
management and rent-collection —main-
tained their fair proportion of earnings.
The aggregate net result, however, was
little better than half the previous year’s
at £11,638. Still, it was a comfortable
22.1 p.c. on the £52,500 of share capital
as against 43.6, 58.8, 23.6, 15.9 and 9.2
p.c. back to 1947. The div. was slashed
from 30 p.c. to 20 p.c., making the aver-
age distribution over the last eight years
18.1 p.c., compared with an average of
7.8 p.c. for the preceding quinquennium,
which felt the full blast of war-time
restrictions and controls.
During the peak of the post-war boom,
easy money, spiralling wage-rates and
shortages of manpower and materials
sent building costs to unhealthy peaks,
and the trade generally got out of hand.
Now manpower and materials are
adequate, and some of the hot air has
been let out of the industry. But there
is little finance, and homes and office and
shop and other space remain in short
supply, while “fair-rents” legislation con-
tinues to foster rack-renting through sub-
letting. Some of the premiums reputed
to be paid for office accommodation by
way of a supposed purchase of business
or professional practice are fantastic.
The real remedy for these abuses lies net
in official restrictions or legislation but
in increasing the supply of space to meet
the demand.
So far as finance for home-building is
concerned, chairman E. Telford Simpson
makes this suggestion:
Set up a body to co-ordinate all the
lending authorities, and, if necessary, float
a public housing-loan to be used to finance
home purchases through the existing co-
operative building-society movement, and
so infuse a constant flow of credit into the
building industry.
There is much to be said in support of


Public Notices
I, SOCRATES POULIMENOS, of Greek
nationality, born at Corfou, Greece,
resident three years in Australia, now
residing at Roosevelt Flats, King’s Cross,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948-1950.
COLEMAN.—AIfred Coleman, commonly
known as John Riley, late of 164 Malop
Street, Geelong, Victoria, Waterside
worker, died on 26th July, 1952, intestate.
He was bom in Devonshire, England, on
the 6th August, 1881, being a son of
Richard Chappie Coleman and Mary Ann
Coleman, nee Hosking. Any person
claiming to be next of kin of the said
deceased is requested to communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
Manufacturers of: —
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overband and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited.
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
We manufacture the “Curvilinear” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
AMPLITE
HOME
LIGHTING
PUNTS
Brilliant light at the press of a button
with AMPLITE Home Lighting Units.
J 2 Volt 300 Watt, 32 Volt 400 Watt,
£B9/10/0; 32 Volt 750 Watt, £142/10/0
(A'ASIA)
ďs
PTY. LTD.
36-40 PARRAMATTA ROAD, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Bivorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM YEOMANS late of Walgett
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that STELLA
MARY YEOMANS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4512 of 1962 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th day of
May 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
WILSON & THOMSON, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 155 King Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOSEPH SHIELD formerly of 50
Waverley Street Bondi.—TAKE NOTICE
that CATHERINE ELLEN SHIELD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4495 of
1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 12th day of May 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from 0. P. DIGNAM. Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ow much is
signatyre
By securing a National Mutual Policy,
your signature is worth an amount
that is more than pounds, shillings
and pence. It is worth priceless
peace-of-mind—protection for your-
self and family far beyond your
normal capacity to save—financial
security at the time when you may
need it most.
Lei an experienced officer explain
the advantages of The National
Mutual Plan .
The Association Is owned by Its
Policyholders, who alone share all
profits.
"MIIOMIMIITIAL
lIFI ASSOCIATION SA'ASIA. LTD.
EST. 1868 OaSj&M*)
HEAD OFFICE: 395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
NEW SOUTH WALES:
350 George St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND;
290 Queen St., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA;
King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
TASMANIA:
Macquarie St., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND;
Chief Office; Customhouse
Quay, Wellington,
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAUtER
real good Scotch
It was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the little Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
i Every drop Distilled
\ and Blended in I
k\ Scotland n
JW.147.1A
this, and of the chairman’s other
suggestion that “fair-rent regula-
tions should be removed from
commercial premises, and the
letting market for space allowed
to find its own level, and so give
an impetus to the building of
commercial premises in the
city.”
The co.’s own capital and
reserves are represented mainly
by a good-letting freehold in the
heart of the city and book-
debts; —
1950. 1951. 1952.
Capital .. £52,500 £52,500 £52.500
Trust a/o .. 69,738 55,251 57,854
Sundry creditors 977 166 1,487
Tax provision.. 18,468 24,325 12,481
Final div., etc. 14,500 11,130 5,250
Freeholds, etc. 65,650 65,650 65,650
Equipment .. 4,794 5,477 6,700
Advances .. 1,966 —.—
Shares other cos. 3,022 8,058 8,094
Sundry debtors 11,610 12,313 15,300
Cash, etc. .. 93,399 83,041 66,132
The trust accounts and the cash-
holding are interlinked.
The f.-p. 15s. shares, which are
covered by net tangibles of
225. 10d., are not very actively
traded in the market. Last sale
was at 345. 6d., giving a return
of 8.7 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis,
Evans, Deakin & Co. (Qld.)
—Dividends!— N
Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1943.. 35,201 7£ 8,934 91,818
1944.. 44,467 7J 7j, 9,373 126,912
To reserves, from writing up
of assets, £20,755 .. .. 147,667
1945.. 19,690 10 10 12,550 154,807
1946.. 34,803 10 10 12,550 177,060
1947.. 26,378 10 14,687 188,751
1948.. 47,051 10 12i 14,685 221,117
1949.. 60,968 10 15 16,825 265,260
1950.. 63,532 10 &5 Hi 22,781 306,008
Unexplained additions, £7376, 313,380
Prom inner reserves, £85,500, 398,880
Reserves capitalised, £85,500, 313,380
1951.. 69,180 10 &5 15 34,450 348,110
Unexplained additions, £24,551, 372,661
1952.. 80,699 10 &5 15 34,450 418,910
The snug position, technically
and financially, now enjoyed by
this 28-year-old general-engineer-
ing, structural-steel and ship-
building co. is due mainly to the
skill and patient care of the
founders of the business —
Colonel D. E. Evans (chairman
until his death a year or so ago)
and A. J. Deakin (now chairman
and managing-director).
War provided a crop of fresh
opportunities, including vship-
building, of which an alert
management made the most, and
the rapid post-war development
of Queensland hastened the co.’s
expansion, which has been
financed largely out of earnings.
Since 1939 £386,556 net has been
added to reserves, raising them
to £418,910 at June 30 last. Over
the same period paid capital
grew from £104,135 to £280,600
with the assistance of £90,695
of cash subscriptions and £85,500
of bonus-scrip, one for one,
scattered in 1950. The £280,600
is in 40,000 first 1\ p.c. and
60.000 second 5 p.c. cum. prefs.,
171.000 ords. and 12,000
“special” employee shares, on
which there was £2400 to come
when the books last closed.
And those on the ord. register
have joined in the prosperity. A
run of p.c. divs, for the eight
years to 1944 was followed by
two lots of 10 p.c., two of \l\
p.c., one of 17| p.c. and then
two of 15 p.c. (10 p.c. of it tax-
free) to the close of last
accounts. And the 15 p.c. is
worth 30 p.c. on capital as it
stood before the gift-issue just
referred to.
The general-engineering shop
and structural-steelworks are at
South Brisbane and Rocklea
respectively, the shipyards are
alongside the big bridge the co,
built at Kangaroo Point, and the
nerve-centre of the lot, the draft-
ing office, is at headquarters in
Gharlotte-street, Brisbane. Also
a 25 p.c. interest is held in Com-
monwealth Engineering (Bris-
bane), formed in 1951 to look
after construction of railway
rolling-stock.
Helped by sales of specialty
lines, handled on an agency
basis, turnover (amount not
stated) increased substantially
last term. Shortage of skilled
labor is still a problem. The co,
recently launched its 29th vessel,
and orders on hand are sufficient
to keep the yards fully occupied
for “some years ahead.” This
and the demand for steel on
account of the new Bulimba
powerhouse and similar and
other projects augur well for the
structural-steel section, and the
outlook for the general-engineer-
ing division is far from dull.
After allowing £98,500 (up
£7000) for “taxation and stock-
depreciation,” and something for
ordinary wear-and-tear on plant,
the spring in net earnings was
£11,519. The £80,699 of profit
claimed covered pref. require-
ments and 47.9 p.c. on the ord.
and employee capital, compared
with 33.9 p.c. for the previous
year.
To carry an extra £173,350 of
stocks (in at the lower of cost or
market price) and add £20,246
to the book-value of fixed assets
the co. reduced book-debts by
£43,586 and added only £67,134
to the outside debt:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. 186,700 275,800 280,600
Depreciation re-
serve .. 124,026 166,765 176,262
Overdraft .. 83,165 86,319 35,800
Creditors* ..'268,199 372,090 439,743
Final divs. .. 9,750 9,150 9,150
Freeholds and
plant . . 348,755 468,259 488,505
Stocks, work in
progress .. 320,078 858,508 531,858
Shares other cos. 81,406 36,982 39,107
Debtors .. 187,853 313,963 270,377
Cash, bonds, etc. 40,757 40,777 40,773
* Includes provision for taxation, etc:
The year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£358,310, excluding shares in
other cos.) was £62,626.
' The ords. at 555. return 5.4
p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis, and
the second prefs. at 18s. 6d. also
yield 5.4 p.c. The firsts seldom
appear on the market. Exclud-
ing the depreciation reserve
(£176,262), net tangible cover is
£l7 10s. lid. firsts, £ll os. 4d.
seconds and 655, sd. ords.
The price of Central Norse-
man Gold Corp.’s f.-p. ss. shares
have shot up from 16s. 7d, to
275. in the market over the last
six months. Behind the rise lies
a better throughput of higher-
grade ore, bigger recovery of
gold and some encouraging
developments. For the year
to March 31, 1952, 149,088
tons were treated for 49,09 loz.
fine gold and 47,1980 z. silver.
The profit was £207,987, or
32 p.c. on the £650,000
of capital, and a 10 p.c.
div, was paid. For the first nine
months of the current term, the
co. treated 124,639 tons (equal
to 166,000-odd tons on annual
basis) for 62,0710 z. fine gold, an
average of 9.95dwt. per ton as
against 6.6dwt. for the preceding
12 months. Moreover, for the
nine months to Dec., 1952,
2398 ft. of the 3248 ft. of
development work carried out
in the Princess Royal lease
was in ore averaging 28.2dwt.
over a width of 60in. In
the Phoenix area 1468 ft. of
the 4569 ft. of development was
in stuff averaging 10.8dwt. over
a width of 58in. The diamond-
drill has also disclosed some
high values at No. 25 level of
the Phoenix, core assays 47.4dwt.,
and in two rises from the same
level 22.8dwt. ore has been met
with. At March 31, 1952, ore
reserves totalled 328,000 tons,
averaging B.sdwt. The co.,
operating at Norseman (W.A.),
is the star-performer of the four
producing concerns in Western
Mining Corp.’s stable.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY .
Irmgard Seefried, whose consummate
art, grace and charm called up excited
acclaim at her first Sydney recital, solves
the age-old singer’s problem of what to
do with her hands by the most simple and
natural of expedients; she lets them fall
by her side. Holding not even a wisp of
handkerchief, she yet contrives to avoid
what in most others would be extreme
awkwardness. Thus there is no fustian,
no hand-clasping, no putting the hands
out just for something to do as might
the leading lady of the Dry Creek’s
Amateur Dramatic Society. She uses her
hands by shutting them during climactic
moments, and to acknowledge charm-
ingly the applause as she moves off the
platform with her springing step.
☆ ☆ *
For her appearance a few nights earlier
with the orchestra Miss Seefried wore a
black velvet dress, the bodice embroidered
in white wool, and a full-length cyclamen-
pink chiffon stole. Her recital gown was
palest-gold brocade, cut with the utmost
simplicity. At the recital given in her
honor by the Sydney Symphony
Orchestral Committee she wore a vividly-
striped stole over a black dress and was
hatless.
☆ ☆ ☆
A new member of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra is Mrs, A. P,
Mackerras, whose son, Charles Mackerras,
ai present conducting at Sadler’s Wells,
composed the ballet suite “Pineapple
Poll,” the first adaptation of Sir Arthur
Sullivan’s music since the copyright
expired two years ago. Mrs. Mackerras
belongs to a distinguished family, her
grandfather being Sir Normand Mac-
Laurin, who was Chancellor of Sydney
University from 1896 to 1914. This is
the longest period for which any Chan-
cellor has held office. Her father, Dr.
Charles MacLaurin, was a contributor to
The Bulletin’s Red Page for many
years, and is also remembered as the
author of Post Mortem and Mere
Mortals, those interesting essays which
viewed history in the light of medical
knowledge.
☆ ☆ ☆
To have raised £7330 with an expense
account of only £33 is the record of the
Eastern Command Women’s Auxiliary,
which held its annual meeting during the
week in the presence of his Excellency
the Governor. The auxiliary, of which
Mrs. F. H. Berryman is president,
supports essentially Service organisations
such as the War Widows,, the Red Cross,
the Korean Auxiliary and Legacy. Keep-
ing costs down has been its objective
during the whole of its history, and since
1946 £19,000 has been raised for an out-
lay of £lOO, a truly remarkable effort
which must surely be a record.
☆ ☆ *
Passed away at East Gordon, Sydney,
Mrs. Kate Montfort Partridge Stone, an
Australian writer who was well-known
from 1900 to 1930 as novelist and poet
under the pen-name Sydney Partridge.
The first of her three novels, Rocky
Section, was published in 1907 by Steele
Rudd, and she also had several books of
poetry printed. Over the years she
contributed hundreds of short stories,
serials, poems and articles to leading
Australian magazines and newspapers,
including The Bulletin, the “Sydney
Morning Herald” and the “Lone Hand.
Mrs. Stone claimed descent from Simon
de Montfort, who founded the first
English Parliament, and was a cousin of
Sir Bernard Partridge, R.A., the famous
“Punch” cartoonist. Her grandfather,
John Partridge, was official portrait
painter to Queen Victoria, and there is a
legend that an ancestor of hers, Sir Miles
Partridge, while gambling with Henry
VIII, won the bells of St. Paul’s and
removed them.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some men are beginning to wish they
hadn’t been so receptive to new ideas.
They welcomed the nylon shirts t they
were given for Christmas and were so im-
pressed with the simplicity of the washing
thereof that they rashly offered to do it
themselves. Now, instead picking a
freshly-laundered shirt from the drawer
as before, they are faced (each night)
with the unremitting task of “washing
out the nylon.” It makes life very
“tejus.”
Pamela Walsh, of Turramurra, who is
secretary of the Junior Red Cross circle
at the Presbyterian Ladies’ College, Croy-
don, has been chosen to represent the
Australian Junior Red Cross at the
Coronation. There are to be only two
J.R.C. representatives—Ross Williams of
Perth is the second. The two juniors will
be the guests of British Red Cross from
May 25 to June 25, and, in addition to
seeing the Coronation, they will attend a
special study centre which will show them
the British Red Cross in action. Pamela,
who is 16, has an excellent school record,
and takes a leading part in school activi-
ties. Through her work the college’s
J.R.C. circle has greatly increased in
membership.
official table, each honorary of the
hospital entertaining his own guests. The
patron of the ball is Mrs. C. E. Winston,
wife of the senior honorary surgeon.
Representatives of other leading hospitals
will be entertained by Dr. and Mrs.
Guiney. Photo by Dorothy Welding.
Mrs. C. M. Guiney is president of the
Royal South Sydney Hospital Annual
Ball, which is to be held at the A.C.I. ball-
room on Friday, March 20. This ball
will be unusual in that there is to be no
The incoming president of the Country
Women’s Association, who will take
office after the general conference in
April, is Mrs. W. H. Cullen, of New-
stead, Bringelly. A daughter of Mr.
Albert Littlejohn and the late Mrs. Linda
Littlejohn (well-known for her work in
women’s interests), Mrs. Cullen has lived
in the country since her marriage to the
st>n of Sir William and Lady Cullen,
first at Cassilis and later at Bringelly.
One of her chief* aims is to increase
membership and hence the strength of the
C.W.A. Mrs. Cullen is the mother of
two teenage daughters: Rosemary, who
is studying science at Sydney University,
and Jennifer, who helps on the family
property.
☆\ ☆ ☆
1.
An unusual fashion-parade is to be held
on board the Flotta Lauro luxury liner
Sydney on May 11 when the Smith
Family Winter Committee, under the
guidance of the Countess Pietrasanta
Sauvaigne, has arranged to show what
an Australian girl and her mother would
wear to London social functions in the
Coronation season at which Royalty
would be present. The scenes against
which the clothes will be shown include
the Coronation, Ascot, a Royal garden-
party, a gala night at the opera.
☆ * *
The debonair Mr. Edwin Styles will
open the Easter Fair, which is to be held
in the Lower Sydney Town Hajl on
March 27 from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. It is
being organised by the Council of Social
Service, and a number of its member-
agencies and the stallholders represent 17
different charitable organisations who
will share the proceeds with the council.
☆ * *
A Sydney girl confesses that she reads
too quickly and carelessly, but some of
the mistakes she makes are quite amusing.
The other day she thought she saw on
the window of a hat shop “Repulsive
Millinery,” but found it was “Exclusive
Millinery” when she looked again.
Yesterday she mistook the heading “Gallic
Kisses” for “Garlic Kisses,” but said that
it probably amounted to the same thing.
The Country Women’s Association has
opened a fund for the relief of flood
victims in Britain and Holland and has
sent a gift of £lOOO sterling (£1250 Aus-
tralian), half to the National Federation
of Women’s Institutes in England and
half to the Dutch Association of Country
Women. The C.W.A. branches in N.S.W.
are being asked to send their donations
to headquarters as soon as possible, it
donations total more than the amount
already sent, the extra money will be
forwarded also.
MCLECURNE'
Lush lawns and beds of colorful
flowers made a perfect setting for the
billowy, filmy frocks of organza, lace
and chiffon worn by younger guests at
the first of the garden-parties given by
Sir Dallas and Lady Brooks at Govern-
ment House. The vice-regal pair were
accompanied by Premier John Cain and
Mrs. Cain and Colonel R. W. Spraggett,
his wife and daughter. Lady Brooks s
mushroom-pink organdie frock was pat-
terned with white spots lightly outlined
with black; her picture-hat of black
straw was swathed with black velvet.
Mrs, Cain wore a two-piece frock of
navy-and-white-flecked silk tweed with a
hat of navy crinoline straw. Mrs.
Spraggett’s choice was white crepe-de-
Chine patterned in pearl-grey; her small
green velvet lattice-cap was clustered with
pink and red roses. Her daughter Anne
was in pastel-blue check silk patterned
in fawn and brown.
Mrs. T. T. Hollway’s white silk frock
was woven with fine black-and-mist-blue
stripes. Lady Disney’s frock of black
French crepe featured a finely-pleated
floating-panel, edged with black silk
fringe. Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s white linen
carried appliques of white guipure lace.
Angela Cass’s full-skirted white-lace
frock had the short sleeves outlined with
handkerchief frills. Mrs. Dacre-Smyth
wore an ankle-length white Swiss em-
broidered organdie frock with a hat of
scarlet straw and matching accessories.
A matching embroidered cap went with
Judith Bowden’s white pique frock.
Pamela Blakebrough gained contrast for
her bouffant white-embroidered organdie
frock with black belt and tiny black
velvet cap.
The following day the Governor and
his lady were At Home to another 3000
guests. In the official party were the
Acting-Chief Justice Sir Charles Lowe
and Lady Lowe, Colonel R. W. and Mrs.
Spraggett and their daughter Anne. Lady
Brooks wore a navy silk frock which had
a deep shawl-collar of white organdie
matching the wide gauntlet cuffs, and her
wide-brimmed hat was of navy straw.
Lady Lowe’s green-and-white-patterned
silk frock was worn with a pastel-blue
straw hat banded with blue velvet.
Rosslyn Rowell, who was with her
parents, Lieutenant-General S. F. Rowell
and Mrs. Rowell, wore pale-blue
organdie and a tiny black velvet cap.
Lady Jones, who was with Air-Marshal
Sir George Jones, chose an off-white
embroidered linen frock and a wide black
straw hat,
Mrs. T. C. Manifold and her daughter
Mary were in ensembles. Mrs. Robert
Macklin, who accompanied her husband,
the U.S. Assistant Naval Attache, wore
ice-blue guipure laces with a white straw
picture-hat. Mrs. John Carrodus com-
bined lime-green embroidered frock and
natural straw hat. Mrs. Richard Noone’s
draped silk frock was in light-beige
tonings.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the garden-party for 4000 children
on the Saturday morning, spastic kiddies
from the Children’s Hospital, Girl
Guides, Boy Scouts, Sea Cadets and
Army Cadets were present. In the vice-
regal party were Colonel and Mrs.
Spraggett, Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins
and Lady Collins, Lieutenant-General
S F. Rowell and Mrs. Rowell, Air-
Marshal Sir Donald Hardman and Lady
Hardman, Anne Spraggett and Jane
Kirwan-Taylor.
☆ * *
Mary Bedford, Randolph Bedford’s
widow* who has died at her Melbourne
home aged 87, was the heroine of her
husband’s novels, and lovely Polly Ryan
in his poem “The Bellbird.” Mrs. Bed-
ford was born in Dunedin, N.Z. Her
parents were William and Mary Arrow-
smith, the English Shakspeanan players.
A daughter and three sons survive her.
☆ * *
There were 24 friends of the hostess
and guest-of-honor, Mrs. John Langley
(who, with her husband, was about to
go overseas), at the luncheon given by
Mrs. Con Curtain at her Aspendale
home. Mrs. Langley’s sea-island cotton
frock was of navy splashed with huge
red flowers; the hostess’s soft grey-and-
white-patterned frock was strapless with
a tomato-red linen skirt; Mrs. Norman
Lynch favored a plain black linen blouse ;
a white diamond pattern was on the
brown linen frock worn by Mrs. Roy den
Honeyman. Floral frocks were worn by
Mrs. Andrew Peacock and Mrs. Gwen
Davidson; Mrs. Richard Drumniett’s
frock was brown and white sea-island
cotton; Mrs. S. Aarons’s waffle pique
was aqua-blue.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Red Cross Market Fair was
opened by Lady Brooks, president of the
Victoria Red Cross Division, and a four-
year-old Junior Red Cross member,
Graeme Geddes, presented her with
flowers. On hand to greet Lady
Brooks were Mrs. Eccles McKay, Mrs.
G, Scantlebury, Col. Allan Spowers,
Major-General Kingsley Norris and
other members of Red Cross. Red and
white maypole-streamers came from the
centre of the ceiling of the Town Hall
basement, and stalls were decorated in
the same shades. Ukrainian and Greek
stalls with costumed attendants added an
international note.
Mrs. Kenneth Cole, of South Yana,
known in the fashion world as Madame
Caroline Chambrelent, was born in Eng-
land, went to Paris to study fashion. In
1946 Madame Chambrelent came to this
country as organiser of the first French
mannequin-parade. When she returned
in 1947 she met and married Kenneth
Cole, who during the war served with
the Royal Engineers and is a brother of
Air-Vice-Marshal Adrian Cole. Mrs.
Cole’s salon in Little Collins-street is the
venue of the very smart. Interior-
decorating is another art she has mastered.
For her marriage at St. John’s, Toorak,
Margot Leor, second daughter of Mr.
S. G. Veitch, of East St. Kilda, and the
late Mrs. Veitch, wore a gown of white
satin, the softly-gathered skirt of which
fell into a full train at the back. The
fitted bodice had long sleeves and was
embroidered with tiny pearls. From a
coronet of stiffened white guipure lace
fell the long tulle veil, and the bouquet
was one large cream orchid.
The two matrons-of-honor—the bride’s
sister, Mrs. Joan Ente, and Mrs. John
Hacking—and the bridesmaid, Margaret
Slattery, all wore pastel-pink organdie
over taffeta. Their white satin tiara
crowns were ornamented with pearl-
drops. The bridegroom was Keith, son
of Mrs. E. Laidlaw, of Strathmerton, and
the late Mr. Laidlaw.
Reception followed by a dance was
held at the New Alexandra, where the
bride’s aunt, Mrs. F. W. Forster, wearing
a hyacinth-blue pleated frock and blue
and silver lame jacket with a matching
hat, received the guests with Mrs. Laid-
law whose gown of black velvet and
tulle was worn with a small black velvet
hat finished with ospreys. The bride’s
grandmother, Mrs. J. Anderson was m
black Chantilly lace with a small osprey-
trimmed black hat. Among guests were
Mrs Henry Smith, in black satin
brocade, Jenny Anderson, wearing pale-
mauve Swiss organdie, Wilma Tuck,
whose chiffons were dove-grey, and Beth
Ruffin, in a short evening frock of tur
quoise, green and cinnamon-brow
chiffon.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN Australia-
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 25 of 1953.
TO: ENA PAULINE ELLIS address un-
known Married Woman TAKE NOTICE
that your Husband REGINALD ALBERT
GORTON ELLIS has commenced proceed-
ings against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for divorce on the
ground of desertion by you for a continu-
ous period of three years or more If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within THIRTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce Judgment and make
orders against you in your absence
DATED this 26th day of February, 1953.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. FEED
CURRAN ESQ., of 37-38 Padbury
Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the
State of Western Australia, Solicitor for
the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS ROY CORTESE late of
18 Kalgoorlie Street Leichhardt. —TAKE
NOTICE that BRIDGET MAY CORTESE
has filed a Petition for Divorce _ No. 394
of 1953 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 13th day of May 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. W. BEGG, BLACKMGRE
& CO., 10 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES CLARKE SMART late of
Bangalow Stoker’s Siding and Ewingsdale.
—TAKE NOTICE that EVA SMART has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1998 of
1952 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney on or before 15th May 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from THOS. E. RUMMERY &
LIDDY, Solicitors, Lismore. —J. DOUG-
HAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD JOSEPH McGREEVY late of
103 Stanmore Road Stanmore in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE '
that BETTY VICTORIA McGREEVY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2595 of
1952 on the grounds of habitual drunken-
ness and cruelty for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 18th May 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
B. J. MAOREE, Solicitor, of 129 Phillip
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
onitfocfel
Yes, those two old fashioned girls are back again, with
just a single thought in mind —MEN! They bring you
their own inimitable humor in a full half hour of fun
and mirth every Monday night at 7.30, supported by an
outstanding cast of topline artists.
For brilliant entertainment —for fun
and frolics tune to “THE CADBURY
SHOW,” presented by the makers of
Cadbury’s chocolate. 'Produced by
The Macquarie Broadcasting Service.
2GB SAW 4BH SDN 61X 7LA
2HR, 2CA, 2WL, 2KO, 2BH. 2WG,
2MW, 2LT, 2TM, 3TR, 380, 3SR,
4GR, 4TO, 4CA, 7HO, 7AD and
17 other commercial broadcasting
stations throughout Australia.
THE
_ • _
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
Irmgard Seefried
It is given to only a handful
of the world’s singers to possess,
together with an effortlessly-
produced, perfectly - controlled
voice of beautiful timbre along
its whole gamut, a high musical
intelligence which shines lucidly
through every bar of every song.
Such a one is Miss Seefried,
who enjoys the added attributes
of serene poise, graciousness
and a most attractive appear-
ance. Hers is the true art that
conceals art. When listening to
her one is not aware of the
employment of technique ; she is
able to reduce the highly-
complex business of song-mak-
ing to its simplest possible
terms. She sings as naturally as
others breathe.
At her first Sydney recital the
Viennese lyric soprano began
with Purcell’s “I Attempt From
Love’s Sickness To Fly,” the
“turns” of which she resolved
with flowing ease. From this
sprightly air she passed to “Grief
of Mine,” from Handel’s “Julius
Csesar,” and immediately estab-
lished her status. Declamatory
passages brought out some
thrilling fortissimo notes ; then
came an attack note high in the
scale and soft —something that
lesser singers always dread. This
one was a joy to hear.
But it was the succeeding
three groups of German songs
that revealed the singer’s real
quality.
The first comprised four
Mozart songs. Mozart is
always the great test of a singer’s
command of subtlety and tone-
shading, in “The Violet”
arid “The. Little Spinning Maid”
these rare characteristics were
captivatingly made apparent. A
pert sauciness invested the lovely
“Warning.” This was singing of
the highest art and artlessness.
Of a delightful Schubert
group, “Gfetchen Am Spinn-
rade” gave the singer greatest
scope; the intense yearning
in it was always kept within the
bounds of maidenly decorum.
The eight songs which com-
prise Schumann’s song-cycle
“Woman’s Life and Love” were
delivered with a musical insight
that was revelatory. Seemingly
simple and straightforward,
these songs demand not only
great concentration but a kin-
ship with the spirit that wrought
them if they are to be done full
justice. The singer gave them
that, and in this the accompanist
earned the gratitude she prettily
acknowledged at the end; for
here, as well as elsewhere, the
work of Gerald Moore left no
doubt whatever on the oft-
expressed opinion that there is
no finer accompanist living than
he.
Two arias from “La Boheme,”
the poignant “They Call Me
Mimi” and the gay Musetta’s
“Waltz,” wound up as good a
night’s singing as Sydney has
heard in years.
Previously Miss Seefried had
appeared in operatic numbers
and Strauss lieder with the
orchestra under Goossens. The
orchestra, in addition to giving a
brisk, clear-cut performance of
Dvorak’s “Carneval” Overture
and a thoroughly good reading
of Mozart’s last and bes,t
symphony, the 41st (“Jupiter”),
gave a first performance in
Australia of Prokofieff’s
“Scythian Suite.” Of this latter
it need only be said that whilst
the hero whose departure makes
up some of the fourth movement
of this shrieking Oriental caco-
phony goes by the quaint name
of Lolly, it was the audience
who had to listen to the thing
who were the suckers.
“La Tosca”
The National Theatre Festi-
val Opera Company’s trump-
card of the current season at
Melbourne Princess was the
same as last year. Sardou’s ex-
citing melodrama is something
they seem to be able to do as
well as, and in some ways better
than, any visiting company in
present commentator’s recollec-
tion.
Puccini’s lovely music made
an exhilarating passage, through
the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra under Joseph Post’s
baton, and the stage presentation
was fine to look at, especially
the dining-table loaded with
crystal, Australian wines and
other symbols for Robert Sim-
mons Scarpia’s seduction of the
fair La Tosca.
After a diffident start in the
church of Sant’ Andrea della
Vale —somebody ought to have'
shown him how an artist
handles brushes—Ronald Dowd
as Cavaradossi warmed up as the
play proceeded and, although he
didn’t seem much at home in
the love scenes, reached a peak
of emotion when he was being
tortured and then went further
in the tragic finale on the battle-
ments of the Castel Sant’
Angelo.
Betty Fretwell, as La Tosca,
was beautiful to look at, moved
gracefully and easily and fitted
her expressions to her emotions
when she was singing. Her last
solo was beautifully rendered.
Robert Simmons gave the
chief of the Roman police the
best male voice and the best
acting, and gave verisimilitude to
the seduction scene by losing a
heel and hopping around on one
toe —but that was no doubt
accidental. His performance on
the couch was possibly inspired
by a well-known Rembrandt
etching, but it wasn’t as con-
vincing.
A packed house all dressed up
to kill, inordinate applause, 10
curtain - calls and producer
Stefan Haag looking as pleased
as conductor Post were import-
ant ingredients of the enjoyment
of the evening.
Gerald Moore
On a night last week at the
Sydney Con. a stocky man
modestly clad in soup-and-fish
got together with a capacity
house and a grand piano which
he seemed to regard with con-
siderable affection, and in a free-
and-easy manner began to tell
his audience some things about
the art of the accompanist.
Few people could be better
qualified to expound on this
hitherto-secret subject than Mr.
Moore, who has trotted behind
more virtuosi of voice and
instrument than you could poke
a stick at. In that hour and a
half, even while they were
chuckling continually at the
witty sallies and irreverent
reminiscences about the
naturally-anonymous great, and
the amateur accompanist who
frenziedly turns the pages and
fidgets with the music;—a capital
piece of fun, this —the audience
absorbed more real knowledge
of the composition of songs and
the behind-the-scenes work of
the accompanist than a dozen
solemnly-given lectures could
have achieved.
Naturally the illustrations
given were preponderantly
Schubertian, for Schubert was
the greatest and most prolific of
all song-writers, the man who
first made the piano part tell
the story as well as the voice.
These examples were brilliantly
clear and concise and selected
with taste and shrewdness. Such,
for example, as the marvellous
“Organ Grinder,” which crowns
the great “Winterreise” cycle.
With great clarity Mr. Moore
showed how the single fifth in
the bass simulates so well the
droning of the barrel-organ,
superimposed over which is the
jingling hurdy-gurdy tune which
alternates with the voice, and
the staccato rhythm which
illustrates the halting step of the
organ-grinder.
In this and other excellent
examples Mr. Moore not only
proved himself to be a keen
analyser of the mood and mean-
ing behind every song he per-
force must know —and he knows
hundreds —but an entertainer
par excellence. His humor
bubbles and sparkles, he has a
jovial eye, and he speaks easily,
clearly and with commendable
logic.
Talkies
“The African Queen”
There is strong meat in this
C. S. Forester story of a gin-
swilling Canadian, owner of a
tiny old steam-driven river-boat
in East Africa who, when the
First World War breaks out,
takes as his only passenger the
early-middle-aged sister of a
just-dead English missionary,
and at her strong-willed urgings
becomes a man again, bucks the
raging river and a German fort
and turns his “ship” into an
unofficial unit of the R.N. with
the laudable object of sinking a
German vessel several times her
size.
Practically the whole action
takes place aboard the crazy
craft, and in depicting their life
aboard it the director, John
Huston, has kept a superb bal-
ance between drama and humor.
The gradual rehabilitation of the
man and the inward struggle to
achieve it, the quietly indomit-
able will of the woman and her
deep understanding, make a
richly human story; its unfold-
ing has been treated with sensi-
tiveness and imagination, and
the acting is remarkably fine.
Humphrey Bogart has never
done anything- as good as this
portrayal of the riverman whose
almost-dead patriotism at last
responds to the combined
cajolery and sting of the woman.
Katharine Hepburn, gaunt,
veering from, severity to tender-
ness, and with her beautifully
clear voice, matches Bogart for
the sincerity of her work —
neither strikes a false note any-
where.
Nothing is more convincing in
the film than the awakening of
affection between this ill-
assorted couple, based on the
mutual respect for the qualities
shown by the other under stress
of crisis and danger, and the
reconciliation to their fate which
impends when all hope seemed
vanished is not marred by mock
heroics. The photography is
something out of the box.
Robert Morley makes a brief but
impressive appearance as the
missionary. At Sydney Regent.
♦> $ +♦♦
“Derby Day”
The impact of the classic Eng-
lish race at Epsom on the lives
of four sets of people, tragic,
romantic* comic, forms the basis
of this fairly-well-done English
film at Sydney Embassy. The
interweaving of the four themes
just prior to and during the run-
ning of the race has been done
with considerable ingenuity, and
the manner of their working-out
doesn’t unduly strain credulity.
These doings, beguiling as
they are at odd moments, have
to yield to the greater comedy-
drama being enacted in the
background by jockeys, tick-
tackers, punters, sideshow
people, tipsters and a host of
others who contribute to mak-
ing the Derby unique in racing.
Michael Wilding and Anna
Neagle handle a tentative
romance with restraint; Googie
Withers and John McCallum, a
pair of guilty lovers fleeing after
the suspicious husband has been
killed in a fight, do justice to
their dramatic material; Gordon
Marker as a taxi-driver whose
wife (Gladys Henson), hoping
to see the race on T.V. and per-
suaded to go, sights no more
than ■ the top of one jockey’s
cap, contributes a neat cameo.
Peter Graves as a matinee-idol
film-star and Suzanne Cloutier
as a French maid who replaces
her mistress as his guest add
lively interludes.
“Million Dollar Mermaid”
The biographical details in
this film at Sydney St. James
about Australian swimmer
Annette Kellerman, especially
those regarding her skirmishing
with Cupid, may or may not
withstand the penetrating eye of
research, but they do fulfil their
purpose of providing a back-
ground for some spectacular,
lavish and beautiful water ballets,
in which Esther Williams delight-
fully demonstrates the paradox
that a skin-tight ankle-length
one-piecer can be more revealing
than the most tenuous of
Bikinis. The incidence of the
breaking of the glass diving-tank
in which Miss Kellerman was
swimming during the shooting
of her film is well contrived.


THE DWARF ULYSSE
OLAF
RUHEN
FROM the shade of the awn-
ing Ashton tried to concen-
trate on the scenery, the
tall erema-trees on the
riverbank leaning to the current
that cut at their roots, a flight
of three herons across the bows
of the Government trawler, the
kapiaks betokening the near-
presence of a village and tracing
a pattern in the sky above the
tall sugar on the low bank to
starboard; and, in a deep valley
riving the high hill beyond the
eremas and the figs, a brilliant
slash of scarlet where the
D’Albertis creeper draped the
cliff from its first steep shoulder
to the mayfly-rippled water of a
torpid creek.
But for once his sight was
secondary to his hearing. The
sound of the taul stood between
his eyes and what they saw. The
vibrations of sound, rude and
meaningless, were as devoid of
rhythm as the broken step of
an army entering a cathedral.
They fled weirdly from the ship
and echoed back emptily from
the empty wooded hills that
flanked the river to port.
They had their origin on the
short-deck of the trawler above
and behind him, where Leg-no-
good, last of the repatriates,
announced his homecoming.
Crooked and misshapen, the
brown dwarf blew sadly into
the taul, a long wooden trumpet
ornamented with the carving of
a sunburst.
If people out there in the
forest beyond the river could
hear the note, as Ashton pre-
sently reflected, they were too
frightened to come from shelter.
If there were people in that
wilderness and they were of Leg-
no-good’s tribe there could be
reason for that too; for the
taul had been taken from the
April River villagers, a tribe of
manhunters who more than
once had made havoc amongst
the sad and scattered aesthetes
who claimed the repatriate as
blood-brother.
But there was no stopping
Leg-no-good. There was no
logic in him and little sense;
and mounting excitement held
his lips to the mouthpiece of
his rumbling trumpet. He had
been blowing it, without food,
without rest, without rhythm,
since early morning. He just
put his lips to it and blew for as
long as his lungs would hold
out. Then before the silence
could re-establish itself he blew
again. In all the world there
seemed only this envelopment of
sound, and the steady purr of
the diesel, and the powerful
thrust of the little ship’s timbers
against the current.
the District
Officer, came up with Bur-
ton, the skipper; the two of
them pulling cane chairs into
the table. On their heels came
Malik, white-shirted, spotless,
suave and smiling. Cummings
gave him a sharp order for tea
and he turned back towards the
galley, stepping aside defer-
entially to make way for
Camelli, the fourth white man
on the trawler.
“You’d think the idiot
would be sick of it,” Camelli
said, and dropped heavily into
a chair without bothering to
pull it to the table.
“Sick of what?” asked Cum-
mings, and Camelli jerked his
head back and up, vaguely in
the direction of the short-d«ck
and Leg-no-good.
“He won’t get sick of it,”
Cummings said.
“I’ll stop the 5.0. b.,” Camelli
grunted. It was a rash state-
ment for a patrol-
officer, a statement of
the type Camelli was
given to. Cummings
gave him a long steady
look before he replied.
“It’s an outlet for him. Let
him be,” he said.
“He probably recognises the
country,” Ashton ventured. He
felt the need for a neutral state-
ment, but Burton cut it.
“He never saw it before, I
bet,” he said. “It’ll take another
twelve hours’ steam to make the
Yellow River. Tomorrow after-
noon about this time. He’s got
no cause to celebrate.”
“What’s his excitement?” Ash-
ton asked.
“Stubbornness. Nitwitted-
ness,” Camelli said. “He’s a
dope of the first water.”
“He’s been away from home
ten years. And he never knew
before there was anything but
this,” Cummings said reason-
ably. He waved a hand towards
the forest, then hitched his chair
back a little from the table as
Malik brought tea and sago-
scones, pitted with raisins and
spread with tinned butter. “For
him it’s a return to the only
reality, as yet. Tomorrow and
the next day he’ll see his people.
And then he’ll be happy on the
coast forever after. You can’t
establish any truth except by
contrast.”
“Ten years. It’s a long time.
What’s the story?” Ashton
asked. “Until this morning,
when he started that racket, I
thought he was one of the inter-
preters.”
“I thought you knew,” Cum-
mings said. “He’s one of the
lads Farlow picked up here in
forty-two.”
“Milligan,” said Camelli. The
contradiction was a tiny revolt
against authority. He never
missed an opportunity.
“Milligan, then,” said Cum-
mings. “Farlow was in charge
of the post. But you know about
that.”
Ashton did. “But a cripple
...” he said, puzzled.
“Yes, he was crippled. And
Milligan shouldn’t ever have
taken him. But I suppose he
thought it could be cured. Any-
way, they sent him to Moresby
and he never was cured. When
they returned the others this
fellow, Wamloo, was in hos-
pital. That’s his real name. You
never hear it. Only Leg-no-good
or Leg-he-broke. They kept
him back in hospital, and after
that it was too late. They aban-
doned the post. Then since the
war there’s been nothing going
that way. Too many logs in the
river for flying-boats—they took
the risk in war-time, though.
And never holed a hull.”
A SHTON had the story now.
** The upper reaches of the
river were in Allied hands during
the war, the lower 200 miles
held by Japs. Major Farlow
established the Yellow River
post by Catalina, 160 miles be-
yond the last Jap-held bastion
at Yesan. He had with him a big
company of police and cargo-
boys, the majority chosen be-
cause they were familiar with
the river. Farlow’s secondary
task, quite as important as The
defence of the post, was to
ensure the loyalty of the natives
would stand the test if the Japs
and the war should move in
closer. Now, years later, it was
to reward this proven loyalty
that Cummings was taking the
trawler up-river.
The routine measure, which
Farlow had followed, was to
take representatives of the tribes
to Port Moresby, where they
would be impressed by the ex-
tent of the Allied lines. Cap-
tain Milligan, in charge of the
natives at the post, picked six
boys from the three nearest vil-
lages. As he sat there on the
foredeck, under the awning, the
situation of Leg-no-good struck
Ashton with the force of a blow
—the youngster, ripped up from
everything he knew and taken
in a miracle vehicle of the sky
to a place of strangers; a place
where no one spoke his
language, no one cared for him,
no one recognised his existence
except as a unit, a number, an
incomprehensible brown man,
scarcely human.
And now, a man grown, he
was returning by a way he had
never known, blowing his trum-
pet, getting civilisation out of
his lungs, out of his body, filling
his ears with the echoes of the
wild. The trumpet had come
in trade from the April River—
Cummings the realist did not
want to saddle any white man
with a reputation of bringing
the natives something for noth-
ing. So he distributed the
largesse of the Government but
extracted a payment of canoe-
paddles and stone-axes, of carv-
ings and drums and daggers and
arrows tipped with human bone.
Cummings had given Leg-no-
good the trumpet partly because
he wanted to tell the tribes of
the ship’s presence, partly be-
cause the emotion pent up in
the man cried for expression,
AFTER dinner there was a
moon, and Ashton went up
on the short-deck and perched
on the rail behind Leg-no-good’s
left shoulder. The man was
unprepossessing, with a short
stumpy body, long well-
developed arms like all the
canoe people and a broad flat
face that revealed strong
Malayan characteristics and a
sort of brutishness. His bad leg,
jqst skin and bone, lay out on
the deck without much apparent
relationship to the rest of his
body, a dead leaf on a healthy
branch, incredibly thin and in-
effective, like the newly-grow-
ing limb of a maimed octopus.
The long, monotonous note
spilled out of the wooden
trumpet low and soft, so low
as to be apparently divisible into
its component vibrations, and so
soft that it seemed incredible
the sound should reach the
riverbank. Yet the echo came
back strongly from the hills.
Ashton cleared his throat and
essayed a conversation.
“What’s the name of your
village?” he asked in
the pidgin he still used
haltingly.
Leg-no-good removed
his lips briefly from
the trumpet.
“No savvy, master,”
he said, and immedi-
ately went back to his
incomprehensible message.
Overhead the flying-foxes
dotted the moonlit sky, momen-
tarily darkening the moon itself
from time to time, their prehis-
toric pattern of wings sweeping
in a vast and rhythmic repetition
from the swamp beyond the
wild sugar that closed in on
their anchorage by the star-
board bank. Below on the after-
deck there was an excited
chatter. Under Camelli the
police-boys had rigged a search-
light on a swivel and were prob-
ing the sugar-roots. The light
was focused on two pairs of
tiny glinting reflectors, the red
unwinking eyes of two croco-
diles. Ashton heaved himself
off the rail and went below. The
mosquitoes were getting fierce.
ON the foredeck Malik had
organised a couple of house-
boys with fly-sprays to stand
round the little card-table.
Camelli was coming forward,
looking over the rail as he came
to where the red lamps glinted
at the end of the light beam.
“I’d like to get the cows,”
Ashton said.
“No shooting,” Camelli said
quickly. “We don’t want
trouble.”
“You’d think the taul would
scare them,” Ashton said. “Old
Leg-no-good is putting every-
thing he knows into it.”
“He’s going to be sick and
sorry when he sees that village
again,” Camelli commented.
“He doesn’t know when he’s
well off.”
“I suppose. But it’s a bad
thing to be without people.”
“He’s got people. He’s got a
beaut wife down on the Ramu
—no oil-painting, but she’s big
and strong. Make three of him.
And four kids. If he sits down
there a few years he’ll be a big
man. Luckiest thing that ever
happened to him was when
Milligan took him away.”
Camelli spat into the water, and
simultaneously there was a
splash amongst the pit-pit roots
where the crocodiles lay. A
boat-boy had thrown something.
But the eyes stared unwinkingly.
“I suppose a homecoming is
always a disappointment,” Ash-
ton said. He poured himself a
rum and watered it liberally.
“If you look forward to it
too much,” said Cummings.
“Leg-no-good packed everything
he could bring—lap-laps and
iron for spears. He’s got enough
for everyone in his village. 1
was a bit suspicious. I thought
maybe he wanted to stay up
here. Leave his wife and kids.
But he’ll never do that. Not
when he sees the place.”
They drank quietly for an
hour, and then Cummings sent
a police-boy up on deck to
take the wooden trumpet away.
“Got to get some sleep to-
night,” he said. He posted the
guards, and they all climbed in
under the mosquito-nets on the
after-deck, with the sleeping
bodies of brown men lying all
about them. But Leg-no-good
didn’t sleep.
He was excited, and it was
the first excitement of his life
that was totally unallied to fear.
He was almost happy; but real
happiness was something that
he couldn’t remember.
j EG-NO-GOOD was very
' —• small, he couldn’t remem-
ber how small, when the sick-
ness took him. Hb lay sick for
many days, and the sickness and
the lying in the hut were the
first things he could remember.
Just day following night, and
lying on the planks of the hut
floor, long convex planks split
from the trunks of the limbom-
palms. In the morning and again
at night his sister brought him
food.
The happiest moments of his
life were spent watching his
sister prepare the sago. She
would pour the creamy flour
into a folded palm-sheath and
add water from the clay pot on
the fire, stirring with her thin
brown hand until the mixture
thickened and its color clarified.
Then she would measure the
hot mush with her hands into
banana-leaves, setting each little
parcel aside to cool until it be-
came a cake to be eaten with
the grilled fish and the birds.
He could watch her beating
the shreds of sago-trunk, flail-
ing them in a trough under the
side of the hut where there was
shade. She flailed the sago for
hours each day, and when the
trunk was shredded into dust
she washed the flour from the
dust into a settling-pot, strain-
ing it through palm-fibre so only
the flour settled in the water in
the pot. In the mornings and
at night he saw his brothers;
and through the day he saw the
women of the village if they
stopped to gossip. But most of
them had little time to gossip;
and he saw more of his sister
than of anyone else.
It was his sister who washed
Leg-no-good—his name was
Wamloo in those days—carry-
ing him to the river whenever
his condition became repulsive.
Washing was a ritual of the
tribe ; particularly of the women.
When Leg-no-good was well
enough to move about he went
with the men to wash ; always
in company, for if there was
company the crocodiles did not,
as a rule, attack.
Witchcraft struck at Leg-no-
good while he was ill, and when
he began to crawl he dragged a
withered leg behind him. It
took him a year of comparative
health before he learned to walk
again. At each step he had to
bend his left leg almost to the
ground before sweeping the use-
less right leg a few miserable
inches forward. It was very
difficult to learn to walk in this
way, and at first he had to steady
himself with the palms of his
hands. But he did learn, and
he learned without a crutch or a
stick. No one thought to make
him one. Had he not learned
to rise on his good leg he would
have had to drag himself along
on his buttocks as the other
cripples did.
There was no thought to make
his walking easier, though his
tribe was proud of its inventive-
ness. The warriors were par-
ticularly proud of their bows.
(Continued on page 34)
CRAB AND CICADA
Some flying-fish then? Some green fantastic lobster?
But never in wave or crevice was seen such a monster.
Why then, old claw of the ocean, blood-red and purple.
Gripping so rare a banquet of splendor and peril
Where, warily, tip of your nipper to wing’s fine shoulder,
You crouch on the sunny rock with the big cicada
Who fell down dazed and singing from the shining air—
That’s the green earth you clutch: and ages and ages
Ago it climbed the cliff where no wave reaches
And towered with the powers that strike from the air, old
pirate.
See, even this green innocent, beating and desperate,
Stares with its eyes like suns to burn and startle;
“Chir! Chir!” it says with its hard rocky rattle
And dine you may, but you may well beware.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Inspection of caddies to see if they
HAVE WASHED BEH'ND THEIR EARS.
The Interpreter reaps the rules.
An enthusiastic autograph-huktcer
COKGRATULA.TIM.G, THE W1KMER .
Competitors have a* practice
Round to get familiar
WITH THE COURSE-.
Thevre. OPF I
* "
I DID IT ALL FOR YOU, DEAR .
McWILLIAM'S WINES £5000 GOLF TOURNAMENT, MARCH 19, 20, 21
Played at the Australian Golf Club, Kensington, Sydney
Proceeds to the N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children


ALL OVER THE WORLD
Hi
■
ft
V . ?
: : :
Good mornings begin with Gillette
The up-to-date Chief cried “Now mind what I say”:
Here’s how to shave in the easiest way*
Use a Blue Gillette blade —sharpest edge you can get
In a precision-made razor designed by Gillette.
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
5-BLADE PACKETS, 2/1
10-BLADE PACKETS. 4/2
D
20-BLADE DISPENSER, 8/4
The world’s best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
- pA7
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS
A cPmAITLAND. Managing Director! CECIL MANION General =
Branches in all States Agencres in all Country Centres
The Horse wore loots
by NORMAN KING
HAD either Scotty Lindsay
or Jimmy Morgan issued
the ultimatum it would
have been different, but
none of the wheelers felt
inclined to take any chances with
“Red Mick” Leary.
Garrulous little Scotty, with
his toothless gums and shrill,
querulous voice, did not
measure-up to much. Slow-
thinking, deliberate Jimmy was
a good enough bloke in many
ways, but he caved-in when
pressure was applied. The night
he fought Tommy McCann
behind Tiger Hennessy’s pub
proved that.
But Mick had the habit of
following a warning with violent,
explosive action, so that when he
'said quite definitely “She’s lame
and I’ll job the first bloke that
tries to take her out,” the
wheelers squatted comfortably
near the stables and waited for
the lodge to settle the thing.
Up in the bords the miners,
working in pairs in a sweating
frenzy to fill their darg and be
out of the mine by early after-
noon, would be growling about
the lack of empties and the filled
skips that choked their working-
places. As they squatted, naked
backs against the pit-timber, the
wheelers talked together softly.
It was not that they didn’t want
Mick to hear, but because all
men underground talk quietly,
listening to the roof creaking
and groaning its protest.
“Air’s bad today,” grunted
Ted Logue, easing the small of
his back along the stud so that
the curved vertebrae rested more
comfortably.
Beams from the pit-helmets
nodded in assent. It was stifling.
Out in the main haulage-road,
which caught the full force of
the air-intake, it was bad enough,
but near the stables humidity
was intense. Already the
wheelers felt the sweat dripping
from armpits, body-smells of
man and horse mingling in the
confined space. The low-wattage
bulbs, dimmed and bluish, gave
the stables a fantastic, grotesque
atmosphere. The ammonia
stench of fresh horse-manure
penetrated out into the haulage-
road where the ghostly transport
rumbled out of the darkness.
BESS whinnied. She, knew it
was time that ponies and
men were up in the bords, mov-
ing the strings of clanking skips
in off the flat and takings out the
skips that bulged with shiny
black coal. Their round, barrel-
like bodies groomed until they
shone, the ponies looked out
over their railed enclosures,
sending echoes dully throbbing
as they stamped steel-shod
hooves, A bay pony stretched
his neck and took a playful bite
at the filly in the next stall. The
filly snorted, ducked her head
and kicked. Bess watched the
by-play with a matronly dignity
and waited for the wheelers to
come.
No one knew just how old
Bess was. Certainly she was in
her late ’teens, possibly she had
already passed her twentieth
birthday. Old Geordie Towers
had been at Oakey Park for
seventeen years, and Bess had
been there when he came. Age
rested lightly on her sturdy body
and strong, short legs. She had
been mated a number of times,
but she was too good a pony to
be out of the mine for long, and,
consequently, most of her life
had been spent underground,
where she became wise in the
ways of men.
She knew the workings better
than most miners, and would
tread confidently into darkened
places where younger horses
balked, trembling when
shadows danced on the walls.
Once Bess had refused to go
into a heading. She had been
thrashed until her black hide
quivered, but she had fought
the rein-pressure and backed
away. Half-an-hour afterwards
the roof came down without
warning and the heading had to
be sealed off.
Bess knew that wheelers often
hooked a sixth skip to her load.
It was said that she could count
and would not budge if a sixth
clink told of an added burden.
Even when wheelers used a boot
to drown the telltale sound she
knew and would not move.
She could open heavy wooden
doors; and occasionally used an
expert backward kick, walking
away when the chains fell slack.
Bess knew her job, and mostly
did it well. Wheelers took turns
with her because she made things
easy for them. Since the roof
came down in “Scab Heading”
the miners knew she would never
venture where it was not safe,
and they went behind her con-
fidently,
“Better than a deputy she is,”
Taffy Ewell had said. Taffy was
Welsh, and had a voice that
came in a modulated tenor
through the inky darkness.
When the men were walking out
in a twinkling mass of pit-lamps
you could always tell if Taffy
was amongst them. His light,
rising voice leapt lightly from
among the bass medley.
ONE of the cavil-miners, far
out in Siberia, ran out of
skips. He sat down for a few
minutes, cursing the wheelers and
longing for a smoke. Then he
trudged two-hundred yards down
to the flat and rang through.
In the office Ben Price, the
under-manager, answered the
phone. His face was furrowed,
and there was a fine tracery of
blue on his forehead where he
had been blasted by a premature
shot. He had been lucky that
the powdered. Hint-sharp coal
had missed his eyes, the doctor
said.
Sitting at a desk in the inner
office, Harry Pascoe, the
manager, looked up expectantly.
For fifteen minutes he had been
looking out the window, watch-
ing for the first roll of filled skips
to clatter out on to the gantry
and round to the tipper. Pit-
top hands were sitting together
on the rails, waiting to man-
handle the trucks down under
the screens that were still silent.
“0.K.,” said Ben at last,
acknowledging the message.
“I’ll be right down.” He replaced
the receiver, his hand resting
briefly on the telephone. He
changed his mind and stood
up, reaching for his helmet
where it hung behind the door.
“Wheelers have jacked-up,”
he said briefly. “Something
about an unequal distribution of
skips. I’ll go down and see if I
can straighten it out. I’ll get
Bill Smith from No. 4 west on
the way in.”
When the under-manager
walked out into the weak winter
sunlight the pit - top hands
Looked from one to the other.
Something was up. While Ben
waited for the cage to come up
for him the pit-top hands went
into the crib-room to boil the
billy.
The cage rocketed up out of
the darkness and Ben got in,
clanging the gate, behind him.
His stomach braced against the
familiar abrupt plunge into the
shaft.
Bill Smith, the lodge-secretary,
joined the under-manager, and
the two men began to trudge a
mile through jet darkness, their
pit-lamps making spectres of the
yellowed timber, groaning when
it took the weight of the
mountain pressing down.
The seven wheelers said
nothing until the newcomers
looked about them, saw the
ponies still in their stalls and the
men sitting near by, waiting.
Red Mick was forking fresh
straw from a newly-opened bale,
the hay taking a breath of
autumn and rain-washed skies to
the foetid underground chamber.
“What’s the score?” Ben asked
quietly, addressing Ted Logue,
only because he was the most
vocal. The pit-lamps focused
upon him.
Mick, leaned on his fork to
listen, and Ted chose his words
carefully.
“Mick reckons Bess’s lame,
said he’d clock the first bloke
that took her out of her stall.
We can’t work six places with
five ponies, so rather than start
a blue we decided to sit pat until
somebody worked it out.”
The under-manager looked at
Bess. She tossed her head and
shook her mane at the delay.
“What’s up with her, Mick?
Had the smithy down?” Ben
asked.
Mick leaned the fork against
a rail, leaned down and grasped
the hair that grew above Bess’s
near-side hoof.
“She’s shed two shoes,” he
replied. “It won’t do any good
getting Harry down, her hooves
are worn out. She bled the last
time he shoed her and she was
lame for a week. Her hooves
are worn clear down to the flesh.
She’s had it.”
Ben looked closely and saw
where the hooves had been
broken and rasped away with
constant shoeing. The wheelers
watched, silently, each face a
study in expression.
The under-manager slapped
Bess on the glossy shoulder and
she pressed against him in
pleasure.
“Nothing else for it, she’ll
have to go up,” Ben said at last.
“She can’t work without shoes.
Anyway she’s earned her place
in the sun, haven’t you, Bess?”
THEY led Bess out of the
stables and she went with her
ears pricked, head held high.
This was an unusual procedure;
and there was no shoulder
pressure from collar and hames,
chains did not rattle as she
walked. An hour later afternoon
sunlight burst upon her, and she
found herself, dazed and be-
wildered, in the rest-paddock a
stone’s throw from the poppet-
head.
Stragglers coming from the
bathroom with towels around
their necks and empty crib- and
water-tins jangling on their
backs, saw Bess in the paddock
and went down the hill knowing
that the mine had passed into a
new era.
Bess trotted anxiously around
the paddock, her flanks thud-
ding, and looked for a way out.
She was not used to loneliness.
She knew the paddock well
enough, but every other time she
had been there other ponies had


m. : 5 : v;
v ;\ : v •
H
:*v;
Wi*
if Pf
$
r
<s
M 6 WAY POWER
that makes h'(fht of emy jok/
First cost is lost cost when you invest in a
Nuffield Universal Tractor. Completely
equipped with (1) Power take-off; (2)
Swinging drawbar; (3) Belt pulley; H) 3-
Linkage Hydraulic lift; and (5) dnd (6)
2-lever control hydraulic power enabling
front and rear mounted implements to operate
independently, plus 5 forward speeds and full
electrical equipment, the Nuffield Tractor is
a "Task Force" in itself. It-nas all the power
of a 10-horse team, and (dmazing versatility.
Top speed is 18 m.p.h. ahd average fuel con-
sumption only IVs gallons per hour! If your
present implements are trailed, take your
Nuffield Tractor without hydraulics, and save
on the initial cost! This is the tractor for
you— /'
tf futs everyfAi*?*'
ft does every™**#
ECSi® 8 * 9
THE
lift*
5 A-^
Tractor
The last word in
efficient Tractor design
NT13.24.52
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED South
Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.^
swmv
ON-THF.JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
■
DEALER
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND,
Public Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND WELLINGTON DISTRICT
PALMERSTON NORTH REGISTRY.
IN THE MATTER of “The Trustee Act,
15)08” and IN THE MATTER of the
Estate of ANNIE KATHLEEN PROUSE
of Makino Widow deceased.
TO: HAROLD LITTLE of parts unknown
AND TO: The nephews and nieces of
ANNIE KATHLEEN PROUSE (nee
GARTNER) of Makino near Feilding in
New Zealand Widow deceased.
PURSUANT TO AN ORDER made by a
Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand on the 24th day of February
1953 NOTICE IS HEREBY, GIVEN that
all the above-named persons having claims
to share in the Estate of the above-named
ANNIE KATHLEEN PROUSE deceased
who died at Makino aforesaid on the
' sth day of August 1952 and Probate of
whose Will was granted out of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand on the
20th day of August 1952 ARE HEREBY
REQUIRED to send in full particulars of
their claims to the Executor Thomas
Leonard Seddon Esquire at the Offices of
Messieurs Mclntyre Taylor & Seddon
Solicitors Kimbolton Road Feilding New
Zealand on or before the Ist day of June
1953 after which date the Executor will
proceed to distribute the assets of the
estate of the said deceased among the
persons entitled thereto having regard
only to the claims and demands of which
he shall then have had notice. —Dated at
Feilding this 24th day of February, 1953.
McINTYRE TAYLOR & SEDDON, Solici-
tors for the Executor, FEILDING, NEW
ZEALAND.
Probate Notice
SAMUEL JASPER late’of Grass Patch
in the State of Western Australia
Farmer deceased intestate.
IN PURSUANCE of an Order of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia ALL
PERSONS claiming to be next of kin
(or the personal representatives of such)
of the said intestate who died on the
13th day of August 1961 intestate a
bachelor are on or before the 22nd day
of May 1953 to send by post prepaid to
the Administrator’s Solicitors Kott &
Wallace 62 St. George’s Terrace Perth
in the said State their fuU Christian and
surnames addresses and descriptions and
full particulars of their claims setting
out their degree of kinship and in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from participation in the distribution of
the estate of the raid deceased Claim-
ants must attend personally or by their
Solicitor before me at my Chambers
Supreme Court Perth aforesaid on the
sth day of June 1953 at 10.30 o’clock in
the forenoon the day appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating on the said claims
Claimants not residing in Western Aus-
tralia must with their particulars of claim
aforesaid send the name and address of a
person in Perth aforesaid to whom notice
may be sent. —G. J. BOYLSON, MASTER.
been with her and the sudden
rush of cold air, and the lone-
liness, caused her to whinny her
protests.
Night fell and brought a
thousand terrors. Strange sounds
told of movement in the clump
of blackberries. . Shadows drifted
overhead from night-flying birds
and strange, hitman sounds and
the growl of traffic travelled far
in the frosty air. Most disturbing
of all was the intensity of the
steel-blue waves of frost and the
bitter cold.
Towards morning Bess found
a weak spot in the wire-netting
fence, pressed her stocky frame
against it and walked through,
kicking her hind-legs free from
the barbed-wire that tore her
skin and caused blood to flow.
In the early dawn light the
miners, tumbling out of buses,
saw her standing at the pit-top,
nickering her pleasure as each
group passed, hurrying into the
change-room. They waved their
hats at her and she trotted away,
describing a circle that took her
back to where the shaft mouth
yawned blackly. While the men
pressed into the cage Bess tried
to force her way in with them,
baring her big, yellow teeth when
they good-naturedly drove her
away.
Harry Pascoe looked up from
his desk when the first skips
mmbled out and saw Bess at the
shaft. He called Price, and the
two men stood watching her,
smiling to see her keeping restless
vigil.
“A lot of men are like that,”
Pascoe said. “Don’t know how
to retire and want to get back
into harness. Afraid we can’t
have her roaming around pit-top
though, Ben. We’ll have to keep
her in the paddock or have her
shot. I’d rather keep her in the
paddock if we could.”
For three consecutive nights
they drove Bess back into the
paddock; and each night she
broke out. The miners became
used to seeing her waiting
anxiously, whinnying a welcome
at the shaft each morning.
"OUT the miners had few
thoughts for Bess. One
morning they assembled for a
pit-top meeting and discussed the
safety issue. Bill Smith and the
lodge-president, Ray Simpson,
obeyed the unwritten law that
every man who wanted to speak
could do so on a safety issue.
The meeting lasted so long that
Pascoe ordered the whistle to be
blown and there was no work
that day.
The lodge-executive went in to
see the manager, and gave their
reasons for The meeting. They
explained that the men were
uneasy about underground seep-
age and the possibility that this
came from flooded Old Cobar
workings. To support their
arguments the lodge-officials
pointed out that Oakey Park did
not have accurate surveys of the
old workings in the adjacent
leases, which had been flooded
by the natural dip in the valley.
Pascoe became exasperated
and jabbed a blunt, nicotine-
stained finger at charts unrolled
and placed on the table for all
to study. Flint struck stone and
sparks flew before the interview
was over.
“We want a better guarantee
than that,” Simpson said at last,
rising to go. “You give us a
survey of the Old Cobar work-
ings and we’ll put it to the men.
They know where our workings
are, but none of us know any-
thing about the others.”
Later, in the unnatural silence
that brooded over the mine,
Pascoe saw Bess standing
forlornly at the cage, looking
around for signs of the men who
should be coming out.
“Oh, for hell’s sake, Ben,” he
exploded. “If that blasted fool
of a horse wants to get back
down below get someone to take
her down. She’s done about a
fiver’s-worth of damage to the
fence already. Let her stop in
the stables if that’s where she
wants to be!”
Price grinned, then became
serkfus.
“You know,” he cried, “that’s
not such a bad idea. You know
how the men feel about her. I
heard Taffy Ewell say everything
would be all right if Bess was
underground, she’d know if the
place was safe. They might
settle down again when she
wanders around the place.”
Bess went back to the dark-
ness, the half-light and the eerie
mutterings of the roof. She
heard the clatter when small
pieces of sandstone cascaded
and the rock mass “talked” as
the peppermint logs levered
upwards. The old horse snuffed
happily at the stale, hot air and
saw the rails narrow to infinity
where the polished steel reflected
the dim lights. She trotted on
sure, broken feet over the rough.
rocky floor and whinnied a greet-
ing to the other ponies. They
stopped eating and looked at
her as she stamped knee-deep in
new, fragrant hay that had been
spread in her stall. Bess had
come home.
"I>JEXT morning, when the
other ponies were harnessed
and led away, Bess broke out of
her stall and followed them,
wandering from heading to
heading and begging for crusts
at crib-time. At first the men
laughed and patted her, but, as
the tempo of work quickened in
the afternoon, she got in the
way; and sweating, swearing
wheelers drove her from place
to place.
Bess was not used to this
treatment. She became a wraith,
a shadow that moved in the
darkness and appeared suddenly
to block narrow tunnels and
headings where there was room
for only one horse to pass.
“You’ll have to do something
about Bess,” Simpson told Red
Mick at last. “If you don’t keep
her locked up she’ll have to be
shot. She’s making a damned
nuisance of herself even though
the men reckon they feel safer
while she’s around.”
Mick saw the situation had
become serious, but could offer
no solution. “I can’t keep her
locked up,” he said wearily.
“She just kicks her way out, and
I’m sick and tired of mending
stalls. She’s got more sense than
a lot of blokes working in this
pit, and I defy anybody to keep
her in her stall. She wants to
work, but it’s impossible, she’s
got no shoes. Matt Nixon would
be on to us like a ton of bricks
if we used her on skips.”
Simpson thought for a while.
“What about using her as a
water-baler?” he asked finally.
“It might injure her pride a bit,
but surely that won’t hurt her?”
Mick shook his head regret-
fully.
“Not a chance. I’ve thought
of that, Ray; but it’d be too
hard on her feet. Only one thing
for it and that’s a bullet.”
TIETWEEN waking and sleep-
ing that night the idea came
to Mick. He toyed with it until
his consciousness left him, and,
in the morning the plan was
crystal-clear. He was working
with leather and rubber when
Scotty came into the stables.
Stitching busily, Mick was in
no mood to answer questions.
After a few moments Scotty
realised this and went away.
Ray Simpson dropped ip after
the wheelers left and blinked in
astonishment. “Blimey Charlie!”
he said reverently. “What’re
those things you’ve got on Bess’s
front hooves?”
“Boots,” replied Mick tersely.
“Working-boots haven’t you
seen boots before?”
“Yes,” replied Ray reasonably,
“but nothin’ like that. What
the hell did ypu make them out
of? They make her look like a
Weedin’ pdma donna!”
Heavy circles of leather had
been cut and stitched laboriously
to rubber uppers of a Wellington
boot. Bess’s front hooves had
been forced into them, and laces
drawn tight about her fetlocks
until the leather sole fitted
snugly. Mick improved on the
hind boots; and when the other
ponies came back at the end of
the shift Bess was standing
proudly in her new footwear.
She stumbled a bit at first, peer-
ing in perplexity at the odd
covering, but later she found her
feet and regained her confidence.
WHEN the wheelers came in
* * next morning Mick had the
water-baling harness on Bess and
she stood contentedly, ready for
her return to work.
“You can have the five horses
for skips today,” Mick told the
wheelers. “Bess’ll pull the water-
baler.”
Ted Logue’s jaw dropped and
he blinked when he saw Bess.
“What the hell’s she got on?”
he said in disbelief. “What d’you
call those things?”
Mick’s face became a little red
—a dangerous sign.
“Boots,” he said, “You’ve got
boots on, ain’t y’? What’s good
enough for you is good enough
for a horse!”
Ted saw the wisdom of this,
and the wheelers led their ponies
away while Bess flexed eager
shoulders against the pull of the
trace-chains. Pressure of a man’s
hands on the reins told her that
she once more belonged in the
welcoming darkness.
WITCH! WITCH!
She is more than a skeleton rattling in that reptile skin
So soon about to slough for growth’s last mitacle.
She is more than her lizard eyes sneaking out and in
Beneath brown leathery hoods, and more than each sin
Each grief, each laugh, and every generous deed
That, like soft pencils, sketched the wrinkles in.
Young wives who’d scorn to fear the evil eye,
If they ever heard of it, cross ’the street as she comes
Or avoid her gaze in a glitter of bargain windows;
But children, knowing better, squirm queer and shy,
Regaining voices for taunts as she mutters her way
Down the shortening vista where, vanishing, she will die.
Her eye indeed is grown evil, focusing fears
That no young woman or child would wish to see plain.
Rustlings arid snappings in brittle rubbish of years
Magnify; in her shrinking skull—she hears
Like a frightened lizard aware of intrusive whispers
Too imperceptible for human ears.
She will curse a new-wed girl whose band of gold
Slips shining and unaccustomed upon her finger;
And maidens will giggle at first to hear her scold,
Until her hatred touches them, bleakly cold.
But such malevolence cancels sorrow’s true warnings
Of the sly contractions, the shrinkage of growing old.
And soon she will meet death lonely as she tussled life.
No kindly intruder could shout so she would listen
Above a black surf crashing, cutting with its knife
The unhallowed beach where a dark boy’s unwed wife
Cries out her anguish to echo from the moon’s white shell
Which, held to her ear, has never ceased its strife.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


✓
\ \
■
? i i
is
mm
PHHI
4 TEMPTING REASONS for securing
NOW a pair of STAMINA DE-LUXE
Self-supporting TROUSERS •
1. THE SUPPLY IS LIMITED. Although over
2,000,000 are made and sold, only one man in every five
will be able to get a pair this year.
2. A MAN LOOKS HIS BEST IN STAMINA.
Staminas are artistically designed to give you freedom
and comfort without losing that stylish appearance well-
dressed men demand.
3. YOU WILL GET YEARS AND YEARS OF
WEAR FROM STAMINA. Staminas are master-tailored
from a special and exclusive wear-resisting Pure Wool
Crusader Cloth. That means you have Crusader’s Guarantee
that the cloth will never fade or shrink.
4. THE PRICE IS FAR BELOW THE VALUE YOU RECEIVE.
For only 99/8 you get all the benefits of Pure Wool a cloth that is wear-
resisting, dirt-repellent, flame-resisting and water-repellent. Sm tly cut,
attractive, comfortable Trousers ideal for every wear ever* re.
Stamina
wWI ■ Wi
TROUSERS
DON’T DELAY! SECURE YOUR STAMINA SELF-SUPPORTING Ti Oi
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear St>
dsf
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
&i&ms
TRADE MARK
I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
Q During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
. DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have beeif administered throughout
the world.
. DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
oo*« w " 1
S < 3 , M S
Hi It
I II
(13H»
j;ii
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
. Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
D 4.2
Missing Friend
BROWN.—WiII anyone with any know-
ledge of JOHN ROBERT BROWN, son of
JOHN and ISABELLA BROWN, of Mel-
bourne, and who was employed in news-
paper work in Sydney prior to 1919 and
went to AVestem Australia about that
year, please communicate with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY NORMAN STEWART
formerly of Augusta Street Bankstown
N S.W —TAKE NOTICE that ROSE
AMELIA MAY STEWART has filed a
Petition for Divorce Number 1543 ot
1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 18th day of May 1903
and obtain a copy of the Petition with'
out charge from C. P- DIGNAM,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar. »
[l36 — Advertisement ]
1952. (D) No. 256
TO ELSIE MAY NICKLIN Respondent
late of 30 Burnett Street St. Kilda Mel-
bourne Victoria Australia A Petition
for Divorce has been filed against you
Upon an application by letter to the
District Registrar District Registry oi
be High Court Lloyds Bank Chambers
Greyfriars Lane Coventry England a
i., v of the Petition will be sent «
v it-.in two months hereafter no applica-
tion has been made nor appearance
' the Court may hear the Petition
~ renounce judgment. ARNOLD
! SNES, District Registrar*
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Photograph of A. B. (“Banjo”)
Paterson suitable for framing.—s46o.
To buy The Copra Trader by
Ernest Osborne.—5458.
Author of the phrase “Of all the
good-byes I have heard the Japanese
‘Sayonara’ (‘since it must be so’) is
the most beautiful.”—5459.
Name and address of the agent
handling the “Mimeograph” duplicat-
ing machine.—5453.
To hear from any relatives in Aus-
tralia of the late Amelia Player, one
time of Custom House, London.
(Reply direct to Mr. W. F. Davies,
1 Sibley-grove, Manor Park, London,
E. 12.)
To buy Vol. 1, No. 1, of the
“Freelance,” published October, 1952.
—5456.
To buy A Queenslander’s Travel
Notes, Oblation, The Red Pagan and
Victor Daley, all by A. G. Stephens.
—5455.
To buy The Life, Adventures and
Confessions of a Sydney Barmaid,
published about 45 years ag0.—5457.
To buy copy of Tiburon by Kylie
Tennant.—5462.
Bulletin staff man wants furnished
flat or cottage, Sydney, anywhere
handy to city.—s46l.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the quotation “Don’t
shoot until you can see the whites
of their eyes”?—s4s4.
Information Sought
What is caucus?
Webster’s definition is “a meeting
of leaders of a party or faction to
decide on the policies or candidates
for office to be supported by their
followers.” The term has application
to British, U.S. and Australian
politics. In Australia caucus is used
in relation to the Labor party only.
It is the meeting of all the Labor-
party representatives of the one Par-
liament, e.g., there is Federal caucus,
and a caucus in each State House;
Labor Senators sit in Federal caucus.
Caucus elects Cabinets (the Prime
Minister or Premier, however, allo-
cates portfolios). Labor policy in
Federal Parliament is determined by
a majority of caucus (though caucus
itself is bound by the decisions of the
triennial Federal conference of the
party and its executive). The Budget
is discussed in caucus, and most
measures, before presentation to
Parliament (when Labor is in office),
are first considered by caucus.
* * * *
Some details about Blondin, the
tight-rope walker?
Charles Blondin, the French rope-
walker, was born in 1824. His real
name was Jean Francois Grandet.
His professional career began at five
years, when his talents earned for him
the title of “The Little Wonder.”
Trained at Lyons, he devoted his
abilities to rope-walking, and on his
successful attempt to cross Niagara
Falls on a rope 1100 ft. long and 160 ft.
above the water, achieved instan-
taneous popularity. He performed
the same feat many times, varying it
with different accompaniments, among
which were those of carrying a man
across on his back, performing blind-
folded, wheeling a barrow, and on
stilts. He died in 1897 at Ealing,
London. Vast crowds flocked to his
performances, the gathering at his
first attempt over Niagara Falls
numbering over 25,000. He paid a
visit to Australia.
* * * *
(1) Actual words from which the
following initials are derived — e.g-,
i.e., q.v., a.m., p.m. ? (2) Meaning of
ibid, and id. ?
(1) All derive from the Latin. E.g.
stands for exempli gratia (for
.example); i.e., id est (that is) ; q.v.,
qiiod vide (which see); a.m., ante
meridiem (before noon); p.m., post
meridiem (after noon). (2) Id. is a
confr. ’tion of the Latin adjective
idem (the same); ibid, is a contraction
of the atin adverb ibidem (in the
same place); They are used to indi-
cate that a second quotation comes
from the sc-u te book or other source
as that naked for the preceding
extract. \
Brief Answers
S.B T.: So far k we can trace
there is no international agreement
preventing the production of power
from the sea. In fiacvff seems that
numerous attempts Live been made
to produce power, but, su far, with-
out real success.... M,M.| Kabold,
in German folk-lore, Was | familiar
spirit, haunting houses and gendering
services to the inmates, but fyften of
a tricky disposition; also an under-
ground spirit haunting {nines afll ves.
...;L.H.H.: Communicate \ • «h
Norton Toothiil Co. Ply., Ltd.l H 2
Charlotte-street, Brisbane, who] wilt
supply you with full particular’s ot
the Vickers trac, ■> prices! unu
hire-purchase tern ... B : lf‘ te
Mr. Alexander M. VBrown, teajte
librarian, Ashfield Sto h ” \
nical School, Ashfield us.S.W.), y
copy of reprint of his article in th&
“Australian Library Journal” entitled
“Simple Book Repairs”,.. .P.McG.:
Half-time schools are established in
N. S. Wales where a number of chil-
dren sufficient to maintain a minimum
attendance of nine pupils can be
collected in two groups, not more
than 10 miles apart. One teacher
divides his time between the two
groups, arranging for homework and
preparatory study to occupy the time
of each pupil in his absence from
either school C.S.: William Gosse
Hay died on March 21, 1945.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.G.: We shed a tear over “The
Life and Death of a Newspaper Boy”
and tenderly laid it in the basket....
M.D.: Received your story with its
“interplay of many curious personali-
ties and strange events,” but found it
unprintable... .R.J'.: Briefer version
of story we rejected some time ago
still doesn’t make the grade
E.F.D,: The talking duck will not he
served to our readers... .R.S."•
“Rosemary (aged 18), who lives
happily with her family in Yarabina
and wants to be a mannequin in
Paris, wins a lottery and achieves
her ambition.” No, a thousand times
no V.S.: It is'a pleasantly written
yarn, but it breaks no new ground.
... .G.G.: “A Bus Journey to Town ’
jogs along unevenly A.T.8.: ATI
it boils down to is a plea for vege-
tarianism. .. .E.S.: “The White Lady”
was last seen wandering vaguely m
the direction of home H. 8.: An
excellent guide to your small town-
ship, but no short story T.J.K.:
Your earnestness as a reformer
swamps your sense of humor
V. 8.: An unreadable mixture ot
everything that should not be in a-
short story... .L.J.P.: “A short
biography that seeks to introduce a
memorable life to young readers in
their teens” is definitely not Bulletin
material R.S.; It got away to a
poor start H.8.A.: A fortune m
jewels, stolen by a Chinaman from a
Dutchman in Singapore during the
war, is buried somewhere in Norfolk
Island, and can stay there until
eternity as far as we are concerned.
C.W.: Send it to a women s
paper M.8.F.: Burglar who fell
in love with a policewoman and gave
her a ring he’d lifted deserved all he
got F.Y.: Yarns about Sydney
crooks selling the Botanic Gardens
sundial to unsuspecting countrymen
are several generations out of date.
F.C.C.: You didn’t send the
finish of the yarn; but it could
make no difference —it’s too sugary.
R.G.W.: Never heard of a pros-
pector finding ample compensation in
the beauties of Nature for his inability
to strike gold K.W.: Might suit
a schoolgirls’ weekly... .C.C.D-:
Harrowing tale of the curate’s in-
advertent taking of a rum-punch
made the Religions Editor sob into
his beer F.M.: No encores for
sprawling and jerry-built story about a
bush fire-brigade A.C.F.: Charm-
ing little romance about Shirley, the
boss’s son and his gleaming roadster
can’t be recorded here T.D.W. :
It had one distinction—the first story
to arrive inspired by the Coronation.
H.G.: That yam must know its
own way here, and back, by now.


Australian Historical Sketches
From
Mitchell to Dixson
By M. H. ELLIS
THE Sydney Press the other
day announced details of
the will of Sir William
Dixson. The announcement
was discreet and pithy. It occu-
pied les§_ space in the papers
than, say, “Calwell Talks of
Early Poll,” which had a dis-
tinct priority of position in the
news, or even than “Blackouts
in Four Zones,” which used up
three times as much column-
space and appeared under large
double-column headings.
But that probably was as it
should have been. Sir William
Dixson was not a popular race-
horse or a levanting bookie. All
he had done was to make his
fellow-citizens one of the most
munificent cultural gifts in the
history of Australia; certainly
one of the three or four largest
made within the past half-
century.
In value, if not in the wide-
ness of its ambit, it compares
with the gift of David Scott
Mitchell by virtue of which the
Mitchell Library was founded.
And what has been bequeathed
will, when ceremonially handed
over some time hence, be of as
great advantage to historical
scholarship in many ways as the
Mitchell bequest, since it
provides means to disseminate
not only its own benefits but
those already in possession of
the Public Library Trustees and
of other collections.
In fact it puts the coping-
stone of usefulness on the Mit-
chell Library’s work by promis-
ing to extend the area of its
influence and of the access of
students to it.
Both Mitchell and Dixson
were Australian-bom and Aus-
tralian-educated. But they were
men who differed widely in
interests and pursuits.
David Scott Mitchell, son of
an old-time medico who acquired
considerable wealth, was a
recluse who devoted his life to
the collection of books. He had
no public life. From the time
of his father’s death, when he
inherited the means to become a
collector, until his death in
1907 he rarely left his house at
17 Darlinghurst-road, save for
his weekly visit to the book-
sellers. He was not a scholar
in Australian history except
incidentally. He collected under
circumstances of great advan-
tage, since he came into the
market at a time when most of
the early Australiana, which
has become rare, and in some
cases almost priceless, was rela-
tively easily come by—even
years after the first world war
it was possible to buy such items
as Phillip’s Voyage, published in
1789, for a guinea or two. To-
day a moderately fine copy, not
necessarily in mint condition,
has become worth £2O. In
Mitchell’s earliest days as a
collector it was possible to buy
copies for a few shillings.
+ +
In October, 1898, Mitchell
informed the trustees of the
Public Library of N, S. Wales
that he intended to bequeath
them his collection of books on
condition that the Government
should provide a building in
which it would be housed and
kept separate from the books of
the Public Library and made
available to students under con-
ditions as near as possible to
those of the British Museum.
He ultimately settled an endow-
merit of £70,000, which was to
provide an income, of which not
more than a quarter was to be
used for binding, the rest for
the purchase of books and
manuscripts.
Eventually a building was
designed by Colonel Vernon, the
Government Architect, and in
1909 Mr. Hugh Wright was ap-
pointed first Mitchell Librarian,
and held that office until, in 1932,
he retired from the service, hav-
ing put the organisation of the
new institution well on its feet.
He is still hale and hearty in his
late eighties, a tower of strength
to the Royal Historical Society,
which has named after him and
his coadjutor, the late Mr. C.
H. Bertie, the society’s library,
which they jointly organised.
The original collection be-
queathed by David Scott
Mitchell totalled about 61,000
volumes. By 1936 it had been
built up by purchase and gift to
171,000 volumes. And it has
been swelling ever since. The
early Government Archives of
New South Wales have been
added to its shelves. It holds
already collections of Australian
books, newspapers, journals of
explorers, official records, family
papers, pictures, historic maps,
printed books, pamphlets, broad-
sheets, paintings and pictures
such as no other country in the
world possesses or is likely to
possess about its own first begin-
nings and development.
The bulk of it is unimagin-
able to anybody who has not
been lost in its mazes and
watched the fascinating process
by which, in the last 30 years,
it has evolved from little better
than a mere mass of documents
and books into a research-
machine whose resources of
cataloguing and indexing are
improved and developed every
week and which is being made
gradually fully accessible, with-
out blind delving, to students
who are able to spend time
there.
The Mitchell deals intelli-
gently, quickly and smoothly
with hundreds of inquiries from
people who, half the time, are
not sure what they have come
to inquire about. It issues and
supervises the use of hundreds
of precious manuscripts to ad-
vanced and other students —
manuscripts frail with age, whose
use needs to be monitored with
care lest they disintegrate.
It has a constant stream of
new index items and references
falling into place in its cata-
logues. And, besides the papers
and books which it owns, it
takes care of thousands belong-
ing to private persons who retain
the ownership and their right to
say who shall see the papers and
who shall not. One of the largest
and most historically valuable
collections of correspondence
and notes on Chinese modern
history, originally owned by a
distinguished Australian Press
correspondent abroad, are in this
category. And there is a set of
historical family papers held
under the same conditions which
runs to 124 volumes which go
right down to within a year or
so of the foundation of Aus-
tralia. The Wentworth papers
are there ; so are Parkes’s papers.
One would expect in a country
as yet only a little over 160
years old that such a gift as that
which made the assembly of all
this material possible could not
occur more than once within the
span of a human lifetime. But
it has happened twice, and it is
the wonderful good fortune of
all the generations of students
who will benefit that Sir William
Dixson was a businessman, a
shrewd collector of historiana
and, above all, a research-
student who was not only a
gatherer of rare items but who
understood what needed to be
done to make them of maximum
value.
Moreover, whereas Mitchell
was primarily a lover and col-
lector of books. Sir William was
an expert without peer in the
matter of early Australian pic-
tures of all sorts and descrip-
tions, a man who in that field
could scarcely be deceived and
who rarely failed to evaluate
properly whatever he had in
mind to buy.
The results of his selection
will have a revolutionary impact
on both the future of the Mit-
chell collections and on the ex-
pansion of research in due time.
Nobody as yet quite knows
the full extent of the Dixson
gift in books, maps, manuscripts
and pictures. The assembler of
them was his own librarian. He
once said to the writer; “I can-
not trust myself with rarities.
How can I trust a stranger?”
By this he was not reflecting on
the honesty either of himself or
of librarians as a race. But he
treated his prizes like jewels, and
preferred to make sure, by giv-
ing them his own attention, that
they were looked after as he
wished. And when he found the
collection getting beyond his
capacity to handle he began to
move it into public hands.
This was as far back as 1919,
when he, offered to transfer a
large section of his books and
pictures so soon as the Public
Library building, ,of which the
Mitchell Library was the first
wing, had reached the stage at
which it could house what he
had to give. It was not till
Trafalgar Day, 1929, that this
point had been arrived at and
the Dixson wing of the Mitchell
Gallery, with its four tiers of
book-stacks underneath in a
lower story, was opened by Sir
Dudley de Chair, Governor of
N. S. Wales.
The collection of pictures then
placed on view gave a foretaste
of what might be expected when
Dixson should pass on, for he
intimated even at that stage that
he proposed to bequeath the
whole of his books, manuscripts
and pictures and other Aus-
traliana to the public on condi-
tions somewhat similar to those
of the Mitchell bequest.
Even when the gallery was
opened the pictures shown in it or
available were estimated to be
worth £25,000, and their value
has increased out of sight since.
They include a priceless range
of views of early Sydney, from
the early 1790’s onwards, through
every stage of development
during the reigns of the auto-
cratic Governors —Eyre, Lycett,
Lewin, Major Taylor, Mortimer
Lewis and many more —to form
stepping-stones to a magnificent
series of Conrad Martens land-
scapes, the quaint oils of the
’forties from the brush of Pea-
cock, the later comprehensive
survey of Sydney in watercolor
by Elyard and the wall full of
goldfields life from the Victorian
diggings.
The portraits and landscapes
connected with our earliest pre-
history and history are no less
imposing. There is one of
Thomas Phillips’s own copies of
the most famous portraits of Sir
Joseph Banks, Gilbert Stuart’s
portrait of Viscount Sydney,
after whom the city was named.
The earlier Governors are there;
also John Macarthur and his
wife, Wentworth and many
more, and, above all, an imposing
set of oil-paintings, reputed and
otherwise, of James Cook, with
the priceless reconstructions of
the scene of his death, one by
Webber, his artist on the first
voyage, along with a number of
watercolor sketches of scenes
associated with his explorations
in the South Seas from the hand
of the same very competent
artist —from the hand of the
first artist to step on to Aus-
tralian soil, a man who had
actually been at the first landing
of Britons at Botany Bay, who
witnessed the ceremony of
taking possession of this con-
tinent, who was one of the little
group of voyagers who were the
first to live on mainland Aus-
tralian soil on the site of Cook-
town, when the little Endeavour
was careened there for repairs.
What there is in the newest
accessions from the main collec-
tion even the executors probably
do not know, and will not for
some time. All that is known
is that any serious research-
student whom Sir William liked
rarely came away empty of fresh
material from an obviously
enormous mass if he applied. I
have known Sir William to pro-
duce a couple of dozen items
bearing on some point—paint-
ings, manuscripts, sketches, maps
—in an afternoon out of his
own memory and mostly un-
familiar to research-workers. It
would probably be conservative
indeed to say that what he has
given in material—apart from
money—is worth £200,000. And
to this he has added all his shares
in the British Tobacco Com-
pany, said to be worth round
£lOO,OOO at present values.
u i s i n resDect Q f this cart
of the beauest that he has made
his gift most valuable It is
to bi controlled, along with his
collections, by the William
Dixson Foundation adminis-
tered bv the Public Library
Trustees and its fund is to be
used for the nrintine or renro-
diction of hiloricaf work'and
manuscripts relating to Australia
and the Pacific, so that they may
be available to students every-
where; for the translation of
books and documents relating to
Australia-he was no mean
translator from the French him-
self—for the reprinting of books
and historic documents which
have become so rare and valu-
able that they are beyond the
reach of students, and for the
retention of memberships of
various societies devoted to
research and geography which
issue learned journals.
There will be little dross
among the material things in
this magnificent present to the
country and its student-body.
Dixson was beyond everything
a calm and businesslike realist,
the ideal man to assemble such
a treasure.
His Fellowship of the Royal
Historical Society was not earned
either by his facility as a col-
lector or by his benefactions,
but by his solid work, the
evidence of which appears in
the society’s journals, on early
Australian portraitists and land-
scapers and graphic topo-
graphers, about whom he knew
more than anybody else living.
+ -4
To sit with him on a quiet
Saturday afternoon while he
dealt out treasures like cards
and calmly debated their merits,
identity or authenticity was a
stimulating experience. He was
utterly indifferent whether he
was right or wrong. If he
bought anything which turned
out to be not what it seemed he
would gravely admit it: “I was
inexperienced when I bought
that 1 got it in Tasmania
years ago the owner told
me it was a Read.... You say
it isn’t? I don’t think so either,
now.”
If you wrote to him the odds-
on were that he would write
back in his own handwriting. If
you asked him an historical
question he would always be
prompt in answering. He would
either say that he could answer
it or say straight out that he
knew nothing about the matter.
In his personal giving he was
either generous or did not give,
but what he did was always
based on commonsense. Once
I sent a student to him with a
note of introduction asking him
if he could show him some par-
ticular documents. He tele-
phoned : “I won’t waste time.
I’ve examined him. He has been
sucking your brains,”
He would not reach this con-
clusion instinctively. The first
time I had cause to see him it
was to ask if he had some papers
missing from a correspondence
between Macquarie and Bathurst,
the Colonial Secretary.
“Ah, Bathurst,” he said.
“Good man, Bathurst, but an
old woman—under the thumb
of the missionaries.”
“I agree with you,” I said.
At that stage in such discus-
sions the opener of it normally
smiles his self-satisfaction at
being agreed with. Instead, I
found myself looking across twe
expectant hands, palm-flat on the
table, into a pair of watchful
eyes above a surgical mouth
which clipped out the word;
“Why?”
For an hour after that the dis-
cussion went on and authorities
were bandied back and forth to
prove that he knew the docu-
mentation of an intricate matter
thrown at him out of the blue
as thoroughly as a man could
know it.
Woe betide anybody who
could not answer his “Why?”
He had no time for pretenders.
Another time I suggested to
an urban historical society which
looked like being hard-pressed
that it should ask him to join.
The result was instant. He
rang the next day and thanked
me courteously as if I had given
him a first-folio Shakspeare. He
had become, on the nail, not only
a member but a life-member.
He is personally commemo-
rated for his beneficence to the
Public Library, apart from these
posthumous gifts, by a plaque
set up by the trustees during
his lifetime and by a stained-
glass window which he gave to
adorn the great public reading-
room.
Australian students owe him
another one of their own.
MANGROVE
I saw its periscope in the tide;
Its torpedo-seed seeking the soft side
Of the island, the grey mud-bank.
And where it touched, it seemed, the land sank
With its trees exploding from water, the green
Mangroves’ fountain-head of leaves bursting, seen
Like a mushroom-top of detritus and spray.
Today, in my boat, at the close end of the bay,
1 saw its dark devastations; islet and spit
Sunk in the flat high-tide. Where these war-seeds hit,
Gaps of horizon and sea; then trees . . . gaps . . . trees—
Like men on a flushed foredeck. No ease:
The drab olive-green swarming everywhere;
Troops of the mangrove, uniform, everywhere.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


chaase aw
AKUBRA/
You’ll like it from the
moment the salesman shows
it to you.
You’ll admire the new range
of ultra-smart shapes and
colours.
Yes when the time comes
to buy your new hat, choose
an Akubra.
Akubra is equal in quality
to the best imported hat, but
costs much less.
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA'S FAVOURITE HAT
~ " A 4.82
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
w ttwav rrhaiimanL ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J W DUNISS h! DIOKINS. G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney racegoers who 11
travelled to Melbourne for the
opening day of the y.R.C.
autumn meeting at Flemington
found the afternoon most expen-
sive, the heavily-backed Sydney-
siders Love To All, Hydrogen,
Tarien and Advocate all being
beaten into minor places.
• • • •
Though Cultured, also from
Sydney, led all the way to win
the Newmarket from Tarien and
Winlake, few punters, either of
Melbourne or Sydney, benefited
from the surprise 25-to-l success.
Not many could see her turning
the tables on consistent Tarien,
who had beaten her into third
place in the Caulfield Hawks-
burn Handicap. Tarien’s 101 b.
penalty, plus an abscessed
mouth, were contributing causes
of defeat. One-hundred-per-cent,
fitness is essential to success in
any race —and that also goes for
a jockey.
Tarien carried 8.12 in the
Newmarket. She has 7,10 in the
Doncaster, and must be rated a
great show if she is at her best
on Doncaster day.
The Ercildoune Stakes proved
a complete boil-over. Apart
from supporters of Aldershot no
one expected both Dalray and
Hydrogen to be 10 and more
lengths away at the finish. There
was, however, some excuse for
Dalray, who struck himself on
the near foreleg, and was led
back to the mounting enclosure.
Even so, it seemed that Munro
(Hydrogen) and Williamson
(Dalray) were rather intent on
watching each other —playing
cat-and-mouse —instead of tak-
ing a look ahead and seeing how
the pacemaker was bringing the
winning-post nearer and nearer.
There is far too much of this
business of “tactics” in w.-f.-a.
contests. That apart, full credit
must be conceded jockey Pat
Glennon (Aldershot), who simply
“pinched” the race.
• • • •
One definitely impressive per-
formance was the brilliant
victory of two-year-old filly
Surang in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. She established herself
as the best youngster of the
season, and will later be racing
at Randwick.
John Wren races Maxims,
winner of the Second Hopeful
Stakes (maiden two-year-olds) at
Flemington, the Pamphilos
(imp.) colt starting a warm
favorite. Trained by F. W.
Hoysted, Maxims is from the
Magpie (imp.) mare Social,
whose dam, Society (imp.), was
a daughter of Absurd (imp.).
Vychan’s half-brother, a
brown colt by Hellespont (imp.)
from Tudor Princess, was in-
cluded in the Melbourne year-
ling offering this week. Vychan,
equal-favorite and winner of
the opening event on the Flem-
ington programme, the First
Hopeful Stakes, is by Audentes
(imp.), a son of a French Derby
winner, Mieuxee. Tudor Prin-
cess is a daughter of Tudor King
(imp.) and Girshah (half-sister
to St. Fairy and Prince o’
Fairies) by Windbag. Prince o’
Fairies ran second to Murray
Glen in Saturday’s Brunswick
Stakes.
Melbourne’s annual sale of
thoroughbred yearlings will be
continued tomorrow (Thursday)
and concluded on Friday. An
early offering will be one of
three Dhoti fillies to be sold to-
morrow. She is a first foal from
the English mare Transpired by
Signal Light. The filly belongs to
the same family as Windsor Lad
(Derby and St. Leger). The
other Dhoti fillies are from
Comedy Call and Archeron.
E. A. Underwood, of Warlaby
Stud, will offer several of the
progeny of Masthead (imp.),
sire of Mizzen Top. Sons and
daughters of the Blue Peter sire
Ottoman should provide keen
competition. Ottoman is repre-
sented in the catalogue for the
first time.
Red Fury, a winner of the
Caulfield Cup and a placegetter
in the Melbourne Cup, will have
one yearling offspring at the
Melbourne sale on Friday, his
sole representative in the cata-
logue, The youngster is the
chestnut colt from San Faree, a
half-sister to Nautical by Air-
kloof from Cape Fair by Cape
Horn (imp.). The colt looks a
likely type. Strangely enough,
Enfield (imp.), sire of Red Fury,
also has only one representative,
a bay filly from Nirriti by
Cyklon (imp.). Both yearlings
were bred by J, Russell and M.
Ress, Colac West (Vic.). Enfield
is the sire of many winners,
including Sirius (Melbourne
Cup), Aldershot (Ercildoune
Stakes) and Great Britain.
Stick to consistent form is a
turf axiom which works out
satisfactorily to those who
follow it, backing horses that
display consistency at prior
starts, particularly last - start
winners. Cortauld and Prince
o’ Scots, winners at Warwick
Farm last Saturday, had been
successful at their prior outings.
Cortauld has now won three
races from four starts and Prince
o’ Scots three from five.
Carioca had been successful at
seven of eight prior runs and
third in the other, while Winged
Glory had had three seconds and
a win.
Six of the progeny of Delville
Wood (imp.), noted Kia-ora
stud sire, competed in the
Warwick Farm two-year-old
Encourage, one of them being
Winged Glory, easy winner over
the little-fancied Sir Malcolm
and Capitol Bruge. Later in the
day another Delville Wood, the
four-year-old mare Friendly
Feeling, won the Edensor Park
Handicap. Winged Glory is
trained at Rosehill by R. C.
Stanton, who won races in past
years with crack jumper Cheery
Jack and other smart gallopers.
Winged Glory’s dam. Virgin
Wing, is a daughter of Magpie
(imp.) and Cymbala (imp.) by
Robert le Diable.
Friendly Feeling is engaged in
the Sydney Cup with 7.7 or 71b.
above the limit. Noel Mc-
Growdie, who won on her, was
also successful on two other
Sydney Cup hopes. Prince o’
Scots and Ocean Spray, though
Prince o’ Scots would have to
improve remarkably to be a
chance in the two-miler, in
which he has the limit (7st).
Ocean Spray could be a better
mount, but the versatile light-
weight, who has won many long-
distance events as well as
numerous sprints, is expected to
select Friendly Feeling as his
Cup mount. He knows she can
stay. Probably the best four-
year-old mare in Australia
today, she made light of her 9.5
in the Edensor, and covered
more ground than any other
horse in the race. Her dam,
Platonic, is by Le Grand Due
(imp.) and traces back to Cross
Battery by Stepniak. Cross
Battery is the granddam of
Valicare, while Artilleryman, a
Melbourne Cup winner, also
figures in the pedigree, as does
Oaks winner Folly Queen.
Heavy Carioca backing for the
Sydney Cup a week before he
won last Saturday’s Denham
Court Handicap in Phar Lap
style indicated the two-miler, in
which he has 8.9, was to be his
autumn mission. The stable has
cleaned up a fortune on this
remarkable galloper; the only
question is has he done a Cup
preparation?
• • • •
While punters fared badly in
Melbourne, with winners includ-
ing Cultured at 25’s, Murray
Glen at 20’s, Arbroath at 12’s
and two others at 10 to 1, Syd-
ney backers supported three
winning favorites, and there was
no real outsider. Friendly Feel-
ing, at 10 to 1, was the only
winner at double-figures, but
even she was well backed.
In Brisbane, Doomben results
were generally in favor of
takers of the odds, though out-
siders Amber Waters and Good
Mac helped the ringmen.
Coniston almost gave Brisbane
fielders a clean sheet when, at
20 to 1, he finished second to
Merry Scout, who formerly
raced with success in Mel-
bourne (including a Caulfield
Guineas win). Buzzard Bay was
third in the Doomben race, the
principal sprint of the afternoon.
Coniston should be all the
better for the race.
Sledmere (Scone, N.S.W.)
studmaster M. V. Point bred
Grand Paree, winner of the colts’
division of the Doomben Maiden
Two-Year-Old. The youngster
is by Grand Flight from Royal
Lineage (a half-sister to Two
Ton Tony, an Ascot, Sydney,
two - year - old winner many
seasons ago and later successful
in America), by Harinero (imp.)
from Princess Rose (imp.) by
Rose Prince. Grand Paree
belongs to the same family as
Love in Idleness, a winner of
the English Oaks.
Aldershot might still be too
solid for weight-for-age oppon-
ents over the longer Flemington
distances, including the Queen’s
Plate, If mile, today (Wednes-
day). In the event of success —
this race isn’t likely to be run
like last Saturday’s contest—
Aldershot will come into marked
request for the Sydney Cup, in
which, for a proved five-year-
old, he has a luxury weight, -8.1.
The A.J.C. evidently doesn’t
believe 13 is an unlucky num-
ber, or maybe that is an angle
which wasn’t given any thought
when the club decided to limit
registered racing livery to 13
base-colors. The 13 are: white,
hlack, brown, dark blue, pale
bluq, green, tartan, pink, orange,
yellow, purple, lilac and red. All
caps must be of one color. Fac-
ings, cuffs, collars, pipings,
seams, braids and vertical halves
are not allowed. A few owners
who raced horses years ago are
still paying the prescribed fee
each year just to retain their
colors, evidently hoping to return
to racing. Though there are only
13 base-colors, hundreds of
variations have been registered,
and there can still be many more.
* * *
At Wellington and Hobart at
the weekend S’Africa and Aus-
tralia both topped the 500
mark. Against N.Z. (first Test)
the Springboks closed at eight
for 524. Opener McGlew was
still there, 255 n. 0., highest
score made by a South African
in a Test; Murray made his
second N.Z. century.
• • ■ •
The England-bound Aussies
had a day out against the Apple
Islanders —nine for 505 in a
day’s play. Harvey (148) and
Craig (59) hit-up a delightful
128 in less than an hour ; this
follows their partnership of 148
in the fifth Test, and shows that
the two youngsters have already
moulded into a run-getting com-
bination.
Victoria (without Hassett,
Johnston and Ring) had little
trouble disposing of W.A. in the
final Shield tussle. Victorian
openers Ray Harvey and Mc-
Donald put on 118 for the first
wicket; Ray made a century;
brother Neil obliged with almost
three-figures, and other batsmen
contributed appropriately. Vic-
toria’s bowlers then took
charge. Only W.A. batsman to
reach the half-century mark was
left-hand all-rounder Outridge,
who followed three successive
“ducks” with a neat 50. Vic-
toria 447 (R. Harvey 121, N,
Harvey 95, Hallebone 67 ; Out-
ridge 5-78); W.A. 131 (Hill
3-15) and 188 (Outridge 50;
Considine 6-85, Johnson 3-23).
“Mid-on”: At least three
other Australian cricketers were
the same age as Bardsley (42)
when they made their last trip
to England (B. 25/2/’s3)—Syd
Gregory (1912), Armstrong
(1921) and Grimmett (1934).
England has picked several older
men for Australia —Jack Hobbs
was 46 when he came here on his
fifth trip in 1928-29; W.G.
(1891-92), Rhodes (1920-21) and
Hammond (1946-47)- were all
43. When they came here in
1886-87 James Lillywhite and
Alfred Shaw were both 44, but
both played only twice on the
tour. England’s youngest tourist
ever was Close, 19 when he
arrived here with Brown’s
SI side. Apropos, “K.R.”
should not have left out Stan
McCabe from his list of Aus-
tralian 19-year-old selections for
England.
Grimmett may have become
the oldest Australian to tour if
he had not been, with Oldfield
and Ross Gregory (later to be
lost in the air-battle of
Germany), a shock omission
from the 1938 team.
* * *
An Australian boxing rep. at
the 1952 Helsinki Olympic
Games, Norm Jones (9.9 f),
impressed in his pro. debut at
Leichhardt, stopping, per t.k.0.,
Kevin Colteaux (9.6), one of
Melbourne’s most promising
scrappers. Colteaux troubled
him for four rounds, but Norm’s
southpaw stance proved too big
a puzzle. Five knockdowns in
round six ended the fray.
• • • •
Jack Read farewells a cham-
pion:—
James J. Jeffries, who passed on at
Burbank, California, on March 3,
was one of the world’s greatest
heavyweight boxing champions.
Born at Carroll, Ohio, on April
15, 1875, he took the title from Bob
Fitzsimmons at Coney Island, N.Y.,
on June 9, 1899, by a k.o. in the
eleventh round, and went on to beat
every man he met (among them such
stars as Fitzsimmons, a second time,
Jim Corbett, twice, Gus Ruhlin, Aus-
tralian Joe Goddard, Peter Jackson
and Tom Sharkey) till there was no
one left for him to fight.
In 1906 he retired unbeaten in 16
top-line fights, seven of them won by
k. 0., seven on points and the other
two drawn.
. The title he passed on to Marvin
Hart, himself refereeing Hart’s meet-
ing with Jack Root on the promise
that he’d give his championship to
the winner. Tommy Burns then beat
Hart, and Jack Johnson stopped
Burns (at Sydney Stadium on
December 26, 1908), but American
fans claimed Jeffries was still cham-
pion, and Jim was induced to return
to the ring, after four years’ absence
from it, to fight Johnson for the
championship at Reno on July %
1910. Though now not nearly the
great fighter he had been, he went
15 rounds before Johnson k.o.’d him.
For a while Jim ran a stadium at
Hollywood in conjunction with
George Blake, who managed that
brilliant® bantamweight Fidel l- a
Barba when Fidel beat Billy Mc-
Allister in Sydney, But the come-
back had taken the usual toll, in-
health forced him out of even that
part of the fight game, and he was
never the same man again.


Buried, built over, it's still alive!
Sydney' s
Underground Stream
By NANCY KEESING
water.
hidden water, streams and
springs and wells of it, has
i always fascinated man-
* n, . >
Lrom the mysterious Styx of
me weeks to our own Aus-
tralian preoccupation with
artesian-basins and -bores, our
capacity tor being fascinated by
water-diviners is not. perhaps, as
gieat a distance as some mignr
r t f L!teratl f e ’ a S am from
(meek times to Australian abon-
gmal legends about the under-
ground river at Jenolan, has
round in buried streams endless
sources of symbol and myth.
So that it seems strange that
Syclney, a city built above a
creek, forgets the old
stream s existence almost
entirely, both in its daily life and
m its literature.
We walk about the city and
blame cow-tracks” for its
twisted inconvenience, forgetting
that some of our streets still wind
exactly along the banks of that
fine strearn which Phillip was
“fgkd to discover, and
which influenced his choice of
.Sydney Cove as a site for his new
settlement
Since the end of the 19th
century, the Tank Stream has
been covered over completely, it
having, by the ’sixties, become
a distinctly noisome public
nuisance. But until 1827 it was
This map was prepared in the office of Copeman, Lemont & Keesing, architects, and drawn by F. Orr Crago and J. Daubney, then draughts-
men, in about 1936. (The firm is now Lemont, Niblett and Daubney.) E. C. Lemont, a partner in the firm, became interested in the source
and course of the Tank Stream when, during! the building of the Grand Hotel in Hunter-street, workmen under his supervision uncovered one of
the tanks. He did the research and planning for this map.
the main source of fresh water
for the colony and for ships in
port. Although buried, it is still
alive, flooding basements in wet
weather, undermining founda-
tions and causing wall-cracks, as
many Sydney architects know to
their sorrow.
Few Sydney people could tell
you where it runs. Even Will
Lawson, who wrote the only
verses I know of in its honor
(B. 7/ 4/ ’4B), had it running
“From Moore Park swamps to
Sydney Cove.... Past Straw-
berry Hi 115.... ” thus endowing
it with suburban sources which
it does not possess, it being not
only of Sydney but of inner
Sydney.
Its route is confused with that
taken by the earliest reticulation-
pipes which piped water from
Lachlan Swamps, a part of the
present Centennial Park, to
Sydney Cove by 1830 —the
scheme known as “Busby’s pipes”
after the engineer who designed
it.
The contours of the ridges
which the Tank Stream origin-
ally drained have vanished
through grading and building
° ver the years, and the original
harbor foreshores have been
reclaimed, but geological surveys
and old maps show that it “rose
in marshy ground which skirted
the western slopes of Hyde Park
between Market- and Park-street.
This marshy ground was due to
seepage-springs issuing from bed-
jointsx of underlying sandstone
about the upper part of the
valley which, heads about the
centre of the park in the direc-
tion of Oxford-street. Water
filtered through the soil and
overflowed its basin at the end
of King-street, gaining volume by
seepage from the sides. The
portion of the valley drained by
the stream is approximately
bounded by Macquarie-street on
the east and its southern con-
tinuation through Hyde Park,
and on the west by York-street
and Clarence-street. Its area is
about 160 acres.” •
If you stand in the short King-
street branch of the present
Sydney-arcade, you will be
almost directly above the point
at which the seepage-water over-
flowed to form a definite
channel. The stream flows
beneath the G.P.0., crosses
Angel-place where one building
has foundations on each bank,
and then, at Hamilton-street, you
can follow the stream almost
exactly, with buildings on each
side of it. Where Hamilton-
street meets Bridge-street the
stream twists, and flows a wind-
ing course down below Pitt-street
to Circular Quay, where it drains
through a tunnel to the harbor.
One of the earliest descriptions
of • the old creek came from
Captain Collins, who in his ac-
count of Phillip’s landing says;
“The spot chosen was at the
head of the cove, near the run
of fresh Water, which stole
silently through a very thick
wood, the stillness of which had
then, for the first time since the
Creation, been interrupted by the
rude sound of the laborer’s axe,
and the downfall of its ancient
inhabitants.”
The sound of the laborer’s axe
ceased in 1788, when, during
droughty weather, the new-
comers realised that their
precious source of water was
mainly drained from the swamps
at its head, and that it dried off
rapidly. Phillip, to protect this
vital supply from the sun, issued
an order forbidding the cutting-
down of trees within 50ft. of the
run. In 1791 a paling-fence was
erected to keep out wandering
stock, and in that year Surveyor
Alt deepened the stream and
identified the King-street and
Spring-street springs in addition
to the swamp-catchment.
However, these measures, even
combined with private wells dug
on some properties, were insuf-
ficient to ensure the water-
supply, and in the dry summer
of 1789-90 “the Governor
ordered the stonemason gang to
cut tanks in the rocks as
reservoirs for water enough to
last a considerable time.”
In May, 1792, a large tank
holding 7996 gallons of water,
with a well in the centre 15ft.
deep, was completed, and after
it the stream was named. Many
individuals dug wells in the sand-
stone also, and after the main
tanks were built it was an offence
to draw water except from a
tank or a well.
The three main tanks are
buried now approximately
beneath Hamilton-street, near
Hunter-street. The remains of
the largest is below the intersec-
tion of Hamilton- and Little
George-street; that is, at the
point where the Spring-street
spring emptied into the main
channel.
One of these tanks was
uncovered when the foundations
of the Grand Hotel were dug at
the corner of Hamilton-street
and Hunter-street. In fact, odd
reminders of the old stream are
frequently found when founda-'
tions are being dug. A rowing-
boat buried in mud is said to
have been unearthed under the
“Sydney Morning Herald” build-
ing ; mooring-bolts were found
in a stone retaining-wall below
the G.P.0., and when the
foundations of the Royal
Exchange Assurance building
were excavated some of the solid-
cedar beams of an old bridge
were uncovered.
By 1795 the expansion of the
little community made it increas-
ingly difficult to safeguard the
stream-water against pollution:
“Any person found using a path
from the house to the stream, or
keeping hogs in the neighbor-
hood thereof, or opening a
passage through the palings, will
be removed and the house pulled
down ” ran, in part, a Gov-
ernment order of October 22 in
that year of grace. Sydney still
has water-supply problems, but
housing shortages were appar-
ently matters of blissful
unconcern in 1791!
A. W. Cormack, in Sydney
“Telegraph” in 1908, recalled.
“So important were these tanks
that the military mounted guard
up as far as Market-street to
keep the water from pollution by
careless people.” Present-day
mothers and neglected-at-week-
end wives will not be surprised
to hear that small boys and
fishermen were among the worst
offenders. The boys stripped and
swam in water required, a few
feet further down, for culinary
purposes; fishermen found the
banks a useful place to scale and
gut their catches.
The first bridge over the
stream was about at the point
where Bridge-street (named after
it) and Pitt-street now intersect,
Barrington records that convicts
commenced gathering timber for
a bridge about five months after
the first settlement. In 1803-04
this bridge was replaced by a
stone one, which, however, had
fallen down and been replaced
by 1807.
By 1812 the bridge was
improved and rebuilt again, the
contractor undertaking the work
for 660 gallons of spirits, plus a
bonus of 15 gallons for good
work.
Not till about 1844 was a
bridge, the Bon Accord bridge,
with a penny toll, erected over
the broad outflow of the stream
at Circular Quay. A. W.
Cor mack described it as “a
great convenience for the officers
and agents of the numerous
whalers anchored in the bay.”
Various writers differ as to
how far up the stream was
navigable. Schooners discharged
produce as far up as the high-
tide line at Bridge-street, and
several vessels were built be-
tween Bridge-street and the
Quay. Rowing-boats ventured
at least as far as the present site
of the A.M.P. building, and
almost certainly up to the present
G.P.O.
Perhaps one reason for the
comparative neglect of the
stream by Australian writers is
that there do not seem to be any
the best of times when the engine
required attention. W. H. Traill
during his editorship took an
interest in its “phlegmatic
explosions,” and “printer’s devils
grinned satanically at the sight
of the burly form of Traill, in
his singlet, ploughing through
the mud to try his’prentice-hand
on a cranky engine.”
Any of these might well have
come back to spook their old
haunts, but in plain fact the
nearest approach to anything in
the way of a Tank Stream appari-
tion has been Will Lawson’s
“Hobgoblin from some olden
time,” who rose “out of a man-
hole dark” in Hamilton-street—
and he turned out to be a work-
man inspecting the sewer,
For that is what the Tank
Stream has come to Storm-
water rushes through its tunnels,
but the onlv neoole who snare it
a thought are those whose build-
ino<? are directlv affected bv its
Zads and prLumaWy, Water
and Sewerage Board engineers,
sensational events connected with
it: no ghosts, murders, drowned
maidens or suchlike. Even A. W.
Cormack has not, as far as one
can ascertain, made a spectral
return to the scenes of his child-
hood, though he once, in 1909,
began a letter thus:
“Sir, —Perhaps the reminis-
cences of a septuagenarian, the
only person in Australia who can
lay claim to having been born
on the banks of Sydney’s
vanished rivulet the Tank Stream,
never quitting for one whole day
or night during my 14 earliest
years the shores of Sydney
Harbor ”
The Bulletin itself has a long
history of struggle with the
recalcitrant creek. Drainage
from the stream’s Hamilton-
street course enters the basement
of {he present building, but an
automatic-pump takes care of
any overflow. The water, dark
and scummy, can be seen
through flooring-boards near
Hamilton-street.
When The Bulletin moved to
252 George-street in 1931 the
land on which the building
stands was on a 999-years lease,
and was described as “Bound on
the east side by the bank of the
Tank Stream” (the 999 years
were not considered long enough,
so they had the lease changed to
Torrens title).
In the old building at 24 Pitt-
street to which the paper moved
in the ’eighties the stream’s
water was a force to be reckoned
with, for those premises had
their foundations in land
reclaimed from the marshy fore-
shores of Circular Quay, and
during spring-tides or wet spells
the cellar flooded, leaving the
gas-engine marooned like an
island 3ft. deep in slush. Accord-
ing to Archibald, “The engine
flywheel uninterruptedly flung
its showers of blessing in the
form of mud on the just printer
and the unjust printer’s devil
alike.”
This cellar, reached by a
narrow manhole, had a roof
clearance of about 6ft., so that
machinists had a messy job at


Who says U.S. Allies
won't fight?
Do you know that of 15 line
divisions in Korea, only 5 are
American? That South Korean
troops now hold 60% of the
battle front?
General James Van Fleet,
former Commander of U.N.
Forces in Korea, shows in
March Reader’s Digest how
America’s Allies have proved
their mettle against the Chinese
Reds; how their courage has
kept her losses down.
Each month Reader’s Digest
brings you articles of lasting
Interest condensed from world’s
leading magazines and current
best-selling books.
Enjoy the 33 stimulating
articles in March issue one
shilling and sixpence at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
J. BULL STAYS OUT
Some mixed views on Brit-
ain’s preference for staying out
of the European Defence Com-
munity and related European-
unity instrumentalities:
Eisenhower (to a Press con-
ference in Paris in January,
1952): “Any attempt to in-
clude Britain immediately in a
European defence force would
be a stumbling-block rather
than a help. With the world-
wide nature of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations, and with
the strength of its ties demon-
strated many times, a political
and economic union already
exists. It is part of our existence
today, and I think it is a fine
thing. How can you combine
that with Western Europe to-
day? I can’t see it personally.”
* * *
Paris correspondent, London
“Financial Times”: “A vital
factor not generally taken into
account on the Continent is that
Britain is making a bigger contri-
bution to the defence of the
Western World than any other
European country, and that if
her defence efforts were rela-
tively of only the same size as
those of most of her partners
she would be in a position to ex-
pand her exports, and be as
‘liberal’ for imports as they are.”
* * *
Woodrow Wyatt, M.P. (Lon-
don ‘‘Times’’ letter): “The fears
of the French would be greatly
lessened, if not eliminated, if the
British were willing either to join
the European Defence Com-
munity or move into a much
closer and more permanent asso-
ciation with it than is now in-
tended.
“France would then feel more
confident that with British assist-
ance any tendency towards an
undesirable revival of German
militarism could be checked at
the outset. To abandon the
European Defence Community
and move directly to the creation
of an independent German
Army with its own general staff
would be to raise French alarm
to such a pitch that it is incon-
ceivable that France would agree
to such a step. Ultimately the
West can be defended only with
a German contribution.
“The French wish that we
should do more to help them
make the European Defence
Community effective and less
liable fo disruption from within
is understandable. As Field-
Marshal Viscount Montgomery
has recently pointed out, there is
no military objection to Britain
entering into a much closer
association, with the European
Defence Community than pre-
sent plans allow for,
“If Britain fails to take the
initiative now in meeting French
desires, then she will be respon-
sible for wrecking the European
Defence Community and for the
creation in the years ahead of an
independent German Army
with all its attendant dangers.
“The European Defence Com-
munity offers the last chance of
securing a German defence
contribution in a form accept-
able to France and those who
are justifiably apprehensive of
German rearmament. Britain
can move into sufficiently close
co-operation with the European
Defence Community to give her
voting power in its deliberations
without sacrificing any of her
political independence or control
—“Manchester Guardian”
PARADE OF THE HOME GUARD
(Back in Low’s BULLETIN days the “Manchester Guardian” was the first paper in England to republish
one of his cartoons. Low, by a recent move, is now the “Manchester Guardian’s” cartoonist, and
THE BULLETIN here returns the compliment.)
over the major part of her
army.”
* * *
French statesman Paul Rey-
naud {in London “Sunday
Times”): Sometimes our British
friends tell us: ‘We cannot join
the European Army because of
the Commonwealth —for what
would Britain be without the
Commonwealth?’ In view of
the peril of destruction that con-
fronts Britain it may perhaps be
opportune to ask another ques-
tion. What would the Common-
wealth be without Britain?
“Let us look at the facts
coolly. Does the defence of
Canada depend on Britain? Do
not Australia and New Zealand
count on the United States to
assure their defence? Has not
India become neutral? Has
■ Britain a defence problem in
South Africa? As for Malaya
and the Suez Canal, it will be ad-
mitted that these are little beside
the responsibilities of France in
Indo-China and North Africa.
The argument of the Common-
wealth as against the European
Army is therefore no weightier
than that of the French Union
which is used by adversaries of
the treaty in France.”
» * *
London “Economist “ Bri-
tain can and should stand in a
very special relationship to West-
ern Europe. Britain cannot and
should not be a full member of
Western European federal struc-
tures. The right position for
Britain is therefore that of a non-
resident member of the European
club. For any British Govern-
ment to propose less than this.
or to show any grudging spirit
in proposing it, would be to be-
tray its duty to the grand con-
ception of an alliance of the
free nations of the world. But
for a British Government to
agree to more than this, and
especially to do so under pressure
from Washington, would be to
be disowned by public opinion.”
* ♦ *
Sir Roger Makins ( Britain’s
new Ambassador to the U.S.):
“There is no subject on which
there has been so much mis-
understanding in the last three
or four years as the British atti-
tude to Europe. The Conti-
nental mind tends to think in
terms of ‘plans’ and carefully
drawn documents. The British,
with their unwritten Consti-
tution, tend to be distrustful of
such plans and projects and to
approach problems empirically.
The Americans, with their
written Constitution and drawing
!
on the lessons of their own
history, tend in this matter to
sympathise with the Conti-
nental point of view.
“I believe that the terms in
which the question has been de-
bated have obscured the realities
of the situation. The British
stake in Western Europe, its
interest in its cohesion and
strength, has never been greater
than it is today. It is only in
projects involving European
federation in which we cannot
participate or take a lead. We
can, and do, support and en-
courage these projects, but
because of our other and over-
riding associations with the Com-
monwealth, and our world posi-
tion, we cannot join them. But,
even if we cannot go between
the shafts, we have at least put
our shoulder to the wheel.”
Note Achievement
Lord Ism a y, Secretary-
General, speaking on Nato
progress:
“We are embarked on a most
novel experiment. We have
reached a situation which no one
could have possibly foretold five
years ago.
“Who could have imagined, in
the first place, that 14 nations
would agree solemnly that attack
on one would be considered as
an attack on them all? Who
could fiave conceived that all
these 14 sovereign States, in time
of peace, would put their armed
forces under the command of an
international commander?
“I have seen the fight that
went on to persuade nations to
put their forces under the
command of someone other than
one of their own nationality in
time of war. And it has been
forced on them only by imminent
danger of destruction. The first
time it was done was when the
Germans broke through our line
on March 21, 1918. In the face
of that overwhelming disaster,
Foch was given supreme com-
mand. But it needed the spur
of that. And now we’ve got it
in peace.
“Now we see our forces
manoeuvring as though they
belonged to the same nation.
We see a squadron of four ships,
four different nationalities,
manoeuvring together at high
speed in rough weather at night
as though they belonged to the
same navy. As a British admiral
said to me: ‘The Nato Navy is
no longer a dream. It’s a
reality.’ ”
Speaking in London as chief
of the American Mutual Society
mission, Lincoln Gordon ex-
pressed similarly encouraging
views on Nato:
“Today, we see the civilian
and military authorities looking
simultaneously at military re-
quirements and economic re-
sources and working together on
a full-time basis to push forward
a realistic programme for the
build-up of forces, construction
and production. There is con-
tinuous review of where we
stand, and continuous develop-
ment of specific measures for
moving forward in creating real
forces backed by adequate
reserves.
“Having no aggressive intent
ourselves, we cannot simply
build to a fixed target by a fixed
date. We are seeking security
against a potential threat which
is itself fluid in character and
which must be met by at least
equal resiliency and resourceful-
ness in defence.
“Certainly there is no cause
to fear that the situation calls
for eternally growing defence
burdens, compelling the free
world to convert to a garrison
State as the price of survival.
There is every reason to believe
that the effort can be levelled
off, and perhaps tapered down.
As our total resources continue
to increase the burdens of de-
fence should become pro-
portionately lighter. But I see
no magic formula by which
these burdens can be conjured
away in the foreseeable future.”
At the Suez Base
British Left-wing politician
R. H. S. Crossman, in the “New
Statesman,” says there is prob-
ably more valuable equipment in
the Suez Canal Zone than in any
other comparable area in the
whole world.
“Stretching some 60 miles
along the Canal and the lakes,
it can equip an Army and an
Air Force for war. Thousands
of men can arrive by troopship
at either Suez or Port Said and
issue within a few days at the
other end of this immense
conveyor-belt as fully equipped
divisions and squadrons.
“The Canal Zone is not a
stronghold in a system of Com-
monwealth defence, but a vast
depot, designed for the supply
of armies far away on the field
of battle.”
Korea Report
Homer Bigart, the able corres-
pondent of the New York
“Herald-Tribune” (notes “Man-
chester Guardian”), “has lately
reported in a series of articles
that what with excellent equip-
ment and only sporadic fighting
the Korea kind of trench-war-
fare, compared to that of the
First World War, ‘should rate
as a picnic.’
“This does not mean —as he
makes it clear—that the war is
not a horrible and above all
frustrating business. Death,
wounds, cold and immobility are
what they are. But this and
other reports confirm Mr.
Churchill’s saying that there are
worse things than the present
stalemate; the United Nations
troops seem well able to cope
with it physically and even
morally.”
Middle East Oil
Some details of the big swing-
over to Middle East oil sum-
marised from a London “Times”
special correspondent’s reports:
In pre-war years Europe im-
ported mainly refined petroleum
products, and of the total crude
and refined imports in 1938 only
24 per cent, came from the
Middle East. Today the percen-
tage has risen to nearly 80,
largely crude oil to feed
Europe’s new refineries.
Refining-capacity in Western
Europe is already about 70 mil-
lion tons a year, and the rate is
scheduled to reach about 90
million tons a year by the end
of 1953. .
Britain’s share in this refining-
capacity will amount to about
one-third of the total a spec-
tacular rise from its 1938 output
of 2,500,000 tons of finished
products. .
It is expected that with the
completion of the present re-
finery programme Western
Europe will have an overall self-
sufficiency in refined products,
imports being required only in
marginal quantities of special
grades. “This means that oil-
supply in Europe becomes en-
tirely a matter of finding suffi-
cient crude oil to feed her
domestic refineries. As matters
stand at present the Middle East,
and only the Middle East, can
meet this huge need.”
The new refineries in Aus-
tralia, Xpdia, East Africa and
Aden are all planned to work on
Middle East crude oil.
“The physical capabilities oi
the Middle East oil-bearing
countries to meet these demands
have never been in doubt.
Crude production is today run-
ning at about 100 million tons a
year, of which nearly 20 million
tons is refined near the source
for sale as refined products.
These figures exclude the idle
production and refining-capacity
of Persia.
“This production-rate has been
achieved extremely rapidly. In
1938 the area produced just over
14 million tons of crude oil-j-
-that is, 6 per cent, of world crude
output. During the past three
’ years output has risen from 84


GIVES YOU AU
CIRCULAR SAW
m/i
You can fell a tree faster, you can cross-cut it
quicker with the up-to-date SHAFT DRIVEN
Mobile©, fitted with 36" to 42" blade. But that is
not ail; there are SEVEN time-saving, money
saving "quick-fit" attachments to work for you all
year round. The Mobilco One-Man Saw is a
necessity for the contractor and man on the land.
There's no cheaper, and certainly no better, way
to do so many jobs. Get the full details. Write
for catalogue now.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT LIMITED
SLI2i!7'H- PARA,>JE ' CAMPSIE - PHONE: LF 4209
TELEGRAMS - - - MOBILCO, SYDNEY
H HP, O|fF,CE: 41 °- 416 WHITEHORSE RD., MITCHAM. VIC.
PHONE .... WU 1081 (9 LINES)
?S&fS HES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS - - ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
Q DRAG SAW
RIPPING LEG
CROSS CUTTING BENCH
©
RIPPING BENCH
4 POST HOLE DIGGER
9.
POST BORER
million tons in 1950 to more
than 100 million tons in 1952,
that is, to more than 16 per cent,
of the world total.
These figures are even more
remarkable when it is realised
that Persia contributed 32 mil-
lion tons to the 1950 total and
that the loss of this major
element has already been more
than compensated quantitatively
by the rapid acceleration of
development in Irak, Kuwait
and Saudi Arabia.”
Anti-Semitism Hope
It may be wishful-thinking, but
a good deal of comment on the
surge of Soviet anti-Semitism sees
it as strengthening the Western
side.
Instances have already been
given here; as another, a
London “Observer” writer finds
it hard to imagine that this new
Red anti-Semitism can be viewed
with complete equanimity by the
Communist Government of
Hungary, all of whose key
figures, from Premier Rakosi
downwards, are Jews:
“It is, of course, just possible
that they will to the last be
unable- to believe that their old
friend and patron, Stalin, can
now wish to kill them; or they
may face such danger paralysed
as the rabbit faces the stoat.
“But it seems more likely that
these hard-headed and hard-
bitten men will come to see that
the Russian connection has be-
come a threat to their very lives,
while leadership in a national
breakaway would hold, besides
much danger, a chance of not
only saving, their lives but even
of consolidating their political
position. Did not Tito’s break
with Stalin gain him the
allegiance, or at least the acquies-
cence, even of his former enemies
in the Yugoslav civil war?
“Similar thoughts must obvi-
ously pass through the heads of
the Jewish leaders of the Polish
Government.”
Curtained Confusion
Who’s really winning the cold
war?
London “Economist” suggests
that the answer might lie in
the denunciations, recriminations
and explanations by the Minis-
ters and planners of the Soviet
subject States of Eastern Europe ;
that on their own admissions the
cold war against capitalism is
not going well.
“Throughout Eastern Europe
it is plain that many production
targets are not being reached.
Food shortages, inadequate sup-
plies of consumer goods, above
all, the relentless slave-driving by
managers whose future depends
on the fulfilment of impossibly
high programmes, are causing
absenteeism, shoddy work, faked
results, carelessness and indiffer-
ence. ~.
“The fanaticism of the poli-
ticians is matched by the doc-
trinaire ways of the planners.
The enormous bureaucratic
apparatus of State control and
planning that they have fastened
on each of the satellites is clearly
in no case working smoothly.
“In Hungary the poor quality
of the coal is hampering the
production of electric-power,
and the development of the oil
industry is retarded by lack of
transport.
“In Czechoslovakia there are
plenty of gramophones and wire-
less-sets-—at a price—but a
dearth of useful objects like
clothes-hangers. There are plenty
of explanations for the lack of
clothes-hangers, but, as ‘Rude
Pravo’ remarked, ‘it is no use
trying to hang a coat on an
explanation.’
“For this and similar muddles
the planners accept no blame;
they would never admit —as the
Yugoslavs have admitted—that
they have bitten off more than
they can chew. In their eyes the
remedy lies not ip less planning,
but in more.”
The significance of these hap-
penings for the cold war
(comments the “Economist”)
lies less in their effect on
Russia’s position—though this
could be serious in a hot war—
than in their effect in Asia,
Africa and the Middle East:
“There many educated people
have been attracted to Commun-
ism by the belief that its methods
of economic planning deliver the
goods; and they point to the
expansion of the Russian
economy as a proof. But now
they can study, in admissions
of Communist statesmen them-
selves, the shadows and confu-
sion in the East European pic-
ture. They can see the damage
JUST WHAT THE DOCTOR ORDERED
— U.S. “Army Times”
that Communism has done in
Eastern Germany and Czecho-
slovakia to two highly industrial-
ised States with skilled and
educated workers ; and they can
draw their own conclusions
about the claim that ‘people’s
democracy’ has the answer to
the political and economic prob-
lems of a backward country. It
may take time for the lesson to
be learnt, but that a beginning
should be made is clear gain.
“The West may, as some of
its pessimists allege, be losing the
cold war ; but perhaps the Com-
munist empire is losing it too.”
A Jap "Must"
In 1950 Japan had to import
around 7000 tons of food daily
to keep its people fed. In 1951
8000 tons daily were needed, and
in 1952 9000 tons.
This year 10,000 tons daily will
be required to maintain the same
number of calories per head.
And 10 years hence, unless
national productivity can be
increased, the figure will be
20,000 tons daily.
The Jap Government hopes to
increase food-production in the
next five years to the point where
that deficit can be halved. But
even if that is accomplished
Japan will still need to import
one-fifth of its food.
With that problem filling their
minds, the Japanese (reports
“Manchester Guardian’s” Tokyo
correspondent) tend to regard it
as a truism that the only policy
they can afford to pursue is the
fostering of the national interests
against all rivals: “If someone
has got to die, speaking in terms
of exports, it will not be the
Japanese if they can help it!
“The Japanese have, in the
past seven years, staged an
impressive national resurgence.
There is every indication that the
nation is getting set to surprise
the world again. As the Japanese
see it, they must. Only by
harnessing the swelling millions
to the Japanese industrial
machine can the people keep
their rice-bowls Med. The
authorities in Tokyo hope to
accomplish that feat by fair
means and without arousing the
economic anger of other nations.
But many industrialists make no
bones about it that accomplished
it must be.
“There are very few Japanese
who are not firmly determined
that their country shall again
emerge as a major World Power
—not by reason of guns but of
energies and skills.”
Various Voices
British Liberals’ president,
Ronald Walker: “It is an ironic
fact that if in the U.S.A. it is
proposed that huge sums be
given to the people of Europe
there will be grumbles but
consent: but if there be pro-
posals that these sums be paid
back—i.e,, by goods and services
—there is an outcry far exceed-
ing the aforesaid grumbles.”
Former U.S. Ambassador to
Russia, Hardman : “If you look
at what has been achieved
through co-operative economic
action and the United Nations’
stand in Korea, and the welding
of collective security in the free
world, it is perfectly clear that
we are in much better shape than
we were several years ago. I
cannot see the way it will end,
but it will end some day. The
lesson of Korea may well be
the important lesson the Kremlin
has to learn.”
British Travel Association
chairman, Sir Alexander
Maxwell; “Tourism’s contribu-
tion to foreign currency should
reach [in Britain in this
(Coronation) year] the figure of
£125 million, the highest yet,
and we are even now planning
for 1954, and the future growth
of this great movement. We can
claim, in five years, to have
made Britain tourist country.
During this short period, year by
year, we have increased our
tourist earnings, including fare
payments to British carriers,
from £33 million to £ll5 million.
This is higher than the earnings
from tourism in Switzerland and
as much as in France.”
Anthony Eden: “The greatest
bane of this age is the closed
mind. It has reached its most
extreme expression in the Soviet
Empire. We must guard against
its spread in the free world.”
General Templer: “It seems
clear that the Malayan Com-
munist party is going to change
the emphasis progressively from
terrorism to subversion. Most
of the people of Malaya have
had a pretty good taste of what
Communism really stands for.
When they all know it for the
wicked and bestial thing it is, I
do not think the new tactics will
have much chance. A great
effort in public education and
information is going to be a top
priority job.”
Britain’s Minister of Supply,
Duncan Sandys: “There is no
reason why nuclear reactors
should not before very long
provide a useful additional
source of industrial power.”
Amsterdam University Pro-
fessor of Political Science, J.
Barents: “The first problem
which -will confront any
Socialism in years to come is the
lack of a clear-cut ideology: the
petrification of a traditional
ideology, combined with the
vague realisation in the ranks of
what used to be called the
militants that somehow this set
of precepts, handed down from
the fathers, is out of touch with
present-day reality, while their
activities regarding the reality
lack a coherent theory under-
lying them.”
Ex - U.S. Ambassador to
Russia, George Kennan: “I do
not believe in the possibility of
any sudden and global solutions
by negotiation. The great
ethical and philosophical dif-
ferences which separate us from
the Soviets are not ones that
can be talked out of existence
at the present time. But there
are specific international situa-
tions in which useful ends can
be served by practical arrange-
ments to which both sides agree,
even though the readiness to
agree may be for differing and
conflicting aims. We must see
to it that in each of these cases
we show ourselves prepared to
adjust differences, to the extent
this can be done without com-
promising basic issues,”
Attlee: “India holds a very
key position in the world today,
particularly in Asia I regard
India as the spearpoint of free
democracy. Democratic institu-
tions in India are most advanced.
Over the greater part of Asia
democracy is really something
new and therefore India by her
experience sets an example to
others.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Road Federation
In the U.S.A., cars, oil, rubber, cement,
earth-moving and road-building equip-
ment and related industries represent
America’s biggest capital investment.
Their overall production heads the
national economy. From them is drawn-
off the mightiest toll of taxes. Directly
and indirectly they are the U.S.A.’s
biggest employers.
No Government, Federal or State,
could hope for election or survival if it
did not promise and practise a policy
of more and better roads, and if it did
not come to grips with the twin problems
of mounting traffic snarls and parking.
The voice and influence of those vested
interests, collectively and politically ex-
pressed by the U.S. Division of the Inter-
national Road Federation, are indeed
powerful, commanding almost limitless
financial resources and attracting the
backing of 45 million passenger-
car-owners and 20 million commercial-
vehicle-operators. The impact of the
Road Federation on politicians and
public opinion is full-throated and pro-
found.
In Europe the federation has accepted
a watching brief, dictated by life-and-
death-struggles for economic survival.
No European country has produced a
road worth mentioning since the era of
Italy’s' autostradas and Germany’s
autobahnen. In fact, the U.K., which
mulcts £2OO million or more in sectional
taxes from road-users annually, puts only
five per cent, of it back into roads.
The organisation is interesting to Aus-
tralia and is enlisting ready co-operation
from powerful Australian interests,
prompted by all-powerful controlling in-
terests overseas. State-owned railways
might balk the federation’s Australian
operations, but it is certain that the drive
to sell more motor-vehicles, more bull-
dozers, graders, tractors, tyres, oil,
cement, bitumen and other necessities
for transport-by-road will be pressure-
plus. .
As overseas, the federation s scope
will embrace traffic-regulations, road-
safety and parking. It would appear
timely for motorists’ organisations in
Australia to get their machinery well
oiled lest the Australian Automobile
Association’s voice and influence,
currently a little less vocal and influential
than of yore, should have its thunder
completely stolen by the new forces now
gathering. — Chas, E. Rattle (Q.).
No Killing of Cows
In B. 25/2/’53 it was said that a bunch
of Victorian dairymen passed “a reso-
lution to kill all their cows, or some-
thing almost as drastic, if the Cain Gov-
ernment didn’t increase the price of
milk.” , * *
No such resolution was passed. At
the meeting the three resolutions passed
stressed: (1) That the State Government
should give effect to the Milk Board s
recommendations immediately ; (2) that a
joint action committee be set up “to
prepare and implement appropriate action
should the Government not accept the
recommendations of the Milk Board; (3)
that the Premier (Mr. Cain) be asked to
make public the reason why the Milk
Board’s recommendations have not been
approved by Cabinet.
In regard to the second resolution, a
Mrs. Proyce, of Lilydale, asked: “What
action are we going to take if the board’s
price is not granted?” Someone in the
crowd of 300—a rather big “bunch”—
shouted, “Go on strike.” Another cried,
“Cancel contracts with the board.” An-
other shouted “We are not the defence-
less industry that the Government seems
to imagine... .If we made up our minds
to destroy all heifer calves except those
needed for our own replacements you
can imagine what effect that would have
on production. Or we could put our
heifers to beef bulls for a year Con-
sumers don’t seem to realise that pro-
ducers have to pay up to sd. or 6d. a
gallon for cartage.”
All of the dairymen's representatives
on the platform unanimously disagreed
with the suggestion made by the speaker
—or interjector. Two of them jumped
to their feet and said so at once. It
was clear that the meeting was against any
suggestion of a threat to slaughter heifer
calves or any other animals, I have
quoted from a stenographic report of
the meeting, and must strongly protest
against the statement that it was resolved
to kill any cows “or something almost
as drastic.”—T. A. Darcy, A.P.P.U.
(Vic.).
Queensland Native Mounted Police
Henry G. Lamond’s “Queensland
Native Mounted Police” (B. 28/1/’53)
was very interesting, but I disagree on
one point. Willie Frazer was one of
two survivors of the Frazer family, and
he was so far from bding a baby at the
time of the massacre (Hornet Bank) that,
as the eldest son, he was bringing loading
from Dalby. The youngest son. West
Frazer, was eight at the time.
I was born at Clifford station in January,
1885, 28 years after the massacre.
Adjoining Hornet Bank, Clifford is situ-
ated between it and Yeulba. The home-
steads were only 35 miles apart, and the
Scotts, particularly the younger Andrew
and his family, were close neighbors of
ours. Andrew the younger gave us most
of the details of the massacre as he had
had them from his father and Willie
Frazer —he was the only person to whom
Willie ever said much about the matter.
According to Andrew, Willie shot
scores of blacks. A brother of mine,
E. J. Richardson, of Pine Hills (a part
of old Clifford and where I am writing
this), came with my parents to Clifford
about eight years before I was born. He
says that the story of the massacre and
Willie’s revenge was one of the first things
they heard from neighbors.
Meanwhile the older Scott, from whom
Mrs. Frazer had leased Hornet Bank,
had taken over the place again, and Willie
Frazer, after a whirlwind one-man cam-
paign of vengeance that smote the myalls
with terror and death unprecedented in
their experience, was working on the
place, and I remember him in later years
as a small, white-bearded man, exceed-
ingly quiet in manner and speech. He
was then head-stockman on Durham
Downs, another Scott station adjoining
Clifford on the west.
After the Hornet Bank massacre the
punitive expedition caught up with the
murderers at Salt Lake on Scott’s Creek
(a spot I have frequently seen during the
last few years) and gave them the “salu-
tary lesson” mentioned by H.G.L. An
old blind gin at the blacks’ camp at
Hornet Bank half a century ago told the
Andrew Scott children, my brother and
myself how, as a piccaninny, she was
locked in the old store-cellar for question-
ing in company with some gins. Like
all the other blacks she looked upon
Willie as a devil.
Edmund Filmer Craven,, police magis-
trate at Roma in his closing years of
service, told me in 1903 several extra-
ordinary instances of the mad risks taken
by this “scourge of God” that came to
his notice as a young C.P.S, in Roma
in the old days. The police, of course,
never gave Willie any licence to kill,
but they shut their eyes to happenings
not easy to stop. Indeed, Willie had
become so ingrained with the terrible
“I better go now , Sweetypie—there's cow Waitin' outside."
hatred which rode him that he could not
stay his own hand. He went within an
ace of having to face a murder charge
for a dreadful deed that must have had
some part in the influences which eventu-
ally caused him to give the awful game
away.
Willie gave a promise to the inspector
at Roma and kept it; he never looked
through the sights at a blackfellow again.
But to the blacks at Hornet Bank, who
always referred to him as “him saucy
fellow,” he went down as a “debbil-
debbil,” and his reputation spread beyond
the Dawson tribes. I heard a cattleman
on the South Burnett tell a lazy blackboy
he would “put Old Man Frazer on to
you,” and that abo. nearly went white.
“Think I'll have to use a half-inch bit. Nurse."
The blacks, were it not for their super-
stitious fear, prompted by his complete
disregard for danger (he always raced
straight at them, riding them down and
shooting them singly as they scattered),
could easily have killed him had they
made a stand.
Perhaps one feature that Willie found
hardest to forget was that had he not
been delayed at Dalby there would never
have been a massacre. Andrew Scott
always maintained that a couple of shots
fired from the windows (which would
have been Willie’s way), instead of the
imprudent opening of the doors to parley
with the blacks, would have avoided the
tragedy.
H.G.L. brings another old shade
from out the past —Douglas-Douglas. I
remember him when he was stationed in
Roma and often came to Clifford, He
was highly regimental, but in the even-
ings, his small dapper figure immaculate
in white drills with a scarlet or gold
cummerbund round his waist, he was as
much in his element as a raconteur as
he undoubtedly was in his more serious
vocation by day when the wrongdoer
heard of his advent with very mixed
emotions. The last time I saw him he
was on the trail of the tricky “Dora-
Dora Blacks,” who were cornered on
Fraser Island, near Maryborough (Q.)
R. (Q-).
One does not have to be an “old
maid” of either sex to shudder over the
methods used by the Queensland Native
Mounted Police in “dispersing” the
blacks. Certainly the blacks committed
terrible atrocities—they were primitive
people fighting the white invader who
not only stole their hunting-grounds and
defiled their sacred places, but even
denied them the right of existence But
the indiscriminate vengeance exacted, the
decimation of whole tribes, by whi e-
officered black troopers was the greater
infamy. The blacks they hunted were
primitive savages; the officers of the
black police were civilised white men,
many of them educated Englishmen.
There was no unanimity among the
early Queensland squatters on the need
for the N.M.P. The attitude of the
more ruthless of them was that the more
quickly the blacks were exterminated the
better, and they were not squeamish
about calling on the N.M.P., whose usual
practice was to wipe out an entire tribe
for an offence committed by one member,
or at most a few members, of it. More
than once crimes committed by a more
distant tribe were paid for by innocent
blacks unlucky enough to be more handy
for “punishment.”
There were many squatters who
detested the methods of the N.M.P.
They had established friendly relations
with the natives and employed them on
their stations. The Leslies, and other
early settlers on the Downs, never had
any trouble with the blacks. Acting on
the advice of Ernest Elphinstone Dal-
rymple, who had been an officer in the
Indian Army and knew how to treat
natives, they always gave King Darby’s
tribe a share of any stock slaughtered.
As a result, King Darby’s tribe was never
known to kill any of Patrick Leslies
stock. The Leslies and their employees
continued to live on excellent terms with
the blacks, and more than once the
Canning Downs tribe warned the Leslies
of threatened attack by the Macintyre
River blacks.
The same is true of the ill-fated
Frazers of Hornet Bank. The Frazers
were on friendly terms with the blacks
until two young lubras were outraged by
stockmen employed by the Frazers. The
Frazers were told of the raping, and the
blacks waited for the culprits to be
punished. When nothing was done, such
was their primitive sense of justice and
retribution that everybody on the station
was doomed.
There was nothing of the old maid
about courageous Dr. Challinor, coroner
for the police district of Ipswich and a
member of Queensland’s first Parliament,
who was mainly responsible for the
appointment of a select committee o
inquiry into the conduct of the Native
Mounted Police, held in Brisbane in 180 -
And the Moreton Bay (afterwards Bris-
bane) “Courier” bluntly asserted that the
inquiry would be “mere eyewash where
it was not whitewash.” The Parliament
of the day threatened to deal with the
editor before the bar of the House. Ihe
inquiry duly whitewashed the native
police in general, but the evidence
adduced by Challinor of wholesale
poisonings and slaughterings was su
ciently damning to horrify public opmi •
Judging by revelations in the eigh ie
the “Courier” and “Queenslander, p
opinion was under no illusions about
atrocities committed by the N-M-B.
The black police lingered on in Queens-
land until the end of the c^nt^ r T ,
had an evil record in North Queensland
long after the southern parte of th
colony had been “pacified. Re late
Archibald Meston, a former protector of
aborigines in Queensland, writing
“Queenslander” on September 30, >
estimated that at least 1000 blacks had
been shot in Cape York Peninsula since
1880. Some cases: 14: blacks were s
for spearing a horse, 10 for stealing
Chinaman’s corn, 100 for killing:
men, and a whole tribe men,
and children—almost exterminated^
avenge a kanaka who had m
with a nulla-nulla wielded by a black fr
another tribe. —Clem Lack IQO*


The Intermediate Certificate
One educational “reform” that needs re-
viewing is the present method of award-
ing the Intermediate Certificate in N.S.W.
schools. As an educational certificate
today, it has little meaning and less value.
The J.C. is awarded upon the assess-
ment made of the pupil’s work in the
second and third years. Each of four
examinations is given a points loading,
the heaviest, of course, to the final exam,
m third year, and from these the assess-
ment of pass or failure is made. On the
face of it, it appears a far more equit-
able method than the old single-exam,
idea. It would be, too, if the standards
were maintained, but that is where the
system is failing.
It is a departmental instruction that
the papers set in the school should con-
form in type and standard with those
papers set by the Education Department.
Check inspections are made regularly to
see that this instruction is carried out.
The papers would appear to be equal in
difficulty, but there is a difference. The
departmental papers were set according
to the course laid down in the syllabus,
and it was the teacher’s job to cover that
syllabus. If he didn’t, it was un-
fortunate for the pupils and damaging to
the teacher’s prestige. Today the papers
are set on that course, but only on the
work that has been covered in the school.
Thus, one incentive is removed. There
is not the need to make up lost time.
Breaks for school functions, sports days,
etc., are not now so important. The
teacher knows that if a particular topic
is missed it doesn’t matter anyway, as
the pupils won’t be asked about it. Topics
that prove difficult to teach can be
ignored or put to the end and only given
cursory treatment.
The method of marking the exam.-
papers also tends to lower the standard
of the I.C. The marked papers are also
subject to the same departmental check
as are the test-papers, but the fact that
teachers mark the papers of their own
pupils must lead to lower standards. It
is not that marks are handed out freely,
but that the teacher, knowing the indi-
vidual pupils, will award marks for what
is meant rather than what is actually
written. The teacher knows the type of
answer he wants and has taught the
subject along those lines. When the pupil
hands in that answer or something like
it, he receives a credit that he would
not have received from an outside
examiner. Each year the departmental
examiners have complained about the
“prepared answer,” and when they re-
ceived a batch of papers all answering a
question in the same manner they were
not inclined to be too lavish with their
marks. One object of the old Q.C.
examination was to test the child’s ability
at reasoning out an answer, not to be a
memory-test only.
Very few teachers would deliberately
teach an examination-paper to a class
“How d’y ’ like my new ‘fairy gossamer'
nightgown, dear?”
so that the pupils would be familiar with
it before sitting for the exam. Yet once
a teacher knows what is in a paper it is
only natural that he will concentrate on
those topics that are important for the
exam. He feels that it is not fair to con-
centrate on any topic that is not included
in the test-paper. Even if the actual ques-
Uons are not treated the children do get
a revision course based on what will
appear in the paper.
Employers who insist on applicants
for jobs holding Intermediate Certificates
are complaining about the standard of
teaching in the schools. They are blam-
ing the teachers or the boys, rather than
the system which sends out youths with
undeserved I.C.S. Until they stop regard-
ing the I.C. as the stamp of high educa-
tional standard there will not be much
done about it.
There was a plan a few years ago to
cut out the Inter, altogether. It involved
raising the leaving age to 16, with the
Leaving Certificate at the end of the
fourth year of high school instead of
the fifth year as now. Those who wished
to go on to the University would have
to do another two years and sit for a
higher L.C. The plan had much to com-
mend it, but because of staff shortages,
lack of school accommodation and oppo-
sition from employers, the plan was
dropped for a while. The sooner it is
put into action, the better. — Wackford
(N.S.W.).
Bread-quality in W.A.
There’s been a bit of a rumpus here
(Perth) lately on the question of bread-
quality, which, on the whole, has been
pretty poor for years. Blame is laid in
several directions.
Poor baking-strength of most of the
wheat used is often blamed —probably
not without justification, for in the
1952-53 wheat-crop competition con-
ducted by the Flour Millowners’ Asso-
ciation nearly 60 p.c. of the wheats
measured below the minimum baking-
strength required by millers.
But there are other (and more likely)
causes —carelessness and lack of skill in
the bakehouse, and present industrial
conditions (there is still a constant drift
from the industry of skilled tradesmen
and apprentices). Also, there are such
at-present uncontrollables as changeable
weather conditions.
Practical steps could be: remove price-
control from bread, issue building-permits
to allow bakers to put-up fermentation-
rooms suitable for counteracting weather
conditions and set aside enough good-
quality wheat to test whether or not
bakers are penalised by flour of low
gluten-content.
Such steps should be sufficient to
improve bread-quality. Apart from these,
the industry should be left to itself. One
other point. By order —no bread board
wanted. — Maros (W.A.).
Church History
The library of Alexandria (B.
18/2/’53) has been curiously neglected
in both modern and ancient times. Such
authorities as Gibbon and Mommsen
have been ludi-
crously in error
about it, and refer-
ence books are very
shifty. And H. A.
Lindsay’s “accepted
version” is not
accepted by the most
recent, and easily
the best, investigator
I can discover. He
is the American
scholar Edward
Alexander Parsons,
whose monograph
The Alexandrian
Library was pub-
lished only last year
by the Qeaver-Hume
Press in London.
According to Par-
sons, there were more
than 750,000 manu-
scripts in the library.
The original library
was not destroyed
when Caesar was be-
sieged in Alexandria,
but only some 40,000
MSS. Authority for
that figure is Seneca.
It is accepted by
Sir Paul Harvey in
The Oxford Com-
panion of Classical
Literature (1940).
Mark Antony did
bring 200,000 more
manuscripts from
Pergamos, but there
is nothing to show that these were lodged
in the Serapeum rather than in the main
library. Then, in the destruction of the
Serapeum in a.d. 391 by the Christians
led by Theophilus, Parsons holds that
no books were destroyed, since these were
housed in the precincts of the temple, not
in the temple itself, and since Aphthonius,
a Greek rhetorician, mentions seeing
them in a.d. 400. In any case, the'Sera-
peum housed only books.
J. B. Bury says, “There is no evidence
that the library of the-Serapeum did not
survive till the Saracen conquest.”
Rufinus, a great scholar, was present at
the wrecking of the Serapeum, and says
nothing about the destruction of books
in his description of what occurred.
Finally, Parsons accepts as fact the
ravage of the Moslems in a.d. 642. After
"I 've just dropped a line for some sunburn lotion."
that, the library disappeared from
history. He quotes Arab scholars to that
effect, and says that Moslems themselves
have never questioned the destruction by
Amr ibn el-As, commonly known as
Omar. The question is exhaustively and
impartially dealt with. Moreover,
Parsons quotes impressively many in-
stances of similar book-destructions on
the part of the first Moslems—the con-
querors. It was what they did regularly.
Their scholars, their makers of books and
their libraries came later.
H. A. Lindsay is hardly fair to the
monasteries as preservers of manuscripts,
but he ignores entirely the role of Con-
stantinople (Byzantium) in the provision
of MSS, for the Renaissance. Nearly
all the ancient MSS. that the Arabs
eventually acquired came from the
Christian Byzantine Empire—the Empire
of the East whose historical importance
has been rediscovered in the twentieth
century. — Martin Haley (Q.).
Wasteful Spending
It was advertised recently that our local
battalion is to be equipped with kilts,
sporrans, spats and the duckiest little
pompom berets, so that the members
may be proud of their Scottish ancestry,
if any. This touch of decor will cost
about £14,000.
This particular battalion has its main
components housed in a building, graced
by the name of drill-hall, which was
originally built to train the first volunteers
for Florrie Nightingale’s war. The hall
can hold about 200 troops, provided they
breathe in time, but with Bn, H.Q.,
H.Q. Coy, “A” Coy. and Support Coy.
all attending it each Thursday night for
“training” the place is faintly reminiscent
of Wayville L.T.D., Adelaide, during the
war.
Yet there are no funds for the con-
struction of a new training-centre.
Surely, after 150 years, Australia has
some responsible person in its army who
can differentiate between useful, handy
and necessary spending.— Lofty (N.S.W.).
Adelaide
“Stweeler’s” (B. 18/2/’53) is the most
garbled version of South Australian
history I have ever read. Only a very
small minority were ever in favor of a
capital site near the Murray mouth.
They ceased to advocate it after Judge
Jeffcott and some companions were
drowned when their dinghy capsized
while trying to land at Port Victor in
rough weather. That disaster, plus the
outspoken condemnation of shipmasters,
ended all claims that Victor was a “safe
and commodious” harbor.
In actual fact, the two main wrangles
about the site chosen for Adelaide were:
(1) It should have been put nearer to the
Port River, and (2) it should have been
sited on the splendid natural harbor of
Port Lincoln. The coming of railways
and the building of a good road, plus the
dredging of the channel, ended the first.
As for Port Lincoln as a capital site—
as early as 1860 it was seen that it would
have been a major blunder because of
the lack of a water-supply.
Today, the only large reservoir on
Eyre Peninsula, the Tod, fails to fill in
one season in three, and no other sites
are available for dams. The supply
reticulated to farms over a big area of
back country, now has to be supplemented
by water pumped into the mains from
underground supplies,
“Stweeler” claims that the Murray
mouth has been navigated hundreds of
times. It has—by launches, fishing-craft
and flat-bottomed paddle-steamers built
for river traffic, which have often waited
for weeks before the weather was calm
enough to attempt the crossing of the
bar. Even at spring-tides, nothing drawing
more than a few feet of water* can cross it.
“Stweeler” should read the old harbor-
master’s books dealing with the period in
which he describes Victor as a “busy
and important port.” He should also
read the report of the Public Works
Committee which investigated the possi-
bility of making a port at the Murray
mouth. Then he’ll know two things;
(1) Victor never was “busy and import-
ant.” Nature made it nothing but a
dangerous open roadstead. It would cost
an astronomical sum to turn it into a
safe harbor. (2) The site chosen for a
port to serve the south-east of S.A. at
Cape Jaffa: is the only suitable spot any-
where along that coast. —H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Child Delinquency
Public moral values and standards of
parental and school discipline and ex-
ample vary with each generation, but
there is evidence that they have declined
during the past 40 years (B. 25/2/’53).
In industrial suburbs, for example, in-
stances of children waiting outside pubs
and wine-bars for parents inside swallow-
ing “quick-’uns” aren’t unusual. Loose
and abusive language within the hearing
of the youngsters daily becomes more
common even in so-called better-class
families. Good manners, or an obser-
vance of small courtesies by children at
large, is less evident today than ever, nor
is respect for adults as such the out-
standing virtue of average modern
children.
Gambling, beginning with church
bazaars, taking in two-a-day lotteries,
embracing every known form of sport
and ending with £2OOO bets on horses,
is rampant, involving, and ignoring the
effect on, children in an astounding per-
centage of Australian homes. Sex, once
repressed with prudery, now is expressed
with impropriety. And one might fairly
cite many other modern encroachments
upon the line of moral demarcation as
drawn no more than a generation ago.
Also, the departmental (and parental)
tendency to curb the schoolmaster’s
liberty as a disciplinarian, and the all-
round understaffing of schools, makes
the way of the transgressing child a lot
easier than in its parents’ day.
I believe that these are evidences of
declining moral standards, even though
the significance of some of them as
direct causes of delinquency in children
may be remote.
It is true, however, that parallel to the
recent trend to reduce the punishment
calculated to fit the crime, serious mis-
demeanor per head of population has in-
creased. And today’s criminals, in an
alarming number of cases, were but
yesterday’s children.
Psychologists and sociologists expound
theories attempting to explain how
modern life undermines the moral out-
look of individuals, but these conflict so
plainly as to remain unconvincing
Though essentially a layman in such
matters, I’m inclined to agree with the
bishops—that the lack of spiritual faith
apparent in the masses today gives them
a relatively fatalistic, and therefore an
unrealistic, appreciation of the values of
behavior.— P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).


CKS
DFOR
B
ST
I
to
*M
IN the 2nd half of last year, there was a “buyers
market” in trucks for the first time since the
war. Buyers could get whatever British make
they liked. Their first choice was Bedford. Bed-
ford had 1,764 registrations for the half year
the “next best” truck had 1,015 registrations
giving Bedford a lead of 749. This is history
repeating itself. When trucks are freely available
buyers choose Bedford—as the records will show.
More Bedfords are in use in Australia now than
any other British make. If you are in the market for
a truck, Bedford is the FIRST make to investigate.
READ WHAT SATISFIED OWNERS SAY . . .
~In . . . 41,000-odd miles .. . have not had to u «e a spanner
on the Bedford.” (M. Mitchell, Berri, S.A.) .. : a 1936 WTB
... has now done 1.007,000 miles ... still has the original differen-
tial .. . and the original gearbox.” (A. J. Bndgeland, Adelaide).
“... Bedford is the ideal truck-reliable, economical with plenty
of reserve power.” (Reg. H. Hutchins, Queenscliff, Vic.)
Bedford is “bursting”
with value features
such as...
EXTRA-DUTY ENGINES
Bedford engines are famous
for economy performance
and durability. The new ones
are better in many ways which
your dealer can show you.
LONGER CYLINDER-BORE LIFE
A new cylinder “finish
and advances in piston
ring technique give
today’s Bedford engines
greater lift expectancy than ever.
B
ds
4-SPEED SYNCHROMESH
GEAR BOX
No other truck priced near
Bedford has synchromesh gears.
In constant mesh they can’t be
clashed in 2nd., 3rd and top.
fds
Extra tugged frames
immense bearing life
balanced design wonderful
manoeuvrability low running cost.
PLUS Authorised Bedford Dealers the
length and breadth of Australia to assure
genuine spare parts availability and ex-
pert service with GMH trained mechanics.
LOW FIRST COST
FOR CHASSIS and
CAB PROVES
BEDFORD'S
VALUE.
Eaton 2-speed
rear axle optional
on 4/5 tonner
at extra cost.
Enquire about
the C.M.A.C.
Confidential
Hire Purchase
Plan.
m
mmm
mm
pm
A General Motor* Product
GENERAL MOTORS - H OLDEN’S LTD.I
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia.
817-32 NP
BU I L
Rabbits or Sheep
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“L.W.G.”; What R. G. Casey,
Minister in charge of the
C.S.I.R.O., had to say on rabbits
on February 22, 1953, was,
briefly, that the estimated rabbit
population of Australia approxi-
mates 750 million, and each
rabbit destroys annually pasture
that would be worth 10s. if
available for sheep or cattle.
Seven rabbits consume as
much as one sheep. Wipe out
the rabbits and we can carry
another 100 million sheep. Each
year we receive about £6 million
for the pelts and carcasses of
some 100 million rabbits. The
net potential loss is of the order
of £370 million yearly. A short
while ago, myxomatosis, which
is now killing about 75 million
rabbits a year, was thought to
offer the greatest hope yet of
solving the rabbit problem.
Owing, however, either to a
weakening of the virus or to the
building-up of a gradual
immunity among the remaining
rabbits, it is now improbable
that the early hopes will be
realised.
Every individual landholder
should spare no effort at this
stage in netting, dogging, trap-
ping, ripping and fumigating to
eradicate the last rabbit before
the myxomatosis success is lost.
Before myxo. was dreamt of
the late David G. Stead, as fine
a scientist as ever approached the
problem, insisted that our sole
chance of deliverance lay in
thorough fumigation. Pastor-
alists with analytic minds are
unanimous that the fumigant
supreme came from America,
and that European or local sub-
stitutes cannot compare with it
for effectiveness.
Its name must be known to
the C.5.1.R.0. Being a dollar
import it has been unprocurable
since 1949. Not only should
dollar restrictions against its
importation be lifted, but its use
should be encouraged immedi-
ately by subsidy. The Casey
broadcast bore the hallmark of
sincerity; its test awaits the
action indicated.
Breeding Better Bees
“B-herd”: Since the first skep
the keeper has watched for a
better bee. If this colony
gathered more or that colony
used its sting less it became then
the mother of the next genera-
tion. Eventually, other factors
became desirable; color of
honey, length of life, size of the
brood-nest, ability to fly later
and under harsher conditions
and, perhaps, the length of the
nectar-sweepers’ tongues.
For centuries the true bee-
man has been breeding for these
factors under conditions which
no other breeder of livestock
would consider. For a bee-
breeder couldn’t select his sires,
only his queens. This “turn her
out on the road” technique con-
tinued until somebody thought
of artificial insemination.
Watson, a perfectionist from
America, seems to have got the
credit for the first series of
successful manipulations, begin-
ning in ’26. It has taken the
Australian beeherder another
quarter-of-a-century to become
interested. A few weeks ago the
first a.i. gear for queen-bees ever
to reach an Australian agricul-
tural college arrived at Lawes
(Q.) from the U.S.A.
This college houses a pretty
lively apicultural section, for it
is only a year or two old, and is
in fact still calling for—and get-
ting—donated hives to build up
the section.
The officer-in-charge, B. Hig-
ginbotham, well aware that his
outfit is in a position to make
beekeeping history in this
" What I'm leadin' up to , Laura , is whether y' think y'
could adjust y'self to the idea of bein' a farmer's Wife."
country, has sent out a call to
any beeman who believes he
farms an outstanding bee. The
sample of bees forthcoming
will be “biometrically analysed,”
and it is from these strains
that the better bee for
Australian conditions will be
produced. The section aims to
produce, ultimately, not pure-
bred bees, but a hybrid-bee that
will outgather and outlive any
other bee in the business.
Bees and Lucerne-seed
“Medicago”: The male and
female organs of the flower of
lucerne are contained in a
column located in the inner
curved keel, which is under ten-
sion. Pollen cannot generally
be brought into contact with the
receptive female stigma until the
whole sexual column is relieved
of its spring-like tension and
trips out of or is tripped out of
the keel to strike with force
against the broad standard
petal.
Although the release of this
trigger into action can occur of
itself under certain weather con-
ditions, dependence on this alone
often gives unsatisfactory yields
of seed. Bees are generally re-
quired to help in increasing seed
yields by tripping the mechan-
ism in the course of gathering
nectar or pollen.
Native bees are mostly ground-
nesting, and modern farm opera-
tions such as cultivation and
the use of insecticides have
reduced their populations in re-
cent years. So good yields of
lucerne-seed have now become
more dependent upon the
efforts of honey-bees.
A few lucerne-seed growers
place hives of bees near flower-
ing lucerne fields, but this is not
by any means sufficient. Over-
seas experience is that honey-
bees are effective pollinators of
the lucerne flower only for a
relatively short distance from the
hive, and that about six or seven
colonies per acre located within
the lucerne field are required to
make an efficient job of seed-
production.
Five hundred pounds of
lucerne-seed per acre is reckoned
a very good yield in Australia,
but 10001 b. yields are obtained
in California by using the bees.
Minerals for Stock
“Mr.”: Young stock, breed-
ing animals and milking cows
need more minerals than work-
ing, fattening or wool-produc-
ing stock. Salt, which has a
stimulating effect on appetite,
should be a constituent in all
stock-licks. Calcium-phosphate,
the bone-maker, is a must for
growing stock and breeding and
milking animals.
The best method of supplying
the chemical to grazing animals
is by topdressing pastures with
super. Where stock are fed
grain or other concentrates and
have not access to a super-top-
dressed pasture, they will need
a lime supplement as follows:
For every 1001 b. of grain or con-
centrate fed to cattle, sheep, pigs
and horses, add 31b. of the mix-
ture, four parts of lime (ground
limestone, chalk or slaked lime)
and one part of salt. Poultry
get their lime in the shellgrit.
Ahead of Man
“C.S.”: Louis M. Voysey, of
Taubman’s Chemicals, says in-
sects very often employ special
organs which precede the inven-
tions of man by millions of
years.
For instance, wasps paralyse
their prey with stings which act
in the same way as hypodermic-
needles. The digging forelegs of
a mole cricket are equipped with
sliding plates which can snip off
the tiny roots of plants and
bushes just like a pair of scis-
sors. The butterfly sucks up
nectar in the same way a foun-
tain-pen sucks up ink.
Some insects have compound
eyes and jaw-parts which vary
according to the food they con-
sume. The honey-bee can sec
ultra-violet light which is invis-
ible to the human eye.
In many cases the senses of
smell and taste are greater than
man’s by far. The taste sense
of the Monarch butterfly is
nearly 2000 times greater than
that of man, and a parasite ich-
neumon-fly can smell the grub
on which it lays its eggs, through
a wall 2in. thick.
What makes insect pests so
dangerous, however, is their in-
finite number, and the fact that
the survival of only a fraction
of 1 per cent, after a spraying
can render the spraying futile.
That is why mopping-up,
through second or third spray-
ings, is so necessary.
Controlling Drift
“J.C.”: A. J. Beare, an
Adelaide soil-conservator, says
that rye, now regarded as the
outstanding plant for stabilising
bad sand-drift, will, if sown in
mid-March and given sufficient
rain, make enough growth m
one month to keep it safe from
wind-damage. According to
weather averages it will, within
this same month, be subjected
to only two dangerous wind}
days, though there is a possi-
bility that eight other bad days
may occur.
On the other hand, a rye crop
sown in June will take almost
months to get past the pos-
sible-damage stage, in the same
period will suffer eight danger-
ous days and may have to live


CONTROL FRUIT AND
VEGETABLE PESTS
m
m
n
m
i
with o NEVERTIRE
Jl4 SPRAY PUNT
Completely Portable
Operates at up to Jsolb. Pressure
IDEAL FOR
FRUIT, VEGETABLES & TOMATOES
and can if necessary be used as a firefighter
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH PTY.
10-14 Young Street (Nr. Circular Quay) Sydney.
Branches, Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
GD 13 (Mod.)
For maximum security insist on
“BBRKNYRE”
TARPAULINS and
HORSE RUGS
made from the Scottish waterproof canvas
with the world-wide reputation for
Dependability and Durability
Available from your local storekeeper
THE BIRKMYRE CANVAS COMPANY PTY. LTD.
55 Parramatta Road Concord. Sydney
146 Chetwynd Street, North Melbourne
and
A
r.
4
a
s
from
THE WONDERFUL A G A
MODEL. C.B.
Imagine a Cooker that is almost automatic , and
has two big hot-plates and two capacious ovens.
This amazing Cooker bums coke, yet is smokeless
and fumeless, as clean as a china-plate. It is also
superbly insulated, to keep your kitchen cool, and
it provides a generous hot-water service for kitchen
and bathroom 1 Comfort, ease, and simplicity of use
—all these are yours with the Aga (Model C. 8.), in
addition to guaranteed fuel economy!
YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Australian Agents
T thi
AGA
COOKER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ _ _ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
SB
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
fdsd
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
( PLANTATION. ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
w&
-
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years. >
■■■DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St, Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd.. Launceston and Hobart
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles, Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
through another 30 days of
hazardous weather.
From this it will be seen that
early sowing has four times as
much chance of success. Sow-
ing on the dune or drifting pad-
dock should therefore be done
immediately after the first good
rain. Once the crop has stabil-
ised the soil, planting the per-
manent cover should commence.
Choice of the right pasture-
plant for this cover may involve
the farmer in tests or some ex-
penditure, since the Mallee’s low-
rainfall conditions allow only a
limited number of plants to
establish themselves satisfac-
torily.
Lucerne, perennial-veldt grass
and evening-primrose do reason-
ably well in average rainfalls,
but they must be carefully
grazed. Failing these species the
farmer must rely on annuals
such as Wimmera-rye grass or
natural growth with periodic
crops of cereals to provide added
protection.
Strip Grazing
“Electro”: Many a lush pas-
ture or good crop is consider-
ably spoilt by the trampling and
dunging of dairy-cattle. Four-
teen years ago the Massey Agri-
cultural College in N.Z. demon-
strated the use of a single-wire
electric fence for strip-grazing,
and many N.Z. dairyfarmers
have now adopted the practice.
The herd is generally confined
to a strip of pasture or grazing
crop sufficient for their daily or
half-daily requirements, and
almost every bit of the pasture
is utilised without waSte.
Another advantage of the prac-
tice is that the cattle get a more
balanced feed, not being
allowed to pick the cream of the
pasture and leave the coarser or
less-attractive parts.
Little strip-grazing is to be
seen in Australia.
Tallow Control
“Oxo”: When the Federal
Government decontrolled tallow
the southern States followed
suit, but Queensland kept con-
trol. For some time now
Queensland tallow - selling
brokers have been trying to
make sales at the fixed prices.
but buyers generally are just not
interested.
With accumulated stocks on
their hands, selling-agents de-
cided to sell at auction. Under
the hammer prime bright tallow
realised £5l per ton compared
with the “fixed” price of £56
per ton, both prices being exclu-
sive of containers; good color
realised £4l per ton against a
“fixed” price of £53, while fair-
to-good tallow brought £3B per
ton (fixed price £5l 10s.) and so
on; inferior tallow was unsale-
able.
The Queensland Prices Com-
missioner values edible beef tal-
low at £57 per ton, only £1 per
ton more than the fixed price for
inedible, and the trade regards
this as an anomaly which
should be rectified immediately.
Sydney Show Record
“H.S.”: A total of 6184
animals, the biggest collection
in Sydney R.A.S. history, will'
compete at the Royal Show,
which begins on March 27.
There will be 1110 horses, in-
cluding 280 trotters, 1002 beef
and fat cattle, 975 dairy cattle,
2289 dogs representing 68 dif-
ferent breeds, 120 milch goats,
532 pigs and 156 cats.
Owners of the animals live in
every State and in New Zealand.
Total entries for the show are
23,820, compared with 23,409 in
1952, This year’s aggregate
will be swelled by about 3500
when entries for horticulture,
which don’t close until a day
before flowers are judged, are
added.
Hints for the Farm
“Ware”: Old kitchen furni-
ture can be modernised by the
use of a good enamel paint. If
the furniture is of stained finish
all of that must be sandpapered
off and two or three coats put
on the completely cleaned
surface. Remember to mb every
inch down with turps before
making a start with the under-
coat. If grease traces are present
painting will fail.
“Lacto”: At the Michigan
State College of Agriculture
(U.S.A.) virgin heifers have been
made to give milk without hav-
ing calves. This has been
brought about by implanting
pellets of sex hormones beneath
the skin pf the animal’s neck.
Five animals thus brought into
, lactation have given an average
production of 3501 b. of butter-
fat in 10 months, gaining an
average of 2001 b. in weight
during the period.
“Springvale”: Brussels-sprouts
should be carefully picked so
that they come away cleanly
from the stem, leaving the small
stalk on the sprout itself.
Always pick the lower sprouts
first. It’s also good policy when
picking a row of sprouts to strip
the lowest leaves above them;
this will maintain even develop-
ment of later sprouts. Keep the
secondary growth in check;
they never form properly and
retard the higher sprouts.
“H.C.”: No time should be
lost in removing surplus honey
from hives when the nectar-flow
ceases. If the combs cannot be
kept warm in the honey-house,
get the honey out of them before
the cold nights set in, otherwise
it’s wellnigh impossible to
extract.
“Konanda”: When the billy
is badly burned with stew soak
it in water as soon as possible.
Then add about a teaspoon of
washing-soda and boil it up and
it will clean easily. Washing-
soda is a great help with
dishes and clothes when using
bore-water. A little experi-
menting will - show how much
is necessary with the varying
hardness of water from different
bores.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
March should not give any rainfalls of importance and
even in the North the March rains may not come. _ They
seem to have been delivered with the general falls in the
recent floods. This was a most remarkable concentration,
giving the combined falls of summer in one area, where
the summer rains were 57 inches for three months, which is
at the rate of 228 inches per annum.
It added up to the cyclical rains dbe as a repeat of
the summer rains of 1916-17, which is in conformity with
the Crohamhurst Cycle. April weather is now the next
intriguing problem. If the cycle reproduces normally it
should be a very wet month, but Easter «and Anzac Day
should be fine if the Crohamhurst discoveries mean anything.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3:-
jACKSOiy
OSUUJVAX
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIE*
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD. BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Missing Friends
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
the wife of the late DAVID WILLIA*
POLLOCK SOOVELL formerly of Car-
negie, Victoria, a returned serviceman «
1914-18 War, is requested to communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO.,
Bourke Street, Melbourne, to her advantage.
THE Public Trustee requests ALFEED
FOOTTIT who was last heard of at 1*
Chessell Street, South Melbourne and »
entitled to share in the estate of the late
JANE McKEAN to communicate with to*
PUBLIC TRUSTEE at 412 Collins StreA
Melbourne, Victoria.
from which they shot long
arrows, longer than they them-
selves were tall, tipped with ■
bone from human forearms, and
carved and painted and befrilled
with feathers. The bows had
two strings, the second in place
at one end and lashed else-
where to the shaft, so that if
the working string should break
during an engagement the bow
would not be put out of action.
Sometimes the* was a
raid, and a member of the
tribe lost his head. Usually it
was some old woman who had
ventured out from the village
top close to dark ; for the raids
were almost never in force. They
were carried out by the
youngsters of neighboring tribes
who were forced by the
approach of manhood and the
pressure of public opinion thus
to blood themselves. Retalia-
tions were left to the initiative
of Leg-no-good’s friends and
their immediate elders ; for the
tribe was a weak one. But no
one wanted their other small
possessions, and they were left
alone a good deal.
They had plenty of sago and
breadfruit and game and fish.
They had fruits and vegetables
from their gardens and betel-
nut for chewing and pepper-leaf
vine to flavor it. But they were
not good hunters. The men
were more interested in decorat-
ing their arrows and their
canoe-paddles than they were in
hunting. Their artistic work
was very good—and it kept
them hungry, as it has kept
artists elsewhere. Leg-no-good
was learning the carving of
arrows when the white men
came and took him in the
canoe-that-flies to Moresby.
He was a lost soul there for a
little while. But when the doc-
tors had finished with him, and
they realised there was nothing
more they could do for his leg,
they gave him the task of clear-
ing up round the military camp ;
and the soldiers were good to
him after a fashion. Also he
earned a little money, and was
given more, and found a use for
it eventually. He bought himself
treasures such as he could only
dream about in the forest, two
good knives and a patent-leather
belt and beads and tobacco. The
Government gave him clothes,
and he learned the comfort of
moderate cleanliness, and his
casual wounds were cooled and
healed.
After the war was over he
went back to the mouth of the
river, only half a thousand miles
from his home, to wait for the
chance of joining an expedition.
He met a girl here, the only girl
who had ever looked at him, and
he married her. She had two
little boys, and she was sophis-
ticated and well-enough favored.
Soon Leg-no-good had fathered
another little boy of his own,
and a small girl whom he pro-
fessed to ignore, but of whom
he was inordinately.proud. His
wife’s tribe admitted him to their
companionship, and between the
good food and the nourishment
of good relations His meagre
frame filled out a little.
So Cummings had been mildly
astonished at the excitement that
filled the cripple when he men-
tioned the river expedition. For
the first time to come under the
notice of a white man, Leg-no-
good seemed to have achieved
a certain happiness. But he had
leaped at the chance to go home
to the forest, and his excitement
had climbed with every mile of
the journey until this night he
sent his trumpet-call out to the
unheeding hills.
IN the morning Ashton heard
I the noise of the trumpet
vaguely, screened by vague
dreams, and he absorbed it for
a while before he realised what
it was. The boat-boys, in the
grey light, were already attend-
ing to the anchor, and soon the
diesel coughed and they were
under way. The boat-boys, the
house-boys, the wild interpreters
and the eight police - boys
squatted on the afterdeck, con-
centrating on their rations. But
from the short-deck. Leg-no-
good blew on his trumpet. He
was grey, and shaking with
excitement. His eyes were wild,
and from time to time he put
the trumpet down and cupped
his hands and sent a wild and
reedy cry into the bush, com-
posing it of incomprehensible
words and something of the
tone, the wind-spirit and the
wilderness of a sea-bird.
Towards noon they came upon
the junction , of the Yellow
River, and three houses in a
clearing nestled into the thick
bush. A landing-party found
the houses deserted, and there
was no sign of possessions,
though the ashes from the fires
were not long cold. Leg-no-good
was little help. His people had
semi-nomadic habits, and he
didn’t know where he could find
them. But just as the boys were
turning away from the huts a
little yellow dog ran into the
clearing. It stopped, then turned
tail and ran back into the bush.
Half the landing-party followed
it, and the rest brought Leg-no-
good back to the trawler.
When the boys returned in the
dark of the following night they
had with them a brother of Leg-
no-good and some of the elders
of his tribe.
Now there was little emotion.
Leg-no-good and his people
talked, question and answer in
short sentences of few syllables.
They squatted on the deck, and
three times Leg-no-good raised
his voice and wailed, and for a
while he fell weeping, for there
was little good in the news from
his village.
Cummings haunted the meet-
ing, and behind him Ashton and
Camelli stood and listened.
When the gaps in the conversa-
tion grew longer Cummings
used his pidgin, and Leg-no-
good told him what he knew.
Two of his brothers were dead
in an epidemic, a mass-killing
attributed to witchcraft. The
Wagu tribe, their neighbors up-
river, had picked a fight, and
only the previous week had
killed a Yellow River man.
Birds had been scarce, and the
tribe was on short commons.
Only a few of the people for
whom he asked still lived. The
numbers of the tribe had been
reduced, during his absence, by
more than half.
But Leg-no-good’s friends were
rejoiced to find him well, to hear
that the war was long over, and
that white men might appear
again with steel knives and steel
fish-hooks for trade.
It seemed small news for a
decade, and Ashton felt an
inadequacy and a disappoint-
ment. These men were a smelly
lot, though cleaner than some of
their neighbors down the river.
They wore no clothes except for
phallic decorations that accen-
tuated what other men con-
cealed. They did not cover
themselves with keloid markings,
and they smoked tobacco-pipes
five or six feet long, pipes that
swept the ground ahead of them
or curved round behind, and
were wondrously carved.
'"P HE white men left them talk-
I ing and went to bed for the
short remainder of the night. In
the morning Leg-no-good came
to Cummings and talked. He
said that he would go home to
his people in the village for a
day, but that he would come*
back to the trawler in the morn-
ing. Also that he“ would bring
some of his younger relations to
work at Angprum and Wewak.
Also that his people would come
to trade and accept the presents
the Government had sent for
them. And finally, and above
all, that he himself would bring
a pig as a present.
Cummings listened, and spoke
sympathetically. But when Leg-
no-good next appeared from the
hold he brought all his posses-
sions, and handed them round
amongst his friends to be carried.
Cummings narrowed his eyes
and walked over to the group
to tell Leg-no-good to leave his
things on the boat,
“You’ll find them when you
come back,” he said.
Leg-no-good squatted, and de-
tached a few things from the
bundles, the taul, a tangle of
fish-hooks, a jungle-knife, four
lengths of rusty mild-steel rods
and two pieces of cloth for lap-
laps. He looked up at Cum-
mings.
“For presents,” he said.
Cummings nodded, and Leg-
no-good stood up, and with his
awkward gait began to weave
away from the bundle lying on
the deck, but Cummings looked
and pointed, and Leg-no-good
set down the things he had taken
and returned the rest to the hold.
Then he left with his friends.
“I didn’t like that much,”
Cummings said, looking after
them. “I wouldn’t want him to
get the idea of staying here. I
want him to come back and
bring some boys with him. Then
we can establish a decent con-
tact up here, maybe take this,
area out of the ‘Uncontrolled’
category. If he’s down there
with them we can cut the learn-
ing period in half.”
“Don’t worry, Chief,” Camelli
sneered. “One look at those
huts and he’ll be back. That
gammy leg won’t be fast enough
for him.”
Ashton, watching the forlorn
little file moving across the clear-
ing, couldn’t doubt that Camelli
was right. There went nothing ;
only lean bodies festooned with
woven bags and sections of
bamboo such as a child might
use in its play, and bows and
arrows and those fantastic
tobacco-pipes. There went no-
thing ; only stray products of
human growth motivated by
brains that apparently worked
by inertia. Looking at them he
could not understand why even
their neighbors of the terrible
river should want to make tar-
gets of them nor why their skulls
should be deemed to make any
strong or authoritative magic
even for the simplest minds, nor
that there could be any magic
of living in such lives.
He made a little bet with him-
self ; not having the surety of
Camelli in estimating the native
mind. He said, if Leg-no-good
looks back once, just once,
before he disappears into the
jungle, then we won’t see him
again. But if he doesn’t look
back he won’t be long away.
“He’ll be back,” Camelli said
again, as though he read his
thoughts. “He’s got a small for-
tune down there in the hold.”
Leg-no-good kept his eyes
fixed on the track ahead of him.
WHILE this departure was
taking place people had
been gathering on the bank
above the trawler, following with
their eyes every movement of
the white men and the brown
men who were in lap-laps.
Apparently they were of another
tribe, or a distant branch of the
same tribe, for Leg-no-good and
his people seemed not to see
them. They were a thin, reedy
lot, naked, but vividly adorned.
Soon they moved into one of the
huts, and Ashton could see they
were carrying an old man. They
took him into the hut, then sat
outside, their eyes glued on the
trawler.
They took no notice when
Leg-no-good and his visitors
moved back into the forest.
Thin women suckled babies
with arms like twigs from tiny,
adolescent breasts. At least
there were babies and women in
the party; a sign that their
thoughts were peaceful and that
they trusted the white men.
Other tribes had sent down only
fighting-men.
Ashton and Cummings went
ashore. The man in the hut lay
with his knees up, a thin strip
of rough bark encircling his
body many times. Cummings
turned to the boy, Karandaman,
who knew the river best, and
asked a question.
“Is this man dead?”
Ashton wondered for a
moment why he didn’t find out
for himself.
Karandaman shook his head
slowly, a little doubtfully,, and
went into a long explanation.
The rapid pidgin was too obscure
for Ashton to follow, and Cum-
mings explained it.
“The man isn’t dead, though
he’s not breathing any longer.
His spirit hasn’t left his body.
They wrapped the bark round
him so it couldn’t. When it
leaves the body there will be
sorrowing and a funeral. That
isn’t convenient just now, with
all these new things to watch, so
they’ve delayed his death until
we go. I suppose if we stayed
three weeks they’d still say he
wasn’t dead. One consolation,
we won’t have the funeral to
contend with. It gets a bit wear-
ing.”
He thought a moment and
then added: “Also it’s possible
they might get a bit touchy,
though they look quiet types.”
By sign-language Cummings
called on some of the younger
men to volunteer to go with the
boat when it sailed. Some twenty
of them separated themselves
from the rest of the tribe and
squatted on the bank close to
the trawler, talking excitedly.
In the late afternoon Camelli,
ranging half-a-mile up-river, shot 7 '
a crocodile, and some of the
men went up to bring the body
down. There was wild exulta-
tion at the huts, and within
seconds dozens of the men
attacked the corpse with splinters
of dead bamboo and transformed
it into little parcels of flesh.
Within minutes they were eating
it, barely charred on hastily-
constructed little fires. Soon
there was nothing but a little
pack of dogs fighting over scraps.
I EG-NO-GOOD didn’t return
1— that night. Cummings
waited all the next day. By
night there was no sign of Leg-
no-good, and the men sent out
in the morning reported that the
village where they had found his
tribe was deserted. This time
not even a yellow dog showed
any sign of life. By evening the
dead man was smelling very
badly, though his tribesmen pro-
fessed not to notice, and slept
in the hut with him.
“Not even the spirit will stay
with that body much longer,”
Camelli said.
The river level dropped three
feet during that day, and in the
morning Cummings decided to
go, back, fearing that he might
be caught up in those shallow-
ing headwaters to wait for
another wet season.
They took twelve young men
from the twenty that had volun-
teered and brought them aboard.
As soon as the diesel started
throbbing the police-boys lined
up these recruits on the crowded
after-deck and cut away their
meagre decorations. They took
them to the stern of the ship and
scrubbed them with heavy scrub-
bing-brushes and shaved their
heads. Then they wrapped them
in lap-laps, with much sign-talk
as they demonstrated the method
of fastening them. Some of the
newcomers, freshly scrubbed, got
back into the queue awaiting
treatment and tried to double
up. They liked the feeling of
freshness and the smell of soap.
The heavy odor of unwashed
savage began to lift from the
decks.
“They don’t know how lucky
they are,” said Camelli. “Jeeze,
that Leg-no-good was a crumb-
bum. By next week he’ll know
where he was well off.”
“Maybe he got knocked on
the head,” said Ashton. “If the
other village was like the one
we saw there wasn’t much there
for him. You’d have thought
he would come back.”
“He tried to take his luggage,”
Cummings said. “That had me
thinking. But there’s nothing
there for him, as you say. With
that leg of his he won’t even
have influence. He’ll be depen-
dent all his life. It could be that
they kept him back. Somehow
I don’t think so.”
On the after-deck Karandaman
was pretending fury against a
tribesman who stood in the line
with shaved head and clean lap-
lap. Another police-boy was
giving a cigarette to a recruit,
making a presentation of it.
“Semok, semok,” he said, try-
ing to teach him the pidgin. The
recruit took the cigarette and
grinned dumbly.
“They look as though they’ll
shape well,” said Cummings.
r T' HE trawler swept past a
' little area of wild sugar, and
amongst the flooded roots of the
cane there was a canoe, with a
man sitting. It was Leg-no-
good, his withered leg concealed
in the canoe. Cummings called
sharply to Burton, and the
trawler swung and stemmed
against the current, edging in-
shore to the canoe. But im-
mediately Leg-no-good swung
his paddle and disappeared in
the sugar.
The trawler waited there for
a moment, hanging in the cur-
rent, and then Burton turned
her and went downstream. When
they were gone a little way the
low, vibrant note of the taul
rang out.,
“I can’t understand the
fool,” said Camelli.
Cummings thought a little
while and then he said, “I didn’t
understand him. I don’t think
'' I tried hard enough. I wish I
had.”
They had gone another mile
downstream before he finished
the thought.
“Perhaps that’s why he
stayed,” he said. “His own folk
understand him. And they never
had to try. They were just
friends with him, that’s all. They
didn’t help him and they didn’t
stand in his road.”
He turned to Ashton and
spoke to him directly. “It’s
pretty hard to know what to do
for these people,” he said.
“Yes, they’re a thankless
mob,” Camelli agreed from
behind his shoulder.
Ashton looked out at the end-
less miles of forest, slipping so
quickly astern, and held his
peace.


COLLINS
NOW READY
THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SID BARNES
IT ISN’T CRICKET
SID BARNES, 16 /-
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
PUBLISHERS
§m mv*
■ %
H.M.A.S. Perth's Last Action
PROUD ECHO, by Ronald McKie
. a vivid exciting book .... the best account of a naval
battle yet to appear in Australia.”—Sunday Telegraph.
(Sydney).
“This is a mighty story. It should be read in every class-
room in Australia ... .’’—The News. (Adelaide).
17/6 (Post 7d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. Cl.
practically controlled the movements of the
Federal forces, the Confederates [South]
were generally successful... .Northern pros-
pects did not brighten until Mr. Lincoln, in
March, 1864, with that unselfish intelligence
which distinguished him, abdicated his
military .functions in favor of General
Grant.
Wolseley believed that if McClellan
bad not been interfered with in his plan
to end the war by taking Richmond he
would probably have succeeded, and he
says that he cannot believe that Lincoln
in the least realised all that was involved
in changing a plan of operation so vast
as McClellan’s. In this matter Professor
Williams is obviously in the same cate-
gory with Lincoln. McClellan was
scarcely the fool that Professor
Williams thinks him to be, except
perhaps in a political sense. Colonel
G. F. R. Henderson, a standard
authority, remarked in his Life of Stone-
wall Jackson something to the effect that
McClellan’s mistake lay in not playing
up to Lincoln’s susceptibilities about the
safety of Washington. But he was a
young man in his thirties, a soldier first
and all the time, and Lincoln was a man
in his fifties.
The salient fact about the Civil War,
however, is that if the North had possessed
even two or 'three divisions of trained
and organised soldiers at the beginning
there would have scarcely been any war
at all. The existence of a corps or two
ready to act within a couple of months
would have rendered it merely a mopping-
up operation from the beginning, saved
hundreds of thousands of lives and pre-
vented immense devastation.
EK DUM.
James Tucker and
"Ralph Rashleigh"
From Colin Roderick:
As far as he goes M. H. Ellis (B. 11/2/’53)
does Tucker a service. I would wish him to
go further and so help me do him justice.
Obviously an alert young man employed as a
Government messenger in the 1830’s was in a
favorable position to learn a great deal of what
went on in convictry. Living in Sydney in 1833-
38 would moreover enable Tucker to read books
from the Australian Subscription Library,
although he would get them indirectly.
But that is not all there is to tell.
In that letter dated July 7, 1835 (the one
mentioned by Mr. Ellis), the Colonial Architect,
Mortimer Wm. Lewis, spoke of Tucker in
laudatory terms. The strange thing about this
letter is that in 1838 the original could not be
found in the Colonial Secretary’s office. It was
only when Lewis called in person on April 19,
1838, with a “duplicate,” on behalf of Tucker,
that the Governor took steps to ratify his
retention of Tucker’s services. Does this look
like the act of a man who thought meanly of
his servant or his servant’s capabilities?
Was the letter Lewis took with him to the
Colonial Secretary in 1838 in truth a duplicate?
Or did Lewis conspire with Tucker to justify
his remaining in the Architect’s office at Sydney
unknown to the Principal Superintendent when
he ought to have been at Windsor, whither he
was “required to repair under pain of losing
his ticket”?
Whatever the truth, the one conclusion is
justified, viz., that Lewis did affect a regard
for Tucker, if not for his company.
And here an important new point emerges.
In his memorandum of April 19, 1838, to Sir
George Gipps recommending tire ratification,
the Colonial Secretary remarks that “in the
meantime Tucker has been employed in the
Emigrant Buildings, etc., by the Government.”
It was not as a messenger that Tucker was
so employed, but as an overseer, to which post
he had been appointed by Lewis on April 25,
1837, twelve months earlier.
During those twelve months he not only
worked at “the Emigrant Buildings, etc.,” where
“his services were found very useful,” but he
was overseer of the gang which in 1837 made
improvements in the Domain ( C.5.1.L., 37/3948).
Does not this strengthen Tucker’s claim to
recognition as the “eccentric genius” who,
according to the evidence of “The Spectre’s”
informant’s informant in 1892, “was employed
upon many buildings in the city”? It shows
that he made his way by merit in the Colonial
Architect’s Department. It provides evidence
of the training that enabled him to draw the
plans the Port Macquarie Police Magistrate
needed to support his defence in 1846.
There is no doubt about Tucker’s time at
Emu Plains in 1827, since on March 20, 1827
(C.5.0.L., Vol. 36, No. 318, p. 238), the Colonial
Secretary wrote to Kinghorne, Superintendent,
Emu Plains:
I am directed by His Excellency the
Governor to inform you that the Prin-
cipal Superintendent of Convicts has
been instructed to forward to you the
Prisoners named in the margin (Jas
Tucker, Midas; and John Matthew,
Albion).
They state themselves to be Clerks
but are to be employed in the Field
Work of the Establishment under your
charge.
This is the sort of letter Tucker refers to in
Chapter XI of Ralph Rashleigh, which was
possibly directed to Kinghorne by the Prin-
cipal Superintendent of Convicts.
Rashleigh’s life followed precisely that course,
thus justifying my earlier belief that this part
of Ralph Rashleigh was built upon Tucker’s
personal experiences.
Two other clerks (Chas. Vaux, Midas;
and G. A. Lowe, Albion) were sent to
Bathurst and Wellington Valley establishments
respectively, on the same date, to be employed
likewise in field work. Were these four men
the “amateur politicians” of Ralph Rashleigh,
Chapter X?
During Tucker’s time at Emu Plains the
overseer (third-class) of the clearing-party (tree-
felling and -burning) was Joseph Levy, per
“Mangles” (1820), a Cockney, sft. 3in., dark-
complexioned, black-haired, dark-eyed, 27. in
1827, who would appear to have been Tucker’s
model for “little chocolate-cheeked Overseer
Joe” of the clearing-gang of Ralph Rashleigh,
Chapter XI ( C-5.0.L., 28/17).
Another letter from the Colonial Secretary
to Kinghorne ( C.5.0.L., Vol. 40, No. 28/456 )
complains that three convicts from Emu Plains
“were allowed to work for private individuals
in their own time” and thus corroborates
Chapter XIII of Rashleigh. And it is obvious
that Chapters XII and XIV could be written
only by a man who took part in the events
narrated.
The crucial evidence of Tucker’s authorship
is thoroughly objective, and conclusive. It must
not be clouded by side-issues or preconceived
theories. These new facts undoubtedly buttress
it. The years 1828-33 of Tucker’s life are yet
to be filled in with absolute certainty, but,
whatever the facts prove to be, I am confident
they will add further proof of James Tucker’s
authorship.
Incidentally, a marginal note to a letter of
the Colonial Architect dated February 11, 1835,
and addressed to the Colonial Secretary, recom-
mending Tucker’s petition for a gratuity (and
this before he was actually granted his first
tjckefrof-leave) may throw light on the apparent
absence of at least some of his numerous
petitions from the Archives today. That note
reads: “5 Feby. 1835 / Petition of Jas Tucker /
Petition given to Jas Tucker 15 Septr. 1836.”
As far as his gratuity is concerned, he was a
messenger “of the first class” in March, 1837,
drawing Is. 9d. a day, a somewhat larger sum
in 1837 than that granted a convict in our own
enlightened age. In 1836 he had risen from
the third-class rate of Bd. a day to the second-
class rate of Is., which was all the British
soldier got for many a year.
Prize for Poetry
The British Arts Council is offering
two prizes each of £225 for books of
verse by authors anywhere within the
British Commonwealth: one prize for a
first book by a living poet published be-
tween January 1, 1951, and June 30,
1953 ; the other for a book of original
verse by a living poet published during
the same period. Plays, translations and
collected or selected poems previously
published are not eligible. Entries should
be submitted by the poet himself, or his
publisher or agent, not later than July
31, 1953, to the Arts Council, 4 St.
James’s-square, London, S.W.I.
In Australia, the 1952 Baylebridge
Prize (£5O) for the best book of verse
published each year has been awarded
to Robert D. Fitz Gerald for Between
Two Tides. The adjudicator is Mr, R. G.
Howarth.
Two signs of an increasing English
interest in contemporary Australian
poetry are a very fine review of Francis
Webb’s Leichhardt in Theatre in the
“Times Literary Supplement” in January
this year, comparing the Australian writer
with Roy Campbell and the American
poet Robert Lowell; and a note in the
“Bookseller” of 27/12/’52 about a 8.8. C.
broadcast early this year of poems from
Dr. Mackaness’s Australian Anthology
by Mary Gilmore, Brennan, Hugh Mc-
Crae, Vance Palmer, Kenneth Slessor,
Judith Wright, William Hart-Smith,
David Campbell, Francis Webb, Peter
Hopegood, A. D. Hope and others.
Angus and Robertson invite contri-
bution's for the 11th issue of Australian
Poetry, which (with Commonwealth Fund
support) has now been restored to annual
publication, as also has Coast to Coast.
Writers may submit two or three recently-
written poems; closing date, March 31.
The editor for the year is Miss Nan
McDonald, c/o Angus and Robertson.
Reviewed Briefly
Double Bedside Book : Andre Franpois
(Andre Deutch). Book of comic draw-
ings by a specialist in tattooed sailors,
monks, knights in armor, nude models,
love and elephants; among which one
particularly likes the sketch of the two
small girls, with their hair tied with
ribbons in pigtails, going for a walk with
their father, whose beard is also tied in
pigtails. The style is deliberately in-
fantile with a touch of Germanic heavi-
ness (Francois is a Rumanian), but it has
a naive charm and the wit is genuine and
delightful.
* * * *
Two new books by G, M. Trevelyan
are Vol. IV (the 19th century) of the
illustrated edition of his English Social
History (Longmans), and The Seven Years
of William IV (Heinemann). The latter,
more in the nature and format of an art-
book than a history, is chiefly intended
to display the cartoons of John Doyle,
which are reproduced with beautiful
clarity, the historian contributing a fore-
word and commentary. The illustrations
to the Social History —the concluding
volume in the series—are equally in-
teresting, so fine in their various styles
as works of aft and so lively and com-
prehensive as a recapitulation of the
period that they must assuredly have been
selected by the historian himself. With
them, of course, goes the lucid and quietly-
colprful text which has already won a
high reputation both among scholars and
the reading public.
* * * *
Born of Those Years: Perry Burgess
(Dent). Autobiography of the president
of the U.S. Leprosy Foundation, who
wrote the bestseller about leprosy, Who
Walk Alone. His life-story takes him
through war and revolution to lepro-
sariums all round the world from Brazil
to Indonesia and China. Pleasant travel-
writing interspersed with grim stories of
suffering, fortitude and scientific endeavor.
* * * *
The Crowded Hours: Anthony
Richardson (Max Parrish; Australasian
Publishing Co.). A biography of Wing-
Commander “Sos” Cohen who mani-
fested himself in the tail-turret of a
Liberator over the North Atlantic in
World War 11, wearing the ribbons of
the Matabele War, the Boer War, World
War I, the D.S.O. and the M.C.; to
which he added, after 70 operational
flights against the Nazis, the D.F.C.;
he was then aged 69. In the intervals of
fighting these four wars he was usually
being bitten by a green mamba or en-
gaged in fisticuffs with a lion —a fabulous
adventurer, whose story is well told, in
an imaginative journalistic style, by the
author of Wingless Victory.
* * * *
The Reluctant Heart: Margot Clare
(Futurian Press). This latest of the
Futurian Press’s usual very slim volumes
contains eleven short poems on religious
themes which, at best, may indicate
promise. Margot Clare has an occa-
sional telling image: “the city.,..Lies
handcuffed—Gaoled between the moun-
tains and the sea.” But as Cecil Day
Lewis has pointed out (and as the
Imagists discovered), imagery is only an
important raw-material—not a poem in
itself.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 216
Across.
I — Yore alternative vessel in a clerical
office. (10)
s—Squashy food, including hams.
(4)
9 —America made it redistribute this
science of medicine ingredients.
(7, 6)
II — South stew beat it! (5)
13 —Wedding once brought a
comedian and a mug together
before morning, I see. (9)
15— They punish money. (8)
16— Othello in the back chamber. (4)
18— Ego color of the Scandinavian
keeper of the golden apples. (4)
19 — Spell precipitation in check. (8)
21— Cutting off about the distance
covered by the minimum tram-
fare. (9)
22 bbb obeys this pepper berry. (5)
24—Do not catch on the thousand I
split by the pavilion. (13)
26 — Minute it turns to New York. (4)
27 — Boy is given globular shape when
stranded once more. (10)
Down.
1 — Tries to get information from
dancing-shoes. (5)
2 Alternative name for Cronus if
a crook festival. (11)
3 Pronoun. (3)
4 Auctioneering equipment in the
steamer malingerers. (3)
6 This important Moslem is again
dropping in. (3)
7 Money carried by William or
Mary after James ITs reign
ended. (4-5)
8 — Unbelieving Diana is interpreting
symptoms. (10)
10 —A street away from Hemingway
Eagle. (4)
12 —Invent money revenue from cos-
metics ; teller does it at the end
of business. (4, 2,4)
14 — Gun lodge with academic top-
ping. (11)
15— Emerald is usually thus hit past
point. (6, 3)
17 —Provides the draught for St.
Nicholas. (8)
20—Demeanor is not quite mine, (4)
23 — Cot publicity oath urges you to
undertake paternal responsibili-
ties. (5)
24 — Island cove. (3)
25 — They leave Southey money. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 215


Onnoun r# Mq
■ ■ wm BBb e
BURS new semes
DIESELS
IwB H IP mmm wBWB wttw
A
mm
%
mm
» M
m
I
IP
m
MARS
8 H.P.
Slow speed with large
cylinder bore
Bosch type fuel equipment
Sensitive governor control
*
Dynamically balanced crank-
shaft and fly wheel with
minimum vibration
•
Easy starting in all weathers
Maximum power with low
fuel consumption
•
Heat treated “Heehanite”
alloy castings throughout
THESE MARS
FEATURES
SAVE YOU
MONEY
«
-
m
k
i«
w -
,/> <
i
m§m
msss&sMm
mm
.
...
MARS
S H.P. |
, - 4 v > 1
« THESE MARS
FEATURES MEAN
POWER AND
DEPENDABILITY
Low fuel consumption
All wearing parts easily
detachable
No special tools needed
•
Hass produced factory re-
placements always available
•
Mars Overhaul Kit provides
Cylinder Liner, Piston
rings, pins and bushes fitted
ready for use
Almost vibration-free with
minimum wear and tear
d
rn arc
r ;Vi
I '* :■■■ - : 5 \
: :
m
%i : I
M ,*** amgmsa |
BA
*■
m
-
w*
m
£mm
MARS DIESELS ARE IDEALLY SUITED FOR
PUMP PLANTS, IRRIGATION, DAIRYING
LIGHTING SETS, PLANT DRIVING, SHEARING
MARS 3 hjp*
X
SUPPLIED UNDER GUARANTEE
• IMMEDIATE DELIVERY •
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFG.
CO.
LTD.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE - Phone L 1555 & L 2904
Distributors in All States
S.A.: W. H, Butler & Co,. 134 Waymouth Street. Adelaide. VIC.: Herbert Osborne Pty Ltd., 567-559 Little Bourke St.. N.S.W.: Herbert Osborne
109 Oxford St.. Sydney. QLD.: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.. Brisbane. TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd.. 345 Collins St.. Hobart INDIA (Bombay Province). H. .
& Co.. Ali Chrs., Pott Bombay. PHILLIPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works. Manila.
A few District Agencies are available Overseas inquiries invited.
