

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
INTERNED—AND HOW!
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3824
Wednesday, May 27, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WESTMINSTER ABBEY—THE CHOIR AND HIGH ALTAR
Each year on the 17th of November the Abbey bells are rung to
commemorate the accession day of the great Tudor Queen, Elizabeth I-
It was she who became the Foundress of the existing Collegiate Church ox
St. Peter in Westminster —the official title of the Abbey. On May 21, 1560,
Queen Elizabeth I authorized the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishop or
Bath and Wells, and the Dean of St. Paul’s to give possession of the Abbey
to a Dean, William Bill, who was to be supported by a Chapter consisting
of twelve Prebendaries, an act for which her memory is held in high regard.
The first Dean, William Bill was a keen educationist, being at the same time
Master of Trinity College, Cambridge and Provost of Eton. Westminster
School was established as part of the Collegiate Church with endowments for
the benefit of boys of outstanding merit.
Throughout the centuries since those early days Westminster Abbey has
maintained its high reputation as a school and ° f
associated with the names of two outstanding composers Hemy Purcell,
whose compositions were played at the Coronation of James 11, Hand k
who gave the world superb Coronation anthems, one of which Zadok tne
Priest ” is always included in the Coronation ceremotiy. Matthew PassTon ’’
c r pnp of the first nerformance in England of Bach s ot. Maunew ras&ion.
Even in the year 1660 Samuel Pepys commented upon the excellence ot
the choral music at Westminster Abbey. , rhnir and in the
Thf* photograph shows the famous Cnoir a pu, 1
bactound the Wgh Altar which will be the scene of one of the most
impressive and magnificent ceremonies in the world on Coronation Day.


Learn
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vie.
CUT HERE AND MA/ir--— —
To STOTT’S:, Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S-B. 153) Age
The Red Page
THE BRONTES
If it is fortunate to be famous, the
Bronte family was doubly fortunate, in
having genius visited upon it, and in
being what it was. The skill of the
literary artist, T. S. Eliot has pointed out,
can be assessed in his own lifetime ; but
his standing, his degree of “greatness”
depends on factors over many of which
the author has no control and circum-
stances which may not be moulded until
long after the author’s death; in the
course of time, he either becomes the
“symbol” of something, or he drops out
of memory; he either accumulates
“significance” or is forgotten.
After reading The Bronte Story, a Re-
consideration of Mrs. Gaskell’s Life of
Charlotte Bronte, by Margaret Lane
(Heinemann), one may be pardoned for
considering that the significance of the
Brontes as a family to our times is greater
than that of any of their productions ;
together they act out a perfect play of
lower-middle-class aspirations, genteel
poverty and failure; and their failure as
a family mirrors the failures or fears-of-
failure of millions in generation after
generation after them; their significance
is thus based on solid representation.
And not only is it a representation lit
by its own genius, but it has something
of the violent magic of the absolute;
imagination could hardly force it further:
to a bleak parsonage, half-encircled by a
graveyard, come a clergyman, his wife,
five daughters and one son. Within
eighteen months the wife is dead. An
aunt takes charge. The children form a
private world of the imagination, and
their play, unlike that of ordinary
children, is still recoverable from
hundreds of notebooks of thousands of
words in which they recorded it. It is
perhaps this preservation of their child-
hood fantasies that makes them so like
flowers or anemones in a lonely pool.
Two wither from typhus in a frightening
school run for clergymen’s daughters;
the others continue with their fantasies,
gradually pressing them outwards to-
wards the world ; at about the time the
three remaining daughters are achieving
publication of poems and novels, the son,
of whom everything had been expected,
and who has failed as painter, writer,
railways-clerk and novelist, dies a
drunken drug-addict. Two of the sisters
follow him, dying of consumption. The
last, Charlotte, famous as the novelist
“Currer Bell,” has been disappointed in
her love for the head of a Brussels
academy, and turned aside by a London
publisher for whom she showed some
affection. She eventually marries, half
in pity and half in contempt, her father’s
curate, whom she had previously re-
jected ; discovers in the marriage a happi-
ness she had never dreamed of, and
within a year is dead of consumption.
The aged clergyman and his son-in-law
are left alone in the parsonage almost-
encircled by tombstones to muse upon
these happenings in the manner of a
Greek Chorus:
At least we witness of thee ere we die
That these things were not otherwise, but
thus.
The thing is so complete in itself: we
can suggest what broad emotions bind
it to the public mind ; but as with a work
of art, as with Goethe’s “Erl King,” it
defies close analysis ; nor can any acci-
dent of personal or social “blame” be
brought up to detract from it.
This last is the main tenor of Miss
Lane’s book, which is the story retold;
the unbetterable narrative of Charlotte
Bronte’s first biographer, Mrs. Gaskell,
sandwiched between passages where
modern research and exposition correct
or add to what could be printed in 1857.
Was Patrick Bruntee, Branty or Bronte
a bad father? No ; he was an Irishman
of peasant stock who had put himself
with commendable determination through
Cambridge; of honest and downright
opinions, but solicitous of his own
privacy, liking to have his meals apart
from his children; and in that way
selfish ; he shot off a loaded pistol every
morning that he had kept in his bedroom
for his own protection every night; he
cut up his wife’s dresses and burned
rugs to express disapproval, but in this
way he seems to have avoided violence,
both of speech and action, to his family.
The aunt was kind and good. The
“Cowan Bridge” girls’ school, faithfully,
or more than faithfully, done-over by
Charlotte in Jane Eyre, was a dreadful
place, and has since Mrs. Gaskell’s time
been discovered to have employed one
vicious woman as little else than
“Scourgemistress”; but those were the
days of Dickensian education.
And although the family was poor,
and the girls’ only hope for the future
was to go out as governesses, it was not
so poor that poverty was a driving force
in its tragedy.
No ; the only really blameable charac-
ter was Mrs. Bronte:
If Mrs. Bronte had lived, life at Haworth
Parsonage might have been very different.
That is probably the best explanation,
and a reinforcement of the legendary
power of the Bronte story.
In the same way, little can be pro-
duced to alter the story. There is argu-
ment over whether it was a cheap cotton
dress or a more sumptuous gown that
the Rev. Mr. Bronte cut up; to what
extent young Branwell was seduced by
a married woman, and why she dis-
carded him on the death of her hus-
band ; exactly how Emily punched her
enraged bulldog into submission with her
bare fists, etc.; and the difference in
tastes, and the rise of psychoanalysis
in our age leaves a fair amount to be
added to Mrs. Gaskell’s critical evalua-
tions.
Thus Emily’s Wuthering Heights,
which her contemporaries considered
ridiculous and in bad taste, becomes a
classic of trance-writing; Branwell’s
affair, which in his days and to his class
meant a descent into hell from which
there could be no return, would today
have done little more than injure his
own self-esteem ; and the whole business
of the microscopic novels and news-
papers written by the children, which
Mrs. Gaskell viewed with idle curiosity,
is to an age of child-psychologists a most
important discovery.
Add to it, take away from it, or argue
about it, nothing alters it; it is more
solid than any novel, because it was
ived ; and more magical than most lives,
because it was born legend.—R. McC.
Barke on Burns
The Crest of the Broken Wave, by
James Barke (Collins), is the fourth of
die series of novels which begins with
The Wind that Shakes the Barley and
which, with the addition of a fifth, is to
comprise a complete fictional biography
of Robert Burns to be entitled Immortal
Memory. The series to date has had a
great popularity, and undeniably Mr.
Barke has done a lot of painstaking re-
search.
The Crest of the Broken Wave covers
the period when Burns farmed (and
failed as a farmer) at EUisland, and when
he became an excise-officer to supple-
ment his income. With the poet
avowedly and legally married to Jean
Armour, the sensational interest of this
volume concerns his liaison with Anna
Park of the Globe Tavern, Dumfries.
The book is far too long for the slight
amount of real incident occurring at this
period of Burns’s life.
However, matters of form aside, this
reader finds Mr. Barke’s approach to
his subject both mentally and stylistically
extraordinary. He succeeds in depicting
“The Bard,” as he is pleased to call him,
as a cross between a prize bull and a
brash commercial-traveller.
As for his descriptive prose: it is
sometimes heavily whimsical, sometimes
straightforward in a dull and undistin-
guished manner. Then there are
moments when the author suddenly re-
members that after all this is an age of
psychoanalysis, and then we get jargon
like this (the subject is Burns’s sister
Nancy, and “Robin,” save the mark, is
Robert Bums): “She knew that men’s
tongues were ever hanging out thirsting
after women and that married men were
the worst. But then she could never
think of Robin —or Gilbert —as being
men in this sense. And maybe there
was a sublimated or inverted incestuous-
ness in her feeling for Robin.”
Mr. Barke includes a few of Bums’s
letters in this book, and a few of his
poems. He prints “Tam o’ Shanter”
fully in prose form, using an unex-
purgated version from Grose’s Antiqui-
ties.
More Moors
A quick trip through Morocco fol-
lowed by a travel-book is developing
into a popular sport; Robin Maugham,
Rom Landau, and now Ethel Mannin:
Moroccan Mosaic (Jarrolds), Miss
Mannin went there a militant advocate
of Moorish nationalism against French
and Spanish imperialism; she does not
see why Britain and Holland should lose
their Empires, and not France and
Spain; and she quotes Roosevelt against
imperialists.
But while an American President is
good enough to beat imperialism with,
her dislike for Americans in Casablanca,
interested in atom-factories and aircraft-
bases, loud and childish simpletons as
she portrays them, is only exceeded by
her dislike of Spaniards and their dirty
hotels and Fascist marchings-off of
prisoners in Spanish Morocco, and of
French officialdom living on Moorish
taxes, and building clean and disgust-
ingly-modern offices and flats beyond
the beautiful, walled, old Moorish
quarters, and the dear old dirty medinas ,
or shopping-centres, of the Moors,
whose shops, that should be filled with
lovely old filigrees and rare things of
Eastern art that can be picked up for a
song, are stuffed with plastic belts and
rayon cloths.
Her story of what she saw, encounters
and scenes well-described, might have
been more interesting if most of it hadn’t
been done before; but one thing she
makes stand out is the shanty-town that
is to be found on the outskirts of every
large Moorish city—-the same kind of
shanty-town that is to be found in South
Africa. It is evidently part of the pattern
of modernity that wherever Europeans
develop backward countries, the main
centres of development will have on their
outskirts towns of tin and hessian in-
habited by natives of the country who
have been drawn in by the promise of
labor and the comparative ease or ex-
citement of city life. There used to be
a similar phenomenon at a place called
Canberra. And, indeed . . .
Miss Mannin is also pretty severe on'
Franco and whoever happens to be
governing France over education; in
1951 “it was estimated that there was
room in available schools for only 7 per
cent, of the Moorish children of school
age,” etc. This is taken from the
appendix on Education. There are also
appendices on The Nationalist Move-
ment, Housing, Labor and Social Con-
ditions, Health, Civil Liberties and
French Reform Proposals.
Bob Bloodwood's Bulls
There is a native tree, the bangaliy,
which is reputed to perish when it comes
into contact with civilisation.; and,
whether or not this legend is true, it
is a fact that something similar happens
to the bush ballad.
Allowing for some inconsistencies, it
is possible to trace the ballad moving
with the kangaroos and the emus in
steady retreat across the continent. When
the convicts and first immigrants landed
it flourished in Sydney and forty miles
out to Emu Plains ; by the time Paterson
came along it had shifted to YaSs and
the Monaro; and today it is making
a last stand with W. E. Harney in the
Northern Territory, and, as The Scrub
Bull and Other Verses indicates, with
“Bob Bloodwood” (R. C. Pearce) away
up at Hughenden in Queensland.
Most of Bob Bloodwood’s verses
(printed in the present book by Willmetts,
Townsville) have appeared in the “North
Queensland Register,” where he runs the
“Open Road” feature which replaced the
“On the Track” of “Bill Bowyang,” a
notable collector of old songs and ballads.
Bob Bloodwood’s verses are in some
respects typical of the ballad in its latter-
day decline, more often evoking the spirit
of old days and old places than telling a
living story as the best Australian ballads
did from “The Wild Colonial Boy” to
“The Man from Snowy River.” His
technique, too, is pretty rough, with a
few green leaves amongst a lot of dead
wood.
Yet the verses are, in their way,
authentic balladry, fulfilling a local need
to see historic places, epic deeds and
notable characters put into verse, and
they carry the ballad tradition directly
into modern times with the arrival of
Qantas and the Flying Doctor. One of
the best of the evocations of the past
deals with the opal-fields, a subject by-
passed by most of the earlier balladists;
Never to the town of Winton come the
opal men again,
No more they camp around Kynuna or go
riding down the Mayne;
Opal town seems dead forever and no
longer diggers seek
Glowing gems at Eromanga, boulder opal
at Duck’s Creek.
There were some who rod e past Jundah
some rode westward from the ’Reach
Some down roads of “Come-back-Never”’
i e f t their whitened bones to bleach
“A Hughenden Reverie” is another ballad
Wlt u ,™ lo u • ~f r nanaa
place-names' ands rrL dL St ' mn *
P lace ™mes and stirring deeds:
dm Adelaide ’ down that lon s
Christenson and black boy often took a
_ thousand fats for sale;
• trough spreading plains and timbered
•"*’ sandhills scant of grass,
The prying eyes of wild black men watched
Queensland shorthorns pass.
£ nd amongst the half-dozen or so ballads
that do get aroun( j to telling a storv “The
Gypsy Queen ., js an inter | sti J’ d Ihe _
to-date noldfiplds vnm d ■
not a" bad
“R n i| s n p e nf , p „, Q) . » ana
fisht-hearted reolv to Rob ri'a^ 0 b % a
?f? neaite<l to Bob Bloodwood’s
J e %> w -Q?f nsland rh y mer > Lex Me-
istnTxcelleTl n° £ . 1,18
them in the stockvard ° me &nd
P " tbem m the stockyard ’
Reviewed Briefly
London A to Z: John Metcalf, illus-
trated by Edward Bawden (Deutsch)
Alphabetical list of what to see and
where it is, from the art galleries to the
zoo, including tailors, fashionable shops
restaurants and nightclubs, sports-
meetings and theatres. Should be useful
for Coronation visitors, if they haven’t
all sailed by now.
* * * *
Simple Heraldry : lain Moncrieffe and
Don Pottinger (Nelson). A brightly-
illustrated volume expounding coats-of-
arms, badges, flags, etc.,; their origin,
composition and meaning. Such extra-
ordinary terms as “tierced in pairle re-
versed" or “a fess danoetty” are made
astonishingly comprehensible.
* * * *
Lawnswood Chronicles: David Gun-
ston (Dent) Life in the English country-
side described in pleasant style and with
interesting nature-notes by the founder-
editor Of “Country Journal.” It con-
tains a remarkable assemblage of village
place-names, including Blindgrooms,
Frogs, Rumwood, Fowihall, Cookworthy
Buddie, Zeal Monarchorum, Broadwood-
widger, Twigbear, Lower Eggbeer,
Mudsea, Sewers End, Mucking, Ugley,
Shallow Bowels, Twitty Fee, Great Gib-
cracks and Bugthorpe.
* * t #
Rumors of Wars: A. J. P. Taylor
(Hamish Hamilton). Mr. Taylor, who
is a Fellow of Magdalen College, surveys
British foreign policy in relation to
world events, particularly in Europe and
the Middle East; dealing with the
Crimean War, the Boer War, the Fashoda
Incident, Bismarck, Munich, Hitler, etc.,
leading to an examination of Soviet
policy prior to the death of Stalin, which
he sees as based rather on fear than
aggressive imperialism. His own out-
look is democratic and dispassionate;
lis knowledge intimate and far-reaching;
his style sober and clear.
t- * * *
The Faith and Practice of Al-Ghazali:
W. Montgomery Watt (Allen and
Unwin). Mr. Watt is senior lecturer in
Arabic at the University of Edinburgh
and has here translated two works by
Al-Ghazali, his “spiritual autobiography”
and a set of rules for conduct which
cover human behavior in surprising
detail, from backbiting and wrangling to
washing the beard. He was one of the
great Muslim theologians, living from
1058 to 1111, and gave up his position
in the university at Baghdad to overcome
his religious doubts by a study of Sufi
mysticism.
* * * *
No Wind of Blame: Georgette Heyer
(Heinemann). Heinemann are reprinting
nine of Miss Heyer’s detective-stories, the
first three being They Found Him Dead,
Death in the Stocks and No Wind of
Blame. This last is a fair sample of Miss
Heyer’s achievement in the genre. She
belongs to the “House Party” school of
detective fiction. In this book the corpse
is that of the dishonest, ineffectual hus-
band of a wealthy, elderly ex-actress,
Ermyntrude. The murderer employs a
most ingenious mechanism to fire the
fatal shot. Under suspicion are various
neighbors, pleasant and unpleasant, the
murdered man’s closest friend, and mem-
bers of his household, including a visiting
pseudo Russian Prince. The writing is
lightly snobbish but quite amusing.


g
Straight from the lamb’s back:
Our Snowboot’s fleecy lining
This is our lamb. He’s the most go-ahead little lamb in the world, for his woolly fleeces
line the warmest boots in the world . . . our very own Snowboots ! Naturally his fleece
is white as snow . . • but a bright, glowing 90 deg.
warmer ! ! He snuggles closely to your feet
V gaji (right to the ankle) in the most blizzardly weather. But
because he’s a fleecy lamb, your feet have space to breathe, to move,
relax. The boots he lines are hide leathers in zippei- and lace-up styles.
Whether you’re relaxing about the home, a busy doctor, a shift worker,
you’ll warm to our lamb ! I
a TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
iiithony Horderns.
is:::?!
m
£
7.
;;U|
wm
m
I
1
A. Tan Hide Boots, lace-up style, wool lined.
Stoutly sewn leather soles. In full and half
sizes. Ideal for motor car drivers. 72/6.
B. Our Zipper Boot of tan hide is fleecy lined;
has extra stout flex soles. In full and half
sizes. For business or professional men. 77/-.
G. The Zipper Slipper js_our idea of a lazy
life. Lambswool'lined every pair. In full and
half sizes. Only 49/6. Ideal for father.
D. Zipper Slipper Boots of tan calf are
woo Mined; have comfy flex sewn soles. Full,
and half sizes. 55/6. Lounge in comfort.
F. Lambskin Slipper Boots, Brown Suede,
are lined with wool; have pump leather
soles. Full and half sizes. 69/6.
G. Felt Check Boots, with feather'foam
rubber soles and heels. Sizes s'lo. 31/6.
Also stocked in Albert Slippers, 26/-.
■0 ■ J
G
M
I
m
I A
m
m
Special shopping conveniences
for our city 9 suburban 9 country readers
Have you heard of T.0.P.5.?
Our new Telephone Order and Personal Shopping
Service. ’Phone M 2401 and anything you order
will be delivered to your door (in metropolitan
area). Good idea . . . why not order these
boots through T.0.P.5.?
Our Prompt Mail Order Service.
For years our friends in the' country have re*
marked on our prompt mail order system. If you
haven’t realised you can shop this easy way m
our store, why not do so. Order any one of
these boots by mail to-day !!
< :;'V4|yS
SHOES,
GEORGE STREET FLOOR. TELEPHONE T.0.P.5., M 2401. MAH. ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY


Confined, Cramped and World Famed
Museum That Outgrew Itself
By STEPHEN KELEN
IN a drab setting of market-places,
foodstores and -freezers, in Sydney’s
Ultimo, stands one of the world’s
most outstanding institutions of its
valuable kind—the Museum of Applied
Arts and Sciences.
Certainly, as museums go, it is an
unusual institution, if not, in its way,
unique. Instead of the aloof, impersonal
role of most museums, concentrating on
exhibitions and scientific research work,
it actively participates and helps in Aus-
tralia’s progress.
Renowned for its botanic-chemical
investigations into the oil-yielding flora
of Australia, it has played an important
part in the establishment of the eucalyp-
tus, tea-treei-oil, synthetic-thymol,
menthol and modem-disinfectant indus-
tries on sound scientific lines. By 60
years of uninterrupted effort, although
chequered by two wars and a depression,
it has managed to bring the products of
the Australian bush not only into our
own but also into the international in-
dustrial limelight.
Since the 1920’s the Museum has
earned, at a rough estimate, £22 million
in “soft” and “hard” currency for Aus-
tralia. Industrial chemists, both in Aus-
tralia and abroad,, are quick to take
advantage of the information published
by its research staff.
This information-service received its
greatest impetus during the depression
years of the early 1930’5. It helped many
unemployed people to earn some kind of
a living, by exploitation of natural pro-
ducts, recovering waste materials, or im-
proving and developing new processes
of chemical manufacture. The service,
in fact, reflects our changing economic
and social conditions, for immediately
there is a business recession inquiries in-
crease markedly.
Besides illustrating, too, the industrial
advance of civilisation, the development
of inventions and methods of manufac-
ture, showing every stage from the raw
product to the finished article, with
prominence given to those representative
of Australian industry, the Museum
promotes craftsmanship and artistic taste
by illustrating the history and develop-
ment of the applied arts of all nations
through the ages.
The varied collection of exhibits has
something for ail tastes. For the tech-
nical-minded there is one of the earliest
jet-engines, presented by the inventor,
Sir Frank Whittle. Those interested in
astronomy have a Spitz planetarium, a
fascinating and intriguing device for im-
parting the facts of elementary
astronomy to the layman.
Relics of recent transport are placed
at some of the main “thoroughfares” in
the Museum. Now the trustees con-
template getting together their famous
collection of early transport, including
Steam Tram Loco No. lA, and the first
Australian railway-carriage. Recently,
they acquired one of the first of the
horse-drawn trams that lumbered through
Sydney streets.
Budding alchemists can feast their
eyes on a large display of synthetic gem-
stones. Also, the Museum has the most
complete collection of musical-boxes
ever gathered together, including the
“bird organ,” a rare musical instrument
of its particular kind. Miniatures and
large drawing-room models mingle
together, among them the once-famed
“Polyphon,” which operated in hotels
and music-halls around the 1880’s—-
actually the forerunner of the modem
“juke-box.”
If you prefer to think that this is not
the Atomic but the Plastic Age, again
the Museum will give you complete
satisfaction, because it possesses the most
comprehensive collection of plastics one
can find in any museum in the world.
Oriental ivory and woodcarving,
embroideries with fairytale-like quali-
ties, give an added color to the exhibits,
either belonging to the Museum or on
loan as “guest items.” The star attrac-
, tion among the “guests” this year will
be the Joseph Box collection of
antique boots and shoes, dating from
the Tudor to the Victorian period, made
by shoemakers to the royal houses of
Europe. There is an interesting pair of
shoes said to have been worn by Queen
Elizabeth I.
Although every inch of the Museum’
suitable floor- and wall-space is we]
used to display the maximum numbe
of exhibits in a clear and apt manner
it is quite impossible to show the col
lections to the best advantage. Thi
whole institution cries out for a large
modem building in a more centrally
located part of Sydney.
Nevertheless “spatial disabilities’
have never dampened the enthusiasm o
director A. R. Penfold and his staff
After his return in 1939 from an exten-
sive visit to England, Europe and
America, the director commenced to
modernise the Museum with new types
of showcases and advanced exhibition
techniques (the Museum was the first to
introduce fluorescent lighting in Aus-
tralia).
Mr. Penfold, slim, ascetic-looking and
very active, is a firm believer in the
“education of adults through children’s
enthusiasm.”
“The policy of the Museum during
the past 10 years has been to cater more
and more for the youth of the com-
munity,” he says. “We have found that
once children become interested in ex-
hibits, the parents invariably follow.
That’s why we are presenting all prob-
lems and facts of modem science in
their simplest form.”
That has included the setting-up of
working models which can be operated
by the visitor, the introduction of color
transparencies arnd the preparation of
informative but concise labels. Mr.
Penfold, proud (with good reason) of the
achievements of his Museum, was
jubilant when the deputy-director, Mr.
F. R. Morrison, received an invitation as
“Australia’s participant” to the
U.N.E.S.C.O. International Seminar,
attended by the representatives of 45
nations, to speak on the role of museums
in education.
Right from its beginnings (in 1880)
this remarkable Museum was intended to
be an “all-rounder” in the sphere of
cultural activities. Originally called the
Technological, Industrial and Sanitary
Museum of New South Wales, it was to
fulfil the same purpose in the then colony
as the South Kensington, the Bethnal
Green and Patent Office Museums, the
Museum of Practical Geology and the
Next Week
“A Flying Fragment”
by ‘'Freddie”
Short story of Australian airforce-
men in the Middle East; one of
the most accurate and brilliant
studies written of them.
Parkes Museum of Hygiene together did
in London. Later, its conglomeration of
names was simplified into the Techno-
logical Museum of Sydney; it received
its final title on July 1, 1946.
The original collections were housed
in the Garden Palace in the Domain,
and were wholly destroyed in the great
fire of September, 1882. The nucleus
of another collection was immediately
formed, and found a temporary home in
a galvanised-iron structure behind the
present site of Sydney Hospital. There
it remained for a year, when the present
building in Ultimo was opened.
With the vast number of items added
to its collections and the great increase
in its activities since then, the Museum
has far outgrown that building, which
was once considered lavish and imposing.
Bus-stop Babble
1 1 f- HE bus is a long time com-
I ing, isn’t it?”
I . “Yes, I’ve been wait-
ing here over ten minutes.”
“Fancy! I noticed you here when
I came. They never seem to be on
time these days. And they don’t
seem to care, either.”
“I suppose it’s because they waste
so much time stopping to pick up
passengers. Why, only the other day
I was waiting here and one sailed
straight past! He must have seen
me waiting. I was standing talking
to a friend and I just looked up as
the bus shot past, going at an awful
pace. I waved, but he just ignored
me. I mean, even if he didn’t see
me the conductress must have. But
you know what they are!”
“Don’t I know! My husband has
a friend in the golf club, and he has
a sister-in-law whbse husband’s a
tram-driver, and according to what
he says there are great goings-on off
duty. Why, I’ve seen them myself
at the terminus laughing-—you can’t
tell me it’s all just about official
things, either. I know some of them
are nothing more than home-
wreckers! And you know how sus-
ceptible men are.”
“I’ll say! You can’t trust any of
them out of your sight. My husband
is always anxious to get out every
Saturday afternoon. Says he goes
to the football, but you never know
when they’re telling you the truth.”
“Husbands are selfish. Mine is
never satisfied unless he’s down in
the garage every night making some-
thing for the house. I want to sit
and talk about interesting things—
what happened in the street during
the day, bits of gossip, and ; all that,
but he prefers his saws and liis planes
to his wife’s company. They all
get like that after they’ve been
married a few years.”
“My husband’s like that, too, only
in a different way. Selfish, of course,
like all of them. When we go to the
pictures—l only go for his sake, I’d
just as soon be home in bed—he will
buy chocolates, and he knows they
make me fat, and that I’ve got to eat
some to be sociable. But he doesn’t
have the job of letting my dresses
out when they get too small for
me.”
“Well, you’re lucky—at least you
can get him to go out. My husband’s
got to be dragged out. Every week-
end he’s stuck at his garden,”
“Well, I suppose that’s better than
having a lazy husband like mine. If
anything has to be done around the
place I’ve got to do it—-he couldn’t
drive a nail in. If he isn’t sitting
playing with the dog he’s out for a
walk with it. A thing like that does
get on a woman’s nerves.”
“Oh, my Alf is useful enough
around the place—outside. But
inside he’s absolutely hopeless—if I
was sick he couldn’t boil himself an
egg! But what annoys me most is
when we do go to someone’s place
he’ll never sit and talk about people
—it’s always on things. We were
over at my sister’s last'Sunday and
no sooner is he back than he’s draw-
ing a plan to enlarge our linen-press.
It is too small, I know, but he doesn’t
think of the mess I’ll have to put up
with while it’s going on. All he is
thinking of is the pleasure he’ll get
out of making it.”
“I thought you said you couldn’t
get him away from his garden?”
“Oh, he doesn’t mind going over
to his brother-in-law’s — he’s as silly
about tools and all that as Alf. By
the way, what did you say your
name was?”
“Mrs. Warby. I live in that cream
place in Chester-road.”
“Mine’s Mrs. Spowter. Pleased to
meet you, Mrs. Warby. I live in
Paspalum-avenue. I think I’ve heard
your name somewhere.”
“We only moved here about a
month ago.”
“Oh, we’ve been here for years.
My husband and I built when we
were first married. We have the
place nearly paid off now.”
“You are lucky. My husband says
well never pay ours off—we had to
borrow nearly three thousand. But
I’m not worrying if we never do.
It’ll be the kids’ some day, and they
can finish paying it off. After all,
they’ll have more than I did when I
started off.”
“Well, at least all your stuff’s
new. We’ve been married long
enough to have the floor-coverings
and furnishings starting to go, and I
don’t know how ever we’re going to
replace them. Alf’s got an insurance
policy for five hundred pounds
falling due next year, but he wants
to buy a new car. By the way, what
did you say your first name was,
Mrs. —er?”— —
“Joan.”
“Mine’s Daphne. I hate formali-
ties, don’t you?”
“Yes, it’s so much friendlier. My
husband doesn’t believe in insurance.
He likes to see the money in the
bank. We’ve only got a few hun-
dred, and we wouldn’t have had that
only for his Aunt Maggie dying last
year—she had an awful death, I
believe. The doctors said it was a
very rare disease. You do hear of
some awful things, don’t you? She
left him two hundred and fifty
pounds. She was pretty miserable —
had tons of money, but she left most
of it to her family. Some people are
selfish, aren’t they?”
“Just like Alf’s Uncle Herb. He’s
rolling in cash, but we never see any
of it. He knows where to come when
he wants a free feed, though! You
must come round and see me one
day/Joan.”
“Thanks, Daph. Oh, here’s the
bus. Are you going into town?”
“Yes, I saw they’re advertising
some jacket-suits for only eight
guineas.”
“I’m after one myself. Hope the
o.s. sizes haven’t all gone by the time
we get there.”
“You know that cream place that
was sold in Chester-road, Alf?”
“Uh-huh.”
“Well, I went into town today on
the bus with the woman who bought
it —Mrs. Warby.”
“Uh-huh.”
“I never heard a woman run down
her husband like she did. And she’s
one of those who tells you all her
business after she’s known you five
minutes. Migod, I wouldn’t have
her in my place!”
Bo.
JACKO
IT was to fulfil a promise made to the
little boy next door, who was an
invalid, that I bought Jacko for
an old white jacket and a second-
hand singlet in Freetown, West Africa.
So human, in many ways a monkey is
a better pet than a dog, and on the home-
ward voyage I became greatly attached
to the little fellow.
When the weather grew cold I made
a coat for him out of an old sock, fed
him on warm milk laced with rum, and
gave him the run of my cabin. He loved
to snuggle under my coat and would even
work his way under my shirt for greatei
warmth.
It was here he lay, snug as a bug
in a rug, when I walked off the ship at
London’s King George V dock. At
Euston station I bought my ticket,
boarded the train and set my luggage
down in a comer of the corridor. For
I knew what Jacko would do if he
surfaced in a compartment full of people.
The train started. I felt the little bloke
stir. Soon he worked his head out of
my shirt, his curiosity aroused by the
noise. When he saw the flashing scene
outside, he struggled out completely,
chattering with fright.
He was perched on my head —a
favorite spot—when a small boy passed
down the corridor. After that —Bedlam!
Before long the narrow passageway was
jammed with a milling mob of children.
The ticket-collector threatened to have
me put off the train.
But it was all worth while when I saw
the unbelieving eyes of the folks at home.
And the little boy couldn’t have been
more pleased if I had brought back the
Cullinan diamond.
My big mistake was to promise to
bring him back a kangaroo from Aus-
tralia on my next trip. When I reached
Sydney it seemed easier to stay in Aus-
tralia than to face a train journey with
a kangaroo. I’m still here.
TARP.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 27, 1953
Vol 74—No. 3824
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington,
GOLD-DIGGERS AT CANBERRA
The State Premiers held an informal meeting before
the formal assembly of the Loan Council in Canberra.
They were in a slightly more modest mood than last
year, and decided to ask the Commonwealth—that is,
the taxpayers —to let them have £316 million in loans
for works instead of the £360 million which they
demanded last time. The total borrowing programme
would, under their scheme, come to £440 million,
everything included —£267 million for State pro-
grammes, £5O million for housing advances, plus
£123 million for local-authority programmes.
Actually they got £lB5 million last year for State
programmes, including subscriptions to public loans,
and they knew that they had not the slightest hope
of getting much more this time. But there is a
Federal election coming off in 1954, and, strangely
enough, the State “Labor” parties are—by their plat-
forms—unificationist followers of Dr. Evatt, and are
all out in the hunt to run-down the Menzies Govern-
ment.
Having thrown the socialisation objective over-
board, the party has nothing now to fight for except
a sympathy vote against the Commonwealth Adminis-
tration, It hopes to win by making State issues Federal
ones and throwing the blame for everything which
irritates the electors in State Administration on to Mr.
Menzies’s shoulders. The country for the next year
will be full of demagogues wailing for the poor
che-ild deprived of its education by the brutal scrimp-
ing Fadden, for the unfinished hospitals and the
McGirr and Cahill foundation-stones left open to the
weather instead of being clothed in brick and stone by
courtesy of the Federal Treasury.
To complete the political set-up of demands which
the State Treasurers decided to make, Mr. Heffron
(his leader having gone to the Coronation) asked
that not only should the loan allocation be increased
by 100 per cent, over last year’s, but that the Com-
monwealth should reduce taxation by 20 per cent,
and £lOO million next year to stimulate loan invest-
ment by the public—of course for the benefit of the
States.
Mr. Heffron already had been told, with the rest
of the public, that there will be a substantial tax-
reduction when the Budget comes down. Few people
expect it to be as much a» 20 per cent., even under
the present revenue-buoyancy, since that would amount
to half the cost of defence and more than half the cost
of social services. And that, of course, is the reason
why Mr. Heffron called for 20 per cent,, because he
wishes to demonstrate to the voters that “Labor” is
more generous with other people’s money than the
miser Menzies.
The apt comment on his appeal came from Mr.
Eric Harrison, who pointed out that the best
incentive to loan-investment would be for the State
Governments, and particularly N. S. Wales, to do
something to inspire confidence in lenders. The
dilapidation of the railways, the indiscipline of the
staffs in all transport, the electricity commissions
and the huge squandering public utilities, half-baked
in conception and wickedly wanton in expenditure,
are enough to frighten investors out of their wits.
Treasurer Fadden’s answer to the intimidation
and threats of his suppliants was that the Common-
wealth would not go beyond a programme of £2OO
million for State works in 1953-54—half from loan-
raising and half from Commonwealth contribution.
The purely party and electioneering nature of
the demands of the Premiers was shown by the fact
that when they eventually voted themselves £231
million in defiance of the Federal Treasurer’s renewed
declaration that only £2OO million would be forth-
coming outside £75 million for semi-governmental
authorities and £l5 million for local authorities. South
Australia voted against the proposal with the Com-
monwealth.
If any special consideration is due to a State it
is to South Australia, whose enterprises are well and
economically managed and making real progress ; and
if it is not due to any State that State is N. S. Wales,
which never finishes anything and which is blatantly
political in all its “business undertakings.” N. S. Wales
is fond of the word “long-term,” and how long-term its
actions are!
There should be no need for State housing at
the present juncture. It is entirely uneconomic, and
private enterprise could make better use of the money
and materials and produce results quicker if given a
IN FOR THEIR CUT
real chance. It certainly would not embark on white-
elephant schemes like Mr. Clive Evatt’s huge
socialised barrack at North Sydney.
The excuse for State demands for increased
millions this year is, as voiced by Mr. Heffron, “higher
wages in all undertakings.” But this is a development
which is used one-sidedly and is not cited by the same
demagogues when they are lambasting the Common-
wealth Government for not reducing taxation. Neither,
at any stage, does any State Premier mention, even
in a whisper, the effects of the 40-hour week, the
increasing go-slow and the general demoralisation and
slatternliness in some of the State services.
Mr. Fadden is to be congratulated on his
refusal to be bullied or frightened into yielding to the
jackal tactics of his assailants. As it is, the States
have a record allocation, and he is obviously deter-
mined that his Budget is to be a peoples’ Budget and
that he is going to the electors next year with clean
hands and a clear conscience as custodian of the
Commonwealth finances.
What Freedoms?
The Evatt scheme to use the unemployment bogy in
order to climb to power, first in the Senate and then
in the House of Representatives, having for the
moment been defeated by the sanity of Queensland
electors, it is the right time to consider its basis. It
can hardly be denied that the whole plan is founded
on fear. All the hysterical talk of large-scale unem-
ployment when, with the exception of the abnormal
postwar years of overfull-employment,-the number of
persons actually looking for jobs has never been so
low in the history of the country has only one object
to win a way to power by capitalising fear.
The tactics are to play upon a fear of unemploy-
ment; to evoke memories of the 1930 depression and
to arouse fears of its repetition; to create uncertainty
as to the future, with corresponding fears of it. These
fears, it is hoped, will induce the people to turn to
Evatt and “Labor.”
The theme goes something like this: Unemploy-
ment is mounting and will soon be uncontrollable-
except by “Labor.” Inflation is galloping and cannot
be stopped—except by “Labor.” Depression is almost
here and cannot be stopped—except by “Labor.”
,
Repeated often enough, this sort of talk tends to
create fear and uncertainty and to bring about the
very conditions it professes to deplore. And, fear being
aroused, the remedy, according to the Evatt formula,
is simple: Put “Labor” into power and your fears are
gone and your worries are over. You’ll have full
employment; “Labor” will insist on it. Trust in
good Dr. Evatt and you’ll have no more worries, no
financial troubles. These last, of course, are non-
existent anyhow, being man-made by interested
parties with a view to personal gain. “Labor” will
insist on ending them. Under good Dr. Evatt you’ll
have higher wages, lower taxes, higher living stand-
ards, cheaper goods. “Labor” will see that you are
properly housed, that yOUr living-COStS are kept down
hv nrice-control and that vnn are oivpn con’al connritv
oy price control, ana max you are given social security.
This security is the bait. It is also the danger,
for the offer is really one of mass-security in exchange
for individual freedom. Most people desire security;
the danger is that many, through ignorance, short-
sightedness or mental laziness, are willing to barter
freedom for it. Dictatorships thrive on mental lazi-
ness—on masses eager to follow a leader in order to
avoid having to make decisions for themselves. This
is largely the story of the rise of Fascism and Nazism,
systems which, although in a sense foisted on the
people, could never have succeeded in a self-reliant
community instinct with a love of freedom and jealous
of its liberties. There is full employment behind the
Iron Curtain, and there is security, of a kind, too. Both
these conditions are also provided in the average jail.
Human progress is not a story of led men seeking
security but of free men seeking change and improve-
ment ; it is due to the achievements not of com-
munities isolated against risk but of individuals facing
risks, even seeking them and overcoming them. The
Security State, if attainable at all, can only be achieved
at the cost of all the personal liberties that entitle
man to think of himself as a creaure of free will, and,
however desirable it may seem to shortsighted humani-
tarians and woolly-headed Socialists, its attainment
must mean first the end of all progress, then stagnation,
then decay.
Australians are not by nature good material for
a dictatorship Of the personal kind, but the trend of
the last twelve months suggests that they might easily
be hoodwinked into yielding up their freedom to a
party dictatorship which concealed its true objective
until it was too late for a change of course. It is not
as though the overwhelming mass of the people would
have to be won over to vote for the New Evattian
Order. All that is necessary is to sway the relatively
small section known as the swinging vote, which con-
sists largely of small shopkeepers and tradespeople,
owners of small businesses, small farmers, white-
collar-workers and junior executives —the very people
who would have most to lose under a system which,
if the present attitude of its advocates is any guide,
regards the unskilled laborer as the only real worker
in the community.
“Labor’s” objective, at present for tactical rea-
sons pushed into the background, is still socialisation,
and Australians who value their freedoms should never
lose sight of this. Socialism, for all its fine talk of
equality and social justice, means in practice the despot-
ism of bureaucracy. We had a taste of this during
the war under manpower regulations with their “I-
could-send-you-to-Bourke” practitioners, which, if Dr.
Evatt had had his way, would have become a perman-
ent feature of our society, along with rationing, per-
mits, restrictions on travel —all no doubt justifiable
in terms of full war-effort; all abhorrent to a free
people in peace-time, though a permanent and inescap-
able feature of life under Socialism.
The men who run the “Labor” party never lose
sight of their ultimate goal —socialisation —although
they may for temporary purposes of policy give the
impression of not only having lost sight of it but of
deliberately turning their backs on it. Dr. Evatt’s
current pose is that socialisation is a dead letter since
the Privy Council’s verdict in the banks case. His
henchmen, Ward, Calwell and Cameron, hold a differ-
ent view—or perhaps it is merely that they are less
guarded in their speech. Evatt was not always so
cautious. In 1944 he told the Institute of Political
Science;
The taking-away of the right of the individual to
choose his own vocation and employer is only one of
the freedoms which the Australian people must forgo
in the interests of the State.
Only one of the freedoms? In the next twelve
months the “Labor” leader will have plenty of time
to explain to the Australian people what other freedoms
he expects them to give up in return for the security
his beneficent rule will bring them.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bermuda Conference
Whether the Western “Big Three” meet-
ing to take place on June 15 will achieve
any results remains to be seen. There
have been so many Big Three and Little
Three meetings in the last few years that
the world of ordinary men is becoming
a trifle sceptical about them as a method
of “achieving a common viewpoint
so that the cause of world peace may be
advanced.”
If it is necessary to achieve a common
viewpoint among three Great Powers
after the United Nations Organisation
has been in existence for nearly a decade
and after Nato has developed its com-
mon measures to the point at which it is
said that the West need no longer fear
surprise by Russia there seems to be
something radically wrong with past
technique.
The conference is supposed to be
designed mainly to define a concerted
attitude on questions to be discussed with
the Soviet Union, and is made on
General Eisenhower’s initiative, and, of
course, will be subject to all the incon-
veniences which such conferences are
subject. The Dominions will not be
represented. Communist China, Japan,
Italy and Germany will have no part in
the arrangements. And the French Gov-
ernment —whatever French Government
may be in power when the conference
takes place on June 15 —will be in such
an unstable position that it will have a
little trouble in giving guarantees about
its country’s attitude.
In the past this type of conference has
usually been productive of strife and
further distrust, or of dangerous con-
cessions, or, as in the case of the Atlantic
Charter conference, of idealistic schemes
which prove incapable of realisation
when attempts are made to give them
substance.
Already the Press and radio uncles are
shouting to General Eisenhower that he
must “keep on being tough,” and every
demagogue, particularly in the United
States, is teaching the delegates their
duty. The advocates of toughness are
mainly the same people who eight years
ago could see nothing bad in Russia and
who were persecuting everybody who
showed the slightest inclination to diverge
from their points of view.
Russia welcomes, or pretends to wel-
come, Mr. Churchill’s olive-branches, but
professes to be repelled by the idea of
the preliminary conference, which its
official organ “Pravda” describes as “this
new plot.” And Moscow remarks on the
absence of reference in Mr. Churchill’s
speech to the need for a unified Germany
as “prerequisite to the security of Europe
and the whole world.”
There seems little chance that Russia,
which could certainly settle the German
and Austrian peace treaties, not to men-
tion its Japanese peace treaty, if it wanted
to, is in earnest in its overtures of the
past two months. And conferences by
the Western Allies in the limelight will
not help very much in something about
which only time will tell. Mr. Churchill
merely made it clear that Russian
approaches should be treated on their
merits, and the barrage of vituperation ,
which this produced from an excitable
American Press and Congress was
scarcely calculated to encourage the
Russians if they are genuinely beginning
to show a change of heart. The initiative
might well be left with them.
Two Thousand Million
In the seven years which will end on
June 30 next Australia will have got
from wool the colossal sum of £2047
million. This season’s cheque is esti-
mated at £374 million, £66 million more
than last season’s. Though there has
been a come-down from the boom
cheque of £636 million in 1950-51, sub-
sequent cheques have been well above
the pre-1951 figures, and immediate
future prospects show no signs of slump.
It’s worth noting that the thumping
boom figure started an outbreak of
synthetic-fibre publicity, accompanied by
the usual alarming larticles about the
threat to wool.” As the Winchcombe,
Carson people remark in their annual
review, wool, cotton and silk have sur-
vived more than 30 years’ increasing
output of substitutes. Where wool prices
have fluctuated it has been always due
to the ebb and flow of world economics,
never to any displacement of wool by
synthetics. In fact, wool sits on its base
of world appreciation and demand,
whereas the battle for-markets is among
the artificials themselves, each new one
being a competitor of old ones rather
than a competitor of wool.
AH the same, the wool industry can’t
sit still and laugh at the artificials. It
has to increase production, keep costs
down and improve both the quality of
raw wool and of woollen textiles. Human
population is increasing at such a rate
that it seems there never will be enough
wool to go round, no matter how great
the increase of sheep. This is especially
true of Merino wool. There, perhaps,
lies the real threat, for if 100,000 people
want wool and there is enough for only
10,000 of them, the price must rise and
wool become a luxury instead of an
essential. Winchcombe, Carson state
that whereas world population has in-
creased 10 p.c. in a decade, wool produc-
tion is up only 5 p.c. on 1934-38 figures,
and Merino-wool production is down
11 p.c.
Few Australians above the age of 20
can be entirely ignorant of the effect of
wool on their lives. They will be a lot
less ignorant if ever a severe drought or
a world economic slump—or both to-
gether, since it usually happens that way
—cut a big hole in the wool cheque, and
economists and politicians tell them the
truth.
For it is not on Liberal or “Labor”
policy that full employment, social ser-
vices, short hours and all the rest of it
depends, but on the state of the wool-
market and on the animal which, over
the weekend, was the central figure of
the Sydney sheep-show and sales.
Far fewer people went to the Show-
ground to look at the source of their
welfare than went to the football match
next door. They are not to be
blamed for that, since even the best of
sheep is nothing much to look at by
ordinary eyes. But though there’s no-
thing spectacular about a sheep, there’s
something spectacular about £2047 mil-
lion. Which at least makes the sheep
worth thinking about.
Uncertainty in Egypt
British authorities are preparing for
the worst in Egypt. Life there has been
far from pleasant for British subjects.
Schoolchildren in the Canal Zone have
had armed escorts to school, and, despite
the denials of the Egyptian Government,
there is no doubt about the number of
outrages which have taken place there.
All forces are alerted.
Between April 1 and May 13 there were
15 armed hold-ups, 34 cases of vehicle-
stealing, 12 attempts to break into Army
buildings, numerous assaults on vehicles,
and no fewer than 18 assaults on dis-
mounted soldiers and civilians. These
incidents resulted in the deaths of 12
persons, British and Egyptian. The
Egyptian population is being continu-
ally incited by false reports, which are
given official currency, of outrages on
locals —such as the completely ground-
less one circulated last week that British
troops had attacked a railway-station
near Tel-el-Kebir and abducted the
stationmaster and his assistant. There
seems to be little doubt that the Egyptian
military have been implicated in some of
the outrages which have taken place, and
that British servicemen go in danger of
their lives if they leave protected areas.
On May 16 an R.A.F. man in plain-
clothes was found at Fayid with a bullet
in his back. And on May 21 a British
soldier was stabbed to death and another
seriously injured in a Port Said street.
On May 20 civilian British subjects
who were not compelled to stay were"
advised by the Embassy to leave Egypt.
British schools are closing, and on Sun-
day special aircraft began the evacuation
of British women and children.
Nevertheless there is a growing hesi-
tancy about the proceedings of the
Egyptian Government. Its spokesmen
maintain a determinedly threatening air.
Their speeches are violent and full of
menaces. But their diction is not so
much an evidence of toughness as of fear,
combined with lack of training in public
good manners.
Their internal situation is uneasy, since
the Egyptian fellahin have not taken
kindly to price-control and compulsory
delivery of produce. The Government
has been faced with shortages in Cairo,
particularly of fruit and vegetables, and
has been compelled to send out military
convoys to forage among producers who
seem to be on strike in bulk. And,
despite the issue of decrees that food
and building materials must not be sup-
plied to the British, supply has continued
according to arrangements between the
British and Egyptian authorities.
Generally speaking, and in the face of
the assurances of Colonel Nasser and
others that the day will shortly arrive
when the British base will be acquired
by force if necessary, there are strong
indications that General Neguib’s hold on
the Government and on public opinion is
pretty precarious.
Anything may happen —except a
British retirement from the Canal Zone.
An Exploded Slogan
Mr. A. E. Monk, president of the
A.C.T.U., has just gone abroad on what
is reported to be his 21st trip overseas,
which must put him right up in the top
bracket of world-travellers. This trip,
like several before it, takes him to a meet-
ing of the International Labor Organisa-
tion at Geneva, thence to Stockholm to a
conference of the International Congress
of Free Trade Unions. Just what the
taxpayer gets in return for his share in
the expenses of such jaunts is not easy to
see, but if travel broadens Albert’s mind
and he passes the benefit of the broaden-
ing on to the A.C.T.U. and through it to
the workers of Australia, then perhaps it
isn’t wasted.
In this connection the A.C.T.U. presi-
dent might find it profitable to have a
chat with his opposite-number in Britain
—Mr. Tom O’Brieh, chairman of the
British Trade Union Cobgress. Speaking
to trade-unionists in Scotland recently,
Mr. O’Brien had something to say about
a slogan that has had wide currency in
Australia and which the A.C.T.U. has
done very little to discourage. He asked
them to drop the catchcry “Don’t work
yourself out of a job,” and to welcome
changes that led to increased efficiency:
There are workers who think of efficiency
as something: to do with the boss, but
nothing to do with themselves. If they
persist in such attitudes for long, then all
they will have to live on will be their
own iUuslons We are the nation —all of
ns. Earning a living for the nation and
higher efficiency go together. These are
not class issues; they are plain, unvar-
nished economic facts.
Those remarks are sound common-
sense of a sort seldom heard from Aus-
tralian trade-union leaders, who tend to
think that their horizon should be limited
to questions of wages and conditions.
Mr. O’Brien continued:
It is reactionary to talk of working one-
self out of a job. If people talk like that
and act on that basis they will be out of a
job all right, because Britain will be out
of a market. Unless we can produce more
goods more cheaply we can say good-
bye to full employment, social security
and the living standard that we have. It
is as simple and as dangerous as that.
A standard of living has got to be earned.
Australia’s position as far as secondary
industry is concerned is somewhat differ-
ent from Britain’s in that it is not de-
pendent on an export market; but Mr.
O’Brien’s remarks apply here with just as
much force. If Mr. Monk and his
A.C.T.U. can convince their members
that improved living standards cannot,
in the long run, be gained by action in
the courts or by strike methods, but are
something that must be earned by in-
creased output, they will have done more
for the trade-union movement and for
Australia than all they have done in the
past.
Using the Roads
The Advisory Council on Transport,
which consists of the Commonwealth and
State Transport Ministers and four other
Federal Ministers, is facing difficulties
which every major country in the world
either dealt with or refused to permit to
grow in the dim decades before World
War 11.
Mr. F. H. Stevens* president of the
Australian Road Transport Federation,
told the council that private organisa-
sations, which could do much to put
carriage of goods and passengers on an
economic basis, were hamstrung and
rendered impotent by controls and that
there was no other civilised country in
the world which does not rely in some
measure on its long-distance road organi-
sations, though Australia still proceeds
according to a horse-and-buggy complex.
He suggested adoption throughout the
Commonwealth of a scheme which would
allow consignors of goods suitable for
road-handling freedom of choice in
deciding whether their products should
travel by road or rail, the establishment
of a minimum-rate structure, of a reason-
able per-ton-mile tax for road main-
tenance, with certain standardisations of
documents and procedure and of vehicle-
design, safety devices and goods-insur-
ance.
Meanwhile the Transport Council is
working on a “rationalisation” plan
“similar to that proposed for the T.A.A.
and A.N.A. services.” A much better
plan would be to introduce a little com-
petition—the kind of thing which gives
the United States its excellent and versa-
tile travel and freight systems at reason-
able cost to the user and avoids load-
ing the shoulders of the taxpayer with
the debts and interest bills and high
freights and fares of the dilapidated, ill-
run systems operated by the States at
present. “Rationalisation” as applied by
Governments always becomes Socialistic
and oppressive. \
Much as the States may kick against
the pricks, large-scale road transport has
arrived to stay, and no persecution or tax
penalties will kill it. Taxes are merely
passed on to the transport-user and
through him to the producer and the
public. The general suppression of free
transport by Governments and the re-
striction of sea and rail transport through
the exactions of seamen and watersiders
and the loaf of Government employees
are hampering rural development and
also cutting a large slice out of the taxa-
tion field.
The United Kingdom is already sorry
that it nationalised its railways. And
Australia will be even sorrier if it does
not recognise the extent to which times
are changing. The new economic con-
ditions are rapidly restricting the coastal
shipping and railways to carriage of bulk
cargoes, leaving the small freight and
perishable packages which it used to be
possible to send by sea or rail to road
transport and the air.
Many country railway-lines could be
scrapped with ultimate profit and tax-
payers relieved of their losses on them.
Bureaus and Minerals
In the words of the Sydney Press, the
Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public
Accounts has “made the major discovery
that £320,000-worth of oil-drilling equip-
ment, bought by the Department of
National Development three years ago,
has been lying idle in store in Mel-
bourne.” Use of the equipment is now
officially considered to be “unecono-
mical.”
This “major discovery” will come
as no surprise to Bulletin readers,
who for years have been kept informed
of the activities of the Bureau of Mineral
Resources, particularly its costly but un-
successful attempts to strike oil. It is
remarkable, however, that the Sunday
Press-—which has copiously reported the
adulations of the several Ministers ulti-
mately responsible for the bureau’s
activities since 1940—should now be-
come strongly critical of the cost of
“National Development” and be asking
whether the Government should buy
or operate oil-drilling equipment, or
otherwise intrude itself into the highly-
specialised and technically-difficult busi-
ness of oil-finding.
In a Cold World
In a city full enough of examples of
another sort, an act of imaginative
charity is always welcome.
For a couple of years an old two-
story house in Macleay-street, Potts
Point (Sydney), carried a “For Sale”
notice. Then it was bought by a Mr.
Yaffe, a retired businessman. Mr. Yaffe
furnished and equipped it and turned it
over to the Salvation Army for 12
months, rent-free, for use as a recrea-
tion and social centre by elderly people
and invalids.
The gayest part of a prosperous city can
be a cold place for some people, lacking
a warm corner of their own. In the area
covered by King’s Cross, Potts Point,
Rushcutter Bay, Elizabeth Bay, Wool-
loomooloo and Paddington there are
many elderly people, living in rooms,
who can be seen on sunny days sitting in
parks ; it is to cater for their needs that
the centre has been opened.
All these people, and others who are
just lonely, are asked to take advantage
of the facilities of the centre, making it,
in fact, a sort of club. Morning- and
afternoon-tea will be served at a nominal
charge (3d.); there will be books, maga-
zines, newspapers; games such as chess.
Separate recreation-rooms for men and
women. And later, it is hoped, concerts
and films. The centre is open every day
of the week from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.
There will be no means-test, or any-
thing calculated to wound the pride of
the people the centre is designed to
attract. It is open to all faiths and
creeds.
The Doyle Inquiry
When Judge Amsberg, who is conduct-
ing the royal commission into the asso-
ciation between Reginald Arthur Doyle
and J. G. Arthur, former N. S. Wales
Minister for Mines, said at one stage of
the proceedings “I am beginning to feel
like the White Queen. I can believe six
impossible things before breakfast,” he
o Continued on page 7)


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
Now, for the first time, j
available in •
COLCHISONE
the sensational new treatment for relief from
GOUT, RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, FIBROSITIS
Don’t be mistaken! It’s 10
to 1 those pains and aches
in joints and limbs from
which you suffer are due to
a “gouty” condition —the
result of urates forming
through excessive uric acid
in the bloodstream.
Generally the symptoms are
first noticeable in your hands
and feet or old injuries to
the joints and, for your own
sake, you must not neglect
these warnings. Unless this
condition is checked, your
elbows, knees, ankles or other
joints will become swollen
and inflamed, you may suffer
unbearable agony and
eventually become crippled
through Rheumatism or other
more drastic complaints.
Colchisone dissolves and eli-
minates the urates and rids
the blood of uric acid, help-
ing to remove the cause of
your trouble. It brings
positive and lasting reliefs
from your chemist
PRICE .. 17/6 small
SO/- large
(including valuable food
chart )
//. you have any difficulty in obtaining supplies 9 write to the Sole Australian Distributors «
Rickard Medical Products Pty,, Ltd., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney, N.B.W.
f
was not speaking literally. The commis-
sion does not sit before breakfast. The
judge’s comment was evoked by Doyle’s
story of his car transactions with Arthur.
Doyle said that in March, 1951, Arthur had
given him a 1946 Buick, “commonly known as
‘a bomb,’ to sell, saying he wanted £l4OO for
it. After having it re-ducoed he had sold xt
for £1250, but concealed the fact from Arthur
until some time later, when he had acquired a
1948 grey Buick, worth £l6OO. He then said
to Arthur, ‘I got rid of the 1946 Buick. You
owe me £5O and you now have a grey Buick,
1948 model.’ ” (When the commissioner asked
whether the figure should not have been £350
instead of £5O, Doyle replied, “He has no
money from any car yet, so he is a long way
behind.”)
Continuing, Doyle said that Arthur never
got the car or the money either, nor did he
ever ask for the car; he saw it only once, and
never drove it. After a few months Doyle had
told Arthur he thought he could get £l4OO for
the grey car; Arthur told him to go ahead
and sell it. All this time he (Doyle) had had
the exclusive use of the car, which bore Arthur s
Ministerial car number, JA999. In February,
1952, he arranged to buy the car himself from
Arthur. He did this by impersonating Arthur,
’phoning the Australian Guarantee Corporation
in his name and asking them to arrange finance
for himself (Doyle). Subsequently he cashed
the cheque for £l4OO purchase-price which
Arthur had asked him to bank for him. When
Arthur found out that he had used the money
for his own purposes he “was not very pleased.”
He threatened to tell Folice-Commissioner Scott,
but then agreed to wait a while. Later Doyle
had paid back half the money, £7OO. It was
when Doyle said that the grey car was originally
under hire-purchase in the name of Leslie
Samuel Cohen, who was in reality himself, that
Judge Amsberg quoted Alice in Wonderland.
Earlier evidence had touched on various
aspects of Doyle’s alleged activities at'Parlia-
ment House. Doyle admitted that for a while
he had more or less used Arthur’s room as a
city office. He had not had Arthur’s permis-
sion to use his room or his ’phone, and Arthur
was not aware that he was doing so. He had
also used Arthur’s typewriter and official
stationery. He admitted he had often opened
Arthur’s safe —“from idle curiosity”—but had
never found anything in it. (An earlier witness,
G. W. Watson, had said that he had seen
Doyle take some forged Placer Development
shares from the safe.)
Questioned about a ’phone-call made from
Arthur’s room by someone claiming to be a
Mr. Allen, of the Department of External
Affairs, Doyle denied that he was the caller.
He believed it was probably Dr. Yost, an
American whom he had introduced to Arthur.
He had had dealings with Yost and Van
Guilder; the arrangement was that he was to
sell cars the two had sent out to persons whose
names he had supplied to them. When trouble
had arisen with the Customs over these cars
Arthur had questioned him and he had told
him that they were gifts from America. Arthur
had believed him.
Doyle refused to admit that the importing
of the cars was a deliberate fraud on the
Customs, but when the commissioner asked:
“Will you agree with me that your dealing in
these motor-cars was simply a racket?” he
replied “Yes.”
Gordon William Watson gave evidence that
he had met Doyle seven times at Parliament
House, five of them in the room of the
Minister for Mines. On one occasion Doyle
took him into room Al4O (Mr. Seiffert’s room).
There was no one in the room; he had handed
£17,000 in notes to Doyle in that room.
Leslie Agar Scarr told of two visits to
Parliament House with Doyle and said that on
both occasions they discussed business in the
room of the Chairman of Committees. The
first time lunch had been brought into them
by “a chap in a white coat”; on the second
visit lunch was already in the room when he
arrived.
George Booth, Chairman of Committees, said
that he had only a casual acquaintance with
Doyle. He had never given him permission
to use his room and when he heard of it it
was the biggest shock of his life.
At an earlier stage of the hearing, after four
special constables had given somewhat varying
assessments of the possibility of a stranger
parking a car in the members’ car reserve,
Judge Amsberg said: “It is rather fortunate
that some of these people were not on duty
when the Mother of Parliaments was attacked
by Guy Fawkes.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Free translation from “Pravda’s” lexi-
con: If Malenkov and Mao confer in
Moscow, that’s just a friendly chat. If
Churchill, Eisenhower and the French
Premier meet in Bermuda, that’s a plot.
• •
Counting in the Senate poll still drags
on. This week should see all the
primaries checked; then the allocation
of preferences will begin. Progress of
the count has not suggested any sur-
prises, but the Government’s chances of
securing the fifth instead of the sixth
seat (which carries only a three-year
term) have increased in Westralia and to
a lesser extent in Tasmania.
• •
What’s wrong with these “Labor”
Governments? After last year’s experi-
ence they ..must have known the pattern
for this year, yet their leaders turned
up at the Loan Council without any list
of priorities and seemingly in the expec-
tation that they would get any fantastic
sum they demanded. Is it that they
banked too heavily on a Senate victory
and expected to be able to threaten
Fadden with the big stick? In that case
it is probable that their plans were made
too soon and there was no time to
change them —or to get new orders.
• •
Deputy-Premier Galvin of Victoria
predicts that as a result of the Common-
wealth refusing to go beyond £2OO mil-
lion for State works “the States and the
Commonwealth will find an army of un-
employed on their hands” and that in
Victoria the Federal Treasury will be
paying out more in unemployment-relief
than it had saved by refusing to accept
the Premiers’ figure. The first part of
the prophecy is a continuation of the
doleful cry “Labor” has been raising all
the year; the second part won’t stand
analysis for one moment.
• •
Most of the “Labor” Deputies echoed
Galvin’s cry of unemployment, but
Liberal McEwin, of South Australia, said
there would be no dismissals in his State,
no curtailment of works in progress and
a start would be made on “the more
urgent new works,”
• •
Argentine is to nationalise “horse-
racing, bookmaking, totalisators and
allied activities.” There’s a lead for
Australian “Labor” politicians. With
jockeys, trainers and bookies as Gov-
ernment servants. Ministers would never
have to go short of the good oil.
• •
Victoria’s' Two-for-one Electoral Re-
distribution Bill got over its final hurdle
last Thursday when the State Full Court
decided unanimously that it was valid
and could be presented for the Royal
Assent. The Country party had appealed
to file court on the ground that the bill
was invalid because it had failed to secure
an absolute majority in the Legislative
Council. The Full Court, in a lengthy
judgment, held that a simple majority
only was necessary. After the judgment
Country-party leader McDonald said
that his party would accept the decision
and would not appeal to the High Court.
• •
“Mr. Menzies deserves hearty con-
gratulations on the statesmanlike manner
in which he has met his country’s prob-
lems He has been making a deter-
mined fight against inflation and has put
in practice imaginative plans for economic
development.” Who said that? New
York “Herald-Tribune.” It probably
explains why the “Labor” party wants
the importation of cheap American litera-
ture banned.
• •
In Melbourne a Parliamentary select
committee is inquiring into the activities
of the Victorian Potato Board. One wit-
ness told it a profound truth when he
said “Blackmarketeers are offered a
millennium on a plate when the officially-
controlled price of potatoes is fixed be-
low the existing economic value.” The
statement, of course, applies not only to
potatoes but to all other things.
• •
Doctors in Manila who have examined
a girl who complains that she is being
bitten by ghosts or evil spirits which
WAN
tfARKET'
THE EXODUS OF THE PARASITES
“And Moses lifted up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock . . ."—Numbers, 20:11.
“Give it a good bash, Artie, and see if you can’t get a bit more out of it."
leave mysterious teeth marks on her neck
have explained this modern “Dracula”
case as an example of “hysterical fugue,
.a nervous disorder.” Could this be what
Bert Evatt has been suffering from in
the past 12 months?
• •
As the law stands in N. S, Wales a
motorist may run out of petrol in a
town 50 miles from home on a Sunday
afternoon and he either has to stay there
till 7 o’clock on Monday morning or
catch a train. Any service-station that
sells him petrol to get home risks prose-
cution.
• •
According to Miss R. Josephson, a
Melbourne woman, “Politicians, after
receiving large salaries for their so-called
services to the community, receive an
automatic pension. Their interests in
sheepfarms and oil companies or their
wives’ interests in frock-shops and
millinery-salons are no bar.” There was
something in the same paper about a
woman flier breaking through the sound-
barrier, but a sort of a kind of
a sinister masculine grin no politician
seems to see any significance in it.
• •
Doyle claims that in using “exclu-
sively” a 1948 Buick he had allegedly
bought for Mines Minister Arthur he
“took full advantage of the privileges
of the Ministerial car-plate”:
I drove it myself and knew I could leave
the car parked anywhere and would not
get booked for parking.
Perhaps this explains what has long been
a mystery to the average Sydney motorist
—why thousands of cars are seen stand-
ing every day in no-parking areas.
Obviously they must all have Ministerial
numbers. Considering the size of the
N. S. Wales Cabinet, it would not be at
all surprising.
• •
On Thursday Mr. Justice Williams,
Acting Chief Justice of the High Court,
on the application of the employers’
representatives in the wages-and-hours
case, issued two orders requiring the
judges of the Arbitration Court to show
cause why they should not “hear and
determine” ‘the case. One order was
addressed to the six judges of the
Full Court and the other to the
five remaining judges who main-
tained they could not proceed with the
case after the withdrawal of Judge Foster.
Proceedings before the Full High Court
were scheduled to open yesterday.
• •
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” puts two and
two together:
The Brisbane City Council has rejected
the lowest tender it received for building
a section of the Tennyson powerhouse by
private contract —£103,200. It has decided
to do the job itself with day labor at an
estimated cost of £117,660 6s, 9d. The
Lord Mayor says that by doing this it may
save the people the profit which would go
to a private contractor.
We have examined Alderman Roberts’s
argument from all angles, and have turned
it upside-down to find the sense of it. It
remains as incomprehensible as some of
the French paintings lately in Brisbane.
Audited and certified as correct.
• •
With the Doc. away at the Coronation
Calwell will be the temporary boss of
Federal “Labor.” It isn’t a thought
calculated to add to Bert’s enjoyment of
the London junketings. He’ll be expect-
ing at any moment to get a cable report-
ing that Arthur has broken out in foot-
in-mouth disease again.
• •
An allegedly “top-secret directive of
the Communist party,” which has come
into the possession of the A.L.P. execu-
tive, is said to contain plans for gaining
control of the “Labor” party by means
of united-front tactics. It warns enthusi-
astic Reds not to resort to abuse and
nagging, but to use patient, persistent,
ceaseless, comradely persuasion. Those
last two words are the important ones.
Wasn’t it “comradely persuasion” that
induced Jan Masaryk to jump out of
the window?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bass”: A Perth magistrate has settled
a legal argument by declaring that two-
up is illegal, A counsel had claimed that
it wasn’t “an unlawful game,” but the
magistrate quoted a legal authority which
said that a game of chance or of mixed
chance was unlawful if the chances were
not alike favorable to all players, in-
cluding the banker. I suspect it was
that bit about the banker which decided
the issue. Fundamentally there’s no
fairer game than two-up. If it’s played
to the rules every player stands equally
to win or lose—except the banker. He
can’t lose and must win. When the Lizzie
took 11,000 men to the Middle East,
three soldiers who’d been acting as
bankers each cabled about £SOO back
home from Colombo.
❖ ❖ *
“Pie-eater”: When marriage drew my
attention to a bicycle’s limitations, I
bought a used tandem, of which I was
assured that the bell was the only non-
working thing on it. Now there are
two —the bell and my wife.
* *> *
“E.S.”; Some months ago a “Society”
scribe told of an Edinburgh hotel-
keeper who left a legacy to 12 teetotal
tailors. He wondered what prompted
the bequest. Asa niece of the testator
I can tell him the whole story. Robert
Cranston in his youth was an intemperate
tailor, but he reformed in middle life
and founded the first temperance hotel
in Scotland—the Waverley—in 1851.
Later, he opened branches in other
Scottish cities. His will, of 25 pages,
is interesting reading. After providing
for relatives and retainers, he left several
annuities, stating
that on the deaths of the beneficiaries these
were to come back into the estate and when
the amount reached six thousand pounds
this was to be divided among twelve poor
deserving operative tailors or widows
of tailors above the age of fifty who are
natives of Edinburgh; declaring that only
those who are and have been total abstainers
during a period of at least three years
immediately prior to their obtaining the
benefit of this bequest, and who have for
a like period been members of and sub-
scribers to the pledge of the Scottish
Temperance League or any other temperance
society recognised by the corporation;
declaring that a preference may be given
to those applicants who bear the name
of Cranston or Elliot.
There were several large sums of money
bequeathed to charities and temperance
bodies, and the residue was left in trust to
the Lord Provost of Edinburgh, Robert
Cranston having been a Baillie of Edin-
burgh, and his son, Sir Robert Cranston,
at one time Lord Provost.
“Chevroford”: There’s evidence for
the charge that Victorian drivers are the
worst in Australia. An elderly lady in
Abbotsford (Vic.) has had her house
broken and entered by cars, trucks and
lorries six times in the last five years.
The Collingwood council put up two
stout posts to defend her, but a seventh
vehicle smashed into her lounge-room
f NO >
i PARKINS,
the other evening. Requested to provide
her with a second defence-line the
council said it had done all that it
humanly could to protect her from
aggression—what she needed was a new
set of motorists. ,
❖ *z*
“Fairf”: The N.S.W, Railways pro-
vide special trucks for circus elephants,
and Wirth’s have a permanent booking
for five. • This year the trucks required
extensive repairs, and it was a rush job.
Some humorist started a rumor that
Wirth’s had donated tickets to be given
to the repair-shop apprentices who did
most work on the elephant-trucks. Like
all furphies it caught on. The boys
worked harder than they had ever
worked; the trucks were flooded with
juvenile labor, and no other job could
keep a boy. The thing reached such
proportions tjiat the rumor had to be
scotched. All of the lads except one
saw the joke; the odd one claimecj he’d
“By gad , Fifi, these need half-soling!”
been “got at”—Wirth’s had supplied the
tickets, all right, but somebody “on top”
had snazzled ’em. He told his father,
who took the claim higher—and higher
still. It s rumored that he got very close
to the Commissioner before the claim
was dropped. What happened, nobody
seems to know, but there’s a hint that
some generous peacemaker shouted the
youth to the circus.
“Not-for-a-song”: High up in the
Dandenongs a secondhand piano was
offered for sale by advertisement in a
mountain weekly. It seemed the sort of
bargain you always dream about; per-
fect condition, ivory keys and, to top it
all, the name of a brand not even Sir
Thomas Beecham would snigger at. And
in bold, fat print the unbelievable bar-
gain-price was £BB. I already saw my
five-year-old practising the scintillating
runs of a rhapsody, the wife fussily dust-
ing the beauty. I seized paper and pen.
Now, I wasn’t going to stand any non-
sense, I wrote. If he was a dealer, the
seller needn’t trouble. I made it plain
I had ho intention to tramp up to 3000 ft.
to be confronted by a dressed-up packing
case. Back came a letter explaining
patiently that the piano was in condition
exactly as advertised and purely private
and personal. But there had been a
slight printer’s error. The price was £275.
Printer’s error! I could understand £BB
instead of £2BB, but hardly for £275.
Other thoughts welled up in me, mainly
concerned with various forms of violence
towards piano-sellers until I looked at the
writer’s somewhat Teutonic name. Now,
in German you may say “notes” when
you mean “keys.” When the good man
posted his advertisement he merely meant
to say the piano had 88 keys, but wrote
88 “notes.” The Aussie printer thought
that was a bit too much slang for a
respectable weekly and changed it to
88 pounds,
❖ * ❖
“X.S.”: Touching this question of
female impersonation. A Melbourne
magistrate held that a storeman who was
fined £2 for being dressed as a woman
had been wrongly convicted. Other
magistrates had convicted men for such
action, considering it offensive. This
magistrate held that no offence had been
committed—in fact, he had done it him-
self once at a fancy-dress ball.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Spoke”: Picasso is losing his dash.
He has rocked the easily-rocked Paris
art world again with a piece of “sculp-
ture” made of corrugated bronze, old
nails, iron bolts, bicycle handlebars, a
goat’s head and ironmongery sundries
roughly daubed with black and white
paint. The work was “hung” at the
Paris Salon, where he was hugged and
kissed by his admirers, but he was only
plagiarising the hoax of a Dutchman
30-odd years ago, who for a joke made
a matador out of drain-pipes and motor-
car tyres and sent it to the Beaux Arts
ball. An Australian artist friend sug-
gested that he should send it to the Salon.
He did~and woke up next morning to
find himself famous. One eminent
critic said that he was a Don Quixote
tilting at shams. When his friend called
on him a few weeks later he found him
packing his “statue” to be dispatched
to an important gallery in another
country. He had received so many re-
quests for it that he had had the various
parts labelled so that they could be re-
assembled easily. His friend said. “But
it was all a joke.” The sculptor shook
his head. “It was no joke,” he said. “It
was my unconscious speaking! ”
“Taffy”: Never accept an invi-
tation to a Saudi Arabian banquet
unless you are blessed with a strong
stomach or a flair for palming.
The main dish is usually a sheep
boiled whole and reposing on a
huge platter of rice, and the guest-
of-honor is presented with the right
eye ; his host, with obvious gusto,
masticates the left one. Having
been forced to attend many such
functions, I became expert in palm-
ing sheep’s eyes and sitting on them
until such time as I could, without
observation, bury them in a sand-
patch. Another titbit was a slice off
the shoulder which, to make certain
that it was succulent and tender, the
host chewed before passing over.
But the East is not alone in its love
of exotic morsels. One of my
earliest travel recollections is of the
skipper of a Norwegian wind-
jammer who was in the habit of
carefully collecting the abundant
biscuit-weevils on one side of his
plate, mashing them with the dregs from
a bottle of Worcestershire sauce and eat-
ing them as a paste. When I expressed
surprise, he asked “Vot is wrong? Fresh
meat fed on good biscuit, no?”
* ❖ *
“Mem”: Mum’s getting a bit out of
hand these days. Helpful notice in a
Brisbane chemist’s window: “Some Sug-
gestive Presents for Mother’s Day.”
“Persdau”: Although there may not
have been any great outcry in Scotland
over the title of Edward VII, some
north-of-the-border-ers asserted them-
selves then, as now. In the small village
of Fairlie on the Firth of Clyde there is
a monument erected to “Commemorate
the Coronation of Edward I and VII,”
and when I appeared amused at it I was
informed “He may have been the seventh
of England, but he was the first of Scot-
land,” As to the Jameses, those
monarchs were accorded two members
only in English history books; in Scot-
land the numbers I and II relate only
to their earlier and rightful bearers;
and if you don’t know who James VI
and James VII are, then ye’re just an
ignorant gawk.
*X* ❖
“Cauboy”: If the Stratford Players
pay a ceremonial visit to Stratford in
New England (N.S.W.) they won’t be
visiting a town named after Shakspeare’s
birthplace; nor will they if they visit
Gippsland’s Stratford. Both were named
after the Gloucestershire Stratford which
was the stamping-ground of John Con-
stable, the painter.
❖ ❖
“Pat”: A friend who fancies himself
as a keen psychologist when it comes to
picking employees elaborated his reason
for knocking back a young Englishman
with excellent qualifications. “A clever
enough bloke,” he - told me, “but too
much of a dawdler. No idea of saving
time.” I asked how he’d managed to
spot this unfortunate trait. “Well, I
was just on the point of engaging him
when he happened to mention that he
was off to a funeral. ‘My fiancee’s uncle
stepped off the pavement rather pre-
maturely last night, and has been sum-
marily written off,’ he drawled out. No
good to me, a fellow that can’t say,
simply, ‘My fiancee’s uncle died last
night.’ It took me a couple of minute#
to work out what he meant.”
THE NEW EDUCATION
While the States’ borrowing programme
reached the ‘fantastic total’ of £440 million, the
Acting Premier of N. S. Wales, Mr. Heffron,
also Minister for Education, produced a ‘plan’
by which the Commonwealth Government
should lessen taxation by £lOO million.”
Let Mr. Heffron take the class —
The Minister for Education
Teaching every lad and lass
How to overcome inflation:
“Let me put it simply, kids:
If your father gives your mother
All his hard-to-come-by quids
None is left for sis or brother.
" Consider, now: if mother may
Be restrained by some deterrent
From taking all of father’s pay,
He can play the bounteous parent.
“Meanwhile mother would have more
To buy construction-sets and dollies,
Scooters, comics by the score,
Ice-creams, liquorice and lollies.
“To hand out more while taking less
May seem to you a curious motto;
A Dad can’t do it, I confess.
But poor old milch-cow Ma — she’s sdt
to.
“So, children, work with all your might,
And tell your mates, and tell your
buddies,
To give up Siims—they’re never right—
And all go in for Social Studies.”
N ' s * w *
SWILLIAM.


“Kingsbro”: During his frequent
spells of insobriety, the landlord of the
residential wherein I began married life
always vented his hatred on mankind by
turning his radiogram’s volume-control
to maximum. Consequently I felt a
doubt regarding my bride’s sanity when
she told him, during a forced? drought,
how much she appreciated the music he
provided. But the next time he arrived
home with a skinful he announced:
“Ain’t gonna play radio —everybody
lisshens to ut.” In the years since, I’ve
often wondered how many times I’ve
been influenced to do things 1 didn’t
want to do.
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Kelms”: When eight cadets were
injured in a mortar-bomb explosion at
Northam (W.A.), a search revealed a lot
of other equally dangerous “souvenirs,”
many hidden among the youngsters’
bedding. You can’t stop souveniring in
the Army, and you can’t convince the
average soldier that explosive is
dangerous—to him. He knows the
enemy’s explosive will kill him, and he
believes his will deal similarly, with the
enemy, but he can’t see any danger to
himself in anything that he gets hold of.
When the 2/28 Battalion came out of
Tobruk a muster revealed enough bombs
and grenades to have decimated the
battalion, and few of them were deloused.
I knew an engineer loot who scoffed at
the Army instruction which said gun-
cotton must be kept moist. He got away
with it, too, until one day when his
battle-buggy struck a rough stretch.
Even to the last he probably didn’t be-
lieve that it was his own guncotton that
blew him to bits.
+!♦
“Mark Heim”: Plagiarism (B.
29/4/’53), so far from being a vice
among the poets of antiquity, was more
or less the accepted thing. Themes were
lifted without acknowledgment, and
everything was pardoned to the later
writer who improved on an earlier one.
Especially noticeable is the way the
Romans stole from the Greeks. “Ura-
mao” quotes Martial in anger against
a contemporary plagiarist of his work,
yet Martial himself was a plagiarist of
Meleager, who wrote:
Earth, mother of all, bail. On Aisigenes,
who weighed so lightly upon you, do you,
also, now rest lightly.
Martial applied the idea to his Erotion,
the five-year-old slave-girl for whom he
wrote his tenderest, and said at her
death:
On her soft limbs, Earth, lie not heavy: she
Lightly with them touched Thee.
Getting it from Martial, a thousand
subsequent poets have played variations
on this theme in nearly every modern
European tongue. Perhaps the most
magnificent succession of plagiarism in
literary history is Homer to Lucretius to
Tennyson. I translate the relevant pas-
sage from Lucretius:
Behold the gods’ domain, their place of
rest.
Winds shake it not, nor thereon any
showers
Fall ever; nor that frozen dew, the snow
Sifts in and whitens it to bitter age:
But cloudless is the sky for ever there
And brightly blue, smiling with suffused
light;
And Nature there bestows all needful gifts:
No troubles can destroy their peace of
mind —
No pain, disease, nor care nor death —for
ever.
What the world owes to such plagiarism
is incalculable.
“J.J.A.”: Plagiarism (B. 29/4/’53)?
There’s a story that St. Columba, while
visiting the Abbey at Clonard, secretly
made a copy of the beautiful book of
Psalms owned by the Abbot Finian.
Finian discovered this and demanded the
copy as his right. Columba refused to
surrender it and eventually the quarrel
was brought before Diarmait, the High
King of Tara. “To every cow belongs
her calf,” he ruled, the first official pro-
nouncement ever made in the British
Isles regarding copyright. Columba,
denying the justice of the ruling, sur-
rendered the book, which is now supposed
to be in the library of the Royal Irish
Academy.
♦>
“Bo”: One of Sydney’s numerous un-
finished Government undertakings—what
an apt word to be associated with these
unburied economic corpses! —carries the
bold legend “no swearing aloud.” It
remains a moot point whether an in-
tended total ban on the use of “lang-
widge” has been short-circuited by the
sign-writer’s shaky orthography or if,
immediately on his dropping a 71b.
hammer on his toe, a workman has the
option of (a) uttering an “Oh, dash it!”
in as loud a tone as he likes; (6) breath-
ing only to himself, as he hops agonis-
ingly around, the rude words which
might spring with greater ease to his lips.
♦♦♦ *i
“Contact” (Japan): Australia could
use a little more overseas publicity
judging from some of the questions that
are shot at her servicemen by their allies
in Japan and Korea. Questions such as
“Do all Australians speak English?”
and “Is there a Queen of Australia?
No? Well how come you’re the Royal
Australian Air Force?” are quite com-
mon. Then there was the American who
thought that Bill and I were leg-pulling
Englishmen when we said we were Aus-
tralian, Becoming a little heated in the
CUN 1C
15
“He’s got hair like his dad—strong and wiry.”
argument that followed, I used the great
Australian adjective to emphasise a
P oint - Crowed the Yank, I was in
London during the war and thats the
Pj a f 1 ever h , eard that word before,
Now I know you re English But the
greatest blow to our national pnde was
struck by a Korean youth who greeted
ns with Say, do you guys talk Amen-
can -
“NX Mick”: My boss rose from
humble beginnings to rule a concern
which employs 1500; however, he hasn’t
ever bothered to mention this fact to the
Commonwealth Electoral office. After
getting his electoral-roll number on
Senate-election day he Was asked by a
oolline- booth clerk if he’d mind answer-
fng a personarquestion. “Not at all ”
said the boss. “Well,” asked the clerk
in dazed tones, “tell me what shop pays
its sales assistants so well that they can
ride around in things like that?”—
nodding towards the waiting gleaming
1952 Packard.
“Loulalo”: A friend, until recently
almost stone-deaf, has had his hearing
“How about a game of blindman's-buff, nurse?”
restored by a fenestration operation.
Now he complains of the repetitive little
noises he missed before. Creaking doors,
dripping taps, even flies buzzing on the
window, are, he declares, rapidly driving
him to the stage of wishing he had never
had his hearing restored. An instance,
evidently, of having too much of a good
thing.
♦l+ ♦> *l*
“Doric”: The radio-comedian re-
marked that he had just been having a
drink at the Fiddle Hotel. “Oh, that’s a
vile inn,” remarked his confrere. There
were roars of laughter from the audience
—the joke was just as much appreciated
as when I first heard it in “Gipsy Love”
way back in 1914! I wonder if it was
new then?
♦> ❖ *
“Sunray”: Co-readers in public con-
veyances (B. 6/ 5 / ’53)? Melbourne
musician Verdan Williams has his own
answer to the problem. An ardent book-
collector, he usually carries a couple of
books with him, and one evening, getting
fed-up with a woman who was sharing
his book, he pushed it across to her, said
“Here, you read it. I’ve another,” and
completed the journey in peace. His
fellow-traveller was not in the least
abashed, and read till she reached her
stop.
* ❖ ❖
“Ek Dum”: Tripod masts (B.
20/5/’53) were fitted gradually to all
types of battleships and cruisers when
fire-directors were installed after Jutland
—the old single sticks were not staunch
enough to carry them. Sydney got hers,
I think, when she went into Govan dock
(where she was built) for a refit in
October, 1916, after she had crossed the
Atlantic from Bermuda to join the Second
Cruiser Squadron, affiliatedto Pakenhams
Second Battle Squadron Australia flag-
ship) with the Grand Fleet She oer-
tamly had the new fitting at the time
of her famous fight with the Zeppelin
L 43 off Rosyth on May 4, 1917.
* *
“Villefair”: I’m filled with admiration
f or the courage, fortitude and devotion
to Spartan living as demonstrated by the
managers of boxers. A sporting-writer
will express doubt that Sammy Sparro-
wait can make the weight for his coming
bout. For a week the subject will froth
and bubble in bis column, then one night
the picture of a portly gent, with three
chins will appear alongside the legend:
“We will get down to the weight with
ounces to spare,” says Spdrrowait’s
manager. Immediately all doubts are
dispelled. We have spoken. Nor is* the
custom confined to the Southern Hemi-
sphere. From U.S.A. comes the news
that Guernsey Gus may refuse to fight
Lucky Something-or-other unless the bout
is staged in Philly instead of Chi’, or
vice versa. However, the title-bout will
still come off —a manager has spoken:
“If Gus won’t fight here we’ll fight some-
body else.” I’m reminded of a chap
I heard urging his novice son on to
victory or Valhalla in a suburban stadium.
“Get into him, Wal!” he yelled. “Never
mind them in the slats —they won’t hurt
us.” Perhaps they didn’t; but we got
knocked out in the third round.
*** *
“Alroy”: As an inspector of a
Government department I went to a Vic-
torian country town to prosecute a store-
keeper. I was met at the station by a
policeman and escorted to the shire hall,
where the case was to be tried. Here
I was introduced to two J.P.s who were
to hear the case. One was a short, stout
cove in Sunday best, the other was clad
chiefly in a long oilskin coat and a pair
of rusty spurs. Quoth the little fat
bloke: “Now, look here, Inspector.
What’s the maximum we can fin© this
here fellow?” I told him “Ten pounds.”
Just then the defendant walked in.
Barked the Jaypee in the oiler, “Hi,
Flarrity! Ye’re fined ten quid, so pay
up. I can’t waste all day. I’ve gotta
git out an’ draft sheep.” Flarrity paid.
I hadn’t the heart to ask for costs.
♦> ❖
“Roscoe”: A gleaning from the
reading of Turgenev’s Smoke (published
in 1867). The character Potugin speak-
ing (he’s not refuted);
If 10 Russians meet, they at once begin
discussing the future of Russia Of course
they will have a dig at “the rotten West.
It’s a queer thing if you come to think of
it —this West beats us on every point, and
yet it’s rotten! It’s all mere talk and
pretence. We abuse the West, but its
opinion is the only one we value.
There is no doubt that the West still
“beats us on every point,” yet, accord-
ing to Malenkov and co., it’s still
“rotten”! The strength of the West will,
we hope, render the present-day abuse
of the West nothing more harmful than
“mere talk and pretence.”
* ♦> ❖
“No Sirrah”: In the early 1930’s I
used to do a lot of listening to street-
corner spruikers. Remember hearing
one say “And at night we can’t sleep,
because as soon as we turn the light
out the ‘Red Army’ comes marching
down the walls.” I thought that was
rather good, especially as I had three
times shifted from vermin-infested lodg-
ings because of the “army,” but the
speaker was a Comrade, and I heard
afterwards that he got a terrible wigging
from his commissars for daring to take
the name of the Soviet’s armed forces in
vain.
PITFALLS
“The girl who senses that a proposal is
impending should not appear to he too eager
or too off-hand. She should keep a tight
control of herself.” — Women’s magazine.
Interpret the signs: should he tug
At his collar, and then start to stutter,
Or nervously pull at his lug
As his voice sinks away to a mutter,
Remember that he has the floor.
Exhibit a mild toleration.
You might have heard all this before.
Be attentive and calm, I implore.
If you would enjoy annexation.
Don’t 101 l while he’s peddling his stuff
A cig, from your coral lips dangling,
As if you were bored with the guff —
He’s the fish you’ve been patiently
arigling.
’Twould really be ethically wrong ,
The while he is ardently speaking
Of how he has worshipped you long,
To whistle a popular song,
Or at magazine pictures start peeking.
On the other hand, don’t make a blue
By shouting ecstatic lly “Yippee!”
Before he gets quarter-way through.
Then plaster his features with Uppy.
Don’t prompt him with word here and
there;
He’ll feel that you’re stealing his
thunder.
And, sister, I urge you, beware!
If you grin at him widely, or stare,
Relations he’ll possibly sunder.
It’s as well, should he start to propose
While you’re listening (as you do
nightly )
To one of the radio shows,
To throttle the volume back slightly.
You can listen to both —he won’t mind.
You even may fidget and wriggle
While hearing him say you’re enshrined
In his heart. But this truth you will find:
It’ll really get under his rind
If you just give a fatuous giggle !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ssS
11
Sure Starts-
Hxibe
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Landed in Sydney from U.K., looking
for a place to settle, airline captain Wally
Broomhall. A burly 40 with a straight-
lipped grin, known to R.A.F. messmates
as “Broomstick,” Broomhall has
crammed as much high-speed action into
his life as you’ll find on a shelf-full of
adventure novels. One-time test-pilot,
Hurricane flyer in the Battle of Britain,
captain of the English ice-hockey team
in 1931-32, and champion speed-skater
of Britain, he’s flown aircraft, civil and
military, pretty well all over the world,
as well as under London Bridge. Just
before War II broke out, he won the
£lOOO Goldfields Bowl car-race in S.
Africa; and, before that, raced motor-
bikes.
The distinction of being the youngest
Fellow to be appointed to the'" Royal
College of Surgeons falls to a Mel-
burnian, 27-year-old John Turner Hue-
ston. Formerly resident doctor at the
Royal Melbourne, he gained his Master-
ship of Surgery and a Fellowship of the
Royal Australian College of Surgeons,
then went to Japan and Korea with the
forces, thence to England.
Juan Jose Castro, the A.B.C.’s more-
or-less permanent conductor, returned to
Melbourne the other day. Immediately
it was noticed that the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra was stirred to unusual
efforts, especially in the two enormously
long Brahms works (conducted without
score), so that they sounded like new
works. An indefatigable worker, while
conducting and holidaying in Europe
recently he corrected the publisher’s
proofs of his opera “Proserpina and the
Stranger” (which won the Verdi Prize
at La Scala in 1952), brought to comple-
tion his latest opera, “Tragic Wedding”
(based on a libretto by Garcia Lorca, the
Spanish poet), and prepared two
new Stravinsky compositions to startle
Australian music-lovers. With Hephzibah
Menuhin as soloist, Castro will give one
of his own concertos an airing in Sydney
and Melbourne during the current season.
One Stravinsky work is a symphony with
a choir of men’s and boys’ voices. He
also has in his baggage the score of
“Lincoln’s Portrait,” by the contempo-
rary U.S. composer, Copland, who has
a narrator giving the Gettysburg speech.
Castro takes a rest after his Australian
season by waving his baton energetically
over orchestras in Italy, Paris, Yugo-
slavia and London.
Having spent a policeman’s holiday
in South Perth, Lieutenant-Colonel David
Jackson is off with his wife and two
young daughters, both bom in Africa, to
take up the baton again in Tanganyika. A
stalwart heavyweight, Jackson has been
assistant-superintendent of police at
Kagoma, a part of Tanganyika which
adjoins a Mau Mau infested district of
Kenya. A previous departure from
Westralia took him, with the 2/11th
Battalion, to Greece, Crete and New
Guinea, in which adventuring he grew a
star and crown on each shoulder and
won M.C. and 0.8. E.
A trek of 2300 miles by caravan from
Seymour (Vic.) to Perth has been com-
pleted by Henrik Aarts, a Dutch migrant,
who brought his wife and two of their
daughters to settle in Westralia. The
journey was made in a converted 1936
bus. Since his arrival in Australia, Aarts
has been working as a mechanic. Be-
fore the war, he had a thriving con-
tractor’s business in Holland. After this
was ruined, he went underground, had
a price of 10,000 guilders put on his
head by the Nazis, and managed to skip
the border into Belgium, where he joined
the British Army. Although his business
had been worth £12,000, the Dutch
Government was unable to pay him more
than £BOO-odd by way of compensation,
but this was enough to bring him to
Australia.
The British Ambassadorship to Russia
goes to William Goodenough Hayter,
Oxonian and diplomatic serviceman since
1930. He has represented his country in
Vienna, China and Washington, with a
period in Moscow in 1934. At the
moment he’s Minister in Paris.
“Fitz”: Now in its 15th consecutive year
of publication, the Jindyworobak Anthology tor
1952, just out, is edited by Arthur Murphy,
poet and essayist, and Senior Master of the
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) High School. At the
age of 12 Murphy had to leave school and
battle for a crust. Until he took up teaching
he had had many occupations. He milked
cows in Gippsland, worked in a chemist’s shop,
was a house-painter, a lawyer’s clerk and made
a meagre Jiving as a freelance journalist. While
on these jobs he studied at night and matricu-
lated without any teaching help. He commenced
student teaching at Blackburn (Vic.), was given
a studentship at Melbourne Teachers’ College,
won a scholarship to Melbourne University
and graduated as a Bachelor of Arts. A notable
feature of the Australian literary World is the
encouragement and help given by the elder
writers to the fledglings. Elsewhere I have
mentioned the assistance given to David Row-
botham, Val Vallis, John Blight and others.
Murphy’s mentors were Guy Howarth, R. H.
Croll and Jack Moir of the Melbourne Bread
and Cheese Club. Moir persuaded Bread and
Cheese to back his first book of verse, First
Harvest, for which R. H. Croll wrote the intro-
duction. Guy Howarth introduced his second
book of verse, Face to the Sun. Murphy has
published verse in various journals and maga-
zines and is a regular book-reviewer for
“Southerly.” Awarded travel grants by the
Commonwealth Literary Fund in 1950 and 1952,
he has had published a book of essays on Aus-
tralian poets and has a further book of verse
in preparation.
If Douglas Fell ever needs a trans-
fusion, the blood-bank people had better
flag-in an oil-tanker. Fell and his kin
have been so long in the oil-business, in
Scotland and Australia, that some of the
product must have seeped into the blood-
stream. Grandfather John Fell, after
helping to develop Scotland’s shale-
industry, opened up shale deposits at
Hartley Vale, Joarja and Mt, Kembla,
and at Botany started N. S. Wales’s first
oil-refinery. John’s son John put up at
Clyde, outside of Sydney, the refinery
now owned by Shell. Son of that John,
Douglas was responsible for the con-
struction work at Clyde, and in 1942 be-
came Shell’s N.S.W. manager, having
joined the co. as refinery-manager in
1928, the year Shell took over the 62-
acre site from John Fell and Co. So it
was appropriate that Prior should sketch
FELL OF SHELL
him on the occasion of his last official
function before retiring— at the opening
of Shell’s £220,000 lubricating-oil plant
at Clyde, beside the huge bitumen-refining
plant opened a few years back. That
62-acre site has grown to 237 acres, the
plant on it capable of an intake of 123
million gallons of crude oil a year.
Through all this vast enterprise. Fell,
owner of a very sound business top-piece,
has been a most efficient lubricator.
Caught by Coventry, complete with
catcher, Frank Moorhouse, S. Australia’s
chief inspector of fisheries and expert on
Barrier Reef marine-life. Born a Queens-
lander, educated at the northern University
(B.Sc. with first-class honors in zoology),
Moorhouse had his four years overseas
with the First A.1.F., and, with Wilhelm
whaled, returned to Queensland to poke
about the Reef with a scientific expedi-
tion. The Queensland Government
appointed him its marine biologist, and
till 1935 he was a field-investigator in
coral country. One of his important dis-
coveries up there was the interesting (to
marine biologists) fact that the trochus
exudes its eggs and does not deposit them
in an egg-case; thereby ending a
centuries-old scientific search for trochus
MOORHOUSE OF THE REEF
egg-cases. His notes on the trochus went
to the British Museum. Coventry’s rod-
and-line regardless, Moorhouse lays no
claim to enjoying that sort of fishing—
he prefers to net ’em.
Three men who among them have
given close on 100 years’ voluntary
service to the sheepbreeding industry
have become life-governors of the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association—A. A. N.
Mills (Burrabogie, Hay), H. L. Austin
(Eli Elwah, Hay) and O. R. Falkiner
(Boonoke North, Conargo). The new
1.-g.s have been members of the council
for more than 30 years, and each has
been a leader in practical sheep-
breeding and in the administration of
the industry.
“C. 8.”; A show that has given delight
to approximately 5,000,000 Australian
nippers is to go under the hammer in
Melbourne. It’s the Balwyn Wild Life
Sanctuary, which W. Maughan, owner,
opened in 1939 and built into the largest
privately-owned zoo in Australia. Zoo
is scarcely the right word —most of the
animals, which range from camels to
canaries, are so excessively friendly that
they mix with their guests on a very
democratic basis. Mr. Maughan claims
to have been victimised out of existence
by the Fisheries and Games Department,
which has prohibited him from keeping
koalas and certain birds and intimidated
him with official visits. All the wild-life
is to be transferred to a 120-acre property
at Ringwood ; the sanctuary is to be sub-
divided into a suburban zoo of 63 allot-
ments, where human beings instead of
animals will live in cages.
“R.N.C.”: Climbed past the century,
Mrs. F. J. Cutting, of Mt. Gambier
(S.A.), who has been in the Blue Lake
area since early childhood. She speaks
authoritatively of Adam Lindsay
Gordon. Now Howlett-Ross has passed
on, she should be the last of the re-
maining links of that era of bullock-
teams, aborigines and corroborees nigh
to the now-centre of the town, cheeky
emus, bounding kangaroos and none
other than dirt-roads. Left a widow
with her last child not yet born, she
reared eight children against the odds
of those pioneering days. Her virile
reminiscings sparkle with rich humor.
S. Gerald Soman, Australian repre-
sentative of the Empire Industries Associ-
ation, with headquarters in Sydney,
occupies himself fostering trade between
Australia, the U.K. and other Com-
monwealth countries. A native of Nor-
wich (Eng.), educated at Owens’ College
and London University, he was an
artillery officer in War I. For very many
years keenly interested in intra-Empire
trade, at the Ottawa Imperial Confer-
ence of 1932 he did a deal of useful work
behind the scenes. When the Economic
Union was founded in 1929 by leading
British industrialists for the study of the
resources and trade of the Common-
wealth, Soman was appointed organising
secretary and held the position until the
outbreak of War 11, when he returned to
the Army, A lively writer on economic
subjects, he has had several articles
recently published in Australian journals.
“Ceg”; Joseph Patrick O’Toole, J.P.,
now close on his 80th milestone at
Queenscliffe (Vic.), joined the old Vic-
torian Artillery Regiment as a boy
trumpeter in 1891 (pay Is. 3d, a day), and
retired in 1933 with the rank of Band-
master, R.A.A., and the record of 42
years’ continuous service. All of this
was spent in the Queenscliffe Fort, near
Port Phillip Heads—now the Australian
Staff College. He was in charge of the
trumpeters at Queen Victoria’s memorial
service in St. Paul’s Cathedral, Mel-
bourne ; at the inauguration of the Com-
monwealth by Lord Hopetoun, at Cen-
tennial Park, Sydney, in 1901 ; and at
the opening of the first Commonwealth
Parliament by the Duke of York (King
George V). He did most of the Royal
salutes for the Prince of Wales (Duke of
Windsor) when he was in Melbourne,
was Bandmaster of the R.A.A. band at
the opening of Parliament House, Can-
berra, by the Duke of York (King George
VI) and at the opening ceremony of the
Memorial Shrine in St. Kilda-road, Mel-
bourne. A genial old-timer, almost as
well known as the Fort itself, Joe still
holds himself as straight as the baton he
once wielded. Today he devotes his
spare time to the Queenscliffe Bowling
Club. Apropos of his activities on the
local Bench, he grins that he has been a
J.P. since he was 10 days old—when he
was christened Joseph Patrick,
“T.W,”: Passed on at Whangarei
(N.Z.), Frank Wild Reed, brother of
A. H. Reed (publisher of the N.Z. Who's
Who), and world-recognised authority
on Dumas. In his latest book, Eric
Linklater mentions that he talked with
Reed in Whangarei, refers to him as the
“scholar of Whangarei,” and goes on to
record that Reed collected more than
3000 volumes and 1000 sheets of original
Dumas manuscript; learnt French to
better appreciate his idol; made 20 trans-
lations into English of Dumas’s romantic
plays in careful hand typescript; and
amassed three volumes of information
about the novelist, one of which he gave
to the British Museum, another to the
Congress Library, Washington, and the
third to the National Library of France.
As well, Reed translated into English
Dumas’s 72 known signed plays, added
to a further five which had never been
printed. A chemist by trade, Reed willed
his Whangarei collection to the Auckland
Public Library.
Into the Silence:
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 79, G. H. McNeur,
one-time Moderator of the Presbyterian
Assembly. Pioneer of the Canton village mis-
sion, what he did not know about the Chinese
mentality was not worth bothering about. His
years of service in China were continued when
he retired to his native Femland, where he
became the spiritual guide, philosopher and
friend of the local Chinese.
In Brisbane, at 66, E. A. Grosser, Queens-
land’s Auditor-General since 1948. In half a
century of public service he had been Treasury
Under-Secretary, a member of the Queensland-
British Food Corporation and had sat on several
royal commissions.
At 88, in Melbourne, former Judge J. S.
Wasley. He was one of the youngest graduates
of Melbourne University, gaining his B.A. at
18. A County Court judge from 1912 to 1940,
In Melbourne, Dr. Hilda Gardiner, for 24
years clinical pathologist at Royal Melbourne.
She was a sister to Sir Howard Florey, of
penicillin fame, and her daughter is doing
research work at Melbourne University.


DEMONSTRATION


ABORIGINALITIES
“Coonooer”: I got my lesson in when
not to shoot birds on the wing when I
first went after ducks. Posted at one
end of a Riverina (N.S.W.) swamp
in the early dawn, my job was to
blaze away at the birds put up by the
shooters at the other end. They were
thicker that year than I’ve ever seen them
since, and the first distant volley sent
them into the air in a cloud so thick as
it swept in my direction it didn’t seem
possible for even a mug like me to miss.
Keen to do the utmost possible slaughter,
I held my fire until they were almost
overhead and then let the advancing
swarm have both barrels. Greatly
shocked by the unexpected onslaught,
the ducks reacted instantly, and every
one of the thousands, it seemed, re-
acted the same way. There was a sudden
shower —not of carcasses—and whilst a
lot of the shower fell on the adjacent
scenery, quite a lot of it fell on me, and,
scrub myself as I might with swamp
water, there wasn’t one of the party
who’d come within yards of me for the
rest of the morning. I seem to remember
some genius in the art of war inventing
something called “pattern-bombing”
during the recent struggle. He didn’t
originate it. Those ducks thought it all
out years ago.
‘ Old-timer”; All this talk about smart
dogs, clever dogs and wonderful workers
reminds me of Shady, a western Wimmera
dog who would have been all kelpie if
it hadn’t been for the night his mother
got loose in Kaniva. Shady knew that
he had to work for his tucker, but he’d
learned several things. From Dimboola
to the Border nobody owned him, though
he was known on every farm thereabouts,
for at one time or another he’d spent
some time there. When he found a
place where only about 50 ration-sheep
were run, the rest of the place being
under wheat, and no other dog present,
Shady would demonstrate his ability to
bring up the killers and thus be sure
of a home without much work. If he
lost that job and found himself on a
place with 1000 sheep and him required
to do most of the work, he’d resign as
soon as he located another place where
the work was easier. What he really
liked was the kind
of place where there
were perhaps 1000
sheep and four eager
dogs to work them.
Shady would show
how good he was, be
taken on, and then
promptly get fat
watching the others
doing it all. The last
I heard of him he
had a choice job at Nhill, where he was
apparently employed by the Victorian
Railways as a loader of sheep-vans. Most
of the loading was done by the dogs of
those who brought the sheep, which is
probably why Shady was still there when
I left.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Fairf”: On the beach at Ulladulla
(N.S.W.) the fishermen were mending a
series of big tears in their nets. Obvi-
ously Southern Europeans, they talked
and joked in their native language as they
worked. Seemingly making a hopeless
tangle of the cord they were using, the
brown hands shuttled in and out, their
owners seeming to be giving little atten-
tion to the job in hand. Not until some-
body finished a section and shook the
portion out did the workmanship become
apparent. No doubt there were genera-
tions of skill behind that nonchalant
attitude towards the job, but in one
respect there was a lack of efficiency—
nobody had a knife of his own. When
one of the workers needed to cut an
end of cord he had to call to the man
who had the knife last. It was passed
up—a sharpened tableknife!
* * * ♦
“Brick E.”: If I can squeeze in around
the fire you blokes have been throwing
your favorite fuel-logs on, may I sug-
gest that the worth of fuel depends on
the kind of fire you want? Your mulga,
mallee-roots and other hardwoods are
ideal if you want intense, steady heat
and glowing coals, but to” boil a billy in
the shortest time I’d put my couple of
bob on the snapping, popping, pungent
cypress. Strangely, sawn cypress, say a
scrap of four-by-two, will if used as
bigger fuel burn to a light-grey powder
without losing its shape. For an all-
“Just leave it dry , sir?”
purpose fuel that will burn even when
it’s as green as Erin I nominate yellow-
box. The size and age of the tree can
make a difference where the less-popular
fuels are concerned. Tea t; ee did not
receive its ironical name “Mother’s
glory” without cause, but I once tenta-
tively rung-in a couple of armfuls from
a huge-girthed, dead trunk. “That dark-
red stuff” received a feminine approval
and request for more. Stringybark is
not highly regarded in domestic circles,
but an old charcoal-burner I knew pre-
ferred it, and the proprietor of a rural
brick-kiln told me he would burn nothing
else. Still, choice of fuels sometimes
comes from established habits. I once
worked on a building which was begun
on a cleared patch surrounded by bush.
“You'll have to speak to Donald, Father- he's getting too precocious.”
Just before noon on the first day the
boss asked his apprentice to boil the
billy. The youth, away from a city slum
terrace for the first time in his life,
looked around for the customary ends of
Oregon, saw none, and protested help-
lessly: “But there’s no wood.” “No
wood?” repeated the trump. “I could
gather enough to' burn a horse” (and
that takes plenty, by the way) “without
leaving this clearing.” The lad looked
amazed. “Gripes!” he exclaimed. “Will
them dead trees bum?”
* * * *
“Millicent”; “Gravelsnatcher’s” claim
(B. 6/5/’53) that a six-man shearing team
averaging 250 sheep a day beats an eight-
man team averaging 226 isn’t quite the
closed-up certainty it might appear at
first glance. If the best shearer in Aus-
tralia—excluding Artie Fadden —can
shear, say, 320 a day, then the second-
best can do only 319 or less, and as a
two-man team they would average less
than 320. A team of the three best
would average less still and so on, the
larger the team the lower the average;
and the same holds for teams not speci-
ally selected, but chosen at random. If
1811 is the best on record for an eight-
man team, then it is almost a certainty
that any nine-or-more-man team picked
at random would shear at a lesser aver-
age rate, and a seven-man team at a
greater. What is not certain is, what
average rates might be expected of those
teams, and it could be that the eight-
man team exceeded ordinary expecta-
tion. On this reasoning, “Grav.” will
admit that eight men averaging 249 a day
is very probably a better effort than six
men averaging 250. At what figure then,
does their effort become a worse one?
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Edx” perpetuates
a popular fallacy when he speaks of the
“graceful clockwise-spiralled contour
peculiar to the gimlet” (B. 29/4/’53).
Occasionally you’ll strike a gimlet-tree
that has a spiral twist, but more often
they’re merely fluted, although the
appearance is still sufficient to warrant
the name. The flutes or spirals are more
prominent in young trees, but some, even
young ones, have no flutes at all —their
trunks are smooth and symmetrical. This
feature is found more often in old trees,
particularly if they haven’t been attacked
by termites. Since “Edx’s” yarn is set
in the goldfields his tree would be the
silver-topped gimlet, a smaller tree than
the common gimlet of the wheatbelt,
and with blue-green leaves and a white
powder on the upper branches, which
gives them the silvery appearance. This
gimlet, which seldom tops 35ft., is named
Eucalyptus campaspe because on the
Eastern goldfields it grows on plains or
level stretches. 'The common gimlet,
growing in the higher-rainfall areas of the
wheatbelt, is more of a tree. I’ve seen
specimens up to 80ft. high and 30in.
through, with trunks up to 50ft, long.
But they were giants of the species. Von
Mueller named this tree Eucalyptus
salubris because he thought it had a high
eucalyptus-oil yield. He was misled by
the tree’s numerous oil-glands. It gives
very little oil. Its bark, however, is rich
in tannin, and when dry is very friable.
It is said to be a quick-tanning agent.
♦ * * ♦
“Edx”: “Plankton” wanders slightly
in deriving euplectella from Latin
(B. 29/4/’53). It is from the
Greek eu —well, and plektos —plaited,
referring to the complex manner in which
the component siliceous fibres are. inter-
woven to fqrm the frail recherche filigree
of cornuted grace that is also known as
Venus’s purse, or flower-basket.
* * * ♦
“Bass”; Some English agricultural ex-
pert has discovered that healthy cows
never sleep; he reckons that from a
few days after its birth until its death a
cow never loses consciousness—and with
ail due respect to his learning I’ll say
he’s wrong. I’ve often startled cows
who were sleeping in daytime, and I
recall stumbling over one at night. By
the way she took off from under me she
seemed rather impressed by the inci-
dent, too, and if she hadn’t been sleep-
ing she gave an excellent imitation of a
sudden awakening. This expert says a
cow may partly close its eyes and rest
its head on its flanks for a few minutes,
but it never nods off. I’d like him to
meet a cow I’m milking now. She lies
stretched full out, with her head on the
ground, and she’ll stay like that for an
hour at a time. The first time I saw
her in that attitude I thought she was
dead. Since then I’ve had people call
in to tell me there was a dead cow in
my paddock, and they’ve taken convinc-
ing that she was only sleeping. I sup-
pose this expert would, too, so I won’t
ask him to believe that cows also dream.
But I’m convinced they do. Ever heard
a mob of cattle bedded-down for the
night? They moan, groan and snort
much the same as humans do. I’ve
seen a quiet cow leap suddenly to its
feet in the middle of the night, and I’ve
always put that down to a bad dream.
An old drover I knew reckoned a lot of
trouble at night is caused by cows waking
from a bad dream and scaring the rest.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”; Slinger was one of
those blokes who couldn’t keep his eyes
off the girls. He was fishing with Mat
and me off the Echuca wharf when two
girls walked by. Slinger nearly dislocated
his neck peering after them. “That littly
would do me,” he enthused. “Look at
the way she’s built. Look at the way
she walks. Gripes, I bet she’s got a
voice like music an’ when she’d purse
her lips t’ kiss a man they’d be as pretty
as a mouse’s ear.” Mat turned and gazed
after the distant girls. “Yair,” he said
dryly, “hippopotamousel”
WISHES, AFTER YEARS OF
TRAVEL
It is my humble wish to take
The long green full sultana in my band
And one by one to crush the fruit
Tasting once more the produce of my sand.
I wish to take the Sunraysia navel
That’s like the sun in dark green leaves afloat,
To peel gold skin and to be able
To quench with that sweet light my long-
parched throat,
I have a peach, spring-rooted, huge:
I wish to stand again in speckled shade,
To pull and eat from her cool leaves
Such fruit as tempts the angels orchard-raid.
I wish to take the huge red steak
(It’s four years since such bounty crossed my
plate),
To cut and see the red juice break,
And eat with gusto, as a god should eat.
I wish, when dawn is dewy-grey
And flowers most fragrant, the clear lily song
To burst across the dew-bent grass—
That maggie’s warble that I’ve missed so long.
I wish to climb the long, scorched hill
Where the liquid copper-snake basks in the sun,
And see long land in emptiness spill
Large-wooled merinos till the land is done.
I wish to walk the lawn of moss
That hides the hard grey barren shale.
Pull down the bough of fragrant floss
That sends all but the wattle pale.
I wish to wander through the cool
Black night, and see familiar starry friends
Burst brilliant through the sky aloft —
From each a blessing soft on me descends.
I wish, just to be home again;
The travelling years of youth are done, so now
Great things are nought to me, small satisfy—
And these are wished if life allow.
VICTORIA.
JOHN J. ALDERSON.


“Curate’s Egg”: Old Tom Woods,
who ran the little sawmill at Mulgaville,
had had the same pair of steel-rimmed
specs for over 20 years. Bert and Bill,
his offsiders, got into the habit of asking
for a loan of them occasionally, so Tom
found it more convenient to hang them
on a peg for the use of any one of the
trio. Then Charlie, the abo., joined the
staff and elected himself a member of
the optical club. Bert threatened to
leave if Charlie wasn’t supplied with a
pair of specs of his own. Compromise
saved the situation. The boss bought a
new pair for the exclusive use of Charlie,
a gesture much appreciated by Charlie’s
gin, who cut quite a dash with them
during Charlie’s off-work hours.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Two minesweepers
operating around the Abrolhos Islands,
off Geraldton (W.A.), picked up a Long
Tom cannon weighing about one and a
half tons and two smaller guns. Their
age is anybody’s guess, but is probably
from 200 to 300 years, and they could
be from either the Zeewyk, which was
wrecked in 1727, or the Batavia, which
came ashore about a century earlier.
But they could also be from some oi
the pirate vessels which preyed on the
Dutch East Indiamen, Some of those
pirates were well armed and they had
hideouts along the Westralian coast.
When Dampier wanted to find a quiet
spot to beach the Cygnet he ran south
to New Holland, and various pirates must
have done the same. Similarly, they
must all have known of the Dutchman’s
habit of sailing due west from Africa to
the Westralian coast, then north to
“I reckon most of the space is above the ears.”
Batavia. Many a ship went aground
through miscalculating its westward
journey, and the pirates would have fre-
quented a coast that gave them such
easy prey. It’s just as logical to assume
that some were wrecked there. Other
pieces of cannon and old anchors have
been found around the coast, and the
wreck of a sailing-ship was found at
Bernier Island, off Carnarvon. The
wreck was in a cave under a high cliff,
and a kedge-anchor some distance out
to sea indicated that the captain was
sheltering and intended to puli his ship
out on the kedge. Probably a landslide
from the cliff sank the ship, or it may
have fallen to a lucky shot from a man-
o’-war. These mysteries all serve to re-
mind Westralians that their coastline
was explored and landed on hundreds of
years before it was finally settled —
fortunately by the British.
♦ * ♦ *
“Swelpme”: It must have been a good
after-cricket beano that “The Bunyip”
“There he is—over there.”
shared (B. 29/4/’53) if nobody was bright
enough to think of driving the truck into
the school playground to fill the radiator,
instead of carrying the water-tank to
Mohammed. Even if the gates were
locked, a country bloke would have to be
completely stinko-profundo to forget the
time-honored method of bringing a drink
to a thirsty horse when no other utensil
is available —by filling up the Akubra.
Half a dozen cricket-caps should have
filled the radiator, and I don’t suppose
the whole team were
If they were, somebody surely wore boots
or shoes!
**♦ ♦ *
“Kelms”: Perth has just been shown
“The Lifeline,” a play based on the Gold-
fields Water Scheme and stressing Nat
Harper’s claim to have originated it. Nat,
still living in Perth, has never faltered in
his claim to have been first to suggest
pumping water to Kalgoorlie, and he
could be right. But a few years ago
Professor Murdoch, appointed a com-
mission to inquire into the scheme s
origin, found that the honor be-
longed solely to C. Y. O’Connor.
Apparently the dispute goes back almost
to the scheme’s inception. At the public
ceremony to mark the starting of the
pumping machinery at Mundaring in
1903 J. W. (later Sir Winthrop) Hackett
said that there had been a crowd of
claimants for the honor of being the
originator of the scheme ; that apparently
half the State thought of it at the same
time; that the idea was obvious enough
to the dreamer of dreams and the seer of
visions ahead, but they ought to do honor
to the men who took up the cause through
good and evil report, who fought for its
success, and at last carried it into the
land where victories were won ; and that
among those who fought so hard for the
scheme he selected two, and two only
Sir John Forrest and C. Y. O’Connor.
Now the W.A. University is conducting
another inquiry into the subject; but the
investigators are hardly in as good a posi-
tion to judge as a man who was on the
spot at the time. Especially a man like
Hackett.
* ♦ ♦ •
“Smithy”: Light diving-gear (B.
29/4/’53)? With only his aqualung
and frogmen flippers to aid him, Maurice
Farques reached a depth of 396 ft.: he
died while doing so, but not for any of
the reasons stated by “Millicent.” Skin-
divers using the equipment suffer a
“rapture” in very deep water: it was
while in the grip of this that Farques
removed his mouthpiece. Other in-
stances of deep-water work are legion,
including the finding of a 2200-year-old
Grecian vessel at 200 ft.
* * • •
“Peter B.”: They must breed a tough
strain of sheep in Westralia if, as “Min-
gari” says (B. 13/5/’53), they dip 600-700
rams at an unsheltered dip under a
scorching sun. If we did that here in
southern N.S.W., most of the sheep so
treated would die of scald or arsenic-
) poisoning. We start dipping at daylight
and are finished by 10 a.m. in hot weather.
A property carrying 600-700 rams would
have at least 20,000 to 30,000 breeding
ewes, plus lambs and weaners and
wethers.
« * * •
“Cassio”: Joe Schmidt and Jim Parker,
who did most of the fencing in the
district, could neither read nor write, but
the lack of those accomplishments rested
lightly upon them. One day they received
a letter in a window-type envelope, and
next time in town they dropped into the
pub and, over a pot or two, asked the
publican to read it for them. He reached
for his glasses and started. “Messrs.
Schmidt and Parker” he began, to
be interrupted by Joe, who thumped his
pot hard on the mahogany and glared
at him. “Messers!” he roared. “The
blasted cow, whoever he is—let me tell
’im the fences Jim and me put up stop
up!”
* ♦ * *
“Mingari”: That description of New
Zealand sheep as “straight-backed and
bald as wallabies” (B, 6/5/’53) seems to
be off the beam. N.Z. breeders favor
nuggety English mutton-breeds, the big
heavy comebacks and the solidly-built
Corriedale. The last two in particular
grow long, dense, heavy fleeces, and the
man who pushes a handpiece through
those to a record tally has earned every
bit of it. Also, being big and strong,
they take some handling both in the
catching-pen and on the board, and that
tells toward the end of the day. A
man can’t run backwards across the
board with one of those —not for long,
anyway. As for the “mad eight’s” per-
formance at Williambury (W.A.) in 1923,
that was a drought year in the Gascoyne
district (as was the next, when Bob
Suwallish put up some more good tallies
round about). Consequently, the sheep
were light and so were the fleeces —open
and free from grease, which makes a
lot of difference. The Williambury
flock probably cut about 40 to the bale
that year, whereas N.Z. sheep would go
about 25 —a very significant difference.
The same goes for the Liveringa and
Dalgety Downs sheep; 30 to the bale
would have been very good figures at
either of those places at that time —and
I never heard of any tallies above the
210 to 215 mark.
« ♦ ♦ ♦
“The Gascon”: New Zealand’s Fiord-
land is slowly yielding up its secrets. In
1948 Dr. G. B. Orbell, of Invercargill,
rediscovered the notornis, or takahe,
thought to be extinct, in the mountains
west of Lake Te Anau. Small colonies
are managing a precarious existence which
depends on an easily-upset balance of
nature —they lay only about three eggs,
two of which are often infertile; their
young are an easy prey to stoats and
ferrets; they are endangered by the fires
which sweep up to the fringe of
their haunts; and their main article of
food is a small supply of a certain type
of snowgrass. The latest discovery is
that of two tiny birds: an Alpine rifle-
man, thought to have been extinct, and
a wren of an unknown species. The
birds were discovered by a Californian,
Thane Riney, who is a biologist with the
Wild Life Division of the Department
of Internal Affairs. “Actually, the wren
discovered me,” said Riney. The bird
evinced curiosity at the first human who
had seen it and allowed itself to be closely
photographed.
♦ « ♦ ♦
“Sackville”: Somehow the topic had
become goldmining, and of course every-
one in the hut was an authority. All
the hoary old lies were dragged out and
served up again in the first person.
Old Terry listened,for a long time before
he came in with: “There was a new-
chum workin’ a claim near mine, once.
Likely-lookin’ show, might’ve been all
right in good hands, but anyhow, he
kept pluggin’ along for week after week,
doin’ no good, but keeping strictly to
himself. Then one mornin’ he packed
up his tent, kicked his claim-pegs out,
went on the track, A couple of days
later another bloke turned up, dumped
his swag and decided to take over the
claim. He went down the shaft, swung
the pick, and, this is fair dinkum,
struck” “Yair, yair, I know,” in-
terrupted the waterless bloke scathingly.
“He struck a fortune,” “No he never,”
snapped the old chap. “He struck an
unexploded charge and blew hisself to
blazes. What the hell did you think the
newchum left it for?”
“Gulliver”: Lopping belah for
drought-stricken sheep is no job for
those whose nerves are frayed. The
operator, armed with a hatchet, carves
off the limb as he climbs, leaving projec-
tions by which to descend. Sometimes
a falling limb lands on an unsuspecting
cow browsing beneath, to the great delight
of the human fly serving the meal;
sometimes a branch breaks and he and
his hatchet descend together. The great
moment comes when the topmost plume
is severed. Clinging with one hand, the
lopper chops above himself until the
plume cracks and sways over. He then
casts the hatchet to the winds, clings
with arms, legs and teeth whilst the
plume pulls the tree-trunk over; finally
it breaks and plunges down, leaving the
top of the trunk to whip madly back
and forth six or seven times. Lose your
grip then and you go flying in a great
arc—and you only do it once. Also,
there is always the chance that the trunk
will split as the plume breaks free, trap-
ping the fingers as it closes again, and
leaving you stuck about 40ft, up until
somebody comes to look for you next
day. We used to do that when wool was
only two-bob a pound. I shudder to
think what one would be expected to
endure at present values.
I SAW THE BLACK-MAN
I saw the black-man ’neath a mulga tree,
Body earth-stained and blending with a sea
Of spinifex-stems that swayed upon the sands,
And as I looked it somehow seemed that he
Had tree-like grown from that red desert land.
His hair was knotted,, as a matted ring
Of clay and grease, bound tight with bush-made
string,
A hunting aid to help him stalk his prey;
And as he cooked his food I heard him sing
A low harsh chant to dreamlands far away.
He watched me as I rode up to his tree.
And as I smiled his keen eyes questioned me;
I gave the sign of “water” to imply
That this I craved; and, rising, wordless, he
Beckoned and pointed to a hill near by.
And ’neath some sticks and grass, I looked and
saw
A covered well beside a rocky flaw;
And drinking there I sprawled upon the ground
And felt as one, who, overcome with awe
Listens amazed to his first earthly sound.
For as I drank the waters from the sand,
I felt a strange communion with this land;
As though the earth, this strange old man and 1
Were part of some old scheme that nature
planned
And bound forever by some dreamtime-tie.
N.T.
W.E. HARNEY.


FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
This is to pay my humble tribute to that fine
band of scientists who are standing, silently but ever
so strongly, behind the great industries of Australia.
The people or this country will never know the
recurring debt it owes them.
* I have always been an ardent admirer of the
remarkable William Farrer, whose work in the breed-
ing of a rust-resisting variety of wheat saved the
Australian industry from disaster in the 1890’s, open-
ing the way to successful researches in wheat culture
by others right down to our own day.
All honor to Farrer and to men like him. But
this is the importance of it all: The work of scientific
progress goes on today, in laboratory, in field station,
in all the industries that matter to Australia’s welfare.
Animal and plant diseases have been combated,
in some cases conquered, by something that has come
out of a test tube. Great work is being done on the
preventive side. But what of the creative—the posi-
tive reclaiming and enriching of the land, to which
science is leading us?
You know the story of the “Ninety-mile Desert”
in South Australia. It has been converted into a
province of great potential wealth by the simple, yet
profound, discovery of what minerals were deficient
in its soil.
Now, I am told by reports coming out from the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research Organi-
sation, this is only a prelude to further discoveries on
soil fertility, which can raise enormously the produc-
tive capacity of lands in the well-watered belt of Aus-
tralia and cause us to widen our whole horizon on
development.
I have referred to science as it touches the flocks
and the herds, the soil and the crops. But in account-
ing the debt that Australian living owes to its scien-
tists, let us remember also the work that medical re-
search teams are doing to make the tropics and the
inland safer and more livable for those who people it.
Because science is what it is—a laborious life
lived for its own sake —the names of most of these
men and women will neyer be written individually into
the nation’s history, as Farrer’s has been. Their
reward is in the knowledge of their own achievement.
“It is not what you know, nor whom you know,
but what you do to whom you know, that matters.”
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... t ... 2/-
Yearly 22/6
Calorific
Value
i
m
m
ILJ
mai.w
PULVERISED FUEL FIRING-TYPE V MILLS
:
fin
m
The calorific value of a fuel is realised to the
maximum degree as useful energy, only
through efficient combustion; and efficient
combustion must be sought in many different
ways with different fuels. No one has been
more closely concerned with the problem
than Babcock & Wilcox, the world’s leading
makers of steam-raising plant, who have, over
a period of 75 years, .developed methods and
equipment for the most efficient burning of
the widest diversity of fuels both solid and
liquid, from coal and oil to bagasse and black
liquor.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
Business.Rollery.Etc.
R. B. Davies Industries
At anew factory in Marrick-
ville last week the first pressings
were made (by Mrs, R. B.
Davies) of the capillary non-
ferrous pipe-fittings to be turned
out in Australia by a joint sub-
sidiary of the Yorkshire Copper
Company (Leeds) and R. B.
Davies Industries, Ltd. These
“Yorkshire” fittings eliminate the
necessity for threading copper
pipes in the plumbing trades
and elsewhere, and, as a result,
light-gauge piping can be used.
“Yorkshire” joint-pieces have
solder inserts which make a gas-
tight joint simply by the applica-
tion of a blow-lamp, and the
joint may be undone by the same
method.
For a long time R. B. Davies
Industries was refused Capital
Issues consent to raise the money
required to take up its 49 p.c.
interest in the Australian York-
shire subsidiary, but, after a
High Court case, in which tfie
validity of the capital-issues
regulations was upheld, the
Commonwealth climbed down,
and permission was granted to
make an issue of 130,431 £1
ords. Total issued capital of
the Davies co. is now 651,798
£1 ords.
The co. has developed into
the largest (and one of the
most efficient) manufacturers of
builders’ hardware in Australia.
It turns out a great variety of
padlocks and doorlocks, includ-
ing the Schlage lock —in all,
several thousand different items
of hardware in steel, brass and
other metals, and it has a large
diecasting section as well. The
Yorkshire co. was obviously im-
pressed by the co.’s record and
performance.
Shareholders in R. B. Davies
may have to wait for benefits
from their new investment, how-
ever rapidly it gets into produc-
tion ; but, in the meantime, trade
in general hardware is being well
maintained, and efficiency is
being improved. The fully-paid
shares are changing hands at 265.
3d., the lOs.-paid at 14s. Assum-
ing that the dividend stays at
8 p.c, (Is. 7d. a share, usually
paid in September), the contribs
represent the better buy at
present. They become fully-paid
on May 30 (Saturday).
Minster, Ltd.
Stock Exchange dealings in
the shares of Minster, Ltd.,
holding-company in Westminster
Carpets Pty., Ltd,, and White-
head Chemical Cos. (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd., began in Sydney and Mel-
bourne last week. Opening sales
for the 10s. stock-units were at
20s.
Paid-up capital of Minster,
Ltd., is £530,000 in 1,060,000
10s. stock-units. It was formed
last December to take over the
two operating cos. Of these,
Westminster Carpets was formed
in 1946, with a paid capital of
£250,000, and with the backing
of the Keighleys, of Bradford
Cotton Mills. It set up a factory
at Dandenong, in Victoria, to
make a rubber-based carpet (of
haircord appearance) by anew
process, mostly mechanical,
which eliminated weaving. It is
a durable carpet, and can be cut
without a fraying edge ; produc-
tion began in July, 1949, and
since then it has been used exten-
sively in motor-cars, while
demand for domestic purposes
now exceeds the supply.
In March, 1951, capital of
Westminster was doubled by a
bonus issue financed from re-
valuation of assets; for the year
to June 30, 1951, a 10 p.c. div.
was paid, and the rate was re-
peated for the 1952 term. An
interim of 12£ p.c. p.a. is pay-
able in respect of the current
term.
At 20s. for the K)s. shares the
immediate yield is 6} p.c.
More Drilling at Roma?
“Petro”; Some organisations,
like some men, are hogs for
punishment. Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields, N.L., proposes
to drill yet another offset to
Roma Blocks No. 4 well.
AAOI and AAO2 test-wells
were drilled, on the advice of
the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources, over what were con-
sidered, according to the bureau’s
interpretation of its geophysi-
cal survey data, to be “struc-
tural highs.” As was antici-
pated in these columns, they
proved to be insignificant topo-
graphical hillocks on a buried
igneous peneplain.
A recent report from A.A.O.’s
field-superintendent, who is now
also consulting geologist, sug-
gests that the co. has tired of
“structural highs” and is now
locating “1000 ft. west of well
RB04” in the hope that the
“lift, oil-sand” penetrated in
that bore may thicken down-dip.
It is not stated whether the
bureau has approved of this
move out of the “structurally
high” areas or even whether it
still has a seismic party working
in the district, but, in view of
the years which this Govern-
mental organisation has spent in
gravity, magnetic and seismic
surveys in the Roma area, it
should be able, at least, to state
whether there are any geophysi-
cal grounds for assuming that
there is a “down-dip” thicken-
ing of the “lift.” RBO4 sand-
bed in the direction of the new
location.
As some wells have been
drilled on the edge of the buried
igneous peneplain (e.g,, Blyth-
dale) and have, on occasions,
given spectacular—though not
“Sure you feel fit enough to fly , Flipson? You
don't look too good.”
commercial —evidence of oil and
gas, similar manifestations
should not be a reason for sur-
prise or jubilation in any new
edge-locations.
All data obtained from the
Roma operations and surveys,
where such have been reliably
recorded, point to the existence
of lenticular or “hour-glass”
patches of porous strata just
above the basement complex,
and some of these contain oil
and gas. Occasionally these
lenses are extensive enough to
give a measurable initial produc-
tion, but this soon peters out,
or is sealed off from the well
owing to the movement of the
incompetent reservoir-beds and
overlying clays. The one infer-
ence that can legitimately be
drawn from Roma’s chequered
history is that any search for
oil in the area is merely a gamble
with little hope of even a moder-
ate return. The sooner that that
unpalatable fact is recognised
the better for all concerned.
The £3 million 5 p.c. deben-
ture issue put out by Colonial
Sugar was quickly taken. The
issue closed, oversubscribed, a
week before the closing date.


M ,X
For Your Health 9 s Sahe
CHOOSE AN AKUBRA
Doctors say it is dangerous to go
bareheaded in Australia’s climate,
so don’t take chances always
wear an Akubra. Akubra Hats
are specially designed to protect
your face, neck and eyes from
heat, dust and wind. No matter
what the weather may be, you feel
comfortable and looh comfortable
when you’re wearing an Akubra.
What is more, Akubra represents
the best hat value in the world.
The quality is high—the price is
right.
The range includes the exact style
and shade to suit you —so choose
an Akubra.
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE HAT
A 2-82
From a banker’s diary
Tuesday. Mr. came in to
introduce his son, John (lo) #
who opened a cheque account
with an initial deposit of £lO
m
Make an early start on the right road
This man has been our customer for some
time. He believes that the sooner young people
learn to handle their own money the better. So
when his son began to earn a regular income,
he brought him into the Bank to open his own
cheque account.
For parents who believe in giving their
children sound financial training, the “Wales”
has published a folder —“A cheque account for
your son or daughter.” Ask for
a copy at any branch of
(INCOEPOBATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
1111 ’ 1 ’ AS3O4C
DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED ( Incorporated in England)
ENGLAND
A^/Se/aysf
r
The "HAPPY MEDIUM'
4 days in the Air
14 days at Sea
By QANTAS "CONSTELLATION" to South
Africa via Cocos Is. and Mauritius, then
to England by UNION CASTLE MAIL
STEAMER. Combined fare from £432 (Aust.).
Tours to Kruger National Park available en route.
consult
Mbatgety's
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Just now, when Coronation
decorations are being put up and
the wordy season of trade-
union conferences has opened,
the Communist Party of Great
Britain is paying closer atten-
tion to the details of its orders
from Moscow. The modifica-
tions, if any, of high policy in
the Kremlin have certainly not
extended to Covent Garden,
where the party “line” has been
consistently well defined for
several months.
Apart from more-or-less
routine standing-orders such as
sustaining anti-American propa-
ganda, attacking Nato and
the traditional reactionaries,
campaigning for “peace” and
weeding out the irresolute and
potential “Trotskyites” among
its ranks, the broad strategy is
double-pronged. On the indus-
trial front the aim is to infiltrate
into the basic industries —
especially the engineering trades
and arms plants—and foster dis-
content. On the political front
the object is further to divide
and subdivide the Labor party
by supporting the Bevanites and
by seeping into the constituency
organisations as good Socialists.
A “smear” assault on the
Coronation, studiously avoiding
any direct criticism of the Royal
Family, but introducing, by im-
plication, an indeterminate Tory
or reactionary background, is
at present a prominent feature
of “agit-prop.” Its aim is three-
fold: to slake the thirst of the
indoctrinated, to exacerbate the
impatience of those who think
that the preparations have been
overdone, and, most important,
to snipe at the official “Daily
Herald” and the essentially loyal
Right-wing, thus sharpening the
division.
The British Communist party,
it is does not as a
unit of subversion enjoy a par-
ticularly high place in the esteem
of the Kremlin. By comparison
with others it is inept, and a
shrinking, if still potent, force.
The success of the under-
ground or concealed activities is
naturally difficult to assess. Cer-
tainly it is out of all proportion
to the small number of Com-
munists involved. On the other
hand, from the Communist point
of view, the results have proved
insufficient and discouraging. A
recent strike at the Austin motor-
works petered-out before its
recorded 11 weeks, and quite
failed to take root in other
departments.
It remains to be seen what
happens to the engineers’ claim
for a 15 p.c. wage-increase and
a 40-hour week. This would
amount to an increase in pay of
nearly £2 per week —a claim
that was regarded as fantastic
only last year. It is being spon-
sored with much energy by the
750,000-strong A.E.U., whose
executive committee is about
one-half Communist and whose
members are substantially work-
ing on armament projects. The
coincidence is decidedly not
accidental.
Politicalities
Socialists are enjoying to the
full extensive but hardly sweep-
ing successes in the local elec-
tions. But local politics are
notoriously unaccountable, and
there is no indication yet
that the national balance be-
tween the parties is disturbed.
The key to the whole situation
is apathy on the part of the
electors. In London only one
in three troubled to vote, and
the general tendency, as always,
is “agin” authority. In a
general election the issues are
sharper; and even in the South
Sunderland by-election, where
the Government won a seat
from Labor, the vote was more
representative.
The Labor-party executive is
still very sore about its rebuff
from the T.U.C. There are, it is
gratifying to know, some hard-
headed realists among the union
leaders who are no longer im-
pressed by fancy theories.
Nationalisation has failed, and
they are prepared to admit it,
although not in set terms, since
so many of the rank-and-file
still clamor for more. In the
T.U.C.’s own words: “Nation-
alisation is not a thing to be
considered in isolation....
Only the most thorough investi-
gation and study, in the light of
Britain’s present position, will
provide us with the right
answer.” In any event, the State
wouldn’t take everything over;
it would merely acquire a block
of shares in the industry con-
cerned.
The strain, most of it due to
the narrow margin between the
parties and the rigidity of their
Parliamentary machines, is
telling upon M.P.s. More
than 20 have resigned or indi-
cated that they will not stand
again. Front-benchers of both
parties would like shorter ses-
sions, as happened when politics
was a part-time vocation, but
such an obvious solution is
unlikely. Mr. Eden is the most
distinguished—and the hardest
to spare—of the casualties.
Arden, £. C.
Thanks to the enterprise of
that most indefatigable of
troupers, Bernard Miles, the
City of London has a profes-
sional theatre within its pre-
cincts for the first time in over
200 years. Socially it is fitting
that actors and actresses should
be recognised as respectable
citizens and that the City
Fathers should deny their repu-
tation of parsimony, bigotry and
lack of culture.
At all events, Mr, Miles has
induced sober-suit to come to
terms with motley. It is no hard
bargain. Very much the re-
verse, in fact, since tight-fisted
commerce hafc contributed some
£20,000 out of the £27,000 pro-
duction costs with no thoughts
of any dividend other than
artistic. So, for a short season
Mr. Miles’s expensive hobby-
horse, his private quasi-Eliza-
bethan theatre, has been trans-
ported from his St. John’s Wood
garden to the piazza of the
Royal Exchange. The Grass-
hopper has given hospitality to
the Mermaid.
The vigor, imagination and
improvisation of modern en-
gineering must have first credit.
A false and strikingly beautiful
ceiling was fitted, suspended by
6000 ft. of steel-wire from the
ceiling, in three weeks; and the
stage, balcony, bars, boxes,
dressing-rooms, stairways and
seats for 1000 within six weeks.
“Fitted” is indeed the word,
since the historic and superficially
fragile stone must be left unde-
faced. The answer to this prob-
lem was steel-tube —32,000 ft. of
it.
Delightful as was the sight of
a glittering first-night crowd in
Mansion House Place and
unique and happy as was the
occasion, it was a sadly insuffi-
cient “As You Like It,” even
after allowing for first-night
nerves and unsympathetic
acoustics. The Elizabethan stage,
so dear to the purists, completely
lacks illusion, and the tradi-
tional rushes underfoot only
serve to detract. Quite the
quaintest period touch comes
from the musicians, pipe-
smoking and card-playing in
their gallery between perform-
ance on lute, recorder, lower
strings and bassoon,
Mr. Miles, who produces,
speaks a witty prologue and
plays two minor parts, often
suggests pantomime, especially
with his peppery Silly Symphony
Duke. So does his wife, Jose-
phine Wilson, doubly miscast as
a regal-looking Rosalind and as
a buskined, Whittingtonian
Ganymede. Otherwise the ladies
carry away the honors with a
sparkling Celia (Barbara Lott), a
perky, broad-vowelled Phebe
(Barbara Clegg) and a suffici-
ently concupiscent Audrey
(Sally Miles).
But the general standard falls
far short of requirements. If
the experiment is to succeed—
as it deserves to —the artistic
direction will need to 100k 0 to its
quality.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
*
a
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet— l “ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”*
“ - ■ U /
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron. 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. Faviell.
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.75.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
Dividends To Re-
Dec.. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 123,716 6 p.c. 4ip.c. 105,000 18,715 1,375,185
Added reserves subsids., £34,121.. 1,409,306
Written off colliery, £23,991 .. 1,385,315
1946.. 163,934 6 p.c. 4ip.c. 105,000 5i,954 1,444,249
Profit sale shares, £lOO,OOO .. 1,544,249
Added reserves subsids., £70,195.. 1,614,444
Unexplained to genl. res., £12,936 1,627,380
Written off colliery, £9024 .. 1,618,356
1947.. 163,037 6 p.c. 105,000 58,037 1,676,393
Reduction res. subsids., £3802.. 1,672,591
Unexplained to genl. res., £35,985 1,708,576
Written off colliery, £9212 .. 1,699,364
1948.. 167,912 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 52,912 1,752,276
Unexplained to genl. res., £670 .. 1,752,946
Added reserves subsids., £34,044 .. 1,786,990
1949.. 125,674 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 1,777,664
Net unexplained reduction, £10,328 1,767,336
Written off colliery, £32,271 .. 1,735,065
1950.. 200,089 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 65,089 1,800,154
Profit sale assets, £128,659 net .. 1,928,813
Written off colliery, £28,342 .. 1,900,471
1951.. 257,473 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 135,000 122,473 2,022,944
Unexplained to genl. res., £12,783.. 2,035,727
Added reserves subsids., £447 .. 2,036,174
1952.. 880,307 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 155,000 225,307 2,261,481
* After deducting outside interests.
The outlook for shareholders is brighter
than at any time since the boom of
the early 1920’s ran out and interrupted
a flow of divs, averaging 11.9 p.c. for
the dozen years to 1927. For the 25
years since, three of which were dry ones,
divs. have averaged a shade over 4 p.c.
The heartening leap of £122,834 in last
term’s combined net earnings of parent
and subsidiaries came mainly from the
co.’s coal, shipping and sugar interests. The
£380,307 of profit was enough to pay the
pref. div, (£15,000) and show 18.3 p.c.
on the £2,000,000 of ord. capital as
against 12.1, 9.2, 5.5, 7.6 and 7.4 p.c.
back to 1947. It was written after allow-
ing £232,272 (up £44,307) for deprecia-
tion and what looks like a generous
£306,905 (up £55,292) for taxation, and
leaves out of the reckoning unexplained
additions to reserves of £13,230.
The cautious board, whose policy has
been one of consolidation and the
strengthening of cash resources, lifted the
div. from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c., and the £225,307
that remained (59.2 p.c. of the year’s
profit) hoisted reserves to £2,261,481.
H.S.’s own earnings are derived mainly
from its merchandising and other activi-
ties as tug-owners and stevedores and
as manager and/or agent for the sub-
sidiaries, etc. Of its £4,933,829 of assets
at Dec. 31 last, £3,150,179 was represented
by shares in subsidiaries and other cos„
£355,625 by freeholds, plant, etc.,
£103,328 by stocks (largely coal),
£652,001 by book-debts and £672,696 by
Government securities and cash.
The major portion of group profits
comes from the widespread investment
portfolio, in which the principal holdings
are:
Subscribed H.S.’a
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 158,130
Caledonian Collieries { 464,295 pref. 322,180 pref.
Caledonian Collieries.. 1 1,023.599 ord. 869,572 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 67,334
B.H.P. .. ~ 24,969,074 472,240
1 210,004 pref. 96,809 pref.
Southern Port. Cement | 639.885 ord. 250,301 ord.
A. Goninan & Co. .. 293,642 51,053
First four on the list are subsidiaries,
and the curtain is kept drawn over the
accounts of the first two of them. The
general experience in both shipping and
sugar last year was one of increased
earnings. The mill quota for the Aus-
tralian Sugar Co. (Mourilyan, Q.) has
just been stepped up from 31,000 tons
to 34,000 tons, and a good season is in
prospect. The shipping co. has a new
5500-ton cargo vessel on order in Scot-
land for delivery in March, 1956. The
parent’s new and powerful tug, Howard
Smith, delivered about a year ago, has
only just come into commission, the
Seamen’s Union having refused to man
it until it was converted from a coal- to
an oil-burner.
Earnings of the two coal cos. showed
marked improvement, thanks partly to
increased output following mechanisation,
and partly to a better price for the pro-
duct. Caledonian, on the northern field
(N.S.W.), netted £248,129 (up £66,784)
and paid £92,858 in pref. divs., reducing
arrears to £232,147, which, at last term’s
rate of payment, will be wiped out. in
about years. Invincible, on the
western field (N.S.W.), netted £60,424 (up
£59,003) and paid 10 p.c.; last previous
distribution was 2} p.c. in 1947. Subject
to economic developments and the forays
of the miners, both cos. look like con-
tinuing to earn satisfactory profits.
8.H.P., A. Goninan and Southern
Portland paid 8| p.c., 15 p.c. and an all-
round 8 p.c. respectively last term.
The year’s net addition to fixed assets
was £137,760, mainly in connection with’
collieries, sugar plant and conversion of
the tug already mentioned:
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.
„ . 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £250.000
Ord. capital .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Outside capital* .. 455,086 453,693 514,739
Deposits .. .. 12,067 7,497 23,205
Sundry creditors 826,947 1,173,667 1,162,766
Workers’ compensation 28,524 29,509 31,606
Tax provision .. 67,030 267,245 488,270
Final divs. ~ 83,760 83,750 83,750
Freeholds, etc. .. 520,239 559,488 582,262
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. .. 2,100.850 2,037,785 2,152,721
Shares other cos... 1,148,999 1,140,878 1,148,258
Stocks, etc. .. 396,575 408,489 581,383
Debtors .. .. 699,565 1,208,933 1,200,407
Public securities and
cash, etc. .. 662,330 932,782 1,150,686
* Including proportion of reserves.
Stocks increased by £172,894 and the
holding of Government bonds and cash
by £217,904. The net addition to outside
liabilities was £227,829, almost wholly on
account of tax provision, some of which
might prove in excess of actual require-
ments.
The price of the parent’s f.-p. £1 ords.,
which had dropped to 265, 6d. in March,
1952, strengthened to 30s. 9d. in April,
1953, and shot up to 335. following pub-
lication of the accounts. The immediate
return at 335. is 4.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis, with prospects. The prefs. at 225.
yield 5.4 p.c. Net tangible backing (book-
value) is £lB os. lid, prefs. and 425. 7d.
ords.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
, Dividends ;
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves, f
1944.. 64,488 11,200 7 p.0.=80,800 22,488 128,743
To staff partners, £14,600 .. ..114,143
1945.. 54,886 11,200 7 p.c.=30,800 12,386 126,529
To staff partners, £11,750 .. .. 114,779
1946.. 60,826 11,200 7 p.c.=30,800 18,826 133,805
To staff partners, £9400 .. .. 124,205
1947.. 63,744 11,200 7 p.c.=30,807 21,737 145,942
To staff partners, £lO,BOO .. .. 135,142
1948.. 88,988 11,200 9i p.c. =41,838 35,950 171,092
To staff partners, £10,600 .. .. 160,492
1949.. 95,569 11,200 9i p.c. =41,857 42,512 203,004
To staff partners, £12,750 .. ..190,254
Share premiums, £53,268 .. ..243,522
1950.. 98,652 11,200 10 p.c.=46,213 41,239 284,761
To staff partners, £13,600 .. .. 271,161
Share premiums, £4B .. .. ..271,209
1951. .127,557 11,200 10 p.c.=54,763 61.594 332.803
To staff partners, £19,900 .. .. 312,903
1952. .147,963 11,200 10 p.c.=54,764 81,999 394,902
To staff partners, £22,650 .. ..372,262
1953. .162,306 11,200 10 p.c.=54,764 96,342 468,594
To staff partners, £25,500 .. .. 443,094
* After, payment divs. on staff partnership cer-
tificates ( £7087, 1953). f After deducting goodwill
( £73,888).
This big organisation, established by the
Wunderlichs in the 1880’s, is the largest
and most successful of its kind in Aus-
tralia. It supplies the building and con-
struction trades with terra-cotta roofing
tiles, asbestos cement (durabestos) sheets,
shop-fronts and pressed-steel partitions,
etc., turned out from 18 factories
scattered throughout the Commonwealth.
Chief factor responsible for the rapid
growth of the undertaking over the last
eight years has been the boom in the
building trade, where demand long ran
ahead of the co.’s factory output. An-
other, which helped to take part of the
sting out of advancing costs, has been
extension and modernisation of plants,
with a consequent increase in the output
of products in relation to input of labor-
time. For the all-round benefits which
flow from this increased productivity
thanks are due not to any change in the
character and quality of labor, but to
the skill and competitive enterprise of
the management, backed by shareholders
and others.
In 1949, 106,833 new £1 ords. were
issued at a premium of 10s. each. Since
then the declared aim has been to
stabilise the div. at 10 p.c. and finance
expanding capital commitments out of
surplus earnings and a £500,000 20-year
loan from the A.M.P. It is a sound
long-term policy which should enhance
the equity value of the ords, as a hold-
ing proposition.
The slackening of activity in the build-
ing trade last term did little more than
reduce the time-lag between order and
delivery dates. Demand for some lines
eased, but overall turnover increased by
25 p.c. This and the savings which re-
sulted from installation of modern auto-
matic machines more than took care of
the advance in wage and other costs.
Including £60,000 (same as for previous
year) sent to contingencies reserve (now
£235,000), profit was figured £14,343
stronger at £162,306. That was after
allowing an extra £43,580 for deprecia-
tion (£134,915) and an unstated amount
for taxation and possible fluctuations in
stock prices. The £162,306 was enough
to pay the pref. divs. (£11,200) and show
27.6 p.c. on the £547,633 of ord, capital,
compared with 24.9, 21.2, 18.9, 19.1 and
17.6 p.c. back to 1948. After handing
the ords. 10 p.c., £96,342 (over 59 p.c, of
the year’s profit) was ploughed back
into the business, of which £22,500 was
passed to the staff-partnership fund (now
£175,300), which is non-contributory and
on which a 5 p.c. div. is paid. As an
incentive this partnership scheme is said
to be working well.
Continued expansion is the keynote
of balance-sheet figures;
1960. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital.. £707,335 £707,633 £707,633 £707,633
Creditors, etc.* 571,457 951,953 1,018,767 1,198,275
Mortgages .. 220,000 500,000
Staff funds .. 115,400 180,900 152,750 175,300
Freeholds .. 376,218 401,667 393,091 435,586
Plant, etc. .. 242,038 306,255 512,688 704,559
Stocks .. 616,560 913,989 1,043,288 1.297,392
Book debts .. 285,007 264,877 338,972 391,079
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 195,530 216,601 183,413 195,686
* Including tax provision and final divs.
The net addition of £234,416 to fixed
assets reflects expenditure on new plant
and extension of factory premises, etc.
Stocks, etc., in at “not exceeding cost
less provision,” increased by £254,104,
book-debts by £52,107 dnd investments
by £12,273. To help meet the outlay
an extra £280,000 was raised on mort-
gage from the A.M.P, and £179,508 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, A further £60,000 is to be
raised from the A.M.P. during the current
term.
The long-term outlook in the building
trade is one of strong potential demand,
the level of which will be governed largely
by the availability of loan money, public
and private. Competition, which the co,
is well-equipped to meet, promises to
get more of an edge on it, while rises
in wage and other costs look like losing
some of their former steepness, and the
burden of taxation is expected to be
lightened a little —pay-roll tax is an un-
fair impost upon industry because it
bears no relation to ability to pay.
At 41s. 6d. (40s. 9d. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 ords. return 4.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The first and second prefs.
at 28s. and the thirds at 255. 6d. yield
5 p.c., 5 p.c. and 5.5 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover is £2B 15s. 4d, firsts,
£27 15s. 4d. seconds, £l3 7s. Bd. thirds
and 365. 2d. ords.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Added to Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 83,038 10 p.e. = 72,208 10,830 236,252
1943.. 81,216 10 „ „ 72,208 9,008 245,260
Inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO .. 345,261
1944.. 82,249 10 p.c. = 72,208 10,041 355,302
1945.. 84,757 10 „ „ 72,208 12,549 367,851
1946.. 89,692 10 „ „ 72,208 17,484 385,335
1947.. 93,987 10 „ „ 72,208 21,779 407,114
1948.. 90,900 10 „ „ 72,208 18,692 425,806
1949.. 91,967 10 „ „ 72,208 19,759 445,565
1950.. 92,270 10 „ „ 72,208 20,062 465,627
Inner reserves disclosed, £194,681 .. 660,308
1951.. 133,387 10 p.c. = 108,312 25,075 685,383
1952.. 127,944 10 „ ~ 108,312 19,632 705,015
To staff fund, £10,895 .. .. 694,120
1953.. 147,422 10 p.c. = 108,312 39,110 733.230
To staff fund, £lO,OOO 723,230
The above table presents a pleasing
picture, and there is nothing to suggest
that it isn’t every bit as good as it looks.
Under pressure of growing population,
expanding industrial activity, monetary
inflation and a high level of employment,
this big Adelaide brewing co, has ex-
panded rapidly during the last few years.
It enjoys a lion’s share of the trade in
its home State and at the prosperous and
thirsty mining centre of Broken Hill, over
the border in N. S. Wales.
To help finance purchase and erection
of additional hotel properties and im-
provement of old ones, as well as the
extension and modernisation of plant and
equipment, shareholders put up £361,040
of fresh capital at par in June, 1950.
But it was not enough. For similar pur-
poses those on the register at Jan. 20
last welcomed the offer of a further
361,040 £1 shares at par, one for every
dozen ss. stock units held. At the same
time 55,840 new £1 shares were also
offered to the staff at par. Both lots
were payable in full on March 2, and
£207,015 of the money was in hand when
the books closed at Feb. 28. When fully
paid, the issue will lift paid capital to
£1,500,000, which has the support and
assistance of £723,230 of reserves. So
the two combined need turn in only 6.7
p.c, to cover 10 p.c. on capital alone. Last
term’s profit was equal to 8.1 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds. And profits have
been conservatively stated in the past.
Excepting the seven slump years to
1937, when divs. averaged 7 p.c. (lowest
6 p.c.), the annual distribution has been
steady at 10 p.c, since 1919. Meanwhile
£548,814 of inner reserves have been dis-
closed, £250,000 of the lay-by has been
capitalised (in 1924 and 1928), the Walker-
ville Co-op. Brewery, the co.’s biggest
competitor, was absorbed for £122,080 in
scrip (face-value) in 1938, and, including
the last issue, shareholders will have put
up £877,920 of fresh cash-paid capital at
par.
Last term expanding turnover again
more than took care of the all-round
advance in production and distribution
costs. The demand for draught beer was
met in full, but for the bottled stuff the
order-book was ahead of output. After
setting aside whatever was considered
necessary for depreciation, the leap in
gross profit (£663,914) was £115,671, or
21,1 p.c., which was above average for
the trade as a whole. Exes. (£516,492,
including an unspecified provision for
taxation, etc.) gobbled' £96,193 of the
gain, leaving the net result £19,478
stronger at £147,422. That was 13.6 p.c.
on capital as against 11.8, 12.3, 12.8,
12.7 and 12.6 p.c. back to 1948.
Freeholds, which include hotel proper-
ties, increased by £106,264, plant, etc., by
£171,618, stocks by £34,347 and book-
debts by £41,371:
1950. 1951. 1952. • 1953.
Paid capital. .722,080 1,083,120 1,083,120 1,083,120
Share suspense
account .. 207,015
Overdraft .. 25,242 200,722
Creditors* ..434,733 365,681 499,463 632,659
Staff fund .. 15,000 15,000 25,000
Final div. .. 36,104 54,156 54,156 54,156
Freeholds ..777,189 927,562 1,132,478 1,238,742
Plant, etc. ..111,955 223,575 480,446 652,064
Stocks . . 165,606 226,311 345,985 380,332
Book debtsf. .265,481 838,195 322,428 363,799
Advances ..252,878 365,561 88,268 82,740
Cash .. 85,435 122,136 1,496 208,225
* Includes taxation, f Includes shareholdings.
To meet the outlay £175,480 was added


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Established XB6S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUIJJVA* . /
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK)
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY WILSON late of Pitt Street
Redfern in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that IDA JUNE
WILSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 764 of 1953 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 4th day of August
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT
GREAVES, Solicitor. 160 Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
TASMANIA.
TO ERIC COOTE at one time of 1 Norman
Street Punchbowl Sydney New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the the Petition of DOREEN
JEAN COOTE of 6 Peronne Avenue
Moonah praying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the ground of desertion In
default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the Petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereof ‘AND TAKE NOTICE that for the
purposes aforesaid within Thirty days of
the date of this publication an appear-
ance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart.—L. 0. P.
WILSON, Registrar. CLERK WALKER
& STOPS, 116 Collins Street, Hobart, Soli-
citors for the Petitioner.
PACIFIC OIL & GAS CO. LIMITED
{lncorporated in New South Wales uniter the Companies Act, 1936)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of an issue of 200,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each at par.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
1,000,000 Shares of 5/- each - - - - £250,000
OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
200.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each . . . . . . • • £50,000
HELD IN RESERVE FOR PURCHASE BY VENDORS
200.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each . • . . . . ■ ■ 50,000
HELD IN GENERAL RESERVE
600.000 Shares of 5/- each .. .. .. •• •• 150,000
1,000,000 £250,000
DIRECTORS
HAROLD TINDALB, 25 Ocean Avenue, Bdgecliff. Engineer.
THOMAS WILLIAM HAMILTON DEE, 106 Curlewis Street, Bondi. Surveyor.
JOHN STRBVBNS, 4a Bannerman Street, Cremorne. Technologist.
ALBERT TRAVERS BLACK, 144 Kurraba Road. Neutral Bay. Coriipany Director.
(Additional Directors may be appointed.)
SECRETARY
NOEL WALKER, A.P.A. (N.Z.), A.C.1.5., 350 George Street, Sydney.
I REGISTERED OFFICE
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The Company has been formed to prospect for natural
gas and/or oil in the Sydney Basin, New South Wales,
or elsewhere if decided upon, and to promote, either
alone or in conjunction with other interests, a de-
velopment company or companies for the purpose of
giving effect to the drilling and development recom-
mendations resulting from the company’s prospecting
operations. Irrefutable evidence as to the presence in
the Measures of gas and/or oil has been secured,
which, together with considerations of geological,
geophysical and geochemical data already obtained
over a number of years of close regional investiga-
tions, warrant the assumption that commercial sup-
plies of these valuable fluids will be located as a
result of the company’s activities.
The Company under an agreement dated 15th May,
1953, has acquired all relevant data, reports, maps,
etc., covering the investigations anji work of the
Vendors and Promoters, T. W. H. Dee Pty. Limited
and John Strevens in the Sydney Basin to date.
Messrs. T. W. H. Dee and John Strevens hold as
trustees for the Company an Authority to Prospect
for natural gas and oil within an area of about 3,150
square miles of the Sydney Basin, and the Company
will accordingly receive the full benefit of such title.
A comprehensive prospecting programme in detail
has been planned and drawn up by the Company’s
Technical Advisers towards locating favourable drill
ing sites.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors
may proceed to allotment is 80,000 shares, which,
while not enough to finance all the operations con-
templated by the Company, will provide sufficient
capital to conduct preliminary detailed geological
and geophysical surveys for drill sites as more par-
ticularly set out hereunder:—
(1) Amount payable to Vendors .. .. £2,000
(2) Preliminary expenses (including broker-
age, commission, legal costs, stamp
duties, registration fees, printing, adver-
tising and expenses in connection with
this Prospectus) 2,000
(3) Repayment of any moneys borrowed by
the Company in respect of the foregoing
matters
(4) Working capital £16,000
£20,000
TERMS OF THE ISSUE
1/- per share on application. The balance of 4/- in
four calls of 1/- per share at intervals of not less
than one month.
INCOME TAX CONCESSION
One-third of the amount of calls paid in Pacific Oil
& Gas Co. Limited in respect of this issue will be an
allowable deduction in the terms of Section 78 (1) (b)
of the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution
Assessment Act 1936-52.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
The issue opened on 21st May, 1953. There is no
priority of allotment. Applications for shares will be
accepted only on one of the forms of application
enclosed in the full prospectus dated 19th May, 1953,
copies of which may be obtained from Messrs. J. & J.
North, Stock and Share Brokers, 113 Pitt Street,
Sydney, the registered office of the Company at 133
Pitt Street, Sydney, and the office of the Company’s
representative, Mr. C. B. Plowman, Mann Street,
Gosford, N.S.W. The Company will pay a brokerage
of 3d. per share on all shares allotted on applications
identified as coming through any member of a recog-
nised Stock Exchange in Australia.
The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies
Act 1936 of the State of New South Wales have
not been fully complied with in this abridged notice,
which is for the purpose of advertisement only.
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
D
tba.de uabk I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
% During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to .the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
. DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
. 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
tm
rHE« M V‘
fltlC*
SCI
gu juT»
BftCO
tow
ftf* 9 *
r£OA
0
(■■■"
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGIN
Informative literature on Dolan
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia ) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
GJ>.O., Sydney.
D 4.2
to the overdraft and £133,196 to
the amount coming to sundry
creditors. There was a further
£209,865 of new share capital to
come when the books closed. A
new hotel is to be erected at
Finsbury, and major brewery
extensions, etc., are expected to
be complete within the next six
months.
The imponderable is whether
expansion of sales will be suffi-
cient to offset the growth in
costs, especially the recent rise
in the price of sugar. Mindful
of the co.’s history, the market
expresses its confidence in the
management and the outlook by
pricing the f.-p. ss. stock units
at 10s. 3d. to return 4.9 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. Including
the new issue, net tangible cover
is 7s. sd. per share.
Sungei Bidor Tin
Following speedy post-war
rehabilitation, this successful
Sydney-controlled Malayan tin-
dredger (paid capital £120,000
in f.-p. 10s. shares) got its all-
electric 300,000-c.y.-a-m on t h
machine into commercial pro-
duction again in March, 1947,
and has put up a very creditable
performance since. Here are
operating and financial results
for the five years to the close of
last accounts, which have just
been published:
Treated,, — Div.,
c.y. t.o.* Gold-t Profit.t 60 p.e.
Jne., ’OOO. Tons. Oz. £ £
’48..3501 576.1 444.8 75,823 72.000
20 p.c.
’49.. 2957 486.3 315.1 69,664 24,000
60 p.c.
’50.. 3679 636.3 633.5 123,385 72,000
/ 180 p.c.
’51..3720 847.2 1259.7 889,809 216,000
225 p.c.
’52..8103 634.6 599.3 180,820 270,000
* Assay approx. 76 p.c. metallic tin.
t Smelted gold, t After deducting taxa-
tion and provision for depreciation, etc.
Last term less ground of lower
grade—o.39lb. ore per c.y. as
against 0.511 b. in the previous
term —was handled for a lower
output of concentrates and
smaller recovery of tin-ore and
gold i The price realised was
£5928.9 (down £591.6) per ton
metallic tin. And working costs
rose by 2.66 d., reaching 9.46 d.
per c.y.
After allowing £20,000 (down
£56,000) for Malayan income
tax and £5OOO (down £10,000)
for depreciation and depletion,
there was a sharp contraction of
£208,989 in net earnings, which
stood at £180,820, or 150.7 p.c.
on capital as against 324.8, 102.8
and 58 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. Three dividends
totalling £270,000, or 225 p.c,
on capital, were paid as against
180 p.c. for the previous term.
Since the close of accounts three
more .dividends totalling
£240,000, or 200 p.c. on capital,
have been paid. For the
first eight months of the
current term 387 tons tin
concentrates were produced.
Since existing reserves (£445,186
at June 30, 1952) “are adequate
to meet all known conting-
encies,” the board’s declared
policy is to distribute profits as
they are earned.
Finances are snug. When the
books closed current assets
totalled £484,874, of which
£49,679 was stocks, spares, etc.
There was £245,338 coming to
sundry creditors, including pro-
vision for taxation, and £55,177
to the Government on account
of a rehabilitation loan. The
co.’s war-damage claims have
since been provisionally assessed
at £77,756, of which £58,317 has
been received, leaving £19,439
to come,» Of the £58,317,
£47,568 has been used to wipe
out the balance of the Govern-
ment loan.
There is about eight years’
work ahead of the dredge. In
terms of metallic tin, the co.’s
production last term was 406.8
tons, which realised an average
of £5928.9, of which working
exes, took £5308.8, Appear-
ances are, therefore, that the co.
can earn good profits with tin at
a smelter price of £S7OO per ton.
London average spot price for
the metal for 1952 was £5964.5
per ton. For March, 1953, the
figure was £5760.6; it had
dropped to £S69O on May 1, and
recovered to £5756.2 on May 20.
Developments in Korea, easing
of American stockpiling and a
number of technical factors
were responsible for the fall. A
couple of weeks ago the chair-
man of the Straits Trading Co.
(Singapore) said “the long-term
outlook for tin appeared to be
good, provided industrial
activity was not interrupted by
war or depression.”
For the co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares
buyers recently offered 525. 6d.,
with sellers standing off at 565.
A year ago the scrip changed
hands at 675. 6d,
Pacific Oil and Gas Co.
Registered in Sydney on Nov.
25, 1941, this co., which has
been dormant meanwhile, has a
nominal capital of £250,000 in
ss. shares, of which 200,000 are
now offered at par, payable Is.
application and the balance in
three calls of Is. each at inter-
vals of not less than a month.
A further 200,000 are reserved
for subscription at par by the
vendors at their request.
There are no vendor’s or pro-
moter’s shares. But the vendors,
T. W. H. Dee Pty., Ltd., and
John Strevens, who are .also the
promoters, are entitled to £4OOO
cash—£2ooo as soon as the co.
is entitled to commence busi-
ness, and the balance when the
present issue is fully subscribed,
or not later than Oct. 28, 1953.
The £4OOO is a part refund of
expenditure incurred in connec-
tion with “regional geological
studies” and other investigations
and laboratory tests in connec-
tion with an area of some 2500
square miles in the Sydney dis-
trict and in relation to
occurrences of asphaltum and
heavy oils in the Hawkesbury-
Tuggerah Lakes area. The ven-
dors are also entitled to 20 p.c.
°f an y consideration received
the co - rom an y offshoot
f° rme d to develop a selected site
or area -
The idea is that the co, will
prospect-make detailed geo-
logical and geophysical surveys
of selected locahtiM-for natural
gas and / or °ff m the area known
as the Sydney basin, and else-
where, under an authority to
prospect granted by the N. S.
Wales Government. When a
favorable location has been
found a development co. is to
be formed to test-drill the site,
The surveys are to be made
“under supervision of the co.’s
advisers,” who are not specifi-
cally named in the prospectus.
The board may proceed to
allotment when 80,000 shares
(£20,000) have been subscribed,
After handing the vendors
£2OOO and allowing £2OOO for
preliminary exes., a working
capital of £16,000 would re-
main when the shares were fully
paid. This is not enough for
all operations contemplated by
the co -> but is expected to be
sufficient to meet the cost of
preliminary surveys,' the pros-
pectus says.
Shares in oil and gas-pros-
pecting ventures, even where the
geological formations are proved
favorable, are a gamble. Only
the drill can say definitely
whether oil and gas are there in
commercial quantities, and dril-
ling, especially deep drilling, is
a costly undertaking. The Bel-
ford Dome and Natural Gas
and Oil cos., which operated in
the Hunter River valley and at
Balmain respectively during the
between-wars period, gave up
through lack of finance, among
other things. At the moment
the Australian Gas Light Co. is
considering erection of a Lurgi
plant for complete gasification
of low-grade coal on the western
or other N. S. Wales coalfield
and reticulation of the gas to
Sydney. But whether this pres-
pecting co. will be able to interest
the gas co. will depend upon
results achieved
On the of the Pacific
co. are H. Tindale T W H.
Dee, J. Strevens and A. T. Black.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Huge flags were draped from the
galleries of the Town Hall on Friday
night when the Royal Empire Society
held its annual ball, and all the tables
were decorated with beribboned bpwls
of red, white and blue flowers. In the
centre of the official table stood a replica
of the Edward Crown which had been
made by Mrs. Allan Williams, who had
also decorated the table with red roses
and silver candelabra. The pageant
chose as its theme “From Colony to
Crown” and gave a stirring picture of
the earliest white voyagers to Austral
from the time of Queen Elizabeth (whe
aborigines, portrayed by the boys of S
Aloysius’ College, represented our the
Great South Land) to the development
which commenced with the coming o :
Phillip. The applause didn’t really sta
till Captain Cook appeared, and it wa
interesting to note that Governor Bligi
got an enthusiastic welcome and Pete
Lalor a very good clap. The pagean
concluded with the unveiling of a larg
illuminated picture of Her Majesty witli
all our history grouped around her.
The Governor was present with h
daughter. Miss Elizabeth Northcott, wh
wore bouffant blue brocade with a fu
stole. Distinguished members of all th
Services were present wearing decora
tions and dress uniform, so that the seen
was unusually colorful. Representin ■
the women members of the society wer?
Mrs. F. H. Berryman, Mrs. W. Bryan;
and Miss Margaret Gillespie, and am on
those who entertained large parties were
Mrs. C. M. Guiney, Mrs. Harry Twig
den, Mrs. M. Selby-Davidson and Mrs
Norman Jenkyn.
* ☆ ☆
Although there weren’t so many woo
dresses at the Wool Ball held in aid of
the Peter Pan Free Kindergarten a;
Romano’s on Saturday, the dressing
generally was quite lovely and the
atmosphere very gay. Little lucky flags
were sold which were really lucky, for
there were 116 prizes ranging fron
cigarettes to a dinner-set (won by John
Goodall, by the way). One of the most
attractive wool dresses was worn by Mrs
John Bovill. White and very fine in
texture, its bodice was draped and its
skirt very full. The other prize-winning
wool dress, worn by Mrs. David Klippel.
was black with a band of white ermine
around the deep-cut shoulder-line. The
president of the ball, Mrs, Marcel
Dekyvere, wore a slim classical dress of
black wool. Mrs. George Falkiner’s tur-
quoise wool was elaborately draped with
a lighter shade of taffeta.
Other notable fashion-points were the
golden sheaves embroidered on Marcia
Moses’s cream satin dress, Diana Field’s
bouffant red organdie embroidered in
white, Edwina Hordern’s lush golden
satin with its jewelled trimmings, Judy
Rowland-Smith’s white organdie em-
broidered with black coin-spots and black
graduated bows, the little blue pleated
fishtail on Mrs. Alan Copeland’s cream
brocade, and the pink straw-and-pearl
embroidery on Mrs. Neville Manning’s
black dress. Among country visitors
were Mr. and Mrs. John Fisher, of Car-
well, Coonamble, who were with the
Clive Caldwells (of Sydney and The
Retreat, Illabo).
* ☆ ☆
It is reported that one of the most
closely-held secrets of the Coronation is
the design of the dress which the Queen
will wear. Nothing at all is known about
it, apart, of course, from the facts that
it is of heavy white satin of princess line,
sleeveless, with a little cap over the
shoulders, and that it is richly embroidered
in pearls. Otherwise the dress is a
mystery.
☆ ☆ ☆
Although the Governor must have seen
many guards-of-hbnor in his time, surely
none so pretty as the 150 flower-garlanded
folk-dancers who greeted him at the ball
of the New Australian Cultural Associa-
tion. The Town Hall had been trans-
formed by the decorated pavilions of
each nation and the enormous blue
ensign of Australia, which reached from
the roof to the floor, entirely covering
the organ ' and organ-gallery. For the
first time in Australia 13 debutantes,
daughters of our new settlers, were,
presented to the Governor by Mrs.
Florence Taylor, and they made an
exquisite picture as they approached to
the sound of “Advance Australia Fair”
and curtsied in their white crinoline-type
organdie dresses. The Governor, who
was accompanied by Miss - Northcott,
was received by the president of the New
Australian Cultural Association, Miss
Arhne Lower, who said that the com-
mittee intended to make this lovely ball
an annual function.
& ☆ ☆
For Empire Day the Victoria League
combined with the Overseas League for
their luncheon at the Trocadero, which
was attended by about 200 people. Sir
Keith Smith, who was with Lady Smith,
presided, and with Mrs. H. H. McNali
welcomed distinguished visitors, includ-
ing Rear-Admiral J, W. M. Eaton
and Mrs. Eaton, Lieutenant-General
F. H. Berryman and Mrs. Berryman,
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. H. A. Showers,
Mrs. H. Nicholas and Mr. and Mrs.
E. W. Burbridge. Mr, Burbridge, who
is the British Council Representative in
Australia, spoke on the similarity of the
problems confronting modern Eliza-
bethans with Those of a former day, and
said that there could be no hope for
peace in the world today should the
Cppimonwealth of Nations cease to exist.
One of the most interesting of recent
engagements is that of Dinah Fielding
Jones, eldest daughter of Mrs. Maynard-
Jenour, formerly of Sydney and now of
Monmouthshire, England Dinah’s
fiance is Allan Campbell, who is the son
of Colonel and Mrs. Eric Campbell, of
Billaboola, Young. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
A long memory of song and opera in
Australia was broken recently when Mrs.
Martina Schreiber, of Kew (Vic.), passed
away at the age of 92. Mrs. Schreiber
was, before her marriage, Madame
Martina Simonsen, a singer of European
fame, and a daughter of the gifted
Madame Fanny Simonsen, who was the
first to bring an all-Italian opera com-
pany to Australia, opening at Her
Majesty’s Theatre, which was then known
as the Alexandra, a few months after it
was built in 188$. It is said that Madame
Fanny Simonsen had a repertoire of 100
operas, in any one of which she could
take the first lead at a moment’s notice.
She brought out four Italian opera-
companies to Australia as well as several
English companies, and had made an
outstanding contribution to opera in
Australia when she died at the close of
the century.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the latest books to appear about
the Royal Family is The Duchess of
Kent, an intimate portrait by Jennifer
Ellis, published by Odhams. The
Duchess, a beautiful and talented woman,
has had a more varied life than most of
the other members of the Royal Family ;
she has been through stress, revolution
and near-poverty, romance and a happy
marriage, tragedy in the death of her hus-
band, and much limelight as one of Eng-
land’s royal duchesses and a leader of
fashion.
The story of her life is linked with
the changing world of Europe during
this century, and the author of this study
has drawn a clear picture of the events
that have moulded the life of the
Duchess. One of the most attractive
things about the book is the collection
of photographs, many of which have not
been published before, including an en-
chanting one of Princess Marina as a
schoolgirl.
MELBOURNE
Invitations have been issued by the
Governor and Lady Brooks to a recep-
tion with dancing to be held at Govern-
ment House on June 11 in honor of the
Coronation and birthday of the Queen.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a unique gathering of three
of the principal figures at the wedding in
Toorak Presbyterian Church when Padre
D. Beyer married Elizabeth Lenore,
second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R.
Furie, of Kingsford (N.S.W.), and Flying-
Officer Kenneth Blight. The bridegroom,
best man (Flying-Officer R. D. Bray)
and the padre were all members of
R.A.A,F.’s 77 Squadron in Korea. The
bride’s ballerina-length frock was of
pale-blue nylon marquisette over mauve
satin. A matching Juliet cap held the
finger-tip veil of pale-blue nylon tulle.
The bride’s sister, Mrs. Kevin Watts, of
Sydney, was matron-of-honor; her
ballerina-length frock was of cream lace
mounted on oyster satin and worn with
a matching Juliet cap. The ’groom is
the elder son of Mrs. D. C. Blight, of
Murtoa, and the late Mr. J. G. Blight.
Reception was at the Hotel Federal,
Mrs. Hector Ross, wife of the English
actor who stars in “ Dial M for Murder "
at the Comedy, was formerly Joy
Sylvaine, daughter of the English play-
wright who wrote "One Wild Oat.” She
also has been on the English stage and
in films. It was in the television studios
of the B.B.C. that she and her husband
first met .
Lady Brooks, attended by Miss Anne
Spraggett, officially opened the Pageant
of the Dolls in the Myer Mural Hall.
The Governor’s lady wore a junior-navy
woollen frock with white revers, and her
small matching hat was studded with
blue paillettes and finished with veiling.
Organised by the businessmen’s com-
mittee of the Queen Elizabeth Maternal
and Child Health Centre to help the
funds, the pageant was a great success.
Members of the committee who received
Lady Brooks included Sir Herbert Olney,
Sir Leslie McConnan and Messrs. J.
Hodgkinson and B. Strachan. Also
present were Lady McConnan, the
Kenneth Myers, Dr. Doris Officer and
Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot.
☆ ☆ ☆
Making one of her all-too-rare appear-
ances, Hephzibah Menuhin (Mrs. Lindsay
Nicholas) was soloist with the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra in Beethoven’s
Piano Concerto in B Flat Major. Juan
Jose Castro was the conductor, and the
orchestra was giving the inaugural con-
cert for the V.S.O. Provident Fund. The
gown worn by Hephzibah was full-skirted
and made of heavy white linen with a
tulip neckline. The neckline and a deep
border at the hem of the skirt were
heavily embroidered in white and gold.
The Governor, attended by Lieut. Alec
Weir, was received by the manager of
the A.B.C., Mr. David Felsman, and
concert manager Dome O’Neill. Mrs.
Felsman wore a black gown under a
dyed ermine coat. Madame Castro
allied a black skirt with a jacket of pale-
gold satin brocade.
In the audience were Mrs. E. M. Corn-
foot, Mrs. Frank Donovan, Mrs. M.
Aikman, Mrs. Jean Davies and her
daughter Shirley, Mr. and Mrs. Hilton
Nicholas, Mrs. Jim Buchanan and Miss
Annie Danks. After the concert Lindsay
Nicholas entertained more than 100 guests
at a supper-party at the Australia to
celebrate the birthday of his wife. Con-
ductor Juan Castro and his wife, Mrs.
Sam Pierce, Bertha Johgensen, leader
of the orchestra, and many of its mem-
bers were guests.
* ☆ ☆
The committee of the Royal Empire
Society’s Junior Division chose a Coro-
nation theme for their ball at 9 Darling-
street. Round the walls were posters in
Coronation designs. A large chart of
London was set in the foyer to enable
guests to find their tables, which were
allotted under street-names on the walls.
On each table were set crowns of rec
paper, gold-colored cardboard anc
cotton-wool splashed with Indian inc
to represent ermine. Official guests r
ceived by the president of the Juni
Division, Charles Machin, vice-preside
Annette Clancy and treasurer Ra
Williams included the president of the
Royal Empire Society, Major-Genera
Kingsley Norris, and Mrs. Norris, pres
dent of the Women’s Group, Mrs. Osca
Owen, and the headmaster of Geelon
Grammar School, Dr. Darling, and Mr
Darling.
Among the dancers were Felicit
Harber, in embroidered white faille
Garda Tinker, whose white tulle crino
line frock was trimmed with blacc
velvet; Denise Hoppe, whose ballerin
frock of emerald-green taffeta wa
trimmed with white guipure lace
Annette Clancy, in a white sheath frocc
which had an emerald-green floatin
panel; Barbara Bruce, whose scarle
chiffons were finely pleated; Elain
Carter, who wore a tiny pearl corone
with her aqua-blue satin brocade gown
and Geraldine Cody, whose lilac Italian
brocades were pin-spotted in white.
☆ ☆ *
At the English Speaking Union’s Coro
nation Luncheon at the Victoria Palac
the guest-speaker was Major-Gen
Kingsley Norris. Flowers in red, white
and blue were on each table, and Mrs
Kingsley Norris, who accompanied he
husband, was presented with a matching
posy. In the unavoidable absence of the
president of the E.S.U., acting Chie
Justice Sir Charles Lowe, official guest
were received by Colin Mackay,
member of the council, and Mrs, Mackay
At the official table were Lady Lowe
Lady Scott, Mrs, Gerald Bacon and Mrs
Aubrey Gibson. Other members presen ;
included Americans Mr. and Mrs. A. E
Hotchkiss, Mrs. L. R. Buxton, Mrs. T. J
Ryan, Mrs. Dan Reddan, Mrs. B. Brown
and Mrs. H. F. Tompkins.
☆ ☆ ☆
tt Commencing on June 3 Shakspeare’s
‘ The Comedy of Errors” will be staged
at Kelvin Hall by Male Hoban and her
Pilgrim Theatre players. All proceeds
are for the Brotherhood of St. Laurence,
Leading roles will be in the hands of
Francis Simmons, who won the Maie
Hoban Scholarship for 1953 and who is
doing a University Arts course, and
Dorothy Jones, another of Mrs. Hoban’s
students. Tickets for the opening night
are available at Glen’s, the Pilgrim
Theatre, East Melbourne, and the
Brotherhood of St. Laurence, Block
Arcade, Collins-street.
☆ ☆ ☆
Plans for the International Club
Pageant to be held at the Exhibition
Building on June 6 and 8 were dis-
cussed at a late-aftemoon party at the
clubrooms in East Melbourne. It will
be a stunning affair. Irene Mitchell, of
the Little Theatre, is producing the
pageant, and the script has been written
by John May. A snack-bar will be open
where light refreshments will be Available,
and a special Coronation souvenir pro-
gramme will also be sold. Scenes to be
presented will depict Piccadilly Circus on
the morning of Coronation Day, and
groups will be contributed by various
other national bodies. Bookings are at
Allan’s, Collins-street, from May 29.
Seats will also be sold on the nights of
the performances at the doors.
☆ * ☆
Waving small Union Jacks and cheer-
ing lustily, hundreds of greeted
the Governor when he addressed them
at the Empire Day and Youth Rally in
the Town Hall. This was organised by
the Council of British Empire Societies.
On arrival the vice-regal pair were wel-
comed by Mr. A. J. Collocott, chairman
of the council. Lady Brooks wore a
gown of shimmering satin in rich wine
tonings and a cape stole of white Arctic-
fox furs. The other speaker was Judge
Book, who told the audience the story
erf the Coronation. Others in the audi-
ence were Mrs. Book, Mrs. H. F. Maud-
sley, Mrs. Claude Couchman, Air-
Marshal Sir George Jones and Lady
Jones, Mr. and Mrs, Tom Hudson,
Major-General Kingsley Norris and his
wife, and Marjorie Tatnall.


Missing Friend
CLEMENT, Margaret.—Would anyone
knowing or having information which
might assist in establishing the move-
ments of or whereabouts of MARGARET
CLEMENT, who was last seen at or about
Tullaree, near Buffalo, in South Gipps-
land, on or about the 24th day of May,
1952, please communicate with JOHN W.
GALBALLY, Solicitor, 118 Queen Street,
Melbourne. Telephone No. MU 5225.
Should MARGARET CLEMENT herself
read this notice would she please com-
municate with the said JOHN W. GAL-
BALLY, where she may learn something
to her advantage.
Divorce Notice
TO WILLIAM ALAN KELLY (also known
aa NEVILLE WADE) Address unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ROBERTA KELLY has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of desertion for a continuous period
of three years or more If you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within Thirty
clear days from the date of this publica-
tion In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders against
you in your absence. DATED this 19th day
of May, 1953.—E. LAWSON TURNBULL,
Acting Registrar. HOWARD-BATH SAR-
GENT .& READ, of Occidental House, 51
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
'^Attamrisji
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
%
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
g
Circular Charts lor all types
•f Recording Instruments
tor in f clui of HacMaery
tr Cquipmant
METER CHARTS • Speci *Hf
JACKW?O'SIIUVANfitI6£
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
•JUL
6lN G o f o ** Te
CH ° C
emq
¥m
m
I*o
HLS
m
Look for the brilliant red and yellow pack.
SG-2
Do you like ginger?
Small's ginger Milk
Chocolate is different
from any other choco-
late you've tasted. It's
studded with pieces of
tasty ginger.
Small's ginger is
pleasant to the
palate. The choco-
late's so smooth
and sweet and
creamy just as it
is in all Small's
] Milk Chocolate.
Change to Small's, the'
family chocolate with the
real taste difference. Try nut
milk and plain milk, too.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Talkies
“The Story of Gilbert and
Sullivan”
The producers of this English
film have struck a happy balance
between the story of the famous
partnership and excerpts from
the operas (with the exception
of “Princess Ida,” “The Grand
Duke” and “Utopia Limited”).
Those last two were the least
successful and are rarely if ever
heard now —certainly never in
Australia.
The partnership scored its first
success with “Trial by Jury,” a
considerable proportion of which
is presented. This gains from a
fine piece of work by Australian
baritone Harold Williams as the
judge —as well as good robust
singing he brings sly humor and
vitality to the role.
Thereafter, as each opera is
successfully launched, Sullivan
conducts while Gilbert im-
patiently tramps the streets, to
return just before the final cur-
tain is due, poke his head in
anxiously, and then, reassured by
all the smiles, to take his bow
jointly with the composer. Scenes
from each have been shrewdly
selected —no easy task, in view
of the embarrassment of riches
available.
Viewing the whole Gilsullivan
range, the urge is strong to pro-
nounce “The Yeomen of the
Guard” as artistically the most
satisfying of the pair’s achieve-
ments. In this libretto Gilbert
blended humor and drama with
a master touch, while Sullivan
obviously rejoiced in the oppor-
tunity to give rein to his latent
talent to write serious music. It
is the closest to grand opera of
the whole series.
It is almost Robert Morley’s
film. In his brilliant portrayal
of Gilbert he has made him by
turns jovial when things were
going well and mordantly
choleric when things were going
badly—and things were mostly
wrong in Gilbert’s eyes. Yet
when the long-smouldering dis-
like between the two men bursts
at last into flaming tempers it
is the usually mild Sullivan
(played very well by Maurice
Evans) who starts things—this,
too, at a river picnic-party being
held in celebration of another
success! The famous row over
the cost of the new Savoy carpet
is of course given due promin-
ence.
Before the final break came
Sullivan .bitterly complained that
his music always had to be
subordinated to Gilbert’s words ;
to which Gilbert venomously
replied that the music played hell
with his words.
Both, of course, were wrong.
In the whole range of musical
works for the stage there is
nothing remotely to corhpare
with the perfect wedding of scin-
tillating music and witty words
that distinguishes Gilsullivan. It
is absolutely unique, a quality
that makes the operas as fresh
today as when they were written
between 1881 and 1896.
Peter Finch’s D’Oyly Carte
gives a clear conception of the
tact, strength and business sense
of the impresario who made for-
tunes for all three and for so
long kept the partnership from
flying apart.
The film is in tasteful color,
the singing of principals and
choruses first-rate, the mounting
and dressing of high standard.
At Sydney Embassy.
♦♦♦ ❖
“The Planter’s Wife”
There is an authentic ring
about this drama of an English
rubber-planter in Malaya who
is simultaneously engaged in
two battles: one against the
terrorists, the other with his con-
science for keeping his wife and
child there with him to face such
daily hazards. The wife mis-
takes his moodiness for fading
affection. She decides to go, but
before she can get away a full-
scale attack on the plantation is
made by a gang led by a Chinese
with a price on his head.
This attack, and the deter-
mined and skilful way it is met,
are excellently contrived. There
is shown something—naturally
not all —of the police organisa-
tion and of the co-operation
among planters when an attack
comes. There are no mock-
heroics, no exaggerations; tense-
ness and excitement there are a-
plenty. For good measure there
is thrown in a fight to the death
between a cobra and a mon-
goose.
Jack Hawkins adds to his
rapidly-growing reputation as
one of the most versatile of
English screen-actors in his role
of the planter. Claudette Col-
bert is competent as the wife.
At Sydney State.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Another Man’s Poison”
English film-making of late
has been consistently good ; this
one is downright bad.
Allied to the most lurid hellers
drammer —all about an authoress
who has a fancy for mixing
prussic-acid cocktails for those
husbands, both de jure and de
facto, who have become incon-
venient —is a demonstration of
blatant “hamming” by Bette
Davis. A gloomy mansion on
the Yorkshire moors is the set-
ting for the Evil Doings, and
lugubriety has been deepened
and the eyesight of patrons un-
duly strained by the use of
muddy photography and dark-
ened rooms. Any chance of
slumber during the proceedings
is frustrated by the actress’s
annoying habit of making her
all-too-frequent passionate out-
bursts double-fortissimo. At Syd-
ney Victory.
♦♦♦
“MacDonald of the Canadian
Mounties”
Just to show that all Scots
aren’t necessarily canny, this one
commits a whole string of in-
credibly rash and stupid acts,
and even survives them. Not
the least of these is going, chock-
ful of bounce and with only a
half-breed for company, in
among a few thousand Cree
Indians —who are simply itching
to separate- from his scalp the
first paleface they see —and
haughtily demanding release of
two white prisoners.
Tyrone Power, as the grim-
jawed hero, acts almost as well
as his horse. At Sydney Plaza.
Stage and Music
Yi-Kwei Sze
In his second Sydney recital
the Chinese bass included some
Schubert songs, the most effec-
tive —because its dramatic impact
was strengthened by the strong
tonal color he brought to it —
being the splendid “Der Doppel-
ganger.” “Ganymede,” too,
was an example of keen intellect
aiding perfect voice-control. The
Michelangelo lieder of Hugo
Wolf was scarcely worth the
inclusion —these songs fall well
below the composer’s best in-
spiration.
The final concert was one of
almost unrelieved severity, even
the Italian Cantata by Handel
lacking that usual
warmth and cheerfulness, though
there were some fine passages
of declamation.
But Brahms’s Four Serious
Songs, together with Moussorg-
sky’s “Songs and Dances of
Death,” plus a heavily dirgeful
aria from “Macbeth,” made up
too depressing a night’s singing.
The one brief flash of gaiety was
Durante’s “Danza, Danza.”
A “critic’s programme,” this,
but the profundity of its riches
cloyed. It was badly balanced.
But among the orgy of charnel-
houses, despair and bilious
metaphysics there shone some
beautiful singing, an outstanding
interpretation being that of
“Field-Marshal Death,” which
brings the Moussorgsky quartet
of songs to a grisly conclusion.
The singer was ably aided at the
piano by his charming and self-
effacing wife, Nancy Lee Sze.
• *** ❖
“Top of the Ladder”
The Independent Theatre at
North Sydney formed a “work-
shop group” a few months ago
of ‘a dozen actors and actresses
“chosen for their talent and
keenness for intensive study of
theatre craft in acting, directing
and stage technique.” Last week
the group offered up for inspec-
tion its first full production,
Tyrone Guthrie’s “Top of the
Ladder,” and acquitted itself
pretty well in a play that is
more a facile essay in technique
than a work of any profound
observation.
Guthrie’s main character is an
ordinary little man whose sub-
conscious childhood fears and
jealousy of his father manifest
themselves in manhood as a
driving and successful urge to
assert himself in business and
over the people around him. He
comes in time to see the same
things rising in his own son, and,
finally, to see all the things he
has worked for and won crumble
into worthlessness in his hands.
The novelty about the play is
not in its subject, but in
Guthrie’s arranging of it. There
is no orderly chronology in his
. presentation; the stage depicts
three scenes —business, home
and childhood —and events are
played side-by-side as they relate
to each other, not in time, but
in cause and effect. One might
find in it some vague relation
to the method of Strindberg’s
“Dream Play”—which Dr,
Cardamatis staged at the Inde-
pendent a few years ago —but
Guthrie’s clever juxtaposition of
events and echoing interplay of
dialogue is a long way short of
the brilliant and beautiful
surrealism of the gloomy
Swede,
Still, it’s not an easy thing to
Stage, either in detail or total
effect, and Doris Fitton’s pro-
duction brought it off most skil-
fully. Robert Levis, as the cen-
tral character, had to go through
most of the seven ages with his
voice and emotions, and con-
trived to do so quite convinc-
ingly. He was ably propelled
on his way by Thora Small as
his mother, Patricia Lithgow as
his wife, Noelann Gandon as
his secretary, Robert Moylan as
his employer, Olga Yarad as his
nurse and Hugh Stevenson as his
valet.
Melbourne Music
An unpremeditated clashing of
dates produced a unique
week’s putburst of music in Mel-
bourne, The Schools’ Festival
was surprising. Everything the
children did choruses, un-
accompanied madrigals, or-
chestra and cantatas —was first-
class, and the massed chorus
singing, with Ruth Flockart con-
ducting, was as sensitive and to
the point as any adult singing.
The best-trained regiment of
kiddies was undoubtedly the one
from the Macßobertson Girls’
High School.
Professor John Bishop came
from Adelaide to conduct and
to beam over the proceedings
it was he who, with his en-
thusiastic persistence, founded
the Victorian Schools’ Associa-
tion. His offspring has certainly
grown.
There was also the Brighton
Philharmonic Society under Dr.
Herman Schildberger, who, with
the assistance of pianist Jean
Robinson, has worked up this
suburban organisation to a fine
edge. Its 29th concert featured
“Pilgrimage of the Rose,” a
seldom-heard Schumann written
by that composer in his forties.
It was beautifully rendered by
the choir and soprano Maureen
Boyce, and bass Noel Noble
gave extraordinary solemnity to
the Burial chorus.
Victorian finalists in the
A.B.C.’s concerto and vocal
competition showed tjieir paces
at the Town Hall. A pianist and
a clarinetist tied for first place
in the instrumental division and
Lynette Kierce aired a promising
soprano. It was Maxwell Shep-
herd, however, who brought
tone out of the piano.
At the Assembly Hall there
was an evening of indigenous
composition by Felix Werder, a
New Australian, whose harsh,
abrupt, dissonant and acid
themes and rhythms were given
sound and volume by the
Paul 'McDermott ensembles and
Madame Radvan, Mr., Werder’s
muse belongs to the ancient
Hebrew, but his idiom is modern.
A quartet for strings was the
most arresting.


\
fgfgptmmtrrn
ON YOUR OWN FARM
ty///comnee yeufAst
&r FORDSON
SM AMi j, : ;
.o*v **>4
y/m hresf-Cesffbfwfi/'M'/oh/
Without any obligation, bring Australia’s
lowest priced tractor (per horsepower
rating) on to your own farm to prove to
you the very things a farmer wants to
know before he buys a tractor: “Is it
the best make for my type of farm?”
“Which is best for my soil conditions
the kerosene or the diesel powered
model?” “Can I have choice of wheeled,
half-track or full-track units? . . . choice
of gear ratios?” “Can it handle a full
range of implements with plenty of
reserve power for heaviest jobs?” “Will
full service facilities be available if and
when I need them?” “Can I purchase on
easy confidential terms?” Let Fordson
Major and your Fordson Dealer answer
these and every other question under the
most convincing conditions . . . on your
own land! (Your Fordson Dealer will
gladly arrange it without the slightest
obligation).
COMPARE THESE PRICES WITH THOSE OF ANY OTHER TRACTOR
All prices
F. 0.8. plant
Liberal Terms
available
£641
Kerosene Model with
Steel Wheels
£844
Kerosene Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
£1312
Diesel Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
PRICES INCLUDE all this
standard equipment on
all models: Lights, Starter,
Brakes, Belt Pulley, Radiator
Shutters & Power Take-off.
“Fordson Major Farms Australia*’
*
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
The Cowboy from town
by E.O. SCHLUNKE
PREFACE
All too frequently one reads in the newspapers of farm- or
station-hands shooting their employers. On the other hand, one
rarely reads about graziers shooting their employees. This, to
one thoroughly familiar with the position, indicates an admirable
quality of forbearance on the part of the landowners. So many
of the good old farm- and station-hands have gone to the city
that a vacuum has been created in the country; and into this
vacuum have been sucked some extraordinary creatures. Let the
reader be the jury. — E. O.S.
BEG you, your Honor,
I not to send that boy to
I jail,” said the zealous-
looking young man, with
something restrained about his
clothes and uncontrolled about
his emotions that branded him
as an ardent social-worker. “Let
me take care of him.”
The judge looked doubtfully
at Mr. Birdey, whose type he
was beginning to know very
well.
“But this is a serious case.”
“All the more reason why we
should want to save him.”
The flashing blue eyes of Mr.
Birdey, his crown of shining
gold hair, as well as his dther-
worldly tone and manner, made
everyone in the court look on
him with interest and generally
with sympathy. He rushed on
before the judge could adjust
himself to this peculiar line of
reasoning.
“I will have him sent to kind
friends in the country. Away
from the crime-breeding squalor
and vice of the slums, to pure
air and pure people.”
“A youth,” said the judge, in
an earthy, factual manner,
“whom I allowed to be sent to
the country despite my better
judgment caused some very
serious trouble.”
“Ah, but not one of my
youths, sir,” Mr. Birdey an-
nounced as if he had scored a
notable point against someone.
“That would be the responsi-
• bility of another organisation,
which shall be charitably name-
less. They, I regret to relate,
make mistakes ; they don’t exer-
cise the discrimination I do. I
realise that I have a responsi-
bility to my friends on farms
and stations, as well as to my
boys. Moreover, I have uni-
versity qualifications in psy-
chology, sociology”
The judge made a resigned
gesture and tapped for silence.
“Very well, Mr. Birdey, if you
are prepared to take the usual
responsibilities you may have
him ; and I hope that he won’t
be your mistake.” Then, turn-
ing to the overgrown youth in
the dock, he said in a very dif-
ferent tone of voice:
“Remember this! You
thoroughly deserve to go to jail
for two years. And if you mis-
behave in any way in the place
you’re sent to you shall. Quite
frankly, I’m sorry for the man
who’s going to knock you into
shape. I hope he’s a big strong
man who always carries a stock-
whip.”
'THREE HUNDRED miles in-
land a letter arrived,
courteously addressed to H.
Kraftmann, Esq., Donnerwetter
Station, Nogoluk P.O. Neither
the “Esq.” nor the “Station” had
any effect on Harry Kraftmann,
though his boundingly successful
father had taken a great pride
in meriting both, and his whis-
kered old German peasant
grandfather, who had acquired
in Australia the first little block
of land the had ever
owned, would never have
imagined either possible.
The contents of the letter
made Kraftmann frown with a*
kind of resigned pessimism.
“I am sending you Ronald
Harby, a lad with great possi-
bilities, who has not had the
opportunities to fulfil himself in
the city. He will respond well
to kindness and understand-
ing”—
Kraftmann skipped one and
a half pages until he came to the
date of arrival; then he called
out to his wife:
“Another of Birdey’s golden-
hearted youths arriving to-
morrow, Sophie. Don’t leave
anything valuable lying about.”
Mrs. Kraftmann scarcely
bothered to reply. Her husband’s
youths came and went as fre-
quently as the novels from her
circulating library, and made as
little impression on her. She
didn’t even bother to learn the
names of most of them, since
they were almost certain to be
sacked before she got them right.
She was very unlike her hus-
band, who, coming accidentally
across the names of past youths
in his farm records, was apt to
wince with pain or burn with
indignation no matter how many
years back the records went.
Kraftmann’s trouble, so his
friends told him, was that he
couldn’t take the bad with the
good. But Kraftmann expressed
his outlook thus:
“If it really was the ‘bad’ with
the ‘good’ I could stand it; but
what it really amounts to is the
‘worse’ with the ‘terrible.’ Talk
about the woolgrower’s golden
age,” he’d shout; “have you
ever thought about how much
it would cost any of you to re-
new the fences and buildings on
your properties? And God
knows, there are plenty that need
renewing. Have you? At the
present cost of labor and
materials? I have! I’ll tell you!
More than you could get if you
sold your entire properties! So
what do you really own, after


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JAMES JONES late of
Mungindi.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA
KATHLEEN ELLA JONES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4731 of 1952
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 4th day of August 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Soli-
citors, of 18 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER HENRY SPOHR late of
Narrandera in the State of New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that JOAN
MONICA SPOHR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1508 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 31st day
of July 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ADRIAN
C R TWIGG, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J- DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DICK RIDDLE late of Carss Park
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that EDITH MARION. RIDDLE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 885
of 1953 on the ground of desertion for
three vears and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 31st day of July 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ADRIAN C. R. TWIGG,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—j. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
4*
It's simplicity of design and
sturdy construction that
makes Ansaldo TCA 70
outstanding in performance
under all operational conditions
g
1. 30-gallon fuel tank
2. Precleaner for air intake
3. Speed control lever
4. Gear shift lever 5 forward speeds
5. Clutches and brakes
6. Clutch pedal
7. Fabricated steel hull carries logging
winches, etc.
8. Fabricated steel plate hull. Weight
1 5 cwt.
9. Large diameter cast steel sprocket
10. Five lower track rollers specially
hardened running on bronze bushes
1 1. Rock guard for lower rollers stan-
dard equipment
12. 77in. track in contact with ground
—l3 grousiers provide outstanding
traction
13. Hardened grouser integral with
grouser plate secured by 4 bolts
14. Heavy transverse spring set well
forward rocks on central shaft
15. Hardened two-piece track link
16. Large diameter front idler
1 7. Built-in front bumper
18. Large capacity radiator with ther-
mostat heat control
AM#ALDO
DIESEL
TRACTORS
Sole Factory Representatives for Australia:
MATERIAL HANDLING PTY. LTD., 61-65 Wentworth Ave., Sydney, N.S.W. MA9141
Distributors :—
DOMINION MOTORS, 52 William Street, Sydney. MA9017. BROWN & BUREAU LTD., Tractor Division, Graham Street, Port Melbourne.
MX 2171. HUDSON TAYLOR & CO., 606 Murray Street, Perth. 87908. CLYDE MOTORS, 165 Brunswick Street, Fortitude Valley,
Brisbane. L 4237. POWER PLANT LTD., 100 Currie Street, Adelaide. LA 2111.
2952
working hard all your lives, and
your fathers working twice as
hard before you? Nothing!
Nothing! Nothing!”
Most of his friends agreed
that Kraftmann’s outlook on
life had been blighted by the
worry of looking after his stud
sheep. Every year he had to
give tremendous thought to the
destinies of hundreds of his
highly expensive stud-rams.
Those which had good records,
to be rewarded with a seraglio
of shapely young ewes of most
select breeding. Those with poor
progeny-records, to be sold to
people who wouldn’t know any
better; and those so bad that
they’d spoil his reputation as a
breeder, to be desexed with
what he called, for brevity, his
“bloodless”—a form of retri-
bution which seemed to give him
a grim sort of pleasure.
In fact, he was in the habit of
carrying this instrument about
with him and using it overhastily
on any ram that annoyed him
by getting into the wrong pad-
dock. There was even a legend,
perpetuated by the oldest per-
manent employee. Old Tom, that
he had once used it on an irre-
proachable and highly valuable
ram which had the misfortune,
while he was examining it,
merely to step accidentally on
his sore toe. Other animals
which had won his disapproval,
chiefly dogs and cats, had had
their futures blighted by this
instrument, and countless times
he had threatened to use it on
his employees. It can thus be
readily seen that running a stud
does not have a refining effect
on a man ; but those who knew
Kraftmann best forgave him
most, because they knew how
often and how sorely he was
tried.
His nights were harried by
doubts as to whether some idiot
employee had really put top-stud
ram BG-1041 into the Upper
Kurrajong Paddock —as he’d
been told to three times and
made to repeat back twice, as
well as checked twice after he’d
returned or whether he
mightn’t have put the ram into
the Middle Kurrajong, where
he’d be having an incestuous
affair with his own offspring and,
in one way and another, throw-
ing the progress of the stud back
ten or fifteen years.
A Merino stud would not
have been so bad, but Kraft-
mann had to have an English
Longwool breed, every member
of which regarded a fence as a
challenge, and an arranged
marriage as being as contempt-
ibly humiliating and unaccept-
able as a wild career of pad-
dock-to-paddock free love was
grand and desirable.
MOW, the old permanent
hands like Old Tom, the
only one left of a vanishing
race, could be depended upon
to notice, even in their time off,
that TM-107 had got into the
Ironbark Paddock, and do some-
thing to remedy matters. But
the youths that were being sent
to Kraftmann lately were quite
capable, on seeing a ewe repel-
ling the advances of her legiti-
mate spouse, and making ad-
vances to the lord of the next
paddock through the fence, of
pulling the wires apart so that
all three could get together,
Then they’d sit there watching
the fun and games for a couple
of hours, while Kraftmann was
cursing them up hill and down
dale for being late.
And the kind of “permanents”
he’d been getting lately, men
who had cottages provided for
them and their families, and all
sorts of perquisites like free
meat and milk, were giving him
nearly as much trouble as his
youths. Often married to town
or city girls who had no inten-
tion of settling down in the
country, they rarely stayed long
enough to learn to be really
useful. -
“They only take it on,” he was
in the habit of growling, “be-
cause there’s a house where they
can get married and have their
baby respectably. Then, as soon
as they hear of something else,
they’re off.”
Apart from Old Tom, the only
“permanent” of any promise he
now had was a man called
Larkins, whose arrangement to
be married had collapsed be-
tween accepting the job and
moving in. For the time being
he was being fed and housed at
the homestead, an arrangement
extremely unpopular with
Kraftmann’s wife, since it re-
duced the number of novels she
could read. So Kraftmann had
added to his burden an under-
taking to find Larkins a suitable
wife.
This, he realised, was no light
undertaking, since none knew
better than he how difficult it
was to achieve a successful mat-
ing. Animals he’d paid shock-
ing prices for, with a specific
object in view, had either failed
to produce any progeny at all,
or progeny of an utterly unex-
pected type. And it was progeny
he was concerned with now, too,
because he had decided, after
foolishly allowing all of Old
Tom’s big family to drift away
to other occupations, that if you
wanted hands of any use at all
you’d have to raise them on the
property,
The disadvantage, as compared
w jth sheep, was that if you made
a mistake' the first year you
couldn > t switch them round and
t , ;ffpr „ n t ■
y disadvanta „ e was t w
, .
snee P aic n 1 ex -
eous mattcrs , anc f want a not-
water system m the cottage that
had been electrified for a previ-
ous couple, who hadn’t stayed
f° r more than six months after
all.
However, he now had a pretty
good candidate lined up—the
daughter of a sharefarmer who
had all the necessary physical
qualities to compensate for
Larkins’s rather lean ranginess,
He’d had her coming over to
help his wife in the house
several days a week, so that he
could study her temperament and
make sure of her outlook ; that
is, whether she liked country
life ; whether she could be ex-
pected to settle down in a cot-
tage, if she was likely to want
to have children in reasonable
numbers and be capable of
bringing them up sturdy and
healthy.
He felt so pleased about this
girl that he had actually
sounded her out, cautiously, on
her willingness to marry Lar-
kins, and though her reply was
mostly giggles the giggles had
had an affirmative sound. Yet,
a marriage was, relatively, so
irrevocable, and as he so
earnes tly wanted to make sure,
as s h e epmen put it, that they
wou j d “nick,” he was still hesi-
fating.
tn the kind of fine spring
A weather that a social-worker
couldn’t help regarding as uni-
versal approval for the work he
was doing, a small English car
drew up at Kraftmann’s large
a nd complicated set of sheep-
yards. Social-worker Birdey got
out, glowing and beaming, to
find out just what the pure air
and pure people were doing for
the reclamation of Ronald
Harby.
The scene looked charming
and peaceful enough, to a man
who knew as little as Birdey
about sheep-studs. Dark-green
cypress-pines shed their dense
( Continued on next page)


ĝ
g
i
V//////////AY///m/////////////i
perfectly synchronised to give you
shaving smoother than you've ever
thought possible. Two twin blades
glide easily, smoothly over youi
face and make shaving a real
pleasure. 240 volt A.C./D.C.
/ / / /♦
//✓ //,
r/ / / / / *
\
L
LVS
/;
. , , the latest addition to the
Electric Dry Shavers .*.. the
instruments that are designed to give'' :: S%iifsfftteyoj
smooth , efficient service,
MUillm
Housed in a handsome, grained leather pre-
sentation case with rich, red silk and plush
linings, the TWIN FOUR makes a gift all men
applaud. Choose a TWIN FOUR now as your
faithful companion or for that special occasion
gift
70/83.49
ROLLS RAZOR")
maA&Uf /A# erne AAsuA
shade over yards where small
mobs of sheep drowsed with
drooping heads. Here and there
men and dogs were attempting,
without any jarring enthusiasm
or hurry, to move sheep from
one pen to another, filling the
warm air with barkings and
rustic sounds like “Hoy!”
“Gettalong there!” and “You
bastards!” Only in the centre
of the vortex of fences was there
any suggestion of intensity.
Here two men were holding an
enormous ram for Kraftmann
to examine, while he was study-
ing its history in a large diary,
meanwhile muttering to himself:
“Even though I paid five hun-
dred guineas for you, you spunk-
less mongrel, nothing would
give me greater pleasure than to
cut your blood-curdling throat.”
Then for the benefit of Lar-
kins, for Old Tom had reached
the limit of his absorbing powers
about fifteen years ago, he said
in a voice heavily loaded with
exasperation:
“No matter what kind of ewe
I mate him with all his bloody
lambs have behinds like doc-
tored dogs.” .
At that moment Birdey
arrived, deliberately not hearing
the language nor the passion
with which it was delivered;
still beaming, though he’d had
a difficult passage through the
maze of yards. He greeted
Kraftmann and his attendants
as if he was quite prepared to
share his heavenly sunshine, with
them, whatever their denomina-
tion.
“I’m spending my holidays on
a tour of the farms and stations
where my boys are placed,” he
told Kraftmann.
It took Kraftmann a few
moments to get used to the idea
of anyone sacrificing so much
for anything so unworthy.
“You’ll be seeing a lot of the
country, too,” he said, as if he
believed that to be the true
explanation. “It’s looking at its
best now.”
“Oh, beautiful, beautiful,”
Birdey went on, deciding he had
found the responsive chord in
Kraftmann’s heart, and deter-
mining to play on it to his best
advantage. “How wonderful it
must be to live always among
such beauty and peace!”
Larkins and Old Tom looked
puzzled; and Kraftmann, who
hadn’t quite forgotten all the
poetry he’d learnt at his college,
smiled at Birdey sympathetically,
because it was taking him so long
to grow up. They might have
found some mutually compre-
hensible topic sooner or later,
if at that moment they hadn’t
all been compelled to turn about
by a menacing thunder of
approaching hooves.
A cowboy had arrived, straight
from Texas, U.S.A. Black vel-
vety ten-gallon hat with silken
tassels flying, a purely decorative
waistcoat of plaited leather over
a yellow shirt dotted with pink
bathing girls, something that
looked like defensive half-
trousers over the front of his
pants, high-heeled knee-boots
and flashing spurs. Because there
was an augmented audience, he
jerked his sweating horse to a
standstill in a few yards, as in-
human cowboys appear to do in
Western movies. The ram-
holders looked apprehensively at
Kraftmann, expecting him to
disgrace himself before Birdey,
whom they took to be a parson.
TDEFORE Kraftmann could
say a word, Birdey was at it.
“Ronald Harby! My Ronald
Harby! How wonderful! How
magnificent! What a transfor-
mation! ” Then he shouted
“Ronald, Ronnie, come here;
it’s Mr. Birdey come all the way
from Sydney to see you.”
And while he waited for the
youth to come, clambering stiff-
legged because of all his cow-
boy gear over the fences, he con-
fided to Kraftmann in an excess
of candor: “To think that if I
hadn’t intervened he would now
be serving a sentence in jail!”
Kraftmann turned on Birdey.
“Do you mean to tell me that?”
he demanded sharply.
Birdey put on all his charm
an( j p i aus ibility. “Believe me,
Kraftmann, many fine lads
get into trouble just because
their natures need freedom and
vigorous action, like riding
horses. There’s really nothing
basicaUy wrong wi,h them '”
..,- m not worrying about him
b eing a criminal,” Kraftmann
interrupted him violently;
“they’re all alike that come
f ro m the city ; but what gets my
goat is the pity of it. If only
you hadn’t interfered I would
have been spared having Ronald
Harby and he would have been
getting what he needs so
terribly.”
But Birdey, with radiant eyes
on the dazzling cowboy, gave a
loud chuckle. He’d been warned
about the leg-pulling he was
likely to get in the country. He
vaulted several fences to greet
Harby.
“Ronnie, my boy.” he said,
seizing his hand in both of his,
“how marvellous you look! ” He
swept the gaudy outfit up and
down with that kind of admira-
tion for which Harby had been
yearning since he’d bought it,
but which he’d never yet re-
ceived. Then suddenly Birdey
stepped back in startled amaze-
ment.
“But surely you don’t need
to go that far, Ronald. Perhaps
it’s not real, is it?”
Harby flicked a small-bore
revolver out of his holster and
put an imaginary shot through a
sheep to show his speed on the
draw.
“Too right it’s real; and too
right I need it. The boss here
threatens to shoot me on the
average twice a week, and I’ve
gotter have some way of defend-
ing myself, haven’t I?”
“Oh, but Ronnie,” Birdey said,
trying to get the right psycho-
logical angle on him, “Mr.
Kraftmann is a kind man. He
just has his little jokes.”
“Joke!” Harby sneered with
his wide, ugly mouth. “If you’d
seen all the dogs he’s shot you
wouldn’t think it was a joke.
Just let them disobey him once,
and it’s up with a rifle, and no
matter how far away, he gets
them through the head first
shot.”
“Yes, well”—— Birdey
fumbled, thinking in city terms
of dogs as beloved companions,
cherished even unto decrepit old
age, and not as Kraftmann saw
them, working animals he’d
bred with care, which either did
their job well or had to be put
out of the way for being intoler-
able, ungrateful nuisances. “But
still there’s a big difference be-
tween shooting a dog and shoot-
ing a man”
“He shot a horse one day,”
Harby assured him, with a big
out-thrust of his lower lip to
show that nothing was going to
deprive him of the right to carry
firearms, “just because it fell
with him. And he shot a neigh-
bor’s bull that cost three hundred
and fifty pounds because it
broke a fence. Just for that.”
A lot more like this, delivered
vehemently to overcome Birdey’s
repetitions of the judge’s warn-
ing, and the reminders of the
obligations, moral and financial,
he had undertaken on his be-
half. Not that Birdey was really
worried, because what could
happen out here under the warm
September sun, where the pines
were slowly exhaling the deep
breaths they had taken over-
night? It was really amusing,
this dressing-up and leg-pulling ;
and quite wonderful for the boy
from the slums,' Birdey was
thinking.
Harby went on about the vast
armory of guns, rifles and pistols
Kraftmann owned, and his habit
of always having some kind of
firearm within reach. All the
talk between Kraftmann and his
men ; how often they’d said “A
man ought to be shot for that,”
and really meant it; and how,
twice, in cold blood, they’d dis-
cussed the advisability of
shooting him and throwing his
body down one of the old mines.
“Nobody would ever miss a
like him,” they’d said.
“So I just had to get this.”
Harby flourished the pistol that
had such a small hole in the
pointing end that Birdey decided
it was really little more than a
toy. “My life’s going to depend
on it. He always says ‘This is
it!’ before he shoots. That’ll
give me a chance to get in one
shot first. If I miss him I’ll be
a goner. He never misses .”
6 6TF you don’t want him to be
shot, take him away with
you,” Kraftmann said to Birdey,
looking him so straight in the
eye and speaking in so mani-
festly sincere a voice that Birdey
was certain that he’d somehow
gained access to some of the
text-books used in training
social-workers and was making
corrupt use of them.
All Birdey could do was laugh
heartily. “Ronald’s a fine boy,
and I think you know it as well
as I do. But I ought to warn
you that he’s taking some of
your talk about shooting him
rather seriously.”
At which the ram-holders
laughed with such apparent
brutality that Birdey left with
reproachfully brief farewells.
But after he’d failed to open two
gates and climbed laboriously
over three fences an explanation
struck him that was as dazzling
and beautiful as the sunshine;
Harby had become such a
thorough countryman that he
could beat them all at leg-
pulling. He turned to wave an
exultant arm, and was wafted
over the remaining fences effort-
lessly by the uplift of his heart.
6 6T\Q you know what they do
-“-'' in the Orkney Islands?”
Mrs. Kraftmann asked her hus-
band one night, looking up from
her Linklater novel which, after
having the covers nearly worn
off and many of the spiciest
pages lifted in the city, was now
circulating the country subscri-
bers. “The young men creep
into their girl-friends’ bedrooms
at night and don’t marry them
until they’re sure they’re going
to have a baby! Isn’t it
awful! ”
Kraftmann thought it over
slowly, with the deepest profes-
sional interest.
“Well, I don’t know about it
being awful,” he said. “There’s
quite a lot to be said for it,
really. If you wanted to make
sure of having a family, that
would be the best way to go
about it.”
Kraftmann resumed his study
of the “Studmaster’s Monthly”
to get himself thoroughly in-
formed about a new and better
process for artificial-insemina-
tion, but he kept turning back
to where he’d started and fidget-
ing in his chair, as if urgent and
pressing ideas were formulating
in his mind. At length he said
to his wife:
“There’s more good in those
novels of yours than I thought.”
He got up from his chair and
went out to the room where
Larkins slept.
“Look here, Larkins,” he said,
trying to get an unusual hearti-
ness and friendliness into his
voice so that Larkins would stop
looking as if he was expected to
get out of bed and drive several
miles in the station utility to
make sure a certain gate had
been closed, “when you take
your holidays after dipping
would you like to stay at my
seaside cottage?” >
“Well,” Larkins said slowly,
knowing very well there was
more than honest generosity in
the offer, “thanks, Mr. Kraft-
mann, but I don’t know whether
I’d like batching there alone.”
“Oh, you wouldn’t be alone,”
Kraftmann said, trying hard to
kindle some spark of worldliness
on Larkins’s sleepy face. “This
girl who comes here to work
some days. I’ve told yoai about
{Continued on page 34)
BIRD’S-EYE
Some careless happiness in things
Is where that green bird darts and sings.
For here’s a word by wattle and water
Must be as true as any darker;
And when he dips to bathe then flings
The waterdrops from his green wings
Then shakes that brighter song in the sun
What word what deed but joy is done?
Now all day long by the mountain water
I’ll be that olive honeyeater
In some lost corner of my mind;
And in its crystal eye may find
Stream, red ridge and ironbark
Floating up from time’s great dark
As though I dreamed them on some thought
Sweet as song from that green throat.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


0*
-•r-'-A
n
va»s
BE
a
ENTHRALLING
ADVENTURES
IN THE
SPACE
WORLD
OF THE
FUTURE
TftftnM
she cion
Thrill to the exciting revelations of
a peep into the space world of
tomorrow. “Tom Corbett, Space
Cadet” is a brilliant presentation
based entirely on scientific fact. You’ll hear it on Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday evening at 7.15 each week, Presented with the good wishes of the
piakers of Kiwi Polish.
2GB- 3AW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
|jS|| and a nation-wide network of other commercial
broadcasting stations.
M acqmriebroadcasting bervfa
The Past and the Future
-s
::
m
'ttfegg
A MELBOURNE LINK
WITH THE PAST.
This building, known as Captain Cook’s
cottage, was built at Great Ayton,
Yorkshire, England, by the parents of
Captain James Cook, 8.N., and removed
to the Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne, in
1934 as a centenary gift by Sir Bussell
Grimwade, C.B.E.
W..
e, too, have links with the
early days and we look for-
ward to assisting with the future
development of Australia.
Still owned and controlled by
Australians, we provide to-day,
as we have since 1834, an efficient
banking service.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED IBS4
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
you can't win
by IAN STEWART
/ , your head in,
r" sport.” The words
were bellowed in my
right ear, but they were
directed at a barrowman who
was noisily proclaiming what
flaming useless blooming motor-
ists Sydney taxi-drivers were.
They came from a member of
this very profession, who took
indignant exception to such
slander being broadcast in one
of the principal streets of the
metropolis.
I must say I was inclined to
agree. However close wb may
have come to it, we hadn’t
skittled the barrowman, his fruit-
laden stall and the odd customer.
People are always complaining
about some fool*,,taxi-driver who
nearly .ran over them, but it is
rare indeed td hear of a direct
hit. Such their skill.
“Yair, women is funny crea-
tures all right.” The taxi-driver,
whose name I had learned was
Bert, resumed his tale without a
pause. “You single? Yair, me
too. And better that way, I
reckon.”
Bert pulled-up for the white-
gloved hand of the law and we
both gazed silently through the
windscreen at the pedestrians
scurrying across the road and
down into St. James’s station.
Sunshine gave a freshly-painted
look to the flowers in Hyde Park.
A small boy waddled after flut-
tering pigeons.
Among the people crossing the
road was a girl in a gay, sum-
mery frock; pretty and as cool
as a dew-spotted rose-petal, with
short blonde hair that looked
clean and soft and a figure that
caused Bert to whistle softly.
With a rhythmic sweep of his
arm the Law set us in motion
again.
“Yair ; bit of all right,” said
Bert, “Complete with Bondi
sun-tan. If I was going to marry,
that’d be what I’d want. But
I’m wary, see. I’ve seen too
many blokes that their wives
domineer. Once you’re in
their clutches they ride
roughshod over you.
Take this bloke I was going to
tell you about. I run into him
about three weeks ago at North
Sydney.
6 6TT was one of them fairs, or
-*• jumble-sales or what-have-
you’s that women put on. You
know, they decide to raise money
for a baby-centre, and so they
sell backyard vegetables and
home-made jam at twice the
price you’d pay anywhere else.
“It was a Saturday afternoon,
a beaut day. There was nobody
but a few reffos hanging around
the city and all the beaches was
crowded,' I knocked off about
half-past three and picked up
the other driver. It was a bit too
late to go for a swim and a bit
too early to push off down to
the pub, so I got him to drop me
off at home.
“I took a stroll through the
park near my place to see if
there’s any cricket on, seen all
these tents and stalls at one end
of the ground, and went over
to have a look. Business wasn’t
exactly booming, and it looked
like the proprietors ’d have to
buy up all their own stock before
the day was out.
“Then I seen a stall that
seemed to be doing all right.
There was a crowd of blokes
standing around digging into
their pockets, and I think:
Somebody must be spinning a
couple of pennies. But it was too
damn’ quiet for a two-up school.
So I had a closer look.
“There’s a real beaut sheila
standing underneath a notice
saying Ten-bob a Kiss. All Pro-
ceeds towards Kiddies' Play
Centre. I reckon it’s a good
cause, sd I joined the queue.
“Jeez, she was a super-looking
bint. She could’ve won a Miss
Australia quest. I generally go
for blondes, but this sheila was a
brunette and she would’ve done
me. She had more curves than
the Hume Highway and with the
dress she was wearing they
showed. Any rate, there was
about half-a-dozen fellows in
front of me all eager and willing
to give ten-bob towards the kid-
dies’ centre.
“The bloke directly ahead of
me was a real mournful-looking
type. I’ve only seen one bloke
who looked sadder’n he did and
that was a cove who was just
going to pick up his five-hun-
dred-quid winnings at a swy
game when the John Hdps
walked in.
“I nudged this fellow and said:
‘Pretty good sort, eh* mate?’
“He just groaned.
“Then I said; ‘Know who she
is, at all?’
“ ‘Me wife,’ he said.
6WTX/ELL, I could tell right
” away he wasn’t just try-
ing to put over a line of bull.
I took a good look at him: quite
a big bloke; no taller than me,
but broad. Not what you’d call
handsome. But that’s often the
way, I see it in my cab. You’ve
probably noticed it on the
beaches. Some of the best sorts
seem to go around with the
ugliest-looking coves.
“Any rate, not the type of
bloke to stand for his wife
retailing kisses. You’d’ve ex 5 **
pected him to shove all of us
aside quick smart, grab his
missus and shoot through. But
no, he just stands there and looks
sorry for himself.
“By this time he was at the
head of the queue. The sheila
looked at him like he was an
Argentine ant.
“ ‘You again?’ she said.
“ ‘Listen, Rosemary,’ he whis-
pered. T got to see you alone.
You got to come home. I told
you the row was all my fault
and I’m sorry; honest, I’m
sorry. Please come home, Rose-
mary.’
“She just folded her arms and
said loud enough for all the
blokes behind me to hear:
‘You’re not begrudging the kid-
dies their play-centre, are you?
No, I’m sorry,’ she said. T can’t
bring the price down.’
“Some of the blokes in the
queue murmured ‘Shame!’ The
mournful character’s neck looked
more sunburnt than a minute
before. Then he forked over ten-
bob and received in return a
quick, cold peck.
He started to open his mouth
to say something, but Rosemary
looked at me. and said: ‘Next,
please.’ Like she was a dentist’s
nurse.
“The mournful bloke gave a
sort of a moan and shuffled
away.
“She was standing behind a
table, so the kiss was a fairly
uninteresting business. But as
far as circumstances permitted
she really turned it on for me —
and for the benefit of hubby.
66T HAD a look at the other
stalls; and went over to
see how the cricket was going.
On my way I saw the mournful
bloke sitting underneath a tree.
“ ‘Sorry about that, mate,’ I
said. T wouldn’t’ve, stayed in
the queue but for all those other
blokes behind me.’ *
“ ‘Aw, she’s right,’ he said.
‘The bloke after me-always gets
the jackpot.’
“ ‘lt’s a bit stiff having to pay
ten-bob to kiss your own wife,’
I said.
“ ‘You wouldn’t read about it,’
he said. ‘l’ve done in five quid
already and I’ve only got another
ten-bob left. We only been
married a couple of months and
she left home a week ago. We
had a real blue.
“ ‘lt all started because I
wouldn’t accept a C.O.D. parcel.
I sent the damn’ thing back. It
was a hat, and they Wanted
£5 19s. 6d. for it—blooming
awful thing it was. I should’ve
known better, but I took one
look at the hat and one look at
the price and did my block.
Nearly six quid for a bit of felt
and ribbon like a blooming
flying-saucer.
“ ‘And now she’s selling kisses
at half-a-quid a throw. You
wouldn’t credit it. I told her if
she didn’t come I’d jump off the
Bridge. She told me to watch
out for sharks.’
“I spent a couple of minutes
in silent commiseration; then
wandered over to the oval. It
was pretty tame cricket, so I
was coming back through the
park and saw my mournful mate
again under the same tree.
“ ‘How’s it going?’ I asked.
“ T think she’s weakening,’ he
told me. ‘She gave me a couple
of seconds longer this time and
forgot to say “Next, please.” But
it’s no flaming good. I’m broke.’
“‘Here,’ I said, passing him
half-a-quid. ‘No, take it. You
can pay me back some time,
I drink at the pub over the road.’
“ ‘You blooming beaut,’ he
said, and did a mighty sprint
across the park.
6 6TT7ELL, I was having a few
’» noggins about a week
later when a bloke tapped me on
the shoulder. It was the mourn-
ful cove, mournful as ever.
“He caught the barmaid’s eye
and ordered a couple of middies.
Then he gave me ten-bob.
“ ‘Thanks a lot, mate,’ he
said ‘lt did the trick, all right.
She’s back home.’
“He took a big swallow of his
beer and went on: ‘But you
can’t win, you know; you just
can’t win. I told her that because
of all the money I contributed
to the kiddies’ play-centre I’d
have to give up my weekly
flutter, and we’d both have to
cut down on smoking. Since she
smokes one to my ten I didn’t
reckon it’d worry her a lot.
“ ‘While I was telling her this
she was in the bedroom and me
in the lounge. She came into
the lounge and said: “That’s all
right, dear. I don’t mind a little
sacrifice so long as we’re
together again,” she said; “and
how do you like my new hat?”
“ T looked up and she’d got it
on. It was the same one, all right.
I’d know it anywhere. Whoever
made it must’ve been troppo.
“ T looked at her and I looked
at the hat. I was too bushed to
get mad. I felt like I’d been
run over a couple of times by a
Bondi tram.
“ ‘Seems like when I first
turned up at the fair she went
to the committee and told them
the whole story. Being women
they agreed unanimously for her
to hang on to any money I paid
over —as compensation for hav-
ing to let me mug her.’
“So, like he said, you can’t
win,” said Bert, and added
solicitously, “You watch your-
self, mate.”


What makes Holden
Australian Sales Leader ?
mm ::
t i
m
gives l Q ? ere Hol den
8 ves you extra value
Holden is built for Australia
In 1951, and again last year, Holden sedan broke all-
time sales records. Sales were the highest ever recorded
by the registration authorities for one individual model.
Holden Coupe Utility also leads its field selling, during
1952, almost double any other utility model.
Why is Holden first choice of Australian motorists?
Because Holden is the only car and utility that started
from the drawing hoard to meet the special needs of
Australian motorists.
That’s why Holden combines the features you want . . .
that’s why Holden gives you better value for your money.
Holden Owner writes: .. My company supplied me with
a Holplen Sedan just two years ago and . . . have covered
just under 60,000 miles ... The Holden has averaged
better than 32 miles per gallon ... Tyres without recapping
averaged 20,000 miles ... A Traveller can do his work
after sustained long periods at the wheel without any
feeling of tiredness, due . . . to the seating position, plus
the well designed springing and road visibility.”
S. P., Essendon, Vic. /
UTILITY
OPERATORS!
Let Holden
cut your costs
g
Holden Coupe Utility the most popular utility in Aus-
tralia— will cut your costs and increase your profits with
its amazing low-cost operation and on-the-job dependability.
Holden utility offers you all the fine engineering features
of the Holden sedan plus a comfortable 3-passenger coupe
and profitable payload area. Ask your Holden Utility
dealer today for facts about Holden’s economy in petrol,
oil, tyres, maintenance, and repairs.
HOLDEN AUSTRALIA’S OWN UTILITY
priced 6-cylinder car
3 0 m -P.g. economy ( : eportedbyowQers)
maintenance
SPark,fag6
Fine styling plm s £
“ d SPaCio “
S «!ral?^ a C n 74 r “«j™ for
Symbro^i^tß ° n '™
Finger tip steering with 37 ft
turning circle.
Sure, safe, easy bratJnj
Nation-wide service hv u u
mechaSf cs Hoden ' trained
and
Immediate availability
f genu,n ® Holden parts
HOLDEN
AMiMfjM Qu/tt I
★ There are two Air Chief Radios
specially designed for Holden.
* Convenient Hire Purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C.—General
Motors' own finance company.
66640
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE , PERTH.
•Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
(Federal Jurisdiction.)
TO ALFRED STANLEY ANDREAE late
of 82 Dardanelles Street Mortdale. —TAKE
NOTICE that JUNE ELIZABETH
ANDREAE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 8699 of 1952 under Victorian Law
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 6th August 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
H. 0. MARSHALL LUPTON & SCOTT,
2 Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANK CALDWELL IRWIN late of
C/o Post Office Tarcoola South Australia.
—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY EENA
IRWIN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1639 of 1953 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 81st July 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from PRIMROSE, YOUNG &
PRIMROSE, Solicitors, of 12 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Bulletin staff man, wife, two
children, wants to rent furnished flat
or cottage, anywhere Sydney.—sso7.
To buy copy of The Golden Lover
by Douglas Stewart. —5506.,
To buy copy of “Everybody’s,”
January 1, 1949. —5503.
To buy books by FL Strickland
Constable. —5505.
Biographical and other details con-
cerning the following Australian
artists: lobe Bennett, Edward Bevan,
Harold Brees, Knut Bull, Kama
Birmingham, d’Auvergne Boxall, R.
Sidney Cocks, D. G. Commons, J.
A. Crisp, John Crust, D. S. Cohen,
Muriel Cornish, C. B. Dellit, Joyce
Dennys, J. S. Diston, Charles Dixon,
Cedric Emanual, G. Fitzgerald, Hal
Gye, Mary Heyden, G. Johnstone,
Anne Montgomery, G. W. Neville,
hiuriel Nicholls, R. S. Rhodes, A. F.
Rosebray, D. G. Reid, Ethel
Spowers, E. D. Stocks, ]F. B. Schell,
J. W. Tristram, J. A. C. Willis.
(Reply direct to Director, National
Art Gallery of N.S.W., Sydney.)
Does Anybody Know?
Source of quotation “After he had
served his own generation by the will
of God, he fell on sleep and was
laid unto his fathers”? It was used
by British Prime Minister Baldwin in
his speech on the death of George V.
—5504.
Information Sought
(1) Who was Anna Wickham ? (2)
What books of verse did she publish?
(3) Is her work important ?
(1) “Anna Wickham” is one of
the pen-names of Edith Harper. She
was born in 1883 in England, of Aus-
tralian parents. Came with them at
an early age to Australia and later
attended Sydney Girls’, High School,
where an aptitude for verse-writing
was shown by her contributions to
the school magazine. She returned
to England, where she married. She
died in tragic circumstances some
years ago. (2) Songs appeared in
1913 under the pen-name of John
Gland. Later volumes were The
Contemplative Quarry (1915), The
Man with a Hammer (1916) and The
Little Old House (1921). Two playlets
for girls were published in 1903 —
The Seasons and Wonder Eyes. (3)
Her work impressed some of the
overseas critics and she was included
in The Albatross Book of Living
Verse, but examination of her work
as a whole shows it to be very slight.
In one small book there are no fewer
than 170 poems—many of them
merely quatrains. Some of. them
have a haunting quality. She appears
to avoid conventional verse-forms.
* * * *
The inscription on the tuckerbox
pioneers’ memorial at Gundagai
(N.S.W.) reads:
Earth’s self upholds this monument
To conquerors who won her when
Wooing was dangerous, and now
Are gathered unto her again.
(1) What is the origin of this? (2)
Who sculptured the dog?
(1) A nation-wide competition was
conducted to obtain the most suitable
inscription for the monument and
was won by Brian Fitzpatrick, of
Sydney. (2) Mr. Frank Rusconi.
* * * *
(1) At what speed does the earth
move round the sun? (2) At what
speed does the sun move?
(1) The earth moves at different
speeds at different points in its orbit.
This is because of the orbit being
slightly elliptical, and is in accordance
with certain laws of motion (formu-
lated by Kepler); the earth moves
more quickly the closer it is to the
sun. Average orbital velocity is around
20 miles a second. (The speed of the
earth’s rotation on its own axis is
approximately 1000 miles an hour.)
(2) Estimates vary. Astronomy for
Everyman (published January this year)
gives the speed at 12 miles a second.
On the other hand the American
authority Clyde Fisher (Marvels and
Mysteries of Science) quotes a speed
of 200 miles a second.
Are the sea-leveis on both' sides of
the American continent different ? If
so, why?
If the whole globe were covered
with a uniformly deep ocean and if
it were of uniform density, the surface
would form a perfect ellipse. But
the mean density of the substance of
the land is 2.6 times as great as that
of sea-water, so that the gravitational
attraction of the land causes a heap-
ing-up of the sea around coasts,
forming what is called the continental
wave, which leaves the sea-level lower
in mid-ocean. Hence the geoid (the
mean sea-level conceived as extended
continuously through all continents)
is not a perfect ellipse but is irregular.
However, the differences in level
between different parts of the geoid
have been greatly exaggerated; F. G.
Helmert has shown that they cannot
exceed 200 metres (approx. 18ft.) and
are probably much less. The distor-
tion of the ocean surface arises also
from meteorological causes (waters
around rainy lands are usually higher
than mid-ocean), from the water
poured into the sea by great rivers
and from varying atmospheric pres-
sures. The level of the Mediterranean
is very slightly lower than that of
the Atlantic (probably because of
greater evaporation). As for the
Atlantic-Pacific question, the Encyclo-
paedia Britannica says:' “The old
speculations as to the great difference
of level between the Mediterranean
and the Red Sea, and on the two
sides of the isthmus of Panama, have
been proved by precision-levelling to
be totally erroneous.”
Brief Answers
M.E.S.: Sydney buyers are currently
quoting a buying price of £27 10s. per
ton (f.0.r.) for amorphous graphite.
G.B.: “Boyd Cable” was the
nom de plume of a writer named
Ernest Andrew Ewart L.C.: The
Art of Verse-Writing, a reprint of
four articles from “The Australian
Woman’s Mirror,” obtainable from
The Bulletin office, Is., post free.
G.E.H.: (1) Australia “went oft
sterling” in 1929 because our costs
of production had risen too high by
overseas standards and the prices of
our exports had suddenly fallen. We
were rapidly exhausting our overseas
funds, and borrowing abroad was out
of the question. (2) In order to make
the export of our primary products
profitable and to check imports. (3)
The pound sterling was devalued in
relation to the dollar in order to
stimulate British exports. (4) Devalua-
tion is nearly always made necessary
because productivity in the country
concerned is not as high as that of
its competitors in trade. This lower
productivity is usually indicated by
higher costs. (5) The Canadian dollar
has at times commanded a slight
premium over the U.S. dollar simply
because Americans have been buying
heavily from Canada, thus creating
an exceptional demand for Canadian
currency with which to pay for the
goods J .W.: The question whether
or not the bonds were dutiable would
depend not upon where the bonds
themselves were but upon where the
owner ot them was domiciled at the
time of his death. It is assumed that
you are domiciled in N.S.W., and if
this is so the bonds would be dutiable
in N.S.W., and in addition it might
be necessary to have your estate
administered in the Federal Capital
Territory as well as in N.S.W., with
attendant further expense and delay
in finalising it H.P«G.: Under the
law of both England and N.S.W., in
the three cases that you put, the
animals should be kept as near as
practicable to the left-hand side of
the road. The position is covered
in England by the Highway Act 1835
and in N.S.W. by Ordinance 30 made
under the Local Government Act. .
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accontpany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
S.M.: Can’t you write in a less
involved and tortuous fashion?....
8.W.8.: You’re more interested in
the topography than the inhabitants.
T.C.: “I dictated this story to
my secretary, but I am afraid that
she has made a hash of things.”
Why throw the blame for a poor yarn
on her?... .K.F.E.: You had better
keep to gardening during the week-
ends H.N.: Sorry, but it is all
gibberish to us J.M.: All bones
and no flesh C.R.: “The Batman’s
Story” was not an impressive one.
... .H.W.: All it did was to give the
office-cleaner hysterics 8.F.: If
you have been a reader all those years
you should know that we don’t print
that sort of thing... .F.M.: “High
Jinks” was dull W.S.: Not in the
market for vampires... .R.D.: It
went to pieces after the first few pages.
S.O’D.: Sentenced to the basket.
~..D.L.: You missed this trip, hut
try again... .R. 0.8.: At the moment
the w.p.b. is overflowing with autumn
poems E.M.: Sorry, but it did
not do a line with u5....W.R.: Not
putting that farm on the map
W.F.: “The Bandit” was sentenced
to the rising of the court M.K.:
Only an album piece LJ.O’K.:
It breaks no new ground....T.J.T.:
Not printing your verse, but will join
with you in shouting “Hip, Hip,
Hurrah I Australia, Australia, any
day!”,.. .S.H.: Why not post it to
him? E. 8.: Whatever they are they
are not gems Y.J.N.: They seldom
come as rough and ready as that....
M.A.K.: We are slowly coming to
the conclusion that young Australian
lovers are the gloomiest creatures on
earth D.C.: Surely it did not take
two of you to hammer that out?


HAND MADE
ELASTIC - SIDE
RIDING BOOTS
A boot of smart
appearance that
will give comfort
and service.
gg
In best quality tan calf. Welted
soles and heels. Sizes, 3-10.
Price, 79/6. Postage paid.
John Charlton & Co.
71 Sailors’ Bay Road, Northbrldge,
Sydney.
Australian Historical Sketches
From
Giraffe to Koala
By M.H. ELLIS
ONE of the remarkable
facts about the early
colonisation of N. S.
Wales was the zest with
which the new inhabitants
hastened to collect novelties to
send to England to their friends
and patrons. Few ships left
during the first generation with-
out at least a few feathered
denizens of the country, a few
animals, a few cases of botanical
and mineral specimens.
For all society, from the King
and Queen downwards, from the
Duke of Northumberland to
humble relatives of colonists, the
Australian argosies brought
black swans, kookaburras, emus,
kangaroos and presently lyre-
birds, platypuses, wombats and
koalas, in all states of life and
completion. Some arrived in
full health only to perish at the
first English winter. Some came
stuffed. Some donated their
skins and skeletons.
Governors sent them to lady-
friends or admirals who had
found jobs for them. Sea cap-
tains sought to buy patronage
with them. But there were at
the same time serious collectors,
commissioned by Banks, some
skilled and some not but per-
severing, some professional like
Burton, Cayley, and others,
some amateur, but all each year
adding to the store of ornitho-
logical and botanical knowledge
of the country.
The two most notable of the
early amateurs were Paterson
and Bass, intimate friends and
collaborators. They were men
of very different types, but they
each had the scientific bent
which fitted them for the work
which they did. They are both
identified with early exploration
and with the discovery of some
of our most curious animals and
birds. Bass —a surgeon, there-
fore a competent anatomist —was
described as “the first man who
brought a trained scientific in-
telligence to bear upon natural
phenomena in this country.” He
was the first to dissect and sys-
tematically describe the wombat,
a feat which he was fully quali-
fied to perform as a surgeon and
as a very (capable descriptive
writer.
Hunter was a recorder of other
people’* discoveries. Mention of
three of Australia’s most famous
oddities sent to England occurs
in one letter of his, dated August
5, 1798, which is now in the
Hunter Papers at the Mitchell
Library. The letter reads:
Having lately met with an animal
found upon that island on which the
ship Sydney Cove was wrecked and
which appears to me to be quite a
new animal, I have preserved It in
spirits, and send it to the Literary
and Philosophical Society lately
established at Newcastle-upon-Tyne,
who did me the honor to elect me a
corresponding: member before 1 left
England; this is the only oppor-
tunity I have had of picking up any-
thing worth the notice of the gentle-
men of that society and I have taken
the Überty of addressing it to you,
that you might have the oppor-
tunity of examining, 1 have
made a little drawing of it whilst it
was alive, which 1 send with it, and
also a drawing of an amphl*d*"s
animal lately found in the fresh-
water lakes, a skin of this little
creature which is of the mole
is in the bag containing the womdacit
which is the name the natives of the
Mountains give the above animal,
they have been seen in the interior
of this country and are said to be
delicate meat.
You wiU also receive Sir a Box in
which is contained a skin of the
womback and the Bones of the Head
—together with two Birds skins Male
and Female, lately discovered here
In the interior of the country, they
appear to me to be a species of Bird
of Paradise.
I have attempted to describe the
womback for the Information of tho
Society, but being wholly unqualified
for such description, I must leave
the gentlemen to their own observa-
tions upon it in its present state. I
leave the letter to the Society open
for your perusal and In it you will
find my description. In the box are
two little drawings which you will
please to forward with the preserved
animal, the articles in the box are
designed' to be at your disposal,
should you think the Birds fit for the
Museums, or any other collection, do
me the favor to give them. 1 will
not apologise for the liberty I take
with you Sir because I think you
will most readily forgive it.
He adds: “An egg of the Bird
of Paradise is in the Box.”
In the Banks Papers is a copy
of Hunter’s description of the
wombat and the platypus in the
handwriting of Banks’s secretary.
It bears the date at the top—
August 5, 1798. His drawing of
the platypus is reproduced in
Collins’s N. S. Wales book. The
wombat he describes as “an
animal found on an island on
the coast of N. S. Wales in Lat.
40 36 S where considerable num-
bers were caught by the com-
pany of the ship. Its likeness
to the badger is remarked upon.”
He mentions the “badgerlike
dexterity with which it would
.bury itself in the earth by the
use of its forepa\ys.” Hunter
declared that “on general
motions, it struck me as having
much of the manner and mo-
tions of a bear. Its head is large,
particularly the forehead above
the eyes. Its breadth appeared
uncommon for a creature of that
size and tapers to the nose which
is a hard grissly substance
as if used for removing the earth
when burrowing.”
The platypus was described as
an “animal of the mole kind
found in the freshwater lakes,
its size is about that of a small
cat, or larger very considerably
than a land mole; it inhabits
the banks of these Lakes, it has
exactly the Bill of a duck, and
probably feeds in muddy places
in the same way.” His drawings
appeared in Collins’s book.
The wombat was brought
from the Furneaux Group by
Flinders in the Francis in March,
1798.
Of the two birds which
resembled “birds of paradise”
Hunter has nothing more to
say. But since the ship in which
fie sent them was the first leaving
N. S. Wales directly for Eng-
land after the Wilson-“ Barracks”
expedition at the beginning of
the year the inference is obvious,
and seems to dispose of any
query as to where the skins
which they brought back went
and where the British Museum
got its specimens.
It also perhaps explains how
the specimen in the possession
of Miss Maria Howe, in Eng-
land, reached her,
+ +
Miss Howe, second daughter
of the admiral, was a favorite
with both Banks and Hunter.
Both had known her since baby-
hood. She had considerable
influence over Hunter. When
that querulous and inept old
Governor returned to England
from Australia and Banks was
attempting to prevent him
further damaging his already
ruined interests by issuing
abusive leaflets about the Gov-
ernment’s treatment of him
Banks wrote him (answering a
letter of February 25, 1802)
“condemning his action in pub-
lishing a defence of his conduct
and suggesting that he confer
with his old friend Miss Howe,
whose opinion in the matter
would coincide very nearly with
Sir Joseph’s.”
The description of Harrison’s
Menura appearing in the
appendix to Collins’s New South
Wales certainly was not written
by Hunter, who admitted that
he was “wholly unqualified for
such description,” It was ob-
viously composed by a trained
naturalist, and is methodical and
orderly, following exactly the
same method as that of the
platypus, probably written by
Everard Home, which is printed
with it.
Bass sdnt a lyrebird-skin to
Banks in May, 1799 Paterson
dispatched a lyrebird-skin with
Waterhouse in the Reliance in
November, 1799.
If Bass shot his specimen he
may not only have been a first
exporter of the curious creature’s
skin; he may have been the bird’s
discoverer. He himself in Sep-
tember, 1797, had been through
some of the lyrebird country.
That was two months before
Wilson came in with his story
about “pheasants.” And it is
clear from what Bass says in
his letter to Banks that he was
uncertain whether the bird which
he sent was a discovery or not.
He speaks of it as a “rare or new
bird.”
Paterson, apart from his lyre-
bird (sent like Bass’s to Banks),
is associated with the discovery
of an even stranger and more
popular young Australian —the
koala, which did not appear in
history till some years later.
It is unbelievable that the
wonders which seemed to come
to light ten years after the foun-
dation of the settlement were not
seen earlier by some of the
countless hunters, convict and
otherwise, who made ever-widen-
ing investigations of the bush;
or that if they didn’t they were
not told about them by the
blacks.
But it seems to be true that
nobody officially heard of the
lyrebird and the wombat till
1797, nor of the koala until seven
years later. Paterson’s story of
the unearthing of him is in a
letter to Banks dated March 10,
1804:
I have, however, a corporal in the
Regiment who I employ to go into
the woods, and sometimes he is very
successful both in shooting quadru-
peds and birds. It was this man
who discovered the cooler which I
gave the Governor, being the first ever
seen here. Mr. Lewin made a very
bad drawing of it which the Gov-
ernor informed me he had sent to
you; since that time many have been
caught and brought in and become
very domestic. I had a male and a
female for several months. One of
them (the male) eat bread and was
passionately fond of tea. I was in
great hopes he would have lived.
But he died through an “un-
accountable accident.” And the
female, which was the larger
animal, died soon afterwards and
Paterson sent it to his friend
Everard Home, the anatomist
and keeper of the Hunterian
Collection at the Royal College
of Surgeons, who anatomised so
many other Australian mammals
from time to time, including the
platypus, of which he seems to
have been the first to make a
dissection.
Paterson is best known to his-
tory as a soldier, as a weak and
bibulous commandant who
served for two periods as
Lieutenant-Governor of N. S.
Wales, one immediately before
Governor Hunter’s arrival in
1794-95 and one when he was
brought from Van Diemen’s
Land in 1809 to take over the
“rebel” Government from Lieu-
tenant-Colonel George Johnston.
He had, however, a parallel
career in which he lives in a
different light. He was, of
course, a Sept, and from his boy-
hood eager for adventure and
imbued with an intense curiosity
about nature. Moreover, he had
the good luck to attract as a
patron the Countess of Strath-
more, an ancestor of Queen
Elizabeth, and largely through
her help he went to the Cape of
Good Hope in 1777 and there
fell in with Captain Gordon.
Gordon was a Dutchman of
Highland ancestry who has a
very strong claim to be remem-
bered in Australian history,
since his were the first Spanish-
strain sheep to be sent to Aus-
tralia —incidentally, in the ship
in which Paterson sent his lyre-
bird to England in 1799.
Curiously enough, in 1796 Bass
went with the Reliance to the
Cape on the Voyage during
which the sheep were secured.
Paterson voyaged homeward in
company in the Britannia and
they were together at Cape
Town,
With Gordon, Paterson, then
22, set out on an expedition into
the Hottentot country in 1777.
He made three other expedi-
tions (1777-79), which he de-
scribed in his Journeys in Caff-
raria. Returning home he
brought the first giraffe-skin to
England. He was commissioned
in the 98th Regiment and- had
served in India in the campaign
against Hyder Ali until 1783. In
1787 he transferred to the 73rd
Regiment, the old second bat-
talion of the Black Watch,
which afterwards came to New
South Wales with Macquarie.
+ +
Already he had some reputa-
tion as a naturalist and collector
—indeed a kind of fame even
with ordinary men, by reason
of his association with the
giraffe-skin. The fact that „his
book was published 111,1789, that
it was dedicated to Joseph Banks
and that he had collected for
Banks both in Africa and India
are enough to point to the
influence which secured him a
commission in the New South
Wales Corps,
He was held back from sailing
with the earlier detachments, but
came out with his wife in
H.M.S. Gorgon with Lieutenant-
Governor King, arriving in
October, 1791, on his way to
Norfolk Island. Thither he him-
self went 10 days afterwards, and
at once began to correspond with
Banks. He appears to have been
by this time well acquainted with
all the circle of the latter’s
workers, famous most of them
—the great Hunter, father of
the modern science of anatomy,
Aiton, Dryander, the naturalist
bibliographer, and Everard
Home, the anatomist and scien-
tific heir of Hunter.
In May, 1792, Paterson sent
his first discoveries to Banks in
the Pitt —33 sheets of botanical
specimens, with some “mosses,
etc., to fill it up.” No. 13 was a
“very perfect specimen of the
waratah the only thing I col-
lected in that country (Port
Jackson) worth sending, as my
stay was only ten days.” There
was a detailed scientific descrip-
tion of the plants on the island,
and he promised that by the next
ship he would send specimens of
“every plant” at Norfolk.
Paterson left Norfolk Island
in March, 1793, and had been
only two days in Sydney when
he wrote (March 25) to Banks
regretting that “the short time
I have been here puts it out of
my power sending anything by
the present opportunity but by
the next you may expect some-
thing new as I purpose a journey
to the Blue Mountains very soon,
in which Major Grose promises
me every assistance.” He did
send a small phial with a
“curious little plant” and a chip-
box containing “some of the
destructive fly of Norfolk
Island which I mentioned to you
... .under the name of locusts.”
As soon as spring came he
was off to the Hawkesbury in
an attempt to penetrate the
Mountains by boat. He reached
“about ten miles from Richmond
Hill and discovered a branch of
the River which we traced to a
cascade falling through the
chasm mentioned by Governor
Phillip, the mountains there were
about 3000 feet high and in the
gap not more than 100 yards
from each other.” An accident
to his boat then ended the ven-
ture. He christened the river
the Grose.
Banks offered him help to
publish the natural history of
Norfolk Island, but he regretted
that his sudden departure from
that place had put it out of his
power to finish “what I first
intended, viz., the Birds and
Fishes.” He added:
However with the drawings, etc.,
that accompany this you will be in
possession of the Botanic part, and
from the few specimens of the strata
that were sent before you will be
able to judge of the formation of the
island.
He now had the assistance of
an artist, a young man, his ser-
vant, named McDoody.
After the departure of Grose
towards the end of 1794 he suc-
ceeded to the acting Lieutenant-
Governorship and the full local
command of the New South
Wales Corps, and was too busy
in that office until after Hunter’s
arrival in September 11, 1795,
to botanise.
And after that again, he was
too busy nursing a very sore
eye for the next year, while at
the same time trying to keep the
peace between the military and
his new superior, an old gentle-
man with a naval temper and a
mind like a whirling weather-
cock, which changed itself with
great regularity on every topic
and about every person in the
colony. The sore eye forced him
to England for treatment in
1796 ; a similar affliction forced
Bass to England in 1799.
Paterson took himself off
with Collins, the Judge Advo-
cate, in Enderby’s Britannia, the
pioneer vessel of local trading,
towards the end of the year, re-
newed acquaintanceship with his
friends and learned bodies in
England, and returned to Aus-
tralia on November 4, 1799, in
the ship Walker. The year
before in London he had been
elected Australia’s first Fellow
of the Royal Society. He sent
his lyrebird three weeks later.
He was never the same man
after a duel in which John Mac-
arthur wounded him in 1801.
His recovery was slow and his
life during his convalescence and
afterwards was plagued, by
quarrels between the regiment
and the Governor; so that he f
was no doubt glad to retire in
1804 to the comparatively serene
atmosphere of Port Dalrymple
in Van Diemen’s Land, though
even there he was annoyed with
quarrels with David Collins
down at Hobart about prece-
dence and other matters. His
most notable work in natural
history while in the island seems
to have been the detailed de-
scription of the first discovered
specimen of the Tasmanian
devil.
His career ended in sadness
and ill health. Called back to
Sydney to take over the office
of the deposed Bligh in January,
1809, he appears to have devoted
much of the brief remaining
period of his life to the bottle.
He sailed for England with
Bligh in May, 1810, after Mac-
quarie had taken oyer the ad-
ministration from him, but he
died during the voyage.
His collections have an
honored place in the Natural
History Museum in London.


a jkcC/
MORE PEOPLE, THE WORLD OVER, RIDE ON
GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER MAKE!
day si
Happy
==©
V-
Say it again...
Taxil
vfi/rzi
Hope it's a boy!
Glad Im on Goodyear!
Hope they're biting!
TM6 REASON IS that motorists have found in
their own experience that Goodyear Tyres are the best tyres
made. Doesn't it stand to reason that the tyres that give
most people the greatest satisfaction are the best tyres for
you to buy? See your Goodyear Dealer.
GOODYEAR
TYRES
Missing Friend
NORDEN, Maud Alice Bagley, late Tower
Hill, London. Sister Ada enquiring. Com-
municate Mrs. F, Skinner, 19 Premier
Avenue, Pt. Chevalier, Auckland, N. 2.
SPORTING NOTIONS
fleur was reared at Widden
Stud, Kerrabee (N.S.W.).
Twelve months ago at Rand-
wick one favorite won at the
May meeting of Tattersall’s
Club; the same happened at its
meeting on Saturday. Corral,
in the Second Two-year-old
Novice, was the sole winning
favorite, but Barfleur, Iroquois
and Prince Dakhil all had solid
support.
Barfleur, raced by the A.J.C.
chairman, A. G. Potter, is a two-
year-old who combines good
looks with brilliance. He has
had three starts for a second, a
fourth and a win. The colt
opened his racing account in the
First Two-year-old Novice,
clearing away from the opposi-
tion. He is trained at Randwick
by Frank Dalton, who made the
bid of 1650 guineas for him at
the 1952 Randwick yearling
sales and who holds a high
opinion of the youngster. Bar-
The James Barnes Plate, main
event on the Tattersall’s pro-
gramme, was for the second suc-
cessive year won by a three-year-
old. Twelve months ago it was
Friendly Feeling; on Saturday
Prince Dakhil beat Forest Land
and Pressman. Prince Dakhil
should have been favorite on
form ; he had won in fine style
at Warwick Farm and had gone
up only 41b. in (weight com-
pared with the 31b. allotted to
Alinga for being second in that
Warwick Farm event. However,
as often happens in like circum-
stances, it was Alinga that was
backed to favoritism. He finished
in the ruck. Prince Dakhil had
the race won a long way from
home. As much as 7 to I was
bet against him.
Not many notable horses have
won the James Barnes Plate, but
that is easily explained as most
of the better class are spelling
when the Plate is run. Best
horse to score in the past 25
years was stayer Katanga . in
1942. The race was then de-
cided at 11 furlongs, but there
are no races at that distance at
Randwick now, mainly because
of the sharp first turn out of the
straight. The distance was re-
duced to a mile and a quarter
in 1947, when Lady Marie ran
it in 2.6|, which is the best time
since the alteration was made
(Prince Dakhil took 2.7|).
The most brilliant track-gal-
lopers don’t always win races.
Some of these swallow-catchers
habitually leave their efforts on
the tracks and cost their stables
money, but many fast - time
makers are consistent winners;
others take time in scoring. Take
the three-year-old filly Salval-
anche, trained at Rosebery by
Joe Stapleton for Goondiwindi
(Q.) hotelkeeper C. Pencock.
Soon after she began training
she recorded brilliant time, and
it was surprising to frequenters
of Rosebery that she didn’t win
a race at two years. After a
spell earlier this year the filly
again started making brilliant
times, and now at her last two
“And when the bell goes I want you to come out fighting .”
starts she has had easy wins at
Canterbury (Maiden) and Rand-
wick (Novice). She is a daughter
of Avalanche (imp.) and Sal-
march and has given indications
she will stay with a bit of age.
One owner at Randwick on
Saturday produced a set of nylon
colors, weighing less than three
ounces. They were worn by the
winning jockey in the last race,
Alan Thompson, who rode skil-
fully to land Prince Grand home
in file Welter.
Big prices were paid at Rand-
wick yearling sales in the autumn
of last year for the first progeny
of Valognes, and the importa-
tion has got away to a good
start, his winners including Cas-
tillo and Barfleur, at Randwick.
Both colts give promise of de-
veloping into class three-year-
olds. Valognes started in eight
English races and won over dis-
tances from seven furlongs to
H mile. He is a son of an Eng-
lish Derby winner, Bois Roussel
(a noted sire), is from a daughter
of a high-class French sire,
Asterus, and belongs to the same
family as a famous French sire,
Djebel, and Equipoise (U.S.A.).
In one of his wins Valognes beat
Alycidon and Sayajirao in the
Chester Vase \\ miles, and those
minor placegetters hit the racing
headlines in England.
Heavy rain made conditions
unpleasant at Moonee Valley on
Saturday, when the feature of the
programme was the success of
full brothers Quite Talk (four
years) in the Second Deep Creek
Handicap, and Townsville (two
years) in the Second Laluma
Handicap. Quite Talk was
favorite for his race, but Towns-
ville was an outsider. Both are
by Amana and are chestnuts.
Dam of the brothers, Enfield
Queen, is by Enfield (imp.) from
Bright Queen by Drake (imp.)
and goes back, like many brood
mares, to Wallace, son of Car-
bine.
Glen Piper, winner of the
Second Torrington Nursery at
the Ipswich (Q.) Cup meeting,
was one of the cheapest year-
lings sold at the Randwick
autumn auction 12 months ago.
He realised only 170 guineas, the
bid of the representative of Aus-
tralian Estates. Glen Piper was
well fancied at 3 to 1 and was
ridden by smart Brisbane horse-
man B. Freeman. The gelding’s
family lines include New Zea-
lander Surveyor (winner of 23
races, including the Wellington
Cup), Winning Hit (N.Z.
Derby) and Fast Passage (N.Z.
and Auckland Cups), so his
joint owners, C, Payne and W. J.
Noud, might have a potential
stayer carrying their colors.
Glen Piper is a Kerry Piper
(imp.) colt from Lady Cerealia
by Pentheus and traces back to
Wallace, son of Carbine.
• * • •
Kingsfield Stud, Aberdeen
(N.S.W.), bred Race Talk, win-
ner of a Newcastle Juvenile in
easy fashion. When offered as
a yearling Race Talk was
passed in at 550 guineas. A
sister to speedy Daily Paper, she
is from a sister to Main Topic
(A.J.C. Derby and Metropoli-
tan). Race Talk is by Cape
Race (imp.) from Miss Talking
from Germain by Corban
(imp.).
• • • •'
A.J.C. stewards should come
down on jockeys who make
a habit of “dropping their
hands” near the finish of a race
on horses that narrowly miss a
place. In a tight finish, where
two, three or more horses are
almost in line for third money, it
is common practice for certain
horsemen to take things casually
and apparently not bother
whether their mounts finish third
or not. Perhaps jockeys think
they might be saving their
mounts weight next time out, say
a reduction of a couple of
pounds or more, but handi-
cappers can’t be hoodwinked as
easily as all that. There were
a couple of instances of riders
taking things casually at the end
of races on Saturday, and they
were not newchum horsemen.
Taking the place of the .cus-
tomary Winter Plate at Rand-
wick on Tuesday next is the
Coronation Cup, to be run over
one mile and five furlongs.
Stakemoney is £2OOO, plus a
£lOO trophy, and among the
entrants are some smart stayers.
Acceptances will be declared
for the meeting at 8.30 p.m. this
coming Saturday. Running in
the Ellesmere Handicap on the
first day, Saturday, should give
a line to Coronation Cup chance.
The June Stakes is the main
event this Saturday. It has at-
tracted a smart bunch of
sprinters.
* * * *
Footscray 10.6, Fitzroy 1.0
seems like some sort of fantasy,
but it happened in Melbourne
On Saturday—something that
will be talked about for years.
A second (though lesser) sur-
prise was Melbourne’s 9.3 to
Essendon’s 6.10. Other games
went pretty much as expected:
Geelong 15.16 beat Richmond
6.16, Carlton 7.10 beat St. Kilda
6.7, Collingwood swamped
Hawthorn, 13.18 to 3.8, and
North Melbourne scraped home
against South by 9.8 to 8.10.
* * * *
In Sydney Rugby Union’s
match-of-the-day at University
Oval Eastwood was defeated for
the first time this season —by
University, 9-3. For University,
fullback breakaway Lloyd
and the versatile Dick Tooth
were outstanding. For East-
wood, the forwards won a good
share of the ball, but the halves
were slow.
n m • •
In other matches, Randwick
beat Gordon (26-18); Eastern
Suburbs beat Manly (28-14);
Drummoyne beat Northern
Suburbs (20-3); and St. George
beat Parramatta (15-14); in the
latter game a couple of gladia-
tors were sent off the field.
• ♦ * •
Two 12-rounders featured the
bill at Leichhardt, Ray Coleman
(9-2) v. Alan Ritchie (9-1) and
Darcy Wells (10-10) v. Cec Hart
(10-8). Coleman seemed to go
easy early, and Ritchie won the
first two rounds, but Coleman
took charge from then on, and
Ritchie was heavily punished
until halfway through session
six, when ref. Art Mawson inter-
vened to crown Coleman winner
on a t.k.o. Hanging on con-
tinuously, Hart was apparently
well whipped by Wells on
points, but ref. Jack Burns
awarded it to Hart.


Mixed Races, Mixed Sexes, Mixed Married and Single
INTERNED
and How!
By MABEL WALN SMITH
A “CIVIL ASSEMBLY
•CENTRE” —a group of
non-fighting men, women
and children caught in
enemy territory when war
breaks out and imprisoned—can
be a grim place. But it can have
its brighter moments.
The sum total of such experi-
ences is either to strengthen or
weaken one’s character. This I
learned during the three years
I was interned with 1189
American, British and Dutch
civilians caught in Shanghai
when World War II broke out,
and held captive in a huddle of
ancient warehouses encircled by
barbed-wire in the factory
district called Pootung, across
the Whangpu River from the city
proper.
Our immediate jailers were a
zealous Japanese commandant
and his 16 heavily-armed guards,
who copsidered us responsible
for the world fighting and dis-
ciplined us accordingly.
My overcrowded fellow-
prisoners included bank presi-
dents, professors, cabaret-
dancers, sailors, dope-fiends,
artists, ex-convicts, newspaper-
men, doctors and musicians.
We were all shapes, tempera-
ments and colors, and from our
midst came many a constructive
idea for our survival.
Consider the internee-elected
Pootung “police-force.” The
business of these “police” was to
prevent us from destroying our-
selves by breaking the harsh
Japanese camp laws, and to
prevent us from injuring each
other by breaking rules made by
our own “executive committee”
for the good of the camp as a
whole. With no jail cells to back
him up, the authority of a
“policeman” W£s assumed rather
than real; an assumption open
to challenge by belligerent
individuals —hence no set code
could be laid down for cop
behavior. Each “policeman”
enforced his orders by the sheer
strength of his own personality.
Forbes, an Australian, having
weathered several political and
personal upheavals in the ranks
—upheavals which often resulted
in a mass resignation—possessed
the longest record in this
“force.” He had a good sense of
humor, a straightforward
manner, a facility for picking-
up languages and considerable
renown as a mimic on our local
stage. These attributes, added to
his honesty and tact, made him
popular as adjustor of human
affairs.
When 1189 adult people are
jammed day and night into too-
small living quarters they are
bound to get on each other’s
nerves. No room had fewer than
76 people billeted in it, and the
result of each trying to live in
his 6ft. x Bft. allotted space was
something as crazy as could have
been thought up.
The fact that our personnel
of 239 women included —aside
from me, the only American —
Scots, Irish, English, White
Russians and Poles married to
Britishers, and hence of British
nationality, added to the
maniacal aspect of the place.
Every woman is a home-
maker, and the “homes” inside
Pootung internment-camp were
evolved according to national
traits. Those of Slavic origin
were particularly so. Red
shawls, gold bathrobes,. white
sheets eked out with purple
blankets, orange rugs and brown
straw mats partitioned Room 9
into cubides. With most of
these harboring man and wife,
settled amongst stone ikons,
brass samovars, strings of dried
sunflower-seeds, fur ear-muffs,
garlic and salami sausages.
Room 9 —much to the dismay
of the quieter element also
billeted there —lived with a vigor
which gave zest to the whole
camp.
Quarrels between room-mates
at Pootung were inclined to be
trivial in the beginning and
develop into a welter of nasty
digs at personalities which often
led to a show of fists and hair-
pulling.
In this setting Forbes had no
power legally for keeping (or
restoring) order. But he seemed
to bring a gust of strength with
him wherever he went. He was
good at parrying, and his
presence lent dignity to any
fight.
+ +
It was during our third year
of internment that most hidden
animosities worked their way to
the surface. Without stoves of
any kind we had got through the
coldest winter in the Shanghai
district since 1830, only to be
mildewed down by a very wet
spring and then plunged sud-
denly into the extreme heat of
summer.
As the thermometer soared
higher and higher, with no
mosquito - coils, fly - screens or
refrigeration available and
campers’ clothes ragged-out
faster than the women’s sewing-
group could deal with them,
tempers got shorter and shorter.
On a night typical in most
ways, but specially memorable in
itself, lights had gone out at
9.30 p.m. instead of half-an-
hour later as was usual on
Saturday nights. Earlier in the
evening the guards, irritated by
the camp orchestra’s refusal to
play the Japanese National
March, had stopped our out-
door musical concert and with
sharp whistles had driven people
from the open air of the com-
pound into their stifling, over-
crowded rooms. Even the
privilege of standing for fresh
air on the landings had been
withdrawn. So internees were
one and all in a bad mood.
Room 9 was no hotter than
any other, but with its occupants
mostly married couples of Slavic
temperament it contained more
than an average quota of inflam-
mable material. About midnight
Room 9 reached the point of
spontaneous combustion.
The smoke of irritated tempers
had been first seen at bed-time.
James Dimwhistle, better known
as “Featherweight,” whose one
claim to notoriety lay in the fact
that he had brought Zina, a
Polish dancer, into camp as
a bride, was dozing off in spite
of the humidity. His sole hope
of snatching a few hours’ rest
was to get himself jelled into a
profound torpor before Zina
came to bed.
“Put your damn’ mosquito-
net down,” hissed the angry
voice of his section-captain, who
occupied the next cubicle. “My
Russian Tanya and I don’t want
your malarial mosquitoes walk-
ing all over us.”
Featherweight was a meek
man. “Right-oh, Divebomber,”'
he replied, thankful their wives
were both out of earshot in the
ladies’ toilet rather than on hand
to take up cudgels for their
husbands’ manhood, which
would have meant two-hours
Russo-Polack blitz. He quickly
unrolled his mosquito-net and
tucked it into place under his
mattress. “This bed is a bath of
perspiration,” he thought as he
sank toward unconsciousness. In
Shanghai his Polish Zina was
wonderful. In camp her vitality
was too much for him. He
needed privacy. There was none.
Before internment Feather-
weight and Divebomber —the
title conferred upon the section-
captain in honor of his favorite
method of night-breathing—had
been friends; refined, and in
fairly good positions. But now,
wedged into undersized cubicles
dominated by oversized jealous
wives, they no longer knew what
they were. They had never been
large men. Owing to camp priva-
tions their combined weight had
shrunk alarmingly.
With Tanya and Zina it was
different. They never worried,
took little exercise and had
various rather barbaric-looking
and hitherto unrecognised rela-
tives living in Shanghai outside
camp. These they had previ-
ously fed at their respective
back-doors and lightly passed
off as Mongolian, Tartar or Cos-
sack “beggars.”
Topsy-turvy war-time condi-
tions prevailing in Shanghai had
converted it into a Utopia for
“neutrals.” Unheard-of people
had come to the fore. Emerging
from their rat-starving alleyways,
the Mongols, Tartars, Cossacks
and plain White Russians had
set up a thriving food-trading
firm. With true Asiatic clannish-
ness where family blood is con-
cerned, they, through the local
Red Cross, showered their one-
time female benefactresses now
shut up in camp with generous
crocks of goose-paste, slabs of
salt-pork, sausages, jars of lard
prepared with apple and garlic
completely ready to be spread
on bread, and even now and
then a juicy hatn —all fat things,
poison to the English stomachs
of Featherweight and Dive-
bomber, but ambrosia to their
Slavic wives.
+ +
So in spite of camp privations
the combined weight of Tanya
and Zina continued to be well
over 350 pounds.
On this particular sight the
two women returned to Room 9
from the ladies’ washroom off
the outside landing soon after
Featherweight had got to sleep,
Tanya’s streaked blond locks
had once more drunk from the
peroxide bottle. Zina’s dark-
brown hair was in curlers, and
she had dispensed with her, heavy
daytime make-up in favor of a
little green eye-shadow and a
dash of lighter lipstick to see
her through the night. One
ribbon-strap of her lace-yoked
nightgown was loosened, leav-
ing a smooth bare shoulder ex-
posed. She explained that it was
cooler that way.
In true Slavic fashion Tanya
and Zina kissed each other
vigorously, and with a Siberian
bear-hug Tanya—a Caucasian
blacksmith’s daughter carelessly
picked up by the section-captain
20 years previously in Harbin —
, bid the bride a loving goodnight.
Zina went into the cubicle
with Featherweight. The noise
she made stumbling over a pair
of wooden clogs as she joined
her husband snatched Feather-
weight rudely from the arms of
Morpheus. But he kept his eyes
closed in pretended sleep.
Tanya joined Divebomber in
their cubicle. Soon her voice
rose in anger. A few words
passed between them —a raucous
question on her part, a blunt
answer on his. It was quite
evident to all within hearing that
she had her suspicions of her
husband.
Meanwhile Forbes had
finished a game of bridge with
some other bachelors in his own
room, had donned his canvas
arm-band lettered C.P. —Camp
Police —and had begun his regu-
lar two hours of police duty. He
always made a quiet tour of the
entire premises before he settled
down to read a detective-story in
the “police office” near the
kitchen. Now he mounted the
stairs to Room 9, passed the end
cubicle, heard Tanya’s raised
voice and smelt battle.
+ +
“Everything all right. Dive-
bomber?” he asked conciliat-
ingly.
“Everything okay,” came the
answer.
Probably thinking on this
reassurance that Round One, at
least, was settled, Forbes made
sure that only one dim pilot-
light glowed at the end of the
room, as per Japanese instruc-
tions, then passed on his way.
Round Two was fought just
two hours later. It opened ex-
plosively with a shriek of pain
from the section-captain which
brought Featherweight, in the
adjoining cubicle, out of his
sleep and up to the surface with
a jerk. ,
Over the top of the matting
partition which separated the
two cubicles protruded the head
of Divebomber, his friend. Dive-
bomber’s greying hair was a
mass of red —red which flowed
into his eyes, clogged his mouth,
ran down over his features and
dripped on to the floor.
Tanya’s huge bulk loomed
over him. Her muscular right
arm brandished a broken
ketchup bottle.
“Help!” burst from Feather-
weight.
Forbes, on his last round be-
fore going off duty, heard the
turmoil and bounded up the
stairs.
“At it again, eh? What’s the
trouble now?”
“Trorbull? Plenty trorbull!”
screeched Tanya. “Middle night
I get up. Go w.c. I feenish
w.c. Come back cubicle. Find
my ’usband looking over cur-
tain at thees Polish woman.”
“Nonsense, Forbes,” said the
section-captain. “I was merely
looking to see if Featherweight
still had his mosquito-net tucked
in according to the medical
regulation for those who have
had malaria.”
Featherweight lay down. He
closed his eyes and drifted again
toward sleep.
“Don’t believe!” broke in the
enraged Tanya. “I see plenty
time my ’usband make luv to this
dancing-girl. Today canteen
supply come. My ’usband give
sugar everyone. All other men
can get only small piece sugar.
My ’usband give Zina plenty
sugar! ”
“You crazy,” retorted Zina,
bouncing Featherweight aside as
she jumped out of their com-
mon bed. “I no want your
’usband. Him too orgly.”
This was too much for Tanya.
Frantically she leaned across the
partition in an endeavor to reach
Zina with the bottle. She’d teach
that loosened shoulder-strap
something!
Tanya lost her balance. With
a crash the partition collapsed
beneath her avoirdupois.
Featherweight came wide
awake. He saw Tanya, Dive-
bomber, Zina and the matting
partition, plus the sundry coats,
towels, fly-swatters, straw-hats,
hot-water coupons, brass meal-
checks, salami-sausages, roots of
garlic and strings of sunflower-
seeds which had been hanging
on it, one jumbled mass on the
floor.
Any ordinary policeman might
have been ruffled at such an inci-
dent and by the jostling crowd
of some 70 other occupants of
the room who suddenly appeared
and, clutching hastily-collected
night-garments about them,
gathered in the aisle between
the two long lines of cubicles.
But Forbes had long since grown
callous to the breaking-up of the
home in this Civil Assembly
Centre. Almost before Zina,
Tanya and Divebomber could
extricate themselves, he put the
cruel question to the section-
captain :
“Now what about this alleged
discrimination in dividing up
canteen sugar rations?”
The section-captain stood up,
wiping the ketchup out of one
eye.
“How could there have been
any difference in the rations?”
he expostulated. “I gave each
person in my section of Room 9
exactly the amount that would
go into one thermos-top, one
teaspoon and one thimble,
making two and three-quarter
ounces to a dot.”
Featherweight, quiet in bed,
propped himself on one elbow,
apparently so that he qpuld hear
better. But further discussion
on the sugar ration was cut short
by the sudden arrival of a dark,
furry object hurtled through the
air from the far corner of the
room. A cat. It struck Feather-
weight pn the chest.
“Oh, poor Pussinka —my poor,
poor cat!” screamed a lady
from the Ukraine at Forbes’s
elbow. “Why they always treat
him so badly? He not hurt
nobody!”
An enraged masculine voice
rPse from the far corner of the
room: “Next time that blasted
cat starts nosing round my
breakfast-bacon he’ll get a one-
way ticket to the pond.”
“Why anyone should bring
animals to live in a room where
the air is already insufficient for
so many people to breathe I
really don’t know,” commented
a feminine bystander. “Which
reminds me, Mr. Forbes, we
need you to settle the argument
we are having about- the window
in the cubicle across the room
from us. lire Eurasian couple
in there insist on keeping it half-
closed even in this heat. So
there’s no through-draught for
us.”
“No,. Mr. Forbes,” broke in
a haughty lady from London’s
Kensington, securing him firmly
by the left arm. “First you
must come and deal with the dis-
gusting couple who live next to
us. They refuse to debug their
beds. Oh, but definitely you
must come with me first!” And
she sniffed disdainfully, wrap-
ping her correctly-striped dres-
sing-gown close round her
angular figure.
As Russians are permanently
unsympathetic toward Eura-
sians, it did not surprise Forbes,
as policeman, when a stalky
little wife from the Crimea spoke
up:
“Yes! Queek you come, Gos-
podar Forbes. These Chink
people too much steenk —have
plenty louses. My ’usband,
Bert, he can speak you.” And
she pushed her pug-nosed Cock-
ney lord-and-master forward.
“Wot me ole woman sez,”
boomed Bert as if addressing a
Labor meeting in Hyde Park,
(Continued on page 34}


Good mornings begin with Gillette
When Blue Gillette Blades shave the gay Spanish face
They clearly reveal the world’s handsomest race,
So now every male looks smoother and neater,
A joy and a boon to the fair senorita.
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
5-BLADE PACKETS, 2/1
10-BLADE PACKETS, 4/2
D
20-BLADE DISPENSER, 8/4
The world’s best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
PAS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COLLECTIVE APPEASEMENT
Whatever the official British
view on the Far East may be, it
would seem that there would be
the most widespread British sup-
port for what London Labor
“Daily Herald” advocates in its
editorial question:
“How long must we wait be-
fore the United States is willing
to recognise the facts in China
and admit the new Chinese
Government to the United
Nations?”
A Korean armistice, it adds,
will make that issue “more
urgent than ever.”
This very general British view
is bitterly assailed in a “U.S.
News and World Report”
editorial, in terms indicating
that popular outlooks of the
U.S. and Britain on the Far
East, and especially China,
remain poles apart.
That, indeed, has been clearly
indicated in the sensationally
cabled reports of uproar in the
U.S. on this and related points
of difference. Mostly cables re-
ported mere Senate and Congress
ratbags, but Eisenhower’s cold
remarks, also cabled, were very
significant.
Even the ratbag uproar was
symptomatic of steadily heating
American feeling, and despite
assurances of Britain’s chief
representative in the U.S. that
all’s well between the two coun-
tries, it would not need much
more of what Americans regard
as provocation—criticism of U.S.
handling of Korea and sugges-
tions by Churchill-Attlee that
Eisenhower should trek to
another Tehran in the Roosevelt
style—and a wide, serious and
very dangerous breach in U.S.-
British relations could open
overnight.
The “U.S. News and World
Report” comment is a signpost.
Its editor recalls one thing
that’s mostly forgotten—that
U.N.O. (including Britain) de-
clared Communist China an
aggressor; a declaration which
supposedly still stands. It has
not been rescinded or amended.
Despite that, “Western states-
men now reveal a humiliating
eagerness to grasp at the straws
that the enemy thrusts forth —
straws that mean merely that
the Communists have con-
descended to allow the Western
countries to beg for peace once
more. The Soviet Union and
Red China, like conquerors,
call the tune. And what does
the new era of ‘talk’ mean?
Simply that, when a ‘cease fire’
comes, the peoples of the West
are expected to be so over-
whelmed with rejoicing that
they will forget what the war
was about.
“The UN.'is influenced to no
small extent by Great Britain’s
diplomacy, which is ready to
suppojt the admission of Red
China into the United Nations
once the fighting has ceased.
“How then are the aggressors
to be punished? Will not the
aggressors actually be rewarded?
How can the West argue per-
suasively that it has ‘repelled
aggression’ when the military
line at which the armistice is
fixed is about what it was in
June, 1950, and when the
aggressors now dictate the
terms of ‘peace’?
“Is this the great cause for
which our youth gave their
lives? Is this a vindication of
the principle of ‘collective
security’ which has been pro-
claimed as the ‘glorious’ mission
of the United Nations in Korea?
“As long as all nations make
equal sacrifices in a common
cause, as long as our troops
when ordered into action are
not required to fight a ‘sit-down’
war but a war to win victory,
the principle of collective
security is sound. It collapses,
however, when members of the
international organisation which
orders our sons into action
maintain trade with the enemy
and only now, after nearly three
years of pleading, seem to
understand what fidelity to an
alliance means.
“Today the U.N. seems ready
to indulge in collective appease-
ment. The Russian manoeuvres
are hailed as the beginning of
an era of sweetness and light on
the part of the racketeers in the
Kremlin whose crimes against
humanity are legion. One
wonders whether this isn’t the
start of the cycle that will
bring us World War 111. For
when disillusionment comes,
passions will run high and an
enlarged war will appear as the
inevitable alternative.”
Suez Substitute
Judged by British Press com-
ment, J. Bull must sooner or
later walk humiliated out of the
Suez Canal Zone—unless this
happens not to suit Uncle Sam
just now.
On this, London “Observer’s”
Cairo correspondent, while
interpreting Egyptian policy as
preferring to any conditional
evacuation the complete with-
drawal of the British, “if neces-
sary to the extent of dismantling
the base,” adds that American
policy does not envisage this
development as practical and
perhaps does not even consider
it as permissible in the present
state of the world. He believes
that President Eisenhower, Mr.
Dulles and their advisers have
much stronger and clearer views
on the need to maintain the base
as an efficient entity than had
the Democrats before them.
London “Economist” finds
quite different grounds for com-
fort:
“Having been deprived of the
use of the Canal in two world
wars and having emerged none-
London “Dally Express ”
“I’M SORRY—HE’S IN CONFERENCE JUST NOW”
theless victorious, we [British]
tend to accept it as inevitable
that in another war our ships
will again be prevented from
making anything like free use
of this waterway. It is safer to
assume that, with the greater
neutralising effect and range of
weapons now in sight, we will
in war derive little benefit either
from the Canal or even from the
Red Sea.
“Having decided that we will
probably be unable to pass this
way by sea, then we have to
content ourselves with sending
our ships round by the Cape
and with a greater use of trans-
port aircraft. It is an ill wind
that blows ho good, and if this
decision were to lead us in peace-
time to make greater efforts in
the production of freighter- and
passenger-aircraft, then this
would be no bad result. Gradu-
ally the air replaces the sea as a
means of movement both in
peace and war, particularly as a
means of moving human beings,
whether civilian or military.
“As a defensive base and
entrepot the Canal Zone is ad-
mirably placed But now its
importance seems to be declin-
ing as the strategic emphasis
passes northwards to the oppo-
site shores of the Mediterranean,
where it now appears likely that
friendly countries will be ready
to accept and to look after bases
that offer port and airfield facili-
ties not only to the British but,
far better, to an international
body. If the offer were to be
made and accepted, then Britain
could at once shed its lonely and
unenviable responsibility for
Middle Eastern defence.”
Why France Hesitates
No man has done more to
bring about a United Europe
than former French Foreign
Minister Robert Schuman. But
he is first of all a Frenchman,
and as such he explains, in the
American - published “Foreign
Affairs,” just why France has
appeared to shirk final ratifica-
tion of the treaties leading up to
the achieving of his own pet
ideal.
Though France, he says, is the
cradle of revolutions, the French
for that very reason distrust re-
forms which are so radical that
they may get out of hand. They
like to calculate the risks of any-
thing new, and, in general, cling
to tradition. But, he insists, it
also is true that most of them
are good Europeans and desire
Franco-German reconciliation
and co-operation among all the
nations of the West.
And now comes the critical
moment when they owe it to
fellow-signatories of the Euro-
pean Defence Community treaty
and to their allies in the Atlantic
Pact to reach a decision. They
face this dilemma: If they re-
ject the treaty one of two courses
is possible. Either they may
give up the German contribu-
tion to the common defence, or
they may admit Germany, with
an army of its own, to the
Atlantic Community:
“In the first of these cases the
experts are in agreement that
Western power would be glar-
ingly insufficient. The Atlantic
Pact would become a mere piece
of bravado and we [France]
should have to revise our whole
policy toward Germany and
Russia. The second solution
would involve raising-up a
German danger with which to
counteract the Russian danger—
far too dangerous a game for
most Fenchmen ever to accept.”
There is, Schuman declares, no
intention of bringing either the
principles or the general purport
of the E.D.C. treaty into ques-
tion. In the discussions among
the signatories, and also with
third parties such as Great
Britain, which had already
assumed obligations toward the
common defence, the French
Government, seeking various
safeguards,, has emphasised the
the gravity of what is at stake.
“For whether or not the guaran-
tees against violations or mis-
interpretations of the text are
strengthened may decide whether
it is ratified and affect the whole
future of the Atlantic Com-
munity.”
It would be unjust, however,
to believe that there is any con-
tradiction between this and the
need of basing the accord with
Germany on mutual confidence.
“Confidence cannot be re-
stored in our [France’s] rela-
tions with Germany by a wave
of the wand; it must come as a
result of an experience of agree-
ments faithfully fulfilled, and be
based, not on individuals, but on
a harmony of interests developed
in a framework of common in-
stitutions. And when a treaty is
to last for 50 years all possible
defects must be foreseen.
“The need for this is particu-
larly clear when we remember
that a companion treaty signed
at Bonn on May 26 determines
the future relationship of Ger-
many to the three occupying
Powers. The two treaties are
closely linked and must be
ratified together. The second,
known as the ‘Contractual
Agreements,’ brings Germany a
number of benefits, including
virtual sovereignty and release
from most of the limitations im-
posed after the war. With-
out waiting for the signature of
a formal peace treaty, France
will recognise that her neighbor
has regained the status of a
Great Power. But this can be
done only if the Allies guaran-
tee that the new European com-
munity will function properly.
France feels that the guarantees
she requests will not only be for
her own benefit but are essential
to the new institution on which


Milking 3 to 10
Cows ?
theDANGAR-GEM
nnf\ viw
dam;All GEM
IS STILL THE BEST MILKER
for the man with the smaller herd.
Why envy the owner of a
hiy milhiny machine?
Though you have only a few cows
you can enjoy all the advantages
of machine milking without costly
installation —for the "DANGAR-
GEM" can be used anywhere on
the farm: in the milking shed, in
a bail or even in the paddock.
You owe it to yourself to get details
today from
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.
10-14 Young Street (near Circular Quay),
Sydney. Phone BU 5095
BRANCHES; Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore,
Wagga and Hay
SMD.IO.
ANNOUNCING
THE NEW
PHEHOVIS’
T R A
OEM A R
liquid
THE BETTER
LIQ U I D
P H EN 0 T H I A 2.1 NE
g
"Phenovis" Liquid Phenothiazine was not introduced
until it was certain that it met ail the reasonable
requirements of an effective fine quality, ready
prepared liquid phenothiazine drench.
SUPERFINE
QUALITY
The new special formulation of phenothiazme
ensures the highest possible kill of parasitic
worms in sheep and cattle.
MAINTAINS
STABILITY
■. \
There are no mixing, caking or clogging worries
with the new "Phenovis" Liquid. Once stirred,
complete suspension is ensured for your day's
drenching.
g
It h a product the stockowner will welcome be-
cause it fulfils the real need of a liquid
"Phenovis" drench at a cheaper cost—"Phenovis"
Liquid 1 gal. tins cost only 75/-.
‘PHENOVIS’a i q u i d)
1C
Brand of Phenothlazlne
N.S.W. Joint Distributors:
Wilcox Mofflin Ltd.,
15 Phillip St., Sydney.
Grazcos Co-op. Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
Of AUSTRALIA * NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
g
Slightly dearer
in the country.
PHE.ION.CS47
world peace and security de-
pend.”
The subject is vast, involving
as it does the question of the
extent to which the European
nations are ready to sacrifice a
portion of their sovereign rights
in favor of a supranational
authority: “There is a tendency
to underestimate the difficulty of
bringing about such a sacrifice,
and Switzerland, the United
States and the old German Reich
are cited as examples of the way
it can be done. But let us re-
member that it took these nations
years to achieve what the nations
of Western Europe are trying to
do in a few months. Moreover,
the European countries have
been sovereign for centuries and
have fought wars to preserve
their independence. There is no
real comparison, then, between
their problems and those of the
thirteen former British colonies
after the American Revolution
or of the Swiss cantons and the
German States which grouped
themselves together in nations.”
Regarding control of the Saar,
which is one of the real stumbl-
ing-blocks, Schuman explains
that France is not striving for
open or disguised political an-
nexation. What France pro-
poses is that the Saar be given a
European status —that is, auto-
nomy in internal affairs and close
economic ties with France, all
controlled and guaranteed by a
European body on which, among
others, would be representatives
of France, Germany and the
Saar itself.
And, as one Frenchman at
least, Schuman remains optim-
istic. He concludes:
“In spite of the dreadful
heritage of the Nazi occupation,
in spite of many disappoint-
ments, and in spite of the ques-
tion of the Saar, relations be-
tween France and Germany are
steadily improving. The
Locarno idea, fortunately, has
been left far behind. Faith in
the future does not rest now on
the fragile guarantees of a pact
that lasted hardly eight years,
but on a co-operation which,
since it derives from a fusion of
economic interests and the
growth of common institutions,
ought to be permanent. The idea
of a united Europe will no
longer be a theme for poets, a
utopian vision ; it will be a living
reality, because the conscience
of the European people will have
recognised it as their one chance
of salvation.”
J. Bull's Wheat
“Manchester Guardian”
explains Britain’s position in
refusing to sign the International
Wheat Agreement:
“The economic balance of the
free world has been bedevilled
for years by the artifical prices
which Europe, and particularly
this country [Britain], has had to
pay for farm-produce from the
Western Hemisphere. These are
due to the subsidies that the
United States Government pays
to American farmers by way of
taking supplies off the market
when prices drop to a certain
proportion of the cost of indus-
trial goods.
“Under this system large
surpluses have been piled up for
several years past. One
bumper crop has followed
another as the yield per acre was
rapidly increased by mechanisa-
tion, Yet we have not been
allowed our fair share of this
fortunate gain in productivity.
“This has been one of the
important causes of the dollar
shortage which in turn has
moved the United States and
Canada to make generous gifts
and loans. It is in line with the
present [British] Government’s
aim of Trade, not aid’ that these
complexities should be shown
up.
“The United States has not
hesitated to take the fullest
advantage of any weakening in
the market position of those
commodities which she has to
buy abroad. The previous
[U.S.] Administration carried on
what in other circumstances
would have been called a trade-
war in order to break the price
of tin. This wish to have it both
ways is really too shortsighted to
be helpful to either side
“There will be wide support in
British public opinion J:or this
challenge to a ramp.” ,
Heart Cry
(The Muse, loaded down with
spring flowers and armament scrip.
Invades London “News Chronicle’s”
editorial sanctum. The “City” is, of
course, the London Stock Exchange
locality.)
Many a tear will be shed to-
day and many a heart will bleed
for the men in the City and Wall-
street in the hour of their
agonised need.
The news is all over the world
today, from Saskatchewan to
Greece. The peril is past deny-
ing : it seems that we might have
peace.
There’s many a share to un-
load today; for who will want
aircraft or tin if the Govern-
ments start disarming, and
stockpiling starts being sin ?
Somewhere in Aunt Agatha’s
attic today there should be a
lampshade about. It’s one like a
ship made of old Russian scrip,
and it may be the only way out.
Dragnet Digest
Burgers and Burgees. —Michael
Padev, in London “Punch”:
“The purgers are, at any time, a
numerous lot, in all Communist
States. The process of their
liquidation takes many months.
By the time they are finished, the
turn comes for the new purgers
to take their place . as purgees,
and so ad infinitum.”
Neglected Migration. —“lt has
been clear since the war,” com-
ments Toronto (Canada) “Globe
and Mail,” “that only a massive
transfer of people to underpopu-
lated areas of the Common-
wealth could maintain living
standards in the United King-
dom itself, at the same time
making those underpopulated
areas more productive and more
secure. But virtually nothing has
been done, the problem has not
even been faced; and so the
British people proceed slowly, if
not toward famine, if not
toward peasantry, then certainly
toward an existence even drabber
than the one they have today.”
Tighter on Aid.—A New
York observer in London “Time
and Tide”: “All the evidence
points to the new Republican
Congress being disposed to drive
a hard bargain for any further
Mutual Security aid it may be
prepared to sanction.”
West Still Outmatched. —
According to Lord Ismay, Secre-
tary-General of Nato, the
European nations belonging to
it have raised their military
expenditures by 120 per cent,
since 1949 and their armed
forces from 2,450,000 to
3,300,000 men. That, argues
“New York Times,” is a notable
achievement for nations still
recovering from the ravages of
the last war: “But the Soviet
bloc has been arming as well,
and no thing that the West has
done thus far has been able to
reduce the military preponder-
ance of the Soviet bloc.”
Adenauer’s Achievement. —
London “Times,” editorially
paying a tribute to the West
German Chancellor: “Under his
guidance —if this is not too weak
a word —the performance of the
Federal Republic in three and a
half years has been astonishing.
Its recovery in industrial produc-
tion has run ahead of the most
cheerful predictions and has
played a major part in the
recovery of Europe. Prodigies
of rebuilding and rehousing have
been performed. The moral and
mental atmosphere of West
Germany has changed signi-
ficantly for the better, acquir-
ing a new balance and stability.
Anthony Eden.— Appraised by
“Yorkshire Post”: “The Foreign
Secretary has not tried to master
the course of world history,
such arrogance is best left to
the Hitlers of this world. He
has influenced events so that
they have moved in the right
direction. In other words he has
acted as a realist and a states-
man. If the aspect of world
affairs today wears a, more
springlike look he may claim
his, share in the credit.”
Wool Going Strong. —London
“Financial Times” report: “The
buying of woollen goods, both
at home and abroad, has im-
proved to such an extent that
delivery-dates for orders placed
now extend, in some instances,
into the early months of next
year. Part of this expanded
demand must be attributed to a
re-stocking movement on the
part of retailers, but clearly there
would not be a movement of
this kind unless retailers had
ample and convincing evidence
of larger buying by consumers.
Independent Uncle Sam. —■
Leading U.S. author of books
on foreign affairs James Burn-
ham, in New York “Herald Tri-
bune”: “Surely Americans are
not opposed to Communism and
the Soviet system only on condi-
tion that West Europeans and
Indians and Arabs are also
opposed. We are opposed even
without and even against all the
rest of the world, even if alone.
The leader of a coalition should
be ready to welcome every ally,
but should depend on none.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
War History
The discussion by “Peter Mike” (B,
29/4/’53) of the question whether or not
General O’Connor’s corps could have
taken Tripoli and held it in February,
1941, seems to be based on a misconcep-
tion. “Peter Mike’s” contention is (I
think he will agree) summed-up at the
beginning of his eighth paragraph: “I
do not doubt that O’Connor could have
got to Tripoli. What Ido doubt is that
the Germans would have permitted his
poorly-equipped forces to have stayed
there unmolested. It is logical to believe
that Tripoli, not Tobruk, would have
been invested by Rommel, and the
1.-of-c. would have been such that
Tripoli—even if held by both the
6th and 9th Divisions —could not have
withstood more than a month of siege.”
Has not “Peter Mike” forgotten that
in February, 1941, the Axis Powers had
not occupied Tunisia; they did not do
so until November, 1942, when Hitler
decided to send troops into Tunisia to
fight the British First Army, advancing
thither from the west. Later in the same
month, Rommel, because of the defeat
at El Alamein, advised Hitler to evacuate
the German army in Africa to Italy, but
Hitler rejected that counsel and ordered
him to fight on.
If O’Connor had taken Tripoli in 1941,
as “Peter Mike” does not doubt he could
have done, he would indeed have had
long lines-of-communication; but
Rommel would have had no lines-of-
communication at all. There is the possi-
bility that the Italian and German forces
would have been ordered to retreat into
French Tunisia, but, in the situation of
that time, that would probably have been
militarily ineffective and politically
calamitous —from the Axis point of view.
It is, I think, important to see these
problems as they were seen at the time.
In mid-February, 1941, Rommel com-
manded in Africa a little force about
the size of a British brigade-group con-
taining not much more fire-power than
“Peter Mike’s” brigade possessed.—
Gavin Long (A.C.T.).
This Age of Unease
In one of Charles Morgan’s novels.
The Judge’s Story, it is written that “The
Athenians were less burdened by the past
than we are. They were younger....
I think they were also less afraid of the
future because they were less conscious
of it.”
As to our past, which is a part of our
British heritage, we can do little about it
except be proud of its triumphs, and
cease wasting time in trying to whistle
back what we have lost of it.
But are we not too future-ridden
today? “Take not heed therefore for
the morrow” and “Don’t cross your
bridges before you reach them” are out
of fashion as rules for living. True that
two world wars and a depression have
shaken our confidence. True that reason-
able thought for the morrow is com-
mendable, provided that it is coupled
with faith in the morrow. It is that faith
which we seem to have lost.
It is almost axiomatic that the thing we
dread is rarely—when it happens, if it
happens at all —as dire as we anticipated.
Our cruellest disasters are those totally
unforeseen.
Consider for a moment our present
blessings. What a small proportion of
us cannot say, on any given day, “I and
my loved ones are well; wo have a
comfortable home, ample food, friends
and pleasures.” Never has the ordinary
citizen had within his reach so many
sources of pleasure: cars, radio, the
cinema, music, sport, innumerable
pastimes. His working hours are short;
the tyranny of wealth has been broken;
in ill-health or poverty, should these
overtake him*- he can in his ultimate need
count on his country’s care.
Nevertheless we all suffer from an un-
ease which mats our enjoyment of today,
to such an extent that we are in danger
of becoming a generation of neurotics.
We worry about our health before we
are ill. We worry about the brand of
Government we may have in 12 months’
time —as if, in the long run, one Govern-
ment is not very like another, barring
dictatorships. We worry about the
security of our jobs, even those of us
as safely placed as can be—for the
hazards of life always exist, always have
and always will. We worry about the
next basic-wage increase, too much or
too little according to our viewpoint,
before the last has been absorbed into
the awards. We worry about the value
of the pound, though we have aU seen
it slump and yet we still live on it. We
worry about the “next war,” which may
not come and which, in any case, we
can do little about. Why, we even worry
when we go for a weekend spin in the
car; so many die on the roads —but how
many survive, or die, in other circum-
stances?
To what can we attribute this obses-
sion about tomorrow? Could it be that
we arc not yet conditioned to assess the
“That's the worst of these floods —yer tobacca an' papers git Wet.”
value of the facts and surmises poured
into our ears by modern communications,
the telegraph, telephone, Press and
radio? Do we learn too much, too soon,
about what might happen? Every horror
is retailed to us with the blood still
dripping; we picture it happening to
ourselves, and know fear.
Our major fear is of war. In world
affairs, we learn of every “crisis” before
it matures; often enough it never
matures, but we have had fear. When
two nations are at loggerheads we are
given a word-by-word description of the
“negotiations”; in the old days the an-
tagonisms between nations, admittedly
the seeds of war, were the worry of
statesmen and diplomats, by training and
experience able to assess the danger in-
herent m the quarrel, often no danger
at aU, the threats and counterthreats be-
ing no more than moves toward com-
promise. But we are too simple to know
it for shadow-sparring, and we are afraid.
The remedy lies in ourselves; to
discipline ourselves into the enjoyment
of the blessings of today, to be reason-
ably forethoughtful of tomorrow, and
to have faith in Providence,— Hist
(N.S.W.).
Those Armaments
For the benefit of “Armorer”
(B. 25/3/’53) and Clem Lack
(B. 15/4/’53) I offer the follow-
ing information from Chambers’
Encyclopedia of Firearms, pub-
lished in London 91 years ago
(1862) and written by experts
who had available the latest
information.
There never was a special
rifle made or patented as the
Mini 6 rifle in Britain, so the
argument really centres round
who was the inventor of the
cylindro-conoid bullet. This
bullet was used in several dif-
ferent makes of rifles long be-
fore the name Minid was heard
of (1848), and we must go a
long way further back for the
real inventor.
In 1498 the gunsmiths of
Leipzig had grooved rifles “and
no doubt” tried cylindro-
conoid bullets, but in 1520 August Kutter,
of Nuremberg, was celebrated for his
“rose groove barrels” and “did” use
cylindro-conoid bullets, so the idea was
not new when, as Clem Lack says, Captain
Norton first used them in 1823.
The story goes, according to Chambers’
and quoting dates seriatim, that what is
called the “really first war rifle” was
produced by Captain Delvigne in 1826.
It had a grooved barrel, used plain balls
and depended on the force of the ram-
rod to cause the ball to expand to fill the
grooves. In 1836 Greener resurrected
the cylindro-conoid bullet with a hollow
in the back, but no plug is mentioned.
In 1842 Colonel Trouvenin produced
the “ carabine a tige ,” or “pillar gun.”
The barrel of this had a pillar screwed
into the centre of the powder chamber
(where the pin of a c.-f. gun is today)
and projecting into the barrel about
fin. and around which the charge of
powder lay. When the ball fell down the
barrel it rested on the pillar and the ram-
rod forced it sufficiently to fit the grooves.
Between 1842 and 1846 Captain Del-
vigne used Greener’s bullet and adapted
it to the “tige” rifle. The combination
was accepted by the French Government
and issued to the Chasseurs d’Afrique
in 1846. About 1848 Minie came along
with Greener’s bullet with an iron plug
in the rear, but British experts soon
debunked the idea, as it was found that
the explosion often drove the iron plug
through the leaden bullet and left the
lead jammed in the barrel. Greener then
introduced the wooden plug and, after
experiments, the British Government
introduced the Enfield rifle and Greener’s
bullet.
The Government, however, was not
satisfied, as rumors of the breech-loader
were in the air. The whole matter was
placed in the hands of “Mr. Whitworth,
a celebrated mechanician,” and we then
read of a most extraordinary experiment.
Whitworth produced a rifle with a hexa-
gon bore of .451 and, strange to say, it
was almost deadly accurate up to 2000
yards. A Mr. Lancaster produced a gun
with no rifling, but with an oval or
elliptical bore and a twist in the barrel.
“ Clumsy! We'll have to furl it all
again now!”
Chambers ’ added: “Between the Enfield
grooves, the Whitworth polygon and the
Lancaster ellipse the rifle of the future
will eventuate.”
Incidentally, in the museum at Lenin-
grad is a cannon with nine grooves in the
barrel and made in 1615; in 1628
Rosiphen patented a grooved gun-barrel;
and in 1696 the Germans had tried oval
and grooved bores and all kinds of
bullets. — Oscar Hill (Q.).
The Proper Balance
Ludwig von Mises scored some telling
points against the Welfare State in his
book Human Action (B. 22/4/’53), but
his shrewd criticisms of Socialism and
other forms of totalitarianism have been
combined with a complacent belief that
capitalism is flawless.
That cannot truthfully be said of any
political or economic system*. Some have
proved better than others, but any carried
to an extreme is bound to reveal greater
defects than virtues.
In a complex society with many com-
peting interests there must be a certain
amount of regulation by the State for
the common good. Under unrestricted
capitalism there is no protection for class
or individual against oppressive conduct
by others more favorably placed, save in
cases where restraint is provided by cus-
toms that have the force of law, or by
religious ideas that have profound prac-
tical influence.
The growth of huge, formless cities
with the varied problems they have in-
volved ; the building of masses of flimsy,
back-to-back workers’ houses, that, from
the first, were squalid slums; the ruthless
destruction of wild-life; the squandering
of natural resources by persons inspired
by get-rich-quick motives —those things,
and others as anti-social, were charac-
teristic of unrestricted capitalism in its
heyday.
A capitalistic economy of the laissez-
faire type, such as Von Mises champions,
can function without becoming intoler-
ably in a thinly-peopled country of great
potentialities, but once a high state of
industrial development has been reached
its faults have always become so evident
that even Governments reluctant to do so
have been obliged to introduce modifica-
tions.
That the trend in the 20th century has
been for Governments to go too far in
control of private enterprise, and in
development of the Welfare State, are
not arguments against reasonable regula-
tion of a capitalist economy.
A proper degree of balance is hard to
maintain in any sphere, but it is none-
theless desirable. Ramiro de Maetzu
put the matter neatly in his Liberty,
Authority, and Function. “Balance of
powers is difficult to reach and preserve,
because every one of the powers inevit-
ably aspires to hegemony. Such a balance
is maintained only at the price of eternal
vigilance. But we have to pay the same
price for friendship, for health, etc.” —
Cunedda (N.S.W.).
Hospital Costs
In the pre-social-service era, country
hospitals were financed mainly by. fees
from patients and partly by State Govern-
ment subsidy. That entailed a compara-
tively small State department to assist in
advising hospital committees on technical
matters, buying medical stores and the
distribution of subsidies.
With “free hospital treatment” a
number of civil servants required to
administer the distribution to hospitals
were put on the Commonwealth payroll.
That did not entail any reduction in the
number of State civil servants. The
Commonwealth paid only about one-third
of the cost of maintaining the hospitals,
although the scheme was known as the
“Commonwealth” Free Hospital Scheme,
and more, rather than fewer, civil servants
had to be employed by State Health
Departments to deal with the necessary
statistics. The real cost to the patient
rose by the amount paid out to these
extra civil servants.
With the latest form of Social Service
Hospital Benefits, the prospective patient
finds that he still has to maintain an
increased number of Commonwealth
administrators to provide his hospital
benefits, and is charged 4s. extra per day
in hospital if he is unwilling to join up
with an approved society.
The increased costs of providing hos-
pital accommodation now make it impos-
sible for the average man to pay directly
for the main part of it (as in the pre-
social-service era), but he has to pay
indirectly in any case. There seems to
be no good reason why Government sub-
sidy from taxation should not cover the
main part of these increases, and no good
reason why the real cost of hospital treat-
ment should be increased by payment to
additional civil servants and insurance
agents. The only real beneficiaries under
the various schemes are those employed
to run them, and the politicians who feel
that, by inaugurating them, they have
benefited humanity.
The more complicated any hospital-
financing scheme becomes, the less real
benefit is obtained by those who are
unfortunate enough to need treatment.—
Social Service Sufferer (W.A.).


Parking-meters
A lot of nonsense is being talked and
written about parking-meters (B. 6/5/’53),
which are now as plentiful in the U-S.A-
-as are rabbits in Australia. The original
idea of them induced an enterprising
newspaperman to leave the security of a
high-salaried editorial chair and an
engineer to quit an equally secure and
highly-paid professorial chair of a univer-
sity. Both may be in the millionaire
category today, but it is not recorded
whether their intention was to amass the
mighty dollar or to solve the off-street
parking problem. If the first, it was a
success ; if the second, a failure.
Those in the meter-manufacturing and
-hiring business in America firmly intend
to lift the 1952 take of 30 million dollars
to a minimum of 50 million dollars in
1953.
It is not uncommon in the U.S. for a
city’s Civic Fathers who were violently
and volubly opposed to parking-meters
to change their minds overnight. The
unprecedented mushrooming of parking-
meters in America in the last few years
•is a first-rate example of how really big
business in the U.S.A. smoothly climbs
over a hurdle or two here and there.
One of the principal tasks in my mis-
sion to America towards the end of 1950
was to investigate and report on parking-
meters. A similar and independent inves-
tigation was made at the same time by
one of the highest-ranking engineers in
the Queensland Government service. Our
reports, separately made, were almost
identical. In substance they were:
(1) In the U.S.A. efforts to solve the
car-parking problem consist largely of
the provision of off-street parking-lots
(open-air) by city authorities and by pri-
vate enterprise.
(2) Present building costs permit the
building of only a limited number of
parking-buildings or garages.
(3) Parking-meters do not solve the
problem. If policed adequately they do
ensure that more equitable use is made
of such space as may be set aside for
street-parking.
(4) If meters are installed the revenue
from them should be set aside man-
datorily for the development of projects
which will ultimately do away with street-
parking.
Understandably, some competent and
disinterested investigators report in favor
of the parking-meter “that under certain
circumstances it ensures a
more efficient use of avail-
able kerb-space,” although
that advantage is being white-
anted by businessmen organis-
ing office-boys and commis-
sionaires to slip in the nickel
or dime required (each 30 or
40 minutes) so that their cars
may stand outside their
premises all day. All Ameri-
can authorities questioned
admitted without blushing
that revenue from the meters
fell considerably where polic-
ing was even mildly relaxed.
It is not only the additional 30 million
dollars mulcted from them that have
caused commerce, motorists and house-
wives’ associations to protest. There is
too much evidence that parking-meters—
ostensibly installed to cover the cost of
policing the kerbside and to provide
funds with which to solve the cities’ off-
street parking problem—are being ex-
ploited by Civic Fathers as happy sources
of general revenue.
The pattern followed in America is
now taking shape in Australia. First a
community is hoodwinked with specious
promises that all fees from parking-
meters, other than a small proportion
required for policing, will be fumied for
the ultimate provision of off-street park-
ing facilities. Then, when the meters are
in and reaping a rich harvest, the money
so collected is spent on anything and
everything but off-street parking provi-
sions. According to The Year Book of
the International City Management Asso-
ciation, U.S.A., 60 per cent, of American
cities with parking-meters installed use
the grab for straightout general revenue,
11 per cent, for the control of traffic, 2-4
per cent, for off-street parking facilities
or a combination of other purposes and
those facilities, while the remaining 25
per cent, of cities chose to keep informa-
tion on the disposal of their parking-
meter grab wholly to themselves.
The U.S.A. has 77 per cent, of the
world’s motor-vehicles and its traffic
experience far outstrips that of other
nations. Americans believe that, while
garages, underground and up in the air,
make a useful contribution, open-air
parking is the only real solution of the
problem. Cities with acres not yet built
on would be foolish not to take that
advice. — Len King (Q-).
Dairyfarmers
That reference (B. 8/4/’53) to the
£ 17-million subsidy paid to dairyfarmers
is hardly fair. There are two kinds of
dairyfarmers—those who supply whole-
milk and those who supply butter. It
is to the latter that most of the subsidy
is paid and, like the one paid on tea,
it is actually a subsidy to the consumer,
as it keeps the price down.
It takes two and a quarter gallons of
ordinary milk to make one pound of
butter, so, with milk at lOd. a pint, the
comparative price of butter, without the
subsidy, would be 16s. a pound, not
3s. 9d., which the butter dairyfarmer now
receives.
At the last State elections the roll for
this dairying district showed a drop of
well over 300. As the towns showed an
increase, all of these departures were
from the rural, outlying areas. And that
when the dairymen were having a “won-
derful time” according to many others.
If the subsidy is cut it will not be long
before we are back to cattle-raising with
large holdings and hundreds of families
leaving the land. — Daniele Bus (N.S.W.).
Free Trade
If there were world Free Trade the
initial advantage enjoyed by highly-
mechanised countries might well be short-
lived. High intelligence and education
are not necessary for the successful
handling of mass-production machinery.
During both World Wars thou-
sands of inexperienced young women
proved adequate replacements for man-
power in munition and other factories.
The less-advanced countries would face
no serious obstacle in establishing such
industries. Cheaper labor would, in many
brafiches of manufacturing, prove a satis-
factory substitute for intelligence or
inherited skill.
After the Industrial Revolution of the
late 18th and early 19th Century, British
manufacturers favored Free Trade be-
cause, being first in the field with exten-
sive use of machinery, they enjoyed a big
advantage over competitors. In the course
of time other nations obtained the neces-
sary industrial equipment, British manu-
facturers of machinery being as eager to
sell abroad as were manufacturers of
finished goods. In many cases foreign
countries introduced protective tariffs to
“Too fast, Dickson —I couldn't
read that myself.”
Here's the racing tips I sent for—a list of starters and a pin!'
enable their infant secondary industries
to expand to the greatest advantage. In
time some of these peoples became serious
competitors with British industry, not
only in world markets, but in the British
market. Eventually Britain had to re-
introduce Protection.
Those U.S.A. businessmen who are
now talking of the merits of Free Trade
because they think that, under current
conditions, they can hold their own with
the world may well, if they get their
way, be clamoring before many years
for re-erection of tariff barriers against
cheap-labor competition.
Australia’s situation, anyhow, is very
different from that of the U.S.A. Costs in
this country are high and output per
head much lower than in the U.S.A.
Trade-unions here are far less enlightened
in their economic attitude than the
American ones. And few Australian
secondary industries could, under normal
conditions, compete profitably in world
markets.— Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
-
_,, . „
Trade-m Allowances
This business of trading-in your old
radio, refrigerator, ice-chest and various
other household appliances is getting
over the odds. I lately bought a new
refrigerator of a standard make, being
allowed £5 trade-in allowance on an old
ice-chest which was not worth five sM-
nw B I wiSd have
SZ tnneforfS
Today I Ustened to advertte-
FSFE SJ mlo £ “a
be allowed on your old raaio-set as a
trade-in, irrespective of its condition,
That again indicates that, in the original
price, there is far too high a margin of
profit.
Surely it would be better for firms to
allow only the real value of the article to
be traded in, and reduce the sale price
of the new article accordingly. At the
present time, if you are thinking of buying
a new radio, refrigerator, vacuum-cleaner
or anything else on which trade-ins are
accepted, it will pay you to buy an old
article from a junk-yard for a tew smi-
lings so that Y ou cai T | e * * he trade-m
allowance.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
__
Recorded Poetry
, , , t, v„ ll1r |
not*"be read SenUy but%Sd to
%SSriH
ance, rhyme, near-rhyme, aiiiteraupn, me
juxtaposition of sounds-aU those are but
pale shadows of what they could be if
they are not read. , ave
Australian poets, m the mam, have
been unfortunate in this. Their work is
seldom heard. Occasionally an Australian
poem is made a set piece for an eistedd-
£od, or for .an art of speech examma-
tion; occasionally the A.B.C. features
the work of live and dead Australian
poets; occasionally it is possible to hear
(at English Association meetings, for
instance) an Australian poet read from
his works. But that is not enough—not
nearly enough.
In England, H.M.V., Columbia and the
British Council have produced among
them a series of recordings featuring the
works of T, S. Eliot (his Four Quartets
will come as a pleasant and unexpected
surprise to those who have only read the
work), Cecil Day Lewis, Stephen Spender,
W. B. Yeats *and others. The Columbia
Anthology of British Poetry, issued under
the auspices of the British Council, is
“planned to cover the whole range or
English poetry up to the present day.
There are even recordings made specially
for children of poems by Lems Carroll,
Edward Lear and R. L. Stevenson,
In America, recordings of poetry are
available through Harvard Vocarium and
the Library of Congress. The latter, in
the past few years, has issued ten albums
of modern poets reading their own verse
“including eight volumes of miscellaneous
poets and one volume each accorded
entirely to T. S, Eliot and Robert Frost.
In Australia nothing of this nature has
been undertaken, to my knowledge.
Why? There is an audience awaiting
such recordings now, apart entirely from
the historical and literary value they will
hold for future audiences. Private indi-
viduals, schools, colleges, universities,
literary groups, dramatic groups—all
these are potential buyers of such record-
j ngs
Australia has poets like McCrae, Neil-
son> Brennan, R. D. Fitz Gerald, Slessor,
Wright—to mention only a
handfu j It has good readers, as the
AB c has proved- a i so has the Arts
„ , ABC and Government
n oi an ekperimental set of
commercial Wordings in order that the
poet and the poetry-lover may meet each
Sr
w ? h p RTr i RVIN (NSW.).
the publishers, eric irvin un.o )
,
Longbow and Cavalry
The i ong bow (B. 13/5/’53) also
Ranged the nature of cavalry warfare
and gave t be death-blow to the prestige
of tlie heavily armored feudal cavalry
( the p renc h knights at Poitiers were com-
pietejy rQ uted by the English archers),
Gunpowder is usually credited with
endi the feudal knightj but the bow
wag t j ie dec j s i ve technical advance which
robbed him of his superiority. It placed
tbe trained archer on terms of equality
with his lord. As at Poitiers, the archer
usually was the victor. (The first effect
of gunpowder, incidentally, was to deprive
the feudal castle of its invulnerability.)
As “Denton.o” says, the hand-gup (or
SaSsSSst?
nenetration. But it was easier
fire tQ uge the
£ a jJ d ? gun . its introduction coincides with
the decline of the English yeomanry.
infantry then became the most
, . t £ or j ong a new
P was g oon evolved—unarmored,
swifter horses,
” act 0 n pistol-
v f', erouoing. This
to‘° s^va the CM War,
P - we ii> s though Cromwell
and also toc&s.
made adaptations m style and J* c “ cs -
Cavalry was the decisivearm had
17th-century wars, though it never had
the same importance again
The bayonet restored Krqs
eminence to the infantryman. Kros
(S.A.).


600,000-
Americans can't be wrong!!
Yes \ This figure represents the number of
machines sold in the U.S.A. since the intro-
duction of SHOPSMITH in 1949.
's■"'< f* -
m
'< x *
Join the ranks of satisfied
SHOPSMITH owners and
possess the most versatile wood-
working machine of modern
times. Now made in Australia
by C. C. Engineering Industries
Ltd.
(I) As a Circular Saw
(2) As a Disc Sander
lit
(3) As a Lathe
SHOPSMITH
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINE
In a matter of moments, Shop-
smith can be adapted for use as
a . . . Disc Sander, Drill Press,
Circular Saw, Horizontal Drill,
or Wood Lathe. Shopsmith’s
rugged, practical design allows
for accurate duplication of any
precision job. Powered by a
dependable \ h.p. electric
motor (Motors to suit local
conditions —A.C. or D.C. also
available).
SHOPSMITH may be pur-
chased on the most attractive
easy terms.
Multi-
purpose
Multi-
profit
£ m
(4) As a Drill Press (5) As a Horizontal Drill
Manufactured by
C. C. ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES LTD.
under license from Magna Engineering Corp., U.S.A
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. (Sydney Metropolitan Area)
C. C. DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD.
213 Bridge Road, Glebe, N.S.W.
Demonstration & Showroom: 125 a York St., Sydney. 8X7044
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney. Nock & Kirby Ltd., Sydney.
N.S.W. {Country Distributors )
A. J. Ellerker, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: J. R. Hall & Co., 500 Bourke St.. Melbourne. Hardware Co, of
Australia, 71-75 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
West Australia: Watson Bros. Pty. Ltd., 363 Murray St., Perth.
South Australia: Harris Scarfe Ltd., Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Queensland: Ellerker Bros., 261 Wickham St., Valley, Brisbane.
Tasmania; J. R. Hall & Co.. 50 Esplanade, Bevonport.
M
•vV'V-'-
■
Bg©
Streamlined
Beauty for YOUR KITCHEN
In old homes or new, enjoy the advantages of a
Wunderlich "Wunderbrite" Stainless Steel Sink now.
Available 4’, 4’6", 5’ and 6‘ long, the latter also
with a double bowl.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, Phone MX 2411,
or write to Wunderlich Limited. Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated leaflet and prices.
JimjcLfUicns
SMKABVB
COMBINATION SINK & DRAINER
y
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
toy particular! gladly tappll»d~
Writ* to DAVIS GELATIN!: S.PO B« 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
80, 712 E. ADELAIDE • 6.P.0. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O 80, SBB. PERTH
* *rs>o*
BOH* W . P V.'*
4
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lea-farming
“Billjim”: Cleanliness of
cereal crops in Victoria last sea-
son is attributed by Victorian
Department of Agriculture to the
widespread adoption of lea-
farming.
It was found that where it had
been possible to introduce sub.-
clover pastures for several years
weed-growth and disease were
greatly reduced. Noticeable was
that worst take-all paddocks
were those which had been
cropped after a period of volun-
teer pasture in which the
natura Uy occurring species were
s P ear '» barley- and silver-grass,
ad which are subject to take-
all and hel P to propagate the
fun § us from y ear to Y ear -
The department warns that
if the growth in a paddock
during the lea period is of this
type and does not contain sub.-
clover particular care should be
taken when cropping to fallow
paddocks carefully and keep
them clean of weed-growth.
In the past clover-lea farm-
ing has been mainly on areas
having an annual rainfall of
more than 21in. Availability of
earlier-maturing varieties of
clover has widened the scope for
lea-farming in districts with a
rainfall exceeding 18in. Under
this system cropping is under-
taken after the land has been
under pasture containing sub.-
clover for a number of years.
Passionfruit
“H.C.”: Passionfruit - vines
like a warm position. Use a
wooden trellis with strong wire
run between posts at 15in. to
24in. intervals; wire-netting
makes pruning difficult.
Vines begin bearing 15 months
after planting. Main crops
usually ripen between February
and April, light off-season crops
between September and October.
Pruning keeps the vines open
and vigorous, and should be
done' in October. Left un-
pruned, the tangled growth
makes it impossible to control
pests and diseases. Shorten
leaders back to young side-
growth ; older leaders die out if
cut to a dormant bud.
Brown-spot disease occurs in
autumn ; grease-spot in winter.
Both diseases cause dropping of
leaves and fruit and finally death
of the vines. To control give
monthly sprayings of Bordeaux
mixture (3.4.50) throughout the
year and a good pruning in the
spring.
Birds and Worms
“Emjai”: Where does “Delta”
(B. 6/5/*53) grow his super
vegetables in 2in. of compost on
the surface of unworked clay,
sowing seeds in shallow drills
in the compost? If it’s around
the Melbourne suburbs, does he
grow them in a bird-wire cage
or mount a round-the-clock
guard with a shotgun? Here,
if he spread worm-populated
compost on the surface there
would be a lovely party for the
blackbirds and quick massacre
of worms.
Even if the compost were
initially without much worm-
life, when he had watered for a
while and brought up the worms
from the lower soil he would
see the advance-guard of the
marauders prospecting, cocking
their heads on one side listen-
ing for the worms and then
going after them. In two-ups
their mob would be into it and
the compost would fly in all
directions; exit seeds and
seedlings. He might as well
have planted them in his fowl-
run.
. Also we are moved to won-
der at deep-growing soft roots,
such as carrots and parsnips
attaining monster proportions in
2in, of compost on unbroken
red clay, and at potatoes, which
favor a good body of free soil
to push out into, doing any good
at all. We get very satisfying
results with sweat of the brow
as an ingredient in the modus
operand!, working deep and get-
ting the compost down with a
surface layer of light loam be-
tween the worms and the black-
birds, and mulching when plants
are strong enough to stand the
lesser onslaughts on worms
under the mulch.
Ratoon Disease
“Manwill”: Sugarcane
ratoon-stunting disease is wide-
spread in Queensland. Its
origin is uncertain, but every-
where it is causing heavy losses.
It has become a top problem for
Sugar Bureau pathologists, and
one of them (D. R. L. Steindl) is
at present at Berkely University,
California, studying diseases of
a similar type.
Symptoms of r.s.d. are much
more difficult to recognise than
those of other diseases ; as its
name implies, the chief feature
is a stunting or loss of vigor in
the ratoons, but in addition
small reddish or orange mark-
ings appear in the interior of the
stalk at about the level of the
bud.
The presence of this practically
“The drought must be crook out west.”
symptomless disease explains
many puzzling cases of crops
which were not as heavy as ex-
pected, and also explains why
in the past varieties of cane
have run out or decreased in
production until they have had
to be discarded as commercial
canes. The disease is trans-
missible from diseased to healthy
plants per medium of the cane-
knife or from diseased to
healthy setts by either the knife
or the blades of the cutter-
planter, and farmers should
carefully sterilise these with
boiling water or methylated-
spirits before use in a fresh
field.
Use of plants from fields
known to produce satisfactory
ratoons even under adverse con-
ditions will ensure healthier
growth, but the most effective
method of control is by the hot-
water treatment of the setts.
This is two-hours steeping in
water at 122 degrees F., and it
is so close to the death-point of
many canes that the farmer
should not attempt to treat his
own setts. Disease-control
boards are working in conjunc-
tion with the mills, and in prac-
tically every district a super-
visor will collect some plants
from the farm and treat them
at the mill. In other areas
healthy supplies are being built-
up by the boards and setts will
later be sold to individual
farmers. The process of getting
clean plants for a whole district
is slow, but no r.s.d. means
more £.s.d., and farmers should
take advantage of the clean-
seed schemes.
Buying a Dairy Herd
“Mr.”: If the vendor of a
dairy-herd can provide reliable
production- and calving-records
and show that butterfat in-
creases have not been obtained


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
I ETC,
g
HYGEIA DISSOLVEMATOR
Gives yon the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal ill
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into tlie soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write lor free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS i
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Go.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne. _ . _.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dis-
solvenator 00. (S.A.)» 229 a Bundle
St., Adelaide. _ _ ~
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St.. Perth. .
TASMANIA t Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty, Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston. , , , .
DARWIN: 0. T. See Eee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator 00. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank
Chambers, Raffles Place.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* values are you
properly covered? Now ia
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
361bs.
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
g
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
g
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
i BARRERE
I No Pads —
I No Springs
The NEO-BABREEK
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Yon will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babkebe DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 8b), 253 Elizabeth St., Sydney
and
from
THE WONDERFUL AG II
MODEL C.B.
J
Imagine a Cooker that is almost automatic , and
has two big hot-plates and two capacious ovens.
This amazing Cooker bums coke, yet is smokeless
and fumeless, as clean as a china-plate. It is also
superbly insulated, to keep your kitchen cool, and
it provides a generous hot-water service for kitchen
and bathroom 1 Comfort, ease, and simplicity of use
—all these are yours with the Aga (Model C. 8.), in
addition to guaranteed fuel economy!
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
[Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Australian Agents
AGA
COOKER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
HEW SOUTH WALES _____ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ •_ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
be
TILLEY** 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO RADIATORS
c E 5
*
'S
Si
sc?
%
r-^cdi
%
While Import restric-
tions remain you may
have difficulty in ob-
taining TILiIiEY pro-
ducts.
Be independent! With this TILLEY Portable Kero
Radiator you can be sure of cosy comfort when and where
YOU want it! Burns 12 hours on only 1J pints of Kero! Made
only by TILLEY —a sure guarantee of quality and efficiency!
MODEL R.l.
(“THE AMBASSADOR")
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
at the cost of uneconomic feed-
ing, the buying of a herd as a
going concern is safe enough if
the price is right.
Another good source, the
clearing-sale, is usually adver-
tised far enough in advance to
give the intending buyer a
chance to inspect his prospec-
tive cattle, examine their pro-
duction-figures and look into
their feeding and management.
Private purchase from a reli-
able dairyfarmer is another
good method, but here, too, the
buyer should look well into the
cows’ previous performances
and, if possible, those of their
parents. Heifer-calf purchase is
sound if well-bred animals can
be obtained, and the buyer is in
a position to hold them for a
year or two until they come into
production.
Brush Care
“Spes”: Clean paint-brushes
after use, dry, soften the bristles
and store, wrapped individually
in paper.
To clean after oil-paints, use
turpentine or commercial paint-
thinner; retain the fluid for
future use. For brushes used for
shellac clean with denatured
alcohol, and clean lacquer-
brushes with lacquer ■’thinner.
For brushes used for kalsomine
or casein paints, wash in water
until clean, then in one part
vinegar to two pnrts water.
Never allow paint to penetrate
close to the binding; tie the
bristles midway with clean
twine or a Strong rubber-band.
This adds life, too, the binding
being moved up as the brush
wears down. It also stops the
annoying spread of bristles in
large brushes.
Home Remedies
“A. F. Spring”: Ointments
can be made from equal parts of
kerosene and lard. Kerosene is
a good germicide, effective in
clearing-up wounds and bruises ;
rubbed into sprains or muscular
strains, it relieves pain. Another
easily-made germicidal ointment
can be made from boracic-acid
and lard or vaseline (loz.
boracic-acid, 6oz. lard) —useful
for cow-pox, cracked “chaps,”
cuts and minor wounds.
Boracic lotion is an excellent
eye-wash, and is also an ideal
coagulent in severe bleeding.
Another good lotion consists of
carbolic-acid, loz., and water,
two pints; this is effective in
washing out cavities in strangles
in horses, fistulas, sloughs left
by infections, etc. Alternatively,
corrosive sublimate, 20 grains,
and water, one pint, used as a
douche after cleaning out in-
fectious wounds, will speed
healing. These substances
should be kept in a locked cup-
board ; they are poisonous.
Puncture - wounds from
barbed-wire, nails, horns, etc.,
often fester. If care is not taken
an abscess will form. Don’t
hesitate to cut out an abscess
with a sharp knife or scalpel.
When the pus has been liber-
ated the following preparation
will encourage new tissue-
growth : Sugar-of-lead, loz.;
sulphate-of-zinc, loz.; glycer-
ine, 30z.; carbolic-acid, 2dr.;
and water to make a pint. Apply
three times daily.
lodine is a good standby, but
on open wounds is too severe
on the tissues if used at effective
strength against reinfections.
For emergencies. Raw lin-
seed-oil, dose one pint in cases
of colic, followed by Boz. of
spirit-of-aromatic-ammonia and
a pint of spirits-of-nitrous-ether ;
ioz. of the former and 2oz. of
the latter is the standard dose.
Ground-ginger and bicarbonate-
of-soda are good for flatulent
colic. * A good ointment for
sores is a mixture of whitelead,
castor-oil and washing-blue.
The Sugar Harvest
“Beroo”: The 1952 Queens-
land sugar harvest of about
934,000 tons was a record. It
came from 6,841,500 tons of
cane, 3,156,000 of which were
crushed by the 10 mills north
of Townsville, 1,032,000 by the
four on the Burdekin and the
remainder by the 18 mills from
Mackay south. Good weather
favored the northern areas as
regards weight of cane produced,
but continued growth up to and
during harvest was largely
responsible for the low tests
obtained, and the figure of 7.32
tons of cane per ton of sugar
was the worst for 25 years.
Chief cane varieties for 1952
were Trojan, Q. 50, Pindar,
Badila and C.P.29/116 in that
order. Trojan and Pindar, pro-
ducts of the C.S.R. Co.’s breed-
ing-station at Macknade, to-
gether with Badila (which came
from New Guinea in 1896), are
the most important canes in the
Burdekin and more northern
areas. Q. 50 is a seedling raised
at the Mackay Sugar Experi-
ment Station, and yielded nearly
80 p.c. of the Mackay crop.
C.P. 29/116 (CP. stands for
Canal Point, in Florida, where
the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture has a cane-breeding
station) is the popular cane at
Bundaberg and Moreton,
An analysis of all the varieties
represented in the 1952 crop on
the basis of country of origin
shows that 75 p.c. of the crop
came from canes produced in
Queensland, an excellent adver-
tisement for the cane-breeders
of both the CS.R. Co. and the
Sugar Bureau. New Guinea,
represented by Badila, was
responsible for 12.6 p.c. and
C.P. 29/116, the only American
representative, for just under
10 p.c.
Hints for the Farm
“Mr.”: If rye-grass staggers
appear in cattle and sheep after
light rains have brought on new
growth in paddocks where rye-
grass is the dominant species, re-
move the stock to a paddock
containing little or no rye-grass,
when they’ll soon recover. Rye-
grass, When it matures, is safe
to graze.
“Hux”: All ydung trees,
eucalypts included, need protec-
tion from frost. Drive in three
2ft. stakes at equal distances
around them, wrap a hessian
bag around the sides and pin
securely. Leave open at the top
to admit sun and air.
“C.A.A.”: Poultry manure
makes excellent liquid-manure.
Suspend a sugarbagful in a
40gal. drum of water. The
manure will be improved by the
addition of a little superphos-
phate, per bag. The first
infusion, after standing five or
six days, can be diluted with
equal parts of water before use.
Fill the vessels up again and
allow to stand for a week, then
use neat.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The general drop in temperature shown about this time
on the cyclical chart has arrived, but as both cycles show
it this does not determine the question of the general
transfer of cyclical control. In the south that will be shown
by the gradual cumulative rains, while the longer cycle does
not have sufficiently heavy rains to do this.
The next rain of any importance in central and northern
areas is shown at the end of May, but in the south general
showery conditions seem likely.
In Sydney the Grand or Neptunian cycle of July, when
the great storm of July, 1788, prevented the sailing of the
Sirius, should be repeated if the cycle is to be continuous.


her, haven’t I? Well, she’s going
down with a couple of kid-
sisters to have a holiday there
and to get the place ready for
us later. You wouldn’t need
to be lonely, now, would you?”
And he gave Larkins a wink
that was all the more scandalous
for its fleeting brevity.
TT was sheep-dipping time at
x Donnerwetter Station. Always
a time of crisis for Kraftmahn,
because it was the exacting end
of a long period of trying work.
Once it was over he could look
for a brief interval of compara-
tive peace. For one thing, he
could sack those of his men
who had become completely un-
endurable. Of these the first
was the fake cowboy Harby, the
worst of Kraftmann’s long line
of terrible failures. Others
would go on holidays, and there
wouldn’t be the daily grind of
keeping a lot of half- or quarter-
willing hands gainfully em-
ployed.
Once the dipping was over
the rams would behave better,
too. The new type of highly
scientific and fabulously effec-
tive dip he was using had an odd
temporary after-effect on his
rams in that for the next three
weeks or so they seemed to be
without any of their normal mas-
culine impulses. No jumping
fences to compete fiercely with
other rams for their legitimate
mates ; give them a shady tree,
plenty to eat and a bit of; rest,
for peace sake.
Dipping sheep is exasperat-
ing work, even when the dip is
the modern shower-type used
by Kraftmann. A hundred
sheep at a time are driven into
a circular shower-room, and
none of them go willingly. They
know very well that the doors
will be slammed and dip sprayed
at them from every angle by a
powerful tractor-driven pump.
There needs to be only one fool
among the-workers who makes
the wrong move at the wrong
moment, which checks the sheep
when at length they have been
induced to make a forward
move—and Harby was always
there to be that fool.
Let Kraftmann send him on
jobs at a distance, he’d be back
in a few minutes, panting to be
one of the mob, having botched
the job so terribly that he was
no longer to be trusted out of
sight. Let Larkins seize him by
his cowboy neckerchief and
lead him around like a badly-
behaved dog and he’d still cause
havoc by yelling or plunging-
about at the wrong time.
That Harby was still on the
place was only because these
were the last days ; because
Kraftmann was determined that
he should share the dust and
discomfort of the hard work
after being paid so long for
riding uselessly about the place ;
that he should be the one to go
into the dripping shower-room
to push out the wet sheep ; the
one to be splashed every time a
sheep shook itself, and to get his
ear tweaked or a prod from a
broom-handle every time he
kicked the sheep that did it.
Larkins was the only man who
appeared to be enjoying him-
self, astonishingly lively for the
man he usually was; working
like a demon to get the dipping
finished quickly, and only show-
ing a sign of ill-humor in his
harrying of Harby. Old Tom,
veteran of forty years’ dipping,
alone was normal; so experi-
enced in the ways of sheep that
he could do more good by stand-
ing still in one place than any
three others could by dashing
about and yelling like mad.
Kraftmann, as usual, post-
poned the morning-tea break as
long as possible. No one knew
whether it was because he had
an unreasoning idea that he got
more work out of his men that
way, or because he wanted to
put off for as long as possible
the opportunity for trouble to
arise in this interval when all the
men were together, when all the
morning’s irritations were
worked off on to someone else;
when the underdogs bit back
under the assumed protection of
the boss,
“I know why Larkins is so
larky,” Harby shouted into a
brief silence; “he thinks he’s
going away for a mating season
with” —-
■CVEN on a stud-farm there
are some things which are
not done, and Harby had done
one of them ; or, rather, he had
done it in the wrong way. Lar-
kins cut the lady’s name off
with a backhanded blow, rein-
forced by the weight of a sand-
wich she had cut for him that
morning. It not only knocked
Harby on to his back, but it
caused him to gouge his but-
tocks cruelly on his spurs.
Harby jumped up again, spit-
ting out sandwich and so stung
to rage by his spur-wounds that
he exceeded all his previous
follies. Out of his wide, ugly
slit of a mouth he shouted in his
guttery voice:
“She’ll take me on before you
any day.”
Kraftmann jumped up with
the look of a man too shocked
for speech. He watched Lar-
kins slogging Harby mercilessly,
first with one hand and then
the other, then standing over
him, waiting for some sign of
life so he could hit him again,
Kraftmann came over to look
at Harby, a cruelly worried
man. Women had been known
to do astonishingly queer things,
even when the best possible
arrangements had been made
for them.
“Right-oh, boys; back to
work again,” he shouted, know-
ing they’d be too excited to
notice that they’d had only half
of their usual spell.
He continued to stand over
Harby, thinking deeply. Harby
opened his eyes slowly; he
seemed about to relapse into
unconsciousness again, when he
saw that Kraftmann had his
hand thrust deeply into that
pocket where he usually carried
that fateful instrument which he
used with such relish on badly-
behaved rams. He jumped up
with a fearful yell and bolted
into the corner of the big yard
before facing Kraftmann again.
“Get to work,” Kraftmann
snapped, grinning with pleasure
at having frightened him so
much.
Harby rushed away, casting
every now and then apprehen-
sive looks behind him.
So the sheep were pushed for-
ward again, drenched and let
out to dry, one mob after the
other; Harby not at his best
after the beating he’d received,
his eyes roving, warily for
Kraftmann and revengefully
after Larkins.
He saw his opportunity. Lar-
kins was delayed in the shower-
room when everything else was
ready for the spraying to start;
trying to make a sheep stand
up, which persisted in lying
down, regardless in its supine
imbecility of the risk it would
run of being drowned. Harby
slammed the door and started
up the pump.
“That’ll take the ‘larks’ out of
your holiday!” he yelled wildly,
as whirling iron arms poured the
dip over Larkins and jets
streamed at him from floor and
walls.
TZJ 1 VERYONE was too shocked
_ for a moment to do any-
thing. Then Kraftmann started
to run for the door of the dip,
yelling orders to the others like
a lunatic, seeing his best man
and the vital part of his plan
threatened with destruction;
calling every kind of annihila-
tion down upon Harby’s head as
he ran.
Harby, half-frightened now
at the stir he’d caused, noticed
that there was a rifle beside the
door to which Kraftmann was
running. He waited no longer ;
no doubt he thought that if he
began now he’d have a good
chance of getting in two shots
before Kraftmann started.
The first went so wide that
if Kraftmann hadn’t happened
to look across at Harby he
wouldn’t have noticed he was
being shot at. But the second
went so dangerously close that
Kraftmann grabbed the rifle
instead of the door. At his shot
Harby flopped to the ground.
Kraftmann took no more
notice of him. One of the men
stopped the pump, another flung
open the door, two rushed in
and dragged out Larkins with a
great bruise on the head where
the flying arms had hit him,
drenched like any of the sheep.
“Quick, two of you,” Kraft-
mann shouted ; “put him in a
hot bath and scrub him like hell
for half an hour, with plenty
changes of water.”
Then he looked round im-
patiently at a frightened youth
who’d been trying to get his
attention.
“What about Harby, Mr.
Kraftmann?”
“Oh, he’s all right,” irritably
from Kraftmann. “I just broke
his collar-bone to stop him
shooting.”
“He looks pretty bad to me,”
said the lad.
Kraftmann strode across,
rolled him ott his back and
started to swear.
“Couldn’t ever stop doing
something foolish. Must have
ducked the last moment. And
look where it got him!”
Then Old Tom came and had
a good look. He said thought-
fully:
“Every year we thought we’d
have to shoot someone. But
this is the first time we ever
did it.”
Then he looked at Kraftmann
as if the full significance of it
was slowly seeping into his old
brain. He said with enormous
relief in his voice;
“Lucky for you. Boss, that
you had to do it in self-
defence.”
TJIRDEY was the only one to
** cause any trouble. He turned
up at the inquest, recalling
Harby’s fears and Kraftmann’s
threats and Kraftmann’s reputed
unerring marksmanship, now
convinced that neither Kraft-
mann nor Harby had been pul-
ling his leg.
But country coroners do not
attach much importance to what
they call “theoretical persons”
when a man of good standing in
their district is supported by
witnesses on the spot. More-
over, since Birdey was obliged
to admit his knowledge of poor
Harby’s city convictions and of
his habit of carrying an un-
licensed revolver (which he,
responsible for Harby’s be-
havior, hadn’t reported to the
police), he received a very un-
sympathetic hearing; in fact,
one of the spectators was rude
enough to call after him:
“You’re the real cause of it,
after all.”
Some little good did come of
it. Kraftmann, either because
he was shaken into temporary
virtuousness by what had hap-
pened, or worried about the
possibility of the proverbial
slips between cups and lips, had
Larkins and the girl respectably
married before they really knew
what was happening. And then,
although in his calloused view
it was now quite unnecessary, he
still allowed them the use of his
seaside cottage for their honey-
moon.
“is darn well right. It’s a
blinkin’ disgrice the wigh these
arf-breeds live. Like bloomin’
animals.”
In his excitement Bert forgot
that he and Gallia stood
separated only by a red curtain
from where their enemies lived.
A pair of deep-olive colored
arms shot out of the Eurasians'
cubicle. They clinched upon the
orator and his spouse, jerked
them quickly back out of sight,
and proceeded to‘administer cor-
poral punishment mixed up with
a little ju-jutsu. Slapping* bang-
ing, punching, tearing and
scratching, screeching and shout-
ing. The cubicle rocked and
swayed, exuding Chinese —
Russo —Cockney swear-bombs.
In the midst of this it was
noticed that Divebomber had
taken to heart a suggestion by
Forbes that he should remeasure
the sugar. At the end of the
room, under the pilot-light, the
sdction-captain sat stubbornly
on an upturned scrub-bucket in
his blue-and-white, ketchup-
stained pyjamas, carefully filling
an empty thermos-top, a tea-
spoon and a thimble.
As with section-captain firm-
ness Dovebomber forced people
to bring out their ration, mur-
der, or something like it, broke
out in the Eurasian quarters. As
the other room occupants cursed
and complained about having
their sugar remeasured, a tall
creature in a rose-colored
negligee reached her long, deter-
mined fingers across the heads
of the crowd and seized Forbes
by the shirt-sleeve.
“Forbes! Come, I show you! ”
she cried. “Thees couple. Once
more outside my cubicle, w.c.
landing, make luv too much.
This Breedish woman ’usband
just now work night-time in
cleenic. . .thees man proper
gentleman. His common-law
wife Shanghai belong my good
friend. Before work together
me at Del Monte cabaret. Thees
luv on landing business no
good!”
As Forbes tried to shake her
off Bert, with a black eye, rolled
out from the Eurasian cubicle
and put a hold on his other arm.
A grass-widow from the Urals,
suddenly emerging, seized him
firmly round the waist: “Come,
queek!” she yelled despairingly.
Luckily, deliverance, for
Forbes and all, was near. An
A.R.P. warden leapt up the out-
side stairs to Room 9. He
mounted a table, shouted above
the rabble and made himself
heard;
“ Quiet! Do you dopes realise
that an alert sounded ? An air-
raid’s been going on for at least
ten minutes! Everyone else has
evacuated to the ground-floor
rooms! ”
Forbes blew his whistle and
shouted “Evacuate! Every-
body!”
United by wholesale calamity,
Room 9 helped each other grab
thermoses, rugs and pillows, and
surged down the stairs toward
safety....
p-s. A letter has recently come
from ex-“policeman” Forbes,
now in the wildest part of
Africa. He assures me that after
his three years in Shanghai Civil
Assembly Centre he has retired
to a peaceful and uncomplicated
life. He is capturing and tam-
ing lions for zoos.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 227
Across
I—Cold, bleak victory with a
touchdown. (6)
4 —Bits of Aries fortifications and a
racket faculty. (8)
9 —Sleepless fruit and crushed cane
characteristic of the absentee.
(3-10)
11 —Species names nothing belonging
to an offsider of Pistol held by
my son. (5)
14 —North curve is in two arrange-
ments of flowers. (8)
16—Making a departure slow after
rain. (5)
18 — Bear one in a nut. (5)
19 — Sneaker shingles a cultivator. (8)
22 Mum turning mad. (3)
23 — Educated Latvian before pennies.
(8)
24 — Yours Truly is venerability in
effigy. (5)
26 —The result of some pastrycook
rolling in money. (5)
28 —Dix newspaper offers a table
without difficulty. (3-5)
30 —Punches often afoot. (5)
32 —Melbourne suburb brings anti-
scorbutic vegetables to the box-
office thug. (13)
35 — Drinking money? (4, 4)
36 — There’s change for a girl coming
in threes. (6)
Down
1— Fairy equipment ducks a white
gum in W.A. (6)
2 Nurse to leave at the finish; she
might produce a little butter
although only kidding. (5, 4)
3 What the apathetic don’t give a
strike. (3)
5 Ray hides in a town near Towns-
ville. (3)
6 Birds’ share in it. (5)
7 Porcupine grass to revolve if a
divorcee. (8)
8— -Stevenson character has a seat in
church. (3)
10 —Turning in a fish bird’s early
convert to Christianity. (9)
12 — Toothbrush on one inclined to
look down on Maoris. (3)
13 — Coat with a precious metal is
servile in a different way. (9)
15—Khachaturian is a wool-producer.
(4)
17—Sodium is upsetting to an over-
the-Tweed way of saying no. (2)
19— Mournful. (3)
20 — Tennis area on the top of
Everest is good for tho health of
the constitution. (4, 5)
21— Feature of a pancake promon-
tory off the pitch. (8)
22 — The valley is in need. (4)
24 —The first person in Italy looks
like 10. (2)
25—Past Jack Davey session gives it
. Sr*-, mrl
27 F7ier . e s change for another gir
coming m threes. (6)
2 9—King Gcorse in the new black. (5)
3i_R e cede (3)
33—Our rienen upsets his French.
(3)
24 —A way to be very sorry. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 226


DIVIDENDS
QUEENSLAND
guaranteed bi| her
Twin securities
f\
I
\V»\
\
■/
S3S
a
r
m
rw?
. -
J
Mi
KS&
Hi
V
g
ĝ
g
Queensland investments in
Hastings Diesels have success
assured. This rich state pro-
vides abundantly all the essen-
tials vital to splendid returns. This Hastings Diesels
Limited wholly-owned subsidiary holds the Queensland
representation for the Great Companies of Caterpillar
Tractor Co. and John Deere Tractors and Agricultural
Implements . . . whose famous equipment is destined
to play a major part in Queensland's development and
forthcoming primary production drive for food.
ity for sure regular returns is now offered with the Ordinary Shares at £1 each in Hastings Diesels
As only 15.000 SHARES are now available. IMMEDIATE APPLICATION IS ESSENTIAL.
Your o
Limife
<<C v
in
o
o
0
©
nsion
Jk l M i>dpp
585,000 ALREADY SUBSCRIBED » 15,000 AVAILABLE
100% RETURNED!
Original investors in the Hostings Deering Group of Com-
panies have now received back 100% of their capital on
ir dividends!
The first 100,000 shares in
Hastings Diesels Limited
were taken up by existing shareholders in our Group of Com-
panies within two weeks of publication of the prospectus.
Hastings Deering's themselves have taken up £325,000 of the
original authorised capital.
Hastings Peering Building,
William St., Sydney.
Phene M 0412 (43 lines).
HASTINGS DIESELS PROFITS
PROFITS
1950 .... £8,136 5.5%1
1951 .... £11,790 9.2% \
1952 .... £48,779 39%J
Capital = £lOO,OOO
DIVIDENDS
CATTLE PROPERTY: 50-year leases for 2,600
square miles adjacent to Alice Springs.
COUPON FOR APPLICATION FORIVI
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Limited.
William Street, Sydney.
Please forward me Prospectus for your new issue of ordinary
shares.
My name .... ... .............. ...........
Address .
...=——.......— State ...... .... ........


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-
operative Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co,
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
(This entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-ViRTUE LiMIIED
May
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
OVERSEAS EXPERT SURVEYS LATEST
AUSTRALIAN FACTORY METHODS
A view of Moffat-Victue’s modern factory at Rosebery, Sydney, N.S.W.
A survey of Australian Factories by a leading overseas technician confirms that Australian manufacturers are
keeping step with world developments in engineering processes.
Great strides have been made during
the last 20 years- in Australia, en-
couraged by the need for production in
the last World War.
Long noted for his initiative, the
Australian worker has proved that, with
accurate modern tools, he can produce
units to compete with any overseas
product. Many of the improvements
today used at Moffat-Virtue were sug-
gested by their own employees, as well
as being dictated by our local needs.
An invitation is extended to any
clients to spend a day at their Rose-
bery works. During such a visit, one
must see the amazing “ROCKWELL”
Hardness-Tester in use. Various mate-
rials, used for different applications, are
constantly checked to ensure that every
machine will have the life designed and
built into it. The Hardness-Tester, by
exerting a pre-determined weight of the
material on a ball or diamond, makes
an impression which is subsequently
examined under microscopes for depth
and width and the exact hardness of the
material measured.
Moffat-Virtue’s Test-Section is
equipped with some of the latest and
most accurate measuring devices used
in Australia today. Every completed
component must pass through the Test-
Section, where the various gauges are
constantly used to confirm that all parts
are made to exact tolerances.
Another interesting section of the
Works is the Test-Bench Section, where
all completed machines must pass
rigorous precision tests. Every machine
is then fully run-in, and tested under
various loads. Space does not permit
a full description of these processes,
but your Reporter can assure you that
a most interesting and educational day
may be spent at Moffat-Virtue's Rose-
bery Works.
In subsequent issues of the "Agri-
cultural News” we hope to deal with
these processes in detail, to demonstrate
for the man-on-the-land tjre quality
built into Moffat-Virtue Products.
Here you see in action one of the
fork-lift trucks used for fast transport
inside the factory.
Every piece of M.V. Equipment is precision-tested before
it leaves the factory. Here. a line-up of Engines is being run-in
under the scrutiny of expert tradesmen. Later these engines
will be placed on the Test-Bed for thorough precision testing.
These skilled hands operate a battery of high-
speed precision drills, helping to turn out faultless
parts at minimum cost. Here, cylinder blocks for
the famous “V3” Engine are being drilled.
A list of the famous M.V. Products includes: Ball-Bearing Shearing Machinery “Trimmer" Handpieces, Sheep Jetting Plants,
Pest Arrestors, Combs and Cutters, Simplified Milking Machines, Boiler Sterilizers, Petrol, Kerosene and Diesel Engines,
Sawbenches, Electric Light and Power Plant's, Roller Spray Plants, Spray Irrigation Equipment, Orchard Spray ants,
Full particulars of any M.V. Product may be obtained from any of the distributors listed below.
A BACKGROUND OF
PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE
AIDS M.V. ENGINEERS
It was back in 1891 that two
young Scotsmen, John Moffat
and William Virtue, formed a
partnership, the “Moffat-Virtue
Sheep Shearing Machine Com-
pany,” to develop a power-
operated Shearing Machine to
suit Australian conditions.
William Virtue built the first
machine himself, on a foot-treadle
lathe. Later in Birmingham, Eng-
land, he supervised the manufac-
ture of the first batch. The
machines were subsequently built
in Connecticut, U.S.A., and,
finally, with the advent of World
War I, Moffat-Virtue established
its own manufacturing plant.
Earlier, however, the Company
had established a subsidiary to
undertake contract shearing. In
its peak year no less than 14
million sheep were shorn in one
season. This business provided
the firm with a wealth of practi-
cal experience in the problems of
the Australian Wool Industry.
Today, by keeping in constant
touch with friends and customers
everywhere, Moffat-Virtue Ltd. is
continuing both its own steady
expansion and the improvement
to its many products in design
and efficiency.
QUALITY HIGHER,
COSTS LOWER
AT THE M.V. FACTORY
At MofTat-Virtue’s Rosebery fac-
tory up - to • date production
methods, modern, streamlined
plant, and conscientious and
highly skilled labour combine to
produce a range of equipment
second-to-none in quality and
value for your money.
Every step in manufacture—
from original design to final
checking and despatch is planned
for utmost efficiency and eco-
nomy .... so that you can buy
quality machinery at a reason-
able price,
