

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
KALGOORLIE GOLD-STEALERS
‘‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3835
Wednesday, August 12, 1953
Price 9d
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N S W„ Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
INVERARAY CASTLE, CAMPBELL STRONGHOLD OF THE WEST
AT the head of Loch Fyne and hemmed in by majestic wooded hills is
Inveraray, the attractive county town of Argyll. In 1648 the town
received a charter from King Charles, elevating its status to that of a Royal
Burgh; and in 1745 it was moved to its present site to make way for the
Castle, seat of the Duke of Argyll, whose titles include —Lord Lieutenant
of the County, Chief of the Clan Campbell, Admiral of the Western Coast
and Isles, and Keeper of the Great Seal of Scotland.
The original Castle was built by Sir Colin Campbell of Glenurchy for
his nephew, the first Duke of Argyll, but this fortification was destroyed
by fire early in the nineteenth century when the present square turreted castle
was built on the site, which is surrounded by some of the finest woods in
Scotland.
One of the oldest buildings in the town of Inveraray is the courthouse
in which James Stewart of the Glen was tried for the murder of Red Fox,
Campbell of Glenure, in 1752. The trial fomented thfe hatred between the
Campbells and the Stewarts, for he was tried in a Campbell stronghold,
before a Campbell judge and jury so there was little chance of acquittal.
James Stewart was sentenced to death and hanged at Ballachuhsh, where
the murder had taken place.
This episode and the town of Inveraray are mentioned in Robert Louis
Stevenson’s “Catriona.” Another great Highland writer was Neil Munro,
who was born in Inveraray, and the town and its surroundings figured in
ranch of his writing, which breathed the very spirit and grandeur of the
Western Highlands.
The hills around Loch Fyne, which are the haunt of the red grouse
and ptarmigan, echoed to the rattle of machine-guns during the Second
World War, as the hills provided a training ground for invasion troops, who
were visited there by King George VI and Sir Winston Churchill.
From Inveraray, Glen Shira leads away into the hills, where may be
seen the historic house, now roofless, in which the celebrated Highland never,
Rob Roy MacGregor, lived for many years. Nearby was found a dirk
bearing his initials, and his sporran is now kept in Inveraray Castle.


The Red Page
OUTSTANDING AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
Judith Wright
Nearly all poets have their favorite
word, or set of words, sometimes a clue
to their psychology, sometimes a keynote
for their particular music, sometimes
both: and as Shelley’s words were
“bright,” “aerial,” “crystalline,” as Shaw
Neilson’s word was “dim” and as
Kenneth Slessor’s have been anything
with the soft drum-beat of the ub sound
in “bubbles” or “clubbing,” so Judith
Wright’s word is “blade.”
Already often used in her earlier
poems, it occurs at least ten times in
different poems in her new book The
Gateway (Angus and Robertson). Only
once does it seem to be used specifically
for its musical effect, in “Old Man,” where
it makes an internal off-rhyme with
“weed”; “Blade and weed will grow
over it after the spring rain.” For the
rest it is chiefly of psychological or
visionary significance, meaning many
different things at different times but
chiefly representing two opposites which
the poet is continually striving to re-
concile: the cruelty of the universe, and
the splendor of unearthly love. It is the
knife that kills the rabbit:
In winter dawns of frost
the lamp swung in my hand.
The battered moon on the slope
lay like a dune of sand;
and in the trap at my feet
the rabbit leapt and prayed,
weeping blood, and crouched
when the light shone on the blade.
Similarly cruel —or at its cruellest —in
the beautiful lyric of the “Phaius Orchid”
it is time itself, seeming to destroy all
earthly life, even poetry, even the arts,
as mercilessly as it destroys the flower:
Out of the brackish sand
see the phaius orchid build
her intricate moonlight tower
that rusts away in flower.
For whose eyes—for whose eyes
does this blind being weave
sand’s poverty, water’s sour,
the white and black of the hour
into the image I hold
and cannot understand?
Is it for the ants, the bees,
the lizard outside his cave,
or is it to garland time —•
eternity’s cold tool
that severs with its blade
the gift as soon as made?
But then in its positive aspect (and in
one of the richest, most rhythmical, most
profoundly dramatic poems in the book)
it is the creative power of divinity “walk-
ing in darkness”:
The country where he lives is the country
of no sight,
and no-man’s-field is the black earth turned
by his blade.
Men stand like trees asleep, a shade in a
shade;
their fruit ripens and falls in the hot sun
of the night
for him to find and eat.
The sea he swims in is the sea where other
men drown;
the shore he walks is the white sand of
their bones.
The forest is full of monsters and mad
ferns,
and no man comes there but those who
die, who mourn,
or who desire to be born.
It is the grass-blade renewing life on
the earth ; and in final reconciliation it
is the shaft of sunlight, the shaft of divine
love, that summons the cicadas from
their death-like trance in the earth to
climb towards the sun and to sing in
triumph and joy “the song the world
sings”:
Terrible is the pressure of light into the
heart.
The womb is withered and cracked, the
birth is begun,
and shuddering and groaning to break that
iron grasp
the new is delivered as the old is tom
apart.
Love whose unmerciful blade has pierced
us through,
we struggle naked from our death in search
of you.
This is the wild light that our dreams fore-
told
while unaware we prepared these eyes and
wings—
while in our sleep we learned the song the
world sings.
Sing now, my brothers; climb to that
intolerable gold.
Possibly after so much use of this one
image, and after so thorough and gravely
beautiful an exploration of this one
theme, it is time for a new development
in Judith Wright’s poetry. One does
miss in this book—though “Drought
Year” is one of her best in the vein;
rich with Australian imagery and haunt-
ing in its music—the kind of poems in
her previous books in which she has
turned outward from her meditations to
listen to “summer’s bubble-sound of
sweet creek-water.”
Except for “Our Love Is So Natural,”
a charming essay in simplicity, a few
lyrics such as “A Song to Sing You”
are too thin technically in their incan-
tatory style (from Kathleen Raine? —as
some of the other poems are from Yeats)
to restore the balance of the book. On
the whole it seems to maintain Judith
Wright’s very high standard, without
notably advancing it or varying the
general direction. But perhaps that is
all one can reasonably ask from a writer
who, like a blade herself, has cut so
deeply into the heart of poetry and who
can bring back her “Dark Gift” charged
with such splendor:
The flower begins in the dark
where life is not.
Death has a word to speak
and the flower begins
The blind, the upward hand
clenches its bud.
What message does death send
from the grave where he lies?
Open, green hand, and give
the dark gift you hold.
Oh wild mysterious gold!
Oh act of passionate love!
In format, obviously as the result of a
special effort on the part of the pub-
lishers, which the poems deserve, the
book is exceptionally attractive —the
most beautiful of many fine books which
this firm has turned-out lately, and one
which, either here or overseas, would
stand comparison with the highest quality
in special-press publications.
T. A. G. Hungerford
For its subject alone T. A. G. Hunger-
ford’s Riverslake (Angus and Robertson)
is one of the most interesting novels that
could be published in Australia at the
moment, for it deals with the strange
new world of the New Australians,
isolated in a camp at Canberra as they
are similarly isolated in mysterious little
patches of Europe all over Australia.
It is the story of the people who have
stepped out of the tragic background
of war, the pattern of their lives utterly
disrupted by the German or the Russian
invaders, all with some appalling story
behind them:- —
“I hate Communist,” Novikowsky replied
coldly. “They take my Country, they kill
my people. They kill my father, shoot
like dog. He is chief police for my town.
Communist not like proper police, so shoot.
My mother, too, just like dog. I see.’
His voice trembled slightly, but not with
sorrow, and his brown eyes glittered, but
not with tears. Hate burned beneath his
dark skin with almost an incandescent
glow, seeming to light his whole body with
its intensity. “Me—they catch in street,
like dog. Take for Russia, like this.” He
crossed his wrists in front of his groin and
stared at them. The three Australians,
staring with him, saw, as he did, the faint
white weals on his dark skin. “With rope.
1 then have thirteen years.”
Only thirteen! Charlesworth thought
with horror. I was still at school, and he
was a prisoner-of-war!
It is the story of these people trying
to find their integrity in a community of
drifters and no-hopers—cooks and
kitchen-hands who drive them to madness
for the mere fun of tormenting them;
workmen whose only interest is to en-
courage them to loaf, strike, and beat
the boss at every turn —where their
nationalities have disappeared in the one
insulting label “bloody Balt,” where even
their names have been lost in the
common-denominator of “Johnny” and
where the Australian world outside the
camp is mostly indifferent or hostile:
“What, won’t the girls dance with you?”
Randolph demanded.
“Very not dance!” Radinski said em-
phatically. “If Polish girl at dance,
Australian man dance with her, say, ‘Come
outside,’ say ‘You have drink.’ Oh, yes.
But Polish man not dance with Australian
girl or sometimes fight.”
Why? As he listened to the Pole’s
broken speech, that for all its awkward-
ness carried the full freight of the resent-
ment he felt, a gnawing shame flooded over
Randolph. It seemed that there must be
a mean and arrogant streak in all Aus-
tralians that had nothing in common with
the sunny and generous land that nurtured
them. With room and crying need for
another ten millions of population, they
-.seemed as determined to give these immi-
grants as rough a time as they were able,
denying them and insulting them in much
the same way as he could dimly remember
another generation treating the English
migrants, the Pommies of his youth.
Riverslake is thus emphatically a socio-
logical novel; and an unusual one in this
country in that its politics are dear-
sighted, humane and patriotic instead of
Communist or Parlor Pink ; and, though
it has its moments of sentimental exag-
geration, as when Hungerford implies
that there are no thieves in Poland (Novi-
kowsky can’t believe that anyone would
want to rob him after a big win at two-
up) or when he seems unaware how pro-
found an advance in civilisation is im-
plicit in the Australian dislike of the
knife as a means of settling an argument,
on the whole it is a sound, well-balanced
and timely piece of sociology. It is the
natural successor to The Ridge and the
River, coming back from the heroism of
soldiers in the jungle to the disillusion
of civilian life; and it is 'a devastating
one.
But it is also a very good novel, inde-
pendent of its sociological content. It
is admirably constructed, with two love-
stories as well as the gradual disillusion-
ment of an intellectual smoothly com-
bined with the slow movement towards
an explosion amongst the New Aus-
tralians which is its fundamental drama.
It is compact. It is rich with tense scenes
of quarrel, knife-play and bashing, cul-
minating in the suicide of one of the New
Australians who is wrongly accused of
being a spy and who thinks he has lost
his charming New, Australian girl to
one of us bad Old Australians; and it
contains many clearly-drawn characters
—including, beside the New Australians,
a posturing and insincere politician; a
possibly caricatured version of the worst
type of Australian loafer; a sympathetic
union secretary; a nympholept who re-
tains a certain charm; and, particularly,
the capable manager of the camp, Car-
michael, who is really the hero of the
novel, though Hungerford presents him
too much from the men’s point of view
as “the Bastard.”
The picture of Canberra, its social and
intellectual life and its politicians, is
limited, drawn only from the camp and
a few vulgar drinking-parties; but the
theme perhaps does not require a broader
view, and the only serious fault to
be found with the novel is that
Hungerford has made it too crude
in tone by adopting too often not only
the men’s point of view, but their lan-
guage ; what he himself once calls, in a
moment of enlightened detachment, their
“gutter coarseness” —an idiom which one
suspects is only partly veracious, being
also a reflection from the tough-guy
school of such novelists as Graham
Greene.
This is not a criticism one cares to
make, for the complete freedom of litera-
ture must always be defended ; but there
is a clear distinction to be drawn be
tween a novelist’s reporting the speech of
his characters in all its native coarseness
(if this is true of them, and desirable
for the purposes of the book) and his
adopting their idiom into his own prose-
style.
It is a question not only of good taste
but of quality of writing and, sometimes,
accuracy of metaphor. If the buds on
Canberra’s lovely trees do, in fact, look
a little like “warts,” as Hungerford says
they do (though the metaphor is surely
unhappy), one doubts very much if camp
buildings can really look as if they have
been “spewed” down a hillside, that
buildings concentrated in a group look
like a “clot,’" or that skylights in a kitchen
(“pocking” the ceiling) look like the
ravages of smallpox. And for that matter
one doubts if Hungerford’s loafer would
always be able to spit so enthusiastically
when confronted by the boss in the camp
or his social superiors in a bus—he
seems to have such an unnaturally copious
supply of ammunition.
Caddie, the Barmaid
It is proper to assume that Caddie, A
Sydney Barmaid, An Autobiography
Written by Herself [sic] With an Intro-
duction by Dymphna Cusack (Constable)
is just what it says it is. Certainly
its unemphatic style, its single, clear
line of continuity, and its refusal to touch-
up personal sorrows with a political
brush seem to indicate that Miss Cusack
is merely the sponsor. Miss Cusack says
she worked upon Caddie ; but in vain:
“You must do it again,” I insisted, “and
this time you mustn’t play down the hard-
ships in your life. You mustn’t shrink
from revealing your reactions to the things
that happened to you.”
Caddie had had it. Miss Cusack had
already put her through several re-
writings. And thus, fortunately, the book
was allowed to stay as it is; but if we
are grateful to be spared amateur literary
tears, we should still realise that it was
the kindness of Miss Cusack and her
collaborator, Florence James, to a
middle-aged woman who came to help
them in their Blue Mountains workshop
which encouraged and got published
this remarkable book.
Caddie was the child of a rich girl dis-
inherited because she married a laborer.
An Irish immigrant, he worked as stable-
boy for her mother’s father at Penrith,
N.S.W. After the marriage, the pair lived
in a small slabbed cottage. The children
often slept in the paddock to get away
from father, and when the father lost
his job as a timber-cutter and went on
railway-construction over the Blue
Mountains the family followed him to
two tents and a stringybark hut in a
settlement of railway-workers outside
Glenbrook.
With the death of the mother in child-
birth, and the departure of brother
Timothy for Gallipoli, where he was
killed, Caddie felt free to follow her
camp-friend, Esther, to Sydney. She
began behind the counter of Hilliers,
whose name evokes memories of the
chocolate-maited-milks of one’s youth,
the best chocolate-malteds ever made;
and graduated, from playing tennis with
a handsome young customer, into matri-
mony. Two children later, with the con-
nivance of a disapproving mother-in-
law, her best-friend Esther displaced her
in her husband’s affections ; and, seeking
no aid from the law, Caddie left her
Stanmore home with her children to live
in a Darlinghurst residential which she
soon discovered was a prostitutes’ re-
serve.
She found a woman with whom to
leave the children, and took a job as a
waitress in one of a Sydney chain of
restaurants at 30/- a week; then she was
told she could do better as a barmaid,
and got a job at £2 10s. a week in a
small Sydney pub. At the same time she
moved to a room-with-use-of-kitchen a
little farther out of town and, finding
that the woman who had been looking
after the children had been treating them
badly, she was able to leave them for
a while with an Irishwoman who was
good to them; then, when the Irish-
woman sailed for Ireland, she had to put
them in homes.
She got a job as saloon-barmaid in a
“large and well-known city hotel,” where
she continued, to knock-back suitors until
she met a handsome Greek with a
bachelor flat. They lived together, and in
the children’s holidays he found a flat
for them, until he had to return to
Greece, where he said he would get a
divorce from his wife. Caddie left the
bar and started a small shop, there to
await his return. The shop failed; she
became a barmaid at a suburban hotel,
living-in, with some strange adventures.
Unpaid overtime and other sorrows
made her give up this job. The de-
pression being under way, she was lucky
to get a job in a “slum pub run by a
young publican,” There a longing for
her children overcame her, and she rented
a small weatherboard cottage, and
brought them home to it. From here it
is a story of dodging departmental in-
quirers, of the kindness of rabbit-ohs and
the aid the penniless gave the penniless,
of a .visit by a prosperous M.P. (with
more unusual adventures), and of
Caddie’s translation into a prosperous
starting-price bookmaker’s agent.
Then, surprise of surprises, Peter the
Greek returned; they had both got
their divorces, and three days before
their marriage was to be performed,
they drove to the Blue Mountains to fly-
out the Greek’s new car; he swerved to
avoid a lorry, the car crashed through a
fence ; Caddie was flung clear, and Peter
the Greek was killed.
One looks at that incident, and remem-
bers all the truth Caddie has told from
the other side of the bar: election-day in
a small Sydney pub, the bar full behind
closed doors, and a cockatoo outside to
keep nit; an expert dissertation on the
various kinds of bar-hum, or cadger;
the old men who “line them up”; the
dance Caddie attended with a barmaids’-
delight whose soi-disant fiancee warned
her off ; the wild party interrupted by
the host’s wife coming home; the things
drinkers say to barmaids ; the fight the
Yank put up against x the bully who in-
sulted Caddie.
It is all so right. Yet, as a barmaid of
the middle ’twenties and early ’thirties,
Caddie never mentions counter-lunches —
what are we to make of that? The men
in the small pub she first served in have
their pies and sandwiches at the bar;
but that is not the counter-lunch,
steaming and dripping profusion, of any
“large and well-known city hotel” or
those times.
The dustcover emphasises the interest of
the account of hotel-practices to followers
of evidence at the N. S. Wales Liquor
Commission ; but the book adds little or
(Continued on page 35)


For craftsmanship that will endure . . .
leather that will withstand the toughest of wear . . . and a
size that is scientifically graded to fit your foot.
9
• o •
■■
m
■M
—L
I I I‘.
-L, a hi Jirnr
5
rr ii
'
dS
..a. ***■■
Above left.
“Dr. Purcell” no cap box derby boots have arch
supports and cushion heels. Tan calf and black box,
full and half sizes, are priced at 79/- a pair.
Above right.
Marshall, the custom-built shoe with a shape to fit
every foot. Black and Tan Zebu with a full golosh.
£5/15/6- Also Black Calf and Tan Willow
Oxford style 73/6. Glace Kid 76/6
At right.
Working boots with reversed hide uppers and corded
rubber soles and heels. 5 to 11. 47/6 a pair.
Also in Black Hide.
MEN’S SHOES —GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET.
Above left.
These “Dr. Purcell” shoes are fitted with a special arch
support and cushion heels. In black calf and tan
willow, in medium or extra wide fittings. Calf, 72/-.
Black glace kid, with or without the cap. Kid, 76/6.
Above centre.
Black glace kid clerical shoes have elastic sides, leather
welted soles and heels and are available in full or
half sizes. These are priced at 81 /- a P a * r -
Above right.
“J. H. Sharwood” shoes, with or without toecaps.
Full and half sizes, in narrow, medium, wide and
extra wide fittings. In black calf, and tan willow,
79/- a pair. In black glace kid, 83/- a P a i r *
m
'in
i
• ' X'
k
R>«;.
pop?
M 2401. BOX 27 12. G.P.0., SYDNEY.


Recording a Radio Serial
An Innocent in the Studio
By J. E. MACDONNELL
[# A.W.A. are producing a radio-
adaptation of J. E. Macdonnell’s naval
novel, “Gimme The Boats!” A some-
what bewildered technical adviser, the
author attends the recording of the first
episode .]
THE producer looks at me quizzically.
“You will probably be surprised,”
he says, “at what we do to your
script.”
“That’s all right,” I answer carelessly.
“I’ve been sub-edited before.”
“M’mm,” says the producer.
The show is due to start at 0900. At
0930, with Kevin Brennan, Frank Waters,
Lloyd Berrell and Charles Tingwell (just
back from America —“The Desert Rats”)
horsing round in the studio, I venture
a remark to the producer, waiting in his
%
control-room behind the big glass panel.
“I rather thought we were to start at
nine?”
“That’s right,” he replies. “We have
started.”
At my I’m-not-that-green look, he pulls
open the soundproof door to the studio.
Tingwell, ex-R.A.A.F., is talking.
“See here where the script says Stukas
diving vertically? Brother, does that
bring back memories! Only they were
Zeros. I got him—the leader —in my
sights and . . .”
The producer grins.
“See what I mean? All those boys
were ex-servicemen. Now, they are ser-
vicemen. All the old memories have
come back in that half-hour. So now
I’ll get a service serial played by blokes
who fought the part—not civilian
actors. Atmosphere. Okay?”
“Okay.”
He is right. At a signal the narrator
steps to the mike on its horizontal 12ft.
arm. -r , , . *
“A destroyer is a beautiful brute of a
ship ...”
He says it as though a destroyer is
the one and only love of his life. Only
a man of war could have got the inflec-
tion.
With an air-raid imminent, the script
calls for voices reporting to the bridge
the various positions closed-up. Four
actors cross to the piano, pick up four
glass cups. Beginning to wonder if a
glass cup crashed onto a carpeted floor
could simulate the sound of bursting
bombs, I wait. The cups are put to four
mouths—and through the control-room
speaker come the reports; exactly the
right resonance and impression of dis-
tance of voices reaching the bridge
through voice-pipes.
Tingwell (playing the lead, a gunnery
petty-officer) has delivered a long speech.
The producer flips over a switch and
speaks to the studio.
“Buddy, your voice is a bit too public-
school, old boy.”
Tingwell looks at him, waiting.
“Try it again. But still sound your
g’s and aitches.”
The actor tries again. Flip of the
switch.
“Buddy, imagine your first reading was
10. Your second reading was five. Give
me 7£.”
Not “Can you?” or “Try to.” Just
an exact indication of the kind of accent
he wants for a middle-class petty-officer.
Tingwell gives him “7i.” The pro-
ducer looks at me.
“Perfect,” I admit.
“That’s it, Buddy,” he tells Tingwell.
So, for the rest of the show, Tingwell
maintains his “7£” voice. He could
probably have made it “7|” with as little
effort.
Narrator to the mike: a beautifully-
delivered description of a destroyer
desperately under way in a ship-crammed
harbor, searchlights, exploding bombs,
exploding planes. Producer looks at
author, and grins.
I know what he means. The week
before, A.W.A., considering that to have
the author narrating the show would be
a good thing, gave me a mike-test, in
this same studio. All alone with the
mike, I read the first narration. And,
like Tingwell, looked at the control-room,
waiting. It c^me,
“Stop the script shaking, stop your
legs shaking, and read it again.”
A candid cove, this producer—ex-
R.A.F., blown up in a bomber, ex-8.8.C.
I tried again. And again. A crooked
finger brought me into the control-room.
“Well?”
He just shook his head.
“Now look,” I say. “All the blokes
at the office know I’m up here for a
mike-test. I can’t go back and just shake
my head!”
The quizzical grin again. For a Scots-
man, this bird grins a lot,
“You really want to hear, eh? All
right. Here it is. Your voice is too
clipped, too flat, too monotonous and
entirely devoid of all expression.”
Candid cove, this producer. Having
heard the professional narrator, wise as
well.
Anyway, he promises author at least
one line. “Just to say you’re in it.” He
hands me the script of the standard open-
ing of all 26 episodes.
“There.” Finger pointing. “Write in
a line there. What the gunnery-officer
should say to get the ship in action.
Immediately after the wail of the sirens.”
This is something those birds don’t
tell me anything about! In it goes:
“Alarm starb’d! Bearing green four-five.
Enemy a cruiser. Main armament, open
fire!”
Producer looks at it —and grins.
“Okay, let’s get it on tape.”
Surrounded by the 12 professionals,
I wait for the wail of the sirens. The
studio lights flick off and on, in signal.
Out it comes, my line, good as any
gunnery-jack ever mouthed. Flip of the
switch.
“Stand right over against the wall and
say it again. That mike cost over a
hundred quid.”
None of the cast grins. They’re good
actors. Out she comes again, from 12ft.
off the mike. He has the decency to
crook his finger. I close the soundproof
door behind me.
“Well?”
There is no comment he can make on
that delivery. This is something Ido
have a clue about. After all, I’ve heard
it so . . .
“The delivery was all right.” Head
bends to script, comes up with the damn’
grin. “Unfortunately, the line is too
long—blends in with the following music.
Cut it to ‘main armament open fire.’ ”
“What! Four words?”
“Thought you’d been sub-edited
before?”
“M’mm.”
“Never mind, you can blow the bosun’s
pipe.”
I do —after being shoved out into the
outer office beside a wondering steno-
grapher and having the studio-door half-
closed to lower the sound-levels, or some-
thing.
One of the actors “fluffs” a line-
saying “the bloke we fished out of the
harb-water, sir.” As the show is being
put on tape (the record —sorry, disk-
will be cut later), the producer and his
tapeman adjourn to the tape-room. Here,
the long spool of brown Scotch-tape is
placed on a recording-machine bigger
than a big radiogram. The tapeman
starts it, running it < fast to get to the
offending line, halfway through the
show.
I listen eagerly for “main armament
open fire,” and hear only a frightening
series of Donald Duck quacks, sounding
like a chook-farm at the height of an
electrical storm. With amazing omni-
science the tapeman stops the machine at
exactly the right line. He slowly turns
the spool of tape, by hand, till the sound
stops on the “h” of “harb-water.” It
is marked with a yellow pencil, then
moved again till the “b” of “harb” comes
but the speaker. The tape is pulled out
from the spool, cut, and spliced again
with adhesive tape. Now the tapeman
plays it back. The line comes out clearly
—“the bloke we fished out of the water,
sir.”
After seeing what they can do with
one syllable of a word, it’s little wonder
that tape-recorded evidence is inadmis-
sible in court , , e
Later, with the first part of Episode 1
finished, sinking a few Nelson’s-bloods—
atmosphere, I suppose —in the hostelry
opposite, I ask the producer:
“How was it? I thought they did a
good job of it.”
No grin. “M’mm. Fair, I’d say. But
we’ll get better.”
The leading character grins sympa-
thetically, and says; “Don’t worry, sailor.
If he says it’s fair, that means any
normal bloke would be leaping for joy.”
Anyway, fair or joyful, I’m in it.
Remember —bosun’s pipe!
Stars in Their Courses
{{ I ’VE left the money on the
I dressing-table with the electric-
| light bill,” announced Mr.
Clump, as he came in to
breakfast. “It’s a bit overdue —you’d
better pay it today or they may be
cutting the power off.”
“I certainly won’t pay it today,”
declared Mrs. C. emphatically.
“Why not?” inquired her lord.
“You’ll be going in Jto do your
shopping, won’t you?”
“Yes, of course. But, you see,
today’s the sixteenth of the month,
and for all those like myself who
were born under Sagittarius the
stars say we shouldn’t become in-
volved in any financial transactions.
‘Geminius’ says so in this week’s
Sunday ‘Moan.’ I cut the article
out specially,”
“But, dammitall”
“Now, Herbert, / know what
you’re going to say, but paying a bill
is a financial transaction.”
“Well, what’s the use of going in
to the shops if you’re not going to
buy anything?”
“But I am going to buy stuff—l’ve
got to get meat, vegetables, fruit, a
couple of skeins of wool and”
“Well, won’t buying them be a
financial transaction?”
“Of course not, dear. Don’t be
silly. It’s different from paying a
biff —it’s only buying things.”
“Let it pass! Anyway, what
possible disaster could befall you in
just paying a bill?”
“What a question! Why, any
number of things! One of the bank-
notes I handle might have some
awful germ on it which might put
me in my grave; the building could
collapse on me as soon as I walked
in the door; I could be struck by
lightning or slip on the step going
in and break my neck.”
“A million-to-one chance,” scoffed
Mr. Clump.
“Well, it could happen,” main-
tained Mrs. C. doggedly. “It would
be fate, which is bound up in the
stars. The man says so who writes
it, he ought to know. Anyway,
I won’t pay it till tomorrow, when
the stars are better aspected for
friendships.”
“Good Lord! What’s friendship
to do with paying a bill?”
“Well, I might meet a friend in
there paying her bill, mightn’t I?
And I know the cashier to nod to.”
After that brickbat Mr. Clump
gave up and turned his attention to
his egg.
“Johnny,” said Mrs. Clump as her
son came in swinging his football-
boots, “you can’t go to school to-
day.”
“Aw, gee. Mum, why can’t I?” said
Johnny, “It’s footy today, and
I’m”
“Well, you can’t go! You’re likely
to get killed,” said his mother. “The
idea! Wanting to play football
when the stars have distinctly warned
you! ”
“Did you get a message during
the night straight from Mars or
someone?” asked Mr. C.
“Do you,” retorted his spouse,
“want to be called away from the
office this afternoon to identify your
son lying there on a marble slab in
the morgue? A fine father you are!
You should be protecting his life
instead of encouraging him to dis-
obedience.”
“I want to play footyj” howled
Johnny.
“All those born under Taurus, and
you’re one of them,” said Mrs. C.
oracularly, “must be careful not to
run under buses between midday and
dusk today—it says so in the astro-
logical notes.”
“But, my dear,” put in Mr, C.
patiently, “he’s going to play foot-
ball. It may be that in some coun-
tries, purely as an extra hazard, they
have ten - ton buses careering
over school football-grounds while
matches are in progress, but the
practice hasn’t yet been adopted in
our own.”
“It could easily happen that he
may be run over. What,” she asked
triumphantly, “if he were to kick
the ball out into the street and he
chased it under the bus-wheels? I’d
never forgive myself, especially
having been warned,”
“Well, I’ve no more time to argue
about that. I must go. I only have
a minute to catch my bus. Just
fancy! If it hadn’t been for your
warning me I might have got up
right now and rushed out in front
of a passing bus instead of waiting
and getting in at the side like I
usually do. Don’t forget the Clarkes
are coming to dinner tonight.”
“Oh, I’ve put them off until next
week.”
“Put ’em off! But why? You
know I particularly wanted to have
a confidential chat with Harry to-
night, because it’s the company’s
board-meeting tomorrow and the
question of my promotion comes up.
It will be useless after tonight.”
“I can’t help it. You shouldn’t
have been born under Leo. The
stars are badly aspected for friction
between friends tonight. If it hadn’t
been for me you might have had a
terrible row with Mr. Clarke tonight
and spoiled your chances of advance-
ment.”
As Mr. Clump began making
strangling noises, his daughter came
flying out in her usual last-seconds
rush.
“Oh, Mum,” she exclaimed. “I
can’t find a suitable hanky to go
with this lemon blouse. Have you
got one?”
Her mother went into her bedroom
and came back with a small piece
of linen. “Here,” she said. “This
tones beautifully with it.”
Her daughter looked at it, horror
on her face.
“I couldn’t wear that,” she wailed.
“It’s green! It would bring bad
luck! ”
Mrs. Clump made a clucking noise
of impatient disapproval.
“How utterly ridiculous!” she ex-
claimed. “I never thought a daughter
of mine would be so featherbrained
as to believe in such a silly super-
stition ! ”
Bo.
A MATTER OF OPINION
IN no other country did I meet more
people who will agree with you on
practically everything than I have met
in Australia.
At first one thinks that Australians
have no opinion on their own, or they
are spineless enough to accept other
people’s thoughts unconditionally.
I listened in amazement to blokes
who previously agreed with everything
I said, then apparently shared the
opinions of others whose views were
dead contrary to mine. It gave me an
eerie, uncertain feeling. I started to lose
my sense of being right or wrong, did not
know who were my friends, or —shall
we say?—opponents.
Then one day I asked someone, “But
what’s your real opinion?”
“Well,” he answered, “I have none.
I don’t know enough about the matter.”
“But you’ve agreed with me. And
you shared the opinion of the other bloke
whose views are contrary to mine!”
He was amazed.
“I didn’t, mate,” he protested. “I was
listening and encouraging both of you
to speak, so that I could find out more
about the subject. That’s all. Besides,
it saves me the trouble of arguing and
making enemies. I like minding my own
business. Don’t you?”
So I discovered this amazing, most
impersonal attitude. And something else,
too: Not many Australians expect you
to agree with them on every point, but
certainly all of them resent it if you try
to ram down their throats your views—
provided they have positive knowledge
of the theme in discussion.
STEPHEN KELEN.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 12, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3835
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man*’
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
PRESSURE AND THE BUDGET
In recent years two Prime Ministers have
died in harness running the affairs of the Common-
wealth. Another, Mr. Chifley, collapsed and died
suddenly after he had been relieved of office which
he had held for less than four years. Mr. Scullin was
broken in health for the remainder of his life. Mr.
Menzies has had a serious illness. And so has Sir
Arthur Fadden.
It is not the amount of work which reduces
Ministers to a rag as a general rule. Some of them
who try to do everybody’s work, including the office-
boys’, naturally suffer; but the killer is pressure rathei
than toil —savage, unrelenting pressure by strong
groups with an unscrupulous Press behind them which
set out to force their views upon the Administration
of the day with an utter disregard for decency or,
often, for that matter, for Parliamentary privilege.
The strongest, noisiest and most rapacious of
these, of course, is the coterie of Premiers who gang-
up to force unconstitutional demands on the Com-
monwealth, and who are only kept at bay by the
threats to hand back to them the sovereign powers
of taxation which go with responsible government.
Nothing ever satisfies them; at the moment this was
written they were engaged in debating how best to
squeeze more than the Comrnonwealth-stated
maximum of £145 million out of the Federal tax-
collections for the coming year, even though that
figure is about £lO million more than last year’s.
The Premiers have, however, nothing to teach
Australian commerce, industry and primary produc-
tion in the game of squeeze. Treasurer Fadden for
the past few days has been the centre of a free-for-all
scrum in which he is being kicked, jabbed, abused,
advised and trodden on by all the multitude of interests
which are intent at any cost on taking the Budget out
of his hands. It is noticeable that none of these groups
bases its demands on general public interest. Each
acts for a particular, and often small, section.
The Associated Chambers of Manufactures and
the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Australia
each has a knee on the Government’s chest. The other
day the two bodies were to be seen, in adjoining
columns of the “S. M. Herald,” demanding opposite
policies with equal determination.
The Chambers of Commerce inveigh against the
continuance of import-restriction and plump for the
idea that “unless the normal flow of imports is quickly
restored the vital import-export equation will be
upset” and “employment menaced indeed,” They—
an isolated case —demand rightly that sectional
interests and short-term views must not be allowed
to stand in the way of common prosperity. The
manufacturers on the same page of the paper declare
that “under the most favorable summing-up.,. .we
are confronted with the inescapable necessity of
restricting imports,” and speak of the “healthy correc-
tive which has been given so frequently to the theory
that the all-important thing is to export more and more
of what we produce.”
Only on the question of taxation is every interest
agreed. Chambers of Commerce, Taxpayers’ Associa-
tions, Manufacturers and, particularly, the “Labor”
“Opposition” agree that no matter what is left undone,
and whoever else suffers, their own particular pressure-
group should have maximum cuts and that the Budget
should be designed primarily for “taxation-relief.”
Taxation in Australia has been at an emergency
rate for several years. Its principal cause is the low
level of national productivity, in turn chiefly the result
of the 40-hour week, “go-slow” policy in key unions,
and the disorderly economic and industrial policies of
“Labor”-governed States. With a higher real national
income (based on production volume) the relative
burden of taxation would be much lower, even if
thousand-million-pound Budgets continued to be the
fashion. A higher rate of productivity at lower costs
would also break the present drought in the loan-
market.
Australia needs to reduce the taxation burden
on productive industry and upon thrift at the earliest
possible moment. But it needs also to crack inflation
by reducing costs, at the same time providing
adequately for defence. And it is saddled, by popular
demand, with the Welfare State. Criticism and pressure
which ignore these facts are irresponsible, and a
contribution to ultimate economic chaos.
GRASSHOPPER PLAGUE
To suggest that the export income should be
increased by harder work during more hours per week,
that costs and the burden on the supposedly almost
desperate population should be reduced by the elimina-
tion of penalty-rates which would be more justly
termed blackmail, that the civil service could save
millions by becoming efficient and economical
would be sheer heresy in the eyes of “Labor” pressure-
groups. To them no remedy is any good which calls
on a “too-tired” population for the slightest extra
effort or sacrifice. And no pressure-group works for
industry and frugality.
Shiplovers All
From time to time since the Menzies Government took
office in 1949 there have been conjectures in the Press
and questions asked in Parliament as to whether the
Government has sold, is negotiating the sale of, or
intends to sell, the Commonwealth Shipping Line.
Broadly speaking, the official reply to these three points
has been (1) No; (2) possibly; (3) perhaps. The
Opposition’s reaction has been less restrained and
less cautious, “Labor” members being shiplovers to a
man —provided the ships are Government-owned.
Senator Ashley, father of the line, is on such occasions
good for half a column of self-justification. Dr. Evatt
brings out his stock phrase, “selling the peoples’
assets,” and union spokesmen, unrebuked by the poli-
tical wing, throw out threats to boycott the ships if
sold.
The latest story from Canberra, which seems to
be strongly based, is that draft proposals for the sale
of the ships are in the hands of Federal Ministers and
will be considered after the Budget-talks. This report
brought the usual response from the Fixer, the Doc.
and the Trades and Labor Council. It even caused
Eddie Ward to break the Trappist silence he had
observed for months. Interlarded with phrases such
as “bargain price” and “big business,” his statement
embodied this gem:
The haste of the Government in completing- a
transaction for which it has received no electoral
approval is no doubt due to a conviction that its
period of office is quickly running out.
“Haste” is rather good. If Ward’s own colleagues
are to be believed, negotiations for the sale have been
going on for a very long time —and they are not com-
pleted. In June last year Mr. O’Connor, “Labor”
member for Martin, asserted in the House that negotia-
tions were first started on July 18, 1950. On that
definition of hasty the negotiations for the Korean
truce were the personification of speed. As to electoral
approval, what better authority could be required than
victory at the 1949 anti-socialisation election? Ward
concluded:
This will be the second occasion on which a
national shipping line has been sacrificed to a private
shipping combine.
The other “sacrifice” was, of course, the sale of
the original Commonwealth Line by the Bruce-Page
Government in 1928. The disposal price was
£1,900,000, and shrieks of “betrayal” came from every
honest “Labor” throat. For the five years prior to the
sale the ships had lost more than £500,000 a year, and
the figure was rising, so it is hard to see where the
betrayal came in.
The decision was sound commonsense. Two
years later, when depression hit Australia, private
shipping companies had idle vessels laid-up in every
port, so it isn’t difficult to imagine what would have
been the ultimate fate of the Commonwealth ships had
they been retained. They brought no blessing to the
“shipping combine” that bought them; it got into
difficulties, and at a forced sale the ex-Commonwealth
vessels realised only £500,000.
Although “Labor’s” obsession for a Government
shipping line is really a projection of its desire for
socialisation, the reasons it usually advances are two —
that such a service keeps freights down, and that only
by this means can the needs of small ports be
adequately met. Both arguments are fallacious. In
June, 1952, Mr. Anthony, in announcing that the
annual accounts of the line showed a profit for the
first time in its history, added:
Unfortunately, the profit has been achieved only
at the cost of increasing freight-charges by 435 per
cent, since the end of World War 11. The freight-
rate from Sydney to Melbourne has increased from
18s. a ton in 1939 to over £6 a ton today.
The freight-cutting war at present being waged by
the N. S. Wales railways against the shipping company
serving the North Coast outports exposes the
hypocrisy of the party’s claim to be concerned for the
welfare of such ports. In any case, if the principle
of subsidising the development of small ports and
backward areas is to be accepted, it can better be
accomplished by direct subsidy on specified voyages
or trades than by running an expensive fleet to all
ports. In the one case the annual cost of subsidies
can be seen at a glance; in the other it is lost in the
general figures and, not being directly ascertainable,
may be used as a scapegoat for losses due to
inefficiency, bad management or other causes.
When the Curtin Government came to power in
1941 it inherited a fleet of chartered ships which in
two years of war had accumulated a credit balance of
£5 million. In the remaining three years of the war,
with the birth of the Ashley fleet of Government-
owned vessels, this was converted into a loss of several
millions, and the Commonwealth Line went further
into the red after the peace. In the four years from
July 1, 1946, to June 30, 1950, the ships lost £7,673,000
and by March 31, 1951, this had risen to £8,165,000.
Since then there has been a considerable improvement
and the last two accounting years have shown gross
profits of £730,000 and £630,000 respectively.
The Government’s attitude is that it is wiser to
dispose of the ships while they are still making a
profit than to hold on to them and repeat the history
of the first Commonwealth Line. The protracted period
of the negotiations is an earnest that it is not throwing
away the ships, but is endeavoring to get a fair price,
with safeguards on their being used to provide an
efficient service on the Australian coast. The lamenta-
tions of “Labor” politicians and the threats of union
officials are not likely to change the Government’s
policy, but they could easily lessen its chances of
getting the highest possible price in the restricted
market available to it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Burglar's Paradise
New South Wales, with its queer
“Labor” Governments, must surely be
the happiest place in the British Com-
monwealth for criminals. The mobs of
s. betting-shops which operate (with
Government telephone services) is one
evidence of it. The Liquor Commission
provided a few other cases. And there
are plenty more to prove that even
a first, second or third conviction doesn’t
mean that all is lost.
Instances are not unfamiliar in which
criminals not so long from jail are able
to submerge their identities and call
blameless Ministers “Joe” or get large
contracts with a Government department.
An underworld queen is interviewed by
the Press to get her impressions of the
Coronation. And that arch-racketeer,
Woolcott Forbes, has found N. S. Wales
a cosy nest.
Sections of the Press for years, while
giving due treatment to perennial reports
of horse-doping, “stiff” running and other
crimes of the racecourse, which appear
to be more important in their eyes than
murder, have shown a worthy curiosity
about the manner in which the sentences
of criminals with long records and known
to be dangerous come to be released
before their time. A classic case in point
was that of a gunman who took a friend
for a ride and put a bullet into him. The
gunman was scarcely in before he was
out and discovered by a prying reporter in
an expensive hotel in the Blue Mountains.
The explanation apparently was that it
was discovered that the poor fellow had
t. which made it impossible for a
humane Minister to keep him in jail.
No N. S. Wales “Labor” Minister has
ever felt the urge to enlarge on this kind
of happening or to tell the public ho.w
many times this sort of thing happens.
New encouragement to criminality
is also the habit of treating dangerous
and violent thugs as if they were in a
girls’ high school instead of a penitentiary.
One such case came to light when two
young ruffians, one 19, serving four years
for malicious wounding, and the other,
23, serving a similar sentence for armed
robbery in company in Tokyo—the sen-
tences are worthy of note in themselves —
were discovered to have walked away
from Berrima Jail, where they were
accommodated in tastefully furnished bed-
rooms with table, chair, desk, cupboard,
bookshelves and other amenities.
The Prisons Department apparently
would not insult this pair of what the
police called “vicious and dangerous
criminals” by putting them under guard.
They were allowed to work outside the
walls without sufficient supervision, and
just walked away. One was recaptured
at gunpoint by the police and the other
is still at large. When they escaped the
police described them as “desperate
men,” and because of their urgent warn-
ing residents in outlying areas near
Berrima stayed in locked homes and some
armed themselves. The police said that
“both men would not hesitate to use
violence in an emergency.” Yet it tran-
spired that not only were the pair in a
luxury jail without effective surveillance,
but that (according to the Prisons Depart-
ment) each had a court recommendation
for release long before the expiry of
their sentences —one after a year and one
after 18 months.
It is no wonder that the youth of N. S.
Wales are finding major and violent crime
attractive as a profession, and that young
fellows come from other States to try
their ’prentice hands at slaughtering taxi-
drivers and other people going about their
business.
The Bat to Agreement
Russia has replied to the invitation of
the Western Powers to discuss the prob-
lems of Austrian and German peace
treaties. Attached to the letter agreeing
to the talks are the conditions usual to
Russian acceptances which Moscow
knows will make the talks impossible.
Moscow also proposes to discuss mea-
sures for easing national tensions, includ-
ing reduction of armaments and the “pro-
hibition of maintaining military bases in
foreign territories,” an item Which is cer-
tainly not intended to include the subjects
of Russia’s bases in Eastern European
countries or China’s incursion into the
Korean War, The “foreign bases” which
it is proposed to discuss obviously are
those held by the United States in Europe
and the Far East. All these matters have
been flogged to death in U.N.O. Assembly,
and the Russian views of necessary
measures has been expounded there ad
nauseam and are so obviously based on
fraud as to be scarcely worth discussing
further. The truth about Russia’s “abso-
lute devotion to peaceful construction”
is made plain by Malenkov’s speech to
the Supreme Soviet.
Russia demands that Communist China
be admitted to the talks. There is some
argument for the diplomatic recognition
of China as a nation. That an aggressor
which for months denied its aggression
in Korea, maintaining that its armies
there were not armies at all but aggrega-
tions of volunteers who were fighting
under the North Korean command,
should be admitted to discuss the peace
treaties with Austria and Germany is a
cat of another color.
The Russian agreement to meet, coming
at this time, is merely another manifesta-
tion of the “campaign for negotiation”
launched at Budapest by the Comintern’s
“World Peace Council” a few weeks ago,
its arguments immediately passed parrot-
fashion by similar bodies round the
world and repeated by Malenkov.
It is merely another line on which to
hang a vicious propaganda —vide the
Comintern’s official organ, July 10 —
against “the gamble of the foreign hire-
lings of Berlin and the criminal Syngman
Rhee,” “the U.S. capitalist Press, aided
by the reactionary Press of Europe,” the
“imperialist provocateurs of the United
States,” the “United States Congress”
which “allocates hundreds of millions of
dollars for the upkeep of spies, assassins
and provocateurs whom the U.S. intelli-
gence infiltrate into peace-loving coun-
tries,” the “adventurist policy pursued by
the U.S, ruling circles,” and, generally,
against the “criminal encroachments” of
everybody not under the thumb of the
Kremlin.
No propaganda, of course, is needed
against those who are under its thumb,
as a round dozen North Korean leaders
have been taught during the past week,
some of them Ministers, some military
commanders on the highest level, but all
“spies for the American imperialists,”
and doomed to an appointment with a
firing-squad.
The only kind of conference likely to
be of use in settling differences with
Russia is one which acknowledges the
right of non-Communist countries to live
and govern without the help of Russian
agents and at which the Russians are pre-
pared to discuss freedom of intercourse
and trade, freedom of tourist movement
within the U.S.S.R. for foreigners and
across Soviet borders for Soviet citizens,
such as exists among" civilised nations.
So long as Russia remains a prison with
a slave population it is impossible that
it shall become part of the civilised
world.
The Underground
Some faint interest by the Commonwealth
Investigation Service in the activity of
the Communist party proves that the
Government is still aware that the party
exists. And Communist headquarters has
issued a pamphlet in which it is announced
that Communists are “real patriots” who
“represent the true interests of the great
majority of the people” and are, indeed,
“the mind, the heart, the conscience of
our era.”
Presumably to prove all this the party
is selling below cost floods of expensive
Moscow and Peking magazines and
propaganda books, illustrated in color,
at only a fraction of cost. One
of these, called “Soviet Union,” com-
plete with envelope, is sold for Is. 6d.
The envelope alone would cost 4d, in
Sydney; the paper itself would cost 7s.
6d. to deliver on the retail market; and
this is only one of many publications.
The official organ of the Cominform
is sold for 4£d. —delivered by airmail.
The airmail postage would be about
Is. 6d. Obviously these things, full of
insidious propaganda against the British
Commonwealth, the Chinese ones the
organs of an enemy fighting Australian
troops, are not being sold so far under
cost for nothing, and the Communist
party of Australia is obviously not paying
for them. The Soviet Government pub-
lications have an agency, and it is lodged
in the same office as the Communist
party. And there is obviously a propa-
ganda network which is not controlled
by the party.
There have been plenty of instances
in Australia which suggest that the
United States —and Canada, which had
its lesson in 1946, and the United King-
dom, which had its Fuchs and Nunn
May, neither of them having any apparent
connection with the Communist party
until exposed—is not alone in being
infiltrated in high and official places. The
strange unity of Communist action with
the background to shocking treatment
of the Australia First cases, the
ease with which convicted Communists
of the war years slipped into key depart-
ments, are evidence which cannot be by-
passed any more than the knowledge that
a year or two ago the Communists were
able to steal from the confidential files
of the External Affairs Department the
draft of the treaty with the United States,
publication of which came at a very
awkward moment for the Government.
It is a matter which shows the need
for the kind of Intelligence safeguards
which Australia very evidently has not
got at present.
Fashions in Death
Presumably the poison thallium is sold
as freely in other Australian cities and
towns as in Sydney, yet only in Sydney
has there been an outbreak of thallium-
poisoning of people. Which rather argues
that there must be a lot of people in
Sydney full of hatred for a lot of other
people in Sydney, and only too eager for
a means of killing which gives no warn-
ing to the victim, is particularly insidious
in its effects, and still awaits a definite
antidote.
Murder and suicide seem to follow the
same lines as fashions in the Harbor city.
Twenty years or so ago somebody carved
somebody else with a razor. There was
an immediate epidemic of razor-slashing.
Up to that time the Gap at Watson’s Bay
was the popular suicide-spot. Then the
Harbor Bridge was opened, and people
began jumping off it in such numbers that
“safety-fences” had to be erected across
its whole length. Business then returned
to the Gap.
Thallium, being slow, doesn’t appeal
to suicides, consequently the victims of
the past year or so have had it mostly
given them by someone else. If it had
been as instantaneous, say, as prussic acid,
the ease with which it can be obtained
would very likely have slowed down the
traffic to the Gap.
It seems that what Sydney needs now
is a Department for the Suppression of
Publicity of New Methods of Killing
Ourselves and Other People.
The Doyle Inquiry
Hearing of the royal commission into
the association of former N. S. Wales
Minister for Mines, J. G. Arthur, with
Reginald Aubrey Doyle ended last
Wednesday. Mr. Miller, Q.C. (for
Arthur), submitted that there was no
evidence that Arthur suspected or
believed there was anything wrong about
the importation of cars by Doyle; that
there was no evidence that he committed
any breach of his legal duties as Minister
or that he influenced or attempted to
influence the making of contracts between
the Joint Coal Board and Constructors,
Ltd. Mr. Miller also claimed that the
share-dealings with Mrs. Doyle were out-
side the terms of reference of the com-
mission. He submitted that, in the matter
of Arthur’s continuing to associate with
Doyle after he had learned that Doyle
had misappropriated the £l4OO purchase-
money for the car, no comment should
be admissible as to whether or not this
was unwise or indiscreet. “Indiscretion,
or unwise conduct, does not amount to
impropriety, and it is outside the terms
of the commission.”
Mr, Ashburner, Q.C. (for W. C. Went-
worth, M.P.), asked if, in view of Mr.
Miller’s submission that the word “im-
proper” should be given a restricted
meaning, and that Arthur’s conduct had
been unwise rather than improper, the
terms of reference could be widened.
Matters he would like discussed were:
(1) The association between Arthur and
Vitnell and the use of Parliamentary rooms
by Vitnell.
(2) The activities of Arthur in connec-
tion with the contract between Construction
Services Pty., Ltd., and the Lithgow
Council.
(3) Whether Arthur acted improperly in
connection with negotiations between Con-
structors, Ltd., or its subsidiary, and the
Joint Coal Board, or its subsidiary, for a
dragline contract at Pike’s Gully.
Mr. Miller interposed that he did not
submit that Arthur’s conduct was indis-
creet at all and the commissioner said he
understood that.
The commisioner, Judge Amsberg, said
he would bring Mr. Ashburner’s applica-
tion for extended terms of reference to
the notice of the Executive Council.
Wool's Future
According to the Dalgety people, Brad-
ford and Boston don’t agree on the effect
of the truce in Korea on wool. For
what it may be worth with the new Aus-
tralian selling season less than a month
away, Bradford doesn’t think prices will
fall; Boston thinks they may.
Bradford seems a bit mixed. “No por-
tents of substantially cheaper wool this
year, but there is a general belief that
the general tendency of raw materials to
cheapen may extend to wool as the season
progresses.” Bradford sees in the Russian
buying of wool in Australia and New
Zealand, and its barter deal of matches
for British wool, a “clamant demand”
of Soviet satellites for higher living stan-
dards, in which “wool will play a leading
part.”
The British wool-centre is convinced
that even on normal buying the market
is secure, British mills are running to full
capacity, have several months’ orders
ahead, and world consumption isn’t
slackening,
Boston says U.S. wool-importers pre-
dict cheaper wool in the next six months,
particularly if the Korean truce ends in a
peace. It ascribes reduced U.S.A. buying
of Australian wool last season to South
American wools being available at lower
prices. But S. American stocks are now
“virtually exhausted,” U.S. stocks of
apparel wools are the lowest they’ve been
for five years, and consumption in the
first quarter of 1953 was up 15£ million
pounds on the comparable quarter of
1952.
But, says Boston, the trend towards
synthetics continues, and gives trade
figures to support this. A du Pont man
says synthetics are not wool substitutes,
but are complementary to wool. The
higher-priced dacron- and orlon-mixture
suitings, which top men’s-wear sales, are
65 p.c, wool. Which is about the most
sensible thing said about synthetics for
a long time.
i
Potatoes —and Other Things
So far as can be gathered from a week’s
reading of news items. Ministerial and
official statements, accusations, denials
and “challenges” by the herd of people
mixed up in the marketing of potatoes,
the present unholy mess is the result of
a variety of causes.
Chief among them seem to be conflict
on prices and quotas between State boards
and price-controllers, shipping troubles,
the blackmarketing which always accom-
panies commodity-controls, bad weather
in some parts, growers’ refusal to hand
over potatoes to one State board when
they can get a better price over this or
that border, buyer resistance, rows (as
in Queensland) between two sets of State
officials, hoarding by wholesalers, opera-
tors from one State “pirating” the crops
in another, and political interference with
trade and commerce.
There are other causes, but the real
point is that the mess itself arises out of
board control of the harvesting and
delivery of potatoes and political control
of the retail prices. Practically once a
year since the war ended, sometimes twice
a year, this sort of mess has occurred
and blackmarketing has waxed and
waned but never ceased throughout the
period.
What everybody misses, or deliberately
ignores, or isn’t game to admit, or wants
to hide, is that the potato mess—like
all the other commodity messes which
keen on plaguing us —arises from the
fatheaded notion that you can have a
free economy and at the same time im-
pose official checks on production, supply
and prices.
It has been and is being repeatedly and
often painfully demonstrated that it
won’t work, yet Australians are two-
minded about it. In Federal elections
they’ve twice voted for the party opposed
to socialisation (which is what controls
are) and in most State elections for the
party which favors it. And while they
diddle about with their indecision the
controllers dig themselves in more and
more.
Indeed, in food-control—potatoes,
eggs, milk, fish —they’re so well dug in
now that some sort of a minor upheaval
is needed to get rid of them. Meantime
the rackets go oh and the poor, be-
devilled housewife no sooner gets free of
one food worry than she’s shot into an-
other.
The "Labor" Racket
“Labor” is, in Australia, a pressure-
group, a class-organisation which has
long lived by appealing to the weakest
in human nature —to greed, selfishness,
idleness, to indiscipline and to hatred
—at the same time belittling the
law and condoning crime. Any
original ideas which it possessed
disappeared long ago with the rise to us
leadership of the careerists: the wealthy
(i Continued on next page)


publicans, the bookies and the profes-
sional agitators whose business is strife
and grab. It has always expected its
leaders to be militant, though any “Labor
leader” who was not the slave of the
party, shouting its slogans and rigidly
buttoning-up his own bag of ideals (if
any), has found himself in serious trouble.
At the same time there have been
periods in “Labor” history when some
mistake in policy or tactics, or a swing
too far to the Left, has proved so alarm-
ing that it has been felt necessary to
make gestures of moderation and pretend
that the A.L.P. is a little more conserva-
tive than the Bank of England. The
present is one of those periods. With
high wages many workers have become
possessed of a little more power to
earn which promises to make them little
capitalists, even if it involves working
harder and longer hours on the side.
They have also become averse to
strikes. To add to the party difficulties,
the past few years have proved that a
handful of professional Communists can
show the fatted leaders of the A.L.P.
and the more sober unions points in
militancy, that in promising they are
beyond competition and in unscrupulous-
ness of method unapproachable. “Labor”
leaders have recently found the move-
ment, after they had saved the lives of
the Leftist organisations through the
referendum of 1951, being torn to bits
from the inside.
The anguished yell of the Socialist is
heard protesting against the suppression
of the party’s objective. The
sight of leaders deprecating strikes and
reporting that the socialisation issue is
dead is bewildering to the rank-and-file.
The new ukases banning professional
members of State and other executives
from sitting in Parliament has outraged
the privileged classes in the party and
started them on a career of red rebellion.
In Victoria there is an anti-Evatt cave,
in South Australia a Leftist cave, in several
States anti-Communist caves. Mr. Col-
bourne, president of the A.L.P. in N. S.
Wales, has the mildest kind of interpreta-
tion of the party objective, while in Vic-
toria Mr. Calwell still yearns to “pluck
the fowl” of capitalism. Mr. Chalmers,
a former ward of Mr. Chifley’s, has held
a meeting in Sydney to form a new
Labor party. It is to be Leftist, but the
party says it is not frightened. Even
though the move is strangled with
manoeuvre it will last long enough to
give the N. S. Wales A.L.P. a heart-
attack. The Federal party is rocked
by the see-saw battle between States
which is proceeding with grunts and
strainings of the fabrics as the industrial-
groupers struggle with the Left.
“Labor” within itself is in a more
precarious position than it has been
since the depression. National pros-
perity is not its food. It lives
on grievances, and its war-cry is a
whine. Never have wage-earning
Australians had fewer real grievances or
causes to whine than in 1953. Their
only danger is themselves.
POLITICAL POINTS
N. S. Wales Parliament reopens to-
day. This will be the second day it has
sat since November 20 last year, the
other occasion being March 11, when
new members were sworn in and the
terms of reference for the Doyle inquiry
were discussed. Busy fellows these Par-
liamentarians ; it must be nearly time
they voted themselves another rise.
• •
State Premiers (mostly deputies) met
the Prime Minister and Federal Treasurer
in Canberra on Monday for the annual
wrangle on tax-reimbursements. It is to
be hoped this will be the last time the
argument is necessary, but if the move
towards returning taxing-powers to the
States doesn’t make more rapid progress
than it has done in the last 12 months
the “Gimme” debate will still be an
annual fixture in 1993.
Last year’s reimbursements, including
formula payments and special grants,
were;
£ million.
N.S.W 54.1
Vic. - 33.2
Q’ld 21.7
S.A. 11.6
W.A. 1 10.8
Tas. 4.5
135.9
Before Monday’s conference opened most
State leaders were cagey about this year’s
“demands,” but it was a safe bet that
none of ’em intended to ask for a reduc-
tion.
■ • •
No matter which side wins Coran-
gamite, Allan McDonald’s old seat will
still have a Scot as its occupant—Ewen
Daniel MacKinnon is the Liberal nominee,
Angus Campbell McLean the “Labor.”
Polling-day for both Corangamite and
Lang is August 29.
• •
Both the main contenders for the Lang
by-election are well-known in the elec-
torate. H. R. Thorncroft, the Liberal
nominee, is a former mayor of Canter-
bury, and is “patron, director or vice-
president of 30 charitable, educational,
sports and civic bodies in the electorate.”
“Labor’s” choice is F. E. Stewart, secre-
tary of the Lang electorate council and
of the Belmore branch of the A.L.P,, and
a former League footballer of the Can-
terbury-Bankstown team. There are two
other candidates in the field—T. J.
Brosnan (Democratic party) and R. D.
Boyd (Communist),
• •
When the Q.L.P. decided to increase
politicians’ pay the Q.C.E. bucked. The
A.W.U. was noncommittal, but the
Q.R.T.E.U. was annoyed, the A.F.U.L.E.
put out, the S.S.U. displeased and the
F.C.U. pained. So that portion of the
alphabet wants “a showdown” with the
A.L.P. A lot of electors would like one,
too, but the way the dice are loaded
they’re not in the race
• •
Acting-Premier Heffron might have put
it better in his speech to Everester
Hillary. Of Hillary and Tensing he said:
“They have joined the immortals, and in
1000 years’ time the names of the con-
querors of Everest will be known to every
schoolchild.” As Minister for Educa-
tion, Heffron should find out why it will
take that long for his department to
drive the information into the pupils’
heads.
• •
Playford is out to interest South Aus-
tralians in tree-planting, and he hopes to
induce local-government authorities to
provide avenues of trees alongside the
main highways. A very commendable
idea, but he’d better persuade the P.M.G.
to enrol his staff in the Treelovers’ Asso-
ciation before the scheme is launched.
• •
A. M. Fraser, Victorian Minister for
Labor, alleged that some employers,
anticipating the introduction of com-
pulsory long-service leave, were dismiss-
ing employees of long-standing. W. J.
Allison, president of the Melbourne
Chamber of Commerce, challenged him
to name the employers, “either publicly
or privately.” Nothing public so far.
The confused thinking which befuddles
a large section of the trade-union move-
ment was demonstrated in the Arbitra-
tion Court last week when five unions
opposed an application by a sixth for the
right to appeal against conciliation-com-
missioner Austin’s decision on margins.
The five unions were the A.R.U., A.E.U.,
Sheet Metal Workers, Blacksmiths and
Electrical Trades; the union making the
application was the National Union of
Railwaymen. All six unions disagree with
the commissioner’s decision, but the first
five are opposed to appeals against a
commissioner’s decision; they prefer
direct action. The N.U.R. believes arbi-
tration should be practised, not merely
professed.
Chief Judge Kelly granted the N.U.R.’s
application, saying that margins for skill
were so important that in the public
interest the Full Arbitration Court should
hear the case.
• •
With Victorian spuds, fixed by the
Prices Commissioner at £22 a ton, going
off to N.S.W. for £65 a ton, even dried
N.S.W
THE STOPOUT
“N. S. Wales Premier Cahill, who has been absent from his State for the entire period
of the Doyle inquiry, will not be back from the Coronation until the middle of September.”
potatoes will be off soon in Melbourne,
wherefore A. C. Boustead, Potato Board
chairman, has sent in his resignation.
Opposition-Leader Bolte says Boustead's
position has been made intolerable by the
“Labor” Government’s constant inter-
ference in the potato industry, Mr.
Boustead put it more politely —he “felt
for his health” in the present situation.
• •
“S. M. Herald” had a mysterious scoop
last week which it featured under big
headlines “Generals Soon to Retire—
-18 Senior Posts to Be Filled.” Those who
pictured a purge on the Iron-Curtain
scale found, on reading further, that the
retirements are on age-limits and are to
take place within the next 18 months.
• •
Liberal Senator McMullin suggests that
the Federal and N.S.W. Governments
should share with organisations interested
in agricultural progress the cost of buy-
ing land on which to settle “outstanding
Junior Farmers.” Isn’t the Senator aware
that the High Court has forbidden the
Commonwealth buying land jointly with
the Cahills while the latter retain their
notions of land-values?
• •
Heffron’s compulsory-unionism plan
seems to have been put away in cold-
storage or safe-deposit—or perhaps just
put away.
4
• 0
Federal “Labor,” not entirely alone,
is urging a tax-reduction. State
“Labor” Governments are asking for
more tax-money than they got last year.
That’s what might be called a more-or-
less co-ordinated policy.
• •
A Sydney funeral-director is at present
serving a jail-sentence of 62 days rather
than pay the fine of £3O inflicted on him
for failing to furnish the N. S. Wales
Prices Commissioner with information
sought about his charges for funeral
services. He told the court his decision
when the fine was imposed, but the
magistrate gave him a fortnight to think
it over. The time expired last week, but
the undertaker refused to change his
mind, going to jail as a protest against
regimentation. He explained his attitude
thus:
If I am robbed of the right to run my
business myself, then I am robbed of an
essential part of me... .Regimentation re-
moves the exercise of free will. The result
is that our free will remains dormant, and
we become automatons.
The name of the protester is not Hamp-
den ; it’s Andrews, a name well known
in the hearse-and-mourning-carriage
business.
• •
In Hobart two “Labor” politicians,
Messrs. D’Alton and Reece, took part in
a barrow-pushing race from Zeehan to
Queenstown. Taking it in turns to act as
sitter and pusher, they finished four hours
behind the winners. Obviously “Labor”
was not represented by its best team. At
barrow-pushing there’s nothing to equal
the “Labor” politician at his best.
Stud beef-cattle breeders suggested to
the Commonwealth Treasurer that dona-
tions of gift bulls to soldier-settlers should
be deductible from taxation. The reply
was that since the settlers couldn’t be
regarded as people in “necessitous cir-
cumstances” the gifts couldn’t be re-
garded as charitable. Yet every poli-
tician claims an allowance for travelling
about the country delivering bull.
• •
Reported remark of Indonesia’s new
Premier, Dr. Sastroamidjojo, whose Gov-
ernment, formed after a 58-day crisis,
depends for its existence on Communist
and Leftist support:
As long as the Communists do not oppose
us, we will get along all right.
The history of other Governments which
have depended on Communist support is
that they got along all right as long as
they didn’t oppose the Communists.
• •
Arthur Calwell says Doc. Evatt autho-
rised him to invited Frank Forde to “re-
enter Federal politics.... somewhere in
Queensland.” The few “Labor” mem-
bers now holding good Federal seats will
presumably draw lots to see who gets out
so Frankie can get in.
• •
An African chief has died in the French
Cameroons leaving, so far as can be
ascertained, 280 wives and 500 children.
What a file for the Social Services De-
partment!
• •
There will be a by-election for the Vic-
torian Legislative Council on August 22
to fill the vacancy for N.-E>. Province
caused by the death of Inchbold,
former Minister for Education in the
McDonald Government. All three parties
are contesting the seat with outward dis-
plays of optimism. “Labor” has co-
opted Doc. Evatt, who will be in Vic-
toria for the Corangamite campaign. A
win would give “Labor” 16 seats in the
Council out of a total of 34, so Cain
would still have to rely op the two Holl-
way Libs, for his majority.
• •
According to the “Countryman” the
N.S.W. Country - party conference
defeated a motion for the abolition of
the road-transport tax on the ground
that if road-transport companies used the
roads they should “pay a tax towards
keeping die roads in repair.” That’s
what die transport-operators want, but
this tax goes to railway revenue, not to
road-upkeep,
• •
Mr. Gordon Donkin told the Aus-
tralian-American Association that central
and north Australia could support
100,000,000 people. Let’s see, on present
figures, how many public servants would
be necessary to look after them?
• •
Stoneham, Vic. Minister for Agri-
culture, has discovered that “our costs
are going up while world prices are
coming down.” Nobody need assume
from this that, when the vote to increase
Parliamentary salaries comes before Par-
liament, Stoneham will utter a single and
stentorian “No!”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“T.A.R.”: .The name ain’t Steele, it’s
Tom —Thomas Arthur Rudd, late of
Manchester (Eng.), now of Morayfield in
the Shire of Caboolture, Queensland. A
Pommy—yet they will call me Steele.
About the only connection I can trace
with the creator of Dad and Dave is a
love of his writings and the memory of
a spurious week of fame when his family
flashed across the screen at our local
cinema. That was the time when “Bud”
and “Spud” (which my pals called me)
and “Dud” (which the rest named me)
first became “Steele.” My old grandma
used to tell me: “Sticks and stones may
break y’r bones, but names ’ll never hurt
y’.” She may have been right, in which
case my Dad, who used to tell me what
to do to those who called me Spud, Bud
or Dud, must have been wrong. But he
never objected to my being called Steele.
Come to think of it, he used to get
“Steele” himself from a few of his
cronies.
• • • • •
“Mallee-ite”; In one country town in
Victoria in which I lived forty-odd years
ago there was an actual Steele Rudd.
When I knew him, though, he was only
a youngster of two or three. His parents’
name was Rudd, and to the other children
of the family and to friends the infant
was always “Steeley.” The family assured
me that his baptismal name was Steele,
in honor of the writer of On Our Selec-
tion.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: A war artist appeared
“up the line.” He said he had come
to paint pictures, and included in the
selection was to be one of an Army
nurse. I was completely staggered when
he suggested that he paint me. Sunburn
and atebrin had made me feel exactly like
a violet-crumble (chocolate outside and
yellow within), so I pointed out that
there were some lovely peaches-and-
cream lasses fresh up from the South.
He countered with “I want to paint a
typical Army sister. Looks don’t matter.
You’ll do!” So that’s how I came to
be slapped onto canvas. Where the
masterpiece is now I know not —and it
t could have hung in the dining-room, to
show “what Mum did in the War!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: Buried in the vaults of
the Australian and New Zealand Bank
in Wellington (N.Z.) for nearly a century,
the Constitution of the Church of Eng-
land in New Zealand has just been re-
“Scram!”
discovered. How it got there remains
a mystery. Written on parchment, the
document is in a remarkably good state
of preservation and bears the signatures
of big figures in the early days of coloni-
sation. They include George Augustus
Selwyn, first Bishop of N.Z., Bishop
Harper, of Christchurch, Henry and
William Williams, and Octavius Hadfield.
These and other signatures occupy half
a foolscap page of the document, which
has been handed over to Archbishop
Owen, Anglican Primate of N.Z.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: Melbourne’s most famous
hotel after Young and Jackson’s will
shortly be only a memory, just on the
eve of its 100th birthday. Thomas Myles
took out the first licence in 1869, James
Hosie took over in 1885 and changed the
name from the Hobson’s Bay to Hosie’s.
The following year he sold the pub for
£85,000. A modern 12-story caravan-
serai will take the place of the present
picturesque old building, which is the
possessor of a picture almost as well
known as Y, and J.’s “Chloe.” It is a
portrait painted on a fanlight of a demure
young maiden in a bonnet, labelled
“Olivia,” Nobody knows who Olivia was
—possibly a one-time Hebe.
& &
“Wotname”: At the commencement of
the fourth cricket Test, I explained to my
wife and her mother that Australia had
won the toss, was not going to bat, but
would put England in, Ma wondered
what would happen if England also
refused to go in.
* * *
“Melbn”; Shouldn’t artists have some
rights in their works even after they have
left their hands? The Melbourne Shrine
of Remembrance is a very fine building
and looks more beautiful every year as
Nature softens with its patina the some-
what arid surface. The committee which
judged the competition couldn’t come to
a decision, so John Monash was appealed
to and cast his vote for the design of
two ex-servicemen. Came World War
II and a desire to commemorate the
fallen in that conflict. It was decided to
make an addition to the Shrine, and the
design of a Viennese architect was
chosen. The money has run out and
the work has stopped with the job only
half-completed. It would be better if it
never was completed. The meaningless
white pylons and the flagpoles are an
affront to the main building and com-
pletely take away from the dignity and
impressiveness intended by the original
designers.
♦l* ❖ *
“Chevroford”: Motorists get plenty of
kicks nowadays for being killers, so it
is gratifying to note that there was a
presentation to a body of them for life-
saving when Colonel Berts, of the Royal
Dutch Airlines, handed a silver plaque
to the mayor of Albury to commemorate
an almost-forgotten but dramatic occa-
sion. That was when Parmentier and
Moll, piloting an airliner in the London-
Melbourne air-race in 1934, got lost at
night. When the plane was heard in the
vicinity of Albury the mayor sent forth
an appeal for motorists to go to the
aerodrome and turn their headlights on
it. An immense ring of cars assembled
and the airmen made a safe landing. The
Dutch have never forgotten.
* * ❖
“Nakhoda”; “A.L.D.” (B. 29/7/’53)
gives pride of place in the literature of
sport to fishing. Rubbish! The sport
that without question occupies tha| place
is drinking. More has been written on
drinking than on all other athletic
occupations put together. There’s hardly
a great writer who hasn’t uttered a paean
of praise to Bacchus, from Plato and
Rabelais to G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire
“Just helium in a pressurised-suit.”
Belloc —G. B. Shaw possibly being the
one exception. Nor do we have to
exclude the Old Testament writers or
the holy monks, who grew, made and
drank their own wine and wrote some
of the finest lyrics on the subject while
under its inspiration. Baudelaire’s advice
was “to be drunken —on wine or women
or song—but be drunken.” If by this
he meant that whatever we do we should
do with our whole heart, not with any
looking backwards, then as far as the
spent of drinking is concerned, I should
say that Australians are as able at it as
My otto peopte. “How are you today
Joe. I heard one of our local drink
sports say the other evening. “Well,”
said Joe, “the doctor found some blood
in my alcohol-stream this morning.”
❖ * ♦♦♦
“J.K.D.”: Australian “beauty” com-
petitions seem to lack the excitement of
similar quests overseas. In the “Miss
Universe” contest in Los Angeles, won
by “Miss France,” a display of tempera-
ment by the unplaced and disgruntled
“Miss Italy” made the headlines. The
defeated one unkindly claimed that the
winner had “no ankles to speak of” and
described her legs as “one-dimensional.”
She suggested that “Miss France” should
throw out her chest while walking in
order to make a better presentation.
When summer brings its inevitable out-
break of similar contests here, such pithy
criticisms by contestants might add a
refreshing touch.
S* » $
“A.L.D.”: Intriguing sign in the
window of a Brisbane baby-wear shop,
which had formerly been a frock-salon:
“Special attention given to business girls.”
•*& ♦> ♦♦♦
“Looby”; A fruit called “Chinese
gooseberry” has made an appearance
around town. It’s a couple of inches
long, fat, with a rough brown skin. The
corner barrow-man, handling it for the
first time, is dubious about its success.
“They hold up trade,” he growled. “Some
of the women here don’t see too well
without their glasses, and it’s taken me
ten minutes already explaining about
them gooseberries to two old girls. The
first one thought they were spuds; the
second one had to feel ’em all over before
she’d believe they weren’t crumbed
sausages.”
“Ex-Semaphorean”: Those “Men
Only” and “Women Only” notice-boards
on the Semaphore beach (B. 29/7/’53),
with a wide no-man’s land between them,
dated from the days of bathing in the
altogether. The custom was falling into
disuse when I was a kid, but was still
maintained in the sea-baths, men bathing
naked in one enclosure and women in
another. I remember this quite well,
because the apparition of a Melbourne
or Sydneysider in the men’s baths with
trunks on always raised the suspicion that
there must be something the matter
with him. Mixed-bathing became a
burning question only when costumes
became official, and it then became a
daring adventure for the young of both
sexes to hire a drgg or a growler and
drive to a remote part of the beach after
dark to indulge in the illicit pleasures
of bathing in company in neck-to-knee
costumes.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Becks”: Agree with “Muskeen” (B.
5/ 8/ ’53) on the misnomer “escapee.”
For a while I placed Sydney’s “standee”
buses in the same category on the prin-
ciple that anyone who stands is a standee
On reflection I’ve decided I was wrong.
Now I’d say a stander is one who stands
of his own free will. Those who stand
in buses seldom do so from choice.
They don’t merely stand. They are
stood. Pass, standee!
HANDS OFF SKIRTS!
“Christian Dior is cutting skirts to the knees.”
Christian Dior, lord of geegaw,
In his new decrees,
Loudly asserts that women’s skirts
Must show their knobbly knees.
Years ago the knee-on-show
Went round like a disease;
Men can stand firm against a germ,
But not exposed to knees.
Dress girls again in veil and train.
Or cut them down to Vs;
Remove Jane Russell’s forrard bustles.
But don’t show only knees.
One in a crowd may well be proud
Of joints that suavely please;
When most of them whinge like a rusty
hinge.
Why make them show their knees?
The average pin curves out or in
At various degrees;
Men with a flair for curves elsewhere
Have not for curving knees.
It’s a terrible shock when a half-filled
sock
Goes fluttering in the breeze;
It always annoys when saveloys
Turn out to be only knees.
No thoughtful man likes to see his Gran
As half a comic strip-tease,
And they’re never too old to be old and
bold
When fashion says “Show your knees.”
If you want to be bored or deeply de-
plored
By the stricture or aged wheeze
Of parsonical blokes or vaudeville jokes,
You’ve only to show your knees.
I don’t much mind if you’re unrefined,
And I don’t care if you freeze —
No, madam or miss, my objection is this:
I don’t like looking at knees.
N.S.W,
SWILLIAM.


“The tank's gone dry!”
“Ann”: Learning English by means of
a dictionary can be a tricky business.
In response to a Spanish journal’s ad.
for Australian “kookaburra” stamps I
wrote to the inquirer, telling him I had
stamps for exchange. Back came the
reply: “Send laughing stamps. I will
revenge.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kelms”; Some of the English Test
commentators are witty, and I liked the
bloke who said, “There’s something
infectious out there but it’s not catching.”
But the most humorous remark was
unintentional. “And now,” he said,
“Miller walks to the umpire and takes
his sweater and strides off.”
£♦
“F.S.”: Architectural survivals (B.
29/7/’53)? Almost all the decoration
we see on modern buildings once had a
utilitarian purpose. The crenellations so
popular in Melbourne are survivals of
the battlemented turrets from which the
feudal baron shot his arrows at and
poured boiling oil down on an aggressor.
This is no argument against their present-
day use, though modern architects seem
to think it is. If the crenellations look
pleasing they serve an aesthetic purpose
and are therefore no more out-of-date
than two and two make four.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lao-dah”: Another touching Bud-
dhist ceremony (B. 29/7/’53) is the
annual release of living animals which
would otherwise be eaten. Every year
on the day of the festival in Shanghai
the pious follower of Sakyamuni would
go to the market and buy a small fish
or an eel and gently lower it into the
Whangpu, where it would swim gratefully
away—to be swallowed by a barracouta.
One morning I was walking along the
Bund to my office when an extraordinary
phenomenon attracted my notice. Not
just a score, but thousands on thousands,
of tiny tortoises were climbing out of
the river and coolies and small boys
were picking them up by the dozen. The
city council’s piscatorial department had
no explanation of this occurrence —it
turned out that an enterprising junkman
had brought a shipload of the reptiles to
the market, where they were promptly
snapped up by the religious. Unfor-
tunately for their good intentions land
tortoises can’t swim.
♦> ❖
“O. I. Saye”: If the P.M.G. intends to
call air-flimsies “aerogrammes” (B.
29/7/’53), I hope he will instruct his
officers to give the word its correct pro-
nunciation —“a-er-o-gramme.” Too many
people mispronounce aeroplane as three
syllables instead of four.
♦> ❖
“Fons”: Three of us, an Australian,
a New Zealander, and a Cockney, sitting
on our bunks in a leaking Silesian
barrack, thinking. The Kiwi, a tough
little fellow, a carpenter in civil life,
broke the damp silence: “About this
time,” he said wistfully, “they’ll be hav-
ing the Hunt Club Ball at home.” “The
What?” I said. The Cockney maintained
a scornful silence. The Kiwi looked at
hie. “The Hunt Club Ball,” he said.
“It’s a big thing in our district.” “Yah,”
said the Cockney. He knew private
Soldiers didn’t go to balls. “Well,” I
said, surprised, “back home the big balls
are, say, the Diggers’ Ball, the Hospital
Ball, the Church balls, Race Ball, Show
Ball . . .” “We have them, too,” Kiwi
said, “but the Hunt Club Ball is the big
thing. Wish I was there now.” “Yah,”
reflected the Cockney, offended. “S’pose
y’ go in a''Rolls-Royce?” “So you have
a Hunt Club?” I asked, intrigued. “What
do you hunt?” “Rabbits,” Kiwi said,
and was offended when I laughed. The
conversation impressed me curiously, and
so, the other day, I was not at all sur-
prised to see in an Enzed paper an article
on Sydney headed “Aussies rough, but
kindhearted.” There is a difference.
“Pat”: Found myself in international
company at a recent dinner-party, which
included an Austrian, a Hungarian, a
Dane and another Aussie. Conversa-
tion drifted round to Australian slang,
and guests contributed their favorite ex-
pressions. The Hungarian liked “Good
on you,’* saying it was a perfect reflec-
tion of our hospitable ways. The Danish
lady favored “You galah!” but the
Austrian preferred “You drongo!”
Then the other Aussie, as dinkum as
myself, ventured his opinion on his
country’s lingo. “I reckon the best bit
of slang we’ve produced is ‘O.K.’,” said
he.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emjai”: Motoring through South
Australia’s Barossa Valley two young
Melbourne men bought a few bottles of
wine, as a present for their hosts in
Adelaide. Nearing the city they ran into
trouble —a skid in the gravel and a bump
with another car; no great damage, but
their car temporarily immobilised. A
big sleek limousine pulled alongside and
a Good Samaritan got out. “Struck
trouble, lads? What can I do for you?”
he asked. “H’m, Victorian car,” he con-
tinued. “You wouldn’t know the ropes
here. The police patrol will be along
any second. Hope you haven’t any grog
in the car?” They admitted possession,
but protested that they hadn’t had as
much as a smell. “Doesn’t matter,” he
told them. “Over here, if you’re in an
accident with grog in the car, you’re gone
a million. I’ll plant it for you until
they go.” He quickly transferred the
wine to his own car, called back:
“You’ll be right now, lads,” and his sleek
car glided away. They’re wondering now
whether it’s anew racket, or whether he
was just a bright opportunist.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Effar”: When the price of tea
increased the other day one of our Sydney
cafeterias advertised on its service
counter: “Tea same price same
quality.” The friend I had with me turned
pale. “What a horrible threat!” he
groaned.
* ❖ ❖
“Billy S.”: Twentyfive years ago not
the least of Sydney’s claims to fame lay
in a fabulous feed known as “Steak and
Double,” deservedly as popular as Lan-
cashire’s hot-pot or Yorkshire’s roast beef
and Yorkshire pudding. As retail-trade
moved away from the Quay-end of
George-street, shops, as they became
vacant, reopened as eating-houses, all
remarkably similar, with dismal-looking
marble-topped tables, bare walls and the
gent, in charge in his short sleeves, minus
tie, minus collar. Accompanied by
another rosy-cheeked Pommy, I
dropped in on one such place
shortly after my arrival in Sydney.
The entrepreneur asked us our
fancy, and I replied “What do you
suggest?” He closed his eyes,
thought hard, and suggested steak.
I agreed, and he pondered hard
again and said “What about some
chips and a couple of eggs?
Choking back the gastric juices I
concurred, and he again fell silent.
Then he said “Would you like some
slices of tomato and some lettuce?
We fell in with all his suggestions
and, as he walked away, I said to
my friend “He thought up a pretty
good meal.” Then we heard him
shout to the unseen kitchenman,
“Hey, Alf! A coupla’ sets.” In
came our first taste of “Steak and
Double ” One- and -a - trey, if
memory serves me right.
♦♦♦ &
“Colac”: On the morning in
1945 when Hirohito threw in the
sponge my mate and I, already 24
hours adrift, were heading back to
the ship when the whistles started
blowing and clouds of paper began
flowing from office windows. We
decided another day or so wouldn’t
make much difference and stayed
ashore to see the celebrations. In Martin-
place movement was almost impossible,
and even breathing difficult, so we stood
on the G.P.O. corner and let the multi-
tude flow around us while we watched a
photographer popping flashbulbs all over
the place. For the rest of that day and
most of the night we had the time of
our lives, and next morning made our
way rather forlornly across the Burma-
road to our corvette. We were met at
the gangway by the cox’n. When he
fixed his spaniel-like eyes on us and
asked where we had been it was all we
could do to mumble something about
trains being late. It was no good. He
pulled his hitherto concealed hands from
behind his back and showed us a morn-
ing paper, with our picture on the front
page. We had our caps off before the
Jimmy a few minutes later.
“Fletch”: I once joined a German-
language class, in which most of the
students were pretty level, except for one
elderly man who found the course heavy
going. About four years later I Called
in to ask the instructor’s help with some
German correspondence. There was
poor old Plodder and still in the Ele-
mentary Grade! Later, over coffee, I
remarked on this fact. “Ah, yes, poor
Herr Plodder, I do not charge him fees
now; you see, he is a most valuable
asset. Even the slowest new pupil takes
heart in the fact that he is not as bad as
Herr Plodder!”
HAWAII
Goto Tv+6
Barrier
reef
BERMUDA
TAHITI
“I think I'll just go to Manly!”
“J.J.A.”: Just picked up what I thought
was an old hoary Australian yarn in
Giraldus Cambrensis, the Welsh historian
and ecclesiastic who lived 1147-1223. He
tells the story at great length of a young
man who spent five years at the Paris
schools and came home able to prove
to his simple old father that the six eggs
on the table were really 12. Professing
himself convinced, the old man there-
upon ate the six eggs that were obviously
there and left his son the half-dozen
which the hen of his logic had laid.
“P.0.M.C.”: During dry and frosty
spells sharp sounds carry long distances.
A fitful sleeper and living within two
miles of a main railway-line, I have been
anxiously impressed by the rattle or
clatter in coupling- or connecting-rods
in a high percentage of locomotives,
whether running light or hauling loads t
slowly or at speed. This nocturnal alert-
ing of my ears to the acute, metallic
sound has actually become an obsession,
and I’m wondering if some competent
scribe would relieve my mind—is this
harsh “slapping” or “knocking” normal
or is the rolling-stock of the N. S. Wales
railways about to fall apart?.
ON THE NOSE
“The men these days are too self-conscious,
too fearful of being regarded as effeminate, to
wear a button-hole flower. Yet it held a charm
for girls 40 years ago. Even toughs wore
them.” —Letter to women’s paper.
When gallants sported handle-bars and
bowlers,
The “freezer” coats and snappy ox-
blood boots,
A brace of heavily-gold-studded molars.
And smoked, at angles quite acute,
cheroots,
An aster, or a rose, or a carnation
Was never missing from the button-
hole.
It was a matter of habituation;
He who’d neglect such floral decoration
Was up the pole —
Such lapel-nudity would clearly shame
him.
But when he flew such an embellish-
ment.
To any lady it must quick proclaim him
Rather a gentle-minded sort of gent.
He’d even wear a pansy on occasion,
Though THEN it carried no significance
Excepting as to thoughts, when some per-
suasion
He sought to lend his eager heart-in-
vasion.
His suit advance.
And yet he was rto pansy. Why! His
hobby
Was often stousHing Johns, in leisure
hour.
Yet, though he “kicked round” with a
real tough mob, he
Scorned not the help of richly-perfumed
flower.
That banner, then, nigh every lover
flaunted
When into Cupid’s lists his gauntlet
threw.
Its power, he knew, way never over-
vaunted.
. For wearing one, no dame had ever
taunted
A lover true.
Romance now speaks in less-romantic
fashion;
The pe tailed beauty’s scorned by
Romeo
When seeking to proclaim his ardent
passion.
He gives the ice-cream and the chocs,
a go.
To sport a flower would be to him too
silly;
He wouldn’t wear one of them by re-
quest
Of even the most decorative filly.
The only flower he’ll ever wear’s a lily
Placed on his chest.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Fly Faster by TAA pressurised CONVAIR-LINER JPJJJ
Jaa
• O tl
* r •/ TO MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE (and on to Perth by DC4)
PERSONAL ITEMS
A leading figure in the biggest scare
Victoria has known for years, N. T.
Davies is senior health-inspector of Moo-
rabbin, a bayside suburb. Some of the
typhoid victims being in his division,
he got a hunch that raw food in their
diet might provide a clue, none of the
sufferers having had contact with known
typhoid-carriers. Two families told him
they were keen on snowballs, confec-
tionery comestibles that are rolled in
raw coconut-powder; in a third home
he found some home-made Snowballs
rolled in coconut from Papua. Hot on
the scent, he had packages of the stuff
from each home analysed, and as a
result Commonwealth-wide warnings were
issued. A single ticket in Tatt.’s has
about the same chance as the health-
inspector’s hunch.
Herewith one who has launched a
thousand events —Dick Hill, ringmaster
of Queensland’s Royal Show at Brisbane
Exhibition Ground. As well-known as
the clock on the John McDonald stand.
Hill, ringmaster for the la§£ nine years,
has been a ring-official since 1926, and
IN THE RING
much earlier than that he and his father
were exhibitors, winning the State
trottmg-championship three years run-
rung with Harold Sin, as well as bagging
the Silver Jubilee Medal Alderman of
die Redcliffe (out of Brisbane) Shire
Council, and coroner in that district, Hill
is a judge of two Queensland amateur
tur -clubs and for a term represented
Kelvin Grove, Liberal, in the State
Assembly.
“Macnell” on a naval family:—
When Commander Charles Herbert Spurgeon
(passed on in Melbourne at 79, after 43 years’
naval service) came out to join the R.A.N. in
1912, he brought his two nippers with him.
5 e L B S. t „“„ P w„ ,o offi^ 0 ta e the P Australian
Navy. The elder, Arthur Henry Spurgeon,
commander of cruiser Australia in the Mediter-
ranean when I first met him, was known with
respect as the Black Wolf —partly because he
was dark, with a predatory look about his
aquiline features, mainly because he was a
severe disciplinarian. He was, as well, one of
the finest seamen I’ve served with. After
distinguished war service he died in Sydney
m 1942. His brother, S. H. K. Spurgeon,
joined up two years after him, and when
Hitler let loose had a destroyer (appropriately
named Echo) in the British Fifth Flotilla In
her he helped occupy Iceland and lay the North
Sea mine-barrage, and she was the last destroyer
to leave Narvik with evacuated troops. He
won, in December, 1939, D.S.O. for belting a
U-boat, thus becoming the first Australian to
be decorated in War 11. In 1941, a German
armed-merchant-cruiser sank the trooper in
which he was taking passage to Cape Town,
After six days adrift in a lifeboat Spurgeon
was picked up, later to command destroyer
Stuart, of Matapan memory, and fight her at
the recapture of Goodenough Island. He was
the sole Australian representative at the atomic-
bomb business in the Pacific in 1946, and last
Defence “IpreintaUve* His soi joS Ihe
Navy in 1944. His grandfather joined the
R.N. in 1892.
P. S. Eyles is a medico who’ll drop in
on his patients—he having qualified as
a parachutist. Second South Australian
so to do, Eyles is second in command of
the 3rd Field Ambulance and a psychi-
atrist on his normal earthly duties.
“C. 8.”: When Robert George Dovers
sails south from Melbourne in the Kista
Dan as leader of the exploring party to
be landed in Antarctica (B. 5/8/’53), he
will be following in his father’s foot-
steps. Forty years ago George Dovers
left Melbourne as a member of Douglas
Mawson’s Antarctic expedition which
discovered Queen Mary Land and ex-
plored it. His son hopped in first when
there was a chance of a sojourn on Heard
Island in 1947. The survey map he
made while there has been published. He
hopped in again when the French expedi-
tion spent the 1951 winter in Adelie
Land. His brother is Commander Bill
Dovers, D.S.C., the black-bearded skipper
of destroyer Arunta.
Latest arrival on the New Zealand
Supreme Court Bench, A. K. Turner,
Q.C., of Auckland. A governor of
Massey Agricultural College and repre-
sentative of graduates on the Auckland
University College Council.
A life of public service ended when
Sydney Stubbs, C.M.G., G.O.M. of
Westralian politics, passed on in Perth
at 92, not long after he’d attended a
birthday-luncheon at Parliament House.
Teacher and commercial traveller before
setting up in business in Perth in 1894,
he had his first tastes of public life as
mayor of Claremont (1901-1904), and
Mayor of Perth (1906-1907). He entered
the Legislative Council in 1908, moved
to Wagin in 1909, was elected M.L.A.
for that constituency in 1911, and held
the seat without a break until he retired
in 1947, having been Speaker of the
Assembly from 1930 to 1933. Just as
busy outside Parliament, he’d been vice-
president of the Chamber of Commerce,
member of the council of the W.A. In-
stitute for the Blind, the board of the
Perth Children’s Hospital, and the
Royal Agricultural Society. He' was also
a life-governor of the Perth Commercial
Travellers’ Club. Perhaps his proudest
achievement was the part he played in
founding the Home of Peace at Subiaco
for aged and incurable invalids.
Charles Bennett, brought from the
U.S. by a large Melbourne emporium to
sell planning to business- and community-
groups, knows his sales-talk soundly
enough, and lobs at an appropriate time.
He has 30 years of know-how behind
him, and recently drew up master-plans
which are providing the sprawling mass
of Los Angeles with wide, high-speed
roadways and adequate off-street parking
areas. The visitor emphasises that in
America business and commercial leaders
are solidly behind planning, recognising
that the waste and inefficiency of badly-
planned cities adds enormously to costs.
He’s particularly interested in visiting
Canberra, to see the developed result of a
plan drawn up by fellow-countryman
Walter Burley Griffin.
“A.E.S.”: Retired as chief-engineer of
the Electrolytic Zinc Co.’s Risdon works
in Tasmania, B. C. Job, whose job was
handling the engineering side of the
electrolytic extraction of zinc and cad-
mium and the manufacture of sulphuric-
acid and superphosphate. Sydney Uni-
versity gave him his B.E. in mining and
metallurgy, Villers-Bretonneux a bad
gassing, and Electrolytic Zinc a job as
surveyor in 1920. In recent years a big
expansion programme kept him busy con-
structing flash-roasters, contact acid-
plants and a huge sulphate-of-ammonia
plant, still under construction. Job will
be remembered for his knowledge, dignity
and friendliness: he took a special interest
in apprentices.
The post of financial secretary to New
Zealand’s High Commissioner in London
goes to L. G. Durbin, of Wellington.
Graduating in commerce and economics
from Auckland and Victoria University
Colleges, he has been on many investi-
gating commissions on electric and irri-
gation questions. One of his big jobs
in London will be touching the money-
lenders for £10,000,000 for the Murupara
paper-manufacturing project.
There is a link between F. F. Kowarzik,
new g.m. of Australian National Airways,
and the Hoiyman who founded the net-
work. A Victorian bom at Traralgon,
Kowarzik had two years’ with the Ist
A.I.F. in France, and on demob, got a
job with a shipping-agency which hap-
pened to be Holyman’s Melbourne agent.
When William Hoiyman opened his Mel-
bourne office he wanted an accountant;
Kowarzik was appointed. He stayed in
it until Hoiyman expanded from sea to
air and A.N.A. was founded. In 1938
he transferred to the airline, and in 1946
was made assistant g.-m. He is interested
in farming; had his home built on a
farm.
New chairman of the Australian Wool
Bureau nee Wool Board Cuthbert
Bispham Ball is a farmer and grazier of
Katanning (W.A.) He had been mixed
up with most of his State’s producers’
boards and committees before, in 1948,
he joined his present concern. He gets
well away from wool for his recreation
—mechanics.
He dropped down from about 30,000 ft.
(appropriately enough) and stepped on
to the tarmac to meet the barrage of
cameras. Lean and long, with a wiry set
to his shoulders and arms, his hair falling
over his forehead, a grin as wide as an
Everest crevice on his homely face —Sir
Edmund Hillary, the highest man on
earth. In the Press-room, for a solitary
mountaineering type he doesn’t seem to
mind the crowd and the questions. ' A
nipper of five or so approaches shyly,
holding out an autograph-book. Everest’s
conqueror bends, his quick grin lighting
up the craggy face. The cameras flash.
That nipper will have something to tell
his grandchildren about. The jaw and
the grin are the index to character—
the former speaking for the guts and
determination needed for that great
climb, the latter for the comradely
approachableness and easy-to-get-on-with
HIGHEST ON EARTH
nature just as important for Himalayan
conditions. More than a little of the
pa &lf» nbrrnt him too A nnpction from
eagle about mm, too. A question rrom
the side of the crowd and the head snaps
round, definitely, held high, the eyes under
their bushy overhang fixing the questioner
in a momentary, piercing stare. Before
the grin opens.
Landed from the U.S., a few minutes
before Hillary, a bald, quietly genial
gentleman with the easy approach and
all-about shrewdness of the cosmopolitan
American —Amos J. Peaslee, new United
States Ambassador to Australia. A
reputed millionaire, international lawyer
by profession and farmer by preference,
Peaslee owns 150 acres of rich farm-land*
out of Clarksboro, in New Jersey, about
100 miles from New York. His family
began farming there over a century ago.
For 30 years a New York lawyer, he is
secretary-general of the International Bar
Association and a life-member of the
Council of American Society of Inter-
IN FROM AMERICA
national Law, with, in his time, several
internationally-known briefs in his
satchel, their subjects ranging from
sabotage to the German-mark rate of ex-
change. Attached to Pershing’s head-
quarters in France in War I, and later
Judge Advocate of General Court-Martial,
he was back in uniform after Pearl
Harbor, this time with a commander’s
three rings in the Coast Guard, in charge
of anti-sabotage training—something he
had prior knowledge of. Author of a
dozen books, mainly law-studies, he
reckons he could, even now, give a fair
answer to the question “What do you
think of Australia?” For months he’s
done little else but read about it.
At 35, R. L. Harry becomes Aus-
tralian Consul-General in Geneva, re-
lieving Patrick Shaw. Of Launceston
Grammar and the University of Tasmania,
Harry finished up at Oxford, his island’s
Rhodes Scholar for 1938. Also of the
2nd A.1.F., he has had business diplo-
matic in Ottawa, Washington and New
York.
Into the Silence:
At Hastings (N.Z.), at 71, Edric Harold
Stringer, a veteran of the Boer war and a
captain in the Kaiser’s. Between those wars he
indulged in Rugby, rowing and amateur athletics,
sang in and conducted choirs round Christ-
church, and worked as advertising-agent for
10 years on the two Hawkes Bay papers—the
“Tribune” and the “Herald.” Another of his
interests was the stimulation of rivalry among
Maoris in their songs and dances, as a prize
for which he presented the Tauhine Rangiuia
Shield.
In Sydney, at 90, Harington Burrough
Cowper, the eldest survivor of a fourth
generation in Australia bearing that name—
Archdeacon William Cowper having arrived in
Sydney in 1809 as chaplain to Governor Mac-
quarie. H. B. Cowper was the eldest grandson
of William Cowper, first Anglican Dean of
Sydney, who remained so until his death forty
years later in 1902, and is survived by three
generations of Cowpers. H.B. was in the
insurance business, practised as a chartered
accountant, secretary to Sydney Grammar
School for 40 years, and was Senior Lay Canon
of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, as well as a member
of the Standing Committee of General Synod.
He was also the oldest surviving old-boy of
the oldest continuous public school in Australia
—the Launceston Church Grammar School,
In Brisbane, at 63, Stewart Gordon Dick,
one of the city’s best-known journalists. As
political roundsman for the old “Daily Man
and the “Courier-Mail,” he was intimate with
a succession of Queensland Premiers from E. G.
Theodore to E. M. Hanlon. For a number
of years he was also chief-of-staff of both
newspapers. Since 1949 he had been publicity-
officer of the Queensland Department of Agri-
culture and Stock, and assistant-editor ot
departmental publications.


SPURRED TO ACTION


ABORIGINALITIES
“Pandanus”: Johnny, my Friendly
Islander, had already imported a sewing-
machine from New Zealand, and to in-
crease his prestige he had big ideas of
sending to Sydney for merchandise. So
he perpetrated the following epistle to
“Anthony Hordern and Sons; Dear
Sir, I am very glad to received your
liberty on 29th. Let thine hand help me
for I have chosen your true. My lips
shall utter praise when thou hast taught
me thy statutes. If you please you will
send to me in next boat a two bag flower
2001 b. each. One case salt biff 1501 b.
each. Two case of four tin. Two bag
of white sugger 561 b. each. Please you
kindly show me in next boat a cost of
this. Soap per each or one doz. Tin
for house roof 23in. wide 6ft. long or
7ft. long or Bft. long or 10ft. long each.
Per each bag or box or one ton. I hope
you understand. Yours faithfully, John
Esau Isaki.” I duly translated it into
business English, but kept the original
to exemplify the crimes committed by
the Mormon missionaries.
♦ * * ♦
“Johnny”: To “breed like a guinea-
pig” is a simile that is as common as
it is inaccurate. The female rabbit will
mate immediately when joined with the
male, produce her litter and at once mate
again if given the chance, all within 28
days, the average number of young
reared to weaning-age being six. The
female mouse comes in season every
four days, produces her first litter at ten
weeks old, three weeks after mating
rearing an average of five young. The
female rat comes in season every four
days, produces her batch at 14 weeks
old, again, like the mouse, three weeks
after mating, and rears an average of
eight. But the female guinea-pig (and
1 rear thousands for scientific purposes)
takes 17 days to come in season and
70 days later produces on an average two
offspring. During one 12-month period
I had the males in with the females for
nine months, and from 200 females the
natural increase was just on 1000.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bayley Street”: That two-up-playing
Afghan who was able to stake his racing
camel for £3OO (B. 1/7/’53) must have
struck a very accom-
modating bettor. The
highest price I ever knew
paid in the Old Camp
for a riding camel was
£Bo—it was bought by
Lord Fingal from Faiz
Mahomet; the average
price for a camel was
£4O. But Lord Fingal
didn’t mind paying big
prices: he parted with
£lOO,OOO for the London-
derry Golden Hole,
which proved to be one
of the worst “duffers” of
the Coolgardie fields.
* * *
“Villefair”; About 25
years ago Australian
birdlovers awoke to the
fascinating possibilities
in breeding budgerigars.
Soon the “common old
bush-green” became
almost valueless —a won-
derful new range of
colors had supplanted
him: yellows, blues,
mauves, silvers, olives,
and so on. By skilful
line-breeding with an
assistance from Nature
that she has never given
to any other bird, the
budgerigar’s colorings
became more gorgeous,
varied and unbelievable;
now the types run into
hundreds—and still new
colors are being achieved.
A very modest follower
of the hdbby himself, I
was enjoying a tour
through the aviaries of a
particularly keen budgie-
fancier when he stopped
me to point with pride:
“Look at that pair, the
size of ’em and the rich-
ness of the green! ” They
were striking; contrasted
with them the other
greens looked colorless. I asked what
colors had been crossed to breed such
birds, “I bought ’em,” he said. “Paid
twenty-five bob a pair for ’em and
would’ve paid twice as much. They’re
straight from the Territory—bush-bred
greens.” The turn of the wheel has put
the poor relation on top. Today he is
needed in a thousand aviaries—to build
up the strength of his aristocratic cousins,
who have become weaklings through ex-
cessive inbreeding.
* * * *
“V.J.H.”: Recently, in stormy weather
driving north from Antarctica, a giant
petrel, overpowered by its natural element,
took shelter in the lee of North Mole,
Fremantle Harbor, It bore a ring which
had been placed on its leg at West Cape,
Heard Island, in January, when it was
a chick, which meant that its first major
flight was at lehst 2500 miles. It had
been approached as it nestled to its
mother on the wild headland. As the
“Steady there , Nugget, y’ll be gettin' me pinched f'r drivin'
under the influence.”
man who banded it drew near, the
mother opened her viciously curved beak
and hurled a stream of green liquid at
him. The chick did the same, but was
much more accurate, and the birdringer,
after a day of almost continuous barrage,
went home smelling rather vile. Hun-
dreds of these huge birds nest in shallow
depressions on cliffs and headlands at
Heard Island, There is a theory that
they fly once around the storm-belt en-
circling the Antarctic Continent before
returning to their home island to nest
each summer. Wonderfully graceful in
“Is that the Exchange?... What's that
tapping on the line ?”
flight, they are incredibly ugly on the
ground. Meat-eaters, they gorge them-
selves on rotten seal-carcasses until too
heavy to fly, when they waddle into the
water and wait until digestion relieves
them of their burden.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We hit Forbes (N.S.W.)
one time just after the Lachlan had
flooded the place, and we got a fair bit of
work rebuilding fences, cleaning-up
orchards and so forth. Then the publi-
can at the Globe offered us a tenner to
clean out his cellar, now dry, but choked
with debris and flood-silt. He wanted it
done in a hurry, so we rigged an electric-
light on a lead and worked by night as
well as day. One night Mat was down
the cellar and I’m above hauling up
buckets of silt when he called “Hey,
there’s a flamin’ snake down here. Lower
the ladder.” Just as I made for the ladder
the lights went out. Fumbled round and
got the ladder down to him. The publi-
can brought a kero.-lamp. Mat looked
a bit white about the gills. “You better
have a whisky,” the publican said. “Y’
don’t look too good.” Mat got the
whisky into him. “You wouldn’t look
too good, either,” he asserted, “down a
cellar in the dark with a flamin’ rattle-
snake!” “Rattlesnake!” I said, “No
rattlesnakes in this country.” “Well,”
Mat came back, reaching for the whisky-
bottle, “it must have been his bloomin’
teeth I heard chatterin’.”
* * * «
“Bass”: Further on tree-felling as a
fine art; All other things being equal,
on level ground a tree will fall towards
its lean or towards the side having the
most overhang. On a slope it’ll fall
downhill. But when an expert axeman
is on the job all things aren’t equal—his
skill becomes the deciding factor, and can
influence the fall to a big extent. Any
man felling trees in the big-timber
country in W.A. has to be able to drop
a tree the way he wants it to go. There,
trees for the mills are selected by Forestry
Department inspectors, who stipulate they
must be dropped in such a way that
young trees in the vicinity aren’t
damaged. A feller who knows his job
puts his scarf and saw-cut in such a way
that when the tree is about to fall the
trunk is left uncut on the side towards
which he wants it to fall. That uncut
piece pulls the tree over to that side.
In sou’-Westralia the practice is to put
a comparatively small scarf in the side
towards which the tree is to fall and then
put the saw-cut in from the other side.
The effect is the same. After the saw-
cut passes the half-way mark the uncut
part of the trunk is on the falling side
and pulls the tree that way. The scarf
merely ensures that the trunk will break
clear of the stump. There’s a limit to
how far a tree can be turned away from
its natural fall, but if it hasn’t a very
decided lean a good feller can drop it
along a stipulated line.
* * ♦ *,
“Sackfair”: Apparently Gippsland
beach-honeysuckle differs from its
counterpart in N.S.W. (B. 29/7/’53).
I’ve used the N.S.W. stuff in inlay-work
and found that it can be made to look
very attractive —but only after it has
been thoroughly filled and polished.
“Two coats of clear varnish” on such
porous timber would give no better finish
than a honeycomb effect. Possibly
scarcity may account for the timber be-
ing seldom used these days, but I submit
that, unless it would make good veneer,
it would be a back-number in any case.
Laminated panels and water-resisting
plywoods have long supplanted “solid”
timber suites, and, although the joinery
is often deplorable in even the most ex-
pensive furniture, it must be admitted
that the “quartering” and figured effects
achieved in veneers sometimes outshines
nature.
* * * «
“Gravelsnatcher”: W.A. has decided
to build a connecting fence between its
two main rabbitproof fences, with the
idea of stopping the emus which yearly
come down from the Murchison and
play hell with the wheat-crops. The
idea’s sound, but this fence is going to
cost over £50,000, so someone has sug-
gested that the money be spent instead
on sending the Army against the big
birds. It’s been tried before, and it
didn’t work. In 1932 a machine-gun
force took up positions around dams and
in paddocks in areas where flocks
numbered over 1000. On one occasion
they opened fire at short range and got
a few birds, but the rest did more damage
getting away than the few casualties
were worth. On the open plains, or even
in a 2000-acre-paddock, the guns weren’t
in it with the emus, which could seemingly
take considerable lead and still remain
highly mobile.
♦ * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The tide was out on
Werri Beach, South Coast (N.S.W.), but
along high-water mark a wide, black
fringe extended like a scalloped border.
From a distance I thought fine coal had
been washed up on the clean sand;
at closer range I saw that the small
objects were beetles, a belt of them
averaging 2ft. wide and extending 200yds.
Most of them being still alive, the seagulls
should have been having a glorious tuck-
in, but not a gull was on the beach-
flocks bobbing on the blue water about half
a mile off-shore gave evidence of pheno-
menal runs of small fish. Towards even-
ing two magpies wheeled cautiously over-
head, landed with even more caution,
and nervously began to consume the
beetles. Maggies abound in that locality,
but until then I had never seen one
venture on to the beach. Judging by the
nervous ditherings of those two as the
rising tide swished an occasional ripple
close to their restless feet, Maggie is the
landlubberest of all avian landlubbers.
Whence came the beetles I haven’t the
foggiest.
♦ * # »
“Mabsout”: One of the grievances of
disgruntled British immigrants in the
hostels is that they get too much steak
for tea and not enough fish-and-chips
or winkles. Their resentment is perfectly
justified. The old pioneers wouldn’t have
stood it for a moment. Nobody would
have dared put a great slab of steak in
front of my Yorkshire-born grandfather
at the end of a hard day when he was
pioneering in Gippsland. If his piece of
flake and two-pennorth of chips wasn’t
ready he’d shout the house down. One
day Grandmother couldn’t get any fish
and had to hastily put together a scratch
meal of roast-beef and dumplings with
baked potatoes, French-beans, cauliflower
and horse-radish sauce. She still shudders
at the scene that followed when my
grandfather came in with his axe on
his shoulder, hot, sweaty and tired after
clearing scrub all day, and founds that
awaiting him.
IN MEMORY OF THE DARWIN
GARRISON, LAND, SEA AND AIR:
FOR VJ DAY, 1953
The sun is rising at Fanny Bay, where the
mangroves sweat in the muddied waters.
The rains are on, and the dripping day brings
new decay to the old headquarters.
(In Darwin town the barmen strain
To shift the kegs to the Birdum train;
For Darwin’s thirst improves with rain.)
Red rubbish rots at the Seven Mile where the
dead-marines still keep their glitter;
Green gasmasks gather in single file and for-
gotten boots lie in fungused litter.
(In Darwin town the Chinese moan
And greet their New Year with each groan—
But the lonely dead remain alone.)
They won no glory at Alamein and their
Darwin days would scarce have counted
When the world whirled back to Peace again,
and the rippling rows of medals mounted.
(In Darwin town they died in haste
As the bombers dived and the Zeros chased,
And the youngsters fell as the bombs were
placed.)
Do we name them now at the Cenotaphs, when
the bugles sob and the padres preach?
Yet death demanded their autographs in the
Darwin streets, on the Darwin beach
And Darwin town remembers them
And sees their lusty limbs again
When the past parades with the Darwin men.
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.


AN IMPORTANT THING
ABOUT A GOOD WHISKY
IS . . .
FLAVOUR
the name is
(D c CdlUuns
the whisky is
—and in McCallum’s one
finds the palate-pleasing
flavour of a good Scotch
whisky unhurriedly and
competently brought to
perfection over the years.
Wholly distilled
and blended in Scotland
MciHing drama of suspense and excitement I
t
t
f
I 1
:
iWmW®
WSm
m
■feStV.-«K-«
}-
aes.
% rri
An enthralling series of original self-contained quarter-hour dramas bringing
you the finest writers, actors and actresses in Australian radio. For the
, , , fascinating best in radio entertainment don’t miss this
Produced by brilliant weekly drama, sponsored by Scotts Emulsion,
the world’s largest selling cod-liver oil emulsion.
%
“Kalia”: Leaping possums (B.
15/7/’53)? I scrambled off the top of
a rope-ladder about 100 ft. from the
ground and began cutting steps for the
rest of the climb. The noise disturbed
a possum somewhere above me and I
saw her, with a young one on her back,
run up a sloping limb and sit, watching
me, in the swaying outer branches. My
getting on to her bough a little later was
evidently too much for her and she
turned and sprang straight out for a
near-by turpentine. Her load, however,
was too great—her grasping claws ripped
through the leaves and twigs and with a
sickening feeling I saw her crash through
a bunch of leaves, 20ft. below, and then
hurtle on, straight through to the ground.
A fire had lately passed over it, and
she struck the hard burnt soil like a
bursting sack of mud and seemed to
split in two, but a moment later the two
parts, herself and the young fellow,
ambled over to the turpentine and
climbed up.
* • « •
“Bass”; A company has been formed
to gather guano from islands off the
W.A. coast —and people who wouldn’t
know a shag from a musk-duck are talk-
ing reverently of the pied cormorant.
They’re like large black-and-white shags,
with wing-spans up to 4ft,, and you’ll
see them flying in flocks low over the
water and on a dead straight course.
They nest in colonies on the ground or
in low bushes, and a recent survey gave
a rough estimate of about 20,000 birds
in the colonies along one side of Dirk
Hartog Island. Before the turn of the
century something like 200,000 tons of
guano was taken from the islands, prin-
cipally those off the Kimberley coast, and
there’s probably about a couple of
hundred tons deposited now. As
moneyspinners the birds aren’t in
the same class as the famous colonies
off the Peruvian coast, but with
protection they might build up a good
guano-supply. There’d be a howl from
the fishermen, but it wouldn't be entirely
warranted. They take a few edible fish
from the ocean, but in the estuaries they
live almost entirely on gobblegutz.
* ♦ * *
“Archaen”: Touching on tobacco in
New Guinea (B. 1/7/’53), the first
Spaniards to visit the Philippines for
trading purposes took various seeds and
plant-cuttings with them, tobacco in-
cluded. The cultivation of tobacco, its
curing and use then spread, through
Chinese and Malay traders, to the
Asiatic mainland. Later, Chinese and
Malay seafarers took the tobacco-plant
to Indonesia and it spread thence to New
Guinea through the Malay bird-of-
paradise feather-traders. By about 1800
tobacco-growing and -smoking had spread
“ You'll find th' two-up school fifty yards inside th' timber .”
throughout New Guinea and many of
the adjacent islands. The only place in
the Pacific where the Polynesians grew
and used tobacco prior to Captain Cook’s
voyages was one valley in the Marquesas.
♦ ♦ * *
“Macnell”; George Caiger’s article on
pidgin (B. 5/8/’53) reminded me of the
time our first-lieutenant discovered that
not all kanakas used it. Our frigate had
slipped into a deserted bay near Buna,
the object of the exercise a vegetable-
garden up in the hills. Halfway there,
sweating, dry, and cursing Number One,
whose idea it was, we came on an elderly
native splitting coconuts on an old
bayonet stuck in a stump. Number One
looked round importantly, “Anyone
want a drink? I speak this bloke’s lingo.
Been up here before, y’ know.” We
nodded thirstily. Number One stepped
forward and began his harangue, chief
words of which were “fella,” “coconut
belong tree” and “bring ’em ’e come.”
We listened in admiration. So did the
boong. At his apparently non-under-
standing grin. Number One repeated his
turn, adding a few more eloquent phrases
for our benefit. At which the aged one
rose, dropped his coconut, bowed slightly
to our first-lieutenant and asked: “Would
you prefer them ripe or green, sir?”
« • ♦ •
“N.M.G.”: There have been moves
in Tasmania to have the remains of
Truganini, last of the Tasmanian abo-
rigines, removed from their present rest-
ing-place in the Tasmanian Museum and
buried on Bruny Island, Her dying wish
was that her body be weighted and sunk
in the deepest part of the D’Entre-
casteaux Channel, which separates Bruny
Island from the mainland. She feared
that her body would be cut up for study
by scientists, the fate of friends and rela-
tives who died before her. But her last
wish was not respected. She was buried
near the Cascades, on the fringe of
Hobart Town. The precaution was taken
of covering her grave with a thick concrete
slab, as the grave of King Billy, last of
the full-blooded male aborigines to sur-
vive, had earlier been opened and its
contents looted. Two years later Tru-
ganini’s remains were removed to the
museum in Hobart and placed on public
exhibition. There they stayed until 1942,
when they were withdrawn from public
gaze and reserved for scientific examina-
tion only. Removal to Bruny Island
would be a just if belated gesture to
the memory of the last of the Speck s
original occupants.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“B. A. Ker”: I’m familiar enough with
blue herons wading the swamps and
shallow waterholes in search of
food and, after rain, sometimes doing a
bit of scrounging in the squelching
grass beside them. Lately, however, a pair
have taken to stalking through the long,
dead paspalum on the dry slopes that
have not been splashed with rain for
months, their actions still as leisurely,
purposeful and, apparently, just as profit-
able. What they were living on caused
considerable debate. This was settled
when one of them came stalking up the
hill, poised about 20 paces from the
house, then suddenly speared something
on the ground. A slight tilt of the
bird’s bill and the mouse was in the
right place for a good champing, then-
down the hatch. I’m speculating on the
chances of taming a couple of the gawky
birds—on their apparent form they’d
make Dick Whittington’s cat look like
the mouse’s friend.
« * * *
“Kelms”: Once struck a Wesfralian
claypan whose couple of feet of water
was alive with water-beetles. These live
entirely in the water, but surface at short
intervals for air. They shoot from the
bottom of the pond to the surface, gulp,
and dive. About sunset they changed
their tactics. Instead of pausing at the
surface to take in air they continued
straight out of the water and took to flight.
They seemed as much at home in the
air as in the water, but after about five
minutes mass-flying they dived back in
again and settled down for the night.
Possibly they are capable of making a
sustained flight to another waterhole
when the one they’re in dries up.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Tracker”: Nipper and I had blown
our bark-stripping cheque and were
camped on the Goulburn at Shepparton
(Vic.) waiting for the apricot season to
open. It was a hungry wait. The locals
had been bitten so often that bagmen
were as popular as flying-foxes. At
the last place we tried a hatchet-
faced woman sternly informed us
she had neither tea, bread, jam nor
sugar. When she said she hadn’t soap
either, Nipper gave a whistle and ex-
claimed “’Struth, Missus, you are in a
bad way. You may as well pack your
traps and come scroungin’ with us!” It
was then that she whistled, and out came
her old man and 15-stone son. It wasn’t
till we reached Mooroopna that we
stopped bleeding, and by then we had
pernicious anaemia.
A LOST SONG
Butcherbird singing in the tree,
(O my heart adore him!),
his notes, warm, round and tree,
shining out before him.
Butcherbird! Butcherbird!
Sing, my tongue, to bribe him
to teach to me his golden word,
with eager.pen to scribe him.
But the words hang bleak and grey
(come, my thought, inspire them!)
as heavy clouds on a chilly day
with no sun to fire them.
Bird gone; the music wrong.
Sigh not, soul, in sorrow.
Another bird, another song,
another love tomorrow.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


PENFOLDS
★ ★ ★
BRANDY
ƒ
STOP PAIN!
DOLCIN
QUICKLY
EASES
f|SW
SC***
NE UB' TIS
m
«wn*
f
No matter how much you’ve suffered in the past,
you can be sure that Dolcin will give you prompt
and prolonged relief from the pains of arthritis,
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, neuritis and gout.
Since Dolcin was perfected by American scientists
five years ago, thousands of men and women through-
out the world have proven its effectiveness. An
endless stream of letters of thanks
testify that Dolcin has given
prompt relief where all other
treatments have failed.
100 TABLETS
FOR 12/6
Get relief from pain today
TRADE MARK
FOR ALL RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS
Write for informative literature to Dolcin (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Box 1552, 6.P.0., Sydney.
“ssT
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Forward ’Change Dealings
This week Sydney Stock Ex-
change has returned to forward
dealings in all listed stocks ex-
cept Government loans and
semi-government securities.
Forward dealing involves what
is known as “bulling” and
“bearing.” A “bull” is a person
who buys a stock for delivery
in, say, six weeks at a price
determined now, but payable
only when the scrip is delivered.
Generally the “bull” hopes to sell
on a rising market before he has
to take delivery of (and make
full payment for) the stock. The
bull is an optimist in respect
of the stock in which he is
trading.
A bear, on the other hand,
sells scrip for delivery in, say,
six weeks—scrip which he does
not yet possess, but which he
hopes to buy-in on the market
at a figure lower than his selling-
price before he has to deliver.
He works on the principle that
the stock concerned, at the time
he sells, is overvalued, and that
within six weeks the market
trend will have justified his
belief, and shown him a profit.
Unrestricted forward trading
can result in vigorous gambling
on ’Change, especially in mining
shares. In pre-war years cases
were known of oversold gold
shares, worthless as an invest-
ment, bringing an artificially
high price because of bears,
“caught short,” trying to cover,
with holders of the scrip
(aware of the position) putting
the squeeze on. There was a
spirited bull-bear battle in the
case of Mandated Alluvials, and
many fingers were burned,
mostly those of bulls.
Little stimulation to gambling
is expected from the reintro-
duction of time-bargains on
Sydney ’Change. A bear,
under present rules, may
not sell at a price lower than
the last recorded cash sale, or
selling quotation, whichever is
the lower. Also, in the case of
any time-bargain involving min-
ing shares, at least 33| p.c.
“cover” must be put up by the
client with his own broker, and
25 p.c. in the case of other
shares. Where securities are
offered as “cover” they will be
accepted at 75 p.c. of their
market-value.
Where a bear is not permitted
deliberately to force down
prices by his own price-cutting,
his bearing technique is thereby
limited in scope.
Forward-trading is a feature
of most markets of the world.
“Wool futures” and “wheat
futures” are part of the system,
while “spot” and “forward”
prices are a feature of the
London metal market. Time-
bargains in shares are of
less economic value than the
system of commodity-market
futures, but it is probably true
that worthless goldmines such as
Mt. Eba (in which Woolcott
Forbes had a directing hand)
would never have climbed to such
false values on ’Change if bears
had been permitted .to sell the
stock “short.” Unless a project
—industrial, financial or mining
—can deliver the goods in actual
profits it is an invitation to the
debunking activities of the
bear.
Malcolm Moore Industries
Market inquiry has carried the
£1 “old” ords. of Malcolm
Moore Industries, Melbourne,
up to 465. 6d., after a long spell
at around 425. At 465. 6d.,
cum div., the yield is 9
p.c. so long as the 20 p.c. div.
is maintained. The scrip there-
fore has attractions as a possible
“sweetener” in a portfolio of
other investments offering a
lower yield but adjudged to
promise greater security of
capital and div. ,
The management knows its
business, even if that business is
subject to variations in the
supply of money for public
works and in capital investment
generally. The organisation
(now split up into several operat-
ing subsidiaries) grew up prin-
cipally on the manufacture of
roadmaking machinery, mobile
cranes and materials-handling
equipment. Hundreds of
materials-handling plants of
Moore manufacture are at work
in all States, unloading from
ships and railway trucks, on
wharves, at power-stations, gas-
works, mines and other industrial
undertakings—millions of tons
of coal and materials are dealt
with every year. More recently
the nrianagement became inter-
ested in earthmoving and power-
farming equipment, but, while
these are attractive profit-
earners in boom times, the
deipand for tractors and bull-
dozers has dropped during the
past two years.
In 1951-52, when the impact
of slacker times was felt, the con-
solidated profit was equal to
36.9 p.c. on ord. capital, and
20 p.c. was paid. Interim de-
clared in April was at the same
rate. Figures for the year to
June 30 will be available
later this month. During the
period £262,500 in new ord.
capital has come in, making the
total ord. money £650,000, pref.
(5 p.c.) £400,000. To pay the
prefs. and maintain 20 p.c, to all
the ords. for a full year the total
profit will need to keep above
£150,000 in 1953-54—the net
figure for 1951-52 was £150,534.
How much reliance can be
placed on the interim for the
past year as a guide to the future,
especially in view of the higher
capitalisation, has yet to be seen.
But much of the new capital has
gone into the Springvale plant,
which is making bulk-handling
equipment, and it expects to be
busy for years to come. The
crane-manufacturing subsidiary
is also fully occupied. These
represent the foundations of
present profit-earning. At 465.
6d. for the shares the yield of
9 p.c, allows for some reduction
in the div. should that eventually
become necessary.
Associated Tobacco
Several cos. have issued
unsecured convertible notes since
Repco, Ltd., introduced the idea
to Australian investors in
December last, but Associated
Tobacco Manufacturers (Hold-
ings), Ltd., is the first to try an
issue while its ord. shares are
standing below par in the
market. It is asking shareholders
to take up £lOO,OOO-worth of
6 p.c, unsecured notes, maturing
in October, 1958, or convertible
at the holder’s option to ord.
shares of equal face-value in
October, 1957. Its ss. ords, are
now selling at 4s. Id. on Sydney
’Change. So the conversion
privilege isn’t at present much
attraction.
Issues of convertible notes by
other concerns were generally
made with the intention of
avoiding a dividend - liability
on the new money while
it wasn’t fully earning its
keep, and at the same time
getting the benefit of the
note-interest as a tax-deduction.
Associated Tobacco would have
little chance of raising the money
by an ord.-share issue at present
anyway.
The co. was promoted in
Sydney by the Moulton stable,
which has been, and still is,
associated with various other
tobacco, timber and bond- and
debenture-selling ventures, in-
cluding Queensland Forests, Ltd.
An issue of 560,000 ss, ords. to
the public in June, 1951, took
the newly-registered holding co.’s
capital to £250,000. The money
“you beaut! Another four to Miller !”
was wanted to build a £30,000
factory for the 20-year-old
operating co.’s business (it hadn’t
earned a profit till 1944), buy
leaf and provide more working
capital.
Prospectus expectations were
for profits, before tax, of £23,000
a year; after getting into the
new factory £52,000 a year,
In the 1951-52 term, the
figure was £17,472, consolidated
probt was £9172, which fell
£6368 short of the 7 p.c. div.-
payment by the parent.
To finance its ambitious plans
for cigarette-manufacture, the
board asked shareholders in
November, 1952, to put up
another £250,000 of ord. capital;
most of the 1951 capital had
already been used to buy
“imported and Australian leaf
suitable for high-grade
cigarettes.” The surprising thing
about fiiis issue was that £25,000
came in ; the shares were then
selling around 45., and had been
below par for some time.
In Ap nl last the board said
that it was negotiating for out-
side finance, which it hoped
would be enough for cigarette-
manufacture as originally
planned. It also “confidently
anticipated” a div. of not less
than 7 p.c. for the year. What-
ever outside money was then
forthcoming, the directors are
now trying their luck with con-
vertible notes.
With the note-issue prospectus
comes a preliminary statement to
shareholders which says that a
record turnover resulted in a
“substantial increase” in net
profits for the June 30, 1953,
term, and that a 7 p.c. div. will
be recommended,
Such a div. would call for
£18,025. Though the co. is able
to submit consolidated balance-
figures to June 30, 1953, it
Qes not g j ve its consolidated
p ro fit-and-loss results for the
ear
y ' . , - ~ .
,_ Sta ed r f ason for . the lssue 1S
that rapidly increasing turnover
calls for further capital to finance
new equipment and working
capital.” No mention is made
of the cigarette project, or when
the factory is likely to be
occupied,
With the ord. shares below
par, the notes aren’t attractive
from a conversion point of view,
so muS { t> e judged as a fixed-
interest security. The business
has grown in the last few years
conditions of an
..,, . , .
f uto tobacco-products shortage.
J n ,_, a c^att y circular to shaie-
holders sent out last December
managing-director R. C. Moul-
ton said “This will probably be
the last opportunity of purchas-
ing new shares in an Australian
tobacco-manufacturing co. at
par.” Well, the old ss. shares
can now be picked up around
4s. Id.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
■
■
■
V-
-51?
‘ Jj
■
■
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROFOLE”
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
{with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated In New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
EDWARD B. KNOX, Chairman. DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT, Deputy Chairman,
ROBERT J. VICARS, C.8.E., ERNEST W. STREET, GREGORY B. KATBR,
ALEXANDER H. DICKINS.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNE.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1953.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting
to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 18th August, 1953, at noon precisely.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Authorised £12,000,000
in 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued —379,121 Shares of £25 each £9,478,025
4,739,012 10
4,739,012 10 0
4,700,000 0 0
Lest: Reserve Capital of £l2/10/- per share
Paid up
Reserve Fund (wholly used In the business of the Bank)
Final Dividend proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders’ Funds £9,843,459
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, Including provisions for
contingencies 190,506,822 19 10
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £15,430,027 2
Money at Short Call In London 1,281,250 0
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia .... 41,400,000 0
Cheques and Bills of other Banks and Balances with and
due from other Banks 4,101,868 19
Treasury Bills—Australian Governments 19,000,000 0
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills) —at or below
market value (including £4,000 lodged with Public
Authorities) —
Australian Government Securities 31,598,003 18
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 13,091,251 5
-£125,902,401 5 3
9
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting provisions for debts
considered bad or doubtful) 73,154,200 11
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites —at cost, less amounts written off 1,399,656 5
All other Assets 1,586,083 19
£202,042,342 1 4
D. R. LYSAGHT]
B. J. VICARS j
Directors.
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the Head Office
and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and counted the Cash at the
Head Office. We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required, and in
our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of
the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations
given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is required to
keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept. w w m a rurrc amr i
Sydney, 17th July. 1953. FRANCIS B. OLIVER \ Auditors -
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1952, at the rate
of 8 per cent, per annum, paid on 23rd January, 1953
„ Transfer to Reserve Fund
~ Reduction of Bank Premises Account
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June, 1953, at the
rate of 8 per cent, per annum £189,,560 10 0
„ Amount carried forward 214,886 0 1
£189,560 10
50.000 0
25.000 0
404,446 10 1
£669,007 0 1
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1952
„ Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1953, after payment of all expenses
of management (including Directors’ Fees, £7,000) and provision for
taxes and for rebate on current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits,
and for bad and doubtful debts and other contingencies
D. R. LYSAGHT]
R. J. VICARS |
Directors.
: 198,382 3 10
470,624 16 3
£669,007 0 1
E. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors,
A. S. OSBORNE, General Manager.
1953 RESERVE FUND.
June 30 To Balance (wholly used in the business of the Bank) carried forward £4,700.000 0 0
1952
1953
June 30
Transfer from Profit and Loss Account
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Arbitration and “Stability”
No one knows how the Arbi-
tration Court will use its wider
powers since it was freed in
May from a statutory obligation
that could mean nearly anything.
Until then it had to consider,
in making wage-adjustments,
whether its orders were “likely
to promote the economic
stability of the Dominion.” As
the years went by the feeling
grew among workers that the
court was being used to hold
down wages by some imaginary
yardstick while prosperity for
the primary producers and busi-
ness flowed as never before, a
position that was something
ironic, seeing that the Socialists
were the ones who conceived the
strange idea of “economic
stability.” It’s time the pretence
that there can be stability in a
young, virile and rapidly
developing economy was un-
masked and discarded.
In practice the statutory
change might not have much
effect on wages, as the court
never acted as if it believed in
stability but aimed at maintain-
ing balance, which is what it
must continue to do. When it
comes down to tin-tacks, the
court has to take into account
the cost of living, changes in
the incomes of those who are
not wage-earners, the flow of
prosperity, and the general
financial, trading and industrial
state of things, all of which it
had to consider before.
If N.Z.’s income levelled out,
or fell back here and there, the
court would have to watch its
step; it couldn’t lilt wages in
an ebb-tide. In that case it
would have to mark-time and
leave real wages to take the
strain. Up to last year award
rates have followed real wages,
at a respectable distance, while
employers bid against one
another for workers and paid
fancy rates or bonuses, or
workers made the most of their
bargaining-power to get more
than the court awarded. Some
of these gains have been dis-
appearing over the past twelve
months, and this has helped in
adjusting wage-costs, with little
disturbance to employment, but
the farmers have done so well
since the last wage-revision that
the court has been badly out of
favor with the workers for mis-
calculating the trend of pros-
perity, regardless of how busi-
ness, which pays the lion’s share
of wages, has been doing.
The struggle for stability,
which has been lost in the
post-war years, has provoked one
of N.Z.’s leading economists,
Prof. H. Belshaw, to comment:
“Economic stability does not
exist, and it is difficult to dis-
cuss anything that does not
exist; so we talk about
instability, which means ups and
downs. When people want ‘more
stability’ they mean they don’t
want the downs, but they don’t
object to the ups. To have
growth there must be instability,
including ‘downs’ for somebody.
No instability means no growth.
Factors making for instability
include external influences or
internal economic conditions,
growth of population, new in-
ventions, changes in the volume
of credit and savings, and
changes in consumer demand,
prices and incomes. Public
policy is" a compromise, sacrific-
ing some growth for a lesser
degree of instability, and
some stability for growth,”
Flexibility is a great asset, and
the Arbitration Court knows it.
If departments which have more
power than they know how to
use properly had been equally
sound and broadminded, the
court’s task would be easier to-
day.
Coal and the Railways
Since the change from coal
shortage to surplus, over the past
eighteen months, the State, as
almost a monopoly owner of the
coalfields, has been looking
around for ways and means to
get rid of the output, and the
best outlet, barring obstacles,
should be the State railways,
which could use much more.
The catch is that the locomo-
tive-men won’t hear of a change
back to coal to fire big engines
converted to oil-burning in the
’forties, when coal was scarce.
Fuel costs jumped with the
switch-over to oil, but that
couldn’t be helped when it was
a case of keeping the trains run-
ning at all costs. Today it’s a
different matter, and the Rail-
ways Department, lately placed
under the control of a five-man
commission, is keenly on the
look-out for economies to put
the outfit on a paying basis.
To the outsider there’s more
scope for cutting costs than for
lifting earnings, and the fuel-bill
is one of the first items in need
of the pruning knife. Oil-fired
locos cost around 86d. a mile
to run on oil, against 39d. on
coal, so the cost would be more
than halved by the change, quite
apart from the gain through
saving exchange and putting new
life into the coal industry.
But the change isn’t one that
could be made with a wave of
the hand, even if the engine
crews were willing. Coaling a
big loco, is hard, skilled work.
The firemen of years ago are
drivers today, and there’s no
one with the skill to step into
the breach. The Railways Com-
mission can’t go the tough way
and ignore the opposition,
which would bring a crop of
resignations and a transport
crisis; only countries with a
manpower surplus can force the
issue in a case like this.
For years the railways have
been understaffed, train services
have been reduced and business
has gravitated to road operators.
Soothe men are on the box-seat,
and oil, costly or not, seems here
for a long while yet.
Price-decontrol
When the Holland Govern-
ment plucked-up courage at the
end of July to decontrol 100 lines
from the list of goods subject to
price-orders it made a big song
about it, hoping, no doubt, to
retrieve some of its lost prestige
after dilly-dallying on this issue
for so long. What it didn’t men-
tion was the effect on the cost-
of-living, or the number of items,
running into many hundreds, still
under price-control, two omis-
sions which manufacturers and
traders were not slow to make
good. The public was left in no
doubt about the emptiness of the
gesture, so far as it was likely
to benefit the average man.
Many of the freed lines were
insignificant as they affected liv-
ing costs.
Textile- and garment-manu-
facturers, who had been hard hit
by the flood of imports last year,
were caustic in their comments
on a move which touched only
the fringe of the problem.
They’d been counting on total
decontrol, which would have
been the only sensible course
when the market was supplied
with “such an abundance of
clothing of all kinds.” What they
needed was complete freedom in
pricing to meet fashion risks,
switches in demand and high
costs, much higher than those of
manufacturers abroad, who were
putting in a strong challenge.
Said their national president, H.
Chapman: “There is ample
evidence today of fierce competi-
tion in catering for a discriminat-
ing and price-conscious market,
which is an assurance that no
general price-rise would result
from decontrol.”
Equally derisive was the atti-
tude of the N.Z. Manufacturers’
Federation, which said, through
its president, J. H. Manning, that
this was nothing more than
“token progress” on the path to
free enterprise. Price-control
wasn’t shielding people from
increases in the c. 0.1., most of
which were occurring outside the
scope of control or weren’t
avoided by control where they
were inside.
Retailers, who knew public
feeling on prices better than any-
one else, officials included, and
had had to take the rap for a
long time, were irate or sarcastic,
according to mood or tempera-
ment. The list “sounded formid-
able,” but there wasn’t much in
it, they said. Decontrol would
have to move a lot faster.
To understand how or why
the Government has got offside
on this question, one must
glance back to 1950, the year
after it took office. In a first
rash effort to give competition
rein, without any proper prepara-
tion by taking up the slack in
the money-supply, the Govern-
merit burnt its fingers rather
badly. Eighteen months later it
Umuknd again in.™*tate
tSr toe-faS f to
lowering the barriers to let goods
flow in and put an end to short-
ages. Within a few months
goods were flooding in on such
a scale that some sections of
N.Z.’s little market were being
deluged, and the country was in
danger of running out of funds
a^roa d-
When the barriers were hastily
raised again supply and demand
wer e so far out of balance that
a i ot D f goods particularly
textiles, had to be sacrificed,
Although competition took corn-
, . char£re of most trad** and
rtTtSnte
retaining! price-control a moment
longer, the Government could
not bring itself to act. Month
after month went by with trade
organisations calling on it to
honor its pledge, but still official
price mark-ups remained as a
thorn in the side of trade and
outdated reminders of the days
shortages.


UNION TRUSTEE
protects and conserves
r lw,cv
YOUR ASSETS
®33
wittwnsia
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
For the security of your dependants, the manage
ment and protection of your assets is just as important
after your lifetime as it is now. Administration of
Estates is a specialised duty that Union Trustee has
faithfully performed for over 67 years. It is significant
that an increasing number of people in all walks of
life are appointing the Company as Executor or Trustee.
The Union Trustee Company’s charges are exceedingly
moderate. They are, in fact, limited by law. And, of
course, continuity of service is assured at all times.
Call for a personal interview with one of the Company 3 s senior
officers, or, if you prefer, write for a copy of the free booklet —
“lmportant Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.” No
charge—no obligation.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 188 S
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mercantile Mutual Insurance
Added Capital
to Re- and Re-
June, Surplus. Dividends. serves. serves.*
1946.. 69,640 9 p.c. = 36,0001
Provident fund. £6OOO .. • 17,640 816,599
Written off premises, £lO,OOO
1947.. 66,079 10 p.c. = 40,000 1 90 otq ftYs
Provident fund, £6OOO ..( 20,079 836,678
1948.. 101,541 12 p.c. = 48,0001 „ 1Q
Provident fund, £6OOO .. I 47,541 884,319
From tax reserve, £15,000.. 1 , ni HAQ Qaft naa
1949. .136,869 12} p.c. = 60,000 3 101,869 986,088
New capital, £lOO,OOO .. .. 1,086,088
1950. .172,653 12} p.c. = 52,083 120,470 1,206,558
1951. .239,572 12} „ ~ 62,500 177,072 1,383,630
New capital, £250,000 .. .. 1,633,630
Share premiums, £250,000 .. .. 1,883,630
1952. .310,673 12} p.c. = 78,125 282.548 2,116,178
1953. .302,040 15 p.c. = 112,600 ) m 640 2.295,718
Provident fund, £lO,OOO )
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks.
The 75-year-old Mercantile confines its
underwriting activities to the Common-
wealth, except for marine business, and
it hasn’t missed much thereby. The co.
has put on a lot of weight since the war,
thanks partly to the vigor of the manage-
ment, partly to a rapidly expanding
economy, and partly to inflation and its
concomitants, namely a sharp rise in in-
surable values in all fields of activity.
And the growth has been profitable.
After a long run of 9 p.c. divs. to 1946,
the rate climbed by annual steps to
124 p.c. in 1949, and has remained steady
since, with a 2\ p.c. bonus added last
term, making 15 p.c. for the year. And
since April, 1950, those on the register
have put up £350,000 of fresh capital,
together with £250,000 of share-premiums,
which were added to reserves. The last
new issue was half a million £1 shares,
put out at a premium of 10s, each in
August, 1951. The premium and 10s.
a share of the capital have been got in,
thus lifting paid capital to £750,000 in
a million £1 shares, of which one half
is fully paid and the other half paid to
10s. each. The remaining 10s. a share
on the contribs. will be asked for as and
when required, but no hint has been
given as to when that may be.
Last term more branches and agencies
were opened, and, despite the effect of
import-restrictions upon the volume of
marine business, £3,115,456 (up £322,379)
of premiums were gathered, of which
£1,535,293 (up £173,216), or 49.2 p.c., was
reinsured. Net premium income was
thus only £149,163 stronger:
N*t F.x- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ L
1940. . 306,541 134,981 137,110 44.0 p.c. 44.7 p.c.
1947.. 443,414 205,995 196,965 46.4 „ 44.4 „
1949.. 657,827 272,576 279,027 41.4 „ 42.4 „
1951. 1,014.512 408,007 405,195 40.2 „ 39.9 „
1952. 1,431,000 648,784 516,576 45.3 ~ 36.1
1953. 1,580.163 714,581 634,032 46.2 „ 40.1 „
Notwithstanding the heavy claims under
third-party risks —this class of business
has been unprofitable of recent years —
and the steep rise in cost of repairs in
connection with motor-vehicle business,
the loss rate was a shade lighter. But
expansion and the rise in wage and other
costs bumped up the expense-rate by
80s. p.c. The result was a slip of £34,090
in the gross underwriting surplus
(£231,550), which was largely offset by
a growth of £25,457 in the net return
from investments (£70,490), following
introduction of the new share-capital,
etc., already referred to. Total surplus
from all sources was only £8633 lighter
at £302,040.
That was before earmarking £87,000
(down £76,000) for unexpired risks,
making the reserve for this purpose
£660,000, equal to 41.7 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, which is a bit more than
is usually considered adequate. The net
underwriting surplus was therefore
£144,550 (up £41,910), which, together
with the return from investments, made
the net amount available for distribution
£215,040 (up £67,367), or 28.6 p.c. on
capital as against 19.7, 28.2, 24.7 and
21.9 p.c. back to 1949,
Policyholders and shareholders are
both well protected:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £500,000 £500,000 £750,000 £750,000
Sundry
creditors .. 718,828 847,649 1,108,578 1,305,345
Tax reserve .. 157,000 202,304 98,786 191,500
Pinal divs. . . 27.083 81,250 42.969 65,625
Freeholds, etc. 697,771 726,504 733,517 768,765
Mortgages .. 26,520 31,660 90,308 122,514
Govt, securities,
etc. . . 1,156,792 1,410,168 1,988,356 2,423,857
Book debts .. 149,584 238,437 348,471 383,019
Cash, etc. .. 78,801 58,063 205,859 160,043
Government securities, etc. (up £435,501)
account for 72 p.c. of total assets. The
creditors item (up £196,767) is mainly
provision for outstanding claims and re-
insurances.
The fire, marine and workers’ compen-
sation are the most profitable sections of
the business. Recent sharp increases in
premium rates for mo tor-vehicle and
third-party risks should help to bring
about healthier results in these fields —
some cos. have already ceased writing
third-party business.
The Mercantile’s f.-p. £1 shares at 635.
(595. a year ago) return 4.7 p.c, on a
15 p.c. distribution, which cannot be con-
sidered as secure. On the same basis the
lOs.-paid contribs. at 40s. give an im-
mediate return of 3.7 p.c., or 6 p.c. when
fully paid. Including uncalled capital,
net tangible cover is 50s. lid. a share.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
, —■ Dividends To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
1947. .54,407 6 p.c. 12} p.c. 88,750 15,657 287,842
1948.. 43.336 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 10,836 298,678
1949.. 44.368 6 „ 10 „ 32,500 11,868 310,546
Deferred lease premiums, £25,123.. 335,669
1960.. 49.145 6 p.c. 12} p.c. 38,750 10,395 346.064
Revaluation hotel properties, £688,173 934,237
Capitalisation of reserves, £250,000.. 684,237
Surplus sale plant, £986 .. .. 685,223
Deferred lease premiums, £2143 .. 687,366
Income tax previous years, £3608 .. 683,758
A B
Pref. Pref. Ord.
6 p.c. 5 p.c. 10 p.c.
1951.. 55,054 7,500 1,562 37,500 8,942 692.250
Surplus sale plant, £2167 .. .. 694,407
Deferred lease premium, £5725 .. 700,132
Profit sale hotel, £48,212 .. .. 748,344
7} p.c.
1952.. 50.007 7,500 6,250 37,500 747,100
Consolidated Figures.
Profit sale plant, £449 .. .. 748,257
Deferred lease premiums, £4533 .. 762,790
1953.. 76,265 7,500 6,250 37,500 25,015 777,805
The long-term outlook for shareholders
in this efficient and expanding brew-
ing organisation is more encourag-
ing than the figures in the table
would suggest, the spring in last
term’s net earnings notwithstanding.
The brewery, at Ballarat (Vic.), feeds
some 90 of the parent co.’s own hotels,
and a lot more, scattered throughout
western Victoria and over the border in
the N. S. Wales Riverina and at Mt.
Gambier (S. Aus.). The business has
expanded considerably of recent years,
and a lot of money has been spent on
modernising plant, equipment and hotel
properties. To help finance the work
125,000 new £l5 p.c. prefs. were issued
at par in 1951. At the same time ord.
capital was doubled by the issue of
£250,000 of bonus-scrip from a capital-
assets reserve, created by writing-up the
book-value of hotel properties by that
amount.
The most important recent develop-
ment was purchase, as from March 1
last, of the 64,545 issued shares in the
Volum Brewery Co., Ltd., Geelong, for
£421,143, of which £222,016 was paid in
4| p.c. unsecured notes, maturing July 1,
1958, and the balance in cash. The
vendor co.’s accounts are not available,
but no intangible item has appeared as
a result of the deal, which included the
Volum brewery, plant, stock, two resi-
dences and 21 hotel properties, mostly in
Geelong. The brewery and hotels are
to be modernised, and plant capacity in-
creased, thus widening and cementing the
co.’s hold upon the trade in two growing
industrial centres and in the rich agri-
cultural and pastoral areas of western
Victoria.
Although the output and sale of beer
has kept on expanding for over a decade,
mounting costs and the time-lag in lifts
in controlled selling-prices have narrowed
the net gains, as the slip in the 1952
profit figure shows. The spring of
£26,258 in last term’s net earnings, which
benefited by only three months’ trading
from the new subsidiary, was due almost
entirely to a near 70 p.c. increase in the
parent co.’s output of bottled beer, the
chairman says. On the basis of excise
paid (£1,569,348, up £383,707), the co.’s
beer-production last term increased by
over 32 p.c., reaching a record 4,380,000
gallons. A small lift in selling-prices
early in the term also helped to offset
rises in wage, hops, malt, sugar, freight
and other costs, the full effects of which
had not been felt when the books closed.
Hence the request by Victorian brewers
for a further lift in selling-prices.
After allowing £31,886 (up £8773) for
depreciation and a liberal £85,676 (up
£17,922) for taxation, the declared net
result (parent and subsidiary) was
£76,265, or enough to pay the pref. divs.
(£13,750) and show 12.1 p.c. on the half-
million of ord. capital as against 7.2 p.c.
for the preceding year. The div. was
kept at 1\ p.c., worth 15 p.c. on capital
as it stood before the gift-scrip issue in
1951.
Principal movements in balance-sheet
figures are due to the Volum deal;
1951. 1952. 1953.*
Paid capital . . £750,000 £750,000 £750.000
Mortgages . . 50,000 50,000 50,000
Unsecured notes 222,016
Overdraft .. 4,943 48,175 266,562
Sundry
creditors .. 36,876 40,856 74,582
Final divs. .. 30,312 29,375 29.375
Tax reserve .. 53,500 62,000 88,496
Brewery, hotels,
etc 1,194,144 1,170,654 1,601,130
Plant, etc. .. 79,855 105,132 213,058
Stock . . . . 62,506 82,181 136,239
Sundry debtors 257,085 368,055 306,751
Shares other cos. 347 347 347
Cash, etc. .. 23,944 1,187 1,311
* Consolidated figures.
Brewery and hotel properties increased
by £430,476 and plant, etc., by £107,926.
The cash portion of the transaction was
met on overdraft (up £218,387). On its
own hotel and other properties the parent
spent over £50,000, and more bottling
and other plant is on the way from over-
seas.
The outlook, seasonal and otherwise,
favors maintenance of a high level of
turnover, and cuts in taxation are ex-
pected when the Federal Budget is
brought down. The market, prepared to
wait for its benefits, prices the £1 ords. at
375. (38s, a year ago) to return 4 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis. The 6 p.c. A
and 5 p.c. B prefs., at 225. 6d. and 19s.
respectively, each yield 5.3 p.c. Net
tangible cover is A shares £l2 4s. 5d.,
B £ll 4s. sd. and ord. 31s. Id.
Brooklands Accessories Ltd. ( Melb.)
Brooklandb Accessories and Subsidiary.
f Dividends
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. f Ord. -, serves.*
t £ £ p.c. £ £
1947 .. 13,405 1750 12} 8,715 19,676
From tax provision, £11,814 .. 31,490
1948 .. 34,456 1750 12} 8,716 55,480
Share premiums, £22,087 .. .. 1
Unexplained addtn. to res., £14,264 I non
From tax provisions, £2006 ~ .. f
Net intangibles of new subsids., £5605 J
1949 . . 42,037 1750 12} 11,871 116,648
Share premiums, £13,121 .. .. 129,769
Surplus sale assets, £lOOl .. .. 130,770
1950 .. 50.201 1750 15 14,245 164,976
Share premiums, £10,517 .. .. 175,493
Revaluation assets, £13,335 .. .. 188,828
Surplus sale assets, £634 .. .. 189,462
Capitalisation reserves, £35,661 .. 153,901
1951 . . 76,613 1750 17} 24,892 202,872
Share premiums. £21,035 .. .. 223,907
From tax reserve, etc., £1597 .. 225,504
1952 .. 109,993 1750 17} 38,478 295,269
Tax overprovided, etc., £1521 .. 296,790
1958 .. 111,787 1750 17} 38,478 368,349
♦After deducting intangibles (£20,632 at
30/4/’SS).
Mainspring behind the rapid and very
profitable post-war growth of this
organisation is the boom in the motor
trade, and therefore in demand for re-
placement parts, accessories and garage
equipment which the co. and its sub-
sidiaries handle. They hold a number
of well-known and valuable local and
overseas agencies, and an engineering
section, which specialises in auto-engine
and -clutch rebuilding, electrical and
carburettor servicing, etc., contributes to
the pool, too. And so does the prin-
cipal subsidiary. Standard Lighting
Ignition Pty., which handles the auto-
electrical equipment turned out by Joseph
Lucas, Ltd. (England), and which last
term acquired the Victorian distributing
rights of Smith Motor Accessories, Ltd.,
another English co. which manufactures
speedometers, oil-gauges and car-clocks
and -heaters, etc. The new agency is
expected to prove a “valuable acquisi-
tion.”
Shareholders joined in the prosperity.
For the five years to 1942 the ords. re-
ceived a steady 8 p.c., followed by four
lots of 10 p.c., three of 12j p.c., one of
15 p.c. and then \l\ p.c. for the three
years to the close of last accounts. Paid
capital, which includes £25,000 of 7 p.c.
pref. money, shot up from £70,000 in
1946 to £244,875 at the close of last
accounts. Of the difference (£174,875)
£35,561 is bonus-scrip and the balance
cash, which brought with it £66,760 of
share-premiums, which, of course, take
some of the gilt off the gingerbread. Over
the same period reserves (after deduct-
ing intangibles) climbed from £24,736 to
£368,349, more of the declared profit
being put on the shelf than was dis-
tributed.
Stimulated by twin demands for initial
equipment of new cars, tractors, etc.,
and for replacement parts for a growing
number of ageing vehicles, turnover
bounded along. So, despite a drop in the
number of new vehicles put on the roads,
the co.’s gross earnings (£457,574) in-
creased by £23,266 last term. After
allowing £10,667 (up £3182) for deprecia-
tion and £94,000 (down £4500) for taxa-
tion, the net result benefited by £1794
of the gain, reaching £111,787. The
pref. div. called for £1750, and the re-
maining £110,037 was a juicy 50 p.c. on
the £219,875 of ord. capital, compared
with 49.2, 51.9, 50.1, 42.4 and 47 p.c.
back to 1948. The \l\ p.c. distribution,
of which 1\ p.c. is labelled bonus, obvi-
ously remained a comfortable matter.
A better flow of local supplies and
more cautious buying policy enabled
stocks to be reduced by £102,600. This
and a contraction of £26,172 in debtors
balances were accompanied by cuts of
£76,463 in the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., and of £67,901 in the tax-
provision :
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital . . £202,805 £244,875 £244,8(5
Outside interests 9 11 1 \
Creditors, etc... 170,018 224,077 147,6 it
Tax provision .. 99,216 162,093 ?o’oso
Final divs. .. 19,7 0 7 28,35 9 28,359
Freeholds .. 61,794 89,517 120.263
Leaseholds .. 16,095 eo’m-
Plant and fittings 24,946 *1,735
Stocks . . 290,937 484,678 382,078
Debtors " 300’.809 313.762 287.590
Cash .. .. 546 9.378 25,981
Completion of the new Sydney ware-
house was mainly responsible for the
growth in freeholds (up £30,736) and
plant (up £10,630). Despite these addi-
tions, there was an improvement of
£32,195 in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£425,484).
There is nothing in sight at the
moment which might suggest a severe
jolt to net earnings. Still, growing com-
petition and fluctuations in demand are
likely to make themselves felt later on.
The £1 ords. at 535. 7d. (48s. 4d. a year
ago) return 6.6 p.c. so long as the \l\ p.c.
distribution continues. The 7 p.c. preis.
at 225. 6d. yield 6.2 p.c. Net tangible
cover is pref. £24 10s. lOd. and or .
535. 6d.


D 4VIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
ƒ
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
f
f
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT KNIGHT WILLIAMS late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that GRACE
EVELYN WILLIAMS has filed a peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1098 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion without Just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 16th October 1953 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. HICKSON, LAKEMAN &
HOLCOMBE, of 10 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ROBERT ALAN JOHNSTON late of
Redfern. TAKE NOTICE that
ELEANOR ALICE JOHNSTON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2449 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 16th October 1953 and obtain
a copy of the - petition without charge
from HICKSON, LAKEMAN & HOL-
COMBE, 10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK EDWARD TAYLOR
late of Adelong labourer. TAKE
NOTICE that HEATHER JEAN TAYLOR
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 427
of 1953 on the ground of your desertion
during three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse and is asking for
the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 26th of
October 1953 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from TAPERELL
& PETERSEN, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
IH£ AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
Public Notice
I, JOACHIM WALTER SCHULER,
Stateless, born at Frankfurt A/O, Ger-
many, resident five years ta Australia,
now residing at 4 St. Helena Parade,
Eastlakes, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948-1960.
1
M*
Home
or
Away
BIACK&WHITE
SCOTCH
WHISKY
From Scotland—every precious drop.
By Appointment to
the late King George VI.
f
Scotch Whisky Distiller*
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
JBB
LONDON STORVI
“ Trust TILLEY
to make something Better!”
ƒ
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market.
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with bis wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better! ”
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt very proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better 11
No wires—no flexes !
Burns 4 hours on i-pint of
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While impdrt restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives:—
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
123-125 William Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Australia Hotel Co.
(Sydney)
r-> —Dividend* Nominal
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. p.c. Ord. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1945.. 62,360 1980 8 = 37,360 208,938
1946.. 54.441 1980 8 „ 87,360 224,039
1947.. 83.545 1980 7 „ 32,690 222,914
Reserves drawn upon,
£lO,OOO .. .. 212,914
1948.. 27.105 1980 6 = 28,020 210,019
Reserves drawn upon,
£lO,OOO .. .. 200,019
1949.. 27,346 1980 6= 28,020 197,364
1960.. 80.342 1980 6 „ 28,020 197,706
1951.. 34.987 1980 7,. 32,690 198,022
1962.. 35.536 1980 7 „ 32,690 198,887
Renewal reserve down,
£21,940 .. .. 176,947
1958.. 42,152 1980 8-87,360 179,769
* Subject to goodwill, £25,000, and
excluding depreciation reserve ( £120,000
as at June 30, 1963).
The improvement (£6617) in last
term’s profit, which was the best
since 1946, and the lift in the div.
from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c. and other
things heartened the market,
which lengthened its bid for the
co.’s f.-p, £1 ords. from 21s. 9d.
on May 27 to 255. last week. At
the higher figure the return is
6.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribu-
tion. The £l6 p.c. prefs.—there
are 33,000 of them in a paid
capital of £500,003 —at 225. yield
5.4 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £25 ss. lOd. prefs.
and 345. 4d. ords.
Although the hotel is one of
the largest and most fashionable
in the Commonwealth, the co.
was able to squeeze only
moderate profits out of the post-
war boom. The volume of trade
in the bar, lounge, catering and
guest-occupancy sections moved
with the times, but the increased
takings, held in check by Gov-
ernment controls, were not pro-
portionate to the brisk advance
in wage-rates and in the cost of
foodstuffs, replacements, etc.
Catering was, and still is, the
department hardest hit. And the
problems of management have
been aggravated by the 40-hour
week and staff turnover. Also
in this class of hotel, more so
than in most others, maintenance
of a high standard of service and
comfort is the backbone of good-
will, which means patronage, and
some of the services yield little
or no profit.
One result of all these things
was a sharp drop in net earnings
from a peak of £62,360 in 1945
to £27,105 in 1948, since when,
by dint of careful management
and other things, the figure has
climbed to £42,152. Another
was that, over the same period,
the div. dropped from 8 p.c. to
6 p.c., rose to 7 p.c. and then to
8 p.c. again. Also free reserves
at June 30 last were £29,179
below the figure at which they
stood eight years ago, due to
expenditure on renewals and
improvements additional to that
charged against current earnings.
Last term opened with an
unpromising outlook, but con-
ditions improved as the year
advanced. Supplies of all kinds
became more plentiful, but prices
for foodstuffs rose, and so did
wage-rates and other costs,
though at a slackening pace.
Also extensive refurnishing of
the residential section, and other
renovations and additions, which
have modernised the hotel and
made better use of available
space, caused some dislocation.
The cost of the work was
£21,940, which was charged
against a reserve (now £18,060)
built up for the purpose.
After allowing the usual
£lO,OOO for depreciation and
£46,000 (up £5000) for taxation,
the board was able to write the
net trading result at £42,152,
which covered the pref. div. and
8.6 p.c. on the £467,003 of ord.
capital as against 7.2, 7,6, 5.4
and 5.3 p.c. back to 1948. There
is nothing in the published figures
to suggest that the co. did much,
if any, better than was claimed.
The excess of outside liabilities
over more -or - less liquids
increased by £11,503:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Stock .. £18,666 £87,301 £23,262
Book debts 20,869 20,596 19,294
Cash, eto... 57,585 58,000 50,700
Liquid assets £96,620 £110.897 £98,246
Mortgage . • 150,000 150,000 150,000
Creditors* . 76,549 116,820 109,672
Excess
liabilities.. £128.929 £154,928 £166,426
Property and
equipment 981,634 1,018,483 1,028,192
Paid capital 600,008 500,003 500,008
* Including tax provision.
The year’s net addition to the
book-value of property and plant
was only £4709.
The immediate outlook is
brighter than it was a year ago,
and, with the Royal visit not very
far ahead, it all augurs well for
spending and hotel turnovers,
while some relief from the
pressure of taxation is promised.
I
The Price of Tin
An old friend of The
Bulletin, with a very wide
experience in tin-production,
writes: —
As far back as 1948 and earlier
the “Wild Cat” said that Australian
tin-producers, especially the small
men, were entitled to some under-
standing as to what local authorities
proposed to do when overseas prices
for the metal rose or fell above or
below the controlled Australian price.
The Price-control authorities ignored
the suggestion, and, in recently grant-
ing the tin-industry representatives’
request for abolition of price-control,
they, along with the industry’s rep-
resentatives, not only misjudged the
true economic position of tin but
handed Australian tin-producers a
severe, if not a fatal, jolt.
Australian tin-producers have got
the worst of both worlds, as a price-
history of the metal shows. In Feb.,
1951, the London price had shot up
to £51615 (£A2019) per ton, whilst
the Australian-controlled buying-price
remained at £AB4O from Dec., 1950,
until Sept., 1951, when it was lifted
to £AIOOO per ton. The London
price had dropped to £SBO6 (£A1007)
in Aug., 1951, recovered to £BlOOO
(£A1250) two months later, and then
steadied around £S9SO (£A1187) until
mid-March last. In July, 1952, the
Australian price to producers was
increased to £AIIOO per ton, treat-
ment running at about £A9O-100 per
ton.
Australian price-control was lifted
on April 17 last, without any proviso
for a minimum price-level, which, in
view of what has just been said, would
have been common justice as well as
a wise move, if a stable tin-producing
industry is desired. By this time tin
overseas had dropped by £S22O
(£A275) per ton, and the price-slide
continued, the London figure on Aug.
1 being £5576 (£A72O) per ton.
Allowing £AIOO per ton for treat-
ment, that is worth £A62O per ton to
Australian producers, or 1245. per
unit, compared with 2205. per unit
before control was lifted.
If Australia is to have a stable tin-
mining industry, some action to
implement a time- and price-guarantee,
as originally suggested in the “Wild
Cat,” is urgently needed to save a
repetition of the 1929-32 debacle. Once
capital and labor leave mining they
rarely return, and a mine closed down
costs a lot to reopen. There is no
need to await international action,
which may take some time.
Subject to audit, and after
allowing for taxation. Western
Mining Corp., the big prospect-
ing and holding concern with a
paid capital of £698,588 in f.-p.
ss. shares, reports a profit of
£185*157 (up £107,718) for the
year to March 31 last, and has
doubled the hand-out, making it
Is. a share, which called for
£139,718. All five operating cos.
in the group stepped-up both
production and recoveries for
the year, but have not yet pre-
sented their accounts for the
period. Central Norseman and
G.M. of Kalgoorlie, in which
W.M.C. holds a 50 p.c. and
30 p.c. interest respectively, are
the only two dividend-payers to
date. W.M.C.’s shares, which
dropped to 9s. in the market
during 1952, recently fetched 17s.
* * * *
London - controlled Boulder
Perseverance (paid capital
£224,820 in 4s. stock units) re-
ports a profit of £S 18,118 (up
£4325), after tax, for the year
to March 31 last, and will pay
a div. of 10 p.c. (subject to U.K.
income tax of 9s. in the £) as
against p.c. and 10 p.c. for
the two preceding years. Latest
accounts are not yet available.
Ore reserves at March 31, 1952,
stood at 334,550 tons, averaging
4.9dwt. The co. owns 65 p.c
of the £275,000 of capital in
Kalgoorlie Enterprise, which
paid 4 p.c. in 1951 but nothing
since. Ore from the Persever-
ance, Enterprise and North Kal-
gurli mines is treated by the
Kalgurli Ore Treatment Co. on
a co-operative non-profit basis.
Perseverance scrip, which had
dropped to 2s, 6d. in the market
in 1952, recently fetched 3s, 4d.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The brilliance of the national costumes
worn in the pageant, the impressive
official party and the beautifully-
decorated tables gave the International
Ball held at the Trocadero last Thursday
a gay and individual character. “Peace”
was the theme of the pageant, which had
been well organised by Miss Mina Shelley
and in which 16 nations were represented.
To carry out this idea little souvenir
doves of white plastic were sold which
had been the donation of the German
Embassy. The president of the ball,
Mrs. J. W. M. Eaton, entertained an
official party of 38 at a table decorated
with a miniature arch of flags, blue and
white candles (the colors of U.N.) and
camellias. Behind the table was the
U.N. flag and tall white columns veiled
in ivy. One of the most striking of the
table-decorations was the Danish one,
where a bust of Hans Andersen (modelled
specially by Sydney’s Wendy Soiling, who
was present at the ball) looked down on
tiny scenes from his fairy stories.
There were about 1000 people present,
including representatives from nearly
every Embassy and Consulate. Large
parties were entertained by Mrs. W. H.
Oong, honorary secretary, Mrs. C. M.
Guiney and Mrs. Allen Williams, whose
table was laden with masses of sweet-
scented flowers, roses, violets and daphne.
One of the loveliest dresses was worn
by Mrs. N. Simone, wife of the Consul-
General for Italy. In white and gold, it
was dramatised by a scarf of emerald-
green which fell from the waist to the
hem. Another lovely sheath-dress was
worn by Mrs. C. R. McKerihan and was
embroidered all over with gleaming
bronze beads.
☆ * *
Black, often combined with white, was
predominant among the many beautiful
dresses worn at the reception and buffet-
dinner given by the German Minister, Dr.
Walter Hess, and Mrs. Hess at their
Collaroy home on Saturday in honor of
the visiting conductor, Herr Schmidt-
Isserstedt. Mrs. Hess herself wore a
slender draped black dress of jersey silk
with a cuffed off-shoulder neckline.
Madame Tiber Paul’s dress had a cross-
over bodice of black and white faille
and a white faille skirt veiled in black
net. (Her husband could not be present
as he was conducting at the National
Opera’s final performance). Other
wearers of black were Madame Roberto
Regala, exquisite in a bouffant dress and
a white ermine cape, Mrs. Charles
Moses, whose velvet dress had a deep
collar of cream Irish lace, and Mrs. H.
Hedinger, whose white wool stole, gold-
threaded, was worn over black organza.
Inge Hess, the eldest of the German
Minister’s three daughters, who helped
her parents to entertain, wore pale-blue
net and draped an Indian gauze stole
round her shoulders to tie at the back
in a new and becoming manner
☆ ☆ ☆
The National Opera’s Sydney season
wound up on Saturday night with a gala
performance and a party which was
attended by the Governor, the Acting-
Premier with Mrs. Heffron, the Minister
for Transport, with Mrs. Martin, and a
fairly representative group of Sydney’s
opera-lovers. There were some very
attractive dresses to be seen here too,
including the glamorous daffodil-yellow
dress worn by Mrs. W. P. Fountain, with
its cloth-of-gold look and its trail of
yellow roses. She was with Mrs. Roy
Harrison, who wore a grey velvet coat
over pale-green ballerina. A very lovely
dress was the sheath of black velvet worn
by Mrs. J. E. Searcy-Hammond, with its
knee-high froth of tulle and its edging
of tulle round the neckline.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lotus-flowers with alabaster figures of
Nefertiti and the Sphinx were the quite
appropriate decorations for the annual
dinner of the University Archaeological
Society, held this year at the Clifton
Gardens home of Suzanne Snelling, her-
self a student of archaeology. President
of the society, Grahame Card, welcomed
Professor A. D. Trendall, Acting-Vice-
Chancellor of the University, and the
senior lecturer in archaeology, Mr. J.
Stewart, with Mrs. Stewart, In all there
were present about 33 students, who
seemed to find this social gathering in a
private home a most agreeable one.
Madame Pellier, who presented the
first important fashion-show of the new
season during the week, included many
full-skirted dresses in her collection, and
only one outfit that was remarkably short
(a square-cut dress and jacket by Dior).
It was notable that very few bright colors
were used, with the exception of pink.
Black and white, together and apart, pre-
dominated. Grey, beige and some navy
were also shown. An important fashion
for this spring is the printed dress
covered by a full-length plain coat lined
with print. Hats were worn straight on
the head and included platters, sailors,
cartwheels and coolies. Necklines on
dresses stressed the deep V both back
and front. Waistlines were natural but
often extended by wide cummerbund
effects.
☆ ☆ ☆
Judging by the interest aroused by the
six mannequins who walked down Martin-
place the other day in knee-length
dresses, it won’t be Jong before the more
daring spirits start shortening their dresses.
Trouble is that if a dress is short enough
when one is walking it is too short when
one is sitting down. It’s not the length,
as someone said, it’s the up-creep.
This is Joan Phipson, whose “Good
Luck to the Rider” has been selected as
the most outstanding children’s book
written by an Australian during the past
12 months, an honor it shares with “Air-
craft Today and Tomorrow " by the
brothers J. H. and W. D. Martin . Joan
Phipson (Mrs. J. Fitzhardinge ) lives at
Carcoar (N.S.W.) and has two children.
She is already known as the writer of
short stories and the libretto of a comic
opera for which Iris de Cairos Rego com-
posed the music. "Good Luck to the
Rider," which was reviewed on the Red
Page last week , is beautifully illustrated
by Margaret Horder and is a book to be
enjoyed by both girls and boys.
When theatre-man David N. Martin
welcomed home Joy Nichols last week
he said hers was the story of Cinderella,
of Dick Whittington, of Robert the Bruce
and the Spider—“ What an act!” said Joy,
who, although she is mostly thought of
as one of the stars of “Take It From
Here,” the 8.8. C. feature, says she has
done far more in the theatre in London
than on the radio. Her nine-week season
starts here on September 2 (rumored
salary £lOOO per week); eight weeks in
Melbourne after that and then to America
to meet the parents of her husband Wally
Petersen, and to show them their baby
daughter Roberta. Joy, smooth-faced,
vivacious and glossy-haired, said that her
mother seemed relieved that she wasn’t
as wrinkled as she had expected, but, if
the dawn-to-dark welcomes-home con-
tinued at the same pace for Joy, the folks
back home in London won’t be able to
say the same thing.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Australian Scottish Association
will donate the proceeds of its ball on
August 14 to the Red Cross, and has
invited Mr. J. F. Clack, chairman of
the N.S.W. Red Cross, to be among the
guests-of-honor, with Mrs. Clack. The
official party will be piped in by two
kilted pipers, and another two pipers will
play during the floor-show jp which 50
dancers will take part in Scottish, English,
Irish and Welsh folk dances, all in
national costumes. The partners of the
21 debs will also be dressed in kilts.
MELDDDDNE
Mustard-yellow plaster-sheep decked
with white wool were features of the
decorations at the Royale for the Wool
Ball, proceeds from which were for the
Opportunity Clubs. Representing the
clubs were Mr. and Mrs. A. Atkinson,
she wearing white satin brocade, and
Mr. and Mrs. Cyril Grieve, the latter
attractive in white chiffon. President of
the ball-committee was Jacqueline
Baillieu, the strapless bodice of whose
grey net frock was swathed with gold
lace,
Sally Hardman wore pale-blue tulle
splashed with deeper blue sequins ; Anne
Spraggett’s pale-mauve seersucker-nylon
gown had the skirt caught up with ruck-
ing; Chicken Booth’s magnolia satins
carried clusters of gold sequins; Diana
Learmonth wore bouffant white tulle
with gold accessories; Caroline Bailey’s
graceful gown was of filmy black tulle;
Kay Barr allied a skirt of turquoise-
blue tulle and a strapless bodice of match-
ing velvet; Mrs. M. L. Baillieu’s slim
gown was of buttercup-yellow chiffon,
Mrs. Tom Carlyon’s of white tulle over
white Chantilly lace; Mrs. Geoffrey
Grimwade’s short frock was of geranium-
red chiffon, and Mrs. Chester Guest’s
scarlet chiffon frock featured a tiered
skirt.
☆ ☆ ☆
Joan Hammond and her accompanist,
Walter Susskind, were guests-of-honor
at a sherry-party given by members of
the Victorian Symphony Orchestral Sub-
scribers Committee. Persian-lamb
trimmed Miss Hammond’s black swing-
back coat, worn with a small black velvet
Tudor bonnet. Mrs. de Castro, wife of
the visiting conductor, also wore a black
coat; her off-the-face hat was of black
velvet. Mrs. C. W. Marriott, with whom
the singer is staying while in Melbourne,
wore bottle-green-and-white-spotted tie-
silk with a small greige beret, and Mrs.
John Chaldjian Parma-violet,
When Rae Louise, second daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Howard F. Thomas, of
Camberwell, was married at Melbourne
Grammar School Chapel. to Ronald
McNeill Decker, she wore a gown of
cream brocade satin cut on classical lines,
with pearl embroidery on the long-sleeved
bodice, and with the slim skirt extending
into a very full train. Her finger-tip tulle
veil was held by a coronet of orange-
blossoms, and she carried orchids and
white hyacinths. Bridesmaids were her
sisters, Joan and Helen Thomas, and
Margaret Felstead; they wore sunray-
pleated ballerina frocks of white organdie
over pale-pink taffeta and short white
veils attached to coronets of pink
hyacinths. Their posies were pink
hyacinths. The ’groom is the only child
of Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Decker, of
Burwood (Vic.). Photo by David Fell.
Reception was at No. 14 Queen’s-
road, where the bride’s parents received
over 100 guests. Mrs. Thomas wore a
lovely gown of aqua-blue tie-silk, the
skirt draped, the strapless top em-
broidered with gold sequins, bugle-beads
and amethysts. Her tiny cap was in aqua-
blue tonings. Mrs. Decker’s frock, also
embroidered on the strapless top, was of
silver-grey satin; her small grey melusine
cap was also trimmed with sequins. Mrs.
R. H. Mode, of Leeton (N.S.W.), wore
grey-shot taffeta. Shirley Bourchier wore
raspberry-red broderie Anglaiso, Anne
Flannagan garnet-red velvet. Louise
Nason’s frock was of self-patterned ice-
blue nylon. Mrs. John Margetts was in
pale-blue shantung frock and white
feather-cap. Mrs. Ron Spinks’s off-the-
shoulder gown was of apple-green satin.
* if ☆
Madame Caroline Chambrelent’s spring
collection, which she showed in her
Little Collins-street salon, blended
elegance with excitement. The battle of
the hemline will not be fought in Madame
Chambrelent’s salon, for she thinks that
too many women, remembering how un-
flattering the last knee-length skirt was,
will refuse to wear the new length
In this show Christian Dior, Jean
Desses, Madeleine de Bauch, Nina Ricci
and Hubert de Givenchy were among the
French designers represented, though all
suits and frocks were created here in
Madame’s own workroom. Colors used
included muted shades merging from
pale grey to cocoa and sandalwood.
There was a great deal of black-and-
white and navy-and-white, and in addi-
tion to all-white there was cherry-and-
white, a warm rich coral and a brilliant
daffodil-yellow.
Dior was responsible for the inspira-
tion of a day-dress in daffodil-yellow
heavy shantung with the bodice cut in
the tulip-line. An original by Chambre-
lent comprised a black-and-white spotted
taffeta dress with a reversible coat of
black faille lined with the dress material
and featuring unusual inverted pockets.
On a slim-fitting frock of cocoa-brown
wool the pockets, which began on the
skirt just below the waist, were carried
up over the wide cummerbund of Lon-
don-tan wool, which clinched the waist.
Paquin inspired a black slimi-fitting
frock with the horseshoe-neck slotted
through with a band of white pique,
which finished at one side in a large, flat
bow. Over a navy-blue wool pique frock
was worn a knee-length coat lined with
white pique, buttoned in so that it could
be removed for laundering. Unusual was
Hubert de Givenchy’s slim frock in grey
shantung embroidered in white. It had
a wide bateau neck and was worn with
a tiny spencer in daffodil-yellow wool-
jersey.
Fullness in most outfits was controlled
by very fine knife- and sunray-pleats.
Madame Chambrelent relies on the cut
and fall of the material to give the full-
look, for she says the stiffened petti-
.coat is out. The silhouette is slim, with
Dior’s tulip-width at the shoulder the
most popular cut to jackets and bodices.
A short evening-dress designed by
Chambrelent was made in shell-pink
chiffon with a finely-pleated bodice and
full skirt. A cluster of pink peony roses
sat on the extreme edge of the bodice,
which was covered by a peony-pink
chiffon stole. All the hats worn in the
collection were from Thomas Harrison’s
salon.
* ☆ ☆
The Minister for Israel, Mr. Mordkai
Nurock, was given a reception by the
International Club of Victoria at its
rooms in East Melbourne. Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, president, being in Queens-
land, guests were received by Mrs.
£. S. A. Bell, who wore a formal gown
of black Chantilly lace. Representatives
of 20 nations were at the reception, in-
cluding the Austrian Consul, Mr. F. L.
Berger, and his wife, the French Consul
and Madame Sirot, Mr. and Mrs. Hamil-
ton Sleigh, Colonel and Mrs. F. H.
Wright, Mrs. G. H. Hargrave (secretary
of the 1.C.V.), Mrs. Frank Lynch, Lady
Harrison Moore, Mrs. L. H. Eyles, Mrs.
H. Metes, Mrs. Arnold Isaacson and Mrs.
L. Sigalas.
☆ ☆ ☆
“The Square Ring,” which opened at
the Princess, has an all-male cast, and
action takes place in the dressing-room
of a Midlands stadium. Despite its
essentially masculine character, there
were many women at the first night,
among them Mrs. Norman Lynch in
powder-blue-and-grey leaf-patterned tie-
silk, Mrs. Bon Guest, her ballerina frock
of silver-grey faille, Mrs. Alan Benjamin,
in scarlet velvet, and Evie Hayes, who
wore French nylon organdie patterned in
muted pink, blue and grey flowers. But,
as one woman was heard to remark at
the interval, it “wasn’t her cup of tea.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Herbert Allen lent her lovely
Heidelberg home for the afternoon-tea
organised by the American Womens
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital.
At the tea. a cheque for £1462, the pro-
ceeds of the Fourth of July Ball, was
presented to Lady Latham, president ot
the hospital, by Mrs. C. W. McKay,
president of the auxiliary. Lady Latham
presented life-governorship certificates to
Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, and Mesdames O. Voss,
Charles Bacon and Mrs. F. Rock.


umi
mow* U? 01 *
■
\ WE'LL
:
s*V**
SHOW YOU!
Without obligation, contact your local Authorised Nuffield Dealer or
Nuffield Tractor Distributor; he’ll show you how the Nuffield Universal
Tractor will do a job for you . . . easily . . . under your conditions . . .
with your implements ... on your property. He’ll show you its versatility
. . . its 6-way power—swinging drawbar, belt pulley, power take-off and
3-point hydraulic power—all of which is standard equipment at no extra
cost. You’ll see its adjustable track front and rear . . . speedy 4-wheel to
3-wheel conversion ... its high road speeds ... its “non-slip power weight
distribution ... 5 power-packed forward speeds ... its complete electrical
equipment ... its independent turning brakes AND its great economy.
f
f
f
HUffliin PRODUCTS MK SOVD
r»»« mm Z
huhiub DtsTWßtnoßs m
BtMIRS THROUGHOUT m
f.OWWOH'NTMTH
deukr
IT HAS EVERYTHING! IT DOES EVERYTHING!
The Nuffield Dealer will show you on YOUR property!
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR I
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NT.18.24
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD- VICTORIA PARK. ZETLAND. NEW SOUTH WALES
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Joan Hammond
Joan Hammond invited her
own doom at the hands of Mel-
bourne critics when she said at
a Press reception, quoting Ernest
Newman, that critics were
unnecessary animals or some-
thing and that artists should be
left to the public. In view of
her superb performances at
several concerts at the Town
Hall, a possible explanation for
the subsequent snarkings at her
in the dailies is that some critics
didn’t so much dislike her sing-
ing as her statement, and, by
the ordinary process of percep-
tion, projected their hurt feel-
ings on to Miss Hammond.
Another remark Miss Ham-
mond made about Australian
singers being appreciated any-
where but in their own country
didn’t have the same effect upon
the public, however, they, appar-
ently, not being so thin-skinned
as the critics. The audiences that
did roll up for Miss Hammond’s
concerts stamped and howled
and shouted for more from the
Australian singer in the confident
expectation that she would sur-
pass her previous efforts, magni-
ficent as they were.
Miss Hammond had a cold in
the head at one recital, but it did
not extend to her voice. It was
nobly declamatory in an aria
from “La Forza del Destine”
of Verdi, soft and anguished in
the Ave Maria from a dramatic
cantata by Max Bruch, and
trembled and glistened in “The
Dewdrop” of Anton Rubinstein ;
and it gave delicate treatment to
Grieg’s “Ein Traum,” one of the
loveliest lyrics ever written.
“Cauboy”: It might do some
Melbourne critics good if they
studied formal logic. A study
of that dry science might make
them more conscious of the
implications of the words they
use. A critic said of the per-
formance of Joan Hammond’s
accompanist, Walter Susskind,
that it was “creditable but not
outstanding.” “To accompany”
means “to go with, to escort,”
and “outstanding” means “to
stand out from, to project.” The
nearest approach to an outstand-
ing accompanist would be a
policeman dragging a drunk to
the lock-up, but on the night in
question Miss Hammond didn’t
seem to need any dragging and
Mr. Susskind didn’t seem to try
to push her. The piano under
his fingers seemed simply to flow
along beside her, which is, I sup-
pose, what accompanying should
be.
❖ *X* ❖
Alan Loveday and Orchestra
The young N.Z. violinist,
soloist with the Sydney Orchestra
under Schmidt-Isserstedt in the
Sibelius Concerto, revealed in
the slow movement a warm rich
tone, while the many technical
difficulties of the cadenzas in
the first movement were sur-
mounted with ease, though the
entries were preceded by cat-like
nervous tension. The final
Allegro was driven along with
furious energy, the rhythmic
interweaving being strongly
marked. His bowing through-
out was quite stylish.
In Haydn’s Symphony No. 92
the orchestra gave a real taste
of its quality. Though Haydn’s
music calls for the minimum of
emotional content it does de-
mand dignity bathed, as it were,
in sunshine. Always elegant,
the reading also had plenty of
warmth and, at times, great
delicacy.
The latest set of variations,
that by Boris Blacher, on the
same caprice by Paganini, of
which Brahms and Rachmanin-
off made such good use, showed
starkly the contemporary Ger-
man’s poverty of invention. Of
the 16 variations, in no more
than three is the original theme
recognisable—the rest are either
butchered by brasses and
tympani or smothered under a
thick tangle of strings.
Stravinsky’s “Firebird” Suite
brought out some highly con-
vincing and dynamic playing by
all sections of the orchestra.
The Dance and Variation of
the Firebird was quite excep-
tional playing.
❖ ♦♦♦
‘‘For Better, For Worse”
Sydney Royal has come up
with an innocuous little comedy,
“For Better, For Worse,” written
by Arthur Watkyn and dealing
in lightly sentimental fashion
with the troubles of a couple of
optimistic newlyweds who have
more faith and hope than cash.
Their battles with removalists,
plumbers, hire-purchase firms,
neighbors, a one-room flat and
an income that can never stretch
to their expenditure are handled
in mildly beguiling fashion by
the author and by Shirley Smith
as the starry-eyed bride, and
Henry McGee as the cheerfully
confident young man who' takes
her to Wife.
Owen Weingott, suitably dis-
guised as a plumber; Winifred
Hindle, similarly concealed as a
charlady; Desmonde Rolfe and
Gordon Glenwright as a couple
of stoical removalists ; and Kevin
Healy as an estate-agent each
touched-in a measure of comedy
in the appropriate places.
Artbursts
Chih Pai-shih
“F.S.”: An extraordinary
phenomenon for this hectic age
is being shown, along with a
quantity of unimportant propa-
ganda, at the “Art and Life in
China Today” exhibition at the
Kozminsky Galleries, Mel-
bourne. He is Chih Pai-shih.
Chih is a Chinese Titian who
celebrated his 93rd birthday
and his 80th year of painting
this year. During all that time
the prodigious fellow has never
missed a day at his writing-brush,
his stick of Chinese ink and his
rubbing-stone and is regardeed,
probably quite rightly, as China’s
greatest living artist.
Remote in his native village—
he is the son of a peasant who
was too sickly for the farming,
so was apprenticed to a joiner
—he has been turning out his
pictures while the Boxer rebel-
lion, the abdication of the Man-
chus, the Sun Yat-sen revolution,
the Japanese occupation, the
Mao Tse-tung revolution, two
world wars and a baker’s dozen
of civil ones have been going
on around him, which is amaz-
ing enough; what is more
amazing is that he has appar-
ently never heard of Picasso,
Matisse, dadaism, cubism,
surrealism, expressionism, the
modern idiom, painting as
architecture or as self-revelation,
or even of the George Bell
group; or, if he has heard of
them, it hasn’t shaken his simple
resolve to carry on in the old
fashion.
In short, from any contem-
porary viewpoint Chih is an old
fogy. That, however, hasn’t
prevented his butterflies and
trees and birds and beasts and
fishes looking as fresh and spon-
taneous, as direct and vital as
the slum houses, pseudo-Italian
primitive madonnas, abstract
constructions and color-patterns
of the George Bell group at the
Peter Bray Gallery adjacent
look tired and derivative and
labored—in fact, old-fashioned.
It might be complained of
Chih that he is technically
behindhand. He has never taken
on oil-painting. The Chinese
artist has always learnt his
technique by practice in writing,
and he takes that superlative
skill to his painting. On his
absorbent paper or silk no
erasure is possible, and once a
stroke is committed it can’t be
altered, so he has to indulge in
prolonged observation before he
starts a picture. But with his
thin watercolor he can’t get the
effects that Titian with his
plastic technique got hundreds
of years before him. So in that
respect Chih is old-fashioned
and at a disadvantage, as is
Chinese art in general. Never-
theless, he can make a horse or
a fish or an abstract design live
—and with all its advantages of
oils and varnishes and glazes
the George Bell group doesn’t
succeed half as well as old Chih
does.
<£♦
George Crossley, a young
painter who started out as a
conventional watercolorist and
then got some instruction in the
measurement of tonal relation-
ships from William Dargie, has
been showing his work at
the Park Gallery, Melbourne.
His pictures aren’t distorted
enough to satisfy the modern
fancy. He is quite insensitive to
the last fashions, but often very
sensitive to Nature. A study of
a sweep of beach, a white sail
and a bit of dark sea is a delicate
piece of observation.
Talkies
“Dream Wife” (M.-G.-M.
theatres): This comedy about
the U.S. State Department
applying strict diplomatic pro-
cedure to a U.S. citizen’s pro-
posed marriage to the daughter
of an Eastern potentate because
of an impending deal in oil with
him sparkles along its whole
length, and it is studded with
some delightful cracks at
officialdom. Cary Grant as the
prospective ’groom and Deborah
Kerr as his ex-fiancee who, as
a career-girl with the depart-
ment, oversees his romance
according to strict protocol
make a first-rate team.
* * * *
“Hans Christian Andersen”
(Sydney Century): A charmim
fantasy-romance about the great
Danish teller of fairy-tales and
more especially of a visit he
makes to Copenhagen and his
introduction to the theatre. The
film does not purport —that is
made clear at the outset —to be
a biography. Settings and color
are superb, and a ballet based
on the story of the mermaid
who sought to marry a mortal
has imaginative choreography
and is danced beautifully by
Jeanmaire. Danny Kaye in the
title-role gives one of his best
performances—his singing to
children is delightfully natural.
Frank Loesser’s incidental music
is most attractive.
* * * *
“The Story of Three Loves”
(Sydney Liberty): Joined by a
tenuous thread, the three un-
related stories comprising this
M.-G.-M. film are widely diverse
in mood and character and are,
except for the middle one, which
stretches fantasy too far, very
well contrived and acted.
The first has Moira Shearer as
a promising young ballerina who
has a heart complaint, but for
whom the ballet urge is so strong
she literally dances herself to
death. James Mason is a
choreographer who unwittingly
hastens the process. The second
is a story of an American boy
in Paris who, transformed by a
benign modem witch (Ethel
Barrymore) into a young man,
falls in love with his nurse.
The third, and best, is about two
trapeze artists (Kirk Douglas
and Pier Angeli) who dare death
from the dizzy heights without
the aid of a net because neither
has anything to live for—until
they discover each other.
* * * *
“Salome” (Sydney State):
Probably because Rita Hayworth
fans might have objected to see-
ing their idol depicted as the
vicious, bloodthirsty damsel of
biblical authority, this film alters
the role of Herodias’s daughter
to make her a high-minded
convert to Christianity who de-
nounces her mother for per-
suading the infatuated Herod
to order the slaying of . John
the Baptist.
As a spectacle, however, it is
quite good, and there is some
good acting, notably by
Alan Badel as John, who
as well as being a noble figure
has one of the best speaking
voices on the screen. Charles
Laughton’s Herod is all sly
salacity, and he paints the
Tetrarch, rightly, as being weak
rather than vicious regarding the
Baptist’s death, for he had a
vested interest in keeping him
alive.
Basil Sydney is Pontius
Pilate, concerned only with up-
holding Roman prestige and
discipline, and Stewart Grainger
a fictitious Roman captain, a
secret follower of Jesus.
* * * *
“Jumping Jacks” (Prince
Edward): Another screwball
from the Martin-Lewis comedy
team, this time as paratroopers,
the Army’s Mr. Dean co-opting
the series of his civilian friend
Mr. Lewis to help run an Army
show, and a brasshat’s assump-
tion that Mr. Lewis is a para-
trooper setting the works in
motion. Mr. Lewis’s habit of
rushing screaming through
scenes becomes somewhat wear-
ing, but there are some genuine
laughs.


" Dad and Dave" In The Original
ON OUR SELECTION
Cranky Jack
By "STEELE RUDD"
(ARTHUR H. DAVIS)
TT was early in the day.
. 1 Traveller after traveller was
trudging by Shingle Hut. One
who carried no swag halted at
the rails and came in. He asked
Dad for a job. “I dunno,” Dad
answered. “What wages would
you want?” The man said he
wouldn’t want any. Dad engaged
him at once.
And such a man! Tall, bony,
heavy-jawed, shaven with a
reaping-hook, apparently. He
had a thick crop of black hair,
shaggy, unkempt, and full of
grease, grass and fragments of
dry gum-leaves. On his head
were two old felt hats —one
sewn inside the other. On his
back a shirt made from a piece
of blue blanket, with white
cotton stitches striding up and
down it like lines of fencing.
His trousers were gloom itself;
they were a problem, and bore
reliable evidence of his industry.
No ordinary person would con-
sider himself out of work while
in them. And the newcomer was
no ordinary person. He seemed
to have all the woe of the world
upon him. He was as sad and
weird-looking as a widow out
in the wet.
In a yard was a large heap of
firewood —remarkable truth!
which Dad told him to chop up.
He began. And how he worked!
The axe rang again—particularly
when it left the handle —and
pieces of wood scattered every-
where. Dad watched him chop-
ping for a while, then went with
Dave to pull com.
For hours the man chopped
away without once looking at the
sun. Mother came out. Joy!
She had never seen so much
wood cut before. She was de-
lighted. She made a cup of tea
and took it to the man, and
apologised for having no sugar
to put in it. He paid no atten-
tion to her ; he worked harder.
Mother waited, holding the tea
in her hand. A lump of wood
nearly as big as a shingle flew
up and shaved her left ear. She
put the tea on the ground and
went in search of eggs for
dinner. (We were out of meat —the
kangaroo-dog was lame. He had
got ripped the last time we killed.)
The tea remained on the
ground. Chips fell into it. The
dog saw it. He limped towards
it eagerly, and dipped the point
of his nose in it. It burnt him.
An aged rooster strutted along
and looked sideways at it. He
distrusted it and went away. It
attracted the pig, a sow with
nine young ones. She waddled
up and poked the cup over with
her nose; then she sat down on
it, while the family joyously
gathered round the saucer. Still
the man chopped on.
Mother returned —without any
eggs. She rescued the crockery
from the pigs and turned curi-
ously to the man. She said “Why,
you’ve let them take the tea!”
No answer. She wondered.
Suddenly, and for the fiftieth
time, the axe flew off. The man
held the handle and stared at the
woodheap. Mother watched
him. He removed his hats and
looked inside them. He
remained looking inside them.
Mother watched him more
closely. His lips moved. He
said “Listen to them! They’re
coming ! I knew they’d follow !”
“Who?” asked Mother,
trembling slightly.
“ They’re in the wood!” he
went on. “Ha, ha! I’ve got
them. They’ll never get out,
never get out!”
Mother fled, screaming. She
ran inside and called the
children. Sal assisted her. They
trooped in like wallabies, all but
Joe, He was away earning
money. He was getting a shilling
a week from Maloney for chas-
ing cockatoos from the corn.
They closed and barricaded
the doors, and Sal took down the
gun, which Mother made her
hide beneath the bed. They sat
listening, anxiously and intently.
The wind began to rise. A lump
of soot fell from the chimney
into the fireplace, where there
was no fire. Mother shuddered.
Some more fell. Mother jumped
to her feet. So did Sal. They
looked at each other in dismay.
The children began to cry. The
chain for hanging the kettle on
started swinging to and fro.
Mother’s knees gave way. The
chain continued swinging. A
pair of bare legs came down into
the fireplace. They were curled
round the chain. Mother col-
lapsed. Sal screamed and ran
to the door, but couldn’t open
it. The legs left the chain and
dangled in the air. Sal called
“Murder!”
Her cry was answered. It was
Joe, who had been over at
Maloney’s making his fortune.
He came to the rescue. He
dropped out of the chimney and
shook himself. Sal stared at
him. He was calm and covered
from head to foot with soot and
dirt. He looked round and said
“Thought yuz could keep me
out, ffidn’ y’?” Sal could only
look at him. “I saw yuz all run
in,” he was saying, when Sal
thought of Mother and sprang
to her. Sal shook her, and
slapped her, and threw water on
her till she sat up and stared
about. Then Joe stared.
Dad came in for dinner,
which, of course, wasn’t ready.
Mother begain to cry, and asked
him what he meant by keeping
a madman on the place, and told
him she knew he wanted to have
them all murdered. Dad didn’t
understand. Sal explained.
Then he went out and said to
the man “Clear! ”
The man simply said “No.”
“Go on, now!” Dad said,
pointing to the rails. The man
smiled at the woodheap as he
worked. Dad waited. “Aren’t
y’ going?” he repeated.
“Leave me alone when I’m
chopping wood for the missus,”
the man answered, then smiled
and muttered to himself. Dad
left him alone and went inside
wondering.
Next day Mother and Dad
were talking at the barn.
Mother, bare-headed, was hold-
ing some eggs in her apron. Dad
was leaning on a hoe.
“I am afraid of him,” Mother
said. “It’s not right you should
keep him about the place. No
one’s safe with such a man.
Some day he’ll take it in his head
to kill us all, and then”
“Tut, tut, woman. Poor old
Jack! He’s harmless as a baby.”
“All right,” sullenly, “you’ll
see! ”
Dad laughed and went away
with the hoe on his shoulder to
cut burr.
Middle of summer. Dad and
Dave in the paddock mowing
lucerne. Jack sinking postholes
for a milking-yard close to the
house, Joe at intervals stealing
behind him to prick him with
straws through a rent in the rear
of his patched moleskins. Little
Bill, in readiness to run, standing
off, enjoying the sport.
Inside the house sat Mother
and Sal, sewing and talking of
Maloney’s new baby.
“Dear me,” said Mother, “it’s
the tiniest mite of a thing I ever
saw. Why, bless me, any one of
y’ at its age would have made
three of”
“Mind, Mother!” Sal
shrieked, jumping up on the sofa.
Mother screamed ahd mounted
the table. Both gasped for
breath, and, leaning cautiously
over, peeped down at a big black
snake which had glided in at the
front door. Then,' pale and'*
scared-looking, they stared across
at each other.
The snake crawled over to the
safe and drank up some milk
which had been spilt on the
floor. Mother saw its full length
and groaned. The snake wriggled
to the leg of the table.
“Look out!” cried Sal, gather-
ing up her skirts and dancing
about on the sofa.
Mother squealed hysterically.
Joe appeared. He laughed.
“You wretch!” Mother yelled.
“Run, run, and fetch your
father!”
Joe went and brought Jack.
“Oh-h, my God!” Mother
moaned, as Jack stood at the
door staring strangely at her.
“Kill it! Why don’t he kill it?”
Jack didn’t move, but talked
to himself. Mother shuddered.
The reptile crawled to the
bedroom door. Then for the first
time the man’s eyes rested upon
it. It glided into the bedroom and
Mother and Sal ran off for Dad.
Jack fixed his eyes on the
snake and continued muttering
to himself. Several times it made
an attempt to mount the
dressing-table. Finally it suc-
ceeded. Suddenly Jack’s de-
meanor changed. He threw off
his ragged hat and talked wildly.
A fearful expression filled his
ugly features. His voice altered.
“You’re the Devil!” he said.
“The Devil! The Devil! The
missus brought you—ah-h-h!”
The snake’s head passed be-
hind the looking-glass. Jack
drew nearer, clenching his fists
and gesticulating. As he did he
came full before the looking-
glass and saw perhaps for the first
time in his life, his own image.
An unearthly howl came from
him. “Me father!” he shouted,
and bolted from the house.
Dad came in with the long-
handled shovel, swung it about
the room, and smashed pieces off
the cradle, and tore the bed-
curtains down, and made a great
noise altogether. Finally, he
killed the snake and put it on the
fire, and Joe and the cat watched
it wriggle on the hot coals.
Meanwhile, Jack, bare-
headed, rushed across the yard.
He ran over Little Bill, and
tumbled through the wire fence
on to the broad of his back. He
roared like a wild beast, clutched
at space, spat and kicked his
heels in the air,
“Let me up! Ah-h-h! Let
go me throat! ” he hissed.
“They shrank into a corner and cowered piteously.”
The dog ran over and barked
at him. He found his feet again,
and, making off, ran through the
wheat, glancing back over his
shoulder as he tore along. He
crossed into the grass-paddock,
and, running to a big tree, dodged
round and round it. Then from
tree to tree he went, and that
evening at sundown, when Joe was
bringing the cows home. Jack
was still flying from his “father.”
After supper.
“I wonder now what the old
fool saw in that snake to send
him off his head like that?” Dad
said, gazing wonderingly into the
fire. “He sees plenty of them,
goodness knows.”
“That wasn’t it. It wasn’t the
snake at all,” Mother said.
“There was madness in the man’s
eyes all the while. I saw it the
moment he came to the door.”
She appealed to Sal.
“Nonsense!” said Dad.
“Nonsense! And he tried to
laugh.
Oh, of course it’s nonsense,”
Mother went on. “Everything I
say is nonsense. It won’t be
nonsense when you come home
some day and find us all on the
floor with our throats cut.”
“Pshaw! ” Dad answered.
“What’s the use of talking like
that?” Then*to Dave “Go out
and see if he’s in the barn.”
Dave fidgeted. He didn’t like
the idea. Joe giggled.
“Surely you’re not
frightened ? ” Dad shouted.
Dave colored up.
“No —don’t think so,” he said,
and, after a pause, “You go and
see.”
It was Dad’s turn to feel
uneasy. He pretended to
straighten the fire and coughed
several times. “Perhaps it’s just
as well,” he said, “to let him be
tonight.”
Of course, Dad wasn’t afraid ;
he said hewasn’t. But he drove the
pegs in the doors and windows
before going to bed that night.
Next morning Dad said to
Dave and Joe: “Come ’long, and
we’ll see where he’s got to.”
In a gully at the back of the
grass-paddock they found him.
He was ploughing sitting
astride the highest limb of a
fallen tree —and, in a hoarse
voice and strange, was calling out
“Gee, Captain! Come here,
Tidy! Wa-ay !”
“Blowed if I know,” Dad mut-
tered, coming to a standstill.
“Wonder if he is clean mad?”
Dave was speechless and Joe
began to tremble.
They listened. And as the
man’s voice rang out in the quiet
gully and the echoes rumbled
round the ridge and the
affrighted birds flew up the place
felt eerie somehow.
“It’s no use bein’ afraid of
him,” Dad went on. “We must
go and bounce him, that’s all.”
But there was a tremor in Dad’s
voice which Dave didn’t like.
“See if he knows us, anyway.”
And Dad shouted “Hey-y!”
Jack looked up and immedi-
ately scrambled from the limb.
That was enough for Dave. He
turned and made tracks. So did
Dad and Joe. They ran. No one
could have run harder. Terror
overcame Joe., He squealed and
grabbed hold of Dad’s shirt,
which was ballooning in the wind.
“Let go! ” Dad gasped. “Damn
y’, let me go !” —trying to shake
him off. But Joe had great faith
in his parent and clung to him
closely.
When they had covered a
hundred yards or so, Dave
glanced back, and, seeing that
Jack wasn’t pursuing them,
stopped and chuckled at the
others.
“Eh?” Dad said, completely
winded. “Eh?” Then to Dave,
when he got some breath, “Well,
you are an ass of a fellow — puff.
What the devil did you run.fr?”
“What did I run f’r? What
did you run f’r?”
“Bah!” And Dad boldly led
the way back.
“Now look here”—turning
fiercely upon Joe —“don’t you
come catching hold of me again,
or if y’ do I’ll knock y’r damned
head off! Clear home altogether
and get under the bed if y’re as
frightened as that!”
Joe slunk behind.
But when Dad did approach


m
thisSIGN!
LODKf
m
OH
or
Wltf*"
.
m
n
So
3
SK
N
0 f qauh
assurance
The I. H. Symbol on your International Harvester
Dealer’s premises identifies local headquarters for
International Harvester products. It stands for
an organization with over 120 years experience of
manufacturing products which now bear the name
McCormick International.
Your I. H. Dealer is a farm equipment specialist
ready to help and advise you. He knows the crops
vou grow, your soil and climatic conditions, the
farming methods you prefer. He is ready to dis-
cuss your problems and demonstrate on your farm.
Your I. H. Dealer maintains a modern systematic
parts department where you can buy Genuine I. H.
Parts. You’ll find him ready to supply you with
any part in the shortest possible time.
Your I. H. Dealer has an experienced team of
servicemen available for emergency service in the
field or major overhauls in his well equipped ser-
vice shop. Regular inspections will keep your
equipment in first class operating condition.
To ensure you buy only the best farm equipment
and get the best after-sales service, see your local
International Harvester Dealer, the man behind
the I. H. Sign —the symbol of quality and service.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
Builder of Essential Equipment for Essential Work.
v V^\
'IVNOUVNSI4NI
NM
m
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial Power
Jack, which wasn’t until he had
talked a great deal to him across
a big log, the latter didn’t show
any desire to take life, but
allowed himself to be escorted
home and locked in the barn
quietly enough.
Dad kept Jack confined in the
bam several days, and if any-
one approached the door or the
cracks he would ask “Is me
father there yet?”
“Your father’s dead and
buried long ago, man,” Dad
used to tell him.
“Yes,” he would say, “but he’s
alive again. The missus keeps
him in there” —indicating the
house.
And sometimes when Dad was
not about Joe would put his
mouth to a crack and say
“Here’s y’r father. Jack!”
Then, like a caged beast, the
man would howl and tramp up
and down, his eyes starting out
of his head, while Joe would bolt
inside and say to Mother “Jack’s
getting out,” and nearly send her
to her grave.
But one day Jack did get out,
and while Mother and Sal were
ironing came to the door with
the axe on his shoulder.
They dropped the irons and
shank into a corner and cowered
piteously—too scared even to cry
out.
He took no notice of them,
but, moving stealthily on tip-
toes, approached the bedroom
door and peeped in. He paused
just a moment to grip the axe
with both hands. , Then with a
howl and a bound he entered the
room and shattered the looking-
glass into fragments.
He bent down and looked
closely at the pieces.
“He’s dead now,” he said
calmly and walked out. Then
he went to work at the postholes
again, just as though nothing had
happened.
The man stayed on at Shingle
Hut. He was the best horse Dad
ever had. He slaved from day-
light till dark, kept no Sunday,
knew no companion, lived chiefly
on meat and machine-oil,
domiciled in the barn and never
asked for a rise in his wages.
His name we never knew. We
called him “Jack.” The
neighbors called him “Cranky
Jack.”
A Kangaroo Hunt from
Shingle Hut
'ITS7E always looked forward to
*’ Sundays. It was our day of
sport. Once, I remember, we
thought it would never come.
We longed restlessly for it, and
the more we longed the more it
seemed to linger.
A meeting of selectors had
been held, war declared against
the marsupial, and a hunt on a
grand scale arranged for this
particular Sabbath. Of course,
those in the neighborhood
hunted the kangaroo every
Sunday, but “on their own,” and
always on foot, which had its
fatigues. This was to be a raid
en masse and on,horseback. The
whole countryside was to
assemble at Shingle Hut and
proceed thence. It assembled —
and what a collection! Such a
crowd! Such gear! Such a
tame lot of horses! And such a
motley swarm of lean, lank, lame
kangaroo-dogs!
We were not ready. The
crowd sat on their horses and
waited at the sliprails. Dogs
trooped into the yard by the
dozen. One pounced on a fowl,
another lamed the pig, a trio put
the cat up a peach-tree, one with
a thirst mounted the water-cask
and looked down it, while the
bulk of the brutes trotted inside
and disputed with Mother who
should open the safe.
Dad loosed our three, and
pleased they were to feel them-
selves free. They had been
chained up all the week, with
scarcely anything to eat. Dad
didn’t believe in too much feed-
ing. He had had wide experience
in dogs and coursing at Home
on his grandfather’s large estates
and always found them fleetest
when empty. Ours ought to
have been as fleet as locomotives.
Dave, showing a neat seat,
rode out of the yard on Bess,
fresh and fat and fit to run for
a kingdom. They waited for
Dad. He was standing beside his
mount Farmer, the plough-
horse, who was arrayed in
winkers with greenhide reins
and an old saddle with only one
flap. He was holding an earnest
argument with Joe. Still the
crowd waited. Still Dad and
Joe argued the point. There was
a murmur and a movement and
much merriment. Dad was
coming; so was Joe—-perched
behind him, double-bank, rapidly
wiping the tears from his eyes
with his knuckles.
Hooray! They were off.
Paddy Maloney and Dave took
the lead, heading for kangaroo
country along the foot of Dead
Man’s Mountain and through
Smith’s paddock, where there
was a low wire fence to
negotiate. Paddy spread his coat
over it and jumped his mare
across. He was a horseman, was
Pat. The others twisted a stick
in the wires and proceeded care-
fully to lead their horses over.
When it came to Farmer’s turn
he hesitated. Dad coaxed him.
Slowly he put one leg across, as
if feeling his way and paused
again. Joe was on his back be-
hind the saddle. Dad tugged
hard at the winkers. Farmer was
inclined to withdraw his leg.
Dad was determined not to let
him. Farmer’s heel got caught
against the wire, and he began to
pull back and grunt. So did
Dad. Both pulled hard. Ander-
son and old Brown ran to Dad’s
assistance. The trio planted their
heels in the ground and leant
back.
Joe became afraid. He
clutched at the saddle and cried
“Let me off!” “Stick to him!”
said Paddy Maloney, hopping
over the fence. “Stick to him!
He kicked Farmer what he
afterwards called “a sollicker on
the tail.” Again he kicked him.
Still Farmer strained and hung
back. Once more he let him
have it. Then, off flew the
winkers, and over went Dad and
Anderson and old Brown, and
down rolled Joe and Farmer on
the other side of the fence. The
others leant against their horses
and laughed the laugh of their
lives. “Worse’n a lot of damned
jackasses,” Dad was heard to
say. They caught Farmer and
led him to the fence again. He
jumped it, and rose feet higher
than he had any need to, and
had not old Brown dodged him
just when he did he would be a
dead man now.
A little further on the hunts-
men sighted a mob of kangaroos.
Joy and excitement. A mob —it
was a swarm! Away they
hopped. Off scrambled the dogs
and off flew Paddy Maloney and
Dave. The rest followed any-
how and at varying speeds.
That all those dogs should
have selected and followed the
same kangaroo was sad and
humiliating. And such a waif
of a thing, too! Still, they stuck
to it. For more than a mile,
down a slope, the weedy
marsupial outpaced them, but
when it came to the hill the day-
light between rapidly began
to lessen. A few seconds more
and all would have been over,
but a straggling, stupid old ewe,
belonging to an unneighborly
squatter, darted up from the
shade of a tree right in the way
of Maloney’s Brindle, who was
leading. Brindle always pre-
ferred mutton to marsupial, so
he let the latter slide and secured
the ewe. The death scene was
most imposing. The ground
around was strewn with small
tufts of white wool. There was
a complete circle of eager,
wriggling dogs, all jammed to-
gether, heads down and tails
elevated. Not a scrap of the
ewe was visible. Paddy Maloney
jumped down and proceeded to
batter the brutes vigorously with
a waddy. As the others arrived
they joined him. The dogs were
hungry, and fought for every
inch of the sheep. Those not
laid out were pulled away, and
when old Brown had dragged the
last one off by the hind-legs, all
that was left of that ewe was
four feet and some skin.
Dad shook his head and
looked grave; so did Anderson.
After a short rest they decided
to divide into parties and work
the ridges. A start was made.
Dad’s contingent, consisting of
himself and Joe, Paddy
Maloney, Anderson, old Brown
and several others, started a
mob. This time the dogs
separated and scampered off in
all directions. In quick time
Brown’s black slut bailed up an
“old man” full of fight. Nothing
was more desirable. He was a
monster, a king kangaroo, and
as he raised himself to his full
height on his toes and tail he
looked formidable —a grand and
majestic demon of the bush.
The slut made no attempt to
tackle him; she stood off with
her tongue out. Several small
dogs belonging to Anderson
barked energetically at him,
even venturing occasionally to
run behind and bite his tail. But,
further than grabbing them in
his arms and embracing them, he
took no notice. There he
towered, his head back and chest
well out, awaiting the horsemen.
They came, shouting and
hooraying. He faced them de-
fiantly. Anderson, aglow with
excitement, dismounted and
aimed a lump of rock at his
head, which laid out one of the
little dogs. They pelted him
with sticks and stones till their
arms were tired, but they might
just as well have pelted a dead
cow. Paddy Maloney took out
his stirrup. “Look out!” he
cried. They looked out. Then,
galloping up, he swung the iron
at the marsupial and nearly
knocked his horse’s eyes out.
Dad was disgusted. He and
Joe approached the enemy on
Farmer. Dad carried a short
stick. The old man looked him
straight in the face. Dad poked
the stick at him. He promptly
grabbed hold of it, and a piece
of Dad’s hand as well. Farmer
had not been in many battles —
no Defence Force man ever
owned him. He threw up his
head and snorted and com-
menced a retreat. The kangaroo
followed him up and seized Dad
by the shirt. Joe evinced signs
of timidity. He lost faith in
Dad, and, half-jumping, half-
falling, he landed on the ground
and set out speedily for a tree.
Dad lost the stick, and in
attempting to brain the brute
with his fist he overbalanced and
fell out of the saddle. He
struggled to his feet and clutched
his antagonist affectionately by
both paws—standing well away.
Backwards and forwards and
round and round they moved.
“Use your knife! ” Anderson
called out, getting farther away
(Continued on page 24)


THERES
SOMETHING
ABOUT..
r.
UfO**
'SSI
Fill from the
Red, White & Blue Pump at
an
INDEPENDENT
SERViCE STATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
f
Holiday
by E.O. SCHLUNKE
fll | 'xHAT do you mean?”
\A / stout an d
VV smu gly - prosperous
young businessman.
“ ‘Did I have a good holiday?’
Are you trying to have a go at
me? Well, if you don’t know
about it, you’re the only one in
the town who doesn’t. Here,
come into this pub ; every time
I think of it I’ve got to go and
get myself a couple of drinks,
“Well, I reckoned that a man
who can get a brand-spanking-
new American car didn’t have
anything to learn about getting
his own way with motor-
garages. But you’d be surprised
to know what a lot of different
kinds of people there are in this
country.”
T GOT down to the coast all
A right; passed every car I
saw, and never heard a sound
from the engine or gears, only
the swish of the wind as I hurled
her along at seventy or eighty.
Then I pulled up at a sleepy
little town where I had to turn
off the highway. You see, the
place where I was going to tickle
the trout was right up in the
mountains, and I knew there
was only a narrow, unimportant
gravel road up there.
I asked the garage bloke who
was giving me petrol where to
turn off, and he looked at me so
long without speaking that I
realised he was one of those
yokels who are flat-out working
a petrol-pump without having to
think of something to say at the
same time. When he’d finished
I asked him again, and then he
said in a slow, unwilling manner
as if it was costing him ten-bob
a word:
“It’s a pretty rough road.”
“Yes,” I said. “I know that.
All I want you to tell me is,
where is it?”
He had another long think
while he stared at a fellow in a
battered old ’twenty-eight model
who’d pulled up at his other
bowser.
“You ask him. He comes
from up there.”
TT took nearly five minutes to
A make the new bloke under-
stand that I wanted to know the
way to the place he’d come
from, and then all he could say
was:
“You don’t want to drive up
there in that car, do you?”
I was getting pretty well fed-
up with yokels and hillbillies by
this. I just drove off in the
direction he’d come and asked at
the first house. The road wasn’t
so bad, after all, very narrow
and rather rough, but most of
the time I stayed in top gear,
except for sharp turns and steep
pinches. Then I caught up to a
timber-lorry that was travelling
at about one mile per hour, and
that forced me down into bot-
tom gear; he wouldn’t let me
pass, though I kept my hand on
the horn for about half an
hour; not that there was much
room to pass him, anyway. Then
when I was just about boiling
from being hung up for so long
he turned down a very steep
side-track that probably led to
a farm. As I went past he
waved his hand to stop me and
shouted something about a
“cream-lorry,” but I’d had
enough of him, so I just drove
on.
It wasn’t long before I found
out what he meant. A lorry was
coming down the mountain col-
lecting cream-cans from the
roadside. A big, heavy job, and
it stayed right in the middle of
the road until it was nearly on
top of me.
“Didn’t anyone tell you I was
coming down?” he yelled. As if
he owned the road.
“You can back off the road
and let me past,” I told him,
pretty firmly.
But all he said was “Every
day I come down this here road
at five, and everybody knows it.
And I’m not going to risk tip-
ping all my cream-cans off for
anybody,”
I went on arguing with him,
but he started up his engine and
let his truck creep forward until
it hit my bumper-bar.
“Are you going to reverse
and drive down that sidetrack,
or will I push you?”
He meant it, too; the blasted
bushranger.
“I’ll take your number and
report you to the police,” I
yelled.
X)UT I backed away, because
I didn’t want my mud-
guards crushed, and drove down
the track where the timber lorry
had gone. By God it was steep
and rough.
But when I turned round and
tried to drive up again it gave
me quite a fright to find out that
it was really twice as steep and
rough as I’d thought it was on
the way down, and right at the
steepest part there was a two-
hundred - and - seventy - degree
turn, so sharp that I could see
it was never designed for motor-
cars.
I had a go at it in second, but
she stalled when I slowed down
for the turn. I just couldn’t get
going again, even in low, so I
reversed for about twenty yards
to get a run at it. I went at it
in first, pretty fast, so that I’d get
round the bend, and just when I
thought I was making it the back-
wheels bashed into a hole,
slipped on some loose stones and
gripped again on a slab of bare
rock with a terrific bang and a
horrible grind-noise in the gear-
box ; and she stopped dead.
I couldn’t believe it; smash-
ing the gears in a brand-new
car. Then I got out and had
another look at the road, and I
wasn’t surprised at all. What
with holes, loose rubble and
rocks, the wheels didn’t have a
chance to grip at all, and then
when they did suddenly bite on
something solid it was such a
jarr on a slope as steep as that
that something had to go.
I walked to the nearest house
and phoned the garage in that
lousy little town. It sounded
like the bloke who’d sold me
the petrol, and he didn’t seem
a bit surprised.
“Cripes,” he said, “I wish
blokes like you wouldn’t go
driving on those roads. We’ve
got twice as much work with
our regular customers as we can
do now.”
He actually sounded as if he’d
like to leave me stranded there.
But I’m a member of the two
best motorists’ organisations,
and since I’d seen by his sign
that he was the district repre-
sentative, I knew that he was
bound to come and get me out.
I soon told him about that, and
he knew I had him there.
“Oh, all right,” he said, in a
terribly tired way.
A FTER a hell of a long wait,
along came the towing-
truck with the bloke and another
fellow so silent that he made
the first one sound like a high-
pressure auctioneer. One of
them got in and tried the car as
if he thought that I wouldn’t
know if anything was wrong or
not, and he only grunted when
I asked him if he knew the extent
of the damage.
They hauled me on to the
road again, and from there I
drove into the town using only
the second and top gears. Then
I made one of the worst mis-
takes of my life. I could have
driven anywhere up or down
the highway using the two good
gears to a decent-sized town
with an efficient garage, but I
was in a bit of a panic about
what might happen next with
the gearbox full of stripped
teethe
It was fairly late in the day,
then, and they said they’d have
a look at the gearbox next morn-
ing. But I wouldn’t hear of
that; mug that I was for not
clearing out when I should have
been able to see what sort of a
set-up I’d run into.
“We might have to send away
for new parts,” I said, “and I
want you to find out what’s
needed now, so that I can get
things moving.”
Well, after a long, slow-
motion, practically wordless
argument among about five
mechanics, they agreed that the
one who could only grunt was
to have a look at my gearbox.
He got the top off and looked
around with a light, and pre-
sently when one of the others
came along I found that he
could talk after all, although I’d
asked him about ten times what
he could see and couldn’t get a
word out of him.
“Bottom and reverse,” he
said, making such an effort over
it that I could see that he
wouldn’t be able to say another
word for days.
Well, I know the bloke in
charge of the spare parts for my
cars in Sydney, and I made the
wires hum until I got on to him.
It was right on closing-time, and
those parts were in very short
supply. But as soon as he found
out who I was he promised to
see that he got them away on
the night’s train. I told the
garage blokes how well I’d
handled things, but none of their
faces changed from the tired,
half-dopey and half-resentful
look.
“You should have her fixed
by noon tomorrow at the latest,”
I told them to let them know
the kind of service I demanded.
And then the fellow who’d
sold me the petrol and seemed
to be the nearest to a human
being among them seemed to
decide that he was going to
enlighten me a bit, cost what it
might in vocal effort.
TTE looked around the garage
at half a dozen cars and
trucks of all ages and sizes, all
more-or-less dismantled, and
particularly at a stinking old
cattle-truck with the back axle
pulled out.
“All those got to be fixed,”
he said.
And a shabbily-dressed fel-
low hanging around said “Too
right, my truck’s got to be fixed.
My load of cows is running
round the roads, and I’ll lose
half of them if I don’t get mov-
ing soon.”
I began to see then that I’d
have to take a firm line. If the
place was run on a “first in, first
out” basis I might be weeks
getting away. But I wasn’t
going to put up with that sort of
treatment. I decided that in the
morning I’d be down early and
have a go at the head-mechanic.
As I said before, I reckoned
that I knew how to get service,
at a garage or anywhere else.
I got a room at the only
hotel, and, by cripes, there was
nothing to prevent me being
early at the garage next morn-
ing, But there was no one work-
ing on my car. I decided to
stand no kind of nonsense right
from the beginning.
“Who’s in charge?” I de-
manded, and believe it or not,
none of them seemed to know.
So I looked around for the
bloke who could talk a bit, got
him into a corner, flipped open
my wallet so that he could see
the wad of tenners I had, then
peeled off a fiver from the other
roll. I had to push it into his
hands.
“What’s this? A deposit?”
he asked.
“Not necessarily,” I said
briskly. “I want results, and
I’m prepared to pay for them.
I don’t want to be stuck in this
hole any longer than I have to.”
“Well,” he said, looking a bit
embarrassed, “we’ll do our best
for you, but there’s that cattle-
truck, and there’s that Morris
with the bashed-in radiator—
that’s been here for two
months.”
I said “Look here, I can’t
wait. That’s why I gave you
that.”
He looked at the fiver as if
he didn’t know what to do with
it, then he put it under a cog on
a spare-parts shelf where anyone
could see it,
“We’ll do our best,” he said
again, and I left it at that, be-
cause usually in cases like that
a nod is as good as a wink.
ALL that morning I walked
up and down the one short
street, then I went into the pub
and had a drink, and then I
walked up and down the street
again. There was nothing any-
where to do, and nothing to
see. There wasn’t even a beach,
because here the highway had
swung about ten miles inland.
About twelve I went back to
the garage. Just as I came in
the bloke who only grunted
picked up some tools and
crawled under the back-axle of
my car. As far as I could see,
nothing had been done.
I looked for the talking bloke,
pretty wild with him for letting
me down like this. He was
working on a rotary-hoe that
hadn’t been there before, and
there was another new customer
hanging around him who’d just
brought in a farm-tractor.
“I thought you were going to
work on my car,” I said, pretty
severely.
But he looked at me in a sort
of offended, innocent way.
“These blokes have got to get
their crops in while their soil is
right,” he said.
“My word, this is the last
week for planting navy-beans,”
one of the farmers said quickly.
I damn’ near started to froth
at the mouth, I was so wild,
but the bloke looked at me,
quite surprised, and said,
“There’s a man on your car.”
I turned my back on him,
disgusted. The car could have


7f
m
«r
msm
I
MSS
B
K .
s®
1
m
/mi
///77
M
6i5
m
SK
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
BVusabcv
-eiotk-
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl 13.3
been nearly finished by then. I
reckoned then that I’d picked
on the wrong man ; it seemed
that everybody went to him be-
cause he could talk a bit and
wasn’t so hard to get on with.
I’d have a go at the grunter, I
thought.
So I said to him, in a nice
cheerful sort of way, “I suppose
you’ll be sticking to this job and
getting it done as soon as you
possibly can?”
As soon as I’d said that he
came crawling out and picked up
his tools as if he was going to
stop, then and there ; but when
he saw that I wasn’t going to
let him get away, he grunted out
a few words I could hardly
understand: “Done all I can
on me own.”
“Don’t go,” I said to him in a
very firm, commanding way, and
then I yelled out to the others:
“Hey, one of you there, come
here and help this chap! ”
NO one took the slightest
notice of me except those
customers who were standing
over the mechanics who were
working on their jobs; and
they adopted a stance that said
as plain as words:
“You’re not going to get my
man.”
My bloke looked at me in a
pitying way and started to move
off.
I got a bit desperate. “Stop,”
I said, grabbing him by the arm.
“Look here.” And I pulled out a
fiver, I could see that I’d be
stuck there for days if I didn’t
have at least one man defi-
nitely pinned-down on the job
—“l’m giving you this so that I
can be sure you lyon’t leave my
job until it’s finished.”
His hands were black with
grease and full of tools, and he
looked as if he didn’t know
what to do about it. So I
stuffed the note into his overall
pocket.
“Now,” I said, “get to it,”
and I grabbed a young lad
who’d just come in from the
bowser: “here, help this man
for as long as he needs you, and
I won’t forget you when the
job’s finished.”
I fixed him with my eye and
pushed him along. Then I stood
over them like the farmers were
doing; it seemed to be the only
way to get things done. They
got the axle pulled back in no
time, and the gear-box out. I
was feeling much better until
the grunter, who’d started pulling
cogs out of the gearbox, said
with a grin as if he was getting
even with me, “Cluster-gear
gone, too.”
And so it had. Was I wild
with him for not having a proper
look the night before! But I
didn’t say any more than I had
to to stop myself from burst-
ing. I got on to the phone to
Sydney again and got things
moving. It didn’t make me any
happier to learn that a cluster-
gear cost fourteen pounds ; but
it was losing the time that
worried me most. Two days
had gone out of the eight I had
left of my holidays, and by heck
I wanted to get up into the
mountains to cool off after the
western summer beside a cold
mountain stream. Not that I
was going to tackle that awful
road again, but the first high-
way that ran through the
southern highlands.
After lunch I went back. No
one working on my car. I
couldn’t find my grunting
friend, and at last someone re-
membered that he was having
the afternoon off —after taking
my money! I went after the
one who could talk; he’d taken
my money, too; and I’d see
that I got some result for it.
His conscience wasn’t troubl-
ing him. “We can’t do anything
until we get the cluster-gear,” he
told me.
“You could get the broken
one out and clean out the gear-
box.”
“Oh, that won’t take long,”
he said. “I think we*ll get this
rotary-hoe, and the tractor, and
the cattle-truck fixed early in
the afternoon, and then I’ll get
your gearbox ready for when
the new cluster comes in the
morning.”
QUITE surprised me how
much he could talk when he
tried, and even blarneying me a
bit. I suppose I was teaching
him something. There didn’t
seem to be any use my hanging
around, so I didn’t come back
until a while before closing-
time. They were still working
on the tractor and cattle-truck.
My gearbox was untouched.
“They’ve got urgent work to
do,” was all I got.
All right. That was the way
their minds worked. Next
morning I had a couple of urgent
telegrams sent to me from my
office: Vital you return immedi-
ately stop decision major con-
tracts, and showed them at the
garage. Of course I knew they’d
seen my fishing-gear, so I took
care of that: “Would have been
the end of my holiday, anyhow,”
I muttered.
Then I started to work on
them, talked about the thous-
ands of pounds involved, to
make the locals’ beans and
potatoes look like chicken-feed.
The grunting bloke cleaned-
out my gearbox, and then he .
stopped because he said he
didn’t know enough to fit a new
cluster-gear. It certainly looked
a very tricky and complicated
job.
“Well, who can?” I demanded.
It turned out it was the talk-
ing chap, and he was out test-
ing a job they’d just completed.
It was hours before he came
back.
To make a long story short,
that was the way it went on, day
after day, when there was only
one day’s work from the very
beginning. I don’t know how
it was that I didn’t go mad,
stuck there in that lousy little
town with its steamy, sweaty,
sultry, coastal heat. Most of
the time I spent in that garage,
arguing, pushing, urging. Some-
times I left it for half a day be-
cause it made me sick.-
Every time I walked along
that miserable little street I
looked at a gun in a shop-win-
dow, and once or twice I
thought I’d buy it and go shoot-'
ing rabbits just to have some-
thing different to do. But, then,
I realised that if I had a gun I
might take it to that garage and
do something I’d be sorry for
for the rest of my life. Things
got so bad that I actually re-
signed myself to having only
the weekend in the mountains.
I was due back here on Monday,
you see.
Even to get that I could see
that I’d have to be at them all
the time. I handed out a couple
more fivers to encourage some
of the others to do a bit when
the talker and the grunter dodged
me; I showed them telegrams
that my wife was dangerously
ill, and a later one, Mary half
conscious crying for your re-
turn. which I thought would
have them falling over each
other. But when I cornered the
talking bloke and put it to him
as man to man, all he said was
“Well, if you’ve really got to
go, there’s always the train.”
“Blast it,” I said, “there’s
only about an hour’s work left
on my car. If I can get away
tonight”—that was Friday after-
noon —“I’ll beat the train by ten
hours.”
THEY looked as if they’d
finish it that night, just a
week after I’d got there, when
they got a message about a car
accident. Immediately the two
blokes who’d done most of the
work on my car wanted to rush
away in the towing-truck.
“Ah, no,” I said, “you’re not
doing this to me. You hop in
and finish this. It shouldn’t
take much more than half an
hour.”
“But,” said the talking one, as
if he wasn’t going to take any
notice of me, “how would you
like to have your car left hang-
ing halfway over a cliff?”
“It would be no worse there
than stuck in this garage,” I
said, I was so mad. But I knew
that was the wrong line to take,
so I added more calmly, “Can’t
you send someone else?”
“Ah, no. We’re the road-
service men, and you know that
we’ve got to go when we’re called
on, because you made us go last
Friday.”
And no matter what I said,
they went.
“We should be back in time
to finish your car,” they said,
but 1 knew by then how much
faith I could put in that sort of
promise,
I tried to get some of the
other mechanics, but in their
dumb-ox way they couldn’t or
wouldn’t tackle it. I got my bags
from the pub and put them
where everybody in the garage
could see them to let them know
that I was going that night, come
what may.
Well, I didn’t. The towing-
truck didn’t return until after
the other men had gone home,
and then my two lovely
mechanics said they couldn't
possibly finish my car. It would
take longer than I thought, and
they couldn’t let it go until they
had given it a thorough test.
“Better leave it until Mon-
day,” they said quite calmly.
“Monday! Hell and damna-
tion! ” I said. “Won’t you come
back tomorrow morning for an
urgent case like this? I’ll pay
you overtime,”
“Oh, we work on Saturdays,
but we have a regular job then,
servicing the shire-council
lorries v We only open for that.”
I argued with them. They
could make time. Do my job
first, then hurry over the lorries
for once.
“No, it’s a regular job. We’ve
got to do it properly”—just as if
they had consciences. And after
the way they’d treated me !
I was there Saturday, showing
them how they could get the
council lorries done in less time
by just doing the main greasing
and leaving things that wouldn’t
be noticed for the next Satur-
day. But I got nowhere with
them. They were just too dumb
to soak up a new idea. They took
all day over it, and wouldn’t
hear of coming back on Sun-
day morning. They were
religious! By heck, that made
me laugh.
WELL, I got away at noon on
Monday, and had to drive
like mad for the rest of the day
to get here late at night. That’s
how I cut out my holidays quite
neatly, just as if the s had
known.
And now, while we have one
last drink, let me tell you about
the surprises I got when it came
to settling up. I checked over
the account; all the prices for
new parts were charged at list
without the usual fifteen per
cent, extra most garages grab;
the working-time was reason-
able, the total cost was thirty-
five pounds.
“That’ll be fifteen pounds you
owe us,” said the talking chap.
Believe it or not, all the blokes
I’d given the fivers had put them
in as part-payments on the job!
You wouldn’t think you’d find
anyone as dumb as that these
days, would you? Another
thing, t too, before we go ; they
made a beautiful job of fitting
those gears, not the slightest
hum on the road, no grinding
when I changed like you usually
get when new gears are fitted.
That was the biggest surprise
of all, that fellows who were so
stupid could do a job as good
as that.


8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
—TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
SI
&. \
J.
/
You can book to almost anywhere in the
world by 8.0.A.C. Speedbird Services —
on one ticket all the way. Your 8.0.A.C.
Agent makes no charge for expert advice
and trip-planning help.
ƒ
Book from Australia to INDONESIA
BURMA • THAILAND * MALAYA
HONG KONG . JAPAN . CEYLON
INDIA* PAKISTAN. MIDDLE EAST
AFRICA*EU ROPE .GREAT BRITAIN
U.S.A.* CANADA* CENTRAL AND
SOUTH AMERICA. BERMUDA
fl MUM
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas Empire
Airways Limited ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia).
For Post Haste without waste—use Overseas Air Mall
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A 40 / A U
himself. But Dad dared not
relax his grip. Paddy Maloney
ran behind the brute several
times to lay him out with a
waddy, but each time he turned
and fled before striking the blow.
Dad thought to force matters,
and began kicking his assailant
vigorously in the stomach. Such
dull, heavy thuds! The
kangaroo retaliated, putting Dad
on the defensive. Dad displayed
remarkable suppleness about the
hips. At last the brute fixed his
deadly toe in Dad’s belt.
It was an anxious moment,
but the belt broke and Dad
breathed freely again. He was
acting entirely on the defensive,
but an awful consciousness of
impending misfortune assailed
him. His belt was gone, and his
trousers began to slip—slip —
slip! He called wildly to the
others for God’s sake to do
something. They helped with
advice. He yelled “Curs!” and
“Cowards!” back at them. Still,
as he danced around with his
strange and ungainly partner, his
trousers kept slipping—slipping.
For the fiftieth time and more he
glanced eagerly over his shoulder
for some haven of safety. None
was near. And then —oh,
horror!—down they slid calmly
and noiselessly. Poor Dad! He
was at a disadvantage; his leg-
work was hampered, he was
hobbled. Could he only get free
of them altogether! But he
couldn’t —his feet were large.
He took a lesson from the foe
and jumped—jumped this way
and that way, and round about,
while large drops of sweat rolled
off him. The small dogs dis-
played renewed and ridiculous
ferocity, often mistaking Dad for
the marsupial. At last Dad be-
came exhausted —there was no
spring left in him. Once he
nearly went down. Twice he
tripped. He staggered again—
down he was going—down—
down —and down he fell! But
at the same moment, and, as
though they had dropped from
the clouds, Brindle and five or
six other dogs pounced on the
old man. The rest may be
imagined.
Dad lay on the ground to
recover his wind, and when he
mounted Farmer again and
silently turned for home, Paddy
Maloney was triumphantly
seated on the carcass of the
fallen enemy, exultingly explain-
ing how he missed the brute’s
head with the stirrup-iron and
claiming the tail.
(To be continued next week)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter. —5550.
Words of poems “The Dancing
Girl of Angkor” and “The Return
by Ralph Adeneyss49.
To buy copies of books by Peter
B. Kyne.—5548.
To buy copy of The Odyssey of
a Gold Seeker by L. R. Menzie.
(Reply direct to Miss Cornelia Steele,
Box SS, Socorro, New Mexico,
U.S.A.)
Information Sought
Some information about boxer Dave
Smith? Is he still alive?
Dave Smith was born in Dunedin
(N.Z.) on May 10, 1886, and began
boxing in 1906 as an amateur at
Otago (N.Z.), where he won a middle-
weight championship. He also won
a middleweight championship at
Dunedin, then came to Sydney, where
he won the New South Wales and
Australasian championships. Turning
professional, Smith beat Bill Lang
for the Australian heavyweight
championship in Melbourne on
November 4, 1913; he retired un-
beaten for this title. In later life
he was an alderman of Mosman
(N.S.W.) Municipal Council for
many years. Smith died at Mosman
on May 29, 1945.
« * * «
List of N.S.W. Premiers, their dura-
tion of office and names of the various
Ministers of Health since 1908 ?
Charles Wade, Premier (Liberal;
Oct. 2, 1907, to Oct. 20, 1910); no
Minister of Health. James McGowen
(Labor; Oct. 21, 1910, to June 29,
1913); no Minister of Health. W. A.
Holman (Labor; June 30, 1913, to
Nov. 15, 1916); Health Ministers,
Flowers and Black. National
Ministry, with Holman Premier (Nov.
15, 1916, to April 12, 1920); Health
Ministers, Fitz Gerald, David Storey
and Bruntnell. John Storey (Labor;
Apl. 13, 1920, to Oct. 10, 1921);
Greg McGirr, Minister for Public
Health and Motherhood. (Storey
died Oct. 5, 1921.) James Dooley
(Oct. 10, 1921, to Dec. 20, 1921);
Greg McGirr. Sir George Fuller
(National; Dec. 20, 1921—seven
hours only); C. W. Oakes. James
Dooley (Labor; Dec. 20, 1921, to
Apl. 13, 1922); Greg McGirr. Sir
George Fuller (National; Apl. 13,
1922 to June 17, 1925); Oakes. J. T.
Lang (Labor; June 17, 1925, to May
26, 1927); George Cann. Lang
Ministry (reconstructed; May 27,
1927, to Oct. 18, 1927); Stuart-
Robertson. Thomas Bavin (National;
Oct. 18, 1927, to Nov. 3, 1930);
Richard Arthur. J. T. Lang (Labor;
Nov. 4, 1930, to May 13, 1932);
James McGirr and W. T. Ely.
Stevens-Bruxner Ministry (U.A.P.-
Country-party; May 16, 1932, to Feb.
10, 1935); R. W. D, Weaver.
Stevens-Bruxner Ministry (recon-
structed; Feb. 11, 1935, to Apl. 13,
1938); H. P. FitzSimons. Stevens-
Bruxner (further reconstructed; Apl.
13, 1938, to Aug. 5, 1939); Fitz-
Simons. Mair-Bruxnef Ministry
(U.A.P.-C.P.; Aug. 5, 1939, to May
16, 1941); H. L. Primrose and H. P.
FitzSimons. W. J. McKell (Labor;
May 16, 1941, to June 8, 1944); C.
A. Kelly. W. J. McKell (June 8,
1944, to Feb. 6, 1947); C. A. Kelly.
James McGirr (Labor; Feb. 6, 1947,
to May »19, 1947); C. A. Kelly.
James McGirr (May 19, 1947, to
June 19, 1950); C. A. Kelly. James
McGirr (June 20, 1950, to Apl. 2,
1952) M. O’Sullivan. J. J. Cahill
(Labor; Apl. 2, 1952, to Feb. 22,
1953) M. O’Sullivan. Cahill (Feb.
23, 1953—); M. O’Sullivan.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
Difference between "irony," "sar-
casm" and “ satire” ?
The distinguishing quality of irony
is that the meaning intended is con-
trary to that seemingly expressed;
one says one thing and means the
opposite. One praises when blame
is intended. Irony may be gentle or
cutting. The essential quality of
sarcasm is bitterness or taunting
reproaohfulness; it may or may not
be ironical, but it is always cutting
and ill-natured (as irony need not be).
Satire is a formal or elaborate
holding-up of vice or folly (especially
public vice or folly) to ridicule or
reprobation. It often makes use of
irony but is not necessarily ironical,
Fowler lists the audience for which
each is intended —irony for “an inner
circle,” sarcasm for “victim and by-
stander,” satire for “the self-satisfied.”
* ♦ ♦ *
Difference between a concerto and
a symphony?
A concerto is a work for one or
more solo instruments with orchestra,
designed for display of the individual
performer’s (or performers’) technical
powers but also, in the best exercises,
to be valuable as a work of art.
From about the time of Mozart,
concertos have been almost invariably
written in sonata-form. A symphony,
in its usual form, is a sonata com-
posed for orchestra instead of for
solo instruments. (A sonata is a
composition in three or four related
movements; sonata-form is the classic
form followed in constructing the
larger musical compositions, i.e.,
concerto and symphony.)
* ♦ * *
(1) Were there six Roman emperors
in one particular year ? (2) Any other
occasions when there were several
Roman emperors in one year?
(1) Yes, in the year 305. But they
were associate emperors, not rivals
fighting for personal power. Dio-
cletian (emperor 284-305), one of the
greatest of the later emperors, had
divided the empire into four, to facili-
tate its administration —with two
Augusti (one himself) and two
Caesars, who had somewhat lesser
powers. In 305 he abdicated, and
forced his fellow-Augustus, Maximian,
to do likewise, the two Caesars being
promoted and two new Caesars ap-
pointed. (Hence the six emperors in
one year.) This imperial system did
not last long, and a struggle for
power followed, resulting in the even-
tual supremacy of Constantine the
Great as sole ruler in 324. (2) There
are quite a few instances of several
emperors succeeding one another in
very short time, when rivals struggled
for power. In the chaos following
the death of Nero (June, a.d. 68)
there were four emperors in the next
year, 69.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Some information on Bela Bartok,
the Hungarian composer?
Bela Bartok (1881-1945) was taught
music from an early age by his
mother, and at 10 made his public
debut as a pianist. He studied com-
position under Koessler at Budapest
Corner vatorium, and about 1905
began to collect folk-tunes and to
discover that the true Magyar music
differed considerably from that of
the Hungarian gipsies, till then re-
garded as the only Hungarian folk-
music. In 1907 he was appointed
professor of pianoforte at Budapest
Conservatorium. After the 1914-18
war his music became known outside
Hungary. His works include one
opera (“Bluebeard’s Castle”), two
mime-plays, two pianoforte concertos,
chamber and pianoforte music,
arrangements of folksongs, etc.
Brief Answers
C.V.W.: Write Dept, of Civil
Aviation, Canberra, A.C.T K.C.:
The verse is “That Day at Boiling
Downs” by Jack Mathieu. It was
printed in The Bulletin Reciter....
A.A.E.: No direct financial assist-
ance is given except under the War
Service Land Settlement Scheme, and
if you are interested in this scheme
you may obtain full particulars from
the Lands Department, Sydney, upon
application A.8.L.: All his works
have been out of print for a long time.
... .H.F.S.: Harold Fraser-Simson
was born in London in 1878 and died
Inverness in 1944. Studied music
at Charterhouse School. “Maid of
the Mountains” is his only real suc-
cessful operetta. Musical encyclo-
pedias make no mention of any
other compositions, though lesser-
known ones were produced P.J.K.:
The Melbourne Bread and Cheese
Club meets regularly at their club-
rooms in the basement of Haeremai
House, 44 Market-street, Melbourne.
. ...H.T.D.: (1) The ceiling must
first be well cleaned. It should be
washed with lime-water, removing all
old dressings down to the plaster;
then all cracks, etc., should be filled
with patching plaster, rubbed smooth
with pumice when dry, and then
coated with size-wash. When dry,
paint with a hard bright enamel paint.
(2) Brush the rusty spots well, and
repair jvith one of the roof-sealers
obtainable from a hardware store.
When dry, clean and patch the root
where necessary, then paint with a
metallic roofing paint, usually obtain-
able in a pleasant slate color. Con-
sult a paint store for both processes,
and examine some of the new plastic
treatments being sold R.F.A.:
Cremation Society of Australia, Ltd.,
19 Blight-street, Sydney D.McK.:
Write Commonwealth Health Benefits
of Australia, Ltd., Victory Chambers,
302 Queen-street, Sydney F.H.S.:
The tenants would not be eligible for
compensation. In the case of owners
of property taken over by the Com-
monwealth, Section 51 of the Con-
stitution provides that the owner or
owners must be compensated on “just
terms”.... C.J.C.: The Legislative
Council is a revising Chamber,
designed primarily to provide a check
on the danger of hasty and ill-con-
sidered action by the Lower House.
Though Upper Houses have been
guilty of delaying good measures,
they have often improved legislation
by compelling the advocates of hasty
change to reconsider and remodel
their proposals. When the same party
is in the majority in both Chambers,
the Legislative Council does tend to
be a mere rubber-stamp. Queensland
and N.Z. have abolished their Upper
Houses....J.H.: In 1906 £200,000
was voted in aid of relief-works for
the unemployed under the (British)
Unemployed Workmen Act of 1905.
In 1913-14 £369,000 was paid in un-
employment-benefit; in 1938 the
figure had risen to £52 million, though
it had fallen to £2,800,000 in 1943
(all figures relate to Britain)
H.W.W.: (1) According to A Manual
of Secretarial Practice (published, in
1950, under the authority of the
British Corporation of Certified Sec-
retaries), the use of the word “con-,
firmed” relating to minutes, though
common practice, is incorrect; it is
a misuse of the word. The phrase
which should be employed is “The
minutes were read and signed as
correct.” (2) If a subsequent meet-
ing disapproves of the decisions of a
previous meeting, the remedy lies not
in altering the minutes of that meet-
ing (which would falsify the record)
fcfut in formally resolving upon new
decisions; these are then put in the
minutes and annul the previous
decisions.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
W.A.T.: There’s a lyrical spring in
“Romance” but the poem bounces
uncontrollably into the clouds
0.W.: A nice beginning for a poem,
but where’s the rest of it?....H.P.:
Can’t see the point of your stellar
observations... .H.R.8.: Harmless
jingles L.F.: “A Shearer’s Reply
to Some Bar Bludgers” is unprintable.
H.A.M.: We have perused your
two exercise-books of poetry and
think, on the whole, you had better
regard poetry as an amiable hobby
rather than as your life’s mission
K.S J.: Have also perused your
exercise-book of poetry. You might
conceivably get a ballad printed in
a country paper but you will find the
cliffs of the city too high to scale.
M.F.: No chance here. Read
some of this century’s Australian
poetry and then have a shot at “The
Australian Woman’s Mirror”
G.W.: “Black Cockatoo” the nearest.
You’re trying so hard (and so admir-
ably) for a natural language that you
make it unnatural J. 8.: How
pleasing to be wished “Cheerio on
this bright day.” Cheerio to you—
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
and, alas, to the poems....H.J.:
Nothing new in it and too much
jargon—what’s “Nature’s timely foil”?
T.H.: Rather a dry bit of desert.
....F.8.M.: Not a bad bit of doggy
doggerel S.L.: Nearly took the
pennies and marbles TJ.McC.:
Pleasing enough but plodding....
P.P.: Naval and Army jests met a
hollow rattle of mirth... .H.V.C.:
It’s neatly done but not particularly
exhilarating K.H.: “Queenstown”
promising but, in the end, not up to
expectations M.H.: None of the
three our kind... .J.C.8.: The senti-
ments do you credit, but don’t make
a story R.C.: Such japes!
K.McA.: Wanders Z.V.W.:
Creaks M.S.: No go E.G.W.:
Not bad, but not quite alive M. 1.:
Hoopygoop K.E.G.: As fiction it
is badly organised; as truth it is
half-fiction J .A.S.: Tillivalli
P.M.L.: The story is a bit violent
for us; the essay is not our kind.
N,H.: No again M.D.:
Neither one of ours A.H.; We
prefer our heroes sane G.A.8.:
You put in two endings to your
dingo-tale, but neither wagged
J.C.H.: The snow sketch has got
something, But not enough J.M.:
Hopeless J.A.S.: Your hypochon-
driac might as well have been dead.
....H.S.: Not bad, but not quite.
....P.N.: ditto.... S.R.: ditto....
R.C.: We wondered what it was all
about J.C.H.: Your swallow’s
nest doesn’t make a story 8.P.:
Your regatta foundered H. 8.:
“Galloping Ghost” too long and
doesn’t come to a point.


From Elation to Despair
Rommel
on the Run
by "EK DUM"
ROMMEL was the kind of
general that war-com-
mentators like. He could
and did write well,
almost daily, and with a
flowing pen. He wielded a
camera better than a sword. He
could make attractive sketches to
illustrate his plans in pencils of
several colors. He was photo-
genic. He was personable and
generous to his foes and weaker
Allies, the Italians. And he
seems to have admired Captain
Liddell Hart, who edits The
Rommel Papers (Collins), with
more than usual tenderness/
Captain Liddell Hart quotes
General Bayeflein as an auth-
ority for Rommel’s opinion that
if the British had listened to Cap-
tain Hart and General Fuller
they would have avoided most of
their defeats, and that “of all
military writers it was Liddell
Hart who made the deepest im-
pression on the field-marshal —
and greatly influenced his tacti-
cal and strategical thinking. He,
like Guderian, could in many
respects be termed Liddell Hart’s
pupil”!
Those who have followed
Guderian’s writings—and their
chronology—might be a little
dazed at this revelation, and
others might have wondered why
it was that the Germans had
never heard of such people as
Allenby, Wavell and Martel.
Captain Liddell Hart, in turn,
does his best for his German
admirer, but not enough to exalt
him to the ranks of the super-
men ; and the overall impression
which one gets from his
papers is that he had none of the
spirit of General Fortune and
his merry men of the 51st Scot-
tish Division, who, on their
enforced surrender in France,
after failing to “Dunkirk” at St.
Valery-en-Caux, surprised him
with “the sangfroid with which
they stalked round laughing in
the street” in front of the head-
quarters of a gratified capturer.
Rommel certainly had the
good qualities which are sup-
posed to go with an officer and
a gentleman, but he was too
delighted in victory easily gained
and too despondent from the
moment the tide turned against
him. Not all the British generals
of the sad years 1940-42 together
moaned as much as General
Rommel in a few weeks towards
the end of the latter year ; not
all of them rejoiced at all their
victories as much as he did over
one or two qualified triumphs.
He was not equitable like Marl-
borough, nor unassuming like
F.-M. Alexander.
True, some of his perform-
ances were meritorious from a
military point of view, operations
executed with great vigor under
conditions of great difficulty.-
Often in actual terms of numbers
or strength he was inferior to
those wfiom he beat or out-
witted. But Captain Hart seems
to be no more forward than
himself in remembering that the
aggressor knows where he is
going to strike and the holder of
a defensive line does not; that
the attacker can mass his spear-
heads to give weight to a smash-
ing blow at a predetermined
point, while, unless his intel-
ligence is perfect, the defender
cannot always mass in time for
defence against such an
onslaught and must keep his
whole front covered.
The zenith of Rommel’s
success in North Africa was the
winning of the Second Battle of
Tobruk, and it is from this point
onwards to El Alamein that his
operations and his temperament
are most interesting as a study.
He made the most of that
victory, for to him Tobruk was
“one of the strongest fortresses
in North Africa,” one where, “in
1941, with magnificent troops in
its garrison, it had presented us
with immense difficulties” ; one
round which “many attacks had
collapsed in its .defences,” leav-
ing “much of its outer perimeter
literally soaked in blood,”
Often “the battle had raged
round a square yard at a time
We were no strangers to
Tobruk a symbol of British
resistance, and we were now
going to finish with it for
good.”
His recapture of the battered
town was to him the crowning
glory of the “great battle of Mar-
marica,” which brought him by
his estimate over 45,000
prisoners, the capture or destruc-
tion of more than 1000 armored
fighting vehicles and nearly 400
guns. It capped “a superb
achievement” whose consumma-
tion set him burning to “com-
plete the destruction of the
enemy.” It imbued him with
determination “not to rest until
we have shattered the last rem-
nants of the British Eighth
Army.” With the “mountains”
of captured material of all kinds
at his disposal it seemed to him
that, with promised Italian help,
he could “exploit the weakness
of the British by thrusting for-
ward as far as I could into
Egypt.”
Afterwards he represented
what he at first called the attempt
to “destroy the tattered remnants
of the British Army which had
escaped the Marmarica battles”
as merely “a plan with a chance
of success —a try-on” ; but it is
obvious that it was not intended
to be a gamble. He ventured too
far, and in too planned a way,
to support this theory. As he
himself pointed out, after the
battle of Mersa Matruh had been
won on June 29, 1942, a week
after Tobruk fell* the leading
German units were 300 miles
east of Tobruk and only 125
miles from Alexandria, and the
captured British rail- and road-
system behind him was in first-
class order.
The booty again was
“enormous.” About 6000 British
troops marched into their prison-
camps, he said. True, the New
Zealand Division, under Frey-
berg, had unfortunately escaped,
and as an elite division he would
have been “very much happier if
it had been safely tucked away
in one of our prison-camps.”
But that was nothing beside the
fact that “the last fortress port
in the western desert” had fallen
to him.
Even the knowledge that de-
fensive work had been going on
along the last British line, with
fresh units coming up, did not
seem at that stage likely to break
the routine of his advance. He
“planned to get through to the
Alamein line and overrun it
while it was still incomplete and
before the remaining remnants
of the Eighth Army had time to
organise its defence”:
This line was the last bastion on
which the British could oppose our
advance. Once through it, our road
was clear.
As he drove forward intent
on this purpose the only sounds
to discomfort him were
tremendous explosions from the
east, which seemed to suggest
that the unobliging British were
blowing-up their dumps to rob
their conquerors of supplies. On
June 30 he wrote that “we are
already 60 miles to the east of
Mersa Matruh and less than 100
miles from Alexandria! ” —the
exclamation-mark was his.
In the afternoon he discussed
the projected attack on the El
Alamein line, which it was pro-
posed to launch at 0300 hours
next morning. And it is with the
setting-down of this plan that
the newly-appointed field-
marshal —promoted after the
Tobruk victory—sees the end of
his African triumph and
abandons the use of exclamation-
marks. In the evening it became
clear to him that “we would not
be able to keep to the time
table the formations taking
part in the attack had been badly
held up, partly by the retreating
British and partly by the
unforeseen difficulty of the
country.”
The nerve with which he sud-
denly changes the tune at this
stage in the space of two or three
paragraphs almost takes the
breath away; for the audacity
he did not lack in war he pos-
sessed also in full measure when
explaining failure. His page on
page of anticipation of final
defeat of the shattered “remnants
of the British,” supposedly flee-
ing in chaos and destroying their
supplies, is succeeded after the
last sentence quoted above by
the words; “My Panzer Army
had now been five weeks in
battle against superior British
forces.”
The most he now has to say
about his effect upon his enemies
is that “partly by attacks with
limited objectives, partly in de-
fence,” he had succeeded in
“wearing them down” ; but that
“this series of engagements had
brought the strength of my army
to the point of exhaustion” —at
which point he had just been
exulting that he was only 100
miles from his main goal in
Egypt and preparing to ! break
through the Alamein line. And
this, moreover, when supposedly
(as later explained) his supplies
were failing and the Italians were
letting him down.
No sign of this state of affairs
is evident in what he writes on
June 30, but when he sums-up
later he declares that “when it
is remembered that in modern
warfare supplies decide the
battle, it is easy to see how the
clouds of disaster were gathering
for my army.”
The British seemed to have
developed a new quality beyond
all German calculation, “looking
at things coolheadedly,” moved
by the peril of the hour to
tremendous exertions, and doing
things which, done by an enemy
in the condition in which
Rommel had imagined him, are
scarcely explainable by his axiom
that “mortal danger is an effec-
tive antidote for fixed ideas.”
There is plenty of room for
suspicion that the field-marshal’s
transition in mood from gay to
grave and to the realisation that
there “were already signs, in the
new British tanks and anti-tank
guns, of a coming qualitative
superiority of British material”
which “if achieved would clearly
mean the end of us,” was not the
smooth matter which he infers it
to have been, hut a staggering
surprise, something completely
unexpected which brought him
up with a jolt.
At any rate, it remained for
the German command to under-
stand that “it was essential to do
everything possible to bring
about a British collapse in the
Near East” by piercing the
Alamein defences, whatever the
difficulties, and that quickly.
When this was tried in the
bloody battles of July, 1942,
with only qualified success, a
new element became constantly
evident, one from whose clutch
they were never ever able to
escape thereafter —“the con-
tinuous round-the-clock bomb-
ing of the R.A.F.” Then;
Our attack came to a halt and oar
strength failed. We were met by
greatly superior British armored
formations thrusting against our
front. Our chances of overrunning
the remainder of the Eighth Army
and occupying western Egypt at one
stroke were irretrievably gone.
Only five days after he had
been apparently hurtling on
towards Alexandria and Cairo
Rommel describes himself as
“tired and fagged out,” finding
it “not easy to hold on like this
only 60 miles from Alexandria.”
From this onward all his
powers of explanation are
devoted to emphasising how con-
temptible his resources are. He
claims that on July 8 the Afrika
Korps, with the 15th and 21st
Panzer Divisions, had only a
total of 50 tanks, with a rifle
regiment to each division of 300
men with 10 a.-t. guns, and an
artillery regiment of seven bat-
teries. Beside his t*anzer force he
had only the 90th Light Division,
four infantry regiments with an
overall strength of 1500 men, 30
a.-t. guns and two batteries, three
reconnaissance battalions with
15 armored-cars, 20 armored
troop-carriers and three captured
batteries, 11 heavy and four light
batteries; a.-a. artillery with
26 88mm. and 25 20mm. guns,
two skeleton armored and one
skeleton motorised Italian
divisions and some other fag-
ends.
And he claims with this rag-
time armor to have launched a
heavy blow on the New Zealand
front, broken through on the
southern sector forcing the
Maorilanders to withdraw!
They did, but only because they
were out on a limb. There was
no enemy penetration whatever
of the line proper.
Next morning, July 10, the
Germans had artillery peals with
their breakfast and found that
the British were hurling shells in
flocks on the Italians and chas-
ing them so fast and so far that
there was real danger that the
pursuers would come out in the
German rear and destroy the
German dumps. Rommel was
compelled to “order the last
German soldier out of his tent
or rest-camp to the front,” since
the situation was “beginning to
take on crisis proportions,” and
it was evident that the initiative
had passed to the enemy through
whom he had apparently
expected, less than a fortnight
before, to shear as through
toasted cheese.
According to his own account,
he tried hard to regain the offen-
sive ; but “another decisive day
of hard struggle” failed to bring
him even within reach of the
Australian 9th Division, which
had taken over the fortress-area
from the South Africans —heavy
artillery fire, some from dug-in
tanks, was the main reason.
Next day it was the same. His
infantry was too late to take
advantage of the preliminary
bombardment. British air-
attacks pounded his vehicles to
pieces, British artillery was in
action with every gun. The
fierce fighting with the Aus-
tralians, “whom he knew too
well from the time of the Tobruk
siege,” lasted well into the night
and clinched the matter.
Any chance of renewing the
onslaught next day was wiped
out by the need to cope with the
British First Armored Division,
which had come down like a
hurricane on Ruweisat Ridge,
broken into the X Italian Corps
positions, swept through the
Italian Brescia Division right up
to the German tank- and gun-
positions, completely secured the
ridge and the bulk of the
Italians on and round it, caused
the collapse of the German line
south of Deir el Shein, and over-
run the German ack-ack posi-
tions, of which the occupants
were helpless because they were
reluctant to fire into masses of
Italian prisoners which screened
the British.
In the next few days, what
with Australians hurling them-
selves forward from various
directions and the sky full of the
R.A.F., it was even impossible
for the Germans to hold a staff-
conference in reasonable peace—
their deliberations on “how to
maintain command of a difficult
situation” were interrupted by no
fewer than nine bombing-raids.
On July 17 Rommel wrote:
Things are going downright badly
for me at the moment, at any rate
in a military sense. The enemy is
using his military superiority to
destroy the Italian formations one
by one, and the German formations
are much too weak to stand alone.
It’s enough to make one weep.
Every last German reserve
had to be thrown in, and life was
complicated by the Italians, who
“typically set about belittling our
supply difficulties,” a procedure
which led to a long wrangle
which ended only in more Italian
promises. “It was the most dif-
ficult period I’ve ever been
through there are situations
where everything is dark”;
though not so dark as it became
in the succeeding days, when the
British and Australians, New
Zealanders and Indians attacked
again and again until, with
13,000 casualties, Auchinleck de-
cided temporarily to call his dogs
off.
He did this, not, as Rommel
opined, because he had “lost all
taste for further attacks,” but
because he was a man of sound
caution, who realised that
Rommel had had enough of a
battering to keep him quiet until
sufficient trained reserves and
supplies could be brought up to
crush him finally. He had appar-
ently not expected complete
victory, but he knew that, out on
a limb as Rommel was and
obviously without the power to
deal with the new British air-
superiority, the German could
ill afford losses at a level now
unlikely to be fatal to the British.
Now the Germans were
doomed, though their com-
mander speaks of his “suc-
cessful repulse of the enemy’s
counter-attack,” leaving both
sides aiming for breathing-space
to refit and bring up fresh
troops.
The longer sea-iines-of-com-
munication of the Anglo-
American forces gave the
Germans a few weeks’ advantage
in time, but they reckoned that
they would have to face immense
reinforcements which —it now
seems to have dawned on them
for the first time —would have
been planned for the Eighth
Army immediately after the fall
of Tobruk; reinforcements
which would weigh the balance
of strength so heavily against
them that their chances of
mounting an offensive would be
gone for good.
Rommel therefore intended to
strike first, and before the grow-
ing British minefields along the
defensive-line were complete.
The plan was bold —to “thrust
through the British line, using
speed and surprise to win
through toMhe open country
beyond as quickly as possible in
order to present the unsuspect-
ing enemy with what amounted
to an accomplished fact.”
The British forces, by August
20, he estimated fairly correctly
to reach 70 battalions, 900 tanks
(Continued on page 34)


a m
stout!
h
❖
£ "ops ?
«
0
kVwfe..
0
»&
I
Oi
©
Ot
o.*>
W O .
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
f
DUPLICATOR
Ha* all the fine*! lecture*
cf high-priced Imported
SEND FOR machines at only a trac-
ILLUSTRATED Son ol their cost The
LITERATURE ”Nationar Rotary Dnph
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing- Plan*.
Music, etc.
Built wntittly I« AuM’alu by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent*— ...
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Ply. MO.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon * Son* L»
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co, (Atutj
SPORTING NOTIONS
Nothing happened at Canter-
bury on Saturday to disturb
ruling prices on the A.J.C.
double, the Epsom and Metrop.
Silver Phantom heads the table
for the mile, followed on the
second line by Tarien. Others
prominent are Carioca, Plato,
Birdwood and Joy Lad,. Silver
Phantom and Birdwood are still
eligible for Graduation Stakes.
They have yet to be tested
against class milers.
Carioca heads the Metro-
politan betting-list, followed by
Sea Sovereign, Advocate and
Friendly Feeling, The last-
named resumed racing at Can-
terbury on Saturday, but the six
furlongs, as expected, was much
too short for the mare ; she beat
one home after trailing the field
to the final half-furlong.
First impression of the racing
at Canterbury—that is, the
punters’ view before the meet-
ing began—was that, on paper,
four of eight races would be won
by Golden Cloud, Barfieur, Gay
Vista and The Mall. Punters
were prepared for odds-on
starters, but the only odds-on
winner was Golden Cloud in the
opening event. Later, Belmont
Park and Sky Hawk, both at
odds-on, were beaten into second
place, while Barfieur and The
Mall, both at brief odds, missed
a place. Gay Vista didn’t start.
• • • •
Villager, Canterbury Park
winner in Maiden three-year-
old company, gives the impres-
sion that he will stay; his punt-
ing owner Mick Tobin is a sound
judge of race form. Tobin paid
lOOOgns. for Villager, which was
an advance of 300gns. on the
colt’s original price when secured
by trainer Joe Stapleton as a
yearling for another client. Joe
is training the colt, and turned
him out in grand shape. The
stable just missed a double, as
Glamour Moon was an unlucky
third in the previous event after
hitting the running rail in the
closing stages of the race.
Bill Mackay, of Tinagroo
stud, Scone (N.S.W.), bred
Villager. The colt is by Way-
side Inn (imp.) from Capital by
Silvius (imp.) and is from a half-
sister of Mohican, a V-RC. Can-
tala Stakes winner. Villager is
among the 200-odd three-year-
olds entered for the A-J-C.
Derby.
• • • •
Raced in partnership by
Sydney Turf Club’s racecourse
manager, Jerry Dowling, and
hotel-keeper Norman Eglese,
speedy two-year-old filly Golden
Cloud, trained at Randwick by
Jack Mitchell, opened her win-
ning account at her third
attempt, all runs being at Can-
terbury. At her initial outing
she had been first past the
winning-post, but had lost on
protest to Poetess. On Saturday
she ran home an easy winner of
the Maiden for three-year-old
fillies. Some years ago Dowling
raced a mare named Aurelia with
success, and that is the name of
Golden Cloud’s dam. Sire of
the winner is Newtown Wonder,
while her dam was got by Gold
Nib (imp.) from Fleche d’or by
Tideacre (imp.) from Talari by
Chief Ruler (imp.). As the
pedigree indicates, the family is
of New Zealand location.
• • • •
An interesting runner at Can-
terbury was three-year-old
Volther, second to Golden
Cloud. Volther is a daughter
of imported Voluntary from
Judether by Law Maker (imp.)
from Lynbrae by Spearhead
(imp.). The filly was foaled in
Victoria, Her dam has been
mated with a different sire almost
every season. Voluntary was a
smart performer in England,
winning 13 races in good com-
pany during five seasons. He is*
from the same family as a noted
New Zealand sire, Siegfried
(imp.). The importation is by
Foxhunter from Gliding by Fair-
“Mum said t' come home straight away—
y'r tea's gettin' cold.”
way, and on the dam’s side traces
back to Carbine. Volther in the
coming season could prove a
good middle-distance filly.
Andonni, who opened his win-
ning account in the Campsie
Graduation Stakes, must be a
hardy type; within a week he
contested three races for two
seconds and a win. Both his
secpnds were to Lucky Sequel,
which makes the latter out a
promising stayer. Andonni raced
over 10 furlongs on the previous
Saturday, over another 10 on the
Monday (Bank Holiday) and at
11 furlongs on Saturday. His
fitness was a credit to trainer
Gordon Brown, who trained
Murray Stream. Andonni, by
Fresco (imp.) from Mortine, is
the makings of a good middle-
distance performer.
• • • •
Of the six events at Caulfield
on Australian Steeplechase day,
three were won by favorites,
while the other three winners
also were strongly supported.
The public fancy, Teedum
(7 to 2), landed the long
steeple from 20-to-l Lesgar and
Selsdon. An impressive winner
was El Tirador in the Chats-
worth Plate, for which he was
backed to 4-to-l favoritism. El
Tirador is by Enfield (imp.)
from Rose Princess, and is raced
by D. J. S. Mackinnon and
trained by D. Judd. Rose
Princess is a three-quarter sister
to Lucrative.
A.J.C. committeeman Keith
Mackay wasn’t at Gosford to
see his three-year-old Adana win
her first race, a Maiden in
modest company. Mackay bred
the filly, who is by Wayside Inn
(imp.) from Rezan, who is by
The Buzzard (imp.) from
Reserved by Magpie (imp.) from
Reticence by Wallace (son of
Carbine) and traces back to Tim
Whiffler (imp.). Trenton, a
famous stayer of bygone years,
figures in the dam’s bloodlines.
Randwick trainer Fred Cush has
Adana in fine trim, and she
should soon score in better
company.
* • • •
Peshawar, winner of the Caul-
field Cup last year, probably
will have his first race of the
new season in the Liston Stakes
at Flemington on August 22,
and will then tackle Caulfield’s
Memsie Stakes, a race he won
last September. The five-year-
old horse is to be set for a second
Caulfield Cup, but this time he is
right up in the weights with
8.13, or 111 b. more than he won
with last year. He has lib. less
in the Melbourne Cup.
The A.J.C. did well, in the
financial year ended June 30, to
convert a loss of £47,741 for the
1951-52 season into a profit of
£10,676. However, the previous
year’s loss was due to the heavy
cost of reopening Warwick
Farm, where additions ran into
£75,588, Taxation lifted a
record £720,291 for State and
Federal Governments. Rand-
wick tote for 34 meetings dur-
ing the year held £5,841,693, but
bookmakers handled millions
more than that figure.
The Chinese Soccer team beat
Australia, 7-1, in the Second
Test at Brisbane. In the post-
mortem report on the game,
F. R. Druery, secretary of the
Soccer Association, commented
that the tour has shown the Aus-
tralian style of Soccer to be old-
fashioned. Considering . that
most of the Chinese players come
from one club, that seems likely
enough.
♦ * *
Essendon-Geelong at Essen-
don, tipped as the match-of-the-
day in the V.F.L. last Saturday,
was all that and a bit more. Just
on 41,000 jammed the ground
and another 10,000 couldn’t get
in. The Dons bounced away to
a three-goal lead, Geelong over-
took them, and the game became
the fastest and best of the
season.
At half-time Geelong was 6.4
to 3.10, largely because their
backs were pouncing on Don
forwards and killing their shots.
At three-quarter-time the Dons
led. 6.13 to 6.5, then their centre
and rucks got on top of the wilt-
ing Cats, they got two goals to
1.3, and when Geelong missed
two easy shots Essendon won,
8.13 to 7.8.
Beaten successively by Colling-
wood and Essendon after being
unbeaten this season, Geelong
still heads the four on 52 points,
Footscray, Essendon and Col-
lingwood having 44 each, ’Scray
second on percentages.
Footscray held its position by
beating Melbourne, 14.14 to 9.7,
and Collingwood held off a per-
sistent Carlton by 12.15 to 9.16.
Richmond got 13.16 to St.
Kilda’s 11.14, North Melbourne
made hacks of Fitzroy by 17.19
to 7.9, and Hawthorn astonished
everybody with a 9.8-7.12 win
over South Melbourne.
• • • •
Counting the 10,000 who
couldn’t get in at Essendon, the
six V.F.L. matches drew 134,000
people.
* * *
The outstanding weakness of
the Wallabies on the South
African tour —and of Rugby
Union play in Australia —has
been in the scrums. In beating
the strong Border side, 9-6, the
Australians showed a notable
improvement in this department.
Shehadie played front-row,
which seems to have made a dif-
ference, but there must have
been a big improvement all
round. In any case. South
African critics have been harp-
ing on this football fundamental
the tour began. Shehadie
was captain. A magnificent
penalty goal by Sweeney (one of
two), from 50yds. out, and a try
by Phipps were features of the
game.
In Sydney Rugby Union club
games. Eastern Suburbs had to
fight hard to beat Manly, after
leading 16-3 in the first half. It
was one of the most spectacular
games of the season, with Manly
five-eighth Clarrie Davis, blocked
in the first half, cleverly placing
short kicks in the second half.
Final scores, 25-20.
In other club games, Gordon
beat Randwick, 22-6, Parra-
matta beat St. George, 18-6,
Drummoyne beat Northern
Suburbs, 23-9, and University
beat Eastwood, 8-6.
At Sydney Showground, Com-
bined G.P.S. beat Duntroon,
10-5, in a solid but unspectacular
game, which was chiefly a battle
between determined forwards.
* * «
From Fred H. Pike, Dagen-
ham, England (50 years back he
used to suggest ideas for
Bulletin artist Alf Vincent):
Don’t trouble about getting six
days for the last Test; nobody is
eager to win it. England could
have won the Second Test at
Lords, but the will to win wasn’t
there. Australia could have won
the Fourth Test at Leeds, but
Hassett sent the wrong man in
after Morris, Hole and Harvey
did such a splendid job in the
last part of the game.
Perhaps Hassett wasn’t to
know, but Davidson is a big
man, and big men think too
slowly; he was flummoxed by
Bailey’s leg-trap; a little man
would have done something
cheeky and silly, which some-
times comes off.
Out of all the players who
took part in the Tests there were
only two who stood out as
winners, Bedser and Lindwall;
the others just warranted their
places.
I hope the Board of Control
won’t show off any more infant
prodigies on tours; I guess
Craig’s nerves, after his very
poor showing here, will keep him
back for years; it was a man
wasted. Even the age of 19 is a
bit of a risk; only odd ones at
this age succeed.
In another field, Australian
jockeys are not doing too well
here; they have no chance of
getting into the more powerful
stables. But we would all like to
see Billy Cook over here again.
He was very popular; in one of
his first mounts he rode a 100-
to-1 third, which got the
working-man on his side.
• • • •
Jack Read’s tribute:
One of the most popular
American boxers ever imported
to Australia was Tod Morgan,
who passed on the other day in
Seattle. Two of Tod’s contests
at the Rushcutter Bay Stadium
in 1933, with Nel Tarleton and
Jack Carroll respectively, stand
out among the most exciting seen
hereabouts. Morgan drew with
Tarleton, while Carroll con-
quered him on points, but it was
nip and tuck from end to end
of each encounter.
Morgan then beat Herb
Bishop for the Australian light-
weight championship in 1937,
and Vic Patrick outpointed
Morgan for this title in 1941.
Tod liked these parts and for
a time settled here, but the pull
back home was finally too much
for him. Whatever other good
ones we get from the U.S., we’ll
never get a cleaner.


Kalgoorlie Gold-stealers
It Sticks to
Their Fingers
by GAVIN CASEY
“7" HERE can be few places
f where it is a crime not to
v own a goldmine, and Kal-
goorlie isn’t one of them
—unless you happen to have in
your possession a piece of the
telluride-ore that comes only
from deep underground, and
therefore cannot legally belong
to most people.
The same ore forms the basis
of the old story that some Kal-
goorlie streets are paved with
gold, because the earliest mine-
managers and -engineers didn’t
know what it was, and sold some
of it for road-making before a
mining man from Europe, where
it sometimes occurs, told them
that what they were throwing on
mullock-dumps was the richest
gold-bearing ore in which free
gold did not gleam within the
stone.
These are a couple of facts
that make Kalgoorlie, and the
thousand - mile - long auriferous
belt in Western Australia, of
which it is the main town, the
very interesting places they are.
The Eastern Goldfields of Wes-
tern Australia are not beautiful,
except in a strange, bare, austere
way here and there. They are
not very green or comfortable,
with an Sin. rainfall in wet
years, summer temperatures that
can stay well over 100 degrees
for long periods, and flies, mos-
quitoes, dust - storms and
cyclones, either there or on the
way, in more-or-less of a sea-
sonal sequence. But they are
rarely dull.
Goldfielders, though they live
some 365 miles from Perth, the
only city of any size in the
1,000,000 square miles of Wes-
tralia, and though Kalgoorlie
and its twin town of Boulder
are occupied by only about
27,000 people between them, re-
gard themselves as neither rural
nor outback types. What they
lack in numbers they make up
in vigor, virility, thirst, athletic
ability, independence and general
superiority to the rest of the
human race, they believe. This
might be hard to prove scientifi-
cally, but large numbers of gold-
fielders, if called upon for proof,
prefer to give it by punching
any doubter on the nose.
Another matter on which there
are no graphs or tables of
statistics, but in which I think
Kalgoorlie would lead any place
outside the big cities of this
continent, is the number of its
men who, after World Wars One
and Two had given them the
chance to see many of the more
immediately attractive parts of
their own country and the world,
went right back to the goldfields
as soon as they could and as
fast as they could.
Among the great variety of
things many of them must have
remembered in favor of the
place were good pay for work
not desperately dangerous, but
with enough risk in it to make
a man feel part of an exciting
world; good beer and civilised
drinking hours ; plentiful sport
of all kinds from track- and
road-cycling and motorcycling
to horseracing and a vigorous
Goldfields League of four first-
grade football teams ; one of tho
best winter climates in the
world ; a full, small-city equip-
ment of movie-theatres, dance-
halls, s.p. betting-shops and a
magnificent Olympic swimming-
pool more than 300 miles from
the nearest permanent water;
and, for some, the lure of what
is locally referred to as “the
yeller stuff.”
“The yeller stuff” is, of
course, responsible for the 60
years of mostly prosperous
existence that Kalgoorlie cele-
brated with boisterous bunting
and bountiful booze this year.
The first recorded bit of it was
picked up in 1893 by Faddy
Hannan, at or near a place now
marked by a memorial tree.
Since then more than
30,000,0000 z. of it have been
recovered on behalf of its legal
owners, and sold through legal
channels at prices varying from
£4 an ounce to £l5 or so.
How much more has been
quietly pinched, and has contri-
buted illicitly to the general
prosperity of the pubs, the book-
makers, the traders and the local
community in general is impos-
sible to estimate. Many years
ago, when the place was only a
pup, a commission which investi-
gated gold-stealing set the figure
at £1,000,000 a year, but it was
only a guess—and probably, for
some periods, a conservative
one.
When newcomers arrive in
Kalgoorlie, as they often do, with
the worthy intention of resist-
ing temptation, old-timers tell
them “That’s what you reckon
now, but you’ll find it sticks to
your fingers.”
It is true that “the yeller stuff”
does adhere, as though by magic,
to most digits that come in con-
tact with it, and it showed this
characteristic very early in the
history of what is one of the
world’s great goldfields.
Soon after the pioneer pros-
pectors had to either move on
or become employees of the
deep mines, which they had not
the money to start themselves,
there was a spontaneous upsurge
of the belief that the men who
mined the gold were entitled to
a fair cut of it, whatever the law
said, and that it was practically
a patriotic duty to prevent as
much as possible from going to
“London shareholders, and
those bowler-hatted blanks in
Melbourne.”
Naturally, the local philosophy
had few adherents among the
managements, and before,
during and after the inquiry into
the business there were some
wild suggestions as to how it
should be dealt with. One of
these was that the system of the
South African diamond-mines
should be followed, and the
underground workers required to
strip when they reached the sur-
face, and pass naked before in-
spectors on the way to their
street-clothes. The rage with
which this idea was received by
the more-or-less honest white
Australian work-force can be
imagined, and because it was
hoped to keep the mines going,
even if some of the profits went
astray, nothing was ever done
about ifi
What was done was the for-
mation of a Gold Stealing De-
tection unit of the police force,
and one of its earliest members,
a detective named Kavanagh,
would probably be firmly estab-
lished in goldfields legend by
now if most of the old men had
not died off before they got
around to writing down some of
the things that had happened to
them. Under the law that makes
possession of telluride illegal,
Kavanagh got in the way of the
honest and patriotic gold-thieves
a great deal.
Many years later I used one
of his failures, when a quick-
witted miner’s wife plunged
some stolen gold into a pot of
soup on the stove as he knocked
on the door, as the basis for a
story called “Rich Stew,” which
won a Bulletin prize. But
Kavanagh had many more suc-
cesses than failures—in fact, a
force of several hundred men
of his ability and honesty work-
ing on the problem might have
brought gold-stealing to an end
altogether.
The man on his own made it a
much riskier business than it had
been, but he could not do more.
The racket throve, most of the
wealth going, as it always has
and still does, not to those who
help themselves to “the yeller
stuff” but to the illicit buyers who
treat and market it through
underground channels.
For a I'ong time the traffic was
brisk indeed, arid well-dressed
visitors to Kalgoorlie who
seemed to spend much time doing
nothing in particular, like motor-
salesmen, were seldom long in
town before they would be
quietly asked, in a bar or on a
street-corner, “Are you looking
for a bit of the yellow-stuff,
mate?” If they had any spare
cash to invest, they often said
yes.
The men to whose fingers the
gold sticks seldom make much
out of it, and, unless they are
just plain greedy at the start,
they begin helping themselves
after a bad weekend with the
horses, or at the two-up, or
something like that, or when
they fire out a “face” and
dramatically open up a “jewel-
ler’s-shop,” which gleams too
enticingly for them.
Ore has to be very rich, and
much richer than telluride, for
a man to carry, let alone con-
ceal, an amount worth much
money. But the earnest pilferer
can swell his income a good
deal, and, until he gets caught,
he has little trouble doing it.
Elaborate plans to get gold
out of a mine are seldom used,
the commonest method being
simply to pocket it, put it in one’s
crib-bag, or, in the old days of
carbide underground-lamps, to
fill the bowl of one’s lamp with
it. It is after the ore has been
appropriated, when it has to be
treated for its content, and the
content transported long dis-
tances and marketed, that much
stealth, wealth, equipment and
ingenuity are necessary.
Most of the country for hun-
dreds of miles around Kalgoor-
lie looks as -flat as a pancake,
but, as any soldier knows, the
earth is never as flat as it looks.
The shallow folds of the land
can, and do, shelter little mobile
treatment-plants which are
shifted from time to time, and
which the gold-stealing detec-
tives pursue enthusiastically if
they want to catch the big men
and not just the small-fry of the
game.
Old, played-out, outback
mines are sometimes used to
cover up the marketing of stolen
gold, and some interesting cases
have hinged on the evidence of
geologists on such matters as
whether or not specimens could
possibly have come from the
reefs from which it is claimed
they have come. The police-
men have a vast stretch of coun-
try, pockmarked with old work-
ings and hidden gullies, to cover,
and their job is no sinecure.
Usually the businesses of get-
ting away with stolen gold and
trying to prevent that very thing
are carried on with reasonable
good humor and no violence be-
tween the law-breakers and the
police. One of the reasons for
this is that a first conviction of
“being in possession of gold
reasonably believed to have been
stolen” brings only a six-months
sentence, and is more likely to
make a man a minor hero than
a social outcast among his mates
when he has served his term.
But occasionally impulsive,
hot-tempered men ignore the
rules, and there was a shock-
ing instance of this about 30
years ago, when Detective-
inspector Walsh and Detective-
sergeant Pittman, of the gold-
stealing staff, disappeared.
After a long search, during
which the town buzzed with
rumors, flies swarming in and
out of the mouth of an aban-
doned shaft led the colleagues
of the men to their remains,
which had been hacked to
pieces after they had been shot.
In due course two men named
Coulter and Treffene were
hanged for the killing, after their
partner in the crime, one Clarke,
had given evidence for the
Crown. At the time much rub-
bish was published in newspapers
in other parts on the goldfields’
attitude to gold-stealing, and
this was much resented in Kal-
goorlie, where “getting away
with the yeller stuff” is, in fact,
regarded as good, clean fun, but
bumping people off in the pro-
cess is not.
Now and again somebody with
an urge to get gold in big lumps
all at once has tried to stage a
gold-room or payroll robbery,
but these have never succeeded.
One attempt on the payroll of a
big mine was made in the 1920’s
by a well-known local called
“Bull” Callaghan, who was, as
the name suggests, a large,
powerful fellow. “Bull” got the
money, at gun-point, but as he
was making off between the
mine dumps with it a very small
but courageous clerical mine-
employee named Thomas Hollins
went after him, leapt on his
back and rode him around like a
bucking brumby till help came.
One of the troubles with that
kind of robbery in Kalgoorlie
is that one has so far to go be-
fore one is anywhere else worth
talking about that capture is
pretty certain, even if nobody
acts as promptly as Hollins did
against Callaghan.
A more probably successful
method of getting away with
really impressive amounts of
gold, or stuff that is just as good,
is to become a mine-manager for.
a start. Naturally, most mana-
gers are honest, but not quite all
of them, and one scandal in-
volved such a leading citizen.
His habit for years had been
to close any section of the mine
where rich ore was uncovered,
and to leave it closed until most
people had forgotten about
something only a few ever knew.
He would then lease that particu-
lar level or drive to a tributing
party in which a stooge of his
own had the biggest cut. When
this was revealed it was also
discovered that a large number
of the names on the mine payroll
didn’t belong to anybody, and
if the manager trembled he
could not have shivered more
apprehensively than a consider-
able number of his staff.
However, nobody went to jail,
perhaps because there wouldn’t
have been accommodation for
all those who deserved to. The
manager resigned with reason-
able dignity but great speed, and
there were restrained but for-
mally polite notices in the news-
papers before he went to live, no
doubt in reasonable comfort,
somewhere else.
When gold-stealing was in its
modern heyday a lot of out-
wardly very respectable citizens
were up to the ears in it, and
Kalgoorlie was continually
chuckling over such happenings
as the “hi-jacking” of a con-
siderable parcel of ore from the
manager of one of the town’s
stores.
In those days nearly all the
illicit gold came to Sydney, be-
cause New South Wales, as a
small producer, had no Gold
Buyers’ Act, and a trusted mes-
senger could sell the stuff to a
bank in Sydney with no ques-
tions asked. That position has
since been adjusted, but, in any
case, the stolen gold—and a good
deal that isn’t —is nowadays
mostly smuggled to Far Eastern
countries, where it brings black-
market prices.
When Sydney was the centre
one “trusted messenger” for
what was probably the biggest
buying syndicate on the gold-
fields brought over what rumor
set down as £60,000-worth of
gold. He simply never came
back, ana whatever his “parcel”
was really worth, he has never
since been in danger of arrest
for lack of “visible means of
support.” Most of the men in
Kalgoorlie who were helping
themselves to “a little bit of the
yellow stuff” laughed and
wished him luck when he got
away with it. As a class, the
big gold-buyers, who tend to be
arrogant and are often suspected
of giving little men away to
“keep sweet with the cops” or
save their own skins, are not very
well loved.
The “little men,” however, do
have their moments. One I
know who has spent a regret-
table amount of his life in jail
was a clear winner once, when
he and a couple of mates during
a weekend reached a rich face
by making their way through
underground from an old,
abandoned mine, and worked it
very profitably for about three
straight shifts with no rest
between.
Another man was arrested for
selling a bar of welding-bronze
as gold to one of the “out-of-
towners” who sometimes go to
Kalgoorlie under the impression
that they can outsmart the
locals at getting quick, easy
money. To the surprise of the
police, their prisoner’s wife pro-
duced the bail they demanded
immediately, and by the time
the case came up for hearing
the buyer of the bronze bar, not
wanting to publicly label him-
self a buyer or to make himself
a laughing-stock as a victim of
a trick, had regretted ever talk-
ing and wouldn’t talk any more.
The charge was dismissed, and
later the man who had been in
the dock told me, with regard to
his bail-money: “The cops
thought I was broke, as usual.
What they didn’t know was that
in the few weeks before I’d sold
six of those bars —to blokes who
didn’t squeal!”
In the middle 1930’s the game
began to get even harder in Kal-
goorlie than Kavanagh had ever
made it, and one of the two men
mainly responsible was Detec-
tive-sergeant Hugh McLernon,
who is now detective-inspector
in charge of the Western Aus-
tralian Criminal Investigation
Department. The other was a
mining warden and resident-
magistrate named Stotter, and
neither of these men played the
game according to what many
people had begun to think were
the rules.
McLernon and an assistant
called Woodley set themselves
up in an office away from the
ordinary police-station, behind
the Chamber of Mines, and
went after the men they were
(Continued on page 34)


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institution* throughout Australia
JACK!* Of*
flfclUUVAv
■%, pTCtm ~
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Vatson, Ferguson ft €•.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK,
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Manufactured by
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
The
JONLY
Kerosine
Operated
BATH HEATER
with Ml these
worthwhile features
* BRASS AND
COPPER
CONSTRUCTION
THROUGHOUT.
it LIFETIME
DURABILITY.
if HEAVILY
NICKEL-PLATED.
if NEAT AND
COMPACT DESIGN
—easily installed.
if SUPPLIED
COMPLETE WITH
ANTI-
DOWNDRAUGHT
COWL AND 9
FEET OF FLUE.
Obtainable from
leading City and
Country Stores.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
PARANOID "PARADISE"
Events since Stalin’s death on
March 6 which have greatly
impressed overseas observers
make a curious list:
March 28. Amnesty for
prisoners serving terms up to five
years in Soviet Russia, and cuts
in other terms.
April 1. —Cuts in prices of
consumer goods in Russia ; food
down 10 per cent., clothes as
much as 15 per cent.
doctors who had allegedly con-
fessed to murdering high Soviet
officials in conspiracy.
April 7. —Sacking of a party
official implicated in the doctors’
case.
April 26. —Russian-influenced
Communist side in Korea offers
a solution of the p.-0.-w. dead-
lock.
June 12. Admitted that
Czech workers had trampled on
the Russian flag.
June 17. —Rioting by East
German workers, suppressed by
Soviet tanks.
July 10. —Fall of Beria, de-
nounced by Malenkov as a
“foreign agent.”
July 29.—Announced that
Cardinal Mindszenty, Primate of
Hungary, had been released from
jail (he was sentenced to life
imprisonment in 1949).
These troubles behind the
Iron Curtain —especially the
downfall of Beria and the
workers’ risings in East Germany
and elsewhere—are leading over-
seas onlookers to the conclusion
reached some years back by/a
then lone expert: that, in general
terms, the Soviet “giant” is
something of a cardboard-
Colossus.
Edward Crankshaw, widely
regarded as a very able authority,
notes in a London “Observer”
article a state of “muddle and
uncertainty” in Russia “which
can only confirm the popular
tendency to cynical apathy”
there':
“Beneath all the sound and
fury the Soviet Union is drifting.
Somebody will have to take hold
very soon. The vaunted collec-
tive leadership is giving no lead.
Moscow will soon be compelled
to revert to another period of
relentless driving or else to give
the new generation of extremely
able administrators and tech-
nicians their heads. But when
people start using their heads, as
the Bolsheviks well know, it is
hard to stop them.
“A Government that cannot
sort out its own problems with-
out, as in the Beria case, invok-
ing the most grisly aspects of
Stalinism, is not calculated to
inspire confidence as a pioneer-
“De Volkskrant,” Amsterdam
"OH, WHAT DOES THAT NOISE MEAN?”
ing force for a new way of life.
On the other hand it is fair
enough to doubt whether it is
strong and united enough to
carry on with the old way of life
which owed so much to the per-
sonality of an autocrat of
genius.”
On the Beria case “New York
Times” sums-up:
“As in so many other chapters
of Soviet history there is a
paranoid quality about the
charges levied against Beria. He,
who was one of the post-Stalinist
holy trinity, is now labelled ‘an
adventurist,’ ‘a malignant enemy
of the Soviet people,’ ‘a
bourgeois renegade,’ ‘an agent of
international imperialism.’ Could
men who were really sane swing
like this from homage to
denunciation? To ask the ques-
tion is to answer it. Soviet
society is a paranoid society
whose reality beggars even
George Orwell’s gruesome flights
of fancy about ‘1984,’”
The new frenzy begun with
Beria’s transformation from
archangel to archdevil cannot
stop with Jura, of course: “Now
the hunt must be directed
against all his friends and sup-
porters, a veritable legion
throughout the country. Beria’s
successor as chief slave-master,
Sergei N. Kruglov, will have
abundant scope for his talents as
jailer and torturer, and perhaps
we shall see Andre Vishinsky
presiding over another judicial
phantasmagoria such as he
created in the great trials of the
1930’5. Presumably Beria’s
friends will fight back as best
they can, and so treacherous is
the road ahead that even
Malenkov, seemingly at the
pinnacle of his career, cannot be
sure that he will remain
triumphant and unscathed.”
One who knows his subject at
first-hand, having himself been a
Communist and holder of
important posts before he fell
foul of the G.P.U. (as he did
later of the Gestapo), is the
scientist of Austrian origin
Alexander Weissberg-Cybulski,
author of Conspiracy of Silence,
and in London “Time and Tide”
he debunks the notion that such
an occurrence as the fall of
Beria necessarily means a change
in Kremlin policy.
Public opinion in the West, he
says, “is inclined to judge
internal struggles for power in
Russia by false standards.
People wonder about the poli-
tical programme of this or that
group within the party or of
some particular personage. If,
however, the story of Stalin’s
battle with Trotsky, Kamenev,
Zinoviev, Bukharin and others
is studied it will be noted with
astonishment that differences of
policy played a very small role
in each case.”
So, in considering develop-
ments in Russia it is necessary to
realise that foreign policy plays
a relatively small role in party
struggles. And some of the
apparent signs of change are
really not new;
“Stalin had already decided to
withdraw to defensive positions
after the failure of the attack on
Korea. The Soviet Union feels
herself to be potentially weaker
than the West and will do all in
her power to avoid armed con-
flict. The Soviet rulers have
probably decided to retreat to
the present frontiers of the
Union if there seems to be no
other alternative to war. Russia
will, however, do everything in
her power to achieve a com-
promise with the West while,
herself, making the fewest
possible sacrifices. This policy
will remain completely un-
changed whether the ruler of
Russia be Malenkov, Bulganin
or Molotov.
“The identiy of the personage
who reaches the summit in the
struggle for power which is tak-
ing place in Russia is therefore a
matter of complete indifference
to the Western Powers.”
Berlin correspondents of “U.S.
News and World Report”
heartily endorse the cardboard-
Colossus idea. They read the
signs as even indicating “the
beginning of the end of the new
Russian empire in Europe”:
“The myth of strength through
Communism is shattered by open
revolt. The men in the Kremlin
are desperately playing for time
to patch things up, but it is be-
coming increasingly doubtful if
they can do so, even with time.”
What is coming out (these
reports insist) is that Russia,
instead of being a great Power
able and willing to help others
with food, industrial equipment
and the like, actually is some-
what poverty-stricken, a country
“held down by a dictatorship
that offers its own people nothing
but declining standards of
living.”
“The people in Western
Europe have regained a degree
of the self-confidence that the
Soviet dictatorship has tried to
wipe out. Now the Russians are
caught in a double squeeze. If
they tighten the screws on the
people in the satellites it will
intensify the bitterness that
already has exploded once. If
they loosen the screws it will just
be an invitation to more trouble.
The Berlin riots came within
hours after the Communists had
eased-up on some restrictions
that had been in force against
the Germans for years.
“The hunger, falling standards
of living and ruthless exploita-
tion of the people—prevalent
throughout the entire Com-
munist empire—appear difficult
to relieve without the abandon-
ment of Communist methods.
After, years of planning, living
standards inside Russia itself
still are dismally low compared
with those in the West. They are
somewhat better in the satellites
—but, even there, people lived
far better before the Communists
took over.
“Thus, Kremlin planners are
up against problems they may
not be able to solve. The
people—hungry, ill-housed, shy
of most of the comforts they
have been led to expect —are giv-
ing signs that they will not take
it much longer.
“Western experts, analysing
events in Russia, say there are
signs that the people are fed-up
with empty promises and are
demanding a better living now
instead of talk of a Communist
paradise at some point in the
uncertain future. That is why
the dictatorship has ordered less
police molestation, is promising
better working conditions and
more consumer goods.
“Difficulties crop up, however,
when the Communist rulers start
looking around for a way to
make good on their promises.
The exploitation of the satellites
had reached the point of
diminishing returns even before
the recent riots broke out.
Nearly everything possible has
been siphoned into Russia.
“To meet the demands for a
better way of life for the Russian
people, the Kremlin will have to
reduce the Soviet Union’s arms
output and investment in heavy
industry in order to give a boost
to consumer-goods industries.
But, if that happens, Russia runs
the risk of slipping far behind in
the arms-race with the U.S. and
its allies.
“If the decision is to keep up
industrialisation and put on
more pressure for arms, then
new troubles with the people at
home will be generated. The
Kremlin may not be able to hold
things down. There is no room
in the Soviet economy to
manoeuvre. Apparently produc-
tion of guns and butter at the
same time cannot be managed.
“Conclusions being drawn by
Western observers from recent
developments in the Soviet world
are these:
“Any moves made by Moscow
in dealing \yith the nations of
the West which are growing
stronger—will be made from
weakness, not from strength.
Time is the great need of the
Communists at this point. The
strategy of those who now are
in charge of the Russians and
the European satellites is to play
for time in the hope that they
can work out of the hole in
which they find themselves. If
time is denied them, the chances
are good that they will preside
over the retreat of Communism,
forced back within the borders
of Russia itself.”
Korean Fiasco
While the Korean truce has
been ecstatically hailed else-
where, especially in Britain,
Americans in general are taking
a grim view of the whole busi-
ness. The following comments
by David Lawrence, one of the
leading U.S. writers on world
affairs, are typical enough:
“What has the U.N. accom-
plished? It has failed to disci-
pline the principal aggressors.
It has succeeded only in bullying
the principal victim of aggression
[i.e., South Korea], forcing it to
choose between a dishonorable
armistice and national suicide,
“It is the merest sophistry to
pretend that the U.N. intervened
in Korea in June, 1950, solely
to repel aggression at the 38th
parallel. The record shows that
the U.N. authorised the crossing
of the 38th parallel by its mili-
tary forces, and then a few days
later—on October 7, 1950
adopted a resolution declaring
that ‘the United Nations armed
forces’ must take ‘all appropriate
steps’ to ‘ensure conditions of
stability throughout Korea.’
“Let us concede that the U.N.
subsequently met defeat on the
battlefields of Korea, when
Soviet Russia sent the armies of
Communist China into the fray
—a defeat imposed by the
timidity of the U.N. alliance
which refused to allow maxi-
mum military power to be used
at a crucial moment against the
enemy.
“Let us concede that this
alliance was afraid of Soviet
Russia and an enlarged war.
“Would it not have been the
better part of candor to say so
frankly in a formal resolution
repealing the previous objective,
rather than to claim —nearly
three years later—that the U.N.
never intended to unify Korea
by military means?
“The United States is desirous,
to be sure, of helping to enforce
world peace, sending men and
money to foreign lands to
achieve that objective. But let
us do it with allies who are
ready to make the same sacri-
fices we are willing to make.
“Let us resurrect the U.N.
only as a forum for inter-
national debate, but not as an
instrument of collective security.
For we have learned now to
our sorrow that by a system of


a.
«
/
Born 1820—
still going strong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JWi iMIi tl
majority-voting we cannot ex-
pect anything but collective
insecurity,
“Alliances are necessary. We
cannot go it alone. But let us
not become constricted in a
straitjacket of international
Parliamentarism wherein the
lives of our own citizens are of
so much less concern to other
nations than they are to u 5....
“The U.N. is dead—it was
killed by the Korean war. May
real alliances emerge as a sub-
stitute now to enforce peace!”
Hungry China
“An Australian visitor” to
China (reports London “Econo-
mist”) has been telling the world,
via Peking radio, that China,
thanks to land reform, has be-
come “a breadbasket for the
whole Asian world,” able to
feed not only its own people but
those of India and Ceylon.
“This broadcast went out in
English on short-waves, thus
escaping the ears of the Chinese
themselves, who in the same
week were receiving from their
Government frantic appeals and
orders for greater efforts to
check the spread of famine,”
In the past three months
(adds the report) famine has
been admitted by the authorities
to exist in nearly half of the
provinces of China proper. The
Government ordered all local
Communists to set aside their
political campaigning and get
the peasants to produce more
food at all costs. In the big
cities the situation was saved by
the release of Government hoards
of grain and by summarily de-
porting the thousands of peasants
who had swarmed in from the
stricken countryside; 12,800
were shipped out of Sian alone
in a few weeks. But it was
officially admitted that State re-
serves, even after three years of
allegedly bumper harvests, were
too small to fill all the empty
stomachs.
Much of the peasants’ apathy
is traced to the brutality of Com-
munist officials, who, according
to their own Press and radio,
have arbitrarily ordered the up-
rooting of crops, withheld
ploughs that should have been
distributed to farmers and im-
posed taxes that would dis-
courage any peasant from in-
creasing his output. The local
Communists are now being re-
peatedly told to respect the
peasants’ rights to land owner-
ship for the time being, and not
to force them into co-operatives.
“It is easy to see in these
tribulations one good reason why
China should want to ease the
strain of the Korean war. It is,
less easy to see where the food
promised to Ceylon and other
nations is to come from —
especially if China’s population
continues to multiply.”
Peace Pains
Noting that American busi-
nessmen in general are refusing
to succumb to the jitters of the
security and commodity mar-
kets and are facing the prospect
of peace in Korea with optimistic
equanimity, and that U.S. Gov-
ernment spokesmen have been
emphasising that there is little
reason to suppose that a truce,
or even a real peace, in Korea
would of itself bring any
marked change unless it set off
a psychological reaction of
which there is so far no indica-
tion, a report in London
“Economist” adds:
“Any Government spending,
on ammunition and uniforms,
for example, that can be saved
if hostilities end in Korea will
probably be offset by increased
expenditure on relief and re-
construction there. And in spite
of the Eisenhower Administra-
tion’s attempts to economise on
armaments, the immediate out-
look is for an increase, rather
than a decline, in spending on
national security, since de-
liveries of military supplies are
to be speeded up.
“Spending on another im-
portant component of the pre-
sent prosperity—private invest-
men t—is also expected to rise
for the remainder of the year,
Nothing could better demon-
strate the growing optimism of
businessmen than the recent re-
port of the Department of Com-
merce that outlays for new plant
and equipment are to be higher
than last year, instead of lower,
as was earlier forecast, during
the coming months.”
But, because things might be
well enough in the U.S., London
“Daily Telegraph” suggests
that there may be related difli-
culties for Britain. Pointing out
that, as 30 per cent, of its work-
ing population are engaged in
New York “Herald Tribune”
“COME ON OUT, FELLOWS!”
industries producing for export,
if Britain were to lose only one-
tenth of that trade nearly 750,000
workers would be put out of
employment, it comments:
“It is probable that by now
the conditions of a buyers’ mar-
ket would have returned in
almost all trades if it had not
been for the war in Korea ; and
although an armistice in Korea is
not likely to be followed by a
sudden reversal of rearmament
—that would be political folly
as well as economic madness —
a cessation of the fighting is
bound to be reflected in our
[Britain’s] pattern of trade. Ger-
many and Japan are already for-
midable competitors again, and
it is clear that in future exports
will have to be won on their
merits.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” sees
similar troubles looming up:
“If the whole economy of the
Western world has to switch
from a war to a peace basis such
a violent change cannot be made
without risk and discomfort to
industry, trade, and finance, and
employer and worker alike. In
the United States much of the
vast production which might in
the normal course of events
have flooded the world with
consumer goods of all kinds has
been engaged largely in the
manufacture of armaments. If
this flow of goods is to be added
to increasing competition from
Germany and Japan an alarm-
ing fall in prices might well be
the outcome.”
German Breakaway
The West German elections
are due next month, and ob-
servers are noting an apparent
swing away from Adenauer
policy in the German conserva-
tive Press.
Generally, Adenauer has
stood for tying Germany more
and more in with the West, and
especially with America, so his
defeat could have momentous
effects on the whole future of
Europe and of the world. It
would mean for certain im-
mediate sweeping reconsider-
ation of Western policy.
No doubt the swing noted as
damaging to Adenauer reflects
to a large extent rising German
nationalism and to some extent
also reflects the increased anti-
Americanism in Europe gene-
rally, which many have reported,
and which is being, increasingly
resented in The
following is from the “Sud-
deutsche Zeitung,” of Munich:
“We are not a bit sorry to see
signs of weakness in Moscow, by
which, of course, we must not
mean military weakness. We
are glad not because we hope
for a general revolt of Eastern
nations, but because a Power
that obviously is engaged in
settling great internal difficulties
has ceased, at least for some
time to come, to be a source of
immediate threat of war.
“Looking at the situation from
this angle, we are further away
from a third world war than we
have been in a long time. We
must therefore take the Krem-
lin’s change of course as seri-
ously as possible.
“Our hopes and confidence,
on the other hand, are dimmed
by the fact that the Great
Powers in the West are also
showing undeniable signs of
weakness. Unfortunately, it can
no longer be kept dark that
Eisenhower, owing to his inde-
cision and his inability to de-
velop a clear political concept
and assert this concept success-
fully, has disappointed not only
many Americans but also a
great part of the Western world.
“Eisenhower cannot make up
his mind. He tolerates the fact
that no one really knows what
Americans want. The General
in the White House appears
considerably weaker and less
decisive than his civilian pre-
decessor, Truman.
“Washington’s weakness, and
here one must also not under-
stand this to mean military or
economic weakness, will result
in consequences quite similar to
those caused by Moscow’s weak-
ness. The forms differ, of
course, for in the latter case it
is a matter of defending one’s
self against suppression, where-
as in the case of the United
States the task is to defend one-
self against a dangerous lack of
ideas and passivity,
“In other words, allies of the
United States are developing a
bit of their own initiative and
seeking their own ways out of
the mess. European unity may
be far away, but a European up-
rising against the danger of
being hopelessly ground to
pieces between two Powers [the
U.S. and Russia] is imminent.”
J. Bull's Exports Decline
London “Financial Times”
notes a serious falling-off in
British exports in some quarters.
In Egypt the decline coincides
with a big increase in German
sales. There, for the first time
in history, purchases from
Germany have lately become
greater than purchases from
Britain.
The Germans, it is reported,
raised their sales on Egyptian
markets from £600,000 for the
whole of 1949 to well over £1
million a month during the early
months of this year. By contrast
Britain’s sales to Egypt, falling
as drastically as Germany’s had
risen, have been barely reaching
£1 million per month. Formerly,
of course, Britain’s business with
Egypt was on a comparatively
vast scale.
“Unfortunately,” comments
the “Financial Times,” “the
slump in Britain’s exports to
Egypt is only one manifestation
of a wider and more disquieting
malaise—the steady disintegra-
tion in the United Kingdom’s
trade over the past two years
with countries that do not belong
to any of the main currency
areas and whose exchanges with
this country have hitherto been
governed by • the so-called
bilateral agreements....
“In the countries most affected
so far—Egypt, Brazil, Argentina
and Iran trade exchanges
amounted in 1951 to some £423
million, or 10 per cent, of
Britain’s total trade turnover for
that year. But over the first
three months of this year
trade with the same group
of countries was running at an
annual rate of about £l7O
million, or only about 3 per cent,
of the total.
“These are only the worst
examples. The additional total
loss of trade resulting from the
partial freeze of the movement
of goods to and from the smaller
bilateral - agreement countries
comes to a formidable figure.”
Dragnet Digest
Understatement Entry. —From
London “Time and Tide”: “The
Egyptian Navy carefully avoided
any behavior that might re-
sult in contact with British
forces.”
Churchill War Memoirs. —As
an instance of Sir Winston
Churchill’s fairness in his writ-
ing capacity, “U.S. News and
World Report” states that in the
first draft of the sixth and last
volume of his war memoirs he
was “tartly critical” of Eisen-
hower for not making a priority
drive to capture Berlin ahead of
the Russians, but, after dis-
cussing the campaign with Ike
when last in America, he
“greatly modified” this “to in-
clude in detail Eisenhower’s
own justification” for the cam-
paign.
Israel-Arab Strife. —Reported
from Haifa by a “Manchester
Guardian” correspondent:
“With nightly raids across her
frontiers, the million and a half
population of Israel have good
reason to fear forty million
Arabs, whose leaders, rapidly
rearming their countries, make
frequent flamboyant threats
about driving the Jews into the
sea. Moreover, in spite of
Israel’s chronic economic crisis,
remarks such as Mr. Ben-
Gurion’s recent and surprisingly
ill-timed boast of a population
of four million in Israel within
a decade are hardly calculated
to allay Arab fears of Jewish
expansion. It is, in fact, hard
to conceive of a greater and
neater opportunity for Soviet
Russia to cause mischief in the
Middle East, than if she were
now to ‘release’ two million Jews
to settle in Israel.”
U.N.O. Useless. —The inade-
quate support given to the
United Nations’ effort in Korea
by most Western European and
Latin-American countries, to-
gether with the seemingly endless
complaints of Asian and Arab
delegates against the Western
Governments, leads “New York
Times’s” U.N.O. correspondent
to conclude that, if another
aggression occurs, the free world
will still have to depend on
regional defence organisations
for effective measures: “The
United Nations could, and
should, play a part in rallying
public support, but that, under
present circumstances, will be
about all.”
Scuttle. —Britain’s Empire re-
treat as explained by veteran
London “News Chronicle”
correspondent Vernon Bartlett:
“The greatest British weakness
since the war has not been the
tendency to ‘scuttle,’ which has
ih most cases been no more than
an unpleasant but sensible appre-
ciation of hard economic facts.
The weakness has been the lack
of sufficient imagination to
understand the feelings of people
determined to enjoy the inde-
pendence we have ourselves
enjoyed for so many centuries.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Guide-dogs
T. C. Fairbaim (B. 24/6/’53) says that
only 1.3 per cent, of blind persons in
America, England, France, Germany,
Switzerland and Italy used guide-dogs in
1938, and, on the strength of that 15-
year-old evidence, describes the scheme
as a dismal failure.
The truth is that thousands of other
blind persons in England would be only
too thankful to have dogs if they were
available, but lack of funds places a
severe limit on the numbers which can
be trained and supplied each year. The
Guide Dogs for the Blind Association
trains all the guide-dogs in Britain, and
never in the 20 years of its history has
it needed to take any steps to persuade
blind people to have trained dogs. In
fact, the exact opposite applies, for we
have far more applications than we can
possibly deal with —today there is a list
of 300 approved persons waiting for
dogs.
Mr. Fairbaim quotes the late Sir
Arthur Pearson, founder of St. Dun-
stan’s, as being extremely critical of
guide-dogs. If ever Sir Arthur did make
such a criticism it would seem that he
changed his opinion later on, for St.
Dunstan’s makes an annual donation to
our association and has done so for
several years.
Mr. Fairbaim should consult the
blind owners of dogs themselves. Here
are a few sentences from hundreds of
letters in the same strain written by
guide-dog users: “I have lost completely
the awful strain of getting about alone,”
says one. “The 18 months since I’ve had
my dog have 'been the happiest of my
blind life,” says another. And from the
wife of a blind man: “He is so different
since he had a guide-dog. He mixes with
people better; his feeling of inferiority
has vanished.”
In Britain the present cost of training
each dog and its blind owner works out
something over £2OO. That might seem
a lot of money for a dog, but is it so
much for a new pair of eyes? Mr. Fair-
bairn’s estimate of £l5OO to train a dog
and owner in Australia is difficult to
understand. An estimate of double the
British cost would be understandable,
but nearly seven times the cost seems to
indicate either a lack of knowledge or
a lack of sympathy with the subject.
Mr. Fairbaim is anxious that no
similar organisation should be “foisted
on the generous and sympathetic public
of Australia.” The scheme has not been
foisted on the British public, as our
association is financed almost entirely
by voluntary donations, although local
authorities can, if they wish, contribute
to it. The facts that we are able to con-
tinue our work, that that work has been
highly spoken of in House of Commons
debates, and that our director of training
was recently invested by H.M. the Queen
with the M.B.E. all show that the objects
for which we are working are well
thought of in Britain. — R, H. Eckersley,
General Manager, Guide Dogs for the
Blind Association (London).
Rain-making
It is easy to say that making rain at
will would be wonderful for Australia,
but quite another thing to do it. Costly
C.5.1.R.0. experiments have established
nothing new.
Rain cannot be made to fall out of
the blue. It can only be made fall in
worth-while quantities by artificial means
such as seeding with dry-ice, silver iodine,
smoke-dust, salt or water, from rather
heavy formations of cumulus-type clouds.
This does not mean that drought can be
overcome or rain made to fall whenever
it is wanted.
One authority stated recently that the
cost of producing rain is even greater,
than the loss suffered by drought. The
U.S.A. has much greater resources than
Australia, yet our C.5.1.R.0., probably
urged by public and political clamor,
spends heavily endeavoring to vie with
the U.S. in rainmaking research, only to
prove what has already been proved.
The C.5.1.R.0, is a valuable national
asset. It will be more valuable if it
confines itself to practical work and
stops wasting money on stunts which
mean nothing.—J, Pluvius (N.S.W.).
Elizabethan England
It is ridiculous to assert (B. 29/7/’53)
that Elizabethan England was a Socialist
economy in which the ideal of the Tudor
Privy Councils was not progress but
stability. Assuming that were true, it
must have been singularly ineffective.
The prosperity of the reign provides a
complete negation of. it. Public credit,
which had fallen to disastrous depths in
the two preceding reigns, was restored.
This was achieved by a policy of deter-
mined financial honesty. The miserable
system of debasing the coinage was
brought to an end; the current coins
were called in and paid for at not much
under their actual value in silver, and
the new coins issued were of their full
value. Debts contracted by the Govern-
ment were punctually paid, and as an
immediate consequence the Government
soon found itself able to borrow at reason-
able instead of ruinous rates of interest.
“Private prosperity and public confi-
dence advanced so swiftly that before
Elizabeth had been a dozen years on the
throne substantial loans could be raised
at home without applying to foreign
sources” (Innes, England Under the
Tudors). The enormously increased
wealth of the country must be attributed
to the energy and initiative of the mer-
chants and adventurers in taking advant-
age of the new fields opened to them. -
To dismiss Elizabeth’s reign—which
the overwhelming weight of historical
evidence attests as the most glorious in
British history—as “based on tyranny,
on torture, and on the persecution of dis-
senters and Catholics” is a perversion of
history.
Innes points out that although in
effect not a few persons, Puritans or
Catholics, were put to death by Elizabeth
and many more imprisoned or fined—as
they would have said themselves, for
conscience’ sake—that was the distinc-
tion specifically recognised by her ; which,
without justifying her persecutions,
differentiates them from those of her pre-
decessors. Henry and Mary frankly
and avowedly burnt victims for holding
wrong opinions—for heresy. Mary
kindled the fires of Smithfield for the
salvation of souls, not for the safety of
her throne, whereas the foundation of
Elizabeth’s persecutions was that opinions
as such were of no consequence, but
that people who would not conform their
conduct to her regulations must either
be potential traitors politically or anar-
chists socially.
Plots against the safety of her person
and the security of the throne were fre-
quent and persistent, and they were foiled
only by a secret service incomparable in
its day. Her proceedings are brought
into the category of persecutions because
she treated potential anarchism or treason
as implying overt anarchism or treason.
But unless and until she or her agents
discovered such implication in a given
opinion, anyone was at liberty to hold it
or not as he chose; its truth or falsity
was a matter of entire indifference.
Punishment for the implied intention of
committing a wrong act is admittedly
dangerous and reprehensible in prin-
ciple*, but it should be distinguished from
punishment for holding an opinion be-
cause it is accounted a false one.
Elizabeth’s persecution, both of
Puritans and of Catholics, must be con-
demned, but it is only just, in comparing
her with her predecessor, to remember
“Cripes, it's good t' be 'ome, Lucy!”
that in the 45 years of her reign the
entire number of persons who suffered
death as Catholics or as Anabaptists was
considerably less than the number of
martyrs in four years of Mary’s rule!
Had Elizabeth’s reign been based on
tyranny it could not have survived the
threat of Spain. The temper and spirit
of the English people at the time of
the Armada resembled that of the people
of Britain under the threat of Hitler’s
invasion. The country was pervaded with
a passionate loyalty to its Queen.
As for the “bloodbath in Ireland”
in Elizabeth’s reign, both sides were adept
at blood-letting and cruelty. The truth
is that Ireland was a nest of anarchy.
C. R. L. Fletcher points out the injustice
ƒ
“ That's how people get pneumonia.”
of accusing any Tudor Government, even
Elizabeth’s, of extreme severity in Ire-
land. What was true was that no Govern-
ment of that day could face the enormous
cost of keeping order. Conciliation
plus coercion was continually tried, not
from humanity, but because it was
cheaper. Unquestionably some of Eliza-
beth’s deputies, notably Pelham, Gilbert
and Mountjoy, were guilty of cruelty,
but it was not Elizabeth’s policy, and she
never counselled extirpation. Honors in
cruelty and massacre were about even.
In 1578 the Earl of Desmond sacked the
English colony of Youghal and left no
living thing in it. In retaliation, Lord
Grey de Wilton fell upon 800 Italian and
Spanish troops who were aiding the Irish
in revolt at Smerwick and massacred
them to a man. Munster was devastated
from end to end by fire and sword in
a Desmond hunt which lasted until the
Earl died in 1583.
When the Irish chieftains weren’t
combining against the English they were
merrily fighting among themselves.
Shane O’Neill was the first to play
deliberately for a vassal crown of Ireland
under Spanish suzerainty. In 1566 he
was at last proclaimed a traitor, and in
the next year killed in an obscure
skirmish by some of his own people whom
he was plundering. The Desmonds of
Munster, the O’Byrnes of Wicklow, and
the O’Connors of Leix were always ready
for a little shillelagh-play. Fletcher
ironically comments that Connaught had
its O’Briens and its Mac Williams, but
with true Irish perversity it was the
quietest of the four provinces throughout
Elizabeth’s reign. Ulster was never quiet
at all. Sorly Boy Mac Donnell and Tir-
lough Luineach O’Neill took care of that.
Tirlough positively wept when a strong
Englishman left Ireland. “Sir John
Perrott,” he said, “was a man worth rebel-
ling against.”—C. L. (Q.).
Shopping Hours
In the discussions and manoeuvrings
in Sydney on shopping-hours, the interest
of the public has been completely
ignored—though that is nothing new
from politicians, unions, trade associa-
tions and other pressure-groups.
There is no reason why shops should
not be open day and night, and the only
determining factor should be the public.
If it is profitable for shops to be open
until midnight, they should be permitted
to open, and if a trader wishes to lose
sales by remaining closed that should be
entirely his business.
In other words, competition should be
the sole limiting factor on trade.
The opposition of “Labor” and the
trade-unions is hard to understand. A
shop open for 16 hours a day would
employ exactly twice the number of staff
that it does on eight hours as at present.
With a 40-hour week on the statute-book
there would be no question of victimisa-
tion or sweating—merely shift-work as
accepted in other industries.
There are no limitations on trading
hours in most American States, and the
system works well there. If the unions
are unduly worried about sweating, the
legal mechanism exists for increasing
penalties to an extent where award
breaches would be too unprofitable to
consider.
Neither employers nor employees are
enthusiastic about increased shopping-
hours for the simple reason that the public
can be forced to observe the hours
traders and unions see fit to fix. But it’s
time that attitude was wiped out by a
Government courageous enough to take
action. — Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Migrants
The Australian Minister for Immigra-
tion wishes sadly he could “report more
enthusiasm in official British quarters for
migration.”
It is surprising that there should be
any enthusiasm at all in “official British
quarters” since the fuss about the Com-
monwealth hostels has figured in the
British Press.
Australia has much to offer migrants
fortunate enough to arrive here with
capital behind them, or those single men
who are prepared to wrestle with the
wide, open spaces. But for those herded
with their families into woolsheds and
Nissen-huts, what is there? The hope
that one far-off day they may have saved
enough to buy a block of land and build
a shack in which they may exist in un-
sewered squalor?
For the Dutch, and other New Aus-
tralians seeking refuge from flooded and
war-wracked Europe, presumably even
that prospect is considered comparative
bliss, but for the skilled British workman
it is poor compensation for breaking with
the life he has grown up to love in his
grumbling British way.
Abundant food? Yes, but he prefers
it cooked by his wife. High wages?
Yes, but the money goes little further
than what he earned in Britain.
Australia needs migrants from all
European countries, but we cannot ex-
pect an enthusiastic rush of good types
until we can provide more inviting
premises or hope for quicker escape from
our “guest-houses.”— Nerumee (Vic.).


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA. —In Divoece.
TO BENJAMIN JOHN MALCOLM
JOHNSTON address unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife VIOLET
EVELYN AMELIA JOHNSTON has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
divorce on the ground of desertion by
you for a continuous period of three
years or more If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your de-
fence in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court Perth within 30 clear days from
the date of this publication In default
of your so doing the cause rfiay proceed
and the Court will pronounce judgment
and make orders against you in your
absence DATED this 27th day of July,
Q. «J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
CAHILL & DEVLIN, 41 Barrack Street,
Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
fits all factors with hydraulic hoist
.
I ■■■■■Pm
vmim
n ;;
m
■
n
i i
m
MK
ni
B
■■ln
««
jr Reversing
r lever and 6 Notch
Rack for adjusting
k. width of cut. A
m
H
Hk|
m
wr
Adjustment
for
under cut.
i ■
&
3
-
Ml
ms
m
i m
iii
If 8
•»** J i 9 ' 4
HEMIn
s^::
'■
Trailing Coulten^^
eliminates side
draft
Oran
-3 :"
k 1
r-i
as
■
■
Illustrating the Gibbins Patent 3-Disc Reversible Plough coupled to 3-point
linkage. Tool Bar model also available.
% Getter*/C/tt/tty Per
HtHstefe or f/*tsf
For Lanz, Ferguson, David Brown, Fordson and Nuffield
Tractors equipped with 3-point linkage.
PRICE: 2-Furrow, £6B/10/-; 3-Furrow, £BB
Also Available; D.G.M. 2-FURROW MOULDBOARD PLOUGH for FERGUSON and
DAVID BROWN TRACTORS. PRICE: £65.
N.S.W. Distributors:
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Lid.
10-14 YOUNG STREET,
BOX 509 G.P.O. PHONE: BU 5095
BRANCHES: NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, WAGGA, and HAT TDJB.
The “Barracks” Problem
In spite of Mr. Chisholm and
his view of my “sundry [alleged]
misconceptions” (B. 29/7/’53) it
is still “unbelievable” to me that
creatures like the lyrebird and
the koala should have escaped
notice for 10 years after the
foundation of N. S. Wales. So
soon as they had once been
reported they were found in
abundance. They only became
shy with the spread of settle-
ment. I did not “imply” that the
description of the Menura in
Collins’s Account of the Colony
of New South Wales was written
by Everard Home. I merely
wrote that the description fol-
lowed the same scientific method
as that used in the description of
the platypus —which was prob-
ably written by Home, In any
case, Home was no mere
“anatomist” —he was also a
leading naturalist, as his papers
in the Proceedings of the Linnean
Society, of which the N. S.
Wales Public Library has his
personal copy, prove. He wrote
the first papers for the great
London learned societies on both
the platypus and koala.
If I had set out to surmise the
authorship of the description of
the lyrebird in Collins’s account
I should have nominated Dr.
George Shaw, F.R.S., whom Mr.
Chisholm places in the same
galley as the pickpocket Bar-
rington—the latter was never,
incidentally, “Superintendent of
Convicts in N. S. Wales” as he
states. Mr. Chisholm writes (B.
29/4/’53): —
A second theft of the kind occurred
immediately afterwards. In this case
the culprit was Dr. George Shaw,
Director of the British Museum —
he published the Collins notes on the
habits and song of the Menura in a
scientific journal of 1803 ( The
Naturalist’s Miscellany), without
making any reference to the source.
To accuse Dr. Shaw—who was
not, as Mr. Chisholm claims,
Director of the British Museum,
but Assistant Keeper of the
National History section —of
such a “theft” is a bit like
accusing Einstein of the theft of
an article on relativity from a
book by Mr. Chisholm or
myself. He was the leading
authority of the time in Eng-
land on New Holland zoology.
He wrote the descriptions of the
birds in White’s Voyage to New
South Wales (1790) and pub-
lished the first separate work on
Australian zoology with its
delightful plates by James
Sowerby, F.L.S. (1794), and
added the Latin classification to
the Royal Society’s “Philo-
sophical Transactions” (1500
papers). He seemed to be
a classifying authority for new
birds and animals discovered in
N. S. Wales —some are on
record; and from the fact that
General Thomas Davies de-
scribed the lyrebird as Menura
superba to the Linnean Society
it does not follow that he classi-
fied it.
In the case of another bird
about which General Davies
wrote a paper for the Linnean
Society his lecture has a note at
the end: “Since the above was
written Dr. Shaw has examined
the bird therein and has named
and characterised it as follows;
Musicapa malachura, soft-tailed
fly-catcher.”
I did not, as Mr. Chisholm de-
clares, write that “it seemed to
be true that the koala was not
recorded until 1804.” I wrote
accurately that it seemed true
that it had not been “officially
heard of” till Lieutenant-
Governor Paterson reported its
existence to science in 1804 as
“the first seen here,” to
Banks, the president of the Royal
Society, and to Everard Home.
Paterson makes it clear in the
letter partly printed for the first
time in my article that Bill Blue-
gum was acually found before
1804. I myself have mentioned
early references to the cullawine,
cooler, colo—Barrallier’s version;
he thought it was a “monkey”—
and the Gazette. There are
some others which I have never
seen in print—one by Caley
whose name Governor King, not
I, misspelt as “Cayley” in the
quotation from his dispatch
which I exactly reproduced.
I do not agree with Mr.
Chisholm that Bass was “too
sound a naturalist to have hidden
away such a prize as the lyre-
bird.”
He knew so little about
ornithology that he was {vide his
letter) not sure whether the lyre-
bird was a “new” or only a
“rare” bird. I do not agree,
either, that for Bass to keep the
bird from September, 1797, till
May, 1799, would have
involved “hiding it away for a
lengthy period.” Actually the
ship of May, 1799, presented him
with the first personal oppor-
tunity he had had to send a
parcel home since his 1797
expedition—he had been away
when an earlier ship had sailed.
I do not think it matters much
what the real name was of the
lad whom Mr. Chisholm and
others called “Barracks,” and
whose ghost I laid —he was
merely an amanuensis and not
the real discoverer of any of the
fauna mentioned by the Wilson
expedition. The credit for the
discovery of the wombat rests
with the wrecked survivors of the
Sydney Cove who found it on
the Fumeaux Islands in Bass
Strait months before Wilson and
his party. Collins makes it clear
that Wilson, not “Barracks,” was
the first man to shoot and bring
in a lyrebird (“bird of
paradise”): —•
By him, the first bird of paradise
ever seen in this country had been
shot; and it was his custom to live
upon the flesh of such birds as he
killed, bringing in with him their
skins.
However, if there is any
interest in the matter the pseudo-
“Barracks’ ” name was prob-
ably Price, and his future after
he went to England as obscure
as that of any other captain’s
servant. —M. H. Ellis (N.S.W.).
Louis Becke
No reader is wholly satisfied
with any anthology, whether of
prose or poetry. A recent selec-
tion of Australian short stories,
published in London and selected
by two well-known Australian
writers, is no exception to this
dictum. The period covered
ranges from the ’seventies to the
present day, yet the collection
fails to include a solitary speci-
men from Louis Becke’s short
stories and sketches; and there
are plenty to choose from, com-
prising grave, gay and the
bizarre.
One of Becke’s early offerings,
“By Reef and Palm,” first
appeared in The Bulletin,
whose editor encouraged the
young writer. The late Percival
Serle, in his Dictionary of Aus-
tralian Biography, quotes Becke
as saying that any success he had
achieved was entirely due to
J. F. Archibald, “who taught me
the secrets of condensation and
simplicity.” When he decided to
go overseas in 1896 it was from
The Bulletin’s editor and pro-
prietor that he received
encouragement and financial
help,
Becke was one of the first
writers to debunk the legend of
a Pacific paradise and the white
trader’s relations with its
islanders, but at the same time
depicting light and shade in that
scattered domain with praise-
worthy freedom from bias.
The Earl of Pembroke, another
of his friends and sponsors,
wrote of Becke: “He knows the
Pacific as few men alive or dead
have known it. He is one of the
rare men who have led a very
wild life, and have the culture
and talent necessary to give some
account of it. As a rule the
men who know don’t write, and
the men who write don’t know.
Everyone who has a taste for
good stories will feel, I believe,
the force of these. Everyone
who knows the South Seas, and
I believe many who do not, will
feel that they have the unmistak-
able stamp of truth.” A fine
tribute, this, from a man who
knew the South Seas intimately.
Let anyone read some of
Becke’s Pacific yams and then
turn to his Settlers of Karossa
Creek —written for a “religious”
house —and it will give an idea
of Becke’s versatility and ability
—if put to it —to write for a
“market.”
One of Australia’s most
voluminous writers, Becke
surely calls for a full-dress
biography. Will some Australian
writer, given the necessary urge
and leisure, tackle the job? The
Commonwealth Literary Fund
might well encourage the project,
and the Mitchell Library con-
tains a considerable mass of
material (presumably all Becke’s
printed output), a good deal of
which is in typescript, and prob-
ably autograph letters. The
Bulletin files and records
would no doubt elucidate much
that remains obscure in the life
of a worthy protege. —B. (Tas.).
Newfoundland
I wouldn’t attempt to answer
“K.A.S.’s” query “Why is Aus-
tralia lagging behind Canada?”
(B. 3/6/’53), but I would like to
correct one of his impressions :
Even Newfoundland, nearly as
bleak as sub-Antarctic Macquarie
Island, contains a population of
330,000 hardy souls.
Newfoundland is situated in a
latitude well below that of Paris.
While Newfoundland’s climate
may not be as salubrious as that
of France, it might interest
“K.A.S.” to know that this part
of Newfoundland is not
“blanketed by snow for three
months and upwards,” nor are
our near-by lakes and rivers
“frozen from three to eight
months each year.” Our winters
here, actually, are far from
severe and during that season
the temperature rarely drops to
zero.
We had a green Christmas last
December. Some of our golfers.
too, including the writer, have
played the local course in every
month of the year ; late fall and
winter, of course, on temporary
greens. In summer, temperatures
of over 90 degrees are not
uncommon in some districts, and
sea-bathing is indulged in in
many inlets and bays from June
to September, even beyond that
date by some of the more hardy
souls. Are these recreations
possible on sub-Antarctic
Macquarie Island, I wonder?
As to its bleakness, Newfound-
land has, of course, some bleak
spots, as have nearly all countries,
but the island is capable of pro-
ducing all the hay, oats and root-
crops required by its own popu-
lation and more if necessary.
Further, many hundreds of
square miles of this “bleak”
island are covered with valuable
timber which supplies two of the
largest newsprint mills in the
world Bowaters, Ltd., at
Corner Brook, and the Anglo-
Newfoundland Development Co.
at Grand Falls. These two plants
export their finished product,
newsprint, to the leading dailies
in the U.K., the U.S.A. and to
Australia. James Maclntyre
(St, John’s, Newfoundland).


-v
LYSAGHT
GALVANIZED IRON
o
Increased steel supplies and improved
plant are now producing the greatest
tonnages of Lysaght Galvanized Iron in
the Company’s history. The movement
of these large tonnages remains a difficulty
in distribution and some time must elapse
before the benefit of improved supply is
felt throughout the country.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
L49a-24
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE.
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health . Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS.. .NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
f
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
DISTRIBUTORS
Hygeia Dissolvenator Hist. 00. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St, Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Buudi g.
Queen St., Brisbane. . .. irn ,
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator 00. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Penh.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tag.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St, Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore ; British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator 00. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers. Lome
Street, Auckland.
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.;
W.A.:
TAS.:
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool and Improved
Pastures
“Rooster”: In comparative
tests between native and im-
proved pastures at Canberra and
Armidale, the C.5.1.R.0. re-
corded a runaway win for im-
proved pastures.
The report includes some
startling facts and figures;
Pasture yields increase up to
250 per cent, when improved
from native wallaby or white-
top grasses to fertilised phalaris-
sub.-clover pasture. The nitro-
gen content, as a result, is more
than doubled, and the average
fleece-weight is increased three-
fold. Value of wool per acre
improves from £4 3s. to £l4 9s.
The report states that weaners
grazed during the winter of 1952
at 1| per acre on natural pasture
increased in weight from 551 b.
to 801 b. On improved pastures
at 3i weaners per acre the in-
dividual live-weight gain was
doubled (from 551 b. to 1111 b.).
At Armidale a test paddock
sown to a phalarisr-white-clover-
red - clover mixture ahd top-
dressed with 2 cwt. of super,
annually carried 5.6 weaners
for 100 days during the second
winter after its establishment,
and 9.8 weaners per acre for the
same period during the third
winter. During the 1951 shear-
ing on this station the sown
pasture produced 301 b. of wool
per acre and the native pasture
s?lb, per acre —a striking com-
parison.
Some graziers are unwilling to
undertake pasture-improvement
on the Tablelands because of the
belief that it would reduce the
quality and value of Merino
wools. In the Canberra tests
the difference in the wool-fibre
thicknesses from native and
sown pastures was so slight as to
make no difference to the wool-
classer, both being classed as
60’s, and both valued identically ;
so the belief can be dismissed as
a fallacy.
Another point discovered was
that on poorer native pastures
much of the fineness of the wool
is due to low nutritional level.
Improved pastures would not
produce inferior quality in these
fine-wool breeds, but, by giving
a more stable nutrition, the
fibres would be strengthened,
thus yielding a more valuable,
stronger wool.
Know Your Wool
“R. Ney”: Everybody who
owns sheep, whether from a few
pets to thousands, should have
The Bulletin Wool Type Card.
Not only is it invaluable for the
small man doing his own class-
ing, but also as a check for those
who employ ciassers in pro-
viding a guide to drafting mixed
sheep into shearing lots.
This new type-card is similar
to one issued before the war and
which was so popular that stocks
quickly ran out. There have
been continual requests for the
cards ever since.
Brought up to date by experts,
the new card carries nine
separate wool-types (in actual
wool, not photographs), ranging
from 74’s down to 40’s. The
folder is strongly made and the
type-samples securely bound and
displayed in a manner which
enables the grower to typify
any lot quickly and confidently.
The cards are available from
The Bulletin, 252 George-
street, Sydney, at 7s. 6d. each
(post-free), and will be eagerly
sought by farmers, agricultural
and technical schools, soldier-
settlers, and beginners in class-
ing.
Use of the card is not con-
fined to shearing; it is a very
useful guide for anyone when
selecting rams or drafting ewes
for service.
Spray-irrigation
“Wakool”: D. G. Padman,
M.L.A., and chairman of the
Murray Valley Development
League, has come out strong for
spray-irrigation as the most
economical way of irrigating
because it enables much more
land to be watered than is
possible with flooding.
Spraying, of course, pulls
down the risk of salting because,
unlike flooding, it doesn’t bring
up salt from the subterranean
water. “Spraying,” says Pad-
man, “does' away with the need
to grade land and brings in more
money to farmers from better
crops. Flooding wastes our
already insufficient water.
Farmers can borrow money from
the Rural Bank to instal irriga-
tion plant at 3 per cent, interest.
“No doubt about these cow-cockies!”
repayable over periods up to 10
years. In the Murray and
Murrumbidgee valleys there are
vast areas which, if irrigated,
would produce immensely and
support a big population. But,
even if all the water were stored,
there would not be enough to
irrigate all the irrigable land.
“Therefore, irrigation methods
should make the utmost use of
the water we have. Power from
the Snowy scheme, particularly
if increased by output from a
coal-power plant at Oaklands,
would permit spraying to be
done on a much wider scale and
greatly enlarge our irrigated
areas.”
Horse-feeding
“Big Billy”: The average pony
will do well on a bag of oaten-
chaff and a bale of lucerne or
grass-hay a fortnight 1 without
grazing. The quantity of hay
and chaff can be reduced in pro-
portion to the amount of grazing
available.
For hacks 151 b. of chaff or
hay a day is recommended, and,
unless they are being prepared
for a show or polo, no other
food will be necessary. Hard
work, such as mustering, will
call for another 41b. to 51b. Oats
can be fed at noon when the
horse has little time to feed. If
an animal is being prepared for
a show oats also can replace
some of the roughage. Oats
reduce pot-belliness, make the
horse harder and ensure a
glossy coat.
More attention is necessary
for delivery-horses. They will
need a bag of chaff, 101 b. to
151 b. of oats, half a bale of
lucerne-hay and three to four
bundles of greenstuff a week to
keep them strong and healthy.
The light-delivery horse needs
the equivalent of 171 b. of chaff
each day when idle, and up to
101 b. of oats daily in addition
when doing heavy work. A
medium draught will require
201 b. of chaff if idle, with up to
121 b. of oats when constantly on
hard work. For a heavy draught
221 b. of chaff and 141 b. of oats
will be needed.
Horses eat more in winter than
in summer. A full ration for a
heavy horse doing hard work in
winter could be made up as fol-
lows: early-morning feed, H
kero.-tin of chaff, one 71b. jam-
tin of oats; noon feed, one
kero.-tin of chaff, one jam-tin


BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
COMPARE FOR YOURSELF THE FIGURES SHOWN IN THE FOLLOWING
TABLE INDICATING THE PERCENTAGE OF WORMS REMOVED FROM SHEEP
ƒ
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey
as a simple story the results of many years of research.
Acknowledgement is made to many research workers
whose results have been published in the Australian
Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
c
PHE.I2X. 3434*
Always on the job
AGA
Regd. Trade Mark
GIVES CONSTANT HEAT
FOR COOKING
PLUS
CONSTANT HOT WATER
“AS??*®
Jvmnii
25S <0 <•«.
7l°h r hi s
Wo rkt*~ , 01
Bunt^hip
«&£>
The correct grade of
coke now in ample supply.
OTHER
AGA
COOKERS
MODEL "E" (Four ovens, two
hot plates, one warming plate).
MODEL "ET" (Four ovens, two
hot plates, one warming plate,
plus hot water tank).
MODEL "CS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates).
MODEL "DS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates, plus hot water tank).
Ready for instant use day and night,
the Aga Cooker also maintains a con-
stant hot water service to meet kitchen
and bathroom needs. No other cooker
gives these double benefits at so little
cost. Fuel bills are smaller with Aga,
because low consumption of coke is
guaranteed. Heavy insulation ensures
heat does not escape, your kitchen al-
ways'Stays cool.
TEMPERATURES JUST RIGHT!
Two ovens and two hot plates are automatically
adjusted to cook at different speeds. You can safely
leave food cooking in Aga, even overnight.
FUELLING SO CLEAN AND EASY!
There’s no work involved in keeping Aga in action.
Fuelling, so clean and easy, is needed only three
times in every twenty-four hours. Aga burns con-
tinuously on coke and low consumption of coke is
guaranteed. Nothing surpasses Aga for economy
and excellence of cooking.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established In N.Z. in 1841}
Sole Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND
BSNDIX HOME WASHER
[ NEW SOUTH WALES _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney |
I VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne i
j QUEENSLAND Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane *
I SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide I
J TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart J
I WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS MALLOCH BROS. LM., Pertt '
is- mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmS
a
of oats; evening feed, H kero.-
tin chaff, one jam-tin of oats ;
night feed, one sheaf of manger-
hay. Water before eac|? feed.
Dog-ticks
“H.C.”: Owing to the dry
winter tick-paralysis is affecting
dogs and cats in coastal districts
from Sydney northwards.
Few animals are immune.
Examine the animal every day.
Run the fingers over the whole
body, close to the skin and in
the opposite direction to the
lie of the fur. Favorite spots for
tick are around the head and
chest areas, inside the ears and
between the toes ; they may even
be found inside the lips.
Ticks appear to be repulsed
by strong smells. Passing a
kerosene-cloth over the fur each
day keeps them at bay. Derris-
root is effective if rubbed into
the coat or if used in a bath in
the proportion of one part of
powder in weight to 100 parts
of water. These are additional
precautions ; they do not replace
the daily search.
Twenty-four hours after it has
attached itself to its host the tick
begins to swell in size. At the
end of three days it is the size
of a pea and blue-grey in color.
By that time the animal is drag-
ging the hindquarters, and even
if the tick be removed complete
paralysis may follow. Tick-
poisoned dogs are restless, vomit
yellow mucus or develop a
cough or stertorous breathing.
When found the tick should be
smothered with kerosene or turps
and cut off at skin-level. The
head should then be removed
with forceps. If pulled out of
the skin the tick may inject a
final dose of poison.
Fruit-trees
“Baroona”: Though experts
say that fruit-trees in their first
year need no manure and will
not require a full dressing of
fertiliser until about eight years
old, the older stone-fruits, at
least in South Australia, should
receive 31b. or 41b. of nitrogen
fertiliser just before bud-burst.
Caution is urged in the fertilis-
ing of the pome fruits. If
enough nitrogen is present in
the soil added fertilisers will
cause the trees to produce poor
fruit which will not keep well. A
dressing of 21b. to 31b. of
sulphate-of-ammonia is suggested
to provide enough for each
mature tree’s needs. This should
go on just before bud-burst.
Orchard Care
“Billjim”: Cultivation re-
places water for the non-
irrigating fruitgrower. Delay
spring ploughing until the maxi-
mum bulk of organic matter has
been accumulated to turn in,
but not so late that ground-
growth competes with trees for
plant-food.
Ploughing must be timed so
that the soil carries the most
possible stored water from the
winter rainfall for the trees to
use in summer.
In frosty areas the soil must
be clear of weeds and packed
down in advance of the time the
trees are most sensitive to frost.
Usually all these requirements
can be met if the first chance is
taken after the end of July for
the initial cultivation.
Scouring Calves
“D.J.H.”; According to the
University of Wisconsin, the best
way to beat scours in calves is
to be on hand at calving-time
and get the calf up and sucking
within 30 minutes.
Colostrum is the best preven-
tive of scouring. No one knows
whether the virus responsible is
inhaled or swallowed, so always
practise the strictest hygiene.
For treatment of scours terra-
mycin, aureomycin or sulpha-
mezathine is best.
Rearing Chicks
“Cock-of-the-Walk”: Some
recommend temperatures up to
95deg. F. in the chick-houses for
the first three weeks and 75 deg.
F. for the five weeks thereafter,
at which time they may be put
into colonies. We find that the
weak ones die anyhow, but
reared as above they die just
before reaching maturity or soon
after —just before they start
repaying the money poured
down their necks.
Our experience has been that
90 deg. F. is plenty for the first
day, reducing it in about three
to four days to 75 deg. F., and
from the second day depriving
the chicks of heat for periods of
from five minutes several times
the first day to the full day at
about a fortnight, while at three
weeks they can dispense with
heat altogether. We have the
birds in unheated colonies be?
fore the end of the fourth week.
Pullets are more delicate than
cockerels, and the death-rate is
two to three times higher. Study
of a hen with chickens will be
an eye-opener. The chickens
spend more time in the cold
than under her wings.
Hints for the Farm
“C.A.A.”: This is the best
time to overhaul spraying gear.
Pipelines, spray-vats and -pumps
can be kept clear by thoroughly
flushing with a 5-per-cent, solu-
tion of hydrochloric acid. After
cleaning, flush with clean water
to remove all traces of acid.
“Billjim”: Dried skim-milk is
good for rearing calves because
it does not contain as much
acid as dried butter-milk. It is
desirable to feed new milk for at
least two to three weeks, and
then during the next three weeks
gradually replace new milk with
dried skim-milk. Dried skim-
milk is much cheaper than calf-
foods.
“W, Court”; With summer
coming, freshly - transplanted
seedlings should be shaded for
a week or two unless the weather
is constantly overcast. Leafy
twigs are good. If they’re not
available cut a newspaper into
strips 9in. to 12in. long by 3in.
wide. Arch the centre of each
strip over a seedling and bury
each end in the soil. It acts like
a tiny tent.
“Sarina”: Don’t climb big
fruit-trees, use a ladder. Boots
cause bruising and erosion of
the bark, which gives pests an
opening.
“F.H.”: Sixteen pedigree Poll
Shorthorn bulls donated by
N.S.W. breeders for distribution
free to N.S.W. returned soldier-
settlers will be allocated by ballot
on August 17, at the office of the
Minister for Lands. The Lands
Department will have the
animals t.b. and c.ab. tested.
PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studied
indicates a strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
from bis sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin”
Wool Type Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Absence of sunspots weakens
the weather forecasts to a cer-
tain extent, but working on
the present cycle, which is
expected to repeat the condi-
tions of 1917, there should be
frosts around August 23 and
then the welcome rains. In
southern areas there should
be a good rain about now,
and more about the middle of
September. In early October
there should be some rather
warm weather and good
spring rains to follow. A
good season (with floods) is
possible over the tablelands
and along the Murray.


Eat a bigger
breakfast—and
be thin
Usually take fruit juice,
toast and coffee? You’re paving
the way to a mid-morning
snack, a heavy lunch or dinner
—and added pounds.
In August Reader’s Digest,
nutritionists explode popular
theories on dieting.
Read why it’s not an empty
stomach that makes you feel
hungry, and why in the long
run eating a hearty breakfast
will help you lose weight.
Also in August issue —35
other stimulating articles con-
densed from world’s leading
magazines, current books. On
sale now one shilling and
sixpence at all newsagents and
bookstalls. Unparalleled read-
ing value for all the family.
and armored vehicles, 550 light
and heavy guns—he consistently
classes as heavies what the
British would class as medium—
and 850 a.-t, guns.
Rommel himself had four
German and eight thoroughly ill-
equipped Italian divisions, two
of each armored ; but they were
not all high quality—l7,ooo of
the Germans had been in Africa
for 18 months without leave, and
a total 17,000 casualties had
reduced the four German
divisions to 34,000 men. The
German Panzer Army was get-
ting, in August, only about 32
per cent, of its needed supplies ;
the futile Italians, who were
organising deliveries, were get-
ting a greater, but insufficient,
proportion for their hack
divisions.
The R.A.F. had complete
command of air and sea. They
sank ships as they arrived in
Bardia. Their shadows fell
ceaselessly over all parts of the
German area. Vehicles could
not move in open desert. The
Tobruk-El Daba railway, which
had been taken in good order,
was soon, like everything else
Italian-influenced, a complete
muddle.
The general position was that,
with huge manpower and vehicle
shortages, with rations, “miser-
able and monotonous,” at a
minimum, and sickness rife, they
“would not have been able to
exist at all” if it had not been
for the huge British dumps cap-
tured in the Marmarica battle.
Their ammunition was so short
that at times they were com-
pelled to “ban all forms of haras-
sing fire.” They were in just as
bad a position for fuel —petrol
“used itself up” on the way from
the coast.
The British had added a new
inspiring battle-commander in
General Montgomery to their
staff, under the wily and equable
Alexander, and a new chief-of-
staff, while Rommel himself was
ill. On August 24 he recorded
that he was “now well enough to
get up occasionally,” that “he
would still have to go through
six weeks’ treatment in
Germany,” that “his blood-
pressure must be got properly
right,” and that they had been
“using up generals in Africa at
the rate of five per division in
eighteen months.”
He had been (according to a
solicitous aide-de-camp) 19
months in Africa, which was
“longer than any officer over 40
had stood it so far.” He was
suffering (said his Herr Doktor
Professor Horst) “from a heavy
cold, digestive disturbances,
chronic stomach and intestinal
catarrh, nasal diphtheria and
considerable circulation trouble.”
He was not in a fit condition to
command the forthcoming offen-
sive, showing as he was “signs
of exhaustion which have caused
great anxiety to all of us.” He
left his sleeping-truck, according
to General Bayerlein, on the
morning of the opening of the
Alam Haifa battle, that little-
noticed but all-important engage-
ment, “with a very troubled
face.”
This was the first battle in
which it was really demonstrated
on a large scale how mechanical
aids can blunt the edge of the
surprise and make it impossible
against a prepared enemy. The
British had 150,000 mines in
great depth protected by
numerous booby-traps. As the
Panzer army moved in to attack
the southern bastions of the
British line the R.A.F, rolled
along in relays, using parachute-
flares and dropping sticks of h.-e.
bombs among the advancing
troops.
The whole German timetable
was soon dislocated. The
Rommel plan to advance 30
miles east by moonlight and then
strike north at dawn failed. The
mines held them up; the flares
made it “too moonlight.”
General Nehring, commander of
the Afrika Korps, lay wounded,
and Bayerlein, his chief-of-staff,
had taken over and had pene-
trated the minefield. General
Bismarck, commander of the
21st Panzer Division, had been
killed by a mine.
With British armor now
assembled, it was impossible for
the Germans to continue their
wide sweep to the east, and they
discussed breaking-off the battle
in the light of the threat to their
flanks from the Desert Rats on
the south and the First and Tenth
Armored Divisions in the north.
But they decided to go on,
changing their objectives to turn
norfh. They now would fling
the Afrika Korps at Hill 132 and
the Italian XX Corps at the
Alam-el-Halfa Ridge,
It was one o’clock midday be-
fore they were refuelled for this
task, with a heavy sandstorm in
progress. Mines and heavy
going, which ate up their petrol,
delayed them; the Italians, as
usual, were behind timetable and
in a mess. The R.A.F. came
down in ever-greater numbers,
continuing their circling attacks
into the night, pinning down all
movement by low-flying blitzes,
covering the landscape with
burning vehicles, killing staff-
officers galore and nearly finish-
ing Rommel himself.
All next day this went on —
“party - rally” bombing, as
Rommel called it, the kind of
neat-formation exercise that one
would see at a Hitler show at
Nuremberg. They were becom-
ing stuck for fuel, for British
command of the air settled the
question of whether Marshal
Kesselring could keep his
promise to fly in 500 tons of
petrol a day.
Right on to September 3 the
Germans suffered, and that night
Rommel withdrew to the line of
El Taque-Bab el Qattara; “My
reasons were the serious air
situation and the disastrous state
of our supplies.”
Even at that he was lucky.
Montgomery had prepared to
counter-attack strongly and had
arrangements for pursuit
organised; but he decided to
restore his line, “proceed
methodically for my own pre-
parations later on,” and capitalise
the lessons which he had learned
in this first major brush with his
adversary. All the Germans and
Italians suffered were continued
fierce local attacks and air-
blasts.
Apart from the withdrawal,
Rommel declared, “the victory
was otherwise ours; the British
showed little desire to make a
real fight of it,” since “time —as
far as material was concerned —
was on their side.” The retreat
was completed dh September 6.
The Germans’ last chance of
reaching the Suez Canal was
lost. They knew now that full
production of British industry
and the influx of American
supplies would “finally turn the
tide against us.” The casualties
had been more than they could
spare—nearly 3000 men, with 50
tanks, 15 field-guns, 35 anti-tank
guns and 400 lorries. The
British lost 1640 men, with 68
tanks and 18 anti-tank guns. The
German soldiery jeeringly nick-
named the battle the Sechsta-
gerennen—the “Six-day Race”
—after a well-known German
bicycle event.
It was not without reason
after this that the culminating
cataclysm of El Alamein was
called “the battle without hope.”
The losing battle of supplies was
carried on between September 6
and October 23 with a new
violence, complete failure on the
German and Italian part and
complete victory for the British,
who, apart from harassing the
Germans from the air, alarmed
them with a raid on Tobruk in
their rear on September 14.
Meanwhile, Rommel’s health
became so bad that he was sent
home for a long course of treat-
ment, while General Stumme
took his place. It was while he
was at home near Wiener Neu-
stadt, after combating the opti-
mism of Hitler and especially
that of Goring and wrestling
with the un-co-operative Italians
organising supply, that he was
suddenly recalled with the news
of the beginning of the last
battle of El Alamein which “led
to the final collapse of our North
African front,” This was the
result of the first heavy British
blow for many a month.
The Germans had every
advantage in defence. Their
line, lying between the Qattara
depression and the sea, was the
only part of North Africa except
the Akarit position which could
not be turned at its southern end.
All others could be dealt with by
tying them down frontally and
outflanking them to the south.
But Qattara depression was not
penetrable by heavy - vehicle
columns. The British attacker
must force a break-through and
then face a mobile reserve. He
had to do this exposed to the
fire of a dug-in defence and
through a vast minefield. There
was no alternative, no question
of mobility or elasticity of
action. The Germans had no
more choice in the matter than
the British because they could
not retire and fight in dispersion
in the open desert in view of
their fuel shortages and the
British superiority in every
material sense (apart from
troops) and especially their
command of the air and in the
possession of the new Sherman
tank.
The result was a foregone con-
clusion. When at 2140 hours on
October 23 Montgomery turned
15 artillery regiments—more
than 540 guns of 105 mm. or
over —on to the northern sector
of the Rommel line between Hill
135 and Deir el Shein they must
have known that their fate was
sealed. In Rommel’s words, the
northern sector was like a mill;
everything that went into it was
ground to powder by the guns
and the R.A.F. The Axis com-
munication network was smashed
by the drum-fire intensified by
R.A.F. bombing. There were
scarcely any reports from the
front. General Stumme, going
forward to reconnoitre, died of a
heart-attack while running from
British anti-tank and m.-g. fire
near Hill 21.
Rommel was sent over post-
haste from Germany, ill as he
was, to find how far demoralisa-
tion had been wrought after
Montgomery had launched
against his northern sector
Leese’s peerless XXX Corps with
the divisions he had most
reason to fear —the Ninth
Division A.1.F., the 51st High-
lander Division (whose fore-
runners had puzzled him when
they laughed at him in captivity
at St. Valery-en-Caux in 1940,
and which had been then
reformed overnight from among
the brothers and relations of the
captives), the 2nd New Zealand
and the Ist South African, both
with old scores to pay off. Their
first resounding lurch was the
beginning of a series of giant
blows, chops and slices at the
German and Italian front.
Minefields and mobile armored
reserves could delay, but only
delay, an advance served with
fresh troops and boundless
quantities of aircraft, ammuni-
tion and vehicles, the use of
which, however, was limited by
the nature of the terrain and the
natural obstacles with which
Nature blocked each end of the
line of battle.
The Germans, especially, put
up a tough resistance. But
Rommel’s day-to-day letters
show a hopelessness which even
the ebullient confidence of his
Fiihrer, safe in Germany, could
not dispel. By November 3, as
attack after attack rolled in, his
mood and outlook were
expressed in the final lines of his
note to his wife:
The dead are lucky, it is all over
■with them .... Perhaps all will yet
be well and we shall see each other
again.
On November 4, a few hours
after he had received an order
from Hitler to “stand fast
for victory or death,” Rommel
looked round the landscape. On
the right of the Afrika Korps
there was a 12-mile hole in the
front where the XX Italian
Corps had been obliterated.
There were no reserves—every
man, gun and projectile and
vehicle had been brought to use.
The German lines were already
penetrated. The whole country-
side presented a picture of
scorched ruin, with the R.A.F
screaming overhead and the
motorised British streaming like
a flood into the rear towards
Tobruk.
All that remained was to “save
what pould be saved.” Anything
that did not immediately reach
the road and race off westwards
was lost, for the enemy followed
us up over a wide front and
overran everything that came in
his path.”
The Rat Race for Tripoli was
on, and the day of Rommel in
Africa was over. He declares
that “the struggle of my Army,
despite its defeat, will be a
glorious page in .the annals of
the German and Italian peoples.”
And he places the date of its fall
at Alamein as that of the turn-
ing-point of the war. Thus he
must have gone to his later hope-
less tasks in Italy and France in
a mood of defeatism and despair.
The Rommel Papers are
throughout readable, but those
parts which deal with Africa
have a special relish for Aus-
tralians, whose men shared the
task of frustrating him in Tobruk
and the Alamein defences, and
who were part of the fist which
struck the first blow in the battle
that shattered him and, as he
himself holds, saw the specific
turn of the tide of war.
paid -to chase with wolfish in-
tensity. To the horror of those
in the select upper strata of
buyers, they hounded down the
“big men” rather than the little
ones, and when the former
found themselves before Stotter
he had no respect for their bank-
balances or their standing in the
community.
In a few years the Stotter-
McLernon team had brought the
price of stolen telluride down
from the almost traditional
“pound a pound” to ten shil-
lings. The buyers had reckoned
out that they now had to take
too many risks to pay more,
and the men who got it for
them soon began to wonder if
the risks they ran were worth it
at half-price. Jhe warden and
the detective seemed to be ruin-
ing the district.
When somebody threw a gelig-
nite-bomb into a back-room of
Stotter’s official residence, with-
out hurting anybody, but with
very ill effects on the architec-
ture, quite a few men who had
been walking warily and regard-
ing the world and each other
with suspicion walked more
warily than ever. Some even
regarded themselves with sus-
picion as they shaved in the
mornings, wondering whether
they could have done it in their
sleep.
Within a couple of days
another high-explosive present
was tossed into the magistrate’s
residence, without seeming to
scare Stotter, but without, of
course, contributing much to his
comfort and sense of security.
Few doubted that unknown
gold-buyers of the ruthless
calibre of Coulter and Treffene
were responsible. Citizens who
disapproved of murder—still, of
course, in the majority—were
relieved each morning to see the
big stone residence still stand-
ing in its isolated dignity at the
top end of Hannan-street.
Then a third bomb was
thrown, this time into a room
where a party of foreigners was
playing cards, in Boulder. The
third bomb killed several people
and maimed some others fear-
fully, but there was only one
more to come.
The fourth bomb was placed
in his own mouth, in the
Boulder cemetery, by the poor,
demented foreigner who had,
apparently, been responsible for
the others. Anyway, after he
had blown his puzzled head off
there was no more violence, and
most of the gold-buyers were
greatly relieved that their im-
portant and long-established
industry had not again got mixed
up with murder. They did not
all continue to feel this way, as
more and more of them found
themselves facing Stotter from
the dock, with McLernon, a
long-faced, lean, keen, incor-
ruptible man, giving evidence
against them.
McLernon was only recently
moved and promoted into his
bigger field of activity.
In the meantime the game
still goes on in Kalgoorlie, with
somewhat reduced exuberance
because of McLernon’s long
years of activity against it. It
will always go on while manual
workers with modest incomes
handle easily-stolen riches and
get into the small jams that
make them eye it covetously,
and while greedy men or bigger
men in bigger jams see money
in the illicit handling of “the
yeller stuff.” That is, of course,
unless somebody works out how
to provide a policeman behind
every second tree on the wide-
spread Western Australian gold-
fields.
But somehow, in keeping
with a primitive but powerful
Australian goldfields tradition of
fair play, it has not in 60 years
produced many people who are
dishonest in any other respect.
Among the comparatively few
big buyers there are some doubt-
ful goings-on at times, but most
of the keenest pickers-up of un-
considered scraps of telluride I
have known would, if they
found a ten-shilling note in the
street, go straight around to the
police-station with it.
And despite the brutal Walsh-
Pittman affair, they are men of
violence only with their fists, if
at all, not with lethal weapons.
Some of them are rough, tough
customers, but, unless things
have changed since I was last
there, there are no equivalents
to the city “stand-over men” in
Kalgoorlie —probably because
anybody who tries to set up in
that line immediately meets so
many as big, strong and ugly as
himself who will have a go at
him for the sheer fun of it.
They just don’t regard pocket-
ing a lump of telluride they have
personally pulled out of the
ground as dishonesty at all. And,
in any case, what are they to do
when it sticks to their fingers the
way it did, does, and always
will?,


VENOM HOUSE
Arthur Upheld
Australia’s leading detective writer again introduces Inspector
Bonaparte, the half-caste Aborigine who is today probably the
usual and most attractive of all fictional detectives.
At all booksellers. . . 10/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
Melbourne •: : London : :
Napoleon
most un-
Auckland ■
A BRILLIANT AUSTRALIAN TRILOGY
By ELEANOR DARK
THE TIMELESS LAND 15/-
THE STORM OF TIME 157-
NO BARRIER 16/-
Available From All Booksellers
COLLINS
THE SILENT WORLD
by Captain J. Y. Cousteau
The greatest living authority on deep-
sea diving, who founded the French
Navy’s Undersea Research Group, and
invented the famous “aqualung” writes
a dramatic story of undersea adventure
and discovery. Almost 100 photographs,
some in colour.
, 32/6 (post 1/1)
GIMME THE BOATS!
by J. E. Macdonnell
A vital story of action, suspense and
excitement on a Fleet destroyer at war.
The author has served in destroyers in
the K.A.N., and writes with vivid
realism of the surging excitement of
the submarine chase; of lonely patrol-
ling: of men and captains.
13/3 (post 7d,l
[Write, ’phone, or call in for these, or any of the new books now available at —
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
nothing of importance to what was dis-
closed there. It is as an account of a
woman’s hardships and her struggle
against them in our days that it holds
interest, and should hold interest for a
long time.
Shakspeare and Music
The firm insistence of the N. S. Wales
municipal libraries that the borrower may
not take out two novels, but one novel
and one general-interest book, is respon-
sible for a remarkable Shakspearian dis-
covery.
For, having taken out the Cambridge
Companion to Shakspeare Studies, I re-
membered remarking on this Page, in a
review of Morley’s Plain and Easy com-
pendium of the music of his time, that
Shakspeare knew little of music, but
cribbed it from Morley’s conversation or
Morley’s book. It was interesting, then,
to see what so great an authority as
Edward J, Dent had to say on this subject
in the chapter Shakspeare and Music,
which he contributed to the Cambridge
Companion; and he does not mince
matters;-
There can be no doubt whatever that
Shakspeare .himself had a very considerable
knowledge of music. His poems and plays
are full of allusions to the art; not only
does he speak of music plainly and directly,
but he very often mentions technical musjeal
terms in a metaphorical sense. But whereas
writers of the nineteenth century seldom
mention music without committing some
ridiculous error, Shakspeare never makes a
mistake, even when he alludes to theoretical
details of a difficult and obscure kind.
This is the kind of pronouncement
which produces butterflies in the stomach
of the casual but conscientious reviewer
who has said otherwise, backed as it is
by a footnote reference: “See Naylor’s
Shakspeare and Music ” ; and it was with
the emotion of one who is trying to
forget that I closed the Cambridge Com-
panion and opened the last collection of
essays by the late Donald Francis Tovey,
sometime Reid Professor of Music in the
University of Edinburgh: Essays and
Lectures on Music (Oxford)—-which I
had taken out on my wife’s card.
Tovey was one of the most able modern
diagnosticians of musical scores ; and
when he sets out to analyse the degree to
which Gluck’s reforms depended upon
his libretti, the subject gets a proper air-
ing. But even in such an out-of-the-way
place, I was not to avoid Shakspeare ;
and with resignation I skimmed through
Tovey’s remarks on poets and their know-
ledge of music :
Stanford threw himself at Tennyson’s
feet in generous youthful adoration, and
probably saved that poet from one or two
blunders in musical matters. Browning
talks cryptically and suggestively about
music, but it was almost a feature of his
style to call everything by the wrong name
if he possibly could. In Shakspeare almost
the only passage that uses musical ter-
minology without something wrong or
hopelessly obscure is the gamut of Hor-
tensio in “The Taming of the Shrew.” Only ,
in Milton and Bridges can the student of
English literature find positive statements
about music that the musician can follow
up in the certain hope that the meaning is
worth finding out.
I had to read the passage twice before
I could believe it was there, Tovey’s
essay on Gluck was first printed in the
Oxford Heritage of Music essays in 1934 ;
Dent’s Cambridge Companion essay was
first printed in the same year. Naturally,
I am of the Oxford School, and abomin-
ate the Cambridge heresy ; but the affair
should be comforting to music-critics,
proving, as it does, that whichever crew
they back, in the two-boat race of
musical right and wrong, is bound to be
the winner.
R. McCUAIG.
Reviewed Briefly
Such Bitter Business: Elbur Ford
(Heinemann). This novel is based on an
actual crime of the 1860’s in which the
sixteen-year-old daughter of a nobly
connected and prosperous gentleman
murdered her infant step-brother, moti-
vated by jealousy of her step-mother and
an unwholesome adulation for the
memory of her own mother, who died
insane. Obviously the theme is both
morbid and sordid, and, as its superficial
treatment here makes no attempt at
throwing new light on criminal psycho-
logy, the book, although expertly written,
seems really to exist for no good reason
whatever.
♦ • ♦ «
The Living Room: Graham Greene
(Heinemann). It is extraordinary from
such a “realist” as Graham Greene that
his first play presents a stock problem
played out by a variety of unbelievable
people in a false setting. Rose Pember-
ton, young, lovely and innocent, be-
comes, on the day of her mother’s
funeral, the mistress of Michael Dennis, a
middle-aged psychologist with a hysteric
wife. She comes to live with her mother’s
two elderly devout spinster sisters and a
brother who is a priest who lost the use
of his legs after an accident twenty years
before. He cannot leave his house and
is frustrated by his inability to perform
his priestly duties. The two aunts are
eccentric—one dominating, the other sug-
gestible, They live in a large old house
in which almost all the rooms are closed,
because they refuse to use a room in
which a death has occurred. The play’s
“problems” are those of divorce and re-
marriage between lovers of different
faiths. But one doubts if skilful staging
would overcome its fundamental un-
reality,
* * * *
The Sleeping Beauty: Elizabeth
Taylor (Peter Davies). Appreciation of
this young novelist’s work has become
something of a cult — At Mrs. Lippin-
cote’s, A Game of Hide and Seek and
several others. The Sleeping Beauty
explores the intricate interplay of a num-
ber of people in a seaside town. Isabella,
recently widowed, and her son, Laurence,
are visited by an old friend, Vincent
Tumulty, one of those vaguely unmascu-
line men who appear to gain their life’s
satisfaction from offering timely sym-
pathy and assistance, but whose inter-
ference is frequently disruptive. He falls
in love with, and eventually rescues
through brambles of malice and spite,
the sleeping beauty. This is Emily, a
young woman, “sleeping” because her
face, repaired by plastic-surgery follow-
ing a car accident, is very lovely but not
her own face, and she has retired into a
half-life with her possessive sister and
idiot niece. The plot, such as it is, is
intriguing; so is Mrs. Taylor’s merciless
exposure of manners and motives.
* * * *
The Mountain: Henri Troyat (W. H.
Allen). Beautifully translated from the
French by Constantine Fitzgibbon, this
very short novel presents an account of
conflict between good and evil in the
simplest possible manner, both in terms
of plot and in its sparing, seemingly
artless prose. There are two brothers
living in a mountain village, Isaiah and
Marcellin Vaudagne. Isaiah, once a com-
petent guide, is in his early fifties; after
a mountaineering accident his wits are a
little astray—he is no longer a respected
guide but performs simple rural tasks
with humility and pleasure. Isaiah is a
Good Man. Marcellin, some twenty
years younger, is a mercenary wastrel and
Bad. An aeroplane crashes on the
mountain behind the village and, after
other parties have failed, the brothers
succeed in reaching it. How, why, and
what happens is the crux of the story,
Within its very limited compass The
Mountain is a moving little allegory, but
not. to be compared, as it is by the pub-
lishers, with James Ramsay Ullman’s
magnificent saga of spiritual stress in
high places: The White Tower.
* * * *
The Portland Vase and the Wedgwood
Copies: Wolf Mankowitz (Andre
Deutsch). A handsome and authoritative
book for connoisseurs of pottery, with
25 collotype plates in black-and-white and
a frontispiece in color. Mr. Mankowitz
goes into the history of the famous Graeco-
Roman relic—the artist who smashed it
in the British Museum in 1845; the
various Wedgwood copies, etc.—and his
monograph, to quote from the dustjacket,
“will be of the greatest importance to
collectors of Wedgwood, who will now
be able to, determine with complete
authority the exact period of all Wedg-
wood Portland copies of the Vase.”
* * * *
Complete Square-dance Book: Eddie
c arc q (Hallcraft, Melbourne). So few
ij terary critics go in for square-dancing
in a big way tbat no body could be found
j n tb j s o fg ce to give Mr. Carol’s large,
handsome and undoubtedly important
book the expert attention it deserves.
However unde r the title of “Patter for
th ral i’ ” there is some very lively
t . ’
Pro menade with Sal, promenade with Gwen ;
say Sue looks a little like a prairie hen.
’ to the caption
under pbotograph No. 7 relating to the
Jessie po i ka . ste p, you will find some
equally surprising English prose: “Fig.
l The re i at i on of'the couples after the
head gents bave twirled their opposites
in a Dish Rag Spin and are doing the
Inside Out and Outside In with opposite
ladies so that all will meet their partners
for the Right and Left Grand. With
that, and the information that Mr. Carol
has toured Australia with his own band,
the “Corn Cobbers, and is described on
the jacket .as foremost Australasian
square-dance caller and teacher, one
will have to leave the volume to the
teachers, callers, ladies and head gents
for whom it is intended.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 238
Across
I—Swearing mongrel to chant. (7)
s—Deface5 —Deface the “Censor” in a well-
marked manner musically. (7)
9—Colorlessly adored fuss. (3)
10— Bounder in metal-bearing rocks
from the Orkneys, or the family
of an English rebel. (7)
11— It is more richly cushioned with
that woman in addition. (7)
12 — Son of Lamech. (4)
13— Author to join up afterwards. (9)
15 —A stuff will not endure. (6)
17 — Cut down a kiss between vowels.
(3)
18— Rosebud being against this is
against the grain. (3)
19— N.Z. parson-bird. (3)
21 — Put on a flier leaving Hendon.
(3)
22 — Resort is sparing no Wagner. (3)
24 —Half of a day boy turns if in an
Italian resort, and gives a film a
change. (6)
27 — Part of Victoria carries luggage
with spirit. (4, 5)
28 — This is spicy cave-man’s device
for imposing his will on others.
(4)
31 — Sunburnt monarch is boozing. (7)
32 — Warsaw gossip of the malicious
kind is a malodorous creature.
(7)
33 — Ring about Norse money or the
rock its materials come from. (3)
34 Most inferior spell for derision.
(7)
35 — About a hen who passes on? (7)
Down
1— China allows you to put ss. on
a classic. (5, 5)
2 An expression to lull the stone
wicketkeeping lapse. (8)
3 Odin changes the Indian Davao
location of Miss Gardner. (4)
4 Georgia to snub a thriller by
Patrick Hamilton. (8)
5 Roy Rene to make a jab at this
bird. (6)
6 French city shows there is
nothing in the friction over a
baseball team. (7)
7 His are otherwise greyer, like
yesterday in France. (6)
8 — Why leave yours for yours and
mine? (4)
14 —Cottons reveal humanity towards
a boxer in town. (10)
16 —“Apologia Pro Vita . . .” (3)
20 — Most unconventional and indeli-
cate person who lassoes a spirit.
(8)
21 — A big noise and Archibald are
in evidence when government by
two is needed. (8)
23 —Miss (“Melba”) Munsel has a
jiffy with father to strike against
the grain. (7)
25 — Island carried nothing. (6)
26 — Cigarette obtained as tinderwood.
(6)
29 — Sacred musical work upset the
corporations halt. (4)
30— The month in which Nehemiah’s
wall was finished. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 237


A
Wm
i
lIP* '>-.••«#„
* , m$ w *. " ’’"'4-s K „„,,,
%'? >«^; v V"
’'W,..i^—l
f:
>•:• $ .
■V ■ /
;v v :::
■■■l
■M'; ■
■ • ■
■ ' KiTK&JX*"*..
(:■¥■>
M
aIV V~
■■
*
H
s?'
' ...
.
\ m n& ; *& *av< r ,
■pa
<? I
<' x#&/- -Get-
:^.lv.
...........I**]
■Sili
-
?»
*Pjv
I ....... i
"
Mi
m.
fc*.
■
■
*>■&&, TT'TW :
L* , wii?*
-f&mm *' 6c*.
jwiiik RB JS-r
IS v £
iiiii
■
Sill
Hp
:~P*s
V*i
V
**?ilF
I I %v^-' |i®|
k <r
:»ip:
if-'* *
■'A.
-*r-"
■Si
iiiliiiiil*
H
;■«•■£>, - Ml
I n
ss *<••S’?SSSgwgp > ', •■ .
:a:«iiiliiilipii«
■V V
CATERPILLAR
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
means
©©g 1 ?
CATERPILLAR Di£S€C
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS e EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
ƒ
HASTINGS DEERING - QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD.
102*124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane
Phone J 1456 (6 lines)
BRANCH: ERNEST ST.. INNISFAIL
Phone 475
HASTINGS DIESELS LIMITED,
ALICE SPRINGS. NORTHERN TERRITORY
AND LAE. NEW GUINEA
