

FOR PORT WINE OF BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
PIONEERING PAGEANT
w The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3823
Wednesday, May 20, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WESTMINSTER ABBEY—SOUTH
TRANSEPT AND ROSE WINDOW
WESTMINSTER ABBEY is not
merely a setting for Coronation
splendour, it is the history of the British
Commonwealth of Nations. It is the
story of a race, comprising almost every
branch of human endeavour to which one
generation after another has made its
contribution from the Battle of
Hastings and before, to the Battle of
Britain in the Second World War.
Within the grey walls are many visible
links between the Abbey and the over-
seas Dominions expressed by monument
or grave. The bust of Adam Lindsay
Gordon, unveiled in 1934, draws many
Australians to the Abbey.
In the Abbey lie buried not only Kings
and Queens, but great servants of the
State, poets, painters, actors and the
illustrious of the land. Down through
the centuries portions of the Abbey have
come to be appropriated to the memorials
and graves of men who have achieved
fame in the same walk of life. Thus it
is that the South Transept, shown here,
has become known as Poet’s Corner
where the ashes of the poets are blended
with those of famous historians and
representatives of literature and of the
stage. Around the monument of Shake-
speare are crowded the memorials of
such great men as Chaucer, Tennyson,
Browning, Kipling, Wordsworth,
Southey, Coleridge, Grey, Thomson,
Macaulay, Thackeray, Burns, Scott,
Charles Dickens—to name but a few of
the immortals in the Empire’s church.


Learn
vcb
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUI HERE and mail —— ■
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary'
Prospectus, tree and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 253)... Age
TWO USEFUL BOOKS
AUSTRALIAN TREES FOR
AUSTRALIAN PLANTING
by W. A. W. de Beuzeville
An authoritative handbook for every
tree lover, shire engineer and
forester in Australia.
15/- (post 9d.)
BUILD YOUR HOUSE OF
EARTH
by G. F. Middleton
A compendium on the use of earth
as a building material for the
amateur and professional builder.
22/6 (post Bd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89 95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
In The Wet
by Nevil Shute
The great novel of a great year
A most timely and topical story that spans the world, with one foot planted
in Britain and the other in Australia. It is vigorous, exciting and thought-
provoking. At all booksellers 13/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
317 Collins St., Melbourne. Haddon Hall, City Road, Auckland, N.Z.
The Red Page
"HAPPY HIGHWAYS"
A man who has been a Rhodes
Scholar, a Rugby Union selector for
Australia, a parson in the coalfields and
a professor at Adelaide University, a
director of Adult Education, a talker and
member of the Talks Committee for the
A.8.C.; who has been arrested in Ger-
many for wearing his college blazer;
whose memories range over university
days in Sydney and Oxford and who has
met. G. B. Shaw and John Galsworthy
in England and just about everybody in
Australia—so energetic and übiquitous
a human phenomenon should be able to
write an autobiography which must
interest a very wide circle of readers in
this country; and such a phenomenon is
Professor G. V. Portus, and such an
autobiography is his Happy Highways
(Melbourne University Press).
One reasonable fear which may arise
in the reader’s mind, confronted with so
many good works, is that the book may
be too earnest. But then Professor Portus
has played football for England ; as half-
back, lying in the mud —which he thinks
the proper element for Rugby—he has
heard and felt against his ribs the re-
proving thud of the enemy’s boots; and
in his student days, at the theological
college of St. Paul’s, he has been known
to take part in an ingenious scheme to
blow out all the gaslights in the chapel
precisely at the moment when Evensong
drew to its close with “Lighten our
darkness we beseech Thee, O Lord, and
by Thy great mercy defend us from all
perils and dangers of this night.”
Robustness and humor are, in fact, the
characteristics of the autobiography; as
also are compactness and variety, ideal-
ism, sincerity and a pleasant tone of
goodwill. Some readers will find the
deepest interest in the professor’s journey
from orthodox religion to an agnosticism
which still clings to a belief in “a
religious solution”; others in his
criticisms of university methods; while
for lesser mortals there is always his
ideal Rugby team, which consists
of (backs) Nepia (New Zealand),
Ronald Poulton (England), Gwyn
Nieholls (Wales), A. P. Penman
(Australia), Van Herden (South
Africa), Mark Nieholls (New Zealand)
and Chris McKivatt (Australia), with the
forwards to include Cliff Porter and
Maurice Brownlee of New Zealand,
Eddy Bonis and Tom Richards of
Queensland, Jack Ford of N. S. Wales,
J. M. B. Scott of Scotland and C. H.
Pillman of England,
One of the most interesting trails
to follow through the book is
the series of portraits of notable
Australians whom Professor Portus
has met along the way. Perhaps
one should begin with his father, who
could eat 20 dozen oysters at a sitting and
who, at Morpeth on the Hunter River in
N. S. Wales, invented a bullock-tread-
mill to grind flour and showed it to
Governor Bourke, afterwards introduc-
ing steam-power and establishing a chain
of flourmills along the Hunter which
evehtually failed when rust destroyed the
wheat.
Then there is the professor’s old head-
master at East Maitland, R. J. Hinder,
who believed in making the punishment
fit the crime. He rubbed sand into the
heads of bullies who had similarly afflicted
their juniors, and he was wise in the
wiles of the young:
A very thrifty junior came to him one
afternoon with a request to be allowed to go
home early in order to put a shilling in his
Savings Bank account. It was suggested
that he defer this pleasure till the morrow,
but the boy urged that it was the last day
of the month, and he would lose a month’s
interest on his deposit.
“All right,” said the Boss, “you sit
down and work out the interest on a shil-
ling for a month at your Savings Bank
rate of interest.”
The boy did so and announced that it
came to seven two-hundredths of a penny.
“Here is your interest fourteen times
over,” said the Old Man, handing him a
ha’penny. “Now go back and sit down
and do your work with a quiet mind.”
Then, at the time when the professor
was thinking of joining the ministry of
the Church of England, there were some
remarkable clergymen of the evangelical
kind who wrestled mightily in prayer for
him, without visible results other than
embarrassment to a young man who was
taking his religion more quietly . . . one
is carried back, though the sects were
different, to the strange world of
Gosse’s Father and Son. But a very
different kind of clergyman at the same
period was the Rev. Dr. James Napoleon
Manning, rector of St. Michael’s, Surry
Hills, who studied law in his spare time
in the slums and took his LL.D. degree:
Yet the Sydney diocese never seemed to
know what manner of man this was in its
midst. He got little preferment. He was
left in a parish of boardinghouses and
slums. Maybe it was the result of his
humility, for he never pushed his own
barrow....He never gossiped about his
clerical brethren, and 1 never heard him
asperse the Roman Church. He did talk
illuminatingly about the need for wider
education of the clergy, and sadly about
the slum conditions in Surry Hills and the
tragedies he encountered in the course
of his work. Several times I brought to
him passages of Latin in which I had got
stuck, and his old eyes would gleam as
he guided me through a difficult bit of
Virgil, explaining the construction. It was
a fortunate turn in my life that brought
me into close touch, even for only a little
while, with this simple, great-hearted,
courageous man.
There are the Sydney University pro-
fessors— I “MacCallum’s lectures on poetry
and on the tragedies of Shakspeare were
very much to my liking.” George Arnold
Wood, in charge of history, was “an
exact and enthusiastic scholar with a
remarkable prose style” who, like W. A.
Holman and The Bulletin of the period,
got into hot water for opposing the Boer
War;
Many years afterwards Wood told me
that MacCallum, who was himself a bkter
opponent of Wood over this issue of the
Boer War, had told the Senate plainly that
if Wood were dismissed for exercising his
right to express his opinion on a public
question like this he (MacCallum) would
immediately resign from his own chair of
Modern Literature. I thought this was
very splendid of the little man, and 1 have
for years quoted it to my students as the
kind of attitude to public questions that
ought to prevail in universities.
Francis Anderson of philosophy, with
his tall grey hats he was reputed to have
bought in a job-lot from a bankrupt
hatter in Glasgow, is another professor
who reappears in these pages. Then
there are Oxford personalities while Pro-
fessor Portus was sharing digs with Bert
(now Sir David) Rivett; and, back in
Australia, tributes to Bishop Stretch of
Newcastle, Gregan MacMahon of the
Sydney Rep., and David Stewart of the
W.E.A.—“It is only in Sydney that the
W.E.A. occupies its original position and
one cannot resist the impression that
this has been due to the doggedness and
pertinacity of the secretary, David
Stewart.”
With Galsworthy, whom he met on a
second visit to England, Professor Portus
had one of those disconcerting interviews
which prove that most celebrities are
best left to shine in their books —“He
did not attempt to lead the conversation
in any direction. I had to do it all.
1 felt as if I were chopping wood.” But
Bernard Shaw, who talked to him bril-
liantly and remorselessly for hours, was
a considerable compensation.
It is a little saddening, amidst all this
feast of goodwill, to discover that while
Professor Portus 'believes that the
“Sydney Morning Herald,” of he
reads even the leading-articles, is “the
best paper in Australia,” practically all
he has to say about The Bulletin is
in the alarming anecdote:
It was in 1905 that we revived the
Sydney University Dramatic Society. We
put on “The School for Scandal” at the
Palace Theatre, after trying it on the dog
in the shape of a performance at the
Gladesville Mental Hospital! I played
Joseph Surface. The Bulletin had a
critique of our premiere which ran thus:
“The Sydney University Dramatic Society
played ‘The School for Scandal’ at the
Palace Theatre last week. The subject is
too painful for further mention.” We were
very angry because we found afterwards,
when we checked the Press tickets, that no
representative from The Bulletin was at
the show.
One can only assure Professor Portus
that, so far as can be ascertained from
the 1905 index, that critique was written
by none other than the Religious Editor,
who swears he was present in disguise.
BUMBLE-BEE?
Bumble-bee or be whatever
Makes this lonely grass-blade quiver.
Crimson head and body purple:
Take your fiery head and dabble
In the nearest water-hole.
The day is hot and I lie lazy;
I’ve no wish for fighting fires
Set by some outrageous joke
Conjured out of flame and smoke.
“Tell me, tell me, do you buzz?”
“Yes, undoubtedly, 1 does.
Like a bushfire in the grass.
Well, goodbye, I must be off.
My head’s so hot that I could quaff
All the water in the river
And never leave a drop to shiver
In the southerly that’s coming.”
“No, wait. No, wait. I didn’t think.
Take great care when you do drink.
Those two great spheres of lucid glass,
Those orbs of such gigantic size
As makes a mockery of my eyes—
Aw—hot glass if you dunk it will surely
bust
And blow you into purple dust.”
O what if my eyes grew so immense
That seeing stunned me out of sense?
Well then I’d do just as you does,
Fly about and buzz and buzz.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.
A Real "Western"
Innumerable cowboy “Westerns” and
a whole gangster literature rest on a rela-
tively few important real-life actions.
Fred D. Pasley’s superb documentation
of the Chicago gang-wars, AI Capone,
the Biography of a Self-made Man, pro-
vides at once the summary and the source
of the majority of modern gangster
novels; and in Arizonrfs Dark and
Bloody Ground (Melrose) Earle R.
Forrest has made an equally important
factual survey of the Graham-Tewks-
bury feud of the 1880’s, probably the
bloodiest and most interesting, for variety
and surprise of incident, of all American
cowboy feuds.
The affair has already served as the
basis of Zane Grey’s To the Last Man
and Dane Coolidge’s The Man-Killers ;
but Mr. Forrest, who “rode the Arizona
ranges” as a cowboy in the early part of
this century, has spent a fair slice of his
life in getting the true facts ; in hunting-
down the genealogies of ranchers and
cowboys who settled in this wild country
at a time when it was safer not to ask
people where they came from or why;
in questioning aged men who were likely
to remember too much, or their children,
who liked to remember what would do
the old men credit; in piecing together
differing accounts in old newspapers, etc.
It was certainly worth doing.
The three Graham brothers and the
three Tewksbury brothers and their
father were running cattle on the open
range (i.e., they did not own the pas-
tures) of the rich, mountain-enclosed
Pleasant Valley, the valley of the Cherry
River that flows into the Salt River in
the middle of Arizona. The Daggs
brothers appeared with huge flocks of
sheep from the north and, pushed side-
ways from the Hash Knife Ranch,
owned by a company, tried to drive the
sheep over the Mogollon Mountains into
Pleasant Valley.
Most of the cowboys of the valley,
and the Hash Knife cowboys, rallied
under the Graham brothers’ leadership
to keep the sheep out. The Daggs brothers
thereupon engaged the Tewksburys as
gunmen to protect their shepherds; and
the sheep began infiltrating. Around
1884 the Grahams and the Tewksburys
had been in court with charges and
counter-charges of cattle stealing. This
seems to have been the reason why the
Tewksburys left their natural allies, the
cattlemen, and worked for sheepmen.
The three Tewksbury brothers were half-
Indian, good bushmen and superb shots;
and they had the Indian belief of an eye
for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
First blood went to the cattlemen early
in 1887 with the murder of a Navajo
herder. Next a party of cattlemen, look-
ing for the strangely-vanished head of
the Blevins family, stopped for a meal
at the Middleton ranch, were told to go
by one of the Tewksburys, and, as they
turned, were fired upon, two cattlemen
being killed and another wounded.
Sheriff Mulvenon and a posse investi-
gated this affair and returned without
making any report.
Then a gun-fighting sheep-owner
called Houck, using a sheriff’s-deputy
badge as cover for fighting with the
Tewksburys, shot Billy Graham, the
youngest of the three Graham brothers,
in an encounter of which there was no
witness but his own dubious report. This
killing turned the battle over sheep into
a personal vendetta. Cattlemen soon
afterwards besieged the Tewksbury
ranch —these places were little better
than huts —and shot one of the Tewks-
bury brothers and one of his allies, taking
them by surprise in front of the hut on
a “beautiful September morning.” While
a drove of hogs began eating the fallen
bodies, the besiegers kept up a strong
fire upon the hut, until Mrs. John
Tewksbury threw open the door and
walked out, spade in hand, to bury her
husband and his friend. Because one
must not shoot women, the besiegers
held their fire while she drove the hogs
away and scraped out two shallow
graves. The siege was lifted when a
police party blundered into the vicinity of
the shooting.
Two days later Sheriff “Commodore”
Owens visited the Blevins town-house in
the wild town of Holbrook to serve a
summons on Andy Cooper, of the
Blevins entourage, for cattle-rustling.
Cooper was tough and bad, and had been
a leading spirit in the Tewksbury mur-
ders, and naturally enough thought that
the sheriff wanted him for the more im-
portant business. Owens was new to the
job. He wore his hair long, down to the
middle of bis back, in the manner of
plainsmen of an age then dying out; and
this, and his carrying a Winchester-rifle
and wearing his Colt six-shooter with the
handle forward on his left side, which
makes for a slightly slower, cross-body
draw, had made the townspeople a little
distrustful of his abilities.
Owens was greeted on the veranda by
Cooper holding a six-shooter; at the
same time John Blevins opened the side-
door on to the veranda. Cooper refused
to come, and Owens shot him. At the
same time Blevins fired, missing Owens
and hitting Cooper’s horse:
Quick as a flash Owens whirled half-
round. That deadly Winchester, still at
his hip, roared again, and John Blevins
staggered with a bullet in his shoulder.
So evidently Owens was using a Win-
chester repeating-rifle. Owens ran into
the street, took another shot at the dying
Cooper, who had appeared behind a win-
dow, and then shot another Blevins
retainer who came out with a revolver in
his hand. Finally the fourteen- or six-
teen-years-old Sam Blevins ran through
the front door waving a pistol and Owens
shot him dead This three-minute cam-
paign allayed the doubts of Sheriff
(“Red Page” continued on page 35)


Wallpaper Decorates Smart Homes
there is elegance in its sheer simplicity
in the way it blends with contemporary or traditional decors
m
- a - ■
C M ■ W
a
>. H
m
mix
m
j %
**T*
%li
/V* **■*
WvS
M,
a*
> ;
S 8
18
;ic\
' &
x:..
n
•, ■: •: ■• • ; • •- : • ; ■■:; ••■-s::
5 *i A'*4
.........
I - ..... * - Ul**A r t ?JS'l *** Ml . -. /w,. »' -*i
■a -
■
'M, -V :^ms.
ft?
7 XT
V*-
■v?xix
V <•* •«■. ■•> 5. ■:, ■ £
/■vV : ;vn v
, 5 ■; I' , <
nift
• ■;
- **
mm
■; ■
isi
■v-
•o * j- , <-<> 's< ** <.
V' A-* .i f -s*r-r>
s S
■ '
•*VKv ';* -;■ ** * '? ■> f *,*•*>, 't'S
•s- <■:-,,,❖ . -;-» , •» „ ■-- . -t . -•- , ■•■,3
v*. s ■• ~j • .« • v •'.•■■' ‘
a s.v'ov-' a . i.>. v\\ v
-' V, ~' ~ .'■, ■ '... ; - ,■"' ' '
v-; : ' v
, V. -.. V\ . 1
, : :-,,•:
' . - ;
mmamm
m
i i
:ixl
-
>^C
tFV
WL
m
m ;
m
m
& V
*»*
.V.
_2^
hI
■ X :
M
'r ■■
fm
i|:l
;U
: V |W
i ,s
■■.
mm
i
filiii
I I ,i|
V 1
w*&
'
1
-
M
* *■
f A*
7.
■ -.»••
' ... .;■;
: ~ v
i® ~ ,
D
: v -.'
' ■ w
w
■i
■
’ «►
li
. - - *
%
H |
American “House and Garden” has voted wallpaper a
room’s most potent accessory. Potent because in your
clever hands it can alter a room’s personality, lighten
darker rooms, give charm and elegance to contemporary
and traditional settings. The prettiest, cleverest wall-
papers are ours . . . Regency stripes, florals, textured
papers. We’ve even prepared a booklet that shows you
how to hang wallpaper. Write for samples, to-day!l
From Top to Bottom, top photo floral wallpaper.
Nursery Borders and Wallpapers. Cute nursery rhyme
characters, tales. For children’s rooms, kindergartens. Borders
from 1/- per yard; Wallpapers 9/6 per roll.
The Stripe, the gay Regency stripe. Pinks, creams, etc.
For bedrooms, period living rooms. From 11/- a roll.
The Plastic-finish Wallpapers. Light self'patterns and plain
florals.. Because they’re plastic finished, you can clean them
with a damp cloth. From 16/- a roll.
The Textured Creams. Plain and self'coloured patterns. For
living rooms and bedrooms. From 10/- a roll.
Floral Wallpapers. Flowers over trellis or striped grounds.
Pretty in so many colours. Thrifty buy. Only 7/- a roll.
Portable
Gramophone
The National Band Gramophone from
England has all-nickel, fittings, inbuilt
record holder. Rexine case. £l6/16/-.
imported 3-speed
Record Player
This Record Player transforms your
radio into a radio-gramophone. Plays
78, 45, and 33 speeds. Operates on
220-240 AG current. In an attractive
case. Turn your radio into a radio-
gramophone for only £25/11/-.
a i
Herman Mouth
Organs
? amous German “Boomerang” Mouth
Organs. 20 reed 9/6, 40 reed 19/6.
Sutton Accordion
his is the “Regal Melodeon'' - . . 10
eble 'keys. Ideal for youngsters
;arning music. £7/10/- buys it.
Music Case
i COMPACT FIRBE CASE that will
iold all your youngster’s sheets of music.
.ATEST RELEASES of both classical
nd popular records and sheet music,
sturdily made . . . 33/6 buys it.
Save Time !
RING “T.O.P.S” M 2401
Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping service
TRUTH IK ADVERTISING
nthony Horderns
WALLPAPERS, THIRD FLOOR. MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, GROUND FLOOR. TELEPHONE: M 2401. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Yanks and the Girls from Here
THE BRIDE
GOES HOME
By GAVIN CASEY
WHEN I get over the shock of how
few people bought my last novel,
and wearily begin to write another
of the enormous, exhausting
things, it might be called “The Bride Goes
Home,” and be about the situation that
developed in the United States after
World War II and affected thousands of
Australian girls of all degrees of pulchri-
tude, mentality and character.
I hope that in talking about the idea
in advance I won’t plant its seeds in the
mind of a better writer, and be fore-
stalled, but I had unusual opportunities
to see with my own eyes what happened
to the Yank war-brides, so as long as I
can get my wife to correct the typing, the
spelling and the grammar and inject some
real drama and living characters into the
yarn I ought to be able to make as good
a job of it as most people.
What happened to most of the mature,
sensible and loyal Australian girls who
married Yanks was that after a period of
adjustment they settled down to happy,
normal lives among nice neighbors.
But sometimes adjustment was made
too hard by deficiency in the affection be-
tween the couple or by the shortcomings
of one or the other or both. And some-
times the struggle for happiness was made
very difficult by American conditions and
attitudes to life that are not common in
Australia.
When the Aussie-Yank matrimonial
tension was tightest about a dozen of the
girls worked for me in a New York office
where I tried to employ about equal
numbers of Americans and Australians.
They were all more or less in trouble, but
as time blundered on about half of them
made a s access of their marriages. The
rest had been either so deceived —or had
so deceived themselves that their
partnerships dribbled to a sticky end, and
they either drifted back home or got
divorced and married more suitable
Americans, or else are still somewhere in
the U.S. as “career girls.”
A lot of Australians took a dim view
of Yank tactics with women during the
war, but I doubt if the G.l.s told half as
many lies to the lasses as the Diggers
always have when they have found them-
selves a safe distance from home. For
one thing, they didn’t have to, Hollywood
having been the advance-agent for
American glamor for many years without
giving the young and impressionable any
picture of the seamier side of things.
To feather-headed females life in New
York was represented by the lights of
Broadway and the deep-carpeted luxury
of the Waldorf-Astoria. To sometimes
calculating mamas the $4O or so a week
the Yank suitor quite truthfully said he
earned back home sounded like a
guarantee of high prosperity.
But often when young Feathers had
chattered aid giggled her way across the
Pacific in a “bride-ship” hubby’s “New
York” turned out to be in one of the
gloomier sections of Brooklyn. She prob-
ably caught one glimpse of Broadway in
the taxi from the station which he could
only afford for a very special occasion out
of a weekly wage that was then the
buying-equivalent of about £6 a week in
Sydney. Thereafter he probably planned
a “night out” in glittering Manhattan
about twice a year.
•He also looked very different, lounging
about the house with a sort of twenty-five
o’clock shadow and baggy pants, from
the smart lad he had been when a tough
Top-Sergeant had kicked him out of bed
into a tailored uniform every dawn, and
public exhibition of an unshaven face had
meant horrible penalties. With a start
like that, both the kids needed stamina,
forbearance, a sense of humor and true
devotion to each other. The younger
ones seldom had it.
Then, like Australian couples of the
day, they faced a housing-shortage that
drove most of them to living with rela-
tions, which is always harder in a strange
country. It could be practically impos-
sible, and one of my very best Aussie
girls, who later made a real success of
her marriage, and now has a nice home
and a couple of nicer babies, was a
nervous wreck when she knocked on the
office door and pleaded for work among
friendly, familiar Australian voices.
Her problem was that the home of her
husband’s widowed mother, where they
had to stay while he looked for something
better and tried to build up a law prac-
tice, was stiflingly tiny—and the old lady
had not a word of English! The girl
respected her mother-in-law, and thought
she would probably like her very much
when they found out how to talk to each
other, but in the meanwhile the strain
was unbearable.
In a more subtle, and perhaps more
infuriating, way other in-laws of Euro-
pean birth sometimes wrecked American-
Australian marriages. To these often very
fine people the United States was
Paradise, without quibble or qualification.
Apart from the national advertising
that seems to convince many Americans
that the country’s “way of life” is some-
thing vastly superior to the conditions in
which they live themselves, these battered
but successful old immigrants of some-
where around the turn of the century had,
in fact, immeasurably bettered themselves.
Their memories were of physical hardship
and actual hunger. Now they had thick
steaks and fat chickens, and refrigerators
to keep them in. The papers were full of
tales of starvation in Europe, eased a
little by American bounty. There could
not, conceivably, be on the face of the
earth a place of plenty like the United
States.
When the old folk had a special turkey-
dinner for daughter-in-law’s first meal
she probably did exclaim with pleasure,
since turkey is more common, and gener-
ally better, in the U.S. than here. They
would smile proudly at each other, and
feel warmly pleased that good American
food would soon be putting some flesh on
the little thing’s bones. They would be
puzzled, and just a little resentful next
day, when she gobbled up a pound of
steak as a matter of course, and on fol-
lowing days, when she was happily
unimpressed by roast beef, lamb chops
and so forth.
If they got around to tactful questions
as to how she liked the food, and she
blithely said it was very nice and just
what she’d been used to in Sydney, their
lips would freeze into disapproving tight-
ness quite unlike their original warm,
welcoming smiles. They would, quite
honestly, think she was both ungrateful
and untruthful. There was no such food
anywhere else in the world, and if poor
G.I. Joe tried to tell his parents that there
was plenty of it in Australia, it just
showed how “that creature” dominated
him!
One of my poor girls had married a
man who, away from Army discipline,
was a crook and a basher, and has quite
likely killed somebody by now, and she
bad had a baby, too. Her people back
home were moderately prosperous but by
no means rich, and consideration for their
bank-account as well as her pride wouldn’t
let her cable for the fare back to Mel-
bourne.
Sometimes her sort were very difficult
to employ (because they were so* young
they had experience in nothing -but grow-
ing up and making a hasty marriage), but
after her emotional wounds had healed
she became a fine and useful worker.
Anyway, her case was exceptional, and
she could have married a crook and a
basher easily enough in her home city if
her luck was out. The main trouble with
the brides was just the collapse of hopes
that had been too impossibly high at the
start, and the multitude of tiny, grinding,
wearing irritations that grow up between
people who, however good their inten-
tions, look at the same things and see
different things.
The girls in various towns and cities
drifted into forlorn, homesick “Aussie
Brides’ Clubs,” and their exuberant
enthusiasm for the distant place from
which they had come voluntarily did not
always please in-laws and neighbors, and
sometimes got round after a while to
annoying their husbands, too.
The lasses who found themselves having
their first taste of domesticity in what the
Yanks call a “tank town” had no such
relief, for such places are just as deso-
lately windswept as the worst wheat-stack
siding you can remember, and about five
times as cold in winter. Perhaps the
isolated ones were the better off in a way,
but most of them had a long time of
trouble and doubt before some serenity
and steady happiness came back into
their lives.
Some never got that far, of course, but
a lot of the least lucky ones were only
kids with plenty of time to readjust. The
most immediately happy Yank-bride I
met personally was not only in her thirties
but a woman who had shown the
good sense to marry an American who
made $300,000 a year. But t doubt if
she’s happier now than some of those I
knew when they were sore-hearted and
puzzled, living in “cold-water flats” and
near-slum rooms, longing for sunshine
and Mum and Dad, but battling as
staunchly as they could to stick with their
man and support and help him towards
a brighter future.
Being bride of a Yank or anybody
else is naturally something I haven’t
experienced, but I was much interested in
some of those girls, and deeply moved
by various of their experiences. Some of
them had more guts and loyalty than I
think I could have found in their place,
and some were so fantastically silly that
all my sympathy went to their harassed
husbands. But things certainly happened
to them, and if they stuck it out and really
got to understand their new neighbors
they generally found that more and more
of the people in the street were truly
kind and helpful and decent.
At the end of this short piece I am
surer than ever that their story is worth a
book and should make a good one. When
I get around to it, I hope I’ll be able to
do it properly.
A Few Off the Ice
I i 1 E are now fast approaching
\A / * bat season when the other-
V V wise-deserted beaches along
our seaboard will once
again be resounding to a roar of
far greater intensity than that made
by the breakers—l refer, of course,
to the agonised sounds wrung from
those tyro “icebergs” as the freezing
water first sweeps over what was a
second or two before their spinal
columns.
The puzzle to many people is
what impels an “iceberg” to creep
out of the lovely snug warmth of a
couple of blankets and an eider-
down, pull on a pair of trunks still
damp from the previous morning’s
swim, venture into the ghastly dawn
to walk down to the beach (this
latter is done deliberately, because
were he to run some observer might
gather the impression that he was
doing it to keep warm, and would
therefore class him as a “pansy”),
and then plunge into the gelid
depths?
There are several popular theories,
One is that it represents the modern
version of the penitential hair-shirt;
another that devotees are fascinated
by the extra-loud banging of their
hearts which the shock induces. The
most feasible explanation is that
they just do it to nark someone.
Yet who has not, seeing a Press-
photo taken by some poor devil who
has cursed his news-editor for get-
ting the notion, observed the ecstatic
smiles on the faces of those disport-
ing in surf or pool just after a bitter
midwinter dawn? What it cost
them mentally to conjure up so un-
natural an expression in the circum-
stances may only be guessed at.
But one thing is certain: having
tortuously screwed their faces up
to simulate joy they would have no
trouble in maintaining it—the look
would just freeze there
I know one “iceberg” who was
still wearing the fixed grin he had
assumed for the inevitable Press
photographer after he had returned
home and his wife told him she had
I**o+ „„„ t „ „
just had a nng to say her mother
had taken a bad turn,
rr, inn i
There was a hell of a iow— he
couldn t convince, her it would take
him till mid-moraing for the grin to
thaw off after his long immersion.
Your true “iceberg” is inordinately
proud of the fact that he can emerge
after his first plunge looking as if
he is enjoying it. Hiis he achieves
by swimming underwater first; by
the time he bobs his head up he
has done all the swearing and teeth-
chattering, and is thus able to control
himself.
Immediately on reaching the pool
he goes straight in, for well he
knows that, were he to stop long
enough to ponder on the mass of
liquid green ice, sanity would return
and he would be tempted to dash
back home unwet, and so be
damned for ever in the sight of his
fellows.
Anyone idiot enough to get up
early one morning to observe these
creatures in their chosen habitat
might see a fellow rush down to the
edge of the pool, yell a staccato
greeting to the others and leap out
over the water. Yet even in mid-
air he will about-turn and start
running madly for dry land again,
This will be his atavistic instinct
working belatedly and overtime, but
it will be too late. The Law of
Gravity will have done its job . and
the water, closing over him, will
quickly extinguish his language,
Occasionally a newcomer will
appear and his technique will be
closely watched by the old hands,
Should he step out of a thick
chenille dressing-gown, thrust one
exploratory hoof in, and then rend
the welkin with a horrified shriek,
the gale of sardonic laughter coming
from those already doing a perish
will have in it for him an edge
keener than the bitter westerly he
has braved to get there,
His case is not necessarily hope-
less, however. He could go down
again the next winter, after having
grown a beard, or enter the water
in dark glasses. He may prepare
for this second venture by tougheo-
ing himself up.
This can be achieved by starting
in early autumn and putting a couple
of blocks of ice in his plunge-bath,
stepping it up gradually until he is
using 90 p.c. ice and 10 p.c. tap-
w^5 r - .... .
The cutrrcly hopeless case is he
who leaps into the pool and is out
a S am before he can get his breath
swear. Some are so fast the
matches in the zip-pocket of their
trunks, which they’d forgotten to
take out, are scarcely wet,
7,, e , one wb ° will be gathered
avidly into the fold is the pinhead
wb o strolls down leisurely without
a tow el, lolls against the steel chains
‘i' at ™ around the baths—they’re
* e onl > *mgs ftat do run around
th f m , °“ ml 4 wmte . r mormngs-then
ca . l ™ 1 5' >n, »Imly propels hun-
sdf ° n hl !, ba< * !° r . a “m?
and doesn t need to be rubbed down
■ , * before sneecb k restored
e b a r ck betore s P eech 18 restored.
Sometimes he even goes back .in
a g a j n smoking a pipe as he floats
abound
The use of a rough towel with
w hich to massage oneself immedi-
ately on emerging is in distinctly
bad taste, for this will produce a
skin-heat which can only be regarded
by hardened “icebergs” as anathema,
a wispy old piece of smooth towel
j s permissible, so long as the owner
only dabs himself here and there
w ]th it.
Nothing is calculated to so arouse
the contempt of one’s fellow-“ice-
bergs” as to let a little thing like
a cyclone, a cloudburst or a hail-
storm stop .one from attending the
matutinal July dip. A faster stroll
to beach or pool when such condi-
tions operate is, however, not
deemed incompatible with extreme
masculinity.
Bo.
Short Story
“The Cowboy From Town”
by E. O. Schlunke
From time to time the papers are
full of farmhands who shoot their
employers. This most earthy and
hilarious of Schlunke’s stories is of
an irascible farmer’s effort to redress
the balance.
“Interned —and How!”
by Mabel Waln Smith
With her husband and some hundreds
of others of both sexes, married and
single, interned at Shanghai by the
Japs, the writer deals with the human
side among the internees, on one
highly hysterical night in particular.
In next week’s “Bulletin”


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 20f~i953
Vol. 74—No. 3823
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior , P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House,247-249 Collins Street,Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0, ), Wellington.
THE ROAD TO RUIN
A fortnight ago on every “Labor” platform in the
country electors were being asked to vote against
the Menzies Government, to censure it for having
“failed to put value back into the pound” ; to vote
to give Dr. Evatt a chance to force the Government
to reduce taxation, provide full employment and
reduce the cost of living. But as soon as the
poll was over Ministers of the two major States
managed by “Labor” Governments, whose members
had participated indignantly in the campaign, came
out with cool adihissions of the deplorable state of
their own transport finances. The cost of transport
to the public will have to go up considerably; the cost
of living must be increased through increased fares
paid by workers; the cost of primary production will
be subject to increases, through rises in freights whicii
already have risen appallingly over a period of years
and also to delay the restriction of services.
The railway and tramway systems of the eastern
States. in particular are the repositories of huge
amounts of non-profit-earning capital represented by
assets which are falling to ruin too fast for effective
replacement. If the public could find another way
of travelling it would rush from the sardine-pack
of Sydney public vehicles in And, if the
State Governments in their desperation did hot
make it impossible, through crushing taxation, con-
fiscation and prohibitions, there is not a large-scale
industrial enterprise in the country which would not
put in its own road-transport system.
In Queensland the railways lost £2,960,000 in the
two years 1949-51. Last year, though freight-rates
were increased, the loss was 2\ times that of the
previous year at £3,392,277. The net loss per train-
mile run was 3s. Bid., and the percentages of working
expenses to earnings had gone into the red —it was
106.8. Ahd this state of affairs exists after various
desperate gambles, aimed to curb the rush to bank-
ruptcy, had built up the capital of the “enterprise”
from £46,600,000 to £59,809,000 in two years.
In two years the N- S, Wales railways lost
£8,859,518, and trams and buses £4,883,485 —total,
£13,743,003. This despite increased freights and fares
all round on a staggering scale and basis. The two-
penny tram-fare for a 1.96-mile section of 1946 has
become a 4d. fare for 1.43 miles. But these increases
do not even enable the Transport Department to
provide modern rolling-stock or to obviate the
dangerous and regular traffic jams which are a feature
of travel from Wynyard. They have produced only
a drop in the revenue bucket compared with the
mountainous rises in costs and in loaf and inefficiency.
This year Mr, Martin, the Minister, has just
confessed that there will be another £6,000,000 added
to the deficits of rail and tram services, bringing the
losses of the past three years to £20,000,000.
The position would not be so bad if the huge
intake of the public money were producing efficient
services and providing for expansion. The dreadful
condition into which the rolling-stock is falling is
reflected in such revelations as that of the Auditor-
General last year—that “the number Of miles run per
engine-casualty has progressively declined from
62,673 to 16,331 in 1951-52.”
The futile Government of N. S. Wales seems
almost to have lost grip of the situation. It has no plans
save to grab more tax-money from the Common-
wealth to fill the gaps, more freights and fares from
the public. And, unfortunately, the attitude of the
public to its handling of affairs is indifferent.
But the real danger of Socialism is that its results
are insidious —not sudden, but cumulative. They are
like the painless cancer which comes almost to a
crisis without warning those it strikes until they have
only six weeks to live.
Victoria has joined the other two States in trans-
port crises. It was announced during the week that
on June 1 rail freights on primary products, particu-
larly wheat and wool, will be increased by 20-25 per
cent. —and with them, of course, permit fees on the
intra-State road-transport systems, which exist only
because of the inadequacy and inefficiency of public
transport systems.
Private systems are able to make a profit at
present rates in spite of savage taxes, so they must
be additionally burdened to prevent their competition
putting the railways out of business altogether. On
the day the rises were announced the Minister
PUFFING BILLY
naively admitted that more than a third of the
carriage rolling-stock on Melbourne suburban lines is
over 40 years old and that replacements must be
made on a grand scale urgently to prevent the rail-
ways breaking down. On the same morning also “18
trains for this morning’s peak-hour service” and 33
the night before were cancelled because of the con-
tinuing go-slow strikes at Jolimont workshops. And
nobody seems to care or to see the remedy.
A reasonable start in reform and economy
measures would be the abolition of the 40-hour week
and the tightening-up of staff discipline.
States and the Citizen
The Senate campaign, fought as it was in the form
of a duel between the party-leaders, with the Senators
little more than noises off-stage, or, at the most, minor
characters who made brief entrances at scattered
intervals to echo mildly the lines already declaimed a
dozen times by their principals, revealed two things,
apart from the generally poor standard of representa-
tion in the Upper House. These were that the Senate
as a States’ Chamber has completely failed, and that
there is among electors a complete lack of interest
in the Senate.
This apathy, in turn, springs from the fact that
too many people have lost interest in their States,
and too few appreciate the function of State Govern-
ments in a Federation. Another illustration of this is
the way in which “Labor” leaders have been openly
boasting that they have fought and won four State
elections on Federal issues. Even State by-elections
have been fought on a Menzies-v.-Evatt basis.
In a federation there is no reason at all why
State elections should be determined by Federal issues.
They would not be if people were well informed
politically and understood the functions of the State
and Federal Governments.
It is time Australians realised that although the
Commonwealth is paramount in such matters as
defence, external affairs, tariffs, currency and so on,
most of the Government activities that touch most
intimately the everyday life of the people are under
State control. State police are responsible for the
maintenance of law and order; the courts of justice
are State courts. Hospitals, despite Commonwealth
subsidies, are a State responsibility ; so are the regis-
tration of doctors and nurses, the administration of
health regulations, the control of infectious diseases.
Marriages are contracted under State Acts; burial of
the dead is governed by State laws.
Homeowners pay rates to municipal authorities
which derive their powers from State local-government
acts; tenants pay rents fixed by State Governments,
which also have absolute authority over prices. All
the railways in Australia, with the exception of the
East-West and the two unconnected ends of the North-
South, belong to the States, however much some of
them would like to pass the responsibility over to
the Commonwealth; road transport, where it is not
strangled altogether, is regulated by the States. Laws
governing the control of mining are State laws —the
Joint Coal Board owes its existence and authority to
an agreement between the New South Wales and Com-
monwealth Governments —and State authorities lay
down-the rules which govern working conditions in
factories, the speed-limit on roads, the issue of dog-,
driving- and liquor-licences, the height of buildings,
the depth of graves, the width of footpaths and the
length of bathing-costumes.
State Governments and State Parliaments
are themselves to blame to a considerable
degree for the waning public interest in
their activities. State Parliaments in which the
contending parties are satisfied to be nothing more
than obedient echoes of their corresponding Govern-
ment and Opposition parties in Canberra have little
justification for continued existence. In the last few
months we have seen the spectacle of “Labor” Gov-
ernments in New South Wales and Queensland and
“Labor” Oppositions in Westralia and South Australia
fighting general elections without any constructive
policy and relying completely on a campaign of vilifi-
cation, not of their opponents in their respective State
Parliaments, but of the Menzies Government at Can-
berra. The story, of course, was that Menzies and
Fadden had robbed the Cahill and Gair Governments
of their right and proper share of tax-money, and had
refused to give them all the loan-money they asked
for. In Adelaide and Perth the tale was a little
different; Menzies and Fadden were still the villains
of the piece, but Play ford and McLarty had plotted
with them and connived at starving their own States
of loan-money.
For barefaced effrontery the story would be hard
to beat, but it paid off. Electors in New South Wales
ignored the calamitous record of the McGirr-Cahill
team and returned it with a thumping majority; in
Queensland they did the same for Gair. Westralians,
subjected to the same “Blame Menzies” tactics, re-
jected the McLarty Liberal Government, although it
had been successful in getting Westralia the huge
Anglo-Iranian oil-refinery in the face of strong oppo-
sition from other States, and also an undertaking by
the B.H.P. company to erect a steel-rolling mill near
the refinery. Only in South Australia did the trick
fail, and even there it came fairly close to success.
The success of the tactics was no doubt gratifying
to “Labor,” whose primary object is always to get into
office and stick there; but in the longer view it dealt
a sad blow at the prestige of State Governments. Not
that this would occasion “Labor” any heartburnings.
The party is in favor of abolishing State Parliaments
anyway, and although those institutions, for the
moment, are a fruitful source of “jobs for the boys,”
anything that reduces their importance brings unifica-
tion nearer.
The reason “Labor” was able to build up a case
sufficiently plausible to convince the gullible is not
hard to find; uniform taxation gives unscrupulous
State Governments a perfect excuse for passing the
buck. That is one of the main reasons why “Labor”
favors retention of the system; it enables Premiers to
enjoy power without responsibility —they have the
privilege of spending the taxes while the Federal
Government has the unpopular job of collecting them.
Unless the people of Australia insist on their
State Governments facing their responsibilities instead
of crying about their alleged rights they will see the
whole system of State Governments disappear by
default ahd “Labor’s” dream of unification realised.
And unification would provide the theorists with a
broad highway to socialisation.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Wages Case Hold-up
After proceedings extending over eight
months, with sittings in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, the wages-and-
hours case in the Federal Arbitration
Court came to a standstill last Thursday.
Two days previously it had been an-
nounced (that Mr. Justice Foster felt
that he could not satisfactorily carry
out his duties as judge in disputes in the
maritime industry and at the same time
sit as a member of the Full Court in
the wages-and-hours case; he was there-
fore withdrawing from the hearing.
In announcing the Full Court’s deci-
sion that in the absence of Judge Foster
the five remaining judges no longer had
jurisdiction, the Chief Judge, Sir Ray-
mond Kelly, said:
In the information before us as to the
reasons given by Mr. Justice Foster for his
decision not to continue to sit, we cannot
form the view that he is unable to do so
within the meaning of Section 24, sub-
section 4.
The reason for their Honors’ decision
was apparently that they considered that
their colleague was exercising a choice
between two tasks, and could therefore
not plead that he was “unable” to per-
form the one he rejected.
At the moment the Court stands
adjourned until May 26, while the High
Court considers an application from the
employers asking for an order directing
the five remaining judges to carry on
with the case or one instructing Judge
Foster to return to the Full Court,
To the layman it seems fantastic that
the withdrawal of one of six judges
should necessitate the starting of the case
all over again; but, of course, the court
is bound by the provisions of the Act
which created it. The problem will no
doubt be overcome without scrapping all
the evidence collected in eight months,
but its occurrence emphasises the very
complexities of the arbitration system
which bring so much criticism upon it.
There is a great deal of Alice in Wonder-
land about the set-up.
Churchill Conciliates
Winston Churchill’s speech in the
House of Commons last week needed
making for a long time. The United
States has put forth tremendous efforts in
defence since it was drawn into the war
by Hitler’s submarine policy and the
attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, but as a
leader of diplomacy it has never been
very success: ,1. With a Government
honeycombed almost till now with
Leftists and even Communist sympa-
thisers, and with political amateurs,
novices most of them, forming its esti-
mates of situations and framing its
policies, its proceedings have not always
been marked either by cooil.eadedness or
discretion. Its Government carries on in
too political an atmosphere, and is too
susceptible to influence by hysterical
radio commentators and not-always-dis-
interested newsp; per columnists to be
master of its own behavior. Its
system Of biennial elections keeps its
Congress members always under threat
and therefore sensitive of public opinion.
In the United Kingdom foreign affairs
are normally conducted on a non-political
basis. Thus on issues of war and peace
in grave situations Government and
Opposition agree and Britain speaks as
a nation. This is the case in the present
instance.
The Prime Minister, who has the Oppo-
sition’s support, may not believe all he
says about the Viet-minh advance in
Laos being not necessarily Soviet-
inspired, and his dicta that he doubts
whether Korea could be unified at the
present time and that the Communist
new eight-point proposal requires sympa-
thetic and patent examination may be
purely for diplomatic purposes. But it is
realistic as an approach.
Whatever anger there is in the United
States about the speech, the support of
all the Dominions gives an assurance
that the British Commonwealth has
emerged from the state in which it was
too concerned with its own internal diffi-
culties, due to war exhaustion, to give
the world a lead in international affairs.
For the first time since the war we have
a unified U.K.-Dominions foreign policy.
And that must have a tremendous impact
on world history if it is maintained.
However, General Eisenhower is sub-
stantially in agreement with Mr.
Churchill, in spite of sections of Con-
gress and the U.S. Press.
"Socra" Salmon
Copy of a circular letter received by a
Clarence-street, Sydney, merchant:
AKUP & ASSOCIATES PXY. LTD.
438 George Street,
Sydney.
April 30, 1953.
Dear Sir/s,
We’ take pleasure in advising you that we are
the sole agents in Australia for ‘Socra’ Salmon,
a product of the U.S.S.R.
This commodity has been firmly established
by us on the Australian market, and is well
known to both the trade and the consumer.
We are at present negotiating with our Russian
suppliers for a particularly large shipment of
Salmon. However, due to Import Licensing
restrictions, this can be possible only with your
assistance, if you are the holder of a “B”
category import licence against which you have
planned no immediate imports.
We can offer you the option of either (1)
retaining whatever quantity of Salmon your
import licence may cover, for sale by you to
retailers at a profit of from'l2*% to 15% on
current list prices, or (2) your selling the
quantity of Salmon covered by your licence to
us at current list prices. In both cases, we
can offer you a special profit margin.
If you care to utilise any licences you have
against this shipment of Salmon, we should
be pleased if you would contact us to discuss
this proposition in detail.
We wish to point out that we have sufficient
finance available to cover any transaction on
which we might come to agreement.
Yours faithfully,
Arup & Associates Pty. Ltd.
The letter is bound to interest a wider
audience than merely those to whom it
was addressed.
Gimme Some Millions!
When the Loan Council met in May
last year the Premiers went along with
what the Prime Minister called an “un-
realistic programme.” Their loan-fund
demands were obviously based on the
principle that whatever figure they asked
would be bound to be reduced, so they
might as well aim high in the hope that
the figure ultimately agreed upon would
be somewhere around their real require-
ments.
Their first demands totalled £360 mil-
lion, but after consideration they decided
they could scratch along on £247* mil-
lion, The Commonwealth view was that
the loan-market could not be relied on
to yield much more than £5O million ;
it was prepared to augment this by special
contributions up to a maximum of £125
million. Later it agreed to a special £8
million for housing. The States stuck
to their figure of £247* million,
although it was obvious that finance
on that scale would not be forth-
coming and that they would have to cut
their works programmes in accordance
with the funds available.
The Commonwealth’s estimate of the
loan capacity of the market proved un-
cannily accurate —£52 million of new
money was garnered—so that the
“agreed” figure of £247* million re-
mained no more than a pipe-dream.
Loan Council season is with us again,
but at the weekend it seemed that the
Premiers had learnt little from last year’s
bickerings. On Sunday, at an unofficial
meeting, they apparently decided upon
“demands” of £316 million —somewhat
below their original “gimme” of last
year, but £6B* million above their final
impossible minimum and £l3l million
more than they actually received.
Of course, they won’t get it; they
don’t even expect to get it, but, failing
some agreement on priorities and co-
ordination of works, it seems that this
silly business of asking for the sky and
haggling over non-existent millions is to
continue. The present argument will
probably end without any final figure
being reached, the Deputies deciding to
defer the decision until their chiefs get
back from the Coronation.
At Suez
“Ek Dum”: Matters have been steadily
going from bad to worse in Egypt for
some time, to the dislocation of inter-
national air traffic, including that from
Australia, which has been going via
Beirut. Outrages against British men
and women, military and otherwise,
culminated a few days ago in an attack
on a British brigadier and his wife,
picnicking by the Canal, who were
assaulted by four natives who demanded
the keys of their car, the wife being shot
in the thigh. British soldiers in a jeep
were fired on by civilians in a taxi on a
main road, a British sergeant being killed
and a warrant-officer wounded.
The stern but sober warning issued by
Mr. Churchill about what would happen
if this sort of thing continued was fol-
lowed next day by a statement by Mr.
Selwyn Lloyd, Minister of State, that
the Egyptians at recent talks had de-
manded the complete control of the
British canal base and of the stores
therein. Members with Egyptian ex-
perience naturally burst out laughing at
the suggestion that stores should be under
Egyptian management and Britons under
Egyptian orders. But it is not a laugh-
ing matter. Colonel Neguib, the
Egyptian dictator, announced that “22
million of Egyptians insist on the evacu-
ation of British forces from their terri-
tories,” adding that “either Egypt is
liberated or we may lay down our lives
for our dear fatherland’s liberation.”
Even an Egyptian debacle would cost
hundreds of lives.
In past crises Egyptians have been
content to sell Turkish-delight and bad
rugs to the foreign foe and friend alike
whenever they have been threatened. In-
stead of laying down their lives, if
attacked, they are more likely to lay
down one bare foot after the other on the
hot sands of the desert as they leave for
the horizon. But even if the Egyptian
mob is more dangerous than the
Egyptian army, the British Government
is rightly taking no chances. Destroyers
and Marine commandos have gone to
Suez from Malta to reinforce the 80,000
troops, combatant and otherwise, already
there. Any outburst must cost British
lives.
It is vital both to Europe’s safety, and
to that of the British Commonwealth in
particular, that the Suez Canal base
should remain in British military control.
And there need be no doubt but that
the sternest measures will be taken to
ensure that it is, not only for the sake
of ourselves but for the sake of the
Egyptians and Africa in general. The
British are prepared to agree to col-
lective defence; but they are going to
PIONEERING PAGEANT—
Page 27
assure that their own base is under their
own control. Mr. Lloyd said that it was
“not there for our glorification or for
imperialist or sinister purposes, but is
part of the defence of the free \yorld.”
The situation is particularly ticklish
because the crisis is occurring at Rama-
dan, when the Mohammedan world is apt
to be a little hysterical. At any rate,
preparations on both sides seem to be in
earnest.
Best Land On Earth
Those who know the real basis of Aus-
tralia’s national economy and of its
future development will not be at all
surprised that a quick and convincing
answer has come from the soil to those
pundits who, a year or so ago, were
assuring everybody that the continent
could not support more than 20,000,600
people and might even have to import
food to feed fewer than that number.
With graphs, figures, tables and the
highfalutin’ nonsense of the half-baked
economist a bunch of these “experts”
got the ears of city newspapers and there
were “feature” articles galore, all aiming
to show that we were already on the
verge of starvation and that this “wilful,
lavish land” of ours couldn’t possibly
support more than double its present
population.
A few devoted souls derided the whole
silly notion, but they were ignored. Cer-
tainly not one of them got the promin-
ence or the space given the Jeremiahs.
Nor has the crushing answer issued on
May 5 last by the C.5.1.R.0. reached
the headlines. According to Dr. J.
Griffiths Davies, head * of that body’s
Plant Industry Division:
Recent transformation of poor scrub-land
in West Australia and the Ninety-mile
Desert in S. Australia to highly productive
pasture (with the use of trace-elements) is
only a prelude to a similar improvement
throughout all better-rainfall areas. Pre-
vious concepts of Australia’s possibilities
for development must be drastically revised.
... .About 600 million acres is relatively
well watered, with 15 inches or more annual
rainfall. Apart from the Northern Territory,
445 million acres await the magic touch of
trace-elements as compared with the 74
million now under crops, pastures and
forest.
It is probably a gross underestimate to
say that this new knowledge will allow us
to double our stock numbers. If we assume
that in Victoria and New South Wales we
can carry one more sheep to the acre this
would represent 94 million sheep in addition
to the present 70 million. In Queensland
a beast to 10 acres, in addition to present
stocking, would add 19 million cattle to
that Stage’s present total of 6 million.
It shouldn’t need much imagination to
understand what that means, especially
as the cost of applying trace-elements is
small. In its way, properly understood
and properly handled both by Govern-
ments and private landholders, this could
go far to solving the soldier-settlement
question as well as the normal land-
hunger of the nation’s young men. The
other day H. N. Sarina, Registrar of the
N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society,
appealed to landholders to make land
available for Junior Farmers. Trace-
elements make it possible for millions
of acres not only to carry more crops
and stock, but more farmers. The so-
called “living area” under the old con-
ception of natural carrying-capacity can
be halved now.
Of course, this C.5.1.R.0. statement is
Just another confirmation of the faith
of those who believe that no country in
the whole world offers such prospects as
does this one. The strange thing is that,
in the face of overwhelming evidence of
this on all sides, both industrially and
agriculturally, the knocker and the de-
pression-screamer can get such a hearing.
The Pitiful Public Transport
These State transport tsars work in
many mysterious ways their deficits to
produce. In Sydney taximen were
ordered to put another 6d. on to the
fare and not to carry more than one
hirer at a time in a vain effort to force
the people on to trams and buses (losses
this year £3.7 million). The Sydney
railway tsar, two days after his outfit
was estimated to lose £2.5 million this
year (it will be more), published an
advertisement addressing the public as
“Dear Shareholder” and plaintively de-
clared that the public should use the
railways so there would be “less wear
and tear on the roads.”
Meantime a feeler was put out about
raising Sydney tram-fares from 4d. to
6d. minimum, and there was such a howl
that the Minister hurriedly announced
it wasn’t he, and later muttered that he
wouldn’t think of such a thing. This was
suitably celebrated by a couple of electric
trains stalling in the Wynyard tunnel at
the peak-hour. All after a week of
tropical rain which made every road
whereon a tram ran look as though
enemy bombers had raided it.
In Victoria thumping increases in rail-
freight charges (20 to 25 p.c.) were an-
nounced, and the Minister said it would
“boost railway revenue by £2.25 million”
(losses this year £3.6 million). Just
before anyone could rush off and buy a
truck to cart their goods by road he
stonily added that “there would be a
simultaneous rise in road-transport fees.”
This he expects to bring his railways an-
other £150,000 “extra revenue.” As in
N.S.W. and other States, the revenue
from road-transport fees and taxes, now
running into millions a year, is paid
direct to the mismanaged railways, which
give no road service of any kind in
return, though railway motor-trucks
freely use the roads. And in Victoria
a “regulation strike” put numerous trains
out of service and caused goodness knows
what more losses.
If Government-run transport was a
failure only from a financial aspect not
much could be said against it. It could
cheerfully lose a million or so a year if
it gave efficient, fast and generally
modern service But it doesn’t. In addi-
tion to financial failure it fails in so
many other ways that instead of a service
it has become a nuisance and a burden.
There is no hope for it while it remains
under political control (which to a large
extent is union control) and less hope
for the people who have to depend on it.
And it reaches the limits of injustice
when, failing to compete with private
transport on a service basis —or rather,
when it doesn’t seriously try to compete
on that basis —it uses legislative power
to impose penal taxes on its competitor.
What is far worse, the calculated State
policy of strangling road-transport de-
velopment constitutes one of Australia’s
greatest defence dangers.
Senate Aftermaths
From Molongloside:
It is being said that the Senate election of
1953 will go down as the poll which pleased
everybody.” Both parties profess to have won,
but behind the scenes there is unease about tne
future.
The Government’s position will be precarious,
and the test will come within the next three
months. The absence through illness or
two members would erase the advantag
of its small majority. And there are many
shoals to be negotiated—one will 6e the elec-
tion of the new President and Deputy-President,
and much will depend on the personality ot
the men who get these jobs.
Mattner is not very well, but he has Dee
well enough to go to the Coronation by sea.
Though there are likely to be several aspirants
for his office, he has by far the best c “anc
of election, though some members are resll 7
about the fact that S. Australia holds tne
presiding offices of both Houses.
Rankin, however, is in a weaker po sltlon - rL
was seriously ill some time ago, and has ne
fully recovered the lusty vigor °‘ s '
guished him in his prime. He will possib.
not continue as Deputy. , .
In the House of Representatives the wh
(i Continued on next page)


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
picture will develop with an eye on the shape of
things to come. The result has been highly satis-
factory on the whole for the Government. The
drift was strongly towards the party in power. In
electorates such as Latrobe, where there had been
extensive additions to the rolls and about which
the prophecies were most gloomy, gave pleasant
surprises. But there is a group of back-
benchers in particular who have reason to be
apprehensive, and these naturally have their
own ideas about what the Government should
do in the way of window-dressing before the
campaign. In some cases no amount of window-
dressing would help. Only the members involved
can retrieve the ground they have lost. These
apparently lost souls form a pressure-group
large enough to make itself felt in a party
which is plagued with illness —Mr. Kent
Hughes, Minister of the Interior, is sick, and
other invalids are Treloar and Allan McDonald,
who underwent a serious operation last week.
The chance of an election earlier than the
normal date can’t be altogether ruled out,
especially as the Government finds itself able to
bring down an attractive Budget. The
summer months —November or December or
February—have always been good months for
the Liberal-C.P. party in elections. But the
impending Royal visit will have its influence,
and unless the position is forced in some way
Parliament should run, its normal course until
it is over. *
The “Labor” party professes to be delighted
with results, but the fact is that the effects
upon it internally have been serious. It has
exploded the legend of the infallibility of Dr.
Evatt as a leader and campaigner, and given
heart to his opponents. It gives the Govern-
ment a reasonably free hand with its Budget,
unless it loses its Senate majority. Dr. Evatt’s
selection of unemployment as a campaign issue
was unlucky for him —virtually there isn’t any,
and there is less every day. Many sections of
“Labor” are inclined to blame a certain quiet-
ness in trade in the last few weeks of the
campaign upon the party’s continual panic-
mongering and depression talk. Some unions
are violently angry with Dr. Evatt for his
interference in strike matters at the N.S.W.
railway workshops and on the Brisbane wharves.
“Labor” likes its leaders to be militant and to
accept union policy, not to make it.
There is, moreover, growing dissatisfaction
with the' composition of the “Labor” front-
bench in Canberra. The “Shadow Cabinet”
certainly is a queer set-up for a party which
professes to be a trade-union party, the unions
providing nearly all its finance and support.
Led by a well-off barrister, with a civil-servant-
tumed-professional-politician as its deputy, it
numbers in its ranks Ward, the sole residue
in politics of the old Garden coterie, who is
now a man of means. Also there are Pollard,
a farmer-woolgrower who has been put on
Easy-street by the boom in primary product
prices, and Haylen and Allan Fraser, who are
certainly not horny-handed toilers.
The unease about the matter is more acute
because of the division on Communism and
the rampant sectarianism which is splitting
“Labor” from end to end. The industrial-group
issue is becoming urgent as the State A.L.P.
Conferences to be held in June approach and
a lot of “Labor” men have come to realise
that the Communist party is not dead nor even
sleeping, but that it has been busy infiltrating
undercover men into union inner councils ever
since the new ballot-laws introduced by the
Government have begun to operate.
Finally there is unease in most States about
the Doyle case. The closing-down of Victoria’s
“Labor Call,” last of the great “Labor” political
weeklies, presumably because it has proved too
revealing of “Labor’s” real policy at a time
when it sought to conceal its thoughts, indicates
the trends of the times.
“Labor” as a party is hanging together only
by bits of twine and rusty wire. It apparently
hasn’t even an objective any more since Dr.
Evatt announced the death of socialisation. If
somebody were to give the crazy structure a
push it would fall to pieces with its two leaders
screaming under the wreckage.
POLITICAL POINTS
By the time the Prime Minister left
for London last Wednesday it was clear
that he would not have a deadlocked
Senate to add to his other worries during
the next 12 months. As later figures
came in for the Queensland count the
Government’s position steadily improved.
By Wednesday “Labor” officials con-
ceded that victory in Queensland had
gone to the Lib.-C.P. team. On Monday,
with only a few more returns to come
in, the figures in terms of percentages
were; Democrats, 5.87; “Labor,”
44.85; Communist, 1.13; Lib.-C.P.,
48.15. The Government thus required
only a small number of Democrat prefs.
to beat the combined “Labor”-Com-
munist vote.
• •
When the final figures go up in West
Australia it would not be surprising if
the Government finishes in front of
“Labor” in that State also, after the
preferences of the Communists and minor
groups have been distributed. This won’t
affect the party representation, which wiU
still be three-three, but it may make a
difference at the next Senate election.
Presumably the last man elected in the
West will be regarded as the successor
to the late Senator Piesse and will thus
serve only a three-year term; it is thus
of considerable importance to the
parties who is last man in.
The same thing will apply in Tasmania,
where one of the Senate seats is that
which was held by Chamberlain.
Split voting among the “Labor” candi-
dates could affect the terms of Senators
as it did in 1951 when, although both
sides returned five Senators, four of the
first five to reach the quota were on the
Government side.
This week’s .Loan Council meeting
should go down in history as the
Deputies’ Meetirig. With the Prime
Minister and the six Premiers away
coronating, most of those at the council
table will be stand-ins. Not that that
will make their demands any less
clamorous,
• •
Russian agents are reported to be buy-
ing heavily at the current wool-sales.
Looks as if those Soviet sheep that were
trained to shed their wool a couple of
times a year to save the cost of shearing
have fallen down on the job.
• •
Two fatal crashes in India have led
many people in this country to assume
that the Comet jet-airliner is still in the
experimental stage. That’s far from be-
ing the case. May 1 was the first anni-
versary of the opening of the London-
Cape Town service, and Comets also fly
regular services from Britain to Egypt,
the Sudan, Uganda, Lebanon, Ceylon,
India, Pakistan, Burma, Malaya, Siam
and Japan. In 12 months Comets have
flown 104,600,000 miles on these routes,
carrying 27,700 passengers. Comet II
goes into service next year, opening up
a route to South America, and Comet 111,
designed to carry 78 passengers, is due
in 1956.
* •
The State Governments shouldn’t
waste their time trying to destroy private
transport by legislation. AH that is neces-
sary is to buy all the road trucks, then
run a road-transport business on the
same lines as railways are run. In no
time road transport will have been
ruined.
• •
One of the best jobs done by the Ex-
ternal Affairs Department during the
Casey regime has been the reorganisation
of the “Current Notes on International
Affairs.” Not so well printed as some
overseas monthly records of the same
kind, it nevertheless is one of the most
useful condensations of its kind printed
anywhere in the world. Some other de-
partments of the Government might well
ask the loan of the man who edits it to
cure their chronic flatulence in publicity.
• •
If the Tasmanian A.L.P. needed any
justification for dropping Morrow from
the party ticket it has it now; the almost
ex-Senator is off to one of those phony
“peace” conferences. This one is in
Budapest and is conducted by the so-
called World Peace Council. Unfortu-
nately, although Morrow has been re-
jected by both his party and his State,
he is still a Senator until June 30, and
the Reds will no doubt parade him as
an influential representative of the Aus-
tralian Parliament.
• •
Speaking at a dinner given by the
electrical manufacturers early this month,
Dr. Roland Wilson, secretary of the
Federal Treasury, economic adviser to
the Federal Government and a member
of the Commonwealth Bank board said:
With one voice the people of this
country want the sun, the moon and the
stars, and with another voice they do not
want to pay for them. That is what is
basically wrong with country.
A very pithy and very fair summing-
up, and, from a director of Australia’s
central bank, not at ail out of place.
But it has provoked retorts from some
electrical people who appear to be gadget-
minded rather than national-minded, and
a stern editorial from Sydney “Daily
Mirror,” which concludes:
It should be odds-on that Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Arthur Calwell will put Dr. Wilson
in his place when the next Labor Govern-
ment occupies the Treasury benches.
A lot of wishful-thinking going on some-
where.
• •
The passion for caUing a spade a steel-
bladed delving instrument has spread to
DISGUSTINGLY HEALTHY
“He refuses to take the medicine. Doctor, and he really seems to be getting
on fine without it”
the local-government field. The Atherton
(N.Q.) shire president holds that the
abilities of shire clerks entitle them to
a bigger name. He wants them called
“local-government managers” or “local-
government superintendents.” From this,
of course, it is but a step to calling shire
presidents “chief elected executive shire-
officer” or something.
• •
In South Australia the “Labor” party
has appointed a committee to prepare
petitions demanding electoral reform on
the grounds that the results of the last
State election (won by the Playford
Liberal Government) and Senate election
show “the drastic inequalities of the
State electoral system.” It is not true
that Queensland “Labor” has drawn the
same conclusion from a comparison be-
tween the ’Senate result and its own
victory in the State election a couple of
months ago.
• •
, Sydney “Herald’s” sneering attitude
towards the Menzies Government’s
attempt to deal with inflation no doubt
contributed to the heavy “Labor”-plus-
Communist vote (about 58 p.c. of the
primaries) in N, S. Wales during the
Senate election. The “Herald’s” criti-
cisms of the Government two or three
days after/the election entirely omitted to
mention the most inflationary factor in
our economy—the 40-hour week, which
is a matter for arbitration, not unilateral
Commonwealth legislation. (It was the
40-hour week, incidentally, which made
a return to parity with sterling an im-
possibility.) Nor, to read the
would one imagine that State “Labor”
Governments, possessing great consti-
tutional powers, were a major (often de-
liberate) source of obstruction to national
recovery.
• •
Apparently a good habit is spreading.
It was recorded here last week that
municipal authorities in Melbourne had
turned down a suggestion that councillors
should be entitled to travel free on trams.
In Adelaide it has been the custom to
issue free passes to mayors, mayoresses
and town clerks. 7 Councils have now
been told that, when the existing passes
expire at the end of June, they won’t
be renewed. Transport authorities all
over Australia might take a very
close look at their free-lists. With trams
and trains showing heavy losses every
year it is time the list of dead-heads
was drastically revised.
• •
In British politics it is almost unheard-
of for the Government to win a seat
from the Opposition at a by-election.
Voting is optional and by-elections
seldom attract as many voters as a general
election. There were 16 by-elections in
the life of the last Parliament; at every
one a candidate of the same party as
the departed member was returned. It
was the same story at 16 by-elections for
the present House, but last week the
Government won South Sunderland from
Labor by 1175 votes; Labor had a
majority of 306 in 1951.
This Conservative victory makes
party-strengths in- the Commons:
Conservatives .. .. 321
Labor 294
Liberals 6
Irish Nat 2
Irish Labor 1
Speaker 1
625
Churchill thus has an overall majority
of 18, but as the Irish Nationalists don’t
attend sittings, and the Liberals vote with
the Government on many questions, his
effective majority is higher than that.
• •
A desk calendar today quotes Francis
Bacon: “A crowd is not company, and
faces are but a gallery of pictures.” If
ever Parliament is televised the picture
will probably be titled “Still-life.”
• •
When A. E. Greenup, formerly
“Labor” M.L.A. for Newtown-Annan-
had his seat shot from under him
at the last N. S. Wales State redistribu-
tion, and missed preselection for another
one, he probably felt the future looked
rather bleak —after all, even a “Labor”
Government can’t find a Milk or Water
Board chairmanship for everyone. Then
the Dailey Federal seat became vacant,
he got the preselection and, on Senate-
election day, won the seat against not
much more than token opposition from
an Independent and a Commo. As long
as he stays on the right side of Room 32
he should be there for life,
® •
Announcing that the 52,000 acres that
was Wolfgang station before it was taken
over as part of the great Peak Downs
sorghum fiasco would probably be
thrown open for closer-settlement.
Queensland Acting-Premier Duggan said.
“From investigations it Wolf-
gang would be one of the most suitable
properties for early subdivision into
mixed farms.” Investigation by whom?
The same experts who recommended the
pigs-cattle-sorghum Socialised farm?
• *
Since practically every attempt by
pr i vat e road-hauliers to have State trans-
port-strangulation laws upset by the High
Court has failed on precedent estab-
lished by the first caseSj a precedent
established in New Zealand is full of
interest. There, where the Government
railways have been protected against road
competition by legislation, a tile com-
pany, which proved it had suffered heavy
losses through being forced to use the
railways, has obtained permission to use
road-haulage on routes directly com-
peting with railways, Wellington corres-
pondent of Melbourne “Herald” says
the decision has given the railways “the
sharpest jolt they have felt in a decade.”


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Fons”: Scene, King’s Cross. Dramatis
personce: lady having a fit, resident from a
near-by hospital, and an interested crowd.
A window slams up and an angry voice
bawls into the night. “Hey!” Everyone
looks up at the electricity-spangled sky.
Angry Voice; “What’s goin’ on down
there?*”
Apologetic Voice: “Lady havin’ fit.”
Pause.
Angry Voice: “Well, what are y’ all
gawpin’ at? Why don’t y’ get the poor
woman a doctor?” Long pause and some
shuffling.
Apologetic Voice: “Well” jerking
thumb —“ ’E is a doctor.” Longer pause.
Angry Voice (suspiciously): “He don’t
look like a doctor to me. Why hasn’t he
got hold of her wrist?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spoke”: The rich and religious aunt
of a young Melbourne painter who had
returned from the islands with a col-
lection of tropical pictures was taken
round the exhibition by her nephew, who
carefully steered her clear of the only
nude in it. To his surprise he subse-
quently learnt that she had bought it.
Her eyesight isn’t good, and she was
under the impression that the figure
standing on the beach, gazing at the
sunset, was a missionary.
❖❖ v ❖
“Enn Kay”: The programme for the
Stratford company’s plays carries an
ad. for gramophone records of a selection
of the Bard’s sonnets, listed under their
first lines. Whoever compiled the list
is blessed with a sense of humor: here
are some of the lines in order of print-
ing:
Devouring time, blunt thou the lion’s paws.
When in disgrace with fortune and men’s
eyes.
Why didst thou promise such a beauteous
day?
Tir’d with all these for restful death I cry.
Then hate me when thou wilt, if ever, now.
And, in more cynical vein:
Let me not to the marriage of true minds.
Th’ expense of spirit in a waste of shame.
My mistress’ eyes are nothing like the sun.
When my love swears that she is made of
truth.
Two loves I have of comfort and despair.
“Nan”: Accompanied my father to
the city. On the way to the station we
were just in time to assist a neighbor
who had slipped and fallen on the step
at her front gate. While this was hap-
pening, Jim Dood, the old man’s best
friend, joined us —also city-bound. As
the train drew in a hasty late-corner ran
down the ramp and fell on the platform.
“You’ll see,” said Father darkly, “there’ll
be a third.” “Nonsense,” snorted Jim.
’‘Mere superstition!” Happily supplied
with a bone of contention the two old
boys argued amiably all the way into
town. Still, I don’t think there are many
daughters who would demonstrate filial
“Cauboy”: In this jet era, when virtuosi
can perform one night in New York and
a couple of days later in Sydney or Mel-
bourne, the following item dug out of
an old file arrested my attention:
Among the wonders of the present day
Mrs. Siddons’s late achievements at
Brighton, Bath and London should not be
forgotten. She positively performed
at each of these places within the incredibly
short space of 96 hours.
It appeared in the issue of the London
“Times” of October 3, 1798, which pub-
lished letters from Lord Nelson to the
Secretary of the Admiralty and the First
Lord, reporting the victory of the Nile.
Another extract:
A person last night in the gallery of
Drury Lane House, calling frequently in a
boisterous manner for the tune of “Britops
Strike Home,” was immediately silenced by
the appropriate observation of another at
some distance from him—“ Why damn it,
they have, haven’t they?”
♦♦♦ *i*
“Bo”; Gallantry is not dead among
travellers. Into our rapidly-filling
suburban train he came dragging a heavy
suitcase, and took the vacant seat along-
side a woman who was near the window.
Then with a struggle he hoisted the case
on to the luggage-rack; about two-thirds
of it hung over the edge, though this was
offset by the cant of the rack. Apparently
the woman beneath it shared with me
the anxious speculation as to her safety
if a fly were to alight on the outside of
the case and tip the precarious balance,
and at her third upward glance the
owner became aware of it. “You’ve no
need to worry, missus,” he said con-
fidently. “I’ll keep an eye on it. All
the same, I’d take off me hat if I was
you—just in cake. I know women are
fussy about their hats.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“G.F.L.”; The tripod mast at Bradley’s
Head, Sydney (B. 6/5/’53), is definitely
the mast of the original H.M.A.S. Sydney,
but it is not the Sydney’s original mast.
Arthur Burgess was quite right in paint-
ing his canvases of light-cruisers Sydney
and Melbourne with pole foremasts;
that’s how they were built. But in the
course of the war these masts were taken
out and tripod masts substituted. I
commissioned H.MIA.S. Brisbane in
1916, with the old-type mast. We didn’t
get our tripod until the war was over,
at Portsmouth, in 1919.
R. Humphry, hon. sec. “Sydney”
Association: Cruiser Sydney was
built by Harland and Woolf and com-
missioned at Portsmouth in July, .1913,
with a pole-mast. In August, 1917, she
went to Chatham Dockyard for refit
and the tripod mast was put in. When
the cruiser was dismantled in 1934 Mr.
Forsyth, one of the founders of the Sea
“This time the full choir will sing 'I Wanna Squeeze My Hula Baby.’ ”
Cadets, bought the mast and had it
erected at Bradley’s Head. The unveiling
ceremony, which was conducted by Capt.
(now Rear-Admiral) C. J. Pope, in the
presence of many who had served in
the ship, was timed to coincide with the
departure from Sydney of H.R.H. the
Duke of Gloucester, who steamed past
Bradley’s Head in H.M.A.S. Australia
while the ceremony was in progress.
* ❖ ❖
“Sturmer”: V. M. Cottrell’s verse
about the summer cottage invaded by
relatives (B. 29/4/’53) will strike a bell
for one couple I know The male
member complaining of our Tasmanian
winter, I asked him why he left Queens-
land. He smiled ruefully. “It was that
or go broke,” he said. Then the story
poured out. He and his wife had sunk
their savings into a house by the seaside,
and had been working like niggers to
pay for it. It was a lovely spot —too
lovely. Friends and relations by the
score visited them; they were never
alone. Soon they realised they were
drawing on their capital to feed un-
invited guests. There were two alterna-
tives : to go broke, or move. They
moved. Now they go from State to
State, both working, trying to save
enough money to buy a place outright.
Then they can settle down, and entertain
their —er —friends without worry.
“P.0.M.C.”: As a stickler for terms,
let me inform “Zake” (B. 6/5/’53) that
P.M.G. mechanics set up their plant in-
ternally, not externally—the cove he
accuses of writing letters at 8.30 a.m. in
his boss’s time would be a lineman
and/or cable-jointer. Personally I’d
give the scribe the benefit of the doubt;
linemen have quite a bit of recording
to do in association with their jobs. As
for starting the day well by writing
letters, an elderly, lump-in-the-throat-
inspiring lady, armed with pad, en-
velopes, blotter, pot of ink and pen,
sits on the steps in the colonnade of
Sydney G.P.O. and indites epistles almost
every day; she’s there at 7 a.m.
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.R.”; Tell “Bethune” (B. 6/5/’53)
that I have in my possession a medal
dated June 26, 1902, the inscription on
which reads “King Edward First —not
Seventh —of Britain and the British Em-
pire.” On the reverse side the inscrip-
tion reads “In defence of Scotland’s
national rights and honour.” The medal
was, I believe, issued at a protest rally
held at Scone.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emel”: Cheeriboy’s guess of seven-
teen pounds as the weight of a cake
offered for competition at a local “do”
proved over three times the actual
weight. “Just shows what the wife’s
cakes are like!” he said, when they told
him.
George Beesley: Correspondents in
the Sydney Press who have been claim-
ing that the first railway in Australia
was the Melbourne and Hobson’s Bay
line opened in Sept., 1854, ignored the
opening of the South Australian Rail-
way, from Goolwa to Port Elliott, in
May of that same year. One writer says
that line cannot be counted as a railway
because horse-trams were used on it.
The first passenger-coaches on the Stock-
ton and Darlington Railway were always
called carriages and coaches, and quite
a dozen of them were horse-drawn. Yet
this did not make the Stockton and
Darlington Railway a tramway. It was
a railway, as the name implies; because
it was laid with rails set on edge. The
Goolwa and Port Elliott Railway was
projected and recommended by Governor
Young to the Home authorities as a
railway. It is spoken of in newspapers
of the period as a railway, and finally and
conclusively it was laid with edge-type
rails, 301 b. to the yard, over which ran
passenger-coaches and goods-wagons
fitted with flanged wheels. The con-
struction of the permanent-way deter-
mines the classification, not the method
of haulage. The Melbourne “Argus” for
Sept. 12, 1854, the day of the opening
of the line to Hobson’s Bay, came out
with a leader on the new railway headed
“The First Scream,” and on the same
page is a paragraph of South Australian
news, which contains the following:
“The accounts of the Port Elliott and
Goolwa Railway will be closed this
month.” It is to be hoped that South
Australia will suitably celebrate the
centenary of the opening of the Goolwa
to 'Port Elliott Railway, in May of next
year, as the centenary of the first rail-
way to open in Australia, without any
doubts of its full and proper claims to
be classed as a railway.
HEADACHES
“Dr. Macdonald Critchley says headaches are
often hereditary.”
Some headaches are adjudged to be
The product of heredity.
My throbbing brow, my troubled frown,
By whom have they been handed down ?
Name the heads of all the narks —
Adam, Noah, Judas, Marx,
William of the Domesday Book
And stickybeaking Captain Cook:
Had Cook, shut up, had he not seen,
We poor Australians might have been
Airy thoughts and words unsaid,
But Cookie brought us to a head,
And when he got it well awake
He poured in things to make it ache:
Sydney trams and blackout sessions,
Evatt’s big prefab depressions,
Price of fruit and price of meat.
Price of riding down the street . . .
What A.P.C. can cure the Past?
My wife and I, both thinking fast.
Resolving not to be outdone,
Contrived two headaches of our own
So constant, irritating, bad,
As easily to drive us mad
Except they’ll, just in time, be men
And other people’s headaches, then:
For no judicial aspirin
Can punish man’s original Sin;
Our only legal A.P.C.
Is vengeance on posterity.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“NX Mick”: For four full working
days the imported white-collar super-
visor of cotton-spinning practised piecing-
up (joining threads) the way it is done
for perfection in his homeland. When
he’d mastered the manual art he set
out to break Old Australians of their
inferior method, which results in the
scrapping of much woven material.
Later I heard him ask “Why don’t you
do it the way I showed you last week?”
“I can’t,” wailed the spinner. “I tried
for five minutes, but couldn’t do it.”
“Howra”: Mention of A Woman
Surgeon, by R. Slaughter (B. 4/2/’53),
reminds me of the sinking feeling which
my hull sustained when I was put through
for my second-mate’s ticket in Sydney
by Captain Ditcham,
now Deputy-Director of
Navigation. The ex-
aminer for the engineers
about the same time
was Mr. Butcher. The
omens were much better
when I went up for
master in Southampton
two years ago. There I
faced the veteran Aus-
tralian examiner. Captain
Salvatory.
“Peetee”; The admis-
sion by “Kingsbro”
(B. 22/4/’53) that he
slumbered while enter-
prising Wogs souvenired
tents he was supposed to
be guarding stimulates
me to confess a dark
chapter in my own mili-
tary career. After an
overdose of plonk and
Palestinian sun I felt I
would rest more com-
fortably if I shed my
clothing, and just man-
aged to do so before
total collapse. Some
hours later I awakened
with the sensation that all the
devils in Sheol were staging an
Armageddon inside my skull. In the
same instant I became aware that an
Oriental gentleman was making a stealthy
all-fours approach to my pile of garments
about two yards away. But my condition
was such that I could not arouse myself
to take any more than a detached sort
of interest in the theft, though I was
fully aware that its successful perpe-
tration would leave me mother-naked,
In due course a replacement wardrobe
was sent to me in the guard-tent, for
which, of course, my pay book was docked,
The experience was not entirely loss;
later on its recollection several times
dissuaded me from trying jungle-juice
during the New Guinea show.
❖ ❖
“Swelpme”: One of the most difficult
mental adjustments we middle-agers have
to make is the change of status in the
occupations that used to be regarded as
breadline jobs. A window-cleaner is no
longer the hard-up fellow who used to
scratch a bob here and there;
he’s a businessman who generally
runs a utility, has a ’phone, and
makes more money than the
average skilled tradesman. The
modern chimney-sweep is even
higher on the social and financial
scale, while the dealer in old jute
bags, if he has not already made a
fabulous fortune, can consider it’s
in the bag. But I did rub my eyes
when I saw a small car stopped in
a Sydney street, a spindle pro-
jecting from its engine—which was
in the back—and a man busy
sharpening knives over the whizz-
ing emery-wheel. I thought of old
“Scissors” who used to push a
huge sandstone grinder around on
a wheeled frame, using a foot-
treadle for motive-power when, he
got a job. As I wiatched the
modern sharpener a policeman
walked up and reached for his
book. Neither showed any sign
of being aware of the other’s
presence, both doing their respec-
tive jobs without comment. But I
found myself thinking about
“Scissors” again. At least he never
got pinched for parking.
<$- +I-*
“The Missus”: The travelling
cinema (B. 29/4/’53) that used
to come to our district numbered
my brother-in-law among its
free-ticket holders, but he earned
his view and did his viewing from
behind the curtain, where, armed
with a stick and an empty kerosene-tin,
he provided a touch of realism. A bang
on the tin when a shot was fired in the
Western added to the thrills of the show.
The “noises-off” operator was every
minute of eight years old at the time.
❖
“Flat B.”: Passers-by in Hobart’s
Bathurst-street have lately been intrigued
by a sign on a lawnmower in a small
shop window: “Buy now as time doesn’t
permit me to make these in the spring.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“C. Sandig”: An account of a prema-
ture explosion of a shell in the breech of
a field-gun at Puckapunyal camp (Vic.)
took my memory back to the sergeants’
“Glad Were only on the fourth floor, dear .”
mess of the Third Battery at Tel-el-
Kebir in World War One. The merits of
the British 18-pounder and the French
75 were being discussed. Sergeant
George Rose (still going strong in Syd-
ney at 79) was explaining how three 75’s
had blown up, killing the gun-crew in
each case, while on the 18-pounder there
were no casualties, though the piece was
split like a stick of celery. These incidents
were at Cape Helles. He then told of a
premature in the South African war when
he was serving with Colonel Newmarch’s
Field Ambulance. He was standing at
the: rear of a 15-pounder gun when a
charge exploded in the breech, causing
the gun members to be blown in the air.
All three landed on their feet, shaken
but unhurt. The saddler-sergeant, Hayes,
an ex-imperial gunner, then confirmed
the tale. He had been No. 2 on the gun.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Tos”: So the powers-that-be are
sending a meteorologist to Crohamhurst
“with an open mind” to investigate the
methods of Queensland’s long-range fore-
caster, Inigo Jones. Expert opinion
seems to differ on the practicability of
long-range forecasting, but I hope the
investigator won’t overlook a book
written by a 16th-century weather
prophet, Leonard Digges, whose
“almanac and prognostications” (pub-
lished in 1555) modestly promised the
True believer a prophecy
of right good effect contayniage playne,
brief, pleasant, chosen rules, to judge, the
wether for ever, 'by the Sunne, Moone,
Sterres, Cometes, Raynbow, Thunder,
Clouds, with other extraordinarie tokens,
not omitting the aspect of the Planates,
with a brief judgement for ever of Plentie,
Lacke, Sickness, Death, Warres, etc.
❖ ❖
“Spicula”: Travelling on Melbourne’s
suburban trains 10 years or more ago
I used to see on the hoardings of station
after station a poster depicting a semi-
clad, suntanned female, installed on a
large turtle, which was tethered to her
by reins. This happy lass was entreat-
ing one and all to “Come to Sunny
Queensland.” Don’t know how success-
ful she was, but I do know that she
kindled within me a burning desire to
ride a turtle. I have been in North
Queensland nine years now, but nary a
turtle-ride have I had. Even at Green
Island aquarium my request to be
allowed to use one of the creatures as a
steed was received most bleakly. I
have been up and down the Queensland
coast looking for a turtle —any old
turtle will do —to ride, but with no luck.
I wonder if that sunburnt minx is still
doing her De Rougemont act on Mel-
bourne hoardings.
* <+
“Fink”: From time to time Bulletin
scribes have testified to the accuracy with
which throwers of rolled-up newspapers
are able to pick off the most precious
blooms in the front garden. But since I
read this advertisement I’ve been won-
dering ;
Newsagent requires Roller Thrower and
Collector, experienced man preferred but
not essential.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rag”: Having just painted the front
fence I was somewhat annoyed to find
that children had embellished it with a
maze .of chalk-lines, converting my
smoothly-finished job into a hideous
example of child art. This meant, of
course, repainting the whole fence, which
I commenced to do with less than usual
enthusiasm and in a spirit of simmering
protest about the way neighbors’
children treat other people’s property.
Afternoon-tea interrupted me, and when
I returned it was to find two
small children busy with their chalk
again. “Get away from here!” I
shrieked. “Why don’t you go and draw
on your own front fence?” The elder
kiddie paused in her work, contemplated
me in mild astonishment, and in a
purely conversational tone said: “Yes.
We’re going to, when we’ve finished this
side.”
“Kingsbro”: For a fortnight after my
wedding I thought that, perhaps after all,
bike-racing wasn’t everything in life.
Upon coming back to earth and reality
I decided it would be wise for us to de-
velop mutual interests ; so I took her to
see what was truthfully billed as the
match-race of the year. Thousands
roared as Australia’s two greatest sprint-
cyclists flashed over the line in a thril-
ling dead-heat. Turning to my missus I
gasped “What a finish!” “Yes,” she
said, “why don’t you get your bike
painted that color?”
*> ❖ ❖
“Harbel”: Gone are the days when city
slickers could unfailingly pick out a
country visitor; nevertheless, I got the
impression that the big, fresh-faced young
man sitting near me in the bus would
have been more at ease in a saddle.
Beside him sat a girl who, in the manner
of damsels with extremely small waist-
lines, drew attention to her claim to
beauty by wearing a fashionable leather
belt fully nine inches wide. Some seconds
after she had left her seat, the fresh-faced
chap discovered she had left her handbag
behind. He called after her, but failed
to attract her attention. “I’m getting out
here ; I’ll give it to her,” said a youth,
as he struggled towards the door. “Which
girl was it?” “The one”—the finder
seemed lost to find a description. Then
inspiration came. “The one with the
surcingle on,” he grinned.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Stunner”: George, one of our
draughtsmen, had but one fault: just
couldn’t get to work on time; his time
of arrival might be 9.15 or it might
be 11 —usually it was about 9.30. The
boss, a kindly man, spoke quietly to
him about it, with no effect. Then
George wanted a week off for private
business; it was granted. Perhaps the
boss expected George to repay the kind-
ness by being punctual; anyway, when
George came back at 9.20 after his
week off the boss’s mouth tightened and
his mild eyes snapped. Next day the
boss looked in at 9.15; George’s board
was still covered. The boss came back
at 9.45; still no George. At 10.20
George walked in, uncovered his board
and started work. There was an ex-
pectant air in the office; instead of the
usual buzz of talk there was a low
murmur. George seemed unconscious
of it. At 10.30 the boss looked in, and
called George into his office. He shut
the door, but we could hear his usually
gentle voice raised in a tirade. It stopped
and we heard a low murmur from
George.' Then George came back, his
face dead-pan. We held our curiosity
for a while, then asked, “Who won,
George?” George grinned. “I’m afraid
it was the boss’s bad day,” he said. “I’d
been out on the plant taking some
measurements for a rush job—l was here
at a quarter to nine.” The boss gave up
after that. I’d like to be able to report
that George became punctual. But that
wouldn’t have been George.
CERTAIN PROVISOS
“Widower, affectionate nature, fond hiking,
popular music, cards, seeks friendship widow,
means, same tastes.” —Personal and Missing
Friends.
The conjugal life he’d renew.
And hand to some woman his screw.
Fed up with his batching
The meals he’s been snatching,
He’s flat-out to find Number Two.
It’s strange, but the old ball-and-chain
He’d never mind donning again;
He’d trot to the altar
With never a falter —
Oh, yes, he is perfectly sane.
He’d rescue some dame from the shelf.
So long as she’s blessed with some pelf.
He’d give her protection
And heaps of affection;
It’s true i for he’s said so himself.
What odds if she’s freckled, horse-faced,
And owns to a forty-inch waist ?
They’re just trifles, really.
She’ll suit him ideally
Who’s well-lined, and shares all his tastes.
Now, hiking’s no pastime for crocks.
She’d have to be strong in the hocks
Before he’d select her.
He’d' also expect her
To doss of a night among rocks,
Romance may be all very well,
But affection would soon hear its knell —
Be soon in its coffin —
If every so often
She cracked up, demanding a spell.
The "broads” they could play of a night,
Win tricks in the friendliest fight.
Over poker and euchre
He’d try for her lucre —
It could be an endless delight
With the radio turned up so high
Over hit-parade numbers to sigh.
Oh, the bliss! Oh the rapture!
Those twin-souls could capture,
With Johnny Ray howling his "Cry!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Fly Faster by TAA pressurised CONVAIR-LINER^
TO CANBERRA, MELBOURNE, HOBART, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE (and on to Perth by DC. 4)
PERSONAL ITEMS
Four Australians will have roles in
Britain’s biggest Coronation film-musical,
“The Story of Gilbert and Sullivan.”
They are actor Peter Finch, baritone
Harold Williams and two other singers,
Elsie Morison and John Cameron.
Harold Williams sings the main role in
“Trial by Jury,” and Peter Finch plays
D’Oyly Carte, the famous backer of
the famous duo. The film is beautifully
photographed, magnificently mounted,
and the main importance is given to the
music. If it tickles the palates of Gil-
sullivanites the world over it will prob-
ably be a recurrent feature, like that
hardy perennial the J.C.W. G. and S.
season.
“Fitz”: I do not know who it could
have been who called at Springwood
(N.S.W.) and told Rose Lindsay the story
she retold about Henry Lawson’s death
in the last instalment of her memoir (B.
13/5/’53), but whoever it was it could
not have been J. F, Archibald, unless,
of course, it was Archibald’s ghost.
Archibald died in 1919 and was already
three years in his grave at South Head
cemetery when Lawson passed out in
the little weatherboard cottage that once
stood at the Great North-road, Abbots-
ford (N.S.W.), opposite the local public
school.
Having for the past six years held
down one of the biggest jobs in Aus-
tralian industry—chairman of Imperial
Chemical Industries —Francis Thomas
Meehan has called it a day. Trained as
a chemist at Liverpool Unversity (Eng.),
then as a gunner in the Royal Artillery
in the Kaiser’s war, Meehan got into
1.C.1. in London in 1930, managed a
chemical firm in Finland, and got out
of there after the Russians went in.
Since 1942 he’s beetle in Melbourne.
Taking on the 1.C.1. chairmanship,
Kenneth Begg became the company’s
commercial managing-director the year
Meehan was appointed chairman.
Trained to accountancy, Begg’s been
mixed up with chemicals for 25 years,
managed a big dye-and-chemicals con-
cern in New Zealand till 1942, then,
about the same time as Meehan, he
crossed to Melbourne. Bora in Mel-
bourne, Begg has just passed 50.
I ’ .
“99”: lam still on deck and lam one
of those who wrote for The Bulletin
in the ’nineties (“Fitz’s” par. B. 13/5/’53).
My opening effort was a poem about two
explorers dying of thirst in the Never-
Never. One saves himself by sucking
the other fellow’s blood, and his con-
science dogs him right through to the last
stanza. Every second line rhymed with
the word “glare,” and everybody said
it was a wonderful poem for a boy of
13. The Bulletin man thought it was,
too —he said it was “powerful, but
crude,” and quoted it in full in his
Answers to Correspondents column
and paid me for it. I’ve never looked
back since.
“Cauboy”: The death on his Chartersville
estate on the banks of the Yarra (where Streeton,
Roberts, Norman Lindsay and others connived
the Eaglemont school), of that G.O.M. of wine
and food, Francois Robert de Castella, recalls
a story he used to tell. A patient of 86 told a
doctor friend of his that he was afraid he
wouldn’t have a long life. “Why not?” asked
the doctor. “Your father lived to 107.” “Yes,”
said the patient, “but he was a drinker.”
“Well,” remarked the doctor, “you’re pretty
good at it yourself.” “Oh, yes,” replied the
patient, “but the old man was at it all his
life. I didn’t start till I was fifty.” De
Castella was 87, and almost up to the time
of his death was the leading spirit at the Wine
and Food Society’s dinners, where he tried to
raise the standards of Australia’s culinary and
drinking habits, as his father Hubert had done
before him. Hubert, a Swiss, pioneered the
vine at Yering, near Lilydale, Melba’s village,
maintaining that his wines were as good as
any produced in Europe, There was a prejudice
against them, however, which only started to
lift when Government House sanctioned the
serving of Australian vintages, though only at
luncheon. Francois went back to Lausanne to
study wine-making as a science and became
junior viticulturist to the Victorian Agricultural
Department in 1890,. From 1908 to 1936 he
was chief viticulturist and helped to steer the
industry through the phylloxera crisis when the
vine was practically wiped out in the original
centres. He got it going with anti-phylloxera
stock from America and it has never looked
back since. To acquire his cpnnoisseurship he
must have had to do a terrific amount of
drinking. At a W. and F. dinner he was once
handed a wrapped bottle, went through the
usual ritual of looking, smelling and tasting
and then said: “A nice little wine. It was
grown by the sea.” It was —at Mornington,
by his friend Ted Muir, the dentist.
A rear-admiral led a delegation which
arrived in Melbourne the other day to
introduce world harmony to Australia —
Rear-Admiral O. W. Phillips, a one-
time Royal Navy engineer in the Far
East Fleet. Among the dozen of his fol-
lowers are Miss Juliet Rodd, daughter of
Lord and Lady Rennell, of Rodd, and
Miss Sally Hore-Ruthven, niece of Lord
Cowrie. They are a detachment of the
Moral Rearmament Movement started by
Dr, Buchman. But where is Ivan
Menzies?
Only a few weeks short of 99, King
O’Malley had a heavy fall recently but
recovered his composure sufficiently to
give Dudley Drew, the young Melbourne
artist, 10 sittings for a portrait. Anybody
who has ever sat for a picture knows what
a strain that is. “The' King” is still an
omnivorous reader, a shrewd com-
mentator on the contemporary scene and
a good walker.
Warning mariners of dangers to navi-
gation (derelicts, floating mines, buoys
washed adrift); in constant readiness to
advise on and handle emergencies at sea
(collision, stranding, fires); supervising
the dozen or so unwatched lights along
the N.S.W. coast —these are a fraction of
the duties Captain Keith Ditcham took
on when he became N.S.W. Deputy-
Director of Navigation the other
day. And they’re why the job
always falls to a seaman. The deep-
voiced master-mariner has been D.-D,
in several other States, was principal
examiner for masters’ and mates’
certificates for many years, and took his
first sunsight aboard a square-rigger back
at the turn of the century. In New
Zealand with the Union S.S. Co. when
Wilhelm made his bid, Ditcham promptly
NAVIGATION
made his —but with a signals-unit of the
Army; to land on Gallipoli on the 25th,
and to serve in France. Saltwater was
still signalling, however, and he trans-
ferred to the Royal Navy, serving first
in a Q-boat in the Atlantic, and later as
navigating-officer in a submarine. So
that he did, unlike his Army cobbers,
finally get into the Dardanelles, to cele-
brate Armistice Day in the Narrows.
Main diversion —yarning of old ships and
old times. Pet aversion—hearing un-
original applications of his name to his
job.
Charles Burchill (appended hereunder),
genial, tolerant and slpw-spoken, has
something of the Queensland outbacker
about him. He ought to have, for in
close on 20 years of stipendiary magistrat-
ing his bailiwick has reached as far
north as Innisfail and Townsville, as far
west as Cloncurry, to four other inland
towns and up and down the reach of
coast from Rockhampton to Gympie. An
Ipswich Grammar product, Burchill, while
secretary of the Townsville Rugby League
Club, was one of the prime movers in
MAGISTRATION
introducing League to the Union strong-
hold. Now he’s ended up in Brisbane,
Chief S.M.
It’s “Goodbye, Mr. Chips” for F. H.
Archer, one of Victoria’s notable educa-
tionists and head of Caulfield Grammar
for the past 21 years. His actual staff-
membership goes back further, to 1907.
Apart from a five-year-term as head of
Sydney’s Trinity Grammar, he’s been at
Caulfield ever since.
The late Sir Robert Chapman, of
Adelaide, handed to his sons that genius
for engineering which brought him a
professorship at Adelaide Uni. and his
title. Of six sons (one was killed in
Mesopotamia), one became deputy-
engineer for Adelaide Corporation, one a
surveyor on the Goolwa barrage at the
Murray mouth, another had a hydraulic-
sluicing claim in New Guinea, and Robert
Hall Chapman, who died in Adelaide
the other day, at 63, was S. Australian
Railways Commissioner for the past six
years, R.H.’s brilliant engineering career
began in 1907, when he won the Angas
Engineering Exhibition; a queue of
degrees culminated in M.E., in 1921.
With the A.I.F. and B.E.F. (wounded,
two “mentions”), captain in the Royal
Engineers, Chapman joined the Railways
in 1923, to design and build the railway-
bridge at Murray Bridge (S.A.), and to
become, the following year, chief-engineer
—at 34. In this capacity he made his
mark widely, supervising the rebuilding
of just about all the State’s railway-
bridges, station-yards and locomotive-
depots. Before appointment as commis-
sioner, he had been in charge of the
Government munition works. As measure
of his engineering versatility, the War
Office published a treatise of his on the
calibration of guns.
New president of the R.A.S. in Mel-
bourne, T. N. Mitchell, managing-
director of Mitchell and Co., manufac-
turers, belongs to a family which has
been as closely associated with the land
as with the State’s agricultural shop-
window, His father was a member of
the council from 1906 to 1921, vice-
president in 1916 and a trustee in 1918.
His brother, the late J.A., was a member
till 10 years ago, when T.N. was
appointed to succeed him,
“R.H.Q.”: Australian surveyors are
thumping their theodolites in apprecia-
tion of the recent invention of Westralian
surveyor Alister Ewing. Hitherto it’s
been common practice to ascertain
distances and differences in levels by one
reading made on a graduated levelling-
staff through a specially-marked theo-
dolite telescope —a method said to have
been originated by W. Green in 1778.
Now, close on 200 years later, Ewing has
produced his stadialtimeter, a device
which can be fitted to , the ordinary
theodolite. The reading on the staff
having been taken, quick reference to
the stadialtimeter gives the horizontal
distance and the reduced level, ready for
booking, with no calculation necessary.
This means an enormous saving in time
and labor, and the accuracy claimed for
the new gadget is as good as can be got
by ordinary field-work, for engineering
anyway. Ewing’s invention is an out-
standing contribution, when one con-
siders the first-class brains over the world
which have been, for so many years,
reducing stadia readings by the old
method.
Scott Pendlebury, the Melbourne artist
who won the £3OO Dunlop art prize,
already has to his credit another £l5O
of the competition’s money and a
portrait and a watercolor in the National
Gallery in Melbourne, He teaches at
Swinburne Tech. His wife, Nornie
Gude, is a painter and a prizewinner,
too. She has won watercolor prizes at
Albury, Bendigo and twice at Geelong.
“Macnell”: Sir Rhoderick McGrigor;
First Sea Lord, goes up to Admiral of
the Fleet —the Navy’s highest rank. Son
of a general, married to a colonel’s
daughter, and thought to be too small
for the Army, “Wee Mac” (very un-
officially) did most of his two-war fight-
ing in the unpacific seas lapping his own
island —which could account for the
tight-lipped, wind-narrowed look he
wears. At sea since the ripe old age of
12, he was in destroyers at the Dardan-
elles, in a battleship at Jutland, and, soon
after muzzle-covers came off in 1939,
took the bridge of battle-cruiser Renown.
He commanded the Naval side of the
Sicily invasion (several Australian
corvettes under him there), then led the
famed Ist Cruiser Squadron: one of his
exploits therein being the savaging of a
German convoy which stumbled onto
his guns one black night off Norway.
England’s top naval man, at sft. 4in., is
the smallest admiral to become First
Sea Lord, and, presumably, Admiral of
the Fleet. But, as a distinguished naval
officer once remarked: “It’s not the
quantity of admiral that matters; it’s
the quality of guts in the middle of him.”
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 82, James Albert Miles, former
senior-inspector of Westralian State schools.
An M.A. of Sydney, he was one of a small
contingent of N.S.W. teachers who transferred
to the Westralian Education Department about
the turn of the century. Responsible for the
establishment of rural schools in Westralia and
correspondence-classes for children in isolated
parts of the State, he will be best known for
his work in compiling the primary-school
curriculum, issued in 1936.
At Cherbourg mission-station (Q.), at 80,
Corporal Snowy Fraser, who, since he had been
a blacktracker in Queensland for close on 60
years, could have added a yarn or two to The
Bulletin’s recent article on Queensland
Mounted Police work. He was still tracking
at the end.
At 59, in Melbourne, Harold Bayard Piper,
who succeeded George Beeby in 1941 as Chief
Judge of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
thus becoming the youngest to reach that
eminence. Judge in the same jurisdiction since
1938, he had law in his blood (son of Justice
Piper, of the S. Australian Supreme Court),
and his roots in S. Australia (law-degree at
Adelaide University, admitted to the S.A. Bar
in 1915, at 21). Postponing a legal career for
four years to go away with the A.1.F., he
returned to Adelaide in 1919, built up a wide
practice, lectured in law at his old university
and chaired two royal commissions. Frank
Piper, the S.A. Lawn Tennis Association presi-
dent, is a brother.
In Melbourne, Christopher Alfred Cowper,
who had an Australia-wide reputation as an
architect. Builder and owner of Chancery
House, Melbourne, he was a fellow of the Royal
Australian Institute, entering it 60 years ago.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 62, medico E.
Douglas Pullon, who saw service in South-West
Africa with the African Medical Corps m the
Kaiser’s war, one of his patients being Field-
Marshal Jan Smuts, A Yorkshireman, Pullon
graduated M.D. at Edinburgh University and
arrived in N.Z. in 1923, to set up practice in
Christchurch. Earlier, he had been pathologist
in Cape Town.


UMBRAGE


ABORIGINALITIES
“Villefair”; Provided it is bizarre
enough, and has a touch of the mystic,
any furphy will find plenty of willing
recounters. As a boy I was greatly in-
trigued by St. Peter’s fingerprints on the
John Dory; it seemed almost like
sacrilege when I learned that, the waters
of the Sea of Galilee being fresh, a John
Dory cpuld never have lived in them,
The latest, however, is a gem; and it is
gaining ground: I’ve been told it in
three different places within 12 months,
Did you know that the markings on a
deathadder’s belly are characters in
Arabic? ’S fact. And they spell out:
“Were my ears as keen as is my eye.
never a man would pass me by.” Why
the legend was inscribed in Arabic on
an Aussie reptile has me thinking. Per-
haps it is yet another indication that this
continent was at one time connected with
Asia; or maybe Dame Nature is not so
“Good heavens , old boy—we forgot to bring the group-captain's eggs!”
hot on geography. Most likely the latter
—she equipped Australian seagulls so
that their feet write on the sand in
Chinese. One day I’ve no doubt some
earnest soul will translate their message
to me. I bet it’ll be good.
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: On Camden Park Estate
—John Macarthur’s historic N.S.W. farm
—there’s now a Rotorlactor! The only
rotary milking-plant in Australia, and
equalled in size by only one in America,
the layout resembles a circular glass
house 72ft. in diameter with a merry-go-
round inside. The merry-go-round, a
spotless thing of aluminium and stainless-
steel, is fitted with 50 bails. Up a
covered ramp come the milkers, with
water spraying on hocks and hooves,
and a huge electric-fan blowing at the
doorway. One by one the cows step
on to the slowly-moving platform; an
automatic trip closes each bail as the
occupant begins to feed from the small
manger. A table carries hundreds of
wet squares of towelling; each cow’s
udder is washed by hand, a sample of
milk taken, an entry made in a book,
then the milking-machines are attached.
Towards the end of the circuit
the quantity of milk given by
each cow is read from a gauge,
entered up, and the machines
removed. The milk is suctioned
up into a stainless-steel con-
tainer attached to the top of
the moving platform. Auto-
matically the mangers rise out
of reach, and as, the cow comes
opposite a ramp the bails open
wide, allowing her to walk for-
ward inside the rotor. Down
she goes, out of sight, to emerge
in a paddock outside. The com-
plete revolution has taken ten
minutes. Meanwhile, a trip on
the container overhead has
opened a valve, sending the
milk gushing down a stationary
funnel, to be carried by suction-
pipes to the freezing-plant 50yds,
away.
“Lower Tops’l”: Animals living with-
out water (B. 22/4/’53)? On the many
Bass Strait isles where there’s no stock-
water graziers get over the difficulty by
planting pig-face. In dry summer months
the jumbucks appease their thirst by nip-
ping off the tips. Possums, given the
right country, can go for weeks in hot
climates without water the same way. But
the rummest instance I struck of living
waterlessly was on Roberts Island in
the reef-strewn Great North-east Channel,
65 miles from Thursday Island. There
on the beach we were met by a dozen
very friendly pooches, mostly blue-heeler
bitches, and though the mile-long, palm-
fringed isle showed no signs whatever
of human existence or of fresh water they
were all in great fettle. Some miles away
at Coconut Island the Torres Strait
Islanders told us they had exiled the “lady
dogs” there three years ago because
there were too many pups in the village.
The tykes lived by beachcombing, and
digging up and eating yams, the vege-
tarian canines depending for drinking-
water on dew or rain caught in the huge
clam-shells placed there by the boongs ;•
but when rain and dew gave out they
assuaged thirsts by gnawing fallen coco-
nuts.
* * * *
“T.C.R.”: There is no doubt, as “C.
Towers” (B. 6/5/’53) surmises, that the
current generated by the electric-ray is
used for offensive as well as defensive
purposes, although it seems probable that
this shock-treatment is resorted to only
when food is otherwise hard to obtain.
This has been known since the time of
Aristotle. By the ancient Greeks and
Romans the electric-ray was valued as
food. But to them it had other virtues,
for it relieved chronic headache, and was
a cure for gout if the sufferer cared to
stand on one. The brains of the fish,
applied with alum on the 16th day of
the moon, were used as a remedy for
superfluous hair. The shock of the
electric-ray is mild compared with that
of the so-called electric-eel, common in
the Amazon, in South America. This
fish, which is not an eel at all but is
related to the carps, grows to a length
of 6ft. or 7ft., and is capable of generat-
ing a current of about 400 volts. It
has been known to kill a horse. In
January, 1946,1 attended the 50th annual
meeting of the New York Zoological
Society in the grand ballroom of the
Waldorf-Astoria, and on the completion
of the ordinary business of the meeting
all lights were extinguished and the stage
“I’m going after the big stuff."
was lit (and pretty well, too) by the
current generated by an electric-eel kept
alive in a tank. We ought to import
some for use in blackouts.
* « * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; Within the next
few years there’s going to be a lot of
arguments among Westralian duck-
shooters as to what type of duck they’re
bagging. Until fairly recently the
different types were distinct; there’d be
an occasional cross between the teal and
the black duck, but there was no in-
discriminate mating between the two
types. Then the mallard was introduced
from the eastern States, and now we’re
getting a lot of crosses between it and
the black duck and possibly between it
and the teal. In some cases it’s practi-
cally impossible to trace the parentage
of some of the crosses. In one batch
of ducks trapped recently for banding
nearly 15 p.c. were crosses ranging from
almost pure mallards to almost pure
blacks, and from the grades in between
it seems that the crosses themselves are
mating and that they can breed—unlike
the cross between a Muscovy and a khaki
Campbell. These two breeds mate
readily but their progeny are all sterile.
Both the black duck and the teal are still
plentiful throughout W.A., so there’s not
much chance of either type being cross-
bred out of existence, but the increasing
number of crosses raises a point. Is the
mallard a more virile type with an attrac-
tion for the opposite sex in the other
types, or is there just an odd mating
between members who’ve been unable to
find mates among their own type, with a
possible higher fertility rate and increased
virility in the offspring?
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Tell “Sack-
ville” (B. 22/4/’53) that those turkey-
eating foxes in the Burragorang Valley
(N.S.W.) might be inoculated with the
same red mange that is killing off the
bushy-tails in South Gippsland, particu-
larly around the Yannathan-Lang Lang
area. Four years ago this mange first
broke out in the Tambo Valley and killed
off 90 per cent, of foxes in East Gipps-
land. There’s one trap in it, though.
If a dog tackles a fox he contracts the
infection and unless he is treated
promptly he dies, too.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The job was to dig a
foot-deep trench and lay in it a line of
2in. piping from a windmill on a rise
down to the homestead, length about a
mile. When we got about half-way the
boss went away and the boss’s missus got
interested. She’d bring us up some tea
and cake and then stand around and
ask questions and make suggestions.
Mat, ever suspicious of the sex, con-
cluded that she was also watching our
working-rate, since we were being paid
by the day. One day, after noting that
the missus was constantly peering up at
us from the homestead. Mat said. “Look,
we better kill this quick. Drop your
wrench an’ sit down an’ make out we’re
yarning.” Sure enough she started for
us. “Why are you men stopped work-
ing?” she demanded, “Union meeting,”
Mat said. “What!” “That’s right,” he
said. The lady went red. “What union
do you belong to?” she asked.
“N.W.8.,” Mat answered. “N.W.8.!
What’s that?” “No Women Bosses,”
Mat snapped, “an’ we’re on strike, too.”
She glared at him, then, “Oh, fluff!” she
snorted and bolted. We finished the job
in peace.
* * ♦ *
“H.C.8.”: I was with a party being
conducted over N.S.W.’s Warragamba
Dam project. It was all very interesting,
but, at every point of interest where the
guide stopped, and we all gathered around
for an informative little lecturette, I
found myself close to an elderly school-
marm-type who could have been the rein-
carnation of my old Sunday-school
teacher. I felt that she heartily disap-
proved of me, recognised me as a sinner
and was just waiting for me to show my
draggin’s up so she could pounce on me.
Finally, as we stood on the slightly-sway-
ing suspension-bridge, with the drained
river-bed 150 ft. below, the guide ran
through a few of the difficulties which
had been encountered in the construc-
tion of the dam. He pointed out a spot,
half a mile downstream, which had been
the original site, but had proved unsatis-
factory, the stone being too soft and
porous to make a suitable base for the
huge concrete wall. “Test-holes were
bored at various other places,” the guide
continued, “before we reached this spot.”
The schoolmarm regarded him earnestly.
“But you found this dam site easier?”
she asked, I almost laughed, but my
inhibitions checked me/ The lady’s eye
caught mine ; the clock turned back 35
years and I was a red-eared boy in short
pants. Then I noticed the twitch in her
mouth ; her left eyelid flicked once and
was still. How wrong you can be when
you judge by appearances!
♦ * * ♦
“Blime”: Stokey was undoubtedly
polite, and his consideration for others
obvious, but after he had agreed to
crutch Newie’s sheep for him, doubts of
his wisdom crept in. On the morning of
his arrival Newie conducted him on a
tour of inspection. “Now this is my pig-
yard,” informed Newie redundantly.
“And over here is the dairy.” “Very
nice, too,” nodded Stokey. “Dairy with
box to put the cream out of reach of
the ducks, and everything.” He edged
surreptitiously up-wind as they skirted the
pig-yard. “And this is my clover-
paddock,” continued the owner. “Some
day I’ll drain this swamp, sow the area
down, and mend the fence.” Stokey
praised the idea as the pair squished
through the''mud to a dilapidated build-
ing in the lowest corner of the paddock.
Formerly this had been the cowshed, but
now the bails had given place to a small
one-stand shearing-plant. Here Newie
ushered his companion across a raised
plank, and for a moment the cnitcher
eyed the interior with surprise. “WeU»
well, you’re certainly bringing original
ideas into the game,” he said enthusi-
astically. “It’s the first time I’ve seen
a dam with a roof over it.”
TO A DAISY
Waxed with the sun, a hard’s delight,
You spread your glowings to my light—
Yet have I seen a sadder sight?
Time, that holds long summer here;
Crawls with the sandhills, and my fear
Through saltbush yellowing on the plain
Beholds the coming of your reign.
Through dust-hung tracks of plodding sheep
Your points of ruin slowly creep,
And on the sandhills’ ebb and flow
The flags of conquest bravely blow.
For you the tsind and dust in vain
Corroboree across the plain;
The wind, a tame and eager thrall,
Seeks dust to raise your pedestal
In gentle heaps around your lines;
Then sighs its length along the pines—
When had your beauty need of such?
Carrion breath and swagman’s touch!
But, here, draw forth this cringing power
From the coward holes to share your hour —
The trembling tribe of ears and tail,
The destined league that shall avail . . .
Yet spare a chimney and a post
To refuge there the squatter’s ghost,
And drive the dust into his soul
As rabbits on his hearthstone roll.
The prize is gained, the day is won,
The Darling shrinks into the sun,
As sandhills, daisies, rabbits pour
Down its silent banks —no more
The kookaburra shakes its sides;
Galahs are fled, emu strides
A lonely spirit of despair
To make more desolate ruin there.
Though lowly now to move delight
Where have I seen a sadder sight?
n.s.w.
W. H. ROBINSON.


“Old-timer”: The main street in
Trundle (N.S.W.) is so wide that in a
Bogan shower it’s pretty hard to see the
other pub, which is on the other side
at an oblique angle. So when Dandaloo
leaned against the post at the Union
and peered across to the figure against
the post at the Trundle he wasn’t quite
sure whether it was Long Bob Harris or
not. Dandy had stabled his horse, it
was too much trouble to go round the
back and saddle it for the ride to the
Trundle, and the distance from pub to
pub was far too much for a horseman
to walk. pondered a while, then
went into the pub and had words with
the barman. About four minutes later
Long Bob detached himself from the
post at the Trundle and he, too, went
inside. As Dandy said afterwards, “Y’
can’t beat these inventions. If it hadn’t
been for these telephones me an’ old
Bob might ha’ had our booze an’ rid
away without knowin’ we was both in
town.”
♦ * * ♦
“Gunidj”; A series of scuffles between
small birds led me to the near-by bridge.
I found that the pair of bottle-swallows
which build a nest under the decking
every year were trying to eject a couple
of sparrows which had taken over the
partly-built nest. The dispute raged for
a couple of days and left the spags in
possession. The swallows built another
nest a few yards away. I told a visitor
about it and took him to the bridge to
show him the two nests, but when we
go there we found the entrance to the
first one sealed over. I broke it open, to
discover the remains of the hen sparrow
sitting on what was left of four nestlings.
The swallows had won after all.
* * * ♦
“Bass”: Fishermen along the sou’-
Westralian coast are getting good hauls
of Australian salmon —which, structur-
ally, is &bout as far removed from the
true salmon as a fish could be. There
are two main types of Australian
salmon: one sticks to the waters
of western Tasmania, S.A. and W.A.;
“He Was quite good-looking in the FLAT films.”
the other is found from N.Z. to the
Eastralian seaboard—and they’re distinct
enough for some scientists to reckon that
each deserves species-ranking. The
Westralian type comes inshore for
schooling during the non-spawning
period, which is now, and iPs an easy
mark for the net-fishermen once they
find where the fish are going to school
that year. Trouble is that schooling-
haunts vary, for no apparent reason,
Once nearly half the State’s catch came
from near Hopetoun, on the south coast,
where the 12-mile reef was a net-fisher-
man’s paradise. This limestone reef
runs for about half a mile parallel to a
nice sloping beach. At low tide the beach
and reef nearly meet where the beach*
curves seawards, and the fish had a habit
of schooling in the lagoon, which has a
good sandy bottom and an average depth
of only about sft. An observer on the
sandhills could spoft them coming in
and the rest was easy. But in 1949 they
didn’t come in any great numbers and
they’ve been scarce ever since, though
they’ve been plentiful further west, where
the netting isn’t so good. Similarly, on
the west coast the main fishing-grounds
at Hamelin Bay and Boranup, just north
of the Leeuwin, petered out a few years
back as the schooling-haunts shifted
north to around Cape Naturaliste. Now
it looks as if the fish might be
coming back and the 12-mile reef might
be fished again. The latest report is of
five tons in three days —taken at Hamelin
Bay.
* * ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: You mightn’t con-
nect kangaroos and trace-elements, but
W.A. university’s biology section does.
Trace-elements, those vitally important
soil-constituents which are necessary in
minute quantities if soil is to produce
edible crops, are becoming the main
factors in agricultural research in W.A.,
where they’re destined to bring millions
of acres of light land into production.
Finding out which elements are lacking
from each district is a slow job, but it
can be determined to some extent by an
analysis of the organs of animals which
habitually feed off the country. So a
State fauna warden shoots an occasional
’roo on his rounds, puts the liver in pre-
servative and sends it to the Animal
Health Laboratory. Analysts require to
know the animal’s sex, the type of ’roo,
and where and when it was shot. The
time of killing is particularly important.
Seems there’s a big difference between
night-feeding and dawn-feeding.
* * * ♦
“Bert the Carpenter”: We had gone
bush to erect plant and buildings at a
mining claim; all the materials were at
the site, but some essential tools were
missing. Jock, the foreman, a wiry little
Scot who had been a ship’s engineer,
wanted some holes drilled in a plate;
Paddy the blacksmith reminded him that
all the metal drills had gone astray.
“Then make ’em,” growled Jock ; “plenty
of tool-steel here.” He kicked a piece of
iron rod. “I’d drill wi’ that if I had
nothin’ better,” Paddy snatched it up.
“You’d drill steel plate with iron rod?”
he scoffed. Within two minutes the usual
bets were laid. I had a side-wager of a
quid on Jock—l’d run against Scots
engineers previously. Jock cut a six-inch
piece of the iron rod, forged one end to
a snake-head shape, raised it to welding-
heat and plunged it into some fat. After
repeating the process he warmed it to
white-heat, gave “it a final shaping, let it
cool, touched up the cutting-edges with
a file, made it red-hot and tempered it
as if it had been tool-steel. Then he put
it in the chuck of the drill and Paddy
scratched his head as the plate was bored.
“There,” said Jock, holding out his hand
for the money. “They teach trades on
the Clyde.” It had me stumped for a
while, but eventually Jock explained it.
“Case-hardenin’, Ye can do it by heatin’
the iron in a bit o’ tube packed wi’ horse-
hoof parin’s, but fat’s the quickest. The
iron picks up carbon and gets turned to
steel, se6?” I ran across Paddy again a
few years later. “That was a lucky day
for me,” he grinned. “Many a quid I’ve
made with that same trick. First time I
lost because I filed all the hard skin off
the iron, but then I got the hang of it
and I never went wrong again.”
* * ♦ *
“Sack”: An amateur dabbler in tan-
ning eel-skins myself, I can’t testify that
I ever found “a patch of scales” on the
slippery pelts (B. 15/4/’53). Still, there
may be different species, although the
fact that the eels mentioned were, like
mine, caught in fresh
water should not make
them distinct from
their salty relations,
since scientists claim
that all eels are
spawned in the ocean.
I did find, however,
that the long fin which
runs almost the whole
length of the back
leaves a series of holes
along the skin. Could
they have been mis-
taken for scale-marks?
My greatest trouble
came when I tried to
dry out the unbeliev-
able quantity of oil in
the pelts. With the first
experiment I tacked the
skin to a post in the
sun. For days the oil
oozed out. After about
a week the pelt showed
signs of drying. The
next day- it was off
again ; it was still weep-
ing when I got disgusted with the thing
and flung it in the bush. A month later
the dog brought in a smelly mess and de-
posited it on my bed. It was the eelskin,
shrivelled to about a quarter its former
size, but still greasy. In later attempts I
dropped the idea of drying the skins
before tanning, but just got straight to
work with the sulphuric-acid method.
The results were not 100 p.c., though the
skins are preserved. But to return to the
scale question. Would it be such a dead-
loss, commercially, to produce good,
wide strips of leather with scale marks
on them? Many a “genuine crocodile-
skin” purse or “snake-skin” pair of shoes
never got closer to a reptile than the
machine that tanners use to imprint scale-
patterns on leather.
* * * *
“Vestal V.”; Of fires which are
hard to douse spare me from that of
an old sheepyard. Saw one smouldering
in the big receiving-yard at Breakfast
Creek station, Warbreccan (W.Q.), which
was inches deep in dry powdered sheep-
dung—it could hold 10,000 wethers with-
out crowding. A few of us dug that up,
cleaned round the spot, slung all live
embers outside. Then two more spurts
started about 30yds. away. That game
went on for several days—as fast as
we’d root out one conflagration we’d
look round to see where the next volcano
had erupted. A bucket-brigade had no
effect; that yard just smouldered away
until an inch of rain came and did the
job.
♦ * * ♦
“Jackstay”: Not only the onset of
the mating season causes plankton to
become luminescent (B.
29/4/’53); any disturbance will
cause the minute marine animals
composing it to turn on the
juice. Saw this well illustrated
while fishing one dark night off
Hawk’s Nest Beach (N.S.W.).
There was a very slight sea, and
the whole surface of the water
was pitch-black—except at the
crest of each little wave as it
curled and foamed before
breaking. Then it became a
long line of white fire, so vivid
as to not only cast a glow on
the surface ahead of itself, but to throw
our shadows very plainly on the sand
behind us. That display apparently
originated in a reddish substance, some-
what coralline in appearance, and known
locally as “blanket-weed.” Squid or
cuttlefish, especially if they’ve been kept
a day or two, become very brilliant.
* * ♦ ♦
“Archaen”: “Millicent” (B. 29/4/’53)
is airing theories long exploded. Aqua-
lungers wear a rubber headpiece which
prevents water entering the ears. Going
down to 200 ft. —or even deeper—is
commonplace nowadays. Quite a lot
of information about the undersea ex-
ploits of the French fishmen in the
Mediterranean and Red Sea has appeared
lately in overseas publications. It has
been found that at 200 ft. the body feels
as if wrapped in elastic bandages, but
“How many words a minute can YOU do?”
otherwise the water-pressure has no
effect. One can swim around as freely
as if only just under the surface. Aqua-
lungers do have to come up slowly after
spending half an hour or so at a great
depth, but the action of swimming to
the surface and the consequent extra
use of lungs and muscles get rid of the
nitrogen in the blood much faster than
in the case of a diver in orthodox dress,
who has to be “staged” up. I’ve been
down to 60ft. in a frogman’s dress which
some Yanks were using for experiments.
I stayed down for 18 minutes and didn’t
notice any water-pressure. Nor did I
feel any trace of “bends” afterwards.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: We had decided to call
it a day and were winding up the lines
when the antics of a speab-fisherman
drew attention. His head and body w r ere
submerged in a rocky indent, but his
flipper-shod feet seemed to be threshing
and splashing with extraordinary violence.
“He’s in trouble,” declared Charlie, and
led the race across the slippery rocks.
We arrived just in time to give the
goggled apparition someone to skite to
as he emerged triumphant with a 201 b.
blue groper skewered through the brisket.
A damsel in our party was aghast: “Oh,
the poor thing! Look at that spear
right through it! I think the R.S.P.C.A.
should ban spear-guns, don’t you?” I
found myself agreeing with her. It
wasn’t until we were cleaning our meagre
catch that another side of the question
occurred to me. The rock-cod’s jaw had
been cut away to free the hook; one
bream had, embedded in its lip, a rusty
souvenir of some previous escape, and
its young brother had been unlucky—
he’d been foul-hooked through the eye.
The flathead had swallowed the hook
and been subjected to some crude
surgery, while a toadie, whose jaw had
been broken away in the process of
hook-extraction, had inflated himself so
much under the ordeal that he couldn’t
sink, and, three times bigger than he
should be, was being swished backwards
and forwards in a wave-washed gutter.
And I had agreed that spear-fishing was
cruel! Truly, accepted customs can
make a man the smuggest of hypocrites.
WELCOME SWALLOW
Out of the cave of leaves speeds the dark-
purple swallow,
a taut-drawn bow whose tipped forked shaft
must follow.
Leaves in mosaic fly past him. His dark
membrane-
-like wings flare open. He cuts into slanting
rain.
He soars, hangs poised, falls from his height
where, fast,
and faster, branches, sky and the earth reel past.
Near me he comes. With inquisitive, flame-
flickerings,
he hesitates, hovers, held on storm-purple wings,
utters the single rain-drop sound of his cry;
earth then heels over and branches and leaves
stream by
him. Aimed at the arch of the storm, he is
off to harrow,
hawk, comb the air: the bow flown off with
its arrow.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


PENFOLDS
ir ★ ★
BRANDY
s m
IJ •
Plif
mm
s®
KN FOLDS
'%x-'
PSQ/53
“THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest lectures
cl high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
"Notional” Rotary Dupli
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plana.
Music, etc.
Butij entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PIT. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE ~ Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
to.
&
5
O
rtv
THE
SYDNEY COUNTY
COUNCIL
£4'ls'-%
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY
CAN
Now Open
offers you £57 interest
for each £lOO invested
Interest mounts up rapidly when your money is
earning more than double bank interest. £lOO in-
vested for 12 years will earn £57 or £33/5/- if you
invest for 7 years. When you apply, you decide how
much you want your money to earn.
Your investment is secured on the whole income of
the -Sydney County Council, estimated to reach
£15,000,000 this year, as well as upon the Council’s
statutory powers to levy unlimited rates.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in
New South Wales.
START YOUR MONEY EARNING £4/15/-% TO-DAY
MAKE YOUR APPLICATION
• at any Commonwealth Bank branch;
• through your Stockbroker.
Issued at par, this £1,000,000 Loan is fully under-
written by lan Potter & Co., Members of The Stock
Exchange of Melbourne. CLOSING DATE IS 30th
MAY, 1953.
CCL-2
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Woolcott Forbes Inquiry
At the resumed bankruptcy
inquiry in Sydney into the
affairs of John Woolcott Forbes
(otherwise Louis Brandi),
23-year-old John William Han-
sen, formerly employed by
stockbroker Gordon D. Whar-
ton, said that he had received
£4500 in commission in connec-
tion with the sale of shares in
companies managed by Forbes,
namely R.U.R. and Amalga-
mated Tin.
Hansen returned to Australia
in March after an 18 months’
trip abroad, which he said cost
him £l2OO. When he went away
at the end of 1951 he had been
for four years in Wharton’s
office. During that time he
came into contact with Forbes.
Practically all transactions with
Wharton, as broker, were with
Irving Investments, of which
Forbes was manager. In 1947-
48 there were a lot of trans-
actions, Hansen said, but busi-
ness gradually dwindled away.
He himself had personal trans-
actions with Forbes at the be-
ginning of 1951. He got in
touch with personal clients and
induced them to buy R.U.R.
shares. He bought the shares
for 245. each (2000 to 3000 from
a Mrs. Twyman) and sold them
for 30s.
His next transaction was in
connection with Amalgamated
Tin shares. These shares were
as low as Is. each in March,
1951, but reached 7s. 9d. in
August. Forbes told him that
Capital Investments Corp. would
let him have 150,000 of these
shares at 20 p.c. below the mar-
ket price. Hansen would get
20 p.c. of the selling-price on
shares sold. From the sale of
47,000 shares, Hansen said, he
actually received £3500 in com-
missions. In all his transactions
with Forbes’s companies he had
received a total of £4500 in
commission. The transaction in
Amalgamated Tin was pre-
arranged. The sales were
recorded in Stock Exchange
transactions after the shares were
sold. Hansen denied that Forbes
had paid him between £BOOO
and £lO,OOO. Out of the £4500
which he did receive he had
paid out £2OOO in sub-commis-
sion. He had bought 8000
Amalgamated Tin shares for his
mother.
Woolcott Forbes, questioned
by Mr. Manning (for the
Official Receiver), agreed that
the companies he was associated
with had used fictitious names
and had deposited and with-
drawn moneys from the bank
accounts of officers of the com-
panies, but he would not admit
that the books of the companies
and their records concealed the
true nature of their activities. It
was not true, he insisted, that he
obtained money from investors,
accounted to the investors at
par and retained the premiums
himself.
Murray Guy Smith, secretary
to some of the Forbes-managed
companies, and “a director of
convenience—l had no say in
the policy”—after a long ex-
amination regarding receipts
made out in fictitious names and
the crediting of money to fic-
titious persons, said that a fic-
titious name was signed to a
receipt to conceal the fact that
the money had gone to someone
else-—to H. J. Price or to Wool-
cott Forbes. Under instructions,
money was placed to the credit
of fictitious persons to enable it
to be drawn out in cash. He had
given to Forbes some of the
money drawn in fictitious names.
Eric McConnell, former sec-
retary to Woolcoft Forbes, was
asked by Mr. Manning:
Won’t you agree that you had
instructions from Forbes over and
over again to make entries which you
knew were improper and not legiti-
mate, and which resulted in your
cashing cheques for large sums and
paying the proceeds to Forbes?
McConnell : I would not say
“often.”.
McConnell added that on
many occasions money which
should have been credited to
different accounts in the books
was not, but was credited to
“contra,” and then withdrawn
in cash. He agreed that a con-
siderable number of these with-
drawals were given to Forbes.
He also agreed that the open-
ing of accounts in the names of
fictitious persons was to enable
the accounts to be drawn upon.
F. T. Smythe, auditor of
several of the Forbes-managed
enterprises, said he had been
misled and deceived when audit-
ing the affairs of the companies.
Earl Knowles Wilkinson, who
has said he is Forbes’s brother-
in-law, told the Registrar that
he and John Hansen had agreed
with Forbes to try to find
buyers “off the- market” for
150,000 Amalgamated Tin shares
at 25 p.c. commission. On one
placement he received 33 p.c.
Forbes had paid him about
£7OOO altogether. He had also
dealt in R.U.R.. shares, and
these had brought him in about
£l2OO. Sales were not made on
the Stock Exchange, but the
Exchange was informed, and the
sales recorded.
Mrs. Woolcott Forbes, ques-
tioned about her dealings in
R.U.R., told the Registrar that
she relied on her husband’s
knowledge of the stock-market
to a large extent, but he did not
transact any business for her
without her consent.
Costs and Exports
The Bank of New South
Wales, in its latest “Quarterly
Review,” draws attention to the
danger which exists in Aus-
tralia’s high costs of production,
especially as regards the export
industries. Commodity prices
have been edging downwards,
and some, notably for metals,
have fallen sharply.
The “Review” continues:
The business situation appears to
be more stable than for many years,
and yet an air of uneasiness and
uncertainty still prevails.
The primary industries have had
exceptionally favorable conditions,
and the volume of output has con-
siderably increased.
The secondary industries provide
a less even pattern, but the big im-
provement in the supply of basic
materials puts the whole economy
on a much firmer basis.
The improved balance of payments
this year and the greater liquidity of
the financial system which partly
arises from it help to underwrite the
present state of the economy.
The Government has taken advan-
tage of the improved balance of
trade to ease the import cuts.
It has rightly kept an eye on em-
ployment in Australia, the need to
maintain supplies of raw materials
and industrial equipment, and on the
replenishment of run-down stocks.
The process of relaxation will pro-
vide a pacemaker for the efficiency
of Australian industry. Import-
restrictions were too readily wel- ,
corned by manufacturers for the
additional protection they afforded.
At the same time there have
been persistent complaints about
import-restrictions from some
engaged in the textile-importing
trade. Yet many importers were
saved from bankruptcy by the
restrictions. Too many of these
importers will not admit this
fact yet, or that in reality they
were very poor merchandisers,
and, maybe, still are.
Dalgety’s Issue
Subject to approval of share-
holders at a later date, Dalgety
and Co., Ltd. (incorporated in
England), will make an issue of
2,400,000 B ord. shares of Bs.
(sterling) each at par, two for
five. It is proposed also to
capitalise £900,000 of undis-
tributed profits by applying them
in paying up 3s. sterling a share
on the existing partly-paid ords.
Because of exchange-control,
shareholders in Australia and
Maoriland will be given the
opportunity of subscribing in
local currency at the current
exchange-rate.
The new cash-paid capital is
required largely because mer-
chandise turnover has increased
from £7 million in 1945-46 to
£25 million last year. Over the
past six years the number of
branch offices has grown from
139 to 223.
The capital-issue plans will be
presented to shareholders at a
date yet to be decided on.
Another Drilling Record
“Lemon”: The Omati test-
well in north-west Papua
reached the astounding depth
of 13,254 ft. on May 10 and is
still drilling. The only other
well in the Southern Hemisphere
to exceed a depth of 2\ miles
(13,200 ft.) was drilled to
13,213 ft. in the Marajo Basin of
Brazil.
The feat is all the more remark-
able for the fact that caving
conditions and loss of drilling-
mud occurred between 12,770
and 12,850 ft., and that these
difficulties were surmounted in
open hole as the 6|in. casing
had been set at 12,025 ft. —in
itself an epic depth.
Shareholders in the affiliated
Australian co., Oil Search, Ltd.,
should feel that the search for
oil in Papua could hardly be in
more competent hands.
Only a slight increase (from
15s. to 15s. 3d.) in the price of
Taubmans’ ss. shares followed
the announcement that 1.C.1. was
negotiating for the purchase of
Taubmans Chemicals Pty., Ltd.,
a subsidiary which makes more
than 50 p.c. of the D.D.T.
turned out in Australia, as well
as many other chemicals. Its
factory is at Villawood, near
Sydney.
* ♦ * ♦
Rains in the Riverina have
brought a strengthening in the
price of F. W. Hughes £1 ords.,
which have firmed to 19s. 4d.
Wool auctions have also been
favorable. A description of the
Hughes pastoral empire was
given in B. 8/4/’53.
* ♦ * *
Metropolitan Cement (Mai-
den) £1 shares are in the dol-
drums at 7s. 6d. in spite of
freight advantages since the N. S.
Wales Government virtually
prohibited the carriage of cement
from Portland by road. Ac-
counts to December 31 last have
not yet made their appearance;
they are usually ancient history
when they come along. Metro-
politan has been heavily in-
debted to the Rural Bank in
recent years, the bank having
much more money in the busi-
ness in 1951 than shareholders
themselves. For some time
N.S.W. price-control allowed
Metropolitan to charge more
for its product than other pro-
ducers.
* * * *
Following the confirmation of
the lower (10 p.c.) div. rate.
Burns Philp ords. have settled
at 535., ex div., compared with
555. 6d. before the announce-
ment.
* * * ♦
Moina Tungsten-Tin Is.-paids
opened in Sydney at Is. 3d. last
week, but later dropped back to
lOd. It is a promising Tas-
manian mining proposition, but
uncertainty about metal prices
has affected the market for the
shares.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices 3
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
AND PERTH
Do you profit
from experience?
Always ready to help you, your local A.N.Z.
Branch Manager is a responsible bank officer
whose many years of training and personal
experience are supported by the widespread
organisation of the entire Bank.
Whatever your financial plans or problems are,
you can be sure that they will not be new to
an experienced banker. Thus to have a regular
review of your financial affairs with your
Bank Manager is a very sound practice.
Many customers make use of this A.N.Z. Bank
service, which is freely available to you,
whether your resources are large or small.
A-N'Z
I***l
W
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1835) (Established 1837}
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, and in London . Agents throughout the world,
ANZ 54 - 12"' 1
cei
m
■ ftp
•v
V
***^^■ , y**•'‘ , v||
\AVIATIDH 1M SERVICER
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Proprietor#: Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.) 1/53
on performance
There is more much more
—to supplying aircraft than
transferring fuel from fueller to
aircraft tank. The green and
yellow fuellers of the Anglo-
Iranian’s BP Aviation Service
are well known to you.
Much goes on in the Com-
pany’s laboratories unseen
by the consumer but of
great importance to him.
What of tomorrow’s fuels?
.. Even now they are being
developed,
and this
illustration!
shows a full-scale combustion
test being conducted on avia-
tion turbine fuel. New fuels
result from endless experiments
and exhaustive tests with the
engines in which they will be
used. This is but one example
of the concentration behind the
scenes to give you better per-
formance. 1
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
The Exchange Position
Whatever the dangers of a
policy that still leans towards
inflation, there is less fear of
these in New Zealand at the
present time than of the hard-
ships that might be met in
making a determined effort to
place the economy on a firm and
stable basis. Partly this feeling
is due to the mistimed, or, rather,
badly-planned, earlier efforts of
Mr. Holland and his Govern-
ment to restore free enterprise,
first in the year after he took
over from the Socialists and
next in the year that produced
the import boom.
These well-meant efforts which
miscarried shook the faith of
Mr. Holland and his Ministers
in remedies which would do a
lot of good if administered with
skill and proper preparation.
The first bold stroke was an
attack on subsidies when the
cost of a group of essential com-
modities and services was
allowed to rise suddenly four
years ago, under the pressure
of surplus money which should
have been removed to support
the drive against subsidies, then
becoming a heavy burden on
taxes. When soaring costs
forced the Government to retrace
its steps subsidies soon started
to get out of hand again, and
today are costing nearly £lB mil-
lion yearly. The next effort, also
made while inflation was still a
threat, was decontrol of imports
and exchange in 1951, in conse-
quence of which N.Z. rushed
headlong into an import boom
with all its defences down.
The blunder in this case was
in exposing N.Z. to what the
governor of the Reserve Bank
(Mr. E. C. Fussell) called a
“speed-wobble.” It has never
been disclosed whether the
governor advised Mr. Holland
against this rash action, but it
has been said that when the
Government seeks advice from
the Reserve Bank the final de-
cision and responsibility rests
with the Government. The real
power, in such circumstances, is
the Treasury, which hasn’t
always seen eye to eye with the
bank. Apart from this conflict,
a basic weakness is the lack of
a forward-exchange system to
control external payments.
With the heavy demands of
the Welfare State —which Mr,
Holland prefers to describe as
the “Wealth-producing State” —
something will have to be done
in a permanent way to guard
against periodically recurring
runs on exchange, and N.Z.
bankers are now looking into
this. Nothing is more necessary
than a co-ordinated exchange-
system to bring cohesion into
N.Z. banking. When this move
is made it will be the most im-
portant step in banking since
the Reserve Bank was set up
nearly 20 years ago. It is more
important because of the tend-
ency to inflation, which many
New Zealanders think is in-
herent in the Welfare State,
along with the monetary bias
which makes exchange-equili-
brium a most unstable and
uncertain condition.
Population
If the rate of growth of the
post-war years continues Maori-
land’s population will be doubled
in the next 36 years, and will be
four million by 1989. Another
bit of long-range forecasting is
that Auckland will be a city of
a million people by the end of
the century.
These targets could be reached
earlier by pushing ahead with
immigration, or delayed by rely-
ing more on the natural increase.
Businessmen are all for bringing
in new settlers; workers are
against it. It boils down mainly
to the type of immigrant. To-
day N.Z. is hand-picking men
and women for main industries
and trades, and for under-
staffed services, like the hospitals
and the railways, and so long as
it follows a policy of placing
them where they’re most wanted
there shouldn’t be much risk in
bringing them in at the present
rate for a long time to come.
With age in their favor and
skill and experience to make
them useful cogs in the produc-
tion-machine, they should be
able to earn their keep and
something to spare.
The main argument for a
closed-door to migrants has been
that they’ll undermine the
standard of living. Well, it
didn’t happen in U.S. or Canada,
and it hasn’t happened in Maori-
land in the past. Today the
biggest threat to the standard of
living is the slowness of produc-
tion, which inflates building and
development costs, so much so
that four out of every five Maori-
landers who want new homes
today can’t afford them, and
cos. or local-governing authori-
ties are held up by lack of capi-
tal and resources in planning
for development. Nothing
would help more than a cut in
costs, and, as the most unwieldy
item in costs is wages, the way
to put this right is to bring in
workers of the best type.
Price-control
While price-control continues
to snap its fingers at anybody
and everybody who calls for de-
control, and the Government sits
by with folded arms, apparently
afraid to do anything to clip the
wings of bureaucracy, business
organisations in New Zealand
are massing their forces for a
real showdown. Led by the
Associated Chambers of Com-
merce, which lost patience when
control refused to make way for
competition in the past 12
months, they seem to be agreed
that the time has arrived to put
an end to price-fixing by official
order and to give free enterprise
a chance.
This looks like the first
attempt to form a united front
after futile efforts to get some-
where by sectional appeals. The
A.C.C., as spokesman, wants the
Government to make a clean
sweep qf price-control over “all
goods and services in abundant
supply,” and to leave the Price
Division with nothing more
than main commodities and
services.
Although the Price Division
is one of the youngest of N.Z.’s
50 State departments, it is the
most unpopular. Since last
year’s swing from a sellers’ to a
buyers’ market in most trades,
price-control has been due for
the order of the boot, for which
it fully qualified earlier by its
high-handed methods and often
intolerably long delays in ad-
justing prices to changes in costs.
What it has been responsible for
in the way of trade bottlenecks,
pampered enterprises, inefficient
firms, ’privilege and monopoly,
over the years, no one outside
bureaucratic ranks knows.
Most prices today under con-
trol were first stabilised by regu-
lation in 1942, as a war-time
measure, and it is these that
organisations like the Associated
Chambers are mainly concerned
about. One of the most objec-
tionable features has been the
practice of fixing prices accord-
ing to profits—profit-control—
which has had some harsh con-
sequences. Some efficient manu-
facturers gave up making
articles for which they were not
allowed to charge the same
prices as less-efficient competi-
tors, particularly in the case of
easily-costed goods of standard-
ised design, and consumers have
had to stand the brunt in higher
prices.
Under this inflationary type of
control, less-scrupulous firms
gained by faking costs, and cos.
were discouraged from seeking
economies which would have in-
creased their profits and put
them offside with price-control.
Where there’s a case for con-
tinued control over a select list
of basic foodstuffs and charges,
something will have to be done
to reduce the gap between costs
and prices, which is bridged by
subsidies, to the tune of £9 a
head.


UNION TRUSTEE
protects and conserves
YOUR ASSETS
UX.\TUUI
<m/y Trustoo' company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South IVales
and Queensland.
For the security of your dependants, the manage
ment and protection of your assets is just as important
after your lifetime as it is now. Administration of
Estates is a specialised duty that Union Trustee has
faithfully performed for over 67 years. It is significant
that an increasing number of people in all walks of
life are appointing the Company as Executor or Trustee.
The Union Trustee Company’s charges are exceedingly
moderate. They are, in fact, limited by law. And, of
course, continuity of service is assured at all times.
Call for a personal interview with one of the Company’s senior
officers, or, if you prefer, write for a copy of the free booklet —
“Important Facts Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.” No
charge—no obligation.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 18S5
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
* 2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Increase
ten Total
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Assets.
1945.. 1,786,135 783,182 273,715 39,931 1
To general reserve, £50,000 .. [• 840,273
To tax reserve, £15,000 .. ..I
Profit, sale property, £36,248 .. ’
Interest from previous years, £71,571 931,607
1946.. 1,964,122 796,221 297,730 40,783
Profit, sale property, £226,278 .. 1.. , 00 „„„
1947.. 2,118,921 772,338 376,574 54,763 j
Profit, sale property, £41,780 ..1
Interest from previous years, £38,662 I , , n .
1948.. 2,253,523 828,257 367,438 120,950 f L lO4 - 054
To contingency reserve. £lO,OOO .. J
Prom tax reserve, £28,000 .. ..1
Profit, sale property, £8252 .. f 1,152,497
1949.. 2,482,342 880,922 386,055 20,604 )
Profit, sale property, £23,185 ..1
1950.. 2,718,286 920,790 419,303 33,790 } 1,447,334
To contingency reserve, £25,000 .. )
Profit, sale property, £16,585 ..1
1951.. 3,123,782 928,470 501,600 58,872 I . Qnl la .
To tax reserve, £15,000 .. |
To contingency reserve, £lB,OOO .. J
Profit sale property. £19,676 .. t i coo ora
1952.. 3,526,532 1,056,335 576,838 85,364 j
Healthy progress, a sound financial
structure and satisfactory margins in
those matters upon which bonus-paying
capacity depends are disclosed in the
latest accounts of the C.M., which is
one of Australia’s “big five” mutual life
offices. Features are (1) a record amount
of new business, (2) growth in surplus
available for division among policy-
holders—there are no shareholders, (3)
maintenance of bonus-rates, (4) further
slight strengthening in the net rate of
interest earned, (5) tight hold upon con-
trollable outgoings, and (6) strengthening
of reserves.
Despite last year’s mild trade recession
and continued increase in the cost of
living, an extra £866,493 of new business
(£11,116,344) was put upon the books —
all ordinary contracts written within the
Commonwealth —and the average amount
per policy increased by £l2l, reaching
£1126. Behind the buoyancy of the
figures lie post-war inflation, rapid ex-
pansion of population, quick growth
of industrial superannuation schemes
and home-purchase associated with life
assurance.
The co.’s policies are designed to
meet a multiplicity of future needs of
the assured and his dependants, and
are sold primarily on the fairness of
the contract, including the prospect of
future benefits commensurate with what
is given up meanwhile to obtain it. One
benefit, for which there is no substitute,
is a full measure of capital protection
long before it is ever paid for, and the
capital sum involved keeps on appreciat-
ing by regular bonus additions in both
good times and bad.
The year’s income, which increased by
£405,841, was a record, too. The next
table shows where it came from, the
amount absorbed in outgoings and
charges, and the resultant surplus, which
was £65,415 stronger at £560,180:
Income— 1951. 1952.
Premiums, etc. .. .. £2,323,669 £2,630,656
Interest, divs., etc... .. 800,113 895,876
Surplus sale assets .. .. 16,585 19,676
Total £3,140,367 £3,546,208
Outgo and charges—
Paid to policyholders .. 928,470 1,056,335
Expenses* .. .. .. 525,462 612,197 s
Increased actuarial liability 1,191,670 1,317,496
Total £2,645,602 £2,986,028
Surplus • • , . . • 494,765 560,180
* Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
The mortality experience was well within
actuarial expectation. Excluding taxes
(£55,174), depreciation (£35,364) and
contributions to the staff fund (£14,664),
exes. took 14.2 p.c. of. total income, same
as for the previous year, thanks to the
combined effects of bigger income and
careful management.
The net effective rate of interest earned
on the assurance fund (the amount held
to meet claims as they arise under
policies) was Is. 6d. stronger at £4 os. Bd.
per cent. The margin between this rate
and the stringent 2% p.c. assumed in
valuing liabilities under policies is more
than is usually considered adequate for
maintenance of compound reversionary
bonus-rates. The comparatively higher
rate of interest at which the co. is now
able to invest new money, the prospec-
tive less-steep rise in wage and other
costs, and favorable mortality experience
augur well for the future of bonus-rates.
After providing for increased actuarial
liabilities amounting to £1,317,496, and
including £34,788 brought forward, the
surplus available for distribution was
£594,968 (up £60,471), which was dealt
with in this way:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Surplus earned* .. £399,700 £494,765 £560,180
Brought forward .. 35,127 39,732 34,788
Total surplus .. £434,827 £534,497 £594.968
Bonuses to policyholders! 370,095 431,709 482,020
To tax reserves.. .. —• 15,000
To write down assets.. 35,000 50,000
To contingency reserve 25,000 18,000
To carry forward .. 39,732 34,788 62,948
* Includes. surplus on realisation assets. ! Includes
provision for interim bonuses.
The amount distributed among policy-
holders provided reversionary bonuses
on the same scale as the previous year’s
increased and very satisfactory rates.
When the books closed the assurance
fund stood at £22,031,643, and it had the
support and assistance of £802,948 of
other reserves.
The emphasis in the investment port-
folio is upon mortgages (up £1,767,414),
which are very helpful so far as new
business and interest earnings are con-
cerned ;
1951. p.c. 1952. p.c.
Oom’wealth stock.. £6,805,720 31.1 £7,156,931 30.5
Local-govt, stock .. 188,678 0.8 353,434 1.5
Shares and debs. 6,859,927 31.3 5,979,280 25.5
Mortgages .. 5,946,247 27.2 7,718,661 32.8
Loans on policies 744,381 3.4 858,304 3.6
Book debts, etc... 368,501 1.7 392,935 1.7
Cash, etc. .. 166,316 0.8 160,213 0.7
Properties .. 816,308 3.7 863,584 3.7
Total . £21,895,978 £23,478,342
Holdings of Commonwealth stock in-
creased by £351,211 and of local-
government securities by £164,756. The
contraction of £880,647 in shares and
debentures was wholly in respect of the
latter (£2,637,682, down £1,211,297).
What loss, if any, occurred in connec-
tion with the shuffle is not ascertainable
from the published accounts. Now that
the gilt-edged market appears to be
settling down on a 41 p.c. basis, more
attention is likely to be given to Com-
monwealth bonds in the near future.
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
Huddabt Parker and Subsidiaries.!
, Dividends— \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1944.. 103,911 30,000 12 p.c. c= 90,000 2,144,041
Unexplained addition, £61,379 .. 2,205,420
1945.. 149,901 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 29,901 2,235,321
Unexplained addition, £17,574 .. 2,252,895
1946. .138,572 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 18.572 2,271,467
Subsidy adjustment, £7169 .. ..2,278,636
Unexplained addition, £63,181 .. 2,341,817
1947.. 121,614 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 1614 2,343,431
Subsidy adjustment, £24,794 .. .. 2,368,225
Unexplained reductions, £84,808 .. 2,283,417
1948. .140,315 30,000 11 p.c.=82,500 27,815 2,311,232
Unexplained additions, etc., £87,391 2,398,623
Added res. subsidiaries, £159,700 2,558,323
1949. .117,633 30,000 11 p.c.=82,500 5,133 2,563,456
Unexplained reduction, £28,104 .. 2,535,352
1950. .130,009 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 10,009 2.545,361
Unexplained additions, £95,138 .. 2,640,499
1951. .148.482 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 28,482 2,668,981
To replacement reserve, £121,850.. 2,790,831
From Federal Govt., £20,000 .. 2,810,831
Unexplained addition, £46,884 .. 2,857,715
1952. .121,966 80,000 12 p.c.=90,000 1,966 2,859,681
! After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
With a twinkle in its eye the market
notes the slip of £26,516 in last term’s
declared net earnings, and prices the f.-p.
£1 ords. at 50s. 6d. (51s. a year ago) to
return 4.7 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
The 6 pc. prefs. at 235. yield 5.2 p.c.
Net tangible cover (book-value) is
£8 4s. 4d. prefs. and 965. 3d. ords.
For many years prior to 1951 the bulk
of the profit came from the co.’s big
wad of investments outside shipping.
During the last couple of years shipping
has turned in more than investments.
The fleet consists of two passenger
vessels —Wanganella and Westralia and
half a dozen freighters. The Wangan-
ella is on the trans-Tasman run, and
the Westralia, which had been under
charter to the Government, took up the
coastal run again in April, 1951.
Last term one freighter, Colac, was
sold, and a new 6000-tonner, Woomera,
built for the co. by the Shipping Board,
was put into commission in July —it re-
placed the Corio, which was wrecked
a couple of years ago. Also, there was
less delay in bringing freight-rates into
fine with advancing costs and in the
turn-round of ships, petty industrial
hold-ups were less pronounced, and there
was plenty of cargo offering, which
meant the hulls were kept full.
The £2,479,685 investment portfolio
consists of Government securities
£1,007,222 and shares in other cos.
£1,472,463. The latter include J. and A.
Brown and Abermain-Seaham, Hebburn
and Metropolitan, all in the coal trade,
and A.N.A., A.W.A., Melbourne Steam
and Tasmanian Steamers.
The cautious board, whose declared
policy is one of consolidation, figured
combined net earnings of parent and
subsidiaries £26,516 lighter at £121,966,
which was arrived at in this way:
1951. 1952.
Trading profit* .. .. £147,748 £190,825
Income from investments.. 107,385 117,907
Surplus sale assets .. .. 60,645
Total £255,133 £369,377
Deduct —•
Directors’ fees .. .. 1,600 1,600
Tax allowance .. .. 100,170 121,113
Contingency allowance .. 2,022
Tonnage replacement .. —• 121,850
Outside interests .. .. 2,859 2,848
Net profit 148,482 121,966
* After allowing for depreciation, £134,345, 1951;
£167,580, 1952.
The £121,966 excludes outside share-
holders’ interests, leaves out of the
reckoning an unexplained addition of
£46,884 to reserves, and was written after
allowing an extra £33,235 for deprecia-
tion (£167,580), ah additional £20,943
for taxation arid sending £121,850 to
tonnage-replacement rserve. A subsidy
of £20,000 was also received from the
Federal Government to cover some of
the excess Australian cost of the new
freighter. So maintenance of the 12 p.c.
div. was a much more comfortable matter
than would appear at first sight.
The heavy provision for replacement
amounts to no more than commercial
prudence, because official allowances for
depreciation, based on historic cost, are
inadequate for maintenance of real
capital at today’s cost of replacement.
It is high time the Government became
a realist and gave up the economically
unsound and dangerous practice of tax-
ing part of industry’s capital as well as
its profits.
The sale and purchase of tonnage
already referred to show up in a net
addition of £728,568 to ships, etc.:
Huddabt Parker and Subsidiaries.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* .. 54,253 55,712 55,776
Sundry creditorst 815,059 1,092,895 1,326,549
Inter-co. balances! 10,082 193,503
Final divs. .. 67,500 67,500 67,500
Freehold & leasehold 543,911 576,288 614,103
Ships, plant, etc. 532,190 632,899 1,860,967
Government bonds 1,252,280 1,252,280 1,007,222
Shares, etc. .. 1,382,718 1,438,507 1.472,463
Stores . . . . 182,355 189,909 260,110
Sundry debtors .. 822,247 1,053,757 1,036,053
Cash ■ .. . . 1,930 2,030 2,092
Inter-co. balances! 14,542 -
* Includes proportion undivided profits, t Including
taxation. 1 Due to variation in balancing dates.
Freeholds, etc., increased by £37,815,
shareholdings by £33,956 and stores
by £70,210. To meet the outlay the co.
added only £233,654 to the amount
coming to outside creditors, etc., Govern-
ment securities were reduced by £245,058
and £183,421 was added to inter-co.
balances. The co.’s finances are obvi-
ously snug, and the outlook on both the
shipping and investment sides of the busi-
ness is brighter than it has been for
some time.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
Dec. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1947.. 54,705 8 p.c. = 39,400 15,305 806,472
Reserves disappear, £913 .. .. 305,559
Share premiums, £2268 .. .. 307,827
Added x’eplacement reserve, £29,219.. 337,044
1948.. 78,824 12 p.c. = 59,562 19,262 356,306
Written off war-damage, £lO,OOO .. 346,306
From revaluation assets, £285,475 .. 631,781
Added replacement reserve, £30,279 662,060
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 664,560
1949.. 108,611 12 p.c. = 59,892 48,619 713,179
Added replacement reserve, £14,832 728,011
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 730,511
1950.. 103,083 12 p.c. = 60,000 43,083 773,594
Added replacement reserve, £34,272.. £07,866
Insurance reserve; £2600 .. .. 810,366
1951.. 11,547 8 p.c. = 40,000 781,913
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 906,913
Added replacement reserve, £36,432 .. 943,345
Insurance reserve, £2500 .. .. 945,845
1952.. 89,422 10 p.c. = 70,833 18,589 964,434
* Includes replacement reserve, £436,063 at
31/12/’52.
Collapse of the 1951 profit figure and
cut of 4 p.c. in the div., reducing it
to 8 p.c., were the combined effects of
drought and severe winter frosts, with
consequent lighter crushing of cane and
outturn of raws, and sharply-rising operat-
ing and other costs. Last term nature was
kind and the price of raws strengthened.
So, although costs continued to advance,
there was a heartening spring of £77,875
in net earnings (£89,422), and a lift of
2 p.c. in the div., making it 10 p.c. And
the outlook for shareholders is more
encouraging than at any time since the
co. took over the sugar interests of the
Young family in the Bundaberg district
(Q.) some 40 years ago.
The £89,922 of profit was 12.6 p.c. on
average capital as against 2.3, 20.6, 21.7,
15.9 and 11.9 p.c. back to 1947. It was
written after allowing something for
taxation, £37,811 (up £3187) for deprecia-
tion and dropping the usual £2500 into
the insurance reserve. The £18,589 of the
year’s declared profit that remained after
payment of the 10 p.c. div., together
with £125,000 of share-premiums and net
addition of £36,432 to replacement
reserve, lifted total lay-by to £964,434,
or £214,434 more than paid capital.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its mill
figures, but production for the industry
as a whole has moved in this way:
r —Production Raw Sugar >
Home Export '
Market, Market, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1950 .. .. 518,000 402,000 920,000
1951 . . .. 587,745 157,846 745,091
1952* . . . . 479,000 467,000 946,000
* Estimates; final figures not yet available.
These production figures, governed
mainly by seasonal conditions, need to
be considered in relation to prices, which
compare as follows;
Home Overall
Season. Consumption. Export. Average.
1950 .. £24 11 0 £32 16 0 £2B 5 4
1951 .. 33 14 0 36 15 6 34 7 6
1952* .. 42 10 0 41 10 0 1
* Estimates, subject to adjustment.
Final price figures for 1952 are due for
release at an early date. With a bigger
crushing of cane in prospect for 1953,
and further increase in both home and
export prices, the immediate outlook
for the industry is bright. The
co.’s allotted mill peak (29,500 tons
for the 1952 season) is to be stepped up
to 37,500 tons by 1954-55.
Owing to the high cost of transport
and other charges, the co. recently re-
ceived authority to transfer cane from
its Hapsburg and Linwood plantations
(together 1274 acres) to the Isis Central
Mill —which will pay a bonus on crush-
ings from these areas —as well as to buy
cane from an additional 5735 acres of
farm lands, and its own original assign-
ment has been increased by 447 acres.
The net effect of all this is a 57 p.c.
increase in the acreage (now 8655 acres)
from which cane will be drawn for the
mill.
Furthermore the co. has embarked
upon a £250,000 cane-farm development
scheme near Moore Park, about 12 miles


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys. 422 Collins Street. Melbourne. 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
LIMEYS
Official Insurance
Brokers to the
Graziers’ Association
of HAW.
have the specialised
knowledge to provide
the best possible
Insurance for the
Man-On -Ik -Land
I Why not take advantage of \
\ Lumley’s Free Advisory Service }
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS tB:
263 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone B 0538.
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter St., Newcastle. 'Phono B 1810.
87 Woodlark St., Lismore. 'Phone 1962.
BLS.S.tS
Missing Friends
TO ERIC VERNON BROOKS formerly of
Melbourne but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife DOREEN
MARY BROOKS has instituted proceed-
ings against you for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion for custody of the
two children of the marriage and for such
further relief as the Court may deem meet
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary in Melbourne by
the Thirtieth day of August, 1953, the case
may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs. —E. EDGAR
DAVIES & CO., 11 Bank Place, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
TO VICTOR JAMES WATSON (otherwise
known as MICHAEL PATRICK O’SULLI-
VAN) formerly of Area 1 Extension 1a
Camp Pell Parkville in the State of Vic-
toria but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife JOAN WATSON
has instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion Un-
less you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the 15th day
of July 1953 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.—T. W. BRENNAN, of 116
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for
the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE CROFTON FATHERLEY
late of 74 Unwin Street Hurstville and
Bourke.—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
NANCY FATHERLEY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4213 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
and excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
17th July 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
NILAND BOHANE & MORCK, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Solicitors. —
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GRAHAM ALBERT WARD late of 45
Yarram street, Lictcombe. —TAKE NOTICE
that MARJORIE JEAN WARD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4868 of 1952 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
and excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
24th day of July 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. NILAND BOHANE & MORCK,
of 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Soli-
citors. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR WILLIAM SHEPPARD late
of 59 Bulwarra Lane Ultimo. —TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN ALTHEA
JOYCE SHEPPARD has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2288 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
24th day of July 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. J. W. MILNE & BERRY. Soli-
citors, 350 George Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
IHB AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
78 Pa eramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
FAITH
FUTURE
THE
mm.
It is never easy to know where to begin a story ;
Hugh Walpole began his book “Fortitude” with
this sentence; “ Tisn’t life that matters but the
courage you bring to it.” It reminds me of Goethe’s
thought, and his words come to my mind: “To lose
wealth is to lose nothing; to lose courage is to
lose all.”
Recently, I was trout fishing on the mountains
—there is something about mountains: they “do
something for you” On the way to the trout
stream I passed through a small township. You have
seen the type of town many times. Proud in its new
street lighting, rich in the community spirit that thrives
in small places, matey as a pair of well-worn shoes.
There was wealth in the farmlands outside;
stability here in this small town where life is lived
serenely and simply,
I could have stayed long in this place, so typical
of a thousand like it in the Australian scene. But
now, looking back, it isn’t so much the enjoyment of
the view or the warm-hearted welcome that touch
my memory . . . happy though I was with the beauty
and friendship.
What I most recall is the story I heard of one
man on a farm just out of the town. He was blind
. . . robbed completely of his sight in war.
He had courage ... he was working his farm
each day, led out by his wife, and finding his way
among his crops with the aid of wires arranged to
guide him. He toiled thus from morning till night.
And he was happy.
It makes us humble to find such spirit with its
triumph over affliction. It causes us to ask ourselves:
“Would I have had the courage to do what this man
is doing if it had happened to me, if all my days
were to become unending night?”
For him, none of the delights of gazing again
on green lands, of the sight of his cattle; of following
with his eyes the furrows in ploughed soil around
him. Only the smell of turned earth, the feel of leaf,
of fruit and grain, to tell him that here are his home
and harvest.
Look well man -who has lost a gift no
wealth could buy, and yet refuses to forfeit his priceless
courage. Draw from his story a lesson.
Here before us, in the promise of Australia’s
greatness, is a mighty chance . . . and a challenge.
May we, enjoying all our faculties, be as worthy of
it as one brave, blind man who, in this world of fact,
could still keep his faith in the future.
from Bundaberg. Here 1700
acres of virgin tea-tree covered
land has been bought, and is
being cleared, drained and cut-
up into 60-acre cane-farms,
which are to be sold. The co.
has also undertaken to complete
drainage of an adjoining 1050
acres for soldier-settlement. The
work at Moore Park is well
under way, planting on some
of the new farms is expected to
begin in the coming spring, and
the first crop of cane to be har-
vested in 1954. The manage-
ment is to be congratulated on
its vision and energy, which put
fresh emphasis on the fact that
the shortest way to greater pro-
duction lies through private
enterprise, which needs a lot
more encouragement from the
Government, especially in relief
from taxation and inflationary
pressures, than it has thus far
received.
Behind the whole scheme of
sugar expansion lies the U.K.-
Commonwealth sugar pact,
which has about seven years to
run, and provides for export of
600,000 tons raws p.a. (200,000
more than formerly), over half
of which is to be taken firm at
thb annually negotiated price,
and the balance, at the open-
market price, thus U.K. and
Canadian preference.
The Moore Park venture and
expansion of mill-capacity show
up in additions of £115,743 to
estates and of £82,601 to fac-
tories, etc.;
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital £500,000 £500,000 £750,000
Liabilities*.. 558,172 767,461 777,158
Final div. .. 30.000 10,000 42,500
Estates .. 345.533 356,053 471,796
Factories, etc 905,374 960,607 1,043.208
Livestock . . 83,188 100,447 93,672
'Stocks, etc. 186,972 299,266 357,183
Book debts 328,199 322,358 526,466
Cash, etc. .. 12,500 10,643 41,767
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet the outlay, as well as
carry an extra £57,917 of stocks
and £204,108 of book-debts, the
co. added only £19,697 to the
amount coming to creditors, etc.
The new share capital, share-
premiums—2so,ooo new £1
shares were issued at a premium
of 10s. each in Feb., 1952
—and surplus earnings, etc.,
provided the balance.
As the “Wild Cat” went to
press a strike of the engineering
staff for further lifts in wage-
rates threatened to hold up early
crushing of the current season’s
cane for an indefinite period in
all Queensland mills.
At 355. 3d. (325. 6d. a year
ago) the f.-p. £1 ords. return a
satisfactory 5.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Including the replace-
ment reserve, <net tangible cover
is 455. 9d.
Western Mining Corp.
The outlook for this big hold-
ing and prospecting co. (paid
capital £698,588 in f.-p. ss.
shares) is steadily improving.
The co, paid an interim 6d. a
share in February last (as
against 6d. for the full 12 months
to March 31, 1952), and pros-
pects of a further (final) distri-
bution are encouraging. All
operating cos. in the group
stepped up both production and
recoveries for the year to March
31, 1953, but have not yet pre-
sented their accounts for the
period. Operating results com-
pare as follows:
Central Norseman (50 p.c.).*
Ore Gold, Grade,
Year. Milled, Fine Per Ton,
Mch. 31, Tons. Ounce, Dwt.
1952 .. 149,088 49,091 6.59
1953 . . 161,444 78,591 9.74
G.M. of Kalgoorlib (30 p.c.).*
1952 .. 170,236 46,891 5.51
1953 . . 172,881 48,960 5.66
New Cooloardib (62 p.c.).*
1952 .. 53,156 26,259 9.88
1953 .. 65,029 34,956 10.75
Gt. Western Consolidated (14 p.c.).*
1952 . . .
1953 .. 119,187 14,128 2.37
Central Victoria Dredging (44 p.c.).*
Jim Crow Area.
Gold, Grains,
e.y. oz. c.y.
1952 .. 1,631.000 7744 2.28
1953 .. 1,417.000 7167 2.43
Amphitheatre Area.
1952 .. 700.400 2262 1.55
1953 .. 865,500 4056 2.25
* Proportion of share capital held by
W.M.C.
Only the first two cos.
are dividend-payers at the
moment. Central Norseman,
which paid Is. per ss. share in
1952, sent out an interim Is. 6d.
a share in December last. G.M.
of Kalgoorlie paid 6d. per 10s.
share in the 1952 term, and an
interim 6d. a share went out
early this month. The scrip of
all the cos. except Great Wes-
tern stand at a premium in the
market. W.M.C.’s ss. shares,
which dropped to 9s. during
1952, fetched 16s, last week.
Sardine Tin (N.Q.)
“Khills”: Rich ore continues
to be won from the new stan-
nite ore-body in the Sardine Tin
Mine, Ewan (N.Q.). Recently
6.38 tons prill-ore, assaying 18.85
p.c, tin (metal) and 34.95 p.c.
copper (metal), realised £A237
per ton (equal to 15oz. gold
value p.t.), and 75 tons crude-
ore were treated for 15.3 tons
concentrate, assaying 20.32 p.c.
tin and 34.25 p.c. copper, which
fetched over £ASO per ton crude-
ore. A report by Government
geologist Connah also shows
that the mine ranks high among
Queensland tin shows, both as
regards output and grade of
ore. The occurrence of stan-
nite in the lower levels is of par-
ticular interest, and its recogni-
tion (in the company’s work-
ings) by Reddie Bros., together
with the discovery of a new ore-
body, indicates further profitable
production. Deepest working is
the internal shaft, 450 v.d.
(280 ft. below No. 4 tunnel
level) with ore persisting. Stan-
nite is reported in three sections
of the workings, latest being in
the ore-body north of the tunnel
in No. 1 North Winze, about
20ft. below No. 4 level. Apart
from the new shoot, five other
sections of the mine, including
the shaft, are considered to be
worth further investigation,
Total production to date is
13,228 tons ore for 1531 tons
concentrates, valued at £221,848
“ f '°*
was jn ]922 when 1043 tons
ore idded 2 j 3j . (ons high . grade
, in ’ onc entrate.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO CLAUDE WILLIAM lAN DOUBLEDAY late ot
South Melbourne in the State of Victoria. 1- '
NOTICE that STELLA EUNICE DOUBLBDAx W*
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4830 of 1952 on
grounds of .desertion without just cause or e
for three years and upwards and is asking tor
exercise of the Court’s discretion under nectio
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 i * - .
wish to defend you may enter an appearan
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court ®.. ■_
Sydney by the Tenth day of June 1953 and
“a copy of the Petition without charge fwm J *
BARNETT GREAVES, Solicitor, 160 Gastiereas
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG HAN, Registrar.
Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The National Theatre’s costume ball at
the Royale was something out of the
box. In the foyer large white urns were
filled with towering branches of foliage
mixed with blue and white hydrangeas
and scarlet gladioli. Red, white and blue
formed the motif in the ballroom decora-
tions, whilst garlands of oak-leaves linked
scarlet heraldic banners.
The Governor was there as author
Lewis Carroll, his lady being a most
attractive Alice in blue-cotton frock,
starched white pinafore and long golden
wig. In attendance were aide-de-camps
Captain T. Kirwan-Taylor and Lieu-
tenant Alec Weir as respectively the white
rabbit and the mad hatter, whilst
Colonel R. W. Spraggett, the Governor’s
private secretary, was the King of Hearts,
Cecily Williams the Queen of Hearts,
Anne Spraggett the White Queen and
Marion McPherson the Red Queen.
Sir Robert Knox, president of the
National Theatre Movement, who re-
ceived the vice-royal party, was a Chinese
mandarin, and president of the ball com-
mittee Lady Angliss was a dignified
Donna Anna from “Don Giovanni.” In
gold and pink brocade was Mrs. A. T.
Smithers as the countess from “The
Marriage of Figaro,” while her husband
portrayed Rudolpho from “Boheme.”
Mrs. Fred Dennett was Santuzza from
“Cavalleria Rusticana,” Gertrude John-
son the marchioness from “Rosenkava-
lier” (in black velvet with a black tri-
corne worn over a white wig), Mrs.
Garnet Carroll in a full-skirted black
velvet gown was a Venetian lady, her
husband the clown from “Pagliacci.”
U.S. Consul-General Henry Stebbins went
as a chef and his wife as an attractive
parlormaid. , Ballerina Sally Gilmour
(Mrs. Alan Wynn) was a lovely Tatiana,
and, dressed in leopard-skins, Bob
Boberski was Rhadames, and his partner,
Mrs. Con Curtain, was a beautifully
dressed Amneris. Proceeds from the ball
go to the National Theatre Movement.
k k k
Colonel F. H. Wright, Consul-General
for the Netherlands, and Mrs. Wright
gave a late-afternoon party in honor of
their son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and
Mrs. Garrick Wilson, who are on a visit
from Sydney. Mrs. Wright received her
guests wearing an ensemble which com-
bined silver-grey Chantilly-lace and
matching crepe-romaine. Mrs. Garrick
Wilson wore a full-skirted frock of black
Chantilly-lace. Her sister, Mrs. Ronald
Marriott, was in black crepe. Mrs. Jim
Campbell wore with her black faille
suit a tiny white grosgrain hat. Mrs.
Hamlyn Wilson’s choice was a full-
length coat of scarlet faille. Mrs. Phyliss
Nicholas contrasted her black frock with
a bright yellow cloche of bird’s plumage.
Black was also the choice of Mrs. David
Thornton. Mrs. Len Voss Smith’s navy
dressmaker-suit was worn with an
emerald-green cloche. The new Dutch
Naval Attache, Commander Theo Brum
sting, and his wife were also guests.
k k k
Mrs. Curtis-Otter, newly-appointed
State commissioner of the Girl Guides’
Association of Victoria, has .chosen Sheila
McLeod for her first assistant State com-
missioner. Miss McLeod has been a
Guide since her schooldays, which were
spent at The Hermitage, Geelong. She
has also been State commissioner for
training, district commissioner for St.
Kilda and is now a member of the execu-
tive committee of the State council.
Last year Miss McLeod visited New
Zealand to assist in training Guiders, and
in 1949 she was asked by Imperial Head-
quarters to train Guiders in Great Britain.
k k k
That import restrictions have been
responsible for quite an improvement in
shoe-styles was obvious at the shoe-
parade held at the Federal Hotel, when
many designers combined to give an
excellent display. Most of the fashion-
shoes showed a simplicity of line and a
fine regard for good taste in trimmings
which included lacings, stitchings and
tiny bows. For day-wear dull-surfaced
calf and patent-leather were popular.
Court-shoes for more formal wear had
dip-sides, whilst more lavish trimmings
were used for court-shoes worn during
the cocktail-hour. One attractive shoe
was fashioned of black nylon guipure.
Another black suede court-shoe had bars
of rhinestones across the open vamp.
The two-tone shoe for spring is out,
its place being taken by coloreds,
from oatmeal (or winter white) and a
range of yellows (from buttercup to bene-
dictine) to red, green and blues. Summer
shoes have colored straps, and the sandal
replaces the court for wear with summer
clothes. A black-and-white-check shoe
was most attractive; another in rasp-
berry-red calf had dressmaker touches of
imitation lacings finishing in tiny bows.
In soft glace-kid in baby-blue tonings,
shoes for square-dancing had points over
the instep to match those at the backs of
the heels. Also designed for square-
dancing were shoes with a feather-weight,
non-slip foam-rubber sole. Most un-
usual was a shoe fashioned of gold mesh
and black plastic. The sole was built up
into a 4in. platform and curved well in
under the foot. For the Coronation sea-
son there were Royal-purple shoes,
finished at one side with a tiny gold
ornament.
Mrs. Edward Campbell, of South
Yarra, is helping in the organising of the
Coronation dinner-dance to be held at
Giro’s on June 2, and is also, with Mrs.
Bruce Rose, a ticket-secretary. Proceeds
from the dinner-dance will go to the
Children’s Hospital. Mrs. Campbell’s
phone-number is Windsor 6774. This
function over, she will begin her work
again as ticket-secretary for the Air
Force Association Ball, which takes place
later in the year.
At the monthly meeting of the Over-
seas League Air-Vice-Marshal G. Har-
court-Smith, chief liaison-officer for the
U.K. in Australia, took his' listeners on
inter-stellar flights of the future in a talk
that was delightfully racy. Mrs. Har-
court-Smith, wearing a suite of anthra-
cite-grey tweed with a white side-tilted
beret, accompanied her husband. The
president, Air-Marshal Sir George Jones,
was in the chair. Others at the official
table were producer John Casson and his
wife, Mrs. Helen Wood, Kathleen
Gentle, president of the Overseas League
Younger Group, and Tom Hudson.
Others at the luncheon were Brigadier
R. Irving and his wife, the Fred Brock-
hoffs, Mrs. Felix Harber, Paddy Wilkin-
son and June Richardson.
k k k
A cable has been received that Norma
Lowdon, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Lowdon, has won the
Sadler’s Wells ballet scholarship, which
entitles her to three-years’ training in
ballet at Sadler’s Wells and is worth
£2OO. Grand news for a girl of 18 and
a tribute to Grace Norman, who trained
her. David Martin has signed her for
a Folies Bergeres solo dance.
☆ ☆ ☆
At Moonee Valley women racegoers
discarded browns and black in favor of
colors which blended with the perfect
autumn weather. Emerald green was a
popular choice, worn either as a coat or
an accessory ; bright scarlet, light- and
dark-rose tonings, gay yellows, Ming-
blue, turquoise and amethyst were all
in the running. With one scarlet coat
went a peaked black cloche ornamented
with red buttons. Gold trimming was
used on many hats. Two of them were
in white broderie Anglaise.
SYDNEY
Only a fortnight to Coronation Day,
and even here in Australia the “fever”
is beginning to be felt. There are to be
church services in the morning, a pageant
at the Showground in the afternoon and
fireworks at night. The Royal Empire
Society will hold its Coronation Recep-
tion at 5 p.m., and three dances are being
arranged for the evening: the Tiara Ball
at Glen Ascham, the Coronation Bail
which the Younger Set of the Smith
Family are holding at Carl Thomas’s,
and the University Young Liberals’ Ball
at the Pickwick. Most private parties
and dances will include a session of listen-
ing to the radio, for this will be one occa-
sion when it will be quite polite to shush
people who won’t stop talking.
During the week many functions have
been arranged. On Monday Lieutenant-
General F. H. Berryman will unveil a
portrait of her Majesty at a Coronation
party at the Forum Club. On Wednes-
day the Governor and Miss Northcott
will hold a large garden-party, and on
Thursday night the deputy-Lord Mayor,
Alderman F. Green, will give a reception
at the Town Hall. The Victoria League’s
Coronation reception is set down for
Wednesday, June 3, at 5 p.m.
Thora Small, who will be remembered
for her strong performance as the
general’s wife in the Independent’s
“Arddle." will take the part of the mother
in Tyrone Guthrie’s fourth-dimensional
play “Top of the Ladder ,” which the In-
dependent Workshop group are present-
ing at the theatre tonight for one per-
formance only. This Workshop Group
was founded by Doris Fitton six months
ago, and its members, 12 boys and 12
girls, intend to present a series of ex-
perimental plays for a season of Wednes-
day nights. Tonight is their Gala Open-
ing, with formal dress and a cocktail-
party in the theatre's clubrooms after-
wards.
One of the most interesting features of
the Smith Family’s mannequin parade on
board M.V. Sydney on Saturday after-
noon was the commentary by 8.8. C.
announcer Patrick Jubb. As the gowns
were displayed he described the Royal
occasions for which they would be worn,
including a vivid word-picture of what
the Coronation scene would be like. Wel-
coming the guests was the president of
the committee, the Countess Pietrasanta
Sauvaigne, who wore a slate-grey dress
of wool-jersey embroidered with jet studs
and a dashing winged toque of white
feathers.
Among the mannequins were Mrs. Mc-
Neill Ackland (who will be remembered
as the famous model Jean Black), Mrs.
Walter Bunning, Mrs. Vera Ban (who
modelled a lilac satin ball-gown with a
bustle effect of lilac tulle frills, a dress
which is to be flown to England and worn
at the Coronation), Mrs. Campbell Mc-
Auley, Mrs. Patrick Jubb and Mrs. Cedric
Symonds. An outstanding dress in the
parade was the white ball-gown designed
by Frank Mitchell and worn by Pat
Woodley. Narrow and draped in line, its
gold-threaded brocade was embroidered
with clusters of pearls and crystals. It
was worn with a tiara and a diamond
necklace.
k k k
Tomorrow (Thursday) the people of
Sydney will be given an opportunity of
viewing that wonderful exhibition of
replicas of the Crown Jewels, Coronation
Robes and Royal Arms of England when
Sir Stephen Holmes, High Commissioner
for the United Kingdom, will perform
the opening ceremony at Farmer’s Blax-
land Galleries. This exhibition has
already been seen by more than 5000
children and 11,000 adults in the country
districts, thanks to the Arts Council,
which has taken it out into rural areas
by its mobile unit.
It is not generally known that 90 p.c.
of the work of the Arts’ Council is done
in the country. It is the policy of the
council to give country children the
same advantages of drama, ballet, opera
and art as part of their education
as city children have, and from
January, 1951, to April, 1953, its mobile
unit has travelled 25,455 miles and given
352 performances to audiences (both
children and adults) of 246,301. The
tours also give employment and experi-
ence to actors, dancers and singers, very
necessary if the spirit of national theatre
and opera is to be developed. It is very
expensive work, however, and the Gov-
ernment subsidy of £5OOO doesn’t go half-
way, so naturally the council would wel-
come the help, interest and support of
those who think these objects worth
while.
☆ ☆ ☆
An old friend of many Bulletin
readers. Marguerite Hardie, died last
week at Neutral Bay. She was the widow
of J. J. Hardie, the novelist and well-
known Bulletin contributor, who died
in Noumea in 1951. Mrs, Hardie (her
maiden name was Marguerite Daly) was
married in 1935. She was until a few
years ago a constant attendant at literary
gatherings and had a wide circle of
literary friends. Coming from New
Caledonia as she did, she spoke
French fluently, and it used to amuse
her friends to hear her talk to her dog—
a good Australian cattle-dog—in French,
a language which the dog apparently
understood perfectly.
☆ ☆ ☆
Apparently great progress has been
made in the design of wool evening-
dresses, judging by the parade of wool
fashions put on by Curzon’s in conjunc-
tion with the Sheep Show. The finer tex-
tures make very full skirts possible. There
was a very formal ball-gown in anthra-
cite-grey, and a most attractive white
wool dress for a teenager. Among the
daytime clothes were some examples of
the new middy-line and of the match-box
jacket, and there were stoles for every
conceivable occasion. Present at the
parade were Mr. O. Falkiner, Mr. and
Mrs. W. Buckingham, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Moses, Mr. and Mrs. A. Bucking-
ham and Mrs, Clifford Cook. The parade
is to be seen in the Handcrafts pavilion
twice each day tomorrow (Thursday),
and Friday and Saturday.
, V
☆ ☆ ☆
The University students’ procession,
once an outstanding feature of Sydney
life (whichever way you looked at it),
was a squib this year. The students
don’t seem to have grasped the import-
ance of emphasis in their displays; they
crowd too many people onto the float
and cover it with too many signs, so that,
at the breakneck pace the police set
for the procession, the crowd could take
in very little.' The City Council banned
everything throwabie it could think of,
but forgot straw; the students didn’t.
One group sang “Happy Birthday to
You” outside a city store that is 115
this year (a nice gesture), ex-King Farouk
welcomed a deputation on the Town
Hall steps, the hands were taken off that
long-suffering clock in Martin-place, and
some very nice-looking girl undergradu-
ates sold buttons for the U.N. appeal
for children, but otherwise there was a
somewhat thwarted air about the pro-
ceedings generally.
k k ☆
The Royal Empire Society’s ball, always
renowned for its colorful pageant, will
this year present “Colony to Crown,
which will feature a huge photograph of
the Queen that is being specially brought
out from England. The ball, which is
to be called “The Coronation Ball and
Pageant,” will be held at the Town Hall
on May 22 and tickets are in great de-
mand. Seats in the gallery are also avail-
able for 2s. and 35., so that the pageant
can be viewed by non-dancers.


A.B.C. Vocal and Concerto
Competition
The N.S.W. finals took in, two
baritones, and, in the instru-
mental section, a ’cellist, a
violinist and four pianists.
Clive Way won the singing
with a well-judged rendering in
a voice of fair quality and good
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Divorce Notice*
TO SIDNEY FRANKLYN SHERWOOD,
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
ytmr wife has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
grounds of (1) desertion by you for a
continuous period of three years and (2)
your entire failure to make periodical
payments of maintenance under an Order
of the Court of Petty Sessions at Perth
dated 17th February 1950 If you desire
to defend such proceedings you must
within Thirty (30) days from the date of
this publication file' your defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court Perth
In default of your so doing the cause may
proceed and the Court will pronounce
judgment and make orders against you
in your absence. Dated the First day
of May, 1953.—G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. CORSER & OORSER, Soli-
citors, of 36 & 39 Padbury Buildings,
Forrest Place, Perth, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff herein.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EVA KRANIDIOTIS late of 55
Moulder Street Orange in the State oi
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
STELIOS KRANIDIOTIS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1141 of 1958 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
31st July 1953 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from M. D.
NIKOLAIDIS, Solicitor, of 195 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .., .. .. 2/,-
Yearly Subscription.. ...22/6
Mrilltoq drama of suspense and excitement (
i
» vs
§ '
d
&
oh
: M
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 7IA
Vie T Macquarie broadcasting Service
An enthralling series of
original self-contained quarter-
hour dramas bringing you the
finest writers, actors and
actresses in Australian radio.
For the fascinating best in
radio entertainment don’t miss
this brilliant weekly drama
from your member station of
the Macquarie Broadcasting
Service.
Sponsored by Scotts Emulsion,
the xvorld’s largest selling
Cod-liver Oil Emulsion.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Yi-Kwei Sze
That voice-volume bears no
relation to the size of the singer
is aptly illustrated by the Chinese
bass. A slight man of medium
height, he can turn on great
power with no apparent effort.
His production is flawless, his
control of breathing when sing-
ing pianissimo in the high
reaches a delight; but above all
is the artistry with which he uses
his voice.
He began his first Sydney re-
cital with “Hear Me! Ye Winds
and Wavefe” from Handel’s
“Scipio,” in which he mixed
subtle phrasing and forthright
declamation. Purcell’s “I’ll Sail
Upon the Dog-Star” gained
from the manly treatment ac-
corded it, and a ringing, clear
tone.
There followed the eight songs
which comprise Dvorak’s Bib-
lische Lieder, Op. 99—a cycle
too rarely heard, songs of great
devotional beauty. Here the
singer used a mezzo voce almost
throughout, and though at times
it was throttled back almost to a
whisper diction was always
audible indeed, his enunciation,
in the four languages in which
he sang, was an object-lesson.
In a bracket of songs by
Poulenc, Gallic sprightliness and
wit were never lost sight of for
an instant.
The only song of the night to
which the singer failed to do full
justice was Rachmaninoff’s “O
Cease Thy Singing, Maiden Fair”
—an indefinable obscurity per-
vaded it. In the same composer’s
“Floods of Spring,” however,
the bass captured the spirit of it
with magnificent gusto.
A group of contemporary
American art songs wound up a
programme of great diversity
and much worth, and the singer
added “The Song of the Volga
Boatman,” achieving in the
centre section a tremendous
swelling tone and dying away
to the barest suggestion of sound
—a rendition that had in it much
of the art of Chaliapin. The
singer’s wife, Nancy Lee Sze,
was an able accompanist.
carrying - power of “Nemico
della Patria” from “Andrea
Chenier.” He had a better “for-
ward” production than Conrad
Berensen, who, in singing a reci-
tative and aria from “Don
Carlos,” had too many blurred
notes in the low register. Else-
where his baritone is of pleasing
timbre.
Vladimir Pleshakov was the
concerto winner, playing with
fine technical resource, warmth
and musicianship the second and
third movements of Rachmanin-
off’s Piano Concerto No. 3. This
18-year-old has exceptional
promise, as has Bela Dekany, a
young violinist who was highly
commended for his playing of
the first movement of the Brahms
Concerto. He has an easy, as-
sured style, excellent tone and
already a formidable technique.
Another commended pianist
was Robert Kolben, who played
with some fire Rachmaninoff’s
Rhapsody on a Theme by Paga-
nini. Others were Margaret
Barton, pianist, who played the
first movement of Beethoven’s
“Emperor” Concerto skilfully
but with insufficient vitality;
Melvyn Bennett, in Liszt’s Piano
Concerto No. 1, and Jean
Wilson, «who brought some deli-
cacy to a Boccherini ’Cello Con-
certo.
*t* <* ❖
“The Silver Cord”
Sidney Howard’s “The Silver
Cord” is another of those studies
of maternal possessiveness,
vaguely related to “Fly Away
Peter,” though much more
solemn than that play. It
preaches its lesson through a
morbidly possessive mother who
contrives to thwart the approach-
ing wedding of one of her sons
and nearly wreck the marriage of
the other.
Except, possibly, as a vehicle
for some tragedy queen, it’s not
a very good play, although it
didn’t quite deserve the wallop-
ing given it by the Kuringai
Theatre Guild the other night.
The players raised the emotional
content of the business rather
like a startled rabbit, then pur-
sued it,- lost it, found it, and
swiped at it until the chase be-
came almost hysterical, and the
audience was equally confused
and sought relief in laughter.
The rabbit, incidentally, neatly
eluded capture.
Artbursts
Dunlop Art Prize
“F.S.”: Dunlop Rubber has
launched its fourth annual con-
test for the best Australian con-
temporary art, and the results
are hanging at Tye’s Gallery in
Bourke-street (Melbourne). The
total number of entries was over
900, and after the sheep had been
separated from the goats about
120 survived to be presented to
the judges. The judges this year
were three well-knpwn artists.
Scott Pendlebury wins £3OO
for a very tight and very painty
sea-and-beachscape called “Late
Afternoon Rhyll” ; Arthur
Boyd gets the second prize of
£2OO for a more sensitive piece
of work, “Timber Clearing Near
Eaglehawk”; Leonard Annois
wins the first award for water-
color with a meaningless sketch
of “Pentland Hills, Bacchus
Marsh”; Margarita Stipnieks
has a group of nuns which has
some quality about it, and
Lawrence M. Daws has “Coun-
try Buildings” which is. quite
nice. Lesley Sinclair’s “Little
Ships on the Maribyrnong
River” is the subtlest picture in
the exhibition, and its only draw-
back seems to be that it has a
factory chimney in it.
■*& P +J4
Contemporary Society
This year’s exhibition of the
Contemporary Art Society, at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney,
is a good deal brighter and more
cheerful than the past two or
three. It is, of course, an exhibi-
tion of styles and fashions
rather than painting, and, within
those limits, there’s a nice
element of light relief to balance
the usual proportion of solemnly
heavy paint.
Charles McKervey’s colored
tadpoles and Weaver Hawkins’s
tumult of heads and bosoms and
babies’ craniums are probably
not meant to constitute light
relief, but they do ; but there
does seem to be a light-hearted
and successful intention
about Gordon McAuslan’s “The
Hostess” and “The Word,” and
about E, A, Lynn’s “Great
Grandfather”—who must have
been a remarkable fellow if the
exploded ingredients depicted by
Mr. Lynn are any indication.
Carl Plate shows a charming
“Honeyeater on Blossom,” Imre
Szigeti a spidery but effective
“Rozelle, N.5.W.,” and Ronald
Steuart depicts “Contemplation”
by two roses hanging over an
animal’s skull, all of it very
finely painted.
* ❖ *
A novelty in the Melbourne
art world is the show of school-
girl pictures of Charles Black-
man at the Peter Bray Gallery
in Bourke-street. The artist has
taken a verse from John Shaw
Neilson:
Fear it has faded in the night.
The bells all peal the hour of nine.
Schoolgirls hastening through the
light,
Touch the unknowable divine.
Those lines are capable of con-
juring up images in anybody’s
mind, and they no doubt con-
jured up images in Mr. Black-
man’s. He has endeavored to ex-
press the images in pigment on
canvas, and that is legitimate
enough. But where did he see
those strange little monsters with
their dolicocephalous heads and
legs like Indian clubs? One
picture is entitled “Schoolgirl at
Kooyong,” but if the headmis-
tress of Kooyong saw Mr. Black-
man’s children trooping in for
lessons she would probably run
a mile.
Talkies
“Jeopardy”
This tension film at Sydney
St. James takes a while to get
into its stride, but once pre-
liminaries are dispensed with the
pace is a cracker.
It is really a thesis on how a
seemingly minor accident may
with a slight turn of the wheel
come to near-tragedy. An
American, his wife and small
son on a fishing holiday in
Mexico camp at a deserted
beach. The boy gets his foot
caught in the planking of the
jetty. The father effects a simple
rescue, but, returning, falls
through the rotten boards. A
heavy beam pins his leg and the
rising tide threatens to drown
him. His wife goes for help and
falls in with an escaping mur-
derer who evinces no interest in
her plight. The events leading
from her cool bargaining with
this only possible rescuer of her
husband to the gripping finale
make good entertainment.
Barbara Stanwyck is the wife
and Barry Sullivan the victim
of the accident. The best work
is done by Ralph Meeker as the
ruthless, resourceful killer.
“The Star”
On the theory that the lives
of pampered, bad - tempered,
egotistical film-stars are of
intense interest to the whole
world, Hollywood here puts
under the microscope the prob-
lem of the ageing star who fails
to realise she is no longer a
box-office attraction.
It is all much ado about very
little, and Bette Davis, who takes
the chief role, is even less con-
vincing than the denouement,
which supposes that a woman
who all through the film has
demonstrated she can’t live away
from the glamor and the Kleig
lights should be tamely recon-
ciled, after failure to make a
comeback, to lead the dull life
of a wife of a fishing-fleet owner.
At Sydney Century.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Man in the Dark”
This is a routine gangster opus
in black-and-white 3-D which
winds up with some lurid melo-
dramatics on the Big Dipper of
an amusement-park.
The theme of the piece—an
•attempt by brain surgery to cure
a gangster of criminal tendencies
—could have had possibilities,
but Hollywood viewed it merely
as a new peg on which to hang
some ancient plot-trappings, in-
cluding the kidnapping of the
patient by his old friends who,
anxious to find out what hap-
pened to the loot he had salted
away, use the old strong-arm
methods to refresh a memory
that no longer functions.
Edmund O’Brien is the guinea-
pig and Audrey Totter his loyal
girl-friend. At Sydney Lyceum.
* * ❖
“The House of Wax”
Horror is laid on with a trowel
in this colored 3-D, the plot of
which has whiskers on it of
venerable length.
The fire victim whose face is
so disfigured he has to wear a
mask, and whose mentality is so
affected he is moved to terrible
deeds, is a stock figure that
simply has to be used every so
often. This time, as well as the
usual crop of murders, he likes
to cover his victims with pre-
servative wax, and if his gloat-
ings over them could be turned
into electrical energy there’d be
enough light to illuminate some
of the more obscure parts of the
plot. At Sydney Mayfair,


PENANCE ALL HIS DAYS
By P.J. CUNNINGHAM
MR. McINERNEY fed the
fowls, the five motherly
black Australorps and
the four peevish White
Leghorns, casting the dry mash
evenly, with a dainty twist of
his small, veined hand. He
shook his head reprovingly at
the gluttony of “Dame Edith,”
the stoutest in the pen, and
shooed her away from the cen-
tral position with his faded
tweed cap.
Moree Mike, sitting on the
men’s dormitory veranda, took
his stumpy pipe from his mouth
and spat over the bed of snap-
dragons. With the pipe he indi-
cated Mr. Mclnerney as he
addressed Ponty Carlin and old
man Hawley.
“Look at him. Feeds fowls
like a lord in his castle. Thinks
he’s a lord. Wants us to think
so, too.”
Moree Mike was a huge old
man who overflowed his deck-
chair. The Sisters had long
given up in despair their efforts
to have him dressed tidily, even
decently. Blue flannel singlet
wide open across his great hairy
chest, over it a dirty out-at-
elbows old grey cardigan un-
buttoned to disclose leather
braces holding up precariously,
by one button in front and one
at the rear, old greasy twill
trousers too short and too tight,
particularly about the waist,
where three top buttons were un-
done to allow a great roll of
stomach to overhang dewlap
fashion. Mike shaved on Satur-
days only and then perfunctorily.
Tufts of hair stood out of his
ears and his nostrils and covered
his neck, yet the greater part of
his skull was as bald as an egg.
Old Hawley sat gaunt and
straight-backed on a stool, his
long legs straddling it as though
' he were back in the saddle. He
took in Mr. Mclnerney and his
fowls with the narrowed creased
eyes of the man from wide-
open spaces.
“Nice little bloke. Harmless,
I reckon. Terribly perlite. Ever
notice —everyone calls him
mister. You an’ me’s just Mike
an’ Hawley; he’s Mr. Mc-
lnerney. Funny, that. What’s
his other name?”
Moree Mike spat again and
wiped his mouth with the back
of his hand.
“Not a flamin’ one in the
Home knows.”
Ponty Carlin broke in: “No
use askin’ him, either. I did
once. ‘Mr. Mclnerney is what
the Sisters and Father Hartigan
call me. You would oblige me
by doing likewise,’ he says,
sharp like.”
Ponty’s blue eyes twinkled
through a wilderness of
whiskers, out of which pro-
truded a ridiculous turned-up
nose, and in which could be dis-
cerned dimly a comic mouth and
a few broken yellow teeth.
Ponty chuckled at the memory
of his audacity.
“ ’Course X obliged, same as
everybody else. They say he was
a gentleman once, with servants
an’ cars an’ a house with twenty-
four rooms.” Ponty had been
coaxed into St, Vincent de
Paul’s Old People’s Home from
his hessian and kerosene-tin
shelter in the quarry at the back
of the town.
OISTER GONZAGA came
down the path carrying some
fruit-peeling in a dish. Mr. Mc-
lnerney closed the feed-shed,
straightened his cap and pulled
at his coat-cuffs, snatched off
his cap and shuffled forward to
take her burden from her.
Sister Gonzaga was young and
strong of body; but she
accepted the little old man’s
assistance with a smile, even
though he staggered a little as
he struggled to tip the dish’s
contents over the wire-netting
to the hens.
“It’s a pleasant sunny morn-
ing, Mr. Mclnerney,” she ob-
served.
“It is that same, Sister, but
the wind is sharp in the shade,”
he replied precisely and with
an air of weighing the matter.
Sister Gonzaga took from
him the empty dish and returned
to the kitchen. Mr. Mclnerney
strolled up the garden path past
the women’s veranda, his atten-
tion ton the rose-bushes that
lined the way, his manner digni-
fied, his progress leisurely. He
paused here and there to inspect
the blooms.
He was tiny and frail in his
rough tweed suit of speckled
grey. The coat was buttoned
up over his checked throat-
muffler, His snow-white hair
showed inches below his cap and
fell about his ears, where it
merged into his neatly-trimmed
white beard. His thin little legs
were bent at the knees and he
dragged his feet a little, as
though his boots were too large
and too heavy, as indeed they
seemed, with their deep creases
and turned-up toes. His eyes
were mild but ice-blue, with
something in them that forbade
familiarity.
He saluted the occupants of
the women’s veranda with
raised cap, but without speech.
Little Katie Maguire lost the
yarn from her darning-needle
as she watched him. “The nicest
man we’ll ever have here,” she
said softly. “A gentleman is
rare among the old men.”
Gran Withers rocked in her
chair. “I mind another like
him,” she began reminiscently.
“ ’Twas back when I was a girl
on Gunna Gun 00...” but Ma
Burgess cut her off.
“Sure what is he but a wisp
of man you’d blow ovek-if you
sneezed near him. A gentleman!
Well, give me a man big and
strong enough to do the work
and keep you, I always say.
They’d not be needin’ doctors
and coddlin’.”
“Like Moree Mike,” said little
Kate Maguire quietly; but there
was something in her expression
that caused Ma Burgess to
bridle.
“Mike’d not be the worst!
He’d be better than none, I’d
say,” this with a toss of the head
and an air befitting a married
woman addressing an old maid.
“A woman could do much with
Mike in the way of keeping him
tidy. It’s neglected, he is, and
maybe lonely for a wife long
dead,” she added with a nice
sentience.
“Who’s dead?” inquired Gran
Withers, whose thoughts had
been wandering a long, long way,
back to girlhood on Gunna
Gunoo.
C'ISTER DYMPHNA came
through from the dormitory
with clean towels and pillow-
slips. Tomorrow was the Feast
of St. Vincent de Paul. “Why
talk of death this lovely morn-
ing when we’re all young and
well,” she said gaily. “Let’s get
busy, now, and change all these
pillows.”
Gran Withers bobbed her
head about dolefully. “There’ll
be many a one not live through
the cold winter that’s coming,”
she mumbled. “ ’Twill be a sore
time for them that’s poorly and
ailing. I have the rheumatics
bad in me fingers this morning
and couldn’t do a thing with
them,”
Sister Dymphna tossed a pil-
low into her lap. “What’ll I do
if the best housekeeper in the
Home can’t help me with the
linen?” she asked with twinkling
eyes. i
Gran had the old slip off and
the clean one on before Ma
Burgess had got her tapes un-
done.
“Give it to me!” said Gran
with spirit; but Ma Burgess
snorted and completed her task.
Sister smiled and handed out
more clean slips. “These are
for the men’s dormitory,” she
explained.
“Wouldn’t you expect the
men’d be asked to change their
own pillow-slips?” Ma Burgess
wanted to know.
Little Katie Maguire looked
with consternation at Sister
Dymphna. “Fancy asking Mr.
Mclnerney to change pillow-
slips?” she whispered.
Sister Dymphna almost
giggled. She was very young.
“He’d handle them better than
Mr. Mike, of Moree.” She
always referred to him as Mr.
Mike, of Moree, thus conferring
upon him a dignity unfitting.
Mike himself squirmed when
she addressed him thus; and
once he attempted to set her
right in the matter.
“I’m not from Moree, Sister,”
he had explained. “I owned an
horse named Moree once. A
good horse, he was, for a few
furlongs in the bush. Got five
years over him at Wallabadah.
That finished him with me.
Might ’a’ won at Randwick,
that horse —could go like flamin’
hell,” then, suddenly aware that
this was a little out of Sister
Dymphna’s depth, concluded
hastily: “An’ I’m not mister.
That’s for squatters, an’ par-
sons an’ teachers, an’ the likes
of Mclnerney there!”
Sister Dymphna sometimes
faltered in her very special and
self-appointed task of getting
Moree Mike to heaven. She
had conceived the magnanimous
idea of making it a co-operative
VARIOUS VERSE
SONG-LARKS
Song-larks, lifting from the green unclouded fields
Legends of light, give death a universe
Of song as the hawk, momentous in the sun,
Pirated all their climbing loveliness,
Open-shirted on the hill, I feel the shock
Of desperate wings failing against my breast,
And there unlock my hand to hold to my heart
Mercy and beauty fallen a star in the west.
Queensland.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
DUNK ISLAND
An old man in a rusty suit and shoes.
Who shall recall your days?
Leaves flit like butterflies and butterflies
Like leaves spin down the glistening lanes of air.
The innocent wild orchid climbs and clings
Un-annotated, and there hidden sings,
Unnamed, a strange bird sings.
A little snake slips by your prosy ghost
Who watched and named all things.
Where shines the alemander only the dark
Vine clustered then. Who shall recall your days?
Still the white herons wade and fly
Between the islands
And the long tides gnaw at Brammo Bay.
The ants take all but stone.
And all your old man’s talk is, blown away.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL.
MAN WITH GREYHOUNDS
A man walks greyhounds on the morning frost.
They breathe and whine in the street-light air
past the tired gates and scratch-dry lawns
to a city beach with a row of gums,
and all his dreams are running there
like the whirling dogs and the electric hare.
The man walks the street at six on the frost,
his smooth dogs strain the leather leash.
I hear them pant on the milkbottle air,
their muscles tight in a muzzle’s cage.
The man in his cardigan goes and is lost
where his dreams race on the beach of his wish.
He walks for dreams where his dogs all win
on the track coming first a mile ahead.
I have heard the greyhounds tear at the leash
and howl on the frost where the dead beach goes.
I have heard him walk the dogs of his wish
tight in a muzzle with a leash a leash.
O we are men with dreams in the frost
whose dreams become what we are most.
Tas.
VIVIAN SMITH.
THREE DAYS FROM R. H. BEST’S JOURNAL,
1832
[Rpbert Holt Best, then aged 17, together with his
brother Peter, stock and assigned servants set out on the
long trek from Parramatta to the Murrumbidgee in 1832,
where he established for his father the Wagga Wagga station.]
MONDAY
This ant upon a rock ia not more fazed
In some unknown immensity than we.
Who crawl across a gravelled, stony land
Like ants across the craters of the moon.
Sometimes I’m wrapped in madness—like the gin
Wrapped in a "Gub’mint” blanket for her sin
Of nakedness—defiant, prickled, hot,
And snarling at the harsh discomfiture
Of being muffled in a mystery.
Sometimes I count our horses’ steps to see
If with their sum 1 can buy-off regret;
Or else, morose, I watch the wheeling hawk
And tear the hot-fleshed, pulsing days with beak
As sharp as that damned wagon’s axle-shriek.
TUESDAY
A fish, a kangaroo, a leaf—
The crude outlines cut in the stone
Shimmered with magic stronger than
Pointing the bone.
“Him fella long-time,” Jacky said,
And told me what I’d always known,
For something in the crude designs
Was now my own.
My fingers edged to each rude cut,
I felt him-fella-yesterday
Sweat out the debbil-debbil that
Within him lay,
And fish and leaf and kangaroo
Leap in my pulse as if to say
' fast in Austral dream I stood,
And was to stay.
FRIDAY
This is a place compels man to defeat.
The desperate noise between two silenced
That he calls life can never here be heard.
In this immensity his every hope
Becomes a finger scratching his defence
Upon time’s granite of indifference.
But we have sprawled our signatures upon
This virgin deed of ownership—a line
Of bark and sapling shelters in the sun.
To mark the spot where progress was begun—•
And flaunt it in the face of all the years
Whose grave battalions wait beyond our reach.
Though we must pass from silence to its twin,
We plan the war between, who cannot win.
n.s.w.
ERIC IRVIN.


PROVED
IN SALES! Actual registration
figures prove that more British Bed-
ford trucks were sold than any other
make in EVERY MONTH from
July, 1952 to February, 1953.
IN DEPENDABILITY! owners
write now travelled upwards
of 140,000 miles . . . and stands up to
tough going without any trouble
whatsoever” . . . “we have built our
business on Bedford reliability.”
IN ECONOMY! Other owners say
. . . “Most economical to operate”
. . . “Bedford has greatly assisted me
to run my business on an economical
basis” , . . “most economical and
reliable on the road.”
IH PERFORMANCE! Owners re-
port.: “We cannot speak too highly
of their performance” . . . “more
than a million miles still has the
original differential” . , . “Whatever
the load or gradient, my Bedford
always gets there.”
(Original testimonials containing
these extracts are on file at
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.)
Willi
!# V
iVw
f
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE TRUCK IS
Bedford
PROVEN EXTRA-DUTY ENGINES.
Three great law-revving, 6 cylinder
o.h.v. engines I The 30 cwt., 2 and 3
ton models develop 76 b.h.p. The
3-4 and 4-5 tonners develop 86 b.h.p.
and the 6-7 tonners 110 b.h.p.
PROVEN SYNCHROMESH GEARBOX.
No other British truck near Bedford’s
price offers synchromesh gearbox. Split
second changing on hills, in heavy traffic.
PROVEN EXTRA RUGGED FRAME.
Deep chassis frames are engineered for
each capacity and wheelbase with strength
to spare for long life and hard service.
PROVEN LOCKHEED HYDRAULIC
BRAKES. The 30 cwt. Bedford is
equipped with Lockheed triple-safety
hydraulic brakes. On all other models
Vacuum-Servo assistance is added.
PROVEN BEDFORD ENGINE
FEATURES. Positive cylinder lubri-
cation, longer cylinder bore life, longer
bearing life, induction hardened crank-
shaft—these and many other features that
make the Bedford Engines outstanding.
PROVEN TIME-SAVING MANOEUVRA-
BILITY. Shorter wheelbase means a
handier turning circle, gives you greater
manoeuvrability even in narrow streets.
PROVEN LOW LOADING HEIGHT.
Designed for faster, easier loading,
Bedford’s low loading height means less
wasted effort, less wasted time.
PROVEN IDEAL WEIGHT DISTRI-
BUTION. Semi-forward control with
the engine mounted over the front axle
gives better weight distribution, greater
payload for a given axle load.
PLUS NATION-WIDE SERVICE. Authorised dealers the length and breadth of
—-Australia provide expert service with GMH trained mechanics and genuine
Bedford spare parts. G.M.A.C. CONFIDENTIAL HIRE PURCHASE PLAN. Convenient
Hire-Purchase Finance is available to buy your Bedford through G.M.A.C.—General
Motors own finance organisation.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS -HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia.
818/48
No other truck can
match Bedford design
and engineering
leadership— YET SELL
SO LOW.
30 cwt., 120" wheelbase.
2 Ton, 143" wheelbase.
3 Ton, 143" wheelbase.
3- Ton, 157" wheelbase.
4- Ton, 157" wheelbase.
6-7 Ton, 116" wheelbase.
6-7 Ton, 156" wheelbase.
30 cwt. “K” Model
6 cyl. O.H.V. engine, 76
b.h.p. at 3,200, torque
168.5 ft. lbs. at 1,000.
4-5 Ton Model
6 cyl. O.H.V. engine, 84
b.h.p. at 3,100, torque
170 ft. Ibs. at 1,000.
BUILD YOUR BUSINESS ON BRITISH BEDFORD
effort on the part of all the other
inmates and the sisters, bent on
softening, by prayer, precept and
example, the hard shell that
housed the soul of Moree Mike,
a soul that Sister Dymphna
could imagine cleansed, snow-
white and beautiful—fit to take
its place among the blessed;
but somehow the vision would
fade and in its place would
loom the obese hirsute body of
Moree Mike; so that Sister
would suppress a giggle and pray
for greater austerity of mind.
When the day had worn to late
afternoon she said a prayer to
keep her from worldy pride as
she surveyed the rooms and
dormitories all clean and bright
for the Feast day, and realised
her success in coaxing her
charges to harmonious and sus-
tained effort harmonious
enough as long as she kept the
conversation on the topic of
men’s ways about the home.
MEANTIME the men were
out in the yards attending
to men’s work. Moree Mike
had bailed-up Tilly, the Home
cow, and was hunched against
her, head buried into her flank,
as his great hands stripped
laboriously at her pendulous
teats. Ponty was swinging a
scythe through a patch of green
oats, mowing Tilly’s evening
meal. At the gate of the yard
stood Mr. Mclnerney, observ-
ing closely, with the eye of an
overseer, the labors of the others.
Invariably he took up this
position until the cow was
milked and fed, the morrow’s
fuel stacked by the kitchen-
door and the rat-traps set in the
feed-room. Invariably Old
Rowley sat by him and
scratched at fleas. Old Rowley
masqueraded as the home
watch-dog. He had received his
name from a sporting inmate of
a decade ago because he was
added to the home menage, a
sad-eyed, long-eared, non-
descript pup, on the day that
Old Rowley won the Melbourne
Cup. He attached himself to
Mr. Mclnerney from the day of
that gentleman’s admittance,
and the two were oddly suited
one to the other.
Father Hartigan and Doctor
Bloore were seen this evening
to be in earnest conversation on
the steps leading from the sick-
bay. A little behind them was
Sister Alexius, hands hidden in
her sleeves.
Mr. Mclnerney hurried from
his stand to an empty fowl-pen
and emerged leading an Irish
Setter pup that swarmed over
him, leaping and capering.
“Let him come to me, Mr. Mc<-
Inerney. Slip his lead,” called
Father Hartigan. The released
pup bounded towards him, but
slithered to a stop halfway and
swung off sharply, his nose
snuffling the ground and his tail
oscillating wildly.
Mr. Mclnerriey’s old face
beamed with pride. “Mrs.
Brieley’s kitten was free of her
for part of the morning,” he
explained. “It was playing about
here. The young dog is on to
its scent.”
“What a dog he’ll be,” said
Father Hartigan with great
pride. “Look at him working
that line. He’d work a cock-
roach into a colander.”
“Too headstrong, these Irish
dogs,” Dr. Bloore commented.
“He’ll be looking for a place to
lie down in after half an hour
in the paddocks.”
Father appeared to be
ruffled. “We’ll see about that.
Bring your old wall-eyed pointer
along tomorrow, say, between
twelve and one and we’ll try the
farms up Alnwick way. -I hear
there are a few quail in the
autumn stubble and old lucerne
ground. Can you make it?”
“I can. We’ll take your old
car, eh? More room for the
dogs.” Dr. Bloore didn’t stress
the point that the old car
wouldn’t show damage from
dogs and bloody birds as would
his new sedan. And Father
hadn’t a wife to complain.
He turned to Sister Alexius
waiting patiently behind him.
'‘Oh, Sister, old John Lunney’s
condition , is deteriorating
rapidly. Tell night Sister to keep
an eye on him.”
“Poor old John. Not a rela-
tion in the country. He’s wish-
ful to be dead and gone. It’ll
be better for him the way he
is.” Father sighed, and cast
his eye over the sky. “It’ll be
fine and windy tomorrow. We’ll
take old Mr. Mclnerney, eh?
He’ll love the outing and he can
look after the dogs.”
Mr. Mclnerney was standing
at the yard-gate with the young
setter, which he had dragged
from among the window-boxes
along the front veranda where
Mrs. Brieley’s kitten was
perched, arch-backed and spit-
ting.
“Kennel him please, Mr. Mc-
lnerney,” Father called to him.
“Have him ready tomorrow
afternoon for some shooting.
You’d like to come, too? Good.
Bye-bye, doctor.” He turned to
speak to Sister Alexius, but she
had returned to the sick-bay
He climbed into the old car and
returned to the presbytery.
'T'HAT evening in the common-
room the talk was hushed a
Kttle at first because of old John
Lunney in the sick-bay near by
with death approaching him.
But they were old, death a fre-
quent visitor and one to be pre-
pared for, and the fire was cosy
and cheerful.
Moree Mike was most sub-
dued, and he kept his voice
hoarsely muffled, so that little
Katie Maguire felt creepy when
he spoke. “He was a good old
cove, John Lunney; but miser-
able with the rheumatics always,
It’s little joy he’s had, and death
will be a happy release for him.”
Little Katie Maguire shud-
dered.
“Life is sweet, I say,” Ma
Burgess asserted. “A good meal
well cooked, a tidy little home,
and a cosy seat by the fire on a
winter’s night.”
Katie Maguire nodded. “And
it’s good to be up in the morn-
ings to see the sun rise through
the mists about the mangroves
on the river flats, and hear the
roosters crowing, and see the
first light on the Barrington
Tops. And the cool easterly on
hot summer evenings and you
sitting on the veranda ...”
Gran Withers woke up.
“Verandas! We had two on our
place on Gunna Gunoo. Father
used to store his horse-feed on
the back veranda. A great man
for horses was Father, and the
best rider of buckjumpers in the
world.”
Moree Mike shook his head
and snorted. “A horse what
bucks is not much good. He
sulks and is a slug when the
bucks is rode out of him. There
was a breed of horses up on
Myall Creek—Grand Canal’s get
they was—all browns an’ blacks
with a blaze an’ a bad eye. Lot
o’ white showing. Bred well
enough to win an Epsom ; but
they was bad—snakes all of
’em.”
“Snakes is dangerous; but
you can charm ’em with music,”
said Gran Withers, reanimated,
“Once at Gunna Gunoo when
I was a young girl I had a con-
certina for playin’ at dances . ..”
“Young girls at dances don’t
behave now like they use to,” Ma
Burgess remarked. “Brazen hus-
sies! The one that helps Sister
Gonzaga in the kitchen told me
today to wash me own cup an’
saucer when I finished me tnorn-
ingtea...”
“Has Sister taken all your tea
{Continued on next page)


Wlm ym wavct a
make Au/ie Hie \mhumi t&
msafter
V. >
VCs
%>, m
ii ?.. .'ft:
t a»«»4 t | .5 I
•••"' > % I 11 /•:
• :
TRADE MARK
of Quality
For 44 years Crusader has been weav-
ing cloth that competes with the best
made anywhere in the World.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, her prize-winning Worsted
Cloths have easily become the standard
of Quality throughout our land.
You are cordially invited to inspect
the new 1952-53 range of Crusader
Suitings which are now available. Ask
your favourite tailor to show you his
attractive Crusader Pattern Book.
Every cloth is fully guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. Your tailor will
tell you Crusader Worsteds tailor well,
for they are the product of a Mill that
is proitd of its Cloths.
So, when you want a good suit—a suit
you will want to wear because you
look your best in it, make sure your
material is Crusader—the Cloth that
has behind it 44 years of service and
satisfaction.
Crusader (Tlolli
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
CI-K 3
coupons?” Katie Maguire asked
the company generally. “She
asked me for mine this morn-
ing.”
But Mr. Mclnerney had been
stirring restlessly in his chair and
fanning the fumes of Moree
Mike’s pipe away from him with
a newspaper. He had his large
silver watch in his hand, and
now raised a querulous voice:
, , ...
Whois been tampering wi
dock? It ts 16 minutes fast!
The women eyed the clock
accusingly, as a mechanism that
was trying to cheat them of 16
minutes of life.
Ponty Carlin glanced guiltily
at Moree Mike, who was bur-
nishing his pipe on the side of
his nose. Now he spoke: “Well,
Mr. Mclnerney, it was this way.
Me an’ Ponty was goin’ in to
town early tomorrow for an
hour or two. We’d be able to
catch the nine bus at the bottom
of the hill if breakfast was a bit
earlier.”
Ma Burgess eyed Mike and
Ponty with admiration. Katie
Maguire’s expression was dis-
approving,
But Mr, Mclnerney’s voice
and manner were censorious,
“Let the clock be put right, and
touch it no more!”
Ponty wriggled himself half-
way out of his deck-chair ; but
little Katie Maguire had reached
for the clock, and now faced
Mr. Mclnerney, slowly turning
the hands back with the clock-
face held up to his view until he
nodded hjs head she rep|aced
c ] G ck on the mantel-shelf,
anc } Mr. Mclnerney slipped his
W atch back into his waistcoat
pocket. Severely he looked
around upon the silent company,
then turned and walked out.
Moree Mike yawned cavern-
ously and noisily, stretched
mightily, and announced his in-
tention of going to bunk.
Sister Dymphna glided in and
picked up the vases of flowers.
“Isn’t it bedtime for all good
girls and boys?” she hinted.
pRECISELY at noon on the
A next day Dr. Bloore parked
his new car on the front drive,
took from it a gim : C ase and a
cold-eyed pointer dog and made
for Father Hartigan’s old road-
ster on the out-drive,
Mr, Mclnerney shuffled round
the corner in tow of the
exuberant setter.
“Can you manage the two,
Mr. Mclnerney?” Dr. Bloore
asked the old man.
“Let him come up, Doctor,
I’m prepared for him,” Mr.
Mclnerney announced,
The released pointer ap-
proached the young setter
obliquely and cautiously. He
had 4 exp £ rience o£ this p * and
looked with a jaundiced eye
upon his playfulness, his ab-
surdly waving feathered paws,
and his slobbery ways. Mr.
Mclnerney was making much
more rapid progress towards
him, impelled by the rampant
setter, than he was towards Mr.
Mclnerney, who succeeded in
getting hold of his lead, and then
stood triumphant but tottery as
his charges skirmished and
wrestled about his thin old legs,
Father Hartigan appeared
from the Convent, removed his
black coat, stock and hat, placed
them in Doctor’s car, pulled on
a suit of khaki overalls, an old
grey cardigan and a cap, and
was ready. He nodded'to Mr.
Mclnerney, who struggled into
the rear seat with the dogs. The
“Home” dog, Old Rowley, ap-
proached cautiously now that
the gun-dogs appeared to be
safely confined.
Quite suddenly there was a
blood-curdling howl from down
the drive, and Old Rowley, with
hackles raised, leapt about in
panicky fashion to face this new
threat. One look was enough.
Moree Mike was cavorting up
the gravel path, his old hat dang-
ling from his mouth, his arms
describing mad circles as he
danced and capered, his coat
ballooning about his obese but-
tocks at each leap. Moreover
he yelled like a dervish.
Old Rowley started a whine
that waxed to a howl as he fled
round the corner with tail
jambed between his legs, his ears
floating weirdly and gravel flying
behind him. He skidded round
the tank-stand, frightened Sister
Alexius out of her Office-medi-
tations, and speared into the
coal cellar where he lay panting,
only his fear-lit. eyes visible in
the dark interior.
Mike gave chase hilariously,
and Ponty followed unsteadily,
but more sedately, a huge smile
illuminating his rubicund coun-
tenance, as he continued raising
his hat to priest and doctor with-
out discrimination.
Father Hartigan climbed
hastily into his car. “Come on
Doctor! Let’s get out of this
before Mike and Ponty start a
riot. Sister Dymphna can handle
them better than we can. Let’s
go.”
They turned off the Pacific
Highway where clumps of she-
oaks lined the Tarro swamps,
and made their way along a farm
road deeply rutted by milk-
lorries and the hooves of dairy
cows. A few miles further on
swamp gave way to cultivation:
lucerne lands, stands of sorghum,
and old corn lands overgrown
with summer-grass and stubble.
“The wind is nor-west,” ob-
served Father Hartigan. “We’ll
leave the car here and work that
long land of corn-stubble. That’s
Taylor’s ; he’s all right. The old
lucerne ground over there looks
promising too ; but it belongs
to old Symons. He doesn’t like
guns on his property.”
“Let him be,” said Doctor
Bloore. “Will you release the
dogs, Mr. Mclnerney? Perhaps
it’d be better if you rested in
the car. There’ll be a good bit
of walking.”
Mr. Mclnerney was hurt. “I’ll
follow the guns, for a while,” he
replied primly. “It’s a thing I
admire —to see good dogs work-
ing, and some neat shooting.”
HE led the dogs, or rather
was led by the dogs, to
the end of the stubble-fields and
unleashed them, then retired
some fifty yards and braced him-
self for the tumult.
The pointer immediately
swung to his work, casting
widely to the right down-wind,
then quartering closely, his
questing nose extended hori-
zontal to his under-line and his
tail. Then he got a scent. Down
went his head, his tail signalled
violently, as he crept step by
careful step towards a clump of
old summer-grass, then froze to
immobility on point.
The young setter cavorted
round in the rear of the pointer,
aware of the scent, instinct im-
pelling him to back up ; but his
Irish exuberance inciting him to
short rushes and ecstatic winn-
ings and prostrations.
Dr. Bloore walked up to his
dog’s point and neatly dropped
his bird as it whirred from under
his feet. Another rose from
near by and Father took it, but
missed.
Dr. Bloore threw him a glance,
swift but eloquent. Father Har-
tigan’s expletive was unusual, for
a priest. “Sun-—right in my
eyes,” he muttered; but no one
was deceived.
Meantime the pointer had
bounded forward, retrieved the
bird and was proffering it to his
master, when the Irish setter.
determined to take some action
in the matter, snatched the
game, tore it in halves and pro-
ceeded to chew it, enthusiasti-
cally. >
. Dr. Bloore took a kick at him
that would have caved his ribs
in had he not seen it coming.
“Mr. Mclnerney,” he yelled,
“Will you leash this animal —
and drown it over there in the
river! That will save me the
trouble of shooting it.”
“It’s the old pointer you’ll be
wanting to drown or shoot
before we’re through,” Father
Hartigan commented spiritedly.
“Let the dog settle down. He’s
only a pup. He and I will both
improve.”
Mr. Mclnerney remained in
the rear as if rooted to the spot.
At the sound of the Doctor’s
gun he had clapped his hands
over his ears, but had instantly
snatched them away; and his
face took on a most extra-
ordinary expression—a fiendish,
fearful glee. He almost danced,
and spasmodically clenched and
unclenched his hands. At the
Doctor’s voice he recovered his
dignity of expression and poise ;
but as the shooters moved off
again he picked up the mangled
quail and examined its wounds ;
and the unholy expression pos-
sessed him again.
Father Hartigan paused in
some surprise. The old man
made to follow, but faltered.
“I’ll go back to the car.
Father,” he called. “It’s a
singular thing, but the gun and
the death of the bird have upset
me.” He turned and shuffled
unsteadily back to the rear seat
of the car.
Hours later the two shooters
returned, two tired dogs tongue-
ing at heel, and began emptying
their pockets of quail. Father
Hartigan was in high spirits.
“Eleven I have. Doctor. Seven
for you, isn’t it?”
“Yes!” replied the Doctor
tersely, aware that Father knew
exactly the number.
“The setter pup did his job
well,” said Father Hartigan.
“He did,” admitted the Doc-
tor,
“Better than the pointer, on
the whole, Td say,” persisted
Father.
“He works too wide —ranges
too far,” said the Doctor.
Father smiled, the smile of a
man who feels he can afford to
be tolerant.
“Ah, well! It was a grand
afternoon. The pup has a great
nose. He’ll do!”
“He’ll do,” repeated the Doc-
tor, grinning.
They signalled to Mr. Mc-
lnerney to get the dogs in, threw
the quail on the back seat and
set out for home.
The tired dogs lay about the
old man’s feet. Furtively he
picked up and smelt the guns,
then collected the dead birds and
inspected their shot-torn bodies,
on his face again an expression
fearful yet gloating as he fondled
the blood-soaked feathers.
OLD John Lunney died that
night, and within two days
the pneumonia that had taken
him off had laid low three other
inmates: Old Mrs. Brieley,
Aunty Mary Corbett and Mr.
Mclnerney.
Each morning during that
week Moree Mike arose tenta-
tively, felt his stomach and heart,
breathed deeply and studied his
reaction, swung his arms and
studied his face in the mirror.
Then, reassured, he visited the
bed of Ponty Carlin and inquired
of him in a rudely healthy voice
if he had “the dog’s disease.”
“Yer don’t look none too
good,” he informed Ponty, who
immediately slumped beneath
his bedclothes abjectly and
looked miserable, a condition
from which he was aroused only
by Sister Dymphna with a glass
of hot rum and milk.
On the third morning of his
illness Mr. Mclnerney was
delirious. His mutterings and
sudden cries had Sister Dymphna
wide-eyed at times, and she
whispered a pious ejaculation as
she caught the meaning of some
of his phrases.
((Continued foot of next page)


FIGHTS NOT ONE
BUT EVERY CAUSE
OF ENGINE WEAR
1
a*.'*
New
m
• >
m
Mobiloil
PfyAfcfrsrf/o/f... figA/s AAras/b/r... AfyAfs
NEVER BEFORE HAS ONE OIL CONTAINED ALL THESE QUALITIES
NEW BASE OIL richer In lubricating qualities and new in blend
with greater oiliness to fight frlcton by far the greatest
cause of engine wear
LATEST ANTI-CORROSION (anti-acid) additives which stops wear
from acid action . . . and corrosion of metal surfaces when the
engine is not being used.
IMPROVED OXIDATION INHIBITOR which fights destructive
chemical reactions and prevents formation of gummy sludge.
■ so maintaining the wear-fighting qualities of the oil.
SUPERIOR ANTI-FOAMANT ADDITIVE providing further sure
protection against the ravages of wear from friction. It pre-
vents foaming so that the full lubricating qualities of the oil
are preserved,
JOO% INCREASE IN SUPER-DETERGENT ADDITIVE to wash
carbon dust and other foreign matter from metal surfaces and
hold this matter harmlessly in suspension, thus giving you an
extremely clean engine.
The true causes of
engine wear proved at
the world’s greatest
research laboratories
FRICTION .... .51% '
ABRASION .. :. 39
CORROSION , .
(Add-action)
: O'.
F M 534
The greatest oil ever made
88S
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Aust.)
Dr. Bloore had been in twice
through the day and came back
again at night. He stood at the
foot of the bed with Mother
Cecilia and Sister Dymphna.
“Poor old man! ” said Mother
Cecilia. “He can’t stand much
more of this.”
“He hasn’t stopped all the
afternoon,” whispered Sister
Dymphna. “Someone is chasing
him. He’s in terror. Something
is hidden. Listen! ”
The old man was muttering
and tossing. Suddenly he sat up.
“They’ve come! They’re here!
Digging, looking! No! No!
Not there!” He screamed and
hid his face beneath the pillow.
Mother Cecilia felt his fore-
head and arranged the bed-
clothes.
He struggled to a sitting posi-
tion again. On his face was
horror.
“No! That’s only a bit of
the pig I buried. It died and I
cut it up. I buried it weeks
ago. Take it away! It stinks.
1 buried it . . . buried both. No
one knows—no one,” he croaked,
a dry whistling in his throat.
Doctor Bloore glanced keenly
at the nuns ; but their eyes were
downcast. “Has he talked—this
way—-about things like this, all
the time?” he asked quietly.
“He has,” Sister Dymphna
replied. “God help him! Father
Hartigan was with him for an
hour this afternoon trying to
help and console him. ‘I can
only pray for him. Sister,’ he
said as he came away. ‘We must
all pray for him.’ Father seemed
very upset.”
Mother Cecilia spoke, and her
voice had in it something of
reproof for Sister Dymphna’s
verboseness. “Any death-bed
scene is distressing for a priest.”
“Yes, Mother,” whispered
Sister Dymphna with humility.
The patient had been silent for
a minute, silent but for his rasp-
ing wheezing breathing ; but now
he struggled again to rise.
“Dark! Walls all round me!
Cold walls!' Can’t reach to that
window. Iron bars at the win-
dow! No sun! Listen! They’re
coming! ”
His voice rose again, hoarsely,
horribly. He gasped out phrase
by phrase. “Him with her. He’s
with her again. They’re together
now.” He chuckled it seemed—
a horrible croak. “They couldn’t
find them. They won’t find them
—not one part of them.” He
screamed again. “Only stinking
dead pig they found!”
He fell back fighting for his
breath. “Gun made a mess.
Blood —blood on the bed, blood
on the wall. The gun messed
the birds—bury them! I’m the
gardener. I like digging. They
can’t find what I dig. They’re
digging! 1 can go to the library
now. Special case. I been here
(Continued on page 34)
It's nobody's
business
By NANCY KEESING
1 1 OU do look depressed,”
\ j said Felicity. “Would
y you prefer something
£ stronger than tea?”
“1 uank you, dear ; yes, I am
and I would. Any whisky?”
“Australian.”
“Oh, then with lots of ice.”
Felicity went out to the
kitchen and could be heard
banging the refrigerator door,
running a tap and rummaging
—presumably for glasses, in the
cupboard.
Angela kicked off her sandals,
rearranged the cushions at the
head of the lounge where
Felicity had lately been resting
and put her feet up gracefully,
spreading her full silk skirt about
her legs. When Felicity came
back with the tray she was
languidly smoothing back her
short brown hair from a white
powdered brow.
“You look beautifully cool,
Felicity.”
“Do I? Can’t imagine why.
I had two weeks’ wash this
morning after all the wet
weather, and it practically
finished me. There; how’s
that?”
She set a small table down be-
side the lounge and brought an
ashtray over.
“Aren’t I a nuisance! I
always flick it about on car-
pets.”
“There’s no excuse now, any-
way,” said Felicity equably.
“Not drinking?”
“Just ice-water. It’s supposed
to be better for me.”
“Poor darling. Does having
a baby make you very hot?”
“Very. But it can’t be
helped.”
“No? ... And that’s just one
reason, Angela, dear, why I feel
so sorry for poor little Monica.”
“But we heard she was
splendid, and it was nice and
cool while she was in bed.”
“Nevertheless, what with
everything—ah, I do pity her.
That’s why I feel so strange, I
think ; when I’m sorry for people
1 simply immerse myself in their
problems. My own life becomes
unreal. Something like lying
under a mosquito-net and look-
ing at one’s room through it.
Familiar but misty—you know?”
“I see what you mean.”
squirmed in the
A armchair, dabbing her hot
face with a handkerchief. Pers-
piration trickled nastily down
her spine. If she lay back in
the upholstery it was too hot,
and if she sat forward, uncom-
fortable. She looked regret-
fully at the lounge and at
Angela’s slim, unencumbered
form.
“No doubt it’s because I’m so
sensitive.” Angela sipped her
drink pensively.
“But Angela, we heard Monica
and Roger were so happy. After
all, that’s what they wanted —a
son. I had a very happy note
from them. She’s bringing the
baby over to visit me next
week.”
“Ah. Then you’ll see.”
“But the baby’s all right, isn’t
he?”
“Oh, he’s all right ...l sup-
pose. He’s not deformed.”
“Angela, what do you mean?”
“Now, dear. Don’t get ex-
cited. I’m sure you shouldn’t
be upset just now. Forget about
it.”
“How can I forget? Monica’s
one of my oldest friends. Why,
I’ve known her as long as I’ve
known you. And if I’m to see
her I’d rather know.”
ANGELA closed her eyes.
Her beautiful mouth
twisted into an expression of
concern.
“You didn’t see her at the
hospital, did you?”
“I told you. I couldn’t go.
I’m supposed to rest as much as
possible.”
“My dear. Actually she’d
just fed the babe when I arrived,
but they let me in. Oh, Monica
looked wonderful. But the
baby! You know they say girl
babies take after their mothers
and boys after their fathers?
But this one! As soon as I saw
him I said ‘Fergus!’ ]My dear
—the spit and image.”
“Fergus?”
“Yes. Fergus McAlister.”
“Did the baby resemble
him?” y
IIT , ~ , x
a,4 W^at te m S y ou -
, n .°* ourse . Monica had to
a mit me coincidence. You
a l a C j U iaf c^in * sss j
although Monica seemed to
find it attractive enough once.
1 m sure Fergus means noth-
mg to her now.”
“Probably not.”
“He lives up the country, any-
way.” •
“I suppose he comes to town
occasionally. Show-week or
some such vulgar time—that
bushwhacker would choose
Show-week. In fact,” and
Angela did a little sum on her
white-skinned red-clawed fingers,
“if it was Show-week it could
have been... but, no. Because
.... Well, anyway, Roger came
in while I was there. Oh, so
proud! I told him I thought the
baby looked likd Fergus. He
thought it was a great joke... at
least at first. We all laughed.
And then, as I said to them, new
babies are always perfectly
hideous. ‘He’ll change,’ I told
them. But for a week or two
everyone I spoke to was com-
menting on the likeness.”
Felicity drained her ice-water
and move d across the room to a
cane chair. It was angular and
hard, but cooler than the up-
hoisterecj one Angela swallowed
t ] ie j ast G f the whisky and rattled
the glass down on the little table,
p e fi c ity glanced across.
“Refill?”
“Please, darling. It’s not bad
—if you can’t get Scotch.”
“Pete likes this, anyway.”
“Does he? Dear old easy-
going Pete. How is he?”
“Very well.”
“Dying for a son, like Roger
was, I suppose?”
“We don’t care—so long as
it’s healthy.”
CHE carried Angela’s glass
through to the kitchen, walk-
ing slowly and wearily on her
swollen feet. Returning, she
asked, as she handed the drink
to Angela:
“But Monica’s son looks like
any other baby now?”
“Actually, no. It’s uncanny,
Really, I can’t imagine what that
poor girl ever did to deserve
such a thing. She wrote to me
and invited me to dinner last
Monday. In the letter she sort
of made a little joke: something
about ‘he’s developed a chin and
has grown into a proper little
individual.’ ”
“Good!”
“When I arrived Roger was
holding him. Very much the
incredulous papa.”
“Yes,” interpolated Felicity,
“one thing I can scarcely wait
for is to see Peter. I know he’ll
look absolutely besotted.”
“I do hope so. I simply could
not bear you people to suffer like
those two. My nervous system
wouldn’t stand it.”
“I’d forgotten,” said Felicity
miserably. “I was thinking it
had turned out happily—the
chin and a 11...”
“Exactly. My dear Felicity,
that chin! Frankly I goggled,
I couldn’t help it. Before I
could stop myself I said—
thinking of his enormous chin
—‘Why, Alexander!’ and they
had to admit, once the idea was
in their heads, that that baby is
so like that partner of Roger’s
who visits them such a lot—
Alexander Morris, you know-
it’s just nobody’s business!”


Jk
But Me •
someth/nq
blue ism/
ft
HULLO SALLY-
HOW LOVELY
YOU LOOK!
BUT WHY
20 BLUE?
|ki. v: „
7 r
OH JILL, I'M
20 UNHAPPY !
808 USED TO BE
MY BEST MAN -
BUT LOOK AT HIM
NOW! y
WHAT HAVE I DONE TO
MAKE HIM TREAT ME LIKE THIS?
SALLY SCES HSR VENT/ST
SCIENTIFIC TESTS
PROVE THAT, IN 7 CASES
OUT OF 10, COLGATE'S
REMOVES THE CAUSE
OF BAD BREATH .
IT ALSO HELPS TO
mm k 310(3 I^ool
DECAY.
J /
•V
SALLY, \
f FORGIVE ME-1
BUT WHAT YOU I
p SHOULD DO IS
SEE YOUR DENTIST,
A80UT....
vBAD BREATH IA
i
hi
NOW ITS WEDDING- BELLS
FOR 808 AND ME -THANKS <
TO COLGATE DENTALCREAMfJ
3
/r
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental Literature
Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
USE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
*S TO clean vour breath
i/ while you clean your TEETH I
"S AND HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Buy ihe Big
Family Economy Size
America’s Largest, Australia’s Largest, the World’s Largest Selling Dental Cream
MB3
Most thoroughly proved and
accepted home method of
oral hygiene known today
Yes, and two years’ re-
search showed the Colgate
way stopped more decay
for more people than ever
before reported in denti-
frice history! No other
dentifrice offers such
proof—the most conclu
sive proof ever reported
for a dentifrice of any type.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA —In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry,
TO LEONARD MARSH formerly of Laun-
ceston in Tasmania Pointer but whose
address is now unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice'to you to appear
and answer charges in the Petition of
JEAN MARSH of No. 69 Mulgrave Street
Launceston in Tasmania praying for a
dissolution of her marriage on the ground
of desertion In default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereof AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid within Thirty days after
the date of this publication an appear-
ance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, Macquarie Street, Hobart, in Tas-
mania, or at the Launceston District
Registry, Cameron Street, Launceston.—
D. W. SHIELDS, District Registrar.
N. 8.: Friends of the abovenamed
LEONARD MARSH who may see this
advertisement are requested to bring it
under his notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO THOMAS WILLIAM McCUTCHEON
late of 1 Brown Street Wallsend in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that ANNIE VALLANCE Mc-
CUTOHEON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4322 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 10th July 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. H. V. HARRIS
WHEELER & WILLIAMS, Solicitors,
Bolton and King Streets, Newcastle. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC FAINS
quickly eased with
trade mask
Proved by Cttnicai Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
# Daring Ac past five years, Dolcin has
helped coantless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
m
«H eUM
Tie A
id*
U(llT ,S
B«S°
l0 M
f.**2
i» :
■
p.EU
sort 1 *
< p
Dolein tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Flbrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
fa also given because Dolein contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
. DfltCtM Is non-toxic.
• DOLCiN is prescribed by the medical profession.
• DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN Is easy to take in tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on Request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty, Ltd., Box 1552,
Sydney.
D 4.2
Elements of an Industry .. . No. 17 of a Series
NICKEL is sometimes found in meteorites, alloyed with iron, but
in the earth’s crust it does not occur in the metallic state. More
than four-fifths of the world’s supply of this valuable element is mined
in the Sudbury district of Ontario from deposits of “pentlandite”—a
mineral containing sulphides of iron and nickel. A corrosion-resistant
silver-white metal, nickel is well known in the form of nickel-plating, but
it is far more important as a constituent of alloys. It is used, for
example, in stainless steels and to add strength and toughness to alloy
steels for motor cars, aircraft, armaments and machine tools. It is
alloyed with copper and other metals to make condenser tubes and coins.
Together with zinc and copper it forms nickel silver, the basis of plated
tableware, and with chromium it is used extensively in gas turbine
engines and to make heating elements for electric fires. Nickel and its
salts are also used in alkaline storage batteries and in the manufacture
of enamels.
Besides producing large quantities of wrought alloys containing nickel,
such as nickel silvers and cupronickels, 1.C.1. uses a nickel silver alloy
to make “Lightning” slide fasteners, and nickel catalysts in the manu-
facture of cyclohexane, one of the intermediates from which nylon is
produced.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES /tch
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD. \C7
—— 418. 3U6—"
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Biographical details and other facts
concerning the comedian William
(“Walter”) Hill, 1826-79, and his
wife Julia ( nee James), 1835-1919;
copies of their songs and programmes
of their performances also wanted. —
5501. .
To buy set of Norman Lindsay
Bulletin post-cards, issued about 40
years ag0.—5500.
To buy copy of Darlinghurst
Nights by Kenneth Slessor and Abide
With Me by Cedric Belfrage.—sso2.
Information Sought
information sougnt
Some facts about Garnet Ruskin
Wolseley, the portrait-painter?
Born in London, May 24, 1884,
he was educated at the Slade School
of Art, London, and won the Slade
Scholarship and Painting Prizes in
1902 and 1903. In World War I
he served in the Royal Navy, mainly
in Asian waters,. He has been a
frequent exhibitor at R.A. and other
leading London and provincial ex-
hibitions since 1909, and has held
several one-man shows. Principal
works are “Visions,” “The Lady
Brocket and Children” and “The
Dancing Lesson.” He discovered and
excavated important prehistoric vil-
lages on the South Downs (Eng.),
the principal exhibits from them being
in the British Museum. He has pub-
fished a couple of books, mainly con-
cerned with art and with Roman and
prehistoric associations with Sussex,
* * * ,*
, , . _ „
(1) Duties of a judges tipstaff?
(2) Salary? (3) Qualifications? (4)
Where to apply for such a position?
(1) To attend upon the judge and
see that his bodily comfort and con-
venience, in court and out, are main-
tained. He precedes the judge when
robed and clears a way for hipi if
necessary, carrying the judge’s staff
of office; obtains books for him in
court and out of it; obtains and if
necessary serves the judge’s meals in
chambers or on journeys; attends to
the judge’s luggage and accommoda-
tion on journeys; and generally must
be on hand to perform any duties
and errands that a valet and butler
combined might perform, both in
chambers and on journeys, but not
a t the judge’s home. (2) The salary
a t the present time is £791 on appoint-
ment, rising to £BO4 at the end of
three years. (3) Qualifications are
dependability, good deportment and
dignity combined with the quality of
being able to anticipate the judge’s
needs and the ability to be present
unobtrusively when needed. (4) As a
tipstaff’s duties involve personal
a ttendance upon the judge, the selec-
tion is always left to the judge him-
self and accordingly application is
made direct to him. There is, of
course, little use in applying unless
there is known to be a vacancy or
that there is about to be one.
# * *
. , _ . _
Which is correct—Scotch, Scots or
Scottish ?
“Scottish” represents, according to
Fowler, “most closely the original
form, the first [Scotch] and second
[Scots] being the contractions of it
usual in England and Scotland respec-
tively. Scottish is still both good
English—especially in formal contexts
—and good Scotch.” The Oxford
English Dictionary says that the
English form “Scotch” had “before
the end of the 18th century been
adopted into the northern vernacular;
it is used regularly by Bums, and
subsequently by Scott. [But] there
has been a growing tendency to dis-
card this form altogether, Scottish,
or less frequently Scots, being sub-
stituted.” For the name of the dialect,
“Scottish” is little used; “Scotch” is
t jj e English form, and “Scots” the
f orm generally used in Scotland
j tse if. The words “Scotsman” and
“Scotchman” are the corresponding
Scotch and English versions. The
express-train, incidentally, is usually
named the Flying Scotsman,
Brief Answers
E.K.C.: Write Australian Olympic
Federation, Amateur Sports Club,
343 Little Collins-street, Melbourne,
J.R.Y.: “Matsa” was performed
at the Prfhcess Theatre, Melbourne,
in 1897. Nellie Stewart was not in
the cast. The cast comprised Florence
Young, Carrie Moore, Flora Graup-
ner, Juliet Wray, May Pollard, Ivy
Scott, George Lauri, Howard Vernon,
Pat Bathurst and Ernest Fitts
Alice B.; The sovereign you mention
definitely did not contract a mor-
ganatic marriage previous to the
marriage with his Queen L.U.:
The initials L.S.D. derive from the
Latin. The “L” stands for libra
(actually Latin for a pound of weight),
the “S” for solidus (a Roman pound
in money) and the “D” for denarius
(a Roman coin, worth about 10d.).
It is probably more correct to say
that the letters stand for the plural
forms— librae, solidi and denarii. The
“L” is sometimes written as a £
Durham: Unable to find any refer-
ence to the attempted assassination
you refer to. Perhaps you have in
mind the incident on July 16, 1936,
soon after his accession as Edward
VIII, when the Duke of Windsor,
riding along Constitution Hill on his
way back to Buckingham Palace at
the head of six battalions of the
Guards to whom he had just pre-
sented new colors in Hyde Park, was
confronted by a man who threw a
loaded revolver down on the road-
way in front of his horse. At the
trial of McMahon, the man involved,
the judge held that there had been
no intention of harming the King
but that McMahon was “one of those
misguided persons who think that by
notoriety they can call attention to
grievances.” He was given a 12-
months sentence.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
H.P.: We found “The Drunkard’s
Death” far too harrowing 5.8.:
You would do better if you remem-
bered that you were writing for an
Australian audience F.R.V.: “The
Strip Tease Girl” was told to get
dressed and go home N.A.V.: A
little less scenery and more action,
please L.G.S.: Kendall did it
better B,B.: We have yet to hear
of a punch-drunk boxer who could
perform that feat... .K.C.N.: “I am
not one of the long-haired variety of
poets.” You’re not even a poet.
E.M.: Only a landlubber could
write about the sea like that....
R. 8.: Attempt to tell a story in the
form of questions and answers was a
dismal failure H.E.: Why all the
secrecy? The last war ended nearly
eight years ago F.J.F.: Have you
ever been in a two-up 5ch001?....
D.McK.: Frankly, we grew weary of
that salesman long before he plucked
up courage to tell off his boss
D.F.S.: Those goats are now brows-
ing off rejected MSS. in the w.p.b.


The Prefence-and the Record
Bird’s-Eye View
of Peace
By "EK DUM"
HOWEVER much Com-
munist propaganda may
try to hide the fact; the
ultimate objective of
Russia is world war to imple-
ment the world revolution in
which Communism will take
over the globe under Russian
leadership.
Addressing the body of Lenin
at the funeral service in January,
1924, Stalin said:
We vow to you. Comrade Lenin,
that we will not spare our lives
to strengthen and extend the linion
of the toilers of the world.
Later in his essays on Leninism,
Stalin expanded this thesis:
Nowadays we have to regard the
proletarian revolution, first and
foremost, as the outgrowth of the
antagonisms within the world-wide
system of imperialism, as the out-
come of an effort which, in this
country or that, breaks the chains of
world-wide imperialism.
In the beginning the pro-
gramme was less Machiavellian
than at present. Bolshevism set
out lustily to produce world
revolution instanter. The Com-
munist manifesto published in
1929 boasted of the Comintern’s
share in no fewer than 23 revo-
lutions—every one resulting in
the loss of numerous lives and
much property, but every one
unsuccessful. The leaders who
favored the raw revolutionary
technique Trotsky, Zinoviev
and the rest —paid for their
failure. So did the faint-hearts
and the prudent and the
squeamish—the Tuchachevskys
and their like. And by 1935,
when steps began to be taken to
dispose of the last of them, Com-
munist strategy had been pretty
well sorted out and Communism
was prepared to think in
decades or generations instead
of years.
The first idea had been to pre-
cipitate internal struggles hoping
that they would presently turn
into world war. The plan now
was long-term, detailed, unified
and concrete. In the thesis put
before the Comintern confer-
ence in \9%5 it was set out that
if the war could be delayed for
even a certain time, “this will
also better enable the proletariat
to strengthen its position in
capitalist countries, to- strengthen
the power of the Soviet Union
and to create favorable condi-
tions for transforming the war
between the imperialists, or a
war of the imperialists against
the Soviet Union, into a suc-
cessful and victorious (world)
revolution.”
The line it v«as proposed to
take was as follows:
1. The Soviet is peace-loving be-
cause it is the repository of the ideal
of the brotherhood of man. It does
not want to fight anybody. It does
not need to fight anybody because its
vast resources and method of
organisation put it out of reach of
the temptations which lead to wars.
2. Wars are produced by greed and
competition for monopoly among im-
perialist Powers. They are merely
the kind of fight which arises when
there are two hungry dogs and only
one bone. Any new war launched
from now onward would be “world
war launched by the imperialist
bandits for the purpose of plunder-
ing the peoples of the Soviet Union,
for enslaving the small and weak
peoples who are today independent
and for the redivision of the colonies
and spheres of influence of the im-
perialist great Powers.”
It was intended that the
Soviet Union and its Com-
munist-party agents should
assume the public role of pro-
moters of peace. This gave an
objective to publicise acceptable
to every human being. The
word had a universal world-
wide appeal.
At the same time it was
planned to promote disturbance
and bad feeling among poten-
tially-victim Powers with the
objectives of ( a ) manufacturing
evidence to prove that allega-
tions about the contentious
nature of the capitalist system
were well based, and ( b ) luring
the Western nations into wars
with a view to softening them
up, through exhaustion of re-
sources and the will to fight, for
the final revolution: “The
launching of war by the im-
perialists will mark the begin-
ning of the revolutionary crisis
throughout the entire capitalist
world.” Theoretically, also, this
programme had the advantage
that it would also enable Mos-
cow to popularise the thesis
that there could be no settled
peace in the world until the
capitalist system should be
destroyed, if necessary—as
would be inevitable —by force.
The aim was ultimately to
“turn imperialist war into civil
war.” But this did not mean that
it was intended universally to do
this during the progress of actual
war. Sometimes that would be
possible. Sometimes, on the
other hand, it would be cheaper
to wait till the troops of the ex-
hausted combatant had staggered
home and were involved in the
irritating process of rehabilita-
tion. Delay often would enable
the local revolutionaries to pre-
pare and equip themselves, with
the help of capitalist Govern-
ments, during hostilities and
then turn their weapons after-
wards on the donors. Such wars
are those which broke out in
Malaya and Indo-China after
1945.
The slogan of peace has been
the main Communist weapon
since 1935. Never has any Ob-
jective had so many millions of
pounds, trillions of words and
foot-tons of energy devoted to
drumming it into the heads of
the ordinary people, a project
in which the so-called capitalist
Press and radio have been of
inestimable service to the Krem-
When the “peace campaign”
was first launched in all the full
glory of its publicity in 1935,
editors, clergy, soft-headed
union-leaders rushed to do the
work for their Russian enemies.
They soon were so busy at it that
they did not notice that, con-
temporaneously with their peace
propaganda, the Moscow
bureaux were also engaged in
developing a hate propaganda.
■+• +
From Moscow came the de-
mands that all the capitalist
countries should be forced to
disarm “for peace” by their
proletariats so that they might
not be able to send their
children to be gun-fodder in
the bandit war to overrun Russia
and its peerless resources—the
premise always was that every
major Government save Russia’s
was planning war. Russian oil
was frequently mentioned as the
main temptation.
Ffom Moscow at the same
time as the call for Britain,
France, America and Japan to
disarm came warnings against
the warlike ambitions of the
brutal Fascist beasts of Berlin
and Rome and the need that they
must not be appeased at any
cost; that they must be met by
the Western countries (in which
Moscow was preaching disarma-
ment!) with a stern front much
like Moscow’s own. Mr.
Chamberlain, for refusing to
intervene in Fascist Spain, be-
came a “murderer” of demo-
crats in Communist literature ;
as an “appeaser” at Munich he
was even more abused. But for
years the same people who
fastened insulting labels on him
had been urging the British not
to let him militarise them be-
cause he would use their blood
and treasure to attack the
Soviet Union!
, Contemporaneously, Moscow
was busily demonstrating to
Berlin that all this was done
tongue-in-cheek, and that it
was really Germany which
needed to fear aggression, not
the democratic countries.
When Moscow propaganda
was most vituperative against
Germany in April-May, 1939,
and the Powers had arranged to
meet in Moscow to discuss
Poland and peace, Stalin was
making his first approach to
Germany for a trade agreement
and a non-aggression pact which
would leave Hitler and his
“blood-drunk” allies free to
attack the West —and also to
divide Poland and other spoils
with peace-loving Russia. The
Russians were also at this junc-
ture, when they were still
eagerly doing their best to tack
the word “Fascist” as a symbol
of fear and loathing to every
democratic leader in the Wes-
tern world who showed a grain
of opposition to them, placing
with Italian shipyards their
orders for the designs and for
some of the ships of the new
Russian Navy, thus building up
the Mediterranean naval re-
sources of the “Fascist beast.”
Moscow will probably carry
the ultimate responsibility in
history for touching-off World
War II by selling Hitler the
necessary guarantee that he
would not be attacked by the
U.S.S.R. And it did the best
possible to make itself respons-
ible, too, for touching-off a vic-
torious peace for Hitler in 1940
during the “phony war,” which
would have plunged the whole
Western world into confusion
and established Russia as the
leader of world policy. But it
did this only after it had suc-
ceeded, in the confusion, in grab-
bing such strategic contributions
towards its plan of world con-
quest as it could get cheaply—
half Finland, half Poland, the
little Baltic countries. It failed
to get the Middle East as part of
a bargain proposed in March,
1940, by Molotov, whereby the
globe would have been tempor-
arily carved up between Ger-
many and Italy, Japan and
Russia, with the United States
left alive under bond of good
behaviour.
It was noticeably that during
this period, though Germany
was the aggressor, no word was
said by the “peace-lovers”
against its imperialist morals in
any degree different from the
condemnation of British and
French imperialist morals. Aus-
tralians were told not to enlist
to fight against Hitler in the
Middle East because they were
really intended to be used by
the imperialists to attack the
Caucasus to seize Russian oil.
The wickedness of British and
Australian statesmen “war-
mongers” all —in refusing to
make peace with the man who
had saVaged Poland was
viciously attacked right up to
the moment when Hitler turned
on his ally and started for Mos-
cow.
The fact that the abused Wes-
tern Allies came to the rescue
of Moscow and proposed alli-
ance with the U.S.S.R. made no
difference to the continuance
of Russia’s policy. It was
manoeuvring for resumption of
its plans at the end of hostilities
at the very periods when it was
accepting tens of millions of
pounds-worth of armament and
sustenance from the United
States and Britain. Its rulers
have neither sentiment nor grati-
tude in their make-up. World
War II was to them merely a
step forward towards the goal
of the collapse of capitalism.
Their line was that support of
Russia was an unpalatable duty
which the workers forced on
Western Governments.
Russia had, after the appal-
ling agreement at Yalta had
been accepted, won every rub-
ber between 1939-45. It had
the prizes heaped on the table —
the Baltic countries; a divided
Finland ; Rumania and its oil;
Hungary, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia
(temporarily), Albania, East
Prussia (and with it complete
strategic control of the Baltic)
and Czechoslovakia.
+ +
It had control of Germany
right up to the Elbe, holding its
breadbasket as a guarantee that,
except by Russian grace, the
Reich could never again be a
whole nation. It had strong
footholds in the trade-unions,
and even in the Governments of
Western Continental Powers
which would influence and
sometimes direct their policies
for years. It had the Arab
countries overawed, and it had
succeeded in lining-up the
ignorant, sentimental Demo-
cratic party and Press in the
United States in a joint effort
for “freedom of colonial
peoples” which spawned the
most dire results —the “libera-
tion” from the Dutch of Indo-
nesia, which became a weakling
nation, ripe now to become the
prey of a Communist minority ;
a “liberated” and “divided”
India, and therefore an almost
helpless one ; a chaotic “liber-
ated” Burma, which the agents of
the “peace-loving” Communists
began to attack with arms from
within; a “liberated” Israel,
achieved after bloodshed, at
loggerheads with Arab neigh-
bors ; an Egypt encouraged to
violent armed-action to “free”
its own people, who did not
want to be free, and the Sudan,
whose people regard the
Cairenes with contempt.
Besides these there was Persia,
urged to break a happy and
profitable arrangement with
Britain, a Greece torn to bits
by armed exhibitions of “peace-
loving” organised from Mos-
cow, a Canada and the United
States riddled with espionage
and civil hate all arising from
the peace-loving activities of
Soviet agents directed by Soviet
civil servants ; a Western world
in general full of industrial
strife created through Com-
munist sabotage, strikes and
destruction ; with dissension and
distrust of moderate leaders
produced specifically by Com-
munist libel and the application
of a tactic which has become a
byword—but not one to be held
against the Communists.
All attacks and “exposures”
of Communists and their plans
and techniques are “Red-bait-
ing” or “witch-hunting.” Used
against the resisters of Com-
munist tactics the same sort of
attacks are called “exposure of
spies, diversionists and Trotsky-
ites,” and are a meritorious pro-
ceeding.
Beside all these conditions are
various other aftermaths of war,
which still includes no peace
with Austria and no peace with
Germany, the bar to the settle-
ment being in both cases the
“peace-loving Soviet nations, the
guardian of the weak and little
peoples,” And also there is the
Far East —and what has hap-
pened to it is not a pretty picture.
Here Russia gained Man-
churia by declaring war after
the fighting was over and with-
out firing a shot except in mur-
der and assassination. It then
exacted, as its legal share of the
spoils, Saghalien and the Kurile
Islands, which would enable it
to outflank and attack Japan by
crossing a few miles of water,
and which would give it a
vantage-point from which to
strike at United States and
Canadian communication-lines
with Asia.
Appointed a trustee of Man-
churia and its £7,000,000,000-
worth of war-materials and
350,000 Japanese p.-0.-w., and
also of Dairen, Moscow em-
bezzled the lot and used it
to arm and defeat a war-time
ally, Chiang Kai-shek, and to
conquer China with the mercen-
ary army of Mao, as much a
Russian force as the Chinese
Army which has been killing
Australians in Korea.
It secured the division of
Korea as it had insisted on the
division of Germany. The
Russians undoubtedly planned
the war in Korea to give war-
training to a Chinese Army to
be used for their own purposes.
They or somebody financed the
army of Ho Chi-minh, who
has kept up a sporadic war
occupying well on to 200,000
French-Viet-nam troops in
Indo-China, incidentally provid-
ing protection for the southern
border of Red China during its
transition period to Communism
without making it obvious, and
at the same time acting as a base
for feeding and weaponing the
Communist revolutionaries of
Malaya over the wild tracks of
Laos and nether Siam.
Russia has so far refused to
make peace with Japan. Japan,
of itself, is defenceless. Korea
has been the same kind of test-
ing- and training-ground as
Spain for Communist “peace-
loving” forces. Its demands on
shipping and industry have re-
tarded Western recovery, there-
fore tended to serve Russian in-
terests. True, the needs of the
Korean war have given a false
prosperity to the industry of
several countries, including
Japan, but its end would cause
a dislocation which, as usual,
would be to Soviet advantage.
Of this Russia is not unmindful.
What Russia has gained in
Asia has been tremendous.
Britain, the sheet-anchor of de-
fence against Communism, has
been driven out of India, Burma
and China. The great southern
British Asian Empire has been
split into half a dozen divided
pieces, mostly at loggerheads
with each other, instead of being
a cohesive defended whole. In-
donesia is a feeble thing all dis-
cord and no muscle, its Govern-
ment living virtually the captive
of its military forces and its ex-
tremists. It could be turned into
a Soviet base in 10 minutes by
a couple of squadrons of field-
gun aircraft and a dozen loud-
mouthed agitators shouting
“Merdeka!” Five-Sevenths of
mainland Asia "is already under
the Communist heel.
It may be asked why Russia
does not come straight out in
attack on the rest of Asia. His-
tory gives the answer. Except
when forced to fight in 1941 by
attack, Russia has received none
of her immense accretions by
fighting. And experience has
proved that major war is not the
most payable kind. The most
payable course has proved to
act as a Janus —the prophet of
peace on one side demanding
everywhere the weakening of
enemies through disarmament;
the prophet of war aiding mer-
cenaries and small peoples into
piecemeal strife and forcing
satellite status on them after
victory.
The thesis of 1935 that time
is on the side of the revolution-
ary is working out well. Mos-
cow hopes that it will be able
to conserve its resources and
escape major war until victory
is sure and easy. To soften its
victims it will use only its satel-
lites, particularly China. And
in the end, as in Poland in 1939,
Manchuria in 1945, it hopes to
grab the whole of the spoils
without firing a shot.
Peace —it’s wonderful, if you
can have a monopoly of it.


tim&L
SET IN A WORLD OF BEAUTY
Sportsmen! Gather your gear
together and head for the sporting
paradise of the East—beautiful,
fascinating Ceylon.
Ceylon offers every attraction for
the sport-loving man or woman.
The National Parks of Ceylon,
unrivalled in the East, are literally
teeming with wild life. For the
angling enthusiast—deep-sea fishing
around a dozen and more spots
off the coast of Ceylon
returns rich rewards.
Golf, surfing and tennis, horse
racing ... in fact, no other land
could offer so much to those
whose interest lies in sport.
li;
t
n
Island paradise whose
beauty is unchallenged
The whole world over,
the magical island
of Ceylon Is renowned
as nature’s treasure
chest of beauty.
For the holi-
day you’ll
remember
... Ceylon,
Further information, free maps and literature
can be obtained by writing to the CEYLON
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, or Travel
Agents, Shipping and Airlines in Australia.
Tours can be booked on all registered Travel
Agents through the Ceylon Government Tourist
Bureau, free of commission.
BUYING A
CAMERA?
WE CAN SUPPLY ALL MAKES OF
CAMERAS AND EQUIPMENT FOR
THE AMATEUR AND PROFESSIONAL
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
HOTEL AUSTRALSA BUILDING
19 Martin Place, Sydney. 8W9556
vbc
Agfa, Agifold, Bolex, Contax, Corfield, Diax, Ensign,
Eumig, Ferrania, Gilkon, Iloca, Leica, Meopta,
Voigtlander and Zeiss
We send C.O.D.
Lay-bys, Easy Terms
All Orders Over £2O Carriage Free
SPORTING NOTIONS
England’s famous Derby, the
174th, is to be run on Saturday,
June 6. It would be a grand
and popular result should her
Majesty the Queen’s colt
Aureole prove successful.
Aureole has been in the betting
news during the past week or
two. Many of his backers evi-
dently are applying a bit of
wishful-thinking, sensing that
the Coronation will be followed
by a happy racing result later in
the same week.
There were 446 entries for the
Derby, and the owner of the
winner will lift a substantial
prize, plus a £250 trophy.
Owner of the runner-up takes
10 per cent, and owner of the
third 5 per cent, of the stake, so
the race conditions differ quite
a lot from Australian Derby
contests. Another point: colts
in the English Derby carry 9st.
and fillies 8.9. In Australia the
respective weights are 8.10 and
8.5.
• • • •
Her Majesty’s Aureole —he
has won the Derby Trial —is a
son of a noted sire, Hyperion,
and from Angelola. Hyperion
won the Derby 20 years ago.
Royal successes in the Derby
could be counted on the fingers
of one hand: Minoru, Diamond
Jubilee, Persimmon and Sir
Thomas, the lastnamed success-
ful in the early history of the
race.
Warwick Farm is fast gaining
in popularity, and the A.J.C. last
Saturday attracted its biggest
crowd since the reopening.
An attendance of 25,000 filled
the enclosure, and many took
the opportunity of seeing the
racing from the back portion of
the top of the official stand. The
club will soon draw capacity
crowds to this reserve area.
Warwick Farm is without doubt
a most picturesque racetrack.
With winners not elusive and
the weather ideal, patrons had a
most pleasant afternoon, the
earlier finish to the day’s racing
particularly appreciated.
Great Glee had been a rank
outsider at her three runs prior
to Saturday, when she won the
Warwick Farm opening event,
the Maiden Two-year-old, at 3
to 1, second favorite. For most
of the time she had been favor-
ite, but Double Lineage (second,
displaced her in the final few
moments of wagering. It must 1
have been the magic of Neville
Sellwood that brought success,
because at the filly’s prior start
she went to the post at 100 to 1.
On that occasion she showed a
lot of early speed and finished
seventh to Hospitality. She cost
850 guineas as a yearling, the bid
of her trainer, J. W. Cook.
Scar-marks on her near-side
hindleg, the result of a slight
injury, probably frightened bid-
ders. Joint-owners W. F. Buf-
fier and K. Forrester may have
lifted a sale-ring bargain, because
the filly is closely related to
Talking and Bankstream, two
stayers of note.
Colors made famous by Bern-
borough—orange, purple sleeves,
black cap—were seen in two
races at Warwick Farm and
almost in two wins. One of
A. O. Romano’s two starters,
Romwyn, won the First Juvenile
Maiden ;• the other, Haydock,
was narrowly beaten by Commo-
dore Bill in the Three-year-old
Novice. A huge wager of £BOOO
to £2OOO was noted against Hay-
dock by bookmaker Ken
Ranger, who a few moments
later wrote bets to 10s, about
the same horse. Some of the
Romwyn winnings were played
up by the stable, which would
have had a royal day had the
gelding won and had also the
same stable’s 20-to-l shot (in
places 25’s), Clarrie’s Choice,
in the final event, the Moore-
bank Handicap. Harry Plant
turned all three out in capital
condition, and the beaten two
will soOn be on the winning list.
Romwyn, a 290-guineas year-
ling, is by the new sire Jambo
”Iz you dere , chief?”
(imp.) from None So Fair by
Nizami (imp.) from Lady
Graceful, a winner of the New
Zealand Oaks.
• • • •
While Warwick Farm punters
were on the spot in most races
last Saturday, and only one
winner scored at odds longer
than 7 to 1, visitors to Moonee
Valley found the going tough,
with one winner at 33 to 1
(Tipsy Cake —perhaps the name
scared them) and three others
at 10’s. Bill Williamson retains
his grand form, and piloted three
winners, Trailway (10’s), Tudor
Arch (9 to 4) and Bolido (5 to
2). Jack Thompson was seen
at his best at Warwick Farm,
with four winners, making seven
in two days, the other three being
at Canterbury, Thompson has
few equals in fighting out a
tough finish, while he also is one
of the smartest out of the start-
ing-gates.
• • • •
Moonee Valley racetrack has
a short straight, and any horse
winning there by 10 lengths, pul-
ling up, has achieved something.
This happened at Saturday’s
meeting, when speedy filly Sil-
ver Crest won the Second Royal
Park Handicap, leading through-
out. Racegoers of long experi-
ence couldn’t recall an easier
victory at the Valley. At her
prior start about a month earlier
Silver Crest had finished second
to Roslyn at Caulfield, Rider
of the filly, I. Spalding, is an
apprentice who had ridden three
winners at Warrnambool earlier
in the week. Silver Crest is a
daughter of Attley and Belbina.
Her sire will be remembered as
one of the best milers of his
day. From 21 races his earnings
reached £23,727. Attley beat
Royal Gem on a number of
occasions, and the latter is sire
of the winner of recently-run
rich Kentucky Derby.
Back from his overseas trip,
A.J.C. chairman A. G. Potter
probably made no new dis-
coveries so far as the practical
side of racing is concerned, be-
cause other countries cannot
show Australia much in that
line. He did find that this
country leads the world in the
broadcasting of racing. Chiefly
on business bent, he still found
time to visit American, French
and English courses. As for
broadcasting, Sydney racegoers
and Australians generally have
long since realised that in Lachie
Melville the A.J.C. probably has
the most competent race-broad-
caster and course-announcer in
this country, maybe in the world.
An interesting event pro-
grammed for Tasmanian Racing
Club’s autumn meeting to be
held at Elwick, Hobart, this
coming Saturday is the Cham-
pion Stakes. Run over seven
furlongs, it is for a £4OO stake,
plus a rosebowl, and though
styled Champion Stakes is a
handicap open to three-year-
olds and upwards. It is a popu-
lar race with owners and Hobart
racegoers. A Maiden Plate at
fixed weights and a Maiden
Brush Hurdle figure on the pro-
gramme, so the T.R.C. goes in
for variety.
♦ * * *
Tigers, Magpies, Blues,
Maroons, Demons, Bulldogs,
Hawks, Saints, Swans, Cats,
Dons —thus are Richmond,
\
Collingwood, Carlton, Fitzroy,
Melbourne, Footscray, Haw-
thorn, St. Kilda, South Mel-
bourne, Geelong and Essendon
known to Melbourne football
fans and all the scattered fol-
lowers of the game. Only
North Melbourne of the 12
V.F.L. teams is shy of a nick-
name, being just Norths.
Essendon went to Geelong on
Saturday to try to stop Gee-
long’s unbeaten progress in the
V.F.L. They adopted their
somewhat motheaten tactic of
pouring everything into Cole-
man, their star forward. He is
still a star, but he can’t play an
entire back-line on his own, and,
after a burst by the Dons in the
third which got them to within
a point of Geelong’s lead, Gee-
long galloped to a 12.7-9.11 win.
The once-mighty Melbourne
has slipped badly. Against the
young and nippy f ootscray side
all they could muster was 4.6,
while Footscray had 30 shots for
9.21. St. Kilda ran up a 4.11 to
3 points lead in the first quarter
against Richmond, and finished
with 11.17 to 8.17; South Mel-
bourne got home from Haw-
thorn by 9.9 to 7.11 ; so did
Fitzroy from North Melbourne
by 12.14 to 10.15. The match
of the day turned out to be
Collingwood and Carlton, a
mixture of football and fisti-
cuffs, and the Magpies got it on
points, 14.19-14.11.
* * *
After the excitement of the
S’Africa trials, club games in
Sydney, rather surprisingly, went
off with a bang on Saturday. In
three games, at least, spectators
saw something of quality Rugby
—good handling, hard tackling
and team-work. Eastern
Suburbs beat Randwick 24-22;
Eastwood beat Drummoyne
19-6 ; Gordon downed Northern
Suburbs 20-3 in a game.more
exciting than the scores indicate.
Other games were more one-
sided, Manly’s backs were too
fast for St. George. Score, 56-
14. University had an easy vic-
tory (29-3) against Parramatta.
The last game was interesting
in the return of Keith Gudsell to
club play. A vet. student and an
All Black, Gudsell is one of the
best backs and captains around
these parts.
* * *
Promising young local lad
Bert Hornby (9.11 f) added an-
other victory to his already long
list when he defeated Novocas-
trian Ted McCoy (9.11) at Leich-
hardt, and Hornby may soon de-
velop into a serious threat to the
Australian welter champ.
Hornby seemed certain to put
the issue beyond doubt early
when a weighty right floored
McCoy for an “eight” count in
round one. As tough as they
come, McCoy regained his feet
to fight back fiercely, but in
round eight ref. Art Mawson
gave it to on a t.k.o.


Snowy River Forerunners
Pioneering
Pageant
By MARY H. WALKER
IN 1839, unattracted by the
first reports of gold in New
South Wales, William Whit-
takers took up land on the
Snowy River ; a treasured docu-
ment records that he bought
from W. Ross “102 head of cattle
at £4 per head, 3 horses and
the right to occupy the station
for grazing at £585.” The
transaction went through the
Bank of Australasia, then only
four years old.
Although officially open for
settlement, the Monaro table-
land and the Snowy River
ranges were then still regarded
as part of that romantic land
“beyond the 19 counties,” law-
less, isolated and mysterious.
There William was one of the
forerunners of settlement, one
of the heralds of the Pageant of
Pioneering. At that time Crown
rental was paid of one penny
per sheep, threepence per head
of horned cattle and sixpence
per horse —according to the run’s
carrying-capacity.
In 1839 and 1840 Gippsland,
newly discovered and partly ex-
plored by Angus McMillan and
Count Strzelecki, was tempting
men from the Sydney side. Over
the stockyard-rails, at the sheep-
washing and shearing, or round
the wide pipe-clayed Monaro
fireplaces, men talked earnestly
and restlessly of Gippsland. It
lay across the Snowy River and
over the ranges, a land of moun-
tains and streams, of broad,
unoccupied acres, ready to graze
thousands of cattle. William
smoked and listened, was
tempted, but clung for 33 years
to the Snowy River ranges. -
His time was divided between
his run and courting Louisa
Grant at Liverpool, so that he
and his two fine horses, The
Bushman and The Dustman, be-
came familiar figures on the
Sydney-Monaro track.
In 1840, when Gipps was
Governor of New South Wales,
when the West Kent Regiment
—the Dirty Fiftieth —was garri-
soned'in Sydney, life there was
gay for Louisa. Routs, parties,
balls; taffetas and tarletan,
gold-braid and scarlet tunics.
No wonder Louisa writes rather
regretfully :
“You know, dearest William, I
never wanted to be a settler's
wife.”
On William’s part, his letters
were railleries on her fears for
his safety ; on Louisa’s they were
palimpsests of sentiment, crossed
and recrossed, but usually
limited to one sheet, for, as
Louisa remarks;
“After the Goulburn mail
robbery it is believed that bush-
rangers do not open single-sheet
letters, not expecting to find
money in them.”
Louisa permitted herself a
little ladylike gossip; “Mr. H.
is broke,” she writes. “The
Th’s have sold their carriage—
you know what that means.”
“Mrs. L. is most unpleasant to
me. She jokes about you—l fear
it is jealousy.”
At her wedding at St. Luke’s
Church, Liverpool, Louisa wore
brocaded satin; William wore
his new vest, his black coat and
trousers and new hat and gloves,
all carefully listed in a precious
notebook, which somehow has
escaped oblivion.
Another heavily - underlined
note reminds him of the licence,
the wedding-cake, the carriage,
the ring, his cash and carpet-
bag. He also records that at
the time of their wedding
Louisa tipped the scales at 971 b.,
himself at 1531 b.
A married couple, the Mar-
riotts themselves progenitors
of a family that has done much
to tame Monaro and settle
Gippsland—travelled with them.
The notebook bears record of
their respective goods: iron
bedstead and curtains, bed-
ding, Italian iron footpan,
Louisa’s horse-hair chest, look-
ing-glass, tools, Chinese basket,
cedar-chest, outrigging harness,
medicine-chest, calomel and a
tin dish..,. The advance-guard
of the pageant, ready for the
road.
Louisa’s uncle, Thomas Mort
Moore, of Burnima, Tombong
and Tubbutt, writes to the young
couple: “I fear you are too
sanguine. The inns are miser-
able. I will give you such poor
accommodation as my hut can
afford.”
When you are young and
newly married, with the pen-
nons of a pageant fluttering
round you, such warnings mean
nothing. Undeterred, the party
travelled on in a strongly-built
cart with a green-canvas tilt,
and protected by William, .his
brace of pistols at his belt;
blacks were wild, and roving
convicts - turned - bushrangers
menaced travellers.
For the first few years they
shared Moore’s house at Bur-
ning. Louisa housekept, while
William worked as overseer and
bookkeeper and rode to and
from his Snowy River run.
During these periods of
separation Louisa took advan-
tage of passing travellers to carry
her letters to William, pouring
out her loneliness in her deli-
cate, pointed writing, keeping
William up-to-date in local
gossip, grieving over the
ignominy of being beholden to
a grudging relative for the roof
over her head and begging Wil-
liam to hurry in making his hut
habitable for her and their baby.
William writes from the
Snowy River. He needs money:
“Sell the tilted cart for 30
pounds cash. Assure the buyer
how good it is and what splendid
wheels it has.”
While at the Snowy bush-
rangers stole two of William’s
horses, and, cutting open his
saddle-bags, took some of his
clothes.
“Tell Mr. Moore,” he writes.
“Beg him to keep his pistols
ready, for I expect the bush-
rangers to pay Burnima a visit in
my absence. You cannot have
an idea how anxious I am about
you.”
Again he writes; “Jimmy the
Pig had an accident with the
loading. He mistook the cros-
sing-place at Delegate River and
capsized the dray in the stream.
Neither bullocks nor dray were
injured, but the casks are
knocked to pieces and the salt”
—that precious commodity—“is
all gone.”
In the early ’forties William
purchased Tombong from
Thomas Moore, his Snowy
River run being sold to pay for
it.
While William moved his
cattle Louisa hired servants, one
Pinchgut Harry—-whose name
speaks for itself to anyone
acquainted with early Sydney
conyict history—being specially
recommended.
The foregoing facts, to 1846,
are gleaned from old letters and
documents, from family tradi-
tions and legends ; but 1846 saw
the beginning of a day-book of
station doings—they are the bare
bones of history, written
austerely by William with no
time to clothe the naked facts.
There is no rhapsodising over
the birth of their children. Every
Based on original notebooks, journals and letters, this record
of an authentic pioneer couple’s development of Snowy River
country back in the early ’forties is a vivid example of
the Australian historical treasure still lying about in such
unpublished documents.
year or so there is the terse
entry :
“Mrs. W. delivered of an
infant.”
Their sex and welfare are
seldom mentioned; only when
they are old enough to take their
places in the pageant do they
attain diary honors.
Of William’s and Louisa’s 11
children nine survived. At the
birth of her children Louisa
fared the same as other settlers’
wives. Sometimes an old bush
midwife was at hand to help,
sometimes help came from the
convict wives of assigned ser-
vants, sometimes only black-
gins were at hand—but in those
circumstances they were all
women together.
Once only in those early
records does Louisa step down
from the dignity of her position
as “Mrs. W.” After a near-
tragedy, and shaken from his
remote austerity, William thank-
fully records: “Louisa and the
children today missed sudden
death from a falling tree.”
There exists an early draw-
ing of the first Tombong home-
stead. Its slab-walls, which
would have been squared with
a broad-axe, enclosed two
rooms and a skillion. It was
bark-roofed, its window-spaces
were glassless and its floors
hard-trodden earth. Outside
was the exhilaration of space,
the wide skies, the luminous
blue distances, the rolling hills
and the bare, shining shoulders
of the Monaro tableland.
With his bullock-team Wil-
liam drew timber to help build
the Church of England at Dele-
gate, for he and Louisa were of
the breed that pioneered with
their tools of trade in one hand
and their Bible in the other.
In these days of crude living
it is good to remember how
William and Louisa softened
their rough surroundings by the
refining influence of books and
music, fine glass, china and
silver. Even if their spare-bed
was a clean sheet of stringy-
bark laid on the earth floor, at
least the bedding would be spot-
less.
Clothes were laboriously made
by hand; vast quantities of
beef, sometimes two bullocks a
week, had to be cooked, or
dealt out in rations ; huge meals
were cooked for hungry men
over open fires in the 6ft.-wide
stone fireplace ; the wheat Wil-
liam grew or bought was ground
in a handmill, often by Louisa
and her convict women, before
the dough could be set for
bread.
In a land with little but
gnarled snow-gums for posts,
fencing materials were a prob-
lem. As working-bullocks and
stock-horses strayed continually,
one man seemed always to be
searching for them and bringing
them home.
Free labor was difficult to
come by, most servants being
convicts assigned by the Gov-
ernment. These ticket-of-
leavers were apt to disappear for
a week at a time —clapped into
jail for outstaying leave. Agree-
ments with men in the ’forties
are interesting.
We the undersigned agree to wash
and shear the Tombong sheep at the,
rate of three shillings per score, and
to wash only at the rate of three
shillings and sixpence per day and
four glasses of grog.
The four shearers put their
marks “X” to the agreement.
Tombong then had three
separate flocks under the care
of shepherds whose weekly
rations were 101 b. of flour or
one peck of wheat at 2jd. per
lb.; 10 or 121 b. of meat at 2d.
per lb ; £lb. of tea at 3s. per lb.;
21b. of sugar at sd. per lb. Two
figs of black-twist tobacco were
usually included. Wages varied
from £l2 to £2O sterling per
year. Wheat to buy was 6s. a
bushel delivered, or 3s. 6d, and
cart it yourself.
The handmill became out-
moded when Collins, who had
the first flourmill on southern
Monaro, ground wheat at 6d. a
bushel and day-rations. Stores
and household goods came from
Sydney by boat to Twofold Bay,
where Captain Ben Boyd was
king.
Down to Twofold Bay went
the bullock-drays once or twice
a year, with bundles of hides
and casks of butter, put down
in brine—the diary records one
shipment of 2041 b. of butter all
bad and consequently unpaid
for on arrival in Sydney.
One typical grocery order to
their Sydney agent, J. E. Gosling,
was: 2cwt. of tea, scwt. of sugar
(this would be black and firm,
like stiff treacle, and packed in
straw matting), 101 b. of coffee,
1 doz. tins of mustard, 1 doz.
of pickles, sgals. of rum, all
packed in scwt. of English salt
and sent care of Barclays to
Eden. Salt formed a vital part
of their stores, for salting and
preserving beef and butter and
curing hides.
The stages from Twofold Bay
to Monaro were slow and toil-
some. The drays left Boyd-
town (or Eden or Merimbula)
and crossed to Kiah, before
climbing up through Pericoe,
past Indigo mountain to Nun-
gatta, then the Weatherheads’
station, the final stage being “up
the mountain” to the tableland.
Before shearing, sheep were
washed at the river, where
hurdle-yards were set up, and
strawed with clean rushes to
hold the wet sheep.
From 3000 sheep there were
only 45961 b. of washed wool;
160 fleeces went to the bale —
fleeces that averaged 2jlh. were
sold in England for lOd. or Is.
per lb.
Unless William visited his
shepherds frequently the sheep
were neglected, being left un-
folded at night to become a prey
to native-dogs; sheep-stealing
was rife.
Food was always a problem.
Monaro is not a kindly country
to winter vegetables, but in a
spring spate of enthusiasm Wil-
liam records planting peas, pota-
toes, broccoli, mangel-wurzels
and 1200 cabbages.
Often the men were miles
away on the run, Louisa and
her young children being left
alone at the homestead for days
at a time. On one such occa-
sion wild blacks, fierce-looking
in their warpaint, came to Tom-
bong.
Louisa shut her children out
of sight and, with a loaded gun
at hand, offered the warriors
food, hoping by appeasement
and a show of valiance to keep
them at bay. Louisa expected
them to attack the hut at day-
break —that ever-present fear
of lonely homesteads—but Wil-
liam and his men unexpectedly
returned and the blacks went on
their way.
The diary shows glimpses of
the depression which hit New
South Wales in the ’forties. The
returns from stock-sales were
barely sufficient to keep Sydney
creditors at bay. Twenty hides
sold for £1 sterling; eight
bushels of oats went for 6s.
Much trade was by barter —
a horse was traded for 431b. of
black-twist tobacco; a saddle
was exchanged for three casks
and tinware.
The pageant halts a little
here, the line is thin; one feels
William set his teeth when he
wrote his daily record. There
is a defiant gallantry about it.
In 1848, with his family grow-
ing, cares increasing and his
sheep a hopeless loss, William
sold Tombong to W. Ross for
£200 and bought Tubbutt from
Thomas Moore. Although it
carried several shepherded
flocks, amounting to about
1800 sheep, William was thank-
ful to turn mostly to cattle,
Tubbutt was on the track to
Gippsland, between the black
tableland and the wild gorges of
the Snowy River. Suns rose
over Monaro, behind the peak
of Tingy-Ringy, and set be-
hind the black and bold bastion
of Mounts Deddick and Bowen,
It is the land of “Croajingo-
long,” the native word for
“looking east”—aptly named
because it is impossible to be in
those blue valleys without some-
how being conscious of the vast
tableland lying towards the sun-
rise.
Tubbutt lies on the Jingelalla
River, "'which flows into the
Deddick, and is about 12 miles
from the Snowy River and the
old historic McKellar’s Crossing,
where today is McKillop’s
Bridge.
Tubbutt homestead was burnt
down years ago; now the site
is grassed over, but river-stones,
outcrops of its past, still mark
its foundations. At first it con-
sisted of two slab-walled, bark-
roofed huts, with William’s
office as a separate unit. To-
day there are scattered remains
of chimneys, their rubble of
river-stones overgrown with
horehound; stinging-nettles riot
over hearths that once were
warm centres of Tubbutt hospi-
tality.
By present-day standards,
Louisa still lived under very
primitive conditions, but there
was glass in the windows and a
wooden-floored parlor comforted
Louisa’s soul.
In the ’forties, when you built
a house you started at the be-
ginning, as William did. He
records digging the clay for the
kitchen chimney, cutting the
slabs, drawing the bark for the
roof with his bullock-team.
Across the Snowy, Gippsland
was nine years old. On its fer-
tile pastures too .many bullocks
were fattened, until there was a
glut in the Hobarton market.
Squatters boiled-down their
“fats” in 50gal. cauldrons and
shipped the tallow to India and
England.
At last William’s first mob
of Tubbutt cattle was ready for
the road. The first night was
spent at Deddick —an anxious
night, with the cattle, too close
to home, fretting and uneasy.
McKellar’s Crossing had
claimed several lives, but next
morning men and horses faced
it, forcing the cattle in and
across the Snowy. The punt-
man’s boat made many danger-
ous crossings before the gear
and towed horses were all safely
across. Later one of William’s
stockmen was to be drowned
(Continued on page 34)


TO INVESTORS
OUTSTANDING TASMANIAN COUNTRY HOTEL
FREEHOLD, TOGETHER WITH 13 ACRES LAND
GRAND HOTEL, HUONVILLE
HEART OF TASMANIA’S APPLE LAND. ONLY 23 MILES HOBART.
Instructed by the owner
ALL THAT VALUABLE FREEHOLD, GRAND HOTEL, Huonville, Tasmania. Most sub-
stantially built of brick and exceptionally well fitted and finished throughout, containing on the
GROUND FLOOR imposing Entrance Hall, Public and Private Bars, Lounge Room, Commercial
Room, Private Sitting Room, large Dining Room, Kitchen and usual Offices, also Ladies’ Toilet.
FIRST FLOOR 20 bedrooms, ultra superior toilet arrangements for both sexes. Lounge room, staff
quarters, 5 Bedrooms and Bathroom. Fine area of land approximately 13 acres. The Hotel is well
furnished and equipped throughout. Situate in the best position Huonville overlooking the beautiful
Huon River. The GRAND HOTEL is very well and favourably known throughout Tasmania and
the Mainland, and enjoys a large tourist and local trade. Can be confidently recommended as an
income-producing asset with a turnover of over £40,000 per year.
VACANT POSSESSION ON COMPLETION.
FOR SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 3, 1953—12 NOON
by
FREEMAN DUFF & CO.,
148 COLLINS STREET, HOBART
INSPECTION: By arrangement with the Auctioneers only.
REFERENCES: Messrs. Murdoch, Cuthbert, Clarke & Neasey, Solicitors, Macquarie St., Hobart.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIS 4
OSUIJJVAJf
PTE'TO A
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & C*.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL 7,ND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIB STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EISENHOWER'S GREAT SPEECH
Air-mailed coverage of the
British Press shows a practically
unanimous, extraordinarily en-
thusiastic welcoming of Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s great speech
pointing a broad road to world
peace.
The speech, summed-up with
the customary Churchillian com-
pleteness and finality as a “mas-
sive and magnificent statement
of our case,” was finely described
also in a very different quarter
politically—the Paris Left-wing
defender of the Atlantic alliance,
“Franc-Tireur,” which com-
mented ;
“It breathes sincerity and will
convince the nations that it is
really a case of life and death.”
The speech was made to the
Society of Newspaper Editors on
April 16, obviously in reply to
the somewhat suspected but
almost equally warmly-welcomed
Malenkov “peace” speech of just
a month earlier (March 15).
The right reception-compari-
son for the Eisenhower speech,
however, would be the welcom-
ing accorded to Roosevelt’s
most heartening war-time utter-
ances. As Roosevelt was hailed,
for his vital leadership towards
victory in war, Eisenhower is
hailed for inspiring leadership
towards world peace.
Replying to Malenkov’s
generalisations, he is seen, too,
as wresting the peace-initiative
away from the Kremlin, facing
Russia’s new rulers with specific
proposals which demand to be
answered. In briefest terms,
Eisenhower proposed:
First, an armistice in Korea,
the holding of free elections in
a united Korea, an end of
attacks upon the security of
Indo-China and Malaya, fol-
lowed by a general pacification
in Asia.
Beyond this again, steps for
the settlement of specific points
of dispute in Europe ; the build-
ing of a broader European com-
munity, open to a free and
united Germany and independent
nations of Eastern Europe.
At a later stage, genuine dis-
armament ; a comprehensive
pact, including international con-
trol of atomic energy and the
prohibition of atomic weapons.
Then, the turning of man’s
effort and ingenuity to purposes
of life, not of destruction and
death; devotion of a substantial
portion of the savings on arms
to a fund for world-aid and
-reconstruction. For, said Eisen-
hower :
“Every gun that is made, every
warship launched, every rocket fired
signifies—in the final sense—a theft
from those who hunger and are not
fed, those who are cold and are not
clothed.
“This world in arms Is not spend-
ing money alone. It is spending the
sweat of its laborers, the genius of
its scientists, the hopes of its
children.”
“These words,” typically com-
mented “Manchester Guardian,”
“are those of a great soldier ;
for The greatest soldiers suffer
from a kind of desperate love
for life and peace.”
♦ * * *
In his speech launching the
“peace offensive” Malenkov had
said:
“At the present time there is no
dispute or unresolved question that
cannot be settled peacefully by
mutual agreement of the interested
countries. This applies to our rela-
tions with all States, including the
United States of America.”
To that apparent general offer
Eisenhower directly replied:
“What is the Soviet Union ready
to do? Whatever the answer, let it
be plainly spoken The hunger
for peace is too great, the hour in
history too late, for any Government
to mock men’s hopes with mere
words and promises and gestures.
The test of truth is simple. There
can be no persuasion but by deeds.”
* * * *
Eschewing diplomatic evasion
and putting responsibility
squarely on Russia by name,
Eisenhower said:
“The amassing of Soviet power
alerted free nations to a new danger
of aggression. It compelled them
in self-defence to spend unprece-
dented money and energy for arma-
ments.
“What can the world hope for if
no turning is found on this dread
road? The worst is atomic war.
The best would be a life of perpetual
fear and tension ; a burden of arms
draining the wealth and the labor of
all peoples. This is not a way of
life at all.
“Now a new leadership has as-
sumed power in the Soviet Union.
[lt] has a precious opportunity to
awaken, with the rest of the world,
to the point of peril reached and to
help turn the tide of history. Will
it do this? We do not yet know.”
* ♦ * *
“New York Times” described
the President’s speech as “a
State paper of the highest im-
portance.” On specific vital
points Eisenhower said:
KOREA AND INDO-CHINA: [An
armistice in Korea] “should mean an
end to the direct and indirect attacks
upon the security of Indo-China and
Malaya. Uor any armistice in Korea
that merely released aggressive
armies to attack elsewhere would be
a fraud.”
GERMANY AND EUROPE: “We
are ready not only to press forward
with the present plans for closer
unity of the nations of Western
Europe, but also to strive to foster a
broader European community, con-
ducive to the free movement of
persons, of trade and of ideas. This
community would include a free and
united Germany, with a Government
based upon free and secret ballot.”
DISARMAMENT: “As progress in
all these areas strengthens world
trust, we could proceed concurrently
with the next great work—the reduc-
tion of the burdens of armaments,”
[Specifically, he proposed reduction
of national armed forces, by number
or by ratio; limitation of resources
used for military purposes; inter-
national control of atomic energy
and prohibition of atomic weapons;
restrictions on other weapons of
“great destructiveness”; and inter-
national inspection to guarantee com-
pliance with disarmament agree-
ments.]
AFTER DISARMAMENT: “This
[D.B.] Government is ready to ask
its people to join with all nations in
devoting a substantial percentage of
any savings achieved by real dis-
armament. .. .to develop the unde-
veloped areas of the world, to stimu-
late profitable and fair world trade,
to assist all peoples.”
* * *
Following are representative
reactions to and interpretations
of the speech:
“Manchester Guardian” : “A
great speech because it ex-
presses all that was splendid
about the full entry of America
into world affairs in the ‘hopeful
spring’ of 1945 —the longing for
peace, the genuine and often
innocent belief in a world-wide
rule of law, the no less genuine
desire to help distant and little-
known peoples ; all that has since
been confused, rebuked, and
partly submerged in eight years
of growing fear and conflict.”
* * * *
London “Sunday Times” :
“The value of the President’s
great speech was that it offered,
not vague exordium, but a pro-
gressive plan for peace. He
seized for the West the leader-
ship on a path which is naturally
theirs, but on which they have
been thwarted by a barricade of
Soviet imperialism and menace.
Is that barrier really to be
lowered? Mr. Eisenhower sug-
gested simple tests of the will
behind the words of Moscow:
‘such clear and specific acts as
the Soviet Union’s signature
upon an Austrian, treaty, or its
release of thousands of prisoners
still held from World War ll.’ ”
• • • •
The same: “This great pro-
gramme stands henceforward
before the world as the ladder
of hope, offered by an acclaimed
spokesman of the democracies,
fof all humanity to mount to
peace and plenty.”
* * * *
London “Daily Herald”:
“President Eisenhower’s speech
is at once an offer, an appeal
and a programme. The Presi-
dent calls for a break with ‘the
way of life forged by eight years
of fear and force.”
♦ * * ♦
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“It may well be that President
Eisenhower’s momentous ad-
dress will rank among the major
political speeches of history. It
opens to the new masters of the
Kremlin the possibility of end-
ing, if they so wish, not merely
the carnage in the Far East —
in Indo-China and Malaya as
well as in Korea —but also the
constant fear of far greater
carnage, extending perhaps over
the whole of the habitable
world.
• • • a
The same: “If the President’s
proposals draw from Mr.
Malenkov and his colleagues a
response equally sincere and
practical, we and they have the
chance of devoting to human
welfare the immense energies
and resources now concen-
trated upon the creation of wea-
pons. If they are met with in-
difference or evasion, it should
never again be possible for Com-
munist propaganda to abuse the
intelligence of well-meaning
peace-lovers by the pretence of
seeking to end armed tension.”
* * * *
London “Daily Mail” : “Here
is an honesty of purpose which
asks for a test of sincerity from
the Communist world. The goal
is the great objective pictured
so imaginatively by President
Eisenhower when he spoke of
diverting the cost of armaments
in every nation to the purposes
of peace. A golden future
awaits us all—if only we can
divest ourselves of the harsh and
barren feuds of the present.”
* * * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“An honest and unambiguous
answer from Moscow might now
set in motion events for which
the human family would have
cause to give thanks for genera-
tions to come.”
♦ * * *
London “Economist ” ; “To
the world in general the chief
significance of President Eisen-
hower’s considered statement
probably lies in the evidence it
offers that the new Administra-
tion in the United States is as
prepared to take a constructive
lead in a struggle for peace as
its predecessor was in the
struggle against Communist
aggression. But to Americans,
even more suspicious of Soviet
sincerity than other people, it is
equally, if not more, important
that the President made it clear
he would never consent to
appeasement and that he set
standards by which the genuine-
ness of the Russian desire to
change the cold war into a
warm peace can be judged.”
* * * ♦
Sebastian Haffner (expert on
America) in London “Ob-
server”: “President Eisenhower’s
speech is obviously an event of
the greatest world political im-
portance. It amounts to a
declaration that America is
ready, if Russia reciprocates, not
only to seek a diplomatic
settlement of all outstanding
questions between the West and
the Communist world but to
return to the Rooseveltian
attempt of building ‘One
World.”’
• • • •
The same: “The immediate
response to Mr. Eisenhower’s
challenging offer obviously rests
with the new rulers of Russia.
But this is not to say that the
middle Powers, with this country
[Britain] in the van, will not
have a highly important contri-
bution to make to the new peace
negotiations that may result. In-
deed, it may rest chiefly with
them to fill in the large white
spots on the Eisenhower map
of the road to peace, to relate
what is desirable to what is pos-
sible, and to bring the art of
diplomacy to bear on the highly-
charged interplay of American
idealism with the realities of
Soviet Russia,”


No. 3 of a Series
Mm who
wake GaMlm
2
—The Dependable Tobacco
Mr. A. Schulte, an expert blettder, has been
handling Capstan’s finest quality matured Virginia
leaf for 16 of his 49 years’ service. Blending, of
course, plays a major part in maintaining the
delightful flavour and fragrance of your Capstan
Tobacco. There are over 40 hinds of fine Vitginia
leaf required and used in Capstan’s own blend.
Further advertisements in this series will briefly
describe other interesting phases in the manu-
facture of Capstan Tobacco—watch for them.
“Blended Better 99
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
n.A- C
B
s
fakes g°
care of
(o
o(1 6 Cont
Fly in comfort by 8.0.A.G.
to any of 51 countries. Fly
smoothly, swiftly at fine
weather heights in fully-
pressurized, 4-engined
airliners. Enjoy excellent meals and complimentary
meal-time drinks, all part of 8.0.A.G.’s ever-attentive
cabin service. Fly on one ticket all the way. No
extra air fare if you break your journey along the
route. No tips, no extras. 34 years flying experience.
8.0.A.G. leads with the Comet.
World's first Jetliner now operating to 15 countries .
Consult your Travel Agent for free advice.
Book from Australia to Indonesia • Malaya
Hong Kong • Japan • Ceylon • India
Pakistan • Middle East • Africa • Europe
Great Britain • U.S.A. • Canada
Central and South America • Bermuda
f 1
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents in
Australia ).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A39/AU
a
r
fgd
Indo-China Crisis
The mounting crisis in Indo-
China brings out two main view-
points in British Press comment:
one, that the French should
emulate Britain’s retreat in the
face of what is called “national-
ism” ; the other, that the French
are holding a cold-war bastion
there more important to the
West than Korea, as vital as
Berlin, and most vital to Britain’s
own remaining foothold in
southern Asia.
“Manchester Guardian” sug-
gests that the French are opposed
to U.N.O. consideration of
issues there because they do not
want international debate “on the
political situation.”
“The Indo-China problem,” it
comments, “is at least as much
political as military. But
France’s reaction is still to con-
front it almost exclusively with
a military policy, by requesting
increased American military aid
and urging that pressure shall be
put on China to stop sending
help to the rebels. The logical
cul-de-sac into which this may
lead is a demand by China that
America shall cease to help the
French.
“And if outside help were to
be suddenly cut off from both
sides is it so certain that the
rebels would be easily defeated?
Arms sufficient for guerrillas are
not hard to obtain in South-east
Asia, as the long duration of the
Karen and Communist risings in
Burma has proved.
“Everything suggests that what
France must go for is a strength-
ening of anti-Communist and
therefore of genuinely national-
istic forces inside Indo-China.
She still has a formidable poli-
tical weapon in her hands....
If France could make up her
mind to declare boldly that com-
plete self-determination for the
Associated States, including free-
dom in foreign and economic
policy, is her ultimate goal she
might still shift the whole
balance of strength in Indo-
China.
“Genuine nationhood is still
the only force which, in the long
run, can stand up to Com-
munism there as in the rest of
Asia.”
Typical of those who hold that
the French stand is as vital to
the West as the mostly-U.S.
stand in Korea or the British
stand in Malaya, London “Daily
Telegraph” contends that neither
Malaya nor Indo-China can be
dissociated from Korea, and
must be kept in mind in any
“peace” moves.
“Have the Communists,” it
asks, “decided that Saigon and
Singapore are more glittering
prizes than Seoul and Pusan?
If that is the calculation, then
the negotiators in Panmunjon
must beware. Everybody in the
West wants peace in Korea, but
not at any price. They must not
be cajoled by the Communists
by any specious pretence that
the proceedings of Viet-minh are
no concern of theirs or outside
their control. Whether or not
Peking could stop the war in
Indo-China tomorrow it could
certainly exclude the hopes of a
Viet-minh victory by closing the
frontier. Indo-China therefore
presents a crucial test of Com-
munist sincerity, not only in
Korea but in Europe. The cold
war, with its hot-war extensions,
is indivisible. If it is not to be
lost the northern frontier of
Indo-China is as important as
the Elbe.”
Sir Bulldog
London “Times’s” tribute:
“If the immemorial chivalry
of England is still a living force
in human affairs, can still ride
London “News Chronicle”
RUSTLE OF SPRING
abroad redressing human wrongs,
then it is very certain that no
man of our time has done more
to keep active the inspiration of
its romance and its valor than
Sir Winston Churchill, K.G.
“In peace and in war, in
action and in counsel and in
speech, he has been for close on
sixty years the chevalier sans
peur and —when even his adver-
saries look back upon the par-
tisan tumult in which he has
always unashamedly delighted—
sans reproche.
“In him St. George may be
proud to welcome to the sanc-
tuary the incarnation of all that
has stood for his England against
odds. There Sir Winston Chur-
chill is with King Richard on
the road to the Holy Sepulchre,
with Edward of Woodstock and
Henry of Monmouth against the
French hosts of Poitiers and
Agincourt, with the great John
Churchill Duke of Marlborough
on the banks of the Danube,
with the Old Contemptibles in
Flanders, and with the few who
watched the skies and kept the
fields of Britain inviolate.
“And it may be that when Sir
Winston Churchill looks up at
his knightly banner hanging in
the choir of St. George’s, his
pride of ancestry will see it
flanked in the mind’s eye with
his father’s tattered flag which
he found upon a stricken field
and lifted defiantly again in the
Parliament of half a century
ago
“None who knows him will
doubt that he accepts these
honors, not as closing the
chapter that he has written in
the history of five reigns, but
rather as a mark of confidence
in what he yet may do to help
another young ruler of the Com-
monwealth to emulate or sur-
pass the glory of her ancestors.
The happy warrior does not rest
upon his laurels.”
Various Voices
German Chancellor Adenauer:
“Germany would not give up its
role in the European Defence
Community in the event of re-
unification. We shall stand on
the side of the West.”
Trygve Lie: “The policy of
the Soviet Government and its
allies has been, and continues
to be, a policy of the crudest
form of pressure, not only
against me, but against any
future Secretary-General [of
U.N.O.] who may incur the dis-
pleasure of the Soviet Union
for doing his duty as he sees it
under the Charter.”
Paris editor Raymond Aron
(“U.S. News and World Report”
interview): “The [French] people
have given up the habit of taking
too tragically a Government
crisis, because, although the
Government is unstable, the civil
service is extremely stable, as is
the political personnel. While
we are going from one Govern-
ment to another, two-thirds of
the Ministers remain the same.
We have had only two Foreign
Ministers, for example, since the
end of the war—Bidault and
Schuman. And both belong to
the same party.”
Dr. A. E. Morgan {former
vice-chancellor of McGill Uni-
versity, Montreal): “It is no
longer necessary to be literate
to get your ration of romance.”
A dial Stevenson: “We [i.e.,
the United States] want not
sullen obedience but friendly co-
operation from our allies. We
want understanding from them
of our problems and heavy tax
burdens, even as we patiently try
to understand their difficulties.
We Want no satellites: we want
companions-in-arms, the com-
panionship of embattled freemen
in common cause.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Full Employment
“Labor’s” catchcry of “full employ-
ment" revives unpleasant memories of
the past decade of that Utopian but futile
idealism.
Full employment as we have experi-
enced it forced industry to employ, at
fantastically high wages for poor returns,
the unemployables, loafers, time-wasters
and truculent no-hopers. They were the
men without skill or responsibility who
absented themstelves at will and who
were retained because the work had to
be done at any cost.
In many cases the vicious, inefficient
cost-plus system operated, and, to the
discredit of many employers, they drifted
with the tide and tolerated this indus-
trial exploitation. Some even condoned
it as a means of making easy money
without any financial responsibility or
risk.
I refused to do cost-plus work and
insisted on a firm price for every job,
but decent, responsible employers were
helpless to stem the tide of industrial
chaos and disorganisation. Bargaining
and “pirating” of labor were the order
of the day. Inflation, low production
and exorbitant costs put many con-
scientious employers out of business and
played particular havoc with my own
business —building.
My own home, which cost practically
double the normal estimate, took two
years to build. Bricklayers on day-work
laid an average of 198 commons per
man per day and, at the same time,
boasted of having laid 800 bricks a
day on similar work at weekends on
piecework rates. A carpenter took 11
days to hang 14 flush-panel doors. In my
journeyman days a man was expected to
hang six to eight doors in 8| hours.
The labor turnover on full-employ-
ment conditions was appalling, and it
was impossible to set out schedules for
completion of work. It was an excep-
tional day if even 80 per cent, of em-
ployees turned up on the job.
In all so-called estimates of unemploy-
ment apparently no account is ever taken
of the proportion of unemployables—
the people who, by reason of incom-
petence, industrial dishonesty or plain
determination not to work, could never
have or wish for steady employment.
In this young country, with so much
work to be done, there should never be
any appreciable unemployment among
self-respecting workers who give a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay.
With our present social services and
amenities, which offer a premium on
loafing and make it possible for the
shrewdie to live without working, we
will always have a proportion of un-
employed to provide political capital for
the irresponsible politician. On the
other hand we will also always
have in the majority the Aus-
tralian worker,, who, given induce-
ment, good leadership and efficient in-
dustrial management, ranks with the best
in the world. — Ajax (N.S.W.).
Education and Local Requirements
I live in an agricultural district, in the
centre of which is a town with a tech-
nical school to provide for secondary
education. Every , year about 60 new
students start and 16 graduate into either
engineering or chemical professions. It
is all wrong.
Some years ago I was one of the 16
senior students, and every one of us
was a son of a farmer, just as they are
every year. Of my class, I was one of
the two boys who went back to the land.
Another boy was one of a -family of
12 boys, all of whom went through that
technical school. Today the old man
works the land alone.
The fault is in the education system.
Every farmer worth the name here wants
his boys to be educated and to see them
back on the land. But under the present
set-up the boys have little encourage-
ment to go on the land, about which they
have been taught nothing, not even
organic chemistry. If the boys could
have an education related to farming
most of them would go back to the
farms.
That school should be an agricultural
college, or at least it should teach agri-
cultural subjects. At present farming is
catered for by one or two colleges in
the State as opposed to more than a
score of technical schools, and while we
may have more engineers than farmers,
it is not to say we have more engineers
than men on the land.
We are indeed a long way behind the
Dutch, for in Holland every farmer goes
through an agricultural college, and I
saw no eroded land, propped-up fences
or falling sheds there, — John J. Alder-
son (Vic.).
Collective Farming?
“H.G.” overdoes his commendation of
what he calls “collective farming” (B.
22/4/’53). Every one
of the instances he .cites
is really an instance of
Government solicitude
which not only provides
dams, irrigation works,
roads, etc., that make
land useable, but also
provides easy finance to-<
wards acquiring those
lands and gives the
farmer, free of charge,
the services of over 12
different kinds of expert
advisers on every kind of
farming and organises
20-odd boards and pro-
tected markets to see that
the farmer gets a com-
fortable living.
If a drought or failure
of an overseas market
upkets the plans, further
State aid is usually
given. Up to a point it
may all be good business
for the State at large, but
collective farming? No-
thing! It is not even co-
operative.
Those Vic.-S.A: bor-
der-lands are a good case
in point. The import-
ance of trace-elements,
including copper and
zinc (and also of drain-
ing, which “H.G.” did
not mention), was known
long before the war. Did
those border-landholders
dig a few ditches or strew a modicum
of appropriate chemicals? They did not.
That had to be done by an assurance
company and the S.A. or Victorian
Governments. Do, or did, landholders
generally co-operate with Government
authorities or with one another in deal-
ing with the rabbit, the prickly-pear,
noxious weeds, the blowfly, or 'any of a
dozen other pests or diseases? There
are a few outstanding cases of such co-
operation, conspicuous by their success,
but only a few.
There is a new kind of agricultural
adviser now trying to get farmers to co-
operate in the vital task of protecting
their lands against erosion. He is a kind
of land-engineer who makes'' a topo-
graphical survey of the farm and draws
up a plan of action and presents it free
to the farmer;. He gets some appreciation,
but so far most of the farmers are sitting
back waiting for the Government to do
all of the work for nothing. And they
may yet win out. The technique is well
known. If the farmers let the land
deteriorate’ enough the Government may
intervene in desperation. Meantime the
farmers have had poor land as an excuse
for demanding higher prices and the fun
of spending the money that should have
gone into land-treatment.
The tragedy is that there are so many
things that farmers can do by co-operat-
ing: conserve water, fodder and timber
and carry out soil-conservation works.
Those are essentially co-operative tasks,
as it is often useless to treat one man’s
land if his neighbor’s is not treated at the
same time.
As “H.G.” says, “individualism is a
good horse.” But “co-operation,” not
collectivism, leaves it standing.
The farmer already has had too much
State aid and, if he doesn’t want State
control, he had better look out. Alter-
"I SAID I'm having chicken-noodle soup tonight."
natively, he may get organised large-scale
farming on an assembly-line plan by
companies with a lot of capital and
political influence. It has arrived in
America. Much as we may need to
criticise our farmers, few of us wish to
see them exalted to capitalists or reduced
to wage-plugs.— Quaero (Q.).
“H.G.’s” defence of collective farming
hangs on a fallacious definition (B.
22/4/’53). A farmer, to my mind, is
a man who grows grain, milks cows,
breeds and fattens pigs, raises sheep or
produces, in its raw state, one or other
of our needs from the surface of the
soil.
Burrinjuck Dam, the cactoblastis and
myxomatosis were the work of engineers,
entomologists and bacteriologists. Not
one of them produced anything in the
sense that the farmer does, though, of
course, they were partly responsible for
“Are we going to stand by while this country is ruined by
a pack of adults?”
enormous increases in production by
individual farmers
In the 90-mile desert the C.5.1.R.0.
and the A.M.P. Society confined them-
selves to providing the scientific and
financial backing that would be needed
by anyone farming in the area. The
actual farming they left to individuals,
with the happy result noted by “H.G.”
The Socialist Governments of Britain
and Queensland in 1948 had other ideas.
They calculated that collective farming
in central Queensland could produce
grain sorghum for £5 12s. per ton. In
actual fact, cost of production was £2l
Bs. per ton in 1949, and rose to £55 6s.
a ton in 1951. Today, with wages and
most other costs much higher, individual
farmers are selling sorghum at about £2l
per ton, and apparently making a living.
That is not an isolated case. The col-
lective poultry- and peanut-farms in
Africa, and former Queensland ventures
in the ’twenties, all tell the same tale.
For large-scale engineering or scientific
projects a collective effort is needed, but
in farming the individual wins hands
down. As every farmer knows, Nature
must be wooed, not bossed, and whoever
heard of a board or committee con-
ducting a successful courtship?—Mag-
noon (Q.).
War Service Homes
As against “Pineap’s” strictures on
the War Service Homes Commission (B.
8/4/’53), my experience has convinced
me that the commission . officers know
their job and do it; going out of their
way, at all times, to help the applicant
get what he wants quickly.
Like “P.,” I lately sold a war-service
home and the deal was completed and I
had my cash in a little under a month.
Similar expedition characterised the
purchase of the same place a few years
ago, despite a few complications.
I had no friends at court and pulled
no strings. I did, however, have the
guidance of a bustling, energetic solicitor
who wasted neither his time nor my
money.—J. W. (N.S.W.).
N. S. Wales Railways
Control of N. S. Wales railways has
always been centralised in Sydney, with
some small delegation of authority
allocated to scattered district offices,
although these are subject to rigid
supervision and their operations amount
to little more than carrying out written
directions from Sydney. Such central
control and rigidity of regulation are a
serious handicap to efficient and sensible
management of the huge rail-transport
system, as they eliminate that flexibility
necessary to fit in with local conditions
and satisfy individual needs.
This failure to delegate more functions
to local officers causes untold irritation,
delay and loss of business. It is particu-
larly hard to understand when the
department has in its service capable
and efficient men on the job whose ability,
experience and sense of responsibility
would ensure wiser procedure and fairer
decisions than those made in offices hun-
dreds of miles away.
A passenger who buys a ticket for a
journey and has to alight far short of his
destination because of sickness or other
cause finds that he must “apply in
writing” for a refund. The local station-
master has no authority to pay him, even
though he has all relevant facts, including
verification of the fare paid. So a whole
rigmarole of written reports must be for-
warded from all concerned to an official
at some other centre who will, after a
lengthy delay, give a decision.
A client orders a certain type of truck
to load goods, but finds this wagon has
not been supplied on the appointed day.
Other trucks involving a slightly higher
minimum are available, but, for permis-
sion to load one of these at the minimum
of the vehicle which the department failed
to supply, local officials in country dis-
tricts must get in touch with an officer at
the district office, who, in turn, must obtain
permission from Sydney, That sometimes
takes the best part of a day, while the
consignor, chafing at the delay which is
costing wages, loss of time and a dis-
arranged work plan, regrets that he ever
had anything to do with the railways.
The whole matter could be settled in a
few minutes by a commonsense direc-
tion locally if the necessary authority
were held.
Those are but a few examples of situa-
tions which are constantly arising where
lack of local authority restricts opera-
tions constantly arising. It is galling not
only to the customers but to many
employees, who realise that centralised
administration cannot possibly cope
with the demands of modern business
spread over a State-wide area. — Ann
(N.S.W.).


Road-safety
The Swiss Consulting Office for the
Prevention of Accidents has estimated,
from an actual survey of the accident-
rate at certain specific locations, that a
reduction of only five per cent, was
achieved by education and propaganda.
The office assessed that a further 15-
per-cent. reduction could be brought
about by a strict enforcement of the
law and the provision of thoroughly ex-
perienced bodies of men to police the
roads. The greatest contribution to
accident-reduction, however, a figure of
25 per cent., was found to come from
the technical improvement of roads and
vehicles which travel on them. The
“International Road Safety Review” re-
ports similar results from France, the
Netherlands, England and the U.S.A.
Those figures indicate that, instead of
spending vast sums on education and
propaganda, we should be devoting more
to the development of safe roads and
the provision of trained men to patrol
them.
In many parts of Australia today
roads are carrying over 100 per cent,
more traffic than at the end of the last
war. Yet few steps have been taken to
build safety into these roads. In
Switzerland, France, England, the U.S.
and other countries engineers are work-
ing on highways which are designed to
remove traffic hazards and outwit human
weakness and errors of judgment. Lake
Shore Drive, Chicago, for example, has
proved that a broad highway which
divides opposing streams of traffic and
eliminates intersections, level-crossings,
steep grades, bad corners and other
hazards can reduce the accident-rate to
only one for every million vehicle-miles
travelled on it. Average roads show 19
accidents to the million vehicle-miles. '
Construction of such roads, of course,
costs** millions, but the fantastic losses
caused by accidents makes them an
economic proposition. The British Road
Federation has declared that road acci-
dents cost Britain £l5O million a year in
damage, insurance claims, hospital costs,
loss of production because of injury
and death of workers, and other causes.
Where new roads cannot be constructed
out of public funds they are, in America
being built by private enterprise, toll
fees recouping interest and sinking-fund
charges on capital subscribed.
In Australia legislators wring their
hands over the road-accident problem
and at the same time mulct car-owners
of huge sums annually, allocating only
an inadequate proportion to road pur-
poses, a situation which is reminiscent
of the doctors in one of Hilaire Belloc’s
“Cautionary Tales” who:
Answered, as they took their fees,
“There is no cure for this disease.”
If motorists can be impressed to work
for their own benefit, then they should be
urged to demand that moneys raised from
road-users should be wholly spent on
roads to meet modern traffic needs. —
Rag (Vic.).
Willie Frazer
Henry G. Lamond is still up a gum-
tree with his belief that Willie was the
sole survivor of the Frazer family and a
“baby boy” at the time of the Hornet
Bank massacre (B. 1/4/’53). He is
confusing West Frazer with Willie.
I, who knew Willie Frazer personally,
and the many others who knew him better
and longer, including my brother, E. I.
Richardson (still living), the Andrew
Scotts (father and son), E. F. Craven,
and others, are surely better witnesses to
the facts than H.G.L. with his “in-
formation gained by correspondence
and conversation with old officers of the
corps over the past 30 years” and his
“own personal experiences and recollec-
tions.”
As none of these old officers, or
H.G.L. himself, ever saw Willie or
even knew he was the eldest son of the
ill-fated family, and as they are biased
witnesses to the extent that their evidence
is advanced expressly to give the N.M.P.
the credit for taming the Dawson blacks,
/ prefer to believe my own eyes, ears
and memory, and those of wholly un-
biased witnesses, none of whom was a
relative of Willie or, despite the terrible
provocation, an approver of his pro-
longed feud.
The obvious misunderstanding of
Andrew Scott’s broadcast is explainable
when it is pointed out that he was un-
doubtedly speaking of West, the survivor
of the massacre who, though not a
“baby,” was eight years old at the time.
Willie was away getting rations from
Dalby.
I have more than once in the Clifford
dining-room heard Andrew Scott the
younger sum-up his opinion of the
rumors trickling down from the north
about West Frazer as the avenger of the
Hornet Bank massacre. His words were:
“West Frazer never shot a nigger in his
life.” At that time Willie Frazer was
still alive and often passed through
Clifford —Willie, the silent man with a
grey beard cut square across like an
ancient lay-reader, intimately known in
the district where he made his shootings.
Yet West Fraser, who went to the
"He's a very slow worker."
north at an early age, is proclaimed by
H.G.L. as the “baby boy” who grew
up and then became the legendary killer!
Rot!
“Queensland Country Life” (25/3/’45)
published (with a photograph of Hornet
Bank homestead) an interview with
Andrew Scott the younger in which he
referred to Willie, the oldest Frazer son,
as being away at Dalby at the time of
the massacre and Wesit as being the
youngest, a boy of eight, who miracu-
lously survived a nulla-nulla blow on
the head.
H.G.L. should extend his research to
Roma and Taroom before adopting
dogmatic conclusions concerning the
Hornet Bank massacre and its aftermath.
“R. (Q.).
Farmers and Agents
What nonsense farmers and their
protagonists talk when they claim that
marketing-parasites are responsible for
farms being poorly and wastefully main-
tained (B. 29/4/’53). If
marketing-parasites took so
much that the poor farmer
could not make a living,
surely he would increase
the acreage under cultiva-
tion, so that he could make
a living?
I am neither farmer nor
market-agent, but the
agent does not seem to
me to take too much from
the sales. A bad feature,
of course, is that he is not
responsible for payment to
the farmer for food
allowed to go bad to keep
prices up.
But since the agent is
paid on a percentage basis,
the more he makes for the
farmer the more he makes
for himself. If farmers
in Queensland do not like
that set-up, there is the co-
operative Committee of
Direction of Fruit Market-
ing, whose profits are re-
turned to grower-share-
holders. Only a very small
minority of farmers make
use of the C.O.D.’s facili-
ties for sales.
While local cow-cockies
buy Humbers and Packards
and grumble that £5 a
week and keep is too much to pay a
hand, and let 650 to 700 acres of land
go to waste because taxation would take
too much if they ran more cows, at least
two couples I know and dozens more
I’ve heard of axe unable to get on to
the land to produce food. One does
not have to be a Communist to want
to see land provided for those who want
to work it, and to see land used to its
best advantage.—R. H. N. (Q.).
Power Without Glory
Were it not that Sydney has become
blase as the result of the constant shocks
and scandals that have involved and
revolved about public men and public
departments during recent years, the
latest performance on the power-front
would surely have brought citizens
screaming into Macquarie-street for the
resignation of the Government.
At one time the State’s electricity was
generated by various authorities, includ-
ing the Sydney County Council and the
Government Railways Department. The
latter produced all the current it required
for its own needs and disposed of the
excess in bulk at a profit to local authori-
ties for distribution to consumers.
With the war-time dispersion of labor
and the extraordinary demands upon the
generating-plants of the S.C.C., the plants
deteriorated rapidly and the council
found itself unable to replace them
quickly enough to prevent serious disrup-
tion to local services and supplies.
The future Admiral McGirr seized
upon the difficulties facing the County
Council to pursue his Government’s
policy of socialisation and to lay the
foundations of the move which trans-
ferred all generating-plant in the State to
public ownership.
Time and again the then chairman of
the County Council, J. O. Cramer,
asserted that by 1953 the problems of
local supply would have been solved and
that adequate electricity would be avail-
able to meet all demands likely to be
made by industry and domestic users for
a long time. All that was required in
the interim was a measure of disciplined
blackouts —and patience.
Came Conde, and organised blackouts
on a scale certainly not envisaged
by Mr. Cramer. Came also an increase
in the cost of juice to all consumers.
With the Labor Government taking
over all generating operations under the
Electricity Commission, the State faced
a payout of some £6O million for
acquisition without a single extra
watt of power being made avail-
able. Blackouts were organised on
a grand scale and the working week
slipped back to four days for all plants
relying upon electric power. The staff of
the Sydney County Council was dupli-
cated in the State Electricity Commission,
at enormous expense.
Now domestic consumers have been
told they are to pay a further increase
of 22£ per cent, because the commission
has to meet a bill for some £BOO,OOO for
plant-replacement and because, since the
commission took over, charges to indus-
trial users have been jacked-up so high
that any additional impost will certainly
render it more economical for them to
operate their own generating-plants.
Months ago the Premier was howling
because he had no finance available to
enable him to carry on with vital public
works. He blamed Menzies. He didn’t
mention the millions of loan money that
have been sunk in socialising the State’s
power-plants.
Now, of course, we have a real taste
of what State ownership can do—power
and lighting charges at an unprecedented
peak, the railways reduced to turning-off
lights to save pence that amount to
pounds and paying hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds for power of which they
formerly had a surplus for sale at highly
profitable rates.
No wonder the railways and almost
everything else in the State can’t pay. —
Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Da’ryfarmers
“T.McN.” and “J.R.W.” (B. 29/4/’53)
both missed the point of my argument,
which was that the “bit of' help” the
dairyfarmer required from his wife or
family was not paid for at union rates,
and that that “bit of help,” combined
with his own long hours, meant that
two 40-hour weeks were being worked
for approximately one basic wage.
A consistent unionist would refuse to
eat butter.
The price asked for dairyfarms only
proves that there is not the same value
in the pound as there used to be. Let
“T.McN,” compare the present price of
dairyfarms with that of pre-war days,
and seei if dairyfarm values have risen
in anything like the same proportion as
the basic wage, which, more than any-
thing else, determines the buying-power
of money.
“J.R.W.’s” statement, that the old basis
of 50-50 has largely been replaced by a
40-60 agreement, is an admission that
the annual rent of dairyfarms, expressed
in purchasing power, is less than it used
to be.
As for “J.R.W.’s” argument, that there
are still men looking for dairyfarms to
work on shares, does he know any man
who is prepared to work a dairyfarm
without a very substantial “bit of help”
from the wife?
If dairyfarmers, and their wives, were
to receive a price for their products
based on overtime rates for all work done
outside specified hours, and penalty rates
for work on weekends and holidays,
<he city consumer, rather than the cow-
cocky, would be the one who was scream-
ing.— Delta (N.S.W.).
It’s a common misconception that a
farmer who clears £lOOO to £l2OO a
year has at least £6OOO invested in his
farm (B. l/4/’53). His farm may be
worth that on the open market, but he
hasn’t actually invested that amount
unless he has just bought the farm. In
most cases the value has increased
annually—not only because of the
farmer’s efforts —and that annual increase
should be added to his income when
assessing his salary.
Even if he has invested that amount,
he can’t reasonably claim five-per-cent,
interest on his investment. Part of that
£6OOO includes his house —and he’d
question the right of city workers to
have five per cent, of the value of their
houses included in the basic wage.
A farmer works hard, but he works
for himself. Admittedly he works long
hours, but so does a city worker who
leaves home at 7.30 a.m. and returns at
6 p.m. to complete a 40-hour week.
The city worker has a job, often with-
out any security. The farmer has a life
and a living in surroundings of his own
choosing. And he gets half as much
again in wages as a first-class tradesman.
Farmers could well cease moaning and
reflect that, while few farmers envy the
city worker his job or his environment,
many a city worker would willingly
change places with a farmer. — Bass
(W.A.).


MAIN
CITIES
*- e *
m m
♦* * I
* 0 ** a • *
' * ** k * i * *
• * *
''* * J* V 4 A
< ' o 0 •>
« »'.
'i
* ■>
mm
mm
m
ORB
///
LYSAGHT
//.
//
'///
Developed and manufactured by Lysaght’s »-m * *
Works Ply. Ltd., Newcastle, N.S.W. L. 39-27
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
YET ADDS YEARS TO
THE LIFE OF ALL NEW
RAINWATER TANKS
TECT-A-TANK consists of
special crystals contained in a
perforated plastic tube which
is hung inside the tank. As
the tank fills the crystals are
dissolved, depositing a life-
long protective film on the
inner walls.
Get years and years of extra life from
your new rainwater tanks! Ask your
plumber or hardware merchant to supply
you with a TECT-A-TANK unit with every
new tank you buy! Costs less than 20/-
(main cities) and never needs replacing.
Expressly developed and manufactured by
the makers of Lysaght Galvanized Iron to
overcome the problem of premature corro-
sion in rainwater tanks. Available in
lengths to suit Both ‘’tall” and "squat”
dfg
TILLEY. 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
For quality—for economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL *
Manufacturer’s Representatives: ("THE GUARDSMAN I
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
BRITISH
MADE
While import restrictions
remain you may have dnh-
culty in obtaining TIIXEY
products.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Meat-selling
“Vaquero”; H. Gordon
Munro, of Booroomooka Aber-
deen-Angus stud, Bingara
(N.S.W.), says organisation of
the meat industry on similar
lines to the organisation within
the wool industry would
eliminate distribution anomalies.
Australian beef industry lags
behind the United States in its
selling organisation, but the
Australian wool - industry or-
ganisation was far ahead of the
U.S. in wool-marketing.
The stability of the American
meat industry, he said, stemmed
from efficient processing, grad-
ing and branding of meat, and
the practice of selling all beef
* Don’t worry. Im sending it to
Grazcos. "
by weight irrespective of
whether it was a live steer, a
carcass or a cut of meat in a
retail butcher-shop.
A prominent American beef-
breeder made this comment on
Australian methods: “I canhot
understand you Australians. In
your wool industry, which is the
best organised of its kind in the
world, your wool is classed or
graded and sold by the pound.
You know how many pounds
of wool is in each bale. With
your cattle you are prepared to
let the buyer pay for your animal
on a per-head basis, on his esti-
mate of its weight. A shrewd
buyer never errs in the pro-
ducer’s favor,”
Munro says the grading of
meat for local consumption as
well as for export would greatly
aid consumer and producer. It
would make for standardisation,
an essential present-day need for
the orderly marketing and effici-
ent distribution of meat.
In America, where live beef
is sold by the pound, the demand
for high quality has been
brought about principally from
grading, branding and expert
processing. These three things
resulted in consumer confidence
in buying; elimination, to a
great extent, of fraudulent
selling practices ; and the launch-
ing of efficient publicity and
propaganda campaigns.
Overlapping Crops
“Zea”: On coastal dairyfarms
where maize is grown, allowing
weeds to grow after the last cul-
tivation of the crop not only
wastes ground but loses valuable
winter feed.
Such feed can be obtained by
sowing oats at this last cultiva-
tion. As the maize crop ripens
gradually, it becomes less depen-
dent on further nutrition from
the soil, being busy in transfer-
ring the nutriment from its dying
leaves to the developing grain.
Growth of weeds in the crop
is proof that the latter can do
without the soil nutrients at this )
stage.
But the early growth of oats
requires more sunlight than that
which produces weeds. This is
obtained by wider row-spacing
of the maize, with heavier seed-
ing in the rows to get the same
or a greater plant population per
“I always sign me own work”
acre, as hybrid maize requires
for those very high yields.
Such intensive cultivation calls
for somewhat heavier fertilising,
which, however, readily pays for
itself, even at recently increased
prices.
Quality in Pigs
“Relwof”: Feeding can in-
fluence growth-changes to pro-
duce the proportions of a high-
class bacon carcass. To obtain
the required development of the
lean part, feed the pigs heavily
up to the light-porker stage. If
heavily fed during the later stage
of growth the pigs become too
fat for market standards and
their value lessens.
For pork production (pigs
maturing at 1201 b. live weight),
feed plentifully throughout, to
produce the right proportions
of fat and lean at this weight.
Bacon carcasses should have the
correct proportion of fat and
lean at 160 to 2301 b. live weight
(varying according to home-
production or export require-
ments). To ensure this it is neces-
sary to feed heavily to 70-801 b.
weights in order to allow ample
muscle-development. The ration
then can be restricted a little so
that the carcass doesn’t become
too fat.
If a bacon pig is underfed
early or overfed late it will pro-
duce a carcass with poor eye-
muscle and heavy back-fat —
undesirable qualities in the
trade.
It isn’t generally realised that
the pig possesses a small
stomach, and cannot digest large
quantities of food at any one
time. Best policy is to give
foods rich in protein and carbo-
hydrates—a little at a time. Fats
can be introduced into the
ration by way of meals and milk
by-products. The natural diet
of a pig is covered if meals,
grain, meat and green-foods are
given.
Western Arboretum
“J.C.”: At Dripstone, near
Wellington (N.S.W.), G. W.
Althofer has established an
arboretum of native plants and
trees. While many species fast
disappearing from the forests
and bushlands are thus being
preserved, all are being popu-
larised for general cultivation.
Formerly an open grass pad-
dock of 20 acres of limestone-
slate soil, the area is carrying
thousands of trees gathered from
all States and as far away as the
Kimberleys. The climate, which
averages Bdeg. of frost in winter,
85deg. F. in summer and a
23in. rainfall, suits most Aus-
tralian plants. The collection
includes possibly the greatest
number of dry-country eucalypts
ever assembled in one spot.
Prominent among these is
“the rose of the west” ( E.
macrocarpa), with snowy foliage,
brilliant red flowers and seed-
nuts 3-4 in. across. Other species
bear sculptured buds and green,
red, yellow, pink or cream
flowers.
While most eucalypts carry
their buds for from 12 to 15
months, the white-leafed mar-
lock ( E . tetragona ) bursts into
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Sydney should have mainly fine and cold weather for
some time, though early June may bring sudden warmth and
further good rains. The recent flood rains were duly
produced in accordance with the cycle, though they were
delayed almost a month.
Along the southern littoral of the continent and well
inland good rains are now likely, and in the south-eastern
corner they may be fairly heavy. In South Australia and
south-western West Australia good rains should be recorded.
So far the possible drier spell will only affect southern
Queensland and northern New South Wales.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
'mm
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
i PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your hpme may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
d
NO
EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple Instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.PTY.LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
‘***"^———■ i distributors* "*"**"—■ —*
N.S.W.: Hygeia JDissolvenator List. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissblvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers.
Lome Street, Auckland.
AN IMPORTANT THING
ABOUT A GOOD WHISKY
IS . . .
FLAVOUR
—and in McCallum’s one
finds the palate-pleasing
flavour of a good Scotch
whisky unhurriedly and
competently brought to
perfection over the years.
m
m
the name is
(D
Cdllum’
the
whisky
to
MCI 4/6.2
Wholly distilled
and blended in Scotland
The farther ahead you
look,
the more you’ll depend
gdf
HADDON
RIG
BLOOD
Every Merino breeder’s view of the
future is, to a large extent, based on
his own experience. If you have
first-hand knowledge of the practical
benefits brought by Haddon Rig
Blood —more wool per head and
more pence per pound—you have
every reason to face the future with
confidence. If you lack this ex-
perience, then 1953 is your oppor-
tunity to make up lost ground.
Haddon Rig Sires are justly famous
for massive frames, true conforma-
tion, and dense, soft-handling wool.
They are prized, too, for high
lambing percentages, unusual
adaptability and other valuable
characteristics.
As in previous years, Haddon Rig
Stud dominated the 1952 Sydney
Ram Sales. 116 Haddon Rig Rams
averaged £270 per head to total
£31,436 top aggregate for the
thirteenth successive year!
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W.
Telephone; Warren 74
H R 3-53
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms.
v,, fa?,. £ •
Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra. '
ROOM-ONLY BATES;
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 34/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
flowers two months after its
buds appear. One of the rarest
eucalypts, leucophylla, found
only in a small area outside of
Cloncurry (Q.), bears masses of
creamy flowers twice a year.
The foliage of the Queensland
messmate (. E . cloziana ), another
uncommon tree, turns plum-
colored in winter. The poplar-
gum ( E . platyphylla ) one of
Australia’s 10 deciduous euca-
lypts, drops it leaves about
November and then flowers.
Althofer declares native trees
and shrubs should be more
widely grown in streets, parks
and small gardens. Beautiful
wattles, grevillias and hakeas
are overlooked by plant-lovers,
though the members of all these
plant families include species
and sizes suitable for all pur-
poses and districts.
Althofer’s father evolved the
now-famous Dripstone and
Glenora peaches, Burrill almond
and red Granny Smith apple.
s
Land Reclamation
“Humus”; In the foothills of
the Divide, within 20 and 30
miles of Melbourne (which is
short of milk, potatoes and
onions), are hundreds of
of eroded land not yet beyond
redemption. Much of it cannot
conveniently be reclaimed with
fertilisers and organic manures,
but Cootamundra wattle can
work wonders.
The dense leafiness breaks the
force of heavy downpours, pre-
venting water-scouring, and the
fallen seed-pods and leaves form
a mulch which in a few years
becomes humus.
Recently some of our Coota-
mundras died. Native grasses
quickly established themselves ;
the dark green of the newly-
established grass is in marked
contrast to the pale green of
the grass on adjacent cleared
land.
Acacias are legumes, and
examination of the roots shows
nodules similar to the nitrogen-
storing nodules on clovers. The
stored-up nitrogen in the soil
would account for the emerald
green of the new grass.
Electric Fence
“Flat Rock”: A Victorian
farmer reduced his poultry
losses after putting an electric
fence round his chook-yards;
it stopped foxes.
Two years ago our R.l.R.’s
began flying over 42in. netting
fixed on the inside of the fence.
Electric fence-wire was put 9in.
higher than the netting and on
the outside of the posts.
The birds flew up on the net-
ting, swayed whilst getting bal-
anced, then touched the live
wire. That stopped them flying.
Then they started to scratch be-
low the fence, but a live wire
6in. above the ground stopped
’em —though only when the
ground was damp. The 6-volt
charge does them no harm.
Stud Sheep
“R.N.”: A total of 1680 stud
sheep, 1494 being Merinos, has
been catalogued for sale at
Sydney sheep show and sales
this month. The three-day show
begins on May 21 and the sales
on May 25.
Hybrid Onions
“Allium”: After the develop-
ment of hybrid maize, onions
have become the next crop to
reach the stage of commercial
hybrid-seed production.
When a normal onion-plant is
allowed to grow on for seed it
sends up a stalk which bears
both male and female organs in
the same flower, and seed is thus
formed.
Occasionally, however, in the
dommon onion, such a seed-stalk
has male sterile flowers. If such
a plant is grown in isolation, it
cannot produce seed. Instead, it
produces tiny onion bulblets.
These bulblets, when planted,
produce ordinary onions which
are a replica of the mother
plant. Thus a population of
male sterile onions is developed.
If these male sterile onions are
then grown in a field with any
seed-producing variety, they
become naturally crossed with
the pollen of that variety, and
hybrid seed is produced on them
in place of bulblets. On this
other variety, ordinary seed is
produced. Thus we get hybrid
seed and ordinary seed in the
same field.
Hybrid onion-seed is now
being listed in American seed
catalogues, and some of these
hybrids may be suitable in Aus-
tralia. The N.S.W, Dept, of
Agriculture is also endeavoring
to produce some local hybrids.
Hints for the Farm
“My”: Dip the feet and
shanks of the fowl with scaly-
leg in crude oil and scrub with
a hard brush, taking care not to
get oil on the feathers. Dip in
the morning to give the oil time
to drain off before the birds
roost. In bad cases repeat the
treatment in a month’s time.
“Emel”; Maybe rabbits will
not develop natural mass-
immunity to myxomatosis (B.
31/12/’52), but there are odd
cases. D. McQueen, of Natimuk
(Vic.), reported three from
an area where last year the
myxo. campaign was very suc-
cessful. One rabbit has been
inoculated three times, once by
a Lands Department officer and
twice by McQueen, another
twice and a third once. So far
none of the three showed the
slightest sign of developing
myxomatosis. Pending further
experiments, either on Me-
Queen’s property or m Mel-
bourne, the rabbits are being
kept penned.
“Sundowner”: Control grass-
fur t Y t u Pplyi " g ? r
B.H.C. to the pasture at the rate
of 11b. of active ingredient per
acre. A heavier application of
21b. per acre is recommended
f or treating young pastures or
those used for seed-production,
The chemicals are most readily
used as a mixture with fertiliserj
and may conveniently be
* pplied when topdressin g is
done.


Commonwealth of Australia
REGISTRATION TOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
NOTICE TO MEN MINING THE AGE OF 18 YEARS
BETWEEN Isl MAT. and 31sl AUGUST, 1953
Under the National Service Acts 1951, all male persons, not
exempt under the Acts from liability to register, who are
British subjects and ordinarily resident in Australia and have
attained or will attain the age of 18 years between Ist May,
T 953, and 31st August, 1953 (both dates inclusive), ARE
REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN 18th MAY AND Ist
JUNE, 1953.
A person who has arrived and intends to make his home in Australia is
regarded as ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival.
A person who is absent from Australia during the period within which he
is required to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
If a person required to register is insane or so mentally or physically
incapacitated as to be unable to register personally, the person in whose
charge he is for the time being must do so on his behalf.
the, penalties prescribed under the Acts.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persorts on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 1 8 of the Acts,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
EARLY REGISTRATION
If a male person of 17 years of age has good reason for wishing to
commence his National Service training without waiting until he is required
to register, he may apply to register early even though he is not 18.
Further details may be obtained from the National Service Registration Office
or any District Employment Office.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S. 1) are available at all Money Order Post
Offices and District Employment Offices. Addresses of the latter offices
are in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are
in the Registration Form and the sheet (N.S. 1A) attached to it.
VN5R7.83.53
sixteen years. Trusty! But it’s
dark window too high
cold walls . . .” His voice died
away in a wheezing cough.
Father Hartigan hurried in.
Sister Dymphna rustled away
hurriedly to the chapel. Dr.
Bloore walked out on to the
veranda.
MOREE MIKE in pyjamas
and an old raincoat crept
out to him from the men’s dor-
mitory, “How is he. Doctor?
How’s the old man, Mr. Me-
Inerney?” he asked in an awed
whisper.
“He’s quiet now, Mike, and
having his rest at last. Go back
to bed!”
Mike shuffled away, ears
cocked for any fearful sound
from the sick-room.
The Doctor slowly paced the
long passage between the con-
vent and the old people’s quar-
ters. A few minutes later Father
Hartigan joined him. “How
about an afternoon with the
quail tomorrow. Doctor?”
“Great idea! I can get away,
There’s a confinement due ; but
she’ll probably go a day or two
over. That setter pup of yours
needs all the work he can get.”
Father Hartigan nodded,
“We’ll try the farms up - by the
Dockyard. I know there’s a bird
or two on Carraody’s; and the
ground is not too severe for
your old pointer.”
Dr. Bloore seemed preoccu-
pied. “Father, you and I get
some surprises in our work.
don’t we? Especially with the
old people!”
“We do,” said Father Har-
tigan.
Doctor Bloore held a light to
Father’s cigarette and then his
own.
“While I was Resident at
Newcastle General there was an
Honorary there specialising in
psychiatry. Clever chap! His
thesis was that every mental dis-
order, all ravings, delirium, even
nightmare utterances have a
background of fact— something
out of the individual’s past ex-
perience. As a priest, with a
priest’s experience, would you
agree with that?”
Father Hartigan paused and
inhaled deeply, as he looked up
at the starlit sky showing between
chapel and convent veranda.
“As a priest I keep the secrets
of the confessional,” he replied
tersely; then, after a pause:
“Doctor, I’ll say this and have
done with it: A man might do
one terrible thing —in mad
jealousy perhaps —any one of us
might do that, God help us!
And then be crazed with terror
for what he had done, and the
terror in his subconscious ever
after. One terrible thing ! And,
in prison and out of prison, do
penance for it all his after-life
—and have the terror of it shak-
ing him in his death-bed!”
He stubbed out the butt of
his cigarette. “You’ll be along
about one? I’ll be back from
the funeral in plenty of time.
There’ll be a high wind from
the west, and the birds should be
lively. There’s half-a-crown a
bird on it tomorrow. See you’ve
got your money. Now for bed.
Good-night, Doctor.”
He had his old car out on the
road and over the hill before
Doctor Blobre started his. He
was still preoccupied* and drove
slowly, a thought troubling him.
there, swept off the treacherous,
slippery rocks.
Up they went over stiff coun-
try to Wulgulmerang, helping
to beat-out the old Monaro
cattle-track up Mount Turn-
back, where today in places the
track is still ungrassed and
unhealed.
Butcher’s Ridges was the next
camp. The cattle had steadied
before they came to Buchan;
and so on to the low country,
where the cattle were sold to
fatteners. Trying not to show
his disappointment, William,
rode home ; the venture was a
failure, bullocks selling for £3
a head, cows for 375. 6d.; all
sold on a six-months’ bill.
Difficulties were part of their
daily fife. Bark roofs did not fill
tanks, so the washing was done
close to the river. More than
once it rose suddenly in the
night, carrying the precious
clothes with it; all hands
searched downstream for a
week, retrieving garments' from
rocks and bushes.
The Kiandra diggings drew
men off the land, but evidently
some humbly came back, as
William records that the “gold-
diggers came and were set to
digging potatoes.”
There was gold near by at
Bonang: Marriott’s Reef,
Golden Gully and Labor-in-
vaifT are mentioned. Craigie,
on Monaro, was known then as
Chinatown, for the number of
Chinese working the tailings
there, being also hired for
station work, particularly clear-
ing—known locally as “emu-
bobbing.” A team of Chinese
would work in a face, bending
up and down, with the peculiar
bobbing motion of emus, as
they picked up and packed the
fallen timber, all hands rolling
the bigger logs together.
The names of many Chinese
are on William’s books, but
only three deserve special men-
tion: Ah U and Ah Pang for
their excellent cooking, and Co-
lang, who for many years
served the family loyally from
gardener to bullock-driver, from
cook to confidant.
Jimmy Hill, of the bushrang-
ing partnership of Jones and
Hill, worked for some time on
Tubbutt; later he was on his
way back in his capacity of
highwayman. The men were
away mustering, but Louisa,
that valiant little five-footer,
buried her few valuables in the
garden and prepared to defend
her home. However, Hill was
captured on his way to Tub-
butt.
Tubbutt established a reputa-
tion as a horse-station. Cherry-
picker, Hotspur, Towny and
Bluebonnet, Grasshopper and
Badger step proudly in the
pageant. Kate Kearney’s des-
cendants are still in Whittakers’
hands. William was a horse-
lover, and it is noticeable how
his horses stand out against the
rather impersonal background 6f
family and employees.
There was constant horse-
work, mustering, yarding, brand-
ing, breaking-in and shooting
brumby stallions that decoyed
away the station mares. Other
snippets of interest fall from
the diary pages:
Very hot, 108 degrees. Mrs. Mc-
Leod, a shepherd’s wife, walked in
eight miles through smoke for medi-
cine for a sick child.
Again:
The Snowy nearly impassable, but
the Gippsland Mail got across on a
little pony of Jack Hensleigh’s.
The diary-records still re-
mained impersonal, but a new
figure marches in the pageant—
Jamie, the eldest son. He grew
to manhood at Tubbutt, carving
out his reputation for horseman-
ship, after the classic snowy
River tradition. If, in the early
diary pages, William did not
dramatise his own work, Jamie’s
prowess broke down his reserve,
“Hard riding after wild
cattle,” he writes, or “Saw Jamie
and Black Joe run-down a wild
creamy mare,” or “Jamie backed
wild colt after it had thrown
Black Joe,” “Jamie swam
flooded river after third attempt
with shepherd’s rations on his
head.”
William comnlained of rheu-
matics; he was Ageing, and pay-
in§ fox his long yccirs of work
j n snow and floods, and was now
often too stiff to mount his
horse. One by one, the family
takes his place in the pageant;
“Charlie is camped out with the
musterers”; “Ned rode the pony
to Bonang” ; “Willie rode with
the men to Deddick” ; “The girls
roc j e on tbe run with Jamie.”
The pageant moves on slowly,
accidents and sicknesses were
feWj but there are muf fl e d
dmms and arms reve rsed for
Louisa’s two babies who lie in
bush graves under Bowen on
Graveyard Creek
Life grew more stabilisedj the
home more comfortable ; Wil-
liam drove Louisa to Bombala
in a strong buggy drawn by
Towny and Blueb ° nnet - They
had nQ dearth of f riends> Mr
and Miss McKeac hie, Q f Dele-
gate station; A. W. Howitt,
back from Central Australia
a f ter g nd i ng tbe rema ins of
Burke and wills, and, now
Police Magistrate for Gipps-
land; Bruce and Wilmot, of
Mr. Black’s geodetic survey
party; the Hensleighs, of Ben-
doc and D edd j ck . Allan Mc-
Lean, head of a big auctioneer-
ing firm and later Premier of
Victoria: all these were con-
stant visitors ; representing
families united ever since in ties
of close friendship or of
marriage.
There are others who marched
in the pageant also ; employees
whose histories and loyalties
were part of Tubbutt’s history:
Catherine Marriott—“our dear
old Catherine”; Tom Rich, the
head stockman; Scott, the shep-
herd ; Billy Coe, who came as
a boy, growing up with Jamie,
and who died at 90 years of
age, not far from Tubbutt.
It is on record that Billy Coe,
with Bm. of snow on the ground,
swam a flooded river with
rations for hungry men.
There was Billy Hobbs, who
started work at Bs. a week, with
a promise of more if the lamb-
ing was good. He travelled in
with a team, bringing the Tub-
butt children their first bought
o
toy—a very primitive form of
moving-picture, treasured today
y CoZg SS ;!« ' Br Ws ' riSS
looped under his sfraw
kof f • ..
I t n
pageant near his beloved
"Missus" and “Massa.”
Joe, the black stockman, is
Kori *
horseman hut the nroe to
horseman, but the urge to go
h,m;
tests sc“g ’painful
mustered cattle fo g r tm It
seeing them gallop, always being
sacked, and as often reinstating
himself. “Paid Joe to leave,”
William writes again and again.
He is still in the pageant, linked
with the rest of the staff to
Tubbutt by joys and sorrows,
dearth and plenty.
The year 1864 saw Tubbutt
astir. Aunt Martha Moore, who
had brought-up Louisa (and
later brought-up her three eldest
daughters), sold Moore Hall, her
“school for young ladies” at
Point Piper—incidentally the
first such school in Sydney—
and came to Tubbutt. '
A new house was built for
her. Two hundred and fifty-four
sheets of bark were drawn for
it. With her came a new
standard of elegance ; her piano,
her harp, her exquisite glass,
china and books. Tubbutt now
became a focal-point for district
entertainment.
Louisa’s two eldest girls,
Minnie and Hannah, were not
to stay long at Tubbutt. Bruce
and Wilmot, of the survey party,
claimed them and carried them
off to Gippsland, It is a family
legend that Bruce, on the way
to his wedding, was pulled out
of the flooded Snowy by clinging
to his horse’s tail, while Wilmot,
journeying to his wedding, fell
out of the puntpian’s boat,
being ably retrieved by that
official’s wife, who seized her
drowning passenger by his long
silky beard,
William had received his own
family without comment, but
the announcement of the birth
G f his first grandson rings with
the pride of a fanfare of trum-
pets. He writes now with satis-
faction, with a patriarchal air of
continuity,, of family doings,
T „ 1871 , f .
J rrie i daughters in Gippsland
. T „
drew William and Louisa to Loy
y Latrobe River cattle-
After camping beside
the “W a P nd B swolle„
a£t f heavy rain ’ w ° m f
and nine men turned their backs
on Tubbutt and faced the Cros-
• ~ • , ,
' g '„ T 5 J md Co ‘* a " s
£ aveUed ™ th the famd y- Bll| y
Coe saw them across the river
and rode witb tbem to tbe top °f
t n •
“vni
the I™' Whe " an old , man
t . ~ , y ,
, The river was high and
dangerous. In case of accident
tbe boss Woldd on |y | et one
woman at a time go in the boat,
80 tbe , l ob was a s /°w we
weren 1 alter records that day.
“After the passengers were
over we P ile d in the pack-
saddles, with all their belong-
ings, and then saddled-up again
and headed for the Turnback. I
rode with them to the top,” the
old man said. “I watched them
go. When my best friends rode
out of sight I cried, I tell you I
cried. Then I rode back to
Tubbutt alone.”
Now at Tubbutt a good road
traverses it, running from Bon-
ang to the Snowy; there are
comfortable homes, tennis-
courts, a school, the telephone,
But beneath the veneer of
civilisation which settlement
brings, tuckdd away in the
ranges are still Crooked Corner
and The Ambyne, Tingy-Ringy
and Mount Whittakers; Bowen
and Deddick still guard it, and
the Snowy River, a still untamed
and sleeping giant, lies cradled
in the gorges of Croajingolong.


BOOKS FOR GOOD READING
THE STRUGGLE FOR EUROPE
WINDOM’S WAY
CAMPBELL’S KINGDOM
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
Chester Wilmot 355.
James Ramsay Ullman' lbs.
Hammond Innes 13s. 6d.
13s. 6d.
COLLINS
Catherine Gaskin
Available from all Booksellers.
PUBLISHERS
Latest Australian Books
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
IT ISN’T CRICKET, by SIDNEY G. BARNES. 84 x s}. 222 pages.
18 illustrations. Cloth binding. William Collins (Overseas) Ltd.,
Sydney. 16/-.
COSTS AND PRICES, by S. R. BROWN, LL.B., F.G.A. (Aust .). A
practical treatment of the factors of profit. 8f x ss. vii, 272 pages.
27 illustrations. Cloth binding. The Law Book Company of Australia
Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 30/-.
FARMING IS FUN, by ALFRED BERTRAM COX. Humorous story
of a “gentleman farmer.” 8J x 54- 220 pages. 26 illustrations. Two
maps. Cloth binding. Rigby Ltd., Adelaide. 15/-.
BIOLOGY FOR AUSTRALIAN STUDENTS, by W. M. CURTIS, M.So.,
Ph.D. ( Land .). A new (reset) edition of this standard textbook with
additional illustrations and much new material. 7 x s}. 521 pages.
205 line drawings. Cloth binding. Oxford University Press,
Melbourne. 14/-.
NEW SQUARE DANCES, by JIMMY DEAN. Square dancing instruction
and dances. 81 x 54- 94 pages. 14 illustrations, 19 musical scores.
Paper cover. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 9/6.
LEAVES OF GOLD, by GILLESPIE DOUGLAS. A book of Australian
verse. 7| x 5. 258 pages. One b/w and six colour plates. Cloth
binding. Lothian Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 15/-.
I FALL ON GRASS, by lAN FELLOWES-GORDON. A thrilling novel
with the Kachin villages as a setting. 74 x 5. 220 pages. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
GOVERNOR GEORGE ARTHUR: A Colonial Benevolent Despot, by
M, 0. I. LEVY, M.A. Early Tasmanian History. 8J x 51. 426 pages.
80 illustrations. Cloth binding. Georgian House Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne. 50/-.
TRAVELS ACROSS AUSTRALIA, by A. C. G. LOCK. 84 x 54. 288
pages. 25 illustrations. Cloth binding. Robertson & Mullens Ltd.,
Melbourne. 22/6.
TO BENGHAZI, by GAVIN LONG. The first of seven in the Army series
of the Official History of Australia in the War of 1939-45. 9| x 6|.
xiv, 336 pages. 41 illustrations, 6 maps, 31 sketch maps. Cloth
binding. Australian War Memorial, Canberra. 25/-.
THE ART OF CHARLES WHEELER, 0.8. E., D.C.M., by J. S.
MACDONALD, 114 x 84- 110' pages, including 15 four-colour plates,
20 toned Illustrations. Cloth binding. Lothian Publishing Co. Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne. £7/7/-.
INNS OF AUSTRALIA, by PAUL McGUIRE. The story of Australian
inns and innkeepers. 8| x 54. xii, 284 pages. 55 illustrations,
Including 7 in colour, and line drawings. Cloth binding. William
Heinemann Ltd., Melbourne. 27/6.
PROUD ECHO, by RONALD C. H. McKIE. The story of the sinking of
H.M.A.S. Perth in action, 1942. 84 x 54- xvii, 158 pages. Three
two-colour plates and 27 line drawings. Cloth binding. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 17/6.
BUILD YOUR HOUSE OF EARTH, by GEORGE F. MIDDLETON. A
manual of pis£ and adobe construction. 94 x 64- xiii. 111 pages.
15 illustrations, 29 text figures, 5 plans. Paper boards, cloth spine-
Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 22/6.
MAKING THEM LIVE, by W. N. OATS. Biblical plays. 44 x 7. 199
pages. Limp cloth. Australasian Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 6/6.
ACROSS THE PARALLEL, by GEORGE ODGERS. No. 77 Squadron,
R.A.A.F., in Korea. 84 x 54- xiv, 239 pages. 40 illustrations. Two
endpaper maps. Cloth binding. William Heinemann Ltd., Melbourne. 19/6.
BUMP-AH, by JOAN O’SULLIVAN. Mullens’ Stories for Children, No. 103.
Ages 7-8. 7 x 44. 82 pages. Three illustrations. Paper cover.
Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 2/-.
KINEMATICS OF MECHANISMS, by NICOLOI ROSEN AUER AND
ALBERT H. WILLIS. Applied Mechanics. 84 x 54. xvi, 306 pages.
877 illustrations. Cloth binding. Associated General Publications
Pty. Ltd., Sydney. £4/10/-.
ANIMALS OF THE WORLD, by NOREEN SHELLEY. Mullens’ Stories
for Children, No. 803. Ages 9-10. 7 x 4f. 32 pages. 10 illustrations.
Paper cover. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 1/3.
DANGEROUS SNAKES OF AUSTRALIA, by ERIC WORRALL. 74 x 5.
64 pages. 27 illustrations. Paper boards, cloth spine. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 10/6.
The Australian Book Publishers’ Association
Owens’s ability which had troubled the
solid citizens of Holbrook.
The cattlemen next planned to ride-
down the camped Tewksburys in the
early morning ; but their shooting from
horses proved inaccurate, and the Tewks-
burys, firing from their blankets,
wounded two cattlemen, one mortally.
After this Sheriff Mulvenon led a big
posse into the valley to apprehend all
the feuders. He was joined by Houck,
the dubious deputy, and, apparently by
that gentleman’s cunning, was persuaded
to treat the Grahams as outlaws. The
sheriff’s forces took positions in the
Perkins store, built of stone, originally,
as a fort to fight Indians; a Graham and
a Blevins were lured under the waiting
guns, challenged, and shot dead. The
posse then went on to the Graham ranch
and collected one Graham retainer
only ; missing the man they most wanted,
Tom Graham, the most level-headed of
the cattlemen and their leader. The two
brothers Tewksbury and five of their
army were peacefully enough brought in.
Tom Graham was later picked up in
Phoenix, where he was paying his
addresses to a clergyman’s daughter;
but no evidence seems to have been
offered against him. In the same way
the case against the Tewksburys seems
to have fallen through, although they
were indicted for the Middleton’s ranch
murder, witnesses being afraid to give
evidence.
During the year 1888 Pleasant Valley
was unsafe for strangers, and Mr.
Forrest finds it hard to calculate how
many disappeared or were killed, by one
side or the other, just to make sure. In
August a young rancher called Stott,
with a Hash Knife cowboy called Scott
and an old hobo called Wilson were
lynched, possibly because Scott had been
buying stolen stock from rustlers; but
more probably, Mr. Forrest considers.
because the Machievellian Jim Houck
wanted Stott’s property to run sheep on.
In December one of the two remaining
Tewksbury brothers died of measles.
There were now left one Tewksbury
(Edwin) and one Graham (Tom),
Tom Graham married his parson’s
daughter ; and by 1890 she had persuaded
him to buy a farm at Tempe, near
Phoenix, on the Salt River, and give the
feud away. In 1892 he went back to his
old Pleasant Valley Ranch to divide up
his herd; met representatives of the
Tewksburys, shook hands, concluded his
business and departed in peace.
It is thought that Graham’s hench-
man, Charley Duchet, put it round on
their return to Tempe that the Tewks-
burys had been afraid to challenge them.
For whatever reason, in August, two
months after Tom Graham’s return,
Edwin Tewksbury and John Rhodes hid
behind bushes near the school outside
of Tempe and shot Tom Graham as he
was driving a four-horse team to town
with a load of grain.
Rhodes was apprehended; Tewksbury
gave himself up. Mrs. Graham went to
the trial of Rhodes, and just after some
children had identified him as the man
they saw shoot her husband she whipped
a revolver from her umbrella, put it
against Rhodes’s back and pulled the
trigger. The gun missed fire. One story
is that a handkerchief got between the
hammer and the cartridge. Another is
that a friend, who had seen Mrs. Graham
with the pistol before she went to court,
had removed the cartridges.
For reasons Mr. Forrest cannot un-
cover, Rhodes was discharged. Edwin
Tewksbury, backed, it is thought, by the
Daggs brothers, the sheepmen, beat one
verdict of guilty on a technicality; and
was released after the jury had disagreed
in a second trial.
These dark happenings were not with-
out a comic conclusion. Edwin Tewks-
bury sold up what was left of his ranch
and spent the rest of his life in the town
of Globe “as a peace-officer, alternating
as constable of Globe and deputy-sheriff
of Gila County,”
, Likewise Tommy Tucker, he who
escaped wounded from the Middleton
ranch ambush, became deputy-sheriff in
Santa Fe, New Mexico. Likewise Jim
Roberts. Roberts had been in the thick
of all the Tewksbury battles; he became
a frontier peace-officer in the rough days
of the Arizona copper-mines, constable
of Jerome precinct and marshal of
Jerome, last of the hectic mining camps.
He killed “several bad men” there ; then
moved to Clarkdale, where, as late as
1928, at the age of 70, he put a bullet
through the brain of a bank-robber as
the robber was driving away. The car
crashed; a second robber jumped out,
firing a pistol; but the old man chased
him two hundred yards, when he sur-
rendered. Square-jawed, button-chinned,
level-eyed, short-haired, ragged-mous-
tached, Jim Roberts looks out of an old
photograph with an air of self-righteous-
ness that must have been very uncom-
fortable to live with —indeed, a fair num-
ber of men had found it impossible:
Just how many men he killed during his
long career as a member of the vendetta
clan and later as a police officer cannot be
stated; Jim often said that he did not
know.
The difficulties of Mr. Forrest’s job
appear in |iis writing. The story does
not proceed directly from point to point,
but with an anticipation here of some-
thing that is going to happen (here, with
qualifications, marshallings of evidence,
etc., that get in the way of the reader,
But he is dealing with facts that cannot
always be exactly established, and such
of us as demand truth must not be dis-
satisfled when we are honestl >' told what
is truth and what is conjecture. There
are some fine old photographs of the
participants and their ranches an intro-
duction by William MacLeod Rame;
lists of the opposed armies, neutrals and
forces of law; appendices of cattle-
“mP“ies. etc -> and an index '
THE CONVERTS
The painter, out of summer sun
Hammered metal thin and fine
Made a leaf-thin plate of gold,
Clapped it to the young man’s
head,
Gave him staff and scrip to hold.
Placed him on an eminence
Shadowed hy a laurel-tree,
And the whispering leaves began
Gentle harmonies of praise
That through all the branches
ran.
All the colored birds of air
Came to rest upon that tree.
From the painted landscape crept
Fox and squirrel, wolf and hare
To follow whejre the saint had
stepped.
What should any painter do
When the world that he has made
Comes alive to praise the saint
Holy, bright and beautiful
He has fashioned with his paint?
What should any poet do
When the painter he has made
Steps into his picture’s frame?
Taking all my words with me,
Reader, I shall do the same.
N.S'W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 226
Across
I—Pale1 —Pale boy is required. (6)
s—Jonah is secreted in the middle
of this game. (3-4)
B—Half8 —Half a dozen state a convenience
for crossing a border. (4)
10 — State building decked with a
ribbon essay thrown off. (6)
11 — Victorian town offers an obscure
expression of hostility to the
French. (8)
14—Batting with you about to
habituate. (5)
16 —A hot number gets a drink from
an African. (9)
18 — Dawn on the perch travelled on
the back of a duck in a cowboy
show. (5)
19 — The pen is hasty when mirthless.
(3)
20 — Pronoun associated with the
grimmer European from the
Asiatic viewpoint. (9)
24 —Brave mother takes a ruler to
cause this raucous outcry. (9)
27 — Favorite fit of the tantrums. (3)
28— Suspect and implication in iron
across the Channel. (5)
31 — Six-footers carrying a four-footer
with similar sounds. (9)
32 — Rose to nourish this occupant of
a ship. (5)
33 — Murphy often has one item for
a musician to play with a lens.
(3-5)
36— A medico backing our fervency.
(6)
37 — Cuckoo with an engine keeps cool
another way. (4)
38— Famished about a place suggest-
ing Cooper is a barbarian. (7)
39 — winding description of the light
at twilight and a pen like Oliver.
(6)
Down
1— The two of us burlesque apparel.
(6)
2 Cress upset an explorer before I
and you go over the manuscript.
(11)
3 Flattened film was all about her
Kelly. (6)
4 Acted one swallowed by a Doctor
of Divinity. (3)
5 Cuckoo of DCGCCLIII years
ago. (3)
6 A prod is to be blushing, but
talked fast. (8)
7 New one changes. (3)
9 —Flower in my supremacy. (7)
12— Metrical stress is cut badly. (5)
13— Celestial food greeting by a Red
Indian after a century. (4)
15—Rob. (3)
17 —Builder of canvas homes wallops
the “bumpers” though never
enjoyed by suspenseful people
(11)
21 — The age of Napoleon at the end
(3)
22 — Tree has a faculty far from
proud. (7)
23 Skiting Lohengrin’s transport
ruler. (8)
25 —Greek capital might be in this
style. (5)
26 — Thoroughfare named after an
American private essence. (4)
27 — Pepper presumably imparts such
vitality. (3)
29 — Remote squabble to produce the
little swine. (6)
30— Like a salver off the beam. (6)
34 — Emu heart reduced to a tenth
French crown. (3)
35 English fenland town where
Hereward defied William the Con-
queror. (3)
36 — Part of a play bill often comes
to this upon the passage. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 22S


II mi
P
till
•I
I! OS CQ3 t£D CP3 H H I
II
n
ii
i unnunnon nn i
t9Um
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS*.
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY.
Dr. W. J. McCRISTAL.
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins.
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Garrick, A.I.C.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street. Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O'Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.I.C.A.
' •
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers
Manager: D. W. Chaff ei
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry
Manager: W. Dwyer
The
CUY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878)
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1952 s
★
NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue of 9,872
Policies assuring £11,116,344.
★
ASSETS INCREASED BY £1.582,364 after providing £35,364
for Depreciation, and now total £23,478,342.
I Policies in Force exceed 122,000, assuring
over £73,000,000
q Premium Income amounted to £2,629,956
q Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1952,
totalled £921,520, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£14,750,000
q Special Additional Reserves amount to
£740,000
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
