

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
SOME STUDIOS IN SYDNEY
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3812
Wednesday, March 4, 1953
Price 9dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., AustraUa, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Where the Lamp of Know-
ledge Burns Bright, "Wales
University
Jeppelts
ABERYSTWYTH, situated at the centre of
the wide sweep of Cardigan Bay, is not
6nly a popular seaside resort, but it is the chief
commercial and intellectual centre of mid-
Wales, and therefore plays a leading role in
Welsh national life. The town had its origin
in 1277, when it grew up around the castle
founded by Edmund Crouchback, brother of
Edward I. This stronghold had a stormy
history, for ft was taken and retaken by
opposing forces in the thirteenth century, and
nothing now remains of it but a few fragments
During the years 1404 to 1408 it was one of
Owen Glendower’s chief strongholds; in 1646
it was handed over to the Parliamentary forces,
and subsequently blown up.
The founding of the University College of
Wales at Aberystwyth in 1872 was the result of
the growth of national consciousness and the
desire to preserve Welsh traditions and learning.
The first demand for a separate University came
from a group of exiles whose patriotic senti-
ment was heightened by absence from their
native land. These were the Welsh clergy in
Yorkshire, who sent a petition to Parliament
in 1852. There was little progress in the move-
ment, however, until 1863, when a group of
London Welshmen met under the chairmanship
of William Williams in the Freemasons’ Tavern
in London and set up a committee to collect
funds. Following questions in Parliament an
education commission was set up in 1864, and
four years later, owing to the bankruptcy of a
firm of railway constructors, who had spent
£80,000 on a large hotel at Aberystwyth, the
promoters of a Welsh University were able to
buy the building for £10,000; it was this acci-
dent which led to the founding of the first
University College at Aberystwyth.
The college opened in 1872 with twenty-five
students, and for ten years it had to rely mainly
on small voluntary subscriptions, and was thus,
in a real sense, supported by “pennies from the
poor.” Sir Hugh Owen was mainly responsible
for organising these subscriptions and arousing
interest in what was to become the senior
constituent college of the University of Wales.
In later years, with Government suppprt, three
other colleges, at Cardiff, Bangor and Swansea,
were established, and by a royal charter of 1893
all the Colleges were united, and the University
of Wales came into being under its first
Chancellor, Lord Aberdare.


tmi
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
cux HERE AND MAllT m,mmmmmm
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 153)...; Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.-, specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, alto in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/6.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set .of. 6), .
The Red Page
STORY OF THE PERTH
Eleven years after she sank, ammuni-
tion expended, the first complete story of
Perth’s fighting finish at the entrance tp
Sunda Strait has been published.
Like C. S. Forester in The Ship (which
told the story of another light-cruiser)
Ronald McKie in Proud Echo (Angus
and Robertson) has selected a group of
men, actual survivors from the Perth,
and, through their action-stations and
experiences, has presented a remarkably
complete picture of that epic night when
Perth and the American Houston were
set upon by a vengeful pack of Jap
cruisers and destroyers.
The account is technically faultless;
and, though occasionally falling into
somewhat exaggerated phrasing (“Perth’s
gunners were using the 6in. like pom-
poms”), brilliantly dramatised.
A sensitive journalist, McKie has in-
timately identified himself with the ex-
periences of the men he talked to. In a
passage like this, for instance,
They were swinging farther out now,
passing drowned men still in their life-
jackets, floating face-up and face-down and
on their sides, with knees drawn up as
though asleep, floating bundles that had
been breathing men, corpses with empty,
meaningless faces resting on the soft
pillow of the awful sea
it is difficult to believe that the author
was not himself in a splintered raft watch-
ing the grim procession.
Though obviously impressed by the
uncannily-efficient co-ordination of all
the complicated machinery which gulps
in ranges and bearings and fulfils its
ultimate purpose by sending shells out
6in. muzzles, McKie has been, as well,
acutely aware that battles are essentially
affairs not of machines, but of men. The
characterisation is developed skilfully and
inevitably by showing men in action—
the fear of stokers in their deep-down
Hades of flame-wreathed boiler-tubes
waiting for the next torpedo-hit; the
stoic devotion to a given duty of shell-
room crews, sweating almost to exhaus-
tion-point in their sightless compart-
ments, nourishing the hungry guns ; a
seaman, uncomplaining, clinging to a raft
with the bones of his shattered leg pro-
truding and slapped excruciatingly by
malignant waves ; a naked officer rally-
ing a group of exhausted survivors to
laughter by drifting up to them on a
plank and lifting a filthy topee, his sole
adornment, and calling, “Good morn-
ing, gentlemen”; and encompassing
the whole character of Captain Hec
Waller by reporting his famous last words
as the finishing torpedo struck: “Christ.
That’s torn it. Abandon ship.”
There are hundreds of such incidents,
all great stories, all lighting the character
of Perth’s gallant company with revealing
insight, and there is not a journalistic
cliche in the whole compact drama.
The book is told with the experienced
assistance of Frank Norton’s sketches —
in one of which, a helpful diagrammatic
drawing of the ship, one notes that an
oeiiikon on the quarterdeck is referred
to as a “pompom.”
MACNELL.
Bougainville Novel
By his first novel, Road in the Wilder-
ness (Australasian Book Society), Peter
Pinney will not add to the reputation he
achieved in Dust on My Shoes. He
emerged from his travel-book as a person
of interest, but in this formless novel
about aspects of the Bougainville cam-
paign he does not appear in person and
has provided no substitute. His soldiers
are dull: mentally, morally and actually.
We know that men in war-time are
brave (or cowardly) for as many reasons
as there are men. We know what havoc
tropical diseases of the body—and the
mind also—wrought on our troops in the
Pacific campaigns. To fashion a novel
out of such experiences and memories
requires more than reportage: it requires
protagonists of tragic proportions ; and
balance and compassion.
In his efforts to be “realistic” Mr.
Pinney describes in repeated detail the
physical symptoms of fever and dysentery
with which most readers are already quite
familiar. Again, although every human
being has certain natural bodily func-
tions to perform, he pays a great deal
of attention to such matters, as if they
were peculiar to soldiers. Novels about
bank clerks called Perkins rightly take
these details for granted. They should
be left for books whose aim is specifically
(and cheerfully) Rabelaisian.
The descriptions of uninteresting
behavior slow up the action, and accumu-
lation of minor horrors blunts the impact
of occasional passages of genuine
emotional and descriptive force. There
is a recurring situation of animosity be-
tween one Swy and a taciturn, cruel
and selfish soldier, The Mouse. This
could have been made very powerful,
but the situation is constantly dissipated
until the ultimate overt conflict between
these two is lost in the general flatness
of the concluding chapters. The action
of the book centres about a small group
of troopers carrying out guerrilla actions
against the Japanese, the main disputed
territory being a road on the west coast
between the highlands and the sea.
Some Recent Penguins
Tea With Mr. Rochester, by Frances
Towers, is a collection of short sketches
of everyday life told with great intuition
and expression and with an occasional
touch of humor. The writer gets an
imaginative slant into the meeting of a
young poetic girl with Shakspeare in a
meadow.
In a different category is A Pin to See
the Peepshow, by Tennyson Jesse. It is
the story of the gradual growth into
womanhood of a London girl of poor
family, told with psychological insight.
Julia Almond, an unusually imaginative
girl, is forced, because of her family’s
poverty, to lead a restricted life, and be-
cause of her romantic yearnings she
retires into a world of fantasy.
As a young woman she marries a man
much older than herself, whom she doesn’t
love, to escape from her drab home life;
and because of the unsatisfactoriness of
her married life she is led into a romantic
and passionate affair outside marriage
which ends in tragedy. This story is
possibly based on the famous Thompson
and Bywater murder case which occurred
in England after the First World War,
and the message apparently is that a
nation-wide prejudice against crimes of
passion can sway a jury into overstepping
the bounds of justice.
In South William Sansom supplies an-
other collection of exotic sketches of
people and places in France, Corsica and
Italy which have the elusive quality of
his The Passionate North.
New Zealand Earth
M. H. Holcroft, the author of several
novels, one of which was serialised in
The Bulletin, and well-known in New
Zealand as a philosopher of the native
earth, has written in Dance of the Seasons
(Whitcombe and Tombs) a brief auto-
biography of his youth, most of which
was spent on bleak dairyfarms in Otago
or sheep-stations in the foothills of the
Southern Alps, with excursions to Auck-
land and a climax in the tremendous
metropolis of Sydney (so it seemed to
most of us at twenty), where he worked
in a dockyard at Balmain and read Scott
and Gibbon in the mornings on the ferry.
The settings of rain, mist and snow are
(at a suitable distance) attractive and
some of the material, presented with a
sort of slow, deep wonder at the vagaries
of human character, is quite extraordi-
narily dramatic and, though burdened
with too much heavy philosophising, has
the effect of a set of excellent short
stories: how, in macabre and horrifying
circumstances, the new farmhand was
obliged to kill a horse with a sledge-
hammer and afterwards felt tempted to
murder the farmer who had forced him
to do it; how he drove a buggy galloping
through the night while an amorous farm-
hand at the rear, to the accompaniment
of ear-splitting screams, paid extremely
robust compliments to a servant-girl;
how on an equally urgent mission he
once galloped with a leaking keg of beer
from a township in the Thames valley
to haymakers who were thirsting for its
fast-ebbing contents ; and how in a storm
in Canterbury he attended the lambing
ewes through a day of storm:
He was in a paddock which sloped from
a low hillock to a line of gorse hedges.
Over the ridge the sleet came driving inter-
mittently, and with every new flurry of
snow or lacing of hail and rain the sky
became darker, so that the curtains of the
day appeared to be drawn around that one
patch of sodden earth. And here was
enacted the ancient drama of birth and
death, in a collective misery which only
Ashley could alleviate.
Some of the chunks of philosophy in
which, like dark jewels in rock, these
brilliant scenes are embedded are stimu-
lating: as when Mr. Holcroft feels a
divine power moving through inanimate
Nature and shaping the rhythms of the
mountains, or when he sees, coming from
men’s subconscious energy, “a pressure
and extension of mind that is like a
second atmosphere, flowing invisibly
along the coasts of the world.” But
other meditations (almost the whole of
chapter 5, for example) are essentially
commonplace and sententious, and the
general reader will penetrate with diffi-
culty to the core of genuine quality.
A Quick Run Through
To the group of Australian authors
who discover Australia in a new book
every year must be added A. C. C. Lock,
who is now out with a successor to
Tropics and Topics and People We Met,
namely Travels Across Australia (Robert-
son and Mullens). It is a rather terrifying
record of travels from the Gulf of Car-
pentaria to Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth
and Alice Springs, in which everything
that happened, every name met on the
way, every bird seen, everything said, is
put down without selection or emphasis.
Nowadays the more sophisticated writer
about a country so frequently discovered
as ours offers his readers studies of
districts or industries to which he has
devoted special research ; from Mr. Lock
all we get is the whirling kaleidoscope of
a hurried tour —indeed, much of the
southern journey was made by motor-bus
tour.
But for those, and there must be
many, who haven’t the time or money to
travel Australia extensively the book is,
in its way, an effective substitute. In
it they may visit Cooktown, which was
broken when Cairns got the railway;
Magnetic Island, Innisfail; have a quick
glance at Lake Macquarie ; run through
the Murray Y a^e Y an d learn something
of Mildura and the American Chaffeys
who pioneered irrigation there ; drink in
the Workmen’s Club in Mildura and the
Vine Inn, the community-hotel in
Nuriootpa (S.A.) ; barge through the
Barossa Valley; fly to Perth ; return
through Kalgoorlie ; and meet the Namat-
jiras in Alice Springs.
China Tea
The poems in Ernest Briggs’s The
Timeless Flowers (“Courier-Mail,” Bris-
bane) are a distillation of Chinese poetry
with, here and there, an infusion from
the writer’s previous exemplar, W. B.
Yeats:
Night brings me pause to muse upon
Her tranquil beauty. She is ever kind,
And when I think of her my thought’s a swan
Upon the twilight reaches of the mind.
Since the technique of Yeats makes
for precision of language and Chinese
poetry for simplicity of thought the two
influences form an unexpectedly har-
monious combination ; and the result is
that Briggs’s attempt to render Chinese
verse, usually best left alone in a prose
translation, into English rhyme and metre
are unusually successful. There is the
true spirit of Chinese poetry, a tiny and
compact statement with all the emotion
in the overtones, with a versification that
never mars the original simplicity by
over-elaboration:
There where the long road bends towards Ying-
tsin Fu
Lives Li Liu Huang the venerated sage.
No greater lout in drunken stupor lay
Than he when young. But now that he has
come to age
He chants the holy words of Hung Fu-tzu,
And all who pass bow low upon their way.
It is necessarily a slight book, and
derivative ; but it is skilfully written, and
those who like to sip at China tea will
find this dish very cool, pleasant and —
whether in imitations or reconstructed
translations—authentic.
Reviewed Briefly
Vale of Gloucester: A “commemora-
tive” book of ‘ Gloucester, N. S. Wales,
produced by Oswald Ziegler Publications
for the Shire of Gloucester; letterpress
by Eve Keane, photography by Max
Dupain, design by Gert Sellheim, printing
by W. E. Smith, Ltd. —and, after all that,
an amazingly fine production. One of
the triumphs of craftsmanship is the re-
production of early photographs of old
houses and buggies, fossickers’ shacks
and the like, which usually have the
horrid white stare of ghosts, in smooth
and attractive tones which harmonise
perfectly with the lovely contemporary
photographs of forest, grazing-lands and
perch-fishing in the Barrington. Eve
Keane’s letterpress pleasantly relates the
history, occupations and scenic attractions
of the, district in the style usually re-
quired for such publications—the town
is 182 miles north of Sydney, with a
population of 2000—but now that pro-
duction of these souvenir-books has
reached such a high standard it would
be worth trying to raise the literary
quality to match: reduce the historical
and guide-book details to brief tables and
print for the bulk of the text some essay,
short-story or poem that expresses the
spirit of the district more imaginatively.
* * * *
Paul Klee : An art-book with 164 re-
productions, 13 in color, and a critical and
biographical essay by Carola Giedion-
Welcker (Faber). Dr. Giedion-Welcker
writes, “Klee knows how to animate a
line and make it suggest motion. He has
it describe curves and angles, arches and
inclines, ascents arid descents in wiry
convolutions, so that the spectator feels
guided through a space-time experience
by rhythmic motion and free dynamic
play” ; which is very beautiful but which,
after all, could also be said about an
umbrella. Klee had a decadent little
mouse of a talent, here surrounded by
mountains of words,
* * * *
Craters of Fire: H. Tazieff (Hamish
Hamilton). The author is a geologist who
observed at firsthand various volcanic
eruptions in the Belgian Congo ; to his
dramatic account of these he adds notes
on other volcanic areas, including New
Guinea and New Zealand. A very
pleasant and companionable book on this
hot subject, enlivened with negro porters,
elephants, and fishermen who collect half-
boiled fish from the surface as molten
lava pours into a lake. It has something
of the quality of Casteret’s Ten Years
Under the Earth.
* * * *
The Sky: E. Agar Beet (Bell).
Astronomy for the layman ; necessarily
a little diagrammatical and mathematical
but still readable ; with notes on how to
recognise stars in the night-sky, infor-
mation on what sunspots are (or aren’t)
and how many stars there may be in the
Milky Way, and a historical and con-
temporary survey of astronomical theory.
The author is senior science-master at
Pangbourae Nautical College.
* * * *
Thomas Becket of Canterbury:
Alfred Duggan (Faber). The author is
a historical-novelist, and in this attempt at
“straight” history shows some uncertainty
of method ; using an excessively simple
style, failing to quote enough of the actual
speeches made when the Archbishop was
on trial before Henry 11, and rendering
medieval Latin and English into an un-
easy modern colloquialism, as when he
assumes that what the Evil Deacon said
after the murder was, “Come on, boys,
let’s go. That chap won’t get up again.”
However, for its clear presentation and
interpretation of the facts, the book makes
interesting reading, either for its own
sake or as a background to T. S. Eliot’s
great verse-play on the subject.
* * * *
Perilous Passage: - Arthur Mayse
(Shakespeare Head). There is never a
dull moment in this novel of adventure,
the action of which takes place on the
dangerous coast, land and water, hear
the U.S.-Canadian border. There is, too,
a charming romance between two young-
sters who, if a little unreal, are undeniably
appealing. The story opens with the
redoubtable girl, Dewy, rescuing the boy,
Clint, from a fishing-boat in which he
is drifting unconscious towards a reef.
Clint, whether from shock or injury, is
unable to remember certain violent
events. As his memory returns he be-
comes an increasing menace to the plans
of the villains; so that, along with his
recovery and love-affair, the yarn gains
pace and excitement. The book is saved
from being pure melodrama by skilful
use of natural forces and convincing, if
larger-than-life, characterisation.


KM
m
-m
m-
%
m-
s
Mi
w
L
> ■■■:■■ :•; ••
W*"
m.
m
m
mm
■*m
zsS
a*w“
i®*¥s
wm
*>ri
m
s*o
fim
Specially designed lor
Anthony Horderns 9 by Gladys Grieve
Three beautiful chenille bedspreads
' rwnille ffives texture to your bedroom
Chenille gives texture to your bedroom ... a soil covering to your bed. And
. r rbenille Spread we’ve illustrated above (design ooo;
yet it’s simple as cotton to wasb. For instance, t e ant . o' 6" and 3' sizes
7 1 with its rich, deep pile, intriguing design. 2 6 and A sizes,
. o» c*' a} 1 /l 3 /fi. Return Sham £2/10/- extra.
Attractively patterned in wonderful colours!
Left-. Design No. AH1. This bedspread has an attractive candle'
wick pile embossed pattern on a baby chenille background.
3ft. size, £9/19/3. Double Bed size, priced at £10/1/6.
Matching 6ft. 6in. ‘drop chenille curtains, priced at £9/13/-
*%*«mwM**** w a
'
■IIPWWMP^:
v-sVr
v^VWtiptoe
Heavyweight eandlewicU Chenille Bedspread
Below. Design No. 857. In a really outstanding design on a fu
heavyweight
in any room. 3tt. size, priced at siu/iw 7.
priced at £lO/19/6. Matching 6ft. 6m. curtains, £lll/
I|||
1
XX/x
1
I
t
:
-
11
11
MS
YES, ’PIIONE* MAIL
ORDERS.
USE OUR DJP.S.
(LAY-BY)
4 Wfr .i
mmmm d
11
m
I
HP
Another exclusive “Gladys ” Design
Above: Design No. AH2. In baby chenille with a dainty embossed
pattern, this tailored spread by “Gladys Grieve is priced at
3ft. size, £B/15/-. Double Bed size, £9/2/-. 6ft. 6in. curtains
to match, £B/10/- pair.
A truth in advertising
.nthony Hordern;
sd
BEDSPREADS THIRD
FLOOR TELEPHONE M 2401 BOX 27
1 2C, G. P. 0., SYDNEY


Best to Avoid These
Surfing Stingers
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
OF those sea-creatures that sting
and bite and otherwise molesit
surfers, the more venomous
varieties like the warmer waters —
off the North Queensland coast 'and
beyond. But even southern beaches have
their perils, as persons stung by blue-
bottles can affirm.
The writer, for one, having talked to
some pleasantly helpful authorities at the
Australian Museum, Sydney, and having
read some quietly bloodcurdling scientific
literature on the snhiprt will npupr
~ T ’ WIU UQ ? i
trample the shallows in the same mood of
virile optimism again.
Tolro ui i*
1 axe, ror instance, the bluebottle, or
Portuguese man-o’-war. There are some
common ohrmt
common misconceptions about this
stinger, mainly due to the two popular
names. Many people think they are two
distinct species, a notion fostered by the
degree of severity of the sting as experi-
enced by individual victims and at
different seasons,
pa,,, c ,
( lutnculus is the formal name,
cover t Sf
enng miles of sea may be seen in
warm climates. Prevailing winds blow
S-T" ?® hore » here they harass bathers.
v jduals” T* T**"
hr J S but ’ t 0 quote Australian Sea-
e ’
The best we can sa X is that a consider-
able number of individuals that all come
from the one fertilised egg are specially
modified for different functions and pur-
poses, and that these differently modified
individuals or zooids are arranged in such
an ordered manner (with parts of their
anatomy and physiology in common) that
together they actually look and function
like one anim ai.
Attacks on surfers by “sea-lice” earlier
in the year were probably jellyfish-larvae
stingings. The Museum people point
out that at the time there were
tremendous concentrations of blubber of
a stinging type in the warm currents a
mile or so off-shore from Sydney. Eye-
witnesses described them as breaking up
into “a kind of slimy soup.” This may
have been part of the breeding process
or due to mechanical breaking-up by
waves and rough weather. The tissue
contains the same nettle-like stinging-
tissue as the bluebottle.
Fishermen have found that even dried
jellyfish tissue on their nets can cause
severe itching, sore eyes and asthmatic
conditions.
The Museum has an interesting exhibit
on this subject, and first-aid suggestions.
“The pain can be relieved by dabbing a
solution of sal volatile, ammonia, or by
applying the ointment ung. vila. A warm
shower will also remove the stinging tissue
from the skin. The effects of the sting,
a rule, soon wear off and are not as
serious as those of the bluebottle.”
In next month’s issue of the “Aus-
tralian Museum Magazine” Elizabeth C.
Pope goes into 'the matter in scientific
detail In the August, 1947, issue (an
excellent one, by the way, a mine of
odd information, costing one shilling)
Miss Pope describes the bluebottle-sting
as severe, causing local pain, profuse
sweating and breathing disturbances, and
mentions an account in an American
scientific journal of treatment of severe
stings by calcium gluconate, given intra-
venously. She goes on to say that the
only deaths in N.S.W. attributed directly
to bluebottle-stings have been in young
children or adults with weak hearts. I
believe this statement has been challenged
in a general way by some physicians in
scientific publications, the gist of the dis-
agreement being that there were no
precise data available.
Be that as it may, the bluebottle
Portuguese man-o’-war or Physalia utri
cuius is stiff a formidable customer. Its
distinguishing mark is the “float,” be
neath which dangle sinister tentacles
The bladder, or float, contains the gases
of the air, nitrogen and oxygen, anc
varies from about four to five inches in
length. The ends are often sea-green in
color and the crest may be tinted pink,
rose or purple.
But the wriggling, dangling tentacles
—really specialised individuals —are the
business-end of the colony. They may
reach a length of forty feet. Mixed with
the active, preying tentacles are feeding
zooids, each a small tube with a sucker-
like mouth. When a small fish bumps
against one of the tentacles it is stung
by the “nettle” cells and held fast. Then
the tentacles contract and the fish is
hauled up, and the feeding-apparatus
attaches itself, followed by another, and
another. A sort of external digestion.
The large brownish blubber often seen
in harbors and river-mouths is called
Catostylus mosaicus or—to increase the
confusion—also man-o’-war. It, too, at
certain times of the year can give a severe
sting.
There are many types of jellyfish, some
as yet unclassified, and there seems to be
good grounds for the belief that some
of these unclassified specimens, particu-
larly in northern waters, are dangerous.
Just how dangerous a jellyfish can be
is seen clearly enough in the case of the
“wasp of the sea,” belonging to the group
Cubomedusce. This creature’s sting is
a neuro-toxin, and can kill in two
minutes. It is believed that actual deaths
are more numerous than the cases re-
ported, because, obviously, a person
fatally stung would in many instances
be presumed drowned. Most of the cases
reported have been in northern waters.
This jellyfish can be identified by the box-
shaped floating bell, with tentacles hang-
ing from the corners.
Some sea-worms, notably the salmon-
pink Eurythoe complanata, and the large
reef-worm ( Eunice aphroditois), are both
capable of causing a deal of distress.
The needle-spined urchin ( Centrechinus
setosus), usually found around the Barrier
Reef, but also seen in North Coast
(N.S.W.) waters, has long, sharp spikes
which break off in human skin, causing
local infection.
Coneshells, too, can be dangerous
objects if handled incautiously. Joyce
Allan, F.R.Z.S., in an article in the
“Medical Journal of Australia” (Oct.,
1935), mentions five species of cones re-
sponsible for bites in South Pacific areas;
she also describes in some detail the
method of attack, and the symptoms of
poisoning.
At the Museum Miss Allan showed me
some large, beautifully-marked cone-
shells with gaping'lips,, from which the
animal shoots out its proboscis and in-
jects poison into, for instance, a human
hand. This poison acts something like
the drug curare. At least one death has
occurred on the Barrier Reef.
A C.5.1.R.0. bulletin prepared by G. P.
Whitley, F.R.Z.S. (Bulletin No. 159),
lists and describes “Poisonous and Harm-
ful Fishes.” Mr. Whitley, ichthyologist
on the Museum staff, told me that the
bulletin was prepared mainly because of
the danger to Australian and American
troops in tropical and sub-tropical areas
coming upon fishes unknown to them,
some actively poisonous when eaten,
others, such as the stonefish, capable of
inflicting a poison through the spine.
The stonefish is scaleless, with a warty
type of skin. Its color varies, but it is
generally grey, brown or green, mottled,
and like eroded coral in appearance. It
is a sedentaiy liver, with its mouth on
the top of its head. Along its back is a
row of thirteen strong spines, with poison-
glands hidden under the skin, one to each
dorsal spine. The mechanism of attack
is very like that of a snake, the poison
running from the glands along deep
grooves to the tip of the spines, the
glands so placed that the venom is
squeezed out at the slightest pressure.
The spines can penetrate a rubber boot.
The venom is a neuro-toxin, and death
can follow injection. In some cases ill-
ness has persisted for two to three months.
The stonefish is a tropical-water dweller,
and, since it likes turbid water near shore,
coastal fishermen are its most common
victims. Recently, at Bundaberg (Q.), a
trilene injection was reported to give quick
relief, but, on the whole, it is the most
dreaded of the venomous fish in Aus-
tralian coastal waters.
The fortesque iCentrap agon australis )
and the bullrout (Notesthes robusta ) are
two closely-related ugly customers. The
fortesque has sixteen dorsal spines, the
bullrout fifteen. They and other scorpte-
noid fish, such as the red rock-cod, the
South Australian cobbler and the Western
Australian sulkies, all have venomous
spines.
The cobbler of parts of Western Aus-
tralia is a catfish. There are a number
of different types of catfishes in Aus-
tralian waters, mostly round muddy
estuaries. Stingrays, of course, be-
STORY
“The Dwarf Ulysses”
by Olaf Ruhen
The steamy darkness of the New
Guinea jungle; and a ray of light on
the native mind, equally dark, savage
and mysterious.
In next week’s “Bulletin”
cause of the saw-like attachment at the
butt-end of their tails, can cause a deal
of damage. There has been at least
one case in which proprietors of baths
have been sued for not providing protec-
tion against such “monsters of the deep.”
There remain a number of sea-creatures,
classified and unclassified, all more or less
harmful. And, of course, sharks. While
I was talking to Mr. Whitley I took the
opportunity to ask why sharks don’t
attack people in New Zealand waters.
It’s a matter of temperature, apparently.
Whaler- and tiger-sharks have been seen
in New Zealand waters, but, mostly, the
dangerous types of sharks (whaler, grey-
nurse, tiger, hammerhead) prefer warmer
water and, moreover, appear to be less
dangerous —more sluggish, possibly—in
lower temperatures. For instance, few
deaths occur from shark attacks in the
Mediterranean.
But one doesn’t need a shark attack
to feel a fillip of danger shooting a
breaker anywhere along our variegated
coastline. One can always bump into
a sea-wasp, or, for that matter, a Blonde
in a Bikini.
Horticultural Horrors
J HE ordinary backyard gar-
f dener has to contend with
multifarious pests, the chief
of which are cutworms, the
wife’s urging him to shift the mock-
orange to another situation because
it’s been in there a week and hasn’t
grown an inch, slugs, the next-door
Hids looking for the cricket-ball,
omon-weed, the bloke on the other
side who explains how to tell the
difference between a pumpkin-beetle
and a ladybird, the bloke at the back
who, fulfilling a promise to give you
some shasta-daisies when he is
splitting them up, heaves a huge
matted mass of them over the fence
fair on to your cauliflower seedlings,
the wife’s brother who tells you
you’re wasting your time hilling-up
the spuds, the wife’s old man who
tells you you haven’t hilled ’em up
high enough . . ,
But these are friends comparec
with the Man Who Grows Priz
Blooms.
Women, particularly, regard thi
paragon (every suburb has one) a
the eighth wonder of the work.
He is continually being held up t
the common-or-garden gardener a
an exemplar. They go into rapture
about the gigantic dahlias he grows
his enormous-petalled, long-stemmec
sweet-peas, etc.
Let us examine these feats of his.
He starts off with, say, a dahlia
bulb, even as you and I. Instead o
intending to stake it up sometime o
other, as we do, he actually does so
meticulously tying the plant to th
stake every six inches or so. He
gives it such heavy and regular meals
of blood-and-bone you can damn
near hear the wretched plant burping
with indigestion. He waters it sc
much it is in constant danger o :
developing webbed roots. And he
berefts it of every bud but one.
What is the result? The bloated
plant develops a trunk as thick as a
gum sapling, and he has to fell the
bloom with a pruning-saw.
All that such a monstrosity is fit
for is shoving in a show among a lot:
of other dahlias of equally repulsive
size. He can’t put it in an ordinary
vase on the mantelpiece at home, for
the bloom is so top-heavy it would
pull the vase over.
If he picks two of them, thus com-
pletely denuding two plants, and
wants to put them on the dining-
room table he has to use a bucket;
and then the people on the other
side of the table completely disap-
pear from view. If he picks three
or more he is compelled to keep
them alive in the copper, the tubs or
the washing-machine.
This addiction to growing colossal
chrysanthemums, leviathan lupins.
Gargantuan gallardias and other
Brobdingnagian blooms breeds in
their breeders an inevitable snooti-
ness. The fellow who achieves
dahlias as big as a dinner-plate re-
gards with superciliousness his less-
fortunate fellow pot-hunter who is
able to grow them no bigger than a
dessert-plate. Both of them ben
looks of sneering pity on the poo
cow who can’t do better than rais
a dahlia as Big as a soup-plate.
As a lifetime sufferer from thes
pests, who have been constantly he]
up before me as superior being
whom I should emulate, I have bee
driven at last to found a much-needec
institution; the Lilliputian Hort
cultural Society.
Its aims are quite simple. The
are to encourage the growth o
measly, insignificant flowers and t
give the backyard gardener a chanc
to show how really badly he can do
There will, for instance, be prize
awarded for the rose whose stem
carries the greatest number o::
aphides; for the coleus whose leave
are riddled with the greatest numbe
of grub-holes; for the densest con
centration of chicken-weed anc
couch-grass in a clump of bilbergias
for the white chrysanthemum which
has the most rust to the square inch
or portion of a square inch; the
sweet-peas with the most rachitic
stems and consumptive-looking
blooms.
There will also be trophies for the
worst-laid-out gardens—a refreshing
change. The adulation of the
rigidly tidy, mathematically exact
and boring garden will have no
place in our society.
With what pleasure shall I, as
president, award the blue ribbon of
this section to the gardener, honest,
enthusiastic but for ever muddling,
who in his front-fence bed has
patch of sweet potatoes in mortal
combat with phlox and water-cress,
has potatoes coming up through his
front lawn, and in whose star-shaped
bed (with eight points) struggle a
jumble of kohl-rabi, roses, choko,
petunias, bush-marrows and a
flowering peach.
There will be a section devoted
exclusively to the outsize, but this
will be confined to weeds. Fortun-
ately the rules of the society do not
debar office-holders from becoming
exhibitors. For our forthcoming
show I am entering a dock fully
eight feet high and carrying an enor-
mous head of seed, which is now
growing vigorously among my
marble-sized, spotted tomatoes, and
a water-shoot growing from a
Better Times rose which is already
longer than the average bougain-
villea-cane.
Entry-forms are now available.
At last the gardener whose shasta-
daisies are never bigger than a trey-
bit or whose chrysanthemum blooms
would be lost inside an egg-cup may
experience the thrill and pride of
exhibition-winning!
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 4, 1953
Vol 74—No. 3812
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors;
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
•Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
TAXATION AND POLITICS
Mr. Menzies refused to be rattled by pressure and
prophecies of the Press and the Opposition, not to
mention the State Premiers, when he made his radio
address on taxation on February 25.
The pith of what Mr. Menzies had to say was
that ability to cut taxation depends on ability either to
increase production—the only real national income—
thus creating resources which would allow a reduction
of taxation rates, or cut the cost of defence, social-
services and State grants, mere reduction in depart-
mental charges having little effect on overall finances,
since they represent only 5 per cent, of gross Govern-
ment expenditure from revenue.
Any attempt to reduce the cost of social services
would, of course, be bitterly opposed by the Opposi-
tion and used to help defeat the Government. Indeed,
Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell, who disagree about most
things, are confident that social-service expenditure
can, and must, be increased —by taking the money to
pay for it out of the pockets of those who are to
receive it back as “benefits.” Any move to reduce
State grants on a useful scale would be met in the
spirit in which a tiger reacts when somebody takes
away its bone. And, so far from being able to
constrict defence expenditure, the plain fact seems to
be that with complete re-equipment of the services
ahead and the National Service scheme reaching its
full flower the present annual £2OO-million outlay may
grow considerably.
There is no drawing out of our defence respon-
sibilities. Any hope that relief might be obtained by
the good offices of U.N.O. has faded, and U.N.O. itself
has become a Western defence organisation with the
enemy right inside it. The recent statements of
Chinese leaders make the position abundantly clear.
They admit frankly that they are at war with the
United States and its allies in Korea. They admit
that their armies are being armed and trained by
grace of the Russians. They make no bones about the
fact that Russia has reorganised their transport and
that Russian troops are in force at Dairen, the old
Port Arthur, where, under the post-war agreements,
they have no right to be, that port being, under the
arrangements, an open port to the Western Allies.
What is happening in Russia and in Eastern
Europe has sounded a new alarm in Western Europe,
and everything is being subordinated among the
Nato countries to preparation for a possible conflict.
War is always threatening unless there is a Russian
collapse or Stalin succeeds in securing his ends by
other means, which he went a long way towards doing
during the Socialist honeymoon of the Attlees and the
Chifley-Evatts, under whose benign rule the Com-
munists found their feet or gained their immediate
objective of Empire disruption in the United Kingdom
and Australia—in fact, in every part of the British
Commonwealth except Canada. The years of
Socialist glory were also the years of Communist
victory, for it was, and still is, impossible for Socialist
Governments to pursue their objectives without also
pursuing the immediate objectives of Communism.
When “Labor” adopted the socialisation objective
in 1921, Moscow sent its official congratulations:
The decision of your national congress shows that
you have taken the right path we are sending
you our heartfelt greetings from far Moscow, the new
centre of revolutionary will of millions of oppressed
workers, and urge you to come out in joint action
in the attack against the stronghold of Capitalism.
Though “Labor” professes at the present stage to abhor
Communism, its line of action is just as much “joint ’
with Moscow’s as if both parties had a signed and
sealed agreement. “Labor” is just as much playing the
Communist game in fostering the selfish desire for
shorter hours, for more leisure and for tax-reduction
through credit-inflation as if it were in tight alliance
with the Sharkeys and the Vishinskys, who equally
hope to gain power by pandering to laziness and greed.
“Labor’s” game is calculated to have the same effect
on Australian morale as that of the Communist party,
which differs only in that its objectives are the deliberate
weakening of the country’s security and public dis-
cipline, while “Labor’s” only objective is Socialism,
the first stage of Communism for which the Moscow
fifth-column in every country works as a first and
vital aim. With both parties the weakening of the
public economy is a step towards Socialism; hence
their financial policies.
It is quite obvious that with enemies within and
without there can be no letting-up in defence prepara-
tion. There can be no cut in the State expenses which
are drawn from Commonwealth sources because the
States will not participate in any economising measures,
flbere can be no cut in social-service expenditure
heqause of political reasons. There remains only the
DOWN. BUT BY NO MEANS DEAD
“At a caucus meeting Dr. Evatt rebuked Mr. Ward and said that bank nationalisation was a ‘dead horse.’”
measure to which the Canadian Minister for Finance
attributed the Dominion’s ability to make recent reduc-
tions —an expansion of real production produced by
the “plain hard work” of the Australian people and
resulting in a greater volume of wealth and output for
export, a reduction in governmental as well as indus-
trial and commercial running-costs and the defeat of
inflation.
There is all too much of the “gimme” spirit in
Australia, which is becoming a “gold-digger” nation
in the newer meaning of the term. It is a nice way of
living to be able to ask your politicians for what you
want, and get it without regard to any of the natural
laws of economics. But it is also a way of living which
has sent many a platinum blonde back to the
scrubbing-brush when her sugar-daddy’s resources have
failed to bear the strain and he has found himself up
before Mr. Justice Clyne explaining that wool is down,
his bookie won’t trust him any more and he has
failed to save because diamonds have been an absolute
necessity to his associates in the years of his prosperity.
Even though the Prime Minister’s statement sounds
a bit bleak and uninspiring beside the lavish Golden
Age promisings of Messrs. Calwell, Evatt and Cahill,
the time must come when the country will thank him
for the stand he has taken.
Jets Over the Pacific
This week, in Sydney, Canadian Pacific Airlines plans to
take delivery of a Mark Ia Comet jet-airliner, the first
of its kind to leave the De Havilland workshops and the
first of several Comets ordered by the company. It is
to make its initial commercial flight on April 28, on the
Sydney-Honolulu leg of C.PA.L.’s Australia-Canada
service, and from that date the service will be bi-
weekly. Scheduled flying-time for the Sydney-
Honolulu trip is 13i hours, scheduled flying-time for
the Honolulu- V ancouver service (by DC-6b’s) is 10
hours. Later the entire run will be taken over by
Comet IPs. . , . , •
The beautiful mercantile projectile, which is com-
ing from England via the Middle East, will probably
be on view at Mascot and elsewhere, suitably protected
from the admiring fury of crowds. Hosts of Aus-
tralians who are deeply interested in such things will
pore over the technical information which will be
released concerning design, specifications, the
marvellous simplicity of the Ghost engines and the
intriguing detail of water-injection—a technique used
during -the war for Spitfires which, in its later develop-
ment, increases take-off power by 10 per cent.; a
method which, in principle, can be compared to the
explosive reaction of tipping a dipper of water on a
red-hot stove. Optimum cruising altitude of the Comet
is at from 30,000 ft. to 40,000 ft., at speeds of 450 to
500 miles an hour.
This special and general interest is natural. For,
apart from the minority of people who will actually
travel in one, the arrival of the first Comet has a
certain significance. It is a landmark. One needs to
look back a little at our history to appreciate how
close to us the landmarks of traffic by land and air
really are.
The first railway in Australia was opened in 1855.
In the ’nineties an Australian, Lawrence Hargraves, of
Sydney, discovered the principle of “lift” which was
the genesis of modem aviation. In 1903 the Wright
brothers made the first flight in a power-driven
machine. The first successful flight in Australia came
six years later. In 1910 a Mr. J. R. Duigan, of Mia
Mia (Victoria), designed and built a machine, mainly
from Australian material. Then World War I, of
course, gave a terrific impetus to aviation, and training-
schools for airmen were started at Point Cook (Vic.)
and Richmond (N.S.W.). But the full effect of this, in
the civil sense, was not felt until the pilots of the
Flying Corps and Royal Air Force came home, and
some of them started small airlines.
Ross Smith landed in Darwin on December 10,
1919, less than 30 days out from England. On
January 29, 1953, Flight-Lieutenant J. A. Brown made
the same trip in an RA.A.F. Canberra jet-bomber in
22 hours 1 minute 58 seconds. Kingsford Smith and
Ulm had flown the Pacific in 1928.
Since World War II there has been a gigantic
development of commercial aviation. Domestically,
quite apart from the inter-State services by the two
major airlines, A.N.A. and T.A.A., air-travel has
changed the face of Australia. One has only to live
in a country district where a regular service is main-
tained by one of the smaller companies (such as
Butler’s) to realise how dramatic the change has been
in the habits and economics of country people.
For good or ill it is a small world; and, with the
advent of the jet, it is growing rapidly smaller. A
good many people who read in the morning papers
of the R.A.A.F. jet-bomber’s arrival in Darwin must
have pondered the possibility of one fine morning
awakening to the arrival of not one but an armada of
jets from the north —and not R.A.A.F. ones.
But in the midst of such uncomfortable thoughts
it is stimulating to know that in this particular field —
the construction of jet airliners—Britain leads the
world. The building of such machines is a complicated
business, with prototypes planned for years ahead, and
a corresponding time-lag between the production of
prototype and the plane which is sold to the customer.
Research and experimental costs must be high. A
just analogy, in fact, is the production of military
engines and weapons of all types, with the marked
difference that military research is always cramped for
lack of money, while the work of such concerns as De
Havilland directly earns money.
A number of airlines throughout the world have
ordered Comets over different periods. 8.0.A.C., for
instance, have had a London-to-Johannesburg Comet
service since May last year. 8.0.A.C. also have jets on
the London-Pakistan, India-Ceylon and London-
Singapore routes. The company intends to open a
Japanese service. Two French airlines will soon be
using jet and turbo-jet aircraft. Other lines, Canadian,
Japanese and American, have placed orders for the
British planes.
B.C.P.A. has ordered three Comet IPs for delivery
before the end of 1954, and these will be used on the
Sydney-San Francisco route. Comet Ill’s have been
ordered by Pan-American World Airways for delivery
in 1956.
Britain, then, has a clear lead in this field. The
company which is bringing the first Comet to Aus-
tralia has been in the commercial flying business only
since 1942. Hie parent company, however, Canadian
Pacific Railways, v has had an association of some 40
years with Australia, chiefly in shipping.
Canadian Pacific Airliries amalgamated 10 inde-
pendent “bush” lines, and now operates 9525 miles
of domestic lines and 15,295 miles across the Pacific
from Vancouver to Australia, New Zealand and the
Orient. A reverse side, as it were, to the shrinking
world phenomenon is the increasing interest shown
by ordinary people in Canada, New Zealand, Australia,
South Africa and Great Britain in their fellows.
Geography has been dwarfed, and the sense of kinship,
not in any remote academic sense but in the kind of
spontaneous feeling that springs from meeting a
pleasant, well-informed Canadian as a guest in a
Sydney home, is strengthened. Place-names like Moose
Jaw and Saskatchewan are becoming as familiar as
Oodnadatta and Broken Hill. And this cannot lead
to anything but good.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Two More Elections
If judgment and voting in the State
elections to be held next Saturday in
Queensland and South Australia
depended entirely on local issues there
would be little doubt of the result;
Queensland “Labor” would be relegated
to the Opposition benches for only the
second time in 38 years, while in Adelaide
Playford’s Liberals would be all set for
another term. But the campaigns are
not being fought on simple issues that
can be thrashed out in the State Parlia-
ments ; conscious of the success of the
“Blame Menzies” tactics in New South
Wales and Westralia, “Labor” has been
plugging it again with increased en-
thusiasm.
On paper, Gair is in a much more com-
fortable position than Cahill was three
weeks ago; he has a majority of 13
compared with the N. S. Wales Premier’s
two or three, and he has the knowledge
that three years ago he was able to win
easily, although his Liberal and Country-
party opponents scored more votes than
“Labor” did. The Evatt-Calwell bat-
talions have been supporting Gair in a
full-toned, if at times chorus,
in which the weight of ♦woe, though heavy
indeed, has not quite succeeded in bow-
ing down the exultant note of expectant
victory. Still, Queensland voters are
noted for keeping their State and Federal
politics in different pockets, and Opposi-
tion-leaders Nicklin and Hiley have been
concentrating on State issues and hoping
that the backwash of Menzies-Fadden
“unpopularity” may bypass Queensland.
This is a hope that Premier Playford
shares with his Queensland colleagues ;
the Federal “Labor” locusts have been
swarming across South Australia, but
Government members have diplomatically
kept away, leaving Playford to fight the
campaign “on his record,” which even
his opponents are forced to admit is im-
pressive. The Liberal-Country-League
Government in Adelaide holds 23 seats,
against “Labor’s” 12, and there are four
Independents, of whom at least three are
more Liberal than “Labor.” At a by-
election last year “Labor” claimed an
8 p.c. swing. This would be sufficient
to gain only three seats (Victoria, Nor-
wood and Torrens); 9 p.c. would capture
Prospect and 13 p.c. Unley. At that
stage “Labor” would still be the smaller
party, and it would require a further 4 p.c.
to win Onkaparinga and a little more to
bring in Burra.
Barring an avalanche of those
proportions, the Playford Government
seems likely to stay, which is just
as well for Liberalism elsewhere in Aus-
tralia. “Labor” wins in South Australia
and Queensland, followed up by a
Federal victory, would mean that the
party was in control of every Parliament
in the Commonwealth. That would be
the “all-clear” signal for a Socialist Aus-
tralia.
To Speak with One Voice
The lack of developments in the Korean
war, and the absence of originality in the
proceedings of U.N.O. last week when
dealing with the subject, make plainer
the need for a concerted British Com-
monwealth policy on Asia.
It is obviously difficult to secure agree-
ment between India and Pakistan and the
rest of the Commonwealth nations with
the outside sections; but it should be
possible to secure joint expression of
policy by the United Kingdom, its
colonies, Australia, Canada and New
Zealand. Indeed, they are all prob-
ably agreed on crucial points. Mr.
Menzies calls the suggestion that
the Pacific Pact might divide the
Commonwealth “today’s silly story,”
but the West would be greatly strength-
ened in dealing with Communism if there
were a common expression of view on
treatment of Red China and its trade
and on Korean objectives, not to mention
a common attitude towards lapan.
The tendency of Australia seems to be
to follow the United States slavishly in
public though not always so closely in
private. In U.N.O. when the American
representative barks, Percy Spender barks
after him, sometimes out of accord with
other parts of Greater Britain. If it is
possible to agree publicly on common
defence and a common economic overall
policy it should also be possible for there
to be public agreement on overall foreign
policy, especially when war is all the time
sitting on the sidelines.
The point is rapidly being reached at
which three situations forming round the
non-Communist Asian zone, which look
like the beginnings of a measure of en-
circlement and division of British Com-
monwealth interests and communications
cannot be allowed to continue.
Already Britain has been driven to
facing the question of the fate of Suez
having been forced out of the Persiar
oil zone, humiliated in Palestine anc
menaced in Africa by foreign-basec
native risings and agitations.
Indo-China and Malaya form a piece
on the board which the enemy canno
move an inch further towards his goa
without producing a wider conflagration
In Korea the same situation is rather
in reverse. The Chinese could move anc
even push us out of Korea without neces
sarily starting a world war. But how
far the Allies can go without starting
world war in advance to the Yalu, in
attack on Chinese bases, even on destruc
tion of the enemy’s main forces, not to
mention in the repudiation of arrange
ments made and distorted to suit Russia’s
purposes in regard to Dairen and the
Kurile Islands, nobody can know.
It seems a matter on which it shoulc
be possible to have complete unity in
the utterance of British Commonwealth
policy, which at present lacks both clarity
and cohesion.
"Some People" Don't Agree
Calwell doesn’t seem to be able to
make up his mind wjhetber Menzies
Fadden or Evatt is the real enemy. Every
now and then he pauses a moment in
his general verbal onslaughts on Bob
and his more personal attacks on Artie
to throw a few darts over his shoulder
at Bert. The family squabble over tele-
vision has. reputedly been settled by
formula —which probably means no argu-
ment till after the Senate election—but
Calwell refuses to be silent on his pet
theme of “forcing the Government to
go to the country.”
When he last raised the subject, in the
course of the N. S. Wales election cam-
paign, he received a direct rebuke from
his leader at the biennial conference ol
the A.L.P. in Adelaide a few days later
The Doc. told the conference that the
party fully realised that there would be
“no dissolution of the House of Repre-
sentatives for possibly another year anc
a half.”
Calwell is now back on the subject
again; in Brisbane last week he saic
that if “Labor” won the Senate election
caucus would immediately decide whether
to force a general election.
We have no doubt what that decision
will be, and I think what caucus will do
will be the right thing.
Lest it be thought that the “we” in-
cluded Dr. Evatt he then harked back
to his January outburst and said:
I had my say on this matter, but some
other people did not agree with me.
That must surely be the first recorded
instance of the deputy-leader of an Aus-
tralian political party referring to his
chief as “some other people.” Bert has
no doubt often thought of himself in
the plural, but not in such indefinite
terms as that.
Calwell did not enlighten his Brisbane
audience as to the methods to be used
“to drag the Government before the
people for judgment.” Possibly he has
some secret weapon.
But before he continues the fight with
his leader it might be as well to wait
until they are both assured they will have
something to drag with. “Labor” has
not yet wrested control of the Senate
from the Government. And the way
Calwell and his colleagues have been
stumping Queensland suggests that they
are no longer quite sure that it will.
States and Taxes
Mr. Menzies’s announcement on the
details of taxation proposals put to the
Premiers’ Conference, and their recep-
tion, shows how inaccurately these things
are often reported.
The general impression created by the
contemporary reports was that a sort of
chaos prevailed at the conference in
which everybody disagreed with the Com-
monwealth. In a section of the Sydney
Press, indeed, there was even an infer-
ence that Mr. Cahill had been the heroic
figure foiled in a benevolent task by the
wicked Commonwealth Treasury.
In discussing the return of taxing
powers to the States, Mr. Menzies said,
it had been suggested to the Premiers
that the Commonwealth and States
should adopt and maintain, as nearly as
practicable, uniform assessment laws.
Also:
That there should he only one collecting:
authority, single returns, single assess-
ments and single scales of Instalment-
deductions under pay-as-yon-earn systems.
That there should he co-operation to
provide against significant anomalies in
rates as between States.
That the Governments should agree to
a common assessment legislation an®
make departure from it a matter on which
all Governments must agree.
That in order to secure a single collect-
ing authority and provide for its smooth
working the Commonwealth should repeal
provisions of the law giving priority to
the collection of Commonwealth taxes.
This last provision was naturally wel-
comed by the States with cheers, and,
generally speaking, the Premiers “sub-
stantially agreed on all these matters.”
Outside the Premiers of W.A. and Tas-
mania, who opposed the restoration of
taxing powers to the States as a matter
of principle, the rest were ready to admit
that technical discussions could produce
working agreement.
There is, of course, a long way to go
before the matter could become one of
realities. The great hurdle is in the dis-
cussion as to how far the Commonwealth
would be ready to cut taxation to provide
a field for the States.
Mr. Menzies says that the field re-
mitted to the States “would not exceed
that represented by present reimburse-
ments to the States” —at present £136
million a year.
This is mere chickenfeed to people like
Mr. Cahill, whose “irrelevant and
irresponsible” proposal is calculated by
the Commonwealth to represent a reduc-
tion in taxes of £268 million, or over a
quarter of the Commonwealth revenue
collections. If that were achieved Mr,
Cahill would next year be campaigning
against the Commonwealth for “creating
unemployment” or criticising as dishonest
its methods of Treasury-bill finance.
It goes without saying that Dr. Evatt is
opposed to any departure from the pre-
sent system. His unfailing motto is:
“If Menzies says it’s right, it’s wrong.”
Wheat and Bread
“Baker”: The baking-quality of wheat
is determined largely by both the quan-
tity and the quality of its gluten. The
inherent nature of the variety grown
mostly determines the quality of the
gluten, but has a relatively small influ-
ence on its quantity in comparison with
environment —i.e., climatic and soil
factors.
'The southern half of the wheat-belt,
which produces most of Australia’s wheat,
has a relatively cool, slow-ripening
climate, which naturally induces a high
starch content and a low gluten factor in
the grain. Declining nitrogen content
of the soil, from intensive cropping, also
lowers the gluten proportion.
In recent years the gluten in Australian
wheat has steadily dropped to below 10
per cent., despite steady improvement in
varieties made by plant-breeders.
Bakers need a gluten content of 10 or
11 per cent, in wheat to make bread of
good quality, and the Director of the
N.S.W. Bread Research Institute con-
siders that the varieties of wheat grown
in that State are largely responsible for
our f.a.q. wheat not reaching this
standard. A revolution in varieties is,
however, not the practical, nor by any
means the complete, solution of the
problem.
While variety-improvement should be
continued, it is time that it was realised
that it has distinct limitations against
the more powerful influences of climate,
season and soil.
Climate can’t be altered, seasons will
always be variable, and without sudden,
revolutionary changes in soil-fertility and
varieties, which are most unlikely to
occur, there is little hope of anything
but very slow improvement in the natural
bread-making quality of Australian
wheat.
Good bakers turn out a good loaf of
bread by using starch-reduced flour or
additional gluten, which is on the market
for this purpose. But with bread at a
fixed price the snag about this is that
only those bakeries which are conducted
with particular efficiency can afford the
additional cost of such flour or gluten.
So, with zoning also largely determined
by the breadcarters, if not by bakers
unwilling to revert to competition, the
public has to put up with the bread it
gets.
Socialism generally levels downwards
rather than upwards, creating or en-
couraging shoddiness and slovenliness
rather than building efficiency.
Milk by the Token
Penny plain and tuppence flavored
seems to be the new motto of Sydney
Milk Board Ferguson, who bobbed up
at the weekend to say that, owing to
falling-off in milk sales, the board had
a surplus of 600,000 gallons a week,
which had to go to processing-plants.
A month or so ago Mr. Ferguson was
invited by Sydney housewives to knock a
penny a pint off milk (lid. a pint de-
livered) because of the flush season, but
said there was nothing in that because
the penny would have to be restored in
autumn. Housewives couldn’t see the
logic in this, because to them even a few
weeks of penny-saving means something.
Now autumn has come, and to the
Ferguson astonishment there’s this
600,000-gallons-a-week surplus. So Mr.
Ferguson proposes to flavor school-
children’s milk (which they get free, at
the taxpayer’s expense) and introduce a
payment-by-token system for consumers.
This, he believes, will increase consump-
tion.
Any housewife can tell Mr. Ferguson
that flavors and tokens mean nothing to
her, and that the quickest way to in-
crease consumption is a reduced price.
But, then, that is ordinary business prac-
tice when supplies outrun demand, and
none of these boards ever adopts
ordinary business practice.
Calwell in Strange Country
Among the more notable discoveries of
that eminent Australian explorer Mr. A.
A. Calwell, who is deputy-leader of the
Federal “Labor” Opposition when he
isn’t making discoveries or squabbling
with his leader over T.V. and election-
dates, has been North Queensland. This
area, hitherto a kind of terra incognita to
Mr. Calwell, he no sooner discovered than
he invaded, loaded to the gunwales with
promises.
In his best evangelical style Mr. Cal-
well told the astonished N.Q. natives
sundry things, summarised as follows:
(a) There would be an 8 p.c. swing to
“Labor” in the Queensland election next
Saturday.
(h) Dr. Evatt would be Prime Minister
within a year.
(c) Sir Arthur Fad den and Senator
O’Sullivan behaved as if they hated Queens-
land; they had given the Gair Government
no assistance in N.Q. development.
(d) The Adelaide A.L.P. conference had
endorsed “the programme for the develop-
ment of North Australia”; a railway from
Birdum to Dajarra which would be con-
structed by the next Federal “Labor”
Government; and schemes which would
bring “thousands of head of cattle to
Townsville” for slaughter and export to
home and export markets.
Any North Queenslander could have
answered as follows:
(a) Your guess is as good as mine.
(h) Dr. Evatt forcefully declares he
doesn’t want a Federal election until the
normal time in 1954.
(c) In tax-reimbursements and special
grants the Gair Government has got more
than a fair share of money from the
Menzies Government, but N-Q- develop-
ment showed no benefit.
(d) “Labor” has ruled more than 20
years in Queensland, and during all that
time N.Q. development was just as neces-
sary as it is now. And what has Mr.
Calwell to say about the fact that recently
northern meatworkers were stood down
while trains carried cattle past their meat-
works to Brisbane abattoirs?
Nobody bothered to ask Mr. Calwell
about the Gair method of election,
whereby seats are rigged to suit “Labor,”
the electors are denied the democratic
right of preferential voting, and dis-
credited State rolls are used instead of
honest Federal rolls. Nor did anybody
ask him why he found N.Q. in need of
so many things after more than 20 years
of “Labor” government.
It wasn’t necessary to ask him any of
those things. Because he wouldn’t have
been able to answer them.
The Doyle Affair
Macquarie-street mystery:
The more the public sees of the Doyle affair
the more mystified it must be at the behavior
of the N. S. Wales Government.
It was dragged by the hair of the head to
agreement on a royal commission—just before
the elections. The terms of reference were
announced in detail by Mr. Clarrie Martin,
and they were comprehensive, even including
inquiry into whether a Federal Minister, Senator
O’Sullivan, who had been accused by a slander-
rag of dining with Doyle, had, in fact, been
associated with him —the rag withdrew its charge
precipitately, its editor apparently having mis-
taken another O’Sullivan for the Minister.
Messrs. Cahill and Arthur were equally deter-
mined before the poll to have the inquiry, and
there seemed to be no difficulty.
Immediately afterwards the Ministry was
reconstructed, and Mr. Sheahan, who formerly
was the Government’s transport genius, become
Attorney-General in place of Mr. Martin. After
a long interval he issued a statement in which
he said that “important questions affecting
Parliamentary privilege and due processes ot
criminal law were inyolved and must receive
close and earnest consideration”:
In my opinion the ordinary processes of
law, criminal or civil, are availnble to
those making the charges and denying them.
I want time to consider all these
matters, and then will make an appropnate
recommendation to the Premier.
Mr. Cahill hastened to say that there “would
he no unnecessary delay in the commission.
Bu° at the weekend Mr. Martin himself
(i Continued on page 7)


made a statement averring that he had drafted
the terms of reference in consultation with the
Minister for Justice (Mr. Downing), Mr. G.
Weir (Minister Without Portfolio, who, rumor
said, was to be elevated to the Arbitration
Court Bench), the Crown Solicitor and the
Under-Secretary to the Department of Justice:—
It has been suggested that the holding of
the royal commission might possibly be
impeded because certain matters to* be
inquired into might impinge upon the
privilege of Parliament 1 have been
informed by the Premier that in his view
this should not interfere with the setting-up
of the royal commission The Premier
has informed me he proposes to seek the
concurrence of Parliament in the action to
be taken and also a direction from each
of the Houses to its respective members
and officers to act in aid of the commission.
There is, however, another extraordinary
explanation flying round in Parliamentary and
legal circles that an examination of Parlia-
mentary privileges has discovered the fact that
our rude forefathers forgot to endow the N. S.
Wales Parliament with any that would prevent
the commission from examining Parliamentary
witnesses freely, subpoenaing papers, invading
the Parliament building and doing all the
things it did to the witnesses at the Liquor
Commission.
Obviously, if such a position exists, or partly
exists, the Government would view the revela-
tion of it with horror, apart from the fact of
any inconvenience that may be suffered on this
particular occasion.
It has been stated by the “S. M. Herald”
that the terms of the inquiry relating to the
alleged use of Parliamentary rooms, telephones
and privileges and the references to Senator
O’Sullivan, Minister for Customs, will be
dropped from the terms of reference, as
“Ministers would not agree to asking Parlia-
ment to allow a royal commission to inquire
into actions within the precincts of Parliament
itself.”
If that is the case it lends point to the
rumors. An inquiry which does not clear up
these aspects publicly is scarcely worth holding.
POLITICAL POINTS
I Federal “Labor” members have been
o cluttering up the landscape in Queens-
and and South Australia that the local
nen have been finding it hard to find a
tump or soapbox to stand on. In a final
itampede, fast on Evatt’s heels, Adelaide
las been invaded by Calwell, Ward,
Uarey, Fraser and McKenna, Gair
>eems to have welcomed the crowd in
lis State, but Opposition-leader O’Hal-
oran may find them more of an embar-
rassment in S.A.
• •
The Doc. went over to Adelaide and
compared the South Australian electoral
system with those of totalitarian nations,
saying that it had enabled the Playford
Government to remain in office for 18
years. He complained that the country
vote was worth “tremendously more”
than the metropolitan vote and urged
electors to vote for the “Labor’ - ' prin-
ciple of one vote, one value. Mean-
while, in Queensland another stalwart
upholder of “Labor” principles, Premier
Gair, was doing his best to justify his
electoral system, under which a vote in
some “country” seats has two and a half
times the value of a city vote.
• •
“Labor” is arguing two ways in South
Australia. While maintaining that the
electoral system is loaded against the
city vote it also complains that Playford
has neglected the country, failed to open
up the land and forced young people to
crowd into the city.
• •
After a ding-dong race lasting nearly a
fortnight J. E. Cahill (“Labor”) won the
Armidale seat from sitting member D.
Hughes by 13 votes. Final scores:
Cahill, 8595 ; Hughes, 8582. This makes
party strengths in the Assembly:
“Labor,” 57; Independent “Labor,” 1 ;
Liberal, 22; Country party, 14,
• •
The new member for Armidale be-
comes the fourth Cahill in the N. S.
Wales Parliament. Three are in the
Assembly: Premier John Joseph (Cook’s
River), Frederick Joseph (Young) and
James Edward (Armidale). One, Cyril
Joseph, is in the Council. And there’s
not a Smith, Brown, Jones or Robinson
in the whole show!
• ' •
Speaking at Warwick (Q.), Fadden said
that at fie recent tax conference in
Canberra it was accepted by all the States
that, using 100 as a base, State taxing-
capacities showed a tax-yield for Vic-
toria of 113.9, S. Australia 105, N. S.
Wales 100, West Australia 109, Queens-
land 74.5 and Tasmania 71.8. It will
come as a shock to Queenslanders to find
that instead of their State being well up
for production and resources it is well up
the spout. And Gair can hardly blame
Menzies for it.
• •
The Melbourne Olympians have struck
two more hurdles —firstly, the Federal
taboo on the importation of horseflesh
without six months’ quarantine and,
secondly, the Olympic village. Federal
authorities day the Victorian Govern-
ment should build the village; the Vies
say that the Feds should do it. The
village, at any rate, will be a permanent
asset; after the cosmopolitan men of
brawn and muscle have gone their way
it will be available to the local house-
less. Yet it is “Labor” Premier Cain who
seems to have seized the opportunity; to
bring pressure on the Federal Govern-
ment for political purposes.
• •
At the moment, if Batman’s ghost
appeared and murmured “This is the
place for a village,” he would be answered
with a yell of “Yair, but who’s going to
pay for it?”
• •
Strangest switch in the reshuffle of the
Cahill pack of cards was the swapping
of jobs between Attorney-General
Martin and Transport-Minister Sheahan.
Transport is recognised as the toughest
job in the N. 3. Wales Cabinet, and
Cahill himself ranks it second in import-
ance only to Housing, yet he gave it to
a man whose health, to say the least, has
been far from robust in the last year or
so. Cahill said he “could not give any
specific reasons for any changes.” Still,
there must be a reason ; it will no doubt
becopie obvious in due course.
• •
In accepting Transport, Martin was
raised from fourth to third in Cabinet
precedence; Evatt minor, despite his
Housing portfolio being rated top priority
in Government importance, fell back
from third to fifth. Asked to comment
on this, Cahill said that he had not
dropped anyone; he had merely raised
some others up—which remark is excel-
lent proof, if any was needed, that Ireland
is well represented in the N. S. Wales
Cabinet.
• •
Tasmanian A.L.P. has endorsed retiring
Senators Cole and O’Byme for the Senate
election in May, but has decided to let
Bill Morrow join the yesterdays.
• •
At the weekend the Victorian Parlia-
mentary L.C.P, was considering what has
been described as an ultimatum it had
received from the Hollway “rebels.” This
was a letter saying that unless all six
members, including Hollway, received by
yesterday morning official invitations to
attend party meetings they would con-
sider themselves automatically excluded
from the party. The background to this
FIELD HEADQUARTERS
move was that, although all six had de- it was just plain fiction he wanted he
fied the party over electoral reform, only could get oodles of it from the current
Hollway had been expelled from the State elections.
Parliamentary party.
A N.S.W. potato-grower sent two or
three tons of spuds to the Sydney Potato
Board. His return in cash was
nothing, the board saying some of the
spuds were condemned, some couldn’t be
sold, and the rest brought only enough
to cover freight, commission and board
costs. The envelope bearing this infor-
mation to the grower was probably
franked by the latest Australian stamp,
carrying in large type the message “Pro-
duce Food.”
• •
Williams, Communist leader of the
Miners’ Federation, loudly declared that
there was widespread unemployment in
the N.S.W. coalfields. Spooner, Federal
Minister for National Development,
replied that numbers of unemployed
miners registered at Commonwealth Em-
ployment Offices at February 20 were;
Newcastle 7, Lithgow 37, Wollongong 2,
Cessnock 2, Maitland 14. On the same
date 19 jobs awaited miners at New-
castle, 104 at Cessnock and 278 in the
Wollongong area.
• •
That New Zealand beef (B. 25/2/’53)
is selling like hot cakes in America,
according to the cables. One observer
who went down to a New York butcher’s-
shop on hearing that housewives were
rushing it said “Steaks were selling so
fast you would think the customers were
eating them raw.”
• •
Complaining that the bread sold in his
electorate (Parkes, N.S.W.) grew a beard
over the weekend, Haylen,
asked Commerce Minister McEwen to do
something about it. The request was
made at the wrong address. It wasn’t
the Federal Government that abolished
night-baking and Saturday deliveries, thus
making it necessary for bread delivered
on Friday to do service for Monday’s cut-
lunches. Haylen should take his
whiskery loaves along to his friend
Cahill.
• •
“C.Q.”: An offer by the Myer Em-
porium to provide 28 parking-meters in
Lonsdale-street as an experiment to solve
the parking problem has been turned
down by the Melbourne City Council
on the grounds that if it consented to
this proposal it would have to give similar
“concessions” to every other city store.
Well, why not? If “official enterprise”
can’t solve the problem, why not let
private enterprise try?
• ■ •
Cahill’s explanation why the terms of
reference for the Doyle Royal Commis-
sion suggested by ex-Attorney-General
Martin a few days before the N. S. Wales
election have not been accepted by new
Attorney-General Sheahan: “They were
tentative terms to satisfy the public.”
Well, well!
• •
Another English publisher is in Aus-
tralia in search of publishable fiction. If
Hilaire Belloc, in one of his “Caution-
ary Tales” in which “London’s noble fire-
brigade” played a significant part,
recorded that “within an hour” of receiv-
ing the alarm the gallant band arrived
at the scene of the conflagration. Simi-
lar haste marked the response of N. S.
Wales Housing Minister Evatt (minor) to
newspaper reports of a gastro-enteritis
outbreak at Hargrave Park housing
settlement. On Sunday, February 15, the
“Sunday Herald” reported three deaths
and six hospital cases, and alleged that
detectives and Health Department officers
were investigating complaints that a
broken sewer had contaminated a laundry
and living-quarters, that creeks running
through the camp were germ-infested and
that heaps of rat-infested rubbish were
common. Within a week (exactly) Clive
was out there explaining to the residents
that he was there to protect the settle-
ment against a “most malicious Press
campaign,” and that the clean-up which
had taken place during the week was
merely routine and had not been done in
anticipation of his visit.
• •
Evatt accused Press photographers of
enticing children into dirty creeks to pose
for photographs, and said “Children
don’t seek out filth. They like to be
clean.” Parents can judge that one for
themselves, but, whether or not it is true
of youngsters, it is apparently true of
Clive. “S. M. Herald” on February 23
reported:
Mr. Evatt was asked to inspect the
creek....He declined, saying he had an
appointment at another meeting.
• •
According to the returning-officer in
the Armidale (N.S.W.) election, 10
absentee votes counted as formal were
later, together with four more votes, de-
clared informal “because the names of
the candidates were not placed on the
ballot-paper in alphabetical order.” As
this error is clearly the fault of the poll-
clerk who issued the absentee votes, and
since there were only two candidates and
it is apparent the electors clearly indi-
cated their choice, it seems to be a
classical instance of straw-splitting.
• •
Grafton (N.S.W.) Chamber of Com-
merce president was astonished and in-
dignant to learn that, following the estab-
lishment of a brewery in Grafton, a
Sydney brewery had got special conces-
sions from N.S.W. railways for deliveries
of booze to northern N.S.W. But this
sort of thing isn’t new —for years those
same railways followed a policy of pre-
ference specially aimed at cutting out
Newcastle as a shipping port for northern
N.S.W. land products. The Grafton
Chamber shouldn’t need any further in-
centive to co-operate in the New England
New-State movement.
• •
Calwell and other “Labor” men who
think the rank-and-file of “Labor” voters
would support them in a move to make
television a Government monopoly should
do a little public-opinion sampling in
their own electorates. Let Eddie Ward,
for example, find out what proportion
of the electors of East Sydney tune-in to
A.B.C. programmes in preference to
commercial radio-stations. While on the
job he might find out how many listen
to “Labor’s” own station when the dogs
and the trots aren’t on.
• •
While Iran has been grabbing British-
owned and British-developed oilwells and
refineries in the blessed name of nation-
alisation, Turkey, which already possesses
a nationalised oil industry, has decided to
throw it open to private enterprise and
to accept foreign advice and capital.
• •
The C.5.1.R.0. has by
exhaustive tests that the national wool-
clip could produce another £7O million
a year in by-products. The organisation,
after tests with new “chemical tech-
niques,” says an industry should be estab-
lished to exploit wool grease which would
yield detergents, corrosion-preventives,
linoleums, plastic polishes and other
things worth “up to £lOOO a ton.” Well,
isn’t there a Ministry for National De-
velopment?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Hist”: Australia is a certainty for
this year’s “Oscar” for the most unattrac-
tive stamp; any one of our six different
“Produce Food” stamps could win it.
Ugly,, cheap, nasty are the abjectives
which come to mind. The things are
stickers, not stamps. The purpose of the
stamps was futile from the start. Had
they been masterpieces they still would
not have caused one more bag of wheat
to be grown, one more steer fattened,
one more cow milked. Farmers and
graziers seldom glance at the stamps on
their mail, and philatelists, as a body, are
not primary-producers. Possibly the in-
tention was to advertise our good inten-
tions to the world at large, but good
intentions have no export market, and,
anyway, few 3d. or stamps frank
overseas mail in these days of airmails.
A handsome stamp is a money-spinner
for the P.M.G.; collector sales bring in
substantial unearned income. Sales of
an attractive stamp are general; of an
unattractive one they are restricted to
the minority of collectors interested in
the particular country and bound by the
rules of the game to take all its stamps,
even if the sight of them is sick-making.
*> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Clooter”: Another of those criminal-
saves-sleuth incidents has turned up, this
time in London. A policeman was
chasing the thief over roofs and the
thief jumped a skylight and went on.
The policeman slipped and was rolling
to the edge of a high drop when the
thief turned back and grabbed him.
Result: Conviction for theft, but light
sentence because of rescue. I suppose
it proves there’s a little bit of good in
the worst of us, but I can’t help thinking
of Kingy. Kingy was lumbered in a
two-up raid, broke free and jumped into
the ’Bidgee. A constable jumped in
after him. Half-way over, the law got
into trouble and yelled for help. Kingy
“I do a bit of stone-cutting myself."
turned back and pulled him out. “You’re
a mug, Kingy,” his mates told him. “The
other cops would’ve pulled him out.”
“Yair,” Kingy said, “but they ain’t tryin’
to sell him a second-hand piano. I am.”
Fine £2 for playing an illegal game;
sale of piano duly completed.
“Craiser”: Our language is most
puzzling to the New Australian when it
is, so to speak, inverted. I heard a
migrant ask a fisherman at a Victorian
seaside resort where he could get a load
of gravel. “Across the road there,” said
the ’couta-jerker. “Can’t you see it?”
“But that belongs to the Electricity Com-
mission,” said the N.A. “Only in the
daytime,” replied the fisherman,
❖ ❖ *
“Lao-dah”: So many stories of
Japanese ruthlessness have been told
that it is a relief to come across one
with a different flavor. It concerns
Oshima, in Kyushu, a “moonshine”
village celebrated for its production of
illicit liquor. Oshima’s taxation evasion
since the war is reckoned at 200 million
yen. Taxation officers are said to be
scared to enter the village because
the indignant citizens —every man,
woman and child is in it —either stone
them or strip them naked. So the new
Minister for Agriculture has decided to
try persuasion and is building a starch-
factory at a cost of six million yen in
which the villagers can find full employ-
ment. Latest news is that the villagers
have responded by presenting the Minister
with a White York pig weighing 1120
pounds and have promised to drink all
undisposed stocks of moonshine at a
farewell banquet to their old profession.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Strict Veg.”: To counter the high
cost of meat a Melbourne dietician has
come out with an almdst-meatless diet
which has all the necessary calories,
proteins and whatnot; he has found, by
laboratory tests and personal demonstra-
tion, that large quantities of flesh are not
essential to the manual worker. Prob-
ably they’re not, but how is he going
to convince the manual worker? Nobody
was able to convince G. B, Shaw that
meat wasn’t poison, and it is the belief
that matters. Some both feel and
believe that meat or beer or wine or
believe it, but can’t feel it; others feel
it, but can’t believe it. The hearty
drinkers who live to a great age are those
who both feel and believe that beer is
good for them and that medicine isn’t,
It is the same with diet. At 90
Shaw, on a diet of greens, was in-
tellectually and physically more vigorous
than plenty of young men, because his
beliefs coincided with his feelings. Put
a man who believes that meat is essential
to his health on vegetables and he would
probably die in a fortnight. The
scientists try to explain it in terms of
vitamins and calories, but they are bark-
ing up the wrong tree. The difference
between vegetarians like Shaw and the
beef-eaters and beer-drinkers who are
just as healthy as he was at the same
spinach will do them good; some
age can only be explained psychologi-
cally—i.e., it is associationally deter-
mined.
❖❖ , ❖
“Yair”: With Justice written all over
her face, the woman announced to the
barrowman “Your peaches are three for
one-and-nine. Fifty yards down the
street they’re only three for one-and-
three,” The barrowman looked at her
a moment, then in a burst of confidence
replied, “Three for one-and-three! Take
it from me, mum, that’s a bargain! You
go right back and buy yourself some,”
“No. 1 Cupola”: “Ceg’s” (B. 28/l/’53)
appreciation of the ancient ironmongery
dotting the Victorian landscape—cannon
at Ballarat, an anchor at Williamstown —
is good, but he has his irons a trifle
mixed. The swivel of the old Bellerophon
anchor would be of Lowmoor, which
was counted the best wrought-iron pro-
duced in England. But it was not a cast-
iron, such as the cannon are made of. The
remarkable metal in them was probably
produced by a mixing of Cleator (Cum-
berland) iron with Finspong (Sweden)
special gun-foundry iron. Both these
cast-irons were low in phosphorus, a con-
dition imperative for maximum strength
that element having the property of
rendering both iron and steel “cold-
short.” Cleator was a cast-iron so pure
that it was used almost entirely for the
original Bessemer blower-converter pro-
cess. It had a tendency, however, to
produce rather large graphite flakes when
used alone in foundry practice. Hence
the mixing with Swedish iron for gun-
founding. Here in Australia we pro-
duced, just before War I, a pig-iron vir-
tually the equal to Cleator. That was at
Lithgow.
❖ ❖ $
“Bo”: In one N.S.W. constituency the
incumbent, a popular fellow who is never
in danger of losing his seat, had assist-
ing at the table outside the booth his
wife, who is equally popular. As a
middle-aged woman voter came past the
table the candidate’s wife smilingly
offered her a how-to-vote card. The
woman’s nose went up. “No, I’m not
voting for Mr. Whosthis,” she snapped.
“Though I always have in the past. I’ve
heard that his wife is a snob.” Standing
just behind the candidate’s wife was her
mother, a humorous-minded woman.
She stepped forward and, bending con-
fidentially down, said to the voter: “Do
you know Mrs. Whosthis’s mother?”
“No, I can’t say I do,” returned the dis-
gruntled constituent. “Why?” “Well,”
went on the other solemnly, "she’s an
even bigger snob!”
❖ ***
“Loulalo”: It was pretty obvious from
the pot-holed and rutted state of the
road that no maintenance work had been
done on it for a very long time. Jolting
and bumping along, we came to a notice-
board propped against a tree. A relic
of other years, it had probably been left
behind by a road-gang in the days when
some effort was made to keep the road
in order. However, someone with a pot
of tar and a brush had done a little
editing. The legend now ran: “Danger.
No men at work. Road under destruc-
tion.”
* ❖ ❖
“NX Mick”: Egypt’s trams are worked
by uninhibited males (B. 4/2/’53). The
tram is made up of three cars, each with
a conductor, who is provided with a
wooden horn. He in the front car blows
once, the second twice, and the third three
times when embarking and disembarking
passengers have fought to a standstill in
their respective cars. The driver is sup-
posed to wait for all six toots before
starting, and sometimes he does. He is
a lonely soul, standing under a notice in
five languages, for it is forbidden to
engage him in conversation —a wise rule,
for a little chat would occupy both his
hands for the remainder of the trip. Most
of his route is on a fenced-in track, with
fixed halts where the public is admitted.
He breaks the monotony by stamping
continuously on his bell, traffic or no
traffic. To say that crew-members merely
blow and stamp does them an injustice;
each expresses his personality with horn
and bell in such a way that to hear two
three-car trams starting from a terminus
is like listening to Spike Jones and
Graeme Bell simultaneously working
on the latest offering from Dixieland.
"It must be their nesting-time !"
QUITE POSSIBLE
“The belief grows stronger that, if Mars is
inhabited at all, it is not by grotesque creatures
such as H. G. Wells envisaged, but by humans
perhaps not unlike ourselves, and that their
problems of life, and survival would not greatly
differ from our own.” —Science article.
Gazing towards that brightly-burning
planet
Which shares its appellation with a
god,
’Cross space so vast no ether-wave can
span it,
Don’t get the notion he’s so very odd,
The bloke who that far-distant world
inhabits.
That radio ad. his suffering ear bom-
bards,
That he’s cursed, too, with politicians,
rabbits.
Bumbles and wowsers, bureaucrats and
Babbitts,
Is on the cards.
Wells visualised the Martian as one
dreaded,
With outsize bean, but legs of little
worth ;
For all we know he might be quite pin-
headed
Just as so 1 many are upon our earth.
Indulgently he pays for beautifying
His long-haired mate, unless he has
become
More civilised than we. And he’ll be
eyeing
The curves of lasses, there d be no deny-
ing,
If he’s not “dumb.”
Unless he’s VERY backward he must
surely
Have blackouts, and the Left-wing
pulpiteer;
IngenuQus publicans who prematurely
Get rid of all their stock of bottled
beer;
And mugs that fall for some financial
wizard
Who even {n his bed could not lie
straight;
Women who’d open gamps up in a
blizzard,
Speakers who get on everybody’s gizzard
During debate.
It’s totally unlikely that he waxes
Very enthusiastic when he’s told
That they’ve decided to increase his taxes.
That something else is to be price-
controlled.
And not a doubt but that the Martian
ladies,
Of sex-equality the stout avowers,
Strap-hanging, of the men complain like
Hades.
I’d lay a bet, too, that the ladies’ cadies
Are mad as ours!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Pate”: From time to time mention
is made of the necessity for amending
or repealing archaic Acts or sections. An
instance occurred lately in Queensland
when, before a stipendiary magistrate in
a summons court, a man appeared to
show cause why be objected to the refusal
of his application to hold a hawker s
licence. The magistrate refused to hear
the case, saying that he doubted whether
he could rightly hear the application
that day. The reason? Under sections of
the Hawkers’ Act 1849, as amended by a
later Act of 1869, the only proper time
for the court to consider such application
is the second Tuesday of the month. The
day of appearance in the court was the
third Tuesday. Hearing adjourned to
the second Tuesday in March.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Ceg”: That doughty Scot who named
his offspring after the days of the week
(B. 18/2/’53) obviously set a limit to
his ambition. Not so a woman of
my acquaintance who decided, when her
first was born, that she would give it,
and all subsequent additions to the
quiver, the name of a bird. What scope!
I don’t know how many suitable bird-
names there are available, but she had
only got as far as “G” —I forget whether
it was Goldfinch or Galah—when Nature
called a halt.
* * *>
“Snobby”: Mrs. S. has been ill, so I’ve
had to do the housework and cooking.
Last week, knowing a visitor was due, I
put in a couple of hours sweeping, dust-
ing and polishing, I remade beds and
arranged curtains, but the place still
looked untidy. I went over it again.
Same result. The visitor, an elderly
female, had a look round, sniffed her
evident disapproval of my work, picked
up a duster from somewhere, whisked it
through the air a few times, and the
whole joint looked like a new pin. It
was magic. I was subdued. The next
night, calling at the chemist’s for some
tablets, I began telling him what a devil
of a time I was having. Another
customer became interested. He edged
nearer and whispered to me in confi-
dence: “Do you keep the sink clean?
That got me where I lived: I had washer-
woman’s thumbs from doing dishes and
plates. I rose to my full height and told
him in tones of scorn that that was one
of my special prides: I did keep the sink
clean. The little bloke felt squashed.
He whispered his confession: “I don’t.”
I felt better after that. I’m rather
anxious to meet that elderly visitor again.
I’ll let her know just where she gets off.
I’ll show her my clean sink.
*X* ❖
“Genuwine”: Colorblindness (B.
11/2/’53)? In the early ’thirties or
thereabouts, a Japanese oculist, Ishihara,
produced his “Tests of Color Vision.”
These consisted of a series of 24 plates
of colored dots in which a person of
normal perception easily distinguished a
certain figure or saw no figure, while,
just as readily, one with a red-green
abnormality read an entirely different
number or one invisible to the normal
eye. The two final plates are rather in-
genious. Through one, a distinct pattern
twists and turns from one side to the
other, visible only to the normal, while
the other has a pattern seen only by
the abnormal. One man only tricked
me on the Ishihara plates—a well-known
Melbourne artist. When asked to state
the number he saw he each time asked
which number I wanted—the 74 or 21,
the 5 or 7 and so on throughout the
book, When Japan entered World War
11, poor old Ishihara lost his royalties and,
as by then the Navy, Army and railways
had followed the R.A.A.F. in the routine
use of the tests, Australian publishers
must have reaped a harvest. No doubt
recent years have seen further refine-
ments in the methods of testing color-
vision, but it is to be regretted that the
necessity for normal color-perception has
"Yair, you're one o' them blokes who'd rather listen to imported
musicians."
not been overcome. The names of
many famous fliers whose deeds are re-
corded in Volume VIII of the Official
History of 1914-18 would not be there
if their color-vision had been investi-
gated too thoroughly.
“Mark O’Polo”: There are still plenty
of trams in Kalgoorlie (B. 11/2/’53), but
the furthest inland I’ve ever seen one
was at Leonora (W.A.), 400 crow-miles
from the coast. It used to run the 2-s-
-miles to Gwalia. The powerhouse was
at Leonora, and there was a turntable
at each terminus of the single track.
I recollect only one tram, which fell into
disuse not long after Kaiser Bill’s war,
having yielded to the motor-car in the
form of a taxi-service, and so foretelling
the inevitable fate of similar vehicles
now, as then, running in Sydney and
Melbourne.
* ♦> *l*
“Cauboy”: Three-dimensional films,
in which actors and objects will appear
to be part of the audience, are scheduled
to reach Australia this year. Whether
this will be an advantage is a moot
question. The first moving-pictures ever
I saw were at Adelaide Town Hall. They
were simple, two-dimensional films with-
out color, but seemed so extraordinarily
real that when one was put on in which
a wave broke and poured its foam straight
for the front rows the audience all ducked
and some started for the exits. We must
have adjusted ourselves since then, be-
cause nowadays an audience never feels
itself part of the performance except
when a really good actor captures for a
time , its emotional allegiance. When he
does, we even forget that in actual
fact his image is 50 hands high and his
voice as loud as a steamer’s-siren. We
will no doubt adjust ourselves to the
dimension in the same way and it will
still be a question of. Is it a good film
or a bad one?
* * ❖
“Pip Tok”: The South African
Government’s decision to designate the
lowest ranks in infantry units riflemen
instead of privates continues a process
which has operated since 1951, when
lieutenant-colonels became comman-
dants. Although the changes are in line
with the old Boer ranks, they are thought
by South African soldiers of British
descent to be too sudden and provocative.
Louis Botha was more tactful in 1914
when he raised forces to fight the Ger-
mans. Boer leaders vehemently objected
to British titles of rank; they wanted to
remain veldt-cornets and commandants.
“All right,” said Botha, in effect, “You
can be veldt-cornets and commandants
and I’ll make the rooineks captains,
majors and colonels.” The compromise
worked well until men holding the old
Boer ranks found themselves living in
the same messes as British officers. They
developed an inferiority complex, and
demanded to know why they, too,
couldn’t be captains, etc. Botha gave
way again ; uniformity was established,
and, for a time at least, everybody was
happy.
“Humus”: Varied are the tools and
materials of sculptors; R. Greenwood-
Webb, of Lane Cove, Sydney, works with
an oxy-acetylene blowpipe in copper and
steel. His masterpiece, says “Welding
News,” is a wedgetailed eagle studied
from life at Taronga zoo. No moulds
or castings were used. The thousands
of feathers were hand-made from copper
of various gauges, ribbed for strength
and brazed to the body. Head, feet and
talons were melted into shape by blow-
pipe from copper rod. Wi(h a wingspan
of sft., the bird has an inside mechanism
which raises and lowers the wings every
hour.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Zake”: There are two schools of
thought about buying a hat; those who
hold that a man should have a haircut
just before it and those who believe he
should be in need of one. The first
“ When's that electrician coming !”
crowd’s chief argument is that buying a
hat when one is newly-shorn renders it
more likely that the lid won’t blow off
on a windy day when, later, the thatch
has grown thicker. The second mob
contend that as a preponderance of a
hat-wearer’s time is that during which he
needs a haircut—and the tendency, owing
to steep barbering charges, is to lengthen
time between haircuts —it is easy enough
in the short interval while the hair is
growing again to stuff some paper under
the sweat-band. There are, however,
other factors to be taken into considera-
tion. Bone, like steel, contracts and ex-
pands with the heat; thus the proportion
of bone in the skull and the outside
temperature would have as vital an effect
on the size of the owner’s hat as would
his hair. In the case of Socialist planners
punters who either pick ’em on form or
go on the tips of royal-commission wit-
nesses who have won fortunes from the
turf, nightclub addicts who pay seven-
bob a bottle for beer and four-bob for
a packet of ten Australian, and those who
believe the Sydney trams and buses can
be made to pay, the expansion and con-
traction would be so great they would
need to buy an array of hats from to
if they would be comfortable in the
cranium.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sturmer”: We were hurrying home
from work, bent forward against slanting
spears of unexpected rain. Snug and dry
in my I couldn’t resist deliver-
ing a homily at my coatless cobber. “You
ought to leave an old coat at work; it
pays in this climate.” He wasn’t a bit
grateful; he replied in a teach-your-
grandmother-to-suck-eggs voice! “My
dear boy, I’ve had a coat at work for the
last ten years.” I blinked at him through
the rain. “Why didn’t you wear it, then?”
His answer was unanswerable: “Because
I know I’d forget to take it back again.”
“C.C.C.”: Tell “Tos” (B. 4/2/’53)
that the Forrest after whom Forrest
Hill (on which stands Melbourne
Boys’ High School) was named
is buried on land he selected at
Lardner, six miles from Warragul in
Gippsland, in the ’eighties. He was
buried there because it was difficult to
take him out through the rough, uncleared
scrub of those days; the land is today
one of the best dairy properties in a rich
dairying district. Forrest had some con-
nection with the peerage, but no money.
He was in no way related to “Big John”
Forrest. One of his grandsons carried
hods of bricks for the building of Mel-
bourne Boys’ High School —just “for
sentimental reasons,” he said.
♦♦♦ * ❖
“Pawang”: A really useful Govern-
ment department would employ a psycho-
logist to study our food-prejudices. When
I visited a man who raises poultry for
the Melbourne market, he was decapitat-
ing innumerable fowls and chickens and
preparing their bodies. Heads, livers, etc.,
went into a huge bin. “Offal,” he said.
“It goes to the incinerator.” In Europe
connoisseurs smack their lips over dishes
made from such things. The combs ot
chickens were imported in pre-war days
and sold at fancy prices in more luxurious
suburbs. But put them before the poorest
citizen, and he would probably want to
punch you. Much of the best of a fish
is in the head, but fish are usually head-
less wjaen you buy them. I’m told that
fish’s eyes are delicious, but I cant eat
them myself —perhaps we all need a little
educating.
* ❖ *
“QnnVeshave” : Efforts of custodians
tor deconim among
bourne s St. Kiiaa, \v swim-suits,
invading the l was standing
See o^the*swimming-pool with-
on the edge or u •- tnr carn e round
out a stitch on when a, t
the corner. Hello. n swim? » “No, I
Z Want. “I didn't bring
my bathers.”
THE PURGE
Listen, children under fifty,
Gay or gloomy, free or thrifty,
While I offer wisdom gratis
From my watch-tower in the eighties;
When the plane leaves for the planet
And you seek a crew to man it
Think well whom you'd wish to banish
Before in outer space they vanish;
Send the grousers, send the crooners,
Barmen who deny you schooners,
Send the war-alarm providers
And the motor-cycle riders;
Send the prophets of perdition,
Send the crooked politician,
Send the murder-puzzle spinners,
Keep the saints and send the sinners;
Send the Profs of economics,
Send the writers of the comics,
Dump them on the lunar levels.
Leave them to their ghastly revels.
N.Z.
ARONOLD WALL.


§2
S-2
in the
Battery World
BATTERIES
EXtDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
BXS.S6
PERSONAL ITEMS
In next year’s Archibald Prize contest
is likely to be an entry which fulfils at
least one of Archibald’s conditions—that
the winning portait should be of an Aus-
tralian distinguished in politics, etc.
There won’t, either, be anyone older
on exhibition. The subject is King
O’Malley, who at 99 is having his
portrait painted by Dudley Drew,
The “King,” as vigorous and
picturesque in speech -as ever, came to
Australia from the U.S. in search of
health, and has had 70 years of it.
A lined, mobile face edged with grey-
ing hair, a quick, incisive voice, and
a reputation as one of U.K.’s most dis-
tinguished actors —Robert Speaight, in
Australia to act and lecture for the A.B.C.
and the British Council. An Oxford
man and Fellow of the Royal Society of
Literature—this last stemming from his
authorship of half a dozen books and
directorship of Hollis and Carter, pub-
lishers of, among others. Fry’s first play
—Speaight will play here in 10 plays in
eight weeks. The bill includes Shak-
speare. Fry (a close friend), Sheridan,
Moliere and, to be produced in Brisbane
next month, Douglas Stewart’s “Fire on
the Snow.” A man of obvious cultural
STAGE, RADIO, BOOKS
vigor, Speaight is as much literature- as
stage-minded, and, in 1940, lectured in
English literature at Notre Dame Uni-
versity (U.S.). T. S. Eliot is another
friend, of whom the visitor reports that
he has completed another play, “Con-
fidential Clerk,” which will get its initial
airing at the Edinburgh Festival this year.
Though this is his first visit to these
parts, Speaight became known the
English-speaking world over as the voice
of Christ in Dorothy Sayers’s broadcast
play, “The Man Bom to Be King.”
“Ek Dum” on an enemy:
Dead at 78, Gerd von Rundstedt, Field-
Marshal, a.D.—retired —forcibly at the end of
World War 11. A tall, frosty aristocrat from
the Harz Mountains, born to a military lieu-
tenant of cavalry with an otherwise large family
and no money, his whole life from birth was
military, even though the family felt it rather
a disgrace for him to descend to enter an
infantry regiment instead of the Hussars. He
began his service in World War I as captain—
equivalent in job G.l (Ops)—with the 22
Reserve Division, which almost entered Paris —
it got near enough to see the Eiffel Tower—
but later he was transferred to the Eastern
Front, where he was in the Narew offensive
and ended as Chief of Staff to two successive
corps. On the Eastern Front he became one
of Europe’s experts.
He progressed in the “underground” years
after Versailles to a point at which he found
himself Commander-in-Chief of Army Group I
(Berlin) —two infantry and four cavalry divisions
—in 1932, and held this position against all
precedent right up to 1939, probably because
the Nazis felt that they could trust him not
to dabble in politics. He, however, was not
popular, and never became a supreme com-
mander. When the attack on Poland came he
was given the southern army group of three
armies with Blaskowitz, Reichenau and von
Kleist as his subordinate commanders and with
the brilliant and dashing von Manstein as his
C.O.S. His operations there and his known
expertise on the Schlieffen plan won him the
command in the west of the Central Army
Group, and to him is largely due the strategy
which overran .the Netherlands and France. He
had the advantage of armor under Guderian.
When the Russian war began he was trans-
ferred to the east to command Army Group South
in an area on which he was an expert, and
his drive to the Volga was the farthest penetra-
tion eastward ever made by a Western European
Continental Army. He had the 6th and 7th
German Armies, plus a Panzer group, three
Italian divisions, a Hungarian corps and a
Slovak division; but he was a sick man from
December, 1941, when he had a heart attack,
and the ultimately disastrous strategy of the
south was Hitler’s, not his. He was transferred
to reorganise the defences of the west against
the coming Allied invasion as C.-in-C. in the
West, was replaced for a time and then sent
back to try to solve a hopeless situation with
the “help” of Hitler. Victory earned him his
first rest for 20 years—three years as a p.-0.-w.
in England. He was one of the few senior
German commanders who Spoke English well.
Donald Peers, well-known on pop-
parades, was shortly to have begun an
Australian tour. He has had to postpone
it. Unfortunately he has been bitten
by his pet black poodle.
“C.R.C.”: Knight Hal Colebatch (B.
18/2/’53) was a man of stalwart frame,
and had the physical and moral courage
to go with it. When, for four weeks in
1919, he was Premier of Westralia, the
State was in the threatening grip of one
of its worst upheavals on the Fremantle
waterfront. In an effort to prevent a
serious riot, Colebatch went to the port
himself. As his launch steamed under
the two Fremantle bridges it was bom-
barded by strikers with roadmetal and
other missiles. Nobody aboard was hurt,
but one large chunk of iron crashed
through the deck. Colebatch went on
regardless, had an interview with Trades
Hall leaders, and secured a compromise
which ended the trouble,
“G.L.8.”: Hal Colebatch was once
chess champion of Western Australia. He
was also one of the best contract-bridge
players in the State and, in fact, any-
where else. During his term as Agent-
General in London he often played with
Ramsay MacDonald’s henchman, J. H.
(Jimmy) Thomas, M.P., and the game
was usually £1 a hundred—sometimes
more.
“Melbn”: Any person in and around
Melbourne seeing “unexplained lights or
objects in the sky” is from this week
invited to report them to L. T. Whitney,
editor of the “Astronomical Journal,”
who has been appointed hon. sec. to the
first Australian Flying Saucers Investiga-
tion Committee, consisting of four
members with D. K. Thomson, a former
R.A.A.F. pilot, as chairman. Each report
will receive careful and impartial con-
sideration, and if it comes under the class
“significant sightings,” will be referred to
experts in physics, aeronautics, meteoro-
logy and other sciences. As land
phenomena are not included an extra-
ordinary incident which occurred at
Christmas will presumably not come up
for investigation. The members of a
small club of convivial habits debouched
into the street at midnight; at that
moment Brown’s Circus chose to shift its
elephants from one suburb to another.
The clubmen rushed back and had an-
other.
Come to retirement berth after 48
years with the Union Steamship Co.,
C. B. V. Wheeler is an Enzedder who has
managed the company’s Sydney office
and been its senior rep. in Australia for
the past nine years. Though not a pro-
fessional sailor, he got around a bit —
most memorable journey being that which
landed him on Gallip. and, later, in
France. He got a nasty knock on the
Somme in 1916.
“M.”: Ronald McKie, whose fine book
of H.M.A.S. Perth, Proud Echo, has just
been published, worked in Singapore for
two years before War II (his book This
Was Singapore covered that period) and
he has travelled in every country in eastern
Asia. After serving with the A.1.F., he
was a war correspondent with the British
14th Army in Burma and the American
sth and Bth Armies in Italy, and was in
Greece for the Communist rising after the
Germans had quit. In Milan he was one
of a handful of non-Italians to see Musso-
lini in his coffin, in Oslo he reported the
trial of Vidkun Quisling, and, in Berlin,
the Potsdam Conference. He’s just back
in Sydney from the U.S., where he had
four months under a Smith-Mundt
fellowship, working as a guest-writer on
a paper in North Carolina.
“M.V.”: The campaign in Melbourne
against fruitfly resembles a military
operation, with hundreds of men spraying
suburban backyards and stripping
orchards. The man behind it all, Frank
M. Read, superintendent of horticulture,
has been fighting similar epidemics for
years past. A graduate of Melbourne
University, he was the first research-
officer appointed to the Victorian
Research Branch and the first Australian
agricultural scientist to specialise in horti-
culture. Another first was his use of
aircraft and a D.D.T. spray to combat
plagues of insects. He squelched the fly
when it appeared in Gippsland, the Sun-
raysia district and other places, but this
is the first time he has had to resort to
street-fighting. He’s sure he can beat
the insect as he routed the Ruther-
glen bug in northern Victoria.
As indicated by artist Lusby’s decorations,
Group-Captain H. T. (“Bunny”) Hammond is
a vintage airman. Wounded early with the
first A.1.F., he transferred to the
R.F.C. He was waiting his turn to solo on a
stick-and-wire Farman when the machine
bounced in and a cove jumped out with a
cheery “She’s all yours now.” The preceding
soloist, Hammond found later, was someone
named Charles Kingsford Smith. Flying with
the famed 60 Squadron, Hammond was shot
down, captured, tried to tunnel out, and was
captured again. The early ’twenties saw him
home in that haven for grounded warbirds,
Vacuum Oil. Barnstorming followed, before,
with Frank Follet, he started Adastra Airways.
The “Per Ardua” part of the R.A.F. motto
intruded in the depression years, and Hammond
joined an air-transport concern up in
New Guinea —sometimes flying detonators into
tricky goldfield strips, once the severed head
of a native murderer to Lae for identification.
Game War 11, and, on its second day, Hammond
to Richmond air-station. Came also, some time
later, the first Wirraways, on a Friday. These
strange birds had to be tamed by Monday and
used for instruction. Hammond and instructor-
colleagues did 10 solid hours airborne in the
DETONATORS, HEADS, CONTOURS
Grangers over the weekend. Before war’s end
Hammond had commanded several air-stations.
He’s now back with his old show, Adastra,
for which, under the asgis of State Governments,
he directs aerial photographic surve y S . it’s a
big jump from the simple cockpit of a 1916
5.E.5 to providing dead-accurate contour maps
£ or j he Snowy scheme irrigation, forestry and
flood assessment; but these responsibilities have
not a g ec ted Bunny’s big, shy friendliness or his
grin. These seem indestructible.
Stanley Heal, who put Lord Mayor and
new knight Totterdell among the politi-
cally slain when he beat him for the West
Perth seat in the recent Westralian
elections, has scored two “firsts.” It was
his first shot at Parliament, and he is the
first Labor man to win the seat. Better
known on the football field, Heal was
captain-coach of the State team which
went to Brisbane for the 1950 carnival;
he has since coached the West Perth team
to two successive premier ships. Thirty-
two, he goes to Parliament House from
a P.M.G. job of line-foreman.
ARTHUR HENDERSON, one-time
banker and sawmiller, now well-known
Brisbane broker
Australian industry lost a leader with
the passing, in Sydney, of Rostron Beve-
ridge Davies, at the age of 57. Born
in New Zealand, early in life Davies
came to Australia, and was brought up
in the hardware trade. After World
War I he foresaw the advantages of
manufacturing in the Commonwealth,
and established himself as a manufac-
turers’ representative towards this end.
In 1929 he formed R. B. Davies Pty.,
Ltd., and began manufacturing overseas
brands of door-locks, etc., under licence,
as well as a wide variety of general
builders’ hardware. During World War II
he and his company set up a Government
munitions annexe which was second to
none in efficiency. Today the R. B.
Davies organisation is the largest manu-
facturer of builders’ hardware in the
Commonwealth, and the fact that this
has been achieved with a minimum of
capital expenditure is indicative of
Davies’s vision, methods and efficiency.
His staff knew him as a firm but fair
employer, and he was widely known in
Rotary. He fought Capital Issues
Control to an out-of-court settlement of
his company’s request last year for per-
mission to raise additional money for a
new and strategic industry.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 82, F. S. Butler, for over 50
years medico health-officer in Beverley (W.A.),
where he started practice in 1900 after
medicoing in Victoria, N.S.W. and S. Australia.
A survivor of the days when the g.-p. used
horse-and-buggy on his rounds, he often varied
the procedure by making trips of over 60 miles
by railway-cycle.
In London, at 77, Samuel Romilly Roget,
grandson of Peter Mark Roget, M.D., F.R.S.,
compiler of the Thesaurus. Samuel made
several revisions of his grandfather’s publication
(the latest edition is his), and produced a
number of technical vocabularies himself,
including a revision for the British Standards
Institution of the “Glossary of Terms Used in
Electrical Engineering” and of the “Interna-
tional Electrochemical Vocabulary.”
In Brisbane, at 96, Thomas O’Sullivan, one-
time Queensland Cabinet Minister, Supreme
Court Judge and Australia’s oldest Q.C. Ad-
mitted as a solicitor in Ipswich (Q.) 75 years
ago, he made his name in the first 20 years of
the new century—becoming a K.C., Legislative
Assemblyman and Councillor (at different times
Public Works Minister, Agriculture Minister
and Attorney-General), District Court Judge
and, with the abolition of that court, elevated
to the Supreme Court. Trade and Customs
Minister O’Sullivan is a nephew.
* At 77, in Adelaide, R. Dale, pioneer A.W.U.
man, in the ’thirties Assembly representative
for Sturt, and, between 1944-47, for Adelaide.
In his day judged to be one of the fastest
blade-shearers in the State.


NATURE STUDY


ABORIGINALITIES
“The Missus”: The other evening at
7 o’clock I went for a walk. The sun
was setting in a cloudy sky, and the color
of the west and south was fiery enough
to suggest that the next day was going
to be a scorcher. Almost overhead a
half-moon, just past its zenith, was fol-
lowering the vanishing sun. As I watched,
a light covering of cloud, almost a mist,
swept across the moon, and, by some
trick of atmosphere or of light, it became
a half-orb of clear cold blue. Is this so
rare then as to give point to the well-
known phrase?
* * * *
“Warrabulla”; We are waiting round
the stable-yard as usual for orders when
the boss grabs me. “There’s a hundred
or so sheep between the fence and river
at the Five-mile. You and Joe go and
put ’em across.” So off we go on what
looks like an easy morning’s work—
and what happens? We muster them up
and drive them along to where the water’s
a foot deep and only 10ft. wide, and
urge them quietly and gently to step
across. They decline to do anything but
bleat apprehensively and break back
behind us. So Joe drags one over and
crouches behind it, emitting what he be-
lieves to be enticing and seductive sheep-
noises, to which the woolly sceptics on
my side pay no attention whatever. Leav-
ing the dogs to hold them, I drag across
another, and join Joe in a duet —a siren-
song of magnificent virtuosity, but com-
pletely ineffective. So we release our
decoys, which promptly bound back
across the stream. Next we drive ’em
along the water’s edge and suddenly rush
whooping at the leaders, hoping to
frighten them into plunging in; we
yell, and jump, and flap arms and hats;
we push and shove, in the hot sand and
blazing sun, until the jumbucks are
huddled in a panting mass. They’re still
this side along the water’s edge.
Worn-out, we fall under a tree
for a breather, and five minutes later
one old ewe lowers her head and with
a look of foxy cunning sneaks quietly
through the water with all the other pests
in her trail. Yet some people say we
shouldn’t export Merinos! I’d give the
whole lot away, if I could find somebody
mug enough to take ’em.
* * * *
T. C. Roughley: “Jackstay” (B.
18/2/’53) wonders whether the electric
rays I refer to in my book on
Australian fish and fisheries that
were consumed by sharks at Port
Stephens (N.S.W.) were bitten or
swallowed whole. Most of those
I saw were swallowed whole, and
there can be no doubt that the
sharks got the full force of the
electric discharge. Apparently they
don’t mind this, otherwise they
would avoid tackling the rays;
on the contrary, judging by the
quantity I found in their stomachs,
they appear to relish them, electric
shock and all. The sensation, I
imagine, would scarcely resemble
our eating of gorgonzola cheese,
but rather our drinking of neat
rum, 30 p.c. overproof. The ray
makes its presence felt all the way
down and no doubt a lovely
tingling sensation lingers in the
shark’s stomach. And who would
deny the friendless shark his tot
of rum? Mind you, the shark
wouldn’t feel the discharge as
severely as humans would, for its
nervous system is comparatively
poorly developed. It was quite
common at Port Stephens, also, to
find stingray spines stuck into the
sharks’ heads. As the ray was
grabbed it whipped its barbed
spine over and it stuck fast, so
the shark bit it off and let it stay there,
but the ray itself went the way of all
flesh.
♦ * * «
“Sackfair”; Domestication changes a
bush-bred galah’s menu even more than
“Tamana” reports (B. 11/2/’53). One
bird of my acquaintance used to sit on
the back of the boss’s chair and sample
everything handed behind to him on a
teaspoon ; the only thing I saw that raised
his feathers in ire was hot potato —and it
wasn’t from dislike of spud. And here’s
a point graziers can chew over on sleep-
less nights: That galah was not the only
one I’ve known whose idea of a choice
titbit was a nice, meaty piece of mutton-
chop bone. Perhaps in his wild state
the parrot is too good-natured to think
of attacking sheep, or maybe he is just
too much of a galah to realise that his
favorite tucker comes from those woolly
things roaming around the paddocks, but
"She's at it again!”
if he ever follows the lead of the kea,
his cousin in New Zealand —phew!
* * * *
“Shadow-chaser”: I’ll hand the palm
for keenness of sight to the kookaburra.
While doing over a wheat-stubble field
my cultivator occasionally evicted a
mouse from his cosy home. Two jackos
perched on different fence-posts more
than 200yds. away were immediately on
the wing in the race for a meal. And
those rodents were practically the same
color as the earth!
♦ * ♦ *
“Lemuel G.”: Being now (I hope) pro-
tected by the Statute of Limitations, I
can safely tell the story of the Great
Whisky Robbery which once disrupted
shearing at a Gascoyne River (W.A.)
shed. We’d just kicked off on the first
run of the day when the presser (an
ex-pug), his mate and a shearer showed
“It's about time they got rid of these floating mines.”
up, each full and highly belligerent.
Declaring shearing “off” for the day, they
stopped the engine, assaulted the “ex-
pert,” menaced the boss of the board and
remained in undisputed command of an
idle shed until the troopers came out and
lugged them off to the calaboose. Just
prior to their departure the mystery of
their condition was solved by a truck-
driver who’d camped at the shed over-
night—a case of Scotch destined for some
up-river squatter now contained only two
of its original dozen bottles. So, what
with theft added to charges of riotous
behavior, assault, offensive conduct,
language and resisting arrest, the boys
went on the jail woodheap for a long,
long time. But truly one man’s mis-
fortune may bring good to another. No
sooner were they safely locked away than
a native stockman came to me with thei
news that he’d found two bottles of the
pilfered joy hidden under a bush. Never
was advice more gladly given—I told
him to take one and keep his mouth shut,
whilst I whisked the other to my quarters,
where that evening a select party com-
pounded a felony until there wasn’t a
single drop left to compound it with.
Never since has whisky tasted so good—
and I’ve never been able to decide
whether it was the quality or the circum-
stances that made it so.
♦ ♦ * *
“Tamana”; To tell a budgerigar’s sex,
let the bird bite you; if it’s a cock the
bite hurts; if a hen it hurts even more.
Reason for the hen’s stronger bill is be-
cauise the housing problem is wholly
hers. The cock will do a casual turn at
sitting on the nest once it’s made. As
budgies nest mostly in decayed branches
and logs, Nature has given the hen an
extra-strong bill for the excavation work.
• * * *
“B. A. Ker”: In my barefooted days
1 was shown a square hole against the
westerly parapet of the historic Lans-
downe Bridge (N.S.W.) and told a grim
story with schoolboy relish: “When the
convicts were building this bridge one of
the guards crept up behind nine of them
as they stood in line and gave ’em a
shove. They were all chained together,
so when one fell all the others followed.
The soldier was bending over the hole
and laughing about it; but another con-
vict sneaked up and pushed him in, too.
And nobody ever saw any of ’em any-
more,” I was deliciously horrified.
When, years later, it occurred to me to
seek out the deathtrap, the hole to my
matured eyes looked remarkably similar
to any other gully-trap built to run the
surface water off a road. Then there
was the legend of the flogging-tree at
Toongabbie. So many convicts were
flogged there, and so much salt spilt as
it was rubbed into their bleeding backs,
that grass had never grown beneath the
tree since. As proof I was shown the
wide, bare circle around the trunk. As
Constitution Hill —a delightful spot to
have so grim a history—stood within
sight of the tree, it is feasible that a
triangle could have been there; but the
origin of the legend is not hard to con-
jecture. The leaves of eucalypts hang
vertically, exposing only the edges to the
sun; they neither block out the sun’s
rays nor deflect the rain, consequently
grass can and does grow right up to the
trees’ butts. Most imported trees hold
their leaves horizontally and grass will
not thrive on sunless, waterless ground.
If my memory is correct the tree was
an English oak.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Muskeen”: After its inundation on
completion of the Upper Yarra dam Mc-
Veigh’s hotel (B. 21/1/’53) will have
another monument, apart from its water-
wheel, which is to be removed
and re-erected near the new dam.
This is a beer-poster showing a
bearded, bowyanged old-timer standing
at the bar and holding a foaming one
with a handle. Underneath is the cap-
tion, “I alius have one at eleven.” Up
to 20 years ago this poster was on every
hoarding in Melbourne, and its disappear-
ance no doubt coincided with that of
the handle. However, replicas in tin may
still be come across. Only last month I
saw one on the veranda of the Strathbogie
Hotel in the heart of the Kelly country.
* * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”: We got a couple of
days’ Work in Narromine (N.S.W.) help-
ing a bloke knock up a tin shed at the
back of a store. The boss had another
building job down the street, needed four
sheets of corrugated-iron, and sent us
down to get them. There was a mizzle
of rain on at the time, so Mat and I
took two sheets each, put them on our
heads to keep the rain off, and headed
back to the job. Mat, in the lead,
rounded a corner. I heard a bump, a
flurry, and words. When I rounded the
corner Mat’s iron was on the ground ; so
were Mat and an elderly woman hed
encountered. We hurriedly picked her
up and apologised. “That’s all right,
she said. “But if you used an umbrella
when it rained you’d be able to see
where you’re going.”
LUNCH-TIME IN HARVEST
Under the gum-tree by the reeded lagoon
We drink tea and bite beef. The noon
Lies on the silky acres, bending them.
The silenced headers rest in a machine-like
dream
At the paddock’s corner, their chutes still
dropping straws
And husks in the hot wind that finds flues
In every hollow and in hands cupped to light
Cigarettes, Over the water rise the ducks in
flight—
Whistlers, with shadowy wings. Blue ants run
Across our boots and dry twigs crack like grain
In birds’ beaks as we shift and squat on our
heels.
And all our talk is of other harvests and
rainfalls,
And we decide this season is not bad:
Crop fairly dry in spite of the plaster mud
That sogs the soil under the heavy heads,
And twelve bags from that last acre. The sheds
Are filling and things should be reasonable or
right '
So long as grey Jim Steele doesn’t blight
Good chances by wishing down a flood. He
has pined
Too much for ’Ninety-three lately, and the land
drowned
In the damn’ Ccndamine. Why doesn’t he jump
In the lagoon if he likes the wet, the grand
old chump?
Lunch finished, and a wipe with the towel,
and a look at the sun,
And the station-wagon and the women gone,
We walk back to the paddock, and in our eyes
Are the harvest, heat, weariness, and the flies.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


“Boondall”: Before the long drought
broke in the N.T. surface water was non-
existent. Yet only odd tracks of bush-
cats were found around bores and
troughs, though the bush is alive with
them. While on a dry stage across Eva
Downs I came across cats up to 20 miles
from water. I’m a bit dubious of the
vampire idea, but then a round trip of
40 miles is a long way for a drink. Any
theories?
* * * *
“Tamana”: Storm damage to a flight
aviary in Healesville Sanctuary (Vic.)
caused liberation of 180 mixed birds,
including varied species of cockatoos,
parrots and parrakeets. Soon afterwards
they were clamoring for readmission. At
last finding a way, they all trooped back
inside again. And when a tree fell on
the lyre-birds’ pen, they, too, found them-
selves on the outside looking in. Clear-
ance of debris showing an entrance, the
mimics all marched home again with not
a harp-string missing.
* * * *
“M.J.C.”: Of all the sheep-dogs I’ve
owned and trained, the best were two
black kelpie bitches of faultless pedigree,
and they shared this honor in the district
with a golden mongrel, part-dingo, part-
collie —a thief, a liar, and proud of
In his life he committed every possible'
crime and suffered numerous thrashings
and was always penitent—for being
caught. Life for him was joy ; he would
work until he dropped and obey im-
plicitly a hand-signal over half a mile ;
and then, his work done, would pinch
the eggs, kill chickens and chase the
chooks. My pedigree-book suffered
many a drastic pruning as a result of
his activities. The end came with a
full-moon on a claypan when I shot him
and his dingo mate killing sheep. The
two bitches, whose working-names were
Scraps and Lassie, were both very cold to
strangers (anyone but me), with whom
they might work but for whom they were
“Not as good as the last brew—not enough snakes in it.”
damned if they would. With these three
I have brought 6700 sheep 30 miles,
thus: With the head of the mob out of
sight for hours, Scraps would camp them
when she reckoned it.was time and where
there wasnt any dog-burr. Lassie
wh° bwked if she rneded
help. The Bastard brought up the rear,
smelling every rabbit-hole and waiting
for the chance to jump on the back of
some unsuspecting old ewe, whose frantic
acceleration was a constant source of
mirth to him. Automatically while on
midday camp Scraps and Lassie would
take turns with me to watch the mob
while the Bastard (the forcing dog) would
sleep luxuriously. He didn’t know, or
want to know, how to hold a mob on
camp, or how to sit, and, what’s more,
he didn’t care. He always struck me as
a typical product of his country in
many ways.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: A variation of Mac’s
stunt of lifting the buggy over the pound
fence (B. 18/2/’53) was performed in
the early days on the mountain roads
around Walhalla and Wood’s Point (Vic.).
Some of these “highways” were little
more than shelves cut out of the moun-
tainside, and in most places not wide
enough for vehicles to pass. When a
buggy or a wagon going up met one
coming down, there was nothing to do
but take the lighter vehicle apart and
carry it piecemeal around the heavier.
When vehicles were approximately the
same weight the right-of-way was decided
on the avoirdupois of the respective
drivers.
* * * *
“Springvale”: We were snoring
soundly under canvas at Mud Bay,
Goodenough Island (N.G.), 1943, after
a gruelling 36-hour march over steep
terrain. About 1 a.m. I was rudely roused
by a shake of the shoulder, “Who’s
there?” I challenged, sitting up smartly.
“Sh-h!” whispered Bill. “Listen!” I
listened. All I heard was a chorus of ,
snores, but one particular snore was a
beauty. “That’s no human snore,” said
Bill, and proceeded to investigate. There
came a thud as of a falling body, an
ear-splitting squeal, then a ferocious
series of loud snorts. “Wild boar!” Bill
yelled. “After him —quick!” The entire
company gave chase. The boar charged
straight through the cookhouse, upsetting
a flour-bin. Last we saw of it was a
white flash headed for the jungle. Normal
snoring was soon restored.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: According to an article in
my city paper, written by someone who
thinks he is outback the minute he crosses
the Great Dividing Range, horses are no
longer used for mustering, even on the
big stations. Half-a-dozen station-hands,
as many dogs and a jeep are all that’s
required. The team is transported to a
distant paddock and turned loose on foot!
Well, the station-hand of today must be
much tougher than the lot I knew if they
can muster 25 or 30 square miles of scrub
and sandhills in, say, a February ram-
muster, among sheep that only see a man
three or four times a year and whose first
instinct is to go like bats out of hell in
the wrong direction. If some bloke can
handle, on foot, a couple of thousand
weaners just off shears and in a high old
state of jitters after 2t couple of days in
the yards and the shed —well, we must be
breeding a race of dinkum supermen
outback.
“S.A.K.”: “Riding the rods” (B.
4/2/’53) was qnce standard vertical travel
in Cornish timnines, where it was known
as “the man engine.” The first recorded
was in Germany about 1833, when steps
and hand-grips were attached to both
rods of a 600 ft. double-pump at equal
intervals, so by stepping from one to the
other at the end of each stroke the miner
made easy travel up or down. The idea
was extensively copied throughout Europe
and England, but for safety was usually
a single-rod engine with stages attached
to the sides of the shaft. With a 12ft.
stroke a miner could ascend 1800 ft. in
half an hour against one hour using
ladders, thus, in the working costs of the
“Hey! Duck down to my dressing-room and bring up my balancing-pole .”
last century, “saving on time sixpence to
ninepence per man.”
* ♦ * *
“5 G.R.”: Queerest near-tragedy my
old mob ever suffered was caused by the
Gurkhas’ insatiable love of honey. One
of the crowd was a beekeeper. He
robbed a mud hive and the men stuffed
their pockets with honeycomb. You can
see the rest. The men stuffing their
hands in their pockets, and the battalion
attacked by swarms of bees. Had the
tribesmen also attacked there could have
ensued a disaster. That’s why the old
Indian Army issued an order prohibiting
the robbing of beehives.
Sj! * * *
“5.4 E.”: For the horse-drawn coaches
(B. 16/12/’52) —and the last of them
went not so long back —they had the
mail-changes, spaced every 20 miles or
so, where the mail-contractors kept their
relays of horses and a man to have them
ready-yarded when the dusty thorough-
brace rolled in. Most of the change-
keepers ran a thriving sideline in the
shape of a “dining-room” for travellers —
usually a bough shed with seats and tables
set on posts in the earth floor, the waitress
being his bare-foot, ham-handed eldest
daughter, whilst the missus
toiled in the kitchen. The
menu invariably included
“mutton” its authenticity
somewhat clouded by the
goat-skins drying at the kill-
ing-pen—and “pork” if the
eldest boy had managed to
shoot a bush-pig in the last
day or two. The topmost
onion in the pickle-jar was
a huge, leathery, scarred
old veteran which had
stoutly defied the efforts of
generations of travellers
either to get him out or get
at the pickles below him;
fork-stabs and knife-jabs
alike failed to dislodge him.
In pickle-jars, too, was the
raspberry-jam, and he was a
clever diner indeed who
managed to scoop out on
the end of his knife enough,
in the time allowed, for
half-a-slice of bread. When
the drought broke and the
creeks came down, all hands
stayed at the mail-change
till they could get going
again. There might be any-
thing up to a dozen people
camping on the veranda
for a week or so, and the change-keeper
and his wife managed to feed them with-
out any aircraft to drop supplies—and he
wasn’t Ned Kelly when he made up his
charges, either.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Up Mulgaville way
we’re pretty proud of Bill Adams. Bill
used to be a very mild-mannered bloke
whom everybody made the butt for all
the district’s jokes. But Bill’s a changed
man now. It all started on the morning
of last Show Day when the sideshow
spruiker, after a few shrewd inquiries,
kidded Bill, with a quid advance-money,
to become acceptor of the lady wrestler’s
challenge to allcomers. Bill liquidated
most of the note at Moloney’s before he
made his appearance. Within a few
seconds the smiling Amazon, to the cheers
of a packed tent, had Bill in a seemingly
hopeless position with his head in chan-
cery. A moment later she was registering
acute distress, and, with a shrill squeal, she
bounded away with her hands clasping
that part of her anatomy into which Bill
had resourcefully sunk his teeth. The
sideshow spruiker, after swinging a punch
which bounded off Bill’s chin, bit the
sawdust as did a few moments later a
string of pugs from the boxing troupe.
Nobody plays jokes now on Bill, who’s
been promoted in his job at the butter-
factory. There’s talk of his running at
the next council elections.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: It had been raining
steadily for the best part of a week, and
the hands spent most of the time playing
crib, sleeping, arguing and simply lying
on their bunks staring at nothing. By
the Saturday you need only have winked
to start a fight. Little Curl, fed up,
accoutred himself in oilskins, mounted
and rode through the slush to town.
There, between drinks and more argu-
ments, he heard of creeks up, billabongs
overflowing and the big river well over
its banks. Just after dark on the Sunday
the weather cleared and L.C., slightly
befuddled, headed the prad for home.
He was
ambling
along half-
asleep in the
saddle when
h e became
aware that
the horse was
splash ing
through
water. Next
minute there
was a con-
vulsive heave
and Curl and
the mount
were up to their necks. Curl kicked
himself out of the stirrups, the horse
rolled, and Curl was adrift, floundering
in a strong current and being pulled down
by his oilskin. He got that off, with the
coat underneath it, swam with the current
and, in the dark, bumped into a big
stump. Curl got a grip on that stump,
got his breath, then got himself atop the
stump. He couldn’t see a thing, but he
could hear the water below him, so he
hunkered down on the stump and
decided to wait for daylight. The only
thing that kept him awake was being so
cold. Out at the station, meantime.
Curl’s non-appearance by midnight
caused concern. The town was tele-
phoned and replied that Curl had left
just after dark. As it was only five
miles, the alarm went out. Parties from
town and station rode the night. About
an hour later Curl heard a yell and re-
plied. His shouts guiding them, Fleming
and the boss rode to the stump. It was
on the bank of the creek and Curl could
have walked off it any time.
BUSH MUSIC
Micabil, Merriwee, Brolganba,
How musical are the names
Of the outback western stations
In the sun’s long golden flames.
Quietly our thoughts are turning
To the homesteads of the bush,
With a welcome for a traveller
Far from the city’s rush.
Down the track to Kiacatoo,
Let’s drift with the river past Gulgo,
Racing along' by the Overflow
On and on to Yalgo.
Kimaculla and Bedgerebong,
Wirralah ’midst the trees,
Wallamundry and Derriwong,
What names can sing like these?
N.S.W.
G WEN I. WESTON.


FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
Water for the farm, for the stock, for the pasture.
Water for our very life! That is the urgent call in
Australia today. It is urgent in Queensland, where
torrents fall in a tropical “wet” and pour out in floods
to the sea.
I suppose there is no country in the world to
which the conserving of water is more vital, and none
where there is as yet so little provision for storing it.
Geography, of course, has not been on our side.
The Great Dividing Range, sprawling the whole
eastern coastline from Cape York Peninsula to
Victoria, has shortened what could have been mighty
rivers washing the inland.
That brilliant Queenslander, the late Dr. Bradfield,
saw this, and put forward a plan for diverting the
flood of northern rivers through the range to water the
sheeplands of the West. Other eminent engineers threw
down his Thirty-Million Pounds theory as impractic-
able. They said the water would have dried and seeped
to a trickle before it could reach the sheep country.
However, it was a grand conception. It showed
the spirit of inspired boldness that Australians must
capture if they are to do justice to this bountiful
country.
I do not say the inland will ever have water
diverted from the coast. It may have, for little seems
impossible to modern engineering. One day we may
attempt it as something in grand reverse of what little
Holland is doing today—pushing back the sea and
reclaiming its lowlands. Meanwhile, let us not forget
the need for pressing on with every scheme that spells
water and wealth. Queensland in its coastal regions
has less than 100,000 acres under irrigation. With its
water resources, it is estimated there could be irrigation
of up to 20 times that area.
Looking into the water story, I couldn’t help
thinking what a tremendous blessing we have in the
Great Artesian Basin. More than half the area of
Queensland —350,000 square miles, to be exact —lies
over these water-bearing beds.
Their perennial flow sheds life on the sheep and
cattle industries, without which we would be a very
poor people indeed. The basin spills over into New
South Wales, South Australia and the Northern
Territory, but the greater part of it is in Queensland.
Bores within this State are gushing out 220 million
gallons a day. Most of it is lost in draining, and
authorities say that not more than 5 per cent, is
actually used by stock.
In 1914 the flow was 355 million gallons a day.
It is still diminishing, but so is the rate of diminution,
and the view of geologists who have investigated it is
that it is just slowing down to a steady condition.
How is this huge volume of water replenished?
The widely accepted view is that rainwater percolates
through outcrops of porous sandstone in an area
covering 30,000 square miles on the western slopes
of the Great Divide.... Nature, it seems, is striking her
own balance.
FINANCE
WRITER
WANTED
The Bulletin requires a
young accountant or economist
interested in financial journalism.
He must be interested in writing
as well as in finance. An opening
is offering on The Bulletin’s
financial pages for such a young
man, and prospects are excellent.
Inter-State applications will be
considered.
Address reply in own hand-
writing to
“Economist, **
“The Bulletin,”
Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
PAY
YOUB ACCOUNTS
T H £
MODERN WAY
1
r
a
r
\
A Commonwealth Bank Cheque
Account provides you with a safe,
speedy and convenient method of
paying accounts. No need to go
from place to place paying bills in
person, when you can so easily pay
by cheque.
Paying by cheque has other
advantages. It adds to your pres-
tige, shows clearly what you have
spent and where, and gives evi-
dence of payment in case of lost
receipts.
A Commonwealth Bank Cheque
Account is easy to open, simple to
use. Open one to-day. Cheque
Account facilities and complete
trading bank services arc available
at all Branches.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
“THE BANK YOU OWN*
All Branches provide
every trading bank service.
C&82542
Business.Rollery.Etc.
AN INTERESTING SHAREMARKET
The sharemarkets have been
uncertain in tone of late,
with isolated ups and downs of
a more definite character. Banks
as a group have been weak,
apparently partly as a result of
being under the spotlight at Can-
berra. Tooth shares in Sydney
have not maintained their new-
year price, and B.H.P. has
slackened a little, notwithstand-
ing reports of record steelworks
output. Associated Leather has
weakened slightly (to 16s. 6d.
for the 10s. shares) following
reports of some falling-away in
turnover.
John Mcllwraith Industries
(Melbourne), one of the more
stable stocks during last year’s
violent market fluctuations, has
maintained its interim div. at the
rate of p.c. p.a. Turnover is
still on a satisfactory scale,
though down a little on the
previous year’s rate. The 10s.
shares have been in demand at
around 21s. 6d., yielding 6 p.c.
at the current div.-rate. The co.
is a very old-established dealer in
plumbing supplies and the like.
British Tobacco was inclined
to weaken following the chair-
man’s announcement that the
co. would, at the appropriate
time, seek a more permanent
method of financing capital
needs, which at present were
partly represented by an over-
draft of £4.3 million (the result
of inflation and increased turn-
over upon stocks and book-
debts). He added that the board
was confident of “a much better
understanding of the co.’s
problems in price - control
circles.” Price-control has been
obstructive (and obstreperous)
in the past.
Buyers for Canada Dry shares
dropped their bids to Bs. sd. upon
publication of figures showing a
loss of £38,233 for the year to
September 30 last. Total losses
to date have been £49,419. Sell-
ing of the co.’s products began
on January 21, 1952. The
present summer in Sydney (since
the close of accounts) has not
been a favorable one for cordial-
manufacturers. The co.’s paid
capital is £400,000 in £1 shares.
It had an overdraft of £127,253
last balance-day. Since then a
loan has been arranged with
Charterhouse Investments for
£50,000. The shares went to
275. 6d. in 1951.
Howard Smith has raised its
dividend from 6 p.c. to 7 p.c. for
the year to December 31. The
shares have risen to 325,, com-
pared with a last sale in January
of 30s. 3d. The co. has a wide
range of industrial investments
and coal and shipping interests.
One associate, Caledonian
Collieries, in which H.S. owns
325,034 prefs. as well as 869,539
ords., has, since the close of
accounts, declared a div, of two
years’ pref. arrears, representing
2s. a share. Ten years’ arrears
remain*
The return to the div.-list by
Carpet Manufacturers with a
4 p.c. interim (2 p.c. tax-free)
was followed by a rise of Is. 6d.
a share (to 295. 6d,). Last year
a total of 5 p.c. was paid.
A tax-free interim of 5 p.c.
from F. J. Walker explains the
recent strong support for the
scrip, which has been above 19s.
Last year the interim (tax-free)
was 4 p.c,, with a taxable final
and bonus of 6 p.c. A total of
10 p.c. for the current year seems
probable ; trading results for the
half-year to December 31 are
reported to have been “very
satisfactory,”
F. W. Hughes Industries,
engaged in most of the activities
deriving from the sheep (from
the station to the looms and
canneries), has yet to see par for
its 20s. shares. They have lately
been around 19s. 9d. Possibly
the F. J. Walker results are a
pointer to how some, at least, of
the Hughes activities are faring.
The season, on the whole, has
been good.
Though Malcolm Moore
Industries (Melbourne civil and
mechanical engineers) has main-
tained its interim at 10 p.c.
(20 p.c. p.a.), the market has been
disinclined to advance its bids
above 41s. for the fully-paid
shares. At that price the yield is
9.5 p.c. on a 20 p.c. basis.
In Sydney, Swans’ (manufac-
turing and retail hardware)
shares were offered at 40s. to
yield 6,2 p.c. on a 12} p.c. div.
basis. Yield and capital are well
protected.
There was a considerable turn-
over in the ss. shares of Ford
Sherington Holdings in Sydney
last Thursday, when 1200
changed hands at Bs. sd. and
Bs. 6d., with buyers still unsatis-
fied. There is still enough in tax-
free reserves to pay 10 p.c. tax-
free for the next four years. The
co. controls the Globite and
Fordite suitcase factories. At
Bs. 6d. the present yield is a shade
under 5.9 p.c., tax-free.
One of the most spectacular
market increases in the uncer-
tainties of the past 12 months
has been that in Mauri Bros,
and Thomson brds. After the
bonus issue was made the old
shares fell to 385., when they
were pointed out on this page.
They sold at 545. last week, just
prior to the interim-div, declara-
tion (4 p.c.). Prior to the bonus
and cash issue the co. paid
interim 5 p.c., final 5 p.c, and
bonus 5 p.c. for many years
(total 15 p.c. p.a.). It remains
to be seen whether three equal
4 p.c. distributions will be forth-
coming this year. The co. deals
in bottlers’, bakers’ and brewers’
supplies, and controls the
Crown-seal business in Aus-
tralia. It is strongly established.
In the mining-share market
support for Associated Aus-
tralian Oil shares sagged as test-
ing of the oil sands at 3520 ft.
was held up because of defects
in the equipment. Compara-
tively small quantities of oil
have been discovered in similar
circumstances at Roma before,
but never in commercial
quantities. The violent ups and
downs in Associated shares over
thp past two or three weeks are
indicative of a punters’ market.
Upon the declaration by King
Island Scheelite’s chairman that
the contract with the U.K. Gov-
ernment for concentrates ran on
until February, 1956, and the
one with the U.S. Government
until December, 1957, and that
good profits were expected so
long as costs did not increase
excessively, there was a streng-
thening in K.I.S. scrip from 365.
to 375. 6d, The co. aims to
increase throughput from about
4000 tons a week to 5000 tons.
Following publication of the
co.’s statutory report, there was
a sharp drop in Rye Park
Scheelite Is.-paids—from Is. Id.
to lOd. Tungsten Consolidated,
in the same stable, has also
weakened to 4s, 3d. When the
Rye Park issue was offered in
November as it was heavily
oversubscribed.
Rye Park Scheelite
In one respect, at any rate,
the directors of Rye Park
Scheelite, NX. (floated last
November), have been smartly
off the mark. According to a
statutory account made up to
February 4 they have already
collected £750 in directors’ fees.
The co. offered the public
3.100.000 2s. shares (Is. payable
with application), and reserved
1.900.000 shares for cash sub-
scription by the vendor of the
Rye Park mine, Tungsten Con-
solidated, Ltd. The issue was
oversubscribed, and of the
£295,827 received in application-
money, £45,827 was refunded.
Vendor’s consideration, pay-
able to Tungsten Consolidated,
was £145,000; this, with £1450
of stamp-duty on leases added,
is the largest item of outgo in
the statutory statement. It
appears as a cash payment in the
statement, and no shares were
issued for consideration other
than cash. Presumably Tungsten
Consolidated exercised its right
to take up 1,900,000 shares for
cash, which would represent a
payment by it of £95,000 in
application-money. Brokerage
has been paid only on the
3.100.000 shares offered to the
public, and it figures in the
account at £12,916.
After meeting the before-
mentioned items and paying out
£30,866 in mine-preparation,
drilling, plant, preliminary exes.,
etc., the co. had £59,136 of the
original £250,000 in hand on
February 4, The next call should
provide a greater amount for
actual mining purposes.
Though diamond-drilling by
the vendor co. suggested that
high scheelite values might be
obtained. Rye Park as a mine has
yet to be proved. The ore
appears to be heavily
mineralised; 20 different
minerals were reported in the
ore by the Bureau of Mineral
Resources, and the co. itself later
spoke of a discovery of gallium.
Last week Rye Park shares
dropped to lOd. —the first time
they have fallen below their issue
price. Tungsten Consolidated
scrip was also weaker at 4s. 3d.
The overseas price of tungsten
has been weakening.


sdf
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee,
Established IS6B
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSIIIXIVAIV
mua
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Gables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
FRENCH
ICorn Cure!
Cures Callouses and Corns
■ Aviiihhle at
[Anthony Horderns 9 ]
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines)' C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
rr gM*
Ms,. *»;».
a
X
m
m
jr
AN .
'\\s V
H\»
i
rx
p*
'blacksmith's Epic Flight
PARIS 1679
EWS has just reached us that the Sieur
Besnier, a smith of Sable, has crossed the river
Rhone from a high place on a flying machine of his own
invention. It consists of two poles, with, at each end, a
folding framework covered with taffeta. He held the poles
on his shoulders and attached their rear ends by cords to his
feet. The wings were arranged to fold on the upward stroke.
By alternate strokes of the left and right wings Besnier
maintained his flight. After he had landed Besnier said, “I
had no trouble at all. There was only three eighths cloud at
1,000 metres, and visibility was 20 kilometres. I believe that
flying has come to stay. This is all right for 1679. But
wait till 1952, when men will fly across the world, efficiently
fuelled, of course, by the BP Aviation Service.”
SERVICE
AVIATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REElfelEBIES.LTD., All States.
A wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
London Airmail
From Herbert Flolman
Since our eastern seaboard
from the Humber to the Isle of
Thanet remains in a state of siege
against possible further depreda-
tions from the ferocious sea, a
full assessment of the damage
done to life and property is not
yet available. Measured in terms
of both actual and potential loss,
the final count must be
enormous.
The setback to home produc-
tion of food is immensely serious.
About three-fifths of the
250,000 flooded acres are richly
fertile. The crop of winter wheat
is ruined and, where inundated
by seawater, the land must
lie fallow for five years or so.
Despite the expressions of
practical sympathy from far and
wide, and the Government’s
resolve to treat the disaster as a
national issue, recovery must be
slow, for the resources of money,
materials and labor —particularly
the last—are not plentiful.
It is now acknowledged that
the disaster might have
been far worse. Except for
Canvey Island, the inundated
areas were sparsely populated,
and although hurricane combined
with spring-tides to excite
the seas there was little
rain to swell the floods. The
sum total of storm damage in
the whole of Great Britain is
trivial compared with the
appalling havoc and suffering in
the Netherlands. And, from an
economic standpoint, Holland’s
shock is cruelly heavy: the loss
of agricultural exports alone is
sufficient to shift the national
balance from credit to debit.
The ravages of the weather in
our supposedly temperate climate
over the short period of six
months make grim reading : In
August the North Devon floods ;
in December the grime-choked
fog in London which was so
severe as to asphyxiate healthy
cattle at the Dairy Show and
which caused more human
deaths than a major epidemic;
the gale on January 31 which
sank a passenger steamer, with
heavy loss of fife, in the Irish
Sea; and the same gale which,
abetted by the tides, went on to
wreak havoc on both sides of the
approach to the English Channel.
Cold Comfort
This being the time of year
when, because of blizzards and
snowdrifts in the mining dis-
tricts, supplies of coal normally
become scarce, it’s cold comfort
to the householder to learn that
the Coal Board has had to
capitulate to the evergrowing
intransigence of the miners.
What has happened is that the
miners, British labor’s pluto-
crats, held a pistol at the head
of the Coal Board by refusing
to work on Saturdays unless they
had more money. A Communist-
provoked claim for a quite-
unrealistic increase of 30s. a
week was eventually whittled
down to 65., adding about 6d. to
the price of a ton of coal. But,
because the Coal Board has
carried forward a large deficit,
the increase per ton will be about
:SS.
The consequences are too well
understood to need outlining.
The cost of electricity and gas
will rise almost at once; then
transport; then pretty nearly
everything else at varying
intervals. Thus our basic com-
modity, which was once the
source of our wealth, is now
virtually anti-social as the prime
instigator of the whirring spiral.
So much for “the common
ownership of the means of
production, distribution and
exchange.”
The “Times’s” labor corres-
pondent has recently toured the
coalfields and published his
findings. Three areas —York-
shire, Northumberland and
Scotland —have their differing
local characteristics, but all
share an utter distrust of their
board. Yorkshire has the worst
record, with over 630 stoppages
last year, an average weekly loss
of 46 per cent, of the national
total, and an absentee rate of
20 per cent Absenteeism
“happens most often on fine
days and particularly when there
is some attractive sporting event
in the district” —and this at a
personal cost of £4 or more for
the day’s holiday. Northumbrian
and Cumbrian miners are steady
workers, but are in bitter enmity
with the board, while the Scots-
men’s unions are Communist-
cOntrolled.
This much seems clear: the
miner is overprone to
parochialism, testiness and pre-
judice. His sense of grievance
is an unfortunate but chronic
manifestation, due no doubt to
the dirty and dangerous nature
of his work and to his sufferings
in the past. But it is also too-
easily roused. One Communist
sympathiser in a pit is enough to
ensure that feelings are kept
inflamed. And, although the
English unions succeeded in oust-
ing the Communists from key
positions, it cannot be over-
looked that the general-secretary
of the National Union of Miners
i s himself an important Com-
munist.
xhe Soviet planners must
sure ly wish to cripple the British
coal industry. If it is not crippled
j s anything but flourishing,
Meanwhile, knowing the back-
g roun d ? the Coal Board is striv-
j ng to over t fi e miners by an
energetic public-relations cam-
p a jg n>
' a ct - ca l solution of our
£ ue j pro M em one authority sug-
gests a nationally-inspired fuel-
campa i gp and that just
a E ou f expresses the general lack
a rea | confidence in a
fi r j g fi te j future for the coal
j n( j ps t rv
y '
Plays New and Old
Roger MacDougall’s play,
“Escajlade”' (St. James’s), has
given a salutary jolt to our actor-
dominated theatre without, per-
fi aps> establishing him as a
second Shaw. But here is an
author who evidently means to
serve his actors by leading them
f rom W ell in front, instead of
half-heartedly propping them up
from behind. He genuinely
creates, and that is Refreshingly
new.
An inconsequential extravan-
ganza upon modern instances,
“Escapade” has no considerable
plot; and what it has is fantastic
to the point of absurdity. Most
effective theatrically, there is a
suggestion of Anouilh, but with-
out his astringent pessimism,
Not since Shaw’s heyday has any
playwright tilted at so many con-
temporary targets with such a
profusion of epigram. The touch
is sure and light, like the
cartoonist’s pen.
A bumptious author (Nigel
Patrick) is a pacifist and “peace”
advocate. In stormy conference
with other “peace” delegates, he
is rudely interrupted by a serious-
minded headmaster (Ernest
Clark) who threatens to expel
one °f his three sons for unmiti-
gated belligerency. This is only
the beginning of adolescent
precocity, and it transpires that
one Q f the sons (who combines
the learning of Erasmus with the
dynamism of Napoleon and the
intrepidity of Lindbergh) has
inspired the school to revolt at
the folly of adult man, and is on
his way to U.N.O. to set the
world right. All this—surpris-
ingly effective for mere hearsay
—is complicated by the rebellion
of the long-patient wife (Phyllis
Calvert) against the author’s
inflated ego, giving to the second
act almost an entire scene of
uproarious irrelevance.
MacDougall enjoys breaking
the rules and flaunting the
dramatic conventions. He is
more successful when witty artd
puckish than when serious. The
rule that farce and straight drama
never mix is apparently inviol-
able. Particularly when, as here,
the audience is expected to feel
sympathy for a whole batch of
characters it has never been
allowed to see.
Culture continues its westward
migration. Donald Wolfit, in
vigorous competition with John
Gielgud, has opened a season at
the King’s Theatre, Hammer-
smith, with a double bill of
Greek tragedy. Shadows so
fearfully cast before, and the
relentless march of disaster, give
a certain stark grandeur to
“CEdipus the King,” but its
sequel, “CEdipus in Exile,” is too
much of a feast by a large platter
of leaden duff. Sophocles’s
verse, in this new translation, is
stodgy and flat-footed; nor is
declamation a valid substitute
for drama. Wolfit, needless to
say, plays CEdipus in both plays,
and stands out prominently from
a cast that is anything but
homogeneous.


v--
Sl® S IB
mm
P |P tr,
ECr
: i
33-39 HUNTER ST-
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Are you an Executor or Trustee?
If so, have you considered transferring your responsi-
bilities to Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)?
Almost every day of the year someone is faced with the
responsibility of accepting the Executorship of a Will of
some person who has died.
Should you find yourself in this position, you may
discover, as many others have, that you can transfer the
burden of this work to Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited). It would be wise in such cases, before taking
any steps at all, to confer with one of our Senior Officers.
The services of Perpetual Trustee Company Limited are
also available where a grant of Probate (or Letters of
Administration) has already been obtained, or even where
an Estate has been in existence for a long period.
Why not write, or telephone 80377, to-day, for an
appointment?
DIBECTOBS:
A. J. PLAYPAIE. M.L.C., Chairman;
B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
LYSAQHT; SAMUEL HOBDEEN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. Q. ABMYTAQE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS,
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank, Ltd.
Net Dividends. To
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
& stg - £ Btg. £ stg. £ stg.
1945.. 140,419 122,250 18,169 3,693,545
Currency-adjustment reserve dis-
appears, £1,585,000 .. .. 2,108,545
9.16 p.c.
1946.. 155,326 151.250 4,076 2,112,621
10 p.c.
190>92 ° 165,000 25,920 2.138.451
1948.. 200,732 165.000 35,732 2,174,273
1949.. 202,965 165,000 37,965 2,212,238
J 9 f?-- 224,310 165,000 59,310 2,271,548
loco” 218,883 157,500 61,383 2,332,931
1952. . 192,520 157,500 35,020 2,367,951
After deducting payments to staff funds.
Events have moved rapidly since the
last accounts of this now-century-old
Anglo-Australian, trading bank were made
up, sent to London, where the head-
quarters are, and back to Australia again.
Some of the banking and other trends
of the first half of 1952 have been re-
versed. Also, the Government has just
brought down two banking-reform bills
chief purposes of which are: (1) to pro-
tect the private trading banks against
“unfair” competition from the ordinary
banking division of the Commonwealth
Bank; (2) to provide safeguards in
respect of the central bank’s power to
freeze” funds on “special-deposit
account ; and (3) to give the private
trading banks a greater measure of
freedom in several minor respects.
The new legislation will, however, still
retain all the essentials of the system by
which the central bank has exercised
control over banking and credit during
and since the war, but will render them
less arbitrary. The really vital changes
are those stated in purposes (1) and (2)
above, the broad aim being to preserve
the competitive banking system which
grew up out of free enterprise and which
the last “Labor” Government sought to
destroy by a network of restrictions and
by a piece of legislation which was
abortive.
The general banking division of the
Commonwealth Bank is to be given a
separate corporate existence under the
name of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank. For purposes of central-bank
control, it is to be placed on exactly
the same footing as all other trading
banks in Australia; that is to say, it
will be subject to the same “special-
deposit” requirements and will be obliged
to observe all directives issued by the
central bank in respect of trading-bank
credit policy, interest rates, etc. Chief
weakness in the set-up —and it has been
subject to strong and well-founded
criticism—is that the new institution will
still be subject to control and direction
by the central-bank board, which is to
decide its policy and select its general
manager, who will “carry out his duties
under the governor” of the central bank.
“Special-account-deposit” obligations
—chief instrument in central-bank
control of the volume of private credit
are to be put on a more equitable
basis. The old ceiling for these accounts
was the amount so deposited by a bank
at August 2, 1945, plus the whole of
the increase in the bank’s Australian
assets since July, 4945. The new ceiling
is to be the amount so deposited at
August 10, 1952, plus 75 p.c. of the
increase in the bank’s average deposits
since September, 1952. This will wipe
out the potential danger of a large un-
called liability to the central bank under
the old ceiling, and, together with other
provisions, enable the trading banks to
plan their commitments with greater con-
fidence.
In addition to its central-bank func-
tions, the Commonwealth Bank will still
continue to engage in trading operations
through its rural-credits, mortgage-bank
and industrial-finance departments.
In the considered opinion of the
private trading banks, which was placed
before the Government, all trading
departments of the Commonwealth Bank
should be separated from the central
bank and placed under a separate board
and management. They also consider
that “freezing” of 15 p.c. of a bank’s
deposits on “special account,” with power
to increase the proportion to a maximum
of 30 p.c. for six months under excep-
tional circumstances, would provide a
more equitable and workable basis for
statutory reserve-deposits, and enable all
parties to assess their position with more
clarity and certainty. They also made a
number of other useful suggestions
designed to improve the flexibility of
the whole banking system, and more
good than harm would result had a
greater proportion of them been adopted.
During the year to lune 30 last, a fall
in export income, flood of imports, heavy
drain on overseas funds and some dis-
location of our internal economy resulted
in a shrinkage of £11,139,284 in the
E., S. and A.’s deposits, a growth of
£12,855,691 in advances and contraction
of £26,474,682 in liquids:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £ 3,000,000
Notes .. 796 796 796
Deposits, etc. 91.889,458*120,795,707*109,656,423*
Other banks, etc. 3,904,507 4,619,086 2,285,607
Tax reserve .. 711,107 799,838 859,796
Final div. .. 110,000 105,000 105,000
Liquids .. 58,569.946 t 72,530,992 f 46,056,310 t
Advances .. 45,270,957 57,808,695 70,664,386
Premises .. 934,465 1,136,786 1,377,992
Subsidiary co. 112,078 176,885 176,885
* Includes special deposit from Commonwealth Bank,
£5,583,250,1950; £10,568,295.1951; £9,411,765,
1952. f Includes special account with Common-
wealth Bank, £85,211.964, 1950 ; £44,583,848, 1951,
£20,216,949, 1952.
Of the contraction in liquids, £24,366,899
was in respect of “special-account”
deposits with the C. 8., which carry in-
terest at the rate of 10s, p.c. p.a., reduc-
ing them to £20,216,949 when the books
closed. In addition to the amount thus
released, the co. had borrowed from the
C.B. at 3i p.c. a further £9,411,765 of
the total it had deposited on “special
account.” The co. thus deliberately
curbed its own earning-power in order
to assist clients.
The slip of £26,363 in net earnings
was due to the growth in exes., mainly
wages. The £192,520 of profit claimed
was a modest 3.5 p.c. on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined),
or 6.4 p.c. on capital alone as against
7.2 p.c. and 7.4 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years. The div. was kept at a
nominal 10 p.c., which U.K. income tax
of 9s. 6d. in the £ reduces to 5i p.c. (stg.),
equal to 6.56 p.c. in Australian currency
at the present rate of exchange.
Since the close of accounts the earlier
drift in the overseas payments position
has been reversed, due mainly to the
heavy restriction of imports (now being
eased on a selective basis) and partly
to a rise in export income. And, speak-
ing generally, traders have been able to
work down some or most of their excess
stocks without serious mishap and im-
proved their own liquidity. As the situa-
tion eased bank advances have been
i educed, deposits have grown, and the
liquid position of the banks has
strengthened. Also, there has been a
hardening of interest rates and levelling-
out of wage and other costs.
At £5 16s. 6d. (£6 9s. a year ago) the
co.’s £5 shares paid to £3 give an im-
mediate return of 3.4 p.c. on the basis
of last term’s distribution. That is after
allowing for U.K. tax and exchange, and
subject to adjustment in connection with
double taxation. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £5 14s. 2d.
Australian Cement, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends, Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 66,378 8 p.c. = 60,835 5,543 330,914
1944.. 65,988 8 „ „ 60,835 6,153 336,067
1945.. 65,513 8 „ ~60,835 4,678 340,745
1946.. 65,818 8 ~60,835 4,983 845,728
1947.. 65,168 8 ~60,835 4,333 350,061
1948.. 66,343 8 „ ~60,835 5,508 355,569
1949.. 66,470 8 „ „ 60,835 6,635 361,204
1950. . 66,266 8 „ „ 60,835 6,431 866,635
Reserves capitalised, £114,065.. .. 252,570
Share premiums, £18,317 .. .. 270,887
Unexplained reduction, £755 .. .. 270,132
1951.. 69,922 8 p.c. = 69,876 46 270,178
Share premiums, £18,317 .. .. 288,495
1952.. 76,773 8 p.c. = 75,821 952 289,447'
The outlook for shareholders is an en-
couraging one. To get the business
into perspective it is first necessary to
remember that Australian Cement and
Kandos are two holding cos., being equal
partners in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., which took over the holding cos.’
plants at Fyansford (Vic.) and Kandos
(N. S. Wales) towards the end of 1929.
And the partnership has been a success-
ful one. For the five years to 1934 Aus-
tralian Cement paid divs. averaging 8 p.c.,
followed by three lots of 10 p.c., one of
1H P-c. and then a regular 8 p.c. for the
10 years to the close of last accounts.
To meet the growth in post-war
demand and cater for the prospective
needs of an expanding economy, most
of the big cement-producers have ex-
panded their plant-capacity of recent
years. At Fyansford Australian Portland
recently modernised two big rotary kilns,
together now capable of turning out
260.000 tons cement p.a., and also in-
stalled a third but smaller unit, capacity
50.000 tons p.a. And the Kandos plant,
which used to have a capacity of 200,000
p.a., has been modernised and expanded,
too. The increase in kiln-capacity has
meant considerable additions to ancillary
equipment as well. To help finance the
work the operating co. increased its paid
capital from £2,000,000 in 1948 to
£2,500,000 last term by par issues, and
will presently ask its shareholders (the
holding cos.) for more. Combined
annual capacity of the two plants now
exceeds 500,000 tons cement, or about
40 p.c. of total Australian production.
Australian Cement met its half of the
capital increase mostly from accumulated
cash resources. In January, 1951, it
offered those on its own register 73,269
new £1 ords. at a premium of Ids. each,
and at the same time distributed £114,065
of bonus-scrip, three for 20, thus taking
the sting out of the premium and lifting
paid capital to £947,766. A year ago the
declared intention was to ask shareholders
for more late in 1952, but the amount
and terms of the contemplated issue have
not yet been announced.
At November 30 last Australian
Cement’s capital, reserves and £6O com-
ing to outsiders were represented by
shares in the operating co. £1,250,000 (up
£100,000), shares in Bates (Aus.) Pty.,
which makes the paper bags the cement
is packed in, £3750, and Government
securities, cash, etc., £24,561.
The operating co., over whose figures
the curtain is kept drawn, aims to supply
the entire cement requirements of Vic-
toria ; in N. S. Wales it shares the market
with five other including the
recently-formed Metropolitan Cement
Co., which has already gone heavily into
debt. The Fyansford and Kandos plants
are both highly-efficient and moderately-
capitalised production units, and that
ought to mean much in the years ahead,
when competition gets more of an edge
on it.
Since 1943 the operating co.
appears to have sent along a regular 6 p.c.,
as against 9 p.c. for the five years before
that. The margin between its earnings
and distributions is believed to be com-
fortable ; so the 8 p.c. paid by Australian
Cement might be a much more comfort-
able matter than it looks. Net earnings
in the industry are governed largely by
the relative levels of output, selling-prices,
which are controlled, and costs, which
have recently lost a lot of their former
buoyancy.
The market prices Australian Cement’s
i.-p. £1 shares at 40s. 6d, (465. a year
ago) to give an immediate return of
3.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 5.1 p.c. on his
money counts on, say, a one-for-eight
new share-issue at par and a lift in the
div. from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c.
Kauri Timber Co.
Kauri Timber and Subsidiaries.!
/ Dividends > To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1948 133,408 6J 48,750 84,658 163,173
.Net reserve adjustments, £15,505 .. 178 678
Added intangibles, £101,174 .. 77.504
1949 « j 06,182 6 * 48,750 157,432 234.936
Reduction intangibles, £26,763 .. 261.699
Net reserve adjustment, £35,537 .. 297,236
1950. .288,236 5 8 81,250 151,986 449,222
To taxation, £8822 440,400
Capital profit, £2624 .. .. 443^024
Added intangibles, £92,109 .. .. 350,915
Reduction reserves, £40,617 .. 310 298
1951. .382,128 5 8 85,000 297,123 607,421
To taxation, £5311 606,110
Capital profit, £3844 605,954
Added reserves, £85,387 .. .. 691,291
Added intangibles, £366,225 .. 325,060
1952. .281,109 5 8 85,000 196,109 521,175
♦After deducting intangibles, now £882,007.
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
Last term’s contraction of £101,014 in
the net earnings of this big timber group
—largest of its kind in Australasia—was
due to the drop in turnover during the
last half of the period, owing to develop-
ments in the building trade, as well as
to rising costs and some price-cutting
following excessive imports of Baltic and
southern European timbers.
Still, the £281,109 -of profit shown
covered the pref. div. (£25,000) and
34.1 p.c. on the £750,000 of ord. capital
as against 47.6, 28.3, 27.5 and 17.7 p.c.
back to 1948. The profit was written
after deducting outside shareholders’
interests and allowing £179,691 (down
£55,244) for depreciation, £365,817 (down
£62,231) for taxation and £lO,Bll for
losses in two subsidiaries. It also leaves
out of the reckoning £5311 underprovided
for taxation in the previous year, a
capital profit of £3844 and an unexplained
addition to reserves of £85,377 net, partly
in connection with businesses taken over
during the year. The acquisitions also
added £366,225 to the difference between
par and book-value of shares in sub-
sidiaries (now £868,256), which is more
than covered by aggregate reserves, as
the figures in the table show.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c., and, be-
cause of the heavy outside debt and other
things, including the, stocks position, it
might not be lifted in a hurry. From
the investor’s point of view that puts the
emphasis on long-term prospects for the
scrip. These are encouraging, subject, of
course, to economic and other develop-
ments over which the management has
no control.
The co.’s big freehold and leasehold
timber stands are in New Zealand, West-
ralia, Tasmania, Victoria and the
Solomon Islands ; the mills and merchan-
dising organisation are scattered through-
out the Dominion and the Australian
States, except N. S, Wales ; and there are
drying-kilns and plywood- and box-
making-plants in the Dominion and at
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Expansion, by absorption and other-
wise, has been rapid during the post-war
period, and has been financed mainly on
5 p.c. pref. (£500,000) 4 p.c. debenture
(£715,000) moneys, redeemable during the
periods 1955-68 and 1962-67 respectively.
Last term the business of F. H. Haines
Pty., which owns freehold hardwood
forests, a sawmill and a general hardware
store at Devonport (Tas.), was taken over
at an unstated figure. And a controlling
interest was bought (also at an unstated
figure) in Cafpirco, Ltd., and Case Pro-
ducts, Ltd. The first-named owns forest
freeholds of Pinus radiata near Mt.
Gambier (S. Aus.), from which the second
co. makes wood shooks, mainly for
casings used in the export trade. In the
parent’s accounts shares in subsidiaries


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Smnmr
B
Wf
$
(Ta
The Intensive research and
accumulated knowledge of
precision engineering dur-
ing 100 years of watch
making result in the pro-
duction of to-day's
Lavina—l7-jewelled
Swiss master-
pieces.
9
<9 /'. mm
m
ki
lAvm
WATCHES
n jewelled
a sferpieces
LW27.61
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut
Special Latakia Pipe Mixture*
in 2oz. packets at 28/6 per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
H EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHBB, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Missing Friends
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
the wife of the late DAVID WILLIAM
POLLOCK SOOVELL formerly of Car-
negie, Victoria, a returned serviceman of
1914-18 War, is requested to communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO., 472
Bourke Street, Melbourne, to her advantage.
THE Public Trustee requests JOHN
THOMAS McDONOUGH, who was last
heard of in Albury or Wagga, or any
person claiming through him as entitled
to share in the estate of MARY McGEE,
deceased, to communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
WILL STANLEY EDGAR BAYNHAM,
formerly of Steamship “Beatrice N,” or
anyone with information as to his where-
abouts, communicate with STEPHEN
JAQUES & STEPHEN, 7 Wynyard Street,
Sydney ?
WATSON, George, who left Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada, some years ago, believed
to be in Australia. There were four sons,
John, Jim, Robert, George, and one
daughter, Mary. Please write to Mary.
—MRS. MARY SIMPSON, 33 Raith Place,
Bothwellhaugh, Bothwell, Lanarkshire,
Scotland.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO OSWALD GREEN late of 14 Arcadia
Street Chester Hill near Sydney in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that LEONARD MALCOLM
AERIA has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2158 of 1951 against his wife, CAROL
ZONIA AERIA on the ground of her
adultery with you If you wish to defend
the suit you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Swlpet Sydney by the 13th day of May
1353 and obtain a copy of the Petition
free of charge from ERIC E. ROSEN-
DAHL, Solicitor, 39 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
mm
m
m
m
m
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE WfITD.
{lnc. in Q’ld. 1895)
'ewtce
FOR 58
YEARS
Over the years funds of the A.M.L.
have been applied to aiding
national development, and its
sound and progressive policy has
provided a financial bulwark for
thousands of Australians.
every year a bonus year.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney. BWBO6I
TODAYS PROTECTION-TOMORROWS SECURITY
FOB INFORMATION ONLY: The requirements of Section 13T of the Companies Act 1936 of the State of
New S'outh Wales have not been fully complied with in this advertisement, which is an abridgment of the
full prospectus. A copy of the full prospectus dated the 24th day of February, 1953, has been tiled with
the Registrar-General of the State of New South Wales, who takes no responsibility as to its contents.
GIPPSIAND INDUSTRIES LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria on 28th May, 1952)
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF 456,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF 5/- EACH.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each £1,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL
244.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each 61,000
PRESENT ISSUE
456.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each are now offered for
public subscription ~ 114 » 000
£175,000
HELD IN RESERVE
3,300,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each £825,000
v DIRECTORS
RICHARD HASTINGS ALLEN, Stockbroker.
“Cumberland,” Edgecliff Square, Edgecliff, N.S.W. .
NOEL KENRIC STEVENS BRODRIBB, C.8.E., F.R.1.C., A.R.A.C.1., Chemical
Engineer, 453 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne, Victoria.
STEVEN GOTTLIEB, D.Sc., A.M.I.E. (Aust.), Engineer.
38 Westbury Street, East St. Kilda, Victoria.
WILLIAM MURDOCH MCLENNAN, Company Manager.
Powlett Street, East Melbourne, Victoria.
GABRIEL SELMAR REICHENBACH, Solicitor.
53 Gordon Street, Clontarf, N.S.W.
REGISTERED OFFICE
157 Queen Street, Melbourne.
I UNDERWRITING RROKERS TO THE ISSUE
MESSRS. PATRICK R. LEVY & ALLEN.
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
MELBOURNE BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
MESSRS. GUEST & BELL,
409 Collins Street, Melbourne (Members of the Melbourne Stock Exchange).
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY. The Company has been formed to establish at Traralgon,
in the Gippsland area of Victoria, a cement manufacturing plant using the modern vertical
kiln process. This plant will be the first of its kind to be used in Australia and its assembly
and operation are being supervised by Dr. Steven Gottlieb—a world-renowned authority on
ADVANt'aGES**OF*VeRT[CAL KILN. The principal advantages in this method of manufac-
ture are as follows - 1 It uses cheap brown coal or other slack fuels which are In plentiful
supply in Australia.' 2. It is a relatively small plant by comparison with other methods used
In Australia and; therefore, can be located close to sources of supply of the Principal
ingredients—limestone, clay and water —and close to potential markets. 3. The combination
of 1 and 2 above mean a tremendous saving in fuel and transportation costs, which are two
of the main items of exDense in the manufacture of cement in Australia. *
GENERAL. Traralgon is in the centre of the Latrobe Valley Development Scheme, and the
ideal local conditions, coupled with a large demand for cement, make the establishment of
this first vertical kiln in that area a particularly attractive proposition. .
The Victorian Government has agreed to give this Companyeyerypossible support The
Rural Finance Corporation, which is guaranteed by the State Government of Victoria, is
together with the capital already subscribed and the loan
referred to above, will enable the establishment of this Company to be completed.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION. The minimum amount on which the Directors may proceed to
allotment is £114,000, made up as follows: . . „„
Purchase Price of Property, Plant and Equipment oq ilnn
Shares in Tyers Quarrying Co. Pty. Ltd " W-OUU
£93,557
Preliminary Expenses
Working Capital 13 - 460
£114,000
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES. Subscription lists open on 2nd March, 1953, and close on
23rd March, 1953, but the Directors reserve the right to close at an earlier date without notice.
Anolications for shares will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred to and
endorsed °upon a printed copy of the full prospectus, copies of which may be obtained from
the Underwriting Brokers to the Issue, Messrs. Patrick R. Levy & A Hen, 26 O Connell Street,
Sydney: the Melbourne Brokers to the Issue, Messrs. Guest & Bell, 409 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia.
(now £1 412 964) increased by
£404 253’ To heln finance the
deals £315 000 was added to the
debenture debt
Properties ’ increased by
£161422 and plant etc by
£290 884 • - ’ ’
’ P ' AND . TIBSTDIARY
1 i9si ' 1952-
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside interests.. 383,727 471,336
Overdraft 3 !! 592’,677 2,765!490
Sundry creditors* 1,104,144 1.848,786
Fhiaf ri dW. account 37,’500 37.500
Properties .. 834,675 996.097
SSSifStocA Smm Sra 0 ;!!?
stocks .. .. 1,470,231 3,533,072
cash etc* 3 ‘ ’ 249 i11’ 929
Intangibles 516,782 .882:007
* includes provision for taxation.
To carry an extra £2,062,841 of
stocks and £228,300 more book-
debts the co. went to its bankers
for a further £2,170,813 and
increased the amount coming to
sundry creditors by £244,641.
Stocks and the overdraft
obviously dominate the picture.
The former, “carefully valued,”
appear at cost or under, and
are causing the board no undue
worry, the chairman says.
Excepting a relatively small
quantity of one species of
imported timber, they “should
find a ready market as the
general financial position
improves.”
The sharemarket sums up a
complex position by pricing the
f.-p. £1 ords. at 28s. 6d. (395. 3d.
a year ago) to yield 5.7 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 335. lid.
King Island Scheelite
Operating a big open-cut
wolfram deposit on King Island,
Bass Strait, this co. has exceeded
the most optimistic expecta-
tions formed of it on reconstruc-
tion about six years ago, after
the cessation of hostilities and
a strategic loan from the Gov-
ernment had left it overcapital-
ised.
Profits and the price of
the scrip have since largely
followed the market for the
metal, which international de-
velopments hoisted to a peak of
£S29 12s. Bd. per unit WO3 for
February, 1951, compared with
£S4 9s. 7d. for December, 1949.
The London open-market price
has eased steadily over the last
couple of years, the average for
January, 1953, being £SI9 Is. 3d.
(£A23 16s. lid.).
Last term the co. handled
more overburden and milled
more ore for a better outturn of
concentrates and slightly more
units of WO3;
1951. 1952.
Overburden, etc., tons 180,230 317,451
Ore milled, tons (dry) 155,696 174,217
Head value, WO3 .. 0.55 p.c. 0.49 p.c.
Concentrates, tons .. 973.1 999.7
Average grade, WO3 61.6 p.c. 60.6 p.c.
WO3 units produced 59,947 60,606
Profit .. .. £879,921 £812,527
Div.— '
Rate .. .. 160 p.c. 120 p.c.
Amount . . £Boo,ooo' £600,000
During the year 1145.4 tons con-
centrates, averaging 60.67 p.c.
WO3, were sold as against 734.5
tons, averaging 64.15 p.c. WO3,
in the previous term. The aver-
age price realised per unit was
£A29 13s. 2d?, as against
£A3I 18s. lid. and £AB ss. lid.
for the two preceding years.
Mining and treatment costs per
ton of material handled (over-
burden and ore) rose from
14s. 2d. to 16s. 2d. The con-
traction in net earnings was
£67,394. That was after doub-
ling the allowance for deprecia-
tion (£100,000) and setting aside
£288,759 (down £200,952) for
taxation. The £812,527 of
profit was 162.5 p.c. on the half-
million of share-capital com-
pared with 176 p.c. in 1951, and
the div. was lowered from 160
p.c. to 120 p.c. Of the £212,527
that remained, £lOO,OOO was
earmarked for new plant and
development.
The plan to increase plant-
capacity by 50 p.c. is, nearing
completion; only minor addi-
tions have yet to be made to
the gravity-mill, but delivery is
•still awaited of some quarry and
other ancillary equipment. The
throughput of ore, which had
reached 4000 tons a week
toward the close of accounts, is
expected to be at the rate of
5000 tons a week for the most of
1953, and unit costs should
benefit. Also the floor-price
under the co’s contracts with
the U.K. and U.S. Govern-
ments —these contracts run
until February, 1956, and
December, 1957, respectively —
is above the London average per
unit of WG3 for January,
already mentioned. The co.
is thus assured of good profits
until its present contracts run
out.
Ore reserves at October
31, 1952, were put at 2,291,519
tons, expected to average about
0.5 p.c. WO3, with prospects of
more similar-grade stuff being
developed.
When the books closed,
current assets totalled £898,199,
of which £347,926 was stores,
and current liabilities, including-
tax provision (£288,759)
amounted to £703,473.
At 375. 6d. (51s. a year ago)
the co’s f.-p. ss. shares give an
immediate return of 16 p.c. so
long as the 120 p.c. distribution
continues.
Consolidated Tin Dredging
This is the big holding co.
which merged the interests of
nine Australian-owned tin-
dredging concerns operating in
Malaya and Thailand as from
Sept. 17, 1951, when market
expectations ran to a div. of
something approaching 15 p.c. —
no prospectus covering the
merger was put out.
First accounts for the period
to June 30, 1951, show that the
holding co.’s own exes, were
£5254, which is carried forward
as a p. and J. debit. Consolidated
figures, showing the financial
position and net earnings of the
entire group, were not presented
to shareholders, and they should
have been. Accounts of the nine
subsidiaries are published; but
owing to inter-co. holdings, wide
differences in balancing-dates
and other technical difficulties,
it is not possible for the outsider
to arrive at the overall position
with any degree of accuracy.
The board, however, estimates
that net earnings of the group for
the year to Dec. 31, 1952, will
approximate £187,000, equal to
8.7 d. per 10s. share, or 7.2 p.c.
At the annual meeting, where the
board came in for some well-
deserved criticism, the chairman
said the question of paying a div.
had been considered, but it was
decided to wait until enough
profit was available to justify
payment of Is. a share
(£256,806).
The four best earners of the
group appear to be Tongkah
Compound No. 2 and No. 4,
Kuala Lumpur and Tinsongkhla.
A couple of dredges belonging
to other subsidiaries await
transfer to other areas at an
estimated cost of between
£200,000 and £300,000 in each
case.
At balancing-date the holding
co.’s paid capital was £2,568,071
in fl-p. 10s. shares, issued in part
consideration for purchase of
scrip in subsidiaries. The hold-
ing in subsidiaries (less pre-
acquisition profits of £25,593),
appeared at £3,643,501. So the
cash part of the consideration
was £1,101,023. Other assets
were equipment £3OB, deposits
from subsidiaries £1,175,000
(described as a long - term
liability), cash, debtors, etc.,
£154,852, and preliminary exes.
£302. Creditors, etc., figured at
£61,145, leaving net current
funds of £93,707.
The holding co.’s scrip, which
fetched 6s. 2d. in 1952, recently
sold at 4s. lid.


Women’s Letters
MELECIJCNE
The Governor, who was accompanied
by Lady Brooks, was guest-of-honor as
well as guest-speaker at the monthly
luncheon of the English Speaking Union.
The vice-regal pair were received by Sir
Owen Dixon, president of E.S.U., and
Lady Dixon. U.S, Consul-General Henry
Stebbins, who was with Mrs. Stebbins,
was given the honor of thanking his
Excellency for his inspiring talk. Those
in the official party included Lady Lowe,
Lady Scott, Mrs. Gerald Bacon, Mrs.
Colin McKay and Mrs, Roy Blake.
# # V
“Tosca,” with Ronald Dowd, Betty
Fretwell and Robert Simmons in the
principal roles, drew a big house at the
Princess when National Opera presented
its third offering. In the audience were
Mrs. Garnet Carroll, wearing a beaded
gown of brown tulle; Mrs. Ronald
Dowd, in off-white satin brocade;
Gertrude Johnson, who had a flowing
cape trimmed with point lace over her
matching leaf-brown gown; English
visitor Mrs. John Holman, whose frock
of emerald tulle had the strapless top
massed with emerald sequins ; Mrs. Eric
Wells, in palest-yellow organza; First-
Officer Blair Bowden of the W.R.A.N.S.,
in white with gold ribbon; Mrs, Cyril
Tonkin, in midnight-blue laces; Lady
Collins, who wore dove-grey chiffons;
and Jill Barton, who covered her green-
striped taffeta frock with an emerald
taffeta stole.
☆ ☆ ☆
Director of Posts and Telegraphs,
Norman Strange, and Mrs. Strange gave
a buffet dinner at Chevron to celebrate
their thirtieth wedding anniversary. Mrs.
Strange, wearing a pretty smoke-grey
nylon.frock, assisted by her daughter,
Mrs. Paddy Hutchinson, smart in black
faille, and daughter-in-law, Mrs, Frank
Strange, in primrose-yellow paper-shan-
tung, Among the 60 guests were Sir
Norman and Lady Brookes, Chinese
Consul T. W. Liu, his wife and son. Col.
Alec Dennett (who proposed the toast
of the evening) and Mrs. Dennett, Mr.
and Mrs. W. K. Burnside, barrister R. V.
Monahan and Mrs, Monahan, John
Galbally, M.L.C., and Mrs. Galbally,
Mrs, John Carrodus, Mrs, Robert Lane,
Mrs. Ralph Bryant, Mrs. T, Jones, Mrs.
C. McDougall, Mrs. A. Warner, Mrs.
A. T. Rochfort and Mrs, Wing Dann.
V V if.
A family dinner-party followed by an
evening at the opera celebrated the en-
gagement of Diana, daughter of Col. A.
Dennett, M.L.A., and Mrs. Dennett, of
Caulfield, to Hugh, only son of Mrs.
N. MacGlashan, of Brighton, and the late
Mr. MacGlashan. Diana, who is a sister
at the Hampton Children’s Hospital, re-
turned recently from two years in Eng-
land and the Continent, where she studied
latest trends in her profession, Hugh
served with the R.A.A.F.
V * *
A few days before they flew off to the
Americas, Cr, and Mrs. Bernard Evans
entertained many friends at a dance in
their Toorak home. Guest-of-honor was
their son Ronald, who was celebrating
his 21st birthday. Mrs. Evans, wearing
mushroom-pink crepe which carried gold
and cyclamen sequins, was assisted by
her daughters Mary, in soft primrose
organdie, and Margot, in pink nylon seer-
sucker. Among the guests were Pat Lowe,
whose American-beauty moire taffeta
gown was trimmed with silver beads;
Pamela Austin, whose sea-green satin
brocade frock had a double fichu collar;
Norma Vroland, who chose pastel-green
tulle with a matching ruffled stole;
Barbara Raftopoulos, in grey brocade
trimmed with pastel-pink, faille; Rose-
mary Mawson, her white muslin ankle-
length frock finished with a pale-blue
satin sash; and Barbara Bruce in a
ballerina frock of pale-yellow broderie
Anglaise,
* ☆ *
Vera Bradford’s fine recital in the
Town Hall greatly helped Inter-
national House funds. The pianist
wore a stunning aqua-blue chiffon
gown which had a full skirt and
softly-fluted sleeves. Organiser of
the concert, Mrs. Arthur Blakebrough,
was present with her husband and
daughter Pam. In the audience were
Mrs. Henry Stebbins, wife of U.S,
Consul-General, Mrs. H. F. Nisbet, Olga
Abercaire, Lady McConnan, Dr. and
Mrs. Clunies Ross, the F. D. Brockhoffs,
pianist Bunty Schofield (Mrs. D. Coch-
rane), Mrs, D. Ross and Mrs. Margaret
Saker.
Mrs. P. L. Coleman, wife of the State
Minister for Transport, who is also a
city councillor, will be among those in
Westminster Abbey when the Queen is
crowned—she has just left on the Italian
liner Sydney. When the Lady Hunting-
field Free Kindergarten, the first to be
built and equipped by the City Council,
was opened, Mrs. Coleman became its
first secretary, and when Lady Medley
resigned as president, Mrs. Coleman took
her place. During the war she was a
member of the Town Hall Group which
worked for many patriotic organisations.
Mrs. Coleman was also president of the
Xavier College ladies’ committee.
Mrs. Coleman was the guest at
many farewell-parties. At the one
given by Mrs. B, Davidson at the Aus-
tralia she wore a white-patterned, dusty-
pink linen frock and a large white hat.
The hostess was in black with a white
straw picture-hat. Among the guests
were Mesdames Ray Joseph, C. Curtain,
M. E. Butler, L. F. Sparks and K. F.
Starr.
Before he left for overseas 16 years
ago Hugh Hastings appeared in Little
Theatre productions, so it was fitting that
his play, “Touch of the Sun,” should be
presented by the Little Theatre Guild.
Not only that; all proceeds went to the
building fund for a new Little Theatre.
The Governor and his wife were there,
she in a lovely white gown. Mrs. lan
Potter and Reta Findlay also chose white.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell’s gown was of
black chiffon. Mrs, Norman Spry wore
pale-mauve linen with a touch of white
Swiss embroidery. Mrs. Peter Randall’s
chiffons were dove-grey. Mrs. Frank
Tait’s short evening frock was of deep-
mauve taffeta. White guipure lace was
the choice of Mrs. John Quere, Deirdre
Neylon’s was white organdie. Mary Mc-
Kenzie’s silks were black-and-white
patterned. Adrienne Maxwell, in ice-
blue tulle, and Peggy Marks, in floral
silk, were programme-sellers.
☆ ☆ ☆
“This Year of Grace” was the name
given the parade of fashions for the
Coronation season by the Myer Em-
porium. Town tweeds in soft muted
shades were used in suits. Wool-jersey
is obviously the fabric of the year. There
were also stiff satins, richly embroidered.
For day wear there are the darkest greys,
.charcoal, anthracite and “Thunder,”
light-coffee tones, heather-pinks and soft-
yellow ; black is allied with white, as is
taupe and winter-white and black with
brown.
Jackets are a little longer, waists less
defined and skirts slim or broken with
pleats. The wrap-over skirt wraps over
either back, front or side. The wide
bell-skirt was seen in formal afternoon-
frocks or for the cocktail-hour. Long
and short evening-frocks feature the
halter-neckline. A crazy touch was the
white ermine spats which covered black
shoes, worn with a black velvet suit
which had a white ermine shawl-collar;
the mannequin also carried a white
ermine muff.
Also new was a black lace cardigan
worn over a strapless dinner-gown ; the
flower-motif of the lace was picked out
with black sequins. Of garnet-red lace
was a short evening-gown mounted on
pink nylon. The hem of the skirt, waist
and camisole-topped bodice were banded
in matching red velvet. Stoles are still
in the mode. With a slim-fitting white
satin frock was worn a very long, wide
matching satin stole. Rich bead- and
jewel-embroidery is still used lavishly.
SYDNEY'
All the people who “get around” in
Sydney got around to the National Art
Gallery on Friday afternoon, when his
Excellency the Governor opened the
Loan Exhibition “French Painting To-
day” in the presence of about 1000
people. Peeking at the paintings over
silken shoulders and behind mushroom
hats, one got an impression of vitality
and color and resolved to come back later
to see them ; in the meantime the com-
pany called for attention. It was very
hot, and during the too-long speeches
everyone “glowed” rather uncomfort-
ably.
Among the coolest-looking were Lady
Lloyd Jones in white, pin-spotted with
black and' worn with a white feather
cloche (“never wear a big hat to an art
show” is her dictum), and Mrs. A.
Morgan in a navy sheath with a yoke of
white guipure lace. Madame Strauss
and Mrs. Eugene Goossens were in black.
Edwina Hordern wore a cherry linen
dress embroidered with straw circles to
match her hat. Mrs. Noel Vincent had
a small black hat for her flowered dress.
Mr, and Mrs. Allan Williams and Mr.
and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn were among
the contingent who went on from the
Art Show to the reception for 200 guests
held at Prince’s by the Ambassador for
France, M. Louis Roche, and then
hurried by car to the private party which
the Ambassador for Germany, Dr.
Walther Hess, and Mrs. Hess were holding
at their Collaroy home.
This bright smile belongs to Charlene
Todman, who is honorary secretary of
the N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children
Junior Committee, of which Prue Bavin
is acting-president, while Beverley Coles
is abroad. The committee is at present
arranging a South Pacific Ball, which is
to be held at the Pickwick Club on May
26. It will be their second effort; the
first —a barbecue before Christmas on the
sands at Palm Beach —realised £150, and
it is the committee's present hope to
double (hat figure. Photo By Montgomery
Dunn .
Another party in aid of the Crippled
Children Society was the Tropical
Night Barbecue which the Headquarters
Younger Set arranged at the home of
Dr. C. M. McCarthy, of Cronulla,
Among those dancing the hours away
beneath the banana-palms, lantern-lit,
were Beverley Grant, Bettie Hepworth,
Maureen McCarthy, Robin Eaton,
Pamela Burke, Marilyn Byron and Joan
Carter.
☆ ☆ ☆
V.A.s acted as “child-minders” when
200 members of the Korean Auxiliary of
the Royal Australian Regiment met dur-
ing the week to hear the first annual
report and balance-sheet read at the
Paddington Town Hall. The president,
Mrs. I. R. Campbell, said that the
auxiliary had been founded at the sug-
gestion of Lieut.-General F. H. Berry-
man in August last year and that since
then many comforts had been sent to
Korea via Japan, a city office had been
opened, a sub-branch established at
Ingleburn, baby-minding centres set-up
at Victoria Barracks and Ingleburn,
soldiers returning by plane and ship had
been met by reception-committees and
relatives of soldiers helped in many ways.
The president especially asked that
more country districts take part in help-
ing the auxiliary, and noted with thanks
the work of Mrs. J. Stewart and the
people of Gulgong At the meeting
baskets of flowers were presented to the
patroness, Mrs. F H, Berryman, and to
Mrs. C. E. Mai tin, who, with her husband,
the Minister for Transport, was a guest-
of-bonor.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. Asher Joel, speaking at the
luncheon given by the Australian Insti-
tute of Public Relations at Romano’s to
about 30 of Sydney’s most distinguished
women, said that he hoped the time would
come when women would be entertaining
the distinguished men of this town. Dame
Mary Gilmore, in her dryly humorous
reply, said that this had already been
done, many times. The Premier’s wife,
Mrs. J. J. Cahill, was present, and the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. P. D. Hills. Politics
were represented by Mrs. G. M. Melville,
M.L.C., women’s organisations by Mrs.
Preston-Stanley Vaughan. Outstanding
workers for charity included Lady Nock,
Mrs. F. H. Berryman, Mrs. Lionel Mc-
Fadyen, Mrs. W. J. Smith, Mrs. Tom
Bateman and Mrs. C. M. Guiney.
Included among the guests were Mrs.
Florence MacKenzie, who has trained
thousands of Australian men and women
in radio-telegraphy since before the war ;
barrister Mrs. Nerida Goodman; Mrs.
Florence Taylor, architect, publisher and
distinguished hostess; Miss Hazel Wed-
lock, who has been private secretary to
16 Lady Mayoresses ; Mrs. Enid Donald-
son, an outstanding executive in the
advertising world; Mrs. C. T. Lorenz,
well known for her work for the National
Opera ; Dr. Grace Cuthbert-Browne ; and
numerous members of the Fourth Estate.
☆ ☆ ☆
Passed away at Penrith recently one
of the pioneer dancing-teachers of N. S.
Wales, Fanny Elizabeth Richards, who
under her stage-name of Ethel Clifford
was known both as a ballet-mistress and
a producer. For 30 years she conducted
an academy in Sydney from which she
launched many a fine act in the heyday
of flesh-and-blood shows. Melbourne-
born, she was one of the principal balle-
rinas in the first Australian ballet formed
by J. C, Williamson for his pantomime
“Sinbad the Sailor” in 1889. After-
wards she was associated with every lead-
ing theatrical firm in Australia and N.Z.
until her retirement to Glenbrook in
1931. At the end of World War II she
was still producing shows for charity
and had bridged the distance from
Blondin to Television when the curtain
came down.
☆ ☆ ☆
Enjoying a short visit to Sydney at
the moment are Queenslanders Mr. and
Mrs. W. M. Cook, of Hendra, Brisbane,
who, with their daughters Shirley and
Patricia, are staying at the Grand Central.
Although their papa runs the Dayboro
“Times” and Moreton “Mail,” neither
of the girls has gone in for journalism,
Shirley preferring nursing (she has a
double certificate) and Patricia drafts-
manship at the Brisbane City Council.
The family will return to Brisbane on
Monday.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. John Bovill and Mrs. Alan Cope-
land came along after their committee-
meeting to the exhibition of Max Rag-
less’s paintings at David Jones’, which
was opened in a brief little speech by
Miss Jessie Matthews. Wearers of the
popular and becoming white hat were
Mrs. L. Dunlop, who was with her
daughter Annette, and Mrs. Conrad Hor-
ley, recently returned from America. A
big black hat was worn by Mrs. P.
Minell, who was with Mrs. Gordon
Wharton. Mrs. Arthur Davis looked in
for a quick tour round the paintings.
Mrs. Tom Bateman searched in vain for
the “Bateman’s Bay” listed in the cata-
logue but nowhere to be seen. Casting
a keen eye also was Mrs. Phillip Berry-
Smith, while among the artists present
were the John Eldershaws, the Byram
Mansells and Mr. R. Emerson Curtis.
☆ ☆ *
A prize of £25 has been offered by Mrs.
Anthony Hordern for the best Venetian
headdress made by a student for the
Venetian Masked Ball, which the
National Opera is presenting on April 17.
These headdresses and others will be on
sale at the cocktail-party which is being
held for the ball at the Bellevue Hill
home of Mrs. Hans Tronser on Thursday,
April 9.


Watch your weight
and live longer
Do you eat too much? Extra
pounds seem to agg*avate ills
like heart disease, diabetes,
kidney trouble . . . stnd insur-
ance records show overweight
people have a death rate 50%
higher than people of normal
weight.
Dr. Howard Rusk warns in
March Reader’s Digest how
you can “dig your grave with
your teeth,” and tells the safe
way to reduce.
Also in March Reader’s
Digest, thirty-two other stimu-
lating articles of lasting in-
terest condensed from world’s
leading magazines and current
best-selling books.
Don’t miss Reader’s Digest
for March—on sale now —one
shilling and sixpence at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
Wh
VL^ubtvWhMZ
LOOK FOR
THE WORD
OLD
boric
m
OLD
ftftBOURNC. AVSTKALIA*'
•ucoktintsvipintenuioois
The word “OLD”
on the label is your
legal guarantee of
a pure, true whisky
that is mellowed to
perfection by at
least 5 YEARS
AGEING IN OAK
CASKS.
When whisky is
bottled under Aus-
tralian Customs
and Excise super-
vision, it can only
be labelled “OLD” if it has matured at least 5 years
before bottling nearly three times the age at which
many whiskies are sold. Remember, without age, a whisky
cannot be mellow. Corio Special OLD Whisky possesses
all the outstanding virtues that can possibly be brought
about by the skilful blending of old whiskies.
Insist oil the whisky of outstanding merit
Gmm Special
OXO WHISKY
C44/I6
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
The French Paintings
It is likely that most people
who have formed an impression
of the travelling French exhibi-
tion now at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery from photo-
graphs in the daily newspapers,
which, of course, always re-
produce the most senaational
and extreme examples, will find
themselves very much disarmed
on seeing the pictures for them-
selves.
So few of them are, after all,
alarming; so many of them are
so much better painted, so much
less concerned with crudity and
violence for their own sakes,
than the imitations we are accus-
tomed to seeing by many Aus-
tralian students and incom-
petents ; so many of them, even
a few of the abstracts, are really
charming in color and fresh with
vitality.
Take, for instance, Rouault.
Australian imitations of Rouault,
of which there have been
scores, almost invariably over-
emphasise the bluish jowls and
Jewish features of his Biblical
figures and magnify his colors
into a totals effect ctf mere
crudity. But imitators, always
pick up the mannerisms, often
the faults, of an original artist;
never the intrinsic quality.
Rouault’s paintings are gentle in
their emotional effect, quiet as
well as rich in their jewelled
incrustations of color.
Or, among the abstracts, take
Lanskoy’s “The Scent of Water”
and “Prolonged Desire.” The
scent of water, to say nothing
of prolonged desire, would be
an extremely difficult thing to
represent in realistic terms. It
must be done imaginatively or
not at all; and if it is aot done,
then that subject, at least, is lost
to art. M. Lanskoy has done it
by whirling around on his
canvas a lot of lovely soft pastel-
shades of pink and mauve and
green ; and whether you - view
the result as haying some vague
relation to the scent of water,
or whether you take it simply
as design and color, it is un-
doubtedly a painting as pleasant
—or almost as pleasant—in its
own way as Tom Roberts’s
“Roses” in another part of the
Gallery.
The surrealists are very mildly
represented, with the “moment
of disquiet” perhaps in, Carzou’s
“The Invaded City” and
Coutaud’s “Memories” of some
dream-world serrated like a
dragon, something sinister in
Goerg’s “Promenade” and
corpse-like in Waroquier’s heads,
but with nothing of the intestinal
vulgarities customarily offered
by Dali and his followers.
So many of the paintings,
again, are clearly in the tradition
of art; some contemporary
painter’s modification of the im-
pressionists, but a modification
only, with no perceptible break
in the realistic tradition that goes
back to Constable.
There is, for instance, Derain’s
“The Forest,” which with its
blackened tree-trunks set in a
soft warm colonnade of reds
and browns, might have been
painted in Australia after bush-
fire. There are the suave, pale,
delicate street-scenes of Utrillo ;
Dunoyer de Segonzac’s captivat-
ing rhythms of green in “The
Aire Farm”; Andre Planson’s
fawn trees along the track wind-
ing to the village in “Spring-
time” ; the supernaturally stormy
sky (so often imitated) in
Vlaminck’s “Haystacks in the
Beauce Plain.”
The truth is, of course, there
is no such thing as “Modern
Art,” as the term is used in con-
troversy for or against these or
any other painters of today. The
schools, the movements and the
individual talents are too varied
for any single label to encompass
the whole. There are simply a
number of artists, of varying
degrees of competence ; and they
themselves necessarily varying in
success and failure with every
picture they paint.
The Picassos in the present
show, two of his chopped-up
heads, are dull —such is the
inevitable result of the mere
pursuit of novelty, when the
novelty wears off. There is no
distinction in the paint, nothing
to strike home with force except
what faint impact there may be
in an odd design and the impulse
towards unpleasantness. The
Matisse nude is grubby.
Some of the paintings, like
Pagava’s “Still Life,” trying to
be sublime about two or three
bottles and a slice of melon, are
empty and pretentious; others,
like Lagrange’s big yellow break-
fast-scene and some fluffy Dufys,
are slight in intention and so
remain slight in effect; and there
are also a lot of exceedingly
vapid abstractions.
Of all the contemporary
schools this is the one with
which the present reviewer has
least sympathy. The abstract
painters’ attempt to make art do
the work of music, with shapes
and colors moving on the canvas
in their own right and validity,
like sounds in the air at a sym-
phony concert, which has been
paralleled in the more obscure
poetry of our time and in
Finnegans Wake, is acceptable
in theory; but in practice, with
rare exceptions, it is nearly
always barren.
These painters have fallen, as
Wyndham Lewis admitted in
repentance,' into a cul-de-sac in
which they are cut off from the
million-fold possibilities of real-
ism and surrealism alike; and
their abandonment of represen-
tational technique has let the
charlatan into their ranks with
an ease that is nowhere else —
' unless perhaps in imitation child-
art —available to him. Most of
their enormous canvases in the
present exhibition are shallow,
impenetrable, and suspect
because of their very size; major
works of art are not produced so
easily.
But against these patches of
weakness there remains, besides
the works already discussed,
much to make the exhibition as
pleasing as it is informative. To
take a mixed lot, there are
Des'noyer’s strong and serene
portrait “Of Helene with Hat,”
Chapelain - Midy’s admirably-
painted owl, Brianchon’s girls
lying at ease with the grace of
Renoir, Guillemette Morand’s
viyid still-life of fish and a jug
in a setting of orange and gold,
Chagall’s queer pigs immersed
in an ocean of violet, Marchand’s
green giantess with her negro at-
tendants (essentially a cafe deco-
ration), Jean Lurcat’s immense
tapestry with blue and grey
butterflies floating over fields of
green and dark crimson, Jean
Aujame’s warm and sunny
“Nude with Chrysanthemums”
and the amazingly vital still-life
by Henri Malvaux where the
customary bottles and fruit,
often so very dead, burst into
flames of bright color.
* * * *
A blunt approach, a heavy
brush and, in the main, colors
uncompromisingly bright, do not
leave much room for subtlety in
the paintings of Max Ragless at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney ;
the general effect is forcefully
picturesque, but superficial.
Occasionally the method
matches the scene, as in “Big
Trees,” where something of the
age and strength and dignity of
the subject comes across, and in
“Tilba Tilba, N.5.W.,” where
the houses perch on the hill
very much as though they belong
there. “The Victoria Range,”
“The Creek” and “A Range of
Hills” are lighter interpretations
and are better for it.
Stage and Music
“Katinka”
To celebrate the 50th year of
its founding, the Mosman
Musical Society staged this
musicomedy about the frustrated
love of a young Russian couple
(in the days before love was
collectivised) and the efforts of
a hustling American to cut the
Gordian knot of a loveless
marriage and make everybody,
with the exception of the middle-
aged bridegroom, happy.
The score is not Rudolf
Friml’s best —it assays no more
than two whistleable tunes. But
Otto Harbach’s bpok does offer
scope for comedy, and for the
delineation of this the M.M.S.
is fortunate in having at its
disposal Edwin Pfeiffer and
Rhondda Baker.
This pair, as the irrepressible
Thaddeus T. Hopper and his
vivacious wife, kept the comedy
moving at a brisk pace and
invested it with the spontaneous
touch. Miss Baker, in particular,
has a joyous approach to her
work. A wider range of comic
expressions, however, would be
to the good.
Shirley Priddle in the title role
and Max Thomson as Ivan bore
the heat and burden of the
night’s romance, but at times
their love-making was so matter-
of-fact that Dan Cupid, if he
was in the audience, must have
had doubts about his own
marksmanship. Miss Priddle’s
smoothly - produced soprano
coped adequately with her songs,
but Max Thomson’s tenor
needed more weight.
Lenore O’Brien, in the dual
roles of Olga and Nashan, sang
the “Allah’s Holiday” number
with good judgment, and Robert
Moylan’s Arif Bey and Harry
Faulkus’s Abdul were in good
character. After an indifferent
start, and in first costumes which
were far from attractive, the
ballet settled down to some ex-
cellent work. The Circassian
Dance was very well performed.
Choruses were generally full-
blooded and of fair tone. Pro-
ducer was Len Getting, and the
orchestra was under the baton
of Herbert Wyatt.
* * * *
Isador Goodman
Isador Goodman’s recital at
Sydney Con. consisted of three
of Beethoven’s most popular
“name” sonatas.
He started with .the “Wald-
stein” (C Major, Op. 53), and
in the allegro immediately
established the high standard
which he maintained throughout
the exacting night’s work.
Goodman’s playing in the
recesses of the bass —always a
great source of his strength in
Beethoven —was never better
exemplified than in the stormy
periods of the rondo. This is
a naturally exhilarating move-
ment, and he gave the steep
crescendos the utmost power.
The last pages became, as they
should, a whirlwind of flying
fingers.
In the “Moonlight” (Op. 27,
No, 2) the fierce urgency which
invested the final movement was
never allowed to cloud the tone.
The “Appassionata” (F Minor,
Op, 57), with its first and third
movements’ gusts of tempestuous
emotion, offered strong meat,
and the pianist’s appetite for it
was equal to the offering. The
phrasing in the first allegro
could not be faulted, nor could
his pedal-work. Serenity was
persuasively achieved in the
andante, and the pianist called
upon all the brilliance at his
command to make the final
movement quite a memorable
performance.
Talkies
“Trent’s Last Case”
E. C. Bentley’s story makes
a very good film. Amorfg who-
dunits the plot must rank as one
of the best.
An international financier is
found shot dead, with his
revolver beside him, near his
English country home. At the
coronial inquiry—a first-rate
sequence, this —there being no
evidence adduced to suggest foul
play, and it having been estab-
lished that he had lately been
greatly depressed, the verdict is
suicide,
Enter Philip Trent, reporter-
investigator cum painter, one of
those fabulous newspapermen
who maintain a valet. He per-
suades his editor, on the strength
of undercurrents observed
among some of the household
witnesses during evidence, that
it was homicide, and sets out to
prove it.
The piecing-together of the
clues, the logic of the deductions,
the -final gathering-up of the
threads and the surprise denoue-
ment make up a completely satis-
fying whole, Michael Wilding
moves through the piece with a
disarming smile and a quick
eye and generally makes the
amateur sleuth a likeable fellow.
Orson Welles as the financier is
convincing in a darkly sinister
way. Margaret Lockwood has
only to be prettily demure as the
tycoon’s widow whose eventual
yielding to the persuasions of the
personable sleuth give point to
the film’s title. John McCallum
gives quite a good account of
himself in the role of the private
secretary who was in love with
the lady before she donned the
sable weeds. At Sydney Century.
* * * *
“Don’t Bother to Knock”
This film, the action of which
takes place in a palatial hotel
during one evening, concerns a
baby-sitter who has but recently
been discharged from a mental-
hospital. Her emotional insta-
bility during her brief steward-
ship threatens the safety of the
child left in her care. She also
flirtatiously invites to the room
a stranger, an airline pilot, who
occupies the room opposite, and
the alleged excitements flowing
from these circumstances make
up the doings.
The story carries little convic-
tion, and Marilyn Monroe,
whose histrionic ability up till
this opus has been strained by
nothing more strenuous than
giving swimsuits and slinky
evening-gowns altogether admir-
able filling, carries even less in
the role of the baby-sitter.
Richard Widmark does his best
to inject some life into it, but
it is like swimming in molasses.
At Sydney Mayfair.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now ia
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Sunday Morning
E.O. SCHLUNKE
IT was to be expected that in
• a town like Pingello every-
body would know Jim
Raglan ; so I had no diffi-
culty in finding his small garage
where the riflemen gathered on
Sunday mornings before going
out to the range.
He didn’t remember
me, though we had been
at the same shoots many
a time; and if he was
pleased that I knew he’d
dominated the rifle-
shooting world for an
extraordinary number of
years, he didn’t show
it. He listened tightlipped ant
frowning while his impatien
grey eyes never ceased their
supervision of his surprisingly-
youthful club-members, who
were making use of his work
shop to adjust and check the fit-
tings on their rifles l and generally
making all the preparations
necessary for a day’s target-
shooting.
While I was still assuring him
how honored I’d be, to be per-
mitted to join the club of a
man so famous, he suddenly
swung away from me without
gesture of apology, and went
to the door, to stare up and down
the street with an air of intense
expectancy. A few cars were
being driven about with Sunday-
morning sluggishness, and a
small number of people in
couples and family groups were
wandering slowly towards the
church at the top of the hill. .
Raglan began to mutter
fiercely.
“Curse him! Curse him! I
told him to be here sharp at ten,
and it’s five-past already and not
a sign of him.”
He turned abruptly into the
garage. “Ted,” he shouted, “did
you deliver that message?”
The young fellow addressed
turned pale with fright and said
“Yes, yes, I did. I gave him the
letter, and I told him what was
in it, like you said I should, ‘Be
here at, ten o’clock or else.’ ”
A LL the others, who a minute
previously had been as
lively and full of fun as young
fellows about to start on a
day’s sport usually are, were
now silent and tense as small
birds when a hawk flies over.
Raglan ran his eyes over them
as they watched him, motionless,
“Get going,” he said, his voice
barely restrained from yelling.
“You haven’t got all day.”
Then he saw me watching, but
instead of restraining himself in
the presence of a stranger and
possible new club-member, he
seemed to get angrier than ever.
He came so close to me that his
clenched fists were shaking a
few inches from my face,
“If ever a man put his whole
heart and soul into making some-
thing really fine of a lad, that
man was me, and that lad was
young Mason, And if ever any
man was repaid with the blackest
ingratitude, X am that man.”
I took a quick glance past his
livid face at the others, to try to
judge if all this startling passion
were justified. But they kept their
faces averted and maintained an
embarrassed silence.
“Ingratitude!” Raglan ground
out through clenched teeth as
though he was in a torment.
“Deceit! Right from the very
beginning. I never asked him
to come in with me. He started
it by hanging round here Sunday
mornings watching me getting
things ready. We were at a low
ebb then ; all my best men were
away at the war.”
Telling me about it seemed to
relieve his rage a little. He
stopped shaking his fists in my
face, took a couple of deep
breaths, another glance around
to see that the work was pro-
ceeding efficiently, then went on
“He was only a boy then,
about fifteen or so, and small
and slight, too. For a long time
I took no notice of him; just
snooping kid I thought he was.
Then one day he asked me if he
could help me make patches for
the targets; no one else had
turned up that morning, so I let
him. Quite handy he was, too;
but as soon as we’d finished he
made straight for my rifle.
“I was just getting ready to
roar the tripe out of him; you
know what boys of that age are;
soon as they see a rifle they
can’t keep their hands off it;
pick it up as if it was just
lamp of wood and iron; don’t
care if they bump it against
things; smear all over it with
their damp or greasy hands;
likely as not try to cock it with-
out taking care to find out if it’s
loaded or not, and let the barrel
wander all over you. But young
Mason didn’t touch it. He just
looked at it for a long time, then
he turned round to me with his
eyes as big as saucers.
“ ‘My word, it’s a beaut, isn’t
it!’ he said. ‘Can I come out
to the range and watch you shoot
with it?’
< 6TVTOW, that’s what made me
go wrong with him right
from the start. Any other kid
would have wanted to have a
shot no matter how impossible
it was; but he just wanted to
watch. He pretended he was
humble. He pretended he
realised that he didn’t know
anything about shooting. That
was something new to me. All
my life I’ve been plagued by
people—grown-ups I’m talking
about now, too —who join my
rifle-club thinking they know
everything when they know
nothing.”
He gave me a sharp lookover
to let me know that I was just
a§ likely to be a plague as anyone
else had been.
“Think all they have to do is
to lie down on the mound and
rattle off bulls by the dozen.
You can see how it was.
“Well, I let him come with us
to the rifle-range. He acted as
though he was eager to do all
the q,dd-jobs. So I let him come
again, week after week. All the
time he just watched, and did
everything he was told, and pre-
tended it was a great honor if I
let him help me clean my rifle.
He worked down in the pit as
marker all day sometimes ; quick
with the target, and never made
a mistake with his signals. We’d
got quite used to having him
round, watching everything that
went on with those big eyes of
his, and listening to all the talk
about shooting, when one day
one of the chaps said ‘Why don’t
you let the kid have a shot?’
“He was still so small that
some of them laughed at the
idea; but you could tell by the
look in his eyes that that was the
one thing he’d really wanted to
do all the time.
“ ‘lt’ll knock you about a
bit,’ I warned him. But now
nothing would stop him.
“So we got him down on the
mound with a rifle nearly as big
as he was, and since we didn’t
expect that he’d really know
anything, despite all the watch-
ing and listening he’d done, I got
down on the mound with him to
show him how to hold the rifle,
how to sight, and how to let the
trigger off with pressure one and
two ; and he acted as polite and
humble as anyone could wish.
“He was still such a light-
weight that when he fired the
rifle the recoil not only knocked
him back a foot down the
mound, but lifted the front end
of his body six inches clear of
the ground, then —whang!
down came his elbows on to the
hard ground with the weight of
the heavy rifle driving them in.
It looked so ridiculous that
everyone laughed; and that
made what followed all the
worse. The kid wouldn’t admit
that it hurt him, all he wanted to
know was ‘Did I get a bull?’
“Of course they laughed
louder than ever at that. So
just to humor him, as I thought,
I looked through the ’scope, and
damn my pants if he hadn’t
really got a bull! You’d know,
if you’ve really done all the
shooting you say you have, how
impossible that was.
6 4VOU might be able to guess
-*• the sort of things they said
to me.
“ ‘You don’t need to tell him
how to shoot. Better get him
to tell you!’
“That should have been
enough to show me there was
something crooked about him.
It isn’t natural for anyone, no
matter how good a shot he’s
going to be, to get a bull with
his first shot. You know well
enough that most of them miss
the target altogether; and it
takes about six shots, with a lot
of help from someone who
knows, before they’ll even get
an outer. I thought it was die
wildest kind of fluke, and let
him have three more shots to
prove it ; but damn me again
if he didn’t get another bull and
two inners.
“ ‘You’ve trained a boy-
wonder,’ the blokes said, grin-
ning a bit at each other behind
my back.
“But, would you believe it, it
was true! With me looking
after him like a father, and
bringing him on, he was a
wonder all right.
“Those were great days for
me. It gave me a new interest
in the club to have someone like
that in it. Someone who could
shoot nearly as good as me. Of
course he needed a lot of help.
I always went down on the
mound with him and set him
right about windage and mirage,
and when he wandered off the
target I worked like a martyr to
get him back on to the bull’s-eye.
I kept him beside me all the
time when we went away on
competition-shoots to see that
the trip didn’t make him tired,
or that he didn’t eat the wrong
things, or blow his stomach up
with fizzy-drinks.
“ ‘Raglan and his Boy
Wonder’ they used to call us,
and even if I say so myself we
were a wonderful combination.
We won cups and trophies up
and down the country wherever
we went; you must have heard
about us.
“That went on for three or
four years ; then, all of a sudden,
one day at Wagga on an
important competition, he started
shooting all over the place, and
nothing I could do would set
him right. It upset me so much
I didn’t shoot very well myself.
All the way home in the bus —it
was a seventy-mile trip—l was at
him to find out what had gone
wrong with him and at last I got
it out of him.
“He’d gone to the movies the
night before!
6 6-jyrOW, I’d warned him, and
all the others, too,
hundred of times about Satur-
day nights before a shoot.
Movies, of course, were right
out; so was staying up late ; so
was reading; so was anything
that strained the eyes or made
him tired. I gave him a real do-
over. Reminded him of all I’d
done for him. How he’d dis-
graced me as well as himself. In
the end he looked ashamed of
himself and he promised he
wouldn’t do it again.
“Next Sunday, on our own
range this time, he wasn’t any
better, and when I tackled him
he admitted that he’d gone to
the movies again. I was so
disappointed with him I could’ve
taken him into the scrub and
laid into him with my mitts.
But I gave him a tongue-
bashing in front of them all,
trying to get him to tell me why
he was throwing away every-
thing in this mad, irresponsible
way.
“He wouldn’t say a word, but
after a while one of the other
chaps said ‘Don’t you know he’s
got a girl?’
“Gradually then I got the
whole rotten story out of him.
“This girl he’d got himself
tangled up with was a local girl
who had a job in Thornton;
that’s the big town about thirty
miles along the line towards
Cootamundra. Well, at that time
I didn’t know the girl person-
ally ; but I could easily guess
what sort of a girl she was, if her
own town wasn’t good enough
for her to work in, and she had
to go to a lousy place like
Thornton, that hasn’t produced
a decent rifle-shot in twenty
years with all its big population.
“Now, I don’t want you to
think that I don’t allow my boys
to have their girl-friends. It’s
a natural thing, and you’ve got
to admit that it can’t be stopped.
But I always tell them that the
right thing is to be like me—
never looked at a girl since I
joined my first rifle-club forty
years ago. Though, of course, I
don’t expect all of them to keep
up to my standard. If they have
a decent respectable girl it’s not
so bad; but nothing plays hell
with a lad’s steadiness and his
eyesight so much as going out at
nights with those fast little
bitches that haven’t got any
morals.
“But the point of young
Mason’s affair was this: through
this tart of his working in
Thornton, the only night she
was at home was Saturday, and
she was putting it up to him
that if he didn’t take her to the
movies—then, when everyone
else went —she’d have a pretty
low opinion of him.
“Well, when I found this out,
I quietened down a bit because
I thought I’d soon reason things
out with him. I pointed out that
any girl who had any kind of
decent character at all would
realise that a man had duties and
obligations which he had to
carry out before he thought of
such trumpery things as going to
the movies. He said he’d told
her that, but she still said it was
either take her to the movies or
it was all-up between them.
“ ‘Well,’ X said then, ‘that
makes it easy. Give her up.’
6 6TJUT he looked as obstinate
as hell about that; which
surprised me because he’d always
been so humble and done what
I’d told him.
“ ‘She’s no good,’ I said, get-
ting pretty annoyed, ‘or she
wouldn’t want you to ruin your
reputation. Doesn’t she know
she’s turning you into a miser-
able also-ran?’
“ ‘She knows that,’ Mason
says ; '-‘but she says it doesn’t
matter.’
“Of course I lost my temper
at that, one of the few occasions
in my life I’ve really lost it. But
you would’ve done it, too, in
the same circumstances.
“ ‘What sort of a bitch is she?’
I wanted to know. ‘Hasn’t she
got any morals at all?’
“ ‘She’s a good girl,’ he says,
getting his back up like a terrier.
‘She goes to church each Sunday
morning, and she thinks I ought
to come, too.”
“ ‘On Sunday morning! ’ I
yelled at him. ‘When you
should be on the rifle-range ! J
“I tell you it was too much
for me to hear of her talking like
that. I had to strike back hard
at that sort of thing.
“ ‘Let me tell you why she
has to go to church so often,’ I
told him, trying to talk as man
to man. ‘lt’s because she thinks
she can get forgiven for the kind
of life she leads during the
week. What sort of a way of
making a living do you think she
has, that she’s got to do it where
her people don’t know what she’s
up to? You’d better wake up to
yourself.’ ”
((Continued on next page)


Raglan turned to me then
with a most outraged look on
his face as if he was about to
tell me something I couldn’t
possibly believe.
“Do you know what he did
then? I’ll tell you. He had his
rifle in his hand, and like a
flash he slipped in a bullet and
aimed straight at my head. It
was terrible! I didn’t really
believe he was going to shoot;
not after all the ‘safety-first’ and
‘never point a loaded rifle’ I’d
taught him. But I ducked —I
couldn’t help it —and at the exact
right moment, too; not too
soon and not too late. I never
knew a rifle sounded so much
louder close in front than it does
from the back; it nearly blew
my eardrums out.
“It was a wonder I didn’t
collapse with the shock of it. I
could see his eyes behind the
rifle; mad as a snake because
he’d missed me at only three
yards’ range. I didn’t have time
to think. Before he could try
again I upped the butt of my
rifle and hit him across the head.
6 6'THERE was a hell of a
A turmoil then; some yell-
ing that he should be handed
straight over to the police ; some
saying he didn’t know what he
was doing; and a few fools
blaming me. They were so
excited, going for each other, I
thought for a while it would end
up with half-a-dozen getting
shot.
“Mason didn’t come round,
so I got some of the blokes to
take him to the doctor; and
when I could get some sense
into the rest I sent them straight
home.
“Then I tried to think out
what X should do. It wasn’t
Mason’s fault that he hadn’t
murdered me, and the only fair
thing was to let the law take its
course.
“By rights the local cop
should have acted, but he’d been
here so long that half the people
in the town were his personal
friends. He came to see me
about how Mason came to get
such a bad crack on the head
that he had to be taken to
hospital, but when I told him
what actually happened, he said
it was a mighty serious thing;
ten to twenty years it would
bring if I laid a charge against
him. And I had a host of
witnesses, so there’d be no doubt
about getting a verdict.
“ ‘Still,’ he said, ‘it’s a terrible
charge to make against a young
fellow from a decent family.
You’d better think it over very
carefully before you do anything
about it.’
“Well, I thought it over, all
right. I couldn’t sleep for see-
ing that barrel aiming straight
for my head. Yet somehow,
though I still believed he deserved
to go to jail over it, whenever I
thought of him sitting there in a
cell, year after year, I couldn’t
help thinking of what it would
do to his eyes. It would ruin
him. When he should have been
winning King’s Prizes, and going
to represent Australia at Bisley,
there he’d be staring at a wall
a few feet away until he’d go
half-blind. Then one night I
suddenly got an idea.
6 600 next day I went to see
him in the hospital. He
looked surprised to see me, and
acted as if he was afraid of what
I might do. He seemed mightily
relieved when I told him I was
prepared to let him off if he
gave up going to the movies and
became a good dub-member
again.
“But before I got his promise
that bitch of a girl came in and
wanted to know what I was
doing there. I didn’t want to
be in the same room as her if I
could help it, so I left.
“Well, he got better, and went
home. But he didn’t turn up to
shoot! Whenever I tried to
speak to him he dodged me. I’ll
tell you, that sort of treatment
was hard to take from him, after
the offer I’d made. So I sent
him a plain warning; if he
didn’t carry qut his part of my
proposal, I wouldn’t hold myself
to mine.
“What do you think happened
then? You’d never believe me!
That girl had the nerve to come
and speak to me.
“T just came to tell you
Harry’s not going back to your
rifle-club, no matter what you
say.’ In a nasty, sharp, female
way you could see what sort of
a nagging woman she’ll turn into
in a few years.
“‘You just wait a minute, my
g j r i» j sa id to her, ‘Do you
know what you’re doing 9 ’
..< T kn ' all risht . she
♦ u ne
, But 1 sto PP ed her -
Youre as good as putting
Harry into jaiHor twenty years,
I told her. That s what I can
do to him, only I was prepared
to spare him out of the goodness
of my heart.
“She nearly spat at me then.
a real she-cat she is. ‘l’d just
as soon have him in jail as under
your thumb.’
“And off she went stiffnecked
down the street, planking her
f eet down in front of her.”
Rag i an pause d and looked at
me> SU p reme jy confident in his
position.
.* That > s the I’ve seen of
them except across the street
Simda v when she drags him
each Sunday^wheni mm
past here to waste ms lue m
church. She thinks I m bluffing,
but I’ve only been giving them
time to think, because I don t
like o rum a good nfle-shot
But I m not going to stand it any
longer. I sent them a last warn
mg yesterday. Put it plainly to
them that it was their r ® s P°u-
sibihty whether Mason went to
jail or not.
His voice had been rising
again, making the young rifle-
men look up in alarm. The one
called Ted who had taken the
message.moved cautiously to the
door and looked out. He called
back to Raglan “He’s coming
up the street now.”
Raglan hurried to the door,
and all the others followed
excitedly after him.
A SMALL, dark youth and a
tall, sharp-featured, blonde
girl were walking slowly up the
hill on the other side of the
street. As soon as Raglan saw
the girl he began to breathe
heavily and clench his hands.
“Is he coming here, or is she
taking him up the hill again with
her?” he said, in a painful state
of tension.
No one made a sound, or said
a word. The youth and the girl
walked quietly along the sunlit
morning street. As they came
abreast the garage, every rifle-
man held his breath as he had
been taught to do in the critical
moment before putting the final
pressure on the trigger. But the
couple neither looked up nor
paused.
Raglan’s face became suffused
with blood; he trembled in a
way that didn’t look too good
for a man of his age. He turned
to his boys with an air of
dreadful resolution. He picked
out Ted, the messenger,
“Put in a call to the police-
station at once,” he said.
HOLIDAY FARM
1. Aubade
By
RONALD McCUAIG
[Memories of the countryside revived by concerts in the city]
Even though the blinds are drawn,
split on the split-log wall.
Leaves a crack for crack of dawn;
And in the long room down the hall
The farmer says good-day to me;
He puts twigs and bits of slat
Beneath the kettle hung on wire.
And fans the embers with his hat
To foster the eternal fire
And brew us both a cup of tea.
2. Madrigal
Milkmaid Memory, drugged with dream.
What wines have stained your mulberry-mouth,
And what wild nights have scoffed your youth
And breasts of strawberries clogged in cream?
Memory, wake—
Give her a shake;
Hear no entreaties, heed no tears—
Memory, Memory,
Milkmaid Memory,
Memory, wake, and milk the years.
3. Homage to Haydn
Enamelled by the morning air.
The grass aflame with prisms of dew,
The trees in jewelled clusters bear
Fruit of parrots, red, green, blue.
To please a child, the farmer’s son
Performs his country-conjuring:
Using a rifle, not a gun,
He shoots a parrot on the wing.
The little bird is only grazed
But, plumage smeared with blood and dust.
And jerking button-eye half-dazed,
It looks me over in disgust,
And with the same ingratitude ?
I found on many a later day
In many a pretty bird pursued
It bites my thumb and flies away.
4 . Jig
* Who sooled the cattle-dog on to the sucking-pigs
Squealing and slithering out of the sty,
Slipping in mud, and tripping on twigs—
Who was the ruffian? Sir, it waa I.
Look at old Grandfeyther; he’s the inquisitor—
Isn’t he spry for his ninety-four years!—
Shaking his stick at the dog and the visitor,
Whiskers afloat in the breeze as he swears.
Who sooled the cattle-dog, etc.
Look at the dog, that friend of humanity,
Tail between legs, and nose between paws;
Now he will shun me with cautious urbanity,
Tricked into breaking old Grandfeyther's laws.
Who sooled the cattle-dog on to the sucking-pigs
Squealing and slithering out of the sty,
Slipping in mud, and tripping on twigs—
Who was the ruffian? Sir, it was I.
5. Recitative
The farmer’s son is good and mad
Apologising to his Dad,
For where his horses wheeled and crossed
An axle shook a paddock-post:
“I should have took a wider turn,
“It’s all right, son; you’ve got to learn.
And onwards plough and ploughmen go
Into the field where farmers grow.
6 . Schubertian Aria
The sad sheoaks bemoan
Their urchin-stream’s disgraces
In lonely pools of stone
He stole and hid my face.
The floods of thirty seasons
Since then have scoured the pools,
And several summer sessions
Have broiled their tiddler-schools;
And still the trees complain,
And still the thieving brook
Could help me find my face again,
If 1 should care to look.
7. Habanera
I hear the farmer’s
Wife complain
Of wasting charm, as
She bags grain:
“There’s too many jobs
That wear me worn.
Like stripping cobs
And threshing corn:
“Girls be wary.
And maids be coy;
Never you marry
A farmer’s boy.
“Thresher, windlass,
Butter-churn —
Any old spindle’s
Mine to turn,
While friends from town
Who come to stay
Expect a sit-down
Holiday.
“Feed their lust
For gramma pie;
Hope they bust.
And hope they die;
Evil befall
The gluttonous!——
There’ll be all
The more for us.”
Round and round
The thresher goes,
Around the sound
Of women’s woes;
The cheerful whine
Of her despair
Hangs with the shine
Of dust in air:
“Girls be wary,
And maids be coy;
Never you marry
A farmer’s boy.”
8. The Folksong
*T’II sing a song I sung,”
Says Grandpa,
“When I was pretty young,”
Says Grandpa;
“From the body of a whale
And a salted herring’s tail
1 made a boat and sail,”
Says Grandpa.
He then begins to float,
Floats Grandpa,
In his whale-and-herring boat,
Floats Grandpa,
To his childhood English home,
Back the miles and years he’s come;
And leaves me sitting dumb
On the veranda.
9 . Lament on a Pedal-point
Farmer and son, two thoughtful men,
Co-operate on pig in pen;
To stun the pig, a tiny bullet,
A big broad knife to slit his gullet,
And a little thin knife
To end his life.
Farmer’s wife an£ farmer’s daughter
Bring down pails of boiling water,
And saucepan-lids whose edge is keen
To scrape pig’s hair and make him clean
And sweet, O sweet
Enough to eat.
The picture isn’t sharp and clear
Because I didn’t stay to hear;
They told me, “Pig’s a lovely meal,
But no one likes to taste the squeal”—
The bagpipe-drone
As pigs pass on.
10. Country Dance, after Corelli and
Scarlatti
When the visiting boy has been bundled to bed
And the family’s off to the ball,
The words of a song turn around in his head
As the candle-light fades in the hall;
It was sung by the farmer’s son
Of a girl he apparently knows:
He likes her when dressed in a tulip the best,
He wearing a blushing red rose.
The son on his own will ride to Scone,
The others will go in the shay;
More seemly, it seems, in a little boy’s dreams,
To travel by night in this way:
Some Adams and Eves wear leaves,
And others wear buttons and bows,
But what they put on for the dances at Scone
Is either a tulip or rose.
The preference for foreigners like tulips is curious
In a countryside of wattle and boronia.
And the reddest of roses is rarer to us
Than the red, red, red, red waratah;
But moonlight behind a light tune
Has an art to transplant and transpose,
And when two lips meet two lips, the skies can rain
tulips,
And deserts can bloom like the rose.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Pachers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME . COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ist Divorce.
TO MARY ELLEN JOSEPH late of 38
Nicholson Street, Burwood. —T AK E
NOTICE that JAMES SYDNEY JOSEPH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 148
of 1958 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by Bth May 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
PRIMROSE, YOUNG & PRIMROSE,
Solicitors, of 12 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK STRICKLAND late of Royal
Australian Navy.—TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM SYDNEY HAMPSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3517 of 1952
against his wife BETTY JOAN HAMP-
SON on the ground of her adultery with
you If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
21st April 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
CLAYTON, UTZ & COMPANY, Soli-
citors, 136 Liverpool Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
r - A,
f *K
liM#
■Pi
11 '/in
V
the name is
(DCcdlum's
Distilled and blended
in Scotland
Mc2/3.2
For maximum security insist on
“BIRKMYRE”
TARPAULINS and
HORSE RUGS
made from the Scottish waterproof canvas
with the world-wide reputation for
Dependability and Durability
Available from your local storekeeper
THE BIRKMYRE CANVAS COMPANY PTY. LTD.
55 Parramatta Road Concord. Sydney
146 Chetwynd Street, North Melbourne
The Old Boss
by GULLIVER
THEY don’t breed them like
the Old Boss any more.
The need for his type went
when the big cattle-
stations broke up. He was the
older generation even when I
first met him thirty years ago in
south-west Queensland.
Over sixty, six-feet and fifteen-
stone, he was slightly stooped,
slightly bowlegged from years in
the saddle ; he had a hard square
face and round curly head that
might have belonged to one of
Caesar’s generals but for the
white walrus moustache. His
voice and vocabulary could stop
a cattle-dog in its tracks at half
a mile ; his temper flared like
sandalwood in a scrub-fire and
died as quickly. At “the flickers”
he wept during the sad parts.
In theory he was a retired
cattleman. In practice he was
still working as hard as ever on
his son’s property—“A man’s got
to do something !” “Something”
also included going to cattle-
sales, doing a bit of dealing—
not so much for the money as
for the joy of perching know-
ledgeably on the saleyard-rails,
giving wise opinions on the
offering. He’d buy a pen of
bullocks in the yard, sell them
again that afternoon over a
whisky in the( bar ; even though
he made only “a few bob a
head” he had all the fun of bid-
ding and chaffering.
TN all his doings two black
attendants trailed in his wake
—native stockmen he’d reared
from boyhood. To an almost
unbelievable degree, they obeyed
him in everything, revered him
as dogs revere a master, grin-
ning and chuckling when the
storm of his wrath flashed and
roared about their ears, knowing
that none of the horrible threats
of dismissal and punishment
would eventuate. The Old Boss
couldn’t sack them! And they
couldn’t leave him ! They were
his boys—always had been,
always would be.
Angus, the elder, was plump
and stocky, genial, afflicted with
the most complicated stutter.
Essaying speech, his black face
would writhe, gape and gasp
until his right leg shuddered and
his hand beat his thigh. Only
then the words came. Afoot, he
seldom finished a Sentence;
mounted, his hearers never
caught more than the first
strained and meaningless noises,
for after that he was no longer
there.
Always on a wild and fiery
youngster, his desperate efforts
to speak set that right leg twitch-
ing, then flailing on the horse’s
side. There would be a wild
plunge and he was away.
“Angus! Angus! Pull up,
you ! Stop! You black
fool! Stop knocking that horse
about! Why don’t you answer
me?”
But poor Angus could do
neither. And then there would
be a long string of colorful and
horrid threats and vivid oaths
directed at fools who galloped
horses unnecessarily.
Douglas, long, thin and
gentle, had his failing. Money
baffled him. Sixpences and
threepences he knew. Beyond
that all coins were of the same
value.
The Boss tried hard to teach
him: “Look, Douglas, you buy
this tobacco from me. One-and-
six.”
“Yowi, Boss.”
“Well, you black idiot,
give me one-and-six! ”
Douglas furrowed a Stone
Age brow over the problems of
life in the twentieth century,
“How many sixpence that,
Boss?”
“Three, blast you! Three! ”
From a handful of assorted
currency Douglas would select
perhaps a shilling, a florin and,
triumphantly, one sixpence.
Then, while the Boss raved about
stupid black fools of doubtful
parentage, Douglas gazed at him
with the adoring eyes of a saint
seeing his first vision.
So he was paid only in six-
pences and threepences and per-
mitted to shop only at stores
where his failing was known and
which could be trusted not to
rob him.
PAME the day when, visitors
at short notice impending,
milk was urgently needed —the
day when the Old Boss, being
by chance the only man at the
homestead, undertook to milk
the cow.
His daughter-in-law—“a nice
girl, but a bit of a
fool” was unflatteringly
dubious.
“Do you think you can
manage, Father?”
If he had any doubts, this
removed them. “Manage it?
Good God, woman, I could
milk before you were out of
napkins! ”
A prim soul, she was
shocked; she was annoyed be-
cause the boys were listening—
and grinning. But it shut her
up and sent her into the kitchen,
as it was meant to do.
The Old Boss grinned. “Well,
that’ll keep her out of the way.
Angus, run the cow in. Douglas,
take the bucket up to the yard.
I’ll come up when you’re ready.”
The cow was bailed and leg-
roped when he got there. He
slapped her rump with a hand
about the size and color of a
saddle-flap. She shivered,
“Whoa, there, Suky! Whoa,
there! That’s the girl!”
The girl flicked her ears and
rolled her eyes, apprehensive of
the stranger.
“Good cow, this! Good cow,
Angus! ”
“Goo —goo” The leg
twitched.
“Dammit, boy, don’t stand
there yammering at me! Slack
that leg-rope! Never rope
a cow that tight!”
“Maybe she kick, Boss.” Thus
Douglas.
In a well-seasoned speech the
boys were informed that they
were not only bigger fools than
usual but the Boss knew a quiet
cow when he saw one, and he
saw one now.
“Give me that stool.”
OQUATTING, he issued the
orders for the campaign.
In the not-unlikely event of
the cow forgetting her manners,
Angus was to attend her with
the shovel at the ready, as a kind
of First Groom of the Chamber,
It being also likely that the Boss
would be thumped on the ear by
her tail, Douglas was to stand-
by clutching that organ in his
hand; he was also to act as
intelligence-officer, and warn
Angus if premonitory twitchings
occurred, thus ensuring instant
action with the shovel and giving
the Boss time to spring clear.
They took post. The grey
curly head burrowed into the
cow’s flank. Thick streams rang
and hissed into the bucket; the
foam rose.
Then the cow, nervous amid
so much ceremonial, kicked in
the slack rope—kicked, of all
things, the Boss’s shin. There
was a roar that sent the crows
flying and squawking from the
hide in the killing-pen. The
Boss rose, brick-red, eyes blaz-
ing, swelling until he seemed to
fill the cowshed.
The cow, horrified now by the
enormity of her deed, seemed
bn the point of swooning,
and bawled faintly.
“Angus! Give me that
shovel! I’ll kill the bitch!”
The boys grinned and
chuckled.
“Stop giggling, you
fools! Give me the shovel!”
Oaths beyond description.
“I’ll make you kick, you ! ”
He could be heard at the
house.
He swung back the shovel,
overhead; eyes popped, he rose
on his toes for a full swing,
brought it up, over —not quite
over. Not —quite—over. With
a hard metallic clang the blade
struck the ironbark beam over-
head. It rang again on the
floor.
The performance now took
on real virtuosity.
T IPS compressed, great hands
- L ' tucked in his armpits, he
skipped lightly about the shed,
emitting through his nose a high-
pitched keening sound like a
Highlander dancing to his own
accompaniment. He paused
occasionally to speak of cows
and shovels, but the real burden
of his remarks dwelt mainly
upon the never-to-be-adequately-
described architectural short-
comings of cowsheds and the
shortsighted builders who put
beams in adjectivally silly places.
Ah, the beam! “Douglas!”
Douglas, smiling gently,
stepped forward.
“Get me the axe! I’ll cut the
whole shed down! ”
“What axe, Boss?”
Horrid oaths. “Any axe!
Any axe! And don’t be a week
over it!”
The boy flew. Came back
with an axe.
Blind with rage, the Boss
grabbed it. Again that poised
moment of pent force, eyes
fixed on the beam, the mighty
swing, the exhaling of breath...
The old rusty head flew from
the shrunken handle of the axe
that had been lying beside the
branding-furnace for the past
six months, whirred over the
rails into the dust. The handle
swished harmlessly through the
air.
The Boss took a few tottering
steps, dropped it, fell forward,
hung breathless and gasping
across the cow’s shrinking rump.
Suky, by now a nervous wreck,
disgraced herself.
npHE Boss, quite silent now,
threw what milk there was in
the bucket over her head; then
he threw the bucket over the rail
and walked down to the house,
leaving the boys to let the cow
out.
The daughter-in-law wasn’t
quite a fool.
She went quietly into the
kitchen and mixed tinned milk
for the guests waiting on the
veranda. She didn’t even tell
them the Boss was at home-
just left him in the dining-room
with the decanter.
He’d had enough for one day.


sdf
KHARIS
Circular Charts for all typ«t
of Recording Instruments
tor Mf (lui of Mech4*ory '•
•r Equlprrvont
METER CHARTS ■ Specialty
JACftWSO’SULUVAN^U*
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
sd
Established Itiun in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige,
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
a Prevalence
of Snakes
by OLIVER FILTER
T’ LIE C.O. of No.
S Radar Station, R.A.A.F.,
y j leaned back in his canvas
chair and contemplated
the hairs of his naked, sweating
stomach. A young man, com-
missioned barely six months ago
and holding the probationary
rank of pilot-officer, he was not
given greatly to worrying, but
he had a feeling of unease —a
sense of something left undone,
or a premonition of troubles to
come.
He shifted in his chair to un-
stick his buttocks from the
sweat-soaked canvas, and, one
by one, dismissed as properly
and safely dealt with any pos-
sible sources of trouble. Then
he glanced across the tent to
wher§ the orderly-room corporal
was filing correspondence. The
corp. was short and dumpy, and
the sweat on his naked back
gathered and ran into a little
trickle that coursed steadily
down his spine to a little spread-
ing pool on the stool.
“Everything 0.K., Bill?” the
C.O. asked him.
The corp. turned round and
blinked through his spectacles.
He looked like a fat little
Buddha, and seemed mildly sur-
prised by the question. “I think
so,” he said. “All the returns
are in ; there’s nothing outstand-
ing.” He continued to blink as
though expecting further ques-
tions.
The C.O. marvelled at the
corp.’s roll of belly fat. “Y’
know,” he idled, “I’ve been
wondering if we shouldn’t wear
a bit more clothing. Regulations
say shorts and shirts for this
area; p’r’aps we should wear
shorts, anyway.”
The corp. considered the idea
and shook his head. “Too
bloody hot,” he said. “It’s a
hundred and twenty-one today ;
it was a hundred and nine-
teen yesterday ; and it’s been over
a hundred every day for the
last two months. And it’s a
waste of time, anyway. If you
wear ’em you’ve got to wash ’em.
So long as they wear boots for
snakes and hats for the sun I
wouldn’t worry. I don’t think
you could make ’em wear any-
thing, anyway.”
The C.O. wondered if he could
make them. So far he’d never
found it necessary to give an
order, and, with a wisdom that
came early, he was not keen to
give any unless and until it was
really necessary. His men had
gradually discarded their cloth-
ing after the first couple of
months in the area ; he had held
out for a while in shorts him-
self, but had finally followed
the apparently sensible example
of the rest.
“You’re probably right,” he
said to the corp,, getting up and
reaching for his sun-helmet. “I
think I’ll take a stretch.”
The corp. watched him go,
smiling slightly at the slim boyish
figure covered only with heavy
boots at one end and a helmet at
the other. *
/~\UTSIDE, the C.O. stopped,
narrowing his eyes against
the heat and glare, and looked
around his unit—fifteen tents
sprawled in a small sandy clear-
ing in the spinifex.
Their only connection with
the outside world was the snak-
ing, dusty track which led ten
miles through the spinifex to the
airstrip. Beyond the airstrip the
spinifex rolled on again in a
grey-green mat to the horizon
and the infinite spaces between
them and civilisation.
Hie C.O. brought his eyes and
mind back from space and civi-
lisation and home, and walked
down to the motors. One was
idle in reserve, while the other
throbbed its power to the spin-
ning generator ; the current from
the generator was carried up the
hill by power-lines to the doover
itself—transmitter and receiver
in a darkened tent with the great
rectangular aerial on top. The
transmitter poured out its beam
of high-frequency waves through
the slowly-turning aerial; if the
waves struck an aircraft a tiny,
telltale echo sped back to the
aerial and showed itself as a
small green blip on the screen on
the receiver.
Satisfied with the motors, the
C.O, followed the current up the
hill to the doover, picking his
way across the hot rocks and
avoiding the clumps of spinifex
which often enough harbored a
sluggish brown death-adder. He
stepped through the light-trap
into the tent and watched the
screen while the operator slowly
turned the aerial,
'THE corp, was the first to sight
-*■ the visitors. He was hang-
ing out his week’s washing—
seven handkerchiefs and a towel
—on one of the ropes of the
orderly-room tent when he saw
the staff-car come round the
corner of the hill and through
the tent-lines. There was a slight
scatter of naked figures for the
tents* and the corp. himself
stepped smartly in one end of
his tent and, less than a minute
later, smartly out the other end
wearing beautifully clean shorts
and shirt.
Apart from the driver, there
were four others in the car. As
they climbed out the corp. mut-
tered to himself “ ’Strewth ; the
ace, king and queen.”
They were not quite the top
brass from Area Headquarters*
but very nearly. The group-
captain, tough, square and face
like a bulldog, was staff; the
first wing-commander, lean and
ascetic with features like a
curved knife-blade, was medical;
the second, small, trim and dark
with a bristling black growth
under his nose, was radar.
Hovering respectfully behind
them was a young flying-officer
with notebook and pencil to take
down the observations of the
mighty. _
The corp. saluted smartly and
the grouper flicked an acknow-
ledgment.
“The C.O.’s up in the
doover; sir. If .you’d like to wait
in the orderly-room I’ll send a
message up.”
But even as he spoke, and
even as he was trying to think of
some way of adding a pair of
pants to the message, the C.O.
appeared on the track coming
down the hill.
TTELPLESSLY in the middle
of the track, the C.O.
paused as he recognised the
terrible trio and felt their fixed
and triple stare on him. Evasive
tactics were out of the question.
Retreat would have been more
obvious than approach, and
there was neither rock to the left
nor rock to the right nor low,
lean thorn between. In his
moment’s hesitation he remem-
bered, hopelessly, that they had
plotted-in a V.I.P. aircraft that
morning ; and he cursed whoever
it was who had not thought to
send warning of the visitors.
Only the throbbing of the
motor broke the expectant hush
over the camp as the men
watched from their tents and
other discreet vantage-points.
Then a very suppressed cheer in
the form of a muttered “You
bloody corker!” came from one
of the tents as the C.O. visibly
straightened his shoulders and,
as smartly as the precipitous
track would allow, marched
down to meet the visitors.
If the visitors heard the re-
mark, they showed no sign;
they were standing at attention
as though on a parade-ground.
The corp. gazed sadly over their
shoulders and wished fervently
for a greater catastrophe to
engulf the present one.
The C.O. had never realised
that it was possible to feel even
more naked than he was. As he
came to the foot of the hill he
pulled himself even more erect
and stepped up to meet the steel-
blue gaze of the group-captain.
He halted with parade-ground
precision and threw a salute that
made his whole body shake. The
grouper returned with equal
smartness, .while the winkers
stood behind him like statues.
The C.O, was afraid his voice
would fail him, but it came clear
and firm. “Good-afternoon, sir.
Would you like to wait in the
orderly-room while I change?”
INSPECTION of the unit was
brief, stiff and cold. There
was no mention of nudity,
although the C.O. wished they
would thrash it out then and
there and have done with it. To
make matters worse, the subject
seemed to gain silent emphasis
as the inspection progressed. In
one of the tents at which they
paused the W/T operator on
night-shift was sprawled naked
and asleep and unwarned of the
visitors. When the C.O. called
to him he grunted and rolled
over,
“Let him sleep,” said Staff
tersely.
The C.O. turned away. He
hated the flying-officer who was
taking notes, and wished he
could read the shorthand.
Medical wanted to know
about the snakes, and, sensing a
faint warmth of interest, the
C.O. offered to produce a live
one within fifteen minutes.
“Don’t trouble,” said Medical.
“I’d just like to see what pre-
cautions you take.”
They tramped through the
sand to the medical-orderly’s
tent. It was neat and well-kept,
and the medical-orderly gave the
C.O. a moment’s welcome relief
from the spotlight. “The snakes
are everywhere, sir,” he told the
winker. “Death-adders. We’ve
even had them in our clothes-
boxes under the beds. But no
one’s been bitten yet.”
The winker’s face seemed
sharper than ever, “And what
could you do in the case of a
bite?”
“Usual treatment, sir. Liga-
ture and incision. We keep anti-
venene in the refrigerator. It’s
for tiger-snakes, actually, but it
should help. I don’t think there
is one for death-adders.”
“And are all the men well-
versed in the treatment of bites?”
“We all wear these,” the medi-
cal-orderly said, indicating the
leather thOng which hung around
his neck and from which dangled
his identification-disks. “They’d
make a good ligature in an
emergency. And”—he held up
one of the disks to show where
one edge had been filed to razor-
like sharpness—“we’ve taken the
liberty of doing this. It’s not
strictly according to regulations,
but it seemed a good idea.”
“M’m,” said Me lical. He
seemed to have lost interest in
the subject, and his gaze
wandered around the tent and up
to the roof on which were pasted
colorful pictures of nude females
culled from magazines which
specialised in the subject. It was
the only decoration to his tent
which the medical-orderly per-
mitted himself, and the C.O.
quite approved of the gallery at
other times. Now he noticed that
the flying-officer was taking
notes,
6 6 W°ULD you like, to see the
** mess now, sir?” he asked
the grouper.
They walked quickly through
the mess and kitchen which the
cook always kept meticulously
clean and as cool as an
occasional sprinkling of water
allowed. The C.O. thanked his
deity that the cook had clothes
on.
They went up the hill to the
doover. The operator’s naked-
ness was concealed to some
extent by the darkness of the
tent. He was fixing the range
and bearing of an aircraft at
eighty miles, which was an excel-
lent performance in that climate.
In the little operations-hut
near by the second operator was
transferring the information to a
map and reading off grid refer-
ences to the W/T operator, who
coded and flashed them away
with admirable rhythmic speed.
Everything was normal, and it
would have been an admirable
demonstration of efficiency, the
C.O. thought, if only the pair of
them hadn’t tried to dress them-
selves with handkerchiefs and
string.
There was little else to see.
The unit’s senior mechanic,
whose somnolent speech and
gesture belied his extraordinarily
brilliant technical ability, met the
first testing barrage of questions
so effortlessly that the wing-
commander (radar) had an
uneasy feeling he was talking to
a superior man. The C.O. and
the orderly-room cop?, showed
the grouper that their adminis-
trative organisation was faultless.
The grouper stood up and
tersely declined an invitation to
afternoon-tea.
“I think that’s all,” he said.
“We must be going. Thank you.
Pilot-Officer.”
The C.O. felt there was a
slight emphasis on the “pilot-
officer.” He saluted and stood by
while the party climbed into the
qar. He noticed with slight,
malicious pleasure that their
faces were stained with sweat
and red dust, and that their
shorts and shirts were soaked and
sticking to them.
AS the car disappeared around
the hill the men wandered
from their tents over to f the
orderly-room. The C.O. tore
off his shorts and hurled them on
the ground. “Wouldn’t it?” he
said “Wouldn’t it! Wouldn’t
it! Wouldn’t it! For God’s
sake let’s have a beer.”
They trooped up to the mess,
opened the refrigerator, and held
a sympathy meeting over several
bottles,
“I don’t know,” said the C.O.
“I just don’t know. Not a smile ;
not a complaint; not a compli-.
ment. Three cold fish. Oh,
hell. Did you get that pussyfoot
taking notes?”
“Oh, it wasn’t too bad,” the
senior mechanic cor soled him.
“Everything was in pretty good
shape. I’ve been on a lot of units
and I know this is a good-’un.
You take my word for it.”
“That’s the hell of it,” said
the C.O. “That’s the rotten,
stinkin’ hell of it. They couldn’t
have faulted a thing. Everything
was perfect. Except for one
thing. Have you ever been on a
unit where a group-captain was
saluted by a. naked pilot-
officer?” He rested his head on
his hands and stared at his
pannikin of beer.
The orderly - room corp.
added his sympathy. “I wouldn’t
worry too much,” he said. “The
grouper’s not a bad old boy, I’ve
heard. If he’s a normal man,
he’s probably thinking that that
young pilot - officer displayed
courage and presence of mind in
an emergency.”
“Pilot-Officer!” said the C.O.
“If he’s thinking of anything,
he’s thinking of how I’d look
as an L.A.C. again. And a
naked one at that, probably.”
They drank their beer, moodily
going back over the inspection
and trying to recall any saving
features.
■pOR three weeks the C.O.
raced through the official
mail even before the orderly-
room corp. could get to it. And
each time he finally pushed it
aside with a mixture of irritation
and helplessness. “Not a word,”
he said. “Not one benighted
word. Gawd, it’s going to be a
beaut when it comes!”
He was opening the envelopes
of the fourth week’s mail and
glancing quickly at the contents
while the corp. was handing out
personal mail to the rest of the
unit.. Suddenly he shouted and
came to the front of the tent. He
had a grin that nearly engulfed
his ears. “Listen to this; just
listen to this! ”
The first paragraphs were
made up of praise, in the usual
guarded official language, of “the
conduct of the unit, with parti-
cular reference to technical,
administrative and medical
sections. In view of the some-
what difficult circumstances and
trying climatic conditions under
which the unit operates, it is felt
that it is maintaining an excellent
standard.
“During the inspection, how-
ever, a prevalence of snakes was
observed, and it is therefore
directed that immediate requisi-
tion be made on No. Stores
Depot for black leather leggings,
and it is further directed that
these leggings be incorporated in
regulation unit dress and be worn
at all times by all members of
the unit.”
The C.O. laughed. “And it’s
signed by the old boy himseif.
The beaut. The bloody old
beaut!”
He tossed the letter to the
corp., and did a neat and naked
little dance on the sand.


OB ».
A
Cy 1
Is O,STI
ggg^a**-
iAi»
M
O\H
DW
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon & Co. Ltd.
Qucufy
: ■;
Si
Mi
r
a
RADIO'S FUNNIEST "MR. & MRS."
There’s never a dull moment in the household of “Fred and Maggie Every-
body” and never a dull moment in yours when you’re tuned to these
evergreen radio favourites. As a radio ferial ‘Tred and Maggie” still enjoy
front-rank popularity after many years of laugh-filled broadcasting.
“Fred and Maggie ” starring Edward
Howell and Therese Desmond, is
brought to you with the compliments
of the makers of Velvet Soap and is
presented by the Macquarie Broad-
casting Service,
"FRED & MAGGIE"
Fridays at 7.30 p.m.
2GB • 3AW • 4BH • SDN • 61X • 7HO
2HR 2'CA 2LF 2WL 2LT 2PK 2MG 2AD 3CV 3BA 4GY 6MD 6WB 7LA
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of Jarrahland Jingles
and Dryblower’s Verses by E. G.
(“Dryblower”) Murphy.—s4so.
Whereabouts of Michael Hervey,
son of Grant Hervey, one-time well-
known Bulletin contributor. —5445.
To buy copy of The Australian b
Will H. Ogilvie.—s449.
To buy copies of the “Nationa
Geographic Magazine” (U.S.A.) fo
April, 1950; March, 1948; an
January, 1949. —5446.
Books, newspaper references, etc
giving biographical details concern
ing C. H. Kirmess, author of Th
Australian Crisis (1909). —5448.
To buy novels and other literar
works published by the N.S.W. Book
stall Co., Sydney.—s4s2.
To buy The Late Alfred Ceci
Rowlandson: Pioneer Publisher
Australian Novels, published b;
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney,
1922.—5451.
Does Anybody Know?
Identity of old-time N.S.W. Book
stall novelist “Jack North,” who
wrote Harry Dale’s Grand National
The Black Opal and A Son of the
Bush. —5447.
Information Sought
(1) How many times did Arthur
Mailey go to England in an Australian
cricket team ? (2) What were his Test
averages in England?
(1) Twice—in 1921 and 1926. (2)
In 1921 he played in three Tests
Batting average—three innings, highest
score 6, total 11, av. 3.66; bowling—
-124.4 overs, 18 maidens, 12 wickets
for 398, av. 33.16. In 1927 he played
in all five Tests. Batting—five innings,
one not-out, h.s. 6, total 9, av. 2.25;
bowling—l 72.4 overs, 25 maidens, 14
wickets for 592, av. 42.28.
* * * *
Did Prime Minister Menzies say,
before the December, 1949, Federal
elections, that his Government, if
elected, would put value back into
the pound?
Mr. Menzies did not rashly and
irresponsibly promise to “put value
back into the pound” regardless of
external economic and political con-
ditions and without effort by the
people themselves. His exact words,
made not in his policy speech but in
the course of subsequent pre-election
speeches, were: “Our greatest charge
against the financial and economic
policy of the present Socialist Govern-
ment is that, while it has paid a
good deal of attention to increasing
the volume and circulation of money,
it has largely neglected the problem,
of what and how much that money
will buy The pound of 1939 is
now only worth 12s. 2d. in purchas-
ing power The greatest task, there-
fore, is to get value back into the
pound, that is, to get prices down.
That is the only effective way of
increasing real wages and salaries.”
There is no simple, easy road to stop
inflation (the progressive decline in
money-value), but the Menzies Gov-
“■ernment’s measures are without doubt
succeeding.
* * * *
In the art world what is Fauvism
Fauvism was a movement in art
which originated in Paris in 1903 as
a revolt against Impressionism. Ii
became the name of a gorup of
artists, among whom were Matisse
Dufey, Derain, Lhote, Vlaminck
Marquet and Friesz. These soughi
to invest color again with spiritua
values. The name Fauvism is derived
from a slighting reference by the
Parisian art critic Louis Vauxcelles
to the gallery of works of the artists
of the group. He called it a “cage
aux fauves,” or cage of wild beasts.
* * * *
(1) How many words are there in
the English language? (2) Would
“go,’'’ “going,” “gone,” be counted
as one word or as three?
(1) Absolutely impossible to give
an exact figure. There are roughly
20,000 words in fairly general use,
but the standard dictionaries list hun-
dreds of thousands. If an exact esti-
mate were to be attempted, it would
first have to be decided whether to
include or omit scientific, medical
and technical terms, Latin and other
foreign phrases more or less incor-
porated in the language, slang-words,
jargon, obsolete words and dialect
words. Also, whether variations in
spelling of the one word (i.e., “cal-
cimine,” “kalsomine”) were to count
as one or two words. There are also
to be considered, as separate words
or to be passed over, the thousands
of compounds (such as “fence-sitter,”
“high-pitched,” “ever-growing”). (2)
No definite answer can be given; it’s
mainly a matter of personal opinion.
Plurals, for instance, are not gene-
rally regarded as different words, nor
in most cases are participles of verbs.
In the case of irregular verbs, how-
ever (such as “go,” “gone” and
“went”; “come,” “came”; “be,”
“was,” “are”), normal practice would
most likely be to count them
separately.
♦ * * *
When and where was American
negro boxer Sam Langford born ?
When did he begin boxing, and how
many contests did he have? What
championships did he win?
Sam Langford (“The Boston Tar
Baby”) was born at Weymouth (Nova
Scotia) on March 4, 1886, and began
boxing in 1902. He had more than
300 contests. Championships won
by Langford were the Australian
heavyweight title (from Sam McVea)
at Sydney Stadium on April 8, 1912,
and the Spanish heavyweight crown
(from Andrea Balsea) at Mexico City
in 1922.
* * * *
What is the purpose of the “tick-
gates” at Mallanganee and Tabulam
and other centres in N. S. Wales?
The tick-gates in question are on
the boundary of tick-quarantine areas
declared as such under the provisions
of the Stock Diseases Act, N.S.W.
These areas hjive been declared to
give the Government power to con-
trol the movement of all animals and
things likely to spread cattle-tick
infestation from the known infested
areas included in the quarantine areas
to other parts of New South Wales
which are free from infestation. As
a result of the declaration of quaran-
tine areas the Government has power,
through inspectors, to control the
movement of horses, cattle, sheep,
camels and goats, which are the only
animals which would carry cattle-tick,
and of things such as grass, hays and
other plant-life which might carry
the larval stages or eggs of cattle-tick.
The gatekeepers are required to check
all outgoing vehicles from the quaran-
tine areas into the clean country to
see that they carry no animals or
things which have failed to comply
with the conditions requiring cleansing
treatments before being permitted to
move into the clean country. The
gate at Mallanganee is from a rather
more heavily infested area into an
area which is only lightly infested,
whilst the gate at Tabulam is from
the lightly-infested area into unin-
fested or clean country. Similar gates
are maintained on all roads leading
from the infested area into clean
country of N.S.W. Domestic cats
and dogs are not subject to control
for cattle-tick infestation.
Brief Answers
U.M.T.: Metal threads in fabrics
are always unreliable; the strong
fumes from the camphor-wood have
acted on the metal used in the
material, an unknown kind. Nothing
can be done to restore the tarnished
patches E.H.T.: None of the
species would be suitable for the con-
ditions described by you. Three
species which might be worth trying
under the rather difficult conditions
are Euc. camphora (broad-leaved
Sally), 40ft.; Euc. steelulata (black
Sally), 30ft.; Euc. amplifolia (cab-
bage-gum), 60ft. Seed of these species
is available from the Forestry Com-
mission of N- S. Wales, Assembly
Building, 44 Margaret-street, Sydney.
C.J.D.: N. S. Wales is approxi-
mately three and a half times as large
as Victoria, nearly 12 times as large
as Tasmania and one-fifth smaller
than South Australia. Queensland is
more than twice and Western Aus-
tralia three times as large as N. S.
Wales.... F.L.T.: The Woy Woy
tunnel is located between Woy Woy
and Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.), and
is 5871 ft. long. The section of line,
Gosford-Mullet Creek, on which the
tunnel is situated was opened on
January 16, 1888 R.McC.; Bert
Hinkler was born at Bundaberg (Q.).
He took to flying and went to Eng-
land in 1914. In 1928 he carried
out a lone flight to Australia in 15
days. Later, after disappearing on
a cross-European flight, his body was
found in Italy W.C.: Entente
cordiale means “cordial understand-
ing,” and is a term applied to friendly
relations existing between Powers,
most often used of the friendship
between Great Britain and France
that began early in the 20th century
and resulted in the alliance that
carried on the First World War.
T.J.S.: Books and printed matter
imported from sources other than
the dollar area and Japan by univer-
sities, public libraries, colleges, schools
and other approved institutions, pro-
vided that such publications are
imported for their own purposes,
have been exempted from the Cus-
toms (Import Licensing) Regulations.
S.M.G.: Under the Common-
wealth Social Services Consolidation
Act an endowment may be granted
to a person who has the care, custody
and control of one or more children
under the age of 16 years and satis-
fies the Director-General that the
child or children are likely to remain
permanently in Australia. It is open
to you, on your arrival in Australia,
to submit a claim on the prescribed
form, obtainable at all post-offices.
K.J.K.; Write secretary, National
Rifle Association of N. S. Wales,
Goldsbrough House, Macquarie-
place, Sydney C.P.R.: Four-year-
old winners of the Melbourne Cup
were Dalray, Foxzami, Hiraji, Rain-
bird, Sirius, Colonus, Wotan,
Marabou, Phar Lap, Nightmarch,
Statesman, Windbag, King Ingoda,
Piastre, Comedy King, The Victory,
Patron, Malvolio, Mentor, Arsenal,
Zulu, Don Juan, Glencoe and Haricot.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.N.: You use modern idioms in
the speech of a lost civilisation —that
kills it for a start 8.W.; Away
with the Chicago outlaw —what’s
wrong with a good Australian crook
who is kind to children? AJ.K.:
Burglar finds safe already burgled.
You’re the third this year.., .E.F.:
No more chance of its earning a
cheque than its villain had of finding
water S.C.: It may be true, but
it makes dull reading J.N.: .Surely
Sarah has learned by now to dis-
tinguish a kiss from a cow’s lick.
R.M.: We have met before the
old-clothes man who does the round
of the nudist camps S.F.A.: Stick
to subjects you know something about.
... .H.G.: Sent it to our Chinese
laundryman for an extra opinion; he
thought, as we did, that you were
writing through your hat M.J.F.:
Didn’t get to the finish, but willing
to bet she chose the “immaculately-
groomed man, no longer young, with
a slight tinge of grey showing above
the temple”—the one with the “gleam-
ing, silver-grey roadster, its long lines
redolent of power” D.N.: Mildly
interesting paragraph spun out to a
yarn M.L.: Can’t hold out hope
of publication, but you should have
no difficulty in placing it with any
insomnia - sufferer P.D.: They
range from completely hopeless to just
below mediocre N.N.: You’re a
hemisphere out of our boundary.
D-T.: An eminent authority
declares there never was whisky as
strong as that.,. .C.G.H.: Micro-
scopic pencil-notes scrawled on both
sides of the paper put four experts
on a bender... .E. 8.: Not the ghost
of a shiver in that ghost-yarn
A.J.D.: Cricketing-yarn was run out
during the first over... .W.M.:
Account of walking-tour from
Adelaide to Broken Hill now on tour.
C.R.: Yours makes the 1789th
dead-cat-mistaken-parcel yarn we’ve
read... .T.P.J.: Having read both
covering-letter and yarn, we’d suggest
that you should confine your literary
activities to writing covering-letters.
... .Bellerive: We were sorry to hear
that your house fell down, and were
relieved to learn that you are safe; —
From tub Jaws op Death.
To be drove out into the St. by an
appalling occurrence after over 20 years
in one house without missing a week’s
rent was an awful experience. Had we’d
been hushed in slumber when the wall
crashed down with a thundering sound
our crushed bodies would have been found
’neath bricks and plaster. By the provi-
dence of God we escaped a tragic and
ghastly doom. Hurried along by my wife,
we reached the road were a crowd were
kept in order by police. On the morrow,
under the guidance of a soldier nephew
of mine, portion of our belongings, in-
cluding among them a tin box containing
my literary manuscripts and theatrical
correspondence, etc., were brought to
safety and stowed away under lock and
key. For the time being we are sheltered
at a relative’s home, situated within a
mile from our wrecked domicile. And all
we can do is hope for the best. The
Melbourne “Argus” gave my age as 85,
which I’ll be if spared to live five years
longer. I’m old enough at 80 to be
left homeless in the darkness of night.
From the jaws of death,
Out onto the road,
My wife and I escaped
From our wrecked abode.
The collapse of our home
Into darkness and gloom,
And our narrow escape
From tragical doom.
By my wife I stood
In our awful plight
And felt I’d awoke from
A horrid dream of the night.
G.M.K.: It merely follows the
conventional coward-turned-hero plot.
B.C.: Good-looking, fair-haired,
blue-eyed Englishman, Paris, the
Riviera. You’re several latitudes ott
your bearing A.Q.: Office statis-
tician reports that there are 153
variations of that plot—all of them
01d.... F.S.: Even a church-magazine
would regard it dubiously J.D.:
Nothing in those three, but don’t
give up.. ..L.W.: Don’t mind bush
yarns being a bit rough, but yours
would stop a bulldozer 8.J.A.:
Afraid we can’t use it, not even to
keep you “occupied and out of
mischief” H.S.: As watery as
boardinghouse soup R.S.; Too
many demented prospectors in cold-
storage already D.J.: We found
the old man a tedious jester and
the angel child a pain in the neck.
. ...P.L.M.: Your lovely lady failed
to move the ogre at the cash-box.
. ...H.H.: An amateurish story built
round a far-fetched p10t... .G.W.8.:
A good deal of it proved utterly
illegible owing to your weird hand-
writing; most of what we could read
we failed to understand A.H.:
Boxing-kangaroo wasn’t even allowed
in the ring S.N.S.: “Dead Trees”
as lifeless as the subject S.F.M.:
Turf sketch was left at the barrier.
... .P.M.: For the third time, that
tramp can’t sleep here... .G.M.C.:
It’s already been “consigned to the
basket,” and your warning that you
have “a dozen or so like it to send”
resignedly noted R.V.: 111-fed.
ill-dressed, ill-cooked and ill-sewed,
like the leg of mutton Dr. Johnson
once complained 0f....L.T.: “Why
I Didn’t Marry the Girl in the
Tobacco-kiosk” received, and reason
noted in case we’re ever in the same
boat... .8.K.W.: Steering clear of
“widowed wife of six” L.A.E.:
About time that drunk signed the
pledge.


CRIPPLING
quickly eased with
TRADE MARA I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
• DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist
o*l**
|At«C»
uRff 1 ®
mb*® 0
W*
R6U
**
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLClltf
Informative literature on Dolcln
will be sent on request to Dolctn
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
GJ.O., Sydney. /
D 4.2
Australian Historical Sketches
The Merino Arrives
By M. H. ELLIS
ONE of the matters about
which most schoolbook
history is dogmatic —
and wrong—concerns the
earliest development of the sheep
in Australia. As told by
History for the Sixth Class in
the N. S. Wales schools, by
G. T. Spaull, M.A., the story
goes like this:
Lieutenant John Macarthur landed
at Port Jackson with his wife and
infant son in 1790 At the time,
officers received grants of land so
that food could be raised for the
support of the colonists. In this way
Macarthur obtained 200 acres of land
near Parramatta, which he called
Elizabeth Farm after his wife. It
was here, in 1793, that Macarthur
commenced raising sheep, not for
food, but for the purpose of obtain-
ing supplies of wool.
Now officers did not receive
grants of land in 1790, and when
they did receive them, in 1793,
Macarthur did not begin to do
as is taught in the schools. Very
many years afterwards he said
he did, but contemporary facts
contradict him. His own
enumeration of his stock on
August 23, 1794, showed that he
owned “a horse, two mares, two
cows, 130 goats and upwards of
100 hogs.”
The actual history up to that
time had been that Captain
Phillip had brought some
common Cape sheep from the
Cape of Good Hope with the
First Fleet in 1788, but all these
died except one ewe, which was
given to a settler when the
Governor distributed the small
stock built up by a later impor-
tation of 1791, organised by
Lieutenant P. G. King, at the
end of 1792. From the old
Sirius ewe by 1799 the man to
whom it was given had built up
a flock of 122-head. He was
obviously the first real consistent
breeder.
The settlers who were given
sheep in December, 1792, in the
main, however, sold them, and
Richard Atkins in a contem-
porary mention in his diary says
that the man who mostly bought
them up was—not Macarthur —
but Foveaux. And they were all
common sheep. In June, 1795,
the total sheep-stock of the
colony totalled 70 males and 74
ewes in Government hands,
and seven rams, 150 wethers
and 531 ewes in private
hands. There is not a tittle of
contemporary evidence that any-
body thought of wool at that
stage.
The N.. S. Wales schoolbook
version continues from that
point:
Finding that the English and Indian
breeds which he had on his farm were
unsuitable, he (Macarthur) obtained
a number of Spanish Merino sheep
from the Cape of Good Hope.
This is pure fable. The facts
about what happened to pro-
duce the importation of the first
Spanish sheep, which were later
described as not pure Spanish
Merino at all but large-bodied
crosses obtained originally from
Holland, is told by the man
who brought them and are not
disputable. This was Captain
Henry Waterhouse, R.N., of
H.M.S. Reliance, whose original
letteris describing the importation
still exist in the Mitchell
Library:—
In 1797 I arrived in the Reliance
at the Cape of Good Hope, together
with the Supply, Captain Kent and
Britannia transport. On board the
Reliance was the Commissary for the
purpose of purchasing cattle for the
settlement. On board the Britannia
were Governor King (i.e., then Lieut.-
Governor of Norfolk Island) and
Lieutenant-Colonel Paterson on their
way to England. Both were
acquainted with Colonel Gordon, who
lost his life there. Colonel Gordon
had imported a few Spanish sheep to
the Cape, which had increased to 32.
Mrs. Gordon was then going to
Europe, and for some reason did not
chuse to leave anything that had be-
longed to her husband at the Cape.
She gave three Spanish sheep to
Governor King and three to Captain
Paterson. The remainder I under-
stood were offered to the Commis-
sary, but he declined to purchase
them on behalf of the [N.S.W.]
Government. They were offered to
me. As I could not afford to pur-
chase the whole, Captain Kent (that
they might not be lost to the colony)
offered to take half. We each received
13, and I took Governor King’s on
board the Reliance. Captain Paterson
took his to England to present to
Sir J, Sinclair.
This letter was actually written
in 1804 to Macarthur in response
to the latter’s request for infor-
mation about “the sheep you
introduced.”
Hh +
The captain’s story continued
that they paid Mrs. Gordon £4
apiece for the sheep, the expense
of delivery was about £1 a head
more and the expense for food,
etc., was very considerable.
Lieutenant-Governor King’s
sheep, having been put with
others before they were
embarked, became diseased and
infected some of the others
Captain Kent lost all his sheep,
though some which he parted
with to Lieutenant Braithwaite
survived. Captain Waterhouse
left the Cape on April 11 with a
“ship most completely full, hav-
ing on board 49-head of black
cattle, three mares and 107
sheep”:—
I believe no ship ever went to sea
so much lumbered —the passage to
Port Jackson is generally made in 35
to 40 days, this one 78, one of the
longest and most disagreeable pas-
sages ever made. We met with one
gale of- wind the most terrible I ever
saw or heard of, expecting to go to
the bottom every moment. Some-
thing more than I can account for
preserved us. Possibly I may be in-
tended to be hung in the room of
being drowned. We arrived safe at
Port Jackson with forty head of black
cattle, three mares and nearly two-
thirds of the sheej. alive, but like
camelions they lived upon air most
of the time three cows, two mares
and 24 sheep belonged to myself.
He offered them all to Gov-
ernor Hunter on arrival, but
they were refused. Captain Mac-
arthur then offered to buy the
lot, but this offer was refused
as Captain Waterhouse “wished
to distribute them,” which he did
—to Captain Kent, Captain
Macarthur, Captain Rowley and
the Rev, Samuel Marsden, beside
keeping some himself, and later
supplying Williamson, the
deputy Commissary, Moore —
probably Thomas Moore, the
master-carpenter, who, however,
owned no sheep in 1801 —the
Government and “in fact any
person who wished to have
them from his bred stock.”
Waterhouse continued: —
I never had any other but Spanish
rams with my flock, and on my
quitting the colony sold the flock to
Mr. Cox the paymaster, with the
exception of a few to Captain Mac-
arthur. Most who had Spanish sheep
were particular about them, and I
took pains to disperse them, and I
can assert that several of the sheep
I originally brought from the Cape,
together with their produce, was in
the flock I left behind.
Whatever intention Macarthur
may have had he certainly at
this stage had no vision of future
greatness for wool or the sheep-
industry.
In 1796 he wrote a long letter
to the Duke of Portland,
Colonial Secretary, detailing the
system of agricultural- and stock-
management which should be
employed in the colony ; but he
did not mention wool or sheep.
He saw agriculture purely as a
matter of food-production.
Again, on September 1, 1799,
his wife wrote a long letter
describing their situation (the
letter, incidentally, is wrongly
dated in the printed Records of
the Macarthurs of Camden ): —
Our stock of cattle is large; we
have now 50 head, a dozen horses
and about 1000 sheep. You may
conclude from this that we kill
mutton, but hitherto we have not been
so extravagant. Next year Mr.
Macarthur tells me we may begin....
Pigs are bought by the Government
as would also sheep and cattle
if their numbers would permit of
their being killed.
The history from which
schoolchildren are taught now
takes up its tale again ; —
In 1800, that is-, seven years after
he started woolgrowing, Macarthur
sent the first Australian wool to Eng-
land, to get the opinion of experts.
The samples were well spoken of,
the Merino wool in particular receiv-
ing great praise. He continued ex-
porting wool in small quantities each
year, and one bale, which was said
to contain wool superior to the best
Spanish, was sold, for 10s. 4d, a
pound, the highest price paid, until
recent years, for Australian wool.
This is all just as great fiction
as the rest of the N, S. Wales
Education Department’s story.
There is no evidence whatever
that Macarthur sent any wool to
England in 1800. He certainly
did not continue exporting it
every year.
Actually, in 1801 he pressed
the Government to buy the
whole of his flock of sheep for
£2 10s. a head, with his farms
and buildings thrown in. While
the negotiations were in progress
he bought 1300 sheep belonging
to Major Foveaux, who was
leaving for England, but he did
not buy them for expansion. He
bought them to sell off to the
Government at a profit with his
own. And there is proof that his
standards were not generally so
much above those of Foveaux’s,
at any rate. Foveaux’s sheep
had been left in his charge, and
were running with his own flock
on his grass-farm at Toongabbie.
Foveaux wished to sell to the
Government direct, but Mac-
arthur claimed that they were so
similar in type and quality to his
own that he could not separate
them from his own flock.
Actually, the first known
samples of wool which were sent
to England went from Governor
King at the end of November,
1801. They certainly were sent
in Macarthur’s charge when he
was ordered home under arrest
for trial on a charge of severely
wounding his commanding
officer in a duel. Two years
later it was reported in the
Sydney “Gazette” that the seven
samples had been sent “at
Captain Macarthur’s request,”
but there was no mention of this
at the time Macarthur left in
King’s letter of advice.
+ +
No wool was exported until
1806, and this appears to have
gone from Cox’s Brush Farm.
In 1807 Samuel Marsden took
the second consignment. This
was the first Australian wool
woven in England. Nothing is
on record as having been shipped
by Macarthur till 1810, when a
small consignment was sent by
him in the Dart and was a
failure. It was not until 1821,
20 years after the first samples
were sent, that a single bale —the
best bale at a Macarthur sale in
London —brought the 10s. 4d.
a pound mentioned in the school-
books. This was in a year when
the Saxon clip was a failure.
But by this time there were a
dozen famous growers sending
wool away, and in N. S. Wales
and Van Diemen’s Land to-
gether there were 250,000 sheep.
The true history of Mac-
arthur’s connection with the
wool-industry seems to have been
that, arriving home in 1802, he
found the wool-trade dismayed
by the cutting-off of Spanish
supplies through the war, and all
eyes turned by reports from
King and others on the spot to
N. S. Wales as a possible source
of regular supply. He at once
became the champion of wool.
He certainly had the largest
flock of sheep in N. S. Wales
though not by much. He had,
when he left for England, no
greater interest in wool than a
dozen others and had done no
more to promote it; in fact there
is not a single word of con-
temporary evidence that he gave
it any thought more than others,
or until 1801 at all.
But he had a visionary’s brain
and a drive and energy as a
planner which nobody else in
N. S. Wales possessed, and
before he returned from Eng-
land in 1805 he had persuaded
the English Government —and,
one is ready to believe, himself —
that he alone had shown any pre-
science, and that he alone had
any sheep from which fine-wool
flocks might be developed.
It is not true, as the N. S.
Wales schoolbook history
asserts, that “without dispute it
was John Macarthur who laid
the foundation of our fine-wool
industry. He was the first to see
that the climate and natural
grasses of our continent were
suitable for rearing sheep.”
That fame must be shared
with several others. Credit
belongs to Foveaux and to
Philip Gidley King, who actually
persuaded Captains Waterhouse
and Kent to buy the sheep of
the dead Colonel Gordon (he
was, incidentally, a Dutchman,
though one who amused
Governor Macquarie by singing
Gaelic songs), to Cox, Marsden,
Rowley and others.
The subsequent history is
another matter. Between 1801-
1817 Macarthur was absent from
Australia 12 years (1801-05 and
1809-17), during which his
concerns and farming were
managed by his wife, and in his
second period of exile partly by
his nephew, Hannibal. Sheep
numbered only 25,000 when his
second exile began ; they grew to
200,000 during his absence. The
real foundation on which the
great Camden Park flock was
built up was laid not by John
Macarthur but by his son Sir
William, undoubtedly the
greatest sheep husbandman and
organiser in the early history
of wool. His work and the
parallel work of the Australian
Agricultural Company, the
Coxes and the Bettingtons,
Katers and a dozen more put
Australian wool permanently on
the map, but William most of all,
because, though his father did
most talking about wool, his son
was the first man who really
organised to put wool on a
quality basis with the help of
his brothers, John and Edward,
in England as advisers.
It is indicative of how little
John Macarthur’s initial efforts
really meant to wool that be-
tween 1801 (when he carried the
samples sent by King to Eng-
land) and 1817 (when he finally
returned from exile) Australia
exported a total of only
120,0001 b. of wool. During the
first 10 years after Macarthur
supposedly put wool on the
map this country exported a total
of only 10001 b. of wool. The
commonly related story that it
“displaced the Spanish wool” is
nonsense. It was German wool
which displaced the Spanish in
the first 30 years of Australian
wool history.
The first time we delivered
enough to create anything like a
market was in the first five years
of the 1820’s. In 1826, for the
first time, we sent over
1,000,0001 b. of fleece abroad. Of
that, Camden Park contributed
only 26,0001 b.
All this does not destroy John
Macarthur’s great and secure
place in history. He was the
first real administrator, the first
real agriculturalist, the inventor
of the idea of large-scale pastoral
settlement on a corporate basis,
the first user of the plough, the
first man to build a real private
house on this continent. He was
also the first real politician in the
country, the first to promote a
corporate trading activity, and
his personality flavors the life of
the colony throughout its first
generation. But the legend that
he was the first man to dream of
fine-wool in Australia and that
it was his enterprise alone
which brought the Merino here
and established it for wool-pro-
duction is a myth. At the same
time, he undoubtedly persuaded
the English that Australia could
be made a woolgrowing
country, on the basis of evidence
created by others as well
as himself. And, though his was
not the initiative which brought
the first wool sheep from the
Cape, the sheep which he
imported from the King’s flock
eight years later were un-
doubtedly the first pure Merinos.


SPORTING NOTIONS
Welkin Sun, runner-up to
D air ay in the last Melbourne
Cup, has since won two races at
a mile-and-a-half, the latest at
Caulfield on Saturday, when he
scored in the Woodcliff Handi-
cap, for which he started favorite
and beat Planetarium and Royal
Radiant. AH three placegetters
are engaged in the Australian
Cup to be run at Flemington
next Monday, and Welkin Sun is
now second favorite to
Advocate, with Findon also a
popular candidate. Tarien is
alone at the top of the New-
market betting table.
Victoria Racing Club is to go
gay, according to Melbourne
turf circles. Still, if the meeting
of horses such as Dalray and
Hydrogen in the Ercildoune
(w.-f,-a) Stakes, and the bringing-
together of Australia’s best two-
and three-year-olds, as well as
the prominent handicappers of
all States, cannot draw the right
crowd in numbers, then it seems
rather a poor outlook for the
future of racing. Anyway, it will
be interesting to see just what
happens at Flemington this
Saturday with the proposed
glamorising! Perhaps a lessen-
ing of taxation by the Victorian
Government and similar moves
by other Governments in the
racing field would solve club
problems, or help to do so.
There’s such a thing as killing
the goose which lays the golden
eggs.
• • • •
The AJ.C. drew a big crowd
to Warwick Farm on Saturday,
and the suburban track was at
its best. The club’s racebook
included in black type the com-
plete programme for Caulfield,
a service appreciated by backers
of Melbourne runners. The club
also admitted the public to the
upper portion of the official
stand on payment of a fee. A
great view of the racing is
obtained from this portion of the
stand, and the section was well
filled. Warwick Farm is a
popular course, and the AJ.C.
executive has plans for attract-
ing much bigger crowds to its
meetings there.
• i
• • • •
Owner and thoroughbred-
breeder W. H. (Bill) Mackay,
of Tinagroo Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), almost brought off a
double last Saturday, In New-
castle he won with Side By Side
in the Second Improvers’ Handi-
cap, while at Warwick Farm his
four-year-old mare. Wayside
Bloom, was narrowly beaten in
the February Handicap. Both
gallopers are by Wayside Inn
(imp.) and are products of the
owner’s stud. Leading Sydney
trainer Tommy Smith went one
better, winning the concluding
events at both Warwick Farm
and Caulfield. Jenny Lind
scored at the former fixture at
10 to 1, while Tarien landed
the Hawksburn at evens.
The Dan Lewis Randwick
stable went for a tidy win on
Blue Jet in the opening event at
Warwick Farm, the Two-year-
old Handicap ; the . colt was
backed in from 50’s to eights.
Small punters had as much as
100 to one. However, something
went wrong with the works,
stablemate Naval Victory prov-
ing too solid and beating his
companion rather cleverly and
impressively if by half a head
only. The shrewd veteran of
the training world gave both
horses a good show, and he
wasn’t far out in his judgment;
he probably favored Blue Jet,
believing him to be more for-
ward.
• •
Naval Victory looked well,
though a trifle on the big side.
He eased in betting from 10’s to
20’s, then firmed slightly to 16’s.
A 4000gns. yearling, bought
in New Zealand, he seems
bound to win in much better
company; after all, he ran
second in the Breeders’ Plate at
Randwick. He is by Admiral’s
Sydney owners appear to hold
excellent prospects of winning
the two classics at Flemington
next Saturday, the St. Leger and
the Sires’ Produce Stakes, while
the Newmarket also is expected
to be won by a Sydney-owned
and -trained galloper, Tarien. In
the minor events the visitors
from the N.S.W. side of the
Murray also have good winning
prospects.
It is several years since a
Sydney - trained two - year - old
landed the Sires’ Produce, the
last being All Love in 1941.
Trueness scored in 1940 and
High Caste the “previous season.
And, despite her defeat in the
Merson Cooper Stakes last
Saturday, Love To All still has
excellent prospects in this year’s
Sires’ Produce.
First Chapter is another of
the Sydney brigade with strong
claims, as he will be better
suited by seven than six furlongs.
It has to be remembered that in
prior years other top-ranking
two-year-olds from Sydney were
defeated at their initial appear-
ance at Caulfield.
Advocate, winner of the
V.R.C. Derby, is expected to
land the St. Leger for Sydney,
emulating Hydrogen, who won
the classic last year. Delta, in
1950, was also a Sydney-owned
and -trained winner of the St.
Leger. Beyond that there is a
gap of 10 years, to Reading in
1940.
The Newmarket Handicap
hasn’t been kind to the top-
weights. Greenline, with 10.2,
won in 1930. The only other
winning topweights in the mean-
time have been Bernborough, in
1946, and Royal Gem, in 1948.
Flying Halo was allotted top-
weight, 9.11, this year, but he
didn’t survive fim-acceptance.
Looking back over the New-
market records, the brilliant
Machine Gun in 1905 was given
11.3, while Phar Lap was handi-
capped at 11.1 in 1931. A
sprinter would have to be a
super animal to earn more than
list, these days. And perhaps
it is just as well that handi-
cappers aren’t so severe on
horses as their earlier counter-
parts.
• • • •
There will be no odds-on
favorite for the Newmarket, but
Tarien’s pre-post quote is not
exactly attractive. Bernborough
was the hottest favorite in the
history of the famous sprint up
the straight six. He went to the
post at 9-to-4 on in 1946 and
with 9.13 won well from Four
Freedoms and Reperio. Ajax
scored at 6-to-4 on in 1938. In
recent years the only winners to
start best in the betting have
been Royal Gem (5 to 1) in
1948 ; El Golea (9 to 4) in 1939 ;
Aurie’s Star (2 to 1) in 1937 ;
and Regular Bachelor (9 to 2) in
1936.
• • • •
Tarien has done everything
right since crossing from Sydney
to Melbourne, which she proved
by winning the Caulfield Hawks-
burn Handicap on Saturday.
For the Newmarket, she is
selected to beat Laurie Hussar
and Sir Isfahan.
Outsiders to win the Aus-
tralian Cup, emphasising what a
trap for young players it is, have
included Murray Glen (20 to
1) last year; Spectre (33’s),
1945; Indignity (25’s), 1940;
Mutable (33’s), 1937, and Mad-
star (25’s), 1932: And the
majority of the other winners
scored at odds between 12’s
and eights.
Australian Cup selections:
Findon 1 ; Welkin Sun 2;
Advocate 3.
Luck (imp.) from Maktoub by
Defoe (imp.) from Oread by
Sarto (imp.) from Online by De
Witte from Ori by The Officer.
Ori is a sister to Lady Disdain,
the dam of Bee, a winner of
several New Zealand Cups and
well known on Sydney tracks.
Others in the family lines in-
clude Chide (N.Z. Cup and a
Sydney \yinner), as well as a
noted mare. Silver Scorn. Naval
Victory’s half-brother Imperial
won 14 New Zealand races and
£10,980 in stakes. The Warwick
Farm winner is a handsome
individual.
Newcastle-trained Dark Fife
won a stake of £664 when he
scored rather stylishly in the
Warwick Farm Maiden with top-
weight, 8.7 He conceded the
pacy grey, Border Prince, a start
of several lengths from the home
turn, but went so fast that he
beat that three-year-old son of
Nizami (imp.) by a length-and-
a-half. Dark Fife might develop
into a stayer, as he is from a
half-sister to Snowstream, winner
of the V.R.C. Mackinnon Stakes
at weight-for-age and also
successful in the AJ.C. Summer
Cup and in City Tattersall’s
Gold Cup.
Though his sire. Red Fife
(imp.), hasn’t had many runners
“ When you hear the tiger, dear, bleat like a tethered goat!”
to > date. Dark Fife on his
Warwick Farm win gave the
impression that he could be
placed to advantage in middle-
distance events. There is stable
talk of him running in the
AJ.C. St. Leger and the Sydney
Cup. He has 7.1 in the two-
miler, or one pound above the
limit. His dam, Pangbourne
(Snowstream’s half-sister), is by
Double Remove (imp.) from
Sweet Annabel by Magpie
(imp.), and traces back to
Carbine,
An interesting feature of
Dark Fife’s sale as a yearling is
that after he had left the ring at
a final bid of 435gn5., which was
declined, he was later brought
back and sold for 500gns. to
trainer Cashman. Now raced by
a Newcastle district medico. Dr.
J. W. Lowe, the three-year-old
already has cleaned most of his
expenses.
Many Cup-winners have risen
from obscurity, and in recent
times three horses which
graduated from the Mixed-
Stakes fields at Sydney meetings
went on to land the rich plums
of the Australian turf. They
were Foxzami, in the 1949 Mel-
bourne Cup, and Sir Falcon and
Opulent in the 1950 and 1952
Sydney Cups respectively.
Fashoda, winner of the Warwick
Farm Graduation Stakes at 11
furlongs, is in the Sydney Cup
with 7.1, or lib. above the limit.
He could be a real contender
should his form continue the
winning way in the meantime,
but a start has yet to be deter-
mined.
• • • •
Fashoda could again win in
Graduation class, and maybe in
open company, before the
autumn carnival comes round.
Should he do so the stable will
be tempted to start him in the
Sydney Cup with such a luxury
impost. A 2900gns. yearling,
Fashoda carries the Hydrogen
colors and had a runaway
victory. The three-year-old colt
is by Midstream (imp.) from
Suffragette by Double Remove
(imp.). As he is closely related
to Windbag and Feminist, and is
from a granddaughter of
Loquacious, there should be no
doubting Fashoda’s ability to
stay the Cup two-milel
Sydney-owner C. J. Mannix
gave 750gns. for the chest-
nut yearling colt by Newtown
Wonder (imp.) from the En-
field (imp.) mare Engaging at
the Sydney sales last April. Now
racing as New Dawn, the
youngster created a favorable
impression when winning his
first race, the First Two-year-
old Maiden at the Hawkesbury
Club’s latest meeting. A first
foal from a half-sister to Beau-
melle, a Caulfield and Fleming-
ton winner. New Dawn’s dam,
Engaging, is from Gay Mary by
Great Star (imp.) from Happy
Queen by King William. Gay
Mary and Happy Queen won
races on Melbourne tracks, the
latter at If mile at Flemington.
She also was placed in long-
distance events at Randwick.
New Dawn thus has a staying
background.
Miss Kathleen O’Riordan, who
always has a horse carrying
her colors, was delighted with
the initial success of her two-
year-old filly So Swank in the
Second Maiden Handicap at
Hawkesbury. So Swank, trained
by veteran mentor Neil Mc-
Kenna, is by Channel Swell
(imp.) from Air Bubbles, and
belongs to a family of stayers,
including Melbourne Cup win-
ners Hall Mark and Trivalve.
Air Bubbles is by Marconigram
(imp.) from Bubbles by High
Art (imp.) from Jimmy B by
Maltster. Carbine blood figures
prominently in the pedigree, and
So Swank, a 500gns. yearling,
is expected to develop into
a useful staying filly. Miss
O’Riordan has raced, among
others. Thanks America (her
best horse), Miss Swank, Thanks
Australia and Sir Swank. So
Swank’s brother Channel Diver,
a 2250gns. yearling, was a
two-year-old winner at Cahter-
bury Park last March, and more
recently scored at Gosford.
* * * *
South Australia easily disposed
of W.A. by an innings and 20
runs. After the South Aus.
bats had hit-up 466, the bowlers,
Noblet in particular, got rid of
the Westralians twice for less
(skipper Langdon, who has been
very consistent this year, was best
with the bat for W.A.). Noblet’s
10 wickets took his tally for the
season to 55. S. Aus. 466
(Trowse 98, Langley 82 n. 0.,
Pinch 76, Ridings 72); W.A.
214 (Noblet 6-65) and 232
(Langdon 67 ; Noblet 4-44).
• • • •
By its win S. Aus., which had
got a firm grip on this year’s
Shield, made sure of the trophy
-—last time it won was in 1935-
36. This is only the sixth S. Aus.
win since the Shield’s inception
in 1892-93. N.S.W. has won it
26 times, Vic. 18. W.A., com-
peting for the first time in 1947-
48 on a restricted programme,
won it that year, Queensland;
in since 1926-27, has not yet
scored. (There is, of course, no
competition in war-years.)
• • • •
W.A. next took on Victoria,
which wound-up this season’s
Shield proceedings. There are,
however, one or two other games
to come. The team for England,
which is to meet in Mel-
bourne on Friday, plays two
matches against Tasmania and
one against W.A. before leaving
Fremantle on March 22 (on the
way over there’s a one-day game
in Colombo). To round off the
season finally, there’s South
Africa v. W.A. (Mar. 25-27).
In a Melbourne pennant-
cricket game Carlton led Rich-
mond (with Ring and Johnston)
by four runs. Richmond, then
leading in the comp., claimed
to have won on the ground that,
a Carlton fielder having stopped
an overthrow with his cap in his
fielding hand, it was entitled to
a five-run penalty, as prescribed
by Cricket Law 44 ; this penalty
would give it a one-run win.
(There was no accusation by
Richmond of unfairness by the
fieldsman.) The V.C.A. pennant
committee, however, ruled in
favor of Carlton.
“L.”: Further on Colin Mc-
Donald (B. 4/2/’53). He was
first picked for Victoria in 1947-
48, when he was playing his first
year of club cricket. Then 19,
he hit-up 115 for Vic.’s second
XI against N.S.W. seconds;
Shield selection followed (against
S. Aus., 11 and 56, run out).
Quoting these scores, and calling
McDonald “the season’s most
impressive newcomer to first-
class cricket,” Wisden (1949)
forecast “a big future for this
young cricketer.” Wisden’s pre-
diction is being steadily fulfilled.
* * * ♦
Harry Hayes (11.0) and
George Kapeen (10.9) let loose
lots of lash at Leichhardt, and as
Hayes won, although 7ib. over
the welter limit, he’s regarded as
Australian welter champion,
owing to Len Dittmar’s an-
nounced retirement. It looked
like an early end when a left
to Kapeen’s chin floored him
for a compulsory “eight” count
in the first round, but the Novo-
castrian kept attacking, and his
left knocked Hayes to hands and
knees in round eight, Hayes
scored so well throughout the
last three rounds that a points
decision for him was the only
one possible, whereupon, of
course, this being Leichhardt,
bedlam broke loose. To say the
verdict was loudly hooted
wouldn’t be telling the half of it.
Two world-famed names were
seen in supporting six-rounders
when Andrew La Motta {not
world’s former middleweight
champ. La Motta) and
Robinson (not the great Sugar
Ray) fought Ron Jones and Col
Baker, respectively. This La
Motta was well beaten on points,
and ditto Robinson could only
manage a draw*


Rose Lindsay's Memoirs
SOME STUDIOS
IN SYDNEY
NOT long after we first
met, in 1905, Norman
took a studio on the
corner of Park-street and
Castlereagh-street, and I found
an unfurnished room for five
shillings a week on the top floor
of the Bank Chambers on the
corner of Pitt-street and Park-
street. It was part of the care-
takers’ quarters where they had
the whole floor for their use.
They were a nice Scotch couple
and very religious, and had three
grown sons.
Two were good boys and the
third was seldom sober—which
they tried to hide from me, until
one Sunday night when he went
to the bathroom, filled a tub with
water, carried it to the window
and poured it over a Salvation
Army meeting below, which
caused such a row that the
skeleton was out of the cup-
"BANJO" PATERSON, allegedly
on his Geebung polo-pony Pegasus;
sketched by Harry Julius in 1910
board. I saw him drunkenly
swaying and telling an
infuriated Salvationist who had
come up, “Couldn’t stand your
blasted drum,” and then falling
back into his room, slamming
the door.
Norman did most of his work
at my room, where he finished
the pen-drawing “Pollice Verso,”
and began writing a story called
“Thieves of Gaiety,” illustrating
it as he wrote it. It was eventu-
ally finished as The Flyaway
Highway and published about
1933. The Curate in Bohemia
and the Saturdee stories were all
being written at this time.
Norman brought the Casanova
memoirs, which he was illustrat-
ing, to the room for the first
time. Fred Wymark, of Angus
and Robertson’s, got the loan
of two volumes at a time from
an old couple who lived at
Mosman (N.S.W.). This and
the Three Musketeers completely
outed my dainty novelettes.
Lord Lovelace had, no chance
against Casanova.
Within a few months all the
tenants in the Castlereagh-street
building were given notice; it
was to be turned into a temper-
ance hotel. A. G. Stephens had
a small room next to the studio,
and he came in to discuss this
outrageous business of making
it a temperance hotel.
That was the only time that
he came there. We walked back
to his room with him. There
was a table, a chair and a
stretcher-bed. “Do you work
here?” I asked. “No, my ghost
does,” he said. He was a difficult
man for a woman to make con-
versation with.
Norman hastened back to his
room to get on with some draw-
ing, leaving me to chat. It was
a dismal failure. I made a few
stupid remarks and Stephens
some guttural noises about
writers’ ghosts which I failed to
understand.
Lionel Lindsay, Norman’s
brother, took a studio near the
Water and Sewerage Board
building in Pitt-street, and had
the few things removed there.
To that studio came Nat, who
had been posing at the Castle-
reagh-street studio; also Arm-
strong, a dear old man who
posed for all the Bacchus figures
and some joke-blocks. He
thought he bore a resemblance
to King Edward VII.
Nat was large and swarthy
with black eyes. He looked like
a Red Indian and had
been in a circus doing a
boxing stunt. Norman
promptly decided to take
boxing lessons from him.
Bob Sinclair said he
knew a man who was the
very model for Casanova
and brought him to the
studio.
“There you are,
Norman, what did I tell
you?” he said, exhibiting
his surf-tanned find, who
was certainly a hand-
some lad, with a mighty
opinion of his looks.
He said “I have a
muscle that I have seen
only on Greek statues.
Would the girls like to
see it?” Yes . . . the
girls would like to see it
very much. Maisie, a
model, and I were sitting
on a couch and he undid
his belt, pulled up his
shirt and showed the
rarity, which ran down
each side of his stomach.
He told us to feel it.
After more skiting he left
with the beaming Bob
and we never saw him
again. Nat was the principal
model for the Casanova draw-
ings.
The studio was small and
badly lit and fast becoming over-
crowded with eighteenth-century
reproductions and costumes.
Fordyce Wheeler frequently
dropped in with some very
important advertisement that
needed a drawing, which
Norman hated doing. It would
HUGH D. McINTOSH; sketch
by Tasmanian-born artist L. F.
Reynolds, 1921.
be for boot-polish or bath-
cleaner or baking-powder, but
he usually got it. Wheeler told
Norman of a big room in
Margaret-street where a friend
of his had a flat. Norman went
to see it and rented it straight
away.
This room had been used for
a warehouse. It was divided into
three apartments by wooden
partitions. The biggest, which
was to be the studio, overlooked
Jamieson-street and had two
windows and big let-down doors
on chains for hauling goods up;
the next was for any use, and
the small one had a dirty old tin-
bath and shower and a lavatory
hidden behind a small partition,
which were regarded as great
assets. The rent was thirty
shillings.
Nat came with the furniture,
very importantly directing the
carrier where to put one cup-
board, one table, two chairs, a
couch and a set of bookshelves.
Linoleum was bought for the
studio and a gas-ring was added
to the kitchen goods, which con-
sisted of three or four cups, a
couple of plates and three old
knives and forks.
We had more visitors than
anything else. Frank Fox, John
Dailey and Douglas Fry were
constantly there; Colonel
Lenehan and Colonel Lucas —I
think Fox brought these. They
all had horses. Lionel brought
Andrew Watt and I brought a
friend, Ethel, who became a
model for many of the Casanova
drawings. She was golden
blonde, half-German.
Horace Fyson, an old Creswick
schoolmate of Norman’s, came
to Sydney for a holiday. I think
he brought Harry Gordon to the
studio. Both were interested in
horse-races. Gordon was nick-
named “General.” He had been
a bike-race trainer. A tough,
big-nosed, loose-lipped, hairy-
ape type with a gentle voice and
a ready fist and a very kindly
heart, as we found later.
Two volumes of the Casanova
set were lost. Douglas Fry failed
to return one, and he was very
evasive about it until it was put
to him that it was vitally
important for the volume to be
returned for the illustrating job.
“By jove, Norman, I see that.
Well, frankly, I must confess
that I lost it.” He didn’t know
how or where.
The other one just disappeared
from the studio. Every fiend that
ever stole books was cursed.
Lionel had the edition in French,
and Percy Hunter knew a
Frenchman who would translate
the two volumes. That Was de-
cided on at once, and Percy sent
the Frenchman. M. Lenoir was
a small, snout-faced mao in a
tight blue suit and a bowler hat.
He v/as given the job without dis-
cussing the price. He came
frequently to the studio to talk
about the work. Lionel spoke
in French with him, then he
talked Norman into taking
French lessons, and came at five
o’clock several days a week, and
drew an advance on the trans-
lation job.
He suggested that I should
take lessons, too, with Norman,
but not at the same fee because
I was hopeless from the begin-
ning. I was more or less ignored
at lessons in no time, for which
I was grateful, but he did not
forget to collect the fee each
month, even when I dropped
right out and just made the tea.
Monsieur would stay to tea.
Further extracts from the unpublished memoirs of Mrs.
Norman Lindsay. This exclusive “Bulletin” feature will be
appearing in these pages at intervals. First of the series was
in B. 18/2/’53.
He would be frank; a little
financial difficulty made the
request for another advance
unavoidable.
He introduced us to the game
of cribbage. It was a nice relaxa-
tion after meals, he said ; a little
bet made it more interesting. It
certainly did for him ; he always
won our money.
A new model arrived. Patrick
Plunkett, upright and his chest
out. “It’s a fine figure I have
under me shirt,” he announced
to Norman, expanding his chest
and slowly turning round for
approval. His ears stood out
and his face was flat, with a
scraggy moustache and his blue
eyes wide apart. He was given a
job posing for some joke-blocks
and some Casanova drawings.
There were a few scars on his
body from past wars. He had a
quarterly pension on which he
never failed to get drunk as soon
as he collected it. This he con-
tinued to do through all the
twenty-odd years that we had his
company for pleasure or
exasperation.
I have known him to swear-
off long enough to spend all the
Writer-politician RANDOLPH
BEDFORD, as Will Dyson saw
him in 1906.
pension on a new suit and boots.
“It’s proud you’ll be of me, Mr.
Norman, when you see me.”
That night Norman would
have to bail him out, drunk and
bedraggled in his old clothes.
“I kept me word. I got the suit
and boots,” he would say when
brought to the studio. “It was
like this . . , there I was, all
dressed up and sixpence left. So
I went and pawned them.”
• • • •
Randolph Bedford was a
frequent visitor to Norman’s
studio. Randolph was new to
me, just over from Melbourne
for a trip, and I had heard much
about him from Bill Dyson and
Norman, who seemed to have a
great admiration for him.
“Randolph the Reckless” they
called him. He was fat with a
beaked nose and the eyes of an
eagle. He stepped lightly, as
fat men often do, and seldom
took his great slouch-hat off
because he had a bald head. It
was a dome of a head, shining
pink, without a hair in sight. He
had a rude, familiar manner to
women and his wit was of the
viperish order.
During fiis electioneering
campaign a Melbourne hostess
gave a dinner-party for him.
He arrived nearly an hour late.
The hostess led him around for
introductions. “Mr. and Mrs.
X are so anxious to meet you,”
she said, presenting him to a
very large woman with a small
husband. “Which is which?”
asked Randolph.
At one of his campaign meet-
ings he talked far beyond his
allotted time, and the chairman,
sealed behind him, kept on pull-
ing his coat-tail, which had the
audience in titters. Without
stopping his flow of words.
Randolph took off his coat and
handed it to the chairman.
And couldn’t he talk! He
was never at a loss on any
subject in any company. He
would come into a room full of
people, head back, chest out,
drawing all attention to himself,
and take complete charge of the
conversation, and, I think, to
the delight of everyone, for he
was most entertaining.
The first time that he and
Norman met was away back in
1898 in a Melbourne pub.
Randolph was seated on a table
surrounded by an admiring
group of art-students and
journalists when Norman walked
in with Jack Elkington. He
eyed Norman up and down, and,
raising his leg, wiped his boot
down Norman’s coat. Norman
promptly took Randolph’s hand-
kerchief from his breast-pocket,
dusted his coat, wiped his boots
with it and threw it back to
Randolph, who was flabbergasted
for the moment but regained his
composure by congratulating
Norman. Personally I never saw
Randolph take any liberties with
Norman. He was genuinely
fond of him and had a deep
reverence for his work.
It was something of the actor
in him that made him want to be
the centre of the stage all
through life; perhaps due to
his early and doubtful stage-
career. He made his first entry
into the portals of Brisbane Par-
liament House after gaining a
seat by strutting up to an official
and roaring “Which way to the
bribery department?”
Hugh D. Mclntosh came
frequently to the studio to see
the drawings that Norman was
doing of Burns and Johnson for
the “Lone Hand.” Mac was
organising the coming fight and
having a fair amount of trouble
with Johnson. He kept within
easy reach on his table an
innocuous-looking roll of music
which concealed an iron bar for
Johnson’s visits when he came to
discuss terms.
“I’ll take no risks with that
big brute,” he said.
Mac was a sturdy-looking
buccaneer who started life as a
caterer and made good, which
was due to investing nearly all
his capital in an enormous silver
centre-piece for his dinners.
“Got my contracts on that,”
he said. It was about four feet
jiigh with places for fruits and
flowers and decorated with birds,
ferns and reindeers at the base.
The Burns-Johnson fight had
Sydney at fever-heat. Everyone
wanted Burns to win and all felt
doubtful. Norman did a poster
of Burns and Johnson sparring.
It was called a prophecy, but
A. G. STEPHENS; caricature
by Hugh McCrae. Actually,
Hugh submitted a joke-block in
which this was one of the two
figures, and S. H. Prior at once
said, “That’s A. G. Stephens!”
and as a caricature of A.G. the
figure was detached, bought and
duly reproduced.
Norman probably drew it un-
consciously to meet either result.
Mac was going about like a
tornado with the great business
on his hands.
John Dailey was sent to inter-
view Johnson at a hotel, and
(Continued on page 34)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. POLICY UPROAR
Noted here at the time, a queer
phenomenon of the U.S. Presi-
dential election was the very
favorable “Press” for Stevenson
in Britain (and in Australia)
and the poor “Press” accorded
Eisenhower.
Americans found this loudly
laughable, their backing by a
huge majority being throughout
for Ike, and, especially, for an
all-round change, in foreign
policy particularly, which they
felt he, not Stevenson, would
ensure. The good “Press” abroad
for Stevenson would seem to
have been related to this —its
real basis a fear of change, any
change. And the uproar over
the first change-shots from the
Eisenhower locker appear to
have the same basis.
There is, though, a curious
point of difference associated
with this. The fear expressed
before Ike was elected —the
reason for hoping he wouldn’t
be —was that his Republicans
would withdraw America again
into an isolationist role. What’s
troubling the same quarters now
is that Ike and his following are
liable to be too internationalist;
i.e., too determined on action to
effect change in the international
field.
The uproar broke out first over
the Eisenhower decision to move
the Seventh Fleet —after all, an
American Fleet from the
Formosa Straits. It arose again,
with real venom in it, over a
much-mauled statement on the
European aspect of U.S. policy
made by new. Secretary of State
Dulles (undoubtedly with Eisen-
hower’s approval). Saic Dulles:
“If it appeared there was no
chance of getting effective unity,
and if in particular France,
Germany and England should
go their separate ways, then
certainly it would be necessary
to give a little rethinking to
America’s own foreign policy in
relation to Western Europe. The
U.S. has made a big investment
in Western Europe on the theory
there should be more unity
there.”
British Anger
The reactions abroad to that
Dulles statement were almost
unanimously hostile. If they
could all be taken as represen-
tative they would suggest that
the term “Western unity” is a
mere veneer with nothing solid
behind it.
Thus, typically, a London
(Labor) “Daily Herald” writer:
“Much of the anti-
Americanism in Britain and
Europe is unreasoned, and even
stupid, and worse. But some of
it is based on genuine fear of
American impatience. And it
will not be lessened by the bull-
headed beefing of Mr. John
Foster Dulles.”
Of another political color,
London “Daily Express”:
“Let him [Dulles] understand
that Britain is already making
tremendous sacrifices to aid
European defences —indeed more
sacrifices than are consistent with
her own Imperial commitments
—and that she proposes to make
no more. Let him understand
also that the people of these
islands are proud people
conscious of their own destiny.
They did not allow the Germans
to push them around. Nor will
they allow anyone else —not
even well-meaning friends.”
These are not, of course,
among Britain’s anti-American
papers, nor is the “Financial
Times,” from which comes this
comment:
“We are told by Mr. Dulles
that the Eisenhower Administra-
tion attach much importance to
waging psychological warfare
against Russia and its satellites.
It is an odd way to set it
by threatening financial sanctions
against America’s allies and
friends unless they conform to
Mr. Dulles’s policies... .His
idea of dollar diplomacy is a
priceless gift to the busy propa-
gandists of the Kremlin.”
“The Americans,” ran another
comment in the “Financial
Times,” “are the best friends
Britain has known. But they are
not infallible advisers in foreign
policy”; and another “Daffy
Express” comment; “The
Americans have shown a readi-
ness to understand Persia’s point
of view, Egypt’s point of view,
every other country’s point of
view” —that is, except Britain’s.
The Leftish “New Statesman”
possibly provides the key to this
particular burst of British resent-
ment (and to the Formosa out-
burst also): “Britain’s first
protest,” it says, “is against being
snubbed in Washington. This
journal is not as touchy about
such matters as the Tory party,
but we cannot refrain from
pointing out that if the State
Department wants to weaken an
alliance there is no quicker way
than to hurt the ally’s national
pride.”
French Venom
As yet at any rate, persistent
expression of general anti-
Americanism in Britain is
restricted to such Left-wingers
as Bevan and his newspaper and
other following.
With these, however, it has
been abundant enough to bring
from Lord Vansittart, in London
“Time and Tide,” the comment:
“Unless and until Socialists
[i.e., the British Labor party] can
learn something of substance in
the field of foreign affairs, their
return to power would be both
a national and international
disaster. It is, for instance, now
clear that their Left-wing would
wreck Anglo-American rela-
tions.”
There are signs of a general
kind that anti-Americanism has
been spreading among others
besides the Labor Left in
Britain, but it is from France
that a really wide spread
of the feeling is reported. “A
pall of undifferentiated anti-
Americanism,” notes London
“Economist’s” Paris corres-
pondent, “clouds nearly every
French political appreciation.”
Others have reported the anti-
Americanism in France as very
general, and rising. In the
circumstances it is not so surpris-
ing that French comment on the
gingering -up in American
foreign policy has been savage.
“Le Monde,” for example,
referring to an Eisenhower
policy speech and seeing America
in the grip of Puritanism, for
which there is a long-standing
Gallic contempt:
“The language that pleases
America today is that of the
missionary, of the crusader who
feels called by God to liberate
the entire planet from immoral
Communism. It is not a mere
chance perhaps that 24 hours
before making his speech Presi-
dent Eisenhower had received
Presbyterian baptism, and that
his Secretary of State has been
the delegate of the Federal
Council of Churches. Puritanism
has come to power. It remains
in the United States, as else-
where, to take into account the
gulf fixed between its noble
desires and sad reality.”
Even more bitter the comment
in “Combat,” another Parisian
paper wearing the label “Inde-
pendent” :
“The new [American] global
strategy will distribute its
benefits at the end of the play,
when all of us are dead.”
The New Approach
What all this uproar is in
reaction to is called by Ameri-
cans the “new approach” or
“new order.” A New York
correspondent of “Manchester
Guardian” explains the principle
underlying this “new approach”:
“The consensus of diplomatic
and Government comment in
Washington is that the new
order lays down the first barrage
in a campaign of psychological
warfare. It is meant to obscure
the military plans of the United
States and to keep the Russians
hopping and fretting about us as
we have for so long done about
them.”
Quite obviously, as quoted
comments indicate, the change
of policy has America’s allies
guessing, too. The confusion
among them is signposted by
Vernon Bartlett’s comment in
London “News Chronicle”:
“For months we have com-
plained that the machinery of
Western policy has been allowed
to run down owing to the
American Presidential elections.
New York "Herald Tribune ”
THE NEW VOICE OF AMERICA
Already we are beginning to
complain that, with a new man
in the White House, it tends to
move at a speed incompatible
with our own cautious jog-trot.
Mr. Dulles, the Secretary of
State, is making it very clear that
American policy from now on-
ward will be provocative rather
than placid.”
Fears of the Weak
A “New York Times”
correspondent has commented
on the reactions to the more
forceful U.S. policy:
“The fears of Western Europe
are the fears of the weak. They
dare not face tests they lack the
power and means to win. This
caution is natural and under-
standable, but it argues that this
country [U.S.] must proclaim
and pursue a policy of strength.”
Also expressing the American
viewpoint, and supporting the
“new approach,” “New York
Times” has itself editorially
commented:
“Europe must realise that this
is a new Administration, that it
was elected in part at least be-
cause of growing American
impatience with the slow progress
toward our unchanged foreign-
policy goals, and that, if Europe
asks America to take into
account the separate national
sensibilities of its multi-national
population, the United States is
also entitled to ask Europe to
take American sensibilities into
account as well.
“As Mr. Dulles has pointed
out, the United States has already
invested something like 30
billion dollars, raised by back-
breaking taxes, to promote
European recovery and ultimate
unification. It has likewise
subordinated its own defence
proposals to projects advanced
by the Europeans themselves,
notably the French, and it has
paid tribute to whatever progress
has been achieved. But all
American aid has been predicated
on two vital words found in all
aid agreements, these words
being ‘mutual’ and ‘self-help,’
which, in the case of Western
Europe, includes unification. If,
therefore. West European states-
men are themselves becoming
alarmed at the delays in the
various unification projects, the
United States is compelled to
take note of this situation, and
to do what it can to encourage
that unity of action which is
essential to the survival of
Western democracy.”
Unity, or Else
In further comment on the
“new approach,” “New York
Times” has taken into account
something of the more national
European viewpoint:
“As Secretary Dulles said, we
have sent nearly $30,000.000.(XX)
into this area [Britain and Con-
tinental Europe]. Some of this
money has been to bring about
economic recovery; some of it,
in increasing proportion, has
gone and is going into defence.
We have invested these pro-
digious sums, to quote Secre-
tary Dulles again, ‘to serve our
own enlightened self-interest.’
But we have worked and spent,
too, with the utmost goodwill.
“And now the little crisis
within the big crisis has come
upon us. The drive toward the
unity of Western Europe—and
particularly toward the so-called
European Defence Community—
has slowed down. As Mr. Dulles
said, it seems to be ‘somewhat
stalled.’ Mr. Dulles added in
fairly explicit words that if it
did not soon come unstalled we
might have to ‘give a little
rethinking t<s America’s own
foreign policy in relation to
Western Europe.’
“Nobody [however] knows
exactly what we [U.S.A.] could
or would do if Western
Europe, after absorbing our
$30,(XX),000,000, were to decide
that unity as a means of defence
was no longer necessary. We
might bring our troops home;
we might keep our billions of
dollars at home and hope that
no bombs would ever fall on
New York or Detroit. But we
aren’t likely to do this. President
Eisenhower’s own record as the
organiser of European defence
guarantees us against a fatal and
futile retreat.”
Sick of War
There are (“New York Tifnes”
concludes) many reasons behind
Europe’s doubts and differences:
“The Continent is sick of war.
Nobody yearns for martial glory
any more. Much economic
progress has been made, with
U.S. help, since 1948, but people
hate to pay heavy defence taxes.
Europe’s young men would
rather be starting a career than
wearing a soldier’s uniform.
The old fears and rivalries have
not been abolished. The French,
remembering the behavior of
German troops a dozen years
ago and less, can be pardoned
if they do not relish the spectacle
of new German divisions on
parade.
“To say that these reactions
are natural and human is not to
say that they are wise and right.
If we [Americans] can tax our-
selves to the bone to help save
Western civilisation, so can our
allies. If our young men can
give their precious years to
military service, so can young
men of other democratic nations.
But we had better understand
Continental states of mind or we
will never be able to speak per-
suasively to the people of the
Continental nations. We cannot
talk to them like schoolteachers
or Roman proconsuls. We must
meet them as friends and equals,
warming our hands at the
common fire of liberty. They
must do their part to match what
we do, but this will never amount
to much unless they do it with
enthusiasm.
“The European democracies,
Britain and her Commonwealth
and ourselves are faced by an
inherent necessity. Together they
form the greater part of the
democratic world. They must
find the way and the will to co-
operate or cease to exist as
democracies.”
U.S.-Soviet Jet Clashes
Cables have reported U.S. jet-
planes firing on Soviet planes
over the Jap territory of Hok-
kaido. The U.S. jets were acting
on orders in force for the past
couple of months.
In January the U.S. finally
warned Russian fighter-pilots,
who had been buzzing across
Japanese borders several times a
week from Soviet-held islands to
the north, to stay clear of Japan
or risk being shot down.
“U.S. News and World
Report” has described the
American air preparations in
Japan to back up that warning:
“American F-86 jet-inter-
ceptors are stationed on the
northern island of Hokkaido,
within a few minutes’ flying-time
of areas where Russians have
intruded dozens of times. An
elaborate new radar-system can
pick up Russian planes as soon
as they take off from fields on
the Kuriles or Sakhalin.
“If the Russians want to try
an all-out air-attack on Japan,
they will find the new U.S. de-
fence system is about ready for
that, too. A chain of modern
air-bases is almost finished from
Hokkaido to Kyushu, from
which to support a large-scale
defence, or sustain a big air
effort from Japan. And, in a
pinch, the U.S. Air Force now
has what it takes in Japan to
make atomic attacks on air-bases
from which the Russians could
mount an assault against these
islands.
“Based on Sakhalin and the
Kuriles, Russia is reported to
have at least 700 military planes,
possibly as many as 900. Up-
ward of half of these are known
to be MIG-15 jets. There are
also a number of Russian TU-2
bombers, comparable to Ameri-
can B-295. No jet-bombers
have yet been spotted in this
area. . , , f
- “Near by, on the mainland or
Asia, the Russians are known to
have several large airfield com-
plexes,’ including a number ot
modern fields along the Chinese
coast. All are within bomber
range, but not fighter range, ol
Japan.
“By 1954, U.S. planners ex-
pect to be able to face this threat
with a completed air-defence
programme. The set-up
will include a finished chain
modem bases, the world s most
modern aircraft-control a
-warning system, an elaborate
communications network, a o
facilities for repair, maintenance


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office:. Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
and supply of enlarged defence
forces. They will make Japan
one of the world’s most
thoroughly guarded areas.
“Meanwhile, short of all-out
war, Russia is to find that Japan
is strictly ‘off limits’ to Soviet
aircraft, and that the United
States now is ready and able to
keep them off.”
J. Bull's Bulldog
Kennel notes by a London
correspondent of “New York
Times”:
“Universally loved and
admired by his fellow-country-
men with a sense of gratitude for
his great war service, he is prob-
ably the greatest Englishman
living. With his cigar, and the
V-sign that became his trade-
mark and the hallmark of
victory, he typifies the modern
John Bull.
“He has been an outstanding
and controversial figure in British
political life for more than half
a century. In his lifetime, his
accomplishments have been suf-
ficient to build half a dozen
famous reputations.
“He is now the oldest British
Prime Minister since Gladstone,
who presided over his last
Cabinet at the age of 85. Mr.
Churchill has become more
emotional with age, and tears
come to his eyes with greater
frequency than in the past during
speeches and almost whenever
‘Land of Hope and Glory’ is
played at public meetings. He is
quite deaf and has taken to wear-
ing a hearing-aid in the House
of Commons. He stoops a little
more than in the war years—
but he is still a master of repartee
and the apt phrase.
“Aneurin Bevan, who aspires
to the leadership of the Labor
party, is often the target for his
shafts. Recently during a dis-
cussion of Britain’s recognition
of Communist China Mr.
Churchill remarked that ‘you
don’t have to like every one you
recognise.’ Then, glaring at the
Socialist benches, he added:
‘We all, for instance, recognise
the right honorable gentleman
from Ebbw Vale.’
'‘Even at his advanced age, Mr.
Churchill remains a man of
many facets. He still paints, and
he devotes a considerable part of
his time to the writing that has
won him a distinguished place
in the world of letters alongside
his fame as a statesman. At his
country place in Kent he raises
pedigree cattle. He is interested
in horse-racing and several of
his thoroughbreds have won for
him. Above all he is fascinated
by his eight grandchildren.”
Scottish Home Rule
“It is our view that it is both
possible and practicable to pre-
serve the Union and all that is
best in it, while at the same time
so altering its incorporating
nature as to emancipate Scot-
land from the provincialism into
which she has declined.”
Stating that as a guiding prin-
ciple, the Scottish Covenant
Association, in a memorandum
of evidence submitted to the
Royal Commission on Scottish
Affairs, added a long list of
recommendations, including the
following (from London “Times”
reports):
There should be a Scottish
Parliament for Scottish affairs,
functioning within the frame-
work of the United Kingdom,
and reform of the House of
Lords, in its legislative sphere,
should include representation of
Scotland on a national basis.
The usurped civil jurisdiction
of the House of Lords in Scot-
land should be restored to the
Court of Session.
The Secretary of State should
be divorced from party politics
and relieved of departmental
duties. The Secretary of State
and his Ministers should form
an executive council, the Council
of State should be revived and
also the Scottish Privy Council.
There should be established a
Scottish Treasury into which all
revenue attributable to Scot-
land should be paid and from
which all payments on Scottish
account should be made. “This
is felt to be most important.”
"Trade, Not Aid"
Britain’s Chancellor of the
Exchequer, R. A. Butler, in-
ventor of the slogan “Trade, noi
aid” (“If coining slogans is a
crime, I must plead guilty to this
one”), explains its implications
in the course of a “U.S. News
and World Report” interview:
“Economic aid is neither a
sound nor an enduring basis for
co-operation between the U.S.
and Great Britain.
“We have had no general
economic aid from the U.S.
since the 1950 allotment. We
have, of course, had —and are
very glad to have had—assist-
ance under the Mutual Security
Programme. But that is assist-
ance related to defence. I regard
it as quite a different thing from
general economic aid. And there
is a good deal less of it than
there was of Marshall aid,
“For the success of ‘trade, not
aid’ we need the right atmos-
phere in the world ; and the right
policies in the debtor countries
like Great Britain and in
America, The right atmosphere
is one of expanding trade and
production. And that would
require, among other things, a
high level of activity in the
U.S., since it is the giant which
can rock —or steady—the whole
boat. The right policies for
debtor countries mean expand-
ing their production at competi-
tive prices, and ordering their
internal affairs so as to make
sure that enough is available for
export.
“The right policies for a
creditor country like the U.S.
include readiness to receive im-
ports, and to let foreign goods
compete in their domestic mar-
kets without artificial obstruc-
tions. In the U.S., that touches
particularly upon tariff policy
and tariff procedures, quota re-
strictions, ‘Buy-American’ legis-
lation, shipping discrimination
and subsidies. Moreover, the
‘trade, not aid’ policy would be
greatly strengthened by a con-
tinuance and expansion of U.S.
overseas investment, both Gov-
ernmental and private.”
Asked then, “So you don’t
object to the idea of U.S. invest-
ment in the British Common-
wealth?” Mr. Butler said: “On
the contrary, we hope to see a
great deal more of it. In Britain
itself we have just nlade a
change that will enable U.S. in-
vestors to take out their capital
profits as well as their dividends
in dollars.
“Then, finally, reasonably
steady American purchase of
raw materials, at reasonably
stable and economic prices,
would be a very great help in
maintaining equilibrium between
the U.S. and the rest of the
world.
, “The ‘trade, not aid’ policy
can certainly be made a reality,
but it will require some very
strenuous efforts by the debtor
countries and some bold deci-
sions by the creditor ones.”
Synthetic Rubber
London “Financial Times”
looks into American synthetic
rubber and sights a very large
nigger in the pile:
“The present arrangements for
producing and selling synthetic
rubber in the U.S. are very
strange ones.
“It is said that the price is not
subsidised and that the industry
is in private hands. Both con-
tentions are technically valid but
practically false.
“Most of the plants—this is
the typical pattern —are owned
by the Government and worked
by private firms. The product
is not directly subsidised, but
the production is subsidised by
the removal of the overhead
costs of the capital value of the
plant and of depreciation.
“it has been the inevitable con-
sequence that synthetic rubber
has been sold below any true
cost-price.
“Furthermore, this production,
under these specially favorable
circumstances, has been put on
to the market not to meet the
shortage of natural rubber, which
would have been reasonable
enough, but to create a surplus
and thereby force down the
price.”
The “Financial Times” hope-
fully expects that the Eisenhower
London “News Chronicle”
“LOOK, IT'S ALIVE!”
(The fakir —of course in the best sense of the word — is
Chancellor of the Exchequer R. A. Butler.)
Administration “will not con-
tinue the present synthetic-rubber
policy—for it is pledged to op-
pose Socialism in any form.”
U.S. v. Coms
No, says a London “Daily Ex-
press” writer, it isn’t hysteria:
“What America as a nation
feels —and feels very deeply—
about the Communist menace
today is a solid conviction. I
think that it is no more hysteria
than was our own [Britain’s] con-
vulsive effort to gird for a pos-
sible Nazi invasion in 1940.
“And so the McCarran Act
[providing, among other things,
against Corns even entering
America temporarily, as men
from visiting ships], which many
Americans think is badly drawn-
up and ill-considered, at least
gives the country the feeling that
something is been done.
“A start has been made.
Somewhere, somehow, Uncle
Sam is starting to guard the ram-
parts a bit more carefully.”
The "Offshore" Scheme
What goes under the
typically American title of the
“offshore” defence scheme is
now working (after a couple of
years of shaping), and, reports
Toronto “Globe and Mail,” is
working well.
The scheme is based on spend-
ing mutual-defence funds voted
by U.S. Congress on equipment
and the like manufactured “off-
shore”—i.e., in Britain or
Europe.
“Already,” reports the Cana-
dian publication, “a quite unex-
pected development of a highly
favorable nature has occurred.
The Export-Import Bank ad-
vanced a loan on the strength of
early offshore orders placed in
France. Since then European
banks, long out of the field of
international finance, have begun
to make loans on the same basis.
Already, between cash-down
payments from public funds and
underwriting loans from bank-
ing sources, European con-
tractors are able to collect pre-
payments to the extent of 70 per
cent, of the value of the contract
in some instances.
“A few examples of how the
new system is working are illu-
minating. A short time ago a
trusted Italian manufacturer was
able to employ only a hundred
workmen. Today, with an off-
shore contract in his vault, his
payroll is above 3000, his credit
is fully re-established —and his
activity has reanimated a number
of smaller industries. In France
a single order for army vehicles
of various kinds has kept at
least 4000 workers in their jobs
—just when a shutdown was
imminent.
“And to illustrate the cash
saving, the best example is the
order to Great Britain for 500
Centurion tanks—at a saving of
$75,000 per unit. And on top
of this, a new programme is
being worked out to buy up to
$5OO-million-worth of European
jet-fighters, mostly from Britain,
but with economic advantage to
several Continental countries as
well. This more than doubles
the existing programme.
“There are limits to such
spending, of course, one of them
being the availability of suitable
plants. But even now the psy-
chological gain has been im-
mense, and maximum economic
gains will follow rapidly.”
Dragnet Digest
Satellite Purges. —V ernon
Bartlett, in London “News
Chronicle”: “The purges in the
Communist States suggest for
the first time that, in the event of
war, there would be more fifth-
columnists on their side of the
Iron Curtain than on ours.”
Churchill Blind Spot. —“ The
American difficulty [with
Churchill on Asia],” reports the
U.S. magazine "Time,” “is not
that Churchill has different ideas
but that his mind is open almost
to the point of blankness on the
very large part of the world
lying east of Singapore.”
Anti-Colonial U.S. —Viewed
by London “Economist”;
“There lingers in Washington a
traditional distrust of British
‘colonialism’ which blinds some
Americans to the dangers of
breaking up existing patterns of
security without putting anything
in their place. They appear to
believe that the vacuum left by
the withdrawal of British mili-
tary and political power can
almost everywhere be filled by a
little of their own money and a
lot of their own good intentions.”
Problem Germany. —“N e w
York Times” military writer,
Hanson W. Baldwin: “The re-
naissance of Germany as a
great Power and its rearmament
will clearly present new prob-
lems that may strain the already
weakened fabric of Allied unity
to the utmost. A rearmed and
nationalistic Germany could
also provide the spark for the
‘capitalist-versus-capitalist’ war
that is the dream of all Soviet
Marxists. The risk must be
taken, but it must be calculated
carefully, and, as far as pos-
sible, minimized.”
Moscow-Persia Trade. —Stat-
ing that “Russian trade pene-
tration of Iran is making giant
strides,” “U.S. News and World
Report” adds: “Iranian imports
from Russia in the first half of
1952 almost tripled as compared
with those a year earlier. Russia
became the second most im-
portant supplier for the Iranian
market. By now, Russia very
probably is in first position.”
Korea - Jap Differences. —
Main issues keeping Korea and
Japan at loggerheads, “New
York Times” reports, are, “first,
the ill-considered Japanese
claims for restoration of
Japanese property in Korea,
which, since the Japanese were
masters and exploiters of the
country for so long, would in-
volve some 80 per cent, of
Korea’s developed wealth, and
would, in effect, involve the pay-
ment of reparations not by
Japan to Korea but by Korea to
Japan; and second, the always-
troublesome question of fishirg-
rights, which now involves pro-
tection against the smuggling of
arms and Communist agents.”
Arabs and Israel. - London
“Times” Middle East corres-
pondent : “The key to the heart
of the Arab States is armament.
From Beirut to Damascus and
Amman the traveller hears the
same story. It is another way
of saying that the mainspring of
the Arab States’ policy is
hatred and fear of Israel.”
Joe’s Swan-song. —Holding .it
possible that the Moscow
Congress was Stalin’s swan-
song, London “Economist” asks
what, then, is to be said about
the succession to him in those
estimates of Soviet intentions
over which American, British
and other experts seem now to
be differing. “It is hard to
believe,” it adds, “that Soviet
foreign policy without Stalin
would remain unchanged ; and
it is not unreasonable to suppose
that it might become less
cautious, especially if there were
conflicts of personal ambition
at the top of the Moscow
hierarchy.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Socialism in Practice
Labor’s promise—or threat —that it
will only nationalise an industry if it is
exploiting .the public doesn’t explain who
will determine that all-important point
or how he will arrive at his decision.
Consider, for instance, the report of the
Queensland British Food Corporation.
It appears that the Socialist planners had
calculated that sorghum could be grown
at Peak Downs for £5 12s. a ton f.o.b.
Obviously, then, the farmers who were
getting up to £l5 a ton for sorghum were
exploiting the people, and the industry
was marked down for nationalisation.
As with all these plans, targets were
set: 20,000 acres under crop in 1948-49 ;
50,000-80,000 in 1949-50; and 160,000 in
1951, working to an immediate target of
250,000 acres, though it is very doubtful
whether one of the planners had the
slightest conception of what even a
ploughed paddock would look like.
Another target, which seems to have
been mislaid altogether, was a turn-off
of 320,000 pigs a year in 1951.
Of course those targets were not
reached. Cost of production in the three
years was £2l Bs. per ton in 1948-49,
£25 Bs. in 1949-50 and £55 6s. in 1950-51.
The total loss for the last year was
£312,000. Acreages under crop are not
given, and the only information on pigs
is that they incurred a loss of £2OOO,
which looks as if few or none were sold.
Yields per acre were about 11, 18 and
six bushels, respectively.
Excuses have been found in exceptional
weather conditions and the rapid expan-
sion forced on the corporation by the
Governments concerned. Of course 1951
was an exceptionally bad year, but
Queensland farmers produced a sorghum
crop of sorts, for which the fixed price
for resale by merchants never went over
£4O per ton, in spite of the heavy demand
for stock-feed.
Most of the men who grew that crop,
and another poor one next year, have
another growing this year, while the
mighty Socialist enterprise has folded up,
in spite of its nearly two million of
capital, its thousands of square miles of
land, its field staff, technical staff, ad-
visory staff, administrative staff and the
rest, and its piles of wire, iron, tractors,
headers and other goods almost unpro-
curable by farmers.
It is still hoped that valuable long-
term results will justify the money spent.
But the money is not all spent yet—over
the next 21 years the Queensland tax-
payers have to pay off over a million,
plus interest, to buy out the British
Government’s share, and what value it
will be when we own it is anybody’s
guess.
The only good that has come out of
the whole sorry mess is a reiteration of
the simple truth that Socialism won’t
work nearly as well as private-enterprise.
But Labor is incapable of learning.
Already the planners are looking round
for fresh ventures. — Heresone (Q.).
Latin
“Hist” and “Keima” (B. 4/2/’53) are
wide of the mark when they say that no
books are now written in Latin. In fact,
hundreds of Latin books are being writ-
ten each year, and find a ready world-
wide market.
According to the Australasian Catholic
Directory there are 36 ecclesiastical
seminaries in Australia and New Zealand
and there are 1354 seminarians, every
man Jack of them reading and studying
Latin textbooks in scholastic philosophy
and theology. Those books are not only
reprints of the old classic works of St.
Augustine, St. Thomas Aquinas, et alii,
and of the standard works of moral and
dogmatic theology, but recent works by
living authors.
In addition to these students there are
3294 ordained priests in this part of the
world. The demand for Latin works by
the total 4500 clerics is quite considerable,
and, when this is compared with the vast
organisation of which Australasia is but
a small part, it should be realised that
Latin is by no means a dead language.
Papal documents and official communica-
tions from Rome are all couched in
Latin —and can those Italians write
Latin! For them it is still a living tongue,
and they are still masters of the classic
style and the beautifully-turned Latin
phrase.
I met a young Italian cleric in a Roman
bus three years ago. My knowledge of
Italian is limited to a few phrases, and
after the initial “ buon ’ giorno, come sta”
we slipped into Latin, and got along
famously. I have kept up a corres-
pondence with him since then. His
Ciceronian Latin is a delight to read, but
I hate to think what his reactions must
be when he reads my Latin effusions in
the Anglo-Saxon idiom.— Clericus (Vic.).
The Heyerdahl Theory
Of all branches of learning none is
so speculative as anthropology, ethnology
and archaeology. Give an investigator a
jawbone, a word or a potsherd and he
will cheerfully provide the physical
characteristics, social system and archi-
tecture of a whole nation. Most of it is
only reasonable deduction.
Thus H. A. Lindsay (B. 11/2/ ’53) is a
bit sudden with his wholesale dismissal
of Heyerdahl’s theory—that Polynesia
was substantially peopled from the east
—as a “mare’s-nest,” Lindsay is all for
the western theory—and that is all
theory, even when backed by very reason-
able deduction. There is no well-
authenticated evidence as to who brought
the breadfruit to the Marshalls or who
set up the Easter Island statues.
The whole of the Pacific migrations
depend on seafaring, and the evidence of
the sea is definitely in Heyerdahl’s favor.
Still, the Pacific could have been in-
vaded from the west. It would have
required a great deal of application and
luck. There were few favorable winds
or ocean currents and many against the
voyager. The best he could hope for
would be on the beam.
By very careful attention to seasonal
winds the ex-Coromandel seafarer could
sail east into the Arafura Sea, north past
the Celebes and the doldrums lying north
of New Guinea, and so round in a wide
arc into the n.-e, trades. With those
abeam he might run east right across the
Pacific, always provided his leeway did
not beat him and carry him south into
more doldrums or his supplies give out.
It was feasible, as the inter-island pas-
sages could be quite short all the way to
the Marshalls and on to Pitcairn.
All the same, by comparison, the trip
from Peru would have been dead-easy.
An unsinkable raft needed only to be
blown off the Peruvian coast to enter
the Peru current, which soon becomes
the south equatorial current. That would
have carried it right across the Pacific to
Fiji, branching south to New Zealand or
curling back to Pitcairn and maybe
Easter Island. It would have been rela-
tively easy, and Heyerdahl and his com-
panions proved it. They also proved that
the coconut would survive the trip as
flotsam.
For the remaining evidence: The
banana and the breadfruit favor the
“When you've QUITE finished breakfast perhaps We'll take off."
eastern theory, while the evidences of
speech, physique and custom are too
chaotic, except for that of the Cult of the
Sun, which is definitely Amercian. The
Solar mythos by-passed India en route
to Japan, but Central America was a
main distributing-centre for it, if not its
home. It was a feature of Polynesian
life, and evidence of it remains in the
Carolines, Tahiti, Samoa and even Fiji.
The architectural evidence of American
origins is more concrete —massively so.
The carvings, in wood or stone, of Poly-
nesia have much in common with those
of Peru and Mexico and very little with
those of Asia. The stonework of the
Carolines, Tahiti and the Marquesas, of
Mangaia and Easter Island, is far
more closely related to Peru than to India
or any other part of Asia.
As for the Polynesians’ skill as
navigators, whatever their origin they
“ Personally , I think the steam-train looked more dramatic."
probably developed most of it on their
own account after they had penetrated
the Pacific. —X. N. O. (Q.).
Labor Victories
Anti-Socialist forces dig their own
political graves between elections- For
over two years the executives of
various farmers’ organisations, chambers
of manufacturers and retailers,
employers’ organisations, pressure-
groups galore and, particularly, the
Press have done their best to poison
the minds of electors against the Liberal
and Country coalition at Canberra. All
their squealing has gained them nothing,
but it has won for Labor more votes
than half a million quid’s worth of
Trades Hall propaganda could ever have
done.
The Press and other anti-Socialist
organisations are always calling for
statesmanship. The difference between a
statesman and a politician is that the
former takes whatever action will best
serve his country, while the latter plays
to the gallery, even if that means bring-
ing his country to ruin.
Unpopular measures taken by the
Menzies-Fadden Government have suc-
ceeded in arresting the inflationary spiral
and warding off what could have de-
veloped into a major depression in 1952,
when our export income fell by £570
million. Such a huge loss of new money
could have caused economic disaster to
our small economy, but the unpopular
medicine administered by Mr. Menzies
and Sir Arthur Fadden was so successful
that unemployment was kept down to
less than two per cent, of trade-union
membership.
But the statesmanship displayed by
these two leaders has been acknow-
ledged by neither Press nor anti-
Socialist organisations —they are too pre-
occupied blaming Menzies and Fadden
for Labor victories. —K. Me. (N.S.W.).
France and Australian Discovery
It seems strange that so little attention
has been given to French claims that one
of their countrymen discovered Australia
a century before Torres sailed through
the strait that bears his name.
Jean Binet Paulmier de Gonneville
sailed from Harfleur in 1503 on a voyage
to the East Indies via the Cape of Good
Hope. Driven out of his course by storms
and losing his reckoning, he followed the
flight of birds towards the south, sighted
land and dropped anchor at the mouth
of a river. It was a fertile region,
luxuriant with tropical vegetation and
bounded by two rivers. He and his crew
lived an idyllic existence with friendly
natives for six months, explored the
surrounding country, which abounded
with animals strange to European eyes,
and discovered some remarkable caves.
Refitting his vessel, de Gonneville set
sail for France, taking with him two
black-skinned natives of the country, one
an elderly man who died on the voyage
and the other a boy, the son of the chief
of the tribe. His ship was plundered in
the English Channel by an English priva-
teer and his navigation charts of the
voyage and records of the strange region
he called Southern Indies, or Terre Aus-
tralie, were taken from him.
French authorities dismissed his claims,
although he produced the black boy as
evidence. The native was adopted by
de Gonneville, baptised in the name of
Binet and educated and reared as a
gentleman of France. Elis grandchild
published a book in Paris in 1663 telling
the whole remarkable story and asserting
that de Gonneville sought to convert the
natives of this southland region to
Christianity by the use of painted pic-
tures.
Lieutenant George Grey, 175 years
later, found the Glenelg River caves in
the Kimberleys of north-west Australia,
with their mysterious paintings. One of
these rock-paintings was the figure of a
man ICft. 6in. high, clothed from the
chin downwards in a red garment reach-
ing to the wrists and ankles and encircled
about the head by a halo. Interest in de
Gonneville’s voyage and the claims on
his behalf to be discoverer of the Aus-
tralian continent revived in France in the
early 18th century. French geographers
made no bones about claiming for the
French nation the honor of the first dis-
covery of Australia 16 years before the
departure of Magellan.
Cook and Banks carried with them
on their voyage in the Endeavour Charles
de Brosse’s six-volume History of Naviga-
tions of the Southland, published in 1756.
Brosse, a fiery Anglophobe, resentful ot
Britain’s vast colonial empire, was
insistent that Frenchmen should under-
take with “ardor and constancy” the
“glorious work” of settling and develop-
ing this vast continent, which stretched
to the Antarctic. Fie upbraided his
countrymen for neglecting de Gonneville s
discovery and for allowing themselves to
be robbed by Spaniards and Portuguese
of all honor of the first discovery. He
discoursed with Gallic enthusiasm on t
advantages to be gained by France from
trade with the natives, who ‘ want iron
as much as we want gold,” and he na
great faith in the value of scissors a
articles of trade with the barbaro
inhabitants. A
He was also emphatic that the Aus-
tralian natives would gain the mestima
blessing of French culture and thus
“become men which have now nothing
human but their figures.” As
Phoenicians discovered and etvihsed t
Europeans, so would the French dis
and civilise the Australians!
(Q-).
CLEM LACK


Sydney Municipal Markets
In spite of the current outcry by con-
sumers and growers alike against high
prices, dumping and racketeering in fruit
and vegetables consigned to Sydney’s
municipal markets, those practices will
go on until growers as a body stop selling
through agents and employ their own
representatives. If they won’t do so they
will have only themselves to blame for
continued exploitation—they’ve done very
little towards insisting that legislation
enacted for their protection be enforced
and policed. Had they done this, few
fruit-and-vegetable-agents would have
long survived its repercussions.
Before the mid-1920’s there were few
or no restrictions that fruit-and-vegetable-
agents couldn’t get around. They charged
what selling-commission they liked or
could get away with and added a bit of
debit here and there for this and that.
Growers couldn’t do very much about it.
If one agent’s methods were too tough
they could try another, but growers’
names were generally passed from agent
to agent.
To the Lang Government goes credit
for sincere legislation enacted to protect
growers against the agents’ manipula-
tions. The “Big Feller” was the main
mover in it, and to this day his name is
detested among agents.
Lang’s legislation put fruit-and-vege-
table-agents on a 1\ per cent, selling-
commission, plus 6d. for stamps and
stationery. Any debits for shipping,
handling, cartage, etc., had to be sup-
ported by appropriate documents, while
produce considered fit for dumping had
to be sighted by a market official with
authority to issue or refuse a condemna-
tion certificates, a duplicate of which had
to be forwarded to the grower concerned.
The legislation insisted that agents keep
correct books —they must, at time of sale,
issue a cash-sales-docket to the buyer and
retain a duplicate with grower’s name,
price received and description of goods.
Duplicates in cash-sales-docket-book were
to be kept with the agent’s other books
and to be available to the flying-squad
auditors at any time for inspection and
check.
If that legislation had been enforced,
as it should have been, it would have
proved an almost foolproof brake on
nefarious practices. Instead, it met with
an uproar from agents that shook the
markets’ roof. Among themselves,” and
publicly, the agents declared they were
facing ruin, and vowed no agent could
honestly work on a per cent, com-
mission. In one respect they were right.
No fruit-and-vegetable-agent at the Syd-
ney markets can run his agency on 1\
per cent., for the simple reason that
insufficient produce comes to the markets
to support 300 agents and their em-
ployees, pay office-rent and “stand”-rent
and other incidentals. That commission
on total weekly consignments to the
markets spread over the lot wouldn’t pay
agents and employees the basic wage each,
quite apart from buying properties, cars,
cruiser-launches and investments in gilt-
edged securities.
The point is, how do agents remain
in a business which they say does not
pay? No one believes they do it from
sheer love of the growers. And the truth
is that the legislation to protect the grower
is not enforced and policed as it should
be. Agents and market officials run the
fruit- and vegetable-markets along very
matey lines. Cash-sales-dockets are
rarely, if ever, written up (at time of
sale); condemnation certificates are issued
on request, and not as a result of inspec-
tion and condition of goods; repack-
ing (?) charges are slapped on; after-
hours writing of cash-sales-dockets from
a tuppenny salesman’s notebook is the
convenient idea; and the flying-gang
audit is a big laugh.
Many N.S.W. growers have tired of
being bludgeoned and pilloried at Sydney
municipal markets and have bypassed
them for Brisbane and Melbourne centres,
where Ned Kelly methods are not so
much in evidence. If other growers who
can’t do the same will only co-operate
in any reasonable plan to bring grower
and consumer closer together in localised
marketing the result must be of lasting
benefit to both.—J. E. B. (N.S.W.).
Farmers?
been trying for six years to buy
f land somewhere within 100 miles
o'i B bane. Here are the results of end-
quiries:
Je decent areas at £6O to £7O an
ith equipment and stock “at valua-
I just missed two and couldn’t
jfinpncs' the third. There were 22 areas
small, too hungry or too inaccessible
worth while ; and 10 good areas
possible prices of £BO to £9O an
-hey couldn’t be run profitably at
the prices, although four were bought by
city men whose businesses were said to
be overburdened by taxation. There were
also six useful areas bought by local
farmers willing to expand after allegedly
being near-broke through allegedly low
prices.
As for farmer incomes, there was a
good deal of silence, but I did get some
facts and figures. A few typical cases:
“Just blast him out at the triple forte!"
“I make £lOOO a year from 32 cows, and
last year took £5OO that shows for crops”
“I can milk 40 cows with a bit of
help from the wife. We clear £lOOO to
£1200”.. . .“We did not really need this
last rise. I made a fiver a month from
each of my cows; now I will make £6
or more. I can milk 30 to 35 a day.”
The farmer has found that he can work
the Federal Constitution and the 20-odd
primary-produce boards to advantage,
and he does so. He now has a definite
line of argument. vHe professes to be
one particular kind of farmer and claims
the right to a living from his professed
line. Then he practises sidelines or does
business that does not “show” and forgets
to count the profits therefrom as income.
—Quaero (Q.).
New States
Why is “K.Mc.” so aggrieved with
the Newcastle-Sydney-Wollongong indus-
trial area (B. 4/2/’53)? He should be
pleased that 12 out of every 13 of the
population-increase between 1939 and
1951 settled there rather than in the
country, because that helps to explain
why bullocks sell at anything up to £9O
each and a mature sow may fetch £6O.
It also helps to explain why the value
of farming land may be in the vicinity
of £2OO per acre, and why we so often
hear of country estates being admitted
to probate at figures ranging from
£50,000 to £200,000. In the days when
there was practically no secondary indus-
try in N. S. Wales the farming community
lived in slab huts, slept on corn-cob-
husks, grew strong and hardy on corned-
beef-and-cabbage and went to the races
in spring-carts. Now they live like gentle-
men, milk their cows by electricity, live
in homes with all mod. cons, and drive
around in the latest model sedans. Do
away with the cities and the farmer would
find himself poking the snakes out of
his bark roof once more.
“K.Mc.” is annoyed because timber
and country-generated power come to the
cities. He is not a bit disturbed because
wool, meat, wheat, etc., do the same.
And isn’t it obvious to him that in return
for the power, timber, and so on, the
cities provide railways, power-lines,
corrugated-iron, fencing-wire, netting,
machinery of a(l kinds, radios, vacuum-
cleaners and every amenity that the
country enjoys?
Finally, “K.Mc.” might ask himself
how troubles which arise when a State is
created can be cured by creating more
States. He might merely find his troubles
multiplied.—G. H. (N.S.W.).
The Bow in History
“S.McC.” (B. 4/2/’53) repeats some
popular misconceptions about the bow
and omits some important points.
The bow first appears in cave paintings
which are probably 20,000 years old.
Flint arrow-points found in deep levels
of stratified camp debris show that it may
be even older than that. Professor
Gordon Childe’s apt description of it is
“The first composite mechanism devised
by man.” The part it played in giving
man dominion on the earth was second
only to the use of fire.
The English did not get their military
longbow from Wales, although the Welsh
did use the weapon at the time. It was
made of wych-elm, inferior for the pur-
pose. This lack of a suitable bow-wood
made the northern races neglect archery,
till the landing of William the Conqueror
showed what it could do. The stubborn
Saxon ranks could not be broken by
cavalry or infantry charges, but they
could not stand against arrows falling
from the sky at what was to them an
incredibly long range.
After the conquest they learned the
secret. The bows had been made from
yew-wood grown at high altitudes in the
Pyrenees. Yew grown in the wet, cold
northern climates was a flabby timber,
but the wood from trees which had stood
up to extremes of climate and mountain
storms had the swift recoil of a steel
spring.
The day came when English archers,
using bows of Spanish yew, went to
France and turned the tables on their
former conquerors. The enraged French
king ordered all yew-trees in France to
be cut down, hoping to deprive the
English of wood for bow-staves. The
English checkmated by refusing to import
a cask of wine unless it was accompanied
by two staves of mountain-grown yew-
wood. The French king begged his
brother on the throne of Spain not to
supply them. The Spanish king refused
—he loved his brother of France, but he
loved his export trade in wine even more.
The bowmen’s battles of Crecy, Agin-
court and Poictiers were assisted by a
simple yet deadly trick. The French
knights attacked wearing the finest plate-
armor that money could buy. To prevent
their arrows from glancing off the polished
plate-armor, the English put little caps
of beeswax on their armor-piercing
“bodkin” arrow-points. The same soft
nose with a hard point beneath is used
today in armor-piercing shells.
The composite bow of Asia was far
superior to the long-bow. It originated
"It DOESN'T suit you, Nellie .”
among desert tribes who made their bows
of yew carried by caravans all the way
from the Caucasus Mountains, which
made them very precious. To make them
last as long as possible, they were repaired
with materials available locally—plates
of hom glued on the shreds of animal
sinew set in glue. It was found that such
patched-up bows shot better than new
ones. Gradually, less and less wood and
more horn and sinew was used in the
making of a new bow.
It was shortened, increasing its
efficiency, and was fitted with recurved
ends, or siyahs, which gave nearly 100
per cent, acceleration to the arrow.
Finally it became so short —less than
4ft. long—that it could be used by a
horseman at full gallop.
In the hands of hosts led by men such
as Genghis Khan it conquered most of
Asia and half of Europe. The tactics
employed were to avoid pitched battles
and to cut communication- and supply-
lines by mobile cavalry who could shoot
down all who opposed them at ranges of
hundreds of yards.
Some of the feats performed with com-
posite bows sound wellnigh incredible.
The English longbow’s extreme range
with the heavy war arrow is typified by
Shakspeare’s champion who could “clap
it in the clout at twelve-score paces.”
With special light “flight arrows,” the
expert could shoot 400yds. Asiatic
archers could drop their war arrows
350yds. off. With special flight ones, the
champions shot to more than 800yds.
The Americans have now made flight
bows, using fibre-glass in place of sinew
and a plastic instead of horn, which have
shot 650yds. I have made one of
them, light enough for a woman to use,
which has shot nearly 400yds.
Today the bow is staging an astonishing
comeback as a sporting implement.
Archery becomes more popular as a sport
every year. Those who follow it can
claim, without fear of contradiction, that
it is the most ancient field sport in the
world. It also requires as much skill and
concentration as any other. —H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Lifesavers
Surf-lifesaving and lifesavers generally
are not keen on charging anyone for
saving their life or for any other service
(B. 11/2/’53).
One of the chief considerations is
the amateur status of clubs and members.
This must not be confused with so-called
amateur bodies which allow huge
“expenses”; a surf-lifesaver is an
amateur, in the strictest sense of the
word. In no circumstances may a
club member accept reimbursement in
any guise from any person as a tribute
or reward for any job done as a lifesaver.
That is not only embodied in the con-
stitution, but is an essential part of
every member’s outlook. The true spirit
of freely-given service to the community
is the heart of the movement.
We cannot charge a man for saving his
life or for any treatment we give to him
or his children. He can, if he wishes,
make a donation towards club funds, but
the member may not accept that dona-
tion. In many places, mainly the metro-
politan area, local councils assist greatly
with finances. In the country areas
councils usually donate about £5 to the
local club. That amount, of course, is
not even pin-money when set against the
gear required by a club —£400 for a boat,
£65 for a reel, and so forth.
There is another side. Too many clubs
concentrate too much on surf-carnivals
and not enough on saving lives. That
costs a lot of money which might be
better spent on gear.
As “Benelong” says, it would only need
one major surf disaster to make municipal
aldermen realise the necessity for surf-
clubs —and for financial assistance for
them. But, whatever happens, our
amateur status is vital to us.-
H.E.R.
(N.S.W.).


LYS
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
buwhw—*-; m mmmmmmm gg ,vw -" m nwg —
'* J** ’ A —> .
f ‘
" ** r-'*
■■■'■
■■
tM
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool and Synthetics
“Queensland blues,” and still
are.
Whilst allowing that there are
some (not many) blues kept
solely for show (“back-yarders”
we breeders who work for
equality in clever work and show
points call them) who have lost
their working-qualities, at the
same time all over the State there
are blue dogs on stations and
farms which do just as clever
work in their line as any kelpie
can with sheep: but the average
bushman doesn’t make a song
about them; in fact, most take
them as a matter of course.
I could fill a book with
records of my own dogs since
’95 up to the present time. Some
in my own hands, many I have
sold to others at various times;
all brainy workers, and nearly
as wise as Solomon. Just to
take three:
My old champion Nugget
(1908-1912) was unbeaten at the
Royal and other shows till I
retired him. He had everything
in show-points and work. At
that time I had 1000 acres of
my own, and 100,000 of
Crown lands, in the rough, rocky
country between Liverpool and
Bulli, and cattle running all over
it. No wild bull or outlaw cow
could ever beat Nugget in that
country.
Blue Boy (1930) was a clumsy
dog compared with Nugget, but
known all over the district as a
worker. He used to bring up
six heavy draughts every morn-
ing, without being told, from
the river-flats nearly a mile
away, through dense tea-tree
scrub. And could he work a
mob on the road!
Today I’ve Lovely Ann, who
has everything in show-points
and work. She is in training for
the movies, to show what a good
cattle-dog can do with an outlaw
horse.
Probably what has misled
“Shadow-chaser” (B. 4/2/’53)
anent the blues is that their
natural tendency, from their
dingo ancestry, is to work from
the sides and back of the mob
all the time; just as their fore-
fathers for a few million years
have worked their quarry into a
dead-end. If broken-in with a
good silent barb or kelpie to
work in the lead as well, the
blues are just as good there as
either of the others.
The Worm Problem
“A. F. Spring”: Few sheep are
worm-free, but those in good
condition stand a better chance
of resisting infestation without
serious effects. It takes rela-
tively few worms to cause
disease in ill-nourished animals.
Each species of worm selects its
own location in the digestive
track and requires special treat-
ment.
The roundworms favor
swamplands, heavy pastures
which remain damp for long
“Rooster”: Sandford Beggs,
president of Victorian Graziers’
Association, says: “Competition
from synthetics can be met only
by fine wool —Merino wool.
When opposed by a glut of
coarse, crossbred wools, syn-
thetics can stand on their own
feet, but they cannot compare
with the superb qualities of
Merino; there is not enough
fine wool produced to satisfy
world demand,”
As a boost to world pro-
duction, Beggs advocates the
removal of the embargo on Aus-
tralian Merinos. He points out
the negative case by anticipating
an outcry against “assisting other
countries to an increased pro-
duction of fine Merino wool,”
at the expense, presumably, of
the Australian economy, but
counters the negation by quoting
some vital statistics.
Briefly, they are: Wool-pro-
duction over the past 150 years
shows an increase of fine wool
sheep only in Australia and
South Africa. Remaining wool
countries show a steady decrease
in favor of crossbreds and
animals bred solely for meat.
The present world population of
Merinos and closely related
types approximates 145 million —
about one-fifth of the total for
all breeds. Of this amount
Australia grazes more than
half; which represents 75 per
cent, of the Aussie total for all
breeds, by far the world’s
biggest proportion.
By permitting the free export
of our Merinos to other wool-
producing countries, the pro-
duction of fine wool overseas
would increase and the demand
for it would gradually increase
to the exclusion of all synthetics.
Carter, of the C.5.1.R.0., says:
“If anything threatens Australia
it is file trend away from the
finer to the coarser qualities of
Merino wool, and from Merino
wool to Corriedale, Polwarth,
and crossbred types. Removal
of the embargo would consti-
tute no immediate threat to our
wool industry. Apart from an
initial demand for Merinos,
largely for experimental breed-
ing, Australia would have to
establish an advertising and pub-
licity campaign to sell them
overseas.”
Working Dogs
R. Kaleski: The Australian
blue-speckle cattle-dog is not a
“Queensland heeler” ; there is no
such breed. When we completed
making the blue-speckle breed
in 1890 we sent some of them
to Queensland. There they were
crossed with Timmins’s old red
Bobtail and called “Queens-
land stumpies,” as most of the
pups came bobtailed. The long-
tailed ones were just “blues.”
Those shown were called “blue
speckles,” or, sometimes,
periods, and, under dry condi-
tions, overstocked and neglected
pastures. Most troublesome are
the stomach-, intestinal- and
lung-worms. Affected sheep de-
cline rapidly, as do cattle and
other animals.
The use of anthelmintics, par-
ticularly in sheep, is always
dangerous, unless proper regard
is given to correct dosages, and
pre-treatment routine. Feeding
of concentrates must cease for
at least a week before drench-
ing ; restrict changes in pastures
severely during the treatment;
provide a lick of salt, bone-
meal or ground limestone and
salt; drench early in the day,
but not in bad weather.
Bluestone, bluestone-nicotine,
carbon-tetrachloride and pheno-
thiazine are the drugs mostly
used. Dose-rates are: Bluestone-
nicotine (a 2 per cent, solution
made by dissolving 11b. of blue-
stone, sgal. of water and mix-
ing with 16 fl. oz. of 40 per cent,
commercial nicotine-sulphate),
grown sheep, 2 fl. oz.; 12 to 18
“Grab y'r jewellery an' valuables before th ’ house goes!”
months old, li fl. oz.; eight to
12 months, 1 fl. oz.; four to
eight months, | fl. oz.; lambs
under four months, % fl. oz.
To make a 4 per cent, solu-
tion use 21b. of bluestone, 32
fl. oz. of nicotine sulphate and
sgal. of water; halve the above
doses, but use only for sheep
eight to 12 months and older.
Mix in enamel, copper, earthen-
ware or glass containers.
Carbon - tetrachloride: Mix
2c.c. with 3c.c, liquid paraffin
and give sc.c. of mixture to
sheep over four months and
2£c.c. for those under.
Phenothiazine: Grown sheep,
|oz.; 12 months, ioz. ; six to
12 months not less than ioz.;
under six months not less than
one-sixth oz.
Bees Need Air
“C.H.”: Ventilation of the
beehive should be watched in
summer. Bees congregated at
the entrance, fanning to create a
draught, or clustered outside,
are sure signs of high tempera-
tures within.
Extra space at the entrance
will supply the ventilation.
Lift the front of the hive and
place wooden blocks, about an
inch thick, at the corners be-
tween the super and the bottom
board.
When ripening of the honey
saturates the air inside the hive
with moisture, bees will again be
found fanning at the entrance.
This time the aim is to circulate
air currents through the hive and
reduce the moisture. Inspect
the hive mat. If the moisture
has saturated it, other hive
material will also begin to rot.
Combat this by cutting the
mat so that about an inch of
the frames at each end is left
uncovered. Air within the hive
then circulates more freely,
passing over the mat and keep-
ing it dry.
For Soldier-settlers
“C. Punch”: Seventeen regis-
tered Aberdeen - Angus bulls
valued at £3500 were allotted by
ballot to N.S.W. soldier-settlers.
The bulls were donated by
N.S.W, members of the
Aberdeen-Angus Society last
year for distribution free to ex-
servicemen. Another 23 have
been donated for presentation to
soldier-settlers in other States.
Allocation by State authorities
will soon begin.
N.S.W. members of the Poll
Shorthorn Society will also give
a number of registered Poll
Shorthorn bulls free to soldier-
settlers in N.S.W. Between 60
and 70 breeders, who own some
of the largest studs in Australia,
will be asked to co-operate.
Fowl-manure and Lucerne
“J.J.A.”: If you mean to give
the lucerne-stand the benefit of
fowl-manure, broadcast it as soon
as the old stand is cut and the
hay removed; certainly before
the new growth commences.
Spread evenly and fairly
thickly, but thin enough for the
ground still to be seen through
it. It is very strong, and if too
thick will burn new growth off.
If possible flood or sprinkle
immediately, so that growth will
begin. Cuts every five or six
weeks are possible with irrigation
and plenty of manure in the
summer. Other crops may be
treated the same way as lucerne.
For vegetables, apply the
manure down the centre of die
rows, taking care that the manure
does not touch the veges.
Fruit-trees should be treated
differently. Manure very heavily
on the cultivated section around
them, keeping clear of the trunk.
This serves a threefold purpose,
manuring the tree, forming a
mulch to keep the moisture in,
and checking the growth of
weeds by burning them off.
Reed Canary-grass
“Arundinacea”: Reed canary-
grass is a sister-species to the
better-known Phalaris tuberosa,
and is by no means to be de-
spised. It is a native perennial of
cold climates in many countries,
mostly found on wet, poorly-
drained land, or in damp, cold
spots.
Such locations are to be found
in all of our tableland regions,
and although reed-canary is not
quite as palatable as its refined
sister it makes a tall, leafy
growth and thrives better.
Its growth helps to dry up
these places and to clear them
of bad fluke-infestation. Al-
though primarily moisture- and
cold-loving, reed canary-grass
keeps green during long, rela-
tively dry periods in summer.
r
Brussels-sprouts
“Myrrhee”; In Victoria
Brussels-sprouts do best on fairly
heavy soils in the cooler coastal
districts, especially around Mel-
bourne and Geelong, but can
also be grown on a light soil well
manured with organics.
Ten to a dozen plants are
enough for a family of five, pro-
viding two or three pickings a
week. Prepare the soil as for
cabbage, using liberal quantities
of stable-manure and 2oz. of
super, (two matchboxfuls) per
square yard. Space them no less
than 30in. apart; closer plant-
ings hinder development.
Plant them out in February or
early March —no later. During
growth side-dress every four
weeks, commencing when the
first sprout-buds appear, using
£oz. per plant of super., am-
monia and potash (5-1-1). Keep
the plants dusted against cab-
bage-butterfly and moth attack
until these pests disappear with
the approach of cold weather.
Well looked after, and sprouts
I picked regularly, they will yield
until late August or early Sep-
tember,
Strawberry-culture
“Moyhu”: If planted out in
autumn strawberries will be-
come well established before
winter and should produce a
spring crop. Spring-planted
runners don’t make sufficient
growth before blossoming, neces-
sitating removal of blossoms so
that the plants will make suffi-
cient growth to bear well in the
following season.
The berry is tolerant of a wide
range of soils and climate, but
does best in cool, hilly country
with a rainfall of about 35in.,


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
flatter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
fs
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can Instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.). 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectris
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOIT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
761 bs.
df
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
&
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The neo-barrere
acts like a hand
when placed flat
gn—’' Poll the orifice,
i will at once, without effort and
all movements, control your hernia
i comfort and security. It cannot
iisplaced by violent movement and
proved completely successful by
who have tried it.
e today for FREE LITERATURE
tKERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
it. 3l), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
TING MELBOURNE?
and Drive a Modern Car
from
£PPARD’S GARAGE,
oorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
or 1870, After Hours, BJ 1957.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONET, Chairman; F, W, Dueshury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. 0 . Q. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
P. BURDGN, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States •
TILLEY**. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic only 1 i pints of Kero for
12 hours' light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it it graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores .
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in TVi-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
6M-
sn»»-' s r
bO»»*
y D*u.''sct£'o£*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Writ* to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O, 80. 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
80. PIPE. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 7BBK. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. SIB. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
and in a deep, well-drained, red-
brown volcanic soil. It also does
well under irrigation in the
warmer, flatter Victorian dis-
tricts, if the site is well drained
and sheltered from severe wind-
storms.
Propagate by using the
runners or side-shoots thrown
out from the parent plants. To
secure vigorous runners set aside
several rows of healthy plants
and remove the blossoms. Avoid
plants with yellowed edges and
dark markings on the leaves.
Thoroughly prepare the
ground. The two methods of
planting usually practised are the
hill system and the matted-row
system. In the former, plants
are set out in rows 2ft. 6in. to
3ft. apart with 12in. between
plants. This allows a horse-
drawn scuffler to pass along for
weed-control. No runners are
allowed to develop, which helps
in the production of large, high-
quality fruit.
The matted-row system con-
sists of plants set out 4ft. apart,
with 2ft. 6in. between plants.
Runners are allowed to develop
until a mass of plants about 2ft.
wide is developed in each row.
This system is more suited to a
small grower or home-gardener.
Wilson’s Pride is a good
variety for the moist, hilly dis-
tricts around Melbourne. Tar-
dive de Leopold, Ettersburgh,
Sunbeam are other good varie-
ties, the latter being suitable for
warm districts because of its
habit of setting fruit near the
centre of the plant, away from
the hot sun.
Getting More Milk
“Shadow-chaser”: If fed as
milking-cows should be fed, a
dairy herd will increase output
irrespective of breed or appear-
ance, provided the cows aren't
nearing the end of lactation.
If proof is wanted, turn the
average dairy herd on to a crop
of knee-high oats, or similar
pasture, and give each cow a
liberal allowance of crushed
grain each milking ; in 48 hours
the increase will be startling.
Even the despised culls and
“once -a - dayers” will stage a
comeback.
Unfortunately, the flush soon
vanishes, except on irrigated
pastures, and most of these are
put to more profitable lines than
dairying.
Such spectacular increases in
production are not confined to
rich crops. I have seen similar
results from very ordinary herds
when turned on to young barley
and speargrass where a fire had
been a few months previously.
So the issue simplifies down
to one of feed. Perhaps our
professors and bachelors of
agricultural science may cease
preaching long enough to
produce a cheap synthetic
ration for a dairy cow equal
in all respects to pastures
in the spring. When they do they
will have earned the v nation’s
thanks.
In a Queensland Garden
“W. Court”: Overcrowding,
neglect of perennials, half-
hearted attention to growing
plants, and too free use of
shrubs or trees all help to spoil
the Queensland garden.
Always transplant seedlings a
little farther apart than the seeds-
man recommends. This permits
outward development, and
lessens competition between
plants for plant-food and mois-
ture in the soil.
Frequently chrysanthemums,
rudbeckia, perennial phlox and
such ratooning flowers are left,
largely undisturbed, in the same
bed year after year until they are
not worth having. It’s better to
soak the bed ‘with water after
they have flowered, and then
fork out the clumps and leave
them in a cool place with plenty
of damp soil around them.
Strong young growths will spring
from the roots, and grow well
in a fresh bed.
Don’t leave spent blooms on
the plants, as they give up
quickly when allowed to set seed.
Grasshoppers and various wogs
harboring amongst the leaves
should be got rid of; though
apparently doing no harm, they
are possibly waiting to eat the
flower buds when they appear.
Grasshoppers, for instance, are
especially keen on dahlia buds.
If you want to have a lot of
shrubs or trees, confine yourself
to the more hardy flowers —if
you plant flowers at all. Though
there may be no scarcity of
water, it is generally difficult to
maintain sufficiently high soil-
fertility for small plants in a
garden crowded with shrubs.
The roots of the shrubs miss
very little plant-food, and the
bigger the shrubs the more they
want.
Carpet Pests
“Big Billy”: Waite Agricul-
tural Institute (S, Aust.) recom-
mends this method of eradicating
pests from carpets: Lay the
carpet upside-down on a warm,
sunny day. Sprinkle with
D.D.T. at loz.. per sq. yd. and
sweep with a stiff broom. Then
hang in sun for a day or two
with under-surface on the out-
side.
When the carpet has been
removed the space occupied by
it on the floor should be
sprinkled with D.D.T. at the
same rate, and thoroughly swept.
Destroy all sweepings at once.
After sweeping, cover the floor
with 5 per cent. D.D.T. at the
same rate and replace the carpet.
Running a vacuum-cleaner over
the carpet will help draw D.D.T.
into the fibres.
If infestation is bad and there
is no objection to it, the institute
says the floor also may be
treated with 5 per cent, solution
of D.D.T. in kerosene and the
carpet replaced when the solu-
tion is dry.
Hints for the Farm
“Spes”: For good market-
pigs castrate at four weeks and
wean at eight. Reduce the sow’s
feed a week before weaning and
increase the piglets’ special grow-
ing-ration, which should be
available to them from three
weeks. A good pig should
weigh 351 b. to 401 b. at weaning.
“Old G.”: When painting
rooms near the kitchen keep the
doors closed if cooking is being
done as usual. Cooking-fumes
will spoil the paintwork.
“Silen”: A lot of sawdust
goes up in smoke, though
as a mulch or compost it im-
proves heavy soils and increases
the water-holding capacity of
sandy soil. Until old and well-
rotted, however, it has no
fertilising-value.
“Springvale”: Lime deficiency
in pigs—which causes slow
growth, small and weak pigs at
birth, and restricted udder
development of pregnant sows —
can be avoided by feeding
ground limestone and salt in pro-
portion of four-to-one when the
diet consists largely of cereal
grains or meals. It is unneces-
sary if there is an abundance of
skim-milk, buttermilk or whey.
“Konanda”: To kill the smell
of paint, cut up an onion, steep
in boiling water and leave in the
room all night. A cut onion will
speed-up the sweetening process
when a cupboard has been
painted on the inside.
“D.J.H.”: Steel-wool filling
makes wood-screws stick in
plaster. Drill the hole, plug with
steel-wool, then drive in the
screw until firm.
“Murrundi”: For March and
April plantings of bulbs in dry
areas have the ground dug over
several times. Water thoroughly,
repeating the digging. When the
surface has dried to a good
crumbly texture plant out. Drop
a little sand in each hole when
planting. Depths for planting:
gladioli, hyacinths, daffodils
and true lilies (not the stem-
rooting), 3in.; small bulbs, 2in.
“Coo-Yie": Here in Vic. I
collect cocksfoot from the road-
side because it is self-selected
seed, surface-sown and hardy.
Those are the strains within a
species which have adapted them-
selves to hard conditions and will
grow on the gravelly clay soil of
this area.
“C.A.A.”: A mixture of three
parts of sulphate-of-ammonia
and one part of super, will pro-
mote growth of fine grasses in
lawns and check or kill weeds;
three parts of sulphate-of-am-
monia and one part of sulphate-
of-iron will correct the clover
and moss growth. Apply both
at loz. per square yard when
lawn is wet with dew.
,
M.”: Mulching the vege-
table beds with a layer of rotted
manure or compost in the hotter
months helps fetain moisture
and prevents burning of the sur-
face roots. It will also smother
weeds. A good mulch stimu-
lates a growing crop and is a
source of humus when the plot
is dug over for the next crop,
“Silen”; To extend the produc-
tive life of dairy-cows postpone
the initial calving until the heifer
is 24 months old. Allow a dry
period of eight weeks before the
mature cow calves, when she will
produce a strong, healthy calf
with no birth troubles. Her
bodily store of flesh, minerals
and vitamins will support high
production and she will give
up to 20 p.c. more milk, with a
higher butterfat content. Too
many farmers milk right up to
calving, with a disastrous effect
on cow health and production,
High milk-producers all need
adequate rest periods.
“Breck”: As a shade-tree the
deltoides poplar ( Populus del-
toides), known as cottonwood in
U.S.A., leaves the rest of its tribe
behind. This tree will rear it-
self to 60ft. with a 60ft.
shade cast if growing in
deep alluvial soil and watered
till it is well established.
Sites inclined to be permanently
moist are ideal. D. poplar
leaves are large, glossy and hand-
some, its branches wide-flung ;
the general effect of mature trees
is one of majesty. As a service
tree in paddocks its lush foliage
gives dense shade. Being
deciduous, it lets the sun through
in winter.


when he came hack to the studio
said “It was frightful. Showed
me a lot of dresses that he had
bought for his wife and tried
to drag me into his car to take
me to Coogee to meet her.
Crowds gathered round as the
great brute tugged at me. It
was awful, I assure you. I fled
down a side-street.”
Norman went with John to
the fight, which Mac refereed,
wearing splendid white, which
he was frank enough to say
would show him up in the film.
It did.
••• ■ •
When we left the Margaret-
street studio because the rooms
were to be reconditioned to be
let furnished, we found two
rooms at the front of the top
floor in Cape’s Chambers, Bond-
street, opposite to each other.
One for a studio, the other for
a kitchen-eating-room, in which
a gas-ring was later installed. A
couple of knives and forks, a tea-
tin and an old table-knife left
by the previous tenant were
highly appreciated.
Butter-boxes served for chairs
and cupboards, and, later, a gas-
griller was purchased. We ate
in the studio on a small rickety
table with a newspaper for a
tablecloth. For weeks the diet
was grilled chops, mustard,
bread, butter, honey and lemon-
cheese ; till one day John Dailey,
who came from The Bulletin
every day for lunch, revolted at
the eternal grilled chops and
said “I’ll have bread, butter and
mustard, George.” (I was always
called George then.)
John came for the pleasure of
listening and talking—certainly
not for the food, for he loved
good eating; but scandal and
gossip, I think, just as much.
Sometimes “Kodak” (Ernest
O’Ferrall) came, too, as he and
John were very friendly.
“Kodak” was a timid, baby-
faced man. He wore very high
collars. He looked like a new
curate, and had an immense
admiration for John.
Lionel came quite often, but
he didn’t stay long, as he did his
work at home. He continued to
bring the dish of macaroni and,
sometimes, lemon-cheese; both
of which were kept for the night
meal.
Norman came to the studio
about ten o’clock eveiy morning.
I arrived a little earlier to have
the robm clean for models and
work. The Casanova was still
the main job, which meant a
constant stream of models —and
tea to be made. Norman worked
his usual hours, from ten till ten.
Lots of illustrating was being
done at the time for the “Lone
Hand” —good, careful work,
drawn from the model. He did
articles and stories as well as
illustrations to McCrae’s poems.
Frank Fox usually dropped in
on his way back .to the office
after lunch. Sometimes in full
riding-kit, spurs and all —not
that he was going riding. John
Dailey used to hate this exhibi-
tion of dressing and avoided
walking from the office with him.
He said “I assure you, Norman,
every head turns to look at him.”
Heads turned to look at John,
too, for he was always perfectly
tailored in his dark-blue English
suits and bowler-hat and carry-
ing a light cane. He was a little
man with a round, happy face
and an Oxford voice. He walked
with a jaunty air, and, at that
time, was undoubtedly one of the
best-dressed men about the city.
He was au fait in all the best
society and knew its secret
scandals, many of which he
regaled to us at lunch-time with
gusto.
There was another model —
little Pettit, a very small man,
about four-foot-nothing, with
a sidling, furtive manner. He
always walked in the gutter and
was mutteringly grateful for any
notice taken of him. One morn-
ing I came early to the rooms
and found Pettit in the kitchen
with a mouthful of dry bread.
I pretended not to see. He
gulped it down, looking most
embarrassed, and, for no reason,
said “I am a descendant of
kings.”
“That’s interesting,” I replied.
“How far back?”
“A long way back,” he
mumbled and sidled out and
down the stairs.
Old Armstrong never came to
this studio. He had gone up in
the world and devoted his time
entirely to Syd Smith and Harry
Julius, who had a studio in
Hamilton-street. They mothered
him, and Sydney gave him good
suits, culled from his own Dad
(manager of the Hotel Australia),
who fortunately had a figure the
same size as Armstrong’s. They
fed him most of the time, and
Syd paid his weekly rent for a
room. “Army,” as they called
him, repaid them with deep
reverence and gratitude.
Syd and Harry came to the
studio one day to break the
news of “Army’s” death. They
took it badly. So passed* the
Great Bacchus.
I peered out from the kitchen
at a noise going on across the
landing at the studio door.
Norman had a model inside and
A. G. Stephens was puffing and
blowing, all whiskers and bosom,
at the door, while Norman was
looking very intently up at his
“What’s the matter, A.G.?”
he asked.
“You you you have
annoyed me,” he shrilled in a
high, thin voice,
“But what have I done?”
“You—-you ...” he couldn’t
get any more words out and
turned and fled downstairs. “I
wonder what’s bitten him?”
Norman said as he watched
A.G. down the stairs. “Queer old
coot,” he added as he returned
to his model.
A.G. was a power. Poets and
authors hastily read the Red
Page as soon as the paper was
out, for the attack. I don’t say
that he always attacked, but
when he did it was without
mercy.
A.G. would walk down the
street, head thrown back, in his
great felt-hat and double-
breasted, navy-blue serge suit
buttoned tightly across his large
chest, with a fierce glint in his
eyes. If they lit on some poof
contributor to The Bulletin
who may have offended him by
a poem or article, the glinting
eyes would roll sideways at the
offender, but the great beard
would march sternly on, con-
cealing collar, tie and shirt-front.
“He is a very difficult man to
handle,” William Macleod said
to me,in a low voice as he fell
into his swivel-chair, panting and
puffing, after an encounter with
A.G. in the Red Page room.
There were two vacant back-
rooms on the same floor in a
building in Bond-street, and
Norman decided to take one for
a private room for me. It had
one window opening on to a
dismal brick wall. The room
had to be furnished, so the land-
lord, who had his offices on the
ground floor, was worded for
the loan of another room, which
was vacant next door, to do a
bit of work in for a day or two.
The Bulletin carpenter was
engaged to make two lounge-
chairs and one wardrobe. He
was given a free hand to choose
the tapestry, and decided to have
onp green and one red with a
fleur-de-lis design. With the
timber secured, he began to
hammer and saw all day, which
caused much concern to the
landlord, who came up to ask
timidly how long it would go
on. “You see, I am mother’s
executor and the noise disturbs
her tenants,” he said. He always
made complaints on behalf of
his dead mother.
There seemed to be a constant
stream of models and callers to
the studip.
. John Lane Mullins was always
arriving for a bookplate.
J. J. Hilder, the watercolorist,
called one day—an unusual
thing —ajQ,d, without any pre-
liminaries, said to Norman
“Why did you write that damned
silly book?” ( The Curate in
Bohemia).
“Because I liked writing it,”
replied N.L.
“Well, it won’t do your repu-
tation any good,” he said, and
promptly left. We listened to the
retreating thud of his heavy
boots down the stairs; then
Norman laughed very heartily.
Hilder wore the heaviest and
most ungainly boots I have ever
seen, with soles about two inches
thick which made him walk like
a diver on the ocean bed. He
was tall and dark, with sullen
brown eyes, and his figure was
a straight line from the back of
his head to the heels of his boots.
He walked with his arms hang-
ing loose.
Hilder seemed to be more
friendly with Sydney Ure Smith
and Julian Ashton than any
other artists.
“ ‘Banjo’ Paterson is coming
here this afternoon,” Norman
said one dav in 1907, commenc-
ing to push rubbish behind
screens and stack books and
papers more neatly. “You know,
he wrote The Man from Snowy
River,” he added as an
encouragement for me to get
busy with the broom and duster.,
It seemed to be an important
event.
“ ‘Banjo’ will be here about
five o’clock,” Lionel announced
when jje came in looking
specially smart in a new suit,
and cast an eye around the
studio ; he was going to the races
with “Banjo” to make sketches
for the “News.” “He’s editor of
the ‘Evening News,’ you know.”
He turned to me with this bit
of information.
I knew that, and I knew that
he wrote The Man from Snowy
River, and I had been consort-
ing with artists long enough to
know that editors were
“specials,” but other editors and
other poets had visited the studio
and I had not been hustled to
do an extra clean-up. A. G.
Stephens, Frank Fox, W.
Charlton, Monty Grover had
come and found us as we were;
so had Victor Daley, Rod Quinn
and Hugh McCrae. But 1 got
on with the cleaning-up for
“Banjo.”
He came accompanied' by
Lionel, and was seated on the
fleur-de-lis lounge-chair which
had been placed just right for
him. I was introduced in a
distant manner, as if to imply
“This is my model. Here to
make tea.” I had a good look
at “Banjo.”
His leather-work was very
posh leather wristlet-watch-
band, hand-made boots highly-
polished, grey pencil-striped suit
without a wrinkle. Good-look-
ing, dark, eagle-like face with
prominent aquiline nose, deep-set
eyes with heavy pigmented rings
around them, skin as sallow as
lard, chiselled jawbones and
strongly-cut mouth held tight at
the corners. He sat slightly
forward on. the chair as if he
were seated in a saddle holding
the reins most correctly.
They talked of horses, he of
the rounding-up of Snowy River
brumbies, and Norman of his
present horse Calpe. “Banjo”
seemed slightly contemptuous of
artists having horses, and Lionel,
who had no interest in horses,
told them about Spanish bull-
fights.
I served the tea as any waitress
would, listening and looking,
since no one spoke to me, and
“Banjo” refused to eat the
biscuits specially got in for his
visit —no doubt too rich for -his
stomach. As they left, Lionel
bowed graciously, and “Banjo”
austerely.
The next time I saw “Banjo”
was in Centennial Park. As
Norman, Frank Fox, Colonel
Lucas, Colonel Lenehan and I
rode in through the gates,
“Banjo” came out of Lang-road
(where he lived) on a very hand-
some horse and halted for a
word or two with the men as
they drew together. Bob
Lenehan and Fox were very
jovial and Norman very talka-
tive, the horses prancing with
impatience to be on the track
(except*mine, which never missed
an opportunity to doze).
“Banjo” was still austere, and
Lucas, who had a face that was
cut out of steel, decided to sit
and stare like a bronze statue.
After a few remarks about the
horses, “Banjo,” with a nod,
turned his horse and went the
other way. Frank Fox stuck his
spurs into Sportsman and
galloped in advance of us with
arms flapping like a bird’s wings,
which must have outraged the
feelings of a rider like “Banjo.”
We passed him a couple of times
as we went around the sand-
track.
“Banjo” did not consort with
the art group or poets. He lived
in the social world of polo-
players, and we all know how
exclusive they are. Perhaps that
was why X had to give the studio
an extra clean-up.
Anyhow, I never got austere
bows from other editors and
poets.
COME IN, LEICHHARDT
Come in, Leichhardt, come in and lie down;
you’ve been too long wandering around
the Simpson, Burdekin, Nullarbor, Lake Eyre,
Ayers Rock, the Barkly, or wherever it was
that you vanished into legend.
Come in, man, come in now and lie down;
it’s narrow enough space and no bed for you,
but it’s time you had a yabber to someone
about where you’ve been for a century
with rumor sniffing your long-cold track.
Lie down, man, lie down and tell me your story,
though it may be awkward to talk after all these years;
we’ve a long night to yarn through and find our voices,
for your bones have long since whitened on sands that all
men dread, .
and it was only yesterday that 1 died comfortably m bed.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 215
Across.
I—Obliged1—Obliged to exist with an Aus-
tralian vehicle. (8)
4—lt used to cause some promi-
nence behind a well-dressed lady
in haste. (6)
9 —Lofty fellow is safe. (7)
11— Relieved to let two boys engage
in a wager. (7)
12 — A medical graduate and I go to
a town on the border of Indiana
and Illinois. (5)
13 — French affirmative back it twice
for a marmoset. (8)
16 —Lumbered article taken from Lola
bounded. (8)
18 —Edom suggests what Caesar did,
besides coming and conquering.
(4)
21 —Hubbub goes back in the French
nest. (3)
23 —Toy is nothing among the wise
and nothing after. (4)
25 —China received this Venetian suit.
(4-4)
27 —Such tents might make me square.
(8)
30 —Heel the French and the cub. (5)
32 — Mothers dashes desirable for
some approaches. (7)
33 — Rhineland siren learning the gar-
land from Hawaii. (7)
34 — Blue inquires. (6)
35 — Wargod painter of the Nether-
lands deploys the forces like Ney
and Petain. (8)
Down.
1 — Have an innings with the “rab-
bits” and an insect fighting for
Spenser. (10)
2 Clem Hughes, cowboy? (9)
3 Balancing a rightist bom between
mid-September and mid-October
to be found in a collection or
books. (9) , ... . ...
5 A bed from France isn’t fired. (5)
6 Date for an essay over the way.
(5) • u-,
7 Nelson in a whirl. (4)
8 — Circuit in fur, (5)
10 —The portent for farmers. (6)
14 — Yours truly had a girl. (3)
15 — An influential Jew attempts to
finish bunny-farms. (10)
17—Immerse. (3)
19 — Don’t ire secretive about your
hand work by a commercial
artist. (9) .
20 — Five hundred to drop on tne
doubly dull one in a town ot
N.S.W.’s south coast. (9)
22—Relating to the back coppers or
Sarah. (6)
24— Equipment for a row. (3)
26—A valuable property upset this
girl. (5)
28—The beasts take 150 away from
the classes. (5) tl
29—Colored cord used in Inca
ing” mentions a wisecrack to
31 — a poet who is O.K. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 214


... it's cheaper in the long run!
AND HERE'S WHERE ONLY THE BEST IS GOOD ENOUGH
Cento*?
PomW ***
Haitefies
Century 4-volt Power .and
Lighting Battery
I
iii
iiii
Century 2-volt Power
and Lighting Battery
■
Century 4-volt Power and Lighting
Battery with glass protector mats
providing double insulation
MADE IN 2-VOLT and 4-VOLT TYPES, Century Power and Lighting Batteries have
the built-in capacity and endurance necessary for long and trouble-free service in country homes
. . . ideal also for yacht and cruiser installations,
sd
Century Batteries for Cars, Trucks,
'Buses, Tractors, Earth Moving Equipment
Motor Cycles
fsd
w
■r'!
' : :
5'
S'
Century Hyplate Battery
Century Standard
(Heavy Duty) Battery
Century Motor Cycle Battery
Century Tractpr Battery
There’s a special type of Century Battery for any class of motorised equipment, from small ears and motor
’v'V:' I*
cycles to giant bulldozers.
differ *%?*!
illi
m
CENTURY RADIO BATTERIES
fs
For radio reception at its best, always stipulate Century Radio Batteries. Extremely high capacity ensures
maximum operating period between recharges. Quality ensures outstanding performance.
DEMAND AND MAKE SURE YOU GET THE BEST
flcntiirn
MADE UNDER THE DIRECTION OF TECHNICIANS WITH YEARS OF OVERSEAS EXPERIENCE


names
ffllCHlGßfl
*
BLH
sJS
hah&
in 'a land of
__ __.—. «***
Queensland Is big in EVERY way. Big
in area; big in natural wealth; big in
national development; big in its place
in Australia's future; and biggest of
all in OPPORTUNITY!
The national projects and primary
production development neces-
sary to Queensland's needs must
be conceived and carried out on
a large scale. Agricultural imple-
ments, together with world-
proven earth-moving equipment
and tractors necessary for this
work, are products of the
world's best-known names
Caterpillar, John Deere, Bald-
win-Lima-Hamilton. Michigan.
opportuniti
Your opportunity for assured profitable Investment in Queensland's future is directly offered fey the
90,000 shares available in Hastings Diesels Limited.
A wholly-owned subsidiary of this Company represents in Queensland the great Caterpillar Tractor
Co., the world-famous John Deere Tractors and Agricultural Implements, and other big names.
'w
*
;■:«
SSSSSS wSbSi SSSS
.■ s * •
df
*• s > \y *
’ fSSBS! CSs
gaaasHM iHHW
* s «
j—KSBg
ffRI
vv m gifu
m
Mai
m
mm
UJ
m
MM
90.000 AVAILABLE
REGULAR DIVIDENDS!
The Hastings Deering Group of Companies, by paying
regular dividends, has now returned to original
investors 100% of their original investment!
The new issue of Hastings Diesels Limited Shares at
£1 each offers Investors the same golden opportunity.
The first 100,000 shares in Hastings Diesels Limited
were taken up by the Shareholders in our group of
companies within two weeks of publication of the
prospectus.
IV
A
Building, William Street. SYDNEY
Phene M 0412 (33 lines)
Hastings Deering's have themselves taken up £325,000 of
the original authorised capital.
HASTINGS DIESELS PROFITS
sd
DIVIDENDS
Capital = £lOO.OOO
CATTLE PROPERTY: 50-year leases for 2.600
square miles adjacent to Alice Springs.
COUPON FOR APPLICATION FORM
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Limited,
William Street, Sydney.
Please forward me Prospectus for your new issue
of ordinary shares.
My name
Address
State
