

' -o v r#? * , |
OF DISTINCTION , BUY
FOR PORT
.
The Bulletin
KING’S CROSS, by JOHN FOUNTAIN
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3827
Wednesday, June 17, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
TPHE historic Coronation Chair in
which Queen Elizabeth II was
crowned stands in the Chapel of St.
Edward the Confessor behind the High
Altar in Westminster Abbey. This
stately oaken chair proclaims the fact
that the Abbey is indeed the Sovereign’s
church, and that it forms the centre of
a national and royal life which has never
functioned with greater vigor than it
does today.
With the exception of Edward V and
Edward VIII every sovereign since
Edward II (1307-27)) has, occupied this
chair during the Coronation ceremony.
Originally it was a chair of great beauty
when it came from the hands of the
gifted craftsman Walter the Painter of
Durham in 1300 at the command of
Edward I. It is made of oak and joints
are fastened by wooden pins, and is
surmounted by a sharp gable. Support-
ing the chair from its base are four
beautifully carved lions, and the whole
was originally decorated and gilden with
intricate carvings of foliage and animals.
The seated figure of a king with his feet
resting upon a lion was depicted on the
back. Through passing centuries the
chair was badly treated, irreverent
visitors carved their names or initials on
its back, decorations were removed by
souvenir hunters and even the suf-
fragettes endeavored to blow it up, but
in spite of this enough survives to show
that it was once a thing of great beauty.
Beneath the seat of the Coronation
Chair is the Stone of Scone, or Stone
of Destiny or Coronation Stone as it is
variously known. On this sacred stone
have been crowned all Scottish kings
from time immemorial down to Baliol
and on it, too, have been crowned all
English Sovereigns since Edward I.
Many legends surround the origin of this
historic stone. Some of them identify it
with the Irish Lia Fail. According to
tradition it served as a head-rest for the
patriarch Jacob when he slept at Bethel,
and that after a series of wanderings it
reached the city of Perth.
In 1296 the stone was seized and
brought to London by Edward I who
ordered the Coronation Chair to be built
for its reception.
On February 26, 1952, the Stone of
Destiny was returned to its traditional
place beneath the Coronation Chair after
an absence of 429 days; it was on
Christmas morning, 1950, that it was
stolen from the Abbey by three Scottish
students who removed it to Scotland.
Beside the Chair are the State Sword
and the Shield of Edward 111 (1327-77).
THE CORONATION CHAIR. WESTMINSTER ABBEY


The Red Page
ANOTHER GREAT HISTORY-MYSTERY
Hot on the heels of Ralph Rashleigh
Professor C. M. H. Clark, of Canberra,
presents us with another history-mystery;
for now it appears that Alexander
Harris, the author of Settlers and Con-
victs, one of the most vivid documents of
the early days, was not Alexander Harris.
At least, however, there does not seem
to be any doubt that, whoever he was,
he wrote his own book.
Settlers and Convicts, which this re-
viewer first read ten or more years ago
when he asked Mr. Tom Mutch to direct
him to the best book on the convict-
period at the Mitchell Library, was first
published in London in 1847. Mr. Harris
then signed it, simply, as by “An Emi-
grant Mechanic.” Later he published
other works and labelled them as by
“Alexander Harris, the author of Settlers
and Convicts .”
Professor Clark, then, does not doubt
that the man who called himself Harris
wrote the books to which he put his
name; but he does suggest that
Alexander Harris” was a pen-name:
When I tried to find out who this
Alexander Harris was, or whether there was
an Alexander Harris in the areas described
Settlers and Convicts, I became more
and more convinced that Harris was a
pen-name and that the author had mixed
up fact and fiction, partly to conceal his
Identity and partly because the storyteller
in him was always tempting him to
embroider his narrative.
The professor has been unable, despite
research in England and Australia, to
discover Harris’s real name; but from
an Autobiography which Harris pub-
lished, mostly dealing with his spiritual
adventures, he has unearthed some
interesting information as to the real
man’s character; chiefly that he drank
and mightily repented thereof.
In case this suggests any connection
with the author of Ralph Rashleigh, who
also was addicted to the bottle, one
hastens to add that the style of Settlers
and Convicts in no way resembles the
other. On the other hand, if anyone
would like to add to the inextricable
confusion of authorship in which our
earliest literature seems to be plunged—
for the reason, obviously, that it was not
prudent to sign your books in the convict-
period—there is a pleasing coincidence,
or near-coincidence, in the fact that the
principal villain in the account which
Alexander Harris quotes of the trial of
some stockmen for a massacre of the
blacks is named Foley— not very far
from the principal villain of Ralph
Rashleigh, master Foxley.
But one must not saddle this piece of
fox-hunting upon Professor Clark, who
offers no conjectures as to the real
identity of Harris ; not even suggesting,
as would be plausible to those who know
their Dickens, that he was really the hus-
band of Sarah Gamp.
Professor Clark announces his mystery
in a nicely-printed edition of Settlers and
Convicts which has been newly published
by the Melbourne University Press. He
tabulates parts of the book which he
considers to be fiction: the story of the
consumptive prostitute; the flood in the
Port Stephens district; Harris’s literary
and amorous relations with a woman he
calls M ; the purchase of cattle from
Mrs. D ; the attempt to arrest the
author for cattle-duffing; his escape and
his adventures at the Shoalhaven; his
life as a storekeeper; and his account of
the failure of a new settler.
There is substance in the professor’s
refusal, in some of these instances, to
accept the word of the honest Emigrant
Mechanic, who presumably offered the
entire work as a factual history of his
adventures. For instance, research in
the Goulburn-Taralga-Crookwell dis-
tricts of N. S. Wales failed to discover
any tradition of an Alexander Harris or
even “of an early store.”
But here Professor Clark does enter
the field of conjecture; and although it
could probably never be established
whether or not Harris befriended a con-
sumptive prostitute whom he picked out
of a Sydney grog-shop (where the
respectable Mechanic had no business
to be), this reviewer does feel that the
cattle-duffing episode and the later arrest
of Harris for duffing have some ring of
truth in them—not quite as Harris tells
them but on the understanding that,
instead of always being the innocent
victim of circumstances, he dabbled in
duffing more earnestly than he is willing
to admit.
One must say, too, that while reading
the book there seems no particular rea-
son to doubt the genuineness of the night
he sat up a tree while the floodwaters of
some tributary of the Hunter swirled
round him in the darkness. Only on later
reflection does it seem possible that, as
Professor Clark submits, Harris was the
hero of rather too many adventures.
Still, those were adventurous times; the
writing is remarkably convincing ; people
do sit up trees in the floods of the
Hunter-—in fact it seems their favorite
occupation ; and if Harris invented the
episode he was an inventor—to use an
appropriate cliche—of the first water:
Ab®ut an hour after midnight I was
disturbed by R shaking me, and felt
on the instant of waking a most unjorgetable
sensation—l felt as if I were lying stretched
on a cold dungheap. Wide awake in a
moment, I could see by the light of a
small flame that was still playing about
an elevated part of the wood at the fire,
water in the hut and out of the hut.
Before I could take a second look, my
mate jumped over me and was in it nearly
knee-deep and wading out of the hut. No
sooner was he there than he put his head
in again, shouting, “Be alive, mate; it’s
coming down as hard as it can come; it’ll
be over our heads in half an hour”
B. , who was more used to such adven-
tures than I, had floated up to the hut a
very large plank of cedar, which, green as
it may be, always swims well; and on it
he placed the little live charcoal that
remained, freshening and feeding it with
some dry stuff from the roof of the hut.
Drawing our plank up to a tree we
got on it, sitting with the fire between
us; the current was so strong, even amongst
the thick brush where we were, that it was
all we could do together to hold on to a
sapling apiece and to keep our plank from
being swept away. Where we were no dead
timber of any size could be swept against
us; but we could hear it striking together,
and grinding and crashing in the river a
few yards off. The little light we had
dazzled our eyes so that the sky seemed a
vast dark void. The rats swam boldly up
and got on the plank with us, and numbers
of spiders and centipedes, guided no doubt
by the fire, were crawling in all directions
over both us and it. In this state we
continued at least three good hours; then
day began to dawn.
Creative imagination has, in Robinson
Crusoe for example, been able to envisage
adventure in intimate and authentic de-
tail like this ; but it is quite a rare feat;
and if Harris was merely romancing here
he showed singular forbearance in not
having his plank invaded by the shoals
of snakes which one would think would
inevitably float into a fictional melo-
drama of floodwaters.
However, all this is merely to con-
jecture about the professor’s conjec-
tures: the vital point for the general
reader is that Settlers and Convicts has
been reprinted in this most readable edi-
tion, and that it is decidedly worth
reading.
More rambling, more factual, more
a direct report on Australian con-
ditions than Ralph Rashleigh, it has
not the clear, swift, exciting move-
ment of the novel, yet it is an invaluable
supplement to it, and seems in many
respects, the author not being obliged
to pile-on the horror for the sake of
fictional drama, to give a truer picture
of the times.
There are still, to be sure, plenty of
floggings and other brutalities of the
convict-system; there is the court report
of a frightful massacre of the blacks when
the children, having nowhere else to go,
trotted of their own accord to death as
their parents, roped together, were
marched off to the slaughter; there is
pretty sordid debauchery in such Sydney
hostelries as the Black Dog and the
Sheer Hulk: but for years this reviewer
has remembered the book for one clear
patch of sunlight, so rare in ail convict-
day writings, where Australia is seen as
a land of beauty and fertility in which
both the ex-convict and the free immi-
grant could, as they did, rise to a pros-
perity such as they would never have
known in England;
When I reached the edge of the high
lands at Richmond... .whichever way I
looked I could see fields of the tall green
Indian corn (maize), with its tassel tops,
bending and waving under the fresh breeze
that was sweeping over it. Here again a
square of orchard loaded With splendid
peaches broke the uniformity of the sur-
face; there a piece of ground new-
ploughed or with the teams at work upon
it, and here a square of wheat-stubble on
which a boy tended a herd of pigs as they
picked up the scattered grain, still further
varied the prospect—and every few fields
apart some more or less simple edifice
marked the homestead... .There were
excellent figs, gooseberries, currants, lemons,
oranges, melons, peaches as large as a
good-sized breakfast-cup and of the most
exquisite flavor; potatoes, pumpkins as big
as a large bucket, cabbages, radishes,
onions, beans, pease; in short, everything
of the kind profusely produced and of the
most superior quality.
Adding to the fresh and verdant
quality of the book, again in contrast to
the bitterness of Rashleigh and the grim,
stony darkness of For the Term of His
Natural Life, there are Harris’s many
lovely descriptions of the coastal scenery
south from Sydney around the Shoal-
haven, where he begins his career as a
cedar-cutter and where subsequently he
retreats when in danger from his
dabblings in cattle-duffing. For an ex-
ample of his occasionally astonishing
sensitivity—something that is as hard to
associate with a simple Emigrant
Mechanic as with an Alexander Harris
who dealt in stolen cattle, boozed in low
pubs and repented in the usual terms of
nonconformist piety—one cannot resist
quoting his exquisite description of burn-
ing cedarwood;
The wood of the trees generally where
we were cutting was very flowery and
variegated, and the color very good: when
first cut, nothing could exceed the splendid
crimson of some of the planks. There is
a very fragrant scent from it, of which,
however, a person working among it soon
ceases to be sensible. Another singular and
beautiful peculiarity is the flame it yields
in burning. Laying on the fire of a night
sometimes a heavy outside slab in its green
state, I used to observe it, as it were, melt
gradually away in an almost imperceptible
flame of indescribably beautiful pink; the
flame itself looking more like mere light
than fire.
But to appreciate this- in its full flavor,
and to see how the green forests and the
author’s response to Nature enrich and
beautify the total effect of the book, one
needs to read the paragraph in its setting ;
to see the timber-cutters in their camp
in wild and superb settings such as this;
The spot where we had pitched our tent
was a small grassy forest on the hillside;
and everywhere around it, down below in
the endless ravines, and up above towards
the insurmountable heights of the range,
was thick tangled brush growing amid lofty
trees, so thick set that beneath them was
perpetual shadow, or rather something more
gloomy still. The ground was covered with
decaying leaves and old water-logged wind-
fall trees, so rotten that the foot could
break its way deep into the substance of
that gnarled wood which at one time would
have stopped a cannon-ball. Wherever
you went, creeks of crystal, ice-like water,
plunging down the mountainside, each in
its stony bed, kept up a murmur day and
night; never changing save when increased
by rains into the roar of a torrent. This
mountain, or more properly, heap of moun-
tains, ran down, where we were at work,
nearly into the sea, and for many miles
every way the character of the vegetation
was as I have described.
The book would be worth reading for
its descriptive and documentary interest
alone ; but, though one must say if is
necessarily less gripping in drama than
Ralph Rashleigh, it has in fact many of
the qualities of a novel ; at any rate of
a set of long short-stories, linked by com-
mentary on Australian conditions.
There is the picaresque interest of
Harris’s wanderings from job to job and
place to place, as he varies from timber-
cutting to cattle-dealing and store-keep-
ing ; there are fascinating interludes, such
as his story of the newchum cattleman
who went broke, or the account of the
massacres of the blacks; and the long
cattle-duffing episode—his secret journey
across the mountains to buy the herd of
a man threatened with arrest for duffing ;
his travels with the cattle to his hide-out;
his own subsequent arrest on a cattle-
stealing charge and his flight into the bush
—makes in effect a complete short novel,
and an enthralling one, within the con-
fines of the travelogue.
All in all, whether as fiction or fact or
a mixture of both, Settlers and Convicts
must be ranked as one of the basic books
of Australian literature, the kind of semi-
classic which everyone will want to read
and which should always be kept in
print; and Professor Clark and the Mel-
bourne University Press have done a
genuine service to the nation in bringing
out this fine edition. Mr. Harris, who-
ever he was, should be delighted with it
—D. S.
SEAWEED
There is the brown dress, tattered, in
shreds,
Of the ocean’s mermaid-flats, of paddocks
under
That vast drifting heaven of water, wave-
flash, and thunder. ■> v
In pockets, still, a red string of berries
bleeds.
And little trinkets of fish unnaturally silver.
Kick at that sodden mass, and turn it over.
Just like a drowned dress', ruined stook of
clover.
Or some shabbiness brought here by
death: this elver-
Refuge from the hungry sea! Do not doubt
me.
It is death s own gown, thrown down by
storm
And anticlimax, the ugly revolt of the sea.
Thrust in a foot and feel it yet body-warm.
It is not long torn asunder; search it with
care:
You might kick it some day to find a body
there.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
South Sea Bubbles
In The South Seas in Transition,
Study of Post-war Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction in Three British Pacific
Dependencies (Australasian Publishing
Co.), W. E. H. Stanner, Reader in Com-
parative Social Institutions at the Aus-
tralian National University, devotes about
170 pages to Australian administration
of New Guinea, about 100 pages each to
British administration of Fiji and New
Zealand administration of Samoa, anc
about 70 pages to conclusions.
Dry and terse, with a terrifying com-
mand of dialects only to be found in
the dark forests of Anthropology, Mr.
Stanner begins each study with a geo-
graphical and historical account of the
regions, and then concentrates upon their
post-war administration. From be-
ginning to end, Mr. Stanner shows us
Western man struggling with his con-
science over a problem which is at once
insoluble and non-existent. For of the
New Guinea tribes, and the Fijians, it
could be said, as it was said of the
Samoans,
The cesthctic fields, the decorative arts,
dancing and religion offer no possibility
for striking individualists, eccentrics or
exhibitionists to arise, and personal life
provides no traumatic situations to force
them forward There is no morbid
microscopy into subjective motive. In these
fields “people” are just not agonised about
themselves. The attitudes to make them
so are absent. Where no attitudes exist,
no institutions evidently arise We are
simply looking at a social life into which
no processes carry “the germs of destruc-
tive rivalry, disparagement, suspicion,
begrudging envy.”
They are happy in spite of being, or
because they are, uncivilised. They have
learned how to put money in savings-
banks ; but even the Fijians cannot be
made to accumulate property, or think
in terms of capital to be saved and
used. They can all cultivate small plots
for family or tribal use, but it is still
hard to persuade any of them to grow
surpluses for market. Nevertheless, for
their own purposes, they live continu-
ally in a land of plenty. At the same
time, the best opinion is that the future
of the Fiji islands under civilisation will
be restricted to agriculture, and in Mr.
Stunner’s opinion much too rosy a
picture has been painted of the develop-
mental possibilities of New Guinea,
which, he says, is a pretty poor place.
Thus, for the islanders themselves, if
left to themselves, there is no problem ;
and for Europeans to justify interference
with them completely enough to satisfy
the morbid European logic is mere word-
spinning of the kind that prevents people
hearing what they think. We are there
because of past acquisitions and usages
which have grown into responsibilities;
and we are in New Guinea because of
strategic necessity. We have to start
from there. :
Mr. Stanner has high praise for
Angau, which took over the abandoned
New Guinea administrations in the name
of the Army, and built up a labor-force
from 38 in January, 1942, to well over
30.000 in 1944 and 1945, some to work
with the Army, others to work on planta-
tions, especially rubber-plantations.
Angau’s recruiting disorganised village
life by stripping villages of their able-
bodied men. Then, “46 laborers are
known to have been killed by enemy fire,
91 were wounded, and 2Q24 died from
various causes.” At the same time,
Angau gave 250,000 native hospital-
patients, 300,000 native out-patients, and
100.000 native patients of 1000 medical
patrols treatment worth £300,000. (Post-
war compensation amounted to more
than £3 million.)
The Australian Government’s feeling
of indebtedness to “the Fuzzy-wuzzies”
might have been interpreted with more
(“Red Page ” continued on page 351
SIR LIONEL
He dreams of crunching muscatels,
As once he did with Quixote,
—in other dreams—and radiant
wine,
With Sancho, there, to fix it.
Then wakes; and, hoisting every sail,
’Bouts ship to deep sleep chanteys,
And,
In forty fathom winks, returns
1 o Miguel de Cervantes.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.


m
m
. :■ 'n
■
pm.}
i
J
ji-
*
j‘
V }
:
17 ;
afe)
v^sj
/
:?
\
X
\
7^l
\ Am
A
.
/i
For craftsmanship that will endure . . •
leather that will withstand the toughest of wear . .
size that is scientifically graded to fit your foot.
Famous names in men s footwear...
iiiiilii
iii
m*
m
mmmm
Hi
m
HIIIIIHtti
HtHM
in
jgj
m
11
/' - v v
HMHHHI
Sift
IlSilSlt
i*
Abdue left.
These “Dr. Purcell” shoes are fitted with a special arch
support and cushion heels. In black calf and tan
willow, in medium or extra wide fittings. Calf, 73/-
Black glace kid, with or without the cap. Kid, 76/-
Above centre.
Black glace kid clerical shoes have elastic sides, leather
half sizes. These are priced at 81/- 8 P air '
Above right.
“I h. Sharwood” shoes, with or without toecaps.
Full and half sizes, in narrow, medium, wide and
extra wide fittings. In black calf, and tan willow.
79/_ a pair. In black glace kid, 83/- a P air>
I As
Hi in filfi
6
r.fl Ji
H I
No
'll I
Above left.
“Dr. Purcell” no cap box derby boots have arch
supports and cushion heels. Tan calf and black box,,
full and half sizes, are priced at 79/- a pair.
Above right.
Marshall, the custom-built shoe with a shape to fit
every foot. Black “and Tan Zebu with a full golosh.
£5/15/6- Also Bhmk Calf and Tan Willow
Oxford style 73/3- Glace Kid 76/6-
At right.
Working boots with reversed hide uppers and corded
rubber soles and heels. 5 to 11. 47/6 a P air -
Also in Black Hide.
/ JBHr a ..MM- j
C-4k« 1
// -
* k. £ •
iMari
■■..■*■ V;; .. . "L■. -V*
IP JE
& j,i,
S?». *» 5 /'
#
Wm
gr«rf
SBBS
'
BBS
MEN’S SHOES —GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE
M 2401. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


Important to Know Him
SATAKE, THE PEASANT
By STEPHEN KELEN
TAMOTSU SATAKE SAN is
Japanese peasant. With the help o:
his wife and three daughters he
cultivates his tiny paddy-field from
dawn till dusk, knee-high in mud
pestered by the weather, mosquitoes anc
flies. j
On the surface he means little to the
world, and he has only a secondary im-
portance in Nippon’s social structure.
But dig deeper and you will find Satake
the history-maker.
The Satakes of Japan (there are more
than seven million peasant families —
making up almost half the population)
are the potential force that enabled
Nippon to build her modern industries
and wage a tremendous onslaught in the
Pacific.
Today it depends to a very great extent
on Satake, and the other millions of
rural toilers, whether Japan retrogresses
to , her old feudalistic ways, or becomes
a Communist State or a bastion of
democracy. If Satake had his choice,
even now he would probably return to
the “ways of old,” because he is a
through - and - through traditionalist.
Despite a past which would have made
any other people revolt, the Satake sans
look at their Emperor as the embodi-
ment of “benevolent divinity.” They love
the Tenno with filial piety, more than
the earth, which is life itself to them, or
their family—bad third in the grades of
their affections.
It is another Japanese puzzle just why
Satake san so sincerely desires the restora-
tion of the old form of living, which only
brought humiliation an 4 untold hardship
to him and his family. No peasant on
the earth’s surface works so hard or has
lived in more abject misery.
In the times of the Tokugawa
Shogunate, in some fiefs the peasants had
to give 80 per cent, of their crops in
taxes and other dues—half of that was
the absolute minimum. In their dire
poverty they dared to revolt against their
rulers—in the two and a half centuries
of the Shogunate’s rule there were more
than a thousand uprisings. The peasant
did not protest- against the traditional
percentages, but against the rest that was
taken from him. He practised a strict
birth-control called “one-ly” (one child
only), and the population remained static
through the centuries.
The peasants drew-up formal protests,
which were delivered to the Shogun in
Edo, or to some of his high officials. A
judgment was given, more often than
not in the serfs’ favor, but the leaders
were executed, because they had trans-
gressed “their place in society.” They
were boiled in oil, crucified ; but they
accepted their fate stoically. The others,
who benefited by their leaders’ heroism,
built shrines and other memorials as
gestures of appreciation, but thought the
execution a proper measure taken by the
authorities.
Under Tokugawa rule Satake san’s
ancestors owned the land they cultivated.
The strict laws of a rigid hierarchy stipu-
lated that they could not sell, nor could
anyone take away the property. The land
belonged to the Satakes, but of what they
produced they were allowed to keep only
the bare necessities.
The first glimmer of prosperity came
to Satake san’s caste at the time of the
Meiji Restoration, when Japan was in
an upheaval and inflation swept the
country. Food-prices skyrocketed, the
strict laws of the hierarchy loosened their
formidable grip, city folks came to the
country, offering exorbitant prices, ex-
plaining to the “ignorant” peasant that
“food can be sold direct to the public
without informing the masters of the
fief.”
To Takao Satake, Tamotsu’s great-
grandfather. these were amazing times.
He saw the samurai relinquish his power
—the two-sworded men lost all their
arrogance ; they even came to him and
begged food for their „ starving families.
Takao Satake was able to taste pros-
perity at long last.
A common impression is that the
Meiji Restoration opened Japan to the
Western world, but actually it was the
Shogunate which ordered trading with
foreigners in the country. The daimyos
and high officials obeyed the Shogunate’s
policy, but the lower rank of retainers
and bureaucrats, who lived on small,
fixed stipends, faced extreme poverty and
saw themselves being thrown down to the
level of the peasant-class. With the help
of the peasants they created a political
crisis, which resulted in the swift down-
fall of the Shogunate. Yoshunobu
Tokugawa relinquished his power and
the Emperor Meiji took over in Tokyo.
Takao Satake was jubilant. The Tenno,
he thought, would drive the evil Westerns
from the sacred soil of Nippon, as the
samurai had told him. He was amazed
to find that Emperor Meiji did nothing
of the sort; in fact, allowed more
foreigners to come in, and sent his own
officials to collect the rice-tax. Soon the
Satakes found themselves in the same
predicament as before, but with one
difference—they could now sell their land,
or mortgage it. This “freedom” spelt
complete disaster.
By the time Tamotsu Satake took
over, the family was hopelessly in debt,
and there was nothing left but to sell their
plot of land. He was, however, allowed
to remain and cultivate the paddy-field
on a share-basis. But after the absent
landowner’s due was taken from his crop
and. he had paid his taxes there was not
much more than a measly 20 per cent,
left for him and his family to see the
year through.
The Tenno brought but little improve-
ment to the Satakes, save for electricity,
radio and mechanised transportation,
which were accepted as gifts from the
gods and immediately deified. The
divine spirits of the “electric globe,” the
“intelligent air-sound-box,” and so on,
were all added to the Japanese pantheon.
So was the idea that eventually Nippon
must rule the world, and this to the
Satakes did not merely mean that the
Tenno must fulfil his destiny and preside
over all nations in benevolent despotism,
but it represented a hope for a better life.
No man can live without hope. As
desperation deepens unfortunates will
cling more and more to any remote idea
of salvation. Nippon’s military masters
knew that well enough, and established
an Army based on the country’s
peasantry. In pre-Meiji times any pea-
sant bearing arms would have been be-
headed ; now he was supplied with
modern weapons, drilled and promised
the world.
“When the Tenno wins his ultimate
victory,” the propagandist hammered into
the peasants’ heads, “your troubles will
be over. There will be plenty of land.
Other, inferior people in the West will
do the work for you. You’ll be able to
go and emigrate to America, Australia,
Africa, New Zealand —to places where
hardly anyone lives.”
Whilst the Satakes liked the idea of
forthcoming prosperity, to leave their
land was a different matter. Japan’s
schemes of emigration to Manchuria,
Formosa and Korea failed miserably. At
first the Government tried to induce the
peasants to go voluntarily, but they loved
their land, the festivals, the surround-
ings that any other people would have
gladly left behind, and they stayed put.
Forced emigration was introduced, with
the result that thousands of Japanese
tried to paddle back to their island homes.
Yet they willingly supplied sons to go
overseas in the armies and daughters to
work in the big cities,
The Satakes’ life of contradictions,
however, did not stop here. They were
now breeding faster than any other nation
on earth (because the Tenno needed
“soldier sons” and “working daughters”),
and, at the same time, they were selling
and killing-off their children because of
their complete inability to keep them,
An additional mouth to feed often
meant starvation for the whole family,
Daughters were welcomed, because
agents bought baby girls for the red-light
districts, but a boy, till he grew big enough
to work, had no value at all.
Soon after the Imperial order of
“multiply at all cost” was introduced in
the place of “one-ly,” a new and bar-
barous custom, the “Mabiki,” was
adopted by the rural population.
“Mabiki” means “thinning-out” (the word
was originally used for weeding-out the
fields). In most cases parents did not
have the courage or heart to kill their
children, so they called in the “brokers,”
who bought their daughters, paid a small
sum for the “service,” and the slave-
trader took the others away and put
them to a painless death. Thus birth-
control was replaced by infanticide on
a scale unparalleled in history.
Satake san lost three of his sons in
that gruesome manner. A fourth son
escaped infanticide, only to be killed in
the Pacific war. This was a terrible blow
to the family, because it meant that there
would be no male descendant to worship
the ancestors —a most important religious
thesis for all Japanese, be their creed
Shintoism, Buddhism or even Christianity.
Soldier Tanzan Satake, an officer in
the Nipponese Army, was the hope of the
family, highly esteemed by all the vil-
lagers ; Satake san basked in the reflected
glory of his “excellent son.”
“But,” he consoled his wife, “to die
for the Tenno is a greater honor than to
live for him.”
First-Lieutenant Tanzan Satake, were
it not for his premature death and the
loss of the war, would probably have
made an splendid career in the Army, the
only place where peasants had an oppor-
tunity of advance to the highest ranks.
The Army was their only hope for a
better future.
That’s why the surrender and the dis-
banding of the Army were considered by
Satake san another personal calamity.
He grinned and bowed, took off his cap
when the' conquerors appeared—and
hated them with all his heart.
But soon he found that there was no
reason to hate the intruders. Instead of
the brutality and vandalism he fully ex-
pected, they introduced land-reforms and,
paradoxically enough, the blessings of a
new inflation, more gigantic and over-
whelming than that during the Meiji
Restoration.
Now Satake san was able to sell his
produce at fantastic prices, pay Nishio
san, the moneylenders’ agent, the heavy
dues, and free himself from the usurious
rates that chained him to abject poverty.
The land-reforms enabled him to re-
acquire the field he had had to sell to an
absentee landlord. Once again city folks
flocked to the countryside, offering not
only money but kimonos, Western attire,
pianos and many other commodities in
exchange for food.
The Occupation not only made a land-
owner out of Tamotsu Satake; it also
gave him a new standing in Japan’s
social strata. Politicians now cajoled
him ; his vote became a decisive factor.
But such political freedom did not make
Satake san happy. His pride and joy of
being able to join the Farmers’ Union’s
local chapter without fear of the thought-
police sending him to the Hokkaido coal-
mines soon turned into alarm and con-
fusion. Much to his horror, one night
the local Communist raised the question
of whether the Tenno ought to be
retained!
In the last year of the Occupation
inflation started to peter out, and today
food-prices are back to near-normal. The
blackmarket that helped Tamotsu Satake
san to regain his forefathers’ land and
develop a taste for Occidental luxuries
has ceased to exist. The rice crop was
not so good this year, and Satake san
already sees some financial difficulties
approaching, although the taxes are lower
now and he does not have to pay high
rates of interest, nor is he forced to give
half of the products to the landowner.
But Nishio san has already called on him,
saying that any time Satake san is in
need of cash ihe will be “honored” to
oblige.
Satake san produced a melancholy
grin. He was not contemplating borrow-
ing money to buy agricultural equipment
to mechanise his “farm”—the ox he had
was all the help he needed. What he was
thinking was that a couple of lean years
would see him selling the beast at a much
lower price than he paid for it, and
he would then have to approach Nishio
san for a modest mortgage on his land.
If only he had a son he could offer for
the Emperor’s newly-formed Army!...
Tamotsu Satake san, the eternal
Japanese peasant —for whom bad times,
are good, and who when things settle
down is once more enmeshed in the
vicious circle of circumstances caused
mostly by his own inability to act as a
free, thinking man —faces the future with
great misgivings.
Alas, “de-mokrasie! ”
Short Story
“Pride and Property”
by John Fountain
How a little farmer defies the
sleepy-eyed, heavyweight, unscrupu-
lous scion of a grazing family, and
of the stratagem taken by the big
man, unwilling to use force on a
smaller adversary, to get even with
the little man—a study of Australian
types by an acknowledged expert.
INTO BATTLE (via PARLIAMENT)
By BILLJIM POILU (Burma)
IT happened in early 1917. I had
just arrived in Melbourne from
Malaya, bringing with me a direct
descendant of Rob Roy who liked a
bit of fun and bobze just as much as
his rorty old ancestor did.
Doing the Block, we met Syd, a colonel
cobber of mine, who demanded that I
should square a certain bet by shouting
lunch at the old Savoy. Both grub and
liquid garnishing pleased the three of
us, and in a very contented frame of
mind we continued the liquid part of it
up Bourke-street.
Much later, up at the Spring-street
end, we asked Syd, “What now?” Syd
thought deeply, then said; “We’ll go
and listen to the speeches in Parliament.”
The Federal House was, of course, still
in action there.
We were just in time to hear a violent
attack on conscription. Watty and I
told Syd how very disgusted and shocked
we were to hear such unpatriotic senti-
ments —blurp. Syd said; “Be like Presi-
dent Wilson; write him a Note.” A
note was written on the back of a blank
cheque and it read something like this:
“We are two young men from the Malay
States, here on a holiday, but listening
to such an unpatriotic speech we have
decided to enlist at once.”
An attendant had been standing near
us from the time we entered, so he was
asked to deliver the note to Senator
Pearce, who read it and, with a delighted
grin, handed it to another Senator. A
whispered conference between them, and
they sat back till the ranting ended.
Then the other Senator got up to
reply. He referred to the ranter in
grateful terms as a man who, in his
heart of hearts, strongly supported the
Government’s measure for conscription,
although posing otherwise, like Daniel
Defoe, who, whilst secretly sympathising
with a certain sect, publicly advocated
most extreme persecution of its members,
knowing that such action would turn
public opinion in favor of the persecuted
ones.
“And so our honorable friend and
helper is one of our best recruiting
agents.” (Shouts of laughter from the
House.) “I can prove it,” he added, and
-read out our note,
After the House had quietened down,
we received a cordial invitation “down-
stairs,” where it was seen to that we did
not die of thirst in the House. Finally,
we emerged into Spring-street, had one
(or two) for the road, and Watty and
I remembered nothing more until next
morning when we tried, without success.
to reconstruct the happenings of the
previous afternoon. It was a complete
blackout, but we did decide that (a) we
were very ill; ( b ) the temptations of a
city were too much for two Malayan
jungle-wallahs; therefore we would leave
for the country immediately,
We went to Healesville, where we
spent three pleasant and restful weeks,
Very soon after our return to Mel-
bourne, we again ran into Syd, who.
instead of greeting us in a kindly manner,
said, “Here, where the hell have you
two been? We’ve been searching every-
where for you. They’ve been asking
every day in Parliament whether the
young men from Malaya have enlisted
or not, and hinting that it was a put-up
job.”
He then bundled us into a taxi—
ignoring our excuses that we were not
dressed for enlisting—and took us to St,
Kilda-road Barracks, where they had us
sign various documents and we were told,
grimly, “Now you’re in.”
The next day in the Senate, when
the usual question was asked, the answer
was in the affirmative.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 17, 1953
Vol. 74—No, 3827
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne .
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington
KOREA AND THE WORLD
The South Koreans are in a state of open resentment
against the armistice terms to which the U.N.O. Allies
are now prepared to agree. They know that .the
country cannot live divided by the 38th Parallel
because of economic factors. The South Koreans
are insistent that the objectives for which the war was
fought—self-determination—should be realised in the
original terms, with no division of the country.
If they are a little hysterical they cannot be
blamed, for never was a country so devastated as
theirs, never such a proportion of wrecked homes,
starvation and ruin in history this side of the Thirty
Years War. And they have little trust in the power of
what the New York “Daily News” calls “the super-
colossally goofy United Nations” to produce unity of
North and South by subsequent negotiation. They
know that no negotiation about Korea will end satis-
factorily or conclusively for Moscow and Peking which
does not turn the peninsula into Communist soil.
They know also, on the basis of an experience which
goes back to Yalta, that Russia has never, by itself
or through its satellites, felt it necessary to keep an
agreement or treaty unless wholly to its own advantage.
There was not a single arrangement made in the Far
East on the surrender of Japan which the U.S.S.R. did
not break, not an ally that it did not betray, not an
asset placed in its custody that it did not steal to be
used against its former allies, this including a large
section of Japanese manpower that it was pledged
to release.
These facts are the core of local realism in Korea ;
but apparently the realism of General Eisenhower and
of Sir Winston Churchill and the British Common-
wealth Prime Ministers is of a broader order. Korea
is, after all, merely a corner of a world-wide, if mostly
dormant, war, not a complete war in itself. It is
absorbing material, manpower, industrial resources and
lives out of all proportion to its importance in the
general scheme.
General Ridgway, new U.S. Chief-of-Staff, has
warned the Western nations against any slackening of
their defence effort. He says he knows of no facts
leading to the conclusion that the military danger
from Russia and its allies is lessening; that
the forces under arms of Russia’s satellite nations
in Eastern Europe have increased from 1,000,000 to
1,300,000 in the past year; that these do not include
the so-called armed police of East Germany; that the
“highly mechanised group of Soviet armies stationed
in East Germany,” which would hold the initiative in
attack, are “being kept at a high level of training, its
equipment increased and its vehicles modernised,” He
declares that the Russians have superiority in the air,
and are embarked on a huge programme of airfield-
construction along the confines of the West, apart from
a gigantic naval building programme. And he closes
grimly by saying that, though N.A.T.O. members
already have sufficient strength to “deny unopposed
conquest to the Soviets,” they “could not seriously
expect to hold a predetermined line against a full-scale
offensive.”
In these circumstances the British-American
leaders have to consider carefully what should
have priority. The United Kingdom’s net
sterling expenditure on defence this year will be just
on £l5OO million, apart from certain civilian votes,
and it is obliged to keep 866,000 men in the forces, the
flower of its young working manhood serving during
the years which normally would establish most of them
in civil life. Every country in Europe is in a com-
parable position. British Empire costs are a mere
circumstance beside those of the United States.
The overall programme of the British Common-
wealth Prime Ministers who have been meeting in
London, in common with that of President Eisenhower,
seems to be to clear up all matters, including the
Korean war and the question of the recognition of Red
China (of which most of the Prime Ministers were in
favor), as a preliminary to an attempt to secure agree-
ment by which the world may demobilise. President
Eisenhower’s views are not so clearly apparent as those
of the British leaders, possibly because he has to deal
with a more political country; also, which has greater
problems associated with demobilisation in view of the
immense sections of industry there which are booming
on the work provided by defence needs.
Almost any effort which gives the faintest promise
of results is worth while, even if it involves temporary
INCONVERTIBILITY
“It’s still pretty tacky, Bob. What we want is more fuel on the fire.”
local retreats in policy and apparent shocks to the
pride of the United Nations Organisation That body
should by this time be mured to humiliation, the y
ingredient of its existence which remains constant
Korea must be left to the future while the fate of
the world as a whole is safeguarded. Actually the
Koreans have never been a properly free people. The
country was a subject State of China until 1876. It
became a de facto Japanese protectorate after 1905,
and was annexed by treaty to Japan in 1910. It was
divided for military convenience in 1945, and was.
g i ven an Allied pledge of independence in five years,
fiut unt -j the south Korean Assembly drafted one it
had n r had c onst j tut i on j n ro ughly 4000 years of
fai
Senate Reform
In effect both sides won the half-Senate election.
“Labor” got a majority of votes and won a majority of
States, but the Government, in winning Queensland,
held its majority in the Senate, though only just. As it
was realised from the beginning that Queensland was
the vital State and both sides threw everything they had
into that battleground, the Government has good
reason to congratulate itself, particularly as the luck
of the draw went against it and the Liberal-Country-
party vote was split by the entry of the Democrats
into the field.
“Labor’s” Commonwealth majority was 294,030,
and although to this total would have to added the
Communist votes (greatly inflated by their drawing
first position on the ballot-paper in New South Wales
and Victoria) and those of Morrow’s Tasmanian-
Labor group, it was not of such proportions to
encourage the belief that “Labor” is booked for a
landslide victory in the Reps election next year. Nor
did it approach the aggregate majorities recorded by
“Labor” at State elections during the preceding six
months. Translated into terms of seats in the Lower
House, the Senate vote could have won “Labor” 11
seats and lost it one (Flinders, in which the Govern-
ment vote improved sufficiently to convert a deficit of
4000 at last year’s by-election into a majority of
1000); this would have given “Labor” a majority of
five.
But Senate voting is only a very rough guide to
how things would go at an election for the House of
Representatives, where local issues and the personal
following of the candidates determine the result in
borderline seats. It is, however, clear that the Gov-
ernment vote has improved considerably since the
Flinders and Werriwa by-elections.
Evatt’s calamity-crying was successful as a short-
term policy, but its effectiveness is wearing thin as the
months go by and unemployment falls, instead of
snowballing, as he and his henchmen have predicted.
Similarly, as the cost of living and the basic wage
approach stability, it is becoming evident that the
Government’s much-criticised financial measures are
having the effect intended. With a surplus of £2O
million in prospect for 1952-53, it is now taken as a fore-
gone conclusion that the 1953-54 Budget will show sub-
stantial tax-cuts. It was “Labor’s” intention, had it
gained control of the Senate, to urge reduced taxation
so that it could claim credit for cuts which it knew
were almost inevitable, •ne Opposition is now deprived
of;*is *dva«age ™UcTwill be
hollow What nolitical eain there may be
? b ™ U 5 u acirif to GorerSnent.
. , ,
But the Senate election still leaves uns
problem of the future of the Senate. The Government
holds that House by the narrowest possible majonty-
-31-29. The death of a Government Senator from a
“Labor”-governed State could easily create a deadlock,
as there is no guarantee that in the present political
atmosphere the custom of appointing a man of the
same party as the deceased Senator would be observed,
in any case, the appointed successor would have to
£ electors at the time of the R electi on, with
the same result possible. Leaving death out of the
reckoning, and also the strain that must always be upon
members in a House so evenly divided-where sudden
sickness or accident could at any time mean the defeat
of the Government—the Senate position still leaves
much to be desired
mucn ™ comnosition of the Senate after June 30
Tte composition of the Senate
will oe. Due to retire Due to retire
in 1956 jn 1959 .
Goyt Senators .... 18 13
« Labor „ senators .... 12 17
From this it will be seen that at the next Senate
election the Government would have to win all six
States to retain control of the Semite. This is some-
thing that has never been done. The prospect then is
Brat if “Labor” wins-next-year!selectionfori
Representatives, it will have a hostile Set at ®
two years. If the rd viar Xd
certainly have a hostile Senate for its third I ye:ar an ,
if ll wins the subsequent Reps
Y ea^ s after that. How such a condition can hamstring
a Government ana stultify its efforts to carry out its
legislative programme was seen during the first 18
months of the Menzies-Fadden Government.
Various suggestions have been, made for avoiding
deadlocks or for overcoming them should they occur
In the second category is the proposal that m cases of
a tie in Senate voting the motion should be decided
m the affirmative, instead of in the negative as at
present. This would not solve the problem of dead-
locks between the two Houses. To deal with that diffi-
culty a “Labor” committee has proposed that it could
best be overcome by a joint vote of the two Houses
sitting as one. Both these suggestions would require
amendment of the Constitution; other reformers have
looked for solutions within the power of Parliament
itself. Some argue that as proportional-representation
is responsible for the evenness of parties, its abolition
is the answer.
If this means a return to the old system under
which a bare majority of votes gave a party all the
Senate seats in a State it is not likely to be adopted
There was one Parliament in which there were only
three Opposition Senators out of 36 ; another in which
there was only one. The Prime Minister has hinted
that Cabinet has discussed changing the method of
election by splitting the States into Senate divisions,
This seems to be an idea of decided possibilities. It
would enable the scrapping of proportional-representa-
tion (so-called) and would bring the Senate closer to
the people. At the present time it could hardly be more
remote.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Calwell for Dictatorship
That useful device, “the agenda com-
mittee,” which decides what shall be
debated among the teeming mass of reso-
lutions put forward, saved the N, S.
Wales A.L.P. annual conference from
much chaos. It decided, for instance,
that other matters should have priority
in debate over the question of the
abolition of the Upper House in the N. S.
Wales State Parliament because it had
been debated at a previous conference;
but, as it was, there was nearly a riot
over it. It succeeded in keeping the
debate on the industrial-groups under
control. And it managed generally to
steer the discussion into channels and to
restrict it safely so that it was 70 per
cent, soothing-syrup and concerned itself
with the extortion it proposes to exact
from the Cahill Government and any
Federal “Labor” Government which may
attain power.
Messrs. Heffron and Calwell were
allowed to exercise their selling-power
on the delegates. The former promised
compulsory unionism at an early date.
The conference was encouraged by this
to pass resolutions calling for further
long-service leave benefits, pensions for
those qualified who cannot get work
through official bureaux, at 60 for men
and 55 for women, widening of industrial-
court powers, free entrance of trade-
union representatives to all premises
where men were employed, completely
free medical benefits, and a host of other
small matters, in the aggregate of con-
siderable extent, all advancing the class-
war and the socialisation plans which
Dr, Evatt says are dead.
Mr. Cal well’s contribution was typical
and revealing and, of course, the anti-
thesis of most of the theory propounded
by his leader at the recent Federal Senate
elections. He gave a fanciful account
of the use of Treasury bills by the Com-
monwealth Government—one which
might have been written by a Moscow
economist—and, oblivious of the fact that
this is the kind of financing which his
own financial leaders advocate, con-
demned the Government roundly for it.
He promised that when “Labor” returned
to power it would get money easily ;
If th© Chifley Government was able to
get money for 35 or 31 per cent., the next
Gabor Government must strive to do the
same.
It will strive in vain unless it resorts to
confiscation.
Mr. Calwell then, after modestly claim-
ing that “everything which had happened
in the Commonwealth for the country’s
advancement and the people’s welfare
since the formation of the Labor party
had been brought about by Labor,”
turned to Communism, but brushed it
aside as a secondary consideration. It
appears that we have “got something
fundamental to fight—monopoly capi-
talism—of which Communism is the by-
product.”
( He looks forward to the stage when
“Labor,” “the only truly Australian
party,” might “even live to see the day
when we evolve a one-party State in
Australia.”
Mr. Calwell at least has a merit which
most other “Labor” leaders of the Evatt
type have not got. He is perfectly frank
about his and his party’s ideals, for the
expression of which he was loudly
cheered. A “one-party State” means a
dictatorship. His aim and Dr. Evatt’s,
too, as anybody who studies his Fourteen
Points Plan of 1944 can satisfy himself
in the light of after-events, is like those
of Lenin and Hitler—a nice, cosy, per-
manent dictatorship.
After the Coronation
From London!
A monarchy that harbored, in the minds of
the people, the slightest suspicion of insincerity,
selfishness or high living would decidedly not
have overcome a most ill-favored Coronation
Day with the simple and natural triumph that
attended our young Queen and her husband.
For once, “Royal” weather took a demon’s
holiday. The wind veered to the far northward,
became icy, and teemed drenching sleet upon
the waiting crowds. What might have seemed
a bad omen or, at the very least, a dampener
of spirits, never so much as provoked a
disquieting murmur. The stoicism that sustained
the pavement-squatters through a cold and
bitter night and, again, from dawn to after-
noon, is no light tribute, even for a Queen as
fit and popular as Elizabeth.
Neyer before has the sense of communion
permeated into the home. The main objection to
the telecasting, before the Government gave way
to popular demand, was that the ceremony of
Coronation was at once personal and sacred,
not for the passing inquisitiveness of the
multitude. It yet remained personal and sacred.
An impact of another kind (and even the
most ardent traditionalist cannot, in all honesty,
deny it) is the incongruity of the feudalism.
“Manchester Guardian,” for instance, com-
ments : “The service itself is a collection of
fossils from history.” It seemed, to the layman,
so odd that the Queen’s Ministers should have
no part in the ceremony. The new concept of
Commonwealth over which the Queen rules
severally and not collectively serves only to
underline the archaism.
The Court of today, so far as it exists at all,
is vastly different from that of King Arthur.
With due respect to ancient custom, one im-
pression was inescapable: a sense of the wider
sovereignty of so essentially a British Queen
was sacrificed to an English medievalism which,
however colorful, has scarcely any bearing upon
her true function.
We’ve all enjoyed our short holiday, including
those whose voluntary exposure has brought
°n that troublesome intruder, the summer cold.
But the question now is: What Is there to
rejoice about after the due and rightful Corona-
tion celebrations are over? A responsible sec-
tion of the British Press, after letting itself go
with superlatives, tributes, encomiums and
supplements, seems to be experiencing a degree
of soul-searching by way of reaction. This may
be summed up concisely thus: “The Queen
will assuredly carry out her exacting duties.
But will the people carry out theirs?”
“The Times” has never thundered more
vehemently than in its leader of the morning
after the Coronation. “The British people have
had a holiday from reality long enough....
A new Elizabethan age’ is in danger of becom-
ing an incantation, a magician’s ‘hey presto!’
Britain’s economy sways on a knife-edge.
... .The British are a good people grown
careless.,. .Each one looks to someone else.”
If the admonitions are rather overpointed the
plain truth stands out so prominently that every
good Briton must reluctantly nod his assent
after the initial shock. The people, it is true,
are not themselves to blame except insofar as
every man is master of his own fate. As “The
Times” points out, two wars and their con-
sequences have drained life, work and money;
the maintenance of a high standard of living
naturally is desirable, and neither political party
dare face the facts squarely for fear of the
other’s seizing a narrow political advantage.
Yet all is not gloomy reprimand. “The
prospect [i.e., of Britain regaining her place
in the world by present exertions], viewed
sensibly, is an exhilarating one.” And the
remedy? According to the “Times”: “Christian
values re-established, morals reasserted, con-
scientiousness revived, energy renewed and
national unity restored.”
A Barbarous Divorce Law
“D.E.”; Before going abroad, the Prime
Minister reiterated his refusal (expressed
last year in a letter to myself, an
acquaintance) to introduce a uniform
divorce law that would, among other
things, overcome the barbarity of refus-
ing divorce to the sane partners of
married lunatics in N. S. Wales.
There are, roughly, 5000 married
persons in N.S.W. hospitals for the in-
sane, of which institutions—chronically
overcrowded as they nearly all are—the
less said the better. Two-thirds of these
unfortunates are females. Many of their
husbands, wearying of their ghastly lot,
and in some cases doubtless afraid that
it might send them off their own heads,
form other connections. This is hard
on the new mates, for, in such cases
especially, women can be awfully cruel
to women; and hard on the children
born out of wedlock, who can never be
legitimised while McGirrs and Cahills
run N. S, Wales. Marriage and
legitimacy may be secured by migration
to other States and compliance with the
qualifying period of residence required
under their divorce laws ; but parties who
would avail themselves of this escape from
iniquity if they could may not command
the necessary money and time. Then
awkward legal questions might conceiv-
ably arise if they returned to N. S. Wales,
A. G. Stephens once wrote in The
Bulletin (the thing is quoted by Douglas
Stewart in his admirable collection of
essays The Flesh and the Spirit) that “a
community that endures a contemptible
law is itself contemptible.” Assuredly
the law which forbids divorce and re-
marriage to the husbands and wives of
hopelessly insane persons is contemp-
tible; but no movement for reform can
be expected of a community given over
to gambling (as “S. M. Herald” has been
demonstrating in articles, while continu-
ing to make racing its principal feature)
or the “Labor” Administration which
feeds the craze. For relief the victims
of State savagery can look only to the
Government at Canberra. Why won’t
it come to their rescue? Is it afraid of
alienating clerical votes?
Double-talk From London
It is a matter of bitter complaint with
daily-paper editors that the Prime Minis-
ters’ conference in London and its mem-
bers refuse to come clean with details
of their discussions and a full list of their
decisions.
Of course, if the conference had been
held in Canberra somebody would have
reported the details in full so that com-
peting countries could take full counter-
measures. But very undemocratically the
Prime Ministers refuse to do this at this
stage, and the Press has had to be satis-
fied with ambiguities, and some of those
are disquieting, as reported, but may not
be so in reality.
For instance, some papers have even
recorded the very terms of the conversa-
tion in which Mr. Menzies is supposed to
have squashed Winston Churchill flat
on the issue of the Anzus Pact. And the
“S. M. Herald” declares that Australia
New Zealand made it plain that “they
regard Anzus as a vital factor in Pacific
defence and are not prepared to attempt
to obtain Britain’s admittance as a mem-
ber.... in the face of American opposi-
tion, because they believe that the U.S.
might then denounce the treaty”:
Australia and New Zealand hay®
gested to Britain that, if Britain still wishes
to press for her admittance. Sir Winston
Churchill must do this directly to Presi-
dent Eisenhower.
If the truth is anywhere near the report
it is a matter for some concern. It appears
to suggest that Australia has become an
American colony, or at least a closed
American sphere of influence. And this
seems most peculiar.
The R.N. and the R.A.N. are virtually
integral. Britain supplies us with all our
capital warships and with the blueprints
of the rest. British and Australian naval
officers act in complete interchangeability.
British troops serve under an Australian
Commander-in-Chief in Japan-Korea;
Australian battalions under a British
divisional commander in Korea. Aus-
tralian squadrons of aircraft are serving
in British territory under overall British
command, Australian staff-officers in the
Army pass through Camberley Staff col-
lege and attend the annual command con-
ferences. Woomera is basically a British
venture, initiated by British officers,
developed with British know-how, at
least in its initial stages.
Yet it is suggested that Britain was
rudely rebuffed when the suggestion that
it should take part in Anzus was made
and that the most that could be arranged
was that Australia and N.Z. should
graciously concede that the United King-
dom had some interest in the South-West
Pacific and that one of Britain’s chiefs
of staffs should come here to “discuss
Pacific defence.” It is hard to com-
prehend how it is possible to discuss
any phase of Pacific defence without
British participation.
A Sydney Bus Strike
Sydney has had another example of the
callous indifference of its masters to the
public interest. This time it was a strike
in a public service. Like too many strikes
by public servants, it was over a trivial
matter, and it caused worry, inconveni-
ence, some danger and loss to thousands
of people. It proved, if further proof
were needed, that the administration of
public services in N. S. Wales is flabby
and confused, and that not the people or
their elected Government are the masters,
but bigoted unionism.
It began when somebody told some-
body else to screw up a nut or something
in a bus depot. Screaming that their
“rights” had been sabotaged, a section of
the maintenance men downed tools. It
came out that these were members of the
Amalgamated Engineering Union, and it
seems that only in that particular depot
(Randwick) is such work done by such
unionists.
Anyhow, the result was a stoppage of
bus services to some 10,000 or so resi-
dents of North Bondi, Dover Heights
and Vaucluse. The Transport Depart-
ment coldly announced that school-
children, workers, housewives and so
forth could get where they wanted to
get the best way they could. It didn’t
dare bring in buses from other depots.
At first it even refused to put on extra
trams. Presently the “dispute” spread to
another depot (Pagewood), and this time
people in Coogee, Clovelly and Maroubra
were hit.
Between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. the spectacle
all along the heights from Ben Buckler
to South Head looked like a cross be-
tween a general evacuation and a hegira
of pilgrims as thousands tramped down
the steep roads to the tramline. In the
evening they tramped up again. Some got
lifts in private vehicles, others crammed
into taxis —the benevolent department
relaxing its no-multiple-hiring rule for
the nonce. Long lines of trams poured
the. thousands into Queen’s-square each
morn, and each eve the same thousands
fought for seats on the homeward run.
This went on, with a weekend break
during which the area was isolated from
public transport, for a week.
There had, of course, been the usual
conferences, threats of further strikes and
statements by officials and unofficial
“spokesmen.” Not a word came from
the Commissioner for Transport, not a
word from Mr. Clarrie Martin, the
responsible Minister,
And not a word, it seems, is to be
vouchsafed to the victims as to how the
“dispute” was settled. On the day after
a “two-hour private conference” had
been held between strikers, transport
officials and a Federal Conciliation Com
missioned J. D. Kenny, M.L.C. (to
figure, a few days later, as secretary o
the Trades and Labor Council at th
A.L.P. annual conference in Sydney)
announced that “the terms of settlemen
would not be disclosed.”
The affected service is a public utility
owned by the people and managed by
men appointed by the people’s elected
representatives in the Government. I:
anyone has a right to know the “terms o
settlement” it is the people.
But, as was said at the beginning, the
people are no longer the masters. They
never will be while they elect “Labor”-
Socialists to power.
Doyle Inquiry
Principal witnesses at the Doyle inquiry
last week were the chairman of the Joint
Coal Board, S. F. Cochran, and Norman
A. Wilson, former manager of the
N.S.W. Mining Co. Pty., Ltd., a sub-
sidiary of the Joint Coal Board. The
commission was concerned with its fifth
term of reference —whether Mr. Arthur
or any other Minister acted corruptly or
improperly in opencut-mining contracts
arranged between Constructors, Ltd., or
its subsidiaries and the Coal Board, or
its subsidiary, the N.S.W. Mining Co.
Pty., Ltd.
Wilson said that he had been opposed to
the signing of a contract with the Hunter River
Strip Mining Co. for opencut-mining at Pike’s
Gully, and that on August 8, 1951, at a dinner
at the Hotel Australia, Mr. Cochran had asked
him to withdraw his objections. Cochran had
told him that he was under heavy pressure from
Canberra and that if the contract did not go
through “there would be no Joint Coal Board,
no mining company and no Norman Wilson.”
To the best of his recollection the occasion on
which this remark was passed was a dinner
given by Perkihs (Aust.), Ltd., who were agents
for opencut-mining machinery. Told that
Cochran was in Canberra on that date and
asked if he could suggest another date, Wilson
replied: “I have no clear recollection of the
date. I thought it was August 8;” Cross-
examined, Wilson said he had not known that
Pike’s Gully was expected to yield gas-coal or
that the B.H.P. Co. was interested in the mine.
He had never met or spoken with Mr. Arthur,
nor had anyone ever tried to influence him on
Arthur’s behalf. He had left the N.S.W. Mining
Co. on vdry friendly terms.
Joint Coal Board chairman Cochran said
that on August 8, 1951, he was in Canberra and
his secretary had sent an apology for his
absence from the dinner at the Hotel Australia.
He had no recollection of having made the
remarks attributed to him at the Hotel Australia.
He had said something of the sort in the Coal
Board conference-room, but in reference to
coal-production generally, not to the Pike’s
Gully contracts. He did not consider there was
anything irregular or unusual in the procedure
adopted in making the contracts. No one had
influenced or attempted to influence him in
the making of them.
Cochran said he had known Arthur since
July 17, 1950, when he became chairman. He
was friendly with Arthur and had been grooms-
man at his wedding. He did not know Mrs.
Arthur as a secretary of one of Chesterfield’s
companies. He had had no knowledge of any
business associations between Arthur and
Chesterfield until . April, 1952, “when it was
intimated that Mr. Arthur held shares in Con-
structors, Ltd.” At the time the Pike’s Gully
contracts were being negotiated he had had no
knowledge of Arthur’s holding in Constructors,
Ltd.
Mr. Ashburner : Would you approve of
the Joint Coal Board entering into a con-
tract which involved the Minister for Mines
being in conflict with his duty?—l would
not.
In April, 1952, you became aware that
Mr. Arthur was a shareholder in Con-
structors, Ltd.? —Yes.
Did you do anything about it?—No.
And after April, 1952, the Joint Coal
Board entered into further contracts with
Constructors, Ltd.? —Yes.
Further questioned, Cochran said that he had
heard of Arthur’s shares on April 29, 1952,
when they were mentioned in a newspaper report
in reference to alimony. Arthur had then said,
“I don’t hold these shares.” He had no know-
ledge that Arthur had any other interest in
Constructors, Ltd.
Mr. Miller, Q.C., said that it would be shown
that at the end of 1952 Arthur had no true
beneficial interest in the shares of Constructors,
Ltd.
The real reason why the Coal Board
negotiated only with Constructors, Ltd.,
Cochran said, was that it was felt that it
was the only concern that could deliver the
goods.
Europe In Ferment
One glimpse of Europe should be
enough to drive the British Common-
wealth into mutuality in defence, mili-
tary and economic. The structure on
each side of the Iron Curtain seems
to be shaky.
On the Soviet-satellite side all obvi-
ously is not well, particularly in Czecho-
slovakia, where the regime is struggling
fiercely with popular resistance to
“currency-reform” and new rationing.
The essence of the trouble seems to be
raging inflation, or, as the Deputy Prime
Minister last week put it, a “great accu-
mulation of money” which is “affecting
the conduct of the working classes, who
have become given to absenteeism be-
cause they no longer value their earn-
ings,” who have been “buying goods
o Continued on page 7)


without plan,” and who have “now no
incentive to earn more.”
The resistance seems to have reached
its peak on the Ostrava coalfields and
adjacent steel areas and at Pilsen, where
there apparently is no longer even an
incentive to buy the popular local lager.
There “elements of the working class”
(according to the local “Pravda”) “united
with bourgeois groups to stage a hostile
demonstration for the purpose of over-
throwing Communism and restoring
capitalism and effecting a counter-revo-
lutionary coup.” They smashed factory-
machinery, rushed the town hall,
trampled on and burnt pictures Of Stalin
and hoisted the American flag. The
paper announced sternly that they had
been “liquidated,” but it did not say
whether they had been bottled. Possibly
these events have something to do with
decision to send an ambassador
to adjacent Yugoslavia.
Both in Berlin and Vienna Russian
military High Commissioners have been
replaced by civilian High Commis-
sioners, though in each case with
attendant generals just in case. In East
Berlin purges have ceased. Pressure on
farmers resistant to collectivisation has
also ceased. It is announced that West
German shoppers may buy in East
German shops. The East German Police
—armed with tanks and heavy artillery
-—are to be reduced by one-third, or
40,000 men, who are to be drafted into
consumer industry.
In Vienna the Soviet Government-
control went the limit on Coronation
Day by allowing the pipe-band of the
Royal Cameron Highlanders to play
reels in the Russian zone though cot-
respondents issued a warning that “this
had no political significance.” The
Western Powers have now invited the
Russians to state the specific terms on
which they will agree to the Austrian
peace. This is apparently a test-question
to provide a guide for the Bermuda con-
ference as to whether Moscow is in
earnest in its peaceful overtures.
But the Soviet zone is not the only
one disturbed. France, after a week of
trial and error, is just beginning to ex-
perience its 19th Ministry since the war
—led by a Radical who is faced at once
with an overdue bill for about £350 mil-
lion owing to the European Payments
Organisation for part of France’s defence
liabilities. Also he is faced with a grow-
ing demand for “greater independence
from the United States” and “closer
bonds with Great Britain,” a sign of the
times.
In Italy Signor de Gasperi’s Central
Government has come back with a
majority of only 16 in a house of 590,
having lost 43 seats as compared with
last election, and his Christian Demo-
crats have to depend on allies holding 41
seats, or 25 fewer than last election, for
his majority. The drift was decidedly to
the Left. Communists, Left-wing
Socialists and Leftist Independents
polled no fewer than 9,562,860 votes, and
will have 218 seats, a gain of 35.
In the Senate the Government has a
majority of 13 in a house of 237.
The position of the Latin countries,
with Spain sitting sourly on the outer,
just now is not encouraging for the
future of the West.
POLITICAL POINTS
These fervent Communist “peace-
lovers” seem to have strange ideas about
the technique for obtaining peace. They
are celebrating the eve of the armistice,
presumed to be imminent, by the heaviest
and most general attacks on the Korean
front since October, 1951. Some of these
seem intended particularly to provoke the
South Koreans, but the side which is
suffering most in the purposeless affair
is their own. They have needlessly sac-
rificed over 1000 of their soldiers in the
last few days ; but in the “peace-lovers’ ”
dictionary “soldier” means “gun-fodder.”
,• •
With political hostilities virtually sus-
pended during Coronation season,
Calwell has been thrashing around
desperately for some excuse to grab a
headline —as a Press-plugger “Fixer”
Ashley has been beating him hands
down. Last week Arthur came out with
a demand that the Government should
call Parliament together at once and “put
into effect its taxation-reduction pro-
posals.” He has discovered that un-
certainty is having “a most disturbing
effect on the business world” and that
because of that uncertainty “unemploy-
ment is growing.” No statistics or evi-
dence were produced in support, but
lack of evidence has never deterred
Arthur from making a statement.
Both the Prime Minister and the
Treasurer have indicated that they regard
the Budget speech as the proper occa-
sion for announcing tax-reductions.
Having refused to be tempted into pre-
mature disclosuies during the Senate-
election campaign they are not likely to
lake much notice of Calwell’s vaporings
now.
Calwell has always fancied himself as
a financial expert and has eyes on the
Treasurership if “Labor” returns to
power in his political lifetime. Is it part
of his future plans to make a habit of
revealing his Budget secrets in advance?
• •
N. S. Wales Transport Minister Martin
is opposed to suggestions to do away
with juries in third-party insurance
cases or to limit their power to determine
damages. He says he will fight to retain
the jury system, which is “an integral
part of British justice.” So is payment
of a just price for property taken over
by the Crown, but Clarrie hasn’t been
heard expressing his intention of fight-
ing for that principle.
• e
Acting-Premier Duggan, of Queensl-
and, and his Cabinet have two very
weighty problems on hand. One is the
scaling-down of their public-works pro-
gramme for the coming year —a matter
of cutting their cloth to meet their purse ;
the other is to make a decision on the
recommendation of a caucus ‘sub-
committee that Parliamentary allowances
be increased by a few hundred a year.
It’s rather hard trying to reconcile the
two.
• •
A ruling important to all those who
may be called upon to protect copyright
and trade-mark was given, by Mr. Justice
Taylor in the High Court, when he held
that money thus spent was deductible
for taxation. The case was one in which
a firm took legal steps to protect its trade-
mark, and the taxation-authority refused
to allow a deduction on the ground that
the money spent was capital outlay. His
Honor said the money did not create a
new asset, and the firm was entitled to
deduction.
• •
If the Galvin-Cains have their way,
Victoria is not to have a Slate
lottery, but more rmd-week race-meetings
and more dog- and trotting-meets. To
get the lottery bill through the Govern-
ment needs the support of Gartside and
MacLeod, “Hollway” Liberals, in the
Upper House. The churches intend to
ask Gartside and MacLeod their inten-
tions —the former is a prominent church-
man.
• •
In a private member’s bill Cain , intro-
duced last year (when Leader of the
Opposition) he said that “organisation” of
the lottery would be kept to a minimum.
The same has been said of every Govern-
ment institution since Government insti-
tutions were invented.
These State “Labor” Governments
always consider one of their most im-
portant duties to be an extension of
gambling facilities. The one in Vic-
toria is after more mid-week racing and
more “dogs” and “trots” because the
“clubs” can’t carry on without them.
Who loses if the “clubs” can’t carry on,
save a crowd of people engaged in the
“sporting industry” and who would be
better employed in some real industry?
• •
“Church authorities,” said Transport-
Minister Martin, in reply to representa-
tions made by Presbyterians at Narran-
dera, who are unhappy about sale of
liquor on Sundays, “need have no doubts
or fears whatever concerning any in-
convenience which might possibly be
caused to fellow-passengers on trains by
persons who may overindulge. They are
not given any opportunity to do so.”
True enough, so far as service at rail-
way refreshment-rooms is concerned,
and this doesn’t apply only to the supply
of grog.
• •
Would-be Treasurer Calwell is
juggling imaginary millions again. He
NO PLACE FOR CHARITY
“Give me 10 per cent, of the national gambling bill, and I will see that no sick or aged
people go without adequate food and clothing.” —Minister for Social Services Townley, as
reported in Sydney “Herald.”
told the A.L.P. Conference that the
Government now had £l3O million
Treasury bills “in circulation” and “was
expected to exceed £2OO million by the
end of June” ; further that the Govern-
ment intended to print “another £lOO
million to £l2O million next year.” He
didn’t say who was doing the expecting,
nor did he reveal who had informed him
of the Government’s intention for next
year. The most probable answer to both
questions is Arthur Calwell.
Like his “leader,” Calwell disapproves
of high interest rates and professes to
believe that lack of faith in the Govern-
ment is the only reason loans at lower
rates'than 4% per cent, were not filled.
He warns that “Labor,” when returned
to power, “will have to devise means to
raise loan moneys at a much loVer
rate.” What means? Back in King
John’s time the favorite method was to
pull out a few fingernails or to use the
rack and thumbscrew. Surely Arthur is
not thinking of that sort of thing?
• •
During the Senate campaign Evatt
constantly attacked “high interest-rates”
on Commonwealth loans and undertook
to force a reduction if “Labor” gained
control of the Senate. The promise was
a mere puff of wind. Interest-rates are
determined by the Loan Council. At
the last meeting of the Council “Labor,”
with a five-to-three . majority, had the
power to reduce the interest-rate to any
figure it dared. The rate remained un-
changed.
The strike which dislocated the service
on half Sydney’s bus-routes was settled
last week “on terms not disclosed.” Why
weren’t they disclosed? Transport is a
public service, entirely paid for by the
public either in fares or in taxes. The
public were the main sufferers through
the strike and in the long run they will
pay its cost. Who’s hiding what?
• •
Four months after an election in which
nothing was said on the subject the N. S.
Wales Government has revealed that it
intends to make membership of trade-
unions compulsory. Compulsory union-
ism means compulsory contribution to
A.L.P. funds. What of the Four Free-
doms to which “Labor” gives so much
lip-service?
• •
For months before the Senate election
Dr. Evatt spouted dire predictions of an
“economic depression,” with thousands
out of work and all the rest of it. His
followers, Federal and State, dutifqlly
echoed him. Meantime the Arbitration
Court was hearing an application by em-
ployers for a reduced basic wage and a
44-hour working week. A witness
appeared last week, Mr. H. P. Brown,
reader in economic statistics at the
National University (Canberra), described
as “the first and principal witness for
the unions.” He told the court it should
reject the application because (1) it
couldn’t be certain of the effect of wage-
reductions, (2) exporters were in a satis-
factory position, (3) industries compet-
ing with imports were generally in the
same position, and (4) there was no evi-
dence that the 1952 recession would
develop into depressed economic condi-
tions. Perhaps the employers should call
Dr. Evatt in rebuttal.
• •
Exasperating as the complexities of
our Federal-State set-up can be at times,
Australia at least manages to avoid the
absurdity of the tangle in which France
finds itself every few months. At the
weekend the latest search for a Premier
was still on, several would-be leaders
having failed to gain the necessary Par-
liamentary support. Theoretically-perfect
proportional-representation is the chief
factor responsible.
In July-August, 1951, France was
without a Government for a whole month
before M. Pleven succeeded in forming
an Administration. His Government
lasted six months and was succeeded by
that of M. Faure, who gave way a
month later to M. Pinay, who had a com-
paratively long run —nearly 10 months.
Next to take on the task, in January of
this year, was M. Mayer, whose resigna-
tion on May 24 created the present
hiatus. Whoever heads the next Gov-
ernment will be France’s 19th Premier
since the end of World War 11.
% *
There’s a by-election for the Dulwich
Hill seat in N. S. Wales Assembly next
Saturday. This one-time Liberal seat
has been held by “Labor” since 1941,
and in the hysterical St. Valentine’s Day
election four months ago it gave ex-
Conservation Minister George Weir a
majority of round about 5000. He
resigned shortly afterwards to take the
judgeship which had been linked with
his name before the election. Saturday’s
“Labor” candidate is C. Mallam, ex-
ferry proprietor, friend of Premier Cahill
and sometime unpaid adviser to the
N. S. Wales Transport Department.
Liberal hope is local man Bill Ness,
whose father held the seat 20 years ago.
There’s also a Commo in the field.
• •
The A.L.P. Conference passed a resolu-
tion calling upon the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment “to use the funds of the Rural Bank
for loans to build and purchase homes.”
It also decided to ask the next Federal
“Labor” Government to take similar
action with the Commonwealth Bank.
The way these presumably sober “Labor”
men seem to picture Government banks
as having enormous stocks of idle money
just stored away doing nothing would be
ludicrous were it not for the tremendous
influence their ignorance has upon their
unthinking followers.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mem”: Scene: Entrance to labor-
ward of Women’s Hospital. Nervous
untidy young man approaches door and
is pulled up short by notice “Strictly No
Admittance.” Time passes, bearing
prospective and actual mothers in and
out of sacred portals. Young bloke tries
to sneak through door in wake of wards-
man with trolley, but is withered by
broadside from gimlet-eyed Sister in cap
and mask. “Can’t you read?” More
time passes. Now desperate, bloke walks
shaking, but determined, into forbidden
territory. Gimlet-eyes bears down on
him. “Don’t you understand —husbands
are not allowed in here.” Mumble from
young chap, “But, Sister, I’m not a hus-
band. I’m a student. I’ve got a case
coming off in here!”
“Pip Tok”: Churchill is probably the
only British Prime Minister to be given
a No. 1 vote in an Australian Senate
election. On May 9 an elderly woman
Hope the wife doesn't pass—it might give her ideas.”
of Merredin (W.A.) was most upset
when she found that Winston wasn’t
among the candidates shown on her
ballot-paper. She repaired the omission
by writing in the British P.M.’s name
and placing an outsized “1” against it.
before going on with the other 15. A
friend, to whom she related the experi-
ence, said, “But that made your vote
informal.” “Never mind,” the Old Dear
retorted. “I was informing them”
❖ ♦> $
‘Perce”: Latest rise in the price of
tea takes me back to Ceylon in the dark
days of 1942, when a Japanese descent
on the island was reckoned a lively possi-
bility, with the landing of parachutists a
red-hot favorite conjecture. The logical
choice of a landing by paratroops was
the Manning racecourse near Galle,
where our mob was bivouacked in antici-
pation of such an event. Feverish
preparation of weapon-pits and arrange-
ments of fields of fire were the order of
the day, but the work was often inter-
rupted by the sudden discovery that some
enterprising Ceylonese gentleman had
set-up a tea-stall right in the centre of a
field of fire. Somewhat undiplomatic
remonstrations would meet with smiling
acquiescence, followed by the removal of
the stall to the exact centre of someone
else’s field of fire. Eventually attempts
to dislodge the tea-vendors were aban-
doned ; our Brasshats seemingly de-
cided that their presence would be as
great a nuisance to the expected Nips as
it was to us.
* ❖ ❖
“A. W. Oldsalt”: Free wine with meals
(“Ceg,” B. 15/4/’53)? To me that
means Melbourne’s old Francatelli, noted
for its lobster mayonnaise, also for its
attentive waiters and Bohemian atmos-
phere—all for three-bob! It was a
favorite haunt of several of my seafar-
ing friends 40 years ago, in particular the
skippers of the French sailers Buff on
and Champigny, which were engaged
in carrying wheat to the Pacific coast
during World War I. Unlike our own
merchant skippers, these Froggies came
ashore decked out in their best gold-
braided uniforms. Although the Buffon
had the better turn of speed, the two
ships always kept in the closest touch
possible during the run down, but bn
making the Australian coast Buffon’s
skipper would take to his heels for Port
Phillip Rip, sending his final message to
Champigny (so he told me) : “Au revoir !
I zmell ze Francatelli.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Findy”: When I first came to Sydney
the benevolent visage natural to all South
Australians made me an easy mark for
ear-biters, but the years have made njy
dial almost as hard as my heart, and I
haven’t been bitten for years. Last week
I apparently dropped my guard for a
moment and in slipped an optimist. h
man of middle-age, he sat down opposite
me just inside the coffee-shop with the
words “Hope you don’t mind me sharing
the table with you?” Indicating my empty
cup and plate, I told him he was welcome
to the whole table; I was about to go.
With a friendly grin, the effect of which
was, if anything, enhanced by the faint
perfume of alcohol he exuded, he said
“Then Fm sure you won’t mind buying
a meal for the youngest bursar in Aus-
tralia,” I shook my head, which, con-
sidering the wording of his statement,
should have meant yes, but both he and
I knew I meant no. We both rose. Still
grinning, he said “Not even a cup of tea
and something?” Another shake of the
head. He held out his hand. “You’ll
wish me good luck, though?” That was
easy enough. We shook hands heartily
and went our ways—l to the cash-desk, he
to the street, leaving me wondering who
had really won. I’d dearly like to know
“ Cranny’s got my nylons on!”
what lay behind that “youngest-bursar”
story, but it costs money to find out things
like that.
❖ ❖ *
“Delta”: Car-owners in court (B.
3/6/’53)? In the early days of car-
registration my brother received a sum-
mons for forgetting to renew his registra-
tion. Several other car-owners had
already appeared before the magistrate
on similar charges; each had been fined
ss. and costs, with the option of im-
prisonment till the rising of 'lhe court.
My brother told me he intended to take
the imprisonment, as the court was not
likely to sit more than half an hour.
When his turn came the magistrate said
“Fined five shillings and costs, with the
option of imprisonment for twenty-four
hours.” He paid the fine.
♦> +J+
“Flat B.”: Notice in a Hobart bar:
“Customers are requested not to alight
from their stools while the room is in
motion.”
+5 ♦♦♦
"F.S.”: “Mark Heim” says (B.
27/5/’53), “Plagiarism, so far from
being a vice among the poets of antiquity,
was more-or-less the accepted thing.” So
it was anjongst the painters. If Titian
was given a commission to paint a Last
Supper he didn’t bother to design a new
one—he just took somebody else’s car-
toon and worked on that, but he put
into it his own observation. In that sense
every Greek temple and Gothic cathedral
is a plagiarism—the traditional form was
good enough for the architect and the
variety came, so to speak, by virtue of his
accent. For centuries artists and archi-
tects were content to use the old forms;
new ones came in very slowly. It is only
in modern times that we see a rage for
new forms ; so we get our Housing Com-
mission suburbs with rows of houses, all
of them different —some with screwy
columns, some with round ones and
some like pepper-castors —but the result
is monotony ; there is more variety in
an old English village where the form
hasn’t varied for generations. After all,
the Creator has repeated the same old
human form for countless generations,
yet the variety He has got into it is
amazing.
“Vingter”; Let me quote Emerson on
plagiarism. In his Representative Men
he says: “It has come to be a sort of
rule in literature that a man, having
shown himself capable of original writ-
ing, is entitled to steal from the writings
of others at discretion.” Again, in his
Letters and Social Aims: “It is as diffi-
cult to appropriate the thoughts of others
as to invent.” It is, however, quite pos-
sible that many seeming plagiarisms are
not deliberate perpetrations but un-
realised recollections of extracts from
the works of others. Kearsley’s John-
sonia quotes John Hawkesworth’s
“remark” to the doctor: “Sir, you have
a memory that would convict you of
plagiarism in any Court of Literature in
the world.” Quoting myself, “It would
seem from this warning that the prentice
literary craftsman must tread warily and,
above all, keep close watch upon his
subconscious lest that treacherous jade
foist on him a dissembled progeny of the
old masters which he, all unwittingly,
may claim as his own brain-child.”
“Cassio”; Aldo is not long out from
Italy. His English is weak, and some-
times he still pines for Italy. But now
he has a son. When the bambino was
two days old Aldo went to the hospital
and, while searching for the nursery,
ran into the charge-sister. She looked
at the parcels under his arm and his face
split into a wide grin. They were pre-
sents for the baby—a full-size Australian
Rules football and a pound of choco-
lates.
“Bo”: Freely as I acknowledge the
great influence which all our past history
has had on later generations, and especi-
ally the part Royalty hap played in it,
yet, even during Coronation days, I was
forced to question the contention when,
talking “shop,” some automotive-
executive friends spoke with singular
reverence of the debt they all owed to
“Henry the First.” Then I realised
there was no anachronism —this is the
50th anniversary of the founding of the
Ford industrial empire.
“Eve”: Coronation-week memory: A
window in Oxford-street, Sydney, entirely
bare except for a large motto-card with
the line “Goodwill to All.” I can’t work
out whether that was forgiveness or sar-
casm —because the window had been
bashed in.
❖
“Macquarie”: There’s a chap in Aus-
tralia who can always forecast everything
that is going to happen everywhere—
political, sporting, meteorological or mis-
cellaneous. When he is quoted in an
argument the matter seems to be settled:
he’s an oracle. His advice on car-repairs
is encyclopaedic, and if an amateur
mechanic gets into frightful bother while
carrying out the instructions, there is no
reflection on the master, only on the
pupil who mixed things up. In the
building-trade he is übiquitous. The well-
meaning tradesman who gives a struggling
home-builder some professional advice
invariably finds the amateur has ignored
it all and got himself in an unholy mess.
The Authority has had last say. Kings
may be dethroned, idols fall from their
pedestals, seers may be debunked, but
“a chap I met in the train” will never
be deposed from his position as Minister
for Public Information. Nor is he con-
fined to Australia. I’ve not travelled
much, but I know that he exists all over
the world —chap in the train was telling
me only the other day.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Piper”: Critics of new educational
methods overlook one important fact. If
methods were not constantly altered
parents would be deprived of the best
excuse they have for avoiding home-
work: “Can’t help you with that, son.
When I was at school it was done quite
differently,”
THE PRISONERS’ SONG
‘ People in N. S. Wales committed more
crimes of almost every kind in 1952 than in
1951, the Police Commissioner, Mr. C. J.
Delaney, says in his annual report.”
O celebrate the rise of crime
And murder English, O my verse!
We’re getting better all the time
In N. S. Wales at getting worse.
In every way, in every sphere,
We’re breaking down the law’s
restriction.
And he who views the trend with fear
Is only lacking in conviction.
The housing-shortage soon will end
For everyone in N. S. Wales;
Restrain those cottage-builders, friend,
And switch priorities to jails!
Revive Australia’s walls of stone!
Steel bars replace those liquid ones!
Build cells where men may live alone,
And fill them full of modern cons!
Restore the virtues of bad men.
The old-hand road-gangs, farmhands,
fettlers,
And hire us out on trust again
To European-migrant settlers!
For prisoners in our Golden Age
Had drunk the joys of the tabooed ;
They weren’t born in a Socialist cage
And still expected to be good.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Kingsbro”: It seems that women are
born with the peculiar type of reasoning
which is characteristic of the sex. As I
shuffled the cards my host’s not-quite-four
daughter burst nude from the bathroom
and noisily mounted the rocking-horse
beside us. As I am unaccustomed to
such domestic scenes, this interruption
took my attention. But I don’t think I
deserved the rebuke Lady Godiva’s
disciple delivered as she was borne back
to the tub: “You shouldn’t look at
people when they haven’t got clothes
on.”
“Nakhoda”: I have seen the local cele-
brations for one Diamond Jubilee and
four coronations but, except on one
occasion, I have never seen humanity
more closely packed than it was from
Queen-street to Spring-street and from
"After all , I'll have you remember I’M an old-fashioned girl.
Lonsdale-street to Flinders-street on Mel-
bourne’s Coronation evening. The occa-
sion was when a British warship turned
up at Adelaide and anchored five miles
off Largs Bay. The commander threw
his ship open to public inspection on a
hot, breathless Sunday with an oily swell
rolling. The public inspectors arrived by
tug, launch, yacht and rowboat, and by
noon the entire population of South Aus-
tralia, except a few wild abos, were
aboard that vessel jammed tight on all
decks and bridges, in the engine-room,
mess-rooms, and even gun-turrets. There
was no inter-communication system in
those days, and officers and tars were as
isolated from one another as if they had
been put in irons. A pal and I made an
entrance through a gun-port but lost each
other immediately. Temperatures below
decks were well over the century and
unconscious women, seasick children and
howling babies by the dozen were passed
over the heads of the throng to the gang-
ways. Melbourne’s Coronation-night was
like that, but on the grand scale. I even
saw ambulance men walking over
people’s shoulders to rescue the casual-
ties.
*> ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”; Watching the American
wrestler-footballers playing against a
Rugby League team gave me an idea for
some real entertainment, a show that
would pack Sydney’s largest ground to
its capacity. I suggest that we get the
Australian cricketers on their return from
England to play a Rugby League team
a game of Australian Rules football with
a soccer referee and Rugby Union line
umpires. To make the game a little more
entertaining a baseball could be substi-
tuted for a football, and in order to give
the game a real Australian flavor, it
should be played on Randwick race-
course, with bookmakers betting on the
results.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: The Whelans would be
surprised to read of themselves as in
the past tense (“Tasmaniac,” B. 3/6/’53).
“Whelan the Wrecker Is Here” is still a
familiar sign on old Melbourne buildings,
and Whelan’s “bulls” are still hard at it;
the sign has also been set up on a few
wrecks scattered about the coastline.
Wrecking is in the Whelan blood. A
young son paid a visit to Britain and
wrote to his father: “Well, dad, I’ve
seen St. Paul’s. What a building to
wreck! ”
+J* ■•£<■ •£*
“Enn Kay”: My entry as the most
misused medical term is “bronchial.” No
one has much difficulty with “bronchitis,”
but I’ve heard people of all degrees of
good and bad speech from the most
ignorant patient to a typist who’d worked
10 years in a hospital pronounce it
“bron-ic-al.” Once knew a patient whose
daughter suffered from a chronic and
severe chest-infection known as “bron-
chiectasis” who invariably referred to
her daughter’s condition —and a far-from-
joyful illness it is—as “bronical ecstasies.”
♦> ♦♦♦
“P.P.”: Can’t agree that whodunit
writers quote from Alice in Wonderland
in unconscious rebellion against logic.
Some of the most profoundly logical
authors use quotations from toee-
cause they know that Carrol h “ at “ e ,
matician and logician, made Alice and
her fantastic mates profoundly logical,
Two striking instances are P s yc
David Stafford-Clark, author of the Peh-
can book Psychiatry Today,
Korzybski, the Polish savant who took
refuge in the U.S.A. and whose bulky
work. Science and Sanity, has become
the Bible of the semanticists. Stafford-
Clark in his first chapter quotes the con-
versation between Alice and Humpty-
Dumpty on the meaning—or lack of
meaning—of the word “glory.” Korzyb-
ski effectively uses the conversation be-
tween the Duck and the Mouse on the
meaning of the word “it.” And there
are others, far more logical than thriller-
writers Agatha and Dorothy, whose
“Oh, Captain , I don't know how Wed have got on without you!"
books contain extracts from Alice.
Among them are C, E. Montague,
Bernard Shaw, Bertrand Russell, Andrew
Lang and William Morris Hughes.
Though Hughes would be more com-
fortably classed among rhetoricians than
among logicians.
<♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Pip Tok”: The lordly way in which
younger ex-servicemen refer to all wars
before 1939 as “bow-and-arrow wars”
reminds me that English bowmen might
have gone into action again had Hitler
succeeded in invading England after Dun-
kirk. Archery, as a sport, has never
been allowed to die out in England, and
it was seriously suggested that training
in the use of the bow and arrow should
be given to selected members of the
Home Guard. It was argued that at
close ranges the bow and arrow in the
hands of a skilled man could be just as
lethal as firearms, with the additional
merit of being virtually silent. In wooded
country the unseen archer could drop an
opponent without giving away his own
position. Furthermore, unlike bullets,
arrows could be recovered and used
again, as they often were in medieval
wars. The failure of the Nazis to cross
the water left the idea in the suggestion
stage.
* ❖ *
“X.S.”: Melbourne’s most artistic
tribute —the Royal crown done in lard in
a delicatessen window, with red, white
and blue gems in pickled-onions.
“B. A. Ker”: In these days
those crew members would have
no trouble in explaining to their
girl-friends why they were using
aliases (B. 13/5/’53). They
would simply say “I’m beating
the income tax,” and no further
explanation would be sought. It
is done very often; which is
why many contractors who em-
ploy casual labor have group
certificates returned unclaimed
—“smarty” single men find it
pays to become “Bill Smith”
with six children, and forfeit
the comparatively small deduc-
tions. But deceit doesn’t always
pay. An acquaintance once
worked as a sub-contrator, gave
a “bodgie” name, and collected
the full amount with no tax de-
ductions. Some months later he
received a rather ominous re-
minder from the income-tax
people—as the American firm
he had worked for between cer-
tain dates did not deduct tax,
he would be expected to show the sum on
his return. The drawback was he had
never worked for the firm concerned ;
but somebody must have —and had used
his name and address. Not being able to
prove where he was working at that time
—because of the “bodgie” he had to
pay up.
“Hist”: The new parson was being
entertained by the adult members of the
family. At nine o’clock supper was
brought in to ease the strain of sustaining
conversation. Cups were balanced awk-
wardly on knees, the chairs seemed less
comfortable than usual. The boys, on
the plea of homework, had bidden the
visitor a courteous “good-night” and at
the side of the house, where he
his car, this homework was proceeding.
The night was uneasy with subdued
noises, scrape of feet on gravel, whispers,
the click-clack of a car-jack. One dim
figure passed blocks of wood to another,
beneath the back of the car. The figures
melted into the darkness,, leaving the
car’s rear wheels neatly clear of the
ground. Shortly afterwards, escorted by
parents, the visitor approached and
climbed into his car. Farewells mingled
with the whirr of the starter. He let in
the clutch, the car jolted gently as the
rear wheels dropped to the ground, then
glided on. Then it stopped, the reverend
head appeared from the driver’s window,
and a mellifluous voice called back:
“Front-wheel drive, young fellows!” He
drove away.
♦♦♦
“NX Mick”: Another peculiarity of
my crook ears is that many male voices
don’t seem to stir my auditory nerves
at all; most flappers’ tones, unfortu-
nately, register very well. I was wait-
ing for a “down” lift at work when a
bloke emerged from an “up” and softly
asked me to direct him to Mr. Unheard.
After begging his pardon twice, I re-
gretted not being able to help him, and
advised him to try the messenger-girl
about 15ft. away. As the heaven-sent
lift’s doors were closing behind me I
heard her answer: “That was him you
were just talking to.”
* ❖ *
“Curate’s F.gg”: Though the public-
relations expert seems to be a product
of this country there is evidence of the
touch of his prototype in the Dictionary
of National Biography’s account of the
arrival of Philip of Spain at Plymouth
for his marriage to Mary Tudor. Philip’s
early behavior seems to have been
dictated by a determination to woo the
popularity of his intended British sub-
jects, and his first disembarkation gesture
was a call for English beer in preference
to the Spanish wines which had been pre-
pared for the welcoming ceremonies.
Philip surrounded several noggins of the
good nut-brown ale and thereafter
mounted an English pony and demon-
strated his equestrian skill. There is no
record of either Philip’s performance in
the saddle or the English populace’s
immediate reaction to his gestures, but
the manoeuvres do not, in the long run,
seem to have contributed to his popu-
larity. With the British public’s tradi-
tional tolerance for the drunk, it is quite
possible that, had the publicity-seeking
Spaniard been overcome by the English
beer and had fallen off his mount, the
course of history might have been
changed.
* $ *
“Spokeshave”: It was rather tactless
for the proprietor of a secondhand book-
shop in a Melbourne suburb to label one
of his tables “The Literary Dustbin, Six-
pence.” Especially as I walked into the
shop with one of Australia’s most
respected authors and there in the dustbin
was a copy of his latest novel, only out
three weeks.
A PLEASANT THOUGHT
“For all her acceptance of emancipation and
sex-equality, modern woman, deep in her heart,
still likes to have concrete evidence of man’s
dominance. The age-old urge to have man’s
strong protective arm, even if it be sometimes
raised against her, is far from dead.” —
Psychology article.
It’s really disturbing.
For Eve, to be curbing
That urge that is so atavistic.
To have some men chase her,
To capture, abase her
With discipline brutal and fistic;
A tough, modern he-man,
A must-obey-me-man,
A thrillingly-masculine terror.
One who, on her blinker.
Would fasten a “stinker”
To show who was boss, and no error.
There’s nothing more awful
Than sighting her lawful
(Ah! Shame, for her, couldn’t be
keener)
Contentedly sloshing
Around with the washing,
Or pushing the vacuum-cleaner.
The colonel’s fine lady
And Judy O’Grady —
Proclaimed sub-cutaneous sisters —
Would much prefer, I know.
To massage the lino
Than see this performed by their misters.
I ask you now, brother,
One spouse to another.
You surely must sometime have piped
it,
The look very slave-like
She's given when, brave-like,
You’ve hauled out your pay, and she’s
swiped it.
Come! Now that you know what
She thinks of things—so what ?
You’ll show you’re the master now?
Splendid !
Well, blokes, please excuse me.
You see, she’ll ill-use me
If, soon, all these jobs I’ve not ended.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Fly Faster by TAA pressurised CONVAIR-LIKER
1
f/HA
TO MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE (and on to Perth by DC4)
sdf
PERSONAL ITEMS
Having wondered how a firm which
turns out washing - machines and
refrigerators should be capable of
producing also the world’s first jet-
bomber, a Bulletin man called on Cyril
Goodman, manager in Australia for the
English Electric Co., and just back from
watching the trials of Australia’s first
Canberra jet in Melbourne. It seems that
there are few big water-turbines started
up in the last 14 years in Australia which
haven’t “English Electric” on their name-
plates. The Snowy scheme, the Hume
dam, the Kiewa project, the Barron Falls
and Tully Falls hydroelectric works in
Queensland, the Nymboida scheme in
GOODMAN, OF E.E.
N.S.W. —all spin to the tune of the co.’s
turbines and heavy machinery, as do the
huge electric rolling-mills of B.H.P. and
Australian Iron and Steel. Turning out
the Canberra jet seems not so strange
an undertaking after all. A keen-faced,
grey-haired cove with a ready grin under
the military moustache, Goodman, son
of Sir William, of Adelaide Tramways
Trust memory, learnt his engineering at
Adelaide University, and was with the
Australian Wireless Squadron in Meso-
potamia in War I. He took his discharge
in England, fulfilled an Angas Engineer-
ing Scholarship won in Adelaide, then
joined his present concern. He came
home to manage the Melbourne branch
in 1926, and has been the big boss in
Sydney since 1931. Assistant-Director of
Works (part-time) in War 11, he was
recently appointed chairman of the
Electrical Industry Advisory Committee,
advising on defence production. At 57
bowls keeps his circulation going.
Making a bid for retirement after 42
years with one of Sydney’s big estate-
agencies (of which he’s been a director
since 1928 and principal auctioneer for
the past 20 years), Reginald Rabett. A
Sydney Grammar product, prominent in
hockey, rowing and fencing, Rabett’s
other interests took in the A.1.F., in
which field of endeavor he reached Galli-
poli and France, and rank of brigadier.
Sidney Powell was elected president of
Adelaide Chamber of Commerce in 1940,
fulfilling the city’s tradition of choosing
its leaders from the native-born by having
been born in Adelaide. That was 58
years ago. Since then Powell, one-time
civil servant studying accountancy on
the side, has become one of Adelaide’s
leading chartered accountants, director of
the Bank of Adelaide and of half-a-dozen
companies, and chairman of the I.C.A.
Now he’s added presidency of the Assoc.
Chambers of Commerce to the list.
Two Westraliah majors, both Dun-
trooners and War II men, now serving on
Western Command Headquarters, were
in the latest batch to be decorated for
gallantry in Korea. Major William
John Finlayson, a thickset 33, who
entered the R.M.C. in 1939, and is now
D.A.A.G., Western Command, won his
0.8. E. for ability and consistent good
work while 2 i/c of the Third Australian
Royals. Major Rupert Peter Richardson,
who graduated from Duntroon in 1944
in time for War II experience, gets the
M.C. for gallantry and leadership while
captain commanding a company in the
field. He developed thrombosis and had
a leg amputated as the result of his
Korean service. The day he received
news of his decoration was also the first
day he was able to use a newly-issued
artificial limb and walk without a crutch.
“Macnell” on some black-gangers:
With an anti-submarine frigate just com-
pleted refitting in Melbourne, and three more
in the process, three changes in the engineering
hierarchy of the R.A.N. are of interest. Captain
Edwin Good goes from managing the engineer-
ing side of Garden Island to the Directorship
of Engineering at Navy Office; Captain Ken-
neth Urquhart, at present g.-m. of Williamstown
Naval Dockyard (where destroyer-frigate.
Quadrant has been given her new anti-submarine
teeth), shifts north to relieve Good; Com-
mander Gordon Wilson, now Director of Naval
Construction at Navy Office, takes over from
Urquhart at Williamstown. All three engineers
are war-experienced men. Good just missed
War I, but got well into the next shindy, first
in cruiser Perth, later cradled the building
Arunta, nursed her 44,000 horses throughout
the Pacific, and ended the war the driving force
behind cruiser Australia’s four big screws.
Mainly a destroyerman, Urquhart, while doing
his turbine-tutoring in the U.K., represented the
Royal Navy for five years at swimming, and
won the Inter-Services freestyle championship.
On the serious side, early in War 11 he bossed
the Gunmounting and Torpedo Depots in
Sydney, sharpening worn-out teeth, then shipped
in the Hobart, to see his beams and bulkheads
torn by a Jap torpedo. After that, destroyer
Arunta (Hollandia, Biak and so on), then
destroyer Napier (Burma coast, and, with the
8.P.F., in strikes on Japan). •
Also a destroyerman, Wilson saw Nizam built
in Scotland, and saw what she could do at
Crete, the Tobruk ferry-run and on Malta
convoys- In destroyer Napier he was in at
the invasion of Madagascar, Engineer Officer
of the 7th Destroyer Flotilla. He won D.S.C.
for the Crete business.
At least one Coronation Medal has
gone to a fair-dinkum Australian —Larry,
a full-blooded aborigine of Derby (W.A.),
and a police-tracker since boyhood.
Member of a fighting tribe, and described
by policemen who’ve worked with him
as an unbeatable tracker, Larry served
on patrols in the north-west,
most of which lasted from a
month to five weeks. The
longest started as a routine
patrol and developed into the
successful investigation of the
poisoning of a white man by
a native boy. It lasted three
months. An iron-hard six-
footer, somewhere between
60 and 70, he is still a fine
horseman and rifle-shot. Now
off the active list, he draws
a police pension.
“Medic”: Distinguished in
both civil and military medi-
cal circles, Major-General
Frederick Arthur Maguire
has passed on in Sydney.
He served in New Guinea
and France in War I, head
of the 9th Australian Field
Ambulance, and ended up
with D.S.O. and the Assistant-
Directorship of Medical Ser-
vices. In 1941-42 D.-G. of
the same services, earlier he
had been appointed to take
charge of Army education. In
1942 he phoned Angus and
Robertson to the effect that,
as he was headed for a few
weeks in hospital, they might
send him out a couple of
thrillers. Handed the order,
with no knowledge of the
circumstances, the firm’s
Book Club duly forwarded
its current masterpieces. The
Devil Is Sick and Let Him Die. Anything
less Mephistophelean than the general’s
cheerful nature would be hard to find.
He maintained it to the end, even
through the incessant work of building
up a reputation as one of Sydney’s
outstanding gynaecologists, writing several
textbooks on anatomy, and, in between,
doing stretches at Sydney University as
acting-professor of anatomy. He was 65.
Allan Mackenzie MacDonald, M.P.
for Corangamite (Vic.), was 64 when he
died after a long illness. He was one
of the ablest rank-and-filers on the Gov-
ernment side, a companionable Old
Digger of the 14th Battalion, A.I.F.—•
wounded at Bullecourt —and with one of
the longest records of public service of
anybody in the Federal Parliament. Born
in the sheep country of Polwarth, where
his family had been for a long time,
he entered municipal politics in 1914 and
had been a councillor of Winchelsea ever
since. He had been president of the
Municipal Assoc, of Vic. In 1933 he suc-
ceeded his uncle as member for Pol-
warth in the Victorian Assembly and he
won Corangamite in 1940, achieving
office as Minister for External Territories
a year after his election and sitting in
the Ministry until the fall of the Fadden
Government in October, 1 1941. As
Opposition Whip he became an authority
on procedure and would have been a
good choice for the Speakership in 1950
if Archie Cameron had not taken it. His
omission from the Cabinet was a
matter for surprise, but he accepted it
cheerfully and loyally. He distinguished
himself as a debater while abroad as a
member of the Empire Parliamentary
delegation a few months ago.
The private lives of most cartoonists
are wrapped in impenetrable mystery —
and just as well. However, it is known
that Norman Lindsay spends his spare
time relaxing by working ; Frith used to
make maybe still does plasticene
“sculptures” ; and if Ted Scbrfield still
remains a hidden man, Heth, of The
Bulletin, has let the cat out of the bag
by getting himself engaged by Sydney
Mercury Theatre to give two matinees
with his puppets ; or, correctly, marion-
ettes. Apparently he took to this vice
when with an Army entertainment unit
during the war. One of his shows is
called “The Reluctant Dragon,” another
“The Circus,” and both will be staged on
June 20 and June 27. His star performer
is an immense and sumptuous green-and-
yellow dragon with scarlet tongue and
toenails that would do credit to the
PUPPETEER
brightest flapper on the “Woman’s
Mirror”; there are also a dragon-slaying
Sir Giles, a clown, a dog and a beautiful
skeleton named Napoleon Bone-apartwho
dances to the “Danse Macabre.” ' It
seemed superfluous to get another cari-
caturist to draw him for this page, so he
has done himself over.
At last the big panjandrum of the
Melbourne Olympics has been named.
As forecast, it is Big Bill Bridgeford
(both-war Diggers’ title); Lieutenant-
General William Bridgeford, C. 8., C.8.E.,
M.C., Greek Military Cross {Who’s
Who's assessment). Topping 6ft., and
not much less across, Big Bill hails from
Smeaton (the Victorian district from
which sprang General Northcott), just
missed Gallipoli, but had his measure
in France, 2 i/c of the Bth M.-G. Coy.
OLYMPIAN
at Fromelles, winning M.C. and gravitat-
ing to Monash’s staff. After that war he
was at Quetta (G.-G. Slim a three-pip
classmate), commanded the 25th Brigade
in the Middle East, thence gravitated
to Blarney’s staff, opposite-number to
Rowell. He got away from Greece, and
ended the war leading the 3rd Australian
Division, after taking it through
Bougainville. A widely-liked officer with
his power of command in his face, the
new Olympics chief administrative officer
is himself a claybird marksman with an
international reputation, and, as well, a
first-class horseman, in which art he
judged at Adelaide Show before War 11.
Among the artistic Coronation Honors
was an 0.8. E. to Napier Waller, the
Digger painter. He lost his right arm
with the Ist A.I.F. in France, and pain-
fully trained his left hand to the job of
painting. It is a characteristic of these
efforts at adaptation that the transferred
function is often pushed further than the
old one. From painting average-sized
pictures Waller took to executing murals
which grew in size till one of them
reached dimensions sufficient to cover
the four walls of the huge Melbourne
Town Hall concert-chamber with classic
figures. He also did the pastoral pano-
rama which decorates one of the ,bars
at Menzies Hotel and the 20ft. mural in
the vestibule at the Public Library. Born
at Penshurst (Vic.), he has a studio at
Ivanhoe.
Into the Silence:
At 93, at Cooma (N.S.W.), Ted Litchfield,
snapping a link with “Banjo” Paterson. Litchfield
was one of the polo teath which went from
Cooma to Goulburn in 1892 and, though
regarded as roughies, beat the classy locals on
the banks of the Wollondilly. Banjo was a
spectator, and on return # to Cooma arranged
for a city team to play the Cooma boys. Then
he retired to the Prince of Wales hotel, and,
naturally, was asked to recite “The Man From
Snowy River,” the hit-number of the period.
Instead, Banjo recited something more appro-
priate—“ The Geebung Polo Club,” which he
had written .after the Goulburn match. There
is still one survivor of that team —Zohch
Moriarty, still living in Cooma.
At Greenmount (W.A.), at 55, H. V. Rowe,
prominent mining-engineer on the goldfields for
many years, and later general-manager of a
Perth engineering company. A member of the
Kalgoorlie Chamber of Mines, he had been
g.-m. of the Sons of Gwalia mine and after-
wards head of the company which owned and
operated it.
In Melbourne, Alex Outhwaite, who, with
John Young, founded in 1909 the accountancy
firm bearing their names. A law-graduate of
Melbourne University, after a term as legal
adviser to Goldsbrough Mort he turned to
accountancy. One-time champion amateur
boxer and pennant tennis-player, he became
director of Army Canteens Service in War 11,
and got close enough to the New Guinea war
to have his luggage blown up by a Jap bomber.
From time to time he contributed financial
articles to The Bulletin.


K
pes, Poe'sJ y/
0
' pjse, P / 7
7 o
Poes!
Pvs<3 ; PvSS , /
r O^"
16 fii-L. Thus A&sousreLV uecesefify,
NOCTURNE


ABORIGINALITIES
“Swelpme”: Young Arch lugubriously
watched Chicker cleaning his teeth, then
stared mournfully at the top and bottom
sets that grinned at him from a glass of
water. “The game’s not fair,” he com-
plained gummily; “here’s me, twenty-
four, and without one solitary tatt. And
there’s Chicker, as old as Methuselah’s
billygoat, and he’s still got a mouthful.”
Chick grinned. “I’m forty-six,” he cor-
rected. “And it serves you right for not
cleaning your ivory castles like you were
taught to at school.” That brought old
Ted in: “I’m fifty-four, and I’ve got a
quid to say I’ve got more grinders than
you have. And for why have I? Because
I never rotted ’em by puttin’ that there
toothpaste muck on ’em.” Long George
cleared his throat and launched one of
his ponderous addresses: “As a matter
of fact, science has discovered that
dental decay is largely attributable to
chemical action in the water we drink.
In some parts of the world it is rare to
find an adult with a sound tooth in his
head. In others a dentist would starve.
It’s water” “Not necessarily,” Chick
interrupted. “Take blokes from Kiandra
—you can always tell ’em ; their teeth are
only stumps.” “No doubt the
water”—— George was persisting.
“Water be blowed!” cut in Chick. “It’s
the beer—it freezes, way up there, and
they have to chew it.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Salmon Gums”: The aggressiveness,
cunning or shrewdness of birds is re-
flected in their nesting-habits. Take the
magpie. She —the female does all the
work—builds a solid nest, doesn’t make
any attempt to conceal it, and reveals
its location by rushing out to attack any
intruder, size no object. She and her
mate —or mates —reckon they’re a match
for all the world put together, and their
confidence seems justified. They’ve got
everything in this neck of the woods
bluffed except the wagtails. They’ll fight
anything on wings, too, and they don’t
go to much trouble to conceal their nest
either. When an intruder approaches
they either attack or, if it isn’t a bird,
they flutter around the nest and defy it
to come closer. Not so their cousins
the Restless flycatchers. They build high
in a tree and leave the nest long before
an approaching intruder spots them,
apparently knowing that the sitting bird
is more readily visible than the empty
nest. But I mentioned cunning. When
a raven sees you approaching, and that’s
long before you’re within cooee, it slips
from the nest, moves quietly down the
trunk of the tree, and then flies off,
keeping low to the ground and keeping
the tree between you and it. Evidently
the raider of other nests knows best how
to protect its own.
“Laetitia”; One of the last aboriginal
murderers to be hanged in the Old
Boggo Road jail in Brisbane was
Campbell, a reprobate who, after a
Sunday-school education by the pioneer
mistress of Manumbar station, branched
out into a career of pillage from shep-
herds’ huts, isolated attacks on while
women and finally a series of gin-murders.
By his illusion of the vanishing tracks
Campbell eluded police trailers for some
years. With several natives whom he
had dragooned into becoming his camp-
followers he would leave an easily-
followed trail up to a point at which his
Come on in, Petal, the mud's fine. Good for your complexion."
own tracks would vanish into thin air.
Eventually, as a result of “certain in-
formation,” a Native Mounted Police
tracker spent 12 hours in an over-
hanging tree near the mouth of |he
Maroochy River and at the end of the
long vigil dropped foursquare onto the
shoulders of the unsuspecting Campbell
as the fugitive walked beneath him. The
mystery of the vanishing tracks was
solved with Campbell’s explanation that,
at the right moment, he would jump onto
the shoulders of one of his camp-followers
and be piggy-backed sometimes for a
mile or so to a two-rail fence, which the
rest of the mob would cross. Campbell
would then walk along the top rail for
such distance as he considered necessary
to throw the trackers off the trail.
* * * ♦
“Archaen”: Some authorities claim
that notable primitive inventions, such as
the plough, wheel, loom, etc., were dis-
covered independently in places far apart.
They argue that such things are funda-
mental necessities. Naturally, they
“Were bushed — it's not on MY map!"
claim, in any primitive community living
by agriculture in settled villages, some
bygone genius was bound to hit upon
such obvious things. Quite a lot of
archaeological evidence supports their
view, but then we have the Maya and
Aztec civilisations. Cut off from all con-
tact with other cultures, these peoples
went a long way in some directions but
made little progress in others. It gives
independent invention a bad knock. Other
authorities say that practically every
notable prehistoric invention came from
the areas adjacent to the eastern coast
of the Mediterranean ; from this centre
the ideas spread by diffusion. As time
goes on, more and more evidence in
favor of the diffusionists comes to light.
There is little dispute about the discovery
of iron, however. It almost certainly
originated with people living at the
southern end of the Caucasus Mountains,
and thence it spread all over Europe,
Asia and a large portion of Africa.
Copper and bronze could be, and prob-
ably were, discovered independently at
several times and places, for copper can
be reduced from its ore in an open fire
of hardwood charcoal fanned by a strong
wind. Iron needs a much higher tempera-
ture, which in those days could be
obtained only in one of the closed
furnaces used for baking glazed pottery.
In Anatolia, about 1400 8.c., it was
found that if iron is heated for a couple
of days with charcoal inside a pottery-
box which excludes air the iron absorbs
carbon and becomes steel. Later, when
the Hittite empire collapsed, the Ana-
tolian ironworkers migrated to adjoining
peoples, taking with them the knowledge
of how to make steel for tools and
weapons. That changed the face of the
world.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: The conversation had
drifted about, finally getting to unusual
and exciting gambling games. Long ’Un
had seen big sums won and lost at Ludo,
it costing two bob to start each counter
and another swy every time one was sent
back to “taws.” Tib recalled a pastime
in which all competitors placed a slip
of paper on the turntable of a gramo-
phone, the last slip to fly off when the
machine was revved up being the winner
of the sweepstake. But Chicker’s con-
tribution was cynical. “Them things are
all right,” he growled, “till women come
into the camp. I was workin’ for three
brothers on a little farm out from Stink-
inotandry. Nice little place, comfortable,
even had their own little lighting plant.
One night one of the brothers starts to
laugh like blazes. “Get a go at them
flies,” he says. “Look like horses, don’t
they?” He points to the wall and it does
look comical. Flies are walkin’ around
the rim of the lampshade, and their
shadows look about three times as big and
ten times as quick as they should be. We
watched for a while, then somebody wants
to bet that a shadow won’t settle on the
ventilator. It finished up with a little
circle drawn on the four walls, two-bob
each on the table, and the*bloke whose
circle got a fly-shadow in it first, sweep-
ing the pool. Great sport it was—till
the eldest brother got married. She
settled it.” “Crooked on gambling, was
she?” asked Tib. “Aw, dunno about
that,” mourned Chick. “But she had one
of them hygenic bugs—bought a fly-spray
and wiped out the whole field.”
* * * *
“Keima”; There are some puzzling
facts associated with the number of young
produced at a birth by different animals.
The antelope—which is harassed from
birth to death by lions and other attackers
and must, more often than not, die a
violent death —produces but one young
at a birth, annually. On the other hand,
one would think that the lion would pro-
duce fewer young than the animals on
which it preys, the antelope and the
zebra ; but the reverse is actually the case.
And why is a multiple-birth so necessary
in the case of some animals, such as the
pig? Whereas one mare, for instance,
would produce on the average no more
than 10 or 15 at the most in her lifetime
(though a mare was recently reported as
giving birth to her 23rd foal), one sow
might produce all told up to 200 piglets
—l5 or so at a time. Yet in their wild
state, before man domesticated them, the
horse must have had as many natural
enemies as the pig.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Kros”; Partridges and other ground-
nesting birds lose their body-odor when
nesting (B. 6/3/’53) —so that dogs can
come right up on hidden birds without
getting a scent. Reason for this loss of
odor has no! been definitely determined.
One theory, that known as “vicarious
secretion,” holds that odoriferous par-
ticles are normally given off from the
bird’s skin, but during the brooding
period they are shunted into the food-
canal, and got rid of in the bird’s drop-
pings, at a safe distance from the nest.
But this theory is unlikely to be correct.
It is most likely an inherited chemical-
glandular reaction, developed as a
natural corollary to giving birth —
inherited like any other instinct. It is
most improbable that chlorophyll is
responsible. Chlorophyll, essential to
most but not all plants in building tissue,
does not play any important part in the
animal world.
*♦, ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The Mayor of
Fremantle has received a request from
the U.S. for information about an alba-
tross that flew 3027 miles with a message
from some shipwrecked sailors. The
message, which was punched in a tin
collar placed around the bird’s neck, told
how 13 French sailors had taken refuge
on the Crozet Islands. It was dated
August 4, 1887. Forty-five days later it
was picked up, dead but still warm, on a
beach near Perth. In a straight line that
would involve travelling 66 miles a day.
The message was telegraphed to London,
but it took the Foreign Office until
October 6 to inform the French Govern-
ment. A French warship. La Meurthe,
reached Crozet Islands early in Decem-
ber, and in a hut on Hogs Island found
a note from Captain P. Majou, of the
sailing-ship Tamaris. The note said that
the survivors had reached the island on
March 9 and had found provisions left
there by H.M.S. Comus in 1880. After
the provisions were exhausted they left
for Possession Island on September 30 —
12 days after the albatross was found.
The seamen were never found.*
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver had been
watching a bulldozer. “Yair, they c’n push
trees over awright,” he admitted that
evening. “Coupla big stringies he shoved
down, an’ the limbs went flyin’ every-
where. Then he run right through a box
that’d been et be white-ants, an’ the
thing fell over backwards. Woulda
squashed ’im flat if it’d fell a foot closer.”
1 looked up from my paper, interested.
“Was talkin’ t’ the coot,” resumed
Seventyfiver presently. “He’s lorst some
bits orf ’is ’and. Coupla fingers ’n’ things.
An’ he got some ribs through his lungs
one time, an’ ain’t breathed prop’ly since.
’Mother time, ’e wus tellin’ me, a big
branch bust ’is collar-bone an’ split open
’is neck an’ ’e ’ad t’ get fourteen stitches
in it.” The old bloke dragged at his
pipe and nodded thoughtfully at the
tea-billy. “But I wouldn’t like the job,
Sol,” he decided, “just sittin’ there all
day pullin’ levers. It’d get so mono-
tonous !”
A FARMER’S SONG
The doctor and the parson,
The lawyer and the clerk,
They clamber on my bare, broad back
And hinder there till dark;
And hinder there till dark, me boys,
And I am growing grey
And getting groggy in the legs,
And still there’s bills to pay!
Great rains are riding the Divide;
But will they come in time
To green the flats, fill bullock hide,
And bring the lambs in prime?
And bring the lambs in prime, me boys,
And bring me a release
From those dunning lawyers’ letters
Re the fence round Murphy’s Piece?
A drought will come, as sure as eggs
Grow stale when waiting long
For clerks to pass them fit by Regs
Of boards that make a song—
Of boards that make a song, me boys,
About googs’ tint and weight,
While chooks are croupy, neck and crop,
’N’ the season’s running late.
With measles all the kids are down,
The Missus in a tear —
The quack he can’t run out from town —
Bad roads, and petrol’s dear.
Bad roads, ’n’ petrol’s dear, me boys;
But we bring the cream-cans in; i
The tractor runs the kids to school.
And fills the silo bin! i
The parson sobers Sunday’s air
With hymns, and ancient Word;
I snooze and fidget in me chair,
’N’ dream that crow’s a bird;
’N’ dream that crow’s a bird, me boys,
And not the devil’s wonder
Gathering by the dozen
When parson ploughs me under
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


“5.4. E”: When Queensland wasn’t
quite the well-ordered State it is today
I spent a few weeks in one of its
northern hospitals—and got first-class
treatment, too. Furthermore, there was
never a dull moment. Each morning the
walking cases gathered on the veranda
to witness the arrival of the doctor, whose
nightly battles with the whisky-bottle
and heroic restorative measures next
morning rrtade him a sight worth seeing
as he negotiated the ten-foot-wide gate-
way. Sometimes he made it; often he
bounced off a gatepost before swaying
over to the veranda steps. A victim of
the Demon Rum in the women’s ward
was deprived of her clothing to prevent
escape; determined to assuage a raging
thirst, she set off for town tastefully
garbed in a flannel nightdress with a bed-
pan cover in lieu of hat. She was re-
captured at the entrance to the main
street. A stockman who’d been kicked
on the head by a horse developed a perse-
cution complex, secreted a tableknife in
his bed, and spent the nights sharpening
it on the ironwork while running over
the list of names of those whose throats
he intended to cut. Thereafter our nights
were enlivened by sudden raids by search-
parties, making lightning swoops to find
the weapon. Each evening there were
battles with ancient pensioners who in-
sisted on going to bed fully-dressed. But
most vividly I remember a nurse who
came into the ward one afternoon with
a baby from the women’s ward.»Thinking
to cheer an ancient and moribund bush-
man, she asked “Would you like the baby
in the bed with you, Harry?” The old
boy was further from death’s-door than
she imagined. He leered. Light' cdme
into his bleary, faded eyes. His husky
reply was heard all over the ward: “I’d
a damn sight sooner have its mother!”
And the nurse went out of the ward in
a gale of laughter that was worth a dozen
of the doctor’s prescriptions,
* * * ♦
“C.C.1.”: On the track of three native
killers, my troopers and I struck the
deserted camp, under a great sheaf of
rock. Hungry after a day afoot in the
rugged country, old Corporal Noble drew
“Think of the money you'd save in shoe-leather with a car like this.”
my attention to cream-colored white-ants,
Cooked in fine ashes, sifted by hand and
sluiced with water, those termites made
good appetising tucker. Later, when the
myall natives of that part overcame their
fear of us, I watched the remarkable
deftness with which some of the older
women separated and blew the fine ash
off. The gathering alone of some thou-
sands of the termites required infinite
patience Yet with those insects on the
Nicholson (Gulf) River, plus the tiny
seed of nardoo on inland Channel
rivers, the natives of yore had a change
in diet which played no small part in
keeping these once-mighty hunters of
game in good health.
“Mat’s Mate”; To hear the
bloke talk you’d think he’d won
the war all by himself. Not only
did he defeat the enemy, he also
defeated everybody superior to
him, from sergeant-majors to
the G.O.C. He’d struck terror
into the enemy on every battle-
field from Seymour Camp
(Vic.) to the last outpost in
Palestine. This had gone on
from 2 p.m. to nearly half-past
five. Then somebody said to
him “What mob did y’ say y’
was with?” Mat cut in. “He
didn’t say,” he said. “He don’t
have t’. Anyone can see he was
in the air force —the hot-air
force.” After that the talk got
on to racehorses.
“Old-timer”: The boss had come down
to the hut for one of his visits —he loved
a yarn with the hands —and as the night
was warm and still we sat and lay about
the veranda in the light of a half-moon.
Presently the talk got on to snakes, and
from that the best weapons to use
against them. You can guess the range
of weapons suggested—doubled No. 8
wire, long-handled shovel, d.b. gun,
stockwhip, pitchfork, etc. —and there
were some scorn and wrangling as each
was examined and condemned in slow
dispute with the protagonist. The boss,
who’d been smoking in silence, listened
to all this, then he said, in an unusually
quiet and impressive voice, “Don’t jump
too quick, Fleming. There’s a Joe Blake
just behind you. I can’t see him too
well, but” A second later he was
the only one left on the veranda. “Sorry,
boys,” he said, as they gaped at him
from the open country. “It was just to
show you that most times when you
meet a snake you haven’t got a whip, a
wire, a gun or anything else.” He got
up and stretched, said he’d better make
for bunk and left. But he’d spoiled the
evening for us, and when Little Curl said
he wished the old blanker would mind
his own business we agreed.
* * * *
“R.T.N.”: I’ve cut down many acres
of belah forests for starving stock. Belah
is not much good on its own —too “bind-
ing” ; but, mixed with other scrub, it is
effective. Wilga, apple-tree and kurra-
jong are generally preferred for lopping.
But I have yet to see a scrubcutter cling-
ing to a spar of belah (B. 27/5/’53).
* * * *
“Mem”: The finding of old Paddy’s
icy cadaver by the creek in Morgan’s
paddock one winter morning rattled his
bottle-mate Charlie considerably. Chari
stayed off the grog for days and diligently
avoided the fatal paddock, though it was
a short-cut home. Finally he yielded to
the importunings of the bottle. Old
habit led his wavy footsteps to the creek-
bank to sleep it off. In the late afternoon
his surroundings came into focus, and
with a cry of dismay Charlie leapt up
and weaved off along the track towards
the road, which was several hundred
yards off through hip-high blady-grass.
It was one of those still afternoons, and
presently Chari became aware of a foot-
fall in the dry grass parallel to him and
“Excuse me —is there a milk-bar in this town ?”
not far away. It wasn’t a rodent scuffle
but a precise and measured step—left
foot, right foot —the grass swaying a
little by no visible agency. Chari
promptly took off, leaving a wake of
flattened grass and shreds of clothing
and skin on the barbed-wire fence. The
knee-high wallaby, startled, bounced off
in the opposite direction.
* * * ♦
“Kay Dee”: “Spicula” (B. 20/5/’53)
was unlucky. I came to Queensland 14
years ago and followed a poster to Heron
Island, where the turtles came up the
beach to lay their eggs and then
lumbered back to the water at a pace
which enabled several “semi-clad sun-
tanned females” to have a ride even as
depicted on the poster. I remember be-
ing warned to beware of getting my
hands between the shell and the neck of
my steed, lest she take to the water
suddenly and carry me to a wet end.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Betcha”; “Horseless Horseman’s”
suggestion (B. 20/5/’53) to inoculate
turkey-eating foxes with the red-mange
would prove only a temporary relief.
A couple of years ago in lower
Gippsland one rarely came on a
fox that was not infected with
mange. Now, though some still show
patches of the trouble, many more are
clean-pelts. Like rabbits with the myxo.,
would foxes in time become immune to
red-mange? I don’t know. I know only
that the welcome respite is over, and once
more we must make war on Brer. This
bristles with difficulties, for whereas one
sheepfarmer will tackle the job con-
scientiously, his neighbor—a non-breeder,
and upon whose property the fox does
little or no damage—neglects the job
entirely, thus making the first chap’s
efforts useless. In the days of high-
priced skins, trappers and “squealers”
accounted for many a pest, but these
methods should be strictly confined to
experienced men under .permission to
enter a property. Having had crops
damaged, gates left open and lambing
ewes frightened away from their new-
born offspring. I’ll take the foxes in
preference to the recklessly-armed
amateurs that pour out from neighboring
towns on weekends and holidays.
“The Missus”: Mrs. Woolbales, a
decidedly dignified type, arrived at a
local gathering minus her usual escort.
The president inquired as to old Wool-
bales’s whereabouts and looked de-
cidedly shaken when the lady reported:
“He’s in bed with the mange.” It was
quite true. Finding a mange-ridden fox
in a trap he had killed and scalped it.
The resultant rash proved extremely
painful and kept him in bed for a week.
Our bush nurse found the case rather
unusual and not exactly simple to cure.
» * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The Binghies who
manned the m.o.p. fleet in Torres Straits
when I was there a decade ago would
have horrified the hygiene-, sanitation-
and diet-experts. In the forrard .cabin
and under a hatch-cover drawn to ex-
clude any possible inflow of fresh air 16
of them would snooze in an atmosphere
rendered thick by the fumes of rope-
tobacco. Added to this would be the
salubrious odor of ancient bilgewater.
As a result of either the soporific effect
this would induce or the several pounds
of sodden damper with which they had
lined their insides just before dropping
off, they slept too soundly to be disturbed
by the outsize cockroaches which ran
marathon steeplechases over them. Of
course they paid the penalty for this de-
fiance of Nature. Such was their lack of
stamina that most of them would start
to get tired after spending only about
12 hours a day submerged during their
shell-diving pursuits.
« » # *
“H.C.8.”: She ran out and stopped
me. Would I help her? She’d been
doing the washing and the soap had
slipped into the tub. Naturally she had
felt about in the soapy water for it,
found it, fished it up and —ugh! She
held a dead mouse. It must have fallen
in the tub overnight when the clothes
were “soaking-in.” Would I get
it out for her? I was agreeable, but
felt obliged to point out that she’d just
told me she had fished the mouse out.
“Oh, no,” she explained with a shudder.
“I had it in my hand —ugh—but I got
such a shock that I let it fall in again.”
I did my good deed for the day and re-
ceived copious thanks. Escorting me
back to the gate, the little lady ran on:
“I’m having ‘one of those days.’ First
there was the snake, then this.” “Snake?”
I asked. “Yes ; it’s in that bucket hang-
ing on the clothesline —I had to put it
there in case Bubbsy got playing with it,
and you never know when a snake is
really dead, do you? It was on the wood-
heap when I went to get some copper-
wood. I just managed to wallop it with
a lump of wood as it went to slide down
through the heap.” I pedalled off think-
ing deeply on the mental processes of a
sex that will fearlessly kill venomous
snakes but recoil in horror from a dead
mouse!
* * * *
“Bass”: It’s being seriously suggested
that water from King Solomon’s Mine,
at Wiluna (W.A.), could be pumped into
the agricultural areas between there and
Geraldton. The idea of pumping water
out of the desert country sounds odd,
but then Wiluna was an odd town, and
its water-supply was something to marvel
at. The first warden to be appointed to
the field said in his first report that
the water-difficulty was quite un-
known there, since abundant supplies
of fresh water could be got at depths
ranging from 12ft. down. There are
also two beautiful freshwater lakes near
the ex-town, and during Wiluna’s heyday
about a million gallons was used daily.
Just before the town was abandoned a
Perth firm started a peanut-growing pro-
ject near by. The scheme was an initial
success and produced better crops than
came out of another and more famous
groundnut scheme. Don’t know why it
was dropped. It certainly wasn’t through
lack of water.
IT HAPPENS EACH YEAR
H 1 g S ner be dry,” a grey-beard said
A® - looked at the sky and shook his head.
Ihe wind’s in the east and the snipe are late,
Just the same as it was in ’Ninety-eight.”
’Tt’ s . g° ner .be wet,” another replied;
Inis morning a storm-bird screeched and cried
As it new to the river—l noticed, toq,
The ants are busy, the wild bees few.”
“It’s goner be dry,” another one spoke,
‘The, ground-frogs all have a different croak;
They re digging deep, and the new-moon lies
Holding its rain up inter the skies.”
Then muttered another, “It’s goner be wet,
Me bones are creaking, I always get
Them curious pains when the wet is nigh,
And it’s coming now in that hazy sky.”
It’s always the same, it happens each year
When waterholes dry and rain-clouds appear;
Rain-prophets talk as others decry—
"lt s goner be wet,” or “It’s goner be dry.”
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


Ordering Sherry. Sweet or Pry?
y’
•in
is pir finest buy
r
:
a
3#
IHvuww
The Bank of New South Wales was
established in 1817 when George 111 was
King. That was 136 years ago. During
nine reigns, the “Wales” has contributed
much to the Australian way of life, serving
not one, but every section of the com-
munity with a complete banking service.
Its network of over 850 branches and
agencies in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji,
Papua and New Guinea, and 7,000 agents
and correspondents overseas, makes the
“Wales” the largest and most widely
experienced, as well as the oldest trading
bank in Australia-
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALE
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5314C
Business. Rollery. Ete.
Work, Thrift and Taxes
At the annual meeting of the
A.M.P. Society the chairman,
Mr. Cecil Hoskins, stressed a
point which The Bulletin has
emphasised on more than one
occasion, namely, that “we can-
not expect others to lend to us
their savings if we ourselves are
not prepared to save.” It is
perfectly true. The more indus-
trious, productive and thrifty we
are, the more likely it is that
other countries will seek us out
for lending purposes. In
countries like Australia and New
Zealand, said Mr. Hoskins, there
was a danger that, excluding the
use of inflationary methods,
savings would fall short of the
amount required to finance the
optimum scale of development.
And yet in these countries there
was undoubtedly great scope for
development.
Australia’s chief economic
problem, as it has been presented
to Bulletin readers, is that there
is not enough production, not
enough profit, not enough saving
and not enough investment in the
country. The investor class has
been singled out for punitive
taxation, and yet essential
services are everywhere breaking
down because of a shortage of
capital.
In his book, Human Action, a
profound analysis of present-day
politico - economic problems,
Ludwig von Mises says:
What are the effects of confisca-
tory taxation on capital-accumula-
tion? The greater part of that por-
tion of higher Incomes which is
taxed away... .would have been
used for the accumulation of addi-
tional capital. If the Treasury em-
ploys the proceeds for current ex-
penditure the result is a drop in the
amount of capital-accumulation
The realisation of technological im-
provement is impaired; the quota of
capital invested per worker em-
ployed is reduced; a check is placed
upon the rise in the productivity
of labor and upon the concomitant
rise in real wage-rates. It is ob-
vious that the popular belief that
this mode of confiscatory taxation
harms only the immediate victims,
the rich, is false.
At the annual meeting of the
C.S.R. its chairman, E. R. Knox,
said in the same connection:
The standard of living of any com-
munity is determined principally by
"I don't drink, gamble or smoke. I can't imagine why
she left me."
production per head. Various factors
can assist, such as bountiful seasons,
efficient management, increased indi-
vidual effort. But -more and better
tools of production are the dominat-
ing factors. Tools in this sense are
invested capital translated into
machines, factories and raw materials.
Give a man the right machine and
he may produce 10 times as much as
with an outdated machine, or pos-
sibly 1000 times as much as with his
hands.
Mr. Knox went on to say:
In Australia and New Zealand the
method of taxing income pays no
regard to the fall in the value of
money and to the fact that companies
must accumulate adequate funds to
replace wearing-out assets. Our sys-
: tem not only taxes as presumed profit
much that is not real economic profit,
but also taxes it at very high rates.
It eats into the capital resources of
industry and so reduces productivity.
The investment of capital in pro-
ductive equipment is subject to the
hazards of inflation, to inadequate
depreciation allowances, sometimes to
bureaucratic and unimaginative price
and profit control, and to taxation
that can fairly be called punitive.
It is often overlooked that there
are two dividends from capital in-
vested in tools of production. One
is profit to the owners of the capital
and the other is increased production
from each man working, and these
two dividends together are the sources
of higher real wages and of higher
standards of living.
If the first dividend, reasonably
encouraging profits, is prevented,
there will be no capital expansion
and therefore no second dividend.
Underlying all our problems
today is that of inadequate pro-
duction, in respect of which the
40-hour week is a major factor.
With higher output per head
costs would be lower, and the
need for tax-revenue would be
reduced. Under analysis, the
chief ingredient in the recovery
remedy is found to be the doing
of a fair day’s work in return
for a fair day’s pay.
Oil in Papua
From L. Owen, oil-geologist,
and sorqetime general-manager
to Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum
Co., Ltd.:
Those articles on “The Search for
Oil in Papua” (B. 13/5/’53 and
3/6/’53) have a special interest for
me.
In 1937, when in London, I was
offered, through the Commonwealth
Oil Advisory Committee, the position
of oil-geologist in Papua to the
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Co., and
I accepted, with the specific reserva-
tion on my part, that the contract
was binding for one year only, Lon-
don to London, but could then be
revised and extended by mutual
arrangement.
On my arrival in Australia, and at
the request of the P.A.P. board, I
spent some time with the Oil Ad-
visory Committee at Canberra, where
I had lengthy conversations with its
members, hut no attempt was made
to instruct me as to my method of
work or as to my approach to the
several problems which, even then,
were known to confront P.A.P.
When I reached the working area
in Papua, I found that the well being
drilled on the structure named the
Jokea-Apinaipi dome was giving
trouble; it was sited in the middle
of a fault zone, which was also
responsible for a small gas show.
The rig being used in an attempt to
reach commercial oil was a small
portable one designed for a maximum
depth of 600 ft. The first advice that
I gave was that the rig should be
moved a short distance away from
the fault zone, thus allowing data to
be obtained with reference to the
relatively undisturbed strata outside
the fault-zone “mush.” The change-
over was made with the entire con-
currence of the late R. S. Haynes.
The drilling of the second shallow
stratigraphical test-well offered me
the opportunity of making a general
reconnaissance of the PA.P. P erl ™ t ’
and I was quickly convinced by the
mass of field evidence that the Oiapu
area to the south of Jokea-Apinaipx
offered very considerable advantages,
both structural and stratigraphical, over
the rest of the concession. I advised,
therefore, that the rig should be trans-
ferred from the Biaru River site to
Oiapu and be used there for exploring
the strata to whatever depth it could
reach with the object of obtaining
data not available at the surface,
which would aid in the location of a
deep well. In many ways the rig in
question was inadequate even for this
purpose, and, partly owing to labor
deficiencies, its designed depth ot
600 ft. was never attained, although i
was ready to drill much deeper. Even
in those days I estimated that there
was no hope of commercial oil above
5000 ft Information now available
indicates that double that figure is
the minimum at the most favorable
location.
The move from the Siam River to
Oiapu was made with Haynes’s
approval, and I was asked to obtain
quotations from London for a rig
capable of reaching 8000 ft. The cost,
however, was considered too high by
the P.A.P. board, and they entered
into negotiations for the loan of a
rig. The second-hand outfit, which
had reached a depth of 6293 ft. at
Kulnura, was landed at Oiapu at the
end of 1939. Meanwhile, I drilled
scout-wells to the limit attainable
under the conditions at Oiapu, but
always less than 600 ft. After I had
fixed the location of the first deep
test, two members of the Oil Advisory
Committee paid a visit of inspection
to the P.A.P. permit and spent a
week with me in the field, at the end
of which my programme and con-
clusions were approved without modi-
fication.
I left Papua early in 1940. By that
time the foundations for my first deep
well at Oiapu had been constructed,
but drilling had not commenced, and
I had, consistently and logically,
refused to site a second deep test
until I had had the opportunity of
studying and collating the data ob-
tained in the first well. The company
was left, by its own action, with only
one drilling location and without an
oil-geologist, and it was not until the
Oil Advisory Committee had been
disbanded that a second location —the
notorious volcanic neck —was made.
During my period of office I never
suffered from Government interfer-
ence ; all the “baffling and badgering”
came from the P.A.P. board. In
fairness to myself, I must put on
record that I was solely responsible,
with the blessing of the Oil Advisory
Committee, for arranging “the excel-
lent aerial survey of the area.” The
photographs were taken from a one-
engined plane and the facilities for
keeping the plane on an accurately
level keel were too primitive to allow
of the use of the photographs for
checking the “correctness of the map-
ping in the original application and
prospectus.”
The only well now drilling in Papua
is at Omati. It has reached the
phenomenal depth of 13,743 ft., and
has only just recorded hopeful strati-
graphical conditions, unfortunately
accompanied by caving. To suggest
that P.A.P. could muster the funds
or command the technical experience
essential to the drilling of even one
such well is manifestly absurd.
Following announcement of a
6 p.c. div., the £1 ords. of
Patons and Baldwins have re-
covered to 265. 6d. The shares
went as low as 19s. 9d. in the
1952 slump. Profit for the year
ended April was £332,055,
including some write-back of
excess stock-depreciation allowed
for in the preceding year. After
allowing for the 5 p.c. pref. div.
(£37,500) the balance of the
profit was equal to 19.6 p.c. on
ord. capital. The co. is conser-
vative in its financial policy, and
its assets already reveal consider-
able inner strength.
R. B. Davies, 25s.
The new fully-paid £1 ords.
in R. B. Davies Industries
(Australia’s largest manufac-
turer of builders’ hardware)
would yield 6.4 p.c. at 255.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Both
present return and future
prospects look attractive.
Raymont Poore has just
joined the board.
Surpluses
A Federal Budget surplus
of over £2O million in respect
of the year about to close is
forecast from Canberra.
Expenditure has been lower,
revenue higher, than
estimates. The position
strengthens the case for tax-
reductions. At the same time
a surplus of exports over
imports (for the 11 months to
May 31) of £319 million has
bejen announced, as against a
deficit of £3BO million for the
corresponding period of the
preceding year. Invisible
items (such as shipping and
insurance charges) will reduce
the surplus, but there has
plainly been a great improve-
ment in our external trading
position.


THE NORTH SHORE
GAS COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in New South Wales)
Registered Office; MILLER & BLUE STREETS, NORTH SYDNEY
Issue at par (£100)
of £450,000
SO/
7o
Registered Mortgage Debentures
CURRENCY approximately 5 YEARS REPAYABLE 30th JUNE, 1958
Full prospectus and application forms obtainable from
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
SUBSCRIPTION LISTS NOW OPEN
The Directors will proceed to daily allotment of the debentures as from
the opening date of the Issue. Interest will accrue as from allotment
date on amounts from time to time paid up on the debentures.
Applications will be received only on one of the application forms referred to and endorsed upon a printed
copy of the full Prospectus and may be lodged either at the principal office in Sydney of The Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited , or through branches of that Bank in New South Wales or Members
of Stock Exchanges,
DIRECTORS:
SIR JOHN HENRY BUTTERS, M.lnst.C.E.. M.I.E. (Aust.), Cleveland Street. Wahroonga. Civil
Engineer, Chairman; ARNOLD HOWARD SMEDLEY, 62 Wyong Road, Mosman. Company
Director- JAMES DAVID MacDONALD, 54 Moruben Road. Mosman, Company Director;
HENRY JOHN LUDOWICI, 274 Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Company Director;
ALEXANDER JOHN AMBROSE, A.M.I.Chem.E., 59 Stuart Street, Manly, Gas Engineer.
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
POTTER A CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Members of The Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
SECURITY FOR THE ISSUE:
The Debentures are secured by a Trust Deed under which the Company’s freehold and leasehold
premises together with all buildings fixed plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings thereon
by way of fixed security to be supported by registered mortgage and the Company s other assets
are charged by way of floating security both such securities being subject to the fixed and floating
securities securing prior debentures amounting to £1,200,0uu.
STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised issue of the
1 ’ debentures now offered for subscription in order to provide the sums required to be provided
in respect of each of the following matters is set out hereunder:—
(i) The purchase price of any property purchased or to be purchased
( ’ which is to be defrayed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of
the issue is Nil, but the estimated expenditure necessary for
extensions and improvements to buildings and additions to plant,
machinery and equipment and the expansion of the business carried
on by the company is *
(ii) Preliminary expenses payable by the company—Nifc
1 ’ Expenses of the issue (including underwriting commission and
brokerage amounting to £9OOO payable to the Underwriters in
consideration of their agreeing to procure subscr.ptions fOr or to
subscribe for debentures of the issue) are estimated to amount to £14,000
fiin Repayment of any moneys borrowed by the company in respect of
) any of the foregoing matters-Nil. But pending the expenditure of
the sum of £436.000 referred to in sub-paragraph (i) hereof, part
thereof will from time to time be used in reducing bank overdraft.
(1v) Additional working capital—Nil. -
£450,000
No amount is to be provided in respect of the matters aforesaid otherwise than out of the
proceeds of the issue.
, f s«*» or «*. XSfSTiSi?}
i smarts srjsn s-
h South Woles.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Welfare and Taxes
New Zealand’s whopping
national overhead, a third of it
due to the cost of the Welfare
State, has come under fire again,
as Mr. Holland’s Government
balks at departmental economy.
Maorilanders are paying more
than £lOO a head yearly in taxes,
£32 of it for social-security
benefits, and business leaders
are anything but happy about
the way enterprise is being
fleeced to meet the demands of
50 greedy State departments.
Post-war inflation and Socialistic
trends, which Mr. Holland has
been unable to reverse, have
boosted costs to a point where
total taxation, at £2OO million-
odd, is nearly double the figure
in the last war-year. This is
probably as much as can be
squeezed out of taxpayers in this
prosperity cycle.
Tax-rates have been cut a little
since the war, to leave national
income, swollen from, £330
million to more than £650
million, to yield the increase.
One of the changes as the years
have gone by has been a grow-
ing tendency for taxes to take
from the haves and give to the
have-nots, and to take back with
one hand millions paid out, in
benefits with the other. No one
has yet been able to say authori-
tatively whether the gathering-in
and redistribution of a large
slice of the incomes of taxpayers
in the middle and upper groups
results in a net gain or loss, but
there’s no doubt about the dis-
incentive effects of high taxes,
whatever the compensating
advantages of State handouts.
Altogether, the emphasis
seems to be too much on
sharing-out wealth and not
enough on creating it, which is
pro b a bly the weakness in all
fr el{ar / States .
Maofiland’s case is of special
interest because the level of
more monetary benefits capita is
unapproached by any other
country and is based on a high
average cvel of prosperity. So
£ar th = e , nd of prosperity has
been steadily and consistently in
£av ° r o£ «•“ social-security
system s mce *= da y « * as
founded 14 years ago and this
has apparently lulled many
Maorilanders into a sense of
a^se security which has no justi-
ficatioa the financial condi-
tlon of the system itself. From
t* l6 outset there has never been
an V attempt to establish an
actuarial basis or to create
reserves, in consequence Of which
the benefits payable must be
subject to adjustment following
an Y check to prosperity and fall
in revenue.
The outstanding characteristic
of Maoriland’s particular brand
of prosperity is that external con-
ditions determine the flow, and
this must continue to be the rule
as long as N.Z. remains highly
dependent on exports for its live-
lihood. For all practical pur-
poses, this will be an indefinite
time certainly of sufficient
duration to subject the social-
security system to several severe
tests if world prosperity
follows the uneven course of
the past half-century.
In a system of benefits that
has shown such mushroom
growth in the foundation stages
there must be a good deal of
sap, and a close-up view suggests
that the medical sector, which is
now costing more than £9
million yearly, for doctors,
hospitals and free medicine, is
badly in need of a thorough
overhaul. It can’t be good tor
either the health or the pockets
of Maorilanders that they are
drinking medicine at the rate of
£2y million-worth, or 255. a
head, annually. A peep into
kitchen cupboards, or household
medicine-chests, bears out the
impression that far too many
people have succumbed to the
temptation to run to the doctor
or the chemist on the least
provocation, and • doctors
appear to have been too
ready to prescribe drugs and
dope. Some members of the
profession were not above
exploiting the system for easy
gain in earlier years, until their
swollen incomes caused an out-
cry, but lately disciplinary action
on the inside has put an end to
most of this abuse.
Today N.Z. doctors describe
“medical affluence” as a myth.
They say that less than a quarter
of the total paid out in medical
benefits goes to them, that their
costs have risen sharply through
inflation, and that they’re trying
to raise the standard of service
to the public. Their Auckland
mouthpiece, Dr. Keith Holgate,
president of the local division of
the 8.M.A., hit back lately, when
he charged “a large percentage
of the public” with abusing its
privileges, and said: “The
success of the Welfare State
depends on good citizenship.”
There is high authority for this
view, which was first voiced in
New Zealand by the Archbishop
of Canterbury during his visit
two and a half years ago.
Anglo-Iranian Oil Company
First Full Year Without Supplies
from Iran
Production and Refining Developments
Sir William Fraser on Iranian Dispute
The 44th annual general meeting of
the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, Ltd.,
will be held on June 11 in London.
The following is an extract from
the statement to stockholders by the
Chairman, Sir William Fraser, C.8.E.,
LL.D., circulated with the report and
accounts:
The consolidated trading profit for
1952 was £45,354,732 after provision
of £14,198,946 for depreciation on
fixed assets, allied companies and
other trade investments, and oil ex-
ploration interests. The gross trad-
ing profit thus totalled £59,553,678,
comparing with £71,377,882 for 1951,
from which depreciation and other
write-offs totalling £23,682,949 were
provided. 1952 was the first full year
during which we had no oil produc-
tion from Iran and the effect of this
deprivation on our business, despite
the greatly increased supplies which
we obtained from other sources, is
reflected in the reduction in our
trading profits.
After providing £22,666,344 for
taxation on profits, the amount
available for reserves and dividends
is £25,165,966, compared with
£24,233,050 for 1951. Your Directors
have allocated £1,000,000 to Pre-
ference stock reserve, bringing the
total to £10,000,000, and have placed
£16,000,000 to general reserve, which
now stands at £97,000,000. They
have recommended a final dividend
on the Ordinary stock of 25 per cent.,
and in addition a cash bonus per £1
stock of Is., both less income tax.
The total distribution for the year
would approximate 7 per cent, on the
Ordinary stock plus general reserve.
The Company’s issue of £20,000,000
5 per cent. Debenture Stock in
January last was largely oversub-
scribed. The purpose of this issue
was to supplement the Company’s
existing resources in financing the
current programme of capital expendi-
ture, mainly on construction and
extension of refineries and building
of tankers. This large programme
on which expenditure during 1952
was approximately £57,400,000 and
during 1953 is estimated at
£75,000,000, is designed to maintain
the Company’s position in the fore-
front of the highly competitive and
progressive world petroleum industry.
OBSERVANCE OF
CONTRACTS A
FUNDAMENTAL FACTOR
Events regarding the Company’s
interests in Iran since my last state-
ment have been extensively reported
in the Press. There have now been
no less than five separate major
attempts to settle the dispute. On
each occasion the proposals were
rejected by the Iranian Government.
The proper observance of contracts
is a fundamental factor in inter-
national trade, and Her Majesty’s
Government and the Company have
stood on the principle, well estab-
lished in international law, that com-
pensation for losses resulting from
expropriation must be prompt,
adequate, and effective. While the
Company would be ready to accept
payment by instalments the Inter-
national Court of Justice must, if the
principle regarding compensation is
to be preserved, be free to give
unfettered consideration to the Com-
pany’s claims in respect of the-loss
of the 1933 Agreement. That Agree-
ment remained the unchallenged legal
basis for the Company’s operations in
Iran for eighteen years, the Com-
pany, on the strength of it, being
encouraged to make an investment in
a foreign country of unprecedented
magnitude. The facts speak for
themselves and entirely contradict Dr.
Musaddiq’s contention that the 1933
Agreement was never valid.
The Company is at present dis-
possessed of its property, rights and
interests in Iran, thereby suffering
grievous losses. The Iranian Govern-
ment has neither paid compensation
nor agreed on a satisfactory basis and
procedure for the future assessment
and payment of compensation, and
the practical effect of the Iranian
Nationalisation Laws of 1951 has thus
amounted to confiscation.
The Company, therefore, continues
to claim the title to all oil derived
from the area of its operations in
Iran, and has accordingly published
announcements in many countries
stating that it will take all such
action as may be necessary to protect
its rights should any concerns or
individuals participate in transactions
affecting such oil. Legal proceedings
have already been taken in Aden,
Italy and Japan.
PRODUCTION
ANb REFINING
Crude-oil production in Kuwait,
Iraq and Qatar was largely increased
during 1952, when our offtake from
those sources of supply totalled
some 25,600,000 tons, compared with
16,600,000 in 1951. During 1953 we
expect to have available some
35.000. tons from Kuwait, Iraq
and Qatar.
The Company’s post-war pro-
gramme for increasing its refinery
capacity in the United Kingdom is
being brought to fruition. The result
will be to have expanded this capacity
over ten-fold, from under 1,000,000
tons per annum pre-war to 10,500,000
tons per annum by the end of this
year, with a corresponding improve-
ment in the diversity and quality of
products.
In Australia, Laverton refinery at
Melbourne throughput was 161,000
tons, against 143,000 in 1951.
Work is proceeding satisfactorily
at our two large new refinery projects
at Aden and at Kwinana in Western
Australia. Both these refineries, of
5.000. tons and 3,000,000 tons
throughput capacity respectively, are
expected to be in operation in 1955.
The statement also details the
Company's expanding refinery opera-
tions in Belgium, France, Germany,
Italy, Israel, Kuwait and Aden.
SALES
The difficulties which we have been
facing due to the denial to us of
supplies from Iran were accentuated
in the earlier part of the year by
a world scarcity of tanker tonnage
available for prompt chartering.
Nevertheless, the A.1.0.G. group’s
sales of crude oil and refined products
in 1952 totalling just over 32 million
tons showed a decrease of only
3 million tons, or 8.6 per cent., com-
pared with 1951. Our sales of refined
products in the markets supplied
through our subsidiary and associated
marketing companies were above
those for 1951, though only by some
2\ per cent.
The commissioning of our Kent
refinery early in 1953 has effected an
important increase in our availability
of products of our own manufacture.
But the problems of supplying
economically our market outlets east
of Suez will remain considerable until
we can bring into operation the
refineries now being constructed at
Aden and Kwinana in Western Aus-
tralia. These are large undertakings;
construction work is being pressed
forward as rapidly as possible, hut
we cannot expect these new plants
to be on stream before the end of
1954. When they are completed, we
shall, in conjunction with the expan-
sion of our other refineries, have a
total refining capacity of some
30.000. tons per annum. Not only
will this allow for an appreciable
extension of our Group’s sales .of
products, which in 1952 amounted to
just under 23,000,000 tons, but-also
we shall have a chain of refineries
well placed to supply our markets
throughout the eastern hemisphere.
The volume of our sales during the
early months of 1953 has shown an
encouraging expansion. On the other
hand, market conditions are more
difficult. Selling prices have been
reduced as a result of lower freight
levels and, in addition, the more
ample availability of refined products
has led to very competitive conditions.
Consequently, profit margins today
are smaller than was the case in 1952.
DEVELOPMENTS IN
AUSTRALIA
In Australia, we have become
wholly the owners of our associated
company, The Commonwealth Oil
Refineries, Ltd., as a result of our
acquisition of the Commonwealth
Government’s shareholding. This
acquisition came about in consequence
of the Commonwealth Government
finding it had not the necessary con-
stitutional powers to coptribute its
share of the additional capital required
to finance the necessary development
of C.O.R.’s distribution facilities in
a rapidly expanding market. I take
this opportunity of expressing our
regret at the severance of a long and
happy association extending back to
1920. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, together with the Government
of Western Australia, have given us
every possible help and encourage-
ment over the construction of our
Kwinana refinery, for which we are
most grateful.


3 mMi
i mini
sQLSJSir.
Serf
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
re you an executor or
If so, have you considered transferring your responsi-
bilities to Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)?.
Almost every day of the year someone is faced with the
responsibility of accepting the Executorship of a. Will of
some person who has died.
Should you find yourself in this position, you may
discover, as many others have, that you can transfer the
burden of this work to Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited). It would be wise in such cases, before taking
any steps at all, to confer with one of our Senior Officers.
The services of Perpetual Trustee Company Limited are
also available where a grant of Probate (or Letters of
Administration) has already been obtained, or even where
an Estate has been in existence for a long period.
Why not write, or telephone 80377, to-day, for an
appointment?
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. B. KNOX: ALLEN C. LEWIS:
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S, MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bums, Philp and Co., Ltd.
. , To Re— Ro—
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1947. . 300,801 10 p.c. - 200.000 7
To staff fund, £42.738 1 58,063 3,261,036
Unexplained addition, £75,391.. 3,336,427
1948.. 329,759 10 p.c. = 200.000 7 7Q Rf - n Q
To staff fund, £49,909 J 79,850 3,416,277
Unexplained addition, £219,346.. 3,635,623
1949.. 344,280 llip.c. = 225,000 1
To staff fund, £56,156 f 63,124 5,698,747
From inner reserves, £717,819.. 4,416,566
1950.. 362,599 12ip.c. = 250,000 7
To staff fund, £59,864. . J 52 .735 4,469,301
Unexplained addition, £111,639 4,580,940
1951. . 385,684 12jp.c. = 250,000 1 R! - , ~R 9n<l
To staff fund, £70,420 J 65.264 4.646.204
Unexplained reduction, £85,380 4,560,824
1952.. 408,125 12ip.c. z= 296,875 1 Rfin , , Qfi „ s .
To staff fund, £75,390 f 35.860 4.596,684
Unexplained addition, £284,631.. 4,881,315
1953. . 378,152 10 p.c. = 287,486 1 07/1 a 047 ias
To staff fund. £24.796 f ’ 1 80
The cautious board lowered the div. from
12j p.c. to 10 p.c.—the lower rate had
been an annual event for the 29 years
to 1948 —not because insufficient was
earned to pay 121 p.c., but because
the outlook is uncertain and money
is wanted in all sections of the
business, and a lot more will be needed
during the years ahead, especially on the
shipping side, where prospects are
least encouraging. Here is the picture as
the chairman presents it;
Over the next 20-year period we might
want another £6,000,000 for renewing island
vessels. To provide this colossal amount
is a very difficult job. And we generally
find we have to dip into the accumulated
pool of earnings from other channels of
our business to help shipping along Our
main merchandising business carried on by
our Australian branches continues to
prosper and expand, and the same may be
said of our subsidiary cos. and country
stores. We are finding generally at our
retail interests and island connections that,
although profits are reasonable, we have to
put back most of what is earned to provide
extra stock at higher prices to cope with
increased demand And we have gradu-
ally to modernise many of our wholesale
and retail properties throughout Australia,
New Zealand and the islands.
For these and other reasons the co.’s
scrip possesses the essentials of a sound
industrial equity. The £3,000,000 of
issued capital has the visible support and
assistance of £4,947,185 of reserves, the
business is widespread, well organised and
efficient, has strong liquid resources, and
the sound long-term trading and financial
policy of the board foreshadows develop-
ment of further strength, especially in
the merchandising and investment
sections.
Early last term the parent passed its
big and flourishing chain-store business,
operating in Queensland and northern
N. S, Wales under the name of Penneys,
to a new and wholly-owned subsidiary,
Penneys, Ltd., paid capital £2,000,000 —
in size it ranks next after Wool-
worths and Coles. Because of this,
detailed p. and 1. items are not compar-
able with the previous year’s figures.
However, bigger trading in merchandise,
a greater volume of shipping, better
turn-round of vessels and “improvement
in the affairs of subsidiaries” are re-
ported. Advancing costs gobbled most
of the gains. The slip of £29,973 in the
declared net result was due to heavier
provisions for depreciation (£397,285, up
£22,241), on account of ships, and.for
bad debts and losses (£54,852, up £43,211),
mainly in respect of imported building
materials, etc.
The £378,152 of profit claimed was
13.1 p.c. on average capital compared
with 17.2, 19.3, 18.1, 17.2 and 16.4 p.c.
back to 1948. After payment of the 10 p.c.
div. and sending £24,796 (down £50,594)
to the staff fund (now £1,000,000-odd),
£41,074 remained for reserves, which
also benefited by £284,631 overprovided
for taxation in previous years. There
are other cupboards in which inner re-
serves are kept, too.
The big movements in balance-sheet
figures were due for the most part to
transfer of assets and liabilities to
Penneys, Ltd., and to a lesser extent to
trade and economic developments;
•„ , 1951. 1952. 1953.
Capital .. . . £2,176,858 £2,733,996 £2,999,825
Liabilities . . . . 3,954,182 5,331,969 4,267,109
Final dividends . . 125,000 156,250 149,991
Properties and ship-
ping • • • • 3,125,678 3,567,456 2,202,632
Investments* . . 3,799.508 3,499,508 6,646,735
Stock, etc. . . 1,943,891 3.370,928 1,705,242
Book debts .. 1,488,566 2.237,658 1,607,272
Cash ■ • • • 544,601 143,848 202,229
* Includes an unstated amount Govt, bonds.
The year’s net reduction in book-value
of properties, etc., was £1,364,824, in
stocks £1,665,686, and in outside liabili-
ties £1,064,860. Investments consist of
shares in subsidiaries and other cos. and
Government securities. Shares in sub-
sidiaries (£4,780,969) increased by
£2,260,425, partly on account of in-
creased capital requirements of country
stores. Shares.in other cos. and Govern-
ment securities (£1,865,766) rose by
£886,802, mainly in respect of Govern-
ment bonds, pending payment for a new
2500-to|i inter-island trading vessel on
order in Scotland. Principal subsidiaries
are Penneys, Burns Philp (South Seas),
Bums Philp (New Guinea) and Murray
Bros. (Parramatta). A controlling and/or
substantial interest is also held in half
a dozen country stores in N. S. Wales.
Other shareholdings include scrip in
Queensland Insurance and Bankers and
Traders Insurance.
The market, which is prepared to wait
for its benefits, prices the f.-p. £1 shares
at 555. 6d. to return 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div, basis, or 4.1 p.c. should the distribu-
tion be lifted to 12i p.c. again. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 52&. sd.
Email, Ltd,
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Net , Divs. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.*
’47..123,766 6 p.c. 7} p.c. 100,377 23,389 384,544
Share premiums, £163,176 .. .. 547,720
P. &1. credits new subsids., £2821 .. 550,541
Reserve adjustment, £6609 .. .. 557,150
’48..155,944 6 p.c. 7} p.c. 117,468 38,476 595,626
Net reduction intangibles, £ll6 .. 595,742
Addition reserves, £2359 .. .. 598,101
’49..177.526 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 130,991 46,535 644,636
Net addition intangibles, £243 .. 644,393
Addition reserves, £169,015 .. .. 813,408
To contingencies, £600,000 . . . . 1,413,408
’50..347,823 6 p.c. 12} p.c. 201,298 146,525 1,559,933
Share premiums, £155,689 . . . . 1,715,622
Net addition reserves, £153,218 . . 1,868,840
P. & 1. debit new subsids., £23,922 1,844,918
Net addition intangibles, £11,193 .. 1,833,725
To contingencies, £400,000 . . . . 2,233,725
’51..457,484 6 p.c. 12} p.c. 212,553 244,931 2,478,656
Share premiums, £50,737 . . .. 2,529,393
Net addition reserves, £10,895 .. 2,540,288
Added intangibles, £49,869 .. ..2,490,419
’52..440,845 6 p.c. 12} p.c. 218,425 222,420 2,712,839
* After deducting goodwill, etc., and allowing for
excess cost over par-value shares in subsidiaries.
This big industrial group, whose declared
net earnings have nearly quadrupled
over the last half-dozen years, consists
of a parent holding co. and 28 subsidiary
and associated concerns, most of which
were well-established when taken over.
There is £1,817,188 of capital to feed —
£lOO,OOO of it carries a fixed cumulative
6 p.c. —which had the support and assist-
ance of £2,712,839 of reserves at Dec.
31 last. The operating cos. turn out
electric-power generators, motors, meters
and, switch-gear, and refrigerators,
vacuum - cleaners, washing - machines,
stoves, heaters, gas and hot-water appli-
ances, radios, telephone equipment and
petrol and other pumps, etc.
Although the slip in last term’s net
earnings was actually much greater than
the figures in the table suggest, the result
was a very good one in relation to share
capital. Production, sales and costs were
all affected by numerous cross-currents.
Turnover (amount unstated) was 14 p.c.
lighter, the lines affected being mainly
the large range of electrical and other
household appliances turned out, especi-
ally stoves, refrigerators and radios.
Backbone of combined net earnings
appears to have been two large contracts,
one (amounting to about £l4 million) for
erection of seven Westinghouse power-
generating stations and two diesel instal-
lations for electricity-supply authorities
in the three eastern States, the other (£4£
million) for supply of transport
equipment Five of the powerhouses
were erected during the year, and con-
struction of the remainder is well
under way. A new subsidiary, Atlas Con-
struction Pty., was formed in association
with American interests to handle the
work, which includes the erection of
buildings and efficient installation as well
as provision of the necessary plant.
After taking stocks into account at a
conservative figure—-which involved
“considerable” writing-down of the cost-
price of steel and some non-ferrous
metals bought overseas allowing
£358,342 (down £6683) for depreciation
and something for taxation and other con-
tingencies, the declared net result was
only £16,639 lower at £440,845. That
leaves out of the reckoning an unex-
plained addition of £10,895 to reserves.
The 1951 profit was written after send-
ing £400,000 to a special “stock and plant
depreciation” reserve, raising it to
£1,000,000, which is additional to normal
allowances for depreciation, etc. This
act of commercial prudence was dictated
by the risks arising out of current
economic and other developments and the
widespread activities of the group. Tak-
ing this special provision into account,
the contraction in last term’s net earn-
ings was £416,639. Still, the £440,845
of profit claimed was enough to pay the
pref. div. (£6000) and show an attrac-
tive 25.5 p.c, on average ord. capital
as against 27.3, 21.9, 10.9, 10.1, 9.3 and
10.1 p.c. back to 1946. So the 12j p.c.
distribution (2£ p.c. of it labelled bonus)
was repeated with comfort for the third
year in succession. For the preceding
decade divs. averaged 7.8 p.c.
Owing to the large uncompleted con-
tracts already referred to, and “substantial”
deliveries of materials toward the close
of accounts, there was a sizeable growth
of £2,003,096 in stocks and work in pro-
gress, and an increase of £875,719 in
the amount coming to trade and other
creditors:
Email and Subsidiaries.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Parent’s capital.. £1,662,382 £1,766,451 £1,817,188
Outside interests* 87,296 45,026 55,207
Debentures .. 354,625 354,625 354,625
Creditors . . . . 1,147,571 1,968,869 2,844,588
Tax provisions, etc.t 2,428,870 3,672,168 4,029,330
Inter-eo. balances.. 213,632
Final divs. .. 132,803 123,932 127,455
Freehold, plant, etc. 983,794 1,152,477 1,423,575
Stocks 3,203,146 4,393,293 6,396,389
Debtors’ balances,
etc. .. .. 2,491,393 3,753,796 3,466,776
Cash and deposits 610,840 856,047 868,124
Inter-co. balances.. 84,307 254,114
Intangibles .. 259,578 270,771 320,640
* Including proportion reserves, f Including service
and other provisions.
The shrinkage of £287,020 in book-
debts reflects the stickiness of trade in
household goods, etc. The growth of
£271,098 in fixed assets was due to addi-
tions to plant and buildings. The latter
includes Melbourne premises previously
owned by Wildon Pty., whose issued
capital was bought in exchange for
202,950 Email f.-p. ss. shares issued at a
premium of ss. each. Fluctuations in
due dates of tax assessments, and addi-
tional provision for contingencies, were
responsible for the growth of £357,162 in
total provision for taxation, servicing,
etc. The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£3,161,659) increased by £24,003.
Since the close of accounts there has
been an all-round improvement in turn-
over, to help which the co, recently set-
up a new subsidiary to supplement con-
sumer-credit provided by established
finance houses. Also, to provide further
funds for buildings, plant and working
capital, £500,000 of 5 p.c. debentures.
maturing February, 1958, were issuer
Import restrictions continue to provide
large measure of protection agains
overseas competition. Nevertheless, th
outlook is one of keen trading.
The market expects the 12y p.c. distri
bution to be maintained, for the curren
term at any rate, and prices the f.-p. 5s
ords. at 12s, lOd. (12s. 6d. a year ago) to
return 4.9 p.c. The £1 prefs. at 24s
yield 5 p.c. Net tangible cover is 455, 6d
prefs. and 12s. lOd. ords.
National Reliance Investment Co.
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 11,625 4 p.c. = 10,000 1625 51,327
Capital loss, etc., £7O .. '.. 51,257
1946.. 10,931 4 p.c. = 10,000 931 52,138
Capital gain, £1767 .. .. 53,955
1947.. 12,808 4i p.c. = 10,802 2006 55,961
Capital gain, £1054 .. .. 57,015
1948.. 18,654 5 p.c. = 12,208 3446 60,461
Capital gain, £412 .. •• 60,873
1949.. 27,028 5£ p.c. = 19,571 7457 68,330
Capital gain, £l7O .. .. 68,500
1950. . 34,588 54 p.c. = 23,100 11,488 79,988
Capital gain, £9153 .. .. 89,141
1951.. 42,841 5J p.c. = 30,187 12,654 101,795
Capital gain, £190.. .. .. 101,985
1952.. 57,054 5i p.c. = 36,225 20,829 122.814
Capital gain, £24 .. .. .. 122,838
1953.. 46,794 5f p.c. = 36,225 10,569 133,407
From the shareholders’ point of view,
scrip in these “managed” investment
cos. is basically a long-term proposition,
with security of income—divs. are usually
moderate until substantial reserves have
been built up—and gradual appreciation
of capital over the years as the targets.
On a rising market achievement of these
objects is almost automatic. But, since
industrial earnings and security values
rise and fall with changes in economic
and other conditions, it is impossible to
avoid some contraction of both income
from and the market-value of a big and
widespread investment portfolio.
Overall the 24-year-old National
Reliance—it is one of the Capel Court
group and is handled at low cost —has
given a satisfactory account of itself.
Shareholders have had regular but
moderate divs. from the start. Average
for the first eight years, which included
the slump of the early 1930’5, was 4.4 p.c.,
for the next eight years of war and
controls 4.1 p.c., and for the seven years
to the close of last accounts 5.4 p.c.
Paid capital grew by new share-issues
at par fiom £50,082 at the beginning to
£250,000 in 1937, remained steady for the
next decade, and then advanced to
£630,000, which had the support of
£133,407 of reserves at March 31 last.
At the close of last accounts the co.’s
investments numbered 368. The distri-
bution between types of securities com-
pares as follows; —-
1949. 1952. 1953.
Bonds and debentures 8.8 p.c. 0.4 p.c. 0.4 p.c.
Preference shares .. 11.9 „ 8.7 „ 8.6 „
Ordinary shares .. 79.3 „ 90.9 „ 91.0 „
The emphasis in investment policy is
thus upon equities.
During 1952 net earnings in most
sections of trade and industry shrank a
little, the pinch being more acute in
textiles, in which the co.’s holdings
amount to 15.4 p.c. of total cost of its
portfolio. The shrinkage in income
(£53,544) was £13,533, of which £3273
was offset by savings in exes. (£6lOO,
down £423) and tax provision (£650,
down £2850). The net result was thus
£10,260 lighter at £46,794, equal to 7.4 p.c.
on capital as against 9.1, 8.1, 8.2, 7.6
and 6.1 p.c. back to 1948. There was
also a small net gain of £24 on sales of
securities, despite the general down-trend
of prices in the market. So the 5| p.c.
div. was repeated with £10,569 (22.6 p.c.
of the year’s profit) to spare.
The amount of outside money in the
business is moderate:*—
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital. . £525.000 £680,000 £630,000 £630.000
Creditors, etc.* 141,782 189,893 187,752 158,499
Tax reserve.. 7,958 17,951 19,665 12,188
Investments .. 697,682 722,247 907,794 926,321
Debtors, etc... 39,723 45,189 6,027 6,131
Cash . . . . 17,323 172,253 46,410 1,642
* Includes provision for div.
When the books closed the market-value
of the portfolio was £979,767, or 5.7 p.c.


8?
Tr'h\
'-d
'hi*.
,
c vio'^
i
At
Home
or
Away
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH
WHISKY
From Scotland—every precious drop .
By Appointment to
the late King Georg© VI.
4
I
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
JBB
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THIS AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
Cgtiniv
sd
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdewn, Sydney, N.B.W.
more than book-value (cost) as
against 10.9 p.c. a year earlier.
The general and immediate
outlook for both profits find
security prices is better than it
was a year ago.
At 11s. (Its, 3d. a year ago),
the co.’s f.-p. 10s. shares return
5.3 p.c. on a 5| p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 12s. Id. per share.
New Broken Hill Consolid’d
Dec., Profit. Dividends, t Reserves.
£* £» £*
1948. .322,392 20 p.c. = 93,112 1,719,410
Share premiums, £603,524.. 2,322,934
Net unexp. addition, £16,289 2,339,223
1949. .404,014 30 p.c. = 184,898 2,558,339
From tax reserve, £155,000 2,713,339
Net unexp. addition, £6402. . 2,719,741
1950. .472,731 SO p.c. = 179,295 3,013,177
Net unexp. addition, £10,671 3,023,848
1951. .619.024 50 p.c. = 294,156 3.348,716
Net unexp. addition, £8252.. 8.356,968
Tax provision written back,
£37,848 3,394,816
1952. .558,020 30 p.c. = 180,695 3,772,141
t Kate of div. is that declared, but amount
is shown after deducting English tax.
* Sterling.
With its 10-year development
programme nearing completion,
the co., whose leases adjoin
Zinc Corp.’s at the Barrier
(N.S.W.), is on the way to be-
coming one of the world’s big,
high-grade, low-cost lead-zinc
producers. The mine is open-
ing up nicely at depth, and good
progress is being made with
shaft-sinking, development and
installation of winding, crush-
ing and mill equipment.
The shrinkage of £61,004 in
last term’s net earnings was due
to lower metal prices, higher
operating costs, increased expen-
diture on development and larger
allowance for depreciation,
partly offset by reduced allow-
ance for taxation:
1951. 1952.
Gross earnings .. £3,329,648 £8,215,440
Exes., etc. .. 1,616,420 1,899,376
Development .. 196,344 251,684
Depreciation .. 178,000 245,600
Tax provision . . 719,860 260,760
Net profit .. 619,024 558,020
The £558,020 of profit was
49.8 p.c. on the £1,120,590 of
capital as against 55.2, 42.1, 36
and 38 p.c. back to 1948. The
nominal rate of div. dropped
from 50 p.c. to 30 p.c.—
nominal because U.K. income
tax, now 9s. in the £, makes 30
p.c. worth only 20.7 p.c. in Aus-
tralian currency after allowing
exchange at the current rate Of
the year’s profit £377,325 re-
mained to help finance further
development, etc.
Mill-feed (up 23,870 tons)
was similar in grade to the
previous years:
Ore Grade
Milled, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c..
1951.. 211,608 8.6 2.0 12.3
1952.. 235,478 8.5 1.9 12.4
An extra 2401 tons of lead con-
centrates (25,284 tons) and 5607
tons of zinc concentrates (51,838
tons) were produced. The lead
concentrates contained 18,430
tons (up 1724 tons) recoverable
lead and 405,80 loz. (up
19,1840 z.) silver.
Actual sales of lead and silver
and of zinc concentrates were:
Zinc Con-
Lead, Silver, centrales.
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1951.. 18,592 422,325 34,201
1952.. 16,894 381,075 50,881
Of last year’s sales 20.5 p.c. of
the lead and 33.5 p.c. of the
zinc concentrates were on the
Australian market, and the bal-
ance mainly in U.K. Average
sterling prices received per ton
of metal were:
Lead— 1951. 1952.
Overseas .. £147 1 8 £ll2 16 3
Australian ~ 53 11 5 62 17 6
Zinc-
Overseas . . 162 7 5 139 10 8
Australian .. 50 10 0 59 19 4
The 1952 figure for silver was
74.78 d. (down 4.87 d.) an ounce.
The controlled Australian price
for both lead and zinc was
lifted from £A6S to £A9S per
ton on Sept. 4 last, and control
ceased on April 17, 1953, since
when the equivalent of overseas
prices have ruled in the local
market.
London sterling averages for
lead and zinc moved in this way
after the books were ruled off:
Lead. Zinc.
Jan., 1953 . . £99 2 0 £BB 15 9
April, 1953 . . 79 14 2 71 11 5
June 10, 1953 . . 84 15 0 .69 17 6
Developments in Korea and
many other factors are respons-
ible for the drop. The chairman
sums up the position thus:
In 1951 Governments were clarabr-
ing for supplies and giving every
inducement for new production, while
in 1952 some old-established mines
in U.S.A. could no longer operate
economically, and their remaining ore
reserves may be lost indefinitely
Long-term Government contracts have
been entered into with new high-cost
producers at floor prices which are
now well above any ceilings that
established producers can hope to
reach. These subsidised metals will
add to market supplies, and some old-
established efficient producers may be
closed down to make way for this
metal.
First section of the co.’s new
350,000-ton-p.a. mill came into
operation on Sept. 8 last, and
is running smoothly. It handled
45,110 tons of the ore treated
during the year. The service-
shaft, concreted to 2813 ft., is not
expected to be completed before
1954. Meanwhile, ore in excess
of one-shift capacity of the haul-
age-shaft (down 3250 ft.) will go
through Zinc Corp.’s main shaft
and will continue to be treated
at the Corp.’s mill. The resale
of ore to Zinc Corp. in return
for ore purchased (109,000-odd
tons) has been deferred.
The co.’s measured ore
reserves at Dec. 31 last were:
Assay
Ore, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
Above No.
16 level .. 800,000 5.2 1.0 14.2
Below No.
16 level .. 1,600,000 13.3 3.4 9.3
Total .. 2,400,000 10.6 2.6 10.9
Drilling and other development
have disclosed a lot more high-
ferade stuff outside the measured
limits on and below No. 19 level
(2760 ft.).
The year’s capital expenditure
£1,333,173 plant £678,083
and development £655,090 —was
met from co.’s own resources:
1951. 1952.
Cash, Govt, bonds £1,980,288 £1,052,269
Debtors .. .. 259,006 33,098
Stocks ~ .. 141,116 319,646
£2,380,410 £1,405,018
Less liabilities* .. 1,661,204 1,349,955
Net current assets £719,206 £55,058
Machinery, etc. ( less
depreciation) .. 1,421,670 1,854,158
Mine expenditure
account.. .. 2,328,432 2,983,522
Paid capital .. 1,120,592 1,120,592
Reserves ~ .. 8,348,716 3,772,141
All amounts shown are sterling.
♦ Includes provision for taxation.
Over the next three years expen-
diture on shafts, buildings, plant,
etc., is put at £1,200,000, or there-
abouts, and further mine
development may call for a like
amount. The lot is to be met out
of provisions for depreciation
(estimated £1,000,000), surplus
earnings, current financial
resources and temporary outside
assistance. It all means a con-
servative dividend policy in rela-
tion to net earnings.
In the market the f.-p. ss.
shares eased from 295. early in
1953 to 225. 6d. last week. At
the lower figure the immediate
return is 4.6 p.c. on a 30 p.c. div.
basis, after allowing for U.K.
tax and exchange.
The A.M.P.
In B. 10/6/’53 the “Wild Cat”
described the A.M.P. Society as
being the second-biggest mutual
life office in the British Com-
monwealth. It is, in fact, the
biggest purely mutual office in
the Empire.
VICKERS LIMITED
Energetic Policy Aimed at Increasing Exports
Sir Ronald Weeks Reviews Diverse Activities of the Group
The Eighty-Sixth Annual General
Meeting of Vickers Limited was held
uu May 21 at Caxton Hall, London,
England, Lieutenant - General Sir
Xionald M. Weeks, K.C.8., C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., M.C., T.D., the Chairman,
presiding.
A detailed review by the Chairman
of the group’s activities had been cir-
culated to members with the report
and accounts, for the year ended
December 31, 1952, in the course of
which it was stated: —
SHIPBUILDING
Excellent progress has been made
during the year on the heavy pro-
gramme at Vickers-Armstrongs’ two
shipyards. These, in common with
other yards In Britain and through-
out the world, have been engaged
largely on tanker construction, and
four large tankers were delivered
during the year.
The naval yard was honoured In
November by the visit of her Royal
Highness the Princess Margaret, who
launched the T.E.V. “Maori” for the
Union Steam Ship Company of New
Zealand Limited. This royal visit
was the culminating point in an out-
standing year, during which the ton-
nage of ships launched was an all-
time record for the yard and ex-
ceeded that of any other shipyard
on the Tyne.
Present orders include a consider-
able volume of work for the Admi-
alty, a large passenger liner, '“Or-
mva,” for the Orient Line, 13 cargo
nd passenger liners, and no less
ban 23 large oil tankers for oil
companies and independent tanker
operators in Great Britain, Norway,
he United States, and elsewhere.
Cockatoo Docks: The Dockyard
continues to be occupied with work
for the Royal Australian Navy, in-
cluding the construction of two de-
stroyers of the most modern type, to
be followed by two fast frigates. The
machinery and boilers for an addi-
tional two vessels of each of these
types are also being manufactured at
Cockatoo.
H.M.A.S. “Voyager,” the first of
these destroyers, was launched by
Mrs. R. Q. Menzies, the wife of the
Prime Minister, on March Ist, 1952,
and fitting out is proceeding. The
conversion of two old destroyers to
fast escort vessels is also in hand,
and the modernisation of another one
is nearing completion. The Graving
Docks have been kept busy during
the period, and large repairs to
several merchant ships, damaged by
grounding or collision, have been
carried out.
The state of the Dockyard con-
tinues to improve. Some additional
buildings have been erected, and
approval has been received for the
purchase of a large number of
machine tools required for the naval
construction programme, many of
which have been installed.
AVIATION
Progress has been made simultane-
ously on three different phases of
aircraft development and production.
The main volume of productive capa-
city has been engaged in the com-
pletion of existing contracts for mili-
tary aircraft. At the same time a
most determined and successful effort
has been made to achieve a rapid
build-up of production on new super-
priority aircraft, the Valiant bomber,
the Swift fighter, and the Viscount
airliner. The development of highly
advanced aircraft continues. Orders
received for the Viscount during the
year include one for six aircraft from
Trans-Australia Airlines.
ROAD AND RAIL TRANSPORT
The Metropolitan-Cammell Car-
riage and Wagon Company Limited
started the year with a record order
book, but owing to continued short-
ages of steel have been working
under difficult conditions.
Most of the large wagon shipments
were for Commonwealth countries.
More than 70 per cent, of the value
of orders at the beginning of 1953
was for export.
HEAVY ENGINEERING
The demands of the re-armament
programme, together with require-
ments for the re-equipment of civil
industry, have maintained a high
rate of output in departments en-
gaged on heavy engineering, and
there has been little sign of the fall
in demand which is apparent in the
light engineering field.
Delivery of Centurion tanks has
been maintained at a high level
during the year. An excellent repu-
tation has been won by this tank,
especially among troops who have
had first-hand experience of it in
action in Korea. It is, possibly,
not sufficiently well known that
Vickers-Armstrongs are the “design-
parents” of this tank.
Delivery of VR.IBO tractors com-
menced in April and considerable
numbers have been supplied since
that date, a large percentage being
for export.
The design of the second tractor in
the series, a smaller vehicle known
as the VRx, has now been completed;
prototypes are almost ready and
should be running in the very near
future.
In 1952, Vickers Limited acquired
Onions and Sons (Levellers) Limited
of Bilston, Staffordshire. This com
pany has developed during the past
12 years a highly successful range of
earth-moving equipment ancillary to
track mounted tractors. The associ-
ation of Onions equipment with the
Vickers tractor makes possible an
expansion of output in step with the
growing demand of earth-moving
machinery.
Vickers Rnwolt: The heavy en-
gineering products of Vickers Eu-
wolt Proprietary Limited have been
in active demand throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, but output
has been retarded by shortage of
labour,- particularly tradesmen, and
by a period of power rationing.
Materials were also in short supply,
but this has been overcome by special
efforts, including the importation of
steel.
Additions hare been made to the
plant In all Departments, and the
general efficiency of production has
been well maintained. Extensions
to tbe Foundries are in hand and
will be completed early in 1953. Out-
put and sales for the year main-
tained a high level, but conditions
worsened towards the end of 1952,
and the position is not as buoyant as
at the comparable time in 1951. The
current sisuation, however, is satis-
factory and 1953 should be a suc-
cessful year.
CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH
In the course of his address to the
meeting the Chairman said; —
This is the Silver Jubilee year of
Vickers-Armstrongs Ltd., our princi-
pal subsidiary. It will not be neces-
sary for me to remind you of the
part played by that Company in the
production of the vast range of
weapons and equipment needed to
bring the second World War to a
satisfactory conclusion.
RE-ARMAMENT PROGRAMME
During 1952 the works have been
fully occupied, but it is already
obvious that there may be gaps to
fill in our capacity in 1953 and 1954
owing either to cancellations or to
the spreading of the Government pro-
gramme.
The aircraft - carrier H.M.S.
“Hermes” was launched at Barrow
by Lady Churchill on February 16,
1953. This is the last large warship
that will be launched from Barrow
yard for some time, but we still have
an important contribution to make to
the Naval requirements.
The aircraft programme is gather-
ing momentum, and in the Valiant
and the Swift we have two aircraft
which, in their respective fields,
should emulate the high reputation
of their distinguished predecessors.
Our aircraft division has been
working for some time on the de-
velopment of guided weapons under
contract to the Ministry of Supply.
We have had a team stationed at
the long range weapons establish-
ment in Australia for the past 18
months.
SHIPPING AND AIRCRAFT
You may like to know that in
1952 the naval yard actually achieved
an all-time record in the amount of
tonnage launched. I can confidently
assert that at Barrow and Newcastle
we have two of the most efficient
shipyards in the world.
Regular Viscount services came
into being on 8.8. A. routes on April
18; these are the world’s first pro-
peller-turbine airline services.
Further derivatives of the Viscount
will appear in the years ahead.
In addition to our heavy Valiant
commitments it will be possible with
our existing facilities to develop in
due course a potential output of up
to 100 Viscounts a year, which is high
by any standard, including Ameri-
can.
EXPORT ORDERS AND OVER-
SEAS INVESTMENTS
Currency restrictions, nOn-availa-
bility of import licences and other
factors have contributed consider-
ably to the difficulties we have faced
in almost all the export markets.
Nevertheless, a reasonable measure
of success has been achieved. South
Africa. Australia and New Zealand
are difficult for us because of import
restrictions, but, in spite of this,
new orders for Condensing and Feed
Heating Plants have been obtained in
South Africa. Additional orders for
Cement Making Machinery have been
received from Northern Rhodesia and
New Zealand and for Pumping Plant
from Pakistan, British Guiana,
Singapore and Nigeria. Orders for
British Clearing Presses were re-
ceived for Australia.
During the winter months your
managing director. Sir James Reid
Young, made a comprehensive tour
of the agents in the United States,
New Zealand, and Australia, and
visited the Works at Sydney, Cocka-
too Docks & Engineering Co. Pty.
Ltd., and at Melbourne, Vickers Ru-
wolt Proprietary Ltd.
Cockatoo is fully employed, and a
new lease is being negotiated where-
by we hope to ensure that our
happy relations with the Australian
Government will continue for many
years to come. As might be ex-
pected from the general economic
situation in Australia, the order book
of Vickers Ruwolt has fallen con-
siderably, but the results for 1952
were satisfactory.
STEEL
I am not in a position to make any
definite pronouncement as regards
English Steel Corporation.
Last year I expressed the view that
it would normally be our desire to
re-acquire our control of English
Steel Corporation subject to the
terms being satisfactory and subject
to political, financial and economic
factors. That is still the position.
PROSPECTS
The fact that our activities are so
widely spread gives encouragement
for the future as it Is unlikely that
every one of them will decline at
the same moment.
Our shipbuilding order book is
good for some years ahead.
The aircraft division, backed by
our design and technical experts
and with a growing world market,
should show an increased turnover
for many years ahead, both in mili-
tary and in civil aviation.
If my views on the probable ex-
pansion of our aircraft and tractor
divisions prove to be correct, we
shall, quite apart from a possible re-
investment in steel, require large re-
sources to finance capital expendi-
ture and probable further increases
in stocks and work-in-progress. Our
large resources will be taxed if cir-
cumstances permit us to carry out
the full programme which is en-
visaged.
We shall pursue most energetically
the policy of increasing our exports
and the profitable employment of our
liquid resources, and I will conclude
with somewhat guarded optimism
that 1953 will be at least as good as
1952.
The report and accounts were
adopted.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO OWEN ROBERT DONNELLY late of Jeldi’s No.
164 Goulburn Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
VIOLA JOYCE DONNELLY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1727 of 1953 on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 17th August 1953
and a copy of the Petition may be obtained free of
charge from MESSRS. COPE, NORTON & SEDG-
WICK, Solicitors, Barker Street, Casino. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Over 1200 guests attended an illumin-
ated and beautifully-decorated Govern-
ment House for the ball given by the
Governor and Lady Brooks in honor of
the Queen’s Coronation birthday. In
the vice-regal party were Acting Chief
Justice Sir Charles Lowe and Lady Lowe,
the Acting Premier, Mr. Galvin, and
Mrs. Galvin. Of magnolia satin. Lady
Brooks’s gown had a panel of jewel-
encrusted lace. Anne Spraggett’s white
tulle frock had a softly-draped bodice.
Among many beautiful gowns were
Lady Disney’s driftaway, midnight-blue,
gold-spangled tulle. Lady Manifold’s of
white guipure lace, Mrs. Everard
Baillieu’s slipper-satin in rainbow hues,
Mrs. Gordon Chirnside’s silver brocade
with its heavy Coronation-blue and
diamente - encrusted jewel - embroidery.
Lady Angliss’s silk French faille in yel-
low-blonde tonings, Mrs. Simon War-
render’s white faille and Mrs. Bernard
Evans’s black velvet and tiny white
ermine tippet.
* ☆ ☆
The Coronation ball given by 50
hostesses for the Q.V. Hospital, at
Raveloe, which was lent for the occasion
by Sir Harold Gengoult Smith and his
wife, was attended by the Governor and
Lady Brooks, who were accompanied by
Col. R. Spraggett and his daughter
Anne. Lady Brooks wore pale-pink
Chantilly lace. The vice-regal party was
welcomed by the president of the hospital.
Lady Brookes, who wore orchid-pink
satin embossed with a silver design. Com-
mittee-members presented to the Gover-
nor and Lady Brooks were Mesdames
Hamer, Wenzel, Hamilton Sleigh, Ross
Grey Smith, Arnold Isaacson and June
Cocking. Mr. Louis Nelken was hon.
treasurer.
☆ ☆ ☆
Over 400 attended the Coronation
dinner-dance at the Chevron. Over the
entrance hung flags and the coat-
of-arms, while the foyer was draped
with bunting and filled with red hibiscus
and blue and white hydrangeas. Under
a grouping of flags three gilt lions
couchant were impressive, and bunting
was used also to decorate dining-room
and lounges. Among guests were Mr.
and Mrs. Tom Hastie, Judge and Mrs.
Reid, Dr. and Mrs. J. de Crespigny, Mr.
and Mrs. John Carrodus, Mr. and Mrs.
S. Aarons, Mr. and Mrs. Don Webster
(from Canada) and Mr. and Mrs. Carl
Balchaver.
☆ * ☆
Another notable dinner-dance was at
Claridge’s. Celebrating were Mrs.
Robert Lane, Snr., whose party included
her son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Lane, the George Lairds
and Mr. and Mrs. Eric Lampe. The
Frank Watts entertained Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Hotchkiss. Philip Dare was with
his attractive wife; the Bill Gluths and
Mrs. Walter Ebstein also were there.
☆ ☆ ☆
To farewell the head of the U.K.
liaison staff in Melbourne, Air Vice-
Marshal G. Harcourt-Smith, and his
wife, Air Vice-Marshal and Mrs. J. E."
Hewitt gave a late-afternoon party at
their Toorak home. Mrs. Hewitt’s
bronze-and-red-shot taffeta frock had a
bodice with a rolled collar. Mrs. Har-
court-Smith’s suit was of black faille.
Included in the guests were Lieut.-Gen.
Sir Sidney Rowell and Lady Rowell and
their daughter Rosslyn, Air-Marshal Sir
Donald Hardman and his daughter Sally,
the Norman Robinsons, Mr. and Mrs.
Ross Grey Smith, the John Cassons,
U.S. Consul-General Henry E. Stebbins
and Mrs. Stebbins, Captain and Mrs. R.
Wayne Denbo, Commander R. Macklin
and Mrs. Macklin, Mrs. John Middle-
ton, the W. W. Killoughs, Mr. and Mrs.
W. Thomas, Captain J. Burke and Mrs.
Burke.
☆ ☆ ☆
When the Governor and Lady Brooks
arrived at the State Theatre for the gala
performance of “A Queen Is Crowned”
they entered through a guard-of-honor
formed hy Boy Scouts, and were wel-
comed by the Victorian manager of
Greater Union Theatres, Mr. M. J.
Collins, and Mrs. Collins. Lady Brooks
wore deep-wine corded faille and a
platina fox stole. Mrs. Collins’s gown
was of gold-embroidered sea-green taffeta.
Among official guests were acting Lord
Mayor Cr. O. J. Nilsen, who was accom-
panied by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
W. J. Brens, John Galbally, M.L.C.,
representing the Premier, and Mrs.
Galbally, the Archbishop of Melbourne,
Dr. J. J. Booth, and Mrs. Booth, Air-
Marshal Sir Donald Hardman and his
daughter Sally, Lieut-General Sir Sidney
Rowell, Lady Rowell and their daughter
Rosslyn.
☆ ☆ ☆
The French couturier trend was evident
in the interesting and varied collection
of Ecstasy creations shown at W. R.
Hughes’s Flinders-lane salon. Among
notable features were the tiny matchbox-
jacket topping formal ensembles; the
delight of the tulip-and-trumpet skirt,
used in both day and evening fashions ;
and the beauty of the materials from
England and the Continent. From Sekers
of London comes 100 p.c. nylon fabric
grainyl, which has the texture of
1 a heavyweight shantung, and from an
Australian firm comes “givre” faille,
which makes up as well as any faille
from abroad. One lovely fabric was a
lacquered cotton which washes, and was
seen in black with a gold fleck. The
matchbox-jacket mentioned is most effec-
tive when over a sheath dress, and often
it is lined with the material used to make
the blouse worn with a sheath or tulip
skirt, and sometimes revers are faced
with the material of the blouse ; it can
be made reversible.
Smart and very wearable was a taffy-
tan sheath coat-dress topped with a
matchbox-jacket in black. A wide sailor
collar in tan was a feature of the jacket,
and the entire ensemble was of givre
faille, A lovely party frock was of
an thracite-and-jonquil-checked organza
with velvet highlights. Attractive also
was a. Coronation-pink cotton organdie
with folded pockets to match the draping
of the bodice. • A peach-brandy gown
with its halter neckline heavily jewelled
was fashioned in Sekers’ grainyl. Cham-
pagne organza was used to make a
garden-party frock with a shawl collar
finely tucked to match the tucked skirt.
Mrs. John Warlow, whose husband is
one of this city’s leading photographers.
is the mother of two schoolgirl daughters,
Diane and Vaile, who go to St.
Catherine’s. As well as helping her hus-
band in his business, Mrs. Warlow is
busy with decorating the house they
recently bought in Toorak. Her favorite
recreation is dancing.
Mrs. Margaret Saker scored another
success with the dinner and mannequin-
parade at the Australia, proceeds of
which go to the St. Vincent’s Casualty
Building Fund. Well-known manne-
quins modelled the gowns, which were
designed for wear during the Royal visit
next year. Mrs. Saker’s black crepe
dinner-gown sparkled with diamente,
Mrs. L. R. Buxton’s short dinner-frock
was of cream-and-gold brocade,
Mrs. Frank Foley’s allied black fish
net silk and black poult, Mrs. Cyril
McCarthy’s midnight-blue Chantilly lace
gown had the pattern outlined with
sequins. Mrs. James McGaurin’s gown
of peach-toned lame had a feather design
in gold. Cream-and-gold brocade was
the choice of Mrs. Ray Upson,
Mesdatnes Lionel Newton and Ken Luke
wore silver-blue mink coats over black
dinner-frocks.
SYDNEY
There’s been quite a bit of talk this
week about the Theatre, stimulated by
the three fine shows at the main repertory
companies; the Shakspeare Memorial
Company being in town, the concert
for the Actors’ Benevolent Fund and the
exhibition of Australian Stage Design
at D.J.’s Gallery. It was at this last
function that Anthony Quayle, after
holding everyone entranced with his talk
dn the difficulties of designing for the
stage, the inadequacies of dramatic
critics and the necessity (how true!) for
making money, said that we could easily
have a National Theatre in Sydney if
everyone in Australia gave ss. each for
a brick. Whereat an enthusiastic soul
. there and then took round a very modish
hat with a smart label inside it and
collected £35 10s.
The only little doubt that nags is where
the audience is coming from. At present
the people who go to repertory theatres,
devoted as they are, form a very small
section of the community. They are
those who think of the theatre as both
living and legitimate, but—let’s face it
' —the majority of Australians don’t know
the theafre has been born. Before we
have a real national theatre we must have
a national audience, and there’s the rub.
Still, £35 10s. isn’t much, and by the
time the requisite million pounds has
been shaken out of various pockets, love
of the theatre may have had time to touch
the hearts of the majority of Australians.
Let us hope so.
☆ ☆ ☆
Theatre was again the main theme of
discussion at the meeting of the P.E.N.
Club held last Thursday, this time how
to write for it, the subject being intro-
duced by Mr. E. W. Burbridge, who
proved, among other things, that there
wasn’t much hope of making money do-
ing that little thing. It was a lively and
talkative gathering, with the Max
Affords doing the honors, and among
those present and making their presence
felt were the R. J, Haworths, Mr. and
Mrs. L. Lister, Frank and Margaret Trist,
Neil Hutchinson, Joyce Shewcroft, Mabel
Wain Smith and Nourma Handford.
& ☆ ☆
Crowds lined the street three deep on
Friday night to see the new Governor-
General, Sir William Slim, arrive for the
Gala Presentation of “A Queen Is
Crowned” at the State Theatre, where
he was welcomed by Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Rydge. It was a pity that Lady
Slim was not well enough to come, for
this film is so beautiful that every minute
spent before seeing it is an unenriched
minute. In the audience on Friday
were Lieutenant-General Berryman and
Mrs. Berryman and the Deputy Lord
Mayor, Alderman F. Green, and Mrs.
Green.
☆ ☆ &
There were 1000 people at the Dragon
Festival Ball this year, and seven debu-
tantes led by two of the prettiest little
Chinese flower-girls, Carol Yip (five years
old) and Carolyn Young (three years
old) wearing white lace and organdie.
Mrs. D. Y. Narme presented the debs
to Madame Martin Wang, wife of the
Chinese Consul-General, who, with her
husband, entertained a highly representa-
tive group of consular and diplomatic
people together with Mr. and Mrs. Eric
Harrison and the State Attorney-General,
Mr. W. J. Sheehan, and Mrs. Sheehan.
There were quite a number of national
Chinese costumes worn, including
Madame Wang’s dark-red satin em-
broidered with tiny gold flowers. Mrs.
Narme, who is president of the com-
mittee, wore gold lame and lace covered
with a mandarin coat embroidered with
gold dragons.
☆ ☆ ☆
That, except for Buckingham Palace,
there can’t be a more beautiful place for
the presentation of debs, was the opinion
of those who attended the University
Settlement Ball on Friday last when the
43 debs, all in bouffant dresses and wear-
ing tiaras, walked through the stately
Great Hall escorted by their partners in
academic gowns. Then the professors
in their colorful robes took (ip their
positions on the dais and finally the
Chancellor, Sir Charles Bickerton Black-
burn, in his splendid black-and-gold
gown, stood ready to receive the debs,
who were presented by the wife of the
Registrar, Mrs. W. H- Maze. After the
debs’ waltz in the Great Hall to the
organ strains of the “Blue Danube” the
whole party moved over to the flag-
decorated Union Refectory, where Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Macdonald Holmes
welcomed the 520 guests, who included
the Director of Education, Dr. H. D.
Wyndham, and Mrs. Wyndham, the
principal of the Teachers’ College, Dr.
C. R. Mcßae, and Mrs. Mcßae, Mr. and
Mrs. R. V. Dearman (whose daughter
was making her debut), and Mr. and
Mrs. J. C. Fischer.
☆ ☆ *
The marriage recently of Barbara
Buchanan, only child of the Nat
Buchanans, of Vaucluse, to Ivan Gregoire,
of South Africa, will be of interest to
many familiar with the pioneering history
of Australia, for her great-grandfather
was that colorful character the lateat
Buchanan, who was known as “Old
Bluey.” The original owner of Wave
Hill station (NT.), Old Bluey was twice
associated with expeditions in search of
traces of Leichhardt and was an explorer
of note. His wife, Barbara’s great-grand-
mother, was the first white woman to
settle in the Bowen District (Q.).
This is Margaret Barton, the gifted
18-year-old pianist who will leave shortly
to study in England as winner of the
Royal Schools Overseas Scholarship for
1952. Margaret came to Sydney from
Ipswich ( Queensland) five years ago to
study with Alexander Sverjensky, gradu-
ated last year as teacher and performer
with distinction, and has been twice
finalist in the A.B.C. Concerto contest.
Her farewell recital in Sydney will be
given tomorrow night at the Conserva-
torium. She will be soloist with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra later in the
month, will give a recital in her native
Ipswich on July 16, and finally will be
heard in Melbourne on July 30. Photo
by Whitehead.
Interesting visitor to Sydney last week,
if only for two days, was New Zealander
Marjorie Mills, daughter of that Tom L.
Mills who was editor of the “Fielding
Star” for 32 years. Marjorie has made
a name for herself as an original designer
of needlework patterns, as a tapestry-
worker and as a landscape-painter. Her
petit-point bags are so exquisitely worked
that they have been exhibited at the
N.Z, Academy among watercolors and
oil paintings. She has at last achieved
her ambition to study at an art school
in London, and took off on the Strath-
more last Thursday for a two-year period
abroad. While in Sydney she was the
guest at Bondi of Helen, Ailsa and
Brenda Souter, who are the daughters
of the late D. H. Souter.
☆ ☆ ☆
Annette Playoust, of Mosman, writing
from London, says that the biggest cheer
in the Coronation procession, apart from
that given bur Queen, was reserved for
the Queen of Tonga, the only member
of the procession to travel in an open
carriage, apparently by choice. She
mopped the rain from her dusky beam-
ing face with a sodden handkerchief and
looked as though she were thoroughly
enjoying herself. Annette waited only
eight hours for the procession. The time
passed quickly, however, as there was
always something to watch. Garbage-
trucks drove by every hour keeping the
streets clean, the Knights of the Garbage
keeping the crowd amused by play-acting
various processional, personalities.


GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAWKER
real good Scotch
It was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the little Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
Born 1820—
still going strong.
JW.146.12
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO HECTOR McLEAN SUTTON formerly
of Berala New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that FLORENCE ETHEL
SUTTON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 439 of 1953 on the grounds of de-
sertipn for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney hy 26th of August 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER AND
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South Wales. —J. DOUQHAN, Registrar.
We Have Pleasure In Announcing
"THE CORONATION OF HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II"
in 16mm sound and Bmm to be available
to you this month.
This film, a Movie Pak feature, captures the splendour and
historic tradition of the Coronation for you to re-live in your
own home and in your own time.
You will see “The Solemn Moment of Crowning” clearer
here than anywhere, the cheering crowds, our radiant young
Queen and her gallant husband and the colourful procession
through the transformed streets of London.
Films will he available in the following sizes:
16mm sound —2 reels—Boo feet £25
1 reel —4OO feet £l2
Bmm silent 2 reels—4oo feet £9
I reel —2OO feet £4
Also available in the Royal Family Album Series in 400 foot 16mm
sound Movie Pahs are:
“ROYAL MOTHERS” “PRINCE CHARLES AT PLAY”
“ROYAL CHRISTENING” “BABY PRINCE CHARLES”
also “THE BRITISH MONARCHY” (a 2 reel 800 feet)
See your local Photographic Dealer, or
Distributors —
SIXTEEN MILLIMETRE AUST. PTY. LTD.
49 Market Street, Sydney. (M 2231). Box 4778, G.P.O.
1 wish to order feet of “...
” in mm. Enclosed find remittance
f or £ and kindly forward to:
Name
D
Address D ‘
7 6
3 0
15 0
17 6
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Death of a Salesman”
Several members of the visit-
ing Stratford Shakspeare com-
pany have remarked on the
quantity and quality of dramatic
talent produced in Australia,
and, by way of confirming it,
three of the main Sydney reper-
tory groups are currently put-
ting on excellent plays, and
putting them on very well.
Doris Fitton’s Independent
Theatre has “Death of a Sales-
man,” Arthur Miller’s harrow-
ing account of the last 24 hours
or so in the life of Willy Loman.
Willy is a travelling salesman
from Brooklyn who has lived
his life on the illusion that a
good suit of clothes, a smile, a
joke and the right contacts are
the way to success. At 60 or
more the illusion has betrayed
him ; he finds most of his con-
tacts have gone before him, his
clothes are shabby and the
smiles and jokes don’t work any
more. He is haunted by the suc-
cess of his brother and his
neighbors; he is exhausted,
harried by petty debts and tired
of buying on the instalment
system goods which are cun-
ningly designed to wear out
about the same time as the last
payment is made.
Willy’s despair and disillusion
show themselves in a wandering
mind, in little fitful rages, in
talking to himself and in a sub-
conscious urge to suicide mani-
festing itself in a series of car
accidents. His wife, who can
see something worth while in
him, is powerless to help him,
and his two sons, whom he has
brought up to believe in his own
shallow creed, have turned into
a pair of wastrels, the one of
them who showed some promise
having been disillusioned early
by catching Willy with a shabby
tart in a pub bedroom.
It has been argued that Miller
piles agony on agony so thickly
that the result cannot be any-
thing else but harrowing melo-
drama; and it has also been
said that what ideals there are
in the play are linked too closely
with the American philosophy
that success is counted in
dollars; but the theme of the
play springs too surely from
Willy’s character itself for those
objections to have much validity,
, and its strength lies in the driving
emotional intensity with which
Willy and his relations with the
people around him are depicted.
Producer William S. Rees has
had no doubts about that
strength, and, with an excep-
tionally good cast, played it for
every ounce of emotion he could
get out of it. The result was
amazingly good, and, in such
moments as the fierce agony of
Willy’s reconciliation with his
son, and in Aileen Britton’s few,
poor, tearless words over Willy’s
grave, quite shattering.
Frank Waters gave Willy -the
benefit of some extraordinarily
good acting, and made a very
poignant business of the nerves
frayed to despair and madness,
of the last hopeless flickering of
burned-out hopes and of the
final utter weariness. As well,
with flashbacks, he touched so
surely on the early aspects and
development of the character
that he might have lived the 60
years of Willy’s life and not just
the last few hours of it.
There were some beautifully-
controlled currents of deeper
feeling under the surface mix-
ture of love and pity which
Aileen Britton brought to the
role of Willy’s wife and mediator
between him and his sons ; and
there were excellent perform-
ances from Richard Meikle and
John Meillon, as the sons ; and
Ivor Bromley, Peter MacDonald
and Robert Levis, each in his
way representing the success
Willy could never attain.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Happy Time”
In a much lighter vein, but
with an equally distinguished
performance, John Kay’s Mer-
cury Theatre is presenting a
three-weeks’ season of “The
Happy Time,” a comedy by
Samuel Taylor based on the
diverting Ottawa family of
French-Canadians created by
Robert Fontaine.
There are Papa, the musician
and head of the family ; Maman,
his Scottish wife; Bibi, their
son, feeling the pains and
curiosities of adolescence;
Grandpere, his father, who is
apt to remark when going court-
ing and being told that, at his
age, he should be in bed, “It is
only a matter of time” ; Uncle
Desmonde, the Casanova of
Canada ; and Uncle Louis, the
bibulous one who carries a small
cask of wine about with him
and draws olf a glass whenever
so inclined, which is more often
than otherwise.
From mellow recollection it
seemed that Fontaine’s charac-
ters were rather less sentimental
and a lot more realistic about
I’amour than they are in Mr.
Taylor’s version of them, but
their delightful philosophy, their
mercurial temperaments and
their quick Gallic logic are ad-
mirably preserved and here
brought to bear on a number of
things—Uncle Louis’s drinking
and the engagement of his
daughter; Uncle Desmonde’s
amours and array of garters col-
lected from chorus-girls and
others; Bibi’s familiarity with
“La Vie Parisienne” and his
thirst to know whether Mig-
nonette has dimples anywhere
else when she smiles and his
consequent theft of her night-
gowns.
It all makes up into a fast,
well-integrated and sparkling
concoction, admirably produced
for speed and humor by Leila
Blake; the only modifications
Miss Blake might make in the
interests of a more brilliant
sparkle could be a toning-down
of some of the sentimental
warmth and a bit of jiggery-
pocus to give the last scene to
the adult members of the cast —
the children, good as they are,
are unavoidably the weakest, and
the play would finish better on
something other than a touch of
arch juvenility.
The acting is consistently good
right down the cast —almost
faultless, in fact. The usual
characteristics of Owen Wein-
gott’s acting—grace and hard,
sharp strength—are excellently
contained and leavened with
humor in his portrait of Papa ;
Rodney Taylor gives a fine,
flourishing performance as
Uncle Desmonde and a superb
demonstration of how to catch
a chorus-girl’s garter; Lloyd
Berrell is equally delightful as
Uncle Louis, and contrives to
look as though his wine-cask
grows on him; and Gustl
Korner, as Grtindpere, is a mag-
nificently debonair old tomcat
making the most of his know-
ledge and experience while age
still permits it.
These four actors, in fact —
Weingott, Taylor, Berrell and
Korner—each working bril-
liantly without dimming tire
others, make as fine a histrionic
team as one has seen for many a
day.
Jean Anderson is Maman,
whose stubborn Caledonian
reasoning is led almost against
itself by lightning paths of Gallic
logic ; and Rosamund Waring is
Mignonette, the guest-cum-maid,
who causes Uncle Desmonde’s
downfall —“sunk without leav-
ing port,” as he puts it. Both
are delightful.
Ken Hannam, Kenneth
Warren, David Butler and Irene
Harpur all make neat contribu-
tions to the comedy, and
Graham Hill as Bibi and Thora
Smith as the little girl from
j nextdoor are the two sur-
prisingly competent and intelli-
gent children.
*X* ❖ ❖
“The First Gentleman”
Qavid Nettheim’s production
of Norman Ginsbury’s “The
First Gentleman” is more expan-
sive and ambitious than the In-
dependent and Mercury offer-
ings, with consequent difficulties
in the matter of staging and cast-
ing, and the manner in which
these have been overcome is
quite a tribute to the actors and
to Mr, Nettheim and his off-
siders.
The First Gentleman, of
course, is the Prince Regent, and
the study of him is worked up
mainly from his conflict with
his daughter Princess Charlotte,
whom he wishes to marry off to
Prince William of Orange, but
who has very definite ideas of
her own about Prince Leopold
of Saxe-Coburg. The Princess
won, of course, as young ladies
sometimes do, but she died in
childbirth a year or two later,
and the Regent is last seen pre-
paring to attend the christening
of his niece and wondering if
Victoria is much of a name for
her.
Mr. Nettheim has contrived
to get a lot of rich and royal
extravagance on to the small
stage of the Metropolitan, and,
as the Regent, Kevin Brennan
contrives to move through it all
with royal and expansive ease.
Excellent actor that he is, he
flecks the royal presence with
touches of libertine, drunk, brag-
gart, bully, spendthrift, hypo-
crite, politician and what-you-
will, and does it all with such
natural art that a complete and
tremendous human figure
emerges, one that must evoke
admiration for the very force
and size of it.
Defying him, Audrey Tees-
dale, as Princess Charlotte,
makes a beautiful little bunch of
feminine wiles to get in any
father’s hair, and, afterwards, in
the peace and happiness of her
marriage manages to hang about
herself a faint but charming
aura of‘wistful tragedy—a very
effective way of making some-
thing of the death scene in which
she does not participate.
In a supporting cast that
amounts almost to a directory,
the most distinguished members
are Patricia Schumann as com-
panion to the Princess, James
Pratt as the Duke of ,Kent,
Charles Tingwell as Leopold of
Saxe-Coburg, Mary Hosking in
a rather terrifying portrait of
the Regent’s deserted wife, John
Dease as the Royal Physician
and John Weiner as a doctor
who didn’t agree with him.
Talkies
Coronation Film
“A Queen Is Crowned” (Syd-
ney State), the J. Arthur Rank
film, has a perfect opening. The
camera silently sweeps the white
cliffs of Dover, then roams over
field and meadow, hill and
stream until it rests on Windsor
Castle ; then into the silence cuts
the slow, clear, incisive voice of
Sir Laurence Olivier with John
of Gaunt’s famous speech from
“Richard the Second”: “This
royal throne of kings, this
scepter’d isle”
Thereafter, for 80 minutes,
there unfolds incomparable
pageantry pageantry which
conveys no hint of vulgar dis-
play, but a thing to move and
to thrill; pageantry of which
the English are complete masters.
From the emergence of the
great gilded State coach —itself
seemingly out of some fairytale
—from Buckingham Palace,
along the route to the Abbey,
throughout the inspiring Coro-
nation service, the magnificent
triumphal procession until it
ends in the final acknowledg-
ments of the Royal family on
the balcony to the gigantic wait-
ing concourse outside the palace
gates, the cameras have caught
in beautiful Technicolor every
phase of this historic occasion.
Christopher Fry’s script has
distinction and dignity, and has
been interpolated with discre-
tion. Olivier’s narration leaves
nothing to be desired.
*t* ❖ ❖
“Captain Horatio Horn-
blower” (Regent): Gregory
Peck as the unorthodox but
(Continued on page 34)


Elements of an Industry .
No. 18
of a Series.
I
m
s
Bui
*S
:
"tm
■
WOT
m
Him*
MAGNESIUM, lightest of the common metals and silvery-
white in colour, is the element usually associated with photographers’
“flash powder”, and incendiary bombs. It is produced by the electro-
lysis of magnesium chloride a compound made either from sea-water,
magnesium-containing brine or mineral deposits of magnesia and by
the thermal reduction of dolomite, a mineral which occurs abundantly
in most industrial countries. By far the most important use of mag-
nesium is in the manufacture of castings and wrought alloys for the
aircraft and motor industries. It is also used to increase the strength
of certain aluminium alloys. Compounds of the element, such as
magnesium sulphate (Epsom salts) and magnesium oxide (magnesia),
are well-known in medicine. Others are used in the production of
rapid-hardening cements, in the rubber industry, in sugar refining and
in paper-making. French chalk, meerschaum, asbestos and steatite are
all compounds of magnesium. In addition to making electrical
insulators of steatite, 1.C.1. in Great Britain uses magnesium in the
manufacture of the aluminium alloys that are used so extensively in
the construction of aircraft and in building >and engineering.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
df
42. C. 3139'
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED FREDERICK KEITH
FEASEY (known as ALAN FEASEY) late
of Corner of Tivoli Street and Jersey
Road Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
JOSEPHINE ANNIE FEASEY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1786 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may cause an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
21st August 1953 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
VINCENT J. BRADY, DONALD & CO.,
Solicitors, of City Mutual Building, 60
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQHAN,
Registrar.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS!
ALLEN C. LEWIS ( Chairman). F. W RADFORD
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUOLAbB.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
The Hole in the ferce
by GAVIN
S.
CASEY
STRICTLY in the tradition
of numerous generations of
horsemen before him who
had trampled down the
peasantry, Worthington Sim-
cock rode out on his tall mare
to inspect the fence. He was not
the type to be discouraged by
the cynical brilliance of the
Australian sunshine, or the tail-
tipping cheek of the rabbits, or
the fact that Biggs wasn’t aware
he was a peasant. Simcock had
a glassy eye, and a fierce mous-
tache, and a lot of pride even if
not much sense. And the bull
of Biggs, the hideous soldier-
settler, had certainly broken the
fence.
The bull was not Simcock’s
idea of what a bull should be.
Instead of snorting steam, paw-
ing the ground and charging
anything that moved, it was a
gentle, reflective animal, con-
cerned only with comfort. It
had broken the fence not in
some earth-shattering, furious
defiance of all restraint but
merely by picking the same post,
day after day and week after
week and month after month to
scratch itself against. It had
leaned against the post and
wriggled ecstatically until
eventually the post had fallen
down.
The Biggs bull, in Simcock’s
opinion, had proved itself a
suitable bull for a blasted
soldier-settler. In his day
soldiers had been soldiers, not
soldier-settlers, and the only
ones who had become noticeable
had been of the officer-class,
and, if they ceased to be
warriors, had become soldier-
squatters, overdrafts and all.
Simcock bellowed at his dogs,
which were suitably respectful
even if Biggs was not, and they
came sprinting and then tail-
wagging nervously. He felt
better, and gently rolled the
spurs at the heels of his shiny
boots along the sides of his
lofty mount. The tall, mincing
mare lifted her delicate hoofs
higher, uncertain of what came
next. Nothing came next,
WHEN Simcock reached .the
fence Biggs was on the
other side looking at it sourly.
Biggs, of course, was on foot,
and he wore an old Army tunic
and a dilapidated Digger hat. He
seemed to have shaved last about
the time the hat was new, and
his lean, sober face was expres-
sionless. His dogs dashed about
in an undisciplined way, and,
when one of them jumped the
sagging fence and started
catherine-wheel frolics with
Simcock’s blue bitch, Simcock
swung his coiled stockwhip off
his forearm and scared them
both halfway to the horizon
with a volley of cracks.
Biggs said “Aw, why the hell
couldn’t you leave ’em alone?”
Simcock snorted aristocratic-
ally, while he held the mare’s
step-dance to a moderate mea-
sure with an experienced wrist.
He said “Never mind about the
damned dogs. What about my
fence?”
“That’s the point,” Biggs told
him with a sudden leer, “It’s
your fence. You’re responsible
for this part of it.”
Simcock saw with irritation
that his blue bitch, after per-
forming a wide circle, had gone
plunging through the stubble
after the Biggs mongrel. He
roared “Not when that useless
bull of yours breaks it down.
You fix this before any harm
comes of it, or I’ll sue you.”
“You won’t get far,” Biggs
said, grinning. “Everybody in
the district knows that my bull
•never smashed a fence in his
life.”
“Everybody knows fences'
don’t fall down on their own,”
Simcock snarled, chewing his
impressive whiskers.
“Only through neglect,” Biggs
suggested. “If the man who’s
supposed to be responsible never
looks at them and lets them rot
there comes a time when a small
bull only has to breathe on them
and they fall over.”
Simcock purpled, and the
mare, sensing his mood,
drummed the earth unhappily
and chewed at her bit, pre-
senting first one flank and then
the other to the indifferent
Biggs.
Biggs let out a steam-engine
whistle and, surprisingly, his
dogs came running, not cring 7
ing even for the last fe\y yards,
but bouncing in the sunshine
with wide crimson grins. Sim-
cock’s blue bitch came apolo-
getically through the fence, and
tried to look like a tuft of self-
sewn wheat or a stray goanna.
/'"vUT of the rambling, shabby
house on the Biggs block
came a determined - looking
young woman and a fat,
waddling infant. The purple of
Simcock’s hawklike features be-
came puce, as it generally did
when he saw his daughter and
his grandson. The blasted
soldier-settler hadn’t even had
the grace to wait for some
Montague and Capulet solution
of the situation. Biggs had
added insult to insult and in-
jury to injury by marrying the
girl, practically by violence, as
soon as he had taken over the
fertile acres Simcock had hoped
to add to his own in his own
good time.
Then Biggs had, as quickly
as possible, produced a chubby
son who bore all the arrogant
earmarks of a Simcock, except
that he didn’t have a hope of
becoming one with an up-
jumped peasant for a father and
a stubborn, self-willed fool of
a female for a mother. Whistl-
ing wrath through his mous-
tachios, as he commonly did
when his daughter appeared—
and always if he saw his grand-
son —Simcock snarled a final
threat at Biggs, wheeled the
mare and set off at a command-
ing canter across his own pad-
docks.
Thus began one of the fence-
disputes that enliven life in
every country district, this time
emphasised by a long-standing
hatred and a family feud that
everybody had enjoyed for a
couple of years.
“I seen ’em going for each
other like a couple o’ lunatics,”
reported the mailman, who had
been jogging along the road a
quarter of a mile away when
Simcock had inspected the fence.
“The girl come down the track,
fighting mad, with the kid behind
her, swearing at his granddad in
Chinese, and the old boy sheered
off. But there’s going to be real
trouble this time, you watch.”
The town watched, and saw.
They got no change from Biggs,
who played a waiting game, and
who had their sympathy, any-
way. But the indignant snorts of
Simcock echoed through both
the pubs and every social func-
tion, and over backyard fences,
and even across the wide pad-
docks of the wheat-cockies, who
mostly had a private idea that he
was too big for his boots. Sim-
cock, they said, thought he was
the Laird o’ Cockpen or some-
thing, and ought to take a les-
son from the kindly Biggs* bull
itself. If you wanted to be a
squatter you went to the Kimber-
leys or somewhere, and you
were still a wheat-cocky in these
parts even if you had a few
hundred sheep to eat your
stubble.
Simcock didn’t worry. He
never did. There were others
with a few more or greener
acres than their neighbors who
were on his side, and they wer*
the only ones to whom he ever
talked. In the back bar of the
Railway Hotel, where there were
informal gatherings of an un-
official club of bankers, stock-
and-station agents and the bigger
landholders, he boasted “This is
a test-case, gentlemen. Damned
fellow has been defying us long
enough.”
' If some of the others felt the
plural unjustified, they were
tactfully silent, and Simcock
went on, a trifle self-consciously,
“They can influence females
occasionally. All the more rea-
son for men worth their salt to
stand up to ’em.”
This brought a round of
applause, an unknown percent-
age of it possibly sycophantic,
and the steward joyfully took
his account of the talk out to
the public bar, where Biggs and
his mates drank.
“Aw, he’s all hiss and wind,”
Biggs said wearily. “He’s been
threatening everything up to
murder ever since his daughter
left him for a real man. Any-
way, it’s his fence, and if it ain’t
strong enough for a small, half-
grown bull to stare hard at,
well, it just shows the state of
collapse the old goat let it get
into.”
IN the course of a few weeks
the pub-threats reached a
shotgun-and-horsewhip level of
violence. Small boys and idle
men started to follow Simcock
around whenever they saw him
going somewhere on his high-
stepping mare. But it always
turned out that he was merely
on the way to measure the water
in the Black Stump Dam, or to
have a good curse at the stones
and stumps the earth was
squeezing up out of the soil of
his West Paddock, or merely to
town to get some tobacco.
But the time came when Sim-
cock had an inspiration. He
let his own bull out of the home
paddock near his elegant, wide-
veranda’d house, into the field
bordered by the fence with the
hole in it. The bull, having
much of its master’s character,
blundered around in aimless
anger for a while, and then,
with sudden outraged astonish-
ment, detected the placid Biggs
bull, which was trying hopelessly
to scratch itself on a fence-post
which now lay flat on the
ground.
The Simcock bull sang like
Paul Robeson in the lower
registers while it thought this
out, and pawed a considerable
hole in the ground. When
thought became utterly un-
bearable, it shot out of the hole
with its horns practically mow-
ing the subterranean-clover, and
headed for the Biggs bull, con-
vinced that salvation lay in
trying to plough clean through
a couple of tons of less pug-
nacious beef.
The mild, but intelligent,
Biggs bull, stepped a little to
one side to see what happened,
and witnessed astonishing sights.
The animated Simcock steaks
had neglected proper staff-work
before engaging the enemy and,
in pleasurable excitement be-
cause an obstructive fence-post


PROVED !
IN SALES! Actual registration
figures prove that more British Bed-
ford trucks were sold than any other
make in EVERY MONTH from
July, 1952 to April, 1953.
IN PERFORMANCE! Owners re-
port,: “We cannot speak too highly
of their performance” , . . “more
than a million miles still has the
original differential” . . . “Whatever
the load or gradient, my Bedford
always gets there.”
(Original testimonials containing
these extracts arc on file at
Genera] Motors-Holden’s Ltd.)
IN DEPENDABILITY! owners
write now travelled upwards
of 140,000 miles . . . and stands up to
tough going without any trouble
whatsoever” . . . “we have built our
business on Bedford reliability.”
IN ECONOMY! Other owners say
. . . “Most economical to operate*’
, . . “Bedford has greatly assisted me
to run my business on an economical
basis” . . . “most economical and
reliable on the road.”
sd
fs
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE TRUCK IS
so^
OHOJaiF
PROVEN EXTRA-DUTY ENGINES.
Three great low-revving, 6 cylinder
o.h.v. engines ! The 30 cwt., 2 and 3
ton models develop 76 b.h.p. The
3-4 and 4-5 tonners develop 86 b.h.p.
and the 6-7 tonners 110 b.h.p.
PROVEN SYNCHROMESH GEARBOX.
No other British truck near Bedford’s
price offers synchromesh gearbox. Split
second changing on hills, in heavy traffic.
PROVEN EXTRA RUGGED FRAME.
Deep chassis frames are engineered for
each capacity and wheelbase with strength
to spare for long life and hard service.
PROVEN LOCKHEED HYDRAULIC
BRAKES. The 30 cwt. Bedford is
equipped with Lockheed triple-safety
hydraulic brakes. On all other models
Vacuum-Servo assistance is added.
PROVEN BEDFORD ENGINE
FEATURES. Positive cylinder lubri-
cation, longer cylinder bore life, longer
bearing life, induction hardened crank-
shaft—these and many other features that
make the Bedford Engines outstanding.
PROVEN TIME-SAVING MANOEUVRA-
BILITY. Shorter wheelbase means a
handier turning circle, gives you greater
manoeuvrability even in narrow streets.
PROVEN LOW LOADING HEIGHT.
Designed for faster, easier loading,
Bedford’s low loading height means less
wasted effort, less wasted time.
PROVEN IDEAL WEIGHT DISTRI-
BUTION. Semi-forward control with
the engine mounted over the front axle
gives better weight distribution, greater
payload for a given axle load.
PI US NATION-WIDE SERVICE. Authorised dealers the length and breadth of
Australia provide expert service with GMH trained mechanics and genuine
Bedfordsparc parts. G.HJt.C. CONFIDENTIAL HIRE PURCHASE PLAN. Convenient
Hire-Purchase Finance is available to buy your Bedford through G.M.A.C.—General
Motors own finance organisation.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
819-48 NP Sold and serviced by Bedford dealers throughout Australia.
No other truck can
match Bedford design
and engineering
leadership YET SELL
SO LOW.
30 cwt., 120"
2 Ton, 143"
3 Ton, 143"
3- Ton, 157"
4- Ton, 157"
6-7 Ton, 116"
6-7 Ton, 156"
wheelbase.
wheelbase.
wheelbase.
wheelbase.
wheelbase.
wheelbase.
wheelbase.
■aa
30 cwt. “K” Model
6 cyl. O.H.Y. engine, 76
b.tup. at 3,200, torque
168.5 ft. lbs. at 1,000.
4-5 Ton Model
6 cyl. O.H.V. engine, 84
b.h.p. at 3,100, torque
170 ft. lbs. at 1,000.
8U! ?. O YOUR BUSINESS ON BRITI SH BEDFORD
was missing, had overlooked the
detail that wires formerly
tauntiy hitched to the post now
lay in treacherous loops upon
the ground. In the course ot
three amazed somersaults any
other animal of the weight
would have broken its neck, but
the Simcock bull was as stiff-
necked as its boss, and broke
only both its forelegs. There-
after it lay, watched by the
somewhat - apprehensive Biggs
bull and making extremely dis-
contented noises, until Simcock
rode down from his fancy
house, and snarlingly shot it.
In his mood of the moment
Simcock would probably have
ridden a little further and shot
Biggs, too, but for certain cir-
cumstances. For one thing,
Biggs was away in the township.
For another, the fatly somnolent
Biggs bull, once the distressing
noises were at an end, noticed
that he had only to go through
the hole in the fence and one
gate to reach the richly-ripe
wheat that stood in Simcock’s
home paddock.
Daintily avoiding the remains
of the enemy dealt with by
poetic justice, the Biggs bull
ambled happily towards the
satisfaction of a hunger that
was the lesser part of caution.
Simcock chewed his moustache
and glared biliously at the ram-
shackle house where his
daughter lived, and snorted,
joyfully,. “That’ll teach the
ruffian, by gad!”
LATE that night, with hurri-
cane-lamp and curses, Biggs
had to work over his bull, which
was by then the size of two bulls
and a small, orchard-type trac-
tor, with the gases that come
from the action of stomach-
juices on raw, unboiled wheat.
The bull’s philosophy had
deserted it at last, but so had
all its muscular functions. It
moaned in anguish, with its eyes
and its sides bulging, and its
tongue lolling, and great gusts
of the gas came out of it
wherever possible every time
Biggs and his farmhand kneaded
its belly or did other unmention-
able things.
Mrs. Biggs, in the makeshift
house, said unfilial things about
her father, and even baby Biggs,
instinctively aware of the mag-
nitude of the farm tragedy when
a beast gets into the wheat,
roared so loudly in fear and
confusion that he could be heard
through the silent night in the
older homestead half a mile
away.
But eventually the bull stood
up, stared reproachfully in the
direction of Simcock’s wheat
and, sagging at the seams like a
Victorian wedding-dress on a
beach-girl bride, staggered off to
feel sorry for itself as far as
possible from temptation. The
man who worked for Biggs
mopped his brow and said
“Gripes, we better fix the bloody
fence now, boss. We can stick
something up to close the gap
an’ I’ll put in a new post an’
strain the wires in the morn-
ing.”
“No,” said Biggs savagely.
“In the morning I’ll strain that
old swine’s tripes between the
posts, and until then it can stop
the way he’s let it stop for
weeks.”
By the time the next days
piccaninny-dawn shone on the
deflated bull, the hole in the
fence and the ravaged wheat-
field, however, a sheepish and
exceedingly nervous employee
of Simcock was patrolling the
gap with a double-barrelled
shotgun. When Biggs came strid-
ing across the paddock this un-
enthusiastic warrior glanced ner-
vously over his shoulder to make
sure his boss couldn’t hear and
yelled in a sort of hoarse stage-
shout “Listen, Mr, Biggs, I
chucked the shells away half-
way down the paddick. I gotta
carry th’ gun or the old man’d
tear me lights out, but it ain’t
loaded, see?”
“0.K.,” Biggs told him grimly.
“Get out of the way, then.”
With the muzzle of the gun
pointing strictly behind him, like
a car’s exhaust-pipe, so that
there could be no possible mis-
take about his .intentions, the
man stumbled rapidly backwards
and fell into the hole Simcock’s
bull had. pawed before its last
charge. Biggs strode on, so
blinded with rage that he
stumbled occasionally over old
furrows that seasons of sun had
dried and hardened. The hair of
the humble, unwarlike troglo-
dyte stood on end when He saw
Mrs. Biggs, white-faced, shoot
out of the house, far behind her
lord and master, but obviously
bent on arresting tragedy. Baby
Biggs came racing and roaring
in the rear, and the Biggs bull,
sick and unnerved, watched it
all from a distant, safe corner.
UP at the big house Simcock
was on the veranda with
his back to the approaching
wrath; and he seemed to be
acting out of character. The
aggressiveness had leaked away
from hi£ moustache like the gas
out of his hated son-in-law’s bull,
and the arrogance was gone
from his eye.
He was talking to a dapper,
lounge-suited man whose car
stood in front of the house, and
with whom he was on terms of
great and jovial equality and
familiarity in the township and
in the back-room of the pub.
But now the mere, cool, emotion-
less words of Lasseter, the bank-
manager, seemed to have
brought Simcock as low as the
loose fence-wires had brought
his bull. If Simcock could have
been on his tall mare he might
have done better, but there was
hardly room for him and the
mare, too, under the veranda-
roof.
In a dozen of Biggs’s long
strides the sun seemed to have
{Continued on page 22]
EYES AND NO EYES
1, Morning
In the morning as I pass
South and west along the grass
Sudden dandelions rise
Fronting me with yellow eyes:
When I turn again not one
Gleams between me and the sun.
It may be excess of light
Blots each mimic sun from sight:
Every time that I look back
North and east along the track
Dandelions disappear.
Some small miracle is here.
2. Afternoon
She went into the garden eagerly,
She who was blind to asters, un-
aware
Of frangipanni heavy in the air;
Unseeing over the green lawn
went she
Straight to a seat of weather-
beaten wood
Beneath the shelter of an unseen
tree,
And when I called she did not
answer me.
The wagtails shrilled about me
where I stood,
Impatient, but she did not turn to
look.
A magic of invisibility
Dissolved her universe immedi-
ately
She went into the garden with a
book.
3. Evening
When first I saw the man this
afternoon
His fifty years were etched upon
his face
Too plainly: now the whiteness of
the moon »
Refines the blunted outlines into
grace,
Erases many a chiselling of pain
Or puzzlement. ’Tis mystery to
me.
Moonlight which cannot make
him young again
Restores the face he wore at
twenty-three.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


Enchanting Interlude
in
Hawaii
64
E
As CANADIAN PACIFIC’S Guest!
SUPER DC-6B' S —giant new “Empresses
of the Air” . . . pressurized, air-conditioned
.. . most luxurious to the Americas . . . over-
night stay at fascinating Honolulu at no extra
cost. Aloft all the superb service and
luxury of the world’s largest travel system—
Canadian Pacific.
Don’t miss a native luau feast . . . poi, lau-
lau and lomi-lomi, succulent and tempting ..,
Kiting rhythms . . . grass-skirted hulas . . ,
moonlight magic to sparkle in your memory.
For full details, consult
PaeMk,
at 247 George St., Sydney, and S 9 William St., Melbourne
or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents) *
■: :/
wm
A
mmA
a a:
THE SMARTEST HAT
at the Keenest Price!
Before you buy your new hat,
think of these points . . .
Akubra’s shapes and shades
are right up to the minute—
as smart as any you would see
in London or New York.
An Akubra will cost you
much less than an imported
hat.
Quality, price, appearance—
Akubra scores on all three
points.
See the fine new range of
Akubra Imperial Quality
Hats.
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE HAT
A 3-82
Anniversary
by Ethel Eurasia
anderSON
DAISY and I were up at
Newnham.
One afternoon we hired
a broad-ribbed row-boat
from Old Dolby s boatshed, just
above the bridge at Silver-street,
and about four o clock we set
off to paddle upstream to Gran-
Chester. It was May Daisy
vented to see Rupert Brooke’s
chestnuts.
In the battered stern of our
old tub we put our picnic basket
“ d i WO M.fH a r„ P h h °. neS -...
pkyed Mendelssohn s Spring
?£ nB ' ,J niiS
The other played The Dead
March in Saul This, for my
own benefit. I felt like that.
The night before I d seen the
■Ttrd^sytg, 81358 -
She laughed.
home 6 coming across 3
horse,” cemmg across Parkers
1 “That’s luckv” I said
riwl-no T fittS d '
tereJToar in ’ a shaky rowlock’
tered oar in a snaky rowlock.
Sf ’ laughmg -
°. ’ .
The was running a
banker. I think Ive seen your
faces before. Old Dolby said,
as our boat rocked. He steadied
it. Wc didn’t say anything.
“I ought to warn you young
ladies as this stream is dangerous,
There’s two hundred souls—as
we knows on—been drowned in
the Cam between Queen’s and
Granchester. They authorities
won’t allow a lifebuoy up, even
at Byron’s Pool; they says it
spoils the look of peace and
security like.”
His large hand gently urged
the prow of our boat towards
mid-stream,
“Keep well away from the
banks. The undertow be strong,
Duck low under them willows,
Don’t stand up, both together
like. That’s fatal. Two chaps
a s did it were swep’ under the
foundations at Queen’s. There
wasn’t a hope of saving them.
xhis river runs wilder than she
looks ”
w e limned. Amused, we
smi i ed at each other. “We know
this river as well as you do. Old
Dolb we th We ’ did,
too We had ofteS watched him
workj a his boats For
, he * | e river had been
chief haunting-ground, you
migtl ‘ say ‘
W E rowed u P stream ' We
VY dodged the showers of nail-
pink lads divin S into the Water
from the fields on the right. We
paSSed a g ° od many other
coc kleshells, spidery with the
same uncertainty of oar! There
were punts with men in flannels,
a goddess or two on velvet
cushions watching them ; oh, yes.
it was warm for that time of
year. The buttercups were out.
The g rass was ] o ng enough to
bend with the set of warm air
riverwards. There was no wind.
In the hooves of cattle, stamped
along the banks, the king-cups
were as glossy as satin. The
horizon, from a boat so low in
the water, seemed only a mile
off; the English spring was pro-
ceeding to schedule ; there were
the usual lilacs and laburnums,
the half-hidden roofs, tiled or
slate! The pussy-willows still
harbor bees. I thought I saw a
water-snake.
Daisy said, “Coleridge saw
water-snakes, hereabouts; he
said you could see the flakes of
light sparkling from water-
snakes.”
Certainly something eel-like
moved in the shadows. But the
water-weeds were very long,
slewed downstream in the strong
current.
“After the ball at Trinity, last
night. Bill and I rowed up as far
as this. We heard nightingales
singing in those trees.”
“Nightingales!” I hoped my
voice sounded natural. “I see
no sign of nightingales.”
“Where song has been valid,”
Daisy said. We rested on our
oars a bit, and she trailed a hand
in the water. Daisy said things
like that. She did those poetical
stunts. I suppose that is what
attracted Bill.
“This is Byron’s Pool,” Daisy
said. “He’d swim and sulk here,
like that wicked old trout under
the weeds. There! A king-
fisher ! ”
I tried to keep the edge off my
voice. I said, “Milton mentions
kingfishers.”
Daisy looked interested,
“Where?”
“He says, this river is ‘thick-
sett with agate and the azure
sheen of Turkis blew,’ ” I had
done a paper on Milton.
“Delicious! And there goes
another kingfisher—the sixth I’ve
seen.”
I said, “Coleridge noticed that
the unripe flax shows sunlight
through its transparent stalks—
look at that field! ”
I had done Coleridge. Daisy
didn’t notice the edge on my
voice. I could have attracted
Bill, I thought, if I’d guessed the
sort of thing he liked. I could
have fed him with slabs out of
the lecture-room!
D OUND the next bend the
AV current was stronger. It was
harder to row against. Once,
when we rested on our oars, the
boat was caught in the swirl of
water running into the bank.
We had a lot of trouble getting
free of the willow-boughs. They
jutted out into the stream. The
banks were soggy, and thick with
rushes, and the dead boughs
kept the banks barred ; I realised
we could not land here.
And there was Daisy talking
about Newnham. “It’s the heads
of hair —yellow, mostly, drying
out of so many bedroom win-
dows! Gloves, on strings!
Stockings on strings! All drying
in the sun. I wonder it’s not
forbidden! I’ve never seen a
head of hair drying from a
Trinity window! ”
“Whimsy,” I thought. Bill
has got red hair. I suppose,
touching it would feel like strok-
ing some animal’s fur —it’s so
thick.
And there was Daisy: “Don’t
you always laugh at the pastels
of the Victorian stalwarts in
Hall? Mrs. Gaskell; E. 8.8.;
in curls, Harriet Martineau, in a
Garibaldi! Horse-faced George
Eliot! —At that lecture on
Shelley ! We could‘hardly hear
the professor’s voice above the
click of our knitting-needles.”
She starts from there, I
thought, then she’ll work round
to Bill again.
Sure enough—“ Bill said ...”
Bill. Bill. Bill.
And there was Granchester.
“There’s a board marked
Danger,” Daisy said.
She looked up at the sky.
There wasn’t a cloud. “That’s
the old Rectory ! Rupert
Brooke had rooms there, once
upon a time. So did my Bill!
He showed me the Priest’s Hole,
on one side of the fireplace—in
that room to the right! On the
other side, hidden by a panel,
there is a staircase, leading to a
room in the chimney above!
And that’s the faked castle, the
Gothic ruin, where they used to
act Hamlet.”
Daisy said she didn’t know
what they used the crocodile for
—the stuffed crocodile with a
red flannel tongue that was lying
in the sun, by the Gothic fake.
PULLING hard, we managed
to double a jutting bank at
the next corner, and there was
the Mill Pond, sparkling, the
water stuttering and hissing
down the shute. It ran over the
brick ramp in bright green
pleats.
Shading the bank on our right
were those chestnut-trees.
We pulled in, towards them,
where the bank lessened the
current a bit, but when I felt
with my oar I could not touch
bottom.
Daisy kept on talking about
the trees. “They look like
Christmas - trees,” she said,
“loaded with creamy candles —
sometimes, you see them flushed
with pink ”
Well, there they were.
“Look at those boles,” Daisy
said, “the rind, so smooth, and
colored with old-gold, and that
other ’Eighty - ish terracotta!
Look at the fluted columns,
interlaced, furled round the main
trunks sometimes, like sails
round a mast! And so vast!
The bare ground under them is
perfect. Grass would look
trivial.”
Daisy said she must bring Bill
to see them. “On our honey-
moon, perhaps.”
“Isn’t it funny,” I said, “that
so famous a beauty spot as this
should be so deserted? There’s
not a soul about, is there?”
I thought she might have
noticed someone I’d missed.
“Someone must be working in
the Mill.”
“They’d hear or see nothing,”
I said.
“I’ve heard that the church
clock no longer stands at ten to
three,” Daisy said. “After tea
we must go and look at it.”
“Yes, mustn’t we?” I said.
I shipped my oar. Daisy left
hers trailing.
“There’s such a sense of peace
and security, isn’t there?” I said.
I was laughing. “Here, change
places. I’ll unpack the basket.”
T WAITED till Daisy stood up.
Then I stood up.
Wood-pigeon
Even the white rush of the river is soon lost
in the massive silence of this silent bush
not soundless, but silent
with a manless, creatureless, everlasting hush.
No sustained song from the, birds one seldom meets . . .
but the sudden onrush of a pigeon
with audible wingbeats
that bursts with a crash
among the branches overhead and sits
looking at me over his breast—
timid enough, but a bird that stays too long
peering down at man when it comes to rest.
You should keep out of sight for the good of your soul I
Or touch for a moment the top of a topmost pole
too far away to be identified,
and like the other birds that give their song
so sparingly to the silence, remain
forever invisible, chiming monotonously
far away in the heights and the drifting rain v
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONI.T BATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
v Wireless:
“METRO POLE”
Telephones;
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
1
f: nJ[V 7 'i Aj,
«
'** *: i '■Mfifii
I
D
□
*23*
il
:
5S
V:
jm
i*° e .
p$ :W : ‘ A
*5!
■•*•■•'' ■'' '....■ . &/:
m
V'
V.®t
•J. Cf»*
vVM l .*.*.
K;X;.v
v.v.
&&&
XJMATIDN
w
SERVICE^ 7
Operated in Australia by N<^
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.
1 v»v« v.VXvy 8 "
• •IwlwVXv
on quality
You know the BP Aviation
Service. You have seen its
green and yellow fuellers on
hundreds of airfields. But have
you ever stopped to think what goes
on before the fuel reaches your air-
craft tank, or how that fuel’s quality
is ensured?
From the time that the crude oil is won
from the ground until it is delivered
to the consumer, constant checking
at all stages of production and dis-
tribution is necessary to maintain
the highest quality. The illus-
tration shows a chemist analys-
ing a sample of aviation fuel.
It typifies the concentration
on laboratory research work
behind the Anglo-Iranian
Company’s aviation fuels.
shot above the horizon and to
be as blistering as his temper.
Behind him the Simcock slave
with the unloaded gun danced
in delicious terror and cast
eagerly apprehensive glances be-
tween the racing Mrs. Biggs and
his own boss. The likely future
of baby Biggs, if his dad reached
his grandfather before his
mother reached his dad, was too
deplorable to think about. But,
after all, there was the rest of
humanity to consider, and his
loyal employee considered that
the loss of Simcock would do
the district more good than a
fifty-per-cent, rise in wheat
prices. Then the man’s roving
eye saw the unnatural cloud in
the east, and his own instinctive
bawled warning and frantically-
pointing hand stopped the race.
All parties, including the baby
and the bull, turned and stared
for a split-second. Then all of
them, except the bull and the
bank-manager, were suddenly
sprinting towards the Biggs place
and the threat that lay on the
other side of it.
A crop-and-stubble fire was
on the way, racing and crackling
in fifty-foot leaps before a fair
wind. Anything and everything
else could wait until later,
Worthington Simcock’s eye lit
up again, over rejuvenated mous-
tachios, and he shouldered the
bank-manager out of his path
and - leapt into action with a
bellow. He was, however, the
one who didn’t run far. In-
stinct sent him bounding to the
tall mare, which was hung on
the fence.
When Simcock overtook the
sprinting Biggs he slid from the
running horse like a Hollywood
cowboy bawling “Take the mare
and go for Wylie’s. Get ’em to-
gether and try to stop it before
it gets over the Creek-road. I’ll
get another horse saddled and
round up all the men I can.”
Biggs hit the saddle and had
the mare stretched out again
without wasting time in words,
and Simcock’s rebellious
daughter arrived, panting. “You
old fool, Dad....” she screamed,
her mind lagging a little behind
events.
“Shut up!” Simcoqk bel-
lowed. “Get to the house. Your
mother knows what to do about
tea and tucker if you don’t. Grab
that damned bank-manager’s
car and take the stuff and any-
body you can pick up to Wylie’s.
Back-road, not along the creek.
Don’t take any fool risks if the
fire gets there first.”
The tali girl ran purposefully,
and then remembered her baby.
By that time Worthington Sim-
cock had tripped over the baby
once, and when its mother
blundered into him he roared
with rage. But his employee,
happy to be done with shotguns,
was already at the house and had
a big bay saddled for him. He
was soon triumphantly in com-
mand of everybody he could
find to order about, and, though
most of the shock-troops he
mustered to fight the fire took
no notice whatever of his com-
mands, he felt like Bliicher at
Waterloo as he rode for Wylie’s
at the head of them.
THE fire beat them to the
Creek-road and over it, and
eventually swept across the
Biggs place, to the terror of the
bull, and consumed the crop in
Simcock’s home paddock. It
wasn’t a long fight, because
stubble and dry wheat don’t
go like real bush —you either
beat it quickly and put it out,
or it is halfway to the next
State, fast and fierce, but soon
gone.
They saved nearly all the
buildings of importance, and
the Biggs bull and the Simcock
sheep and some of the fences.
But the fence that had had the
hole in it now lay flat and
smouldering for its whole length.
“The old cow did his share,”
Biggs grudgingly admitted to his
wife. “He loves charging
around on that horse and yelling
at people, but when it comes to
the point he can get down on his
plates of meat and' work with
the best of ’em.”
In the dusk a weary, charred
group drank black tea in the
open and kept an eye on what-
ever was smouldering in case
it might set something else off.
A charcoaly but swaggering
Simcock and his son-in-law
found themselves looking at the
fence that had been the cause
of the latest and longest rage
between them.
Biggs took more tea from a
bucket his wife brought and
said, ruefully, “Well, it’s got a
hole in it now, all right.”
Simcock expanded with satis-
faction, generosity and good-
will, like the bull had with the
wheat. “Let it go, son,” he
said. “We won’t put it up
again.”
“Whadda you mean?” asked
Biggs suspiciously.
“Fool business, all this
trouble,” announced Simcock
grandly, as though he had made
none of it. “Lot of nonsense,
the girl and the little chap liv-
ing down there with two-thirds
of our place vacant,”
“Oh, Dad!” his daughter
cried in hope and tearful excite-
ment. -
“Worked together today,
haven’t we?” Simcock barked
at Biggs. “Work together in
a damned crisis, why not do it
always? Damned fire makes a
man think. Leave the blasted
fence down, join the land, draw
up a full partnership, you and
the girl and the little feller have
the lot one of these days.”
“Oh, Dad!” the girl said
again, throwing ecstatic arms
around her husband.
In Biggs confusion and the
remnants of his hate fought a
losing battle against land-
hunger, impatience to be estab-
lished and the thought of what
it would mean to his wife. His
face in the pale light looked
sombrely sardonic as usual, but
he said with impetuous warmth
“Right. I’ll be in it.”
“Good!” said Simcock. “Fix
everything in town tomorrow.”
Then, head high, moustachios
bristling, more than ever con-
scious of his worth and breadth
of mind, he brusquely mounted
the bay and rode off towards his
homestead.
TVY the burned fence Mr. and
** Mrs. Biggs clutched each
other and dreamed happy
dreams as they sniffed the tangy
strawsoot in the air. Near the
house Worthington Simcock
found the bank-manager, unbe-
lievably exhausted by his efforts
to keep up with the countrymen
against the fire, stumbling to-
wards his car.
“Had tea?” asked Simcock.
“Yes, thanks,” said the
manager somewhat stiffly,
“Well, come back and have
a whisky,” the farmer invited
jovially. “Occasion for whisky,
this is.”
The banker hesitated, but he
wanted whisky, and he trudged
wearily beside the horse. “Well,
I’m sorry about what I was
telling you this morning, Sim-
cock,” he said apologetically.
“I’ve done all I can to make
head-office look at it differently,
but they’ve got the say,”
Simcock laughed, the old, con-
fident, arrogant rattle of mirth
he used when he was trium-
phant. “Well, you can make ’em
look at it differently now,” he
said.
“What?” said the banker
puzzled. “Nothing’s happened
but the fire. You’ve lost a
thousand bushels, and that
won’t make them any happier,
I’m afraid.”
“Fire burned a fence, too,”
announced Simcock. “Fence
between me and young Biggs.
Going into full partnership.
Two-thousand acres of the best
land in the district on to the
property, and you yourself say
the young scoundrel’s the best
farmer for miles. Will that make
any difference?”
“Oh!” said the manager, feel-
ing that he would enjoy Sim-
cock’s whisky better. “Yes, old
boy, that ought to make all the
difference.”
Inside he did enjoy the drink,
hardly at all troubled by the
thought that struck him for a
moment somewhere near the
bottom of the third glass, when
he wondered whether the young
chap knew quite what he had
let himself in for. *
Well, he told himself, with
alcoholic exhaustion numbing
his awareness of leaden limbs,
the future will look after that.
I won’t be here, pray God!
He listened with half an ear
to the forlorn, rumbling groans
of the slightly scorched and
much-disillusioned Biggs bull
in the far paddock, and with
the fourth nobbier drank a pri-
vate toast to Worthington Sim-
cock, afid Biggs, and the bull,
and all the crazy bush-town
neighbors he loved and would
like to help, but would have to
get away from soon or finally
go mad.
The Angel of the “Variations”
Here is a man with dual flame
sprung from the spike of his vertebrae—
a spire perfected of bane and fire.
Let the world end when his trumpet sounds;
but the slow bells, responding, chime.
The heart is replying: "Sorrow
is heavier than time.”
Yet here is a voice that cries to me
to shed my infelicity—
a curvature of music lashed
to the mind’s blade, the heart’s request.
I rise, attempt to learn his stance,
the erect and formal lance.
In freshets of light begins his dance.
He is the one whose footsteps speak,
under whose feet the whirling disc
of earth spins on, and forward from
the narrow day’s continuum.
Five senses stir,
imprisoned in
the white sleep of the glacier.
Five rivers flow;
five streams exalt >
to motion the impacted snow.
O Lord, who marks our misery,
mark how this angel moves for me.
And let my joy come unto Thee.
N.S.W,
MARGARET IRVIN


"iri&ll
IS
m
UKft
Wl)i
W
warn
wsa®
WB
sssass
Wm
m
///
m
m-A
w&
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
Ktusabev
-(Hotk-
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl 13.3
THE symbol known
to connoisseurs
of Scotch Whisky P
since 1742
gi
‘I
yajie 5 a ;
®|% -ifii
I'frfel P I-
! “
V; 3
J/} Jr.
u
sy
WHITE HORSE
Scotch Whisky
WHIBX/9 J
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Alcatraz Island
Prison by J. A. Johnston.—5515.
To buy copy of How to Fight
Nervous Troubles by James Oppen-
heim (Little Blue Book No. 1070),
The Vital Psychology of Jung by
James Oppenheim (Little Blue Book
No. 978), and How to Conquer Fear
in the same series.—ssl4.
Information Sought
Origin of the saying: “I expect to
pass through this world but once.
Any good therefore that I can do, or
any kindness that I can show to any
fellow-creature, let me do it now.
Let me not defer or neglect it, for I
shall not pass this way again”?
Every effort to identify the author
of this much-quoted saying has failed.
It has been attributed to Stephen
Grd|et, an American Quaker of French
birth; R. W. Emerson; Edward
Courtenay, Earl of Devon: Sir Row-
land Hill; Marcus Aurelius; Miss
A. B. Hageman; Addison; Thomas
Carlyle; and others; and it is also
said that the germ of it is to be found
in the writings of a Chinese philo-
sopher. There seems to be some
authority in favor of Stephen Grellet
being the author, but the passage does
not occur in any of his printed works.
In Blessed Be Drudgery by William
C. Gannett, the saying is thus
recorded: “The old Quaker was right.
I expect to pass through life but once.
If there is any kindness, or any good
thing I can do to my fellow-beings,
let me do it now. I shall pass this
way but once.”
♦ * * *
How many expeditions were sent
out after Leichhardt, and were any
traces of Leichhardt found by them ?
Four expeditions were sent out.
Leichhardt disappeared in 1848. In
1852 an expedition under Hovenden
Hely set out to search. Blackfellows
led him to various white-men’s camps
on the Maranoa, Warrego and Nivelle,
but none of the camps was ever satis-
factorily identified with Leichhardt.
A. C. Gregory led two expeditions,
one in 1855-56, the second in 1858,
the main object on both occasions
being the discovery of Leichhardt’s
fate. On the first trip, during which
Gregory in 16 months covered 5000
miles and crossed the top of the
continent from Port Essington (Dar-
win) to Port Curtis (Q.), the remains
of a camp were found on July 13,
1856. Gregory thought it could not
have been one of Leichhardt’s 1845
camps, as it was 100 miles south of
his 1845 route, but that it may have
been one of his camps on his last
fatal journey. The fourth expedition,
under John Forrest, set out in 1869,
under the auspices of the W.A.
Government. On May 18, 1869,
Forrest reached the dry salt lake (Lake
Barlee) near where, it was being said,
Leichhardt had been murdered. No
corroboration of the story was found.
* * * *
Origin of opera?
Dates from Greek times, when the
actor declaimed his words to an
accompaniment of flutes and lyres.
Evolution into its modern form began
when the 16th-century Florentines
Peri and Caccini attempted to com-
bine music and drama. Monteverde’s
opera “Orfeo,” produced in 1608,
made a great impression on con-
temporary musicians, and the idea
spread rapidly. The first opera-house
was opened at Venice in 1637.
* * * *
Where and what is the Goyder line,
and why was it given that name ?
Authority for answer?
% The line is the first delineation of
a boundary for wheatgrowing based
on an average Min. rainfall. This
line runs from a little north of Pinaroo
(S.A.) in a curve past Eudunda and
Kooringa to Terowie, then between
Yongala and Petersburg, then n.-w.
to Mt. Remarkable and south to
Moonta (all are in S.A.). It has
lately been extended by improved
methods of dry-farming, but is on
the whole still correct, wheat being
profitably grown between it and the
sea, but not to any extent beyond.
Named after George Woodroffe
Goyder, Surveyor-General in S.A.
Authority: Australian Encyclopcedia.
Qualifications for award of the 1914
(Mans) Star ?
All officers and men of the British
and Indian Expeditionary Forces,
including civilian medical practi-
tioners, nursing sisters, nurses and
others employed with military hos-
pitals, who actually served in France
or Belgium on the establishment of
a unit between August 5, 1914, and
midnight on November 22-23, 1914,
are eligible. Officers and men of the
R.N., R.N.R., R.N.V.R. and Royal
Marines who served on the establish-
ment of a unit between these dates
are also eligible, but not those who
served afloat. The King later approved
the issue of a bar to those already
awarded the star who actually served
under the hre of the enemy in France
or Belgium between the dates men-
tioned.
Brief Answers
H.H.: The N.S.W. Government
Savings Bank closed its doors on
April 23, 1931, and reopened on
September 7, 1931. When the Com-
monwealth Bank look over, the de-
positors were requested to abstain
from heavy withdrawals, but no actual
limit was imposed F.T.F.; To
make an effective spray to protect
carpets from silverfish mix Iqt. kero-
sene and ilb. pyrethrum powder, stir-
ring frequently for two hours. Strain
off powder and add 2fl. oz. methyl
salicylate to neutralise kerosene smell.
Spray floor and under side oi carpet.
....G.G.: The S.S. Quetta on her
way from Brisbane to London struck
a submerged rock rn Adolphus
Channel (near Torres Strait) on Feb-
ruary 28, 1890, The ship’s bottom
was ripped out and she sank in a
few minutes. One hundred and thirty-
four lives were lost; there were 100
survivors, including two women. The
boat was a British India steamer.
....H.M.: The landa was sunk in
the Indian Ocean by a torpedo attack
on July 16, 1944. At the time, Capt.
T. J, Mills was in command. Capt.
Skinner, to whom you refer, was tost
during the war whilst in command of
another ship... .P.J.S.: “A. Chee”
was the nom de plume of a Bulletin
writer named Flenry Lutlman Ellis;
“6 x 8” was the nom de plume of
Richard H01t... .R. 8.: Paragraphs
recording their deaths appeared m
The Bulletin's “Personal Items”
page as follows: Louis Lavater, June
3, 1953 ; J. Hewlett Ross, May 13,
1953; Firmin McKinnon, March 25,
1953; Guy Innes, February 25, 1953;
and Francis Dwyer, December 3, 1952.
....A.M.C.: Thoroughly clean the
veranda, wiping up as dry as possible.
When quite dry, the boards should
be smoothed by plane or by rubbing
with a piece of wood wrapped round
in coarse sandpaper. Sweep clear of
debris from smoothing, then give one
or two coats of Solpah veranda oil;
this is a varnish treatment and may
need renewing when worn. Other-
wise, paint with this mixture: igal.
raw linseed oil, Iqt. mineral turpen-
tine, Iqt. terebine. A good-quality
hard flooring paint is also recom-
mended. .. .E.J.M.W,: The rock men-
tioned is in all probability a granite
and not a marble. Assouan is a
modern town on the Nile near the
site of the ancient city of Syene.
The granite quarries there were first
worked 5000 years ago and the stone
was used for many ancient Egyptian
monuments including linings and
facings to two of the pyramids. In
modern times the quarries were re-
opened to provide rock for the
Assouan Dam....D.W.: Many sea-
shells need only a wash in warm soapy
water, a second wash in water made
just sour with hydrochloric acid and
a polish with raw linseed oil and a
finishing-pad. Dull shells may be
polished with Tripoli powder, a soft
brush and a chamois W.N.S.:
Bill Squires was born at Narrabri
(N.S.W.) on March 17, 1879...
Shellac is dissolved in methylated
spirit (6oz. shellac to Ipt. spirit).
Orange shellac produces brown, white
shellac “white” polish T.A.:
Apiaries must be registered in accord-
ance with the N.S.W. Apiaries Act,
1916. They are under the supervision
of inspectors appointed by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
D.W.J.: Why do you have to say
“thou” when addressing a sparrow?
. ...N.McK.: You need to condense
and polish... ; Send rhymed
complaint about the water-supply to
the Water Board. Apparently they
deserve it T.C.; “As 1 had a
couple of hours to spare I put my
thoughts on paper.” You need, unfor-
tunately, a couple of centuries
W.W.: Usual remarks about the
breeze and the trees J. 8.: Suggest
you send it to the home for lost
doggerel....V.W.: You won’t make
poetry by chopping up commonplace
prose into stove-lengths N.H.:
“Efforts at Verse” just about describes
them... .P.N.W.: Hackneyed moral
concealed in , pretentious jargon
R.T.J.: “Do you ever think of the
future?” Yes; resignedly anticipat-
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
ing six poems every week opening
with the same flat rhetorical question.
H.W.: Can’t you find something
more interesting to say about a
mopoke than that it “weaves a spell”?
D.N.: That theme has whiskers
down to its ankles H.R.J.: Usual
observations bn desirability of living
under a gum-tree 0.E.: No place
here for that sort of vaguely tuneful
moralising... .T.D.: Picture what
you’ve observed and avoid vague
ruminations about the universe
F.A.: “Is there an opening for poems
such as these?” The w.p.b. gapes
wide H.F.W.: The first require-
ment of a mystery story is that there
should be a mystery 8.C.: Same
old swaggie, same old dog R.R.:
It arouses kindly thoughts, in that it
may well be the last poem about the
Coronation for many long years to
come... .H. 8.: Not only did he fool
the estate-shark, but we couldn’t see
through him, either F.F.: Too
much about too little... .P.K.F.: So
accurate it’s painful G.C.: Afraid
you let your circus irk us M.F.8.:
Pretty good dilemma, but something
wrong with the ending M. 8.:
Interesting, if true P. 8.: We could
see through “The Tunnel” far too
early A.McC.: He’ll have to stay
alcoholic and anonymous A.P.:
“Fly-by-Night” is on the home-run.
. ...K.McA.: As it went on it fell
0ff....8.C.: In later years you will
regard this as one of your early
efforts J.M.H.: Doesn’t make a
story W.R.R.: Much too gay
J.T.: Not one of burs H.W.:
Very few, even of well-known
authors, have ever been plausible
about a man playing a musical instru-
ment... .H.McL.: You write beaut,
but pencil won’t do.


War II Hisfories
“Labor” and Defence
By ”EK DUM"
MR. MENZIES reached
Sydney after his war-
time visit to England
during the blitz on May
24, 1941, after having talked
with Messfs. Churchill and
Roosevelt. He had come
back impressed by “that supreme
immortal thing, the morale of the
British people,” amid their
“grim, grimy and depressing”
way of life. He had to
face the problems posed by
the disasters of Greece and
Crete, and by the situation in
the French Middle East and its
surrounding areas. He called
Parliament together for a few
days, and on June 17 broadcast
the “prospectus of an unlimited
war effort.”
Mr. Menzies told the
country: “We have reached a
point where your alleged rights
or mine do not matter. The only
way we can win this war is by
being prepared to put into pawn
every right that we have until
victory is attained.”
The Government at once took
measures to introduce the new
policy. Mr. Menzies’s first
endeavor was to secure a united
country by establishing a
national Ministry. But Mr.
Curtin reminded the Prime
Minister proudly that the
“Labor” party, “after almost
two years of war, had averted
the serious consequences which,
during the 1914-18 World War,
followed the formation of an
Administration which rendered
Parliament ineffective because of
an impotent Opposition.” He
said that the establishment of a
national Government would
“promote disunity.” Mr.
Hasluck does not interpret this.
Mr. Menzies now endeavored,
having failed to secure a national
Government, to make the work
of Parliament more national by
the creation of non-party com-
mittees to be attached to the
various Government departments
“with a view to providing
adequate Parliamentary scrutiny
of what we are doing, while we
are doing it.” The Ministry was
enlarged from 16 to 19, and an
Economic and Industrial Com-
mittee of Cabinet was created,
under Mr. Fadden’s chairman-
ship.
Mr. Curtin publicly backed up
the Prime Minister’s demands on
the country. He said that
The stupendous industrial and eco-
nomic programme outlined by the
Prime Minister involved a tre-
mendous utilisation of the manhood
of Australia for war industries, the
transfer of many men from the
production of goods for civil use and
probably the displacement of men
by women. Because the effect of
such changes would inevitably fall
on the workers, machinery should be
devised to allow the greatest pos-
sible degree of “consultation, agree-
ment and concert” with the workers.
He thought the Government
might have approached industrial
unrest in a different way ; that
it might have given its machinery
of conciliation a little longer
experience before it stated that
it was intended to prohibit
strikes:
The Government should take well
into account the difficulties of the
trade-unions, the circumstances in
which they were working and the
general way in which they were
shaping before, in a moment of panic
or under newspaper pressure, it was
assumed that the unions were not
pulling their weight.
Mr. Curtin remarked that at this
point, at which the Government
was calling on the country to
sacrifice everything to the war
effort, “the workers and the
people are entitled to some
instalments of the new social
order as opportunity offers
there ought to be some departure
from the old social order, even
while the war is being waged.”
He was under strong pressure on
this matter from Leftist leaders
behind the scenes.
Mr. Hasluck writes:
Jfot all the party followed their
leader. From Sydneysjde Tabor
came imprecise and unsubstantiated
attacks on “privilege,” “vested inter-
ests.” “graft,” “fascism” “big busi-
ness” and so on.... There was the
old talk of inequality of sacrifice.
... .a good deal of recrimination over
Greece and the “massacre” of Aus-
tralians.
The A.C.T.U. linked good
resolutions with calls for
measures leading towards
socialisation, and the proof of
the pudding was in the eating—
in the June-September quarter,
after the new all-out war effort
was put into gear and after
Russia had cOme into the war,
557,693 working-days were lost
through industrial disputes.
Broadly speaking the Aus-
tralian defence position, when
Germany, by attacking Russia,
freed Japan to strike where it
would in the Pacific, was this,:
On J.une 30, 1941, there were
400.000 men in the three fighting
services—one in four of the male
population between 18 and 40
years old. Before June 30, 1943,
794,029 men and 52,376 women
would be required,' for the
services and aircraft and muni-
tions production under the new
programme which was already
under way. The total manpower
reservoir between 18 and 60 was
about 1,140,000. It was decided
to reorganise the authorised basis
of the A.1.F., a corps of three
divisions less a brigade-group,
but including a tank brigade and
increased establishments with
Bth Division, into a corps of two
divisions and an armored
division (29,000 men per
division) with an army tank
brigade, plus the Bth Division.
“Labor,” when it came into
office towards the end of the
year, confirmed this new
arrangement and held to it until
a few days before the Japanese
attack on Pearl Harbor, when
it virtually returned to the earlier
and larger establishment on the
insistence of General Blarney,
who had few illusions at that
stage about what was coming.
Actual enlistments in the A.I.F.
had not been impressive during
the first two years of the war,
although they were considered
by the command sufficient to
maintain the force. Out of a
population of 7,000,000, up to
August, 1941, total enlistments
had been 188,587, whereas in the
first two years of the 1914-18
war a population of 5,000,000
had provided 307,966 accepted
recruits.
Towards the end of 1941,
after “Labor” took over, four
A.I.F. divisions were in the
field —6th to 9th —and three had
seen action. An armored
division was being formed.
A.I.F. strength was 151,240.
There was a volunteer corps of
50.000 in course of formation.
The R.A.A.F. had 60,000 men—
-49.000 in Australia —and the
R.A.N. had over 20,000 men
with 13,000 afloat. There were
120.000 men overseas, 211,000
trained for home service, of
whom 132,000 were on per-
manent duty. But the
“Labor” Government asked the
Army to investigate the possible
release of men for munitions
production and essential
industry. They were actually
planning to reduce the Militia
by 20;000 to 30,000 men for
transfer to Navy and Air Force
and munitions work on
December 4, four days before the
Pgarl Harbor attack.
The results of the all-out pro-
duction plan of the Menzies
Government in the middle of
1941, on top of earlier prelimi-
naries, was that, when Japan
attacked. Australia since the out-
break of war had built approxi-
mately 35 new Government
munition factories and 77 muni-
tions annexes had been built or
commenced. On the second
anniversary of the outbreak of
war with Germany 50,000
workers were directly engaged in
munitions manufacture and
150,000 indirectly. On December
3, four days before the Pearl
Harbor raid, and a few weeks
after the Curtin Government
achieved power, Douglas Cop-
land reported:
The Australian workman, quite
unused to the high degree of pre-
cision needed in war-goods produc-
tion, has responded magnificently to
the intense training needed to equip
him for the task. At the outbreak
of war, by far our worst and most
fundamental deficiency was in
machine-tools. We had one manu-
facturer of lathes, two of power-
presses and one Government machine-
tools factory.... By the end of 1940
we were practically self-sufficient,
and had over 30 firms turning out
machine-tools. The production of
munitions in 1940-41 (£33,000,000) is
18 times that of 1938-39, and is cx-
pected to be £76,000,000 in 1941-43.
During 1940-41 there were about
40.000 employees in the munitions
industry, and by the end of 1942 it
is expected that about 120,000 will
be employed.
Immediately after Mr. Curtin
took office (6/10/’4l) there
were 270 Beaufort bombers
on order under the pro-
gramme begun by Mr. Menzies
in the previous July, with
a programme of 40 a month
on the stocks for the future;
500 Wirraways by the end of
1941 and 30 a month thereafter ;
969 Tiger Moths for training on
order and 50 a month thereafter.
The manufacture of about 1000
aircraft for the United Kingdom
was already in hand, and we
were beginning to make twin-row
Wasps to engine the Beauforts,
and were turning out 60 Gipsy
Majors a month for the Tiger
Moths.
The chief interruption to the
programme came from industrial
disputes, and these were mainly
in N. S. Wales, the heart of
“Labor” organisation, the home
of the Evatt, the Beasley and
the McKell groups.
Whereas during the period
from the fourth quarter of 1939
to the third quarter of 1945 the
total working-days lost in Aus-
tralia was 5,824,439, the loss in
N. S. Wales (where at the end
781.000 were employed out of a
Commonwealth total of
1,914,000) was 4,462,925, or 76
per cent, of the total. About
53 per cent, of the total working-
days lost during the war were
lost on the N. S. Wales coal-
fields. •
The development of the
Japanese danger and Australian
reaction to it starts, as has been
said, with the entry of Russia
into the war. Mr. Hasluck does
not mention the fact that it was
a few days after this event of
June 22, 1941, that the
Americans broke the Japanese
machine code, and from July 2,
1941, were aware of every-
thing that operated in the
Japanese mind —an astonishing
fact when viewed in association
with the surprise which the Pearl
Harbor raid achieved.
On July 14 a Japanese docu-
ment spoke of “the irrevocable
resolution of Japan to put an
end to Anglo-American assist-
ance in thwarting her natural
expansion”:
We will endeavor to the last to
occupy French Indo-China peace-
fully, but. if resistance is offered, we
will crush it by force, occupy the
country and set up martial 1aw....
next on our schedule is the sending
of an ultimatum to the Netherlands
Indies. In the seizing of Singapore
the Navy will plav the' principal
part. As for the Army in seizing
Singapore, it will need only one
division, and in the Netherlands
East Indies only two. In the main,
through the activities of onr air
arm....and our submarine fleet....
we will once and for all crush any
Anglo-American military power and
their ability to assist in any schemes
against us.
The actual formations to be used
were named.
It did not need the decoded
messages to prove the change in
the atmosphere in the Far East.
On July 23 Japanese demands
This is the second of two articles based on Paul
Hasluck’s volume “The Government and the People.”
were issued for bases in Indo-
China. Two days later Japanese
warships were off Camranh Bay.
Japanese assets in the United
States and the British Common-
wealth were frozen and all
treaties with Japan were
denounced by Britain. British,
American and Dutch assets in
Japan were frozen. Japanese
troops entered Indo-China, under
treaty with the Vichy Govern-
ment. On August 4 Sir Iven
Mackay was appointed C.-in-C.
in Australia to organise local
defence, and the British Govern-
ment warned Japan of her
concern in any attack on
Thailand. The possibility of war
with Japan over Thailand was
plainly discussed in a War
Advisory Council meeting on
August 6. On August 10, while
Mr. Menzies was on a tour of
Australia, he “received certain
papers which led him to cancel
the tour and return the same
night to Melbourne, where a
meeting of the full Cabinet was
held at noon on Monday,
August 11.” These papers were
connected with the pending
Atlantic meeting of Messrs.
Roosevelt and Churchill.
The period which followed
was one of the most shameful
for certain elements in Australian
politics.
The Opposition charged that
“the abandonment of the [Mr.
Menzies’s] tour and the' return
to Melbourne were a piece of
political stunting, and that the
Prime Minister had used the
international situation in order
to cover up embarrassments of
his party political difficulties,”
which had begun to arise a few
days earlier, with an attempt on
his own side of the House to
replace him as Prime Minister.
His opponents had the support
of the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
which “openly joined with those
working for the removal of
Menzies,” and canvassed the
idea that perhaps he might serve
Australia better if he were sent
to London as Australian repre-
sentative.
The fact was that the full
Cabinet meeting held in Mel-
bourne had been for the purpose
of deciding in bald terms (on
the request of the U.K.) whether
Australia favored going to war
with or without American aid if
Japan invaded Thailand —the
Japanese were already establish-
ing themselves in force in
neighboring Indo-China and had
taken-over eight aerodromes.
The Cabinet decided that the
Prime Minister should go to
England to discuss the whole
matter.
“Labor’s” attitude now
involved another complete volte
face. Early in the year when
there had been no danger of
immediate Japanese attack, its
leaders —as shown in last week’s
article —had been screaming for
test mobilisation and sowing
panic with a lavish hand. Now
when the Japanese were actually
in movement with large land and
air forces on,the very border of
our defence perimeter of Malaya
Mr. Forde declared that the War
Advisory Council should have
been consulted before any
decision was made to send the
Prime Minister to London:
In my opinion the Cnblnet’s de-
cision is actuated more by political
expediency than by international
considerations.
This was all the worse because
Mr. Curtin had been in Mr.
Menzies’s confidence during the
full Cabinet’s discussions and
was willing that the Prime
Minister should go. Curtin
was prepared to assume
tjje continuance of the Govern-
ment. He “did not favor an
early election,” according to the
minutes of the War Council, “as
public opinion was fully reflected
in Parliament.” But Evatt
said that he was “not prepared
to act on the assumption that
the present Government would
continue for the duration of the
war.”
Both Evatt and Forde issued
statements fostering the idea that
the primary objective of the
Prime Minister in desiring to go
to London was to —the words
were Evatt’s—“hinder effective
opposition to the present
Ministry during the intervening
absence abroad of its head.”
Both Forde and Evatt urged
“Labor” to take over the Gov-
ernment. When the case of the
interned Communists Ratliff and
Thomas became an excuse for
stoppage of war industry, Dr,
Evatt was heard aiding and
abetting the Communist agita-
tors. When the Prime Minister
decided to call a private meeting
of Parliament to continue the
discussion on the London trip
and representation in the British
Commonwealth War Cabinet,
“Rosevear, Ward and Evatt at
once showed their mood by
opposing the proposal to suspend
the recording of debates, and
they did so in a way that made
it look like a tactical skirmish,
but Curtin checked them
sharply.”
Afterwards when the Houses
met openly Forde sought bitterly
to convince the country that the
Government policy was moti-
vated by political intrigues and
dodges. Ward’s cry from the
Left wing was for office for
“Labor” in order to institute the
“only new order acceptable to
the workers which can and will
supplant the present order....
that is, the social ownership and
control of production, distribu-
tion and exchange.”
In the end, as Mr. A. W.
Coles, M.P., put it, Mr. Menzies
was “offered (in his own party-
roohn) as Australia’s scapegoat
on the altar of political ambi-
tion, under the coercion of con-
stantly applied pressure.” Mr.
Coles said:
I witnessed a lynching organised
by mass hysteria. It was something
so unclean that it will never he
erased from my memory—it was no-
thing but a political lynching.
It was a triumph for the
Evatt-Forde technique. By
insistent propaganda of the type
which is still Dr. Evatt’s chief
weapon in politics the U.A.P.
had “temporarily wrecked itself,”
just as Dr. Evatt has nearly led
the Liberal-C.P. coalition to
wreck itself in 1952-53. And in
the same way the Fadden Gov-
ernment was wrecked. In both
cases “elements of domestic
politics” determined the out-
come, and not the alarming
and urgent war situation in the
Pacific.
It is characteristic of the
“Labor” habit of the volte face
that within three weeks of taking
office in October the same
“Labor” party which had been
panicking in February, 1941,
when there was no immediate
danger, and calling for the return
of the A.I.F. and general test
mobilisation, was, a month
before Pearl Harbor was
attacked, heard categorically
informing Parliament that there
was no thought of recalling the
A.I.F. from the Middle East,
whither, its Army Minister, the
now - complacent Mr. Forde,
announced that the new Armored
Division would be sent.
As late as November 26, 1941,
the “Labor” Cabinet adopted
every war measure it had
criticised and opposed when
done by the previous Govern-
ment. Its foreign policy, as
usual, was misinformed.
Dr. Evatt was obsessed with
“continued faith in value of
a warning as a deterrent
to Japan and a continued
expectation that if Japan struck
soon she would strike against
Soviet Union”:
Japan should he warned, the Aus-
tralian Government said, that any
attack by Japan on Russia should
be resisted by force by the British
Commonwealth, irrespective of the
attitude of the United States....A
reciprocal guarantee should be
sought from Russia that if Japan
attacked southward Russia would
declare war on Japan, but the
warning to Japan should not be
conditional on such an assurance.
“Labor” was very strong now
about a “resolute and determined
line with Japan in ensuring the
co-operation of the United
States.” And the same Evatt who
had been pooh-poohing the
danger from the north and attri-
buting Mr. Menzies’s attitude of
(Continued on page 34)


Y
fffP&eKm/r
1?
to
*z
C3
sr -
&
ml
f.
y&
sivemce -wast
TW
i WOM)CNS\
\ HQVI «**
%
*vr-~
w
f '
y
m
A
M
OS
R J*v
I
s •
1
<T7-
aiff
SHRDUl>
Bru
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited, Brewers of good beer since 1836.
KB. 122.18
Public Notice
Thomas Henry Williams, ex-
M. for Upper Hunter in First
N. Labor Government and
President A.W.U.
“Our Book is Closed.”
BEWARE OF THE DANGER CURVE!
SANAFORM
WILL KEEP YOU FIT!
With the Sanaform Belt you will feel
vigorous and young again. The
Sanaform Belt will support gently
yojir abdomen, bring back a normal,
youthful posture and reduce your
measurements —will help sagging
stomach muscles and tired backs.
Also ideal to wear after an abdominal
operation.
Call today or write for Free
111 ustrated Booklet
SANAFORM BELT CO.,
St. James Bldg., 107 Elizabeth St., Sydney, M 3113
fs
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney racegoers saw a stylish
MacArthur colt win the opening
event at Rosehill. He was
country galloper Rueben, who
had won at four successive starts
at north and north-western meet-
ings before coming to Sydney.
Rueben has an easy action and
won rather impressively. How-
ever, he won’t be raced in Sydney
again until spring, as his trainer
intends to take him back to
Inverell for a brief let-up before
he tackles the best Sydney three-
year-olds in the coming months.
He was bought at the Scone
yearling sales for 350gns., and
won the Scone Guineas, run a
few weeks ago. His full brother
was tile third-last yearling in the
latest Randwick April catalogue
and was sold for a modest
190gns. The buyer should be
feeling happy. This cheap
yearling, reared at Sledmere
stud. Scone (N.S.W.), was offered
by Mrs. C. B. Hasler, a regular
Sydney racegoer. Dam of the
pair, Lady Cynara, is by Roger
de Bushli (imp.) and traces back
to Carbine. Rueben’s main
objective is the AJ.C. Derby.
Candidates for Doomben
“Ten Thousand” (run July 4)
were prominent at weekend
meetings. Rotate, now a popular
choice, won at Caulfield; True
Leader, Aerofoil, * Coulper,
Stirrup, Off Hand and Ben Bow
did well at Rasehill. Off Hand
is a doubtful Brisbane tripper.
Rotate, which had won at
Flemington a week earlier,
carried 9.10 at Caulfield (7st.
limit) and has 8.11 at Doomben,
where there is a 7st. limit. His
was probably the best Doomben
trial.
Caulfield two-year-old winner
Cambuse showed quick improve-
ment in form to land the First
Minook Handicap (seven
furlongs), but Mediate, who fell
near the winning-post, appeared
to be doing much better than
the winner just before the fall.
Still, Cambuse, trained at Men-
tone by H. Wolters for W.
Balloch, might soon add to win-
nings. Carey, a good winner in
Melbourne, and a Melbourne
Gup placegetter, is sire of
Cambuse, while his dam. Prattle
Double, which wasn’t raced
owing to an injury, is by Prittle
Prattle from My Court (a half-
sister to Riawena, a winner of
the G. N. Steeple), by Double
Court (imp.). Sir Owen, winner
of the Second Minook Handicap
—his second success in last four
starts —was a 2-to-l favorite. He
is by Woodruffe (imp.), a Bois
Roussel stallion, whose oldest
progeny are now two years.
Lady Tudor, dam of Sir Owen,
is by Tudor King (imp.) from
Quietly by Bulandshar (imp.).
Royal Stream is expected to
develop into a glamor three-year-
old colt in the season which
opens on August 1. He shapes
like a high-class performer. He
has done well since a spell fol-
lowing the autumn racing, and
Randwick trainer Fred Cush will
soon be getting him ready for
early-spring races. Owner R.
Carter experienced an exasperat-
ing run of seconds with Royal
Stream. One of them was in the
AJ.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
(£5900), but the winner, Cromis,
had the race taken from him fol-
lowing a swabbing investigation.
An appeal has been lodged
against that decision. Costing
1900gns.' as a yearling Royal
Stream’s earnings from two wins
and five seconds (if he gets first
money for the Sires’ Produce)
total £7650. Royal Stream
should develop into a good
stayer because he’s bred along
such lines, being a Midstream
(imp.) youngster from Farm-
ington (imp.) ,by Colombo.
Noted stayers figure in the
pedigree, particularly Tiberius
(Ascot Gold Cup, Goodwood
Cup, etc.). .Brother of the colt
was sold at last April yearling
sales at Randwick for 3400gns.
After a series of disappoint-
ments the three-year-old Sydney
galloper Coulper came good with
successive wins at Rosehill, He
was a 375gns. yearling in the
autumn of 1951, when the first
of the progeny of Newtown
Wonder (imp.) were auctioned.
They have proved speedy
gallopers. Coulper is closely
related to Veiled Art, a winner
of the. AJ.C. Villiers Stakes.
Femave, dam of the gelding, is
a half-sister to Yashmak, dam of
Veiled Art, and was got by
Fernkloof (imp.) from Baver-
maine by Baverstock. Baver-
maine won 13 races and her
sister. Lady Trim, was successful
in 18 events.
There are more than 300
trainers, including permit-men
and owner-trainers, preparing
horses at various Sydney tracks,
but results up till this week show
that most of them have not led in
even one winner this season.
They haven’t much time left as
the new season begins on August
1, when all horses will be one
year older. Training honors for
“Sorry, but corroboree bin postponed tonight. Boys
Want to listen to Test match."
the current season show that
fewer than a dozen trainers have
won more than 10 races.
Tommy Smith, now in England,
is right out in front with 53
successes and about 20 more
than his nearest rivel, Maurice
MeCarten. The only others with
close on 20 winners for the
season are Fred Allsop and Fil
.Allotta. Trainers with a few
horses in their care and no win
for the 11 months so far must be
having a particularly lean time.
Jockeys who retire from the
saddle to take up training be-
cause of increasing weight or
catching-up of age seldom ride
their own horses in early-morn-
ing track trials. All the same, a
few ex-jockeys have managed to
hold their own in morning
gallops with present-day horse-
men. Majority of trainers
employ midget stable-hands or
apprentices to carry out the
break-o’-dawp work. Leading
jockeys motor from track to
track to fulfill engagements, so
their services are not often avail-
able for more than a couple of
rides at courses other tlyin Rand-
wick. One ex-jockey who regu-
larly rides members of his team
in work is Vic Thompson, who
has several horses in training at
Rosebery. He seeks information
from the dockers after a trial
as to time made when he’s been
in the saddle. Thompson would
be one of the lightest-weighted
mentors on Sydney courses. He
gets his share of winners and has
first-hand knowledge of a good
gallop.
Viv Davis, Randwick veterin-
ary surgeon, who won an A.J.C.
St. Leger, w.f.a. events and
other races with Aristocrat, has
done well with his brood mare
Kirrang. Chief among her foals
have been Aristocrat and The
Duchess. Her three-year-old
daughter by Delville Wood
(imp.), named All Blue, recently
won at Newcastle. All Blue, cost-
ing 1250gns. as a yearling, is a
half-sister to Sir Coral, a winner
in Perth (W.A.). Kirrang was got
by Magpie (imp.) from Wattle,
a speedy racemare, by Valais
(imp.) from Cymbala (imp.) by
Robert le Diable. Kirrang’s
yearling filly by Le Grand Due
(imp.) was sold at the recent
Randwick sales for 1000 guineas
to Barramul Stud (N.S.W.).
♦ ♦ *
Sydney Rugby Union match-
of-the-day, Eastern Suburbs v.
University, was a good-’un. Easts
the winners, 22-17. Piper, Uni-
versity and former Wallaby full
back, played like a champion (h
should have gone to Sout
Africa)/ but University had
weak link in Ralph Garner, who
has played for Australia as
winger, but is no centre. Indi
vidual brilliance and weaknesse
aside, Easts won because thei
forwards were too good. Othe
games: Manly b. Northern
Suburbs 22-6; Parramatta b
Drummoyne 13-8 ; Eastwood b
Gordon 11-5; Randwick b. St
George 27-16.
* * *
The 20,000 who went to Syd
ney C.G. on Saturday to watch
Norwood and North Adelaide
play a competition-demonstra-
tion match of Aussie Rules got
a new slant on the game. Play-
ing the open, fast, long-distance
game of Adelaide teams, as
distinct from the crowding and
bustle of Melbourne teams, the
visitors showed the code at its
best. What’s more, there was
nothing one-sided about it, and
the umpire’s display of firm
handling and quick decision was
worth seeing. North Adelaide
upset the prophets with a four-
goal win, 19.15-15.15.
In Melbourne Geelong goes
on its winning way, 21.10 to
Fitzroy’s 7.8 on Saturday, and
the only other teams pacing it
with them are Footscray, 9.14
to 8.11 against Richmond, and
Collingwood, 19.17 to 8.8 against
St. Kilda. North Melbourne,
Essendon and South Melbourne
duly chalked-up wins over
Hawthorn, Carlton and poor old
Melbourne.
* * ♦
The first 1953 Test gives hopes
of that change, fairly apparent in
post-war cricket, for which many
cricket-lovers longed—the return
of the bowler. First Bedser, then
Lindwall, put an abrupt cork in
the claptrap about Trent Bridge
being a “batsman’s paradise,”
and only the dour Hassett and
Morris of the Australians got
runs. Harvey, the potential run-
getter, didn’t even get sighted.
It’s better this way. Mostly the
crowd prefers to see a fairly
regular coming-and-going of
batsmen (which keeps interest
alive) rather than the same two
fellows pottering about for a day
or two. What’s more, a low-
scoring game gives better chance
of a match played to a finish.
• • • •
Burbling to each other like
birds in a cage before the Test
began at Trent Bridge, the radio
commentators kept on telling us
what a fine batsmen’s wicket it
was. Even after six Australians
had collected ducks and English
wickets were going even faster,
one twice described the pitch as
“placid” and another called it
“affable.” To the comment that
the light was too bad for bat to
see ball the obvious reply is that
ball could see wicket.
Eddie Paynter, mainly remem-
bered here for rising from a sick-
bed to make a fighting 83 ;n the
fourth Test in Brisbane in 1932,
made 216 n.o. in the 1938 Test
at Trent Bridge. In the same
match McCabe made 232 for
Australia, which won the match.


Mecca to the Yanks-and Others
King's Cross
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
MOST people have heard of
it. During the last war
the Americans enthusi-
astically adopted it. It
has been denounced and de-
fended. It “isn’t what it was,”
and it is “getting worse.” And,
over and above everything, the
place has a genuine charm, an
“atmosphere.” One can grow
terribly tired of “The Cross.”
But there are plenty of people—
the writer among them —who
wouldn’t willingly live anywhere
else. Not in Sydney, anyway.
Asked, on a visit to my home
town, where I lived in Sydney
and answering “The Cross,” I
observed two distinct reactions,
according to age and tempera-
ment. Group I smiled know-
ingly. Group II looked grave.
Something of the sort, I think,
partly explains the droves of
big-hatted young gentry one en-
counters in season —the Show,
the wool-sales, and so on —
thronging Darlinghurst - road,
ducking their heads under
striped awnings, staring with
fascinated attention at highly-
priced fruit and vegetables and
assembling in highly respectable
haunts of the bourgeoisie such
as Gleneagles, the Minerva and
King’s Cross theatres, and the
bars and lounges of Hotel Man-
sions and Hampton Court. They
go back to Wee Waa and Wagga,
Bogan Gate and Boggabri, One
Tree Plain and Brandy Mary’s
Flat no more wicked and not
much wiser, I imagine, than they
were before.
But the special status of
King’s Cross as a legendary
monster, eager to devour the
innocent young'from the bush,
cannot be entirely ignored. The
war, perhaps, had something to
do with the spread of this
curious belief. Americans on
leave moved into The Cross like
an army of occupation, and, like
most armies, they had camp-
followers. The novelty lay in
the lopsided mysteries of foreign
exchange and the undoubted
generosity of the American
male, factors which combined
to the more attractive of
the camp-followers in expensive
flats.
A number of country girls
did, in fact, “go wrong” in the
dangerous war-time atmosphere
of King’s Cross. A point less
often emphasised is the remark-
able number of girls who “went
wrong” in country towns. Near
Army camps, for instance, and,
in particular, in those parts of
Australia where the Americans
were gathered in force. But it
must be peculiarly irritating to
a young woman who has led a
hard-working, virtuous and
rather dull existence at King’s
Cross during the war years, with
all the attendant difficulties of
accommodation and transport,
to find herself automatically in-
cluded in a legend of glamorous
vice; purely on residential
qualifications.
The reputation of King’s
Cross antedates Pearl Harbor,
however, and its causes are com-
plex and obscure. To dip a
good way back into history, the
place—Henrietta Town, as it
was then —was once a blacks’
camp, before it became a favor-
ite residential area for Sydney
grandees.
The original Australians used
to follow a track which went
past the present St. James Flats,
along Stanley-street, towards the
town. In later years, too.
King’s Cross has been associ-
ated with the arts, and it is a
peculiarity of our civilisation
that practitioners of the arts,
unless they have been dead a
Long time, or have made a lot of
money, are rarely quite respect-
able. King’s Cross is still
haunted by radio-announcers,
actors, journalists and the like
—folk popularly supposed to
have leanings towards the life
Bohemian.
An interesting fact is the num-
ber of King’s Cross residents
who came originally from the
country. Retired graziers
abound. There is also a large
population of elderly ladies.
It is true that King’s Cross
harbors criminals, prostitutes
and homosexuals. It is also true
that it is the most thickly-popu-
lated area in the Common-
wealth, and has a majority of
residents of normal occupations
and morals. Vice is not obtru-
sive. Crimes of violence are
rare—an outbreak of razor-
slashing in 1927, a shooting in
the Tabarin Cafe (now defunct)
come to mind from a slender list.
A few suicides. By no means
an impressive tally. And the
churches have record attend-
ances.
+ +
Yet the reputation persists. A
lady of my acquaintance, of the
dowager type, lived in a flat at
King’s Cross with her two
beautiful and unmarried
daughters. It was a family of
an almost alarming respect-
ability, of country origin, de-
voted to social activities, music
and good works. They enter-
tained a lot, and, as sometimes
happens, a man was present one
night about whose identity the
hostess was uncertain, beyond
the fact that he was “a journa-
list” —she was quite definite
about that. He had been
brought, presumably, by one of
the other guests ; although no-
body cared to admit this later
on.
He talked quite freely about
his curious means of livelihood
and the paper that employed
him. He had smudgy fingers
and a battery of pencils in his
waistcoat-pocket. And he drank
everything within reach.
Having drunk his fill, this un-
couth young man removed his
feet from a chair, stood up,
jerked his thumb towards an
adjacent bedroom and said
curtly to one beautiful daughter;
“Come on!”
That young lady was distribut-
ing savories ; she almost dropped
the dish. “Come on,” the young
man repeated, in peremptory
manner. Then, noting her look
of amazement, perhaps, he said
in an injured tone: “Well, you
do live at King’s Cross, don’t
you?”
The daughter being deprived
of all power of speech, the
mother rose and majestically
gave the young man a piece of
her mind.. .though they did live
at King’s Cross, etc and
sent him about his business. The
mistaken young man left
hurriedly, leaving an ineradic-
able impression of the manners
and ways of journalists in the
minds of his hostess and her two
beautiful daughters.
It is difficult to believe that
even a Sydney journalist could
be so naive. And it is possible
that the mysterious young man
merely became bored and
wished to enliven the evening.
If so, he achieved his wish. But
the incident throws light on a
peculiarity of The Cross —the
baffling manner in which people
appear at parties ; the fluidity,
as it were, of King’s Cross
parties.
I remember a party in a block
of flats in Springfield-avenue,
given by a young lady from
Adelong (N.S.W.), at which the
Indian cricket team unexpectedly
arrived. No one knew why.
And, as they were all good fel-
lows, nobody asked them.
On a grander, more spectacu-
lar and mildly riotods scale,
artist Unk White gave parties
at his King’s Cross address
which were attended by artists
and others justly famous for
their wit and gaiety, their art
and/or their fine taste in hops
and malt. He recalls sending
out 70 invitations for a party to
which 200 rolled up, including
total strangers. Guests were
compelled to drink their beer on
the pavements, and, for some
reason that Unk to this day finds
it impossible to fathom, neigh-
bors rang the police. He is
proud of the fact that when the
police arrived they made no
arrests.
There is, however, a melan-
choly denouement. When Unk
—christened Cecil —woke up in
the morning he found his flat
razed. Missing were: nudes
from the wall; a watercolor of
a Port Said water-carrier ; cur-
tains from Italy; ivory chop-
sticks ; some gramophone-
records of Wagner and a volume
of his Life ; a huge chemical jar
(used for beer), too big to be
taken down the stairway, which
the determined thieves must
have lowered through the win-
dow with a rope. Also mis-
sing, £3-worth of sppons and
three dozen plates, the property
of the caterers, which Unk had
to replace. ,
Unk is typical of the peculiar
verve and spirit of King’s Cross.
Or of his King’s Cross. There
are others.
I am writing this in a flat
overlooking St. Neot’s-avenue.
Looking out the window one
can see the street shiny with
rain (it is a weekend, anck, of
course, raining), parked cars,
neat lawns and gardens. Not
quite so far distant as the fowl-
house is from many country
homes the Otranto is berthed.
Beyond it the trees of the
Domain and the high buildings
of the city. A few yards away
a spiked fence and steps lead to
the lower part of the avenue,
and older buildings. Looking up
the avenue one sees' Wylde-
street and a grey and dark
oblong of , harbor-water and
-shore between two buildings, a
white and a brown. The green
bus is parked at the corner,
ready to go to Town Hall;
there is another bus-stop a few
yards away, where you pick-up
the bus to Wynyard.
+ +
And here you have one of the
major advantages of The Cross
—in which I include Pott’s Point
—as a place of residence. It is
central. St. Neot’s-avenue is
also a quiet and dignified little
street.
And there again you have one
of the great virtues of The Cross
—it minds its own business.
The King’s Cross of quiet and
retiring persons and the other
King’s Cross can exist quite
happily side-by-side. Without,
very often, being aware of each
other’s existence.
And then the Clarkes themselves,
brothers like you,
Hanged side by side in that bitter
golden prison
That temple, that Stonehenge the con-
victs raised
At Darlinghurst of stone like the
flame of the sun
To speak for ever of the rites of blood
and sweat
And the first harsh gods of Australia,
the lash and the gallows.
The quotation is from Doug-
las Stewart’s “Ned Kelly.” The
subject, the old jail, looks across
at grey St. Vincent’s Hospital
from Darlinghurst-road. Initials
of convicts may still be seen,
carved in the massive sandstone
blocks, on that side. The jail
was completed in 1841 —stone
was quarried from the place
where William - street and
Forbes-street now meet —and it
celebrated its first hanging the
same year. Nowadays the old
jail houses tech.-college students
and their teachers.
Contemporary poets have
treated King’s Cross well. Ken-
neth Slessor and Ronald Mc-
Cuaig, to name two more, have
written sensitive impressions of
King’s Cross life.
In the field of factual writing
mention should be made of
King’s Cross Calling, by H. C.
Brewster and V. Luther —an
excellent little book.
Writers of prose, novelists and
short-story writers, taken by and
large, have treated King’s Cross
ungratefully. The crime is the
blacker since so many of them
have lived there, happily and
pleasantly. But when a writer
wishes to convey delicately the
impression that a character,
female, is not all that she might
be, it is ten to one that he will
dump her in King’s Cross —not
at Ryde, or Roseville, or Banks-
town; suburbs which, surely,
must have their quota of frail
femininity. It is becoming a con-
vention so rapidly that it bids
fair to rival the English conven-
tion —to which even Conrad
succumbed —of making vulgar
and villainous characters Aus-
tralians.
But it is a compliment, after
all—just as Conrad’s piratical
Australian in Lord Jim, and the
swarm of colonial blackguards,
bounders and wealthy rough-
necks in inferior English fiction
are a roundabout tribute to our
virile and picturesque qualities
as a people. There is a common
underlying truth.
Officially, boundaries for
King’s Cross don’t exist. Neither
does King’s Cross, officially—
except as a name for the junction
of Darlinghurst-road and Vic-
toria-street at the top of Wil-
liam-street.
The traffic at the top of Wil-
liam-street in peak-hours is
awful. Something to give police-
men on point-duty nightmares,
and to drive town-planning
authorities mad.
In 1897 the City Council
named this (then somewhat
quieter) junction Queen’s Cross.
In 1905 it was changed to King’s
Cross; since then, by popular
usage, the name has come to
include a district.
A definition of King’s Cross
is the area bounded by Victoria-
street and Darlinghurst-road
north of the junction, including
Macleay- and Wylde-streets,
down to the “Burma-road” turn-
off into Woolloomooloo; the
eastern boundary stopping short
of Rushcutter Bay park and the
southern including King’s
Cross-road, with a shaving of
Upper William-street included.
This is neat, but unfortunately
excludes the old jail, which
would be a pity, and the clock-
less Gothic tower of St. John’s
Church, which, viewed from a
mile away, pierces the sky like
a noble stone lance. Places in
William-street, such as a pawn-
shop and a frockshop outside
which some of the proudest cars
in Sydney proudly wait, have
strong claims. And so have odd
portions of Elizabeth Bay and
Rushcutter Bay, snuggling close
to The Cross and spiritually
kin.
In any case, where King’s
Cross proper starts can be dis-
tinctly felt as one gets off a tram
from the city—in the bustle and
stir of the place.
There are other signs. Vic-
toria-street, advancing gently
from the north-west, and Dar-
linghurst-road, darting from the
north, have trees. Trees are
part of The Cross —a consider-
able part of its charm. The busy
part of Darlinghurst-road has
trees. Victoria-street, overlook-
ing the ’Loo, has trees. So has
Macleay-street, and odds and
ends of streets like Orwell-,
Manning- and Tusculum-streets;
Crick- and Challis- and Green-
knowe-avenues. But the trees
stop short of the boiling junc-
tion “top-o’-William-street.” I
don’t blame them.
Getting off from the tram
from the city—there are also
buses —one contemplates the
solid worth of Hampton Court
opposite; the scarcely less im-
pressive exterior of the Mayfair
beside it; and, on the Kellett-
street corner, Hotel Mansions.
There is no lack of hotels.
Darlinghurst-road is always
busy, always bright. Touches of
the exotic here and there—in
clothes, or accent, or gesture—
and one may overhear scraps
of conversation in French, or
German, or any language under
the sun.
But the prevailing color is
suburban at, say, 11 o’clock in
the morning. Women with
shopping-bags. Women with
children in prams, or strollers,
or dragging children by the
hand. Women crowding into
butchers’- and delicatessen-
shops, or in front of the open
fruit- and vegetable-stalls which,
in sunny weather, combine with
the plane-trees, the striped awn-
ings and women’s frocks to give
the place an appearance of
irrepressible gaiety. Women
standing yarning in the street,
to the danger of busy pedes-
trians. Women admiring frocks
in shop-windows or queueing-
up for cigarettes.
At night the picture is differ-
ent. Just as animated, but with
a different face. Cosmetics in-
stead of shopping-bags. No
children. One sees beautiful
and well-groomed women —they
are to be seen, indeed, at any
time —and at the top of The
Cross one encounters juke-
boxes and adolescents. Shoals
of motor-bikes, at times, are
parked hereabouts,
+ +
There are odd parts of The
Cross that tradition has reserved
for the onlooker. The Union
Bank corner has a nightly
attendance. A black-and-white
cat which savagely attacks dogs
also likes the place. Religious
meetings are held in Springfield-
avenue and, in political season,
the Federal member, Mr. Eddie
Ward, spruiks fiercely on the
same location.
In Fitzroy Park dogs and
children are exercised. It is a
tiny place, but pretty. They are
great dog-lovers hereabouts —
and they are children-fanciers,
too. Here I have been offered
advice on the care and manage-
ment of my cocker-spaniel by a
tiny woman bobbing furiously
at the end of a leash attached to
a large and boisterous Airedale;
by a retired commander of the
Royal Navy with a dachshund;
and by a young gentleman on a
scooter. A young matron of
my acquaintance, who took her
infant there scantily clad on a
hot day was reproved by some
grandmotherly ladies who sit on
the red and green-and-yellow
seats and watch the world go
by. She was championed by
ladies of equal vintage and
authority, who said it was good
for the child this weather.
Macleay-street has a character
of its own—a blend of old and
new. There is a caf£ —now part
of the Hotel Rex —where one
can eat in the open air. Just
over the road are Gowrie Gate
and Cahors flats, Lindy’s
restaurant and the queer, spruce,
little built-in Macleay-street
post-office with its blue tiles. In
Orwell-street, running to the
(Continued on page 31)


Remember...there are
5 different ways
to use
OVERSEAS
AIRMAIL
Overseas Ait Mail is not only many times faster
but, used judiciously, it can save you money.
Study these 5 different classifications and you’ll
quickly see the big saving that can be made by
choosing the right classification for each purpose.
1. For just lOd. you can buy pre-stamped Airletter
forms at your post office. For this small sum your
Airletter goes top speed, sealed and private, to any
part of the world.
2. Postcards may be sent overseas at special rates: —
from as little as 6d. to some Pacific Islands —only
1/- to U.K. ;
3. Printed matter, newspapers, samples, etc., go at
special second class rates. Examples: only 3/- per
2 oz. to U.K., South Africa and most European
countries. Other destinations in proportion.
4. Air parcel rate is lower still. To U.K. only 14/-
per half pound down to as low as 3/- per half
pound to New Zealand.
5. Finally there is the regular first-class Air Mail
letter rate which also varies with destination.
Example : To U.K. 2/- per half ounce —about Id.
per 500 miles.
A Qlf the G.P. 0 •
or your Post Office
V
This announcement is inserted
as a public service by
Qantas Empire Airways,
Australia’s International Airline,
Contractors to the P.M.G. for
Overseas Air Mail.
AM3
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
TRADE MARK|
-"•'T
rri
lllS||l
00*
tt*
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
dances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
. DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world,
« DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGIN
Informative literature on Dolan
will be sent on request to Dolan
(Australia) Pty. Ltd,, Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
D 4.2
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE WEST SLACKENS
Even before the Russian
“peace offensive” opened, optim-
istic utterances on receding war
prospects” were being made by
some of Europe’s top statesmen,
Two of the most publicised
were that notable prophet,
Britain’s Prime Minister, and
Foreign Secretary Eden ; but
there were others also, all justi-
fying, or at any rate reflecting,
an easing-down in defence pre-
parations.
What they have all been saying
amounts to is (l),that the urgency
has gone out of the immediate
need for defence, and (2) in view
of this the programme that had
been agreed to imposed too great
a strain on their countries’ eco-
nomies and what their people
would bear.
Also there are such things as
the report by London “Ob-
server’s” Washington corres-
pendent on President Eisen-
bower’s belief that a “reasonable
posture” of defence must be
considered in terms of decades
rather than of years, and that
the attempt to create a position
of maximum strength to meet a
year of especial danger (1954 was
supposed to be one of them),
which was the basis of planning
under the Truman Administra-
tion, can now be considered
unrealistic.
Hence the Soviet “peace offen-
sive”—whether interpreted as
genuine or as designed to under-
mine the Western defence
effort—could hardly have been
better timed. For, as one of the
leading foreign correspondents
of the post-war period. Drew
Middleton, shows in a lengthy
survey in “Foreign Affairs,” the
sense of urgency has in fact gone
out of all the Western defence
drive, and out of the general
mood of the various peoples
themselves.
So that, he says, what the U.S.,
as leader of the loose coalition,
now faces in Europe is “an
alarming reduction in the degree
of realism in the thinking about
Russia.” And, “As the sense
of urgency fades, the philosophy
of make - do, of muddling
through, makes headway. There
is a tendency to revive old
quarrels. The short-term re-
wards of economic booms
appear more important than the
sacrifices necessary for united
defence.”
Supplies of food and consumer
goods, Middleton reports, are
still restricted in some of the
Nato nations. Until the last six
months the majority of the
people accepted the argument
that such restrictions, many of
which were first enforced during
World War 11, were necessary
in the rearmament drive. But
as the emotional climate has
changed, dislike of such restric-
tions mounts and further sacri-
fice is unpopular. The attitude
of Germany, which has not yet
begun to rearm, is indicative.
The Bundestag passed a resolu-
tion approving rearmament only
on condition that no lowering of
the standard of living is in-
volved. And, in spite of the fact
that membership in the Euro-
pean Army is in the offing, the
German Budget for the next
fiscal year reduces income and
corporation taxes.
Europeans who attribute the
change in attitude toward Nato
to the economic consequences
of rearmament believe that there
is a real opportunity for the
Eisenhower Administration to
undertake constructive measures
in this field. In their opinion,
an American policy of “trade
not aid” would expand the eco-
nomies of the Continental
nations and enable them to con-
tribute more to rearmament.
There are, however, more effec-
tive causes of the slackening as
—“Chicago Daily News"
LETHAL WEAPON?
far as the peoples themselves
are concerned:
“The most important has
been the relative quiet of the
Soviet Union in Europe. From
the summer of 1951 the Russians
have been playing a canny game.
Of course they are not friendly
to any Nato Power or, indeed,
to any non-Stalinist Power, but
it is difficult Ifor the average
European to grasp the implaca-
bility of Russian enmity toward
the West when the Soviets do
not supply daily proofs which
affect him personally, as they
did a few years ago.
“To the farmer in Bavaria or
Provenfe, the factory-hand in
Leeds or Milan, wars in Korea,
Malaya and Indo-China are a
long way off. And even though
the Russians have not been in-
active in Europe, the fact re-
mains that the purges and re-
arming in East Germany and
the steady military expansion of
the satellite States do not
directly affect the mass of West
Europeans.
“This is in striking contrast to
the situation which brought Nato
into existence. In 1949 and 1950
there was an awareness of
present danger. The Com-
munists had seized power in
Prague, the Soviet Union had
blockaded free Berlin, and the
North Korean invasion of South
Korea suggested ominously the
possibility of a Russian erup-
tion westwards from East Ger-
many. People like the Danes,
for example, to whom alliances
have been synonymous with war
and disaster, or the Norwegians,
traditionally pacific and isola-
tionist, were ready to submerge
inherited prejudices in a move-
ment for united defence.
“Today, hostile overt acts by
the Soviet Union against the im-
mediate national interest of these
countries have decreased. As a
result, there is a tendency to re-
examine armament programmes
in the light of domestic needs,
as they are popularly under-
stood, and to reject anything
which even, hints at an expansion
of defence responsibilities,
“Some political leaders also
believe that the Communist-party
line, as it was proclaimed at the
Nineteenth Congress in Moscow
last autumn, is proof that Rus-
sian global strategy aims at
dividing the West rather than
attacking. They reason that to
prevent this strategy from being
successful the Nato Powers must
pay increased attention to eco-
nomic stability and, since armed
attack is not imminent, proceed
more cautiously toward rearma-
ment. Such reasoning is bol-
stered by European intelligence
estimates, particularly those of
the British, which scout the
possibility of Soviet aggression
this year or next.
“The American answer is that
in view of the steady increase in
Russian armaments, present
and potential, the reorganisation
of the satellite armies and air
forces, the acceleration of Rus-
sian economic development and
the expansion of Soviet facilities
for the production of atomic
weapons, it is folly to relax
efforts to strengthen Nato to the
point where Europe’s defences
are strong enough to deter Soviet
attack or, if it occurs, to offer
hope of holding it short of the
citadels of Western civilisation
and power. A number of -re-
sponsible European statesmen
subscribe to this view. Unfor-
tunately, some political leaders
and some peoples, impressed by
exaggerated reports of defence
progress and moved by the
factors here discussed, have con-
cluded that the point of reced-
ing danger has arrived.”
So the Western defence effort
all round has slackened, when,
in Middleton’s view, “The ex-
isting forces do not seem to be
sufficient to deter a Russian
attack this year, were the Krem-
lin convinced that an attack was
necessary, or to hold an in-
vasion for any considerable
period, should it come.
Atom Items
From a lengthy general sur-
vey by Chester Wilmot in
Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
1. The expert view in Britain
is that Fuchs gave the Russians
all the technical data they
needed and that once they had
the “know-how” it was compara-
tively easy for them to produce
the bomb. It is estimated that
Fuchs saved the Russians at
least two years, but it is not con-
sidered likely that they can
have made good the four-years
start which the United States
had over them in production.
2. American defence autho-
rities are' working on the
assumption that the United
States has an advantage of at
least five to one and probably
ten to one in its stock of fission-
able material. Moreover, the
United States has such an ad-
vantage in technological skill
and industrial capacity that it
should be able to maintain this
margin. »
3. Since January, 1951, the
Americans have exploded 25
atomic bombs and these have
ranged from small tactical mis-
siles to bombs with at least
twice the power of that used
against Hiroshima. The Ameri-
cans are known to have de-
veloped an atomic bomb small
enough to be carried on the
external racks of fighter-
bombers, and this year they are
testing a long-range gun firing
a 240 mm. shell with an atomic
warhead.
An Anxious Frontier
British Labor M.P., Hilary
A. Marquand, writing in Lon-
don “Observer” after visiting
India and Pakistan:
“Not long ago, Amritsar and
Lahore were virtually twin cities.
Now the Indo-Pakistan frontier
sharply separates them. I
crossed it on foot, leaving an
Indian car on one side of no-
man’s-land and entering a
Pakistani car on the other. But
I was enjoying a privilege open
only to foreigners. No Indian
or Pakistani may pass that way.
The Grand Trunk Roqd laid
down by the Moguls is cut in
two. The trains from Bombay
stop at Amritsar and go no
further.”
Merchandise between West
and East Pakistan, hq further
reports, must go by sea from
Karachi to Chittagong. The
jute of East Bengal still flows
out to Dundee, to Europe, to
America; but little of it goes to
the mills of nearby Calcutta.
West Punjab cotton is lying in


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON^
dSIUXTKAN
eßi'
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
’ COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
_
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
m
Have you ever thought about Australia’s huge
spaces? I have been reminded of them often when
gazing upon the broad sweeps of the landscape. But
here, in a map on the wall across my room, I see this
country as 2,975,000 square miles of the earth’s
surface; a land mass almost as large as the United
States, nearly threequarters the size of Europe.
I see its 12,210 miles of coastline, representing an
average of 244 square miles for every mile of seashore.
In no other country in the world with such a rich
potential, is there so much land in proportion to its
coastline as in Australia. In Europe the average is one
mile to 75 square miles, in England and Wales one
to 25.
So I’m putting it to Australia that it must get an
urgent sense of DEPTH into its national planning.
And by depth I mean that we will have to look more
and more to the inland and the far north in terms of
people and food production. +
Transport, water, work-power. Those are the
triple keys.
You know my conviction that Queensland is
destined to play an enormous part in Australia’s
developmental future. But for the moment my
thoughts turn to the Northern Territory—more than
half a million square miles on the map in front of me.
The Territory in the past h.is been something of
a stepchild. South Australia annexed it in 1863, the
Commonwealth took it over in 1911.
For 40 years, Royal Commissions have been
inquiring into its resources. Nearly half its area has
been worked oyer in scientific surveys. Arterial roads
were built up and across it in war-time. But the
Territory today remains largely land-locked, its full
potential still untapped.
However, four years ago, I bought two leases
of second-class land (more than 2,600 square miles)
near Alice Springs, on which there was nothing. I
did it purposely, to test, in research and practice, my
belief that more and better beef could be produced
in the Interior by putting quality cattle on reasonably
well-watered land.
Last month, the Hastings Deering Northern
Research Reserves sent two trainloads—6oo prime
ca ttle —to Adelaide and they brought top market
prices.
That is a simple example of can be done
in Australia with “deeper development.
-M /yeeA*^
considerable quantity in the
warehouses of Karachi : “I was
asked why more of it is not
bought in Liverpool ; but few
bales will go to the mills of Am-
ritsar or Ahmedabad. Similarly,
Indian coal and steel are denied
to Pakistan.
“Travel between India and
Pakistan is closely regulated by
a system of passports and visas,
vexatious to citizens and re-
quiring many officials to admini-
ster. Between the two halves
of Pakistan political leaders,
civil servants, business men
travel by excellent air services.
Less fortunate persons must
undertake a sea voyage of more
than 2000 miles. The vital con-
tacts which a people needs if it
is to hold together are difficult
to maintain in these con-
ditions. . . .
“Both countries contain popu-
lations living at a level of
poverty which no European who
has not seen it can imagine.
“In both countries the growth
of population is, outrunning
present resources. In both, the
poverty-stricken peasant listens
with keen interest to the tales
which come from China—where,
he is told, when the peasant pro-
duces more he gets it for him-
self, because the moneylenders,
the landlords and the specu-
lators have been liquidated.
“In both, students have been
educated in numbers so great
that the economy cannot absorb
them. In both, the primary-
school teachers are among the
frustrated.—paid sometimes less
than £5O a year.
“This does not permit the
buying of books as an educated
man likes to do—but there are
Communist books available.”
Rice Politics
Noting that rice is the basic
food of more than half the popu-
lation of the world, a writer in
“Foreign Affairs” instances
that in the Thai language food
may be divided into two cate-
gories, khaw meaning “rice,”
and kab khaw meaning, literally,
“with rice.” Food is either rice
or something eaten with it.
And “in a restless Asia, revo-
lutionary in mood, caught be-
tween two opposing ideological
and political forces, the question
of the supply of this commodity
upon which life itself is based
has far-reaching political impli-
cations.
“The major problem in the
struggle to keep south and
south-east Asia free of Com-
munist domination is the stan-
dard of living of their peoples
and the development of their
economic resources. In 1952
Communist China emerged as
an exporter of rice—a dramatic
change after so many years of
scarcity; and the Communists
have made much of the fact in
their propaganda in Asia, offer-
ing ‘New China’ as an example
of the productive superiority of
the Communist system.”
There is, therefore, “urgent
need for efforts to help the
peoples of south and south-east
Asia understand that the pre-
—London “News Chronicle ’’
ANOTHER BRITISH
ATTEMPT?
tence of plenty and prosperity
in China is a myth. And it is
even more urgent that they be
made to realise that increased
production and a higher stan-
dard living are possible in
their own countries without the
adoption of totalitarian methods.
“The struggle of the ‘East’
versus the ‘West’ in Asia is, in
part, a race for production, and
rice is the symbol and substance
of it.”
Modernised Turks
Since 1947 the U.S. has spent
about $1,000,000,000 in Turkey,
mainly on modernising the
armed forces, building strategic
roads and airfields and
generally making defences
bristle.
As a result, Turkey today,
with a population of 20,000,000,
possesses (London “Times” An-
kara correspondent’s report) “an
army which, constantly improv-
ing in organisation and equip-
ment, could, by its size and high
morale, stand comparison ad-
vantageously with any other
army in Europe.”
When its reorganisation is
completed the Turkish Army
will comprise 22 infantry divi-
sions supported by six armored
brigades and three cavalry divi-
sions, apportioned into three
armies.
The Turkish Navy and Air
Force are both small in com-
parison : “However, the main
Turkish contribution to air war-
fare would be the use of the air-
fields which are now being con-
structed in various parts of the
country; these airfields will
eventually be most useful not
only for protective purposes but
also for counter-offensive opera-
tions. ....
“The signature in Ankara of
the Tripartite Treaty of Friend-
ship between Turkey, Greece
and Yugoslavia was a most en-
couraging victory of common
sense over prejudice. Sobered
by the hard lessons of the last
war, the three signatory coun-
tries finally agreed to pool their
resources for their common de-
fence against a * prospective
aggressor, and they will be able
to put in the field some 30 to 40
divisions for that purpose.....
“It would be idle to minimise
the difficulties obstructing the
way to the organisation of the
defence of the Middle East, but
if commonsense led a former
member of the Cominform, like
Yugoslavia, to co-operate with
two members of Nato, like
Turkey and Greece, there is no
reason why it should not con-
vince the Arab countries of the
necessity of uniting themselves
with Turkey and their Western
friends for the common defence
of the Middle East against the
deadly peril that menaces it.”
Darkness at Noon
One of the most remarkable
feats of the current Kremlin
somersault season was, of course,
the release of the dozen or so
eminent Moscow doctors who
had earlier “confessed” to
wholesale murders “committed
in conspiracy with the West’” It,
in fact, opened the season.
Men who had no real trial,
from whom confessions had been
extorted (as London “Daily
Mail” summed it up), were
found guilty of crimes they had
not committed. All the cus-
tomary epithets were hurled at
them to justify their punishment
in the eyes of the Russian
people. Then, when they were
freed unconditionally the Rus-
sians were told that those who
accused them were the real
villains.
“There comes irresistibly to
mind,” • commented London
“News Chronicle,” “a novel of
the ’forties: Arthur Koestler’s
Darkness at Noon, wherein the
Soviet science of extorting false
confessions in objective pursuit
of political policy was starkly
and skilfully analysed.
“While Stalin lived no shadow
of uncertainty as to the bene-
ficent results of these methods
was evident in Soviet counsels.
But now a most remarkable act
has been performed by Stalin’s
successors.
“The methods are exposed and
denounced, and what amounts to
a new day is proclaimed: a day
when darkness will hot descend
at noon upon a victim arbitrarily
selected by a lawless officialdom.
“Is there, below the surface in
Russia now, a deep and wide
resentment at what has been
happening? Have too many
husbands, fathers and brothers
disappeared? Are there uneasy
people—the Jews among them
—who need reassurance that it
will be different in the future?
“By this act they may have
received it. For all the old con-
fessions must now be suspect.
And it will be less easy hence-
forth to attribute to American
and British Intelligence Jhe
genesis of every evil design.”
London “Economist,” also
looking the happening over
retrospectively, comments that
it “not only reveals the ease with
which skilled Soviet policemen
can extract false ‘confessions,’
and thus destroys all credence
in the countless other judgments
passed on unfortunates in Eas-
tern Europe, from the time of
Mr. Vyshinsky’s pre-war prose-
cutions to the recent execution
of Slansky. It also shows the
force and conviction, the wealth
of details and plausible argu-
ment, that the Communist
propaganda machine can put
into any campaign of falsehood.
If the doctors were not Anglo-
American agents after all, are
we still expected to take seri-
ously such parallel charges as
that of germ warfare?”
Dragnet Digest
U.S. Trade Barriers. —London
“Financial Times” comment,
striking a different note in an
often savage spate of V British
official and Press attacks on
U.S. trade policy: “We in this
country [Britain] have in opera-
tion Exchange Control, tariffs,
quotas, preferences and every
conceivable barrier to trade.
When we have pulled down
some of our own barriers it will
be time to consider lecturing the
Americans, who have since the
end of the war handed out to
us the biggest international doles
known to history. It ill befits
John Bull to give the appearance
of being a hectoring mendicant.”
The Modern St. George. —
Described by Churchill (Balti-
more “Sun” report): “How a
modern St. George might tackle
a dragon. The warrior would
arrive, Churchill said, not with
a horse but with a secretariat,
and armed not with a lance but
with a few ‘flexible formulas,’
would propose a conference
with the dragon, lend the dragon
money and wait while the re-
lease of the captive maiden was
referred to Geneva or New
York, the dragon meanwhile
reserving all rights,”
The Old and Bold.—' “This,”
notes London “Daily Express,”
“is the era of age. Many of the
men who are today most active
in directing the affairs of the
world are full of years. Con-
sider Churchill and South
Africa’s Malan, both trium-
phant in the leadership of
their countries. And both 79
years old. Adenauer of
Germany is 77. Moussadek of
Persia is 73. De Gasped of
Italy is 72.”
African Federation. —London
“Daily Mail” special corres-
pondent, Major Lewis Hastings;
“A fundamental fact about
Central African Federation is
that it is an Act of Faith in the
British Empire; its purpose is a
bold forward move within that
great framework.. This has been
quite enough for it to be con-
demned in circles [in Britain]
dominated by that busy section
among us —‘friends of every
country but their own’ —who
know little about the Empire
and care less.”
No. 1 Policeman. —From a
Nato report on Soviet develop-
ments: “The role of the police
seems to have assumed greater
importance with the advance-
ment of Beria. Never before,
either in the Soviet Union or in
Nazi Germany, has the police
chief ranked so high.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Second-war Histories
May I correct some inaccuracies in
“Ek Dum's” interesting review (B.
3/6/’53) of the first three volumes of
the Australian War History?
’ “Ek Dum” writes that “in Bean the
maps are military maps; the elevations
of hills, for instance, are always
given.... The maps in the new history
give no elevation.” This is not correct.
In the present history, as in Bean, eleva-
tions are fully shown in all colored
contour maps, but, again as in Bean,
only occasionally in the black-and-white
sketch maps. Actually, in the present
history, elevations are shown in sketch-
maps more definitely than in Bean.
“Ek Dum’s” praise of the structure of
Bean’s Gallipoli volumes and Aspinall-
Oglander’s, combined with his criticism
of my “130 pages of mixed politics, overall
strategy, and excursions into other war
theatres,” may suggest to some readers
that Bean and Aspinall-Oglander arrived
at the start-line sooner than I have man-
aged to do. In fact Bean covers 165
pages before he begins to write about
the proposal to send an expedition to the
Dardanelles; Aspinall-Oglander writes
160 pages about the origins of, and plans
and preparations for, the Gallipoli cam-
paign.
The 130 pages mentioned above are
introductory not only to the volume in
which they appear but, in some respects,
to a series of seven volumes, just as
Bean’s opening chapters are introductory
to a series of six volumes.
The reviewer writes that it is noruse
printing an order about Bardia mention-
ing that the objectives are shown in
“Traces A to B” if the traces are not
reproduced. It would, however, be no
use reproducing the traces without a
map to superimpose them on ; and the
objectives at Bardia are shown in a
sketch-map in p. 157, which, I think,
makes the order printed as an appendix
fully intelligible.
The New Zealand Government is not,
as “Ek Dum” suggests, confining its
history to two volumes of documents.
General Kippenberger and his colleagues
are producing a series of campaign
histories and civil histories. The first
full-scale military volume. The Pacific,
was published in 1952.
The reviewer says that “the misprints
which occur in places are unaccount-
able,” and mentions two: Scorfield spelt
“Schofield” in Paul Hasluck’s volume,
and Hetherington spelt “Herington” on
the dust-covers of all three books. The
“That’s five hundred. Doc. After this one I’ll
change the needle."
misspelling of Scorfield’s name is most
regrettable. If The Bulletin looks back
to the list we sent it in August, 1951,
when we sought permission to repro-
duce these cartoons, it will notice that
the name was spelt Schofield there;
thereafter the error was not detected
until too late despite careful reading by
several painstaking “back-stops.”
The reviewer might have added that
“Herington” is repeated not only on the
dust-cover but on the page facing the
title-page of each volume. Mr. John
Hetherington, of the “Argus,” and
Squadron-Leader John Herington, who is
writing two volumes of our Air Force
history, are two separate people.—Gavin
Long (A.C.T.).
Poetry in the Groove
If record-manufacturers made some
experimental disks of the works
of Australian poets, past and present,
the public response might be sur-
prising ; particularly as the radio is
fast subordinating the written to the
spoken word in most spheres, from race-
horses to Shakspeare. Also, the exciting
possibility, of wide audition for their
poems might encourage the younger poets
to revive some of the beautiful forms
and metres (sonnet, triolet, rondel,
roundel, ballade, chant-royal) which have
been shelved, but were evolved in the
days when poems were written essentially
to be declaimed.
Contemporary Australian poets for the
most part, I think, are writers to be read,
not spoken ; their intricate verses must
be studied to be fully appreciated. This
quality—for technically it is a quality—
would not assist them as prospective
singers to wide, everyday audiences.
Word-pictures transmitted to the brain
via the ear must have more light than
shade —the eye penetrates deeper into the
shadows because its progress is more
leisurely. I hazard the guess, for in-
stance, that Kenneth Slessor would
“speak” better than Eric Irvin or Judith
Wright; that Rod Quinn would delight
with his lovely pastoral poems were they
recorded and delivered sympathetically.
With the establishment of radio as a
universally accepted medium, playwrights
seeking this vast ear were forced to
accommodate their style almost mechani-
cally to it; poets with ambitions in the
same fieiu would be obliged similarly to
adjust their voices to a simpler key. How-
ever beautiful its “thought, assonance,
rhyme, alliteration of sounds,” etc., a
poem written (or selected) for the record
would require another essential —clarity.
Probably the commonest criticism of
poetry among the Philistines today is that
it is difficult to read; So, unless poets
wish to ignore the populace and speak
merely to the elect, the poetry-lovers, I
suppose they must recognise and accept
some of the lovely and tried and trusted
forms which, to my mind, the younger
of them have rather prematurely aban-
doned. How else might their art regain
a semblance of the broad popularity it
enjoyed up to 30 years ago?—P. O,
MacCabe (N.S.W.).
For a poet to publish all his verse it
means The Bulletin, for example,
could only cater for two poets
at the most. No one reproaches
The Bulletin for that, but there
are only two Qther publications in
Australia taking serious verse and to-
gether they scarcely reach The Bulletin
quota. So it seems the poet is in a
pretty bad way when it comes to getting
work published.
It means that the poet must rely en-
tirely on book-publication, and Australian
publishing at the present time is chaotic.
New authors have a very poor show of
finding a publisher, and the poet has
less chance. Hence the movement among
some of our poets to band together to
publish their own work, or to pay to
have their works printed.
Yet there is no lack of papers and
magazines in this country which, if they
“ Goodbye, dear. If y get lonely ring me up at Work."
were to take a proportion of verse, could
largely solve the problem. But they show
no inclination to do that, and there
appears to be no way of persuading them.
—John J. Aldejison (Vic.).
. Apart from a good, if small, anthology
gathered by the late “Banjo” Paterson,
Vance Palmer (in conjunction with
musician Margaret Sutherland) is the
only one I can bring to mind
who has published anything of
lasting merit about Australian folk-
songs. Even so, it is acknowledged by
compiler and composer that the latter has
called “upon her own instinct for appro-
priate melody when there was no one
who remembered the original tunes.”
And all praise to her for doing so in
such a fine manner.
Nevertheless, it remained for an
American, Burl Ives, to put some of these
old tunes on gramophone records, to his
lasting credit, even though words like
“coolibah” and “jumbuck” sound strange
through the medium of his soft drawl.
I am sorry he had to inflict upon us that
morbid “Dying Stockman,” but others,
however—like the catchy, cheerful jump,
“Click go the shears” —deserve a place
in Australia equal to that of “Sari
Marais” in South Africa. —Karrlmba
(A.C.T.).
(Several people are engaged in collect-
ing and annotating old ballads and folk-
songs, and an anthology of them is now
being prepared for Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, in conjunction with an anthology
of later bush ballads.)
Those States
It is wrong to class the British Empire
as an example of the successful running
of huge territories from one centre (B.
4/2/’53). The practice was to grant self-
government to colonies chiefly peopled
by British settlers as soon as they be-
came financially strong enough to sus-
tain it.
Only possessions inhabited for the
most part by primitives or by Asians
with no traditions of self-government
were long ruled from London. Even
with these self-government was the
ultimate aim—realised today in most
cases. Administrators of such territories
enjoyed a wide degree of initiative. Any
attempt permanently to run the whole
Empire from London would have caused
its dissolution long ago.
The flexibility of the British Consti-
tution used to be praised by the 19th-
century British political thinkers, but
that was before it became “democratised,”
With universal suffrage, an unwritten
Constitution, like the British, is an i
instrument for a party with totahtanan
aims. Realising that, an increasing
number of Britons have come to jjoubt
the merits of their Constitution and to
see good points in a written one which
restricts the sphere of Government
The progressive extension of the func-
tions of the central Government in the
20th century has also led to serious con-
gestion of public business in Britain.
Considerable discontent with the working
of the present system has developed in
outlying regions. The feeling is par-
ticularly prevalent in Scotland. Many
Scots, who reject the tenets of the ex-
treme nationalists, nonetheless believe
that Scotland has had a raw deal from
Whitehall economically, and that the
union of the Parliaments has proved a
mixed blessing.
In Constitutional requirements, Aus-
tralia should be compared with the
U.S.A., not Britain. Both are of con-
tinental proportions. Without Federal
government it is unlikely that there
would be a U.S.A. today ; its territory
would be divided into a number of
independent States, each jealous of the
other. What Australia needs is not con-
centration of all power in Canberra, but
a recasting of Federal and State functions
by a national convention, truly represen-
tative of the community.
The Commonwealth should be vested
with aJI functions of definitely national
character; the States should control those
best handled locally. There should also
be a substantial increase in the number
of States and provision for further crea-
tions from time to time, as in the case
in the U.S.A. The Senate would thus
be made more effective, both as a States’
house and a house of review, by the
weakening of the big-city vote, which,
in most of the present States, dominates
Senate elections.- —Cunedda (N.S.WJ*
Waxing Fat
I have just watched our butcher set
out in his luxury sedan car for a Sunday
outing. His family was with him and
Mrs. Chops was wearing her musquash
cqat. Very nice, and there’s no good
reason why it should not be so —provided
that I am not charged too much for my
steak and don’t have to call at the shop
for it. But that’s just what happens.
I have a feeling that we are all paying
too much for too many things, otherwise
every owi.er of a small shop or pub
would not be bouncing round in a car.
They’re raising the standard of their own
living and lowering that of too many
others.
I suppose the butcher would be in-
dignant were I to suggest that the' car
be used for his deliveries, but it could
be put to worse use. A few more trades-
men’s carts and less of this limousine
business would be better.
Oh for some dinkum competition
among the lot of them. —Harry the
Horse (Vic.).


before dinner..
TA
:
to
-
<6
®o
Yetfy
COLO
Famous
since
IRI6
r V
GETS THERE FASTER WITH MORE
Pi
N
-
The model AL-160 International Truck, like the
"willing horse" is always ready for work. Ask the truck
driver with years of experience. He'll tell you Inter-
nationals really "stand up to it" when the going is
tough.
Model AL-160 with all the popular International
in-built heavy-duty features is your truck for long
service, few overhauls and the rigid maintenance of
schedules.
RESERVE POWER: 108 max. b.h.p. • 186 lbs. ft. net torque at
1,100 r.p.m. ® 4 helical-cut synchromesh forward gears #
Hypoid rear axle.
MORE MANOEUVRABILITY: Wider front axles • 37° turning
angle gives 12-ft. tray body on 154" W. 8., a turning radius of
25V2 ft. 14-ft. body on 172" W. 8., 28Vi ft. • Easier "natural
angle" steering position.
MORE ACCESSIBLE ENGINE: One-piece removable bonnet can be
raised from either side, t Engine service and daily main-
tenance the easiest ever.
MORE STOPPING POWER: Obtainable from power boosted two-
cylinder leading shoe brakes. • More effective use of linings
mean longer service.
Ask your International Dealer for a demonstration.
INTERNATIONAL
f
sdf
COMFO-VISION CAB.
Full-width deep cushion
seat 5-ft. wide. • 13.2
sq.-ft. of safety glass
for all round vision. O
"Super-scoop" ventila-
ting cowl for comfort,
able driving.
★
CARRYING CAPACITY
G.V.W. 16,000 lb. -
4-5 ton payload. • W.B.
154" or 172"-12 or
14 foot tray bodies for
Carriers, Farmers, Con-
tractors, Nurserymen,
Market Gardeners, Pro-
duce Merchants and
many others.
★
SILVER DIAMOND
ENGINE. Block hard-
ened by the addition
of chrome. • Molyb-
denum iron exhaust-
valve seat inlerts. •
An extra compression
ring on each piston. •
U-flex oil rings.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities. Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
left from Macleay-street to Vic-
toria-street, is the Roosevelt
restaurant and night-club and
old Minerva theatre once a
legitimate theatre, but now taken
over by films.
And flats. One tends to for-
get the flats, becoming uncon-
scious of them as a mountain-
dweller may become indifferent
to cliffs. There are really an
extraordinary number of them,
towering above the shops.
Macleay Regis, built by H. P.
Christmas, of Woolworths fame,
may be taken as typical of the
middling-new. It is a huge
double edifice of subdued brick,
with shops on the street level
and a commanding view of
Elizabeth Bay and> the harbor
from the back flats. Within the
glass doors are carpets, flowers
and spaciousness. Rents, con-
trary to general belief, are not
high.
Macleay Regis stands at the
lower end of Macleay-street, on
the site of an old double-
storeyed house which was the
home of Sir Charles Bickerton
Blackburn, Chancellor of Syd-
ney University. Another Jink
with the University is Challis-
avenue near by. The avenue is
named—as is Challis House in
Martin-place after J. H.
Challis, who left Adelaide Cot-
tage to the University.
Just off Macleay-street, in
Manning-street, is Tusculum. It
was a private hospital, was taken
over by the American Red Cross
during the war as an officers’
club, and is of historic interest.
I quote from Brewster and
Luther;
In 1835 the [original! house and
grounds were bought by William
Xong. The present house was built
by Mr. Long, and was surrounded by
a magnificent garden, stretching
down to the wall of rock In Victoria-
street, and with an uninterrupted
view of the harbor. Tusculum was
the first house to have water laid
on from the town pipes [which gave
the residents lead-poisoning] At
the junction of the walls of Tus-
culum with St. Vincent’s Convent a
well of cold clear water gave a
never - failing supply... .Tusculum
also had an enormous fig-tree, 35
feet across, and shaped to look like
an inverted flower-pot... .All the
timber in the house is of cedar, and
the terrace, porch and pillars are of
Carrara marble.
Macleay-street takes its name
from Alexander Macleay,
N.S.W. Colonial Secretary, who
was given a grant of 56 acres
37 perches in 1828. Macleay’s
home was what is now
known as Elizabeth Bay
House, in Onslow-avenue. It is
built of sandstone quarried
from the cliffs of what is now
Onslow-place, and is one of the
finest examples of early-Vic-
torian architecture in Australia.
Macleay was a keen botanist.
Onslow-avenue, Onslow-place
and Onslow Gardens link with
the Macarthur-Onslow family.
Wylde-street, a continuation of
Macleay-street, derives from
Judge-advocate Wylde, Pott’s
Point from J. H. Potts, a Bank
of N.S.W. official who had
trouble wresting a Governor’s
grant of six acres from the
Judge,
Macleay-street is modern
enough, with its blocks of flats,
its neon-signs, its shops and
striped awnings and car-parks.
But something of the old tradi-
tion lingers —in a quieter tempo,
an almost imperceptible soften-
ing of the raw, rough edge of
modernity; and in old-
fashioned, exclusive guest-
houses and in flats where the
tenants are not permitted to
wear slacks. .
I like Macleay-street best at
dusk, in autumn. The plane-
trees are stripped, the crepuscu-
lar light settling into darkness, a
wind is blowing, and people are
hurrying home. This gentler
mood seems to typify something
of the dignity of the place—a
sort of sadness of the palate.
And the headlights of cars, the
neon-signs, the warm chinks of
countless windows and well-
dressed women hint, not too
obtrusively, of vivid life.
Food is important at The
Cross. Delicatessen-shops are
as plentiful as the flowers in
spring—people here like to buy
food cooked. The little shops
are a feature ; there was a time
when they boasted that they
never shut. The law has clamped
down on the free-and-easy cus-
tom of buying a loaf of bread
and a pint of milk and half a
dozen eggs any time you felt
like it, but, even now, the resi-
dents of The Cross are better
served than are folk in the outer
wildernesses. You don’t have to
walk so far; you find shops
open more often. And the in-
formality of The Cross helps,
too. You don’t see women
in dressing-gowns and hair-pins
walking down to the corner to
buy the milk and the paper in
snootier suburbs.
Then there are the coffee-
shops. In many Sydney suburbs
night descends with the implac-
able finality of a curfew. In
The Cross it is otherwise, and
so there is* a wide choice of
coffee-shops. Restaurants, in-
cluding night-clubs, cater for all
tastes; with a slight bias in
favor of expensive ones. At The
Cross, too, one can buy pdte-de-
foie-gras, caviare, cooked rab-
bit. Anything at a 11...
King’s Cross is cosmopolitan.
It is true that it has a great
virtue of tolerance, a capacity
for minding its own business. It
is not so obvious that the place
in some respects resembles a
country town. One gets to know
faces —to see the same faces
time and again; even to nod to
them. And it is a peculiarity of
trade at The Cross that cus-
tomers in the shops, especially
in the more'leisurely parts, like
to stop and yarn—about them-
selves, usually. A good busi-
nessman —or, more usually,
businesswoman —finds it profit-
able to remember customers’
names, ailments and children.
Then, too, the place is friendly.
And, again, one can be shabby
at King’s Cross without feeling
painfully self-conscious, and
well dressed without feeling
mean.
The Cross is, or very nearly
is, self-sufficient. There is really
no need to go beyond its insub-
stantial boundaries to do any-
thing: except, perhaps, go for
a swim. It has laundries,
washing-machine services where
you can take your own
laundry and do it your-
self, a cinema, a newsreel theatre,
shops of every description (in-
cluding book- and antique-
shops), restaurants, taxis, hire-
car services, hairdressers, dress-
makers, tailors, a Woolworths’
branch, a masseur and hot-box,
a “service-plus” organisation
which will buy theatre tickets
or perform any similar service
.. .practically everything. The
Cross has, indeed, one resident
who hasn’t been to the city for
20 years.
Despite all the pleasant and
commendable aspects of The
Cross, one cannot entirely agree
with those patriotic residents
who maintain it is beyond re-
proach. Blackmarketeering is
common enough. The central
position of The Cross and the
high demand for accommodation
combine to make a common
post-war pest particularly viru-
lent here: the middleman land-
lord who, renting a flat cheap,
lets rooms dear. Many private
hotels and residentials are de-
cently run, others are not.
Dubious agents handle key-
money more or less openly. Sly-
grog joints, of course, there be-
fore the war, are still there.
There is at least one baccarat-
school, whose venue is con-
stantly changing. And there is
a prominence of flashly-dressed
gentry who could have only
made their money one way.
A local theory, however, is
that all these people live in
places like Vaucluse and Point
Piper and only visit The Cross
for business and pleasure.


MtMKM
hewi p a ran
■,
il' ; l
.
A
W®1« i
IflHpn
■
■
: ’
i
LA*
MW
■
* m* mm
m
1 p “*; -
■nv*
*• *v
|i|||li
f< ’-^- i . . ij*. /»/
_., ;
8 s ; i ■■ ;■?;: ■•
HI*
vis*
rk
■
mmmh
IM
MB
H^i
f -™v j '
■I
n h
mmktwa i
&
■ v f^
■f ■■
a %
i r
• ;*-.-
■ ■
* «■
v-
|K§ '*’' *i i V.4? •’ 1
> - '•
«Hi
#»*• 'A!
mm
mmwimmmm
mm ,
m
g#v .>-v:
: ’' a-* ; -
SAVE TIME AND LABOUR COSTS
GET YOUR CORN OFF QUICKLY
WITH OLIVER CORNMASTERS
Take your corn off the moment it’s ready, with an Oliver
“Cornmaster,” No waiting for labour to be available —you save
tjme when time costs money. With an Oliver No. 2 Two Row
Corn Picker or a No. 5 Single Row unit your cost per acre is a
few shillings, compared with pounds with hand picking. With
tractor in low gear the Oliver Corn Master picks and husks cleanly,
one ton of corn in 15-20 minutes.
Write today, or send coupon for full details.
OLIVER
“FINEST IN
FARM MACHINERY”
•
DISTRIBUTORS:
Q’land: U.K. and Dominion Motors, 365-
379 Wickham St., Brisbane. N.S.W.:
imtatauu Ltd., 637 Gardeners Road, Mascot. VIC.:
Queen’s Bridge Motor & Eng. Co. Pty, Ltd., 31-43 Queen’s Bridge
St., Melbourne. S.d..‘ Elder Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-36 Currie St.,
Adelaide. W.A.: Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay St.,
Perth. TAS.: Queen’s Bridge Motor & Eng. Co. Pty., Ltd., 72 Federal
St.. Hobart. N.Z.: P. W. Smith, Ltd. (P.O. Box 1628, Wellington),
Wellington. NEW GUINEA: New Guinea Co. Ltd.
OLivm
AUTHORIZED
• AT TOP: Oliver No. 2 Two Row
Corn Picker.
• ABOVE: Oliver No. 5 Single Row
' Corn Picker
I 1
I FREE DETAILS—SEND COUPON I
j OL.IVEK DISTRIBUTORS,
Box 4726, Sydney, N.S.W. |
• Please send me, post free, literature and full I
j details of the Oliver Commasters.
I NAME -I
j ADDRESS
I
8U053 «
II
i ' /Li
A
w
/ J
KEROSINE-OPERATED
BATH HEATER
makes every day
a "saving" day
Check these PLUS features
GENUINE OPERATING ECONOMY— pIus LIFETIME DURA-
BILITY . . . heavily nickel plated and sturdily constructed
of brass and copper, which will not corrode. SIMPLICITY
OF OPERATION . . . just light the wick for steaming
hot water in a few moments. COMPACT DESIGN . . .
neat appearance and easily con-
nected to water main or tank.
Supplied complete with anti-down-
draught cowl and 9 ft. of flue.
Distributed by
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD., 337 KENT STREET, SYDNEY. BX KOO
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Pulpy Kidney
“Farmer Bill”: Pulpy-kidney
calls for the fullest research and
for the education of the farmer
concerning symptoms and forms
of control. As it becomes more
common in N.S.W., South and
West Australia, sheep deaths
may rise as high as 28 per cent,
of the flock, losses which cost
sheepowners and the Common-
wealth heavily.
Most farmers do not know
when the flock is affected with
pulpy-kidney, and cannot dis-
tinguish it from black-disease.
All Government experts are not
now certain that the organism
B. ovitoxicus, which brings on
the disease and which is also
prevalent in soils where out-
breaks of it occur, cannot be
ingested through the mouth of
the sheep. Formerly they
unanimously said it could not be.
The recommendation now
made by some experts that the
flock should not be allowed to
graze closely to soil infected
with the organism is a pointer
to a suspicion on their part that
the disease may, at least in some
cases, qriginate from the organ-
ism lurking in soil ingested by
the sheep.
While symptoms of pulpy-
kidney and black-disease are
similar and both diseases usually
attack sheep in good condition,
the causes differ widely.
Pulpy-kidney is an acute
toxaemia due to the presence of
toxins in the blood and the
rapid multiplication of the
organism B. ovitoxicus; black-
disease is associated with fluke-
infested pastures.
Literature on the subject em-
phasises that pulpy-kidney
usually follows the green-feed
period after the first rains, or
that it occurs on top-dressed
pastures. Sheep from two
months onward are affected.
Progress of the disease is
rapid. Symptoms such as stag-
gered gait, chewing of dirt and
knuckling-over of forelegs are
followed by champing of the
jaws, excess saliva, blindness
and coma. Sheep often die
within three or four hours.
Post-mortem shows the kidney
in a pulpy condition and from
grey to dark-red in color.
Measures of control appear to be
limited to advising annual Vac-
cination of the flock against the
disease and vaccination of ewes
prior to lambing, marking of
lambs and feeding of roughage
to prevent sluggish bowel-move-
ment.
To date, no method of con-
trol by way of soil-treatment or
even analysis of the soil has
been proposed by agricultural
authorities. Yet expert analysis
would arm farmers with the
knowledge as to whether the
organism was present in their
soils, whether it infected all or
part of them or whether it was
present only in areas that had
been top-dressed. This know-
ledge would be a guide as ’to
where sheep could be safely
run and whether soils should be
top-dressed or not. Above all,
farmers should be instructed as
to symptoms.
Outbreaks of pulpy-kidney are
most prevalent between May
and October. Most farmers and
experts, however, appear content
to sit tight and let the matter
drift.
Shearing Costs
“Outback”: Hearing that in
evidence before the U.S.A. corn-
“She looked so peaceful-like, it seemed a shame
to Wake her oop.”
mittee dealing with the tariff on
wool, a* representative of the
U.S. Woolgrowers’ Association
said that while it cost 3s. 7d. per
head to shear sheep in the U.S.A.,
the cost in Australia was only
Is. Id., the Australian Wool-
growers’ Council sent the De-
partment of Commerce copies
of the Federal Pastoral Award,
effective since November 17,
1952, giving the minimum
award-rate for the shearer alone
as Is, sd. per sheep; in many
cases more was paid, said the
council.
It was pointed out that
another factor to be considered
was whether the American
figure dealt with the costs of the
sheafer alone, or covered the
complete shearing operation. In
Australia shearing contractors
charge from 3s. 3d. to 4s. per
sheep, which includes the cost
for shearers, shed-hands, wool-
classer, wool-presser and the
contractor’s profit. The council
pointed out that in the U.S.A.
wool was not classed or pressed
at the shearing-shed, but was
placed loosely in bags. What-
ever the American cost in-
cluded, the Is. Id. per sheep
quoted for Australia certainly
presented a most inaccurate
picture.
Livestock Valuation 4
“Oxo”: The Graziers’
Federal Council has pointed out
to the Federal Treasurer that,
under section 32 of the income-
tax laws, there is an option for
the valuation of “closing” live-
stock at either cost- or market-
value, and some taxpayers, elect-
ing the latter method, had, over
a period of years, used a
standard value of, say, 15s. or
20s. per head. This had been
accepted by the department
until recent years, but the sud-
den rise in livestock values has
set the department insisting that
these values be increased to a
true market-value.
Although the department had
tried to mitigate the effects of
revaluation by increasing valua-
tions by stages, the position,
said G.F.C., was still far from
satisfactory. Such writing-up
produced national “profits”
which attracted taxation regard-
less of the fact that such
“profits” had no relation to
cash receipts. G.F.C. suggested
the department could provide
appropriate relief by refraining
from revaluation or, alterna-
tively, by permitting taxpayers
to adopt, under section 33, a
cost basis in lieu of marketing
selling-value.
While refusing these requests.
Sir Arthur Fadden suggested
that under section 170 (2), which
permitted reopening of assess-
ments over a period of six years
where a taxpayer had not made
full and true disclosure for his
assessments, some relief might
be obtained. There would be
an advantage, he said, in spread-
ing the increase in valuations
over several years rather than
if the increase was reflected in
one year only.
Worms as Allies
“Delta”: For more than half
a century y/e got good results
with deep digging and swea: of
the brow, and broke more than
one spade-handb in the pro-
cess. Digging is a splendid exer-
cise for the young and able-
bodied, but nowadays we prefer
to co-operate with the earth-
worms and let t’. em do the bulk
of the work, and we find the
results at least as good as when
we did our gardening the hard
way, “Emjai” (B. 27/5/’53) not-
withstanding.
Our potatoes are planted in a
trench about 4in. deep, and are
covered to surface-level with
compost, to which wood-ashes
and dolomite have been added.
When hilling-time arrives this
is done by shovelling more com-
post along each side of each
row.
Most of the potatoes are
borne near the surface, and, as
soon as they are fit to eat, the
new ones are “bandycooted” to
keep the table going until the
plants wither, when the rest of
the crop is dug and stored. This
makes* it hard to estimate the
yield, but for quality or quantity
it has not been surpassed in our
experience.
Mango As Stockfeed
“W.C.Q.”: Indian scientists
have found that ground mango-
seeds mixed with oilcake form
a protein- and carbohydrate-rich
food for stocky N.Q. stock cer-
tainly like ripe mangoes, and
where a tree stands in a grazing
paddock no fallen ripe fruit ever
rots, though the stock can eat
only the skin and pulp.
Mango-trees are worth grow-
ing on grazing country for shelter
and shade. They are fairly slow
growers, but a 20- or 30-year-old
mango % is a great shade-giver,
and will stand up to drought
and flood alike.
The difficulty with young trees
is that their young red foliage
is relished by stock and they
must be protected until stock
cannot reach high enough to do
any real damage. Mango-trees
are at home amongst native
timber, though not thick scrub,
and they like black, moist soils.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices )
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
AND PERTH
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
Made from X2oz. Duck Canvas. Proofed.
Cheek Lined. Leg Strap Fittings and
Surcingle.
Colours: Khaki or Green
5’
5’
Throughout New South Wales
Postage to Queensland, Victoria and
Tasmania, 2/-, extra on each rug
Please add exchange to Country
Rugs can be sent C.O.D. if required.
JOHN CHARLTON & CO.,
Northbridge, Sydney, N.S.W.
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
HORSE RUGS
POSTAGE FREE
cheques.
71-73 Sailors Bay Road,
ess
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR machines at only a frac
ILLUSTRATED lion of their cost. The
LITERATURE "National” Rotary Dupli
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
ca tor will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND DKISiiANE
Pistrihutiuy
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (AusL>
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W, Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS. . NO EMPTYING.. .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES . . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
sd
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia, Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 20 years
DISTRIBUTORS;"" ""*
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIO.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Trading Co., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
TILLEY*". . Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
m
■
■
m-
m '
i&ii
s m
m
m
-
si
ff
53M
ifili
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic only 11 pints of Kero for
12 hours' light —it is safe—it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. MODEL TLIO6
Manufacturer’s Representatives: • {‘‘THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
While import re-
strictions remain
you may have
difficulty in ob-
taining: TILLEY
products.
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
DDT DIP
SWC COKTOUKDJ^j
I MIXES ERBILV‘wITM WOT6R
KUDIP
THE PERFECT, MODERN, DUAL-PURPOSE DDT
SHEEP DIP AND JETTING COMPOUND
(Kills ked and lice prevents blowfly strike)
Manufactured by Australia’s largest producers of DDT.
fa**
US
V
NO KED
KI. r
NO LICE
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
.[ SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. ADELAIDE, PERTH
Ban on Tar-Brand Wool
“R. Ney”: Woolgrowers who
persist in using tar-branding oils
may soon find themselves with a
very restricted market. One o£
the biggest buyers for Con-
tinental mills has informed
Dalgety’s that they are now
following a trade rule of not
valuing clips with excessive tar-
brands. They tip a buyers’ ban
on all clips not using soluble
fluid.
Two years ago the C.5.1.R.0.
developed a new branding-fluid
which does not harm wool, nor
call for special processing, and
which completely washes out in
the scouring. Textile-makers
have stressed the value of this
discovery both to themselves and
woolgrowers.
Loss of wool through unsuit-
able branding-oil has been as
much as 2 per cent, of the Aus-
tralian clip, while losses of up
to 51b. per bale from the tar-
brand have been common. This
would run into about £2 per
bale on present prices.
Orchard Humus
“Kiwi”: More New Zealand
orchardists are using thick
mulches of threshed hay, old
and rotted grass, or baled clover
or lucerne-hay around their
trees. Mulches ranging from one
to three bales per tree suppress
weeds, conserve soil-moisture,
add organic matter and im-
prove soil-texture. Replenish-
ment from time to time main-
tains a good cover.
The soil is first disked to a
good tilth and weed-growth
destroyed. Sulphate-of-ammonia
at the rate of 2cwt. per acre is
used to speed-up decomposition
and offset temporary loss of
nitrogen in the soil. When the
soaking spring or autumn rains
are over the mulches are spread
around the trees.. While total
cost of this practice is fairly
high, benefits gained are spread
over two or three seasons and
cultivation costs reduced.
Most orchard soils benefit by
humus supplied by sheep- and
fowl-manure. One sack per
tree per season is sufficient, and
should be spread out under the
trees and levelled off. Spring
or early summer is the best
time to apply it.
Turning-in of orchard cover-
crops should be done a month
before fruit-tree blossoming,
otherwise temporary loss of
nitrogen, due to rotting of the
vegetable-matter, may affect the
trees. Dried blood or sulphate-
of,-ammonia applied when the
crop is being disked-in will help
decomposition.
Lantana Research
“Oxo”: Queensland Govern-
ment is prepared to contribute
£2500 towards the cost —esti-
mated at £11,200 —of sending an
entomologist to Mexico and
Texas (U.S.A.) to study insect
enemies of lantana. The sugges-
tion came from Hawaii, and if
the services of a Queensland
officer are availed of to make
the trip, the co-ordinating board
will recommend a contribution
of £5OO from the Stock Routes
and Pest Destruction Fund.
Lands Minister Foley says it is
costing the Forestry Department
up to £25,000 per annum to
eradicate lantana in forestry
areas.
Calf-feeding
“Mr.”: Most gastric troubles
in calves arise from giving them
milk which chills the stomach,
° r milk S.h ( !?LT3
tion ' M dk . ... 7. .^
« nt - b t atl f. U .
? ara ‘° n^“^ n r n e i d ‘ ly /
the . ” llk ‘^, a X lor. off, ’
and they will take more of .t
Friesian milk or morning milk
°f Ayrshire, A. 1.5., Shorthorn,
Uairy Shorthorn and Red Poll
cows does not need diluting. The
evening milk from all of these
breeds except Friesian, and the
morning milk from Guernseys
and Jerseys, is best diluted by a
quart of boiling water to the
gallon. Evening milk of the two
Channel Islanders will need the
addition of two quarts of water
to each gallon. Twice a day
gives just sufficient milk to fill
the flanks.
Hints for the Farm
“Quorn”: In low-rainfall
areas roses can be grown suc-
cessfully if there is enough water
to keep them going through dry
spells. The climbers are superb
—most of the favorite roses
appear among them. For reds
try Hadley, Daily Mail, Etoile
de Holland, Lord Charlemont,
Orange Triumph. None can
beat Mrs. Herbert Stevens for
a white rose. In yellows there
are Fontanelle, Golden Emblem,
McGredy’s Yellow. In pinks
Dame Edith Helen, Lorraine
Lee, Madam Abel Chateney,
Rose Marie and Shot Silk.
“Sarina”; Great care is
generally taken to keep stock
away from poisoned timber until
the arsenic has lost its strength,
but all too frequently the poison-
cans are forgotten. Both horses
and cattle, particularly those
hungry for salt, will seek out
and lick any vessels that have
contained arsenic solution. We
once lost a valuable draught
after a marsupial-shooter had
camped on the farm and left be-
hind a tin containing spine anti-
weevil solution.
“Springvale”: Pigs fatten
readily when fed on Swede
turnips with ylb. of meat-meal
per day. This crop does welj in
winter months where the rainfall
is not less than 20-30 in. per year.
It may be fed in breaks dr the
roots carried to the pigs as re-
quired. Other good root-crops
for fattening include mangolds,
artichokes and potatoes.
“C.A.A.”: As the best months
for planting deciduous fruit-
trees are June and July, orders
should be placed now with
nurserymen. Remember that
apple-, pear-, plum-, cherry-
and almond-trees require cross-
pollination, so that more than
one variety is needed for satis-
factory results. Another point:
if trees of a proved variety are
not available it is best to delay
planting for a year.
“J.C.”: Plant trees in square,
not round holes. Round holes
become waterlogged and -roots
find it hard to get into the sur-
rounding soil. Trees will sur-
vive drought and flood, but bad
drainage is certain death. First
sign of this trouble is yellowing
of the leaves, next dying-back.
“Rooster”: Molasses has
good heat-value (containing
about 82 per cent, carbo-
hydrates), and possesses laxative
properties essential to cattle
when green-feed is in short
supply. Dissolve in warm water
and sprinkle over the chaff or
hay. This makes the fodder
more easily digestible and more
palatable.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
There is some sign of the alternate and longer cycle
beginning to operate. This would make the expected rains
even better and.reduce the severity of the coming winter.
In the south the lateness of the winter rains was due to
weak sunspot activity, and now that a new impulse has
come, as shown by the present spots, the onset of these
rains should have relieved the position.


Missing Friend
IF MARGARET WILKINSON, ANNIE
CAHILL. ELIZABETH (nee, ROBINSON)
MARY JANE ROBINSON, possibly of Syd-
ney or Newcastle, and GEORGE SIMPSON
ROBINSON, of Western Australia, or
their respective children, being relatives
of JOHN BAILEY ROBINSON, who left
Pit-Town, Wallsend, Newcastle, for New
Zealand about 62 years ago, communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
P.O. Box 429, Dunedin, New Zealand, they
might hear something to their advantage.
r.tf •
o-OM .
£
y-
SVv*
0
0
r
®
O r f
Ov«D
v/v NO 4 «J V ' V
%?ACOj
/v-
° and bottled by tooth a co. limited
53.168
Your* health...
y ouf pleasure
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA — In Divorce.
Launceston District Registry.
TO EDWARD DAVID FLETCHER for-
merly of Point Cook in Victoria but whose
present address is unknown.- —TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in
this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of THELMA JOYCE FLETCHER
of Seamander in the State of Tasmania
praying for a dissolution of her marriage
with you on the grounds of constructive
desertion In default of you so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereof AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance
must be answered at the principal registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Mac-
quarie Street, Hobart, or at the. Laun-
ceston District Registry, Cameron Street,
Launceston.—D. W. SHIELDS. District
Registrar.—N.B.: Friends of the above-
named EDWARD DAVID FLETCHER who
may see this advertisement are requested
to bring it under his notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BESSIE .LYDIA WALKER late of 27
Melody Street, Coogee.—TAKE NOTICE
that HAROLD WALKER has filed a Peti-
tion for Restitution of Conjugal Rights
No. 787 of 1953 asking for restitution
of conjugal rights by you If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 17th August
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN W. SALMON,
Solicitor, 21a Belmore Road, Randwick,
by his agent R. H. RICHARDS, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
to" WALTER HENRY MORGAN address
unknown Seaman. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife ELIZABETH ELSIE SARK-
BELL MORGAN has commenced proceed-
ings against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of habitual failure by you for
three years to comply with the terms of
a Maintenance Order under which you and
she have been separated for that period
IF you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within Thirty clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your so
doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence. —
DATED this 29th day of May, One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty-three. —E.
LAWSON TURNBULL, Acting Registrar.
FRED CURRAN, Esq., of 87-38 Padbury
Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the
State of Western Australia, Solicitor for
the Plaintiff.
2GB Fridays 7.15 p.m.
SAW Fridays 7.15 p.m.
4BH Fridays 7.15 p.m.
SDN Fridays 7.15 p.m.
7HO Fridays 7.15 p.m.
61X Fridays 6.30 p.m.
6WB Fridays 6.30 p.m.
6MD Fridays 6.30 p.m.
6BY Fridays 6.30 p.m.
2CA Fridays 7.15 p.m.
3CV Fridays 7.15 p.m.
7LA Fridays 7.15 p.m.
2HR Fridays 7.15 p.m.
2MW Sundays 6.45 p.m.
2LF Thursdays 7.1 5 p.m,
2PK Mondays 7.15 p.m.
2LT Fridays 6.45 p.m.
4GY Fridays 8.30 p.m.
An enthralling series of original self-contained quarter-hour dramas bringing
you the finest writers, actors and actresses in Australian radio. For the
fascinating best in radio entertainment don’t miss this
brilliant weekly drama, sponsored by Scotts Emulsion,
the world’s largest selling cod-liver oil emulsion.
Produced by
fs
highly effective English fighting
naval captain. The C. S. Forester
story comes to robust life, and
Peck makes Hornblower crisply
incisive and quietly determined.
As the Lady Barbara Wellesley,
Virginia Mayo is beautiful but
dumb.
“Just For You” (Prince
Edward): A pleasing musical
containing a fair quota of
whistleable tunes, with the old
master, Bing, putting them over
as to the manner born, and
enjoying the assistance, vocal
and romantic, of Jane Wyman.
‘‘The Hole and the Lump”
“Contemporary” sculpture
seems to have gone the way of
“contemporary” painting, judg-
ing by the show of modelling and
carving in boxwood, marble,
alabaster, tallowwood, coral
stone, wild cherry and scrap iron
of the Group of Four at the
School of Architecture, Uni-
versity of Melbourne.
It is evident from the fore-
going list that the young
sculptors have had more material
at their disposal than had
Praxiteles and Myron, but they
have done far less with it than a
humble sleeper-cutter does with
a broad axe. In fact, the sleeper-
cutter gets more variety into a
sleeper than Inge King gets into
her boxwood “Treeform” and
Norma Redpath into her “Cat
and Rooster.” These two
sculptors seem to be as obsessed
with surface as is an auto-
mobile-deaner, and after they
have finished polishirtg their oak,
pine, tallowwood and alabaster,
they have far less variety than
there is in a piece of firewood. In
fact, a hit with a hammer would
probably improve Miss Red-
path’s cat and rooster.
In “Vertical Form” Julius
Kuhn tries to produce the
horrors with a nightmare resem-
blance to Easter Island sculpture,
and presents “Constructive
Emotion” in an arrangement of
what appears to be a toaster and
a flattened strainer. It still looks
like a toaster and ‘ a badly bat-
tered strainer.
Clifford Last reaches the nadir
of unimaginative effort in
“Standing Figure,” “Abstract
Head” and “Abstract Figure.”
Piling blocks on one another
may be an amusing occupation,
but it’s hardly sculpture.
♦♦♦
Harold S. Loxfon is holding his
annual show of oils and water-
colors at Melbourne Athenaeum,
and his work is as usual con-
ventionally pleasant, while his
facility increases. Facility can
sometimes be a disadvantage,
and it tends to a formularised
approach to his picturesque
subject-matter. However, he can
often catch the varying moods
of Nature as in ‘"Frosty Morn-
ing,” “After Rain,” “Summer’s
Filtered Light” and “Grey Even-
ing.”
Two Goossens Concerts
In the Blue series of the
latest subscription concert by
the Sydney Orchestra under
Goossens, the second half was
given over to Berlioz’s “Romeo
and Juliet” Symphony, with
James Wilson as soloist and a
small choir.
This work, by one of music’s
boldest adventurers and greatest
romantics, teems with original
ideas. Berlioz was at his best in
setting big literary works to
music—his “Harold in Italy”
Symphony, based on Childe
Harold, almost equals the
Shakspeare-inspired work for
white-hot inspiration and
though in this work there is
unevenness in thematic values,
this is more than offset by the
sheer brilliance of his orchestra-
tion, and the enormous vitality
of the music in the fighting and
festival sequences. His love
music, too, is superb. The
orchestra rose to the occasion
with splendid elan.
For the Coronation concert
the Dettingen “Te Deum” was
the chief offering, Handel being
included in the all-English-com-
poser programme. This was
sung by four soloists —Florence
Taylor, Margaret Moore, James
Wilson and Alan Ferris —and
the Hurlstone Choral Society.
Mr. Goossens piloted his orches-
tral and choral forces vigorously
and to general good effect.
❖ *:♦ ❖
A Beecham Pill
“Eons”: A characteristic out-
burst from Sir Thomas Beecham,
on English critics, divided them
into three groups:
“The first consists of three or
four people who write about
music in a scholarly, accurate,
knowledgeable manner. After
them comes a handful which
writes brightly and amusingly
about music. They know little
about it, are clever in avoiding
the use of technical terms —and
might just as well be reporting
cattle-shows.
“The third group is much
larger. Its members are quite
hopeless drooling, drivelling,
doleful, depressing, dropsical
drips. All English critics, with-
out exception, are timid and
conventional.”
Provocation; Beecham took
his Royal Philharmonic Or-
chestra to the New Theatre, at
Oxford, for the world premiere
of Delius’s opera “Irmelin,” and
the critics were lukewarm to cold.
But Sir T. pointed out that he
has produced abdht 100 operas,
which the Press described as
negligible, and all have entered
the repertoire. “It took the
Press nearly 150 years to appre-
ciate Mozart’s operas. Delius
has only been dead 20. There
is a chance —by the end of the
century.”
July-September to pure trickery
was by mid-November declaring
that he thought Japan might
strike before the battleships
which Britain had been per-
suaded to send, in line with the
new Australian “Labor” naval
policy, reached Singapore —this
while his Cabinet was proposing
to send its armored force to the
Middle East.
He wanted known Australia’s
intention to assist as much as
possible in the satisfactory out-
come of the U.S.-Japanese talks.
Right up to Pearl Harbor Dr.
Evatt was still harping on his
particular theme that “every-
thing possible must be done to
avoid a breakdown of the talks,
that a ‘rigid’ American attitude
was driving Japan towards a war
of desperation, that the Soviet
Union must not be overlooked
and—lacking information which
the Americans certainly had
about Japanese intentions —that
“the Japanese are clearly anxious
to avoid war themselves.” All
this seems to the reader some-
thing out of a madhouse in its
confusion of thought and
direction.
On November 30, 1941, the
Dominions Office informed
Australia of various indications
that Japan was about to attack
Thailand and seize strategical
points on the Kra Isthmus. The
Netherlands Indies reported a
concentration of Japanese at
Palau, and suggested the joint
declaration of a defence zone by
the Powers concerned. It was
not till December 5, however,
that an assurance was reported
by the United Kingdom of U.S.
armed support if Britain found it
necessary to forestall a landing
on the Kra Isthmus or Japan
attacked the British territory or
the Netherlands Indies. In the
meantime the Australian
Cabinet’s view of the situation
continued muddled. ,
It was not till December 4,
when the Japanese were every-
where preparing to close their
Embassies, that the War Cabinet
instructed the Defence Com-
mittee to review the strength of
the three services to meet prob-
able forms of attack on Aus-
tralia, the primary requirement
being stated as “to prevent an
enemy from reaching Australia.”
The picture seen by the Cabinet
was that “if the Japanese were
so foolish as to take warlike
action they would be intercepted
and checked by Allied counter-
moves.”
It went without saying that
this was a complete opposition
to the view which “Labor” had
been expressing for years that
the defence of Australia should
be arranged inside* Australia and
that troops should not be sent
out of it. It was only a few
months since Mr. Ward had
opposed the sending of Militia
to defend New Guinea.


IN THE WET
By Nevil Shufe
THE GREAT NOVEL OF CORONATION YEAR
OVER 85,000 COPIES ALREADY SOLD
Without doubt Nevil Shute has stirred the English-speaking world with this
novel. It is vigorous, exciting, colourful and thought-provoking.
At all booksellers - 13/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
Melbourne : : London : : Auckland
THE FACE OF AUSTRALIA
by Charles F. Laseron
Mr. Laseron covers the whole of
Australia describing places of beauty
and giving the exciting explanation
of how Nature carved them out. He
gives much technical detail. Illus.
21/- (post 7dL)
FLOW RIVER, BLOW WIND
by Elyne Mitchell
The story of a man who returns from
war indifferent to his wife, and to
the rest of existence. It unfolds in
the Murray Valley, which the author
knows, and describes superbly.
14/6 (post 9d.)
These are just two from the hundreds of new books now available from: —
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
Now Ready Price 16 /-
NO BARRIER
ELEANOR DARK
A brilliant historical novel factually correct in every detail. It is no dull
narrative of mere event, but a lively, quick-moving narrative, crammed with
exciting incidents, where the characters, both historical and fictional, move
across Mrs. Dark’s vast stage with all the convincing reality of a cinema film.
The magic of Mrs. Dark’s pen makes the past live again in this Australian epic.
Available From All Booksellers COLLINS
realism “had Mr. Curtin lived”; for, Mr.
Stanner points out, Curtin said in 1939:
I venture to think that the vulnerability
of this Commonwealth from all conceiv-
able dangers would become increased should
the Netherlands East Indies Ipse their father-
land or should its sovereignty actually
disappear.
Instead, the high-flown sentiments of
international charters had to be blown
through the winding convolutions of Dr.
Evatt’s diplomacy and put into practice
by Mr. Eddie Ward. No other circum-
stances or people could have blown a
brighter bubble:
In the early statements there was a certain
strategic preoccupation, but this was soon
subdued and, on the whole, it was ethical
imperative which was stressed Dr. Evatt
dealt mainly with eviis-at-large and with
global designs... .Criticism had to be
highly general If critics were not to be
typed as opposing everyman’s best inten-
tions for everyman. On the other hand,
Mr. Ward had to particularise and identify
the concrete cases and groups without
which Dr. Evatl’s conceptions remained
largely abstract. Whereas Dr. Evatt
allowed all men to join the angels, Mr
Ward had to say that some were not. It
need not, perhaps, have been done with
such relish, but his problem was not an
easy one.
Nevertheless, with the fourteen points
' policy controlling native labor in the
45 Provisional Administration Act
r, Stanner can find no fault; nor does
think it implied a “Socialist design”:
The 1945 speech cannot be read in this
fay, but the Provisional Administration's
lanagement allowed some strange inter-
relations.
)ne “strange interpretation” was made
the outset, with the “surprising and
tly decision” to cancel native inden-
ts to Angau in 1945, immediately on
itoumption of civil administration. The
Administration overrode warnings by
planters, and gave the news to the natives
in a broadcast (“Black Monday”) of
which the script has disappeared, but
which evidently told them they might
stay or go home:
Work at once came to a standstill. Many
natives may well have interpreted the
announcement and the option as a definite
order to go home, not as an opportunity
to exercise a choice... .According to official
figures 5000 Army- and 2000 plantation-
laborers were paid-off in Port Moresby and
only 187 re-engaged. In Samarai, of 3500
laborers paid-off, less than 100 elected to
remain... .Rubber and copra production
collapsed overnight.
The result was that in Papua, copra
production fell from 9200 tons to 4500
tons in a year. Rubber production
dropped by 60 per cent. New scales of
wages and rations increased production
costs of copra by 500 per cent. And the
Production Control Board fixed the
price for copra at “an extremely profit-
able current return,” but only a fraction
of world prices. Rubber-production costs
increased by 122 pir cent, in 1946 over
pre-war ; rubber could be sold profitably
at no less than 15d. per pound on a
market which dropped to 12.04 d. per
pound in 1949: —
The official reports passed lightly over
these major interests The theory of
Government policy up to 1949 was that,
somehow, public capital, liberally used,
could develop a widespread system of
peasant production in parallel with or as
an alternative to plantation production.
That the Government intended at first
to disregard entirely European planters
and settlers, or even to freeze them out
with “Black Mondays” and high wage-
scales, is borne out by the early plans
for huge agricultural and educational
departments. The proposed divisions of
the Department of Agriculture (page
150) have to be seen to be believed ; cost
in the first year, of wages, matefials and
equipment, and exclusive of capital-
schemes, was to have been £400,000 to
£500,000;
At this time it was still supposed, almost
literally, that no financial limits need be
observed. The phrase “the sky is the limit”
was in wide use. The Minister was depart-
mentally credited with having given carte
blanche and, indeed, the scale of intention
reflected in all plans in 1946-47 would
have been fantasy if not based on some
such authority.
With education, they have had more
success;
By 1950, 10 Government schools were
open for European children, 4 for Asians,
44 for natives and 2 for part-natives. In
New Guinea alone some 35 Government
schools for natives were open (6 village,
21 area or sub-area, 1 technical, 6 district
or central-district schools and 1 higher-
training) with 2400 pupils of whom 300
were girls. There were upwards of 1400
students under the Commonwealth Recon-
struction Training Scheme at 8 Government
and 22 mission centres. In New Guinea
some 2310 mission schools of all kinds
were open with an enrolment of over
85.000, including 25,000 girls, and in Papua
723 schools with an enrolment of over
41.000, including 12,000 girls.
The medical advance, too, if it does
not reach the plans originally made for
it, and if it languished during the last
years of the Chifley Government, is re-
markable: —
In 1950, close on £1 million was spent
by a service which impressed everyone by
its devoted enthusiasm, the crude figures
of 644 hospitals and clinics, of which about
half were Governmental, are an impressive
record. Something N like 77,000 patients
were treated for serious conditions at
Government centres (since the returns were
incomplete the total may well have been
177,U0U) and a further 24',000 by medical
patrols in this year. Mission clinics and
centres recorded 1,300,000 out-patient
treatments. Government subsidies to mis-
sions for medical outlay were over £46,000
in the year.
It seems unlikely that even the optimism
of the early planners went as far as ex-
pecting to finance the colony from taxes
on the production of peasants-to-be-
created. From 1945 to 1950 Govern-
ment put up some £l3 million as against
local revenues of £4.4 million:
By June 30, 1950, expenditure was running
at about £5.5 million a year, as against
locally-derived revenues of £1.4 million.
Local revenues, though now in r'apua treole
and in New Guinea double the higher pre-
war figures, would have been insufficient to
pay even the salaries and departmental
contingencies of Government officials.
At the time Mr. Spender became
Ambassador to the United States, a £2OO-
- scheme was under examination
to put 2000 square-miles under European
agricultural cultivation by 1971, with
3000 white producers and a total Euro-
pean population of 50,000.
These abstracts suggest little of the
detail and close texture of the New
Guinea study ; and of the similarly tight-
packed Fijian and Samoan studies it will
have to be enough to say that Mr,
Stanner is extraordinarily interesting on
the comparative-status of Indians and
Fijians in Fiji, the Fijians, surprisingly
enough, graduating by study into official
positions while the industrious Indians
will not spare their children from farm-
ing for school-attendance. In the Samoan
section there is an amusing account of
the beanfeast those happy hedonists made
of American occupation during the war,
and of the insistence of the Samoan
spokesman, Tamasese, on Home Rule:
One distinguished visitor who tried to
divert him in the midst of a statement of
the case for self-government, by laboring
the theme of efficient Government under
European control, was left capped by a
neat use of Campbell-Bannerman’s
aphorism: “good government is no sub-
stitute for self-government.”
In his interesting summary of New
Guinea cargo-cults, Mr. Stanner relates
them to similar European happenings of
the Middle Ages, the product pf ill-in-
formed minds and faulty logic. But when
a N. S. Wales Minister for Education
can propose to a Loan Council that the
Federal Government, while sustaining its
payments from income-tax, can lower the
tax-rate to enable private citizens to in-
vest in Government loans ; while, in short,
there is a political party which believes
that money can always be found, it is
surely unnecessary to go to savages or
the past for parallels. In defence of our
way of life we change the ways of life
of other people; in righting this wrong.
we create others: the heaviest burden of
the white man is his conscience. Indeed,
in his conclusion, Mr. Stanner says:
There is an intense need for concentration
on the historical record and sociological
theory of “development.” It does not
appear to be at all widely perceived that
much recent thought on this question is an
unconscious, ignorant mockery of fhe
West’s struggle over many centuries _to
evolve its present cultural level, its institu-
tions, and the balance of aim and capability
represented in modern ethical politics. If
it were actually true that by a little help,
their cultural gleanings so far, and the
crutch of their/.pwn devices, the Pacific
Islanders could quickly fabricate a com-
parable level of fcujtural attainment, much
of Western histoi(y ( might appear to have
been, not only /heedless, but somewhat
nonsensical. jdr
Nevertheless, in jNew Guinea:
The breakdown of all shape and line
in the traditional native social structures
and the dissolution of traditional cultures
into unrelated fragments continue in a con-
text in which, it can safely be said, the
number of new coherences appearing is
unequal to the number disappearing, though
some fascinating native experiments in
mixing new and ancient ways are occurring
very widely. The upshot is completely un-
predictable.
R. McC.
THE BROWN SNAKE
I walked to the green gum-tree
Because the day was hot;
A snake could be anywhere
But, she said, I forgot.
The Duckmaloi lazed through the
valley
In amber pools like tea
From some old fossicker’s billy,
And I walked under the tree.
Blue summer smoked on Bindo,
It lapped me warm in its waves,
And when that snake hissed up
Under the shower of leaves
Huge, high as my waist,
Rearing with lightning’s tongue.
So brown with heat like the fallen
Dry sticks it hid among,
1 thought that green gum-tree
The tree itself, said she,
All in the sweet of summer
Reached out to strike at me.
N.S.W
DOUGLAS STEWART.
"Coast to Coast"
Angus and Robertson invite contri-
butions for the 11th issue of Coast to
Coast, which is to be edited by C. B.
Christesen, editor of “Meanjin Papers.”
Writers may submit two or three
recently-written stories ; closing-date, July
31. Contributions should be addressed
to the Editor, Coast to Coast, 1953-54,
c/o Angus and Robertson, Sydney.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 230
Across
I—Sing1—Sing about a northern European
when striking comrades turn back
to half of a table-game. (8)
s—-Fish for sixpence when the latest
odds go over to the enemy. (5)
10— Hooting is one of the many
things that might come from this
pussy-cat serenader’s urge. (4, 3)
11— Angel going back to no battle
in a Verdi opera on a lass-o. (7)
12— Bird takes us Oates. (5)
13— Fish for you backing a small
cart. (7)
15— Bikini disbursement by a motorist
between Sydney and North Syd-
ney. (5)
16— Drink heads off every good girl
for landing in Perth. (3-4)
17— Cedar territory boy with internal
prohibition. (7)
18— “Invictus” finishes with such
metrical stress. (5)
19— Eat with a noisy, crushing sound.
(7)
20— None telephoned an ape, (5)
22—Panders to one with croaks, with
a croaker that is south. (7)
24 Poll for an artist whom mourn-
ing becomes. (7)
25 — Plumb noise not likely to break
down a fiord. (5)
26 Maxims —but neither Gorky nor
De Winter. (7)
Down.
1— A tailor who has been robbed
thus for imperfect bowling.
(5, 2,1, 6)
2 Apportion plenty to Jolson found
in 15 across. (5)
3 Who scoffs at a rhymester in this
part of the paper? (5, 6)
4 Near consumption, Jenny stands
by the promontory with inability
to see in dim light. (5-9)
6 Fasten Margaret. (3)
7 Silly wool-producer with a rising
Narcissus who has a girl upset-
ting part of the window frame.
(9)
8 — Boy to adore the Irish without
ego and the north-east steamer
with general malaise. (14)
9 Post office Papist out of bed at
home exemplifying ian artist
steamer spinifex. (9, 5)
14—Sets fire to the homely carelessly
and with levity. (11)
15 —Morning transport scoundrel has
nothing lying in wait. (9)
21—A weight for Dvorak. (5)
23 —Unapplauded innovation in the
host’s place. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 229


Fill from the Red, White & Blue Pump at
r an
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
✓
✓
/
COMMO
EALTH OIL REFINERIES LT
(Marketers in Australia for A n g 1 o- 1 ra n i a n Oil Co. Ltd.)
df
