

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
BUSHRANGER BALLADS — PAGE 24
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3842
Wednesday, September 30, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
IF HISTORIED CARDIFF CASTLE COULD ONLY SPEAK!
CARDIFF, the commercial capital of Wales, and one of the great seaports
of the British Isles, had its early beginnings as a Roman stronghold on
the banks of the River Taff. Roman remains have been found within the
walls of the present castle, which stands on the line of the Roman coast road
through South Wales.
Cardiff Castle was begun as a motte-and-bailey earthworks by Robert
Fitzhamon, the Anglo-Norman conqueror of Glamorganshire, about the year
1090. His successor, Robert, Earl of Gloucester, and son of Henry I, added
masonry and strongly fortified the castle by building the massive central
keep on top of the original earthwork and surrounded it with a moat which
has since been filled in. The entrance tower of the keep and the Black Tower
were built by the “Red Earl” of Clare and the rest of the buildings are of
various dates from the fifteenth to the nineteenth centuries.
In 1490 the castle came into the possession of Jasper Tudor and in 1551
it was presented by his royal descendant, King Edward VI. to Sir William
Herbert, ancestor of the present owner, the Marquis of Bute, whose other
properties include three houses and a castle in Scotland, town houses in
London and Edinburgh and a castle in Spain, In 1830 the second Marquis
of Bute risked his entire fortune on the construction of the extensive docks
to which Cardiff owes its present size and its position as the largest coal-
exporting port in the world.
The castle is still inhabited and parts of it are open to the public when
the family is not in residence. The State apartments are richly decorated and
include the Chaucer Room in the fifteenth-century octagon tower where the
stained-glass windows illustrate the Canterbury Tales.
The walls of Cardiff Castle still bear the scars of battle, for it was
captured by Owen Glendower in 1404 and by Parliamentary forces in 1645,
during the Civil War—only a month after it had been visited by Charles I.
Another important event in the history of the Castle was the imprisonment
there of Robert. Duke of Normandy, by his brother, Henry I, for twenty-six
years before his death in 1135. During his long imprisonment the unfortunate
Duke learned the Welsh language and composed several poems which still
exist today: a plaintive elegy of the times in which he lived.


The Red Page
MOTORING MARATHON
Those who have yearned for a higher
standard in Australian travel-books —as
who has not?—as well as those interested
ir round-the-world radtor-reliability trials
should welcome Geoffrey Dutton’s A
Long Way South (Chapman and Hall).
Mr. Dutton, as readers of his novel
The Mortal and the Marble will recall,
has the smooth prose style that comes
naturally to a writer who has also prac-
tised in poetry; and even when he is
flat on his back under his car in a desert
somewhere between Persia and
Afghanistan, wrestling in heat and dust
with an engine that keeps trying to fall
to pieces, there is a certain iron firmness
in the writing: —
We began to crawl dejectedly back to
Tehran. By the time we had passed the
inferno of those low hills and the salt
stream the vibration had become much
worse, and it was obvious that something
else was broken, but there was nothing
else to do but bump on and hope we
would get there. After forty miles the
whole engine and gearbox were juddering
up and down and hitting the floor beneath
our feet, and it did not seem possible that
the car would not fall apart at any minute
and leave us seated on top of the hard
white stone of the road. As we approached
the long hill twenty miles out of Tehran
the engine began to splutter and soon
stopped. The engine had been shaking so
much that the fan had bitten into the
radiator-core, and a stream of water was
descending on the distributor-cover and
thus shorting the ignition.
From these hard realities the writing
leaps up many times to describe beautiful
scenes in appropriate language. Even
on that griller of heat and corrugations
on the way to Afghanistan there were
the gazelles and the wildflowers: —
There were some compensations for the
strain of driving at night: four gazelles,
pale in the light in the middle of the road,
standing their ground until we were only
a few yards away, and then bounding off
in their ballooning stride, their contact
with the earth seeming nothing more than
a touch to compress their lightness into
movement again In this desert we came
upon one of the most astonishing sights
of our whole journey; enormous patches
of vivid magenta flowers staining the brown
slopes and the dried river-beds, a color so
incredible in the waste of emptiness that I
blinked my eyes to make sure that the
heat had not affected them. This plant is
a little bush with brilliant pods that whisper
and rustle in the wind, a noise so fragile
and artificial that it seems more suited to
a drawingroom than the harsh desert.
In a car which they called “the Turk,”
Mr. Dutton and his wife set out in the
summer of 1951 to drive from London
to their home near Adelaide ; which, with
a couple of necessary water-hops across
the Channel and the Indian Ocean—the
really ambitious traveller should perhaps
drive a duck—they accomplished. They
followed (though Mr. Dutton does not
seem to be aware of this, saying “We did
not know of anyone who had made such
a journey”) much the same route as that
taken by M. H. Ellis with Captain
Knowles and Francis Birtles in 1927.
In Yugoslavia Mr. and Mrs. Dutton*
found a glass of beer costing ten shillings
and made-to-measure suits at £130; they
met a native who had lived for several
years on the Westralian goldfields, and
“to his intense regret had been lured home
again by Tito’s propaganda”—while he
was talking to them he was ominously
tapped on the shoulder: “That man is
the police. It will be bad for me and
bad for you too if I continue to talk to
you. You must drive on. Goodbye.”
In Greece they met happier people, saw
the white marbles of antiquity and the
colorful life of Salonika:—
In the mornings you can sit at the cafes
and watch the boats being loaded with
empty fruit-baskets, empty wine- and oil-
barrels, sacks of grain and drums of petrol.
On one small boat there were nineteen
men working, all laughing and joking with
no intention of hurrying. Horses with
blue, red and green beads and brass crests
in the shape of a crescent and a fluttering
trefoil look impatiently over their shoul-
ders at the slowness of proceedings. The
boss drinks a coffee under the" awning
across the street, and shouts his orders from
afar.
In Turkey they bought a carpet, tried
to catch marmots, and saw a dancing
bear which makes a fascinating picture
amongst the photographic illustrations.
In Syria and Lebanon, “Once again we
were questioned about Australia and the
prospects for immigration, there; the
people of every country we passed
through spoke with longing of the peace
and space of Australia.” In Jerusalem,
while they were looking at the holy
places, they heard the sound of machine-
guns ; their Arab guide said sadly, “They
are killing someone,” and continued to
display the sights. Later they found that
it was King Abdullah, on a visit to the
city, who had been shot; and in haste
to escape from “the murderous
atmosphere of Jerusalem” they ran into
the Arab Legion and a rioting mob of
refugees:—
At this the mob came quicker down the
road towards us, some of them halting on
the brow of the hill and looking towards
Amman. We wound up the car-windows,
locked the doors and waited, feeling
abominably isolated and helpless. As they
reached the car the guns of all four
armored-cars slowly swivelled round until
they were pointing at us. One youth came
straight towards my window with a rock
raised in his hand, and then walked past.
In spite of the oil-rumpus nobody
molested them in Persia; though of
course, as Australians, they,, were urged
to “throw off the yoke of British tyranny”
—so does propaganda confuse and
blacken the minds of the simple people
of the earth whom, almost everywhere
they went, the travellers found kindly and
hospitable. The Afghans, for fear of
offending Russia, hardly dared let them
into their country ; but they got there,
over the bumps, and saw the flowers, the
gazelles, jewels and exotic disheis, the
bridges that were washed away by the
floods every winter and the electric-light
that never came on because all the
powerhouses were “out of repair.”
And so to the amazingly learned
Customs clerks of Pakistan and India ;
and so to Australia, where, on the wharf
at Fremantle, for the first time on the
trip, practically every removable article
on the car was stolen, and where, among
“the saltbush and bluebush, the emptiness
of the Nullarbor” on the way home to
Port Augusta, Mr. Dutton —perhaps in
rather a hurry to finish his book —found
some ghosts, some empty bottles and not
much else.
If there is a fault to be found with
A Long Way South it is that Mr. Dutton
doesn’t seem to have any particular view-
point, except that of reserve. Obviously
the trip was a magnificent adventure
which, even on the road to Afghanistan,
in retrospect, filled him with the delight
of strange places and tough living ; but
the delight is hardly allowed to emerge in
his carefully-controlled style and the
journey becomes strangely calm and
factual: as if all the roads were level.
Still, there is a virtue in reserve; and,
level or not, they are roads that few
writers have travelled on.
Australian Poetry
Not long ago it happened that the
present reviewer was escorted to a plat-
form and there left alone to talk about
Australian poetry to about 100 Sydney
schoolgirls: and a surprisingly pleasant
experience it was, after the first alarm
wore off, with that bright, eager audience,
which curtsied at the beginning and end,
fluttering and dancing in the breeze like
Wordsworth’s golden daffodils.
But it appeared that, though they had
one book of Australian verse in their
curriculum, that jocund company had
never heard of the annual anthology of
Australian Poetry on which the talk was
largely based ; nor indeed of such contri-
butors as Robert D. Fitz Gerald, Judith
Wright, David Campbell, Francis Webb
or William Hart-Smith, whose creation
along with Mary Gilmore and Kenneth
Slessor of an heroic and pastoral Aus-
tralian mythology made the theme of the
talk.
Which suggests that somewhere the
education-system should be emended.
Everybody in Australia should know
these (and other) names; no school,
if culture is to live in this country,
can possibly afford to ignore them.
And Australian Poetry, published by
Angus and Robertson and edited
for 1953 by Nan McDonald, is the
best place in which to make their
acquaintance, before going on to buy the
individual books by such writers as have
lately been printed ; because here, with
the emphasis only on quality, without
favor to any particular theory of writing,
is selected and assembled the year’s best
Work by the year’s best writers.
Of course one must normally make
allowances fpr human fallibility in the
selection. Most editors, by a process of
subconscious and subterranean sympathy,
put their friends in ; most, having a bias
towards the young, or towards national
writing, or towards mysticism or even,
as has happened, towards fishing, lean a
little in one direction or another. But
Miss McDonald does not seem to be
fallible. Perhaps, though both writer-
editors and critic-editors haye selected
with equal success in other years, there is
a considerable advantage in being, as she
is, both a poet and a practising sub-editor
trained in taste and impartiality in a
publisher’s office.
At any rate Australian Poetry 1953 is
a wholly delightful anthology. New-
comers to the series^—some of course by
no means new to writing—such as
Kathleen Dalziel, Ella McFadyen,
Barbara Blackman, Vincent Buckley and
Thea Astley, all deserve their places; and
while one has seen some of the familiar
contributors more forceful in the past,
there is no poem not of a reasonable
standard and many which go very high
indeed.
On the whole, except for two fine
extracts from Fitz Gerald’s Between Two
Tides (a Goliath of a poem against which
many a brave wee David will hurl
his pebbles in vain), the contribu-
tions have not the weight, the
stature of those of some other
years when editors such as T. Inglis
Moore and R. G. Howarth were able to
print solid achievements in the “poem
of some length.” Its strength is in the
lyric, and in the evocation of Australia,
sometimes in landscape and sometimes
in history.
Outstanding among the lyrics are
Elizabeth Riddell’s “Country Tunes,”
Ronald McCuaig’s “Madrigal” and
Rosemary Dobson’s “The Mother,” in
which the grace of fairytale is beautifully
entwined with deep human feeling:
Seeing her child shaken
By grief and wild passion
She knew again the tumult,
The storm that beat her branches
And stripped her of green graces
So many years ago.
How like a bird from heaven
Came then her dancing daughter,
A bird that rests from flying
Upon the sheltering branches
And stirs the tree’s remembrance
Of sweet and rainy spring.
She has spun a garment
Of words for her daughter,
A coat she will throw over
To shelter her from evil,
From love, from life’s mischances,
And keep her by her side.
But love knows no delaying
And grief will come too early:
She lacked the words to finish
The woven coat of comfort
And so her grieving daughter
Wears yet one wild bird’s wing.
Of the poems more specifically con-
cerned with Australian themes, one of the
most forceful landscapes is Roland
Robinson’s discovery of the waratah—a
flower so often mentioned in superficial
verse, so seldom alive like this;
In the time when swan and swan
with their ” creaking cries were gone,
sudden all the ashened west
burst and seared his face and breast ;
round him rock, and scrub on fire
stood out fused in one desire,
where the fierce flower from its steep
flamed upon the sounding deep.
And a typical adventure into history,
bringing the past alive for us as the
nature-poets bring the land (or as Nancy
Keesing in her ingenious “Over Jittery
Sydney” recreates the city, past and
present) is Ethel Anderson’s “The Hand
of Affection” from the charming
“Rangamatty Eclogues” with their echoes
of Horace;
The hand of affection lies heavily on the
homestead....
This sassafras sapling, this scented limb of
cedar,
alone of their kind now speak of a bygone
forest-gain,
the mark of the adze roughens an earlier
splendor,
the tooth of the saw bites plainly into their
close grain;
the hand of affection lies heavily on the
homestead.
Some othejr admirable poems in one
or other of these categories, giving the
anthology its appropriately national
flavor, are David Rowbotham’s “The
Town,” Eric C. Rolls’s “The Arab Colt,”
Judith Wright on the gum-trees stripping
their bark and on some flower of the
Queensland desert, Vivian Smith’s “Sea
Lion” (a haunting piece of cold sea-
music), John Blight on the bushranger
Thunderbolt and Nan McDonald’s own
“Glenroy,” set in an old house amongst
the N. S. Wales Blue Mountains.
Letters on Sophocles
A light that has shone two thousand
years is not likely to be extinguished by
some casual side-blast of criticism ; and
one has a notion that, while Sophocles
is likely to live the more clearly for the
able exposition by Mr. F. J. H. Letters,
of New England University College,
Armidale, N. S. Wales, in The Life and
Work of Sophocles (Sliced and Ward),
Aristotle will remain largely unperturbed
by the tap Mr. Letters gives him in
passing:
To discuss Attic, and particularly
Sophoclean tragedy without reference to the
Poetics would be ungrateful, even if
possible. Yet this most influential and
authoritative of all approaches to the
subject is aesthetics rather than literary
criticism. The viewpoint is as abstract as
the style is dry It may not be the
tpughest, but it is certainly the least poetical
book on poetry ever written.
As a candidate for the world’s toughest
book of criticism the Laocoon of Lessing
comes briefly into mind . . . But as for
Aristotle, one thinks of that beautiful
and tranquil lucidity 0 f style • that
unique critical modesty with so’ noble
a respect for Homer; that perfect
understanding of the principles of artistic
construction, so broad and deep that it
really left Matthew Arnold nothing to
add, covering by implication all other
forms of art as well as the philosopher’s
immediate concerns of tragedy and the
epic—and one cannot but suspect that
Mr. Letters, as he practically admits he
is doing earlier when he declares that
Athens was a slum,” is merely trailing
his coat.
Certainly the Poetics is the book of
criticism which this reviewer has always
enjoyed above all others, partly for its
immense practical value to anyone
attempting the arts, partly for the delight
of meeting a mind so keen, so ardent
and so timeless : —
Among the many just claims of Homer
to our praise, this is one—that he is the
only poet who seems to have understood
what part in his poem it was proper for
him to take himself. The poet, in his own
person, should speak as little as possible;
for he is not then the “imitator.” But
other poets, ambitious to figure throughout
themselves, “imitate” but little and seldom.
Homer, after a few preparatory lines,
immediately introduces a man, a woman,
or some other character ; f for all have their
character-—nowhere are the manners
neglected.
However, Mr. Letters’s chief concern
is not Aristotle but Sophocles, the play-
wright credited with having written over
a hundred plays, probably averaging two
a year, of which the few that survive to
us, besides being of perpetual interest to
scholars and men of culture, with dramatic
possibilities that are still exploited occa-
sionally by both stage and radio, have a
special contemporary interest in their
treatment of Freud’s great friend (Edipus
and in the adaptations of the (Edipus and
Antigone dramas that have been made
in recent years by such members of the
French school as Cocteau and Anouilh.
An expert evaluation of the volume
from the viewpoint of Greek scholarship
is beyond this reviewer’s capacity; no
doubt the universities will take due note
of it. However, one may record that the
book was favorably received by “The
Times literary Supplement,” and its
production, whatever quibbles may be
made, must surely be regarded as a credit
to Australian scholarship: the more so
since Mr. Letters has already given us,
besides verses and essays, his very read-
able monograph on Virgil.
* As a whole the Sophocles reminds this
reviewer of a life and critique of Horace
which Alfred Noyes published a few
years ago: rather thin and wordy in
ks biographical sections, since these had
be built-up from an ancient four-page
Life by an unknown hand, which tells
us practically all we know about
Sophocles; too “literary” in translation
for a modern taste, if Mr. Letters himself
is responsible for “a welcome find for
birds’ espyal,” “with due respecf, of right
and wont,” etc.; informative in its
recreation of the Athenian background;
and extremely interesting in the survey
and criticism of the plays, filling about
two-thirds of the volume, where Mr.
Letters has solid ground to work on.
The Human Kind : Alexander Baron
(Gape). Twenty-six sketches of British
soldiers in the recent war, from training
to demobilisation, by the author of the
very sensitive novel of soldiers resting in
a Sicilian village, There’s No Home.
The subjects vary from the disgustingly
unconscious self-indictment of an ex-
Tommy, talking of his affair with an
Italian girl who was prepared to do any-
thing for a few scraps from the soldier’s
waste-bins, to the affair of a corporal
who found himself alone in a house
with a Frenchwoman who read Verlaine;
from a platoon resting in a cellar and
trying to march straight when sick with
grappa, to an American complaining of
the English officer who refused to give
up digging bodies out of a wrecked build-
ing so that the American might level the
wreckage, spraying it with disinfectant
to make it all nice and clean; from a
soldier’s disillusion with an ex-violir
student playing in a Belgian cafe, wher
he found that she willingly became the
meal-ticket for a fellow-soldier, to the
refusal of another soldier to desert am
drive trucks for a rich woman black
market brothel-owner; from the unex-
pected response of soldiers to Beethoven
and Dickens to the brutal battle between
a Seventh Division sergeant and a
Scottish sergeant who called him a
“Tobruk Mouse.” These are tough
stories; they smell of the sweat and
grime of soldiering ; and they certainly
don’t surrender their authenticity to the
nostalgia that often comes to the soldier
who remembers.


Senior Store News Bulletin
weekly news in activities, values and advantages from Anthony Horderns 9
Horn 9 t entertain flies this Summerl
Buy expanding wire screens now!
iiiiip
i :
I i
■HS
»v®
ms
!
ill
:
■ •
?r' : -.
9SSSS
m
m
i-'S-
W&Mi
■
tB
I)
Iw
14in , x 19in, 9 expands to 14in, x 36in. 9 from 7/3 eo.
In with the breeze and out with the flies with our modern expanding window screens
from only 7/3 each. Just raise the window, place your wire screen to any width
you require (from 14in, x 19in. to any size up to 14in. x 36in. wide). When screen
fits snugly, draw window down and, presto, your window is flyproof! They come in
unpainted wood frames (just ready for any handyman to put a dab of paint and
blend with your own colour schemes), with galvanised wire at 12/3 each, or with
bronze wire at 16/9 each. Homemakers can obtain the metal frames (painted
green), fitted with galvanised wire and priced at only 7/3 each.
Fly-wire screen door from 57'9
Come in 9 designs , 3 sizes in bronze or galvanised wire
Guard your family's health and keep those flies out this summer! Check your door
for size and order now! 'Phone M 2401, ask for T.O.P.S. (Anthony Horderns’
Telephone Orders Personal Shopping Service), quote No. of door, size, whether
galvanised or bronze wire screen and your fly wire screen door will be on your next
delivery. Remember, Anthony Horderns’ fly door frames are made by expert crafts-
men from selected Oregon. Yes, we can supply handles, bolts and spring hinges
for only 3/6 set extra.
M»Unn
lllkltlMl
SiSssssni
2s;s;;::
::::::::::
.
■
SR9^
iMimn;
*•*ss2s**
*v**■««■«
'.IPIIUW*
lUMMI*!
N
sss:
ilfillf) Hi
HHMIt
f««aiii>
muni
naMiK
Milllli
liactl
■••■•a
'sssmm
No 3
No 4
uUias»aa;ss:
«■•■■••••• S5S55B|
:s:s
i
i:::
iES
II
s;:;
ini
!!:!
No 13
f
Colourful Canvas IS finds
Made up to any style you choose
This year the trend will be to “add colour” to your home with the latest
style of canvas blinds. Anthony Horderns’ can make up all styles of blinds,
either dropout or plain drop style. Call into our famous Blind Department
(3rd Floor) and view our extensive range of canvases. Stripes or Gay Stripes.
RING M 2401
ask for T.O.P.S.
(Telephone Orders)
Quality Scotch Holland Itlinds
Made to any size and in six different colours
Yes! Anthony Horderns’ can make up all your Holland Blinds to any size,
in plain, kilted or fringed, in six different designs. Our huge range of
colours include Beige, Brown, Sand, Slate Grey, Jade Green and Red.
Next time you’re in town be sure to call up to our Holland Blind Department.
BUNDS, 3rd FLOOR. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE M 2401
dsf
gm


Look what they've done to Nellie!
A “Melba” Film
By HERBERT HOLMAN (London)
5 BEING that Melba made what is
rather sardonically termed her last
formal appearance in 1926, the
number of people who knew her in
person must be small in proportion to
those who are conscious of a vague but
highly-charged legend around her
illustrious name.
The present writer himself is particu-
larly sensitive on this point, for, even in
her late prime, his musical desires were
amply satisfied by the Savoy Orpheans.
He is thus hardly well-qualified to write
about Melba for Australian readers. But
wait. . .
About two years ago, Boyd Neel was
heard describing his trip to Australia
after the war. A conscientious man, he
inquired what kind of music the Aus-
tralians liked to hear. The devastating
reply came: ‘You know what Melba
said?” “No.” “Give’em muck!”
So Dr. Neel began his first concert in
a confused state of mind. Wisely, but
not without misgivings, he made no
alterations to his programme and no
concessions to the musically-uneducated
mind. And, instead of playing to coughs
and shuffling of feet, he played to rapt
attention and was called back thirteen
times.
That Melba was wrong goes without
saying. So, too, were Irving and Bern-
hardt in touring’“trash.” The conviction
that audiences away from a metropolis
are unappreciative dolts has been a long
time a-dying ’
It is not yet dead, in fact. A distinc-
tion is that, while “live” performers have
learned better, the film companies still
believe their audiences to be half-baked
morons, fired with romanticism but of a
perception which finds its zenith in the
comic-strip. If to this be conceded
enough patience to sit through a string of
operatic arias, then the film “public”
seems to be sufficiently well-defined for
an expensive film in technicolor, with
stereophonic sound and all, for an
operatic heroine who was “A Glamorous
Darling of a Fabulous Age.” Her name?
Melba,
The treatment in the Melba film is in
two layers, upper and lower. The first,
provided by Dennis Arundell and Arthur
Benjamin, is entirely professional,
Excerpts, some of them quite long, from
a dozen operas show Melba’s triumphant
progress from capital to capital, starting
with Gilda at Brussels and ending with
Juliet at Covent Garden. JPatrice Munsel
sings with technical effortlessness, but, so
far as acting goes, might as well be Patti,
Galli-Curci or any other diverting diva,
And she changes style as rapidly as
costume, polishing off the roles of
Norma, Lucia, Rosina, Cherubino, Mimi,
Floria Tosca, Violetta and others with
disarming and incomparable ease.
The second layer is the screen-play of
Harry Kurnitz and the direction of Lewis
Milestone. Pretty nearly every cliche
known to the screen-writer is employed
to make our heroine acceptable to the
film-struck. We open and close with a
presentation to Queen Victoria (the
D.B.E. was actually conferred in 1918).
Melba sings an Australian folksong which
proves to be “Cornin’ Thro’ the Rye”
and, finally, “On Wings of Song.” We
have some touching scenes in an out-
break reminiscent of the early D. W.
Griffiths films, and are in time for a
valedictory a Ave Maria” in the local
church. We follow the spinster Melba
to Paris, where, because of a faulty door-
number, she is mistaken for a light-o -
love and turned out. The young gallant
makes amends by inducing the formidable
Mathilde Marches! out of retirement to
coach her, and, of course, falls in love,
Slapstick in Brussels, then London and
the Carlton Hotel, with Mr. Carlton a
sorely-tried lover, the peaches and ice-
cream, Covent Garden, repeated success
and a chase-and-kiss-me dance round the
fruit-market. Railway-wheels to Paris, to
Milan and to Monte Carlo, Here the
two followers are joined by a third, the
benign and strictly professional Oscar
Hammerstein from New York. They are
joined, and shattered, by Charles Arm-
strong, the boy from back home, who,
in all fairness, has left behind him his big
hat and the smell of cattle. His tails are
faultless. He is soon engaged in a rapid
courtship and a moonlight idyll in a cab
on the shores of the Mediterranean.
Melba sings the inevitable hit-song. This
one is entitled “Dreamtime” and part
of the chorus goes:
My heart is singing.
Is this the beginning
Of love ?
But love, while not entirely cast away,
scarcely flourishes. Mr. Armstrong does
not like being Mr. Melba. He disappears
from the scene without anyone knowing
whether to be sorry for him, for her, or,
indeed, what it is all about,
In sum, this film tells us nothing about
Melba. So banal is its tone and so
flagrant its misrepresentations that it
really amounts to theatrical false
pretences. Considerable thought has
obviously been given to the dresses and
effects of the period, as well as to the
operatic scenes. Of what value is this if
the direction is governed by the fixation
that cinema audiences cannot rise above
“tripe”? If those who know nothing of
Melba’s life (good material, undoubtedly,
for more than one film) find themselves
embarrassed, Australians will assuredly
grow hot under their collars. If they
wear them, of course.
The Ad.-conscious Suburban-paper Editor
Does Some Reporting
Football
THE grand-final match between
the Briars and the Tearshirts
at the local oval on Saturday
proved to be a most exciting
affair.
Kicking off with the wind, and
using a new super-quality solid hide
Match 111 football obtained from
Gubble’s Sports Store (reduced from
755. to 595, lid. all this month!)
the Briars ran all over their
opponents in the early stages, and
at half-time had established an 18-3
lead.
There was an amusing incident
just after the resumption when
Small, the Tearshirts’ winger, was
tackled low by a Briars forward as
he was streaking for the line and
his shorts were torn off. Clad only
in his jersey, he continued on, to
dive over in the corner amid laughter
and cheers.
Mr. Small said afterwards that the
next pair he’d buy would be the
famous “Tuffazell” football shorts,
which are obtainable only at Les
Winkle’s mercery-shop in Lowe-
street at the slash-bargain price of
28s. 6d. Les also has jerseys, socks,
shoulder-pads and all other acces-
sories for the footballer, all within
the range of the most modest purse.
Shortly after this incident the
Tearshirts launched a fierce counter-
attack, so brilliantly sustained that
they evened the scores. The final five
minutes of the game developed into
a dour struggle, until, with only half
a minute to go, the Briars were
penalised right in front of their own
goal. A dramatic silence fell over
the vast concourse as “Thumper”
Roberts, the Tearshirts’ captain,
went back to take the kick.
The ball sailed straight and true
ijover the crossbar, which wasn’t in
the least surprising, seeing that
“Thumper” was wearing a pair of
the famous “Pushover” boots with
the built-in toes and duralumin
sprigs, exclusive to Billy Wells’s
friendly shoe-shop right opposite the
post-office (see advt. this page). Billy
is making a special feature this week
of shoes for sports and casual wear,
going at cutthroat prices. The
cheers as the flags were raised simul-
taneously with the blast of the final
whistle were deafening.
After the match the victorious
team celebrated their magnificent
win in the dressing-room with
Molar’s Botany Bitter. There is now
no shortage of this popular beer at
Jim O’Monaghan’s newly-recon-
structed Railway Hotel. You don’t
even need tickets to get your week-
end supply of bottled-beer. Just order
what you like. Jim has a wide range,
not only of local and inter-State beer
but of all brands of whisky—and
don’t forget, he slashed his prices the
day after the Budget was read! Jim’s
advt. is on Page 4.
Fire
The residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Bobble in Palm-avenue was exten-
sively damaged by a conflagration
which broke out last night and
which, police believe, was caused by
a short-circuit in the electrical wiring
in the roof.
At the time of the outbreak Mr.
and Mrs. Bobble were at the local
pictures (Wed., Thurs., Fri.: “Case
of the Screaming Corpse” ; “Sage-
brush Sal.” Prices, back-circle and
stalls 4s. 6d., frOnt-circle and stalls
3s. Coming! Lana Burner in
“She’s a Wow!” See special panel
Page 2). Neighbors, whose sus-
picions were first aroused by the
smell of burning glass, rang the local
fire-brigade, and within half an hour
the first engine was on the spot.
The lounge-suite (similar ones in
beautiful pale-green uncut moquette
are still available from Marvelle’s
Furnishing Centre—ad. on back page
—at the unheard-of price of
£64 10s.) and a radiogram (a six-
valve, three-speed super-consol
Blarer, which Banner’s are now
selling at the sacrifice price of only
115 guineas—watch out for Banner’s
sensational advt. in these pages next
week, when other radio prices will
also be slashed dramatically) were
practically destroyed. The wall-to-
wall carpet in lounge- and dining-
rooms (545. 6d. a yard at Bingle’s,
the floor-covering specialists next-
door to Commonwealth Bank) was
badly charred and also damaged by
water.
Incidentally, Alf Ohm, the popular
electrician (see advt. page 1), rang to
say that he did not instal the electri-
cal wiring in the residence of Mr.
and Mrs. Bobble.
Later Mr. Bobble, who is the pro-
prietor of the flourishing Pinkice
Cake Shop in Gumboyle-street, and
who recalls that he has been adver-
tising in this paper since its first issue
six years ago, said that his residence
was fully insured with the Planet
Fire and Burglary Insurance Co.,
Ltd., the local representative of
which is Max Magger, the livewire
estate-agent in Pothole-street. Mr.
Bobble had a comprehensive house-
holder’s policy, which can be
obtained at a premium which is
within everyone’s budget.
Max (see advt. back page) also
has some splendid level building-
blocks available on the new Highfly
Estate, which has water, gas and elec-
tricity available, and a reliable
feeder-bus service. These lots may
be obtained under Max’s famous
three-years-to-pay plan. Don’t delay!
A fire-brigade spokesman said that
the damage would have been more
serious if Mr. Bobble hadn’t had
installed a Boilo hot-water service,
the roof-tank of which had collapsed
when the rafters burnt through, cas-
cading water over the seat of the
fire.
Boilo hot-water services will be
installed in your house at low cost
by Jim Gordon, the popular plumber
(see advt.). Let Jim quote you right
now for a Boilo. It might help put a
fire out for you!
Bo.
A Melba Protege
By F.W.G. MILLER (N.Z.)
JT | SMALL paragraph in a “44 Years
/n Ago” feature in an Invercargill
| (N.Z.) newspaper recalls the
remarkable sequel to Dame Nellie
Melba’s visit to the South Island. This
is what the paragraph said:
“The discovery of a marvellous con-
tralto voice in Stewart Island is reported
to have been made by Madame Melba.
The possessor, Miss Thomson, is to go
to Melbourne by arrangement with
Madame Melba, who will herself give
her protege lessons.”
The contralto referred to was Miss
Eri (short for Erikapeti, which is Maori
for Elizabeth) Thomson, member of a
family associated for many years with
Greenvale House, Stewart Island.
Eri Thomson truly had a golden voice.
People who came to Stewart Island in
those days would hear her singing like
a bellbird across the lovely waters of
Halfmoon Bay. On fine summer nights
she would sing on the veranda of Green-
vale House, and people miles away would
stop what they were doing to listen to
that superb voice which harmonised so
perfectly with the surroundings.
She would sing, too, on launch trips,
and on moonlight nights she would go out
in a dinghy and her voice would waft
over the stillness of the bay.
And the loveliness of Eri Thomson’s
voice, the people of her generation say,
was matched by her personal beauty.
Guests who stayed at Greenvale
House went away marvelling at the divine
voice .which was to remain their out-
standing memory. Among these was a
great friend of the prima donna, a Miss
O’Connor, who, on her return to Aus-
tralia, urged Melba to give Eri an
audition.
And so Melba heard Eri sing in
Dunedin ; and a report at the time in the
“Dominion,” Wellington, stated :
“Here in New Zealand,” said Madame
Melba, “I have discovered the most
magnificent contralto I have ever heard
in all' my life, a wonderful, glorious
voice! An old school-friend told me
about her, and begged me as a personal
favor to hear her sing. So she came, and
I prepared to hear the usual sort of lovely
voice. But I can tell you that, as she
sang, I began to open my eyes, wider
and wider, and at last I called Mr.
Lemmone in and said ‘Just listen to this.’
I applied all sorts of tests, tried her on
long, sustained notes, everything—and
her voice was glorious—isn’t it, Mr.
Lemmone/
The “Dominion” report went on to
say that Mr. Lemmone corroborated all
that Melba had had to say about the
beauty of the voice, adding that Melba
was arranging for Miss Thomson to go
over to Melbourne, where she would
, hersel£ 8™ the young New Zealander
es^ ons ‘
. Ln Thomson at once became a sensa-
f lon - She was given benefit concerts to
b ®lp her With her career, and before she
went away she sang at Bluff, Invercargill,
K , D ' nedin an s d Qatnark She went
; Conservatory of Music in Mel-
, ... , y . u Prr .
bourne (then under 11,8 directlon o£ Pr0 ‘
New “Bulletin” Serial
"You're Wrong, Delaney"
by Bant Singer
First Instalment, October 14
fessor Franklin Peterson, a cousin of her
mother’s), where Melba taught her.
Then Eri went to England, where
Melba wanted her to go in for opera—
and that was the cleavage.
Eri had no desire to become an
operatic singer. Had she done so she
would probably have become world-
famous. She preferred, instead, to sing
in drawing-rooms and salons. She and
Melba parted company.
Eri was still in England when the First
World War broke out; she went in for
V.A.D. work, sang to the troops, even
sang in the Albert Hall.
In 1920 she set sail back to New
Zealand. On the way out she met Harold
Large, of Napier; they were married
soon afterwards, and almost immediately
they returned to England. They made
several trips back, finally settling in
Napier in 1939. Ten years later she died.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 30, 1953
Vol. 74 — No, 3842
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior •
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street,'Perth,
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEXT YEAR'S ELECTION
The Commonwealth Parliament is due to go to the
electors some time in the middle of next year —the last
election was on April 28, 1951—and the general feeling
among Government members is the earlier the better.
It cannot be before May, in view of the Queen’s visit,
but the House of Representatives must dis-
solve on or before June 12, three years after
the day on which the Parliament met. The
probable date will be in May, which will suit every-
body except the “Labor” party, which prefers a later
period in the year for reasons connected with the
movement of workers in the primary industries. The
A.L.P. feels, especially after the last Senate poll, that
a winter election is unfavorable for its chances in
Queensland, apt to be the crucial State in a close poll.
However, the A.L.P. must take its medicine. All
the high hopes (which its members expressed when
they felt they had the ball at their feet last year) of
forcing the Government to the polls late in the present
year have disappeared. They couldn’t in the present
atmosphere drag some of their own followers in the
caucus to the polls with a halter. Even leaving
seasonal advantages out of the question, the attitude
of all “Labor” men whose seats are not completely
safe is in favor of deferring the poll as long as
possible in the hope that something will turn up to
change the general political complexion. Calamity is
the food of “Labor” politics. And they have run out
of calamity.
Their leader, once their pride, the father of great
schemes, the statesman of depression, the prophet of
unemployment, hunger and want, has lost his
authority, and they hear him in the House with
anxiety and compressed lips. They never quite know
what he will say next —whether he will ditch the party
objective, as he did during the Senate campaign, or
promise to wipe out the means-test for pensioners in a
year (along with tax-reduction on a carefree scale)
when he takes office. His Deputy-Leader, Mr. Calwell,
is open in his personal criticism of Dr. Evatt’s attitude.
Mr. Ward, once so close to the leadership, avoids
contact with it like the plague. But he makes no
secret of his ambitions as a would-be usurper.
Caucus debates, on Press reports, have in the past
week been a riot, with A.L.P. “outs,” led by Senator
Kennelly, joining with more ardent Calwellites as
part of a Victorian cave to charge their leader with
trying to assume a proprietary control in the party,
and make a policy to suit himself irrespective of the
wishes of Federal executive or the caucus. He is
accused of isolationism, of not consulting the party
on tactics, and of being lavishly wrong in prophecy and
too handsome in promising. Last week’s caucus
debate seems to have gone far beyond the limits which
Dr. Eyatt himself told the Press were reached. The
discussions seem to have been a hot faction-fight rather
than “some controversial discussion on policy” carried
on in “Labor’s” “democratic way of exchanging frank
opinions about its programme.”
In any case the significance does not lie
in what takes part in the secrecy of the
party-room, but in the open and humiliating
contradiction of the whole basis of Dr. Evatt’s
leadership, and campaigning by those who are,
in effect, his masters and directors —who are part of the
“democratic way” of “Labor’s” autocratic system of
junta government. Mr. Curtin reminded the A.L.P.
at its 1939 conference that “the Labor party is
composed predominantly of the trade-unions, and
inevitably its organised strength comes from the trade-
unions.” And this is just as true today. Yet the trade-
unions’ organised opinions placed by its responsible
advocates before the Arbitration Court (which adopted
them) that “labor and material shortages have almost
been eliminated,” and that “inflationary pressure has
almost disappeared,” specifically negative the Federal
leader’s story that the country is full of the workless,
and that Depression (always spelt with a capital “D”)
leans over us ready to fall and crush the national
economy.
The dictum of Mr. Cahill, Premier of the
State from which “Labor” draws the backbone of its
membership, about the effect of the Commonwealth
Budget’s reduction of taxation is out of line with the
Doctor’s view. And it is difficult to believe that his
own tirade during the Budget debate on the enormous
cost of government in departments which swelled-up
like balloons in the Chifley-Evatt period of rule is not
producing ridicule among his better-balanced fol-
lowers, and making it much harder for the A.L.P. to
draw up a plausible election programme.
THE LITTLE MAN WHO WASN'T THERE
On the other side the Liberal - C.P. forces
are more united than at any time since
1947-49. Mr. Menzies has consolidated his leadership
of the joint parties to such an extent that there are no
back-bench rebels or malcontents in evidence, no talk
of his retirement, no open criticism of the leadership,
and little even of Sir Arthur Fadden, who, when he was
wrecking his health in process of sticking to his prin-
ciples, was regarded by some Liberals last year in
much the same spirit as a convict regards his leg-irons.
At the same time, it is to be hoped that Liberal-
party organisers will remember that overconfidence is
as deadly and insidious a poison to political bodies and
Governments as thallium to individuals. The election
is not yet won merely because of a popular Budget.
The Government has to deal with an electorate of
which a full quarter are either living on pensions or
employed in the civil service—this without counting in
a large additional accretion of dependants. It is also
dealing with a country which is not master of its own
economy, but which measures its prosperity by the
state of world markets in wheat and wool.
The Government itself does not need to be told
this, and on its past record it will go out of office
rather than forget it. But some of its followers have
not so prudent an outlook.
What Social Services Mean
Although Australia has not gone so far along the
road to becoming a Welfare State as have Britain and
New Zealand, its bill for “social services” and the
wide range covered by these payments at least qualify
it for membership of the cradle-to-the-grave group.
All this involves a mighty lot of money—£l6s.s
million last financial year and an estimated £lB4
million for the current year. Age- and invalid-pensions
will take the biggest bite (£B3 million) and child-
endowment (£51.7 million) more than half the
remainder. Age-pensions have the longest history of
all the Federal social-service payments. They were
introduced by the Deakin Government in July, 1909 ;
the original rate was 10s. a week, with a permissible
income also of 10s. In December, 1910, Andrew
Fisher brought in invalid-pensions at the same rate,
and the two have kept step ever since. The pension-
rate now stands at £3 10s., with a permissible outside
income of £2. Age-qualification: Men, 65 ; women,
60. A pensioner may own a house, furniture and
personal effects and additional property to the value
of £l5O without suffering diminution of pension ; above
ded limit means a pro rata reduction of pension.
Where a male invalid-pensioner is married, a payment
of £1 15s. a week may also be made to his wife, and
11s. 6d. a week to the first child. Special provisions
appiy to blind pensioners.
Although Dr. Evatt professes to be horrified at
the meagreness of the 2s. 6d. increase given to pen-
sioners in the Budget, it must be remembered that the
total increases granted since the present Government
came to power amount to £1 7s. 6d. a week. In addi-
tion, there has been a considerable liberalisation of
the means-test. Other assistance to pensioners takes
the form of free medical attention and free medicine.
At present-day prices the £lO funeral benefit may not
provide a very elaborate send-off, but it banishes the
fear of what was once a nightmare to the old and
indigent—the “pauper’s grave.”
Widows’ pensions are of later growth; they were
introduced by the Curtin Government in 1942. A
widow with one or more dependent children may
receive a pension of up to £3 15s. a week, irrespective
of her age ; if she has no children she must be at least
50 to qualify, unless she is in necessitous circumstances.
The payment is £2 15s. a week.
Unemployment and sickness benefits are payable
to persons temporarily out of work through no fault of
their own. There is a means-test as to income, but
none as to property. Maximum benefit is £2 10s. a
a week for a man, with an additional £2 for his wife
and ss. for the first child. Youths are paid at a lower
rate.
Like the age- and invalid-pensions, the maternity-
allowance is quite an old institution —it was established
in 1912 at a flat-rate of £5, without a means-test. The
rate was unchanged for 20 years, but dropped to £4
(with means-test) during the depression. It rose again
in the late 1930’5, and in 1943 the Curtin Government
abolished the means-test and increased the payment to
£l5 in the case of a first child, rising to £l7 10s. where
there were three or more other children. These rates
still apply, except that levins, triplets and so on mean
an extra £5-a-head.
Child-endowment was introduced by the first
Menzies Government in 1941 at the rate of ss. a week
“for each child in excess of one under the age of 16.”
Under Curtin and Chifley this was increased, first to
7s. 6d., then to 10s. In June, 1950, the second Menzies
Government extended it to include the first (or only)
child, at the rate of ss. a week.
Among the most recent social-service benefits are
those connected with health. The Commonwealth
Government pays Bs, a day towards the expenses of
hospital patients, with an additional 4s. if the patient
belongs to a hospital-insurance scheme; it subsidises
the cost of medical treatment incurred by members of
approved medical-insurance organisations, and their
dependants ; it meets the cost of certain lifesaving
drugs; it pays substantial allowances to sufferers from
tuberculosis; it provides rehabilitation treatment and
vocational training for disabled persons; it subsidises
the States to provide free milk for schoolchildren up to
the age of 13.
In the accounts of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment all these items are shown as debits against the
National Welfare Fund; the Treasurer’s estimate for
the current year puts them down at £184,052,000. The
National Welfare Fund is, of course, largely an
illusion. There is no treasure-box into which the Gov-
ernment can dip for ever to find largesse for distribu-
tion to the needy.
Civilised conscience has long accepted the prin-
ciple that the fit members of society should be respon-
sible for the welfare of the unfit. In other times this
was implemented mainly on a family- or a parish-basis,
supplemented by larger charities on a national scale.
Today the Government has assumed the responsibility
of finding the money for social-security benefits, and
this has to some extent obscured the fact that the
Government is in reality merely an intermediary be-
tween the section of the community which provides
the money and the section which receives it. Political
parties contribute to this condition when they say
“We will give this” or “We will give that” when what
they really mean is “We will collect from you so that
we can give,” etc.
In the long-run social-service benefits are paid for
by the producers of the community. They can only be
increased if the people are prepared to produce more
or go without something to make up for the increase.
It’s as simple as that; but it is important that every-
one should realise it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Forgan Smith Passes
When Forgan Smith died quietly in his
sleep at the Hotel Australia on Septem-
ber 25 the Commonwealth lost one of its
few politicians who might also be called
statesmen.
Since his retirement from the Premier-
ship of Queensland in 1942, after 10 years
in office, he had broken his connection
with politics and had devoted himself to
the sugar industry as chairman of the
Central Cane Prices Board and —since
July, 1944 —as chairman of the Sugar
Board. Both as a Premier and Minister
and in his post-war offices he gave great
service to his adopted country, to which
he came as an immigrant from Scotland
in 1912. He was by trade a painter and
decorator, but had the advantage of a
sound Scottish grammar-school educa-
tion. Barely 25 when he entered local
politics through the trade-union move-
ment, he was president of the Mackay
A.L.P, within two^ears.
He won Mackay, a strong Liberal seat,
three years after his arrival in 1915 largely
because, in spite of his “Labor” profes-
sions, he was essentially not a party, man,
and his leaning was always towards
commonsense and moderation.
He came with the Ryan-Theodore
flood, but received little favor from his
leaders until Ryan left State politics,
whereafter he made himself felt as chair-
man-of-committees so much that at the
end of 1920 he became a Minister with-
out portfolio and a member of the Execu-
tive Council. He made his way to the
deputy-Premiership in 1925 via , the
Ministries of Public Works and Agricul-
ture, which gave him a chance to display
his organising capacity.
When the “Labor” party was defeated
by Mr. Moore in 1929 he became leader
of the Opposition and of the “Labor”
party, and held office from the time he
was returned at the 1932 election till his
retirement, which was produced by the
failure of his voice through a severe
affection of the throat.
As a Minister and Premier he will be
best remembered for his constructive
efforts in agriculture and, education. His
adopted city of Mackay owed its great
port to his efforts —before the Forgan
Smith plan was adopted cargo was
handled from barges out at Flat-top
Island. Much of the credit for placing
the sugar industry on a permanently eco-
nomic basis and for removing it from
the sphere of party politics was his. It
was he who fathered the Queensland
University building scheme. The Uni-
versity honored him with an honorary
doctorate, and he had been its chancellor
since 1944.
In private life Forgan Smith was an
unassuming, companionable man, with a
wide reading of history and economic
subjects, an interest in foreign affairs and
a Scotsman’s love of song and story. He
was gifted with a strong sense of humor
and his tastes were simple. He loved
his garden better than his golf, and his
bowls were an excuse for mixing with
his friends rather than a sport. Latterly
he had the appearance of a man seriously
ill, but he stuck to his job manfully,
making his regular monthly visit to Syd-
ney on Sugar Board business. His place
will be hard to fill. He was, as Mr.
Menzies said, among the great political
figures which Queensland has produced.
It was the Commonwealth’s loss that he
could not be tempted into the Federal
sphere. He could have had any “Labor”
Federal seat in Queensland for the ask-
ing, but he was firmly opposed privately
to “Labor’s” unificationist Federal
policy.
Unionism Turns Right
The incentive plan accepted by the Aus-
tralian Council of Trades Unions by a
majority of 246 votes to 142 is somewhat
like the gift in the fairytale to gain which
the recipient needed to perform the tasks
of killing the dragon, marrying the king’s
daughter and finding the crock of gold
in a public highway.
It was hedged around with 15 “safe-
guards” in a manner designed to assure
the interests of union organisers and
other bureaucrats and maintain regimen-
tation of the classes which used to be
described as “the toiling masses.” It
would amount to a national disaster if
workers began to feel that they could
come to friendly agreements with em-
ployers without the intervention of union
secretaries, agitators and professional
Arbitration-court advocates. Therefore,
the executive took great care to see that
incentives should be pronounced accept-
able only when conceded under the super-
vision of union bureaucracy and when
they would not interfere with the right
to regulate the pace of labor in accord-
ance with the old I.W.W. dictum quoted
during the debate that “fast workers die
young.”
Still, that the A.C.T.U. executive —the
body was originally claimed by the Com-
munist party as one of its foundations —
should give even qualified approval to
incentives shows the trend in trade-union
policy.
The fact seems to be that high wages
and full employment have brought about
a new era in trade-unionsm and that
incentives have come to stay whether
industrial panjandrums like them or not.
The A.C.T.U. leaders are still opposed
to them. The executive has passed strong
resolutions against them and pursued a
policy of “unqualified opposition” to
them in all forms since they began to be
practical politics in 1947. But now an
official if euphemistic statement of the
case has told congress that it would be
“completely unrealistic to ignore the fact
that some unions find themselves in
opposition to the majority viewpoint of
congress,” and that this position “has not
always been created as a result of official
action on the part of the union” but often
“springs from the action of the rank-
and-file and the unilateral action of the
employers.” This seems to make it clear
that the A.C.T.U. leaders are unable any
longer tp impose discipline in the matter,
and “individual unions” are now free to
accept incentive-payment schemes if they
desire.
It is all a symptom of the fact that the
need of the trade-union movement for
militancy is passing. It was an axiom
of Senator Glassey, a grand old “Labor”
man of the early days of Federation, that
when “Labor” moves to the right it
moves towards the graveyard. And there
is a great deal of truth about it. The
basic purpose of all labor organisations is
agitation. And agitation attracts followers
only when it is for something which can
be gained only by mass action. When
agitation is directed against something
which every worker wants and employers,
faced with labor vacuums and short
hours and union encouragement to “go
slow,” are Only too ready to grant, those
who live by it are in for a lean time.
The Rape of Tasmania
If an oyster can defend its nationality
before the International Court at The
Hague, then surely Premier Cosgrove is
entitled to call on Dr. Evatt to stand up
as the champion of small nations and
demand action by the United Nations to
deal with Premier Cain’s abduction of
Tatter sail’s Sweep.
So far the decision —if any—in the
oyster case hasn’t been published. It was
placed before the International Court by
the British Attorney-General on Sep-
tember 17, who asked the court to award
British nationality to the oysters on the
tiny islets of Ecrehou and Minquie (off
Jersey) on the ground that the islets were
part of the domain of William the Con-
queror when he belted King Harold and
won the title in 1066. France, however,
claims that the bivalves are French, since
King Phil Augustus of France conquered
Normandy in 1204 and thereby acquired
the oysters.
Without debating such points as
whether oysters are of more importance
than Tatts, or that so far nobody has
abducted the oysters, the parallel is
fairly plain. Small islands, rival kings
(even if only temporary kings) in conflict,
silence from the happy little oysters and
comparative silence from Tatts.
Mr. Cain’s motives for the snatch,
boiled down, are simply the motives of
most snatchers —pecuniary gain. He
justified it by saying that Tasmania had
never recompensed Victoria for the
money Victorians sent to Tasmania for
Tatts tickets. But will he now compen-
sate Tasmania for the money Tasmanians
will send to Victoria? And his claim
that he was forced to commit his act be-
cause of the “niggardliness” of the Can-
berra Government is the same plea put
up by the ordinary snatcher —“I done it
because I didn’t have a job”—or some-
thing like that.
The case for Tasmania could hardly
fail to impress the international jurists.
This little island, lying lonely and bereft
in the Southern Ocean, its best footballers
and now its lottery abducted by the greedy
Mainlanders, has neither the men nor
the munitions for a punitive crossing of
the seas between itself and its ravisher,
and is left with the very dubious resource
of charging all Victorian tourists 20 p.c.
extra henceforth. And even if it sent
a commando force across by night and
captured Premier Cain it would be no
good delivering an ultimatum to the Vic-
torians that their Premier would remain
a captive until Tatts was restored, because
the obvious reply would be “You keep
Cain ; we’ll keep Tatts.”
Which leaves Tassie the final step of
seceding from the Federation and impos-
ing thumping tariffs on Victorian imports
as the only means of getting square. A
Tasmanian editor once made history by
beginning an editorial “We warn the Tsar
of Russia” ... A similar warning to
U.N.O. might get results.
Filling Up the North
A permanent body to organise develop-
ment and settlement in North Australia is
sought by Dr. Dittmer, a member of
Queensland Parliament. He wants its
activities to “embrace defence, tropical
living, health, transport, marine biology,
primary, secondary and mineral develop-
ment.”
That would need a department about
as big as anything the Commonwealth
now possesses, and the chances of it fill-
ing the north with industries and people
are remote. What the north needs is not
more official controls, but fewer. About
the only time officials ever fill empty
spaces is in war-time, when they send in
occupying armies with all their ancillaries.
Anyhow, the complete reply to Dr.
Dittmer’s suggestion was given in advance
by Kleber, the Texas cattle-king. He had
a good look at the north with the idea
of going in for cattle there in a big way,
said it was a fine country awaiting
development, but added that nobody was
going to invest big money there while
they were denied security of tenure of the
land.
Back to the Old Line
The prisoner-exchange having been com-
pleted, the Korean Peace Conference will
begin about October 15. The conference
may succeed or fail, or if it takes as long
relatively to bring it to finality as the
armistice discussion, the Archangel
Gabriel may have to declare it adjourned
in order to make the last trumpet heard.
The British attitude is ’ probably the
right one. The U.K.’s Minister to U.N.0.,
Mr. Selwyn Lloyd, told the General
Assembly last week that, though it would
be foolish for free nations to neglect
their defences, it was at the same time
a mistake to assume that nothing can
be settled with Russia, unless the matter
is proved by trial and error. It was also
a mistake to fail to distinguish between
negotiation and appeasement. He said
that Britain welcomed a certain change
of policy apparent since Mr. Stalin’s
death.
Whether the change is real or merely
apparent remains to be seen. There is
little encouragement in Moscow’s twin
propaganda lines at the moment. On
the one hand the Kremlin is promoting
its insidious world-peace schemes through
back-door methods, sheltering behind
silly clergymen and limelighting pub-
licists. On the other it is issuing minatory
boasts about its possession of the H-
bomb and gloating over the progress’ of
its heavy industries and the fact that its
budget this year devoted 20 per cent, of
the revenue raised to military organisa-
tion. While the Cominform has been
dealing in doves, the Soviet Government
at home deals in purges—there is one in
progress in Georgia, the State of Stalin
and Beria, whose followers there and in
Moscow (including Stalin’s son) have
recently been disappearing rapidly. At
the U.N.O. Assembly Vishinsky’s line
has been the old one and is inconsistent
with the so-called Malenkov line. It was
built round a resolution whose com-
ponent parts have already been worn to
a rag by endless discussion and whose
gist, carefully cloaked for the benefit of
simple dupes in Western countries,
amounts to a proposal that the Western
Powers should strip themselves of suffi-
cient defences to make them walk-over
meat for the Soviet Union, without any
undertaking from the Soviet Union that
it will do anything effective in disarma-
ment.
On local evidence hopes for the Korean
conference do not run very high. The
North Korean who landed a MIG fighter
in U.N.O. territory a few days ago
claims that Russo-Chinese fighting air-
craft have been flown into Korea in
defiance of the armistice agreement, and
this has been confirmed by Allied radar.
A Polish delegate to U.N.0., a professor
of law, abandoned his post last week
and stated that the current peace offen-
sive was part of the softening-up plan
by which Russia hoped to conquer the
world without fighting by 1970, or a
decade later, and that Moscow regarded
U.N.O. as its most important platform
for spreading subversive propaganda
throughout the free world.
All this is merely confirmation of what
seems self-evident. At the same time
pessimism never won a victory. Hope
should never be allowed to die till the
first shot is fired. And American pessim-
ism is becoming almost as great a danger
as Russian Communism.
Price-fixing Won't Work
In regard to both wheat and butter much
is being heard about prices based on cost
of production. The thing is, what is cost
of production, and what are the elements
of that cost?
In production of wheat and butter par-
ticularly each contribution to the stream
of output is the Work of a single man
following his own individual methods ;
thus individual farm-costs vary widely.
So do costs vary from district to district
and from State to State, and are influ-
enced by many varying and even oppos-
ing factors. No true average seems
possible.
Much, too, is heard about Common-
wealth subsidies. They are no real solu-
tion, being at best temporary, and at
-worst a use of tax money for purposes
beyond the real aim of taxation. No
sensible producer wants subsidies, and
consumers resent them. So do Govern-
ments, if the truth be told, since they
lead to bargaining for producer-votes.
Today we are the victims, farmers and
townsfolk alike, of what is in reality a
Socialistic theory that costs don’t matter
because you can use subsidies and arti-
ficial prices to overcome them. Than
which nothing could be more absurd.
How reckless authorities can be about
costs is clearly shown in the general
transport- policy of the States, which
imposes enormous unjustified costs on
the land industries, deliberately hampers
the rapid transit of foodstuffs to markets
and callously watches the roads fall into
ruin. In this one aspect alone it is clear
that the costs thus imposed don’t worry
the Governments concerned in the
slightest.
Economic ideas like these are bad
enough when applied to manufactured
goods. When applied to land products by
a nation which depends on land-produc-
tion for its financial sinews they are very
dangerous. If we must have fixation of
prices for foodstuffs those who fix them
first need to clear their minds of attrac-
tive but fallacious beliefs and get right
down to proven facts. In that regard, if
this post-war period has proved anything,
it is that there is little hope of economic
stability in official controls and none
whatever in price-controls, which is what
fixation of farm prices really is.
Clue of the Tram-ticket
Recently a man was found dead in a
London flat. Nobody knew him. All
the police had to start on was his name
and an old Adelaide tram-ticket in a
pocket. They sent the name and the
ticket to the Adelaide police. Adelaide
police took the ticket to the tramway
department.
Each conductor uses a punch different
from that of any other conductor. The
punch-mark in the ticket identified the
conductor. The serial-letter before the
ticket-number identified the series of
tickets. With that the conductor’s records
of that, series were dug out and examined.
A record was found that gave the date
of issue of the ticket and the route on
which it was issued. The ticket was
punched for a certain section of the
route.
The police then searched the electoral-
roll of the area around that particular
tramway section. They found several
people with the same name as the dead
man. One of them turned out to be his
mother, and she gave proof of his
identity.
It seems simple enough when put like
that, but there isn’t a “mystery” author
who wouldn’t have given pounds to have
thought of the tram-ticket clue, and then
followed the ticket through the various
avenues of the search. Which shows that
the prosaic old police force can hold its
own when looking for somebody alive
or dead.
Island Commemoration
September 12 in the Papuan-New
Guinea territories was a commemoration-
day for three forgotten events.
The first was the proclamation on
September 4, 1888, of Papua as part of
the British Dominions. The second was
the occupation of Rabaul by Australian
o Continued on page 7)


forces —the first Australian expeditionary
force of World War I —on September 12,
1914. The third was the reoccupation
of Rabaul in September, 1945, after its
occupation by the Japanese.
The idea was that of the Minister for
the Territories, and he accompanied it
with a message which was —perhaps
unconsciously—significant of the current
trends.
His declaration that “the people of
Papua and New Guinea and the people of
the British Commonwealth are bound in
a common loyalty to the Throne and are
members of a great partnership” implies
a permanency of connection which is to
some extent in conflict with the reading
of the Australian-New Guinea relation-
ship among some nations represented at
the United Nations Organisation. As
Mr. Hasluck continued, it has been “Aus-
tralian vision and energy and initiative
that have brought civilisation to these
native islands, Australian patriotism
which sent out troops there twice to
defend them and Australian idealism
which accepted and is carrying out a
solemn trust on behalf of its native
people.”
It must be said that Mr. Hasluck’s
sensible dealing with both these terri-
tories and with the Northern Territory
has worked wonders in the public outlook
on both of them. In the Northern Terri-
tory the main complaint now is that its
Government cannot be given unity to
manage its own affairs outside those
departments, such as defence and the post-
office, which have naturally to be centra-
lised. It is felt locally that the Terri-
tory works could be better looked after
as a Territory matter than by the alien
Works Department with direct control
from Melbourne or Canberra.
In New Guinea the agitation among
planters for de facto inclusion of the old
German territory in the Australian
Commonwealth has also grown of late.
And among intelligent natives, sufficiently
civilised to have an opinion of their own,
there would be little question which
alternative they would choose —a floating
position as an area without real
nationality, the plaything of Russian
venom and other foreign meddling, or a
stable position as part of the country
from which the native races have gained
everything that has elevated them to their
present position of comparative enlighten-
ment and opulence.
The idea of trusteeship in native affairs
during the period of native-race adoles-
cence originated with Australia before
there was a League of Nations and a
Wilson. And it would be even easier to
perform the trust if those who hold it
did not have to walk the chalk-line to
please their critics at the annual U.N.O.
beanfeast of carping.
POLITICAL POINTS
When a delegate to the “Australian
Convention for Peace and War” told the
gathering that on his visit to West Ger-
many he had found that the people there
“had no doufit that the Americans were
trying to embroil them in a world war”
it was reported that the audience cheered
loudly. The chairman had previously
remarked that the purpose of the con-
vention was to “foster the spirit of good-
will, tolerance and trust.” Except, appar-
ently, towards America.
• •
Although no “Labor” man would
dream of revealing what goes on inside
the caucus room, the dogs are barking
that half the party tore large strips off
Evatt and Calwell for their handling of
the Budget debate. Some restless member
must have been talking in his sleep.
• •
While Federal “Labor” was making a
valiant attempt to find something to
criticise in the Menzies-Fadden Budget
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill in his Budget
speech was saying that he felt that “the
full effects of the Commonwealth’s
Budget should not be offset by any
measures which would reduce purchasing
power in the hands of the people.... By
world standards, our level of employ-
ment, our production and our living stan-
dards are very high.”
Cahill’s admission of a high level of
employment in N. S. Wales makes non-
sense of the theme-song Dr. Evatt plugged
from coast to coast only a few months
ago. For that matter his Budget makes
the arguments put up by his deputy
Heffron at the Loan Council look rather
ridiculous, too.
• •
The Cahill and Cain Budgets had many
points of dissimilarity, but they agreed
on one item. Both reckon on a whacking
deficit on their railways. Cahill puts his
down at £1,408,000; Cain’s guess is
£1,223,000.
• •
Official explanation for the omission
of the letters “F.D.” from the new Aus-
tralian coinage is that it was done
“through considerations of space.” The
Anglican Archbishop of Perth has
pointed out that the inscription of the
George VI threepence ran to 28 letters
and eight spaces, as against 28 letters and
six spaces on the present coin, and that
Dei Gratia in the current inscription
could easily have been reduced to D.G.,
as has been done in the past. He con-
cludes his letter to the “West Australian”
with: “Therefore, I maintain that the
question about the omission of F.D.
remains unanswered.”
• •
Brisbane is to have .higher tram- and
bus-fares—4d. for a single section; 6d.
for two. If it’s any satisfaction to those
who have to pay the new fares, that puts
them on a level with fellow-travellers in
Sydney.
• •
The A.C.T.U. has backed down a little
on incentive - payments ; individual
unions are now to be free to make their
own decisions on the matter. As usual
the A.C.T.U. is running a long way
behind public opinion ; many unions are
already working under incentive-payment
agreements, and a recent Gallup poll
claimed that 71 per cent, of Australians
were in favor of incentive-payments.
• •
Townley, Acting Minister for Health,
concluding a reply to insinuations by
“Labor” member Daly that the fact that
he was “a partner in a chemical business
in Hobart” disqualified' him from hold-
ing the Health portfolio, “even in an
acting capacity”; “The general opinion
of the chemists appears to be that I am
a cross between Herod the Tetrarch and
Genghis Khan.”
• •
Contrary to rumors the Cahill Budget
did not impose a land tax or an amuse-
ment tax. These by-elections come at
darned inconvenient times for Treasurers!
From time to time butter-producers
protest against the competition of
margarine made from imported coconut-
oil, on the ground that the coconuts
are produced by cheap native labor. Most
States already fix a quota for margarine-
production, but the extremists among the
cow-cockies want either an import-ban
or a heavy duty on coconut products; in
Westralia one group even tried to use
the typhoid scare as a reason for banning
margarine. They’re very shortsighted.
Copra is the most important product of
New Guinea, which is Australian
territory. Furthermore, even if the
import of coconut-oil ceased, margarine
could be jnade from whale-oil, produced
not by cheap native labor, but by highly-
paid Australian labor, and at present
shipped to Europe to make margarine.
• •
Playford told the South Australian
Parliament that his Government would
abolish rent-control as soon as possible,
but that nobody need worry for another
year. Pressed to state a time-limit after
CAHILL IN BUDGET-LAND
“Will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail,
“There’s a porpoise close behind us, and he’s treading on my tail.”
that, he said it would be “anyone’s guess,”
and would be influenced by the housing-
position generally and the cost of new
house-construction in particular,
• •
National Development Minister
Spooner said in Canberra that money
granted the States for housing could not
be used by the States to build shops,
schools or churches. Or —he might have
added —foundation-stones.
• •
Gair told Queensland Parliament that
his Government was fully aware of the
means to be adopted to ensure for the
people of Queensland “a maximum
degree of happiness, contentment and
security.” And if anyone doesn’t believe
him let them be reminded that a start
has already been made by giving State
politicians a thumping rise in screw.
• •
A problem in simple proportion for
sixth-class students:
Mr. Cahill estimated last year that his
railway accounts would come out square;
the actual result was a deficit of £1,449,839.
This year he has estimated a deficit of
£1,408,000. What will the actual result be?
(Answer to be accurate to the nearest mil-
lion.)
• •
The Victorian Parliamentary Select
Committee which inquired into the
potato situation has recommended the
creation of what it calls “an overall
orderly marketing-plan for potatoes
throughout Australia.” In other words,
having found that State Potato Boards
won’t work successfully, it wants to set-
up a Federal Potato Board. That
wouldn’t work either ; it would lead to
bigger and better blackmarkets and con-
tinually dearer and scarcer potatoes.
What’s more, the people have had com-
modity-control boards, and the present
Federal Government was elected on a
policy of abolition of controls.
• •
Calwell says that the decision to abolish
Federal amusement tax was “designed to
evade responsibilities in raising revenue.”
That comes rather strangely on top of
Evatt’s criticism that the Government is
raising too much revenue. But then it
has become more-or-less the regular thing
for the Federal Opposition-leader and his
deputy to advance together in opposite
directions.
• •
F. M. Forde, sometime M.H.R. for
Capricornia, sometime Minister for this
and that in “Labor” Governments and
sometime Prime Minister (for seven days),
more recently High Commissioner to
Canada, is talking about nominating for
the next Federal election. It seems to
depend on whether the endorsed “Labor”
candidate for Capricornia can be induced
to withdraw in exchange for the Rock-
hampton seat in Queensland Parlia-
ment, now held by a State “Labor”
member who may retire from politics.
Forde should have a yarn with Frank
Finnan, the N.S.W. “Labor” displaced-
person who sought to make a comeback
and finished up comfortably as highly-
paid chairman of Hunter District Water
Board.
• *
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove has learnt
something from the Cain-Tatts deal.
When he chided Cain for not disclosing
his intentions the Victorian Premier
replied that “important negotiations are
not conducted in public.” Cosgrove now
has a plan up his sleeve to counter the
loss of Tatts, but he’s keeping it dark."
He told the Assembly that he could not
disclose his plan until he was ready to
act:
Action has to be swift, so there can be
no mistake and no comeback from the
people running Tattersall’s. I have had
too much experience of letting oppo-
nents know what is proposed.
• •
The great wheat plan, in two parts:
(1) Australian Wheat Board to control
marketing at home and abroad of wheat
pooled by N.S.W., S.A. and W.A. Home
price in those States to be 14s.
(2) In Queensland and Victoria home
price to be cost-of-production, estimated at
12s. Bd. a bushel. If either or both States
don’t want the A.W.B. to control their
wheat then they’re to set up their own
boards.
This could mean dough for the legal
fraternity; Victorian growers would find
it hard to resist selling wheat to N.S.W.
flourmillers at (say) 13s. 6d. a bushel, and
if anyone tried to interfere both the
growers and the millers could invoke
Section 92 of the Commonwealth
Constitution.
• •
On a section of the Melbourne wharves
horses are used to haul cargo from the
sheds to the ships’ slings, the men who
handle them being members of the Trans-
port Workers’ Union. A few months ago
watersiders’ officials claimed that the job
of horse-tending should rightly belong to
their union. Their claim was resisted.
Result: The wharfies have banned the
use of horses on the wharves, and the
Melbourne Harbor Trust intends to make
the ban official.
• •
A great outcry was made by Ashley
and Ward about Capital Issues consent
being given during a weekend to a pro-
ject by Associated Newspapers, Ltd.,
apparently to the disadvantage of Con-
solidated Press, Ltd. It was then revealed
that a similar courtesy had been extended
to Consolidated, for a larger amount,
earlier the same month. Ward continued
to snarl about “irregular and improper
conduct.” Menzies, in reply, said if any
charge of corruption were made by Evatt
he would “.distantly appoint a royal com-
mission. But” —pointing at Ward —“not
if it is made from this quarter.”
• , •
From Molongloside;
One quiet speech on the Budget which hit
Dr. Evatt’s propaganda that the average man
pays more income taxation than under “Labor”
was that in which Dr. Cameron (Q.) came down
to brass tacks on figures obtained from the
Treasury. Claiming that the vital fact was
• not the tax itself but the residue after its
payment, he quoted the basic wage for 1949-50
at £338, leaving a residue of £321 for a single
man and £336 for a married man with wife
and two kids. The relative figures for 1953-54
will be £614 basic wage (assuming no further
quarterly adjustments), residue for single man
£567, married man with family, £599 14s. He
showed that average wage this year—based on
last quarter’s incomes, 1952-53—would be £795
and the residues £7lB and £760. And he pointed
out that if the basic wage in 1949-50 had been
£614 the taxes on a single man and a married
man with wife and two children would have
been respectively £55 18s. and £24 Bs.; this
year’s imposts are only £46 3s. and £l4 6s.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Pat”: Scene: A smart Sydney
restaurant. An obsequious waiter
approaches an imposing lady. “Madam,
would care to order a drink?” “No, thank
you. I am having an X-ray this afternoon
and am not allowed to drink anything.”
“A glass of water would not register on
madam’s X-ray,” tempted the obliging
minion. “Nor on me, young man,” said
the customer, with bitter finality.
“Ravno” l I knew him as a successful
poultryfarmer, but when he came from
Bratislava, one of those cities that
changed hands between the two wars, he
got a job in a Sydney factory. He told
me why he had to leave it. “My mates,”
he said, in his precise English, “knew only
four kinds of men —dinkum Aussies,
German baskets. Pommy baskets and
Dago baskets. I was definitely not Aus-
tralian, English or Italian, so I just had to
be a German Tell that German
b to come and help me with this.’
‘That German b is doing too much ;
smooging to the boss.’ It was perfectly
useless explaining that I had really no
nationality, that I hated the Germans,
that I had anglicised my name, that I
wished to become a good Australian. So
“ Don’t forget we was young ourselves once.”
I bought a poultryfarm. The hens raise
no objection.”
# + +
v v *
“J.H.”: Before the subject of “skoll”
(properly spelt “skaal”) is closed, permit
me to quote Henry Lawson *
Right or wrong, whatc’er in futnre,
May this blundering world befall,
Human kindness will survive it—
Brothers’ “Skaal” to brave men “Skaal.”
\
“Ceg”: The new “wonder drugs”
pale into insignificance compared with
the miraculous cures which could be
achieved through the post in the ’nineties,
Newspapers were chock-a-block with the
announcements of “doctors of world
repute,” “born physicians” and others
whose qualifications called for as many
as 15 letters to illustrate their degrees.
Tumors and malignant growths, of all
sorts and sizes, could be got rid of for
the trifling sum of 10s. Some of the
more expensive requested that a pound
be sent with a letter describing the
symptoms, and if the good doctor was
unable to diagnose and prescribe there-
from the pound would be returned. For
those who felt unequal to coping with
their symptoms, illustrated charts would
be sent for sixpence. All one had to do
was make crosses on the chart. The
point was often stressed that, if delicacy
of feeling debarred one from going to
the family doctor, a postcard would
ensure that such delicate feelings would
remain intacjt. A penny postage-stamp
would bring “important new discoveries”
and medicine of such worth that every
sip of the elixir would cause fresh
strength to flow to all parts of the body.
Should one suffer from feelings of soli-
tude, timidity, fear of impending tragedy,
thoughts of impure subjects, twitching, or
oozing, then relief was immediately
available for a few shillings, through the
post-office. Even such an awful com-
plaint as “want of intellect” came within
the scope of these benefactors of man-
kind, and could be permanently cured
for a pound. There would seem to be
some scope for such practitioners today.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Ricky”: There is one thing for which
a much-travelled friend of mine will
never forgive Perth —the resemblance its
policemen bear to Sydney bus-conductors.
On his first visit to the West he became
involved in what he thought was a
friendly argument between an apparently
innocent bystander and a conductor. The
bloke in uniform seemed far too dog-
matic about the business, and when
tempers became frayed my friend sided
wrongly. He came out of clink next
day wiser in the ways of the West.
♦♦♦
“Mark Heim”; I heard the slang word
“caloney” (B. 16/9/’53) long before I
heard “boloney,” though I haven’t heard
it in recent years, I fancy it was derived
from the phrase “My colonial oath,”
shortened to “my coloney,” then to
“caloney,”
“Uidhist”: Reasons for the belief that
Rabbie Burns was a Campbell were dis-
cussed at great length in the “Oban
Times” about 40 years ago. (1) Burns’s
father came from the county of Kin-
cardine on the east coast and his name
was spelt Burness. In spite of the fact
tfa at place-names, and therefore derived
surnames, ending in “ness” (meaning
headland) are common in the east of
Scotland, Burness was traced back by the
theory-mongers to a mythical Burnous
and finally to Burnhouse. (2) One of
Burns’s Ipvers, Mary Campbell (High-
land Mary of the songs), was supposed to
be Burns’s cousin and a native of Taynult,
a village in Argyll. Now Taynult means
Bum-house. Hence Highland Mary was
a Campbell of Bum-house, The equa-
tion: Burns = Burness (or Burnous or
Burn-house) = Campbell of Burn-
house = Campbell, deserves full marks
for philological ingenuity, but cannot
reasonably be regarded as establishing
Burns’s membership of the Clan Camp-
bell. The theory that Burns was a
Campbell is as convincing as another one,
launched in the Red Page about 20 years
ago, that he was a Celt of another sort,
viz., Bymes, from Ireland, and both of
them are on a par with the claim of my
genial neighbor, Dick Potts, that he is
really Richard Plantagenet.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Giris”: Watching aircraft - carrier
Sydney come alongside Princess wharf,
Hobart, on a gusty day brought to mind
the old South Australian gunboat
Protector. The wind blew Sydney out,
and a group of planes on the flight-deck
blew her back—“operation pin-wheel”
they call it, I believe. Protector was a
small, heavily-armed cruiser with a 6in.
gun, and was the first Australian ship to
go on active service—to the Boxer war in
1900. Legend says the recoil of her guns
reversed the ship’s speed from full-ahead
to full-astern, much to the consternation
of the navigator and confusion of the
enemy.
„ +
v v v
“Geelvink”: Broadley’s two-up school
mistaken for a silo (B. 9/9/’53) has a
counterpart in the shearing-shed on Dirk
Hartog’s Island (W.A.). Originally. built
by Malays, it proved too low to take the
vertical wool-press, so a hole was cut in
the roof and a tower added. From sea-
ward it resembles a church complete with
steeple.
♦♦♦ * *
“Ranji”: In open-air gospel-meetings
there are often verbal clashes between the
speakers and the man-in-the-street.
Generally the speaker comes out on top,
as he is experienced in dealing with what
are usually old, worn-out questions, but
I remember one interjector who com-
pletely outclassed the speaker. The
preacher was inveighing against strong
drink. “I can’t understand you chaps,”
he said, “paying out your money to put
tiles in the publican’s bathroom.” “Just
a minute, mate,” said the interjector, “do
you ever have a malted-milk?” The
preacher admitted he had one nearly
every day, “Well, I can’t understand
you wowser chaps,” came the reply, “pay-
ing out your money to put tiles in the
milk-bar proprietor’s bathroom.”
*
* * *
,
Pam : My newspaper tells me I’ll be
able to breast the post-office counter now
with a triumphant leer, after being
knocked back for presenting a parcel
which the wife had fastened with Scotch-
tape instead of string, at the time in short
supply Thats no good,’ I was
haughtily informed. Regulations dont
allow it—you must use string!” Appar-
ently someone else who likewise got it
m the neck didn t accept the ultimatum
so mildly, as the P.M.G. has now decreed
that the sticky fastener is quite acceptable
as a substitute for string. It is permissible
even on registered packets, as an
“Unsealed postal article” where compen-
sation is paid only m the event of com-
plete loss -Good on him! Having to tie
a length of thick twine round a packet the
size of a matchbox, when the strongly-
attached tape failed to satisfy the officials,
seemed the height of absurdity.
%
“Peers”: Having been in the
mathematics game for a few years I’m
pretty near immune to the periodic
onslaughts of the genius who’s just dis-
covered a method of trisecting an angle.
That so many amateur mathematicians
spend so much time on this problem,
which was solved a couple of thousand
years ago, is doubtless the fault of the
many schoolteachers who assure their
pupils it can’t be done. It is true that you
can’t do it in the Euclidean sense —that
is, with ruler and compasses only. The
most common method of trisec'ton
involves the drawing of a spiral. This is
the part that can’t be done with the above
instruments alone, but many ingenious
mechanical devices have been constructed
that will do the job.
“Bo”: An “S. M. Herald” article de-
scribing an Adelaide-Darwin car-trip in
1908 in a 1906-model 25-h.p. Talbot said
the travellers, coming upon another
Talbot they had abandoned seven months
earlier, found that the battery still “held
its charge, the engine started first time.”
This would seem to indicate a storage-
battery. In that early motoring era no
battery was used ; a high-tension magneto
carried the spark direct to the plugs.
Later a low-tension magneto had coupled
to it dry-cells to boost the spark. No
storage-battery was needed because lights
were either b Y kero.- or carbide-lamp,
and the self-starter didn’t come in until
about 1915.
* * *
.
“Qui”: Watched the antics of a little
cove at the lottery-office. He was just
ahead of me in the queue, where he
waited until he was next to reach the
ticket-window. Immediately he spied
what numbers were being sold he darted
off and made an entry in a little notebook
that he took from his waistcoat-pocket.
Then he joined another queue and
repeated the performance. I tackled him
about it in a friendly way. “I got nothing
to do,” he said, “and no money to spend,
but I get a lot of fun out of scoring.”
“What’s scoring?” I asked. “Well,” he
explained, “I pretend to buy tickets, four
at a time, couple of quids’-worth at every
window. When the result comes out I
find how much I’m up or down on the
day. Once, about six months ago, I won
sixth prize, but most weeks I’m between
£5 and £4O down. Y’ oughter try it your-
self instead of throwing away good
money.”
❖ ❖ ❖
„ „ „ ~, .
Billy S. : One of the most fascinating
of Australia’s indoor games is one in
which the dinki-di Aussie cannot take
t It mi ght 5e called the “When-did-
you-arrive-here?” game, and it is played
e time a C hoom or a New Aussie is
introduced to anothe r Choom or another
New Aussie IVs a game played wit h a
t deal of fine much de licate thrust
and before the players decide the
a n.i mpor t an t question of seniority. No
straightC)U t query, but a variety of subtle
questions of the “Do-you-remember?”
variety unti i for instance, A says to B
« Do you remem b er when De Groot cut
the ribbon when they opened the Harbor
Bridge 9” B goes pa le He has lost the
he has to admit he hadn’t arrived
in Australia when that happened. A
smiles in tr i ump h. They both know the
con sequences. A will always have the
edge on B and poor old B wi n a i way s be
hearing A say «Qf course, that happened
a year or two before you arrived here,
old bo y.” The only course of action for
B is to dodge A and, if possible, find C,
who didn’t arrive in Australia until after
Old Rowley won the Melbourne Cup. B
remembers that perfectly; he drew it in
the office sweep.
A TAKE-IT IN TATT'S
“The ‘Labor’ Premier of Victoria, Mr. Cain,
has secured the transfer of Tattersall’s Sweep
from Tasmania to Victoria.”
Few men can be more fortunate
Than Mr. Cain, or brainier;
He went across the seas in state
And caught Tasmania’s mania;
So let us praise this worthy man.
Victorious, Victorian !
Tasmanians will envisage the
Whole universe as tottery;
Life’s twice a lottery when we see
A lottery in the lottery:
Though tit-for-tat is usual, that’s
No precedent for Tatt’s-for-Tatt’s.
However, history repeats
Itself on lottery -matters. All’s
A tale of State-to-State retreats
Since Adams founded Tattersalls:
It’s not the first time Adam’s reign
Has ended with the brand of Cain.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


♦Jt ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Pandanus”: Paper-bag trouble (B.
2/9/’53)? That girl-friend of mine
couldn’t resist a rock-melon on the
market stall. Further along the street
she met the new curate, addicted to shak-
ing hands. She dropped the very ripe
melon, and in her furious embarrassment
she gave the wretched thing a good kick.
"What'll y' take fr y'r old gearbox , sport? Mine's the same model."
It stuck on her foot, and she had to hop
round while the curate endeavored to
remove it. And that was how that
romance started.
* * ❖
“Fair Mac”: At a city intersection a
small crowd was waiting to glimpse some
of the cars in the Redex reliability trial.
A traffic hold-up halted one entrant —a
sleek, powerful-looking job loaded up
with everything from ads. for tinned
foods to a roll of chain-wire, presumably
for use in bogs. The road clear again,
the car streaked off. But an old bus a
few yards back didn’t. It emitted a couple
of bangs, spluttered, coughed and died.
The crowd turned to look at the old
battler and chuckled aloud. Many a
driver would have cursed the callous
crowd, the perverse bomb that had chosen
such a place to conk out, and himself
for being mug enough to buy it. Instead,
the young fellow grinned back. Most
young wives would have flushed at being
“made a show of.” The young matron
beside jthe driver merely looked amused.
For a moment the old veteran’s starter
whirred vainly, then with a splutter and
a sigh something came to life. The driver
cheered ironically; his wife’s smile
broadened. Away rolled the old-’un, the
occupants waving back at the crowd. No
entrant in the contest got such a good-
natured and enthusiastic send-off. Just
another case of laughing with a couple
of good sports, not at ’em.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pat Pending”: Touching on the
revived interest in the last Leichhardt
expedition: On the Condamine Highway
at a spot about 35 miles from Roma (Q.)
a signboard reads “Wallumbilla 24
miles.” Underneath some disillusioned
traveller has added: “Nature’s way.
Undisturbed since Leichhardt’s day.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Mem”: Warped sense of humor or
was he fair-dinkum? Crusty old doctor,
hearing nurses’ oral exam., fixed one pale
lass with a cold eye and began: “Now,
nurse, you’re walking along a country
road and suddenly you witness a car-
smash. There’s a woman by the roadside
with a broken arm. What do you do?”
With a sigh of relief at her good luck,
nurse began glibly to reel off first-aid
measures, till the examiner pulled her up
short, “Hell, worpan, and what about
that man under the fence, bleeding to
death from a severed femoral artery?
Are you going to let him die while you
muck about improvising splints!”
“Narumee”: Opening day of Mel-
bourne’s Coronation £3,000,000 Royal
Show. Overheard in the suburban tnilk-
bar; “Oh, yes, dear, we always go in the
evening. It’s much nicer—quieter, you
know. Of course, you can’t see the cows
and sheep, but who cares? All I want is
a dekko at the cakes, I get ideas for the
kiddies’ birthday-cakes.”
♦2* ♦> ♦♦♦
“Pawang”: Dr. Cunningham Dax, the
Victorian Director-General of Mental
Hygiene, has come out with an original
suggestion anent the dangerous driver.
He wants a psychiatric clinic set-up to
which drivers who have killed a man, had
more than one accident in a year or had
been often up for dangerous driving
would be relegated, so that their histories
could be investigated. It might be found,
for instance, that a man had had an
unhappy childhood or had been tyran-
nised oyer by his parents, and this had
given him a grouch against society which
he was now taking out on other motorists
or pedestrians fleeing from his path.
Psychologically the idea is sound, and
could be applied as well to the latest
murder as to the simple gesture against
authority of the individual who starts
walking across a, street the moment he
sees the red light. The difficulty would be
to cure the patient. Showing him the
cause, or alleged cause, of his grouch
wouldn’t remove it—in fact, it might only
serve to convince him more than ever that
he was a victim.
♦* ❖
“J.K.D.”: At the medical-board build-
ing at Beit Jirja, Palestine, the efforts of
three wily doctors to detect pseudo claims
of deafness by soldiers seeking medical
reclassification enlivened a lengthy stay.
From the board-room came an astonish-
ing variety of shouts, thumps, bangs and
crashes, with a sprinkling of stage-
whispers for good measure, as each
claimant was put through his paces. After'
about 10 minutes the examinee would be
told to go. If he passed through the
door without involuntarily obeying the
softly-spoken “Close the door after you,
please,” he was either genuinely deaf or
a masterly actor. But during the two
hours I waited, at least six were trapped
by the doctor who leaned through the
side-window and whispered What s the
time, mate, as the victim walked past,
♦♦♦
“A.L.D.”: If the Dutch girl in Unk
White’s cartoon was a Frisian the Aussie
would not have been under the necessity
of finding out the Dutch for “I’m nuts
"I'm not a woman to talk , but I think Mrs. Jones has been a
bit OVER the fence!"
about you” (B. 26/8/’53). Frisians, who
live in the province of Friesland between
the Zuider Zee and the German border,
speak the closest to English of any
European tongue. Both languages have
many words in common ; whole phrases
can be made of such words. One often
quoted in illustration of the similarity is
the couplet:
Good butter and good cheese,
Is good English and good Fries.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Fino”: New Australians could be
forgiven for thinking that it only requires
the addition of the letters “ise” to an
English noun to produce the relevant
verb. The process has been going on for
some time, and words like “hospitalise”
and “pressurise” have now become
accepted usage; but a programme
announcement that Richard Collett of
“South Pacific” had “concertised” in
Europe’s principal cities is surely going
too far. And was one of the Sydney
dailies attempting to strike a blow for the
purity of the language when, in reporting
the defeat of Hoad and Rosewall in
America, it said that many critics sub-
scribed to the theory that they were
“overtennised”?
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.M.H.”: Why did the 2nd A.I.F.
object to the forage-cap? Caps were
issued early in the war, but hardly anyone
wore them. I liked them and thought
they were sensible wear for leave and
such occasions, but very soon found that
if I wore one I’d be in a very small
minority. I clung on to mine until Syria,
hoping the unwritten ban would be lifted,
but it wasn’t. Soldiers of other nations
didn’t seem to object to this type of head-
gear, but the Diggers just wouldn’t have
it. Why?
“Taswegian”: I also began learning
German (B. 12/8/’53) —during lunch-
hour at work. I learned that Austrians
eat the green stem of a spring-onion and
discard the white bulb ; that the language
is not guttural when spoken by an
Austrian —my teacher pronounced “ich”
and “spreche” softly; and that Germans
are thorough. Hans wouldn’t let me
leave a word until I could pronounce it
as a native would—he said most foreigners
could be detected by their pronunciation
of “e.” There was one vowel I couldn’t
master: “ii” said as “ee,” but with a
pointed mouth. Hans formed my lips
with his hands, grimaced and “ii’d” in
front of me, peered over my shoulder
while I performed in front of a mirror,
even removed my partial plate. I didn’t
learn much German, but I think Hans
was amply repaid by my first effort at
German composition: I can see him
now, helpless with laughter, tears running
down his cheeks, as 1 read out my sen-
tences with the verbs, subjects and the
rest misplaced,
*** ***
“Mackville”; A Tree Grows in
Brooklyn was a very good book ; some
day an Australian genius might equal it
with A Choko Grows in Red fern, for
the way the vines thrive in dingy, pocket-
handkerchief backyards is no less amaz-
ing. I recently heard a terrace-dweller
receive the gift of six seed-chokoes with;
“Good, I’ll give three to Smithy—he lives
in the place three doors up—and I’ll give
the others to Browny, he lives down the
street a bit.” “But what about yourself
—don’t you like ’em?” asked the donor.
“My oath!” shot back the generous cove
quickly, “but that’s the only way to get
’em —the vines run along three back-
fences before they start to get chokoes
on.”
❖ ♦>
“B. A. KTer”; Strange that the average
Sydneysider is so proud of his ’Arbor
and Bridge, but never has even a mild
skite about the War Memorial in Hyde
Park! Yet I’ll warrant there are few
things in Sydney so admired by visitors
as that imposing edifice. Every New
Australian seems to photograph his friend
and have himself snapped with the
memorial for a backdrop. But I agree
with the overseas visitor who enthused
on the view looking down the long avenue
of trees. “It is this view,” said the visitor
sincerely, “that gives the structure its
magnificence, its dignity. Your authorities
are to be congratulated on their vision.”
I didn’t tell him that until two or three
years ago that view was hidden by an old
Moreton Bay fig, and that its removal
nearly caused a civil war.
*> *> ❖
“Eve”: Near-panic in a chain-store!
The orchid display along the length of
one counter was enlivened by the big
sign midway, it said “Sixpence.” Not
until you nosed right in among the flowers
did you see that the orchids themselves
were going at from 30-bob to a fiver ; the
sign referred to paper carry-alls hanging
near by.
%
“Piper”: I’ve never, thank goodness,
known anyone who would qualify for the
title of “Paragon of all the Virtues.” But
if I should ever meet one I’ll suspect he
is descended from a successful applicant
to the following advertisement which
appeared in a century-old newspaper, the
advertiser’s address being “Hobart Town,
Sept. 8, 1854”
WANTED
A young man, aged twenty four,
independent, is desirous of meeting with a
Partner in life, not older than himself.
She must be respectably connected —height,
about five feet four or six—a Protestant of
good principle, and attend church regular,
pretty, good-natured, ever anxious to please
her husband, frugal, domesticated, eco-
nomical, not greedy, kind to the poor,
just before generous, assist the needy,
widow, orphan, and the poor as discre-
tion may dictate, able to consult on matters
of business, give an advice, and study at
all times future happiness and futurity....”
I notice there is no clause stipulating
kindness to dumb animals, but perhaps
that is implied.
SUBLIME ACHIEVEMENT
“A new ‘wonder’ powder, made from fos-
silised remains of prehistoric sea-creatures dug
from a dried-out loch on the Isle of Skye,
has been found valuable in the making of
lipstick, high-explosive, face-powder and tooth-
paste and for improving the flavor of beer.”
Aquatic monsters of long-bygone ages
Who wallowed in the black Devonian
slime.
You just were one of Evolution’s stages;
Far up its ladder you could never
climb.
In brief but violent triumph you were
joying
When skulls of lesser enemies . you cleft.
Then Nature dumped you. Well, that was
annoying !
Our thanks for having lived, for we’re
employing
The bones you left.
Doubtless you would be seized with pride
unbounded
Could you in your Valhalla be aware
Part of your cbasses, pulverised and
pounded.
Adorns the coral lips of damsel fair;
That you’ve been capable of adaptation,
Dabbed on the cheek of madame and of
miss,
A source off softly-smooth beautification.
They notched for you, though, one
humiliation :
As dtntrifice !
There couldn’t possibly be other creature
Of prehistoric time, I’ll stake my oath,
Whose osseous remains have had this
feature :
To yield up face- and blasting-powder
both.
Pins that once propped you up may blow
to blazes
The cohorts of some dictatorial gang.
Accept, for having lethal bones, our
praises.
Little were you aware your final phase is
To go off bang.
Rich though that harvest of yourselves
be reckoned
{And everybody must , this point
concede ),
The place it’s relegated to is second
In terms of mankind’s most important
need.
To product best of petrified cadaver
We raise a very hearty British cheer.
Long-delayed triumph you at last may
savor;
Your real glory lies in this : you’ll flavor
Our foaming beer!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


When it's can
Exide—you start!
£xt^e
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
: '■ , /. :y ex 2.88
PERSONALITEMS
Appointed judge in equity on the
N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench last year,
Charles (“Jerry”) McLelland had the role
of a modern Solomon in deciding the
recent baby-case in Sydney, one which
caused nation-wide interest. He gradu-
ated B.A. from Sydney University with
first-class honors in psychology (handy
for a judge), and three years afterwards
in law also, again with first-class honors.
Taking silk in 1950, with 18 years’ practice
a £ the Bar behind him, at the time of
his elevation to the Bench he was one of
Sydney’s leading equity counsel. A boy-
hood injury resulted in his wearing one
glass-eye.
There is probably no other man who
knows more about the personal foibles of
the Navy’s top brass than Captain
Edward Hamilton Leitch, victimised
hereunder by service-mate Woolcott.
Since 1938 Leitch, who joined the Navy
as a paymaster-cadet in 1919, has been
secretary to pretty well every flag-officer
in the R.A.N., both ashore and afloat.
As the flag-officer commanding a squad-
ADMIRAL’S SECRETARY
ron is usually to be found in the van of
that squadron, Leitch has seen his share
of action, and was with John Collins in
cruiser Australia, then flagship, at the
lively Lingayen and Leyte actions in the
Philippines. Slight, alert and whimsical,
with the finest pair of eyebrows in the
Navy, Leitch is still with Collins, who
now, as Vice-Admiral Sir John, is First
Naval Member in Melbourne.
“Cauboy”: Sir Bernard Heinze is back
in Melbourne from a world tour with a
new idea about music—if it is about
music. Australian composer Peggy Gran-
ville Hicks interested him in it when he
was in New York. Noises like the whistle
of a train or a milk-oh, the scratch of a
pencil, the striking of an anvil or a
passing automobile are picked up by
electronics and put on ribbons, where
they can be given any dimension or pitch
or period, and one ribbon is super-
imposed upon another and another until
an entire composition can be built up.
The resultant noises are without form,
tonality and most of the factors asso-
ciated with music as we know it. Sir
Bernard adds the alarming item that it
dispenses with instrumentalists and con-
ductors (which will be good news for the
Musicians’ Union), so that music
becomes a world of composers only—he
might have added, for machinists also.
Sir Bernard considers that this develop-
ment cannot be passed unnoticed, and
we have his word for it that it was
the most invigorating and enlivening ex-
perience in contemporary music he had
ever encountered.
Old Digger succeeds Old Salt as presi-
dent of the Westralian Braille Society for
the Blind. The retiring president, E. C.
(“Paddy”) O’Connor, who had held the
chair 17 years, started his sea-service in
H.M.A.S. Challenger, when that cruiser
transferred from the R.N. to the infant
Australian service in 1903. In Challenger
O’Connor saw the first salute fired by a
ship wearing the White Ensign in an
American port on American Independ-
ence Day. That was in Honolulu, on
July 4, 1911. After service against the
Kaiser, he transferred to the Army and
was librarian at what is now Western
Command headquarters in Perth, until he
retired in 1931. His successor. Bill James,
is the first blind man to become president
of the society. He lost his sight when
wounded in World War I; he was one
of the first Australians to receive rehabi-
litation training at St. Dunstan’s, London.
A stocky, genial chap with a phenomenal
memory for voices, he has devoted his
years to the welfare of less fortunate
cobbers, and has sat for years on the
R.S.L. State Executive.
Exit a just and kindly judge:
A wide circle of staunch friends will miss
Malcolm William Donald Mclntyre, whom
everybody in his own circle called Bunny. To
his intimates that bright-eyed figure seemed
incompatible with the thought of death until
the last year or two, when the marks of the
incurable disease which struck him down at
52, only a year after he had been appointed
to the Commonwealth Arbitration Court Bench,
made themselves visible. His university career
in the Arts and Law Faculties around the
end of World War I was a brilliant one, and
he had a natural flair for the cloistered life
of a university which seemed to map his future
for him from the start. In the few years that
he was deputy-head of St. Andrew’s College,
Sydney University, his name became a legend,
but he left in his late twenties to join Dawson,
Waldron, a leading firm of Sydney solicitors.
In the law he was as great a success as at the
university. He was always ready to
give his time and intellectual energy to the
interests of clients whom he thought to be the
victims of injustice, irrespective of his personal
interests. One 'such unfortunate group which
had good cause to thank him were the
Australia Fust men, wrongfully ihterned
during World War ]J, His dying was in accord
with his living, for he sustained in his last
months of illness with unswerving devotion to
duty his position on the Bench during the final
stages of the wages case before the Arbitration
Court, coming from hospital to the hearings and
driving himself beyond his physical capacity to
complete his work on the cause. His memorial
service at St, Stephen’s Presbyterian Church,
Sydney, was one of the most crowded for many
a year. He left a wife and a son 16, and more
friends than most of us can lay claim to.
A shuffle in Army hierarchy to allow
General Berryman a free hand in direct-
ing the Royal tour puts Major-General
Eric Woodward G.0.C., Eastern Com-
mand. Brigadier Stanley Legge goes up
to Q.M.G. Originally a Lighthorseman,
Woodward shifted to the R.A.A.F. for
three years, in which time he won his
pilot’s wings. He’s the only Australian
general entitled to wear ’em. Throughout
War II he held down high administrative
posts, his territory ranging from the
Middle East to Morotai. Legge, to be
promoted major-general, will thus become
the first son of an Australian general to
reach his father’s rank. His father Old
Diggers will remember as the Chief of
the Australian General Staff from 1914
to 1920.
Dr. M. L. McGlashan, a Greymouth
product, B.Sc. and M.Sc. of Canterbury
University (N.Z.), was the first Enzedder
to annex the Sims Empire Scholarship,
established by the Christchurch cricketer
and philanthropist Arthur Sims. At
Reading University (Eng.), he took his
doctorate of philosophy two years ago,
and returned to New Zealand to join his
old college as lecturer in chemistry. He’s
resigned to go back to Reading, senior
lecturer in chemistry. As a sideline he
will collaborate with Professor E. A.
Guggenheim in writing a book on
thermodynamics. Guggenheim, designer
of the Navy’s depth-charge-thro wing
hedgehog, was in Australia on a lecture
tour a couple of years back.
Last year Captain George lan
Hutcheson, R.A.N. (retired), was elected
president of the Metal Trades Employers
Association. The other day he succeeded
Richard Parry-Okeden as president of the
NSW Chamber of Manufactures.
Shortish, genial, with a hawkish line to
his nose, Hutcheson’s been mixed up with
metal and manufactures all his working
life —metal in the engine-rooms of battle-
cruiser Australia, cruisers Adelaide, Can-
berra and Sydney and destroyer Stuart;
manufactures since 1947, when, having
left the Navy, he was snapped up by
Cockatoo Docks. Now managing-director
there, he’s fathered many of the Navy’s
post-war ships, the latest being destroyer
Voyager (not yet fully in commission),
and Tobruk. Repair-work, too. As
Armament Assistant and, later. Engineer
Manager of Garden Island, he had much
to do with repairing the worn-out barrels
and machinery of ships returning from
the Pacific stoushing.
Leaving Melbourne, but not his tools,
behind him, Graham White is off to
England with the first overseas scholar-
ship awarded to a plumber. The Wor-
shipful Company of Plumbers of England
has made the 6ft. 4in, young man a;
member to mark the importance of the!
occasion. He will study heating and
ventilation in the U.S., England, on the
Continent and in Scotland.
Appointed P.R.O. for the R.S.L., Asher
Joel, as well as League-liaising with Press,
radio and public, has the tidy job of
organising a drive for funds for Jthe
Northcott Neurological Centre. He
knows a bit about that sort of thing, he
having raised over a million as secretary
of the Lord Mayor’s Patriotic and War
Fund, and close on £lOO,OOO for the
R.A.N. Relief Fund in N.S.W. and Vic-
toria, before donning the khaki of the
A.1.F., and, later, the blue of a naval
lieutenant. Most of his naval career was
staff-work in the Pacific area, first with
the R.A.N., then with the U.S.N-, and he
was the only Australian with the
American naval forces in their attack on
Palawan.
Melbourne artist Arnold Calder has
been elected a Fellow of the Royal
Society of Arts for his services to art,
industry and education. He gives his
services to education as art and instru-
mental drawing-teacher at Footscray
Tech., and to art as a member of the
Victorian Artists’ Society,
Among a welcoming crowd of World
Government federaters, The Bulletin
met visiting Britisher Frank Beswick, and
found him a husky cove with the facile
grin of a politician and the handle-bars
of a fighter-pilot. He is the first, and
BRITISH M.P.
was the second. A 8.0.A.C. airline-
captain before Uxbridge (Middlesex)
sent him to the Commons, Beswick was
one of the two U.K. observers at the
Bikini business in 1946, and was Par-
liamentary Secretary to the Ministry of
Civil Aviation. In Australia to lecture
for the World Federal Government
movement, he believes in a common cur-
rency for the British Commonwealth,
with a central bank, a common Customs
union and a single defence force. He’s
a Labor man.
The Bulletin’s old friend. Dr. E.
Morris Miller, who was Vice-Chancellor
of the University of Tasmania, and Pro-
fessor of Psychology and Philosophy
there, will arrive in Sydney about the
middle of October for a deserved holiday.
It will be the first time he has visited
Sydney not burdened with academic and
administrative chores, and he’s looking
forward to seeing old friends in literary
circles and meeting some of the younger
TASMANIAN PROFESSOR
writers. In 1940 Miller published in two
volumes his Australian Literature, a
voluminous bibliography of our creative
literature. This monumental work is the
standard reference-book on the subject.
A new and revised edition, under the
editorship of Frederick T. Macartney, is
in the press. Born at Pietermaritzburg
(Natal), 72 years back. Miller got his
learning at Wesley College, Melbourne,
and Edinburgh University. He was some-
time an assistant in the Vic. Public
Library. In Tasmania’s scientific and
learned circles he has held a staggering
number of official positions, and has
written close on a dozen books on
philosophy, psychology, education and
literature. One of his most valuable con-
tributions to the history of Australian
literature has been his patient research
into the work of early Tasmanian writers
and the early history of journalism in
Tasmania. This is a colorful and stirring
story, and much of the material brought
to light by Miller went into the making
of Pressmen and Governors, published by
Angus and Robertson in 1952.
Into the Silence:
Aboard ship, off Devon (Eng.), at 59, Walter
Netley Searle, New Zealand-bom gynaecologist
of Harley-street. A native of Oamaru, he
shifted to England to become obstetrical surgeon
at Westminster Hospital, London, and Registrar
of Chelsea Hospital for women. Eighteen
months ago Searle was on his way to N.Z.
on the same motorship in which he died, when
a call came from a Norwegian tanker for
assistance for a man dangerously ill from a
perforated duodenal ulcer. The patient was
taken aboard the Duduesa and Searle operated
successfully. In 1939 Searle was called in to
perform a major operation on Gracie Fields.
During the Lancashire Lass’s tour of N-Z.
a few years ago, at Oamaru she posted a note
to Searle in London in remembrance.
,In Perth, at 46, James Hannibal Young, a
leading specialist in rheumatic diseases, whose
reputation had spread beyond Australia. Born
and schooled in Westraha, he graduated with
high honors in medicine from Adelaide Univer-
sity, and was a resident at Royal Perth Hospital
in 1932-33. Outside the consulting-room, he
was a noted photographer, specialising in color-
transparencies of Westralian wildflowers.
At Hamilton (Vic.), at 72, Andrew Walls,
30 years town clerk of Hamilton and for 46
years on country municipal councils in Victoria.
He qualified as an accountant to further his
grasp of council affairs; the present healthy
growth of Hamilton owes a deal to his com-
petence.
In Perth, at 83, William George Pickering,
architect, farmer and former politician, for
long identified with public life in Westralia.
Bom in Yorkshire, in Westralia at 20, he
farmed in the Busselton district for years.
Then he switched to Perth, to set up practice
as an architect. He made a spectacular entrance
into the Westralian Assembly in 1917 by defeat-
ing the then Premier, Frank Wilson, for the
Sussex (now Vasse) seat, which he held until
defeated in 1924. In 1922 he was chairman of
a Royal Commission on Forests. More recently
he did a big job as a member of the committee
which planned the trans-Indian Ocean air-route
from South Africa, which put Perth on the
map as an international airport.


ft £ A furiSiy TH/MGr THAT 7 AuTHOUaH Toßey < —\
BACKS BUU-S(/VDOC- j
&Wch u>ses ey a whisker.
AviP ft£'fACe 7 OJH/CH runs last;
Mv voGS6ovy 7 U/hich jumps
Th£ fence 7
Amp THgee others rmr szun nowhbrb
tie STIU, MANAGES AO COM'S OUT SQOAfZB'.
RACING PARADOX


ABORIGINALITIES
“Slob”: Our cat and dog agreed on a
truce: Rover was to keep outside, and
if Tabby ventured out it was to be at his
own risk. Ma used to bath Rover in
the wash-suds until he got wise; now as
soon as he sees the sheets hung on the
line he crawls up under the floor-boards
and stays there all day. So Tabby regards
the flapping sheets as the green light to
venture into the laundry and clean up the
mice.
♦ * * *
“Brick E.”: The cocky for whom I
was to do the job hadn’t met the train
to drive me out to the homestead as
arranged, so I left my tools at the station
while I made inquiries about the service-
car. Yes, it ran past Jones’s. But before
he agreed to take me out the driver had
to make a phone-call. In due course he
returned, stuck me in the back seat of
“A Wonderful idea , Wilson — if we can pick the winners we can
swab ’em BEFORE the race!"
the ancient car and stacked hot bread
all around me. We started, and I found
myself being cooked alive—in the midst
of a frozen silence. Looking at the pass-
ing scenery I was struck by the bustling
energy of little groups working just
inside the wayside fences. When I com-
mented on it the driver was surprisingly
loquacious. “My oath!” he said eagerly,
“These blokes around here are sudden
death on rabbits— always at ’em. Way
they’re goin’ there won’t be a bunny left
in another year or two.” As we stopped
at Jones’s the activity was almost frantic,
yet I had the uncomfortable feeling that
I was being scrutinised in a cunning,
covert manner. It wasn’t until I intro-
duced myself that things began to
straighten out. Old man Jones had mixed
the dates up. The rest was all because
the driver had mistaken me for the new
rabbit-inspector and passed the word
along the party-wire.
* * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The talk in our road-
camp was on this and that until the
inevitable “workers, unite!” advocate got
the floor. Then we listened to the woes
of the workers in various parts of the
world in various times, and from that
he swung on to the great advantages
enjoyed by Australian workers because
of their unions. Mat, who was a better
unionist than most, got a bit tired of
the lecture. His chance came when the
advocate said, “Yairs, one thing about a
unionist is that wherever he goes and
whatever he does he’s still a unionist.
He” “Aw, nothin’ wonderful about
that,” Mat put in dryly. “I’ve noticed
the same thing about ear-bashers.” Then
somebody started talking about race-
horses.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Nature played a
dirty trick on many of our swamp birds
by giving them, along with some excellent
camouflage, some vulnerable markings.
You’d miss a blue crane when it was
feeding around a tea-tree thicket were
it not for its white ear-lobes, which stand
out strikingly. Black ducks have a
“window” in each wing of a beautiful
blue, which renders the murky fowl
visible at 100yds. The bald coot has a
bright-red beak and shield, and an even
more obvious white tailpiece which it
twitches like a cottontail. The plain coot,
much smaller, could move unseen through
the shallows and amongst the reeds if it
weren’t for the shield above its beak j
this, though actually a bluish-grey, shows
up as the brightest white from a distance.
Stalking a musk-duck, my eye was caught
by a bright-red glint from near-by rushes.
It was the red beak of a dusky moorhen ;
the rest of the bird wasn’t visible.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: Regarding the term “out-
camp” (B. 2/9/’53), when I was a nipper
Top Hut was always known as an out-
camp of Arumpo, which was itself a
back-station of Tarcoola on the Darling
(N.S.W.). Now Top Hut is a station in
its own right,
* * * *
“Bass”: A farmer near Mullewa, in
the north of the W.A. wheatbelt, has
found a European double-gee, or bindi-
eye, irLfiis paddocks, and the Agriculture
Department is worried. There are only
two species of this plant—the European
species, Emex spinosa, and the Australian
double-gee, Emex australis —and this is
the first time the European plarit has
been reported in Australia. Neither
species is welcome, but at least the native
has its natural enemies. Though it s
hard to imagine anything tackling those
hard, thorny seed-cases, the black cocka-
toos do—one reason why the birds are
protected in the big State. Around some
of the big rock-outcrops double-gees
flourish, and the red-tailed cockatoos are
there in thousands. Their screams when
they’re disturbed can be heard for miles,
and they may have something to talk
about. At least the double-gee hasn t
spread as much as it might have been
expected to with cultivation and stocking.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: In an agricultural maga-
zine I read that quassia-chips scattered
about the ground will dissuade possums
from indulging their fancy for tomatoes
on the vine. The bitterness of the chips
“Scram, Leo!"
was allegedly the dissuader. Maybe ; but
experience impels me to ask what power
could make Old Silver nibble something
he won’t like when he can get something
he will. The Department of Agriculture
brought a more practical touch to the
pr'oblem, suggesting a repellent spray
made from a solution of white-oil and
nicotine-sulphate. Its odor, experts
claimed, is positively repulsive to all
animals, and can thus be of service to
gardeners who are having cat-and-dog
trouble. Yet the smell is not offensive
to humans. I’ve long marvelled at the
completely diverse views humans and
canines hold as to what constitutes an
awful stink or a delightful perfume. I’ve
never seen a dog show any interest in
the scent of a flower, but he’ll almost
dislocate his tail-joint at the whiff of
the feet of a man who has been working
in gumboots on a sultry day.
H: * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Amongst photo-
graphs published by the returned
“Leichhardt box” expedition there is one
of a rock with the name Talbot carved
on it in big letters. The fact that the
name Hann was also found near by
makes it almost certain that this Talbot
was a Queensland native who accom-
panied the explorer Hann on a number
of expeditions. Talbot was a well-
educated man, and he arid Hann were
firm friends. The explorer often got to
holts with hotelkeepers who objected to
the abo. being taken into public dining-
rooms.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: “Kelms” rightly says “You
can’t get birds to change habits over-
night” (B. 9/9/’53). Some weeks back
I reported that a Jackie Winter tried to
take what had evidently been his short-
cut across the end of my veranda—and
was suddenly struck by the fact that
I’d glassed it in. Since then I have on
four occasions heard a resounding thump
and found a cock-sparrow nursing his
aching skull on the floor beneath the
window. Individual spags, of course, are
as hard to identify as old Chinamen, but
the fact that the numbed skull is always
a cock, the same size, and in the same
stage of coloring, leads me to believe that
just one bird in the local sprigger com-
munity is not bright enough to learn front
experience. His first accident, admitted,
could have been the result of an estab-
lished habit. And the second one could
have been an unfortunate coincidence.
By the third time barging into glass
must’ve become a habit with him. As
for the fourth —well, as “K.” said, “You
can’t get birds to change habits over-
night.”
* * * *
Fungus develops not from
seed as ordinary plants do, but from a
spore which may contain only a single
cell. This cell multiplies by division and
grows into a long, thin thread, a mass
of which forms a mycelium. There’s no
root to this thread. It feeds along its
entire surface, but because it has no
chlorophyll it derives its food from
organic materials, which may be either
decayed animal or vegetable matter or
even the flesh of animals. When two of
these threads meet under suitable cir-
cumstances they “conjugate” ; and from
this junction there may develop a swell-
ing which will eventually form a fruiting
body to contain and distribute the spores.
This conjugation of the threads, or
hyphae, corresponds to the pollination by
which seeds are fertilised, and explains
why fungi manage without flowering
parts.
* * * *
“Sack”; That a possum prefers a man-
made structure to a leaky hollow-trunk
for his domicile shows his sound sense,
but I’ve often wondered why a nocturnal
animal will leave its native quietude to
sleep on roof-timbers above the noisy
machinery of brickworks, potteries and
blue-metal-crushing plants. I’ve seen
possums slumbering peacefully in all three
of those places. One of the duties per-
formed by the oiler at the brickworks was
the constant application of castor-oil
dressing to the machinery belts* Gradu-
ally a suspicion came to him that some
depraved kleptomaniac was “sending off
any oil he left in open tins high up in
the lofts. Then one day the possum left
his possie on a broad beam, and, blinking
in the dazzling sunlight, cautiously made
his way down a strut to take up a position
close to the oiler, crouching with front
paws held out until some of the stuff
was poured on them, then licking it off
with greedy relish. Dunno if he ever
woke up to what was giving him the
tummy-ache!
FISHERMAN
The cottage, stranded shell at the base
Of the headland’s finger,
Is Dan the hermit’s carapace.
Blood-red by the wall
Two rows of dahlias droop from stakes,
Suffering for their summer faith.
His sunrise window frames the sea’s
Green sickle curving ceaselessly
To its wheat-gold harvest,
And Dan gull-size beyond Black Head
At poker with Davy Jones, a decade
Of years his stake.
Safe? He knows the other’s hand
Of rip and squall
And stiffly joggles home his haul.
Above the tide-lick
Wait till he sloughs his weathered shell,
The moment when he’s vulnerable
To the gaff of interest; though glum
As the surly groper he’ll rise to a cast
If the bait is rum.
A wave from the inner sea then fills
His eyes’ deep pools,
Rippling over the weed-dark face.
Now from the flood pull in your prize:
Four-foot adventures, glistening escapes,
Twelve-pounder lies:
“New Year’s Day, out by the reef I seen
The westerly cornin’, flattenin’ the combers
like grass,
No time to make the beach, I pulled between
The big and little bommy—only bloke
Ever to land on Black Head; once was caught,
Blown damn’ near to New Zealand, no flamin’
joke.
Two days before I hit the coast at Berry;
Saved all me fish, though; ate two flathead raw.
’Nother time a shark bit off an oar . . .”
—ldiom heard by every sea
From Gerringong to Galilee;
Any blind bard reports
Ulysses now wears khaki shorts.
N.S.W.
R.D. MURPHY.


“Broadway”; The advancing bushfire
was still 300yds. off when from a big
green jarrah we were passing a haze
seemed to rise, and little spurts of flame
appeared all over it like hundreds of
birthday candles. Then the leaves dis-
solved in fire which flowed together and
roared up an invisible chimney. That’s
when I trod the accelerator to the boards.
It looked a clear case of combustion by
remote-control.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Fairf”: I like& the simple place-
names mentioned in “In the Lawson
Country” (B. 2/9/’53): “Log Paddock,”
“Pipeclay,” etc.—the kind of names that
originate when a few local people use
some prominent feature, such as an out-
crop of pipeclay, to designate a particular
spot. In my boyhood we used four
swimming-holes along the Prospect Creek
(N.S.W.). “Steps” got its name from the
primitive steps that an obliging council
had cut down the steep bank. “Logs”
came from the rowing-boat landing made
of lapped logs. “Slippery” was a wide
bar of rock that spanned the stream and
lived up to its name. And “Sandy” was
the place where, unlike Steps and Logs,
females could join in the fun without
infringing local ideas of ladylike behavior.
Erosion has long since removed all traces
of the steps ; the logs, huge as they were,
have completely disappeared—eaten away
by the cobra grub. “Steps” and “Logs”
are names that only old-timers remember.
“Slippery” could still be an appropriate
name, but for some unaccountable reason
it is no longer used. “Sandy,” however,
has retained its designation. Yet it is
the only one of the four that had no
right to its monicker! The bottom is
rock, the banks mud, and even when I
first saw it nearly 40 years ago there
wasn’t a grain of sand visible. Inciden-
tally, the historic “Old Oak” planted by
Dr. William Bland more than a century
ago stands within 60 to 70 paces of
“Sandy.”
* % N* *
“K ” : A sou’-Westralian-farmer shot
a ’roo that stood seven feet four, and the
size put it on the front page of a Perth
daily. It wouldn’t have 30 years ago,
when boomers were more plentiful,
although a ’roo of that size is always an
impressive animal. But it can be a dis-
appointment in flight. He’d be a red
kangaroo, of course, and therefore a
male. The female of that species is the
bluish-grey streak that bushmen call the
“blue flier.” She covers seven to eight
feet at a jump when loping along nor-
mally, and can increase this to between
35ft. and 40ft. when pressed; one that
reached a fence ahead of a pack of dogs
got away after a measured leap of 42ft.
A boomer couldn’t go near that, and it
isn’t only because he’s an old man. He
couldn’t do it in his prime.
* * * *
“Jemu”: The Torres Straits Islands
women weave not only such things as dilly-
bags, sleeping-mats and fishing-traps, but
even the flooring, walls and roofs of their
huts. Sometimes they work with pandanus-
leaves and sometimes coconut-fronds.
Pandanus produces the more ornate effect
but has not the durability of coconut.
The leaves are dyed when a fancy effect
is desired, and a rich mosaic is produced,
most of the designs being geometrical in
motif. Today, unfortunately, the in-
creasing popularity of the highly unsuit-
able galvanised-iron as a roofing material
produces a yearly diminution in the
number of woven roofs. Another re-
grettable feature is the disappearance of
the tribal working-bees which assembled,
according to a priority determined by
the council of elders, to weave a house
for villagers wishing to marry.
- 4 ■ ...
* * * *
“D.A.L.”: A long-shot came off when
Sivert Gjeldstad, skipper-gunner of the
Western Australian Whaling Commis-
sion’s whale-chaser Gascoyne, bagged
two whales with one harpoon. The
whales were swimming close together
about 60ft. from the chaser. Gjeldstad
decided to shoot the one furthest away,
it being the larger, and aimed the gun
so that the harpoon would pass over the
back of the nearest whale. But as he
fired the near whale rolled on its side,
and the harpoon and 4in. line passed
through a flipper before striking the
target, which died instantly. The gun
was immediately reloaded, and the
threaded whale killed.
♦ * * m
“Bass”: A bloke whose opinion I
respect wants to add some details about
Buzoe’s Grave (B. 2/9/’53). He says
Buzoe was a riding-camel used by one
of Giles’s party on a trip from Ashburton
(nor’-Westralia) through the Gibson
desert to S.A. After crossing about 200
miles desert the party found water at
shallow depth where a few whitegum-
trees grew along a small watercourse.
There Buzoe died, from sheer old age,
after having his first good drink since
entering the desert. The date was 1876.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When the boss first
appeared in his Land-Rover and began
cruising round the paddocks the sheep
rushed away in various directions; so
did the horses, though the station cattle
careered towards it before propping and
veering away. The hands displayed
mixed feelings, all except Binnie. “Best
thing could ha’ happened,” he said.
“Now if a man’s riding a back paddock
he can slip off an’ have a doss in the
shade without the boss ridin’ up on him.
In that thing y’ can hear him cornin’ a
mile away.”
* * ♦ *
“Semaphore”: The Victorian
has been producing some animal freaks.
A Murrayville farmer has a pig which
has an extra trotter on one of its front
legs. At Avoca a lamb was born which
had neither mouth nor ears, but had its
eyes beneath its top jaw. At Tourella a
lamb was born with two tails. It is not
known whether the cocky regards this
as an omen for his next visit to the dis-
trict’s swy school.
* « * *
“Art”: A bee can lose itself (B.
26/8/’53). One that misses the skep,
however, wastes no time in wondering
which hive she belongs to, but makes
for the one showing the greatest flight-
activity. While this solves its problem,
it creates a headache for the bee-herder
who finds the front rows of his stand
marvellously increased in strength at the
expense of the middle and back rows.
The better-behaved bee takes note of
its hive the moment the entrance plugs
are pulled out. At first it takes short-
circuits, memorising objects near the
entrance to its colony. Then it climbs,
to about 15ft. and has another long look,
after which it spirals to the higher
regions, getting the general layout for
“Now, sir , I'll show you the disadvantages of the IRON wheel."
a distance of up to three miles in any
direction. Release a bee from a bottle
and it will circle up to a good height
before making for home. Move its skep
a few feet while it’s away foraging and
it’s bushed on returning.
* * * *
“Sam Jnr.”: From the pages of an
elderly but still official publication of the
Department of Education in New Guinea
I cull an extract which may- serve to
throw a little light on the “pidgin Eng-
lish” problem: i wokim haus
bilongem long ol dispela samting bilong
ol oltem oli karim nabaut, i waitpela na
i luk olsem tred bilong somapim laplap,
dispela samting i save holim pas binatang
tu.” With more rational spelling than
that forced on the unhappy Islanders by
University-coddled brains, the sentence
would read “A spider worked a house
belonging to him long all this fellow
something belonging to all (spiders who)
all the time, all of them carry about
“ Plimsoll? Can't afford one!"
(with them) a white-fellow something,
and it looks all the same (as) thread
belonging to sewing up laplaps; and this
fellow something savvies holding fast to
binatangs (insects) too,” An old-fashioned
fellow, I feel that it is easier to teach
the native to say; “A spider made a
web.”
* * * *
“Mark O’Polo”: The old road ran
alongside the railway-line, but a new
road had recently been formed along-
side the pipeline, quarter of a mile away
and running parallel. There were six of
us, all allegedly grown-up, in the car
one overcast night, driving along the old
road when this began to get so bad that
we decided to cut across the bush at
right-angles to tie new formation. After
35 minutes of painful jolting, dodging and
backing, the carful of half-asleep bush-
men rolled out on to the road —the old
road by the railway-line— at a point just
below where they’d left it. Almost
a complete circle in that quarter-mile.
We had a second shot, this time all wide-
awake and feeling foolish. In five
minutes we were out on the pipeline.
Not being one for bringing up an inci-
dent in which a man’s made a goat of
himself, years after the event, I won’t
say who was driving.
* * * *
“Bass”: A blackboy, or grass-tree,
growing in the Busselton (W.A.) district,
is about 22ft. high and is claimed to
be the oldest in the State. It could be,
and on its height the claim isn’t un-
reasonable ; neither is the estimate of
its age—l7o years. It could easily be
older. What can be questioned is the
opinion of “an authority on flora and
fauna” that blackboys grow about l£in.
a year in bush country. What bush
country? So little research has been
carried out into the growing habits of
blackboys that there isn’t an authority
in Australia who could dogmatise on
them. I’ve had one under observation
for 10 years and I’ll swear it hasn’t
grown an inch ; and on that I’d probably
be justified in supporting the assertion,
heard often, that they add one layer of
wood each growing season. That would
give them a growth-rate of about lin.
every 12 years—the generally-accepted
rate. But it’s been noticed that the rate
varies with localities and conditions. One
of the few authentic cases on record defi-
nitely refutes the slow-growing theory. A
specimen growing in Sicily from West-
ralian seed, and known to be not more
than 130 years old, is already 15ft. high.
That’s not fast, but it beats the accepted
rate hollow. And it just about bears
out the estimated age of that Busselton
specimen.
* * * *
A Boom In Metals
Just now Westralia is experienc-
ing a metals boom comparable to the
gold-rushes of the ’nineties, but, although
gold is still being sought, it looks as if it
will soon take second place to what
would once have been termed base
metals.
Manganese is the real boom-metal
now, replacing lead. Something like 7000
tons of this metal will be shipped from
opencuts at Ragged Hills, near Marble
Bar, by the end of this year, and the
same company is starting on another
deposit at Mt. Lucky, ten miles south
of Laverton. In both cases the ore is
obtained by quarrying.
Soon, too, what is claimed to
be Australia’s only chromite - mine
will be in operation at Coonbina,
265 miles north of Meekatharra, from
where the owner has contracted to
supply 6000 tons to B.H.P. this year.
Chromite is the source of chromium,
which is best known In chromium-plating,
but whose chief use is in alloys, particu-
larly chrome-steel. Just a little chromium
added to carbon-steel increases its hard-
ness, tenacity, ductility, resistance to
wear and corrosion and its electrical
resistance.
Another mineral which is also com-
ing into its own is columbite. It’s one of
the two sources of tantalum and niobium
—tantalite is the other —and over 2000
acres have been pegged out in leases for
it in the Pilbara goldfields in the last six
months. Tantalum and niobium—you
can call it columbium without being
wrong—are both used in steels for jet
aircraft.
There’s a nice touch of irony in this
last rush. Native prospectors were about
the only ones interested in columbite
until one of them struck a rich patch on
Pippingarra station, near Hedland. Then
the rush started. These metals lend
themselves to exploitation by the natives,
who can prospect for them and at the
same time follow their natural inclina-
tions for bush living and walkabouts.
Gravelsnatcher,
MAGPIES
They sing to watch the sun go down, ,
They sing to watch it rise,
And never a summer dawn but is
Reflected in their eyes. x
And now when flowering almond-trees
Float on the bounds of sight
Like moonlit clouds, the magpies sing
And carol their delight
All through the lucent night:
“Though winter freeze our throats, and we
Anticipate a spring
That we may never see, and though
The bloom die fruitless on the bough,
It has not been in vain; enough
To be alive, and sing.”
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED (Incorporated in England}
ENGLAND .
r
'v* —,
\
-s *
5
■'-. .v._
V■ - A
\ \ I / / 71Wp
:
i<x
The "HAPPY MEDIUM"
4 days in the Air
14 days at Sea
sd
By QANTAS "CONSTELLATION" to South
Africa via Cocos is. and Mauritius, then
to England by UNION CASTLE MAIL
STEAMER. Combined fare from £432 (Aust.).
Tours to Kruger National Park available en route.
consult
MMaltg&it/'s
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Jfke ALL-BRITISH
ofnz RU'Dnmsr
{hnwm
gbuflrt
From
25/-
to
65/-
B
a
W GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CQ.LT&. LONDON
m vMimwmim a miss mu m mu Mm srmm mum mum mum mu m mu
rim.
rnrmfmmrm mrwMmma
TRANS WORLD AIRLINES
is the ONLY airline to offer you
uper Constellations
fs
to carry you in luxury from San
Francisco or Los Angeles to New York
en route to
London. Paris, Frank-
furt, Zurich, Geneva,
Tel Aviv, Shannon,
Lisbon, Madrid,
Algiers, Tunis, Milan,
Rome. Athens, Cairo,
Basra, Dhahran,
Bombay.
SUPER CONSTELLATION FEATURES:
• Most spacious planes in
commercial operation-
-744 square feet of floor
space.
• Seats 64 passengers,
plus 8 sleeping berths.
• Luxury lounge for pas-
sengers’ comfort.
• Most advanced 4-enginc
equipment gives greater
Literature supplied on appli-
cation to any approved travel
agent, or TWA, Kembla Build-
ing, 58 Margaret St., Sydney.
BX 1219.
range—3,2so miles
cruising at 20,000 feet.
• Pressurised and air-
conditioned cabins give
low altitude comfort.
• Outstanding cuisine.
ASK FOR TWA SUPER CONSTELLATION SERVICE ACROSS AMERICA
I
111
I
irwA m rwa m rwa w twa m wwa * twa m
Business.Rollery.Etc.
The Sydney Press Case
In the course of his summing-
up in the case in which Gabriel
Selmar Reichenbach sought an
injunction to restrain dealings by
Associated Newspapers and John
Fairfax and Sons in the shares
of Associated Newspapers,
Ltd., Mr, Justice Myers said;
“In this case I am perfectly
satisfied that there was not the
slightest justification for stating
that any of the directors of Asso-
ciated Newspapers acted other-
wise than honestly.”
Judge Myers went on to say
that much had been said about
the failure to call other witnesses.
He only wished to make this
comment. The failure to call this
evidence might make it easy for
him to accept the evidence by
the other side.
The plaintiff’s case was that
the board of Associated News-
papers was antagonistic to
Packer and did not desire, in
any circumstances, that his com-
pany should gain the contract
with Associated Newspapers.
“As to the question of antagonism
to Mr. Packer, I think this has been
proved by the affidavit which has
been filed,” said his Honor. “If I
had any doubt it would have dis-
appeared by the manner in which the
defendants other than John Fairfax
and Sons have conducted the case.
The defendants have not lost any
opportunity to attack Mr, Packer,
and, I think, without the slightest
warrant or need.”
“I feel that if I were called on to
decide the matter now I would decide
that the directors of Associated News-
papers clearly did not want Mr.
Packer or his company to obtain con-
trol of their company.”
With regard to the issue of new
capital the judge said he thought it
was open for him to find that no
capital was immediately required.
Nevertheless, it would not be open
for him to find that further capital
was not required in the near future.
“I am really quite in the dark as to
how much capital was actually
needed.”
Mr. Justice Myers said that the
next matter to consider was whether
the real purpose of the issue was to
prevent Mr. Packer or his company
getting control.
He had no evidence as to the
motive of the directors. He thought
it would be a perfectly reasonable
inference, and a justifiable one, that
the directors hoped to obtain by the
arrangement with John Fairfax and
Sons Pty., Ltd., the prevention of
Mr. Packer and his company getting
control of Associated Newspapers,
Ltd.
The judge added that one of the
most difficult matters in the case was
whether the purpose of getting con-
trol was to keep the directors on the
board. It was in this respect that he
thought the failure to call any other
witnesses was important.
Mr. Justice Myers said that the
holding of a meeting, in the circum-
stances, at 12.5 a.m, was a most
unusual method of carrying out the
allotment of shares to John Fairfax
and Sons Pty., Ltd. He was unable
to understand why it was so urgently
necessary to make the allotment of
shares and why John Fairfax and
Sons had to employ six men to get
a list together when the same result
could have been achieved by making
the allotment to the company itself.
The judge said the allotment was
intended to secure the greatest pos-
sible voting-power. He found it
difficult to dissociate the purpose in
the directors in conferring voting-
power. He also felt that the existence
of this purpose was proved by the
fact that the directors of Associated
Newspapers had no consent of the
nominees of John Fairfax and Sons.
They put them on the register without
consent. “I am surprised to learn
that in a large public company any-
body can be put on a share-register
without consent,” he said.
Mr. Justice Myers said that he
wished to refer to the fact that, al-
though the allotment of shares was
accompanied by an agreement or
merger, this was in vague and tenuous
terms.
Referring to a document of Sep-
tember 3, prepared by Mr. Hender-
son, the judge said this document
began, “The agreement between
Associated Newspapers, Ltd., and
John Fairfax and Sons Pty., Ltd.,
provides,” and set out 13 points.
The sixth point was the merging of
the “Sunday Sun” and the “Sunday
Herald.”
He mentioned that because his in-
terpretation of the opening words
was that an agreement had been made
which did not, in fact, provide for
these matters. It had been put to
him that what Mr. Henderson was
setting out was what he thought was
implicit in the general agreement. He
could not imagine that Mr. Hender-
son could have thought that the
merger of the two newspapers was
implicit in the arrangement referred
to by Mr. Irish.
“I don’t want it to be understood
that I am now making a finding on
these facts,” said his Honor. “I
assume that the evidence of the suit
will remain as it is and nothing will
be added to or subtracted from it.
But I cannot put out of my mind
the fact that the evidence at the hear-
ing of the suit might be totally
different to the evidence in the appli-
cation for an injunction.”
Mr. Justice Myers said that all he
desired to say was that he thought,
on a review of the evidence, that the
plaintiff would succeed against Asso-
dated Newspapers and the directors
if the evidence remained as it was.
That, he thought, would entitle the
plaintiff to rectification of the share-
register, although there was nothing
which would justify any criticism of
the complete honesty of the directors.
“Although it may be that they
thought it was for the benefit of the
company, the inference that I can
draw is that they acted for a purpose
which was not in fact within the
ambit of the powers conferred on
them by the board. I am quite
satisfied that there is nothing in the
evidence which would justify me in
assuming or inferring or even guess-
ing that John Fairfax and Sons Pty.,
Ltd., were aware, at any material time
up to the time the shares were allotted,
“We won't waste it.”
of any circumstances which would
make the issue an invalid act by Asso-
ciated Newspapers, Ltd.
“I do not think the plaintiff would
succeed in striking out the name of
John Fairfax and Sons Pty., Ltd.,
from the share-register.”
Mr. Justice Myers said that the
proper order he should make was that
the motion should be dismissed.
Oil in Papua
“Lemon”: At the end of May,
when Australasian Petroleum
and Island Petroleum (in which
partnership the Australian co..
Oil Search, Ltd., holds more
than 10 per cent, of the sub-
scribed capital) struck an un-
measured but heavy flow of gas
at 13,743 ft. in their test-well at
Omati, the Press, in general,
either ignored or devoted very
little space to this very import-
ant item of news. The flow, in
fact, is another step forward in
the proof of extensive porous
and permeable beds within the
structure named the Western
Papuan Basin ; the first indica-
tion that the systematic search
for such strata —the existence of
which is essential to the expec-
tation of commercial “pools” of
petroleum—was bearing fruit
was obtained when a strong flow
of salt water was recorded at
Wana.
Possibly the memory of the
front-page splash made when the
Oroi well (on the mainland
south of Yule Island) struck
“hiding gas” (B. 1/6/’49 and
27/7/’49) over a wide strati-
graphical interval between 430 ft.
and 1087 ft. deterred a repetition
of the lavish use of Press
headlines. When it was an-
nounced, however, that opera-
tions to free the stuck drill-pipe
at Omati had commenced and
that the operations were in
charge of an expert from
U.S.A, with special equipment
and experience for the job, a
section of the Press reverted to
publication of long and highly-
optimistic articles, very obvi-
ously not inspired by the A.P.
or I.E. cos., suggesting that the
production of commercial
petroleum was at hand in
Papua.
Australasian Petroleum and its
associates, on the other hand,
have scrupulously avoided any
attempt to boost their prospects.
As soon as the Oroi gas struck
the headlines the co. pointed out
that the event carried no com-
mercial implications. In June of
this year A.P. and I.E. jointly
announced that “the significance
of the occurrence [of gas at
Omati] will not be known until
the formation has been cored to
determine its nature, the hole
deepened, a 4£in. liner inserted
and the hole tested.” On August
21 the two cos. jointly announced
that fishing operations at Omati
had been successful in freeing
and recovering drill-pipe from
9762 ft. to 11,287 ft. That, in it-
self, was an achievement of
which the most highly-skilled
organisation might well be
proud, but the cos. repeated the
caution that “the significance of
the gas encountered at 13,743 ft.
cannot be determined until the
hole is cleared to nearer
bottom.”
In the meantime road-con-
struction to a second bore is in
progress. During August the
work confirlned the presence of
the high-pressure gas at* the
bottom of the Omati hole, and
it was very wisely decided to
await the arrival of specially
manufactured high-pressure sur-
face-control equipment, and of
special fishing tools in order to
minimise the risk of total loss —
ever present in such deep holes —
incurred by drilling into un-
known pressure and formation.
Grocery and! General
Grocery and General Mer-
chants, Ltd., has appointed B.
O. Smith a director and chair-
man. His partners in a Sydney
firm of accountants, C. J. Watt
and G, P. Crowle, have also
joined the board. To make the
necessary vacancies, Ashley J,
Buckingham (the former chair-
man), P. A. Cullen and Sefton
Cullen have voluntarily retired.
At the retiring directors’ request,
Raymont Moore, J. F. Flitcroft,
G. J. Cullen and Norman Tieck
(managing director) remain on
the board. At an extraordinary
meeting on September 22 share-
holders approved special powers
for the three new directors.
These powers give the “special”
directors virtual control of the
co,, and enable them to remain
in office for five years. Says the
new chairman:
“Those steps are being taken
with the approval of the co.’s
bankers and are part of a plan
aimed at giving the co. the
opportunity to effect improve-
ment in its trading and financial
position over a period of time
to the consequent benefit of
shareholders.
“The new board is in a posi-
tion to assure suppliers that
they can safely continue to
afford customary credit facilities
to the co. and its subsidiaries.”
At the meeting, shareholders
were told to expect a loss of
about £400,000 for the year to
June 30 last, and that neither
pref. nor ord. dividends could
be paid for a “considerable
time.” Worst of the co.’s
troubles are in the canning and
the wholesaling sections of the
business ; its 88 stores are col-
lectively operating at a profit.
The new chairman also said that
the co.’s Phillip-street, Sydney,
“property (formerly the “Smith’s
Weekly” building) is up for sale.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
1868
Established
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly *
osuijjvaa
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty, Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers ,
HEAD
OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
df
Tucked into the snow on Everest’s summit is a
small crucifix, put there by the hand of Sir Edmund
Hillary. And alongside it is the guide Tensing’s gift
of sweets to his mountain gods.
;
That, I think, is one of the great stories of our
time —proclaiming as it does the thankfulness of two
men, in their different ways, for an experience not
before permitted to mankind.
By their united action they testified to the truth
that, even though a man scales the heights of this
world, he has conquered nothing if he has not Faith.
Hillary, on the slopes, accepted that crucifix from
Sir John Hunt, who had received it from an English
Catholic priest. There were no Catholics in the
expedition, but that made no difference.
With the Cross, the same sign to all men and
all creeds who embrace it, he went up and placed it
at the top of the world.
What a symbol those tokens are, lying on a wind-
swept summit in the Himalayas. How typical of the
world of men living down on the plains and in the
valleys of five continents. The Christian and non-
Christian, side by side ; the white man and his dark
brother ; those who believe.
For that faithful gesture I salute Edmund
Hillary, the man of the bees and the honey, the team-
mate, the modest victor, the man with a sense of
Service.
He and Tensing have given us all something to
think about. Here was tolerance, supremely expressed.
Here was their affirmation that what they did in scaling
Everest was but a material triumph, and each, as he
saw it, still bowed to the spiritual.
Yes, Hillary must be a “great sort of a bloke,” to
use the language of the Anzacs. And, saying that,
there is little else to say.
~~/V. /VtzS&ttfS
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Judging from the multiplicity
of exhibits at the Radio Show
and from the sleek, well-tailored
prosperity of the exhibitors, the
radio and electronics industries
are enjoying a boom that is
unlikely to be disturbed for
many years.
Television, with 120 different
models, naturally provides the
main interest. This year’s
general trend is for “larger and
steadier, brighter and sharper,
pictures” and for easier-to-
adjust receivers. Already the
cheaper sets of three to four
years ago are made to seem
pallid and ineffectual by com-
parison. The 17in, is the popular
size of tube, while 21in. and
27in. are also shown, as well as
projection-sets that offer screens
up to 6ft. by 4ift. The year’s
major development mercifully
has the non-technical definition
of “automatic picture-control,”
and is a boon to viewers who are
subject to variations in trans-
mission-strengths or to interfer-
ence from aircraft. It keeps the
contrast and brightness steady.
Another innovation is the adop-
tion of tetrode “electron-guns,”
giving more even focus and
greater brilliance.
Some figures in “The
Financial Times” demonstrate
the vitality of this new industry.
Of its output of £125 million of
electronic goods per annum,
about one-fifth is exported: £2
million to dollar countries, £lO
million-£l2 million to Com-
monwealth countries and £8
million to Europe.
In Great Britain there are
about as many licence-holders
(sound included) as there are
occupied houses some
13,000,000. TV-manufacturers
are hoping to sell a million sets
a year for the next five years.
The market will then be
saturated, but they anticipate
that color-television will have
advanced sufficiently to be a
commercial proposition.
Retailers, to the number of
about 9000, are not without
their troubles. These are three-
fold. Sales fall off during the
summer. Dealers are chary of
laying-in stocks because of pos-
sible fluctuations in purchase-
tax. And hire-purchase regula-
tions demand at least a third of
the purchase-price in cash.
Considering that the bulk of
the sets are bought in this way,
the problem surprisingly seems
to be the easiest to solve. There
are “deposit clubs” and other
subtle means of overcoming it.
Interiors of sets are as mysteri-
ous to the owner as they are ex-
pensive, and many dealers have
“Could y' get MINE going ?”
unscrupulously exploited this
ignorance. It therefore pays to
go to a reputable dealer who is
a vetted member of a trade
association.
On the other side, that of the
purveyor of entertainment, the
prospect is anything but rosy.
The 8.8. C. is heading for
bankruptcy. Unless income is
increased the deficit of £759,000
for 1952-53 will be more than
doubled in a year’s time.
Opponents of commercial tele-
vision, however resolute, would
seem to be facing a losing
battle.
The 8.8.C.’s “grouse” is that
the Government appropriates
22i per cent, of its £l5 million
licence-fees. Seven-and-a-half
per cent, goes to the post-office
for collection and other services.
The remaining 15 per cent, is
sheer, cold taxation. Such are
the economics of the Welfare
State that any considerable regu-
lar outlay, whether it be on
football-pools, tobacco, petrol
or even a modest radio in the
home, is too easily-tapped a
source to be left alone. And, as
4s. 6d. in the £1 is a hefty rake-
off, sympathies rest overwhelm-
ingly with the 8.8. C.
Contress Acquiesces
One can never foretell what
will happen in politics. Although
the 85th annual conference of
the T.U.C. at Douglas was
ostensibly not political, it was
the political aspect that aroused
both interest and apprehension.
The bigwigs of the general
council have long been demon-
strating, in blunt and rude
speech, the economic facts of
life. More production is the
worker’s salvation, not hell-for-
leather nationalisation.
What most people expected
and feared was that the rank-
and-file, provoked by its lacing
of Bevanites and Communists,
would shout down the well-
meaning but over-assertive plat-
form as, in fact, it did last year
over nationalisation. And this
militant revolt would be a mere
fuse for a cataclysmal explosion
at the Labor-party conference a
month later.
Nothing like that happened.
The platform won the day on
every important issue; and,
instead of bristling indignantly
at authority’s high-handedness,
most of the delegates were
reduced to tittering to them-
selves at its solemn earnestness.
Certainly nothing was left to
chance. Mr. O’Brien, the presi-
dent, contrived to make his
opening speech touch, not too
deeply, upon everybody’s pet
theory. He reaffirmed the
T.U.C.’s independence of politi-
cal parties (i.e., of true-blue
Tories and of Leftish intellec-
tuals), that its main purpose was'
to improve the lot of the
workers, and that our economic
situation depended upon earning
our own bread. He attacked the
Government for cutting the
food-subsidies, issued a stern
warning against a free-for-all in
wage-claims, castigated Syng-
man Rhee and Stalin, tossed a
question as to Malenkov’s inten-
tions and, finally, uttered a high-
flown phrase or two on peace.
The platform won every con-
troversial measure. The coun-
cil’s interim report on national-
isation was accepted without
serious opposition. Some
1,500,000 abstentions set the
commentators thinking, but in-
telligent guessing as to their sig-
nificance was quite vain, since it
later turned out that the tellers
had overlooked the card vote of
the Transport Workers. This,
apparently, mattered little since
the day was hot, the delegates
were thirsty and tea was being
served. Sir Lincoln Evans,
whose acceptance of a £5OOO-a-
-year job on the Steel Board had
upset his colleagues, quickly
justified himself, even to con-
verting ironic boos into cheers.
There were some stormy ex-
changes over the motions to
abandon all wage-restraint and
to promote East-West trade, but
the hubbub had little effect upon
the final counts. And, to the
immense relief of the chair, the
American fraternal delegate was
politely and, for the most part,
silently received.
So that, on the whole, the
British trade-unionist has ex-
pressed himself to be: behind
his leaders ; aware of the need
to work hardef; unsympathetic
towards Communism; and in-
clined, though not without mis-
givings, to believe that national-
isation won’t be much help to
him. On the face of it, an
endorsement of a moderate
course with a welcome sense of
realism.
Top of the BUI
The “Palladium” continues to
flourish as the Olympus of
vaudeville. Indeed, houses are
slicker and fuller than ever they
were. One old-timer who has
strayed towards the straight
theatre was impressed at x the
high standard of the supporting
acts: the originality of presen-
tation; the incredible daring of
the acrobats; the near-impos-
sible feats of conjuring and the
individuality of the singers and
comedians.
But he was somewhat taken
aback at the new type of “draw”
—the international film- and
recording-star who performs,
with great eclat, on a deepened
stage in front of an augmented
band and whose magnetism fills
the huge theatre in advance for
14 performances a week.
There can be no question
about the popularity of Frankie
Laine (“Mr. Rhythm”). An
uproarious burst of hand-clap-
ping greets his appearance. So
do wolf-whistles and shrieks of
star-struck admiration. He is
a beefy hulk of a man who
might be an international
Rugger forward. As he addresses
the mike tiny screams of exul-
tation acclaim the power of his
sex-appeal. His manner is
languid and his speech slow.
But in full song he really lets
himself go. He grimaces, his
eyes goggle, his hands beat and
wave. His voice hovers about
the note, leaps and whirls from
interval to interval, flutters, coos
in the bass and rasps stridently
in the treble. The effect upon
the initiated is quite stupendous.
Upon others it is rather more
startling than inspiring. Per-
haps one is out-of-touch or
even old-fashioned.
At any rate, it is plain enough
to any old-timer who has
watched the giants of the halls
that Mr. Laine, for all he might
say to them, is quite insensitive
to his idolaters. His patter is
perfunctory and his gags have
the spontaneity of a mayor at
the end of his term and tether.
One of the old giants, given so
ready-made an audience, would
have roused it to furore. Mr.
Laine leaves it as enthusiastic as
he found it, but the hysteria,
fortunately, is no more than
superficial. So, for all his
expenditure of energy, is his act.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
1
m
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet— “ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
T. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. FavielU
P, B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart *
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LDHTED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.75-15
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
, : —Dividends s
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit.! 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
>47 227,271 12,000 12 p.c.=154,982 60,289 858,756
’4B 288,180 12.000 15 „ „ 193,727 82,453 941,209
Share premiums, £390,000 .. • • 1,331,209
’49 270,138 12,000 15 p.c.= 219,726 88,412 1,369,621
Reserves capitalised, £465,454 .. 904,167
’5O 436,320 12,000 15 p.c.= 314,323 109,997 1,014,164
Sale assets, £5831 .. .. • •
’5l 479,692 12,000 13Jp.c.=423,882 43,810 1,063,805
Sale assets, £64,934 .. .. < • 1,128,739
Added intangibles, £25,404 .. .. 1.103,335
’52 469,158 12,000 11j}p.c.=425,026 31,532 1,134,867
To staff funds, £27,000 .. •. 1.107,867
Sale assets, £4883 .. .. .. 1,112,750
Added intangibles, £11,150 .. .. 1,101,600
Unexplained increase, £2OO . . .. 1,101,800
’53 699,644 12,000 15 p.c.=547,233 140,411 1,242,211
* After deducting goodwill, now £54,000. t Includes
additions to freehold depreciation reserve to 1950.
One of the most profitable develop-
ments of modern merchandising
methods has been the evolution of the
variety-chain-store. Coles is the oldest of
the two big variety-chains which operate
throughout Australia. Behind the popu-
larity of the co.’s scrip in the equity
market lies a long and unbroken run of
robust earnings and divs., sweetened with
periodic issue of bonus-scrip, as well as
with issues of new shares for cash on
favorable terms, and a big programme of
expansion and development, which is not
yet complete. Over the last 20 years paid
capital has advanced fronj £858,600 to
£3,798,219. Of the difference £635,654
represented bonus-scrip, and the balance
cash and/or assets acquired, which
brought with it £712,200 of share-
premiums. Over the same period divs.
averaged 13.8 p.c.
Over the last 12 months the price of the
f.-p. ss, ords. rose from 15s. 3d. to 18s. 3d.
in the market, due for the most part to
the recovery in equity prices generally
and partly to the marked improvement
in net earnings and lift in the div. The
return at 18s. 3d. is 4.1 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is 6s. 9d.,
book-value. An attractive feature of the
scrip at the moment is the possibility that,
in the not-too-distant future, those on
the register will be asked to help finance
completion of the large programme of
development.
It began with the purchase in June,
1949, of the Stewart Dawson properties,
facing Pitt- and King-streets, Sydney, for
£859,000-odd, financed mostly on
mortgage. In April, 1950, £465,454 of
bonus-scrip was scattered. In October,
1950, Selfridges, a rival chain organisa-
tion with 16 stores in N. S. Wales and a
subsidiary in Westralia, was bought for
£356,250 in scrip. In December, 1950,
£1,250,944 of fresh ord. capital was
gathered at par to finance the all-round
growth, including purchase of the Sydney
Arcade—together with the Dawson pro-
perties, the arcade will eventually allow
construction of a very large store with
frontages to Pitt-, King- and George-
streets.
Just before the close of accounts in
1951 control of F. and G. Stores (the
old O. Gilpin business) was bought from
Foy and Gibson (Melbourne) for
£1,176,656, the money being raised mostly
on mortgage. This subsidiary had a
chain of 92 shops, scattered throughout
Vic., N.S.W., S. Aust. and Tas. It changed
its name to Coles Country Stores, Ltd,,
which has a paid capital of £866,430 in
100,000 7 p.c. and 200,000 6 p.c. prefs.
and 41,205 employee shares, all of £1
each, and the balance ords. The public
owns the prefs. and Coles the ords., or
all but a small fraction of them. The co.
has ceased trading and become a
property-holding concern, having sold
some of its stores at a profit and leased
others to the parent.
The 1952 term was largely a period of
consolidation. And since the bulk of
the co.’s merchandise is bought on the
Australian market, it was less affected by
the import avalanche than was most other
traders. Apart from utility crockery and
a few other lines, local manufacturers
filled the small gap created by import-
restrictions last term, and , turnover
increased by 10 p.c., reaching a record
£25,000,000.
Including a capital-gain of £4883 net
on sale of assets, the board wrote the
year’s profit at £634,973 (up £100,881).
That was after earmarking £33,000 for
contingencies and writing £36,554 off the
book-value of intangibles, which the
“Wild Cat” has not treated as an asset
herein. Including the two last-mentioned
amounts, but not the capital profit, the
net trading result was £699,644 (up
£230,486), which covered the pref. div.
(£12,000) and 18.8 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 12.5, 14.7, 21, 17.6 and 21.3 p.c.
back to 1948. The div., which was
lowered from 15 p.c. in 1950 to 13| p.c.
and Ilf p.c. in the two following years,
was lifted to 15 p.c. again.
Nine new stores are now in process of
being added to the chain, making the
total 180-odd, and some of the old ones
are being enlarged and modernised. The
year’s net addition to the book-value of
freeholds was £122,762 and to fittings,
etc., £146,960:
Capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Ord £3,648,219 £3,648,219 £3,648,219
Pref 150,000 150,000 150,000
Mortgages, etc... 1,470,164 2,385,000 2,355,000
Overdraft .. 936,234 —-
Creditors .. 1,389,293 8 J 48,351 1,169,810
Owing to subsids. 483,216 896,482 890,360
Employees’ funds 8,029 6,813 48,451
Tax reserve .. 456,628 414,565 688,096
Final div. .. 304,018 304,018 364,822
Freeholds .. 3,290,732* 3,393,474* 3,516,236*
Leaseholds .. 168,367* 238,926* 231,845*
Fittings, etc. .. 450,969 716,911 863,871
Stocks . . . . 3,801,469 3,257,251 3,395,830
Debtors .. .. 66,587 111,415 97,581
Shares subsids... 1,619,529 1,694,346 1,630,426
Cash, etc. .. 28,737 375,994 821,180
* After deducting unpaid balance on purchase—
£l4l,27s freeholds, £12,135 leaseholds at ,
June 30, 1953.
The growth in stocks was £138,579, and
£445,186 was added to the holding of
cash, etc. When the books closed there
was 14s. sd. coming to mortgagees and
creditors for every £1 belonging to share-
holders in the business. No hint has
yet been given when shareholders are
likely to be asked for more.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 63,162 11 p.c. = 55,000 8,162 362,633
1943.. 60,144 11 „ „ 55,000 5,144 367,777
1944.. 61,964 11 „ „ 55,000 6,964 374,741
1945.. 72,562 11 „ „ 55,000 17,562 392,803
1946.. 56,184 11 „ „ 55,000 1,184 393.487
1947.. 23,584 11 „ „ 55,000 362,071
From inner reserves, £33,985 .. 396,056
1948.. 84,844 11 p.c. = 55,000 29,444 425,500
1949.. 104,638 13 „ „ 65,000 39,638 465,138
1950.. 87,918 13 „ „ 65,000 22,918 488,057
1951.. 88,557 13 ~ „ 65,000 23,557 511,614
From inner reserves, £20,000 • • 531,614
1952.. 85,465 13 p.c. = 65,000 20,465 552,079
1953.. 97,799 15 „ „ 75,000 22,799 574,878
This big Bundaberg miller, grower and
refiner has two' efficient crushing-plants
(Millaquin and Quanaba), which are
being expanded to meet the growth in
export demand, and the near-by cane-
farms are well irrigated, thus mitigating
the effects of drought upon cane-produc-
tion and the outturn of raws. Returns
from a fine wad of investments outside
the business and moderate pickings from
refining a small portion of the Queens-
land crop not handled by C.S.R. help to
swell earnings, too. The investments total
£716,292, or £216,292 more than paid
capital. They consist of Government
securities (£545,677), shares in the Bunda-
berg Distilling Co. (in the books at
£64,951, or 60 p.c. of their face-value and
worth a lot paore), and shares in other
cos., etc. (£105,663).
Last term refinery sales dropped, owing
to the fall in Australian demand. The
distilling co. “operated profitably, though
it sold less rum following .a lift in excise
duty. The spring of £12,334 in the year s
declared net earnings came from a bigger
crushing, better export sales, and higher
prices in both the home and export
markets. For the industry as a whole, the
production of raw sugar and its distribu-
tion compare as follows;
f Production Haw Sugar
Home Export
Market, Market, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1950 .. .. 618,000 402,000 920,000
1951 .. .. 587,745 157,346 745,091
1952* .. .. 477,000 471.000 948,000
Last season got away to a dry start, but
good winter and spring rains saved the
day. Millaquin’s own outturn of raws
was 35,855 tons (up 4760 tons). The
other big factor in earnings is prices,
which moved in this way;
Home Overall
Season. Consumption. Export. Average.
1950 .. £24 11 0 £32 16 0 £2B 5 4
1951 . . 33 14 0 36 15 6 34 7 6
1952 . . 44 3 0 41 2 0 42 12 3
It was buoyant costs, or inflationary
pressures, that pushed up the figures in
both markets. Until recently the high
price obtained for the export surplus
helped to keep down the selling-price in
the home market.
The co.’s £97,799 of profit includes a
windfall of £3364 (down £6556) from the
U.K. Government on account of sugar
sold to Canada. The £97,799 was 19.5 p.c.
on capital compared with 17.1, 17.7, 17.6,
20.9 and 16.9 p.c. back to 1948. The dis-
tribution, steady at 11 p.c. for the 11
years to 1947, has been maintained at
13 p.c. since, to which a special Corona-
tion bonus of 2 p.c. was added last term,
making 15 p.c. for the year. The £22,799
that remained raised visible reserves to
£574,878, or £74,878 higher than paid
capital.
The new sugar-pact with the U.K.,
which has about seven years to run, pro-
vides for export of 600,000 tons raws p.a.
(200,000 tons more than previously), over
half of which is to be taken firm at
annually negotiated prices, and the
balance sold in the open market under
Canadian and British preferences.
Millaquin’s mill-peak figure has been
raised accordingly from 31,000 tons raws
foi 1952 to 37,000 tons for 1954, and a
lot of additional plant and equipment is
being installed to cope with the increase:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Creditors, etc.* .. 526,796 584,626 721,986
Final div. .. 45,000 45,000 55,000
Freeholds, refinery,
etc 317,909 434,006 706,632
Plantations, etc. .. 51,055 57,591 59,433
Railways, etc. .. 35,863 36,417 55.965
Stocks .. . . 174,452 331,356 185,476
Book debts .. 89,886 49,512 27,755
Investments .. 726,135 747.549 716,292
Cash .. .. 188,110 25,273 100,311
* Including taxation.
Last term £272,626 more was spent on
plant, etc., than was written off. Com-
pletion of the programme is expected
to call for a further £250,000, which was
more than covered by the holding of
Government securities and cash, etc.,
alone. So shareholders aren’t likely to be
asked to assist.
As for the current term, a record
season is in prospect, though a recent dry
spell in the Bundaberg district is, likely to
reduce original estimates. There has been
an increase of £3 16s. Bd. in the export
price, which will help to offset the rise in
freight and other charges, and net earn-
ings will also benefit from recent tax-
reductions, while costs promise to be
steadier.
Since the beginning of 1953 the price of
the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares has risen from
50s. 6d. to 58s. in the market. At the
higher figure the return is 5.1 p.c. on a
15 p.c. distribution. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 425. lid.
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
’ £ £ £ &
1944.. 191,103 6ip.c.= 151,134 39,969 728,532
1945 . 191,287 6J „ „ 151,134 40,153 768.685
1946.. 169,499 6 „ „ 139,508 29,991 798,676
1947.. 169,456 6 „ ~ 139,507 29,949 828.625
1948.. 154,451 6 „ „ 139,507 14.944 843,569
1949.. 218,331 5 .. ~ 116,257 102,074
1950 156,276 5 „ „ 116,257 40,019 985,662
1951.. 156,268 5 „ ~116,257 40,011 1,025.673
1952.. 241,273 5 ~ ~116,257 125.016 1.150,689
Decrease repairs provision, £21,130 1,129,559
1953.. 252.887 5 Jp.c.= 127,883 125,004 1,254.563
* Includes additions to reserves.
The profits in the table put the best face
on the co.’s earnings. They include
additions to the insurance and replace-
ments, etc., reserves, and are substantially
in excess of the amounts claimed by the
board, which continues to pursue a con-
servative financial policy, for reasons
which the chairman sets put in this way:
The board is very concerned with the
heavy cost of replacing old tonnage
Nowadays it costs as much to build a
vessel of 370 tons as it did pre-war to con-
struct one with a capacity of 5200 tons
It has, therefore, considered it advisable
to continue the policy of allocating sums
to reserves to the limit of the co.’s capacity.
Under favorable conditions this course
would not have been adopted, but in the
circumstances it was expedient to do so.
With things as they are such a policy
spells little more than commercial
prudence.
The profit claimed last term was
£127,887 (up £11,614), or only £4 more
than the fractionally higher diy. of
54 p.c. called for. It is reconciled with the
figures in the table in this way:
1961. 1952. 1953.
Profit claimed .. £116,268 £116,273 £127,887
Added reserves —
Insurance .. 20,000 50,000 50,000
Replacements, etc. 20,000 75,000 75,000
Profit per table .. £156,268 £241,273 £252,887
Unstated amounts were also allowed for
depreciation of fleet and plant and for
taxation ; there was an undisclosed capital
profit on sale of three obsolete cargo-
vessels, which was included in the £75,000
sent to replacements reserve, and the pro-
vision for “docking and repairs” (now
£94,869) was reduced by £21,130, appar-
ently on account of the Manunda, which
fractured a main-engine crankshaft and
was out of commission for four months.
It is difficult to say exactly what the
year’s profit amounted to, except that it
was better than the figure claimed by
the board. The £252,887 (up £11,614)
shown in the table was 10.8 p.c. on
capital as against 10.3, 6.7 and 6.7 p.c. for
the preceding terms. Nearly as much
was put on the shelf as was distributed
tc shareholders, thus lifting reserves to
£1,254,563 ; all of which is in keeping with
the board’s policy. With prospects of
more settled conditions ahead the chances
of a further small lift in the diy. are
encouraging at the moment.
The fleet —five passenger- and 16 cargo-
vessels aggregating 61,739 tons gross—is
one of the largest on the coast. Together
with tugs, lighters, wharves, etc., it figures
in the books at £1,986,062, or 37.1 p.c. of
total assets. Last term there was plenty
of cargo offering, as well as a slight
improvement in the tumround of ships,
petty industrial hold-ups were not so
pronounced, and there was less delay in
bringing freight-rates into line with
advancing costs. The co.’s investments,
which total £1,664,014, or 35.6 p.c. of
assets, contribute substantially to earn-
ings, the chairman says. They consist of
shares in subsidiaries (£136,500), shares
in other cos. (£704,864) and Government
stock, etc. (£822,650).
Financially the co. is well-shod:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £2,325,135 £2,325.185 £2.325,135
Sundry creditors* 480,716 816,222 772,344
Provident fund .. 188,910 205,754 238,509
Final div. .. 69,754 69,754 81,880
Freeholds, etc. .. 221,482 234,631 251,063
Steamers, etc. .. 1,216,204 1,700,568 1,734,999
Shares subsidiaries 136,500 136,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 216,488 281,131 256,930
Book debts and in-
vestments .. 1,109,033 1,306,861 1,279,575
Bonds, cash, etc. 1,190,482 907,864 1,012,864
* Includes provision for taxation.
Principal movement in the figures last
term was an addition of £105,000 to


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES : BU 3025 AND BW 1078
L. P. THORPE, MANAGER.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice
L LOUIS BIKKEL, of Hungarian
nationality, bom at Budapest, Hungary,
resident six years in Australia, now
residing at 5 Marne Street, Vaucluse,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948-50.
Missing Friends
Any person knowing the present where-
abouts of MYRA DOOLEY BESSIE
QUIRK or ANNIE SULLIVAN, daughters
of the late MARGARET SULLIVAN, who
was a sister of the late BARTHOLOMEW
and JOHN MoGOVERN, formerly of
Pyramid Hill but late of Bendigo in
Victoria, or who can give any informa-
tion with regard to such persons is
requested to communicate with the under-
signed.—COHEN KIRBY & CO., Solici-
tors, Pall Mall, Bendigo.
Hard or Soft?
Thick or Fine?
Upright or Oblique?
The nib that suits one man will drive
another to distraction, so we make Swan
nibs in such variety that everyone can
find one that will “answer” to his hand
exactly. That’s one of the reasons why
it is so satisfying to own a Swan —the
precision writing instrument that is
made for a lifetime of faithful service.
Swan side-lever and leverless pens are
available at all better jewellers, stationers
and stores.
Write for life
with a ...
MABIE, TODD & CO, (AUST.) PTY. LTD,, SYDNEY
53.62.1
next time m
BRING MY
mrrm/.
EVERY MAM SEEMS TO
AVO/P ME L/KE
Aom w/tn
TWO LEFT FEET
'^ s
YOUR FOOTWORK'S
ALL R/GRT, PEGGY
‘ BUT YOU WEEP TO
LEARN THE
REAP WORK FROM]
YOUR PERT/ST-
JHEFACTS ABOUT.
.BAP BREATH
lilt
peooy sees hex oeurtsr
f TO STOP BAP BREATH /
I RECGMMENP COLGATE PENTAI
iCREAAt. BROSH/N6 TEETH R/6HT ,
JETER EAT/NG W/THCOL6ATES
MAKES ym MOUTH FEELi
CLEANER LOWER*
C/KESYOUA
3 CLEAN FRESH 1*
\MOOTH ALL PAYA
LONG/a
PBGOyS HAVING W/r£
A WNtRI SINCE SHE
BECAME A CMGATE
G/EL
&
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental Literature
Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Most thoroughly proved
and accepted home
method of oral hygiene
known today.
Yes, and 2 years’ re-
search showed the Col-
gate way stopped more
decay for more people
than ever before re-
ported in dentifrice
history! No other den-
tifrice offers such proof
the most conclusive
proof ever reported for
a dentifrice of any type.
AMERICA’S LARGEST, AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST,
THE WORLD'S LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
USE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
>S TO CLEAN VOUR BREATH
✓ WHUB you CLEAN YOUR TEETH
V AND HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Buy the
Big Family
Economy Size
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who-will quote you price for the original.
Government bonds, cash, etc.
Two new cargo-vessels, one of
1400 tons and the other of 3500
tons, are due for delivery during
the last half of 1954, and a third
has been ordered since the close
of accounts.
At the annual meeting a year
ago the board was asked to go
into the question of writing-up
the book-value of assets to a
figure more in keeping with their
actual market-value. After care-
fully considering the matter
from all aspects, it has come to
the sound conclusion that “no
good purpose would be served
by any alteration of the present
basis of the figures.”
At 235. (same as a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 shares return 4.3 p.c.
on a 5i p.c. div. basis. The in-
vestor who looks for 5.6 p.c. on
his money counts on a 6j p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 31s. lid.
Berlei, Ltd.
f Dividends —s
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
Share premiums, £49,937'
To staff funds, £3729 .. 203,249
’47.. 34,862 4000 10 p.c.=16,292
Share premiums, £59,906
Assets revaluat’n, £40,814
From tax provision, £1829 325,744
To staff fund, £3709 ..
’48.. 49,124 4000 10 p.c.=21,469
Add assets rev’t’n, £16,875'
To staff fund, £4565 .. • 351,304
’49.. 43,729 4000 10 p.c.=26,479 _
Repayments from U.K.
co., £10,653 .. 1 ..361,957
To staff funds, £6571 .. 355,386
To stock reserve, £2197 .. 353,189
’50.. 59,784 4000 10 p.c.=26,625.. 382,348
Surplus tax, £2328 .. 384,676
To staff fund, £6667 .. 378,009
Share premiums, £12,500.. 390,509
’51.. 58,859 4000 10 p.c.=28,750.. 416,618
Surplus tax, £lBOO .. 418,418
To staff fund, £8450 .. 409,968
’52.. 60,657 4000 10 p.c.=37,544.. 429,081
Underprovision tax, £1813.. 427,268
To staff fund, £9913 . . 417,355
’53.. 82,627 4000 10 p.c.=47,086. . 448,896
Neither the flood of imports nor
the more competitive trading
conditions which immediately
followed halted the growth in
turnover of this soundly-estab-
lished manufacturer of women’s
foundation garments—brassieres,
corsets, etc., of which the former
figure prominently in unit sales.
Alert control, efficient plant, a
co-operative team of employees
and a policy in which the em-
phasis is upon quality, style, fit
and price have helped the
management to win and hold
the bulk of the Australian mar-
ket.
And much the same can be
said of the co.’s New Zealand
associate, Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd.
The London offshoot, Berlei
(U.K.), Ltd., is also giving a
good account of itself —its turn-
over increased by 16 p.c, last
term —and a small Sydney sub-
sidiary, Warner’s Le Gant Pty.,
reports a marked increase in
sales, too.
At the beginning of last term
the management set out on a
vigorous advertising and sales
campaign, conditions generally
improved as the year advanced,
and so did demand, and pro-
duction was stepped up to meet
it. For the whole period sales
were £81,265 (5 p.c.) stronger
than the previous year’s at
£1,687,678. Another welcome
factor which contributed to the
growth of £21,970 in net earnings
was improved costs-control;
and an extra £5074 in divs. from
subsidiaries, etc., helped, too:
1951. 1952. 1953.
& £ £
Trading profit 122,811 96,608 129,903
Investments 6,599 12,338 17,412
Total .. £129,410 £108,946 £147,315
Less
Depreciation 19,933 12,979 12,733
Taxation 48,000 33,000 50,000
Staff div. 2,618 2,310 1,955
Net profit .. 58,859 60,657 82,627
The tax-allowance was made
on the pre-Budget scale, which
means that there was an over-
provision of about £lO,OOO there.
The profit was thus better than
the £82,627 claimed, which was
enough to pay the pref. div.
(£4000) and show 16.7 p.c. on
the £470,864 of ord. capital com-
pared with 15.1, 19.1, 20.9, 15
and 21 p.c. back to 1948. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c., which
has been an annual event for the
last 18 years.
With the easing of import-
restrictions, etc., a better flow of
raw materials became available,
and the management was able
to reduce stocks (in at the lower
of cost, market- or replacement-
value) by £364,179, thus en-
abling £275,010 to be slashed
off the overdraft and the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc,,
to be lowered by £41,556:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Sj & &
Paid capital .. 340,000 515„760 519,369
Mortgage ~ 100,000 100,000 100,000
Overdraft . . 190,285 283,830 8,820
Creditors, etc... 387,676 195,754 154,198
Tax provision.. 48,000 49,405 50,000
Provident fund.
Final divs. .. 16,500 25,044 25,543
Freeholds .. 134,812 134,007 135,201
Plant .. .. 69,274 89,912 90,808
.. 112,707 125,200 140,875
Stocks . . 987,750 1,064,845 700,666
Book debts .. 190,320 181,465 235,499
Cash, etc. .. 4,216 3,445 3,777
t Shares in subsidiary cos.
The growths of £54,034 in
book-debts and £15,675 in in-
vestments were also healthy de-
velopments. Although there was
little change in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£701,381, ex-
cluding investments), current
assets covered outside liabilities
(including final div.) nearly
four times when the books
closed compared with 2.3 times
a year earlier.
Prospects of a still better
showing at next balance are en-
couraging. Since the close of
accounts monthly production
and sales have been running
ahead of last term’s monthly
averages, taxation has been re-
duced and costs should be
steadier over longer periods
following abolition of quarterly
basic-wage adjustments.
Over the last 12 months the
market lengthened its bid for
the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. from
355. 9d. to 475. At the higher
figure the return is 4.3 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, or 5.1 p.c.
should the distribution reach
12 p.c. At 265. 3d. the 8 p.c.
prefs. yield an attractive 6.1 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £l9 7s. 3d.
prefs. and 395, ords.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd.
This co. (paid capital £127,500
in 10s. shares) has been mining
and treating beach sands at
Byron Bay (N.S.W.) for zircon
and rutile for the last 18 years,
and it still maintains a needless
statistical blackout over its pro-
duction, treatment and recovery
and costs figures. Profits, divs.,
etc., have behaved in this way
since 1948:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. / —Divs serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1948.. 32,951 15 15,000 17,951 48,451
Share premiums, £23,750.. 72,201
1949.. 18,190 5 5,417 12,773 84,974
1950.. 7,770 5 6,313 1,457 86,431
Written off research, £4500 81,981
1951.. 23,965 15 19,125 4,840 86,771
1952.. 27,078 15 19,125 7,952 94,724
1953.. 21,599 15 19,125 2,474 97,198
* After deducting patent rights, £2OOO.
Weakening of the American
market was responsible for the
sharp fall in net earnings and
the div. in 1949 and 1950. Then,
following the outbreak of hos-
tilities in Korea, demand revived,
prices strengthened, earnings
responded and shareholders re-
ceived a steady 15 p.c. for the
three years to the close of last
account. The slip (£5479) in last
term’s profit was' due to a
falling-off in demand and prices
during the last half of the period,
when developments in Korea
brought a recession in metal
markets generally.
In its last quarterly report on
the Australian metal industry,
the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources says it is unlikely that
the high prices paid for rutile
concentrates in 1952 will be
maintained. During the first half
of 1953 London quotes dropped
from £SSS-60 to £S4?i-52i per
ton. And, speaking of the indus-
try as a whole, the grade of sands
being worked has recently re-
ceded, too. The long-term pros-
pects for the industry will
largely depend upon the extent
of developments in the ultimate
commercial uses of titanium and
zirconium, and upon the level
of mining costs.
At June 30 last the co.’s
current assets totalled £146,356,
of which £56,853 was stores, etc.
Current liabilities, including the
final div., amounted to £58,855.
The f.-p. 10s. shares, which
reached a peak of 28s. 3d. in
1952, recently sold at 12s. 9d.
Sons of Gwalia, Ltd.
Since it began operations at
Leonora, on the North Cool-
gardie field (W.A.), this London-
controlled goldmining co. (paid
capital £162,500 in 10s. shares)
has distributed £2,005,987 in
dividends, the last being 2s. a
share 'in July, 1951. Average
declared rate for the five years
to 1948 was 12 p.c. Since then
rising costs and labor difficulties
have played havoc with earn-
ings, as the following table
shows: i
Ore Working
Treated, Gold, Costs.* Loss.
Dec., Tons. Fine Oz. s. d. £'
1948.. 67,289 18,139 45 2.8 15,911
Profit.t
1949.. 91,399 23,572 43 2.7 19,968
1950.. 101,112 25,628 48 9.9 27,962
Loss.
1951.. 82,752 19,186 59 3.8 7,054
Proflt.f
1952.. 95,494 23,768 59 7.5 11,408
* Including development, f After deduct-
ing U.K. income and/or profit taxes.
For those on the register three
of the last five years have been
dry ones. For the profits won
in 1949 and 1950, when divs. of
10 p.c. and 20 p.c. respectively
were declared (subject to U.K.
income tax), shareholders can
thank the rise in the price of gold
which followed the devaluation
of sterling.
Last year a bigger crushing of
slightly-better-grade ore (approx.
sdwt. as against 4.6dwt. in 1951),
and steady level of working
costs, due partly to installation
of oliver-filters and increased
mechanisation of the mine, to-
gether with £12,000 of premiums
on gold sold on the open market,
enabled the co. to show a profit
of £11,408, or 7 p.c. on capital,
as against a loss of £7054 for
1951. No div. was paid.
At December 31 last ore re-
serves were put at 591,136 tons
(down 18,914 tons) averaging
5.4dwt., and developments in
both the lower and upper levels
have disclosed additional ton-
ages of better than run-of-mine
ore. Also, arrangements are
being made to resume develop-
ment at the bottom of the mine
—the main shaft is down 5390 ft.
For the first 5£ months of
1953 the co.’s gold-production
shows an increase of 30780 z.
over the corresponding period of
1952. Chairman A. H. Moreing
says “our problem at this mine
is essentially a labor problem;
if we get the men we can give
the results.”
Including stores (£72,464),
current assets totalled £115,548
and current liabilities £33,645 at
December 31 last. The scrip,
which fetched up to 12s. 3d. in
the Australian market in 1952,
was recently offered at Bs. Id.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
There were 200 guests at the late-
afternoon party given at Government
House by the Administrator, Sir Charles
Lowe, and Lady Lowe. Multicolored
cinerarias mixed with green foliage were
a feature in the entrance-hall, whilst in
the State drawing-room, where the party
was held, log-fires burned and tall vases
of pink and white blossom, lilies and
spring flowers added gay colors.
The hosts (Lady Lowe wearing a coat-
frock of black silk faille spotted in red
to match her small straw cloche) were
assisted in receiving the guests by their
son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. W.
J. Wark, and son and daughter-in-law. Dr.
and Mrs. T. E. Lowe. With Archbishop
Booth was Mrs. Booth, who wore a fur
jacket over her navy frock. Mrs. John
Cain, wife of the Premier, chose a black
wool frock and a small black velvet cap.
With Air-Marshal Sir Donald Hardman
was his wife, who added to a steel-grey
frock a matching winged shell hat lined
with mushroom-pink.
Lady Rowell, who was with Lieut.-
General Sir Sydney Rowell, topped her
black frock with a small white cloche.
Sir Clifden and Lady Eager were there,
she in ice-blue angora and a small black
hat. Mrs, Harold Holt’s frock of black
silk shantung had a tiered skirt. Mrs.
Geoffrey Grimwade’s black suit was high-
lighted with a small black beret. Mrs.
John Rodd’s attractive dove-grey velvet
coat was worn with an emerald-green hat.
Mrs. F, E. Bolte wore a smart black
ensemble. Dame Mary Daly a black
Persian-lamb coat and a platter-hat of
pale-mauve velvet. Marion McPherson’s
cocktail-frock was of bronze tie-silk.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were 1000 at the Ex-Prisbners
of War and Relatives’ Association’s Coro-
nation Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall.
Color-patches of all units were set around
the walls and on the tables, and the
association banner was hung behind the
stage. Colonel E. E. Dunlop, president
of the association, and Mrs. Dunlop re-
ceived the official guests, who included
Chief of the General Staff Lieut-General
Sir Sydney Rowell and Lady Rowell, Sir
George and Lady Holland, Mr. J. T.
O’Carroll (representing the Premier) and
Mrs. O’Carroll, Mr. and Mrs. R. Briggs,
Colonel and Mrs. A. C. Slater, Mr. M. D.
Wilson, State president of the R.S.L., and
Mrs, Wilson, Mr. and Mrs. J. Graham-
Duffy and the Leo Purcells. Proceeds
from the ball were for the association’s
Patriotic Relief Fund.
☆ ☆ ☆
Back from an extended tour overseas.
Sir Bernard Heinze was conductor of the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra for the
concert at which visiting virtuoso William
Kapell was soloist in the Brahms Con-
certo No. 1. In the audience were Lady
Heinze, the David Felsmans, Ada Free-
man, Mrs. Ivan Maxwell and her
daughter Adrienne (whose black frock
was livened with a, deep fichu collar of
white organza and matching cuffs).
Violinist Alan Loveday and his wife, U.S.
Consul-General Henry Stebbins and Mrs.
Stebbins, the Aubrey Gibsons, Marie
Balfour (she in a wide-skirted frock of
embroidered grey linen), Mrs. Herbert
Brookes, Mrs. Kennedy Smith, Mrs. H.
Richardson and Dr. and Mrs, Arnold
Richardson.
☆ ☆ ☆
The buffet-dinner party given by Mrs.
P, Graham Egerton at the English-
Speaking Union’s rooms was a gay pre-
lude to the Great Expectations Ball, which
was sponsored by the union’s younger-
group for its scholarship fund. The
hostess wore orchid-pink flower-printed
mauve satin. Among the many guests
were Maria Vanning, whose pleated frock
was of gold-patterned white nylon;
Erica Hellstrom, whose choice was pastel-
pink satin brocade. Lorraine Young
wore pale-pink chiffon. Rosemary
Gipps’s crinoline gown was of pale-beige
net; Joy Alston wore a bouffant gown
of black organza patterned with large
white flowers; Mrs. Nancy Shields’s
buttercup-yellow tulle frock was a wide-
skirted gown. Mrs. Dudley Henderson’s
gown was fashioned from a pastel-blue
tissue sari and was silver-starred; of
mauve satin-brocade was Mrs. D. D.
Mackinnon’s gown. Mrs. Miles Cox’s
laces were black and silver.
Mrs. W, A. Irwin, wife of the High
Commissioner for Canada, was guest-of-
honor at a luncheon-party at Menzies’
hostessed by Mrs. Roy Blake, wife of
the Canadian Trade Secretary. Brought
from a garden in Canada, maple-leaves
which had been waxed festooned the
luncheon-table. Guests included Lady
Lowe, Lady Dixon, Mrs. John Cain,
Lady Rowell and the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. R. H. Solly.
Mrs. Irwin was also guest at an after-
noon-tea party at the Toorak home of
Mrs. W. K. Black, where there Was a
gathering of Canadian women resident in
this city. Mrs. Irwin wore a grey suit
and matching beret. Mrs. Joseph Burke,
newly-elected president of the Women’s
Group of the Canada Club, was in grey-
and-black-printed-silk. Mrs. Roy Blake’s
black faille frock was pin-spotted in
white, and her white beret had a white
ostrich-feather mount. Other guests were
Mesdames Bernard Brown, J. K. Lennon,
Don Webster, Peter Wilson, Arthur Wilks
and Sydney Chernick.
Mrs. David Harries, wife of Acling-
Rear-Admiral Harries, is president of the
committee arranging the dinner-dance at
the Royale. which is to be held on
November 4, proceeds going to
the Chapel Fund at Flinders Naval
Depot. When Mrs. Harries leaves for
Washington early next year she will take
with her her younger son, 11-year-old
Christopher, but will leave behind Sandy,
the elder son, who is still at school.
Acting-Rear-Admiral Harries has been
appointed senior Australian defence
representative in Washington.
The tailored suit was , the choice of
many Caulfield racegoers, but the spring
touch was achieved mostly by gay straw
hats. Mrs. S. G. Garnsworthy, wife of
the chairman of the M.R.C., wore with
her black suit a white straw hat which
had the petal-brim underlined with jade-
green and a bustle-bow of white chiffon.
Mrs. Leonard Darling topped her grey
skirt with a grey-and-white-cheek jacket;
her white straw hat featured a side-peak.
The skirt of Mrs. Jim Peters’s navy-and-
white-check suit was finely pleated, the
jacket piped with navy to match her
navy cloche. Mrs. Trevor Clarke’s cigar-
brown suit had one lapel of mink; her
beret was in matching velvet. Mrs. Peter
Watkins, also chose mink to trim her
smoky-blue pleated jacket-suit.
STDNET
Quite the chattiest mannequin-parade
of the season was the one arranged by
Mrs. Roy Nilsson for the English-
Speaking Union at the Rose Bay home of
Mrs. W. Hyams one sunny afternoon last
week. The dresses by Millerson were
modelled not only by the youthful
Shirley Hyams and Astrid Nilsson, but
by, among others, Sydney personality
Mrs. Phyllis Burke, who brought the
house down by referring to herself
(quite inaccurately) as “The horror
stretch.” Mrs. L, J. Herron was present,
also Lady Plowman and Lady McNicoll
(whose small platter hat in natural balli-
buntal was among the smartest worn). A
special word of congratulation went to
Mrs. Hyams, who had provided the
afternoon-tea for 120 people, and to Mrs.
H. Woodhouse, who had made all the
cakes and scones for it.
☆ ☆ ☆
Hyde Park is looking very glamorous
with the trees burgeoning forth so freshly
that the chlorophyll industry should
be safe for another year at least. Noted
that all bare patches are being planted
with new grass, and that in Centennial
Park the lakes are being drained and
cleaned out, presumably a clean-up in
advance of the Royal tour next year.
If her Majesty would only visit us once
a year Sydney would become quite well-
groomed.
☆ ☆ *
Some men might think that a club
which exists to teach women to talk
would be somewhat superfluous, but the
Penguin Club of Australia, which has
been doing this very thing for 15 years,
is one of our healthiest organisations for
women, has 700 members and branches
in every State except Queensland. Many
outstanding women speakers (including
Miss Saide Parker, who speaks for
Legacy with enough eloquence to split
the atom) acknowledge their debt to early
training at Penguin luncheons. The club
is to have its second Federal convention
in Sydney next month, when Federal
president Mrs. Jean Ellis and State presi-
dent Mrs. John Hicks will welcome
members from this and other States, in-
cluding W.A.
Although there are 22 professions
represented in the membership, the aim
of the Penguin Club is largely to
encourage all women, especially house-
wives, in the art of public-speaking, so
that they may put their views to local
councils, to committees, to Parents and
Citizens’ Associations, etc., so clearly
and vividly that the men will have to
listen—surely a most laudable object!
Mrs. Donald Russell Gordon , who was
married last Saturday at the Congrega-
tional Church , Killara, is the second
daughter of Mr. Lyle Moore, N.S.W.
president of the Liberal party, and the
late Mrs. Moore. Her husband is the
only son of Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Gordon,
of Homebush. She wore tucked white
nylon net and carried lilfes-of-the -valley.
Her bridesmaids, Ruth Moore and Joyce
Gordon, wore blue hailspot nylon.
Reception was held at the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron at Kirribllfi, where the
bride’s sister, Mrs. Derrick Webster
(Guyra), helped her father receive the
guests.
Gallery week this week, and for the
first time the paintings may be viewed
at night, thanks to the newly-installed
lighting system which, unbeautiful in
itself, brings out the beauty in other
tilings- At present there is an exhibition
of furniture and household-ornaments
from the Colonial period at the Gallery,
and lectures are being given to stimulate
public interest in the works of art shown
there. Lunch-hour speakers this Wednes-
day, Thursday and Friday will be James
Gleeson, Erik Langker and Lyndon Dads-
well. In the afternoons at 3 p.m. lectures
will be given by Douglas Dundas (Thurs-
day) and Hal Missingham (Friday).
☆ * ☆
The “Night in Hawaii,” held at Glen
Ascham on Saturday night by the com-
mittee of the Black and White Ball, cap-
tured the atmosphere of Hawaiian nights
in all but the warm, balmy weather
necessary, and that’s something a com-
mittee can do very little about. Entrances
and balconies were lit by flares in tall
iron stands, and leis were worn by
everyone. Short cotton dresses in colorful
designs were worn by nearly all the
girls, though Susan King, struck a dif-
ferent note with a jazzy-looking suit of
waistcoat and matador pants in floral
cotton.
Judy Crossing’s green-check cotton was
picked out on the bodice with black jet,
Madeleine Archbutt wore rose cotton
laced on the shoulders with white.
Marcia Moses’s dress of Caribbean green
was elegant, and Beth Campbell, who
with her sister Jill was on the committee,
looked striking in white pique skirt and
a pink-and-white blouse. Efficient bar-
men in floral shirts were Tim Whitney,
Robert West and Ben Arnott. There
were about 250 present at the party,
which was in aid of the Royal Blind
Society.
☆ ☆ ☆
The “conversation value” of design in
dress materials seems to have influenced
many of the entrants for the Grafton
Award (on exhibition last week at D.J.’s
Gallery). Oddness of motif was con-
spicuous by its presence, the goanna
appearing at least three times and the
winning entry by Miss Marion Fletcher
including mummies in tombs among its
black hieroglyphics on a kingfisher back-
ground. The junior winner, 15-year-old
Catherine Pennington, chose a prettier,
more conventional theme in white cameos
set in pale-blue. There were 1000 entries,
of which 200 were displayed. Miss
Fletcher, who is Scottish, but now lives
in Melbourne, where she teaches design
at the Technical College, received 300gns.,
and Catherine, a student at Loreto
Convent, Kirribilli, won 20gns.
* ☆ ☆
Two novel food-containers seen in the
shops this week, one a rosy, life-sized
tomato with green sepals and stalk. It’s
for dispensing tomato-sauce, and would
be a good way to encourage
eat that condiment —if, of course, one
wished to do so. The other is an outsize
apple (about lOin. in diameter), either
red or green and specially insulated for
keeping food hot or cold —very decora-
tive and unusual. The tomato is 6s. 6d.,
the apple £5 ss.
☆ ☆ *
About 300 people were welcomed by
the Erik Langkers to the preview of the
Royal Art Society’s exhibition at the
Education Department’s Gallery. Interest
was shown in the portrait by Alda de
Francesco, who was present with her
husband. Dr. De Francesco, in Norman
Lindsay’s numerous exhibits and in
Albert Sherman’s 3D camellias. Interest
was also distracted by Mrs. Tom
Williams’s hat, all made up of black and
gold sequins and by Mrs. David Klippel’s
brown suede shoes with their gold hail-
spots. Noted among those present were
Sir John and Lady McLaren, Miss
Margaret Gillespie, Madame Rose Scott,
Mrs. H. Twigden, Miss Doris Fitton and
Dr. and Mrs. George Elliott.
☆ ☆ ☆
Interesting fact related by Richard
Collett, when with other stars of the
“South Pacific” company he was guest-
of-honor at a luncheon of the Overseas
Club, was that in Sweden, where he comes
from, there are two theatres (sponsored
by the Government) which award
pensions to the artists under contract.
The men at 52 receive £ISOO a year and
the women £IOOO a year at 50. “Better,”
as he commented, “than a member of
Parliament.”
☆ ☆ *
New Zealand’s Dominion Day was
celebrated in Sydney by the N.Z. Club
of N.S.W. with a ball at the White City,
where silver ferns decorated the tables,
and the Australian and New Zealand
flags were draped on the walls. The
president, Mrs. E. Hempton, was helped
by Maurice Garlick with Judy Steele and
the T. O. Hayeses. The proceeds of this
ball will go to the entertainment of the
Korean troops, not only those from
Maoriland but Australians also.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney’s cold and showery weathei
during the weekend didn’t discourage
the many people interested in North
Shore Line fetes and garden-displays.
Thousands flocked to the fete at Barker
College, Hornsby, while Cleveland-street,
Wahroonga, was choked with cars bring-
ing people to the Prouille Dominican
Convent fete, and the inspection of the
garden of Mrs. E. T. Thring’s home,
Clwydon, in aid of the Dr. Barnardo
Homes. About 4000 people visited this
beautiful garden on Saturday to see the
azaleas (of which there are 3000 bushes
in bloom) and the 60ft. gum-tree which
at the moment is garlanded from tip to
base with blossoming wistaria.


Divorce Notice#
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA
Number 26 of 1953.
IK DIVORCE.
TO FRANCIS VICTOR WESTON formerly
of 34 Charles Street Launceston in Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a Notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the Petition of FLORENCE
MAY WESTON of 157 Augusta Road
Hobart in Tasmania praying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid within thirty days of the publi-
cation of this notice an appearance must
be entered at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart.—H. R. DOBBIE, Principal
Registrar.
OGILVIE McKENNA WILMSHURST
& MILLS, Colonial Mutual Life Building,
Corner Elizabeth and Macquarie Streets,
Hobart, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— IK Divorce.
TO WALTER WILLIAM WOOD late of
212 Wentworth Street Port Kembla in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that ELLEN BLANCHE WOOD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3155
of 1953 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for 3 years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 15th day of December 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from JOHN BARMETT
GREAVES, Solicitor, 160 Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RANDOLPH BROWNE late of
Forbes N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
BEVERLEY JOYCE BROWNE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 159 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899-19.51 If you wish to defend the
suit you may enter an appearance on or
before the 2nd day of December 1953 at
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney A copy of the
Petition may be had without charge
from J. K. DIXON. Solicitor, 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEI7
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM AUSTIN LEWIS late of
65 Elizabeth Bay Road Elizabeth Bay.—
TAKE NOTICE that JOY PATRICIA
LEWIS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1297 of 1953 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by Ist December
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from HERBERT SMITH
& W. B. PHILLIPS, Solicitors, of 113.
Pitt Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN.
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH -WALES — In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR ALLEN WARWICK late of
Ipswich Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that BEATRICE CECIL WARWICK has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4333 of
1951 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 4th day of December 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BARRY NORRIS WILDES
& LENDER, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
■«
/TV
m
■<*K
> PI
#T\'
mm
SSSSiS=
“TOM CORBETT-
SPAGE CADET”
Thrill to the exciting revelations of a peep into the
space world of tomorrow. “Tom Corbett —Space
Cadet” is an enthralling adventure presentation based
entirely on scientific fact. Brought to you with the
good wishes of the makers of Kiwi Polish.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT 2CA
3CV 4BH 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
And many other commercial broadcasting
stations throughout the nation.
Mil
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Royal Art Society
The large and well-hung 74th
annual exhibition of the Royal
Art Society at the Education
Department’s galleries, Sydney,
is very pleasant to look upon
both for what Erik Langker
describes in his foreword to the
catalogue as “a certain artistic
integrity” as well as for what
that integrity achieves in a con-
siderable number of excellent
paintings. There is little stunt-
ing here, little pursuit of sensa-
tion ; there are greater or lesser
degrees of skill, observation and
inspiration, but those qualities
are at least evident in the
majority of paintings, and
amount almost to a calm, un-
shakeable assertion of enduring
artistic standards.
Outstanding in good com-
pany are Lance Solomon’s
beautifully sensitive explorations
of the distances, shadows, hazes
and mysteries of the Australian
bush in “Winter Shadows”
(bought by the N. S. Wales
National Gallery) and “August,
Bundanoon” ; Norman Lindsay’s
richly glowing oils; James R.
Jackson’s “Landscape, South
Coast,” with echoes of Corot in
its trees, and his “Sunlit Sand-
hills” (bought by the Gallery),
with sun-splashed sand which
looks as though you might bury
your feet in it; Howard Ashton’s
“Moonrise,” with its excellent
rendering of a scrubby fore-
ground and a difficult sky with a
mass of back-lighted clouds;
Mary Edwards’s handsomely-
executed portrait of Doris Fit-
ton ; Leonard Long’s vigorous,
uncomplicated statement about
trees and earth and sky in “Hill-
side, South Coast” ; and Albert
Rydge’s blend of shade and light
and color in “Chrysanthemums”
(bought by the Gallery).
Garrett Kingsley has two very
fine portraits—fine in the form-
ing of the head and features, in
the building-up of flesh and in
the painting of skin ; they need,
to perfect them, a better, firmer
rendering of shoulders and
breasts ; or else confining just to
the head-studies.
H. A. Hanke, Erik Langker,
Douglas Pratt, Robert Johnson
and Hayward Veal are well and
typically represented; Isabel
Mackenzie has a nicely soft
impression of “Summer Morn-
ing, Botany,” and Rubery
Bennett an imposing “After-
noon, Burragorang Valley,” so
full of details in both light and
objects that it might be called
photographic except that it is
difficult to imagine anyone else
achieving the same effect, photo-
graphically or otherwise. H.
Edgecombe’s “Mists of Morn-
ing” and “The Crossing” have
much more freedom and minor
lyricism about them than a lot
of the artist’s work this com-
mentator has seen.
The watercolor section could
be stronger. It is led by two
minor demonstrations of tech-
nique by Norman Lindsay ; half
a dozen G. K. Townshend’s
doing much the same thing;
Margaret Coen’s lovely flower-
piece, alive and softly brilliant;
Cedric Emanuel’s charming
“Perugia, Italy” (bought by the
Gallery); and supported by
Douglas Pratt, Erik Langker,
Mollie Flaxman, Elsie Danger-
field, Jean Derrin and others.
❖ ♦> ❖
Australian Art!
“A retrospective exhibition of
Australian painting” at the N. S.
Wales National Art Gallery
would seem to suggest that Aus-
tralian painting has come from
Conrad Martens, Skinner
Prout, Buvelot and Piguenit,
through Conder, Hilder,
Streeton, Gruner, Tom Roberts,
Walter Withers, Rupert Bunny,
Lambert, Mclnnes, Hugh Ram-
say, Phillips Fox and others to
reach its present culmination in
the works of Dobell, Drysdale,
Friend, Nolan and Sali Herman.
That, of course, is the kind of
nonsense put out by the art
critics of the Sydney daily Press,
and, apparently, subscribed to by
the Gallery. The current exhi-
bition includes five Dobells,
three Drysdales,. two Arthur
Boyds, two by Lloyd Rees, three
Friends, two Nolans and two
Hermans. That is all right, and
Dobell, Drysdale and Rees par-
ticularly have a fair claim to
their place in any survey of
Australian art, but surely it is
impossible to justify an exhibi-
tion which includes them in such
strength while restricting itself
to one Norman Lindsay, to
three Heysens (a watercolor, a
flowerpiece and the familiar
“Hill of Creeping Shadow”) and
to one Lance Solomon and
which completely ignores, among
many others, the late Percy
Lindsay and a portrait-painter of
the calibre of Ivor Hele.
And when the omission of
Percy Lindsay and Hele is con-
sidered against the inclusion of
two slight paintings by Margaret
Preston, of two surrealist experi-
ments by Eric Wilson, of Eric
Smith’s smudgy “Crucifixion,”
and of indifferent paintings and
miscellaneous abstracts by Noel
Counihan, Grace Crowley,
Ralph Balson, Jean Bellette,
Adrian Feint, "Godfrey Miller,
Anne Wienholt and other minor
painters the exhibition itself be-
comes as farcical as the opinion
which once lumped Gruner and
Streeton into “the unfortunate
period” of Australian art.
Stage and Music
Brisbane Youth Concert
Brisbane’s latest youth concert
was a disappointingly light-
weight affair, leading the youth
audience through some of
music’s pleasant enough valleys
without so much as a glance
towards the peaks.
Much of the programme was
devoted to works written by
composers in their youth, an
idea which might have produced
a sparkling evening of music
had the pieces been more care-
fully chosen. As it was, the con-
cert’s chief exhilaration came in
a Slavonic Rhapsody of Dvorak,
driven along at a furious pace
by the unyielding baton of con-
ductor Clive Douglas.
There were no Slav high-
spirits in George Butterworth s
“Shropshire Lad” or John Ire-
land’s “Concertino Pastorale,”
both highly reflective in mood
and failing to make a strong
impression because they, were
played one after the other with-
out a change of scene.
The orchestral playing at this
concert rarely rose above
routine, but there was one very
bright spot in the performance
of Donald Westlake in Mozart’s
A Major Clarinet Concerto.
*X* *X* ❖
Sydney University Concert
The annual concert given in
the Great Hall by the Univer-
sity’s Musical Society contained
music of some worth: Bach’s
Magnificat in D Major, and an
organ prelude and fugue,
English madrigals, Vaughan
Williams’s Festival Te Deum
and some Mozart.
The' best concerted singing
came from the two groups of
chamber choirs. The Madrigal
Group, under David Barkla, sang
several English madrigals with
delicate balance of tone, and,
better, a feeling for the music.
The Graduate Group, conducted
by G. Faunce Allman, gave
excellent expression to Vaughan
Williams’s Five Folksongs. The
women’s voices were particularly
good, and in the climactic phases
achieved no little beauty.
The trio which made up the
Villanelle Recorder Consort
played with neat integration
music by Mozart, Hook and
Farber, and organist William
Peirce made Bach’s Prelude and
Fugue in A Minor a work of
strict precision.
Bach’s Magnificat and the
Vaughan Williams’s Te Deum
were sung by the society’s full
choir under G. Faunce Allman.
♦♦♦ *X* ❖
Sydney Music-lovers* Society
Three singers were on the
programme of the concert given
by this society, which is
encouraging young musicians.
Mary Blake, a contralto, with
a respectable range, a full-bodied
tone of quality and a high intel-
ligence to direct its use, invested
Brahms’s “Vain Suit” with the
exact blending of mischievous-
ness and mock seriousness which
the song demands. Richard
Strauss’s “All Souls’ Day” was
nicely phrased. In these, and in
a group of negro spirituals and
a Celtic folksong, the singer
demonstrated a mastery of clear
enunciation.
Richard Linden has a baritone
of good timbre which he uses
for the sensitive play he can get
upon it rather than for volume.
He brought delicate tonal light
and shade to bear upon a group
of ballads, though where reson-
ance was called for he was not
lacking.
Graham Clift, whose bass-
baritone has some weight in the
middle register, sang Gounod’s
“Vulcan’s Song” and airs by
Handel and Purcell.
Talkies
“Shane” (Sydney Prince
Edward): This little classic
among films on pioneering has
pretty well every necessary
ingredient a strong story,
superb scenery in color, char-
acters drawn with admirable
fidelity, lucid and artistic direct-
ing and a cast which could
hardly be improved upon.
It is no “action - packed”
western, though the theme — of
the hostility of cattlemen to-
wards new settlers —offers plenty
of opportunity for it. George
Stevens has used a good deal of
subtlety in his direction, and the
mental conflicts and the clashing
of wills come above the physical
action.
Alan Ladd gives a very fine
performance as the quiet new-
comer whose seeming anxiety to
keep out of trouble piles up a
lot of that commodity for men
who misread the signs. Van
Heflin, as the staunch leader of
the settlers, gives a solid por-
trayal, and Jack Palance has the
bleak eyes to go with his role of
hired assassin.
“Desert Rats” (Sydney Plaza):
This disappointing film has less
to do with history than with the
story of a British captain who is
seconded for special duty to the
raw Australians, and for whom
he evinces a special dislike.
Some of the battle-scenes are
well presented—as, for instance,
when the gunners are firing over
open sights at Rommel’s head-
on advancing tanks, and in the
blowing-up by a small volunteer
raiding force of a German
ammunition - dump but the
general impression is of just
another war film among a dozen
others, most of which were better
done.
“So Little Time” (Sydney
Embassy): Though the theme of
this isn’t new —two nationals of
opposing countries at war falling
in love —the material has been
handled expertly and with warm
sympathy.
In this case the man is a
German occupation - com-
mandant and the girl a Belgian
in whose mother’s chateau the
commandant takes up his
quarters. They are drawn to-
gether by a mutual love of the
piano. The story unfolds natur-
ally, it has a fair quota of
tension and, excitement and the
denouement is coldly logical.
Sensitive performances come
from Marius Goring and Maria
Schell.
“The Girl Next Door”
(Sydney Mayfair): Spontaneous
gaiety rides this attractive tuneful
and well-dressed musical which
has the benefit of Dan Dailey’s
nimble legs, pleasant baritone
and cheerful personality, June
Haver’s good looks and dancing
ability and—wonder of wonders!
—a tenor (Dennis Day) who
sings his songs joyously instead
of howling them lugubriously.


OUR NEW SELECTION
The Great Milk
Enterprise
by "STEELE RUDD" (Arthur H. Davis)
AT first we encountered re-
verses. No rain for months ;
nothing but heat —heat and
scorching gales. Then it rained
when we least required it, in the
middle of the hay-making, and
poured for weeks—poured till
the cut-off thirty acres of oats,
the only crop in the district,
rotted and was ruined.
Two successive seasons the
wheat failed. Once, when it
had grown higher than the
fence a late frost blackened and
withered it all up in one night,
and once it didn’t grow at all.
“Don’t know,” said Dad
gloomily, “don’t know at all.”
Then, after reflecting, “Jimmy
Tyson himself couldn’t stand
much o’ these seasons. Most
uncertain. A season or two
more ’n’ a man might lose all
he’s ever earned an’ not have a
bloomin’ stick.”
Dad’s reflections only made
him unhappy. He wasn’t as
brave as he used to be, and the
loss of a few pounds worried
him and gave him nightmares.
Dad was fond of money now.
He thought more of it than he
did of Mother.
Dad complained of his pros-
pects to old Martin McEvoy of
the Twelve Mile. Martin be-
lieved in butter. He milked a
few old cows and once or twice
a week trotted his cart to the
railway-station ; and the inhabi-
tants of Saddletop would stand
at their doors and stare and grin
at him whenever he passed along
the road. Martin and his butter
were sources of amusement to
them. They regarded it as un-
dignified to take round a lot of
old milkers and drag fluid out of
them. They were farmers.
“I can’t see what you’ve t’
growl about,” McEvoy said,
casting an eye over our lucerne-
paddocks and at the cattle
camped near the gate. “If I hed
them paddocks and them cows
I’d mek a thousan’ a year.”
Dad grunted his incredulity.
“I would —no darn mistake.”
A pause. “Out o’ ten I mek four
quid a week now! ” And Martin
looked defiant.
“Out o’ butter?” Dad stared.
“Yes, butter!” Martin
shouted. “A long sight better’n
wheat.” Then he jumped from
his cart and dragged some papers
from his greasy trouser-pocket.
He showed Dad an invoice and
a cheque. Dad didn’t take his
eyes off the cheque till Martin
returned it to his pocket with a
triumphant snort; then he
looked at the lucerne paddocks
and the cows and thought.
Martin drove on.
For several days Dad was in-
active. He spent his time in a
chair on the veranda. Dave and
Joe missed him in the paddock.
They wished he would stay on
the veranda all his life. But Dad
was only working out a prob-
lem.
Dad left the veranda suddenly
one afternoon and went among
the cattle. A fine-looking lot
they were —sleek and fat —but
beyond an odd one killed for
our own use, which mostly went
bad in the cask and was thrown
away, they were only a nuisance
on the place and devoured more
hay than they were worth. To
Dad, though, they were price-
less. He was never done with
admiring them. They were his
pictures, his oil-paintings, his
art gallery,
“Sixty-five cows. ...twenty-six
pounds a week,” Dad muttered
and returned to the house and
sat till tea. Dad was cheerful
and questioned Dave about the
ploughing. Then he broke new
ground and spoke enthusiastic-
ally about dairying. He went
into figures' and said the cow-
yard was to be put in working
order the next day. Dave was
silent. Sarah was inclined to
debate the matter, but Dad
silenced her. “I’ve thought it all
out,” he said, waving his hand,
“and know just what I’m about.”
Breaking day. A hard, biting
frost that whitened everything
and crunched and cracked be-
neath you when you walked
over the land. Cold! Charity
was nothing to it. The horses
stood shivering at the big gate,
waiting for their hay, cockatoos
screamed in the trees up the
gully. Cook’s roosters crowed
faintly in the distance—ours
lustily answered back—horse-
bells tinkled-tankled on the re-
serve, the smoke of a camp-fire
curled into the frosty air, forms
of horsemen moved quietly
about and a thousand head of
travelling cattle took shape.
A whipcrack, a shout or two,
and the cows, with Bill close on
their heels, rushed into the
yard.
Dave and Joe and Cranky
Jack came out, grumbled at the
cold, stared at the travelling
cattle moving from the reserve
and started milking. They
milked in silence and were
nearly finished when Dad’s
angry voice was heard at the
barn. He wanted to know why
the devil the horses were not
fed, and shuffled about yelling
for Bill.
Sarah brought a can of hot
tea and some bread and butter
into the yard. Dad came along
swinging his arms.
“They don’t want that here,”
he snapped. “Take it away!”
Joe grabbed some of the
provender and swilled a cup of
tea. Sarah grinned.
Dad scowled and measured
the milk in the tins with his eye,
then entered the yard and in-
spected the cows and stared
sternly at the milkmen. Dad was
a watchful overseer.
Dad turned and called bolster-
ously to Sarah as she returned
to the house. Joe, in a cheerful
mood, pointed a cow’s teat over
his shoulder and directed a
stream of milk at Dad. Dad
danced round and looked in the
air and down at his feet and
wiped his neck with his hand,
Then he growled at a red cow
that was facing him, shaking her
head and throwing froth from
her nose.
Joe entered into an argument,
across the yard, with Dave about
a pony mare of Doolan’s.
“Get on with the milkin’,”
Dad said impatiently, “an’ let
the cows out—lots to be done
without yarnin’.” And he
hobbled round again, returning
to the same spot and exhibiting
increased impatience. „
“She’s by B-b-badger,” Joe
went on.
“Gerrout!” Dave said.
“B-b-bet y’ quid.” And as if
to book the bet, Joe stood up,
placing his bucket on the
ground.
“Dammit!” Dad hollered,
“Why ’n the devil can’t y’ get
on? Are y’ goin’ to be?” —
Joe looked at him. The red
cow with the frothy nose had
approached Dad closely, and
seemed to mistake him for a
heap of hay. She wasn’t a hand-
some beast however you viewed
her, or a dangerous-looking one,
either.
“L-l-look out that red cow
d-d-don’t charge,” Joe said
(which was the last thing in the
world he expected the brute to
do).
Dad glanced down quickly,
He was taken by surprise. Sud-
den consciousness of the cow’s
proximity startled him. Like a
rooster hit with a brick when
halfway up his top note, he cut
short a yell intended for Joe and,
lifting his big right foot, aimed
a heavy kick at the cow’s head,
His boot, a hard, ill-shaped
blucher, grazed her forehead
and, sliding under the animal’s
hoop-horns, held fast. The cow
swung round. Dad dropped on
his back, clutched with both
hands at the ground and waved
his left leg menacingly at the
brute. Finding Dad a fixture,
she became hysterical. She bel-
lowed and ran backwards and
put her tongue out in an ugly
curl.
“My G-G-God! Help, help! ”
Dad shouted. The other cows
rushed round the yard. One
shoved the rails down and they
all passed out.
Dave and Joe sprang to Dad’s
assistance. Neither, for the
moment, could sRe a way to ex-
tricate him. Cranky Jack
jammed a finger into each of
his ears and laughed and looked
humorous. Dave rushed to the
cow’s horns, Joe to her tail, then
the other way about.
Round the yard the cow
backed, bellowing more and
more. She trampled over Joe’s
bucket and spilt the milk and
wiped it up with Dad.
Joe at last seized Dad’s hands
and pulled back, pulled till he
lost footing and fell down. Then
the cow backed right out of the
yard, bumping Dad heavily on
the fallen rails. Dad cursed at
every bump. She proceeded
backwards towards the barn.
“Finding Dad a fixture, she became hysterical."
Sarah rushed on the scene wail-
ing “Oh, my gracious!”—and
frightened the beast more. Joe
recovered himself and seized
Dad’s hands again. Two small
dogs, constant companions of
Dad’s, arrived. They barked
and bit the air near the cow’s
head, sometimes near Dad’s, and
fell over one another in a
struggle for position, till at last
Dave, who got tired of shouting
to them, let go Dad’s leg, which
he was struggling to release, and
kicked one of them into the
air.
Mother, in state of wild alarm,
appeared and added to the use-
lessness of Dad’s rescuers. Dad
lost his hat; he was covered
with dust and his shirt came out
and hung over his head like a
bag. He looked very
undignified.
The cow went back against
the dog kennel. A bulldog was
tied there. He crouched down
and waited for her. “Give us
a pull ’ere quick,” Dave
gasped, and Joe jumped to his
side. “Little more, now sh”
Just then the dog fastened his
teeth in the cow’s leg. She
roared and plunged forward,
knocked Dave and Joe down and
trampled all over Dad. Then
she dishonestly raced out of the
gate with only Dad’s boot under
her horn.
We picked Dad up and dusted
him and set him on the veranda
to cool. Mother gave him a cup
of hot tea. She said he looked
as if he needed it. He said he
felt as if he did.
Somehow, after that day. Dad
took no interest in the milk
enterprise. He found other jobs
for us, and Cranky Jack forgot
to bring the cows in and was not
reprimanded.
In a week or so we had for-
gotten Dad’s dream of fortune,
and were once more busy with
hard graft. And presently Dad
said that he believed things were
on the mend.
Dad in Distress
XXOW time passes! Those
days of toil and moil, that
weary, uphill struggle at Shingle
Hut, were now thought of only
in moments of merriment.
Queer old days, wild old ways
that all of us loved to remember,
none of us wished to forget.
Farming was not the drag, the
wretched, murderous drudgery,
it used to be. We were improv-
ing every day, climbing rapidly
to the lap of comfort. The
wheat turned out a success again,
and the profit made us all
rejoice. Still we kept our heads.
The frequent want of a shilling
had taught us the worth of one.
We were not extravagant.
Mother, in her thankfulness,
attributed our success to the
mercy and goodness of God.
Dad reckoned it was all due to
his own head.
“Well, yes,” he would some-
times admit, on being pressed,
“the boys do a good deal, an’
the women’ve done a bit one
way or another, too, but all with
the hands; an’ where’d be the
good of it if there were no head?
Their hands, but my head!”
Qn that point Dad was
emphatic. From his decision
there was no appeal. Dad was
the Jtidge, the Full Court and
the Privy Council, too, on our
selection.
Things were worked methodi-
cally, almost reduced to a
science. To Dave was allotted a
three-furrow plough and a set
of horses which none but him-
self used; Joe had a double-
furrow and separate horses;
Little Bill rose at cockcrow and
brought all horses from the
grass-paddock and drove them
back last thing at night—drove
them gently in obedience to
Dad’s orders until he got out of
sight, when he rushed and raced
them for their lives and flogged
them through the rails. The
horses did their best to get
through without maiming them-
selves, but the odds were always
on Little Bill.
Dad poked and pottered
about, didn’t do much, in fact
did very, little in a most impres-
sive way. He fed the horses,
and patched bags, and made a


Specially dev eloped for '
PAST OR ALISTS—AIR CONTRACTORS
The BEAVER I.C.D. ROTOR BRUSH SPRAYER
—With fully adjustable density controls, is con-
vertible from Sprayer to Seed Spreader in an hour.
THE BEAVER
AGRICULTURAL MODEL
Manufactured by
THE DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT
OF CANADA LTD., TORONTO
• SPRAYING
• TOPDRESSING
• SUPPLY DROPPING
• PASSENGERS &
FREIGHT
230 galls, capacity • spray swath 80 to 140 feet • 1 to
50 galls, per minute • does the work of six Tiger Moths.
1,850 lbs. superphosphate • one minute ground turn
around time • 96 acres per hour.
1,800 lbs. supplies, fence posts, etc., carried externally
• electrical release gear for accurate dropping.
Operates from quarter mile strip with full load • cruises
at 135 m.p.h. • range, 630 miles • six passengers and
pilot.
We
will gladly furnish complete information about the Beaver
DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT PTY, LTD.
BOX 30, P. 0., BANKSTOWN
AUSTRALIA GREAT BRITAIN CANADA NEW ZEALAND AFRICA
A WOMAN’S WORK f
IS TEN TIMES 00^'
wiir
AGA
Hegd. Tradt Mari
CHECK WHY?
AGA BURNS CONTINUOUSLY
Ready for Instant use day and night.
Safe and reliable for overnight cook-
ing.
AGA COOKS BETTER UNAIDED
Meals don’t have to be watched, tem-
peratures are automatically adjusted.
Separate hot plates boil or simmer.
Separate ovens roast or simmer.
AGA GIVES HOT WATER, TOO
The Cooker fire also heats ample
supplies of hot water for kitchen
and bathroom needs.
AGA IS CLEAN
A wipe with a damp cloth keeps the
vitreous enamel surface gleaming.
AGA IS LABOUR SAVING
Needs attention three times only in
24 hours. In all, approximately 10
minutes per day.
AGA IS MORE ECONOMICAL
Even with constant use, fuel bill
can’t exceed the low consumption
of coke which is guaranteed.
AGA KEEPS HEAT INSIDE
Heavy insulation ensures Cooker
stays hot, kitchen stays cool, always.
9*
464
S&ss*
fist t
iSVfiprl.
The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
OTHER AGA COOKERS
MODEL "E" (Four
o verts, two hot plates,
one warming plate).
MODEL ”ET" (Four
ovens, two hot plates,
one warming plate,
plus hoi water tank).
MODEL "CS" (Two
o Yens, iwo hot plates).
MODEL "DS" (Two
ovens, two hot plates,
plus hoi water tank).
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND
BENDIX HOME WASHER
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA
_____ 45 King Street, Sydney
_ _ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
_ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
_ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
„ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WALLOON BROS. L«., Perth
leg-rope occasionally, and sooled
the dog on the fowls if ever they
approached the cultivation, and
cooeed and shook his fist
menacingly at Dave and Joe
when they sat on the ploughs
yarning, and followed in the
tracks of the men who pulled
and gathered the corn, and
found cobs they missed and
swore. He rarely remained
longer than a minute in one
place ; he was everywhere, warn-
ing and worrying everyone. He
praised the farm and explained
things to anyone who called, and
in a lofty manner disregarded
the solicitations of travellers,
He put them all off with an
eloquent wave of the hand,
Travellers were not fond of
Dad.
A bright, sunny day, after a
heavy frost. Dave and Joe fol-
lowing the ploughs, up and
down, and round and round,
Joe came to a standstill and
stared across the field.
“What the deuce is he
now?” he said, following the
running form of Dad with his
eyes.
Dave stopped his team and
stared also.
Dad crossed the cultivation.
entered the grass-paddock, and
ran along a wide gully through
some thick timber. Three of
the Regan boys, from fourteen
to twenty years old, were there
doing something with a stout,
springy sapling. They had it
bent, bow - fashion, to the
ground, and kept in position by
a lever. A wire noose was
fastened to the sapling. It was
an ingenious arrangement they
had conceived to catch dingoes
with, and they were standing
contemplating its construction,
Dad came with a rush, and tried
to fall on one of them. But the
Regans were all runners. They
.
It I don t make yr eyes black
wh ®“ 1 ® atch y > th ,™ damn
me! Dad shouted after them.
l hey ran barder.
Dad turned to the tart
sapling looked at it, wondered
what it meant. He kicked up
leaves and dirt m search of
enlightenment. He kicked his
foot into the noose and tripped
The sapling left the lever and
flew up, taking _ flacl with it.
Dad was enlightened. The
sapling wasn t strong enough to
swing all of him m the air, it
elevated his heels till only his
head and chest and arms were
urtouch.wlth the ground. He
swung like a slaughtered bullock
partly hoisted to the gallows.
He swore lamentably, he roared
and wriggled, he kicked with the
limb that was gee and clutched
at the grass. He bared a patch
Yet g hr“mng ntS W “ h Ws ha ” dS '
A pocket-knife and a two-
shilling piece fell out of his
trouser-pocket. He clutched
them and held them fast in his
hand. Then he ceased struggling
and began fo use his head,
Dave and Joe were still
staring in the direction of the
gully and wondering. But they
were nearly a mile off.
Regan’s dog, which had gone
hunting through the paddock on
its own account while the Regan
boys were setting the snare, re-
turned panting to the place. It
was a dog with a lot of the bull-
breed in it, an ugly, surly, sulky
dog with a thick drooping under-
lip. It had a bad name in the
district. Dad knew of its repu-
tation. It trotted up. Dad was
hanging motionless, thinking,
He heard the noise. Feelings
of hope and thankfulness entered
his soul. He strained, and, lean-
ing on his hands, turned his eyes
up to welcome his deliverer. He
saw the dog and recognised it
and groaned. The dog saw him
and stood, staring. It was sur-
prised, astonished. It growled
coarsely, gruffly. A cold, creepy
feeling passed all through Dad.
He glared at the brute with eyes
of terror. Then, spurred by
desperation, he kicked vigor-
ously and howled for help. The
dog sprang back, inclined to fly,
but, seeing that Dad remained
stationary, it faced him and
barked. And such a bark!
Dad blackened in the face, his
eyes threatened to burst. He
tried to throw the two-shilling
piece hard at the dog. It rolled
short. He opened the pocket-
knife with his teeth. The dog
came closer. It trotted round
Dad, drew still nearer, barking,
barking. Dad flinched and
grasped the knife tighter. There
was a pause, on the dog’s part,
Dad collected his thoughts. He
became resourceful. He softened
his voice and said affectionately
“My poor chap! Poor old fel-
low! Poor—old—boy!”
But Regan’s dog knew a thing
or two ; besides, it had become
conscious of Dad’s helplessness.
Meanwhile, Dave and Joe,
weary o£ wondering! went on ’
ploughing. But the Regan boys,
a , fracted by the barkin | of th y ir ’
dog, cautiously re-entered the
paddock and approached
gu u y . when , n F sight of (he
snare they took in the situation
and ran up> shouting to the dog
t 0 desist The sol f nd of tbei |
voices onl embo i de ned the
brute n misunderstood. Their
shrieks jt too k f or W ords of
encouragement, and, laying bare
its te et h , it rushed in and barked
c ( ose against Dad’s ribs. Dad
shuddered and writhed. His
fles h twitched. He missed the
dog . s nose with the pocket-
knife. In return the dog snatched
a mo uthful of his pants and
SO me of his thigh and would
have had more only the Regan
boys came and be y at jt fl
sticks
an J h S,“ Dad
wait • for anythmg!"’ There ‘was
a £™‘ n , g h , “ ean 01 mercenary
ab ° ut the , m ’
awa V s referred to that
fu er ! en , ce as , 01 ? e. things
* “ a d a S e d him before his
time-
(To be continued next week)
FISHERMEN, DROWNED BEYOND
THE WEST COAST
Someone said dead men make islands in the sea
but there are no trees, no green islands
growing from these mouths and hollow eyes.
Under the areas of empty sea they lie,
fishermen drowned in a storm all miles from land.
There are no trees growing from their broken eyes,
no island gathered round their love and pain,
only a sudden emptiness, a sea of noise and silence
that hurts the ear’s dead drum.
Wind and sea grow over and under the open storm,
the quick and pointless tyranny of nets that tied their hands,
and fish caged forever in the boat’s square well;
drowned in their fumbling nets all miles from land
and their boat storm-rolled like a dead bird in the sea.
But I think they are separated now; the nets unravelled
the heavy wood Boats anywhere, water-logged and split,
alone in all the areas of sea. Only
the nets and fish and storm kept them together
as men—and they were not lonely.
There are no green islands for the coastless birds;
no trees branching from those eyes to hang a thought upon;
nothing, nothing that the hands can find:
only another island, quiet and simple, forming in another
mind.
Tasmania.
VIVIAN SMITH.


BREAK
by a.E. sturges
STUDLEY looked along the
queue. Eleven to go. He
shifted his weight to the
other foot, searched for his
last butt, fingered it for a
moment, then took it out and
lit it. The sun burned as though
through a glass ; fine dust drifted
up from the line of shuffling feet.
Studley wet his lips with his
tongue and swallowed. Why
had he come to this hole? Even
the Gold Coast was better. He’d
cursed it often —the fever, the
food and the loneliness. But it
had its points: plenty of tobacco
and liquor, and both dirt-cheap
—twenty-four bob a dozen for
the best whisky.
The after-work ritual: the
shower, washing away sweat,
dirt and the day’s irritations;
clean ducks after sweaty work-
clothes ; the full-length chair;
the long drinks that came at a
handclap. And you had a job.
You cursed it, sweated and bled
at it, got nervy and irritable so
that you bawled-out the niggers
for next to nothing. But it was
a job. A man needs a job. He
dreams of wealth, leisure, lazing
in the sun; but when his job
goes life loses its savor. Self-
respect ebbs ; in its place come
boredom and bitterness....
“Name?”
Studley jerked awake.
“You —name?”
He saw with surprise that he
was opposite the window, with
no recollection of shuffling
eleven places forward through
the dust. He looked at the
familiar face framed by the
window.
“Studley, Henry Thomas.
Mechanical fitter, driver.”
The man in the window
cocked his head, lifted his eye-
brows in mock astonishment.
“Ha! Old hand, eh? Been
here before?”
“Thirteen days straight.”
Studley spoke bitterly.
“H’m..., fitter and driver.
Driver of what—Rolls-Royces?”
He chuckled in self-apprecia-
tion.
Studley smiled crookedly.
“Steam- and electric-shovels,
dredges and pumps.”
“H’m!” He looked at his
papers. “Looks like thirteen’s
your unlucky number. No
shovels, no pumps, no dredges.
And no fitters today. Better call
back tomorrow,”
ipOR a moment Studley stood
silent. He breathed more
quickly than usual, his nostrils
dilated and his lips tightened.
Then he took a step forward,
and the pent-up emotion of a
fortnight burst from him.
“Come back tomorrow! Easy
to say. Will I tell my wife that
when she wants money for
food? And the kids when they
want dinner? Come back to-
morrow?”
The man in the window
looked uncomfortable; he
flushed, blinked, looked up and
down quickly.
“Sorry, mate. But I can’t
make work. All I can do is tell
you what’s going.”
Studley stared at him wildly.
“But isn’t there anything? Any-
thing ?”
The man in the window shook
his head slowly. “There’s only
one job on the books ; and that’s
in the quarry, breaking rocks.”
Studley pressed closer. “Why
didn’t you say so?”
“But you’re a fitter, a trades-
man.”
“What the hell? Can I have
it?”
The man in the window
smiled, pityingly. “Done any
rock-breaking?”
“No, but”
“Seen the quarry here?”
“No.”
“It’s hell.”
“So’s no job.”
“It’s no ordinary quarry;
it’s”
“No difference.”
“It’s just a hole in the ground.
No open side. Airless. Stinking
hot.”
Studley smiled. “Worked on
the Gold Coast. Five degrees
off the Line. White Man’s
Grave.”
“H’m... Know Donovan,
the ganger here?”
“No.”
“Regular slave-driver. Don’t
tell him I said so, though.”
Studley shrugged. “I’ll try
him.”
The man in the window
looked resigned. “0.K., sucker.
But don’t say I didn’t warn you.
Sign this... there. That’s right.”
He leaned out of the window
and pointed. “You’ll find
Donovan over there. Near that
shed —the one with the green
roof.”
“Thanks.... Er, look, sorry I
did my block, but I’ve”
“Forget it. I get that every
day. Part of the job. Good
luck, feller —you’ll need it.”
T\ONOVAN looked down at
him. He saw the soft, white
hands, the slight body, the un-
sure look. Studley looked envi-
ously back, at the big frame, the
powerful brown arms, the bull-
neck ; he envied most Donovan’s
casual confidence, the serene air
of a man sure of his position.
“Done any breaking?”
“A bit.”
Donovan smiled his disbelief.
“You got to work here.”
“0.K.”
Donovan looked again at the
white hands ; frowned. He bent
over and put a huge hand on
Studley’s shoulder. “Look,
mate, take my advice and look
for something else. It’s hard
here ; you’ll never stick it. Mind,
I’m not saying you wouldn’t be
all right if you come at it
gradual. But you can’t do that
here.”
“I’ll be right.”
Donovan pursed his lips.
“0.K.” His eyes hardened.
“But mind —one break and
you’re out. I’m warning you.”
He led the way to the ladder,
a long, almost vertical affair of
steel bars and rods ; it reminded
Studley of a ship’s engine-
room. So did the hot air rising
from the quarry. At the bottom,
dwarfed by the height, five men
were slowly swinging hammers.
“See Freddy Jacques—the old
cove with one eye. He lost the
other breaking rocks.” Dono-
van grinned sardonically. “And
mind ; I’ll be watching you.”
Studley climbed down
gingerly. The steel rungs were
hot from the sun. The air grew
staler and hotter. At the bot-
tom he looked round for
Jacques. Jacques had seen him
and was coming towards him,
short, bandy-legged, with a
weatherbeaten face and dirty
pink eye-patch.
“ ’Day. You for down here?”
“Yes; Mr. Jacques, is it?”
“Yep. Jacques is near
enough.”
“Studley.”
“Right. Better put your coat
over there in the shade. You’ll
need a billy and mug; you can
share mine today. Bring any
lunch?”
“No. You see, I didn’t
know”
“Never mind. I’ll get you some
at the store; you can pay ’em
Friday.”
“Oh, thanks.”
TACQUES gave him a hammer,
** “Start on that big-’un there,
will you.” His face lightened ;
he almost smiled. “He’ll keep
you out of mischief for an hour
or two.”
Studley took off his coat,
rolled up his sleeves; he looked
up under his eyelids at the
others ; they were watching him
as they worked. He picked up
the hammer and was surprised
and relieved to feel how light it
was; he had imagined some-
thing like a blacksmith-striker’s
sledgehammer; this should be
child’s-play. He lifted it, struck
'the rock. The handle jarred
him painfully. With a pre-
tended nonchalance he swung
the hammer again, adjusting his
grip and varying the angle of
strike until there was no jar.
He glanced up. Donovan was
watching him. He hit harder,
exulting in the lightness of the
hammer, the smash of steel on
rock. He felt proud: he couldl
step from vice, steam-shovel or
dredge and do his turn of hard
labor. Could these others—he
flashed them a glance—make a
go of it at his work? Assemble
a loco? Handle a bucket? Not
likely. He hit hard, smiling
faintly with inward satisfaction.
OWE AT poured from Studley.
lt ran down his face and
neck, cutting channels through
the dust; his trouser-legs were
wet, his shirt stuck to his back.
His throat ached, his lips felt
like scabs to his tongue. He
fqund it painful to breathe. Tiny
flies tormented him, crawling
right inside his eye-sockets. His
muscles burned and his blistered
hands were tight and raw. He
wondered that men could stand
this day after day. He swung
the hammer blindly. Ah, just to
be able to stop...
He dropped the hammer,
flung himsef down in the shade ;
lay a while resting... ..stripped
off his sweat-drenched clothes
and stepped under the shower,
lathered freely; the fragrance of
the soap-suds gradually replaced
the sour smell of sweat. He
rubbed himself briskly, put on
fresh, clean clothes. . ,He leaned
on the bar, called for beer; saw
the light through the pale gold,
the bubbles rising ....
He licked from his lips the
sweat that had run from each
side of his nose, shook his head
viciously against the flies, struck
automatically at the rock. If
only he could stop. Chuck it
in.,.
His wife’s eyes brightened as
she saw his work-stained face,
then dulled as she learned he’d
given up.. .The kids’ lean faces
reproached him across the
meagre table ...
He sighed, worked on.
He looked at the rock. Pieces
had flaked off from all over its
outer surface; but the core,
practically all of it, was still
whole, with no sign of a crack.
He felt helpless, couldn’t picture
the rock ever splitting. Perhaps
Jacques had put him on one
that was impossible, one that
had been given up, to test him
out, maybe to make him give
up. Maybe if he tackled Jacques
about it, showed that he was
awake to his game
HE heard his name spoken ;
for a moment he thought
that he was back at the window,
the quarry but a bad dream.
Then he realised that it was
Jacques; Jacques was holding
out his crib.
“Time to eat. Come over in
the shade.”
Studley stumbled after him.
The other four were already
lounging in the shade of the
bank, eating and drinking, read-
ing newspapers. Jacques nodded
at each one.
“Lister, King, Dougherty,
Bragg.... Studley.”
Studley sat beside Jacques;
Jacques filled a mug with tea
and handed it to him. Studley
sipped it; it was scalding hot,
but he drank again, his throat
so dry that he could not have
swallowed without first drink-
ing.
Crib over, the men rolled
cigarettes. Studley craved for a
smoke. He searched his pockets,
though he knew he’d smoked his
last butt in the queue. He shut
his eyes; the fragrance of
burning tobacco tormented him.
One of the men —King, he
thought it was —called to him.
“What’s your name, pal—your
first name?”
“Henry.”
“Henry?”
No one laughed or smiled, but
Studley sensed a jibe. Not Bill,
or Jack, or Sam—but Henry. He
shut his eyes again, and pur-
posely forced his thoughts away
from the present,.. He thought
of his old home, his youth: a
day in the workshops, the half of
stout with the men, home for a
shower, tea with the family.
Then out for a run on the bike,
toiling uphill, rushing wildly
down, feeling—
“O.K., boys, time to start.”
Studley rose slowly, appalled
at the stiffness of his joints, the
weariness in his limbs, the sore-
ness of his hands. He felt that
it would be impossible to grip
the hammer-handle, let alone
swing it. Jacques walked with
him to the rock and examined
it.
“You want to look for the
grain. You’ll never crack it if
you just Jiit it. Find the grain
and follow it.”
Studley winced at the first
blow, bit his lips to stop him-
self crying out. He struck a
lighter blow, then, looking up,
saw Donovan looking down at
him,
A MILD panic possessed him
he felt that he must justify
himself. Find the grain; he
must find the grain. He searched
the surface of the rock ; high up
he saw a line —maybe it was a
crack. If he concentrated there,
struck it blow after b10w...
He changed his stroke,
reached higher. A foot from
the top a rough knob projected
from the rock; as he hit
Studley’s top hand was crushed
between the handle and the knob
of rock.
He went blind with the agony
of it; dropped the hammer;
shook his hand—blood ran
from the crushed flesh. He
pulled out his handkerchief and
bound it tightly round his hand.
Donovan roared from above.
“Come up! ”
Studley moved towards the
ladder. Just as he put his foot
on the first rung he looked back
and caught Jacques’s eye; at
the expression in it he stopped,
turned back; he saw that to go
up was to stay up.
T\ONOVAN roared again;
Studley ignored him; he
picked up the hammer and
started again" on the rock.
He worked on in a daze.
Blisters, aching muscles, exhaus-
tion and thirst were forgotten;
he was conscious only of the
pain in his hand. He looked
up; there was Donovan, strid-
ing up and down, up and down.
Donovan’s hard brown face
looked at him from the rock ;
he struck at it savagely; the
pain sickened him. He felt a
rush of rage against Donovan...
He climbed the ladder swiftly ;
Donovan watched him with sur-
prise. He strode up to Dono-
van, feinted at his head, then as
Donovan’s hands lifted he hit
him hard in the solar-plexus.
Donovan gasped; then rushed at
him like a mad bull. Studley
stepped coolly aside, and as
Donovan hurtled past, struck
him smartly behind the ear.
Donovan turned, rushed back;
Studley struck him again, again,
again...
The jar of the hammer on the
rock jerked him back to reality.
He looked up ; there was Dono-
van —up and down, up and
down, up and down. Like a
warden, a jailer, a guard, a
guard at a concentration-camp.
Up and down, up and down...
All he needed was a gun. Yes,
a gun; where was Donovan’s
gun, where was his gun. Studley
laughed; stopped. He put his
hand to his mouth, yelled. -
“Hey!’’
Donovan stopped as if shot,
stooped and peered over the
edge; he looked to Studley like
a squat giant toad.
“Where’s your bloody gun?”
Everything froze. No move-
ment, no noise. Donovan
stooped, petrified, glaring for
ever down. Studley stared up,
stunned by his own voice.
Jacques and the others gaped at
Studley as at a man from
another planet.
Suddenly Donovan shot out
of sight, like a puppet jerked
from the stage by inexperienced
hands. Jacques walked over to
Studley; the others moved
further away, anxiously, as from
a leper.
“What the hell’s got into you?
You’re sunk now.”
Studley didn’t answer ; he was
picturing his return home. There
was bitterness in his mouth.
“Have a drink.”
He turned ; Jacques was hold-
ing out a mug of cold tea.
“Thanks.” He drank ; it revived
him; cleansed his mouth,
soothed his throat, spread
through his body, cooling,
refreshing.
“B ——■ Donovan,” he said.
Jacques took the mug, moved
away without comment. The
others worked nervously, glanc-
ing up continually for Dono-
van’s return,
Studley felt strangely better,
with the unexpected relief of a
sick man cooled by the sweat of
a fever. The sun’s heat lessened,
the air cooled a little. Studley
studied the crack again, turned
the hammer over and struck at
it with the narrow edge; with
a rush of excitement he saw the
crack run, widen, open.
He reversed the hammer and
hit with all his might. With a
giddy feeling he saw the whole
rock split, slowly part, then fall
with a crash in two neat lumps.
Suddenly, as he stood in giddy
triumph, Studley felt, with a cer-
tainty beyond all doubt, that
Donovan was not coming back ;
he was not to be sacked.
CTUDLEY wiped his face,
struggled clumsily with his
coat. The others came across ;
Jacques helped him with the
“How’s the hand, Harry?”
“See you cracked ’er, mate.”
No one mentioned Donovan.
Jacques unrolled the handker-
chief, ripped it from the wound.
“Better get it seen to tonight.
I’ll wangle you a light job for a
few days.”
They climbed the ladder,
parted for home.
“ ’Night, George. ’Night,
Harry.”
“G’night.”
Jacques and Studley walked
together in silence. Jacques
took out his pouch, rolled a
cigarette. Studley stared straight
ahead. Jacques touched his arm.
“Here, roll yourself a smoke.”
He handed Studley the pouch
and papers. “And make a
couple for later.”
COURTING SONG
The night is not so full of love,
The day is not so long,
That both cannot be held within
A fitful frame of song.
The words that come towards the
thing,
The littered noun or verb,
Can spell one in a magic ring
That time will not disturb;
And magpies at a mourning time
Can flash the sun to spin :
And so I make this throw of
rhyme
To head you, girl, and win.
1
n.s.w.
Ray Mathew.


PRODUCTS OF THE
KOOTES
CROUP
ROOTES GROUP
PRESENTS
I
m
mm
mk
w
mmm
HSiii
\>:w *; •
mBL. fz\
n
p
warn
m
■
.A
M
m
i
»
■
Wmmm H
«*<
■B
, Hi
il®w»
m
mm
m
m
m
■ '■■
awa
.
m
■
i
■
mm
BBH
:
: itf '
Ml lly*
m^mmm
■ ■'
*
a
/m»~JLJ
§&
THE
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
Here is the car that takes you straight into “A New Era” of
finer motoring. The new immensely powerful “Blue Riband”
O.H.V. engine, new coil suspension, supreme comfort, panor-
amic vision, and elegant styling provide a new best in powerful
luxurious motoring.
■
ms
I ■ ■
■<<,:>
X-i^r-
-3
MM
B
■
i
i
I
m H
WHI
: : ;;
|
■
; ;
MsM
\
H
H
THE
HUMBER HAWK
Brilliant new styling, beauty of line and a fine performance,
coupled with economy are the hallmarks of the new Humber
Hawk. Here is your opportunity to own and drive a car of
distinction, elegance and quality, ideal for business and family
needs, yet moderately priced.
HILLMAN MINX
Twenty-one years of progress and achievement are behind the
new “Anniversary” Hillman Minx. Twenty-one thousand
million miles have perfected this latest member of the family for
you, providing new appearance, all round increased economy,
more comfort and still greater refinement in every detail.
Products of the Routes Group, Melbourne, Australia.
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT CARS •
KARRIER TRUCKS


With "Bob 11 on the Job!
you’ll find life easier—in the workshop,
office, home or on the farm. “Bob” is a
sturdy stapling and tacking tool that’s
worth its weight in gold for fixing labels,
posters, gauze; for mending shoes, belts,
bags, harness, covers; for making boxes,
folders, toys, for installing wires and for
a thousand other jobs. Besides tacking
and stapling, it drives nails in comers
where a hammer’s useless. “Bob,” with
two locking levers, a steel plate for
clinching, a magnet and about 1000
assorted stainless staples, all in a solid
wooden box, costs 29/6 (postage 2/6
extra). Rush your order today—this is
the last shipment! It would make an
ideal gift. Domex Trading Co. 107 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.
W 1
On Ben Hall, the Kellys, and Co.
Bushranger Ballads
By NANCY KEESING
IN his article (B. 9/9/’53)
Douglas Stewart mentioned
the section entitled “Bush-
rangers” which is included
in the collection of Australian
Bush Ballads on which we have
been working. When we began
sorting and compiling the large
amount of material amassed, we
were somewhat surprised, and
delighted, to find that when
assembled these verses made an
amazingly complete, and some-
times very accurate, picture of
the course of, bushranging in
Australia.
The earliest songs predating
the “gold-rush” bushrangers
have been reserved for a second
volume —“The Wild Colonial
Boy” and “Bold Jack Donahoe”
belong so rightly where Paterson
placed them among our old
bush-songs. Their insouciant
tone, however, their sympathy
for the outlaw rather than for
the police, is found in many of
the best examples of ballads
celebrating later bushrangers.
Carried to extremes this was the
attitude that made of Ben Hall
and Ned Kelly Australian Robin
Hoods.,
It must be remembered, of
course, that in their period
popular bush-songs, whether
concerning bushrangers,
shearers, broken-down squatters
or confused immigrants, be-
longed to the drover’s or
shearer’s campfire rather than to
the polite drawing-room. When
our great-grandmothers gathered
round the piano they usually
sang the latest sentimental ditties
from overseas, while our great-
grandfather% sent the ladies into
fits of laughter by their render-
ings of the newest “comic”
songs and recitations, or would
most feelingly expound patriotic
songs and verse with dramatic
effects to set the weaker sex
gasping.
Our libraries contain
numerous copies of popular
reciters of the period, and many
of these print full “stage” direc-
tions for performers. The men
of the time (whether settlers,
laborers or wealthy squatters)
would no more have insulted
their womenfolk by singing
rough bush verses than, today,
their descendants would bawl
forth the cruder Army songs in
mixed company.
Because it was not considered
fit for publication, or because it
conflicted with responsible
editorial opinion, a great deal of
our bushranging balladry has
been lost. The newspapers were
prepared to publish verges of a
popular satirical nature, how-
ever, which no doubt explains
why most of the extremely funny
high-jinks of Ben Hall’s gang
have been preserved in published
form. In this case Sir Frederick
Pottinger, who led the police on
the Lachlan goldfields, lent him-
self as a figure of popular
ridicule and, for a time, became
the symbol of official police
failure to maintain the peace.
Among the better - known
bushrangers one was essentially
such a despicable wrongdoer
that no early verses in his praise
can be found: this was Daniel
Morgan, who, having eluded the
N.S.W. police for a long time,
fell victim to the Victorian force
in 1865. He appears to have
been a cruel and brutal fellow —
a type of criminal psychopath—
who added sadistic tortures to
his crimes of robbery. Of this
Victorian arrest Sydney “Punch”
noted sarcastically:
Over the border not long did he
plunder,
Swift is stern justice as slow she is
here,
Bold are the men o’er the border,
no wonder,
When even the women know
nothing of fear....
the last line being an allusion to
the fact that Morgan’s capture
at Peechelba was due to the
quick thinking and action of a
young woman at the homestead
Not all balladists were “agin
the Guv’ment,” and there is a
body of excellent material in
praise, not of the outlaws but
of the troopers or brave citizens
who overcame them. An early
example had been Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s “Wolf and Hound” ;
among later writers, Lawson in
“Trooper Campbell” and Boake
in “Featherstonhaugh” continued
with the theme. In 1870 an
anonymous bard in Melbourne
“Punch” celebrated Trooper
Walker’s capture of Thunderbolt
(Ward):
Bold are the mounted robbers, who
on stolen horses ride,
And bold the mounted troopers who
patrol the Sydney side:
But few of them (though flesh they
be} can ride, and few can fight
As Walker did, for life and death,
with Ward, the other night.
Both men were skilled horsemen,
but Walker finally overtook his
quarry and:
Soon as he got near Thunderbolt, the
first salute he got
From that retreating party was a
random pistol shot;
The robber fled, the trooper went in
chase, his spirits rose —
When Ward advised him to keep off,
he answered, “Bosh, here goes!”
Probably by the same writer,
and also in 1870, is a Melbourne
“Punch” description of the cap-
ture of the Victorian bushranger
Jack Power. Power, in the
previous year, had, according to
a ballad ascribed to Isaac Hall:
met with a Trooper
Near the small town of Yea —
“Good morning, Sir Trooper,
My orders obey.
Hand here that revolver
Or,.if you refuse
You must fight or deliver.
Pray, which do you choose?”
The Trooper surrendered
His horse and his arms,
Then hastened to Yea town
To give the alarm.
“Farewell;” shouts the rover,
“This revolver’s my shield;
To the traps or the gallows
I never will yield!”
But yield he did to three
troopers, Nicholson, De Mont-
fort and Hare, who trailed him
through the ranges and:
.... studied all the time
To guard against “bush-telegraphs,”
who sympathise with crime ....
until at Quinn’s station they
surrounded him:
And seized the well-armed robber,
who could neither fight nor flee,
But, taken by complete surprise,
screamed wildly in despair.
Finding himself a prisoner in this his
safest lair.
However, in the main, popular
sympathy in the countryside was
with 4 the bushrangers. The
Sydney and Melbourne Press
might inveigh against them, but
Ben Hall and gang and the later
Kellys were, nearly all of them,
sons of small farmers, and that
famous “bush-telegraph” kept
them well-informed of official
forays. Such ballads as Pater-
son’s “How Gilbert Died,”
though written later, express the
mood of those times;
And the wandering stock on the grave
may tread
Unnoticed and undenied;
But the smallest child on the Water-
shed
Can tell you how Gilbert died.
> What the smallest child knew
was that Gilbert had been
betrayed by his comrade Dunn’s
grandfather—as, later, the Kelly
gang were to be betrayed by
friends for reward. Surely not
the least tragic aspect of these
outbreaks of partially condoned
local lawlessness was the cor-
ruption of families and far-
reaching divisions of loyalties.
Those fortunate people who
possess copies of the long out-of-
print Old Bush Songs edited by
“Banjo” Paterson know of
Gilbert’s part in the raid on
Canowindra, for in that volume
Paterson reprinted “The Divert-
ing History of John Gilbert,”
which originally appeared,
unsigned, in Melbourne
“Punch”:
So Johnny Gilbert took the town,
And took the public-houses,
And treated all the cockatoos,
And shouted for their spouses.
And Miss O’Flanagan performed,
In manner quite “gintaaly
Upon the grand piano for
The bushranger O’Meally.
And every stranger passing by
They took, and when they’d got
him,
They robbed him of his money, and
Occasionally shot him.
Readers of Old Bush Songs
may also recall that Paterson in
his introduction mentioned a
song of the Upper Murrum-
bidgee country, nearly every
stanza of which ended “Dunn,
Gilbert and Ben Hall.” “Banjo”
was unable to find enough of
this work to be worth reprinting,
but it has now been recon-
structed from several sources,
and in it is given an excellent
summary of Ben Hall’s early
history:
Ben Hall he was a squatter
Who owned six hundred head;
A peaceful man he was until
Arrested by Sir Fred.
His home burned down, his wife
cleared out,
His cattle perished all.
“They’ll not take me a second time,”
Says valiant Ben Hall.
Hall is one of the most sympa-
thetic figures in the history of
bushranging. He came of a
farming family and until 1862 —
when he was working on his
own account a leased run near
Wheogo, in the Grenfell district
—had a reputation for honesty
and enterprise. In 1862 his wife
suddenly deserted him and he
was arrested by Sir Frederick
Pottinger for highway robbery,
a charge of which he was
acquitted by a jury at Orange,
A few weeks later he was
again arrested and charged with
being implicated in Gardiner’s
gold-robbery at Eugowra.
Four months later still, when
he returned to his station he
found most of his stock strayed
or dead.
It is supposed that this chain
of misfortunes caused him to
become a bushranger in earnest,
and after Gardiner’s disappear-
ance at the end of 1862 Hall
took over the leadership of his
gang—-a gang already celebrated
in verse.
The luckless Pottinger (poor
man, his name alone invites fun
at his expense) had made himself
a laughing-stock in several
brushes with Gardiner and com-
pany. In 1862 he stalked
Gardiner to the hut, near
Forbes, of Gardiner’s mistress,
Gardiner escaped:
But the ’Ranger proud, he laughed
aloud,
And bounding rode away,
While Sir Frederick Pott, shut his
eyes for a shot,
And missed —in his usual way.
His troopers then, like valiant men,
With their carbines blazed away.
The whistling lead on its mission sped.
And whither, none can say.
However, a youth had been
reported as Gardiner’s com-
panion in several recent exploits,
and, having missed Gardiner,
Pottinger searched the woman’s
house, where:
In slumber sound a boy they found,
And brave Sir Frederick said:
“By a flash in the pan we missed the
man,
So we’ll take the boy instead!”
The boy was innocent and
everyone. Press included,
laughed at his captors.
On another occasion Pot-
tinger, out stalking Gardiner,
was deceived by two “maids of
the mountains,” Kate O’Meally
and Bet Mayhew, who;
.... dressed themselves up
In their brother’s best clothes
And looked very rakish
/4s you may suppose.
In the joy of their hearts
They chuckled with glee —
What fun if for robbers
They taken should be.
As they hoped. Sir Frederick
and Constable Clark saw them
and ordered them to “Stand!”:
But the maids of the mountains
Just laughed at poor Clark
And galloped away
To continue their lark....
Clark captured the pair,
Then, to show his vexation,
He lugged them both off
To the Young Police Station.
In fact, they were taken to
Young in manacles, but were
immediately discharged by the
magistrate. Pottinger’s death in
1865 was as inept as his career
had been: while journeying to
Sydney to explain matters con-
nected with Hall’s gang he
accidentally shot himself,
Ben Hall’s leadership of the
gang and his eventual death
inspired some of the best of all
Australian balladry. The fact
that he was a “local lad,” as
were other members of his band,
and that they operated for a long
period without any actual
violence, meant that numbers of
the settlers in the districts where
they rode were enthusiastically,
if in an unacknowledged
capacity, on their side. There
was, furthermore, considerable
sympathy for Hall, on the score
of his having been driven to
crime by police bungling and
domestic misfortune.
It was the existence of heroes
of this stamp which made
credible that spate of later
ballads by Lawson, Paterson,
Espinasse and others concerning
the beautiful bush girl who
rescued her outlaw lover by
some ruse, or the tales of the
outlaw’s redoubtable child who
risked his life at the hands of the
troopers to save papa. A more
realistic picture of the general
run of that brand of womanhood
christened by one singer a
“wanton fair” is probably con-
tained in the following verses
dating from 1874:
Within a hut of sheoak slabs, all
roofed with stringybark,
Four Sydney-native ladies sat, all
game for any lark.
Big Jane was there, Bondingie Bill, the
bullock-driver’s gal,
With Mountain Mag, from Blue
Lookout, and Parramatta Sal.
And Julia (whose bushranging brother
Sam has come to grief)
Was cutting up and salting down a
side of stolen beef,
While Mountain Mag was plaiting of
a cracker for the thong
Of Jack the boundary-rider’s whip,
that lives at Bogalong.
Big Jenny dreamt the happy hours
away upon the bunk,
After an evening party, where no end
of lush was drunk;
And Parramatta Sal, she blowed a
tidy cloud of smoke,
While coiling in her ’possum rug, and
thought about her bloke.
Jenny’s father, it might be
added, “was absent with his
gully-raking sons,” busying him-
self at “duffing cattle on the
nearest squatters’ runs.”
With Hall’s death, romantic
and sentimental feeling cul-
minated in at least three very
beautiful laments. Being deeply
and genuinely felt, each of these
ballads, no matter how crude
and rough two of them are in
parts, contains some lines of true
poetry. For instance, there is
the opening verse of, perhaps,
the best-known song on Ben
Hall:
Come, all Australian sons with me,
For a hero has been slain,
And cowardly butchered in his sleep
Upon the Lachlan Plain.
Later this plaint extols the
dead man as a Robin Hood type
who:
.... never robbed a needy man —
His records best will show—
Staunch and loyal to his mates,
And manly to the foe.
It continues with contempt for
the treachery which resulted in
his downfall:
Yes, savagely they murdered him.
The cowardly blue-coat imps.
Who were laid on to where he slept
By informing Peelers’ pimps.
No more he’ll mount his gallant steed,
Nor range the mountains high,
The widow’s friend in poverty,
Bold Ben Hall! Good-bye!
Another lament by John
McGuire begins in similar tradi-
tional style:
Come, all you Lachlan men
A sorrowful tale I’ll te11. ...
It includes verses which give
these details of the death-scene:
Ben went to Goobang Creek,
And this was his downfall;
For riddled like a sieve
Was valiant Ben Hall.
It was early in the morning
Upon the fifth of May,
When the police surrounded him
As fast asleep he lay.
Bill Dargin he was chosen
To shoot the outlaw dead;
The troopers fired madly
And filled him full of lead.
They threw him on his horse
And strapped him like a swag,
Then led him through the streets of
Forbes
To show the prize they had!
Last of the three ballads is
the expertly-written one which
Douglas Stewart quoted in his
article and whose author was
certainly a practised craftsman.
He described Hall’s betrayer
offering to shout for everyone in
the bar with the blood-money:
He banned no creed and he barred
no class,
And he called to his friends by name;
But the worst would shake his head
and pass,
And none would drink from the
bloodstained glass
And the goblet red with shame.
With verse of this calibre,
and popular emotion seizing on
the bushrangers for the begin-
nings of myth, the stage was set
for the later adulation and
admiration of the essentially
more criminal Kelly gang, for
whose exploits there is an almost
complete ballad “coverage.”
That these songs circulated
widely may be judged from the
number of slight variations in
those which can still be found.
For instance, there is the long
ballad “The Kelly Gang”
which opens conversationally:
Oh, Paddy dear, and did you hear
The news that's going round,
On the head of bold Ned Kelly
They have placed two thousand
pound.
The narrator describes humor-
ously and in detail the raids on


Position Wanted
Young woman, son aged 9 years,
requires position during Christmas
holidays, six weeks. Housekeeping or
.care for children. Dubbo district pre-
ferred: Experienced and reliable per-
sonal references. Replies:
BULLETIN 100.
Your District
has a direct and vital
interest in
Commonwealth
loans
Few districts in Australia are without a vital and
direct interest in the success of Commonwealth
Loans.
Whether the money raised is to be spent on
harbours, bridges, roads, homes, hospitals,
schools, irrigation projects, electric power or
transport, virtually every area stands to benefit
by expenditure of Commonwealth Loan funds
on developmental projects.
For this reason voluntary Loan Committees,
established in the various cities and towns, have
accepted the task of endeavouring to secure sub-
scriptions to Loans in proportion to the pop-
ulation of their centres. This system goes back
to the days when every community was asked to
provide a share of the money needed for war.
Now the call is for Loan money for peacetime
development.
Many thousands of patriotic Australians com-
prised the voluntary war loan committees which
raised hundreds of millions of pounds. Most of
those people are still on the job, showing the
same keen interest in helping to raise the money
essential for peacetime needs. Theirs is an
important national service.
You can encourage your local committee by
making sure that when you subscribe to this, or
to any subsequent Commonwealth Loan, you
credit your application to your district in the
space provided on the Loan application form.
INVESTORS MAY SELECT:
1, Commonwealth Bonds or In-
scribed Stock bearing interest at
4*7.
per annum, issued at par and
maturing on October 15, 1966;
or
2. Commonwealth Bonds or In-
scribed Stock bearing interest at
37.
per annum, issued at par and
maturing on December 15,
1955.
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 27-
in each £1 of interest is allowed for
the period during which no Income
Tax is levied under the law of a
State. This rebate increases the
effective interest yield (consider-
> ably so in the case of higher-
income bondholders).
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION for the
longer-term issue is £lO of Bonds
or £lOO of Inscribed Stock. Those
who already own £lOO of Inscribed
Stock may increase their holdings
by multiples of £lO. For the short-
term issue the minimum subscrip-
tion is £l,OOO, with higher amounts
in multiples of £l,OOO, of Bonds
or Inscribed Stock.
10% DEPOSIT will be accepted,
»with the balance in either one or
three equal amounts by January
4, 1954.
BANKS. SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY
ORDER POST OFFICES OR
STOCKBROKERS will receive appli-
cations for cash subscriptions. You
have only to fill in one simple
form and lodge a cheque or cash.
Invest NOW in the
COMMONWEALTH
18th Security LOAN
IBSU*
Euroa and Jerilderie and ends,
in one version:
And where they’ve gone I do not
know, if I did I wouldn’t tell.
So now, until / hear from them I’ll
bid you all farewell.
Naturally many, if not most,
“respectable” people deplored
this attitude. The Bulletin,
less than a year old, far from
conservative and campaigning
vigorously against capital
punishment, yet found room in
its columns, shortly before Glen-
rowan, for some vitriolic
comment:
Oh, out on such “sympathy!” Can
we discover
One brigand’s existence
to save?
No, indeed! for, in sooth, we should
rather mourn over
Each poor murdered man who lies
stark in his grave!
As he’s lived, let him die: a base
wretch without fe'eling:
A bushel of quicklime is all that
he’s worth!
Let the grave of a felon his corpse
be concealing, —
And blot his name off from the
face of the earth !
G. Wilson Hall, editor of the
Mansfield (Vic.) newspaper,
published a book. The Kelly
Gang or the Outlaws of the
Wombat Ranges, as early as
1879. In it he ranted against the
prevailing sentiment of applaud-
ing the Kelly exploits at the
expense of the police, especially
since the bushrangers had
recently murdered three
troopers. He quotes a little of a
verse account of this event, but
only to show how lopsided he
considers the local sense of
values to be. Wilson Hall states
that there is a quantity of such
verse, but unfortunately for later
research he scornfully refrains
from quoting more than frag-
ments.
One example he quotes is still
extant in several versions from
which we have reconstructed a
whole called “Stringy Bark
Creek.” It begins:
A sergeant and three constables set
out from Mansfield Town
Near the end of last October for to
hunt the Kellys down.
In this encounter three
troopers were killed. Ned’s
comment on the attempted
escape of one of them was pithy:
But brave Kelly muttered sadly as he
loaded up his gun
“Oh what a pity that the
tried to run.”
After this. Trooper Mclntyre:
....his life at stake, sprang to the
saddle bow,
And galloped far into the night, a
haunted harassed soul,
Then like a hunted bandicoot hid in
a wombat hole.
At dawn of day he hastened forth and
made for Mansfield town
To break the news that made men
vow to shoot the bandits down,
So from that hour the Kelly gang
was hunted far and wide.
Like outlawed dingoes of the wild
until the day they died.
Apparently this concluding
verse was a later addition, for
when “Stringy Bark Creek”
first circulated the Kelly gang
was more than a year from
death. But when death came
they did not lack mourners:
Ye sons of Australia, forget not your
braves.
Bring the wild forest flowers to strew
o’er their graves
Of the four daring outlaws whose
race it is run
And place on their tombs the wild
laurels they’ve won ....
is the first verse of a long lament,
of which the last goes, echoing
the early “Van Diemen’s Land” ;
Now, all you daring young fellows
take warning by me,
Beware of bushranging and bad com-
pany.
For like many others you may feel
the dart
Which pierced the two Kellys, Joe
Byrne and Steve Hart.


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
SPRING MEETING
3rd, sth, 7th, 10th OCTOBER
at RANDWICK RACECOURSE
PRINCIPAL EVENTS
Ist Day—Saturday, 3rd October
THE A.J.C. Derby. £lO,OOO Added. One Mile and a Half.
THE EPSOM HANDICAP. £4,000 Added. One Mile.
2nd Day—Monday, sth October
THE METROPOLITAN. £6,000 Added. One Mile and Five
Furlongs.
THE GEO. MAIN STAKES, £2,000 Added. One Mile.
3rd Day—Wednesday, 7th October
THE CRAVEN PLATE. £2,500 Added. One Mile and a
Quarter.
THE FLIGHT STAKES. £1,500 Added. One Mile.
4th Day 10th October
THE RANDWICK PLATE. £2,000 Added. One Mile and
Threequarters.
6 BJigh Street,
Sydney.
W. N. Parry-Okeden,
Secretary, A.J.C.
kuv mom safei
sofith'
SANDERS
FILES
Correspondence, t o » o Ie• ».
■ '
•totements. etc., filed in
-Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
Price* and far-
ther information
upon application
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SPORTING NOTIONS
Saturday at Randwick opens
the A.J.C.’s spring racing
carnival, with added money for
the four-days programme
£51,000. Highlights of the first
day will be the £lO,OOO Derby,
the £4OOO Epsom, and the £2OOO
Breeders’ Plate. The Colin
Stephen Stakes (w.-f.-a.) also is a
£2OOO contest, but there are few
real contenders for the big end
of that stake. The Metropolitan
(£6OOO, one mile and five
furlongs) will be decided on
Monday. Randwick has rarely
looked better.
Carioca, winner of 14 races
and £23,099 in stakes, is expected
to add solidly to his earnings at
the carnival. The ruling
champion, successful from five
furlongs to two miles, galloped
bis way to Epsom favoritism
by a dashing win in the Theo
Marks Quality Handicap at
Rosehill on Saturday. Last at
the half-mile, where he began
his familiar final dash to the
winning-post, Carioca quickly
disposed of the Quality opposi-
tion and won with something in
hand.
Carioca is also best-fancied
for the Metropolitan, but he
doesn’t appear to have had a
stayer’s preparation this time up.
However, it must be remembered
that the champion is nothing if
not versatile. He won the
A.J.C. Summer double, Villiers
Stakes (one mile) and Summer
Cup (one mile and five furlongs)
last December, later scored at
seven furlongs at Warwick
Farm, then at a mile and a
quarter at the same track, and
still later won the two-miles
Sydney Cup, so all distances
come alike to him.
Carioca carried 9.7 at Rose-
hill and is similarly handicapped
for the Epsom and the Metrop.,
that being the maximum pro-
vided for, and there would be no
penalty for him in the long race
should he land the Epsom.
Tarien, High Law, Silver
Phantom and Plato are the only
ones fancied against Carioca for
the Epsom, while in the Metrop.
he is favorite, followed by
Hydrogen, Advocate, Sir Pilot,
Maynard, Friendly Feeling and
Earldom.
Carioca is selected to win the
Epsom from High Law and Bon
Rouge. The last-named has
done well since his close second
to Insurance at Rosehill, which
followed a brilliant Randwick
win.
The Metropolitan looks more
open than the Epsom at this
stage, but racing at Randwick on
Saturday is expected to clear the
position so far as Carioca,
Advocate and Hydrogen are
concerned. All three are
expected to do well on the
Monday, particularly the first-
named should he come through
the Epsom successfully. How-
ever, he has a lot of weight to
carry over the mile-and-five-
furlongs, and owners of some of
his opponents will see to it that
he is made to carry it all the
way.
Hydrogen, on 9.3, also has a
lot of weight in the Metrop. He
should have an easy task in the
Colin Stephen Stakes, in which
the opposition, outside of
Advocate, will be weak.
Maynard let his backers down
badly at Rosehill, where Priory
also failed and Alinga did
nothing to indicate Metrop.
prospects. Earldom and Friendly
Feeling, however, did /well
enough to bring them strong
support for the Metrop., while
Sir Pilot’s win was a definite
pointer to the long race.
The Metropolitan may be won
by Friendly Feeling, from
Advocate and Sir Pilot.
Should Carioca win the Metrop,
he will make the third topweight
in succession to have won it.
Last spring Dalray was success-
ful with 9.1, while Delta scored
with 9.5 in 1951. They were the
only winning Metrop. topweights
for upwards of 25 years.
The rich A.J.C. Derby is
expected by most racegoers to
be won by Canterbury Guineas
winner Prince Morvi, who was
downed by the Victorian grey
colt Silver Hawk in the Rosehill
Guineas, and was regarded as a
“good thing” beaten. The big
grey colt, however, went well in
that Derby trial, is well up to
Derby weight (8.10), and is bred
to stay for a week. New
Zealander Emphatic will be an
interesting competitor.
Silver Hawk is chosen to win
the Derby, with Prince Morvi
and Royal Stream for the minor
places,
• • • •
Victorian-owned colt Silver
Hawk is credited with being the
tallest horse of his age in Aus-
tralia, 17 hands, exceptional for
a three-year-old, and he’s still
growing. Phar Lap (17.1),
trained by Silver Hawk’s mentor,
Harry Telford, was the tallest
of notable Australian gallopers
and big-prizemoney winners,
and he was probably the greatest
walker of his or any subsequent
time. Carbine was 16.0| hands,
Bernborough 17, High Caste
16.2, Ajax 16.1, Gloaming
15.3 i, Artilleryman 15.3, Poitrel
15.21, and The Trump 15.1.
Lastnamed was probably best
stayer of his inches to have raced
in this country; he won the
1937 Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups.
Rosebery trainer Jim Wagner
formed a high opinion of Neo-
light from,the day he saw the
Nilo (imp.) colt at the Randwick
yearling stables in April of last
year, and he had to go to
lOOOgns. at that sale to secure
the chestnut colt for his patron.
However, Neolight did little
racing before opening his win-
ning account at Rosehill last
Saturday in a Graduation
Stakes. Neolight is from an
unraced dam, Tabriz ; she is by
Nizami (imp.).
It’s unfortunate that once
again the final day of the A.J.C.
spring meeting is to clash with
the opening day of the Caulfield
Cup fixture. This is something
racing executives should try to
overcome, as one meeting will
suffer, probably that of the
A.J.C.
Caulfield has the Guineas
(£5000) as its star attraction on
October 10, while the £2500
Toorak Handicap will draw the
“Well, he HASN’T put me to sleep, see ! Could you
get me a nombutal?"
best milers. Some of the Rand-
wick contestants will be given a
rush trip to Melbourne for Caul-
field’s opening, while three-year-
olds may miss Rand wick for the
Guineas, which is to be run over
the usual distance, one mile.
• • • •
Welloch, winner of the
Moonee Valley mile-and-a-
quarter Quality Handicap on
Saturday, is now at the top of the
betting for the Melbourne Cup.
Defeating Most Regal and
favorite Quite Talk, he carried
7.9, or 51b. less than his Cup
weight. Despite his defeat. Quite
Talk is just as good a favorite
for the Caulfield Cup as
Euphrates. Quite Talk hadn’t
the best of luck on Saturday.
His backers for the mile-and-a-
half are hoping for a soft track.
• • • •
Melbourne-owned and -trained
Walu, after his easy win in the
Moonee Valley Stakes (one ntjle)
for three-year-olds, is now popu-
lar for the Caulfield Guineas,
and has gained many friends
for the Victoria Derby also. Bill
Williamson rode him with
masterly judgment, and it is
possible he will be in the saddle
in the more important events.
Walu is by St. Magnus (imp.),
who sired San Martin, a winner
of the Victoria Derby, as well as
other smart gallopers, including
St. Fairy (Caulfield Cup), Morse
Code and Prince o’ Fairies. Pao-
shan, dam of Walu, was got by
Parenthesis (imp.) from Varietas
by Drake (imp.).
Idlewild, Deep River and
Silver Phantom, placegetters in
the Rosehill Guineas last spring,
all started in the A.J.C. Derby
and were favored in that order
for the classic, Idlewild being
favorite at 3to 1. However, he
had nothing to do with the finish
of the Derby. Deep River won
the blue riband from Plywood
and Prince Dakhil. The Rose-
hill Guineas hasn’t been a sound
guide to the Derby. Phar Lap,
Laureate, Moorland, Tea Rose
and Biplane won both events.
Silver Hawk, latest winner of
the Guineas, is a fancied con-
testant for the classic.
As in the case of the A.J.C.
Epsom, the four-year-olds hold
the best winning-record in the
Metropolitan. They have had
37 successes. The five-year-olds
have won the long race on 27
occasions and the six-year-olds
12 times. Aged horses have
scored seven times and the
three-year-olds on three occa-
sions. Dalray, four-year-old
New Zealander, beat Jan and
Britavah last spring. Prominent
four-year-olds in this year’s
Metropolitan include Advocate,
Dark Fife, Priory and Water-
lady, while the favorite, Carioca,
is a six-year-old. Five-year-olds
fancied include Hydrogen,
Friendly Feeling, Maynard and
Sir Pilot.
The Metropolitan was first
run at two miles in 1866, and it
remained at that distance till
1891. It was then reduced to 1£
miles, but since 1920 it has been
decided over its present dis-
tance, one mile five furlongs.
Course and race record (present
distance) is 2 min. secs.,
credited to Main Topic (1943)
and Dashing Cavalier (1943).
This also is an Australian record.
When a high wind and gusts
of rain burst on the N.S.W. Golf
Course at La Perouse (Sydney)
on Saturday, those who knew
awarded the Australian Amateur
Championship to Peter Heard
(N.S.W.). And it was so, eight
and seven, the Queensland con-
tender Jack Coogan being un-
able to match it with Heard,
probably the best storm-player
in Australia. No wonder —his
N.S.W. club course is one of the
windiest in the world.
* V *
A flashing third-quarter gave
Collingwood the 1953 V.F.L.
premiership at M.C.G., when
they beat Geelong by 11.11 to
8.17. Just on 90,000 jammed
the ground. It was the Magpies’
12th premiership and a sweet
revenge, as it was Geelong that
beat them for the premiership
last year.
In that third-term burst of
five goals, Collingwood, slightly
ahead till then, went to a 10.10-
5.11 lead. In the last Geelong
put on an equally brilliant
burst, but though they had nine
shots to ’Wood’s two, could get
only 3.6 to 1.1. It was the old
story of bustled forwards unable
to kick straight.
1 ♦ ♦
The Springboks won the
fourth Test 22-9, and the Test
series three matches to one. That
single win was a proud feather
in the Australian cap, but the
fact remains that, as South
African critics have said, the
Wallabies had magnificent
Rugby material and a surprising
ignorance of the fundamentals
of the game. They learnt
quickly, but apparently not
well enough, because in the
Jinal Test at Port Elizabeth they
lost the set scrums 8-32.
Backs, however brilliant, can-
not beat a team with forwards
who know their business. The
South African pack were no
heavier than the Australians, but
they knew how to push. The
Wallabies, by now, probably
know a bit about that phase of
the game, too, and if the lesson
is spread through the clubs the
improvement next season, and
the next, should be considerable.
The trouble is that in Rugby
Union —in Sydney, anyway
the influence of some selectors,
outstanding players and news-
paper writers is, in the main,
quite honestly in favor of a
certain style of play, a certain
type of player. Hard, clever
forward play has never received
the emphasis it deserves. In fact
it is doubtful whether a spec-
tator understands eight-tenths of
close forward play when he sees
it, unless he has played himself,
as a forward. Ex-international
backs, looking at the game from
their specialised viewpoint, are
notoriously prone to error.
In the grand-final at Sydney
Showground University beat
Eastern Suburbs 29-6 to take the
premiership. Easts had teams
in every grade in the grand final,
an outstanding achievement in
itself, but only one team, reserve
grade, won, beating Manly 18-3.
In the main game University
had brilliant backs —particularly
Gudsell (returned from N.Z.),
half Ellis (another New
Zealander) and Best. But their
forwards were very good, and
here, from the beginning, the
game was lost and won. Easts
forwards Chiene, Baxter and
captain Perc Newton were out-
standing, but against them they
had eight forwards in first-class
form. Cover-defence of interna-
national class could have
stopped the rot, but nothing less.
* * *
“C.S.”: Though he has, prob-
ably made a tidy sum out of his
tennis, almost the first thing
lanky Ken McGregor said when
he got back to Australia from
his and Sedgman’s tour with
Kramer’s pro. tennis troup was
“I’m playing football next sea-
son.” His code, need it be said,
is Aussie Rules, and he
nominated West Adelaide as his
team, though the Balmain (Syd-
ney) club wants him as playing-
coach. Once you get Aussie
Rules in your blood you’ve got
it for keeps.
» * *
“K.R.”; Lindwall (at 31) is
said to be getting old for a fast-
bowler, though there is little
evidence of any decline in his
speed or stamina. Possibly most
speedsters at that age are
slowing-up, but Lindwall may be
an exception. . He has an
exemplar in Ted McDonald,
whom A. G. Moyes (in Aus-
tralian Bowlers) regards as Aus-
tralia’s greatest fast-bowler ever.
McDonald was 29 when he first
played Test-cricket (1921) and,
quoting Moyes, “retained world-
ranking until he was 39.” His
later cricket was with Lanca-
shire.
* * *
Welterweights Bert Hornby
(10.91) and Billy Watson (10.2)
turned on a good issue of action
in their 12-rounder at Leich-
hardt. Watson scored well with
snappy straight lefts to the face,
and many judges thought him
entitled to at least a draw, even
if his cleaner punching didn’t
about deserve the full honors.
Always the aggressor, however,
Hornby handed out a major
portion of punishment, and ref.
Art Mawson gave him the ver-
dict. There’d have been no
doubt about it at all if Watson
had claimed less and punched
more.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES
an imuKt)
♦
"THE BULLETIN"
£l/16/- for 12 months
18/6 for 6
9/6 for 3 ..
THE "WOMAN'S MIRROR"
£l/6/- for 12 months
13/- for 6 „
7/- for 3 „
These prices include postage, and apply
whether the subscription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” Office or to any newsagent
in Australia.
♦
DO NOT PAY MORE
It's Perth Calling
Go West, Old Fellow
By GAVIN CASEY
A FEW years ago a Sydney
detective I know went to
Western Australia on
“exchange duty.” On
arrival in the sprawling, sunlit
city of Perth he interviewed the
inspector who would be his boss
for a while, and after they had
admired the weather of the
moment, and smacked their lips
over the local beer, the New
South Welshman produced the
automatic pistol with which he
had been issued in sinful Syd-
ney and said “I don’t suppose
I’ll need this thing here?”
At the time the Westralian
was apparently filled with good-
will towards men and enthusi-
asm for his State, because he
laughed and said “Of course not,
son. Give it to me and I’ll put
it in the safe at headquarters
and you can have it back before
you go home.”
The gun was handed over, and
during an evening of all-round
affability between police, the
publican and the visiting
citizenry the Sydney sleuth
never even felt unprotected
without its reassuring weight on
his hip.
The following morning, how-
ever, the innocent Easterner
eventually reached a condition
in which he could read the
paper. In its dignified and
restrained columns he found an
account of how a local detec-
tive had been pumped full of
holes in a back street the night
before and another guardian of
the law had been kicked heavily
and frequently in the skull by
some late-going suburbanites
who had encountered him „ by
luck at an ill-lit corner.
By lunch-time the thug-
hunter from the British Empire’s
second-largest white city had his
cannon back, and though every-
body he saw in the street seemed
very mild and polite, he felt
much safer with the armament
in his pocket instead of in the
C.I.D. safe. During his term in
the west he shot at nobody, and
nobody shot at him, but he was
one visitor who early realised
the absurdity of the eastern idea
that Perth, a city of nearly
300,000 people, is inhabited
solely by amiable, ingenuous
hillbillies, who move about too
slowly to get out of each other’s
way, and when they trip over
each other’s feet immediately
and pleasantly suggest an
adjournment to the nearest bar.
This attitude on the decadent
side of our continent to the more
virile one-third of it has been
irritating me for a long time. I
never meet anybody who has
ever been to Westralia who does
not think it a wonderful place,
but they have all the wrong rea-
sons. To it seems to be
the ideal old men’s home, and
to others the perfect outlet for
the excessive virility of the sort
of perpetual adolescents who
used to be played in the movies
by Victor McLaglen and Wal-
lace Beery.
“That’s the place I want to
retire to,” cry the doddering old
gentlemen with genuine enthusi-
asm. “If things go right for a
couple more years I’ll have a
little place at Nedlands or Dal-
keith and a yacht on the Swan
River, you see if I don’t.”
Others, whose possible retire-
ment is seemingly less imminent,
say “If I were 20 years younger
Western Australia’s the State
that’d do me. That’s the place
with opportunities for a young
fellow —but I’m a bit long in the
tooth for it myself.”
Neither of these enthusiastic
attitudes is, of course, very help-
ful. Those who express them are
either going west someday, if,
or would go, but. So compara-
tively nobody goes there —and
they don’t know what they’re
missing. On the other hand, a
lot of people, like myself, leave,
and then discover the only real
disadvantage of the place—that
it is so far from anywhere else
that once you go away you never
manage to save up your train-
fare back.
Since a combination of
curiosity and avarice took me
out of Westralia I have lived in
the two biggest cities in the
world, and in a couple more in
Australia, and have visited for
varying periods all sorts of
Northern Hemisphere centres of
population, from places regarded
as playgrounds of the idle rich
to others reputed to be nurseries
of culture and the arts. But I
have never found, and I shall be
surprised if I ever do find, as
pleasant a place to live in as
Perth. And this isn’t a nostalgic
notion that would not survive
the reality; it is based on the
simple facts that are important
to a man whose brain, such as it
is, works better in fine weather,
and whose palate, what’s left of
it, can be stimulated by talk as
well as hot sauces.
I was never prouder of Perth
than I was a few years ago, when
it was the first Australian city
my foreign wife saw. For a
start, good mates of mine met
us on the wharf at Fremantle
and, without tripping over each
other’s or our feet, immediately
and pleasantly suggested an
adjournment to the nearest bar.
There we had beer that was
beer, and we stepped out into
sunshine that was not filtered
through a lot of embryonic
water, and which the statis-
ticians say shines an average of
eight hours a day for 365 days
a year in Perth, as it does in no
other Australian capital.
What happened to us in the
short eight hours between when
the Orion tied up at Fremantle
and when she went on her way
to eastern Australia would make
too long and personal a story.
But the ship was full of Eng-
lish people who hoped to settle
permanently here, and that even-
ing most of them were scratch-
ing their heads and saying to
their wives (or husbands)
“That’s where we should hare
got off, you know.”
Mere appearances were, of
course, what fascinated the Eng-
lish people when they saw
Perth, but there was good reason
for that. The European cities,
even the most beautiful of them,
are grey, sombre places, steeped
in smog as well as history, and
somehow shadowy except where
man has imposed a blaze of arti-
ficial light. Compared with
them, Perth showed its youth,
in the brilliant, unsullied blue
of its river and its sky, the green
that is never far from the build-
ings, and the new, light bright-
ness of the houses themselves. I
shared the feeling of the
Britishers that “This is where
we should have got off.”
Naturally, we didn’t, any
more than they did, because our
tickets, like theirs, were for
places further along, where our
work awaited us, and which
were not at all unpleasant. But
the places to which we all went
were filled with people who
were filled with the idea that
Westralia was a sort of Shangri-
la for the old, except that it
needed shaking up by the
young.
The places where I have found
myself have also been full of
people with the cheek to call
other localities, a mere few hun-
dred miles away, not “the
West,” but “the Far West.”
What this seems farthest from
to me is the idea that the Aus-
tralian States federated more
than half a century ago. This
country, like the United States,
should have its east and its west
on its two most remote coasts,
and if it, too, must have a
“Middle West,” then Alice
Springs would be the Australian
Chicago—without, I hope, any
“Chicago Tribune.”
Anyway, whatever is “the
West,” the westernmost possible
party is pretty good. If you
want much opera, symphony and
other complex and costly forms
of artistic expression it might
be a good idea to live some-
where else, but short of that
sort of thing you do all right
in Perth, and as well in a
Westralian country town as you
do in one in Victoria.
For one thing, it’s a relief to
live in a place that does not
regard itself as the hub of the
universe, as do London and
New York, with some if insuffi-
cient cause, and Sydney and
Melbourne, with no cause at all.
In Westralia they tend to ,be in-
terested in ideas, whether they
come from overseas or the
eastern States, but in Sydney,
for instance, there is a strong
suspicion that if any notion
emanating from further afield
than King’s Cross or Randwick
isn’t outright subversive it is at
least some sort of foreign trick.
Other advantages are numer-
ous, and closely linked with the
good climate and beer I have
already referred to. The former
permits the latter to be enjoyed
outdoors, in beer-gardens, for
much of the time, but the sound
commonsense of the people is
what allows the grog to be ab-
sorbed in “public houses” until
at least the middle of the even-
ing—and inland, on the gold-
fields, till the absolute end of
what anybody but a drunk
would regard as evening.
One of the few mistakes I
think the late Jack Curtin made
during the war was in imposing
the six-o’clock curfew even in
the parts of the country where
civilisation had begun to creep
in. In W.A., to which he be-
longed, the main result was that
anybody who could manage it
started drinking in the boss’s
time instead of his own, and
production must have fallen
considerably. But I was greatly
relieved when the war ended,
and I was overseas, to learn that
the Westralian Legislature had
restored the old drinking-hours
about five minutes after the last
shot was fired.
This, I had suspected, might
not happen, for it was after
World War I that the wowsers
got their stranglehold on the
eastern States and reduced
people of normally gregarious
instincts and liking for some-
thing with a bit of a lift in it to
guzzling or going thirsty. But
it did happen, so swiftly as to
reassure me that the people to
whom I belonged still placed
first things first and realised that
it was a poor heart that never
rejoiced without the aid of
alcohol.
One of the results of decent
drinking-hours in Westralia is
that most pubs, like their Eng-
lish counterparts, have dart-
boards, hooky-boards and seats
all over the place. They are, in
fact, “poor man’s clubs,” in
which beer is the proper stimu-
lant for talk around the fire or
a game of skill, and not in itself
a purpose and an end. People
drink too much, and drive
drunkenly occasionally, but a
certain sporting element enters
into alcoholic speeding when
rivals on the road may be still
breasting the bar, or may have
gone home somehow an hour or
two earlier, instead of all hitting
the highways hard at approxi-
mately the same time.
But, important as drink is, it
isn’t everything, and Perth has
other joys to offer. Apart from
the Swan River, which is shallow
but delightful to look at, ocean
beaches spread for miles within
easy reach of the city. And what
beaches they are! The sand and
the sea both sparkle, and the
brilliant, sun-warmed whiteness
of the shore that stretches back
into tufted sandhills is so vast
that all the people who throw
banana-skins and sandwich-
wrappings on it can’t make it
look dirty. The glare of the
white beaches hurts the eyes but
satisfies the soul, and when I
first saw the “golden sands of
Bondi” I thought a much
shorter, coarser word would
have described them better than
“golden.”
Behind the town —but not too
far behind—are the Darling
Ranges, nothing very spectacular
as mountains, but most pleasing
places for winter wanderings.
There is no snow, but few people
want snow, except on Christmas-
cards, and there are glowing
slopes of orchard and vineyard,
rock outcrops that jut high
enough to please any man less
than 10ft. high, wildflowers and
hidden, 6in.-wide streams that
can be regarded as a private dis-
covery by anybody who stumbles
over them, and flat-surfaced
rock-pools in broader rivers that
reflect and concentrate all the
surrounding beauty into green-
framed pictures to be gloated
over.
All this, of course, does make
the west seem like a place to
retire to, like Honolulu, or a
million square miles that wants
waking up, its pretty rivers
filling with the sludge of fac-
tories, its beaches infested by
crowds too large for even them
to hold. But, unfortunately, the
place spends little time contem-
plating its own beauty and en-
joying its own peace and plenty.
As my detective friend quickly
discovered, wherever one or two
people are gathered together
there is trouble.
Sometimes, when men I know
come back from Westralian holi-
days convinced that all the
people over there are angels I
am inclined to snarl “Well, next
time you go take me with you
and I’ll introduce you to some of
the others.” When I do this they
generally laugh, unsure as to
whether or not it is a joke, but
inclined to take it that way.
Actually, of course, it is far from
humorous, and my home State,
with its mere half-million people,
has as high a percentage of no-
hopers, villains, greedy louts,
cunning cads and so on as any
other place.
Willingness to take a stranger
home and feed him proves noth-
ing except that you have a home,
some food in it and a desire at
the moment to make a good fel-
low of yourself. It is also easier
to slip a stiletto between the ribs
of a drunken rival than of a
sober one, and many Westralians
practise on visitors so that they
will be able to operate with
smooth efficiency on their be-
loved neighbors. Few easterners
ever discover this, because they
only go there permanently at the
age of 90, if at all, not to enter
into active competition with
these good fellows.
The place has a Bankruptcy
Court, which is busy in bad
times and seldom quite idle. It
has Fremantle Jail, a place not
less populated or noticeably
happier than most jails. It treats
its aborigines, and particularly
its half-castes, abominably, and
has, at times, placed groups like
returned - soldiers and group -
settlers on land that grew noth-
ing much except stones, and
broke the hearts of those who
tried to cultivate it. There’s
plenty wrong with it, mostly the
fault of man, not Nature, in
spite of large stretches in which
Nature hasn’t done too well,
either.
The railways are funny, time-
ignoring toys with a 3ft. 6in.
gauge, but on main lines since
the war more has been done than
in most States to make the pas-
senger comfortable while he is
in the grip of the public trans-
port system, even if he can’t be
taken to his destination on time.
On the Westland Express, which
links with the Commonwealth
Transcontinental line, for
instance, ancient carriages have
been so titivated within that one
can lounge in pastel-shaded
private accommodation and, by
imagining about twice the speed
and a few less bumps, perhaps
convince oneself that the train is
a de-luxe American flyer.
The south-west is, of course,
the most fertile show part of the
State, with fat stock, tall timber,
neat townships and pleasant
people scattered over an area
nearly as big as Victoria. In
other places, as many frustrated
soldiers found out during the
war, there can be far greater
stretches of nothing worth talk-
ing about than anywhere else.
(Continued on page 31)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O. UNDER FIRE
London “Daily Express,”
/Britain’s most out-and-out critic
of U.N.0., quotes South African
Prime Minister Malan, who
urged that all British Common-
wealth countries should “stand
together to drive the United
Nations back within the borders
of its own charter.”
“That sound advice,” com-
mented the “Express,” “should
be taken a stage further. The
Commonwealth should quit the
United Nations altogether. For
that body does more harm than
any other to the interests of the
British Empire.”
The more level-headed Lon-
don “Economist,” though it
would still give U.N.O. credit
in some respects, is sharply
critical on the score of damage
being done to the Western part-
nership by the U.N.O. brand of
“open diplomacy,”
“There must,” it lately com-
mented, “be something seriously
wrong with an organisation that
can, in less than a fortnight,
bedevil a vital political confer-
ence [on Korea], estrange the
United States from its allies and
—incidentally and quite gratui-
tously—put a spoke in the wheel
of Indo-Pakistan rapproche-
ment.
“In the past some of the non-
sense that goes on in the
Assembly has been defended as
a valuable letting-off of steam
that might otherwise produce ex-
plosions. On this occasion the
steam has very nearly blown
away the chances of peace.
“The chief cause of this sorry
record is persistence in a method
of diplomacy that does not work.
Open diplomacy is, in fact, a
contradiction in terms. When a
diplomatist has a public audience
something changes in him. He
begins to make debating points,
to seek effects and generally to
behave as though it were his
business to make a case and not
to settle one; he becomes an
advocate instead of a diplomat,
and he merely brings the bel-
ligerency of the battlefield back
into the council chamber.
“This weakness is inherent in
all but the best of human
natures, but its temptations and
effects are greatly increased in
an age of popular journalism,
radio and television...
“Defenders of the United
Nations may legitimately round
on their critics and ask whether
negotiations ‘through channels’
about Germany and Austria
have led to anything but frustra-
tion. The answer is, that they
have at least not made matters
worse in the way that the United
Nations made matters worse.
Indeed, if success be measured
in terms of achievement, then
secret negotiation has had its
triumphs.
“The Japanese peace treaty
was negotiated—by Mr. Dulles
—in secret; the North Atlantic
Treaty vyas negotiated in secret
from start to finish; the Berlin
blockade was lifted as a result of
secret talks; discussions behind
closed doors on the Coal and
Steel Community and on the
European Defence Community
achieved the not-inconsiderable
success of bringing France and
Germany together on a number
of points.
“Whether or not one approves
of the results in these cases is
here irrelevant; the point is that
the end aimed at was achieved.
Even the Saar, that thorn in
Europe’s western side, has been
discussed sensibly and profitably
by M. Schuman and Dr.
Adenauer; one has only to try
to imagine what would happen
if the Saar got on to the agenda
of the United Nations to realise
the dangers of that organisa-
tion’s present methods.
“The experience of the last
few years, reinforced by the
events of the last few weeks,
shows that the United Nations
is going about its business in
the wrong way. Its purpose is to
settle international disputes and
to lessen international tensions
but its machinery of public de-
bate is being used for exactly \
the opposite purpose,”
U.S. Bursting Surpluses
How Uncle. Sam is learning
you can have too much of a
good thing, as reported by the
Richmond (U.S.) “Times-Dis-
patch”:
“Whatever unkind things
envious friends or enemies may
say about the United States, they
can’t dispute that this is a big
country that does things in a big
way.
“Our national debt is the
biggest in the world. The
amount of money owed by con-
sumers is bigger than ever. The
number of TV sets, phones,
bathtubs, dream kitchens, radios,
washing-machines, power lawn-
mowers, etc., tops the globe,
although we have only 6 per
cent, of its population.
“But of even greater import-
ance are this year’s big crops—
and the big sums the taxpayers
will have to chip in to support
the market.
“Take cotton, for instance.
This year the Government ex-
pects to give price-support shel-
ter to four or five million bales,
a surplus roughly twice as big
as that of 1952.
“This year’s grain crop is ex-
pected to be so big that 1954
acreage will have to be 15 to
20 per cent, less than this year’s ;
else we’d have so much grain
we wouldn’t have any place to
put it.
“The 1953 potato crop is ex-
pected to reach 383,000,000
bushels —35,000,000 above the
1952 yield.
“The milk output for the first
half of ’53 broke all records,
thanks to Uncle Sam’s willing-
ness to buy ‘surplus’ butter and
cheese. Result: dairy-herds have
been increased 2.5 per cent,
above a year ago.
“And the crop of soybeans,
mostly for livestock feed, is ex-
pected to be just a shade below
the record 599,000,000-bushel
yield of 1950, so that another
surplus is anticipated.
“We’re literally bursting at the
seams with the good things of
the earth, but what would be
gratefully hailed as a boon of
nature elsewhere becomes a
source of fiscal embarrassment.
Other nations with more agri-
cultural products than they can
consume would export them. We
can’t export much. The Gov-
ernment’s price-supports, which
also help to perpetuate high pro-
duction costs, have raised prices
to a point where other nations
can’t afford to buy—except at
sacrifice prices—with the loss
taken by taxpayers who are just
about ‘fed-up.’ ”
Left Misleaders
Lord Vansittart, continuing a
lively correspondence in Lon-
don “Times”:
“Both world wars were made
certain because our enemies
drew wrong conclusions from
utterances designed to humor
our people. When Mr. Cham-
berlain said ‘it is peace in our
time,’ when publicists declared
that there would be no war, they
misled those who wished to be
misled.
“Similarly, when the Left
credit Communism with change
of heart, proclaim that ‘the only
way’ of peace is to talk to
Malenkov without settling what
one is to talk about, and that
London “News Chronicle”
WHAT GAME ARE WE PLAYING?
(The batsman is Lord Salisbury)
anybody with a liking for pre-
cision is a wrecker, they also
mislead the people who, again,
want to be misled.
“If British production in all
spheres had equalled our out-
put of rubbish in the last three
months, our future would be
secure. To Russian ears the
fuss was an invitation to reject
our overture, in order that a
stick might be furnished to beat
the Government. This is not
diplomacy but lunacy.
“Naturally our adversaries ex-
ploit the confusions which we
create for ourselves —throwing
in mention of the hydrogen-
bomb to strengthen their hand.
Misguidance is profitable at
home but expensive abroad.
There is so little chance of
agreement with totalitarian
regimes—though it is unpopular
to say so —that in trying to get
one we cannot afford habitually
to give away a trick in every
hand. Totalitarians are also so
unlikely to keep any agreement
—an equally unwelcome truth
—that it is unwise to encourage
them in the belief that we would
sooner blame each other than
them.”
Jap Coms
Facts about the Communists
in Japan published by the Pub-
lic Security Investigation Board
there and editorially reported by
“Manchester Guardian” :
Present membership, 100,000;
about the same as in 1949, when
General MacArthur issued his
ordinance for the control of the
party.
Membership' dropped in the
interval to 48,000, but has been
recovering since the ordinance
lapsed last year. Nearly 40 per
cent, of the members are under
24 years of age; only 18 per
cent, are over 34.
Only 9 per cent. are
“workers”; the largest group,
32 per cent., are office em-
ployees ; 8 per cent, are
students; 15 per cent, are
women.
Glossary of Abuse
A “revised list of approved
terms of abuse” for use by East
German Communist exponents
of that art is reported by Lon-
don “Sunday Times’s” Berlin
correspondent.
It supersedes all previous lists,
terms in which are judged to
have got a trifle washy, prob-
ably from overuse.
In the new list Americans get
it especially heavy, being com-
plimented with such epithets as
chewing-gum spivs, breeders of
trichinosis, monkey - killers,
arsenic - mixers, lice - breeders,
mass poisoners, leprous heroes,
boogie-woogie tramps, gas-
chamber ideologists, exploiters
of epidemics, delirious lunatics.
However, the British can’t
complain of any lack of interest
in them, they being earmarked
for such musical terms as para-
lytic sycophants, effete betrayers
of humanity, carrion-eating ser-
vile imitators, arch-cowards and
collaborators, gang of women-
murderers, degenerate rabble,
parasitic traditionalists, playboy
soldiers, conceited dandies.
Dragnet Digest
St. Winston, No, Not Yet. —
An Indo-Chinese sect, which has
Victor Hugo and Sun Yat-sen
among its saints, has denied
that it was including Sir Winston
Churchill. “Manchester
Guardian” quotes a leader of it
as saying: “The admiration we
hold for this great British states-
man does not, however, permit
us to admit him among our
saints in his lifetime,”
A ir-minded. From Dallas
(U.S.A.) “Morning News”: “For
every one American civilian
who could fly an airplane in
1940, 18 can fly one now.”
Mao. —* Personal notes by
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” ; Always inclined to
obesity, Mao is said to have
grown even fatter from the good
eating that graces a conqueror’s
table in Peiping. He has suffered
in the past from tuberculosis,
apparently arrested, and is
known to have a heart condi-
tion. Mao is 60.
Follow-my-leader. —-“ Christian
Science Monitor” report on the
game as played in U.N.0.: “On
a show-of-hands vote, when
things are moving fast and there
is no time for them to receive
instructions in advance, the
satellite delegates simply sit back
and watch the Soviet representa-
tive. They vote whichever way
he does. They do not even have
to follow the proceedings. A
sampling of ballots taken by the
General Assembly and its main
committees between October and
December last year is illuminat-
ing. On 173 ballots, the Soviet
bloc voted in unison 173 times.”
Both Sides Bluffing —“ There
is reason to suspect,” reports a
“New York Times” corres-
pondent, “that both Power
groupings [Soviet and West],
despite earnest public protesta-
tions, do not really want to see
Germany unified at this time.
The West wants Bonn rearmed
first. The East fears German
vitality. It is in a sense, and on
a magnified scale, similar to
the paradox of the Trieste Free
Territory, where, at one time or
another, both the democracies
and the Communists called for
evacuating and unifying that
area —whenever they were con-
fident the political opponent
would not accept.”
Mau Mau Still Strong. —
“Manchester Guardian’s” Kenya
correspondent amends his earlier
optimistic report; “Today it is
sadly clear that if the tide has
turned it is running out very
slowly. It is certain that there
is scanty ground for optimism,
and far less for complacency,
about the current state of affairs
in Kenya. In recent weeks there
has been a marked increase of
Mau Mau activities. Day after
day come reports of murders,
of clashes between the gangs of
terrorists and military and
police patrols, of attacks on
schools in Kikuyuland, of the
continued administration of
Mau Mau oaths and so on.”
Adenauer's Opportunity. —lt
is, comments a “New York
Times” staff correspondent in
Germany, “highly unlikely” that
Adenauer, “a shrewd and tough
man,” really believes that Euro-
pean integration will provide a
panacea for the troubles of Ger-
many and the world. However,
he recognises that the projected
defence community is the central
prop of United States foreign
policy. Diplomatically he must
see the chance that, with France
lagging behind and German
energies rising, Germany will be
increasingly encouraged by
Washington to take over the
leadership of the Continent.
Ailing France. —Diagnosis by
London “News Chronicle’s”
financial editor; “France’s
chronic financial ailment —the
unbalanced Budget gets
steadily worse. It is indeed a
lamentable commentary on her
utter inability to throw off this
insidious disease that M- Laniel’s
financial proposals which pre-
cipitated the recent trouble
aimed only at knocking off £7O
million of an £BOO million pros-
pective deficit! It is difficult to
see how France can find a way
out without a new devaluation
of the franc. But it is a thousand
times more difficult to see how
she can find a way out without
some act of moral regeneration
which has the effect of inducing
her political parties to sink
superficial differences and her
citizens to pay their taxes.”
No Quick Peace. —This (notes
London “Observer”) is an age of
long armistices: “The Second
World War, \yhich ended eight
years ago, still awaits its peace
settlement, and to all intents and
purposes we are still living in its
armistice period. Similarly, the
armistice between Israel and her
Arab neighbors has now had to
do duty for a peace treaty ffor
nearly five years; and the
armistice between India and
Pakistan in Kashmir has ful-
filled the same function for
about the same period, with no
definite peace in prospect in
either case. The Korean
armistice may well have to serve
for a similar long period. When
one considers the enormous
complexity of the political
problems which the Korean war
has produced or revealed, one
cannot feel optimistic about the
prospects of an early peace
settlement”


Every Day in so many
One serves
C
Australia
■ W
.
r
••••:>:
r//
-s:
MM
Cyclone” Ringiock Farm Fences provide economy and ease of erection/
Cuclone
FOR OVER 50 YEARS FAMOUS FOR QUALITY
All “Cyclone” products are made for standing time, exposure and
hard usage and there has been plenty of time, more than fifty
years of it, to show how they do stand exposure and hard usage.
So their reputation, which is of the highest, is based on lifetimes
of use which have shown them to be of best design, best materials
and best workmanship. You will find that “Cyclone” prices are
most reasonable, made possible by the big volume of output, due to
ever-increasing popularity. Inquire of your local “Cyclone” distributor
for details of all “Cyclone” products which interest you.
rr>
ai'/<EV«KNS
V4K
The genuine “Cyclone” Gate of famous
“Red Tag” quality
IQS
“Cyclone" Store Partitions easy
to install and maintain
“Cyclone” Playground
Equipment keeps children
safe and happy
J
&_■
l
«*
'•
:
/
“Cyclone” Milking Bails otter the
ultimate in hygiene
WM
mmm
“Cyclone” Factory Fences protect
plant and property
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
Cl7O/70/53


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO KEITH SULLIVAN TAYLOR of 27
Webb Street Parramatta.—TAKE NOTICE
that IRENE MAY LAMEY TAYLOR has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4495 of
1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking the exercise of the
Court’s discretion in her favour under
5.19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the second day of December
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from COLLINS & POL-
LACK, Solicitors, Victoria Street, Grafton
or their agents, SMITHERS, WARREN
& LYONS, Solicitors, 169 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
GOODYEAR
HAS BUILT AND SOLD
MORE TYRES EACH YEAR, FOR 38 YEARS,
THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY IN THE WORLD
In the confusion of claims and counter
claims about tyre quality this one FACT
stands out above all others
7k \ 1
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To meet gent, going U.K. (via
Genoa and Continent or direct
steamer). —5575,
To buy the early issues of “The
Bookfellow,” those published by The
Bulletin. —5583.
Typiste, Sydney, will type manu-
scripts for freelance writers, neat and
accurate. —5579.
Copies of The Bulletin’s 50th,
60th and 70th anniversary numbers,
which appeared in 1930, 1940 and
1950—5580,
To hear from Australians who can
write Spanish and who would forward
copies of Australian magazines.
(Write direct to G. Guerra, Concep-
cion Arenal, 83, Barcelona, Espana.)
Words of Australian ballad begin-
ning;—
Billy Giles had a cottage in a little one-
horse town,
Where there lived a missionary; • well,
we’ll call him Mr. Brown.
—5576.
To buy copy of The Writings of
William Blake, 3 vols., ed. by G.
Keynes, published by Nonesuch Press,
London.—5595,
To buy copy of The Giraffe’s Uncle
by Les Robinson. —5594.
Books or copies of magazines con-
taining articles relating to the story
of Fisher’s Ghost. —5593.
Biographical details concerning
William Manners Clarke, who re-
ceived several Crown grants in the
Waverley (Sydney) district in 1838,
and John Birrell, who owned land
from 1859 to 1864 on which Waverley
College is now situated. (Write direct
to Brother E. C. Fields, Waverley
College, Carrington-road, Waverley,
N.S.W.)
Sydney schoolboy would like copies
of magazines containing photographs
of Australian authors. —5585.
Typist, Sydney, wants typing work.
Used to authors’ manuscripts, can
revise if necessary, neat and accurate.
—5587.
Middle-aged gent., Sydney, wants
full board and lodging, own room,
private home, quiet suburb northern
side of Harbor. —5586.
Englishman, arriving Sydney Oc-
tober 19 next, seeks position with
N.S.W. city or country hospital. Was
chief petty officer (sick bay), R.A.N.,
can perform nursing or X-ray (T.B.)
work.—5590.
Englishman, newly arrived, wife and
two children, urgently require fur-
nished flat or cottage.—5591.
Information Sought
Some information on French
novelist George Sand?
George Sand, born 1804, died 1876,
was the leading French authoress of
her time. Her real name was Arman-
dine Lucile Aurore Dupin, Baroness
Dudevant, who, as a novelist and
dramatist, achieved her highest suc-
cess. Her first novel, written in
collaboration with Jules Sandeau, was
Rose et Blanche. This was followed
by Indiana, which she wrote unaided.
It was a story full of sentiment,
emotion and dramatic action. This
novel immediately made her famous
and, year after year, she continued
to write novel after novel. Most
of her novels dealt with unhappy love-
tangles of a type not sanctioned by
English fiction at that time. She was
associated with Frederic Chopin, and
was reputed to be his lover.
* * * *
List of some biographical and
critical studies of H. G. Wells?
The Religion" of H. G. Wells by
A. H. G. Crawford, H. G. Wells
by J. D. Beresford, The World of
H. G. Wells by Van Wyck Brooks,
My Dear Wells by H. A. Jones,
H. G. Wells by R. T. Hopkins,
H. G. Wells by I. J. C. Brown, H. G.
Wells by F. H. Doughty, A Com-
panion to Mr. Wells’s Outline of
History and Mr. Belloc Still Objects
to Mr. Wells’s Outline of History by
Hilaire Belloc, Some Aspects of H.
G. Wells by P. Braybrooke, H. G.
Wells by Geoffrey West, The Outline
of H. G. Wells by S. Dark, A Talk
With H. G. WelU by J. H. S. Row-
land, H. G. Wells by N. C. Nicholson,
and H. G. Wells by V. Brome.
# * * $
Some particulars about the long-
snouted honey-mouse?
It is a small mouse-like marsupial
belonging to the opossum family but
with some special features of its own.
The head and body are only Sin.
long, the tail 4in. The short, coarse
fur is grey above, striped with black
or brown, yellowish-white below.
The head is long and narrow, with
an elongated muzzle. All the claws
are rudimentary, except those on the
second and third toes of the hind
foot, which are very closely united.
The elongated, thinly-haired tail is
prehensile. The long-snouted honey-
mouse is confined to south-western
Australia, where it appears to be
fairly numerous in certain districts;
it is nocturnal and arboreal, and its
chief food consists of honey (which
it extracts from flowers by means of
a long, narrow tongue) and soft-
bodied insects.
♦ * * *
What was the name of the first
book for children published in New
South Wales?
A Mother’s Offering to Her
Children by “A Lady, Long Resident
in New South Wales” (Sydney, 1841).
The authorship is ascribed to Lady
Gordon-Bremer, who was governess
to the Gipps family, on the strength
of a not 6 in a copy of the book at
the National Library, Canberra.
* * * *
(1) What books of verse did Sir
Henry Parkes write? (2) Have they
any literary value?
(1) Stolen Moments: A Short
Series of Poems (Sydney, 1842),
Murmurs of the Stream (Sydney,
1857), Studies in Rhyme, with Notes
(Sydney, 1870), The Beauteous
Terrorist and Other Poems (Mel-
bourne, 1885), Fragmentary Thoughts
(Sydney, 1889), Sonnets and Other
Verse (London, 1895), (2) Although
Parkes took himself seriously as a
poet, readers and critics have never
done so, and the latter have been
particularly hard on him. In his own
time one local critic ended a long
review with “ we are confident,
indeed, that such a Sahara of sterility
was never heaped together before.”
* * * *
Who is the fastest Test bowler of
today ?
Ray Lindwall is generally regarded
as the world’s fastest Test bowler,
though Keith Miller’s pace at times
has been equal to Lindwall’s. He is
not, however, consistently as fast.
Bedser is fast-medium, and is con-
sidered to be much slower than
Lindwall. Trueman is faster than
Bedser, and, though not yet as fast
as Lindwall or Miller (at his top), is
still developing his pace. (Judgment
of pace is based on the observations
of other players and spectators; there
is no hard-and-fast rule to determine
it. Comparison of the speed of
different bowlers is often a matter of
personal opinion.)
Brief Answers
J.S.: Write the Royal Agricultural
Society of N.S.W., Endeavour House,
33 Macquarie-place, Sydney 8.F.:
The story “The Great Grey Rain”
by Roderic Quinn appeared in the
“Lone Hand” of October, 1911
J.McA.: (1) Vance Palmer was born
at Bundaberg in 1885. (2) His first
book was The World of Men, a
series of short stories reprinted from
the “New Age,” the “Academy” and
the “Manchester Guardian.” It was
published in 1915... .R.K.: Mary
Gilmore’s first book was Marri’d and
Other Verses N.L.: The “Lone
Hand” was first published in May,
1907, with a cover design by Norman
Lindsay H.V.: “The Great Aus-
tralian Adjective” was written ,by W.
T. Goodge... .H.M.R.: Write Age
Pensions Branch, Dept, of Social
Services, Commonwealth Government
Offices, Anzac-square, Brisbane....
C.K.H.: Write J. H. Smythe Pty.,
Ltd., 114 Castlereagh-street, Sydney;
or A. C. Campe, 25 Royal-arcade,
Sydney H. 8.; Marcus Clark,e’s
essay “The Settlement of Port Jack-
son (N.S.W.)” will be found in
Essays: English and Australian
selected by George H. Cowling
H.C.D.: Warwick Armstrong, the
cricketer, was born on May 22, 1879,
and died on July 13, 1947 R.L.K.:
The Pronunciation of English in Aus-
tralia by A. G. Mitchell, published
by Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
1946... .N.K.W.: See “Cement Cos.
Finance,” page 15, The Bulletin,
July 15, 1953; and “Cement Costs,”
page 15, The Bulletin, February 25,
1953 L.D.: Australian Literature,
1900-50, by H. M. Green, published
for the Trustees of the Public Library
of Victoria by the Melbourne Univer-
sity Press L.S.McK.: Douglas
Annand: Drawings and Paintings in
Australia, edited and published by
Sydney Ure Smith, 1942.,. .D.McD.:
Write N.S.W. Cricket Association,
254 George-street, Sydney, for pam-
phlet, “Turf Wickets: Their Overhaul,
Preparation and Repair” F.M.:
The identity of “Brent of Bin Bin”
is still officially undisclosed R.L.:
Painted Clay was the first novel by
the late Capel Boake S.F.J.: A
Bibliography of A. G. Stephens by
Dr. George Mackaness was published
in “Manuscripts,” No, 10, 1934....
R.M.F.: In 1952 the Roman Catholic
population within the British Com-
monwealth and Empire was estimated
at 26.7 million. In the U.S.A. (in-
cluding possessions) there were 31.6
million Roman Catholics, Through-
out the world the Roman Catholic
population is estimated at 423 million.
W.H.H.: Thoroughly beat the
white of an egg and then rub it well
into the leather, but do not allow it
to remain to harden; this should clean
and polish as well. Saddle-soap is also
excellent, applied lightly and rubbed
dry, then polished with a silk cloth.
Any good white shoe-cream can also
be used.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.V.; Try it elsewhere F.A.H.:
Winston is deserving of something
better V.F.: You can keep your
fairies H.S.McP.: Pleased to note,
at least, that you are “jogging along”
your “happy way” W.G.: “Frag-
ment” is merely a fragment
T.R.P.: You seem under the spell of
the mistaken-identity plot. All three
stories are much the same —and poor.
J.M.K.: Once more the provi-
dential gold-nugget comes to the
rescue of the short-story writer stuck
for an ending G.C.: Drunks m
fishing-boat sunk without trace
T.H.: Yes, they are a little too
“moonstruck” for us... .T.W.E.: At
least you achieved the honor of being
the first, to our knowledge, to write
a verse about a standee bus....
J.C.C.: “Too Young” is immature.
W.A.T.: Sorry, but “The Old
Tree” was chopped down R.T.:
You are about three months too late
with it J.S.E.: Suggest that you
sing it to “Little Joe, and Bill and
Tom, the daughters Clare and Bess.”
.... J.D.S.: Must you address Enid
in such archaic language? 8.P.:
The old fellow was duly buried
E.L.: The Religious Editor is still
staging a recovery M.R.G.: Even
your offer of “British Empire First
Rights” didn’t tempt us H.P.:
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
Not greatly interested at the moment
in “The private life of a wriggling,
lowly grub” A.R.C.: Try it on a
Brisbane paper A.J.M.: It is very
uneven and some of your rhymes are
raw M.M.: It doesn’t sound as if
it was written 45 miles from a pub.
~. .J. 5.8.: Pat O’Hara is on his way
home A.D.P.: What can be done
to cheer you up? K. 8.: Why not
send it to the magazine that published
the poem that inspired yours?
G.D.: So frail that we would not
have been surprised if it had arrived
in an ambulance R.K.; Hard to
tell which is the poorer —the one
about the sunset or the one about the
sunrise.. . .A.S.: We were not
amused... .P.C.: When last seen it
was drifting about in “the lone alti-
tudes of space”.... A.M.McD.: Not
vastly different from a thousand other
spring poems received lately P-G. ;
Although it wouldn’t melt an editor s
heart, Carole, we have no doubt,
would love it... .F.M.S.: Joan should
be happy to receive your effort
H.W.: We are tired of dead swag-
men. .. .P.F.McK.: And we are a
trifle weary of deserted homesteads.
O.J.J.: We would be inclined to
say that you are a better tipster than
a poet C.R.: At 84 you should
be past all that L.S.K.: We hope
that your prose is better than your
poetry C.P.: It didn’t cause a
ripple J.W.McL.: Typed or hand-
written—it makes no difference —it is
still p00r... .H.P.: When last sighted
it was lurking in the shadows....
W.M.F.: No corner for “The Walgett
Coolibah”.... J.J.H.: "Into the
Ether” consigned to the outer
H. Merely an album-piece....
I. : They only scored a faint
chuckle L.A.S.: Aren’t you a bit
late with that Coronation verse?
D.J.C.: Cheer up M.F.: Yours
is the 97th Mount Everest verse we
have dumped overboard since last
June M.M.: Send the verse about
Fido to a children’s magazine
J. : Well, at least you are happy.
K.J.L.: The Murray calls for
something more stirring than that.
A.J.H.: “The little lighthouse on
the rocks” will not shed its light in
these pages.


"THE LETTERS
OF RACHEL HENNING"
Over 9300 copies of this fascinating, factual and
intimate story of Australians a hundred years
ago have now been sold. Its historical and
entertainment value has been applauded by
critics in Australia and abroad. Rachel Henning
without doubt has become an enduring character
in Australian literature. The Norman Lindsay
illustrations in the book are superb.
7s. 6d., post-free
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Henning” are
again available from "The Bulletin” offices in
Melbourne, Brisbane or Perth, or from The
Book Department, "The Bulletin,” Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
including Texas. But Perth, the
city where, in the Australian
manner, most of the people live,
is towards the north-western
corner of the south-west, and is
very happily located.
Gradually, and inevitably, the
present pleasing character of
Perth will change, and it will, I
suppose, grow large, noisy and
smoky. In the meanwhile, its
very advantages survive largely
because of a lack of industry
which causes it great and some-
times almost violent grief. One
occasion when we Westralians
got properly excited over the
tactics of eastern States indus-
trialists was when, 20 years or so
ago, the great Secession Move-
ment got going. In an eventual
referendum we voted over-
whelmingly to be free for ever
of the bonds alleged to be
strangling our infant industries.
The upsurge of newspaper and
ballot-box rebellion was, how-
ever, taken too seriously
in the eastern States, for many
thousands, like myself, voted for
secession with the idea in mind
“We can’t get it, of course, but
we’ll give those cows a fright,
anyway.”
When the votes were counted
we had such a majority that we
gave ourselves a fright. Leaders
of the movement were so en-
couraged that they petitioned the
Crown about it, and for a while
a lot of us wondered apprehen-
sively if we mightn’t soon find
ourselves not Australians any
more. But nothing much hap-«
pened except a lot of good, fiery
arguments, and since those days
the centre of real, full-blooded
hatred of the Federal monster
seems to have shifted from
Perth to Brisbane.
And Perth, it may be asserted,
remains one of the pleasantest
cities in Australia or anywhere
else, except when it broods over
its wrongs. Cost-of-living figures
there are not much lower than
in the bigger capitals, but if life
includes a lot of fun as well as
the necessities, fi a Perth man
gets along gaily c a a good deal
less money, for it is the city of
inexpensive pleasures. It is a
place of home rather than swell
hotel and nightclub entertain-
ment, and the place where,
except for the very top level of
plutocrats, managing-directors
and lift-drivers live lives not
widely dissimilar. This does not
mean that managing-directors
live in five-room fibro cottages
and catch the trolley-bus to
work—but they and their
humble slaves both have keg-
parties now and again, both go
prawning and catching crabs in
the Swan, sleep one on each side
of beach sandhills on one or two
heatwave nights of the year and,
if they live in the same suburb,
are likely to be found at adja-
cent tables with their wives in
the local pub’s beer-garden
quite often.
The city and its environs are
one of the garden-spots of the
world, incomparably pleasanter,
at least for a person of my
tastes and temperament, than
Honolulu, Florida, California, or
any part of the south of France.
I am often sincerely sorry I ever
left, and one of these days I
plan to go back, if I ever accu-
mulate enough money to retire
t with a little place at Dalkeith
or Nedlands and a boat on the
river. I wouldn’t even wait a
week if I were a bit younger.
But I’m a bit long in the tooth
for it now —and luckier than
most people in that I have spent
15 or so very good adult years
there.
The PASSENGER
by a. Reynolds
IT had been a good season, a
really excellent season, until
the rains came. They came
suddenly, unseasonably, and
with a persistent violence that
precluded any further work
among the peas. Three of the
pickers, John, Burl and Frances,
walked out into the rain-dark
day, hoping to thumb a ride
back to Sydney.
The headlights of a truck
picked them out when they had
advanced half a mile through a
fluidly formless world, and
responded to their urgent signals
with a slithering, mud-spattering
halt. They flung their canvas-
bags into the back and swung in
after them.
“Milk-truck,” said John, quite
superfluously, as they squirmed
between the cans.
“Gosh, it’s a rotten day,” said
Frances. She was sitting on the
floor, leaning against one of the
cans, and with a handkerchief
was gently wiping a new, glossy
portable radio which she had
been carrying beneath her rain-
coat. “I hope the batteries are
all right.”
“They’ve hardly had time to
wear out,” commented Burl.
“I know, I know,” was the
impatient retort. “But it doesn’t
do them any good to get damp.”
They were silent, until the
truck pulled up at Mount
Edward station.
“This is as far as they go,”
said Burl.
“And as far as we go, too, I
guess.” Frances jumped down
on to the road, dragged out her
bag and the radio, and stood
looking wistfully at the station,
at the rain-misted aureoles
around the lights and the dull
red shimmer of the waiting-room
window. “They’ve got a fire in
the waiting - room,” she
announced.
“Well?” John sounded
sarcastic.
“We might as well dry off
there, anyway,” she suggested.
They ran squelchily across the
gravel, and made a dripping
entrance into the waiting-room.
There was only one occupant, a
large, square-faced woman in a
camel-hair coat. Bags, boxes
and bundles lay around her like
the remnants of a fortified posi-
tion. She was consigning
devastated drink- and sandwich-
cartons to the flames in a
manner infinitely refined and
calculated ; after each contribu-
tion she paused to rub her lean
yeljow hands before the slightly
augmented blaze.
An audible “tsk” preceded
each replenishment. The pea-
pickers’ entrance caused her no
deviation from this procedure;
she seemed, in fact, oblivious to
them, but a surreptitious, side-
long appraisal from beneath
meditatively lowered eyelids
conveyed to her that they were
three extremely undistinguished
young people who displayed—
in their uncertain stances, tanned
hands, disarrayed hair and indif-
ference to the detriment of the
waiting-room floor caused by
their sodden coats —all the insuf-
ferable obtuseness of rural
workers. She picked up an
empty chocolate-box, and with a
“hmph” instead of a “tsk,”
placed it on the fire.
Whah-ee-donletthesta-a-ar
r pHE camel-haired lady jumped
perceptibly.
“The batteries are okay,”
Frances declared, jubilantly.
“You’re telling me.” Burl was
staring moodily at the room’s
one adornment—a large poster
with the exhortation to travel by
train. “How much have we
got?” he asked.
“I’ve got precisely three-and-
elevenpence,” said Frances. She
sighed, then brightened. “Ah,
well”
“Seven-and —er —eightpence,”
said John.
“A dollar,” said Burl, “Well
—a pity.”
They had moved over to the
fire, and were looking at it
absently, exuding a delicate
steam and a contagious mood of
fatalism.
“It seems an awful long way
to hitchhike, doesn’t it?”
Frances asked. “I mean, in
weather like this.”
“Well, we’ll have to. That’s
all. Unless Burl has any bright
ideas.”
“I might have. Yes, I think
I could have. But I can’t think
on any empty stomach. Well
go next-door and grab a couple
of pies.”
“Good idea.” Frances put the
radio tenderly on the floor,
“Would you mind keeping an
eye on this, please?” she asked.
The camel-coated lady, with
an incredibly wide-eyed look
indicative of being roused from
a profound reverie, ceased rub-
bing her hands together and
scrutinised the inquirer.
“You were addressing me?”
“Yes. Would you see that no
one swipes my radio?”
The woman’s face assumed the
blankness of masterfully con-
trolled disdain. Then, giving a
curt nod, she turned again to
the fire. The trio trooped out.
Minutes of silence passed.
It was not until the whistle of
an approaching train sounded
imperatively that the pickers
returned. They appeared to be
in rather earnest discussion, and
in their conspiratorial undertones
the lady detected the stuttering
note of uncertainty, even trepida-
tion. But she had no time to
reflect upon it. The train was
due. She went to the door, and,
in a richly accented shriek, sum-
moned the porter.
A FTER having ensconced her-
self in a window-seat, folded
a rug around her legs and settled
a packet of sandwiches and a
magazine on her lap, it was a
rather unpleasant surprise to dis-
cover that the enjoyment of such
comforts was not to go unwit-
nessed ; for scarcely had the
train started than the compart-
ment-door slid grindingly open
to admit the pickers—two of
them, anyways the third seemed
inclined to linger in the corridor,
and, with what seemed almost
deference to his indecision, they
left the door half-open, which
resulted in an excruciating
draught. The lady’s stoicism
was limited.
“It’s frightfully cold in here,”
she ventured.
“Yes, isn’t it?” Frances said,
politely.
“Perhaps if you closed the
door?” suggested the lady.
They looked at her per-
plexedly, then at each other,
then at the boy in the corridor,
then out at the streaming grey-
ness in which only the treetops
had a tattered solidity. Then,
quite suddenly, they were gone.
The lady stared at the vacated
seats, feeling a kind of puzzled
indignity. Three greyish, zip'-
pered canvas bags were lumped
on the floor like dead dogs, the
portable radio glimmered in the
comer, but the owners?
The appearance of a ticket-
inspector provided a minor,
irritating cross-current in her
turgid stream of thought—such
an officious man ; and was it her
fault if her ticket was at the
bottom of her bag and she had
to remove a compact, lipstick,
cigarette-case, sunglasses, hand-
kerchief, bundle of letters,
fountain - pen, address - book,
bunch of keys, scent-bottle,
headache - powders, road - map,
matches, nail-polish, nail-polish-
remover and a five-strand-choker
of imitation-pearls to get it?
She was musing bitterly on his
warped sense of humor when
the pickers returned. They
entered the compartment quietly,
bringing with them the aroma
of germicidal soap, and closed
the door after them.
. Such thoughtfulness, though
belated, deserved some reward,
if only as an incentive to its
continuance, and, thus moti-
vated, the lady coughed deli-
cately and declared:
“Filthy weather.”
The instantaneous grasp of
this conversational tentacle was
remarkable. From the chorused
agreement, she found of reason-
able intelligibility only the
words “lousy” and “wet,” and
these, while obviously slangy and
uninspired, were delivered with
such cheer and promptitude as
to be almost flattering. She con-
tinued ;
“Candidly, I think the Aus-
tralian climate horribly extreme.”
In the silence which followed
this remark, Frances twiddled
with the radio-dial. A low
whine, punctuated by the crepi-
tation of static, disturbed the
quiet.
“You’re new to this country?”
asked Buri.
“Deah, no. I’ve been here for
some years. Unfortunately.
We —myah husband and I—
came here from Africah about a
year ago.”
“See any strife over there?”
asked John, brightly.
“No. We left just prior to the
disturbances.”
“Lucky,” said Burl.
“Were you in Africa long?”
asked John.
“Quaite some time.”
“Oh. And apart from the
climate, what do you think of
Australia?” John was peering
at the spluttering radio as he
spoke.
“Candidly, it’s bluddie. It
really is. Now, you must
admit ...”
TPHE four hours of the journey
-*■ were devoted to a complete
exposition of her opinion. The
pickers were given a chance to
admit nothing, and sat, listening,
in dumb awkwardness.
By the time the lady had
reached the “give-it-back-to-the-
blacks” stage, her voice had the
shrill edge of fanaticism. The
“last-place-God-made” finale,
however, had the promising
hoarseness of enervation, and
during the pause in which the
lady profusely powdered her
face, which had become a glazed
pink during her threnody, Burl
said;
“During the war, in Eng-
land” —
“Actuahllay, we myah
husband and I—Weren’t in Eng-
land during the war. We went
to Africah just prior to hostilities
with the Germans. We have
travelled—ah—extensively. That
is why I feel entitled to my
opinion of this country. No
broadminded person would take
offence at it, I’m sure.”
“You intend going back to
England?” asked Frances, in a
dangerously level voice.
“Possibly,” said the lady,
vaguely.
“Hear, hear! ” exclaimed
Frances.
“I beg your pardon?”
Frances, receiving a desperate
glance from Burl, said:
“I mean that here, here in this
country, doesn’t agree with you.”
“An odd way of putting it.
But you’re quaite raight. It does
not.”
T\ESPITE their peculiarities,
the lady discovered, her
trayelling companions were not
utterly devoid of courtesy, for,
when Central was reached, the
three offered tq assist her with
her luggage.
The lady, despite her sixteen
stone„ was, on her own admis-
sion, “rahther delicate,” and she
accepted the offer benignly.
It was with remarkable swift-
ness and extraordinary dexterity
that they managed to get their
own luggage, and hers, through
the narrow ticket-barrier, and as
she puffed along in their wake,
she was mildly puzzled by the
odd way in which they tossed
their heads back in her direction
as they passed the ticket-
collector.
A peculiar gesture, indeed.
She saw them deposit the
luggage, in rather an abrupt
manner, and then they disap-
peared.
While she was detained at the
barrier, removing from her
handbag her compact, lipstick,
cigarette-case, sunglasses, hand-
kerchief, bqndle of letters,
fountain - pen, address - book,
bunch of keys, scent-bottle,
headache-powders, road-map,
matches, nail-polish, nail-polish-
remover, five-strand-choker of
imitation - pearls, and simul-
taneously denying any kinship
with the pickers—surely a
ridiculous assumption on the
collector’s part—the trio were
boarding a Botany tram.
Even though Burl expressed
satisfaction at the strategy, none
of them was particularly pleased
about the encounter.


fis readyf
Always ready
for cooking
Always gallons
of Hot water
Always greater
convenience
AlMottie
ONB
Sii
m
«AJItuW
DOMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND WATER HEATER
with true thermostat cdnfrol
• HEAVY CASTING within the range stores the heat, and
thorough insulation prevents heat loss.
• TWO LARGE COOKING OVENS and TWO BIGGER HOTPLATES
allow you to do all your cooking at the one time.
• CONTINUOUS BURNING means that the ”520” is always
ready when you decide to cook.
• BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL—including coal, coke,
anthracite, briquettes, etc.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Car-
michael 520 is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
.Write for free illustrated literature to Carmichael's,
Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W.
CONSTANT HOT WATER
★ In the kitchen
★ In the bathroom
it In the laundry
The Carmichael S2O
will supply enough hot
water for all your
household needs.
Naturally it cooks perfectly .
Makers of fin© fuel stoves since
it's a
CaJimidumi
. A Unit of Email Limited
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
Os
i-OM—-
S TftOO*
V.V
of**
n>»*
*DkL''sct£ , (M*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
4*y particulars gladly supplied—
Write' to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. «o» JSB3.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • S.P.O.
80. 712 F, ADELAIDE • S.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O 80. 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MELBOURNE SHOW CATTLE
“Mr.”: As always at Mel-
bourne Show, dairy-breeds out-
numbered others—l37s against
783 beef and dual-purpose
entries. Exhibits in all classes
and breeds exceeded those of the
previous year by 262, due to an
increase in accommodation pro-
vided by the R.A.S. Most spec-
tacular increase was in Friesians,
246 head or 40 per cent, more
than in 1952. The Netherlands
judge, J. N. Wassenaar,
described them as among the
best Friesians he had ever
judged.
Beef Cattle
Poll Herefords were the finest
ever staged in Melbourne,
though Aberdeen-Angus pressed
them closely, with the horned
Herefords and Beef Shorthorns
next in popularity. N.S.W. Poll
Hereford-breeders C. H. and
S. T. Hawkins, Springfield,
Finley, won the bull champion-
ship with Milton Duntroon 4th,
a nicely-fleshed three-year-old
bred by Mrs. U. M. Hordern.
Reserve went to last year’s
junior and senior championship
winner, Wantabadgery Joe,
from Wantabadgery East Pas-
toral Co., Wagga (N.S.W.). With
a little more age on him he
might have given the winner a
run for it. Hawkins Bros, fol-
lowed their success with a win
in the junior female section
with Inveresk Cora 9th, but in
the cow championship gave way
to J. A. Hanson, Macarthur
(Vic.), whose two-year-old
heifer, The Braes Maple Leaf
17th, won top honors, with J. H.
Sleigh’s Merewah First Day 2nd
in reserve.
The Hereford bull champion
entered by J. R. Allen, Mortlake
(Vic.), was the 17-month-old
South Boorook Bromfield; re-
serve bull, Westhide Gallinule
(imp.) came from J. H. C.
Beard’s Drouin West (Vic.)
stud. Mrs. Janet Biddlecombe’s
yearling, Golf Hill Invincible,
was junior bull champion, and
her two-year-old heifer. Golf
Hill Pearly Gates 45th, was
champion cow, with R. L. Mc-
Eachern’s Coliban Best Girl
31st in reserve. Mrs. Biddle-
combe’s success pleased ring-
siders, but their pleasure was
tinged with regret in the know-
ledge that the famous Hereford-
breeder would not be showing
again, having listed her Golf
Hill stud for dispersal towards
the end of October.
A two-year-old Aberdeen-
Angus, Terrinallum Brigand,
won the bull championship for
Terrinallum Pastoral Co., Lily-
dale (Vic.), with J. Rintoul’s
Naranghi Buttress, another two-
year-old, in reserve. These two
chunky, deeply-fleshed blacks
had the Argentinian judge,
Carlos Guerrero, adjusting his
thinking-cap ; so did the top
females, a very even, high-
quality bunch. Top pow, Bat-
tery Park Maori Maid sth,
entered by L. J. and A. L.
Graves, Mansfield (Vic.),
narrowly defeated Edzell
Matilda, from Hugh Middleton’s
Ferntree Gully stud.
Beef Shorthorn senior and
junior bull champion, Kelso
Park Idealist, is a yearling from
G. Starritt and Son’s Kelso Park,
Mooroopna (Vic.), stud, the
same owners providing the male
reserve with Belinda Cupbearer
(imp.), a two-year-old bred by
Sir Rupert W. J. Clark. Both
junior and senior cow cham-
pionships were taken by Wa’rwil-
willah Viola Blossom, ’an entry
from Berawinnia Pastoral Co.,
Boorooban (N.S.W.), with Won-
gala Pancake Bth, out of J.
Kemelfield’s stud, Woodend
(Vic.), a close second.
Dual-purpose Breeds
Red Poll bull championship
was won by last year’s winner,
Bundaleer Bombproof, an aged
bull exhibited by W. S. Craig,
Kerang (Vic.), the male reserve,
W. G. J. Beer and Sons’ Ply-
mouth Kent (also from the aged
class), running him a close
second. Absence of new blood
among the tops was disappoint-
ing, as was overall quality of
the dark reds. Beer and Sons
also fielded the female cham-
pion, an aged cow which gained
the verdict by a slight margin
from J. Mclntosh’s Burnwood
Red Violet.
Dairy Shorthorns put up a
creditable showing, some of the
most prominent Victorian
breeders competing. The male
blue-ribbon went to a nicely-
set-up four-year-old, Iford Cam-
bridge Duke 7th, bred by J. and
H. Robinson, and entered by
Russell N. Stokes, Wesburn
(Vic.). The male reserve, Atkin-
son Bros.’ Churchill Paradox
20th (imp.), an aged bull, had
“They say he Was once crossed in love.”
won top honors at Melbourne
Royal in 1951 and 1952, but
this year was displaced by a
bull which should be up with
the tops for some time to come.
The top Dairy Shorthorn cow,
Riverslea Cressida 3rd, was bred
by the owners, John Muir and
Sons, Riverslea, Bacchus Marsh
(Vic.). Last year’s reserve,
F. E. Selwyn Scott’s Yulong
Mabel 2nd, again occupied that
position.
Dairy Breeds
The Jerseys, as always,
attracted large ringside audi-
ences. As might be expected in
the large entry —496 —there was
an obvious tail, though quality
generally was pleasing. Lynd-
hurst (Vic.) breeders, J. Ander-
son and Son, were successful in
the bull championship with
King’s Vale Raider, an aged but
handsome animal bred by the
exhibitors. A P. J. Maloney-
bred bull entered by R. C.
Broad, Sutton Grange (Vic.),
filled reserve position. Another
Broad entry, a New Zealand im-
portation, Tolgarth Ellous, took
the female blue-ribbon, with
Mrs. S. R. Askew’s Lewisham
Noble’s Beautiful in reserve.
A.I.S. exhibits, at 201 head,
were 15 per cent, up on 1952,
the great bulk of the entries
coming from Victorian breeders
who are slowly but surely
increasing the breed’s popularity
in this State. Male honors went
to a six-year-old, Hillview Ajax,
bred by E. J. Swan and Sons
and fielded by A. E. Story, Emu
Creek (Vic.), with Wangaratta
breeder R. T, Hempel’s three-
year-old Cornville Sultan in re-
serve. In the female champion-
ship J. L. Wilson, Kooweerup
(Vic.), was successful with an
aged-cow entry, Lenola Lovely,
G. A. Evans and Son occupy-
ing reserve position with Ovens-
lea Nancy, bred by G. H.
Newton.
Though tops were magnificent,
the Ayrshires to some extent
were disappointing, here and
there giving the impression of
stagnation in breeding policy.
The Millicent (S.A.) breeders,
A. Facey and Sons, were again
on top in the male champion-
ship, this year with their aged
entry Glengowrie Baron Again,
winner of the Melbourne Royal
blue-ribbon in five successive
years since 1949. Another
Facey-bred bull, a two-year-old,
Glengowrie Snowden 2nd, owned
by N. J. Vagg, Pirron Yalloak
(Vic.), was reserve. The cow
blue-ribbon went to J. H. God-
dard and Son’s Inverurie Ann,
bred by the owners, with Wattle
Park Eve, a 10-year-old cow
exhibited by A. Bunn and Son,
Tatura (Vic.), in reserve.
Guernsey entries (176) were
down 13 on last year. The lead-
ing bulls gave the judge, A. S.
Cooke, a headache, the decision
by a narrow margin going to a
nicely - marked five - year - old,
Moongi Morning Star, entered
by R. G. Watson, Frankston
(Vic.), from Lilydale breeder
A. E. T. Payne’s Yarraview
Illustrious 2nd, thus reversing
last year’s result. Watson was
also successful with his female
entries. Evermore Tidy Girl and
Wollongbar Symphony 3rd
occupying first and reserve posi-
tions respectively.
The heavy milk-producing
Friesians fielded 246 head —74
up on last year—and gained
many new friends by their
attractive showing. The leading
bull, Glenhope Keystone
Burkeyje (imp.), was a nicely-
marked four-year-old entered by
F. J. Fox, Merricks North
(Vic.), with V. J. Lamond’s
Brundie Mercedes Johan in re-
serve. Two aged cows fought
out the cow-final, J, V. Plat-
fuss’s Galaview Margaret get-
ting the decision narrowly from
a nine-year-old. Upper Lappan
Magpie Ollie, in the stud of
G. L. S. Cowan and Son,
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.).
Pearl Millet
“Pennisetum”: When a fast-
growing crop is required to pro-
duce quick feed in warm
weather, especially after drought
or flood, Japanese-millet is
usually chosen. In America,
because of its low feed-value,
however, this millet has never
attained any great importance,
and its use is declining there
since the introduction of other
high-producing crops of greater
value as forage.
In the south-eastern States of
U.S.A., which have a similar
climate to the N.S.W. North
Coast, pearl-millet is the most
widely-sown crop to produce
feed when paspalum pastures
tend to become short in warmer
months. This millet yields much
better than all other similar
fodders, being capable of pro-
ducing good grazing a few
weeks after sowing and main-
taining it for about three
months. It is much superior to
Japanese-millet for this pur-
pose, especially under dry con-
ditions.
Gabo Wheat
“Triticum”; Gabo wheat,
produced by Sydney University
plant-breeders a few years ago,
is the leading variety in Queens-
land, and second-most-popular
in N.S.W., where it occupies
about 16 p.c. of the wheatbelt.
About two-thirds of its sow-
ing in N.S.W. is in the north-
west, where it is the leading
wheat. The soils of relatively
high fertility and good moisture-
holding capacity, with the more
reliable spring rainfall of this
region, suit Gabo admirably, for
it yields heavily under such con-
ditions. Now, however, that
Gabo has developed suscepti-
bility to a new race of stem-
rust, a severe epidemic of this
disease will cause its popularity
to decline.
It has been suggested by


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
BTC.
fs
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage ne
matter where your home may be,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
MO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed Into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 2Z years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
"DISTRIBUTORS: ——
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Me-
Inemey & Go., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN; C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
761bf1.
df
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers*
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
Elements of an Industry . . ,
No. 21 of a Series
vs
I.}
r^*
CERIUM is one of the group of elements known as the
“rare earth” metals, which are very similar to each other in chemical
properties. The first steps in the discovery of this element were
taken in 1751 when a 15 year old Swedish boy Wilhelm Hisinger
sent a sample of rock to the famous chemist Scheele. Hisinger
thought that this rock, now known as the mineral “cerite”, might
contain a new metal; but Scheele failed to find it. More than twenty
years later Hisinger himself discovered in cerite the new element
cerium. Today the most important sources of the rare earth metals
are deposits of monazite sand found in India and Brazil. Pure
cerium is rarely produced, but in the form of “Mischmetall”—a
mixture of rare earth metals—and in compounds with-other elements
it has a number of industrial uses. The luminosity of an electric
arc light is increased if the carbon electrodes are impregnated with
cerium fluoride during manufacture, and ceric sulphate is used in
chemical analysis and in photography.
Mischmetall is used extensively to make lighter flints and in Great
Britain 1.C.1. produces many millions every year for use in gas and
cigarette lighters.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
L.45C.3172 ■note.
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
THE EFFECT OF WORMS ON
WOOL PRODUCTION.
WORM FREE
SHEEP
sdf
WOOL
LIGHTLY INFESTED
SHEEP
Jf 44/451
11 LBS
WOOL
HEAVILY INFESTED
SHEEP
sd
LBS?
WOOL
IT PAYS TO USE ‘PHENOVIS’.
One of a series of advertisements designed
to convey as a simple story the results of
many years of research. Acknowledgment
is made to many research workers whose
results have been published in the Aus-
tralian Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
Cl
PHE.2OX. 5492 a
millers’ representatives that
Cabo should repiace Bencubbin
£ in^ dQ I
flo^ P Rnt r 6
as well DOt d
h Boooubbxn, especially
of re at y elv ° D SOIIS
‘Tn f6 S' other
infecting many farms with flag-
smut, where complete freedom
from this disease had been
attained through growing resist-
ant varieties like Bencubbin.
e n i.
Water for Poultry
“C.H.”: Without sufficient
water laying hens fail to bene-
fit from the best feed, egg-
quality is affected, and the de-
yelopment of chicks and grow-
ing stock slows. Layers show
the effects by sharply decreased
egg output. One illustration;
following a fortnight’s increase
in the water-supply, one flock’s
production rose from 12 to 400
eggs a day.
Poultry like fresh water. Any-
thing, apart from medicine for
special diseases, likely to cause
a lowering of water-consump-
tion should be avoided. Most
birds shy off stagnant, salty or
overmedicated water. Bore-
water containing over 200 grains
of salt per gallon may cause
fatalities, especially among
chickens. Copper-sulphate and
Condy’s crystals should not be
given unless by a vet.’s advice.
Copper-sulphate, effective for
fungal diseases, is useless for
round-worms. Home-tonics and
cure-alls often dp more harm
than good.
Hints for the Farm
»j H ”- There should be put
by every year for each dairy-cow
tlo tons of hay, or five-six tons
of silage, for each beef animal
to ° hay or tW o-three tons
and for each sheep 2cwt
& » L" a^arry-er
“Myrr”: For black-spot on
P ears spray Josephine and
Winter Cole at early green-tip
stage (just as the buds are open-
big) with Bordeaux 15:15:100 ;
other varieties at the “delayed’
green-tip stage (when the tips of
die green folded leaves are just
visible i„ the buds) and again
at the finger-tip stage, when the
leaves are separated from the
blossom-buds but before white
petals appear. At the late-calyx
stage, or three weeks after petal-
fall, spray Josephine and Winter
Cole with thiram and ziram
l£lb. in lOOgal. of water, and all
other varieties, except Packham,
with Bordeaux 6:6:100. Pack-
ham needs a weaker Bordeaux —
2:2:100.
“C.S.”: The size of a silage-
pit must be based on one cubic
yard holding approximately
lOcwt. of settled silage. If pos-
sible the whole of the pit. should
be below ground, but where
there is a drainage problem the
trench can be shallow and the
sides extended upwards, using
soil taken out of the trench.
“Hortus”: One of the simplest
methods of stopping a leak in a
kerosene-tin or enamel dish used
in a poultry-yard is by pushing
a stiff feather through the hole,
feather-end first. It proves a
great asset at a moment’s
notice, is almost a permanent
cure and costs nothing.
“Sundowner”: Ventilation is
important when breeding chicks.
As well as providing for an up-
ward movement of air, see that
floor-draughts are prevented. A
common failing is covering the
brooder lights with a sheet of
board, thus making no allow-
ance for the egress of stale and
moist air,
“Garden”: One place where
fresh cow-manure is the ideal
fertiliser is in the rhubarb patch.
Rhubarb requires heavy supplies
of food, as the leaves are usually
kept well picked and the plants
require heavy feeding to keep
up production.
“Billjim”: Calves run on
copper-deficient country don’t
fill out, and may develop scours,
as well as being more susceptible
to parasites. Dose with a pint
of a bluestone solution every
two days.for 10 days. Mix by
dissolving loz. of bluestone in
Igal. of water.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The cyclical rains are now fully due and probably
await the passage of the last of the present series of sun-
spots, which may be during this week. On the cyclical
chart these rains are shown as very widespread and often
heavy in almost all regions of eastern Australia south of
Capricorn, while north of that line they were lighter and
more variable. On the same cycle the rains of November
should be general and heavy over almost the whole of
northern and eastern Australia. v


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Import Restrictions
The reactions of various “spokesmen”
on easing of import - controls make
interesting reading. A. N. Curphey,
secretary of Victorian Chamber of Manu-
factures, said “The benefits received by
Australians in the excellent Budget could
be offset by the unemployment which
could follow these relaxations before next
June.,..The textile and electrical appli-
ance industries are particularly vulner-
able.”
W. J. Allison, president of Melbourne
Chamber of Commerce, said that relaxa-
tion of imports would encourage healthier
competition and restore confidence in the
Australian trade position.
Then Arthur Bills, the Melbourne
member of the Waterside Workers’
Federal Council, declared that water-
siders eagerly awaited a greater volume
of inward trade through the port.
The three “spokesmen” appear to
regard the matter from a sectional rather
than a national standpoint, although Mr.
Allison’s comments are likely to meet
with the approval of most consumers. If
Australian manufacturers cannot face
competition with the aid of a 25 per cent,
depreciation of currency, plus whatever
protection the Tariff Board thinks equit-
able, then it is time production methods
were overhauled and speeded-up.
A debased currency already gives the
farmer a fair advantage in overseas
markets. No reasonable person expects
the local manufacturer or farmer to sell
at a loss, but a stage has already been
reached where we are heartily sick of
subsidising incompetence.—Dives (Tas.).
Rome and Its Colonies
That comparison (B. 9/9/’53) between
rural N. S. Wales and a distant Roman
colony in the time of Tiberius —“it pays
tribute to Sydney and all it can expect
in return is an arbitrary increase in the
tribute”—is a bit unfair to Tiberius.
Rome really plundered its colonies in
the days of the republic—from the
founding of Sicily, the first colony (about
240 b.c.), till the advent as Consul of
Julius Csesar, nearly 200 years later.
In that time the provinces and colonies
were completely at the mercy of
unscrupulous Governors and tax-farmers,
“Look—crow’s eggs!”
appointed by the Senate (the central Gov-
eminent) but not responsible to it. Quick
fortunes were amassed, by legal and
illegal methods.
Julius Caesar and, after him, Augustus,
the first emperor (27 b.c. a.d. 14),
reformed the administration of the pro-
vinces, lowered their taxation and gave
a certain measure of local-government,
That the provinces were prosperous in
the first 200 years of the empire is shown
by the vast number of public buildings—
libraries, theatres, baths, etc—built in
provincial cities in that time. Most
historians, from Gibbon on, agree on this
provincial prosperity.
In this period falls the reign of
Tiberius, the second emperor (a.d. 14-37).
Cruel and tyrannical as he was, parti-
cularly in his last years, “even to the
last his government of the provinces was
just and beneficent,” says Myers’s
General History.
The idle, pauperous, circus-happy
population of Rome itself certainly lived
at the expense of the colonies (in the
time of Tiberius as well as for most of
the period of the empire), and made no
contribution in any way in return. Still,
that did not impoverish the provinces.
Towards the end of the Western Empire
the condition of the provinces did get
very bad, but that was due to many
factors and reflected the general decline
and bankruptcy of the empire as a whole.
Reasons for the empire’s decline and fall
were many—increasing strength of the
barbarians, weakness due to incessant
civil war, rise of a corrupt and excessive
bureaucracy under weak emperors,
destruction of the yeoman and artisan
class, etc. — Kros (S.A.).
Water Rates
There is a move in Sydney to have the
present method of assessing water-rates
revised. These rates are paid upon what
is known as the assessed annual value
(a.a.v.) of the property, and advocates for
a change claim that the rates should be
levied, as are local-government rates, on
the unimproved capital value (u.c.v.).
The objections to the use of the a.a.v.
are sound, but the u.c.v. is not the answer.
The trouble with a.a.v, is that it penalises
the progressive property-owner. While
the land is idle and free from improve-
ments the a.a.v. is very low and the rate
is merely a nominal sum. But as soon
as the owner starts to improve his land
up goes the a.a.v, X owned land with an
a.a.v. of £22; rates 18s. 2d. When I
built a cottage on it the a.a.v, jumped to
£94 ; rates £3 18s. Any additions I may
make will increase the a.a.v, even though
not a drop more water may be used.
These rates don’t have much connection
with the amount of water used. A family
of two living in a £5OOO home alongside
a family of six in a £2OOO home would
pay more than double for using less water
than their neighbors. That is common
in most suburbs where there are pre-war
and modern homes side by side.
The suggested alternative —of basing
water-rates on the u.c.v. —doesn’t really
solve the problem either. It would mean
that anyone with an empty lot would
pay the same rate as one who owns a
luxury home next-door. The owner of
vacant land with no water on his property
would have to pay for a service he neither
has nor needs. Thus, although the a.a.v.
method penalises the progressive
property-owner, the u.c.v. way would be
equally unfair to the owner of vacant
land.
But there is certainly need for a change
in the system. The a.a.v, method was
dropped by local-government authorities
many years ago and should be dropped
by the Water Board, But it should not
be replaced by u.c.v. method of assessing.
The Water Board should sell its water
just as the electricity authorities sell their
power. Although the board claims that
its installations, etc., have to be paid for,
so do those for electricity or gas, and an
owner who builds an all-electric home
doesn’t have to pay a gas-rate for the gas-
mains that go past his property. —
Obadiah B. (N.S.W,).
Local Government
There is a pressing need for complete
overhaul of the local-government system
in Sydney. The mere amalgamation of
various municipalities as done by the
N.S.W, Labor Government is not effec-
tive—it simply increases the weaknesses.
Local councils’ powers are too limited.
Apart from streets, building supervision
and sanitary and garbage services they
have little real power or responsibility.
They are also too dependent on other
authorities—the Water Board, Main
Roads Board, electricity authorities and
others. They have very little say where
the water will go, or where or when
there should be sewerage. The renaming
of a street that has been causing con-
fusion involves reference to a neighbor-
ing council, the Main Roads Board and
the County of Cumberland,
With so many municipalities close
together there is a great deal of over-
lapping and anomalies. While “boundary
streets” can never be avoided, it seems
strange that a better scheme than running
the boundary down the middle of the
street could not be devised. In the
Maniy-Warringah district the garbage-
cart from Manly goes along one side of
the street while the cart from Warringah
goes along the other. In one case the
service is twice a week while in the other
it is only once. In another street the
Manly Council provides a garbage and
sanitary service for the one side while
the Warnngah Shire Council refuses these
services to the other side, declaring that
the street is not fit for traffic,
When a municipality reaches an ad-
vanced stage of development in miles of
made streets, kerbing and guttering and
so on, it finds that the maintenance costs
are so high that little money is left for
new works. This leads to a vicious
circle. When the outer areas are neglected
it prevents development by home builders,
thereby keeping the rateable valuations
of the area low. Many metropolitan
councils have reached this stage already.
Their further progress is prevented by
the .fact that they have been too progres-
sive. Loan money can be used for new
work, but there is a limit to that, and
areas on which it is to be spent must
be such that the rates will help to pay off
the loans.
We need fewer municipalities, but we
need stronger ones. The district council
idea of the 1850’s was a good one, but
it was dropped suddenly for some reason.
We need a decentralisation of govern-
ment and of our growing bureaucratic
. control, and local-government in the true
sense of government is one way of getting
it.—Rann (N.S.W.).
Office-space
One problem which should be worry-
ing Government and business alike is
Sydney’s lack of office-space; the posi-
tion is still as bad as it was at the end
of the war. Other capital cities are
probably in the same boat.
A Sydney solicitor I know has for
some years been conducting a lucrative
business in a tiny office in a city build-
ing sub-let from another solicitor. The
latter now wanting it for his own ex-
panding business, my friend is gradually
tapering-off his city practice and
endeavoring to build one up at his home
in one of the western suburbs. How-
ever that venture goes, he will suffer
real monetary loss, solely because of
lack of city office-space.
When there are rooms available in the
city it’s at a price, and even at stiff
rentals available office-space is very
limited.
No new office-accommodation has
been built in Sydney since the war, while
the demand for it has, of course, ex-
panded tremendously. One important
factor aggravating the scarcity is the
large number of Government and semi-
Government departments (some of them
originally supposed to be “temporary”)
which occupy huge areas once available
for business enterprise.
Scarcity of labor and materials, black-
markets, controls on building, go-slow
in the building industry, the poor return
to investors from properties built for
renting purposes—all- these things are
responsible Tor this office-scarcity.
This problem is serious, interfering as
it does with business, industrial and pro*
fessional efficiency, and demands immedi-
ate corrective action; —K. R. (N.S.WO*
Louis Becke
I did not, as Colin Roderick asserts
(B. 26/8/’53), say that Louis Becke had
suffered neglect from anthologists. I
specified the latest anthology of Aus-
tralian short stories, selected by two well-
known Australian writers, as failing to
include a specimen from his diversified
output.
I feel that Mr. Roderick overemphasises
the difficulties of ascertaining ownership
of copyrights. Out of some three dozen
titles —including those published in col-
laboration with Walter James Jeffery—
Dr, Morris Miller, in his Australian
Literature, lists no fewer than 23 L.B.
tides carrying Fisher Unwin’s imprint
and three titles that of Werner Laurie.
In 1924 the above two firms began issuing
a uniform edition, but when Fisher
Unwin sold his business some time in the
late ’twenties his successor apparently
went “cold” on the job, and a close
scrutiny of London “Publishers’ Circular”
lists indicates that not mote than 16 titles
appeared in this format. .
Most of the titles for which Unwin
or Laprie did not hold copyright were
published by “religious” houses, and,
ironically, although he received sub-
stantial payment for at least one of those
titles, they were not typical of his genius
and might well be eliminated from the
Becke “canon” without loss to his repu-
tation as a writer,
However, copyright, as well as its re-
assignment, must be registered. Other-
wise authors and publishers would
invariably become involved in legal holts,
I think I am correct in saying that owner-
“ He's just crazy about hot showers .”
ship of copyright can be ascertained
through the Incorporated Society of
Authors. It will not be so long, however,
before time will resolve the question of
Becke’s copyright. Meantime there’s
nothing to prevent a publisher reproduc-
ing his works, provided he gives due
notice to holders of copyright, and agrees
to pay a royalty based on the published
prices of all copies he may sell.
I have only lately heard of Phillip
Gallagher’s proposed biography of
Becke. Mr. Gallagher has certainly
undertaken a man-size job, and it is good
to know that he is tackling it now, before
it is too late to disentangle some of the
facts of a colorful career. The legal
hurdles may well be left to later
biographers, and the main thing is that
the foundations should be well-and-truly
laid while there are persons alive who
knew Becke. In his own biographical
bits and pieces Becke wove an inextric-
able pattern of fact and fiction which
might well prove a headache for the
most intrepid biographer.—B. (Tas.).


T.B.
Una Auld (B. 9/9/’53) criticises the
Government for making X-ray examina-
tion tor t.b, compulsory, while failing to
provide adequate treatment, and dltes
Dymphna Cusack’s novel, Say No to
£><?«/? as a description of the harm done
psychologically to sufferers by the know-
ledge that insufficient treatment is avail-
able.
However although the situation does
appear Gilbertian on the surface, it has
some method in it. With exact know-
ledge of the number of patients requiring
treatment, both the Government and
any interested pressure-groups have
sound statistical evidence to support
claims they may intend making on the
taxpayer.
Again, while it is true that persons
discovered suffering from active t.b. may
not be able to obtain hospital beds
immediately, at least the best advice and
Ueatment otherwise possible can be pro-
vided for them, and they can be taught
how to avoid infecting their family and
acquaintances. The mental anguish of
ar early unhospitalised” case is, perhaps,
less than that of a man who finds too
late that he has infected his young
children. It may also be less than that
o a person unaware of illness until a
stage when treatment of any sort is of
little avail.
The treatment of t.b. outside of hos-
P 1 —— *l as been made considerably easier
m N. S. Wales by the provision of t.b.
allowances. Full advice on all aspects of
treatment and finance available is pro-
vided to t.b. sufferers, discovered in the
present survey.—N. K. (N.S.W.).
Armaments
To disprove that “invp xon is not an
egg laid by genius” (B. 9/9/’53) you have
Leonardo da Vinci, the genius of the
Italian Renaissance. Sketches of military
inventions m his 120 notebooks include
tanks, bieech-loading cannon, rifled fire-
arms and submarines. He also invented
ahehcopter which bears close resemblance
to the modern autogyro.
Inventive genius flowered in the
American civil war. A list of inventions'
used for the first time in that conflict
ir eluded a magazine-loading rifle, a
machine-gun, torpedoes, land and sub-
marine mines, the field-telegraph, wire
entanglements, flame-throwers, hand
grenades and armored trains. Invention
of the Dreyse breech-loading rifle, better
known as the needle-gun, enabled the
Prussians in 1866 to overwhelm: the
Austrians in a seven-weeks’ campaign.
-C. L. (Q.). 6
Diesel-electrics
A strong professional protest against
that Bulletin sub-editor who attributed
to me the expression “That’s fast even for
diesels” (B. 2/9/’53);
As an engineer I simply can’t subscribe
to the layman’s naive belief that a d,-e.
locomotive must inevitably be fast. In
fact, thinking of the enormous number
of shunters whose top speed is 20 m.p.h.
or less, of the Queensland main-line jobs
with their 45 m.p.h. limit, and those of
N. S. Wales tied to 57 m.p.h., one can
only marvel at the advertising genius who
was able to make the term stick.
Of course the diesel can be and often
is extremely fast, but, getting away from
mumbo-jumbo, the diesel aspect as such
has no bearing on the matter, perform-
ance being governed absolutely and
entirely by the characteristics and gear
ratio of the traction motors, just as in
any other electric /nachine.
It’s very hard to obtain a clear picture
of what the diesel has achieved in Aus-
tralia, the subject being clouded by
nonsense like that from the Trans., which
threatened to produce 90 m.p.h. speeds
and mile-long freights, and eventually,
with a lot of fuss, succeeded in restoring
an ancient steam schedule. But one thing
is clear: all the most exciting develop-
ments, real and imaginary, are being
brought about by twin units. So what is
being done is to replace one or two coal-
burners worth £lO,OOO to £25,000 by two
diesels costing nearly a quarter of a
million, and then waxing enthusiastic
when this costly combination gives an
improved service. It sounds crazy to
me. —Transporticus (Singapore).
'■' t , t \ ' , ■ __ j
Car Insurance
“G.L.H.” (B. 9/9/’53) didn’t read my
remarks very closely. I referred in par-
ticular to third-party insurance and
criminal negligence as distinct from
common-law negligence.
In a civil action for damages arising
from an accident, usually instituted by or
at the insistence of the interested insurance
company, the degjee of negligence
required to be established to obtain judg- :
ment is generally lesser than that needed i
in a case of criminal negligence. In the ;
former case one litigant seeks damages
from a respondent by endeavoring to
prove that he or she suffered loss through
the respondent’s negligence. In the latter
ease, to obtain a conviction for negli-
gence, it is necessary to prove that the
driver acted \yith a criminal disregard for
the safety of himself and others and
endangered property.
Obviously, there is no similarity be-
tween the two cases, ■
Further, in a civil action the claim is
usually made because the respondent’s
insurance company has refused to pay,
—J. K. D, (N.S.W.).
Housing
Why does the N. S. Wales Housing
Commission hold land in an expensive
suburb (B. 2/9/’53)? That’s simple. No
matter how expensive and exclusive the
suburb, its residents still need certain
services—shops, service-stations and the
like. The people who provide these
services must live somewhere, and prefer-
ably close to their jobs. In providing
them with homes in expensive suburbs the
Housing Commission has done nothing
wrong except to ignore the snobbery of
certain residents.
Possibly the greatest mistake the
Housing Commission made was its
method of determining rents. There may
be some justification for varying rents in
accordance with a tenant’s wages, but
the minimum (15s. per week while
unemployed) has had some strange
results.
One tenant, having a good vegetable-
garden and a well-stocked fowlyard, dis-
covered that £4 ss. a week from the
Social Service Department, less the 15s.
for rent, was quite sufficient for his
modest wishes, and looks like remaining
unemployed for a long time. Admittedly,
he cheats a little by doing an occasional
morning’s gardening which the S.S.D.
doesn’t hear about, but he’s not the only
unemployed who gets away with that.—
Mullum (N.S.W.).
“Know Your Bible”
That article by Cecil Mann on “Know
Your Bible” (B. 2/9/’53) was splendid.
The big new Interpreter’s Bible is some-
thing that sincere students of religious
literature have known of for some time.
The position of orthodox Christianity
is this. Its claim to a unique place among
the religions of mankind rests almost
entirely upon a book which the Bible
critics of the last 100 years have proved
t) be a mixture of Divine wisdom and
human error.
However devastating the latest criticism
may be, it does not destroy or refute the
knowledge of true religion, which has
always been esoteric and not literal. This
esoteric truth is the unchanging inner
spiritual knowledge that is behind all
manifest so-called sacred scriptures anc
the spoken word.—rM. S. (N.S.W.).
The editors of the Interpreter’s Bibl
are clearly at variance with many modern
writers in accepting a late date for the
writing of the Pentateuch and Joshua
Apart from the mass of archseologica
evidence to support an authorship almos
contemporary with the events, Veli
kovsky, in his Worlds in Collision, dates
many of the happenings of the first six
books against similar happenings in
other parts of the earth. He concludes
that these books, and Joshua in parti-
cular, are reliable history contemporary
or almost so, with the events they record
and very little altered by other hands.
Incidentally, the Old Testament does
not suggest that the conquest of Canaan
took place “almost overnight.” To the
end of his life Joshua was urging the
Israelites to drive out the Canaanites, a
feat which was riever completely accom-
plished, as is quite clear in the later
historical books. John J. Alderson
(Vic.).
Tung-oil
Tung-oil is valued highly in com-
merce for its quick-drying properties, re-
quired in paints, varnishes, etc. It is
produced in abundance under favorable
conditions in Communist China.
To overcome its dependence on im-
ports, the U.S.A. systematically estab-
fished about 165,000 acres of the trees,
which last year produced 120,000 tons
of fruit yielding about 38,500,000 pounds
of oil. A gross return of 150 dollars
per acre is obtainable from six-year-old
trees at present prices of the oil in U.S.A.
In Australia, many acres of tung-trees
were planted in expectation of a similar
development, but a crushing-mill estab-
lished in Sydney to handle tung-nuts
could not obtain sufficient quantities for
continuous operation. The resulting high
overhead cost was deducted from pay-
ments to growers, who, at such un-
economic prices, soon gave the game
away. Tung plantations were neglected
or rooted out.
Some day, when the material becomes
of high strategic value, there’ll be a
frantic search for it and we’ll be sorry
we didn’t take a lesson from the U.S.A.
—Aleurites (N.S.W.),
The Far-reaching Call
In a record application of just under
1200 boys for entry as cadets into the
R.A.N. a greatly-increased proportion are
from outback. To many of them fhe sea
was something briefly seen on holiday, a
destroyer was a film-prop on the local
picture-screen. Apparently a good deal
of this new and healthy interest in the
Navy stems from the spate of naval
books produced since the war.
These present-day novels and docu-
mentaries —the best are really novel-
documentaries —present for adventurous
youth the service as it really is: the clash
of character bursting through the most
rigid disciplinary system in existence;
men fighting guns and planes and fire
and icy seas, instead of the pleasant boat-
pulling and concert-producing and ward-
room junketing of popular sea-books a
generation ago. Of especial interest to
lads raised in an age when the most
responsible scientists are discussing trips
to the moon, the newer sea-writers pre-
sent with complete clarity the fantas-
tically accurate weapons of modern war-
ships, from lock-on radar sets and auto-
matically-controlled turrets to homing
torpedoes and depth-charge throwers
accurate to within a few feet.
The Navy, to civilians, was a bit of a
mystery ; it fought “beyond the horizon.”
Now, with documentaries and documen-
tary-novels covering every aspect of sea-
fighting, in every class of ship, in every
theatre of war, the spirit of Australian
youth has responded. In a country not
particularly mindful of the sea, this is
an excellent development.
It took the global requirements of
World War II to drive home to this long-
coasted continent the urgent necessity for
a large, mobile fighting force to protect
the coasts. Danger areas requiring sur-
veillance as far apart as the North Sea
and New Guinea shattered the comfort-
ing belief that we could always depend
on the solid old British Navy. The Royal
Navy was up to its scuppers in work. It
will be the same next time: rockets,
cobalt-bombs and guided missiles regard-
less.
Australia has aircraft-carriers (a third
building), and we have some of the most
modern destroyers and anti-submarine
frigates in service. If the increased appli-
cation for cadetships is any indication,
we are getting, at last, the interest which
will man the ships. The Silent Service,
hitherto a bit too chary of publicity,
owes a good deal to the writers and
novelists who have pierced, the veil.—
B. M. Lever (W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 245
Across
I—Greenest occidental phone com-
munication. (9)
s—Pens for 100 Melbourne news-
papers. (5)
B—This is far too wicked to ring a
part of speech publicity. (7)
10— Land it in the brain. (7)
11— Upsets gratuities and hints and
dumps. (4)
13—Wood-shaver (anagram). (10)
15—Again gave a party and with-
drew. (9)
17— Put with a holy conjunction in
the pavilion partnership of some
duration. (5)
18 — Trygve leaves the burliest explo-
sion. (5)
19— Biblical book joint occupied by
his Honor. (9)
22 — Cobbling a king’s home another
way. (10)
23 A small quantity of liquor in the
fall. (4)
25 — Nonsense on a rocky mountain
revolver. (7)
26 — Furious state of a producer of
wool with “buttons.” (7)
29 — Australian aviator is a trimmer.
(5)
30 — Primitive vehicles to the marsh
sang badly. (9)
Down
1— Here is an alderman, more fre-
quently a farmer. (7)
2 What 18 across takes out of the
burliest. (3)
3 Rob’s different eyes. (4)
4 The sounder undergoes thus. (2)
5 Hetty up to the mark in a Sussex
city. (IQ)
6 One way in which Queen Eliza-
beth II might regard George V;
and two ways in which she might
regard George VI. (11)
7 Trigonometrical matter married
with muscles and wickedness over
wool-producer coppers. (7)
9 —The District Attorney is against
it, this device from which the
lifeboat is slung. (5)
10—Stripped a disorderly beard. (5)
12 —Why Forster isn’t for literary
Walter at the beginning of this
prayer. (11)
14—Peter meant to change a line
which is five feet long. (10)
16 —The French crown. (3)
18— Bankrupt epitaph for a road
journey. (3-4)
19— Hope, perhaps, for a strong card
cove. (5)
20 — Coin in the drain. (5)
21— Whelp fondles dolls. (7)
24 —Sticks up the complacent. (4)
27 Turkish commander. (3)
28— On rising. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 244


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND; Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-
operative Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page 1* a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE UMITED
September
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
ANOTHER WAR BY
NOVEMBER!
No guns will be fired, but it will nevertheless be a war in earnest, that
yearly costs Australian Pastoralists a lot of money and worry. The
enemy?. . . .weeds!
November and December, if the
weather is suitable—and it in-
variably is—will encourage
another onslaught by the host of
weeds that throttle and destroy
stock-feed, contaminate dairy pro-
duce, and even endanger live-
stock. Many graziers are wonder-
ing and worrying . . . what can be
done about it? The answer—
the new HORMONE SPRAYS.
“Bathurst” and “Noogoora” Burr,
Paterson’s curse, and the poison-
ous Mint Weed are some o/ the
common weed pests which can be
stopped if pastures are effectively
sprayed with Hormones as soon
as they appear.
However, experts warn that in-
correct use of Hormone Sprays
may be not only useless and waste-
ful, but actually harmful to crops.
Spectacular success in Weed-Con-
trol has been achieved in both
crop and pasture by spraying with
the Hormones 2,4 D, M.C.P.A.,
and 2,4,5,T, and their use is in-
creasing at a tremendous pace.
Mr. A. H., of Aberdeen, writes;
“I am very pleased with results
obtained by spraying (with Hor-
mones) for the control of Varie-
gated Thistles in Oats. The Oats
have come away very well.”
He continues . . . .‘‘the thistles are
either dead or very dormant, and
no doubt will die.’*
For the control of weeds in crops,
particularly in South and West
Australia, the advent of Hormone
Sprays literally saved the day for
many Wheatgrowers, A Wheat
Industry spokesman told our re-
porter that “huge acreages pre-
Diagram illustrates correct height of boom for proper single or double cover, and
results of incorrect boom height. Note that double cover does not increase the
amount of spray applied per care. A, height for single coverage ; B, height for
double coverage; C. improper height (incomplete cover); D, improper height
(unecqual cover); E. degrees of spray fan width (fan angle); F. nozzle' spacing.
viously almost useless because of
weed growths are now yielding
record harvests.* ’
Following the introduction of Hor-
mone Sprays to Australia a few
years ago, the problem of pro-
ducing equipment especially
adapted to suit Hormone Spraying
was tackled by various Australian
Agricultural Machinery firms.
Moffat-Virtue engineers, after ex-
tensive research, produced the
now famous M.V. BOOM
SPRAY, a high-pressure, low vol-
ume unit specifically designed to
give best results in Hormone-
Spraying.
Successful Results Can be Ensured Only by
Correct Use of Suitable Hormone Sprays...
Before undertaking spraying, information regarding the correct type of spray for the prevailing weed growth
and type of crop, should be obtained. Your district Agronomist or any reputable manufacturer of Hormone
Sprays will help you in this regard.
THE M.V. 30ft. BOOM
SPRAY
Above sketch shows
position of nozzles, and
protective skids which
are mounted at each
end of boom.
In addition to the selection of the
correct Hormone, Spraying should
be proceeded with as far as pos-
sible on fine windless days, to
enable the weedicide to have its
maximum effect on undesirable
plant growth, without endanger-
ing nearby cultivated plants.
It has been found that equipment
which permits High-Pressure Low
Volume spraying means best re-
sults, and MOFFAT-VIRTUE
engineers designed the BOOM
SPRAY with this necessary capa-
city in mind. High Pressure gets
the spray right into every part,
without excessive atomisation, and
a minimum of drift, while Low
Volume, when combined with
high pressure, means you use less
of the valuable fluid, without di-
minishing the effectiveness of the
spray.
The M.V. Boom Spray is fitted
with 19 specially designed fan-
type high-pressure nozzles, de-
livering the spray at the best
possible pressure, namely between
100 to 1 201 b. per sq. in. by means
of a relief valve and pressure
gauge. The nozzles are also
mounted in such a position that no
waste of valuable Hormones still
in the boom when spraying is over
is possible, and so that the chance
of over-application is eliminated.
The Boom can be fixed onto a
truck, trailer or tractor, but it
must be mounted at the correct
height, either for complete single
coverage, or for complete double
coverage. Best results are usually
gained when a crop is sprayed in
its infancy.
SPEED TABUB FDR THE M.V. BOOM
SPRAY UNIT
Operating at 1201bs. per sq. inch pressure
Gallons of Fluid No. of acres
M.P.H. used per acre covered per hour
1 32 3f
2 16 1\ ”
3 ~ 101 ~ lOf
4 8 14|
~1 6f 18
6 ~ W ' ~22i
____ 4 5/? 25i
T 4 29
EXCLUSIVE FEATURES
OF MOFFAT-VIRTUE
BOOM SPRAY...
Tbs Plant h fu v s> • *-ticulated, per-
mitting both. arms ro be folded
back at i Hit angles A special
Gra sty ; i ge (Fat. Pending)
allows each side section to*swing
back an. . t 5 -is . > 01. ruc-
tion.
When the Boom is clear
back under its ■■■■; wer
locks in the norm,,
exclusive high-prest
nozzles ensure even aj
and are fitted with specu
strainers.
The M.V. Roller Spray Plan*,
been found to be the ideal unit i
powering the Boom Spray, and the
former can be used independently
for spot spraying by using a 60ft.
hose assembly. The Roller Spray
can be adjusted to give a com-
plete range of pressures up to
3001 b. per sq. inch without fluc-
tuations. The unit was used ex-
tensively by the Dept, of Agri-
culture for the eradication of the
Argentine Ant (both in N.S.W.
and in West Australia).
Further particulars of the M.V.
Boom Spray Equipment may be
obtained from any of the Inter-
state Distributors listed at the foot
of this page.
The MOFFAT-VIRTUE
Roller Spray Plant...
This is a fast, efficient spray plant . . •
light, compact and easy to carry. It
is fitted with a needle roller eccentric
drive, which gives a smooth action ana
long hours of trouble-free pumping.
Powered by a reliable air-cooled four-
cycle engine, it will maintain a steady,
even pressure . . . up to 3001 b. per
square inch, and is equipped with extra
long, light-weight hoses.
Built to last a lifetime with:
1. Non-corrosive air-bottle.
2. Non-corrosive pump body.
3. Non-corrosive ball-valve.
4. Replaceable valve-seat inserts, and
non-corrosive valve springs.
5. Non-corrosive cylinders.
6. Renewable cylinder liners.
