

V
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange im-
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons
Ltd. will supply details of this service. Orders for de-
livery in Great Britain before Christmas must be placed
before 16th November.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
JSSQ
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E,
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64,
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST„ LONDON, E.C.4.
G.P.O.
G.P.O.
The Bulletin
THE HUON CAMPAIGN, by “EK DUM”
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3845
Wednesday, October 21, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
Ride a Cock-horse to Banbury
Cross and You’re Here!
"DANBURY, in the Oxfordshire valley
of the Cherwell, has achieved inter-
national fame as the place of origin of
Banbury cakes and for its possession of
Banbury Cross of the famous nursery
rhyme:
Ride a cock-horse to Banbury Cross
To see a fine lady ride on a white horse.”
The original Cross has long since
disappeared, for it was destroyed by the
Puritans in 1602. It was replaced in 1859
by a new Cross designed by John Gibbs,
an Oxford architect, to commemorate
the marriage of the Princess Royal of
England with the Emperor of Ger-
many. The Cross is Gothic in style,
hexagonal in plan, and decorated with
numerous shields of arms representing
the royal personages whom it com-
memorates. The addition of statues of
Queen Victoria, King Edward VII and
King George V were made in 1914.
In Banbury today the old and the new
exist side by side, for the town possesses
many picturesque old buildings which are
interesting survivals of the domestic archi-
tecture of a past age. It has been for
centuries an important market town, but
in recent years it has been growing in
importance as an industrial centre. The
fact that Banbury Market is still held on
the same day of the week as it was eight
centuries ago is a remarkable instance of
the continuity of life in an old English
town.
Banbury received its first charter from
Mary Tudor in 1554, and its early pros-
perity depended to a large extent upon
its wool industry, supplied by the sheep-
farmers of the near-by Cotswold Hills.
The making of the famous Banbury
Cakes was first recorded in 1586, and the
original cake-shop and bake-house are
still in existence, though the business of
today is carried on in modern premises.
In Banbury’s countryside is all the
quiet charm of rural England, and near
by is Sulgrave Manor, home of the
Washington family before they left
England to find a home in the New
World.


LOOK DOWN THIS LIST
The ONLY way to achieve Success is to
work for it. STOTT’S can train you privately,
in your own home, for a secure, well-paid
Career.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and ;
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Bra wing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
-Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stolls Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Oastlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
AND MAIL THIS COUPON- --y
I To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without |
j obligation, full particulars of your Oourse/s in— j
j . I
I MY NAME |
{address
I (S.B. 953) ..,f. AGE 1
I J
The Red Page
MR. RODERICK'S RATTLERS
Precisely what is the meaning of the
stout old term “a rattling good story,”
which Mr. Colin Roderick employs to
define the contents of his Australian
Round-up (Angus and Robertson), or
where the phrase originated, I have never
been able to determine. It seems to have
the ring of the 18th century about it;
a suggestion of coach-horses galloping
through the night, with perhaps an elop-
ing heiress inside, disentangling herself
from the whiskers of her abductor, while
close behind them rattle the hoofbeats
of an enraged parent.
But there is not much of that sort of
thing in Mr. Roderick’s anthology;
indeed, for an Australian collection going
back to the earliest days of the colony,
it has remarkably little horsing and
coaching . . . which is not meant as a
criticism; there is plenty of everything
else ; especially corpses —which, in a rich
diversity of settings, rattle their old bones
with some monotony.
When I first opened the volume and
came upon the extract from Watkin
Tench’s Complete Account of the Settle-
ment at Port Jackson I thought that Mr.
Roderick must be going to follow the
excellent advice offered by Eris O’Brien
at the annual dinner of the English Asso-
ciation a year or so ago (in a paper
afterwards printed in The Bulletin)
when the learned speaker drew attention
to the wealth of historico-literary material
lying neglected in the old log-books and
diaries of the first sailors and settlers to
visit these shores and suggested that these
writers, including Tench if I remember
rightly, should be given due credit for
their contribution to Australian prose as
well as to history. Certainly Tench,
describing Benelong (spelt “Baneelon”)
meeting Governor Phillip again at Manly
Cove, provides one of the most delight-
fully fresh and vivid pieces of writing in
the volume:
When the boat reached Manly Cove the
natives were found still busily employed
around the whale. As they expressed not
any consternation on seeing us row to the
beach, Governor Phillip stepped out un-
armed and attended by one seaman only
and called for Baneelon, who appeared,
but notwithstanding his former eagerness
would not suffer the other to approach him
for several minutes. Gradually, however,
he warmed into friendship and frankness
and presently after Colbee came up. They
discoursed for some time, Baneelon express-
ing pleasure to see his old acquaintance and
inquiring by name for every person whom
he could recollect at Sydney and among
others for a French cook, one of the
Governor’s servants, whom he had con-
stantly made the butt of his ridicule by
mimicking his voice, gait and other
peculiarities, all of which he again went
through with his wonted exactness and
drollery. He also asked particularly for a
lady from whom he had once ventured to
snatch a kiss; and on being told that she
was well, by way of proving that the token
was fresh in his remembrance, he kissed
Lieutenant Waterhouse and laughed aloud.
This is undoubtedly an excellent piece
of eyewitness reporting; a stimulating
sidelight on Benelong, who has become
too much the Noble Savage in most of
our historical fiction; and quite a
dramatic as well as an amusing little
episode. But I should hesitate to describe
it as “rattling” ; and perhaps before going
any further 1 should quote what Mr.
Roderick says about his collection;
Above all, this book is not a dose of
spiritual medicine. For too long, it would
appear, the short-story has been kept in a
hothouse. Is it not time a gust of fresh
air blew out the vague theories that have
come to shroud it in mystery and made it,
sometimes, a distasteful form of reading?
In reality, a rattling good story is the most
enjoyable of all writing.
In these stories the accent is on incident
and narrative. In making this book I have
not accepted the theory that a mood, a
passing cloud, a flower or a mug of beer
can make a short-story. To tell a story, a
man must have a story to tell. If he has
no story, let him write his essay, sketch,
vignette, study, treatise or prose-poem: but
let him not call it a short-story. With
that I hope you will agree. If you don’t,
this book is not for you. If you do, you
will enjoy it by the fireside in winter or
in summer under a tree.
In these hearty words Mr. Roderick
seems in some danger of wiping-out
nearly all the short-stories of Katherine
Mansfield, which are mostly pretty
sketchy. 1 think he could be less ruthless
here; and I also suspect him of some
exaggeration when a little later, paying
a kindly tribute to The Bulletin, he says
that Bulletin writers had to “tell a
story” to have their works accepted—
“ ‘No story, no cheque,’ was J. F. Archi-
bald’s maxim.” So many of the early
Bulletin stories, including the item by
which Henry Lawson is represented in
Australian Round-up, were, in fact,
sketches. But in general, with only a
reservation on the necessity for rattling,
I thoroughly agree with Mr. Roderick:
a short-story should be precisely what
the nomenclature implies ... a story
that is short.
Only, surely it must be a fictional
story ; a created work of art which, how-
ever closely it is drawn from life, is
different in method and intention from
the direct factual reporting of A Com-
plete Account of Port Jackson. And, that
being so, much as I enjoy his narrative
and eager as I am to admit his measure
of artistry in prose-reportage, I really
can’t quite see what Watkin Tench is
doing in Mr. Roderick’s anthology. He
is a good fellow, but he is in the wrong
company.
Nor, on somewhat similar grounds,
can I see any artistic justification for the
second item in the volume, which is an
extract from Ralph Rashleigh by James
Tucker (not to mention Francis Green-
way and others). If Tucker (not to men-
tion Greenway and others) is included,
why not a slab from Settlers and Con-
victs, which, though its authorship did not
happen to be investigated by Mr.
Roderick, is just as vivid a picture of
the same period? But Settlers and Con-
victs is a sort of novel and a sort of
autobiography; and so (primarily a
novel) is Ralph Rashleigh: and what
would bits from either of them be doing
in an anthology of short-stories?
For we quickly find, after these two
introductory items, that Australian
Round-up is primarily, as the introduc-
tion suggests—almost wholly, in fact —
made-up of short-stories; ordinary (or
sometimes extraordinary) fictional short-
stories.
Third in the book is a very lively short-
story, “Barrington,” by John Lang, about
a gentleman pickpocket—the sort of
thing which J. H. M. Abbott and many
historical novelists of the lighter kind
afterwards attempted. Lang, whose
Botany Bay was published in 1859, was
as expert and amusing as* if not more so
than, anyone who has followed him in
his particular field ; and, in fact, if any-
thing in the anthology is properly to be
described as a rattling good story this
might be the one. It has no coach; it is
certainly not a great work of art like a
Conrad story ; but it has dash. One is
grateful to Mr. Roderick for disinterring
it.
Next is “The Trooper’s Story” by R.
P. Whitworth, in which the trooper goes
searching for a bushranger named Foxey
(no relation, I presume, to Mr. Tucker’s
Foxley) who has stuck-up a bank: an
excessively feeble piece of melodrama
depending on impossible coincidences
and far from as hair-raising as it hopes
to be when the trooper finishes his
pursuit perilously clinging (and perhaps
-atiling) on the doorstep of a train while
Foxey rides inside. Perhaps, as Tolstoy
did on a more august level when he threw
Anna Karenina under a train, Whitworth
won credit in his day merely for making
use of the new mechanical monster.
Next is “The Premier’s Secret” by
Campbell Mackellar, a truly fearful melo-
drama in which it appears that the
Premier (of N. S. Wales, presumably)
has compressed a Chinese gentleman into
a wool-bale and exported him to England,
thereafter to be haunted by horrid
remorse and the even more horrid face
of the deceased Oriental:
“Oh! if it only meant rest—Eternal rest-
if the grave were but the end of it all!
Hateful as my life is I dare —oh! I dare
not die, I am not fit!”
Most of the rich, the powerful and
the successful characters in these early-
day stories, incidentally, are a pretty bad
lot; as we see again in the next story,
“Monsieur Caloche,” by Jessie Couvreur,
where a squatter with the unmannerly
name of Sir Matthew Bogg strikes a
station-hand, Monsieur Caloche, on the
chest with his riding-whip; Monsieur
then proceeding to die of the blow and
to let it be discovered that he is a lady
whose face has been disfigured by small-
pox.
I don’t really think these three melo-
dramas should be described as rattling
good stories. They certainly do rattle ;
but they are not good by any standards.
At best, they have patches of descriptive
authenticity; but the plots are really too
silly.
At the same time, to one who shares
with Mr. Roderick an interest both in
Australian history and in curiosities of
our early literature, they are fascinating ;
and I am inclined to think, since I prefer
even an anthology to have form, unity,
a meaning and a purpose, that Mr.
Roderick should have made this kind of
writing his dish: an anthology of early
melodramas, plainly labelled and pre-
sented as such, for whatever moments
of merit as they may possess, for period
interest, and for the fun of the thing.
Mr. Roderick proceeds, however. He
proceeds to an indeterminate sort of
convict-yarn by Price Warung, more con-
cerned with attacking the convict-system
than with presenting credible human-
beings ; to a goldfields melodrama with
a couple of corpses and some convincing
atmosphere by John Arthur Barry ; to a
sketchy and melodramatic Favenc yarn
of convicts escaped from New Caledonia,
one of whom has turned cannibal;
“Dog! Devil!” she cried, dashing it
into the face of the corpse. “O you, who
ate my child before my eyes! You who
lived on man’s flesh to save your life —
you who have assassinated my husband!
Wolf! What are you now?”
Then on to an admirable choice from
Louis Becke, “Ninia,” no more than a
string of adventures but with more body
to it than most of Becke’s tales ; to the
very slight sketch by Henry Lawson of
an Australian in New Zealand who says
he hates Australia, until the sight of gum-
trees makes him change his mind ; to
Mrs. Campbell Praed’s “Mother Quin-
lan’s Weaner,” a pleasing and competent,
if magazinish, romance about a remit-
tance-man ; to Roderick Quinn’s senti-
mental “A Stripe for Trooper Casey” ;
and so, with many other w r ell-known
names intervening, to the period of to-
day, represented by Katharine Prichard,
Vance Palmer, Henry G. Lamond, Myra
Morris, Margaret Trist, Hal Porter, Don
Edwards, Gavin Casey, Brian James and
R. S. Porteous (“Standby”).
Regarded simply as entertainment the
book is full of good things. It could
hardly be otherwise when it is written by
so many of Australia’s best writers ; and
I shall undoubtedly spend most of this
summer under a gum-tree with it, enjoy-
ing it, relishing even the melodramas,
and vaguely exactly why it
exists. For if it is “a picture of the
development of Australian story-telling”
I find it confusing to imagine Henry
Lawson developing from Watkin Tench ;
if it is a national anthology of short-
stories (in which field Dr. Mackaness’s
out-of-print selection remains the best) I
find it impossible to understand Mr.
Roderick’s system of inclusions and omis-
sions ; and if it is simply a collection of
rattling good stories I cannot see how
Brian James’s tragic little masterpiece
“Brosie” —to take one example of many
similar incongruities—can by any means
be heard to rattle harmoniously with
“The Premier’s Secret.” That, I am
afraid, must remain Mr, Roderick’s
secret. —D. S.
South Africa at Cricket
Hard on the heels of his Australian
Bowlers, lately reviewed on this page,
comes another book from A. G. Moyes,
The South Africans in Australia #
1952-1953 (Angus and Robertson). The
South African skipper Jack. Cheetham
writes the foreword.
As cricket-broadcaster and newspaper-
writer, Moyes has been closely associated
with the cricketers who have come here
in each of the past three seasons, and he
has put an account of each tour between
covers. For a full and complete record
of the South African tour Moyes’s book
is the answer. Everything connected with
the actual play, even in all the second-
class affairs, is there, with the scores of
every game given in full. (The New
Zealand part of the tour is not covered.)
But those who expect something more
than a mere factual record will be disap-
pointed. Compare Miller and Whiting-
ton’s Bumper, published earlier this year.
The last third was on “Cheetham’s
Crusade,” not as comprehensive certainly
as Moyes’s summary. But the rest of the
book was made-up of many other aspects
of the game dear to the cricket-lover.
Moyes restricts himself to the tour.
Rightly so, perhaps; but a few pavilion-
yarns would have been welcome (Moyes,
travelling and living with the team, should
have had some to tell). As it is, we don’t
seem to get to know the personalities
behind the names —McGlew, Funston and
the rest. And a few facts about what the
players had done back home to earn
selection could have been given.
Still, the progress of the tour, from its
pessimistic beginnings to its almost
triumphal end, makes a good story. The
team which arrived at Fremantle in
October, 1952, was young, inexperienced
and had no “names.” Some critics wrote
it olf without a trial. It was thought they
wouldn’t be a match for Australia. There
were even suggestions that the tour be
cancelled, for fear of heavy financial loss
(the “glamorous” West Indies side the
previous year hadn’t paid its way).
In the outcome the tour did make a
profit. The South Africans concentrated
on two things often neglected by
cricketers—physical fitness and fielding.
It was probably their excellent fielding
as much as anything which drew
spectators.
Some of the book’s 16 plates show fine
catches taken by the team, including
T?»yfield’s two remarkable ones off his
own bowling. But the really dazzling
catch is not shown—when Endean
“plucked the ball out of the air with his
right hand as he leaned back over the
railings” to dismiss Miller in the second
Test:
An incredible catch! It took away one’s
breath ... or nearly so, for a commentator
can always find a reserve somewhere to
permit him to continue his description or
comments. As for me, I was staggered by
the amazing splendor of it and I believe,
from what I have been told, that it seemed
that 1 might, in my excitement at this
cricket miracle, come right through the
microphone. Truly 1 was entranced by this
Endean catch, one of the historic catches
of Melbourne or any other ground, which
will, become part of cricket history.
Claiming that they had come to learn,
the South Africans went away knowing
they had learnt much from the Aus-
tralians —and had also taught the Aus-
tralians something. They tied the Test
series (two wins each, one drawn), win-
ning the fifth Test in amazing fashion,
after Australia, with first use of the
wicket, had scored what appeared to be
an unbeatable first-innings total of 520.
Manchester Playwright
The author of the Lancashire play
“Hobson’s Choice,” Harold Brighouse,
has written his autobiography, What I
Have Had (Harrap), in a packed, tele-
graphic style:
Consciousness of military uselessness did
not, oppress,
as though anxious not to waste too much
of the reader’s time on a small talent.
The result is a worth-while, businesslike
little book, of a literary life lived without
frills.
Son of a Manchester businessman, he
became London representative of a piece-
goods firm, and had just got married
on the strength of his prospects when the
firm failed;
My father saw me through.
He spent his days as salesman in the
mill of which his father was managing-
director, but his London playgoing had
given him hankerings for authorship, and
in his spare time he wrote a five-act
romantic drama and sent it to Forbes-
Robertson ;
Promptly, within days, he returned it with
a hand-written letter which courteously,
betraying no irony, pointed out that the
play’s acting-time would exceed an hour.
That jolted me, but, at least, I had the
grace to reply apologising for impudence,
and Forbes-Robertson had the magnanimity
to write again, briefly, infinitely wisely.
“Try one-acters first—write of the life you
know.”
Taking this advice, he wrote “Lone-
some-like,” “my first and, I think, my
best one-act play,” and sent it to Knob-
lock, later to be author of “Milady’s
Dress,” and then play-reader to the
Kingsway Theatre under Lena Ashwell:
Literally by return of post Knoblqck
wrote to me, not formally acknowledging
the play, but refusing it after reading
because Miss Ashwell proposed if and when
she did a one-acter to appear in it herself.
... .And not only that. Next day Knoblock
wrote again suggesting—take it or leave it
—a small constructive alteration. I took
it, little then knowing that it came from a
master of dramatic construction... .He had
not finished with me; presently he passed
me and “Lonesome-like” to Frank Vernon,
then about to be producer to a new manage-
ment, Evelyn Millard’s. She accepted my
play.
Very properly, when authors complain
of managers’ delays with scripts, Mr.
Brighouse cites, “contrariwise, the be-
havior first of Forbes-Robertson, second
of Edward Knoblock.” But the play did
{“Red Page” continued on page 35)


Anthony Horderns’ Presents...
the latest range of shooting equipment
including the new Sako 7x33 m.m.
“Try Anthony Horderns’.” Those words have become famous as far as guns and ammunition are
concerned, the store where you can buy “Everything from a fox decoy whistle to a high
powered rifle.” All those necessary accessories are available, too, including an excellent repair
service that will give you the utmost satisfaction.
1
sWi
m
if
■
«
m
m
iv
m
■r .
tk-i
MiW •••' •“
Wmm'
The Clothes
Fur felt hat which may be adapted to your own style,
with a 3in. brim and available in fawn, grey, brown.
Price 40/-.
Casben jacket, this jacket tailored by Casben is wind-
and shower-proof, zipp front, roomy pockets and
action back for freedom, sizes s.m., m., o.s. £6/19/-.
Var twist trousers. These fampus trousers are ideal
for outdoor wear, excellent appearance, strongly
made throughout in shades of fawn, grey, blue/grey.
Sizes 3 to 8, also J and \ sizes. £5/12/6.
Hunting boots in tan hide, lace up style, buckle and
strap fastening, sewn and standard screwed soles, steel
heel plate, 15 inches high. Price 77/6.
I :
§ JaHI
.
w—
m
A ;, ;
«*' ,
=*“
mmmmm»m^mmsmmrnmmm
X
WmSm,
; -s
mm
m*
m
m
j “■S
Sako 7x33 m.m.
This rifle from Finland is de-
signed for lightness, extra strength
and supreme accuracy. Integral sight
base built into the action. Mounts to fit
sight bases allowed for windage. Open rear
sight, walnut stock with cheek piece. Price £52/10/-
Twelve-gauge Belgium D.8.8.L. hammer gun, engraved
top lever action, blue steel barrels, cross bolt, engine
turned rib, left full right mpdified choke, rebounding
locks, Deeley fore-end, walnut stock, half-pistol grip,
nitro proved. Price £47/9/6
Raick Freres 12-gauge single barrel gun, top lever auto-
matic ejector full choke. Weight, 61b. Thirty-inch barrel.
Price £2B/12/6.
Slazengers .22 single shot Lithgow. Bolt action. This
rifle is very reliable and accurate at all times, and it’s
moderately priced at £9/19/6.
Diana rifled bore air gun. A well known reliably con-
strudted, robust air gun. Break down type, smooth
trigger mechanism, double pull, adjustable rear sight.
Smartly blued metal priced at £9/10/-.
Slazengers .22 repealing rifle. Lithgow brand, bolt action
type, with box magazine. This rifle was designed specially
for .22 long rifle ammunition. Priced at only £l7/19/6.
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
Anthony Horderns'
GUN DEPARTMENT, Lower Ground Floor
MEN’S WEAR, Ground Floor, George St
M 2401,
Box 27X2


Kinsey's and other outlooks
SEX
By a SYDNEY PSYCHIATRIST
AN old theological axiom has it that
the more natural and universal a
thing is, the less intelligence is
required for its functioning.
Nothing is more natural and universal
than sex.
Primitive people, although they have
their tabus, which they break at their peril
as a society, do not, as a rule, make a
fuss about sex. Only highly civilised
peoples have analysed it and written pro-
fusely about it, and only highly civilised
nations have sexual neuroses and diffi-
culties.
With the recent interest in the Kinsey
report one would almost think that sex
was a modern phenomenon. Records
thousands of years old describe most of
the sexual matters which arouse such
intense modern interest.
The Old Testament describes sexual
aberrations —the sins of Sodom and
Gomorrah, the secret vices of Onan, and
so on—with uncompromising directness.
The story of Samson and Delilah, Herod
and Salome, the fall from grace of King
David, Susannah and the Elders all show
that men and women in ancient times
were susceptible to the lures of sex, then
as now.
The Romans, always realists, during
the decadence in manners and morals
which began, probably, with the rise of
the empire, were keenly interested in
sex: what they didn’t know about the
subject would hardly interest a modern
research-worker, and what they knew
they described in candid detail. But
the Romans knew nothing about the
modern statistical methods, which, prob-
ably, would have struck them as rather
odd and somewhat pallid. The Roman
temper, for good and ill, remained
realistic.
Cicero, in his 80’s, wrote that he was
glad “all that” (to use the modern
euphemism) had passed, as he could now
enjoy tranquillity. Another poet put it
that Venus mocks lovers with images.
All systems of philosophy have attempted,
as it were, to codify sex without any
conspicuous success. The trouble, pos-
sibly, is that intellectuals have taken sex
too seriously on one level; not seriously
enough on another.
I am aware that this generalisation is
as cloudy as any: but I hope to tidy it
up later.
The Arabian Nights is a brilliant com-
mentary on the nuances of love —to
glance at another civilisation. Even in
the Middle Ages there were periods when
sex was the main theme of authors (as in
the Decameron), and, in an age when the
temporal power of the Church was
greater than it ever has been since and
social institutions were, generally, stable,
there were astonishing patches of sexual
licence and weird sexual cults in isolated
pockets. Roman historians, who had
strong stomachs, balked at describing
some of the details of the public spec-
tacles at the Colosseum. In the 18th
century, in England, the debauchery of
certain sections of the aristocracy is only
hinted at in psychiatric literature.
In our own day we have seen a general
lowering of sexual standards, which,
often enough, is symptomatic of the de-
cline of a State. The classic example is
France. To come closer home, there is
now in Australia what can only be
described as a morbid interest in sex.
At a time when it is extremely difficult
to get a book published in Australia, or
for Australian writers to live by the exer-
cise of their craft, the bookstalls are
flooded with near-pornographic maga-
zines which barely pretend to any literary
merit: cheap reprints of American
material.
Enterprising newspaper - proprietors,
too, are swimming strongly with the tide.
“A.M.,” for instance, practically sold its
first issues as a weekly on the strength
of intensive publicity concerning the
Kinsey report. As one of the “commen-
tators”—l was interviewed by a reporter
—I read the publicity build-up with some
amusement. I recognise, of course, that
reporters have to ‘live; and so, pre-
sumably, do newspaper-proprietors. But
I think it would be more honest to state
frankly the nature of one’s wares.
My own comments were accurately
reported. I* was asked questions, and
answered them, and my opinion, boiled
down, was that such surveys are largely
nonsensical.
The question arises: Is it proper to give
such an interview? From the medical-
ethics point of view, so long as anonymity
is preserved, there can be no objection.
From another viewpoint, it can be justi-
fied on the grounds that a newspaper
seeking a cross-section of opinion should
be given the opportunity to get the cons
as well as the pros.
The Bulletin, with another scale of
news-value, has practically ignored the
Kinsey report: and with this attitude I
cannot seriously disagree. Therefore, if
The Bulletin should choose to ignore
my own views on the subject, I could not
logically complain. Still, I think them
worth expressing, not because they are
new —any more than any of the recent
“researches” into sexual behavior are
“new”—but because they are a part of a
more general problem: and this aspect
has, I think, been somewhat neglected.
That problem is, briefly, life and civi-
lisation. The danger of pornography, on
the one hand, and of prudery, on the
other (to vastly simplify the issues), is
that sex is lifted out of its context and
given an artificial importance. To see it
all in perspective it is necessary to restate
the principle that sex is a primitive urge
with many physical accompaniments de-
signed for the propagation of the young
of the species. In the human species its
intensity varies in individuals. Some
men and women have very poor sexual
urges, and do not marry. But even
women with no sexual urges, in the
physical sense, retain quite formidable
traces of it on an emotional level, which
is often expressed in a jealousy of
married people. An elderly spinster can
often remember that Mrs. X, now a pillar
of the church, a grandmother of great
respectability, was delivered of her first-
born before the statutory nine months.
That is one manifestation; another could
be a scientific-worker with a clinical,
faintly antiseptic curiosity concerning the
relations of the sexes.
On the other hand some men. and
women have inordinate sexual desires:
the Don Juan type in all its shadings. Or,
to take an extreme example, Messalina.
Now, in primitive civilisations, or in
rapidly-expanding civilisations, sexual
problems are not of major importance.
The people are looking to the future,
busy and confident. Sexual urges may be
strong (even in captivity and under con-
ditions of semi-starvation they persist;
and may even be intensified: were this
not so the Jewish race, for one, would
now be extinct), but they are incidental.
Sex is an expression of mental and physi-
cal vitality, not an end in itself.
Sex, then, has two meanings: the re-
lease of physical tension and the propa-
gation of children; with all the emo-
tional and spiritual complications asso-
ciated with both sides of this basic pat-
tern, which vary, of course, with an indi-
vidual, and with the culture, the degree
of civilisation in which he lives. But to
return to the simple form. Hard work
of mind and body, the birth of children,
the struggle to raise them and keep them
—the pattern is the same in a primitive,
warrior tribe, or in a laborer’s cottage.
It helps, I think, to put sex in its proper
perspective.
A man marries a girl, provides for her,
the girl bears children and mothers them.
In basically agricultural communities
hard work of muscle, a simple, but ample
diet and general physical fitness meant
healthy germ-cells, healthy children.
The soldier-farmers of the early
Roman Republic were invincible. In
the later empire the citizens of Rome
itself were idle pensioners of the State
and mercenaries did the fighting. As
civilisation advances, wealth accumu-
lates : and, as Goldsmith says, in a some-
what different context, “ill fares the
land” . . , Hard work bred strong men:
with the stimulus of necessity weakened,
luxurious living followed, and soft men.
Women, once attracted by the virile man,
began to think more of the men who
could provide wealth, social position,
comfort.
Civilisation itself is not evil. But, in
its more complex forms, it holds special
dangers. It is interesting to observe how
a country, a class, a family, can ward
off, as it were, the weaknesses latent in
their own prosperity, by a code of living:
in other words, by a tradition. It may be
as simple as the code of sport and adven-
ture in which the upper middle-classes of
England were trained in the public
schools, the Army and in frontier wars.
A few great families manage to pre-
serve their traditions, throwing up, from
time to time, men of action like
Churchill But, generally speaking, the
history of families follows faithfully the
pattern of the rise, decline and fall of
nations. From clod to clod in three
generations is an old saying, and, where
the process is not delayed by a system
of primogeniture and of entailed
it holds surprisingly good. Descendants
of the Australian squattocracy—and of
every other aristocracy since civilisation
began—are now found in slums. Virile
grandparents hand on their vitality to
sons who squander it in comfort: it is
weak in the grandchildren, at its lowest
ebb in the great-grandchildren.
The adventurous individuals, the men
of action, find their own solution. In
the days of Empire-building the solution
was easier to find. But a time comes when
the people themselves become soft and
decadent. They herd in cities, and Gov-
ernments do their thinking for them,
tax them, provide against their basic
needs and supply them with amusements,
Commercial enterprises, radio, etc., help,
Such a community takes a pride in being
broadminded—because, for one thing, it
is not accustomed to strenuous thinking
and there arises a preoccupation with
sex. The old barriers are broken down,
or become “old-fashioned, ’ in the amus-
mg argot of the age. (What about the
Romans?) Sex becomes a commonplace,
It may be a commonplace in primitive
communities, too ; for instance, among
European peasants. But in such a com-
mumty pregnancy is usuaUy followed by
marriage. Now the use of contraceptives
and abortions removes something of the
emphasis from marriage.
The risks of sex are reduced. Even the
venereal diseases, which are regularly
cured by penicillin and other drugs, have
lost some of their terrors. Promiscuity
becomes more common.
When indulgence palls it is common
for artificial means of stimulation to be
used. This was recognised in ancient
civilisations, and is, in part, the explana-
tion for the varying and elaborate sexual
rites and ceremonies, some of them of
the basest kind. In our own civilisation
smart entrepreneurs take over the job: in
a mild form, in magazines, night clubs
and advertisements. Newspapers feed
the public titbits from the divorce
courts and supply what details they can
of crimes of passion. In Western Europe
the process has gone further.
Virginity, as such, has lost prestige. It
is interesting to note that in the Roman
Empire it was prized (perhaps for its
rarity), as the extraordinary status of the
Vestal Virgins shows. In the Arabian
Nights, too, it is praised,
As time goes on homosexuality creeps
in. The normal palls, new partners are
found and discarded. Homosexuality
always exists, with a minority, but there
are phases when it becomes a cult among
persons born heterosexual. It is usually
identified, in this phase, with a pose of
intellectual superiority among over-
civilised men and women. The truth, of
course, is that it is not a symptom of
intellectual brilliance, of an interesting
complexity, but of weakness and decline,
The sinking of the flame. It is sympto-
matic of the decline of civilisations in
Western Europe.
Even here in Sydney homosexual prac-
tices are increasing, especially among
women. It is ngt yet a national danger,
but the tendency is there. Some of the
arguments produced in favor of these
practices must be heard to be believed,
The causes, in most cases, are intellectual
and moral, closely interwoven with our
outlook on sex, education and society,
With an increasing emphasis on psycho-
analysis and on the statistical approach
to sex, sex is becoming an intellectual
exercise. Men and women study text-
books about sex. The emphasis is shift-
mg from the emotions to the intellect;
and this is a grave error,
Sexual neuroses often arise because the
practice fails to accord with the text-
book description. Normal, healthy
W omen are made miserable because they
imagine, on the authority of what they
have read, that they are under- or over-
sexed: or, because their feelings are not
i n hne with some psychologist’s descrip-
tion, they imagine they are abnormal,
T oo much thinking about an instinct can
destroy it, or warp it. If men and women
W ould realise that sex is an instinct, a
movement in the great parade of life,
they would be happier,
It is only when sex is unbridled—taken,
as it were, out of its context—that sexual
difficulties arise. But these difficulties are
not only symptomatic of the decline of
civilisations: they can accelerate them,
All societies have their tabus, and the
society which neglects them falls apart. In
our fairly successful civilisation the
whole subject has been thrashed out, time
and time again, by some of the keenest
brains in history. And the weight of then-
opinion is that illicit sex relations bring
misery and remorse, to women especially,
Virginity in women, continence in men,
are still very valuable for the individuals
and for the society which nurtures them
and which in turn is shaped by them and
by their children.
GOLF AND BLOSSOM
“T* HE Orange (N.S.W.) Golf Club
S has just finished its annual
C j spring tournament, which coincides
with the town’s Cherry-blossom
Festival. Visitors came from all parts of
the State: from the capital, from country
towns, from stations and farms. It was
the most successful tournament held so
far. And the course was in lush condi-
tion, in contrast just now to many other
country and metropolitan courses.
It is about 18 years since the Orange
Golf Club shifted from its original site
to Duntryleague, once the home of James
Dalton, who established the Western
Stores during the goldrush period. Dun-
tryleague House was built in 1876, on
the extreme end of one of the volcanic
slopes of Mt. Canobolas, and a splendid
old mansion it still is, with its high
ceilings, magnificently - proportioned
rooms and solid-cedar doors. Around
Duntryleague the golf-club and residen-
tial have been established, amid a forest
of pines, elms, poplars, chestnuts, ash
and other trees and shrubs planted at
the time the house was built. The Atlan-
tic cedars, with their bluish needles
always looking as though they are carry-
ing a light burden of snow or frost, in-
variably attract the attention of the new-
comer. They have supplied the seeds for
many more of their kind now starting
to grow to size on the links, where they
were planted shortly before World War
11.
The town adjoins the eastern boundary
of the course. To the west and south-
west are haystacks and cherry- and
apple-orchards on the rising slopes, and,
beyond that, a few miles off, Mt. Cano-
bolas itself, which at some time during a
winter often carries a snowcap.
Many hands and minds have played
their part in creating the golf-course at
Duntryleague. The initial move was a
stroke of financial genius ; the old Dalton
home and acres were bought at a price
for which a modern Killara home might
sell today. Since then the club’s presi-
dents include the names of A. R. Camp-
bell, F. N, Rodda, A. E. Colvin, R. A.
Ball, A. B. Carmichael, R. S. Candlish
and A. Ridley. Present holder of the
office is Harry T, Burrows, who was
elected in 1949.
During Harry Burrows’s term of office
one of the most striking developments
has been the planting of additional trees
on the golf-course. Something between
two and three thousand trees and shrubs
have been planted since 1949 pines,
elms, magnolias, chestnuts, crab-apples,
flowering cherries and prunuses, rhodo-
dendrons, berry - bushes, viburnums,
azaleas and a multitude of others. The
plantings have been carried out under
the supervision of Elmar Berzins, who
has had wide European experience
in landscape-planning. In 10 or 20 years’
time, in spring or in autumn, it will be
a pleasure to go looking for a ball in the
rough at Duntryleague, because that is
where the plantations are.
The Orange golf-course during the lives
of the younger of the present generation
should become something of a botanic
gardens, and an asset to the town itself,
One has only to observe the way in which
James Dalton’s plantings of 70 years ago
have prospered to imagine how the new
trees and shrubs will flourish. Duntry-
league is over 3000 ft. above sea-level, and
it stands on rich soil above a ridge of
basalt which once flowed down as lava
from Old Man Canobolas.
The club has plans for a larger club-
house as well, but the old Dalton home
will be left intact. A little time, some
good seasons, and Duntryleague should
be one of the showplaces of Australia.
D.A.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 21, 1953
Vol 74—No. 3845
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ; Box 2521 1
’Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
OUR ABIDING FRAILTY
Observant Australians must think it odd that, at a
time when employment is “full” and wages “high,”
people are still disposed to make do with old furni-
ture, old refrigerators, old motor-cars, etc., and are
perhaps holding-off from building themselves a home
—the last-mentioned being possibly a cherished life-
long ambition —even though the industries which
make and sell household furniture, etc., and the build-
ing-trades report business to be “slack,” Generally
these people are prevented from buying what they want
because they find costs and prices to be too high.
Their savings of years have lost their buying-power.
To provide for the present and to be sure of having
something for their old age is too much for their
existing incomes, after taxes, to stand.
Australia is not alone in this position. But it is
worse off, at this time, than most countries are. Britain,
in spite of its heavy war-time damage and suffering,
is moving towards higher production and lower costs.
The United States has outstripped all other countries
in its post-war manufacturing progress. In spite of
the high cost of living in America in terms of dollar
costs converted into Australian pounds, the cost ot
most manufactured things in the United States is far
lower, when considered in the light of time a person
has to work in order to get enough wages to buy them,
than in Australia or any other country.
Within Australia most of our high costs are indica-
tive of not enough production per man per working-
week. The fewer things a man produces in return
for his weekly wages, the fewer things he and his
fellow-workers will be able to buy in return for such
wages. And while the effect of high costs is most
readily noticeable in household items, it is becoming
increasingly obvious where public transport and other
Government utilities are concerned. High costs have
been the chief reason why, in Australia, new Govern-
ment dams, irrigation-systems, railways, road-systems
and public buildings have not been built at the rate
required by the increasing population, and why, also,
so many existing public utilities are becoming decrepit
and are running at a loss.
High costs discourage both investment and spend-
ing, and add to the difficulties of trading and carrying
out Government works. If wage-earners as a body
would set out to give an amount of service in keeping
with the inflated wages they are getting there would
soon be a strong flow of funds into both public and
private investments. Up to the present the attitude of
many trade-unionists on Government jobs has been
to make the work spin out as long as possible, thus
increasing the wage-cost of getting the job done —
wages being, of course, based on the time spent on
the job. Eventually the high cost of such projects put
those engaged on them out of a job.
The Institute of Public Affairs (Victoria) recently
wrote of the high level of Australian costs. It reported
“a gaping disparity between British and Australian
costs of production.” Hourly wage-rates in Australia
for male workers average about Bs. Average rates for
British workers are 3s. lOd. (sterling), or about 4s. lOd.
in Australian currency. Hourly wages in Australia,
according to I.P.A. calculations, had increased 149 p.c.
since the war, compared with increases for Britain
of 59 p.c. and the U.S.A. of 71 p.c. “The post-war
inflationary gallop,” said the 1.P.A., “has proceeded at
a much faster rate in Australia than in other English-
speaking countries.”
A cost-disparity of these proportions creates a
fundamental out-of-balance situation in the economy
which suffers from it. It can be sustained only by
virtually excluding all overseas competition from the
home market (which has, in effect, been done through
the import-restrictions) and only so long as prices
for major exports remain sufficiently high to return
a margin of profit over the excessive costs of export-
producers
To claim any intrinsic virtue in the import-cuts
is, of course, absurd. They are, at best, a highly
unpleasant necessity, and they are achieving their
purpose of bringing Australian purchases from the
rest of the world into line with what Australia is
able to obtain from its sales to the rest of the
world. A nation that is forced to do this is in the
same straits as a man who is compelled to cut his
purchases because he cannot afford to continue to live
on the old scale. In the nation’s case as in the indi-
vidual’s, it means, among other things, a lower
standard of living. The import-cuts, while they
remain, are therefore a symbol of economic weakness
and unbalance.
Over the past 18 months there has been an improve-
ment in the Australian rate of productivity, but it is
still not enough to give investors, businessmen of
the buying public a sense of confidence. There are
still too many ifs and buts surrounding our costs
structure. With regard to wages and hours, it is
IN NEW FOCUS
not generally realised that, according to Mr. Justice
Foster’s interpretation, the Federal Arbitration Court
“is not only not empowered to act ‘in the public
interest’ at large, but could not be empowered undei
the Constitution so to function, except in so far as the
public good was incidental to the settlement of an
industrial dispute.”
The remarkable strength of the wool industry and
the wool market has helped for a long time to carry
the weaker sections of the economy and disguise our
general industrial frailty in this changing post-war
period. But the sellers’ market in most things has
gone. The artificial stimulus of the Korean War has
petered out. Soon the fact that, as a people, we are
each of us not producing enough during our working
lives to maintain our standard of living and our social-
security system will become painfully obvious. If it is
recognised honestly for what it is the easier will it
be to overcome this problem of inadequate man-
hour output.
Found, One Earl Marshal
One advantage of the British hereditary system
apparent at the time of the Coronation was that it
saved a lot of argument. Right of birth decided the
order of precedence in many cases; time-honored
custom in others. It was clearly laid down in the
records who was to do what and when ; if any disputes
arose they were settled without question by the word
of the Duke of Norfolk in his capacity of Hereditary
Earl Marshal. That in itself explains the successful
working of the system ; a code which sees nothing
incongruous in a Roman Catholic peer being respons-
ible for the complete arrangements for the coronation
of a monarch who includes among her vows a promise
to maintain “the Protestant Reformed Religion estab-
lished by Jaw” should be capable of coping with almost
any situation.
It is rather late in the day to create an Earl Mar-
shal for Australia, though had William Charles Went-
worth’s plan for an Australian House of Lords come
to fruition a Duke of Woolloomooloo, a Baron
Botany or a Marquess of Mascot might now be serving
in that capacity. His services would have come in
very handy during the last couple of weeks.
It wouW not then have been necessary for a New
South Wales “Labor” M.P. to inquire anxiously at
question-time in Canberra whether it was true that
“strained relations exist between the Commonwealth
and New South Wales over arrangements for receiving
the Queen at Farm Cove, Sydney,” and to receive a
reply from the Prime Minister to the effect that he
planned to discuss with Mr. Cahill “the question of
priority at State receptions to the Queen,” and that
on the point of the Commonwealth and its rightful
position... .it could hardly be expected by any
member of this House that her Majesty’s Australian
Government would take second place to any other
Government in this country. [Government hear-
hears.J
On the other hand, the courteous rejoinder of Mr.
Cahill would not then have been recorded:
Whatever is done will be the right thing. New
South Wales as a sovereign State will take its place,
and I can see no reason for a clash with the Federal
Government... .Federal Ministers will get whatever
respect they are entitled to from me and my Gov-
ernment. It would be paltry for Governments to
differ on such a matter.
While in England Mr. Cahill was very impressed
with the courtesy of London car-drivers, and he had
recently expressed the opinion that the “greatest factor
of road safety is courtesy.” In some quarters this state-
ment raised the hope that rather than accept the
accident-risk involved in a corned-beef rush of State
and Federal Ministers vying with each other to be
first to greet the Queen, he would adopt an “After-
you” policy.
The meeting between her Majesty’s two Chiefs of
State was apparently held with due regard to courtesy
and protocol, but in the absence of a statement from
an official Earl Marshal the unofficial ones were
quickly at work with their versions of the conference.
Mr. Cahill, it was said, had stood on his dignity as
Premier of the oldest State—a centenarian long before
the Commonwealth had even donned its swaddling-
clothes —whereupon Mr, Menzies had said he wouldn’t
be in New South Wales the day the Queen arrived.
This was variously interpreted. It meant, said one
report, that the Federal Government planned to fore-
stall Mr. Cahill by requisitioning an aircraft-carrier
and meeting the Royal Yacht in the middle of the
Tasman Sea. “Quite wrong!” said a rival rumor.
The Gothic was to, be diverted to Jervis Bay so that
the Federal welcome could be extended on Federal
soil. Better still, a helicopter would whisk the Royal
couple direct to Canberra for a landing on the steps
of Parliament House. If the possibilities of a welcome
at Garden Island, Admiralty House or the North Head
Quarantine Station were not openly canvassed, it was
only because the result of the Prime Minister’s chat
with the Premier was announced before anyone got
around to them.
How many points were scored for courtesy and
how many for protocol will never be known, but the
problem seems to have been solved in this manner.
The Admiral’s barge, running a shuttle-service from
Farm Cove to the Gothic, at anchor in Athol Bight,
will take, ond at a time, the Governor-General, the
N. S. Wales Governor, the Prime Minister and the
Premier to pay thdir respects to her Majesty, after
which it will carry the Queen and the Duke of Edin-
burgh tb Farm Cove, where Mr. Menzies will intro-
duce his Cabinet and Mr. Cahill his —in that order.
After that, apparently, the doings are to be purely
a New South Wales affair, though there remains one
ticklish little problem whose car, Menzies’s or
Cahill’s, is to follow the Queen’s limousine in the
procession through the city?
Mention of this has brought a shudder from
Senator Ashley, who finds the whole discussion
“most unseemly,” and considers that
the attempt by the Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies,
to secure political limelight out of a great, spon-
taneous demonstration of loyalty is entirely out of
keeping with the spirit of such a great occasion.
.... The Royal progress should be a Royal progress.
Politicians should have no place in the procession.
Their presence may serve only to detract from
the spontaneous demonstration of the people’s
welcome.
“The Fixer” conceded that it would be quite
fitting for Mr, Cahill to receive the Royal party again
at Government House, but
The Prime Minister should restrain himself until
the Royal couple arrive in Canberra.
That’s telling ’em! No ifs or huts; just plain,
blunt directions. If Australia really wants an Earl
Marshal there is need to look any further. After all,
who could have a better claim than “The Fixer”? All
his life he has followed the Sport of Kings, and his
Senate seat is a tribute to the hereditary principle;
it came to him in the first place because he inherited
from his father a name beginning with A.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Atomic Problems
The first of the planned series of British
atom-weapon explosions has taken place
in Central Australia 600 miles north-
west of Adelaide. There was no an-
nouncement as to whether the weapon
was a bomb or the warhead of a guided
missile; but, in any event, the advance
marked by it was technical and geo-
graphical. It confirmed Australia as one
of the four atomic testing-regions of the
world, and emphasised its importance not
merely to ourselves but to the Western
world. It also emphasised the increas-
ing need to keep our defences up to the
mark, particularly those which will assure
that no enemy can come within long-
distance striking-range of our closely-
populated industrial areas.
The explosion came at a moment
when international influence seemed to
be converging on this country in unpre-
cedented concentration. The first Vice-
President of the United States to visit the
Australasian antipodes was here, obvi-
ously on a mission to get closer associa-
tion. Lord Cherwell, Mr. Churchill’s
principal scientific adviser, the head of
the British Government’s more modern
defence projects, had just left us. The
Chief of the Imperial General Staff, head
of the United Kingdom’s military forces,
General Harding, was approaching to
tighten the liaison between our Army and
the British Army, already for practical
purposes integrated, if not so closely as
the R.N. and the R.A.N. and the R.A.F.
and the R.A.A.F.
The discussion of Mr. W. C. Went-
worth’s motion calling attention to the
problem of the development of atomic
weapons was producing a useful local
reminder of the problems which wiill
soon have to be faced in respect of the
accumulation of atomic power in the
world, which is reaching a stage when
the utter destruction of individual civilisa-
tion, if not of civilisation as a whole,
within a few days is rapidly becoming
a matter of practical politics.
The discussion illustrated the fact that
no Government or party, here as in any
other Western country, can face a public
admission of the possibility that the
time will come when in the sheer interests
of the survival of the West it might be-
come necessary to check Russian de-
velopment of atomic stocks if the Russian
policy of preparing for world revolution
by force of arms continues. Mr. Menzies,
like P.M.s of the great Powers, is still at
the point at which he “cannot accommo-
date my mind to the fact that we are to
talk to people behind the Iron Curtain
merely with the voice of guns or bombs”
—while Dr. Evatt bleats that “the greatest
hope of avoiding atomic warfare lies in
the principles laid down by U.N.O.”—
which hasn’t any united principles, being
riddled from stem to stern by aggressors.
Behind the scenes there must be
plenty of concern, which fortunately
appears to be having a constructive outlet,
as shown by the attempts to pool atomic
information. The meeting of the Com-
monwealth Finance Ministers in Australia
next January cloaks an obvious anxiety
for the safety of the South-west Asia and
Pacific sections of the British Common-
wealth, and is dictated by the first
economic priority in the programme for
the British Commonwealth to “fight its
way to a position of safety,” economic
and military. Following the announce-
ment of this conference and the obvious
interest recently shown by the United
Kingdom in linking not only Dominion
defence but United States effort with its
own on the Pacific fringes, it is now
foreshadowed that within the next few
months the British Government will come
out with a proposal for the formation of
a South-east Asian Defence Council, at
first consultative, which primarily will
embrace British Commonwealth countries
and eventually the United States, France
and Japan to co-ordinate atomic defence
of Asia and allied agreements in the
Asian-Australasian zone and work out
an alliance on the same basis as Nato.
That is good news.
Those Quarterly Adjustments
The future of quarterly wage-adjustments
was still very much in the air when the
cost-of-living figures for the September
quarter were announced on Friday. The
Federal Arbitration Court’s decision to
suspend automatic adjustments applied
only to the unions named in the judgment,
but further applications affecting over 100
unions are now before the court. As
to State awards, the position was summed
up by Labor Minister Holt on Friday
night. The Queensland Industrial Court
has refused to follow the Federal lead;
it will continue to make quarterly adjust-
mens, The N. S. Wales Industrial Com-
mission began hearing the question on
Friday. Victoria is waiting on the Federal
court’s reasons for its judgment, and the
other three States are also marking time.
The c.-0.-l. figures announced on
Friday showed a .rise for the six capital
cities of 1.2 per cent., equivalent to a
basic-wage increase of 3s. The food-and-
groceries group in the index accounted
for almost all the rise, meat and potatoes
being the chief contributors. Rents were
up slightly, clothing down.
Despite his newspaper critics. Treasurer
Fadden was quite justified in claiming
that the figures showed that the economy
“is more stable than for years past.” In-
creased prices for meat and potatoes are
purely seasonal, and the slight fall in
clothing-prices—the first for six years—
indicates that industrial costs are at last
being held. Tax-cuts from the Federal
Budget are not reflected in the quarter’s
figures, but should begin to show up in
the December index—particularly if State
authorities follow the lead of the Federal
court. Despite the squeals of Trades Hall
officials and the dutiful echoes of Evatt
and Calwell, most wage-earners would
willingly forgo the illusory three-bob for
the knowledge that the inflationary spiral
had ended.
The New Australia
Mr. Duncan Sandys, Lord Cherwell,
Lord Swinton, Vice-President Nixon, of
the U.S.A. —it’s getting that way one
could look over the important men of
the free world and wonder who’ll be the
next to visit Australia. Certainly, during
past months, v.i.p.’s have been dropping
in with remarkable frequency and per-
sistency. Which plainly suggests that
our Commonwealth is assuming real
importance in British and American eyes.
Imaginative minds can’t miss the im-
plications. It is pretty clear —what with
the first bomb at Monte Bello and the
second one at Woomera, with British
interest in the Anzus pact, with the
staging of the air-race from London to
Christchurch (N.Z.) across Australia, the
presence of giant U.S. bombers at
Woomera, the appointment of a fighting
general as Governor-General —that Aus-
tralia has suddenly become one of the
great strategic points in the line-up of
democratic defence.
But it goes deeper. The visits are
neither confined to top scientists nor top
strategists. Australia is being inspected
by thoughtful and informed eyes, pon-
dered over by brains which are survey-
ing the world from other than military
viewpoints. Our uranium deposits, for
instance, forecast an undreamt-of indus-
trial development. We have millions of
acres waiting to produce food and pro-
vide homes for millions of people. We
are, in short, one of the few great lands
left where the white races might send
their surplus populations and whence
vast supplies of food and raw materials
can be drawn.
Many Australians knew this. Some
of them have tried desperately to make
others —particularly the United King-
dom —appreciate it. After the war the
flood of food-parcels into the U.K. awoke
many there to what Australia really was,
and, as the sellers’ market disappeared,
British industrialists reawakened to our
importance as buyers of British goods.
Now, in this Coronation Year which
has been a tremendous year for Britain,
the appearance of members of the British
Cabinet alone suggests that Australia, far
from slipping back to its pre-war
somnolence and isolation, is on the
threshold of important and expansive
changes.
But, to march with and reinforce this
potential development, Australia needs
to shake itself up. Small-minded poli-
ticians, parochial farmers and business-
men, petty officials of one kind and
another, restrictive laws like those which
cripple transport, and one-eyed unionism
—all of which combine to put hobbles on
the national progress—will have to be cut
down to size and put where they belong:
well in the background. We’ve a new
place in the world, and we’ve got to fill
it with dignity, strength and vision—or
lose it.
Trieste
There has been no question since the
signing of the peace-treaty with Italy that
the Allies were bound to hand back an
Italian zone to the Italians and
that Zone B of Trieste would not be
permanently occupied by the Yugoslav
military forces. As early as the first wee!
in September, at the tenth anniversarj
of the signature of the peace-treaty, the
matter already had reached the crisis
stage through Marshal Tito’s blunt de-
mand for both zones as natural Yugoslav
territory, and by the declaration of the
Italian Mayor of Trieste, Signor Bartoli,
that, “rather than come under Tito’s
rule, the people of the city would die
fighting in the streets.” The Italian Press
was then reminding General Gruenther,
Nato C.-in-C., who had declared that
Italy was the key to the European defence
system, that Trieste is the lock. And,
from the point of view of European
strategy, there is a good deal in that
statement; and, unfortunately, not only
the Western Powers recognise it.
The importance of an outlet to the
Adriatic to Communist strategy has given
Tito a lever for bargaining with his erst-
while supposed enemies of the Kremlin,
as with the Atlantic Powers. The situa-
tion arose at a time when representatives
of the United States, Britain and France
were inspecting military organisations in
Yugoslavia and when provision for mili-
tary aid to Yugoslavia had just been in-
cluded in Congressional appropriations
in Washington. The fact that these events
coincided with Tito’s outspoken demand
were interpreted in some sections of
Italian politics as a preliminary to the
sale of Trieste to the Yugoslavs by the
West, and by the hopeful Russians at
the emergence of a situation by which
they might divide the Balkans from the
Nato allies, embarrass relations With Italy
and her Western supporters, regain a
hold in Belgrade and attain an effective
penetration to the Adriatic, an inestim-
able strategic prize. The sudden desire
of Bulgaria to achieve friendly relations
with Turkey and the seeming flirtings
of Tito with flie Kremlin were both
symptomatic of the conditions,
Tito apparently is trying for the
moment to live in two worlds. While
seeking to create the impression that the
West can safely go on arming him, he
and his Foreign Minister have stirred
Yugoslavia to the brink of war against a
Western ally. He denies that he will turn
to Russia, but on his record this cannot
be taken at its face-value. He says that
he will not (fight against British (and
American troops, but that if Italian troops
enter Zone A, assigned to Italy under the
protection of British and American
troops, it would cause catastrophic re-
action in Yugoslavia; that, even if the
transfer of the zone to Italy did not
cause a clash now, it must in the future.
Meanwhile he and his Foreign
Minister have been stirring the Yugo-
slavs to war-fever, accusing the Italians
of military violation of frontiers and
himself piling military forces into the
region on the fringe of Trieste.
Tito is no more trustworthy with the
West than he was with Russia. He is
obviously suffering from dictator’s
swollen head, and Yugoslavia, like Israel,
which has been guilty of wanton border-
violation and slaughter of Jordan Arabs,
is a danger-spot to be dealt with firmly
before the sore spreads. He can scarcely
enforce his claim if the West stands firm.
Municipal Medley
One of the distinguishing features of J.
J. Cahill’s reign as Minister for Local
Government in N. S. Wales —he held the
post for several years—was that every
now and then a bunch of aldermen or
shire-councillors would go to bed one
night with the usual cares and joys of
office thick upon them and wake up
next morning to find their municipality
shot from under them and merged with
several neighboring areas into a Greater
Thisorthat. The emergence of Greater
Sydney a few years ago wasn’t quite so
hasty, but any lack of celerity at that
time has been more than compensated for
by the suddenness with which the latest
Sydney City Council reshuffle was an-
nounced.
Under the present City Council set-up
10 wards each elect three aldermen, and
the aldermen elect one of their number
as Lord Mayor. The new plan does
away with the wards and reduces the
number of aldermen from 30 to 20. They
will be elected under a system of pro-
portional-representation, and the Lord
Mayor will be chosen by popular vote.
There are 24 “Labor” men and six Civic
Reform on the present council, but under
proportional - representation the best
“Labor” can expect is a 12-8 or 11-9
majority. There is, of course, the possi-
bility of an independent or a Communist
gaining one of the seats.
Next council election is due early in
December, and the indications are that
at least a dozen “Labor” aldermen who
were expecting to continue on as City
Fathers will now only have an onlooker’s
interest in next year’s council-meetings.
Mr. Renshaw’s reason for this unpre-
cedented dumping of party stalwarts is
that p.r. is “the only democratic method
of voting,” and that, although “Labor
will lose some seats on the City Council,
it will gain others in the country, as the
system will apply in all local-government
elections where more than three vacan-
cies are to be filled.
When N. S. Wales “Labor” Ministers
turn altruists there’s usually a catch
somewhere. The Greater Sydney scheme
gave the party control of the City Coun-
cil, and under the new plan it will still
rule the roost, but the executive obviously
considers it easier to control 12 men than
24. What is more important, it is easier
to control their selection under p.r. with
only one electorate than under the ward
system, with its accompanying faction-
fights.
But the precipitancy of the move —
council elections are less than two
months away and preselections under the
ward system have already been made
—suggests other reasons than these.
There have been insistent demands for
an inquiry into municipal affairs in Syd-
ney. Possibly the Cahills feel that the
best way to avoid a close scrutiny of the
activities of the present council is to
scrap it and get a new one.
The Cumberland Scheme
“Jindivick” : Granted all that Councillor
Luke says (B. 14/10/’53) regarding the
Cumberland Scheme (N.S.W.), the fact
remains that people who are unfortunate
enough to own improved property on the
line of some proposed road or railway
are experiencing severe hardship where
they find it necessary or desirable
to sell their property, because buyers are
choosey and refuse to consider that type
of proposition. Lending authorities
won’t give a second thought to property
that is adversely zoned, although the
council makes it clear that its existing use
may be continued indefinitely. This in-
cludes Government lending instrumentali-
ties as well as private bodies.
The Act provides for the acquisition
of improved as well as unimproved
property by the council, which, however,
is not bound to acquire the improved
property on request, as it must the unim-
proved land. Were the Government to
amend the Act to require the council to
acquire improved property on the same
basis as it now acquires unimproved
land, the strongest objections to the plan
would pass.
Taken by and large, the plan may do
a lot of good for the community—some-
time. But if that good is to be
achieved at the expense of individual
citizens, then the plan is bad and should
be abolished or amended. The people
suffering most are not holders of £250
to £5OO blocks, who can get their
compensation and buy land elsewhere,
but the owners of shops, factories and
dwellings who can’t dispose of their
property except under most disadvan-
tageous conditions. These people have a
right to expect the Government to protect
them.
This protection could be afforded by
the purchase by the Government of this
class of property at current market-
values, and it could then be redisposed of
on a leasehold basis or on the under-
standing that the buyers would not be
entitled to any compensation when it
was finally acquired for purposes of the
plan. The difference between the Gov-
ernment’s payout on this property and
what it received on resale would repre-
sent the cost to the community by way
of compensation to owners for injurious
affection.
Hide or Innocence?
Premier Cahill went to the electors of
Kahibah last week and told them to vote
for J. Arthur, snr., in the forthcoming
by-election there. J. Arthur, snr., is the
endorsed “Labor” candidate, and seeks
the seat in N.S.W. Parliament vacated by
J. Arthur, jnr., when, as Minister for
Mines, he became involved in the Doyle
scandal and subsequently resigned.
According to Mr. Cahill, however, the
Doyle-Arthur affair should not deter the
Kahibahians from returning Arthur, snr.,
in place of Arthur, jnr., to carry the
“Labor” banner. After telling them that
“certain action was taken by the govern-
ing body of our movement which pre-
vented the former member from con-
tinuing,” he got this off:
I know you people of Kahibah have too
much good sense to be misled by deceit and
hypocrisy, by vague and unsubstantiated
charges of wrongdoing and corruption.
The Labor Government’s record is a
splendid one. There can be no pjace in the
Government for anyone guilty of wrong-
doing.
Not even a political appointment or
two, apparently. In the same Sydney
(i Continued on page 7)


newspaper which reported Mr. Cahill’s
speech were the following items:
Mr. Cahill told the Legislative Assembly
money and other “irregularities.”
Opposition-leader Treatt asked why Judge
Amsberg wasn’tallowed to inquire into the
alleged association of members of Parha-
ment with “a man named Vitnell.”
Detectives were expected to arrest five
men on charges of conspiracy to defraud
emmern n enter nS rire ( s rk &t several State Gov '
xhe towns of Trundle and Tullamore
were depending on water brought in by
railways, though Mr. Cahill promised
Trundle a water-supply from the Lachlan
three years ago.
The May°r of the Cahill-amal-
goS,te4^beenasr4pe^dedCf;om<his £lOOO
a-year membership of the Factories Wel-
tars Board (whatever that is),
Mr. Cahill, disturbed by unseemly revela-
tions in the Labor -run Sydney City
Council, announced a plan to eliminate
wards (which .have not long been jerry-
mandered to give Labor council domma-
tion), cut the number of aldermen from
30 to 20, institute election by proportional-
representation, and election of the mayor
by citizens’ vote.
That’s a fair issue of matters still to
b e investigated. On previous revelations,
on iy a politician with the hide of a
rhino, or the innocence of a blithesome
idiot would talk about “vague and un-
substantiated charges” and “ ‘Labor’s’
splendid record” at this juncture. Those
who live under the Cahill rule in N.S.W.
can judge for themselves whether it’s
hide or innocence.
POLITICAL POINTS
What’s going on in New South Wales?
Has Cahill lost his sense of smell?
• •
Phony history is repeating itself in
“Labor’s” pretence of trying to get the
half-crown pension-rise increased to 10s.
In 1950 the Menzies Government intro-
duced child-endowment for the first child
at the rate of ss. a week. Although
“Labor” when in office had refused to
make any payment for the first child and
had dismissed the Menzies promise as an
election stunt, it immediately proposed
increasing the rate to 10s. “Labor” then
had a Senate majority, and as a result of
the manoeuvre the payment was held up
for several months. This time the farce
won’t have such a long season, but it
may delay the first payment of the rise.
• e
Mr. Cahill to Mr. Nixon at a State
banquet to the U.S. Vice-President:
In your efforts to maintain the Four
Freedoms in the vast Pacific area, you will
have the loyal and wholehearted support,
both physical and moral, of the people
of this country.
Anyone who assumes that this means that
Cahill intends to drop compulsory union-
ism should remember that the man was
speaking at a banquet.
• •
Economists and social reformers should
get together to try to find out whether
there is any connection between the big
jump in Hobart living-costs—4 per cent.,
compared with 1.2 per cent, for the six
capitals—and the anticipated loss of
Tatt’s.
• •
In defiance of its London executive
the Communist-controlled Amalgamated
Engineering Union decided to go ahead
with its plan to stage a stoppage of work
yesterday in protest against an Arbitra-
tion Court order for a secret ballot under
comt control for the election of a Com-
monwealth councillor. On Monday large
sections of the union were planning to
ignore the stop-work call on the grounds
that, “if it was good enough for the
council to ignore the executive, then it
was good enough for the rank-and-file
to ignore the council.”
• •
Minister for the Interior Kent Hughes
told the Canberra Parliament that the
Government was seeing what could be
done about a five-year programme “to
settle all outstanding soldier-settlement
applicants on the land.” They’d better
hurry. It’s a known fact that old soldiers
never die, but they do fide away. They
also become too old to take on farming.
• 0
E. Maher and D. Olive were described
in daily-paper list of candidates for
Waverley and Kahibah by-election as
Independents. Sydney “Tribune” claims
them both as Communists and appeals to
party members to help in their campaigns.
0 0
Senator McKenna complains that owing
to faulty ventilation or lack of air-con-
ditioning Senators “sometimes have great
difficulty in keeping awake during
debate.” Sleeping during debate,
although to some extent sanctioned by
custom, is rather poor form. But the
worst offenders are those Senators who
keep on with their speech after they have
fallen asleep.
O 0
“S. M. Herald,” checking on activities
in the building industry, found that the
general feeling in the trade was that
the period of recession had passed and
that there was at present “a mild boom.”
Local shortages are reported in bricks,
tiles, cement and galvanised-iron. The
building-industry is usually regarded as
one of the measuring-sticks of prosperity.
Support for this contention was given
by the “Herald’s” positions-vacant col-
umns on Saturday. There were close on
50 advertisements for bricklayers and
builders’-iaborers and almost as many
for carpenters.
When the Gair Government upped
Queensland Parliamentary salaries by
£2OO a year they made it compulsory for
members to apply for the rise within 28
days or go without. This was a kind of
“challenge” to the Opposition and
“Labor” members who had opposed the
rise. The month is up ; Opposition-leader
Nicklin, his deputy Hiley, and Liberals
Munro and Noble didn’t apply. The
others did “under protest,” a “Labor”
member (J. A. Turner) saying he
wouldn’t accept the £lOO extra for “allow-
ances.” Some of the Opposition who
accepted say they’ll give the money to
charity until either an independent
tribunal or the electors approve the rise.
• •
Truest comment on Cain’s purloining
of Tatt.’s from Tasmania came from
Federal Labor Minister Holt: The Vic-
torian Government has given Tattersall’s
a 10-year monopoly so that both parties
can plunder the wage-earner to the extent
of 40 p.c. of turnover.
Victorians should reflect that from
every five shillings they contribute to
the Cain-Tatt.’s lottery Tatt.’s will take
s|d. and Cain Is. As Holt pointed
out, “Labor” is loud in its criticism of
/Cy.
fH/i
let I' t
lO't
o\
low.
BK MRS?!
M.V
sd
ft
iul >
vnL
m.
a
THE "LABOR" BROOD
profits earned by big companies, but
there is no company in Australia with
profits approachmg the 40 p.c. on turnover
that is to be guaranteed to this gambling
partnership.
• •
The gents who control the noble
“Labor” sport of tin-hare chasing in
Sydney have refused to pass on to their
patrons the benefit of the Fadden cut in
entertainments tax. Their story is that
they are keeping the windfall as a pro-
test against the N. S. Wales Government’s
15 p.c. turnover tax. It’s a handy kind
of protest; the club will score an extra
ninepence on the cheaper tickets and
Is. 6d. on the dearer. But what a howl
would go up if the picture-theatres did
the same thing!
• •
If potato boards had been invented a
couple of centuries earlier whatever would
have become of Ireland?
» •
When Eddie Ward attempted to ask
the Treasurer his “Budget leakage” ques-
tion for the umpteenth time, Speaker
Cameron clamped down on him on the
grounds that he was giving information,
not seeking it. Later, Ward came at it
in a different way. Was it true, he asked,
that a member of the Prime Minister’s
publicity staff conducted a radio-session
and gave racing information and tips?
If so, were his sources of information as
reliable as those on which a director of
Associated Press based his forecast of
company-tax reductions?
Menzies replied that he was not aware
of “this exciting hobby” of one of his
staff, “but if he does get the information
he gets it exclusively and improperly
from me.”
• •
If the Speaker sticks to his guns
in barring alleged questions which state
information instead of seeking it, he’ll be
doing a good service. Nine out of ten
of the questions which begin with “Is it
a fact?” fall into this category.
• •
There’s a great to-do in Victoria, and
to some extent in the Sydney and Can-
berra Parliaments, about “filthy, indecent
and pornographic” literature flooding the
bookstalls. Everybody who raises his
voice says it’s corrupting youth, destroy-
ing the morals of the young, and so forth.
Proper investigation might show that by
far the largest sales of the undoubted
trash are made to adults.
• •
According to the Gallup poll, the Con-
servatives have lost ground in Britain. A
more recent survey shows that an early
general election would send Churchill
back, perhaps with a slightly-increased
majority. Apparently the loss of faith
was temporary. British people felt some
concern about the conduct of affairs when
the Prime Minister, nearing 80, was laid-
up with what was whispered to be a
mild stroke and the Foreign Secretary
was seriously ill. Their return to duty,
has partly restored confidence. But
anxiety remains, and Britons feel that
both Churchill and Eden should delegate
more and make their intentions clear.
Premier Cahill, speaking in support of
Arthur, senior, in the Kahibah by-election
campaign:
I do not propose to go into the circum-
stances of this by-election at any length.
I will say only this —certain action was
taken by the governing body of our move-
ment which prevents the former member
for Kahibah from continuing as a Labor
standard-bearer.
If it hadn’t been for certain action taken
. by the N. S. Wales Opposition in forcing
the Government to appoint a royal com-
mission “the former member for
Kahibah” would still be continuing as a
“Labor” standard-bearer —and as a
“Labor” Minister.
• •
Price-control has been removed from
potatoes in Queensland, and Premier Gair
has said that when the Potato Board’s
term expires at 31/3/’54 it will not be
renewed. To get rid of price-control and
board-control of an essential commodity
in one smack is good going; that it has
been done by a control-minded Govern-
ment with the admission that it had to
be done is ominous for other control
boards.
• •
Harold Holt, Minister for Labor, on
the tearful propensities of the Federal
Opposition:
Here we have a team of professional sob-
sisters. They have been trying to convert
the National Parliament into a private
wailing-wall. They have been beating their
breasts and shedding crocodile-tears and
trying to convert this country into utter
and unparalleled gloom.
The lachrymose ones have a first-rate
example ever before them. The Doc.
seems to be never so happy as when he
thinks he has found something to be
sad about. And since the Budget he’s had
every reason to be sad.
«> •
It may comfort would-be soldier-
settlers who’ve been waiting for years for
land to know that soldier-settlement
came up for debate in Canberra last
week. Figures of all kinds were thrown
round the Representatives, and it came out
of the noise that fewer than 9000 of the
36.000 applicants for soldier’s blocks had
got one. So far as could be discovered
when the debate had subsided, no soldier
is likely to get a block any the sooner.
Still, the thing was talked about.
• •
D. K. Maxwell, organising-secretary
of the Democratic party of Australia, has
resigned. Reason: he has no confidence
in the executive and feels it has failed in
its aim to attract the State’s best citizens
to Parliamentary service.
• •
N.S.W. and Victorian “Labor” Govern-
ments evidently turn a blind eye when
the workers suffer through Socialistic
controls. Otherwise neither could miss
the strange egg picture wherein Vic.
eggs, road-hauled to Sydney by the
thousand dozen, sold there retail at 4s.
7jd. a dozen, thus forcing the N.S.W.
Egg Board to cut its prices, though the
Vic. Egg Board insists on Vic. house-
wives paying 4s. Bd. a dozen for Victorian
eggs. Told of this, Stoneham, the Vic.
Minister for Egg Boards, said, “The Vic-
torian Egg Board is working efficiently.”
The Socialist conception is that as long
as you have control it must necessarily
be efficient.
• •
The India Information Services state
that in the period 1949-53 India earned
£90,000 of foreign exchange through the
export of monkeys. Australia’s com-
parable exports of politicians in the
latter part of the period showed no such
result.
• •
Dan Curtin thinks steps should be
taken to see that schoolchildren are not
allowed in the gallery at Parliament
House when such subjects as the atomic-
bomb are under discussion. It might also
be to the children’s advantage if they were
kept outside while Dan is speaking.
• •
Melbourne’s latest rumor is that the
Cain Government is all feverish to get
the Olympic Stadium built so that Tatt.’s
can have a palatial office after the Games.
• •
From London;
In his election to the British Labor party’s
national executive committee Aneurin Bevan
polled 1,142,000 votes. This exceeds the total
membership of the party, which is 1,014,500.
Reason for the anomaly is that every one of the
613 constituencies is allowed 1000 votes, even if
its members number only 200. And it’s some-
what of a farce, for more than a quarter of the
constituencies have individual memberships of
fewer than 1000. The largest membership is
7674 in Herbert Morrison’s constituency,
Lewisham South. He is known to be a good
organiser, The former Minister for Food, Maurice
Webb, has only 262. Clem Attlee, with 481,
just beats Chuter Ede. Nye Bevan, with 620,
doesn’t appear all that magnetic, despite his
22.000 majoritty. Altogether, the number of
confirmed Socialists seems to be comparatively
small in Britain. Which may explain the re-
currence, at election-time, of desperate whisper-
ing-campaigns and fiercely provoked class-
tensions.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mem”: Scientific acquaintance ex-
plained how he’d got into the habit of
having porridge for tea instead of at
the orthodox hour. Working hard, he’d
laid off for a snooze in the afternoon, and
to his consternation wakened in the
dawn’s half-light. It wasn’t till he’d
cooked and downed a bowl of burgoo
that he realised the light was consider-
ably weaker; in fact, it was still the same
day! That put him one meal out, and he’s
never caught up.
& *z* ♦>
“Benbow”: It seems time to debunk
the term “The Silent Service.” A 10,000-
ton merchant ship leaves her berth and
proceeds to sea without any of the clamor
that goes on aboard a warship. Twice in
my experience the vessels in which I
served, one a China mail-steamer and the
other a large motor tramp, did actually
enter and leave a port at night without
my sleep being disturbed. Cairns was
one port, Fremantle the other. During
my five years in the Navy this was always
preceded by loud pipes from boatswain’s-
mates calling “Special-sea-duty men to
your stations,” etc. Merchantmen don’t
even have special-sea-duty men. The
third-mate does it all. Rings the tele-
graphs ; logs all the orders; does any
signalling required. The old man or the
pilot tells him what is wanted and he
does it. That’s all. Similarly when
.calling the watches. In a merchant ship
one of the watch to be relieved notifies
the relieving watch with a silent touch
and a few whispered words. In the Navy
the boatswain’s-mates, with their whistles,
go through the whole performance again.
In si merchantman the crew know when
it is dinner-time and the boatswain tells
them to knock off and get it. In the
Navy the boatswain’s-mates pipe “Hands
to dinner,” with a clamor heard all over
the ship. The quickest way to get into
trouble in a merchantman, particularly a
passenger-ship, is to make unnecessary
noise. In the Navy the opposite seems
to apply.
“P.0.M.C.”: Pardon my impertinence,
but who makes up the rank-and-file in
the Waacs—the only she-soldiers I see in
Sydney are either corporals or sergeants
sporting natty gold chevrons?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pat”; A once-familiar character who
is rapidly fading from the scene is the
family doctor. In the last month my
family had occasion to call their chosen
medico six times. Interviews with five
different doctors was an experience for
which we were not prepared, particularly
as none of them happened to be our F.D.
Seeing the F.D. in the street the other
day, I beamed a happy greeting.
Courteously he smiled back, the smile a
mixture of puzzlement and frantic
memory-searching. Poor man! Of
course he doesn’t know me from Adam.
❖ * *l*
“H. Dann”: Don’t know what he was
doing on Melbourne’s “Yarra Bank,” but
he introduced himself to the Sunday-
afternoon crowd as the future Lord
Mayor of Sydney, addressed them for a
brief period, and evidently convinced
himself that he was the right man for
the job. Beyond telling his listeners that
he was a distant relation of a famous
filmstar, and offering to kiss a persistent
lady interjector, he did not claim any
special qualification ; but I’m sure at least
one of the electors in his constituency has
great faith in him.
* * *
“P.T.”; A good salesman always keeps
his eye on the job. One of the fraternity
recently appeared as a witness in the Perth
Traffic Court, in a case arising out of a
collision caused by the skidding of a car
for which one of his business competitors
was agent. The salesman concluded his
evidence by saying that, had the defendant
“been driving one of our cars, the col-
lision would never have occurred.”
❖ ❖
“Kerba”: A friend, who employed six
or seven men in a backyard factory, gave
his young niece a job in the office. Soon
after that an industrial inspector turned
up and read the Factories Act to him.
Where both sexes were employed separate
toilet facilities had to be provided. The
employer pointed out that the girl was
a relation and his own home was less
“Actually, all the girls in the office think you re awfully sweet."
than half a dozen steps away. No matter
—the law said, etc. Not long after the
new accommodation was built the em-
ployer was rushed to a small private
hospital for an appendix operation. I
visited him —and ran into a cyclone of
wrath; “There are about nine women
patients here and two other men, and
how many toilets do you think they’ve
got?—One! Why don’t they send in-
dustrial inspectors around these places?”
I believe they’ve fixed up his appendix,
but I hate to think what they’ve done
to his blood-pressure.
* *l* ❖
“Taffy”: In spite of a complete mis-
forecast for October 4 by the weather
people, the “Lilac Time” carnival at the
“You missed this one.”
pleasant town of Goulburn was a notable
success. The rodeo went off, in more
ways than one, with a bang, and sports,
dancing, singing, bands and the concomi-
tant high-jinks were well above carnival
average. The town was, of course, out
for our money, which it collected without
painful extortion, but neither I, nor any
other visitor I met, was able to buy, beg,
borrow or steal a single sprig of lilac.
❖ ❖
“N.F.”: The “Clue of the Tram-ticket”
(B. 30/9/’53) is surely an example of
history repeating itself. Some years ago
the Adelaide detective-office received from
Scotland Yard a request for help in
tracing the person who had posted to a
prisoner in Dartmoor an Adelaide tram-
ticket with a message in code on it.
Thanks largely to a conductor with a
better-than-average memory, the infor-
mation was made available in a few days.
The date of the ticket was easily arrived
at, the approximate time of issue just as
simply, and this suggested the probable
stopping-place at which the passenger
boarded the tram. Then the conductor
remembered that about that time a
woman, a newcomer to the district, had
become a regular traveller on that route.
Sent out next morning with two plain-
clothes men, the conductor gave the
“nod” when the woman joined the tram.
She was later questioned and denied
knowing anyone in Dartmoor, but the
next question “Then why did you send
him this ticket?” broke her down.
❖ * ❖
“Algol”; Full marks were earned by a
young Italian who applied for a job by
letter. His knowledge of> English being
negligible, his meaning was made clear
only by the frequent appearance of the
word “work,” spelt in various ways. But
the highlight of the letter was the open-
ing : “Dear Sir, Gentleman, Lord, Master,
Teacher,” The writer had consulted his
dictionary for the translation of signore
and, being unable to decide which word
was the correct one, had used them all.
He was given a job.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Taurus”: Users of pidgin English (B.
30/9/’53) are not the only ones to take
half a page to say “A spider made a
web.” Recently I had to check a lecture
given to his students by the head of an
architectural school. Flowery language
made the lecture difficult to understand,
but after some heavy going I managed
to condense one typewritten foolscap
page to mean “If you’re planning to build
a city, choose a site where there’s plenty
of space,” and another half-page to mean
“Don’t empty sewage too close to a
city.” It might be a good idea to include
the study of the Bible in our English
classes, as an example of how to write
to the point.
♦>
“Pie-eater”: After a medical board
decided Robbo’s sight was too crook for
him to soldier-on, the first things he
bought with his deferred pay were a light
bike and a renewal of membership in
the Amateur Cyclists’ Union. Generous
handicapping kept him away from pos-
sible strife in his first two “comeback”
events, but the next found him jammed
in the middle of a bunch of 30 riders
At the first hill he pulled back the gear-
lever, but with no result for his legs. So
he shoved it forward again and then the
rider beside him screamed “What the hell
are you changing my gear for?” He
stands at the official table nowadays,
judging the finishes.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Smithy”: Hobart still possesses a few
horse-troughs, and I lately saw a
heavily-laden passenger-bus pull up at
one of these. The driver, complete with
can, got out and filled his radiator, caus-
ing a passing bottle-oh’s horse to give a
smirk of disdain.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Billy S.”: Not a regular punter, I
occasionally try my luck on the big
“doubles.” After much conning I sent
off my elect for the Caulfield-Melbourne
Cup double, and this morning got back
the commission voucher from the book-
maker. I like the way he ends up the
little epistle: “Thanking you for past
favors.” Come to think of it, over the
last few years the favors have had a
monotonously “one-way-traffic” flavor
about them, except, of course, for the
Christmas card he sends me each year.
»> ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Jade”: Attacks on women have led to
the suggestion of the use of hatpins as a
defensive-weapon. The modern type is
very effete compared with the old-time
hat-skewers. Back in 1912 “protectors”
were supposed to be slipped over the pro-
jecting points, often they were made to
match the knob at the other end. I re-
member once travelling with my aunt on
a tram. She wore a large straw hat
decorated with glass grapes and patent-
leather cherries on which rested a defunct
bird, secured with a mighty pin. A lurch
of the tram and the man beside us nursed
a bleeding cheek. “Hey, missus,” he
bellowed, “where’s your protector? It
could have been me eye.” Haughtily we
left the tram. “Impudent creature, to
speak to us,” said aunt. “Must have been
one of those Mormons.” In those days
“Mormons” were supposed to lurk behind
every bush to lure away innocent young
women.
❖ * ❖
“Uramao”: “Rooster’s” awkward bath
at Tobruk (B. 2/9/’53) has nothing on
the gent, taking his ablutions in Napier
when the earthquake struck the place in
1931. He had reached the singing stage
when the earth upheaved, the upper side-
wall of the two-storied building fell in a
sloping manner into the public street,
down which bath and its occupant
tobogganed. The excitement all round
enabled the bather to escape notice during
his hurried rush back into the wrecked
building.
THE VANISHING SPUD
“Last week potatoes sold in Brisbane at £lOB
a ton, thought to be an Australian record
price.”
All eyes are on potatoes
That were on woolmen’s clips;
They’re priced like what a State owes.
For spuds are in the chips.
They sap the young wife’s dowry ;
The matron murmurs low,
‘7 like them soft and floury.
But not for so much dough"
But banished joy, come hither!
And are we men or mice?
What matters? Were we either
We’d have to live on rice.
So let us not be petty.
But full of rice and mirth
And also of spaghetti,
Till spuds come back to earth !
Yet, when the spring is curving
Her icy hands upon
October surfers surfing.
As lately she has done;
When I sit down to dinner
Immersed in blank despair.
My wife says, “You look thinner;
What is she ? Dark or fair ?’’
Then, like a sad old ballad.
My memory fondly strays
Back to my green-and-salad —
Potato-salad — days.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Peers”: Mrs. Chopper is a cheerful
type of butcher’s wife—always has a chat
while she’s getting my meat. She was a
bit distressed this week because the “ex-
clusive” salon up the road had such a
nice frock in the window—but being
robbers they wanted 28 guineas for it. In
her shop things are much cheaper, of
course. My forequarter of lamb weighed
pounds—much more than the frock —
but it only cost me one guinea, .
* ❖ ❖
“J.K.D.”: “Mullum” (B. 7/10/’53)
wouldn’t have been so sweeping in his
remarks on airsickness if he’d been a
passenger in a Perth-bound R.A.A.F.
Dakota when it encountered a storm soon
after leaving Darwin. Except for a
doctor, all the leave-going servicemen on
board became airsick, and of the crew,
only the pilot was unaffected. As the
journey proceeded, some of the victims
S'foß&n
Wfifc
“That new sitter neglects us."
became so ill that on the advice of the
doctor, the pilot radioed for an ambulance
to stand by at Perth airport. When we
landed the afflicted ones were rushed to
hospital—three so badly affected that they
had to be given blood-transfusions.
♦j*
“Alno”: In a Sydney court a witness
was giving evidence of an argument be-
tween in-laws, an Australian family and
a New Australian family being involved,
at which argument the witness was acting
as unofficial interpreter. When asked by
the court what language he was inter-
preting he replied that he was translating
“from English to half-broken English and
from half-broken English to broken
English.”
* ❖
“Stunner”: That bloke who pretends
to buy lottery-tickets (B. 30/9/’53) is no
mug. Each week I take a bob ticket in
a “tip-the-winners” contest in aid of a
football club. I’m not an expert on the
nags, but I d ; my best, and now and
then score a few points. I’ve never won
yet, but I count that bob-a-week as a
good investment: it brings home to me
each Saturday just how much I’d be out
of pocket if I backed my fancies.
* ❖ ❖
“Bo”: Ahead of me in the queue for
the checking of engine-numbers was a
cove in an ancient rusted “bomb.” He
got the bonnet up with a shrieking clatter,
then the cop peered into the depths in
search of the number. The owner hadn’t
any idea where it might be; the cop
expressed forcibly the possibility that the
model had been hatched before the allot-
ment of numbers was decided on. He
was vigorously wiping at part of the
engine casing with a kerosene-soaked rag
when a colleague came up to him, ex-
pressing mock concern. “Not too hard.
Bob,” he said. “It’s that coating of grease
that’s keeping the engine together!”
“Bamekaw”: I can give “F.M.H.” (B.
30/9 / ’53) three reasons for the unpopu-
larity of the Army-issue forage-cap. (1)
Australians, mainly due to our climate,
are not keen on rimless headwear. (2)
The heavy khaki material made it hard
to get the darned thing to sit properly.
I could never achieve the jaunty effect
my blue-orchid cobbers of the Air Force
could get with their issue. (3) Most
potent reason of all was the name be-
stowed on it by some debased humorist,
obscene, but not inapt.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kellick”: Dusty Rhodes got off light
when the Black Wolf confronted him with
a mere “still” photograph (B. 16/9/’53).
His approach to me was more novel.
After being invited to his cabin I was
told to “Sit down and watch this.” With
nothing more than the cabin bulkhead
for a screen I was soon watching every-
day routine aboard one of H.M.A.
cruisers. Suddenly the Commander in-
terrupted, and his voice was not exactly
pleasant, “Why, Leading-seaman Kellick,
that looks like you, smoking, outboard of
the pom-pom store.” His voice hardened
as he asked, “Are you going ashore to-
night?” “Well, sir,” I replied, “that
depends.” “On what?” he asked. “On
what you’re going to say next, sir.” Then
I got it, but I went ashore.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sops”: The little woman and I are
regular racegoers—once a year to Rand-
wick to see the Derby. This year due
to some superb reasoning by the afore-
mentioned little woman, most of our five-
bob place-totes came good and to cele-
brate we stayed in town for tea. At a
nice little table in a well-known hash-
house I was just commencing operations
on a really handsome steak hiding its
light under a bushel of mushrooms when
I felt a prod between the shoulder-blades.
Knife and fork poised I turned my head
and beheld a portly florid-faced gent,
standing there, hat, binoculars and bill in
hand, obviously on his way out after
having finished his meal, “Old man,”
he said, “are those mushrooms on your
plate?” “Yes,” I replied, “and very tasty,
too.” “Damn it,” he exclaimed. “I
“I tried it once, but me ol' man didn't notice it.”
knew I had forgotten something.” And
with a sad shake of the head he moved
slowly from the room.
♦> * ❖
“Doric”; A shop in Darlinghurst
advertises in large letters “I buy anything.”
I’d like to try him out with a horned
phonograph, a live camel or a manu-
script of ray home-made poetry.
♦♦♦ <£♦
“Kelvin”: Percy and his mate worked
out quite a technique for gate-crashing
- wedding receptions. It got them into
many good parties when times were hard.
A Saturday-afternoon reconnaissance and
a few discreet inquiries around the
public halls of their inner suburb soon
established the premises at which recep-
tions were scheduled. The next steps were
careful infiltration among the earliest-to-
arrive guests and an unobtrusive switch-
ing of place-cards and, sometimes, a
pocketing of some of the latter. Then
would follow casual and sociable inquiry,
directed at the guests beside whom they
had seated themselves at table, and de-
signed to establish whether their table-
neighbor was listed among the bride’s
friends or among those of the groom. The
interlopers, of course, identified them-
selves as belonging to the opposite camp.
By this time confusion among guests and
catering officials'would have reached the
stage at which it could be solved only
by the provision of two extra settings
with satisfaction to all parties and, as
Percy put it, “without anybody losing.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Yair”: Whizzing along the cafeteria
counter, he dropped his plate of scones,
jam and cream. Perturbed? Not on your
life. He kicked the scones briskly under
the counter, pushed the broken crockery
into a small heap, conveniently covering
the spilled jam, then chirped to the girl
behind the tea-and-coffee: “If there’s a
cat out in the kitchen. Miss, whip it over
the counter. It’ll have a whale of a time
on the cream.” Then, with the air of a
man who’s thought of everything, he
snapped-up his jug of coffee and bustled
happily away.
❖ ❖ ❖
“H.C.8.”: With thoughts of a train to
catch I was hurrying along George-street
(Sydney) when I struck interference from
a little old chap in front. He seemed to
be mooching along aimlessly. I tried to
go around him, but he happened to veer
that way. I swung to the opposite tack —
just as he decided to incline towards that
direction. By skidding to a halt I
managed to avoid a collision, but I was
almost breathing down his neck. He
turned quickly. “I beg your pardon,” he
said in a quiet, cultured voice, and went
on with his occupation. I’m afraid I stood
staring as though I’d stepped into the
pages of an O. Henry story. Why? Well,
without the slightest sign of embarrass-
ment the “man who might have been”
nonchalantly picked up a squashed
bumper and added it to his collection.
* ❖ ❖
“Barbel”: The traffic-jam extended
along the highway for miles back, the
cars, bumper to bumper, moving for-
ward a few yards at a time with long
stagnant spells in between. In the middle
of a particularly long halt an unbelieving
gasp ran right the way down the line —a
driver, obviously uninhibited by old-
fashioned conventions, was nonchalantly
cruising down the left-hand side of the
road between the queue of cars and the
roughly-formed gutter. He was within
a hundred yards of the crossroads when
the line began to crawl forward again.
Immediately his hand shot out in a
meticulous “I-am-moving-to-the-right”
signal, and he wormed his way into the
procession. Nice to see a driver showing
such regard for the rules of the road.
♦♦♦ ♦+<■
“Ran-Der-Lee”: In the old “spark”
days we nearly put one of our wireless-
operators into a very deep sleep. China-
bound and out in the open tropical sea
we decided to make a few tuning adjust-
ments to our “Telefunken” transmitter.
Number Two Op., on his feet casually
smoking a cigarette and holding in his
right hand the brass clip attached to a
heavy copper flexible lead, was about to
make another adjustment to the spark-
gap when Number One accidentally
touched the transmitting key, giving
Number Two a smack of a few thousand
volts—fortunately of comparatively low
amperage. Anyway, the jolt was suffi-
cient to knock him backwards through
the wireless-room door on to the deck as
though he’d been hit with a sandbag,
while his two colleagues suddenly de-
veloped an anaemic glued-to-the-spot ex-
pression. However, the victim was on
his feet in a matter of seconds, the only
visible inconvenience being a stiffened
right arm which was massaged to normal
in a few days. Test concluded.
“Mullum”: A housewife complained
to our local paper that, having taken the
curtains from her front-windows to wash
them, she was called nine times from the
washtub by persons inquiring whether
the , house would be let after she left. Is
the modern housing-problem so great, or
are modern curtain-washings fewer?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Aestur”: Tasmania’s railways are
copping plenty of brickbats. Here’s a
bouquet for some members of their
Hobart staff. Mum left a book on the
train. On the way home she called at
the lost-property office. Sorry, no books.
When she reached home the book was
on the door-step. She lives a mile from
the station.
♦jt ♦♦♦
“Dash”: There was a cold wind blow-
ing down the single street of the small
town. A city type on business there
entered the only cafe which gave any sign
of life, and was about to sit down when
the young lady in charge looked up from
her novel and asked him to close the
door. The traveller apologised for his
carelessness in leaving the door open and
remarked how cold it was. “Oh, I don’t
mind the cold,” said the young lady, “but
if people see the door open they are more
likely to come in, and then I can’t get on
with my book.”
HAPPY HUNTING-GROUND
“And why shouldn’t the Sydney beach-girl
look forward eagerly to the season? More
romances have begun on our beaches than any-
where.” — Women's paper.
Eros the god, so full of craft,
Recks little where he wings his shaft —
Where pugs are swapping punches ;
In booths wherein you cast your votes;
Where saveloys get their overcoats,
Or diners wait for lunches.
Ifs fust as likely to be sped
In draughty tramway waiting-shed;
Where blood-and-bone they’re bagging,
As on a ship, or in the air,
Or even (though you doubt it) where
Tub-thumpers do their magging.
If Tin Pan Alley you’d believe
The web of Lurv you’ll easier weave
In brilliant tropic moonlight;
And only then (I may as well
Rhyme it as they do) ’math the spell
Of “soft and balmy June night.”
Alternatively, they will grant.
The mush-seed quicker sprouts when
plant-
ed where soft music’s playing;
And even better — oh, by far! —
In orchid-filled conservatoire.
Dim-lit, to dance a-swaying.
How strange, then, that the boy-god scores
Far higher where the breaker roars
At Manly and Maroubra,
Where the ambition of each maid
Is seemingly to acquire the shade
Of the Arunta lubra.
Romance gets quickly under way.
Matches are struck there every day
'Mid all the shouts and squealing.
Before the altar soon they stand;
The confluence of sun and sand
Sets all the belles a-peeling.
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


Keep in
good
spirit s
(&dand&
.-rfSl** 1 *
’’hospital
BRAN DY
PERSONAL ITEMS
It takes Who’s Who a few lines less
than a full page to list the distinctions,
degrees, decorations, achievements, pub-
lications and cities of which he has the
freedom (31, plus an honorary citizenship
of Cuba) of Winston Spencer Leonard
Churchill. But it may be briefly recorded
here that he has now pretty well com-
(fieted the page, with award of the Nobel
Prize for Literature.
Good jaw, good shoulders and the most
natural grin seen in these public parts
since Anthony Eden—Richard Nixon,
caught earning the pay and privileges of
a very V.I.P. at the Lord Mayor’s recep-
tion at Sydney Town Hall. Ha seemed
to have a personal word for every one
of the thousand or so who filed past
him —though the grin tightened a bit when
he looked up and saw the queue of pros-
pective handshakers reaching out some-
where towards the Cricket Ground.
Nixon was in the U.S. Navy in 1946,
lieutenant-commander, his political ex-
perience nil. He answered a newspaper
IN FROM U.S.
advertisement for a candidate to oppose
a Democrat in Los Angeles, and within
seven years was Vice-President of the
United States. There’s not much else to
say about the competence of a man of
that rocketing ability, except that, when
he entered the Senate in 1950, after four
years in the Representatives, he was the
youngest Republican to reach the Upper
House. Appropriately enough, he landed
in these parts the day Penney’s poof went
up.
“M.”: Seen at a degree-conferring
ceremony at Sydney University, G.-G.
Slim impresses one again with the fact
that he has one of the strongest faces
of any public man in Australia. During
the orations and eulogies, he stood before
the packed assembly, academic robes over
the spartan utility of his uniform, listen-
ing, straight as a rifle-barrel, head up,
gimlet eyes boring through the far end-
wall of the Great Hall. And the jaw!
It makes a battleship’s ram concave in
comparison. His receiving of an
honorary Doctorate of Laws is appropri-
ate, seeing that no Federal law becomes
law in this land till he signs it.
Latest successor to Dick Whittington,
Sir Noel Bowater is vice-chairman of the
Bowater Paper Corporation, the firm
which, with four mills in England, one
in Newfoundland and another building in
Tennessee (U.S.), produces a million tons
of newsprint and magazine-paper a year.
Sir Noel’s uncle. Sir Thomas Vansittart
Bowater, was London’s Lord Mayor at
the outbreak of War I; his father, Sir
Frank Bowater, held the same office at
the start of World War 11. The new in-
cumbent of the 750-year-old office has
visited Australia twice (a large branch
in Sydney), He has undertaken in his
year of office to accelerate the rebuilding
of the bombed-out areas of London.
Periodically some limbless Diggers
suffer all that anyone would feel if an
actual limb was violently contracted.
They’re very painful symptoms, and all
the belief in the world that the limb is
no longer there won’t dispel them in
the slightest. So prevalent and painful
is this called “phantom limb,”
that the Services’ Canteen Trust Fund
voted £15,000 for a research programme
by Keith Bradley, the noted Melbourne
neuro-surgeon, A year ago Bradley left
for the U.K. and Europe to study methods
of relieving the pain. He’s just landed
back in Melbourne, found brain-surgery
had been used in Britain, and, in France,
a case apparently cured by hypnosis.
“Fitz”: Kate Baker “Furphy’s gallant
standard-bearer,” as A. G. Stephens called her
—died in Melbourne at 92, She was born at
Coppoquin, Ireland, and came to Australia
when a girl, and for more than 30 years was
a schoolteacher in Victoria. Joseph Furphy
(“Tom Collins”), the author of Such Is Life,
was 44 when Kate first met him. Furphy was
then with a harvesting co., and his job having
brought him to the Spring Show at Rochester
(Vic.) he rode over to Sand Hills to see his
parents, whom Kate, then in her twenties, was
visiting. As Miles Franklin has said: “He
[Furphy] was a mature thinker, a close
reasoner; she a beginner jn the field of litera-
ture a charming young woman gentle in
the expression of her own opinions and with a
flattering and sympathetic ear.” At that first
meeting they (or Furphy did) talked from mid-
afternoon till after midnight. The two became
firm friends —the story of their loyal friendship
is told in Miles Franklin’s S. H. Prior prize-
winner Joseph Furphy —and Kate Baker’s long
years of devoted service to the championship of
Furphy gives her an importance in Australian
literature. She was his close adviser through-
out the writing of Such Is Life and was one of
the first to read the bulky opus in MS. When
Furphy died in 1912 Kate, shocked by the
paltry attention paid to his passing by the Aus-
tralian Press, decided to make it her purpose to
gain him recognition.
She collected his verse and had it printed in
1916 at her own expense under the title of The
Poems of Joseph Furphy. She next bought from
The Bulletin for £5O the remaining unbound
sheets and covers of Such Is Life. Friends
helped with the expense of the binding. This
1917 re-issue is known as the second edition of
Such Is Life, but, as Miles Franklin says,
“Accurately it is a second-helping of a first-
edition with the addition of a preface by Vance
Palmer.” Next Kate rescued from the files of
the “Barrier Truth” at Broken Hill Rigby’s
Romance, which had been taken out of the over-
long Such Is Life at the insistence of A. G.
Stephens, and obtained its publication by the
De Garis Publishing House, Melbourne, in 1921.
In 1937 Kate was awarded the 0.8. E. for her
service to Australian literature. She belonged,
as Brian Fitzpatrick remarked, to the demo-
cratic “Old Guard” of Australian letters, mostly
Irish like herself.
All western N. S. Wales knows Father
James O’Brien, of Condobolin, who is
now 82, and who competed in the Orange
golf tournament over the Six-hour Day
weekend. A couple of months ago he
won the White Horse Whisky Cup by
going round the 6400 yd. Condobolin
course in 80 off the stick. Any golfer
round those parts rejoicing in the name
of O’Brien now becomes, almost auto-
matically, “Father” O’Brien.
Variety is the word of Ellis Irving’s
career. Started, 16, under canvas, tour-
ing Australia ; propertyman with George
Sorlie in similar circumstances; sang
songs in Tasmania in “As You Like It”
when the standing singer got laryngitis;
joined the Firm, went to England, met
actor-manager Fred Terry—“must have
an Irving in the cast” —and so got into
the cast. Terry, with gout, had his chair
collapse under him on-stage; Irving got
Terry’s part. It was the beginning of a
rise to eminence which took Irving tour-
ing the Continent, through Canada and
the U.S. (eight films in Hollywood, with
names like Colbert, Cagney, Edward G.
Robinson and Robert Young) and back
to England to finish up in the Old Vic
with Gielgud and Olivier. Came War 11,
and Irving joined the special division of
Scotland Yard, his job as a bobby to
relieve regular London policemen. Handy
help for his present part, Inspector
Hubbard in the Firm’s present offering
at Sydney Royal, “Dial ‘M’ for Murder.”
Born in Chatswood (Sydney), Irving’s
been abroad since 1929, and, in Holly-
wood, married Sophie Stewart, remem-
bered here as Robert Morley’s lead in
“Edward, My Son.”
Landed in Sydney from U.K., Air Vice-
Marshal Sir Charles Putnam Symonds,
neurologist to Guy’s Hospital and the
R.A.F., member of neurological societies
in several countries, visiting neurologist
to the famed Johns Hopkins Hospital in
the U.S., and, it follows, one of the top
men in his field. He advised the R.S.L.
on its establishment of the Northcott
Neurological Centre in Sydney.
A. C. Harris, Westralia’s new Conser-
vator of Forests, is a genial scientist
who’s crowded much into his 49 years.
He started in the forestry school of Ade-
laide University, where he graduated
B.Sc. before he was 20. After a couple
of years in the Australian Forests Depart-
ment, he joined the Westralian service as
divisional officer. In 1946 he transferred
to Wundowie, where the State Govern-
ment had set up a wood-distilling,
charcoal-, iron-and-steel industry, and was
soon appointed g.-m. In addition, he put
in about six years as assistant-editor of the
Institute of Forests journal (“Australian
Forestry”). At Wundowie Harris dis-
played notable ability as an administrator,
with a sound knowledge of metallurgical
and industrial chemistry, and the practical
side of sawmilling. One of his best
jobs was designing a sawmill with
features specially adapted to meet Wun-
dowie’s peculiar needs. Out of office, a
member of the Northam Road Board for
the past three years, Boy Scouts District
Commissioner for 10 years, and State
chess-champion,
Alan Cameron Watson, who crossed to
Melbourne from New Zealand in 1942 to
preach from the pulpit of Toorak Presby-
terian Church, has now been installed
as Moderator for Victoria. Formerly
lecturer in philosophy at Dunedin Uni-
versity, the Rev. Alan has a brother,
Ronald Sinclair Watson, who became
minister of Dunedin’s kirk in 1947, won
the M.C. with the Kiwi Expeditionary
Force in War I, and was Moderator for
New Zealand a couple of years back.
Professor Bruce T’oomba Mayes
(here examined) rates M. 8., 8.5.,
F.R.C.S., F.R.A.C.S. and Fellow of
the Royal College of Obstetricians
and Gynaecologists—according to the
medical directory. According to his
young daughter, when asked at
school what daddy did, he’s “in the baby
business.” Which is the same thing. In
that business in a Brisbane practice, and
in the Chair of Obstetrics at Sydney Uni-
versity since 1941, the prof, has received
one of medicine’s coveted awards —the
Sims-Black Professorship at the Royal
College of Obstetricians and Gynaecolo-
gists in England. He was over that way
on a Walter and Eliza Hall scholarship
in 1929, so that now he’ll go back to
teach and lecture where he learnt his
OFF TO U.K.
subject. Born in Toowoomba (hence the
second Christian-name), educated at that
city’s grammar school, Mayes was gynae-
cologist to the W.A.A.A.F. in War II
(and still is), set the obstetric paper for
final-year med. students for the examina-
tion due to start today (Wednesday), and
has written two books, his Text-book of,
Obstetrics, published in 1950, being now*
a standard work.
Following Baron Alt, Oxley and Sir
Thomas Mitchell in one of N. S. Wales s
oldest and most histone posts, G. W.
Vincent (surveyed hereunder) becomes
Surveyor-General. The contoured phiz- or
the S.-G. suggests that he has looked
along, in and out of a lot of gullies in
his time—which he has. He has placed
his marks pretty well all over the State,
and for four years from 1948 was district-
survey°r at Moree; Edgeroi, the State s
NEW S.-G.
largest soldier-settlement estate, of 65
farms, was in his district. Now anchored
in Bridge-street, Vincent has tagged to his
post membership of a string of bodies
whose interests range from the Kosciusko
Park Trust and the State electoral-
boundaries to mapping, mining-surveys
and the siting of cemeteries, He’s 57,
Passed on in Sydney, Norman Ross
Mearns, who, for seven years, till 1952,
guided the destinies of the historic Fort-
street Boys’ High School. Founded four
years over a century ago, the school first
stood on Gallows Hill, where now stand
the southern approaches of the Sydney
harbor-bridge. Head at high-schools in
Broken Hill, Lismore, Grafton and New-
castle before he got the State’s No. 1
appointment at Fort-street, Mearns was a
forthright, short, solidly-built Old Digger
(captain, three “mentions”), with two
guiding principles: to engender a sense
of responsibility in his charges before
they went forth to meet the world, and to
build character. His invariable beginning
of an address to the assembled school
was: “Well, gentlemen” ; and as
gentlemen they were expected to act.
Retired last year after 47 years’ schooling,
he was 63.
Into the Silence:
At 70, in Melbourne, Robert McLeish, vet-
eran of the motion-picture industry in Australia
and owner of a chain of picture-theatres through
Melbourne’s suburbs. President of the Green
Room Club for more than 30 years, famed
as a philanthropic host, McLeish used to sing
on the stage in front of the silent-screen. Aware
of the potentialities of movies, he began, in
1912, to take over theatres, and by 1921 he had
his chain firmly welded. In 1944 he raised oyer
£38,000 for the Comforts Fund, thus winning
the title “Mr. Melbourne.” He was a member
of most of Victoria’s racing-clubs.
In Cardiff (U.K.), at 88, Sir Ewen Maclean,
a tall, slender surgeon renowned as an obstet-
rician and gynaecologist; noted, also, for his
high sartorial standard. One-time president of
the 8.M.A., he was in Melbourne attending a
congress in the early ’thirties, and while in Aus-
tralia laid the foundation-stone of the B.M.A.
building in Macquarie-street, Sydney.
In Sydney, at 84, Pat Hamilton Osborne,
racing owner and breeder, A.J.C. committeeman
for a quarter of a century and vice-chairman on
his retirement three years ago. Two of the
well-knowns he bred on his Tarago (N.S.W.)
stud were Valicare (Doncaster Handicap) and
Siren (V.R.C. Oaks).
In Melbourne, at 59, Rev. Alexander Macneil,
senior chaplain in Victoria of the Presbyterian
Church, and known to Diggers of both wars.
In the first, lieutenant-colonel of the 1/21 Bat-
talion, he won M.C. and bar. In the second,
chaplain, he was in Changi prison-camp. Chap-
lain of Scotch College in 1928-30, and field-
commissioner of Boy Scouts.


HUMILIATION


ABORIGINALITIES
ALL WE LIKE SHEEP
I hate the cold, I hate the rain,
The hailstorm and the mountain fog,
I hate the hustling shepherds’ shout,
But most of all 1 hate the Dog;
I love the silence and the sun
That warms the hillside where I feed,
The lusty mountain grasses and
Even, at times, the casual weed.
When all my world is midday gold
In shadow of the rock I lie
And ruminate in my dim way
And let the morrows slither by.
Now in upon my peaceful mood
Break the mad bark, the distant hollo,
Yet where the noisy tyrant leads
Willy-nilly I must follow;
Now the blind rush, the huddling crowd,
The dusty yards, the gloomy shed,
The rude hands and the cruel blades,
Where unprotesting I am led;
Thus we like sheep huddle and flee,
Obey the fierce commands we hear,
Rush forth, we know not why or where
And follow still the things we fear.
N.z. Arnold Wall.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Jim and young Joe
were fencing out between Bogan Gate
and Parkes. Old Jim entertained Joe
with the story of a holiday he’d had down
in the city. All through the week, as their
machines sank post-holes and bored posts,
Jim kept remembering new things about
his holiday, and young Joe kept on say-
ing, “Well, what do you know?” or,
“Go on,” or “Was that after you did
so-and-so?” and so forth. Came Friday
afternoon and Old Jim said, “Well, s’pose
I’ll see you in Parkes t’night.” “No,” Joe
said, “I’m going home for the weekend.
See you Monday.” Two hours later Joe
left the plane at Mascot (Sydney) and
caught a bus for his home at Coogee.
So what? So it shows how things have
changed, that’s all.
He * * *
“S.G.”: A W.A. man found a burrow
in the ground and dug down 15in. to get
a spider which looked like making history
as the first funnel-web found in the State.
It was an enormous brute, and when
goaded it reared up on its hind-legs and
showed a wicked-looking set of nippers.
It took an expert to decide that it wasn’t
a funnel-web but another type of trap-
door, venomous enough but not as bad
as Atrax robust us, which hasn’t been
found in W.A. and isn’t particularly
wanted,
* H= * *
“Tasma Jun.”: Tasmania, which killed
off the last of its aborigines about 70
years ago, imported a couple of N.Q.
natives for the recent big Launceston
show to give people an idea of what an
Australian aboriginal looks like, and also
to put on displays of boomerang-throw-
ing. Even had the Tasmanians survived,
however, it is doubtful whether they could
have done much with what was a foreign
“Souvenir of the Bridge”
weapon to them. A gentleman named
Mosquito is credited with introducing the
boomerang to Tassie. Member of the
Broken Bay (N.S.W.) tribe, he cast up
in Van Diemen’s Land in 1813, after
having been acquitted of a murder
charge, and entered the service of
a settler. Transferred to another
master, he killed a woman who had
become his paramour, and again escaped
the gallows. Throwing in his lot with
some Hobart blacks, he became their
leader, selected the best women as wives.
“Where did HE come from?”
and traded others to the convicts.
Various diabolical Outrages began to be
marked up against him after he took to
the bush. With another man named
Black Jack he murdered and pillaged in
country districts. Ultimately he was
tracked to a hideout, shot in the thigh,
and captured. The two desperadoes were
duly executed on February 25, 1825.
Mosquito was a tall powerful man, but
although a great hand with the boomerang
preferred a glistening tomahawk, and tales
of his prowess with this make the blood
run cold. The “Hobart Town Gazette”
of December, 1824, gave a full account
of his Trial.
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: On a Murray River
station we employed 30 sleeper-cutters, one
of whom reported that a tree wouldn’t
fall, even though they had tried wedging
it, and the saw had been passed right
through and out the axe-scarf. It didn’t
fall for 17 days. Lately there was a
similar tree at Apsley (Vic.). In both
cases the trunks were over sft. in diameter
and straight, with the foliage even all
round. It took a very strong wind to
bring both of them down.
“Gravelsnatcher”: There’s a feud on in
my swamp between the willie-wagtails,
nested on this side of the tea-tree thicket,
and some blue bald coots, whose home
is on the other side.' The pugnacious
William, always hell-bent on stoush when
anything comes within cooee of his roof-
tree, goes for the coots when they end
their slow, lumbering flight by balancing
on the branches of his tree. But why do
they harry them when the coots are away
over on the edge of the water, just feed-
ing and minding their own business?
The coot is a vegetarian, and his greatest
delight seems to be gripping a tender
young reed-shoot in his powerful beak
and sitting back in the breeching. Some-
times he takes a tumble when the reed
gives unexpectedly, but as far as I can
see he takes it in good part. I’m pretty
sure he’d balk at dining off another bird’s
young; still, even that stout vegetarian
Bernard Shaw ate eggs. I’d like to know
if there is any record of bald coots
robbing nests.
♦ ♦ * *
“Brick E.”: Our job was going along
peacefully and progressively until a car-
load of Shiny-seats arrived, demanded the
plan, and gathered around it as though
they would have known if it had been
upside-down. The foreman groaned and,
with the prescience of long experience,
whispered to me: “They’ll want to
demonstrate their knowledge, so they’ll
alter something—and show their ignor-
ance.” Sure enough he was summoned
to the Presence. I saw him protesting
earnestly but obviously in vain. Mum-
bling under his breath he passed the in-
structions on to me. I had expected
something pretty silly, but this ... “What?
Puff down good work to replace it with
weak construction and probably make a
damp waff!” I howled. He shrugged
resigned endorsement and left ‘me to
interpret to Mario, the other brickie.
Usually quick on the up-take, the Italian
stared in bewilderment. “Not unner-
stan’,” he said. With the hybrid language
we had evolved, plus a lot of pantomime,
I elaborated. Then he thought I’d gone
mad. I was going through it again when
understanding spread across his swarthy
face. He brought a hand up to finger
an imaginary necktie, wagged his head
sympathetically, and murmured; “Unner-
stan’, unnerstan’.” They must have ’em
in Italy, too.
* * * ♦
“W.J.W.”: In Adelaide, after travelling
from Perth, Julian Huxley was saddened
by the extent of the useless country he’d
just been through; and he’s reported to
have said you couldn’t use it, even with
water, because the soil is so bad. You
don’t say “rats!” to a man like Huxley,
even when he’s discussing a strange sub-
ject, but someone should tell him what
we’re doing with land that was recently
classed as useless, and what happens in
the desert after a heavy rain. No doubt
he was referring to the Nullarbor, and in
spots he’d be right; but given a good
rainfall even a lot of that would produce.
What is now desert was once the most
fertile part of Australia and could be
again, with rain. Ever wondered why
our largest lakes are in the regions of
lowest rainfall? Lakes like Eyre, and
the Amadeus Sunklands west of Alice
towards the Westralian border, or
Gregory’s Salt Sea south of the Kimber-
leys? Those lakes were once served by
big rivers which flowed down from the
mountains which covered most of central
Australia. That mountain system was
washed down almost entirely to fill the
basin of which Lake Eyre, although still
our largest lake, is only a remnant. The
erosion of those mountains must have
proceeded at a tremendous rate, because
that basin, or depression, was about
5000 ft. deep and had an area of over
40,000 square miles; but while the hills
existed their slopes and approaches must
have been fertile. Much of that area
could be made to produce again, if Lake
Eyre were to be kept filled by, say, an
inlet from the sea.
* * * *
“John P.”: It was the big flood of
1934 and not the Werribee farmers (B.
9/9/’53) which put Ah Loong and Co.
out of the market-gardening business at
Heidelberg (Vic.). When rescued from
a tree-top one of Ah Loong’s partners
lamented; ‘When this man sellee soil he
say ‘One flood everly ten year, now ten
flood everly one year.” But, quite apart
from the flood, the Orientals, with their
14-hours-a-day, horse-and-cart methods,
had no hope of competing against the
Italians who cultivated the Yarra flats,
using modern technique, and who would
truck more to market in one year than
the Chinese would cart in several.
* * ♦ *
“Narumee”: Surely the immunity from
intestinal disease of the armies cited by
the American scientist-historian (B.
23/9/’53) was due to their not drinking
water, and not, as claimed, to their drink-
ing wine. Captain Cook’s bibulous
crew-member presumably escaped because
it never occurred to him to quench
his thirst with anything but fer-
mented liquor. In India the John Com-
pany armies were issued with wine during
their campaigns, and, though ravaged by
smallpox, remained remarkably free from
typhoid and dysentery. The wine in this
case was arrack, a fiery spirit distilled
from rice.
♦ * * *
“H.C.8.”; Although essentially a bush
bird, the kookaburra won’t allow himself
to be pushed out by encroaching civilisa-
tion. He is to be found —or heard —in
every little parklet around Sydney, but,
unlike his compatriot the native dove,
he never descends to the level of a street-
scavenger nor fraternises with tightly-
packed humanity. Lately I saw one
almost opposite the busy entrance to the
Cricket Ground suddenly leave his perch
in the tree and shoot down like an aerial
torpedo to strike the water beak-first in
the middle of the semi-dry artificial
waterhole, Lake Kippax. For the briefest
spave he went completely out of sight,
then shot to the surface, took off, and
was sitting, soaking wet, in another tree,
all within a matter of seconds. The
kookaburra being of the kingfisher
family, I suppose I should not have been
surprised at the aquatic display, but,
although I’ve been observing them all my
life. I’d never seen a Jacko do a stunt
like that before.
* * ♦ *
“Kros”: “Broadway” reveals keen
observation (B. 7/10/’53) in noting that
an early-morning wind always brings
with it more daylight, but he’s astray
as to why this is so. The weight of
light has nothing to do with it —it’s so
fractional that it may come into certain
abstruse reckonings of an Einstein but
has no influence on everyday questions
of wind, light, etc. The reason is that
the wind blows away a haze of minute
particles of atmospheric dust. But “there
was no mist,” said “B ” The morning
atmosphere is dust-laden even when it is
not actually discernible as a “mist,” and
the coming of the wind would stiff have
the effect, by clearing away these particles,
of bnghtening-up the sky. This early-
morning breeze is known to meteorologists
as an anabatic (or up-moving) wind ; the
air nearest the ground warms before the
higher air, the warmer, lighter air rises,
and there is the clearing wind.


“Bass”: I watched a racing pigeon
going through its paces while a flock of
very ordinary homers circled near by, and
the difference in flying styles was remark-
able. The homers have a fairly rapid
wing-beat which could easily give the
impression of speed. In contrast, the racer
seems hardly to move his wings, and
that’s how he gets his pace and endurance.
He dips his oars every second or so, and
folds them snugly to his sides after each
stroke so that there’s little resistance as
he cleaves the air. That style of flying’s
deceptive until you watch it at close
hand and see the sharp surge of power
that goes into each stroke. The exhibition
I watched was put on in earnest, and
the racer beat the hawk to the trees —■
which raises another question. If the
hawk wanted a pigeon, why didn’t it
hang on to the slow-moving flock and
pick out a fat one at leisure? I have
two possible explanations: Either he was
deceived by the racer’s flight—unlikely,
this—or he accepted its speed as a chal-
lenge. Either way he lost.
• * * ♦
“Bellfield”: A statistician has discovered
that most deaths from electric shock
in N.S.W. should not happen; in the
U.S.A. such accidents are extremely rare.
“Today he's in one of his lighter moods."
since house-installations are run on 110
volts, contrasted with the 240 standard
in N.S.W. Safety-inspectors in various
trades have long realised that such high
voltage is unnecessary and extremely
dangerous, which is why they endeavor to
enforce the regulation that all electricity
used in leads by men working inside
boilers and similar places must pass
through a breaking-down point to reduce
the voltage. Ideas and regulations con-
cerning electricity have a habit of doing
a sudden about-face. It is now permissible
to wire a house with insulated wires en-
cased in an outer skin of “tough rubber ,
before World War II such a practice
would have meant the cancellation of
the electrician’s licence, ‘it being firmly
believed that rats would chew through
the rubber and cause fires through short-
circuiting. Observations have proved that
rats will never attempt to gnaw at an
insulated live wire. The only feasible
explanation seems to be that they can
actually hear the current.
• ♦ * •
“Sparks”: When it becomes a shore-
rover, the mud-skipper moves by using
its pectoral fins (which are strong, flexible
and fleshy at the base) with a rowing
motion, while levering behind with the
pelvic fins. The speed they can achieve
when surprised or pouncing on
crustaceans which form their diet is
astonishing. Another curious fact about
this fish is that it will drown if kept under
water, for as the gills are in a large cavity
which encloses air as well as water, the
surrounding' tissue absorbs oxygen from
the air, carrying out the function of a
primitive being. Frequently the skipper
may be observed lying on the edge of a
pool with its tail in the water. The tail
is very thin-walled, and oxygen in the
water is absorbed through this thin
membrane to reach the blood-vessels
situated just below the surface. In short,
it breathes through its tail.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Revolvers are still used
on many cattle properties in the NT. (B.
23/9/’53). Until 1948 any adult male
or female not a dangerous criminal or
suspected lunatic could get a firearm-
licence for 2s. 6d. on a recommendation
by the local police-officer. Refusals were
rare. In the early days of the Tennant
Creek goldfield much claim-jumping
was settled by gun-battles. It was the
liberal system of issuing firearm-licences
to all miners which deterred hijackers
from depredatory action. One humorous
shooting occcurred there when a miner
copped a hail of lead in the stern when
another crept up from the rear and
let him have it. It took his mate three
hours to dig about 60 pellets out with a
skinning-knife. Of the 70-odd graves in
the Tennant cemetery, at least half were
dug on account of persons who met with
violent deaths. On the score of excite-
ment, Tombstone and Tucson of the U.S.
had nothing on the goldrush to the
Tennant during the depression days of
the early ’thirties.
“B. A. Ker”: With flashing speed the
cat shot across the veranda and dived
behind a box. There was a swift scuffle,
then it backed out, mixing-it fiercely with
an outsize rat. The fummy seemed to
have a grip on the rodent’s shoulder, but
was having an agonizing time herself
from the vicious teeth fastened in the side
of her jaw. Puss unleashed a gem of
ringcraft; she sprang completely over
the balustrade —2ft. 6in. above the floor—
and down to the ground, a further 2ft.
below. She, of course, landed on her
feet; the rat pranged fairly heavily.
Puss released her grip. Instantly the rat
let go and bolted across the yard. It was
a vital tactical error. In three bounds a
fury was upon him, and had him just
behind the back of the head. Scientists
claim that cats can’t really think ; their
mental process consists merely of instinct
coupled with experience. Maybe; but if
I’d been in that cat’s position and—
quite apart from the athletic aspect of
the feat—pulled off a master-move like
“On my left the Utile humpy where Steele Rudd Wrote
‘While the Billy Boils.' ”
that I’d consider myself an intellectual
wizard.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Perhaps it could happen only
in America. Anyway, the writer of the
western I've been absorbing sets his tale
in Arizona, on the bank of a big river.
Bands of sheep had been arriving for
days, until the mob had swelled to
enormous proportions; but, despite the
good feed and conditions, the animals
were nervous and unsettled, so that the
“night herders” —yes, you heard —were
kept busy. Learning of the plan to drive
the mob across the deep river the fol-
lowing morning, the hero and his offsider
swam the stream at midnight, and lit
fuses on two small tins of powder. The
almost simultaneous reports immediately
stampeded the sheep madly into the
blackness of the night. Within seconds
the entire camp was in saddles, but though
they galloped their mounts to exhaustion
they were unable to overtake and turn the
frenzied mob. Result, the jumbucks
piled up in heaps and mostly died. What
I’d like to know, after a lifetime among
’em, is; Where did we get the miserable,
puny strain that in this country we call
sheep?
* ♦ ♦ •
“Nepean”: Another characteristic of
Labrador dogs (B. 9/9/’53) is their
passion for raw carrots. My bloke will
eat a couple of pounds every day, even
if he has to dig them up out of a garden
like the village dogs do with yams in
New Guinea.
* * * *
“K.”; Novelists always make
“hooshta” the Afghan’s command to his
camel to get up of down, and no doubt it
was common in our inland desert
region; but it wasn’t invariable. Often
they gave any sort of grunt or yell, which
the beast would understand. Arabs have
a cry that sounds like “Yuk, yuk, yuk,”
but as often as not they merely give a
gentle tug on the nose-line when they
want the camel to go down. If it doesn’t
a slight tap behind the knee does the
trick. If it’s down and loaded a tap on
the withers will get it on its feet.
* * * *
“Arturo”: Plum and Tod ran up
against a tall, hungry Queensland cotton-
cocky, who offered them a corner in
the cornshed if they liked to wait a
week till the cotton was ready. For
three days the weather stayed clear and
cold, then came the rain. The two cotton-
pullers spent the first day huddled over
an old stove they uncovered beneath a
pile of sacks, alternately cursing the rain
beating in on them and the boss for
keeping clear of them. Next morning it
fined off, but a frog somewhere in the
drainpipes started up his rainmaking
“More rain—more wet. More rain—•
more wet” —and down it came again.
After lunch it looked like breaking; the
frog got busy again. Plum watched the
clouds bank up. “It’s no blasted good us
waitin’ for it to stop when that frog’s
around. We’ll have to find him.” After
an extended search they located the
croaker in an old boot. They dumped
both in a swamp half a mile away. “We
won’t be able to hear him from there,”
pronounced Plum. “We’ll be jake now.”
That afternoon the sun came out and
stayed that way till the cotton was in
the bales and the two travellers were
haggling with a peanut-thresher 50 miles
north.
“Harry E.”: I met Friday the abo.
along the Dawson (Q.) during a prolonged
drought. There wasn’t a cloud in sight,
but he assured me that rain would fall
“close up along a fortnight,” When
asked how he could tell, he said he had
heard little-feller frog squeak high up
in a tree, along Iron Bark Ridge. A
week later I noticed an odd one squeak
high in the trees on the low land, and
each succeeding day they got lower
until eventually they were squeaking at
ground-level. That night heavy rain came
and continued for days ; it was a fortnight
almost to the day since Friday had made
his prediction.
♦ * * ♦
“Fair Mac”: Who mentioned the
troubles that beset goldfish-breeders? My
mate had a well-stocked pond until, for
no discernible reason, his fish began to
die. Suspicion of a couple of holidaying
nephews who seemed to have been taking
a great interest in the fishpond was
finally dissipated when they vowed they
had only been tossing caught flies for
the fishes’ delectation. Several more fish
passed out before he though to inquire
into the methods the boys were using to
catch the flies—they’d been spraying the
insects with D.D.T.!
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Afor”: Action-stations on leaving
harbor found Hack in charge of the for-
ward-tunnel fire-and-repair party. Having
reported his party closed up to the first-
lieutenant he was ordered to repair an
imaginary hit which meant plugging an
imaginary hole with not-so-imaginary bags
of cement, held in place by very real four-
by-four beams of hardwood, after col-
lision-mats had been lowered over the
outside of the breach. Sydney beer is
no conditioner for a ship’s fire-and-repair
party, so Hack and his party continued
to hold their heads in alcoholic remorse,
hoping the Jimmy would forget their small
part in a big organisation. Twenty
minutes later the engineroom-tunnel
voice-pipe shrilled and demanded to
know “What the devil is going on down
there?” Hack was all for realism.
“Torpedo struck, sir, just off the forward
bulkhead, forward-tunnel, all crew down
here drowned bar myself, and I’m going
down for the third time —gurgle-gurgle-
gurgle.” It was three ports later before
Hack had his next run ashore.
• * ♦ •
“Horseless Horseman”: During the big
1926 drought a station manager
in the district I was in drove 10,000
wethers into a holding-yard and left them
there to die so they wouldn’t topple over
into the bore-drains and pollute the
water. At the end of 16 days contract
deadwool-pickers found 27 jumbucks still
alive in that yard! In a part where
nobody bothered much, except in the case
of cold-blooded murder, this stirred the
district’s ire enough for the matter to be
reported to the police. But those 27 live
sheep just prove beyond doubt that the old
Australian Merino is about the hardiest
animal on earth.
THE STUMP
I am the stump
Of notch and hump,
Burnt and grey and white;
Burning I show
At night my glow
Just like a window light.
On Sunday morn
The old horse worn
Rubs most contentedly
His neck and rump
Or scar or lump
Against the side of me.
When Dad works nigh
Then you may spy
That I wear his old vest;
A wagtail sits
On me, then flits;
And spades against me rest.
Boys free from school
Make it the rule
To peer in me for treasure;
Maybe a thrush’s nest is there,
Or a burrow where
Rabbits take their leisure.
I stand alone
Where crops are grown,
Like an island small,
And wonder why
It came that I
Should be left there at all.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


*
I f
i*
TILLEY . Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
v
rfcss sr
g rsas w
A js
mm
s*
.
iiii iiirr^ir^i
While import re-
strictions remain
you may have
difficulty in ob-
taining TILLEY
products.
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because if is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic only 1J pints of Kero for
12 hours' light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
("THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Business Rollery Etc.
WHY LOW SHARE PRICES?
The sharemarket, with the
Commonwealth Budget well be-
hind, now knows where industry
stands in regard to income tax
and sales tax; the partial freez-
ing of the basic wage, too, is
a “bull” point, though con-
tinuance of the 40-hour week
isn’t. Wool sales have gone off
well for the first six weeks of
the new selling season. Many
industries have shown improved
profits for the 1952-53 financial
year. The wheat position is not
so promising, and drought has
affected several parts of Aus-
tralia, the spring, on the whole,
having opened badly. But purely
from an internal summing-up
one might have expected a
stronger sharemarket than is now
the case, especially in view of the
very real relief investors will ex-
perience in respect of taxation
derived from public companies,
The most disturbing factor in
the investment outlook, and the
one which is probably having
most influence in depressed
security prices, is the threat of
overseas competition breaking
into the Australian hot-house
economy. At June 30 last Aus-
tralia’s international reserves had
recovered to £548 million (from
£362 million a year earlier), and
the recovery was achieved
during a period of relaxing
import-controls. Our overseas
funds are still increasing, even
though more imports are being
admitted than in the preceding
year. Manufacturers in various
industries are starting to protest
loudly that they cannot stand up
to overseas competition at
present rates of protective tariff
with Australian costs of produc-
tion and distribution as they are.
Some textile-manufacturers have
made a straightout political issue
of their problem. Makers of
some electrical goods are aghast
at the prospect of increased over-
seas competition; theirs in par-
ticular is a high-cost industry,
When import-controls were
clapped on about 18 months ago
the world-wide change from a
sellers’ to a buyers’ market had
barely become noticeable in Aus-
tralia. Industry went under con-
trol inflation-happy, full of beans
and fight, and still with many
markets at hand. It is emerg-
ing from import-control with
overseas salesmen only too ready
to book orders here, and with
the prospect of selling Austra-
lian goods to Asia and elsewhere
rapidly fading. Even in such
items as leather-belting our ex-
porters are finding overseas com-
petition too much for them,
though Australia is an abundant
source of the raw material,
Since import-controls were im-
posed in 1952 the average
Federal basic wage has risen by
265. a week, while the cost of
many overseas imports has fallen
in that time,
There is a tendency to panic
among some manufacturers,
even though they have barely
felt overseas competition and
may still be earning at a high
level. They are getting in ahead
of developments with their poli-
tical case. Generally, the indus-
tries most likely to be affected
are those in which many hands
are employed (such as in re-
frigerator-manufacture) or where
overseas raw materials are re-
quired. In the case of many
Australian raw materials, these
have been kept pegged at below
world parity, though now the
difference is tending to dis-
appear, if it hasn’t in some cases
vanished.
Some interests are pressing for
devaluation of the Australian
pound. Others want an increase
in the protective tariff. It is im-
possible not to be sympathetic in
the problem with which Austra-
lian industry is now confronted,
even though sections of that
industry have never put up the
fight they should have against
the costs-inflation that is now
the cause of nearly all their
troubles.
Whatever the problems, there
is no need for panic. It would
pfpj^
ITNWARP .'BPEWPINfr ■ OUTWARP
“Get me another support for my files, Walter.”
be wrong to devalue the Austra-
lian pound merely to try to cover
up temporarily what is our fun-
damental weakness —a man-hour
rate of production that is far too
low, and too few hours in the
working week. At the same
time investment, on the share-
market, in our secondary
industries should be made selec-
tively. Efficiency should be
rated at a high premium, and
regard should be paid to facts
such as whether the raw
materials being used are com-
paratively cheap (such as basic
Australian iron and steel) and
whether there is much man-
handling in production or un-
usual distance and bulk in trans-
port.
Many Australian manufactures
today are of excellent quality.
The problem is to get their cost
down.
Brack Mills
A very good year was exper-
ienced by Bruck Mills (Aust.),
Ltd., in its last term. Particularly
striking was the fact that net
profit claimed was £187,303,
against “provision for taxation
and deferred taxation” £352,000.
(In the preceding year net profit
was £111,062 after putting aside
£150,000 for taxation.) Bruck’s
accounts were dated September
10, the day after the Budget
was brought down, and this
year’s provision for taxation
seems to have been on the high
side, or the net profit very con-
servatively stated.
It was a year of generally high
output in the rayon-weaving in-
dustry, and the Bruck plant
worked 24 hours a day, turning
out cloth with a close regard for
public demand, with the result
that overhead was lightened in
relation to production, and sales
were brisk. The profit shown
was equal to 16.1 p.c. on ord.
capital, after allowing for the
5 p.c. prefs., and \\\ p.c. was
paid for the year, compared with
p.c. in the preceding term.
The co.’s financial position
is comfortable, and it does not
contemplate having to ask share-
holders for any more capital in
order to finance its half-share
in a spinning-mill to be jointly
established with John Vicars
and Co. at Bulli (N.S.W.).
(Bruck’s weaving mills are at
Wangaratta, in Victoria.) De-
mand for Bruck’s products con-
tinues to increase, but the
management is concerned about
possibilities of greater overseas
competition.
R. J. Vicars is chairman of
Bruck, and Norman Myer is on
the board. Paid capital is
£1,335,381, all but £250,000
(5 p.c. prefs.) in ord. money.
The ords. have risen strongly
from 30s. to 345. 6d. since
August. In 1952 they sold as
low as 18s. 9d.
R. B. Davies Industries
Profit of R. B. Davies Indus-
tries and its subsidiaries, after
allowing for the interest of out-
side shareholders, was £59,768
for the year to June 30 last,
equal to 10i p.c. on average
capital. The div. was kept at
8 p.c. Nothing came in from
the new investment in Yorkshire
Fittings, which began operations
only a few months ago. It has a
strong potential, however.
The R. B. Davies section rep-
resents the biggest manufacturer
of builders’ hardware in the
Commonwealth. During last
term the co. reports that “busi-
ness has proceeded satisfactorily
throughout the year, although
the fulfilment of a backlog of
orders and the change from a
sellers’ to a buyers’ market has
thrown emphasis on the import-
ance of our sales organisation.”
Stocks (£477,800) rose by
£54,000, and. debtors (£90,257)
were a little higher. Fixed assets
(£428,781) dropped in the books
by £36,000. Paid capital of the
public co. is £651,682, all in
ords. There is £74,500 of pref.
money in the operating cos.
The current year has opened
well, and the shares at 235.,
yielding 7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis, have a promising future,
subject always, of course, to
possibilities of more intense
overseas ln that
respect the co., because of its
efficiency and its up-to-date
plant policy, is in a stronger
position than some other Aus-
tralian manufacturers.
Coles Cranes, Ltd.
A new Australian company,
Coles Cranes, Ltd., which is a
subsidiary of Steel and Co., Ltd.,
of Sunderland, England (estab-
lished in 1879, and the largest
maker of mobile cranes in the
British Commonwealth), has set
up a factory at Bankstown, near
Sydney. Installation of heavy
machinery and general tooling-
up are now in progress, and pro-
duction is expected to start in
January, 1954.
Initially six-ton and 10-ton
self-propelled cranes, both full-
slewing and incorporating either
diesel-electric or petrol-electric
drive to all four motions
through independent electric
motors, will be turned out. This
will be the first time that equip-
ment of this nature has been
built in Australia, and tech-
nicians have been brought out
to supervise production.
Coles cranes are now standard
equipment in all three British
armed services and are well
known in Australia. In addition
to crane-manufacture, the Banks-
town plant will make implements
for Harry Ferguson of Australia,
Ltd., this being a parallel opera-
tion to that which has been
carried out in the English factory
for several years.
The buyer who was offering
455. for Swans shares in Sydney
this week, and who couldn’t get
them at the price, might switch
his bid to Frederic Ash, which
were on offer at 445. 6d. On
last published figures Frederic
Ash looked slightly the better
buy.
* * * *
The 8 p.c. div. from Mauri
Bros, and Thomson disappointed
the sharemarket. Before the
cash-issue and bonus-issue the
div.-rate had been 15 p.c. The
bonus-issue was made during
last term, when the board was
well aware of the change in
general trading conditions, and
was in a different category from
those made by some concerns in
1950 and 1951. At 41s. Mauri
Bros. ords. should prove to be
excellent holding.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOX 4
OSUILIVAX
man ~
' vle»s s«rts!" <(
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
(•' (S)
Trrrmn
N
DTI
44 You can bank
on the
“This is the perfect example. Flying
saves time, and time is money to me. The
‘Wales’ saves me time, too, with up-to-
date, accurate information and a banking
organization that’s never let me down.
Even this flight and my hotel reservations
were arranged by the ‘Wales’ Travel
Department.”
c#
0^
You, too, should con
suit and use
A
e
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SODTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITI)
A5321C
Elements of an Industry . . #
No. 22 of a Series
' 'V.
w
'III 1 ////
•>///
V’/A',
\\ N
CHROMIUM the only workable source of the element
chromium is chromite, a compound of chromium, iron and oxygen
mined in Russia, Africa and Turkey. Chromium is known everywhere
as the plating on hardware and motor fittings, but it has other and
more important applications. Alloyed with steel, for example, it
imparts superior strength and surface hardness, and it is from
chromium that stainless steel derives its resistance to corrosion. As
well as being the source of chromium, crude chromite ore is used to
make heat-resisting firebricks and cements for the construction of
furnaces. Chromium derives its name from the Greek “ xpw/xa ,
meaning colour, because its compounds are almost always coloured.
Known as chrome pigments, some of these—the chromates of lead,
zinc and barium for example—are used extensively for colouring
paints, linoleum, rubber and ceramics. Chromium sulphate is im-
portant in tanning, and potassum dichromate in the dyeing of wool,
silk and leather. Other chromium compounds are used in photo-
graphy and in the manufacture of safety matches.
In Great Britain 1.C.1. makes a complete range of chrome pigments
for the paint, linoleum and rubber industries, besides employing
chromium compounds as catalysts in the manufacture of aviation
petrol and methanol, an industrial alcohol.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
f
sdfs
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Monetary Policy
Barring Socialistic influences,
the best clue to the interpreta-
tion of N.Z. monetary policy is
the trend abroad, currency being
a field where N.Z. lags behind
the rest of the world. What
other countries are doing this
year, Maoriland is likely to be
doing next year, in credit-control,
interest policy and investment.
With all its apparent independ-
ence and isolationist sentiment,
which keep it out of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, it is
coming round and is now shap-
ing its course more in line with
outside movements. In Septem-
ber it accepted an invitation to
sit in at the annual “Bretton
Woods” meetings in Washing-
ton, and no doubt made use of
the opportunity to improve its
chances for a 20-million-dollar
loan (from the Export-Import
Bank) for its pulp-and-newsprint
project. Further moves can be
looked for in this growing
friendship, which a minority of
Maorilanders, with more fore-
sight than others, hope will blos-
som gradually into membership.
Meanwhile, N.Z. is striving to
improve its monetary manage-
ment. To this end the gover-
nor of the Reserve Bank, Mr.
E. C. Fussell, spent several
months abroad, from Easter on-
wards, visiting central banks and
studying banking policy at first-
hand. Bankerlike, he was little
heard of while on tour, but his
first public address some time
after his return gave the impres-
sion that he had gained faith in
monetary controls, much to the
satisfaction of N.Z. economists
and others who had been calling
for a firmer stand by the R.B.
for years past. Until lately, the
bank had been afraid to use most
of its far-reaching powers to
strengthen the pound, and the
only one of the four weapons of
monetary policy it had applied
effectively was credit-control,
even this not as fully as circum-
stances warranted.
Until the end of 1951, the
Reserve Bank did not go be-
yond selective credit-control,
which cut out overdraft-financ-
ing of gamblers and long-term
investors. When it ordered
quantitative restrictions, in De-
cember, 1951, to put the brake
on the import boom, the tide
was too strong. No headway
was made until five months
later, after the boom had spent
itself. Since then overdrafts
have been cut down by 30 p.c. to
a shade under £l4O million. As
export prosperity has continued
to flow all the time, the trading
banks today have a good sur-
plus of lending capacity, about
£5O million, to meet possible
demands in the coming summer
and the income-tax peak, after
deducting a like sum which lies
frozen in trading-bank deposits
at the R. 8., following two lifts
in the central bank’s deposit
ratios in 18 months. Had selec-
tive control been tighter in
earlier post-war years, or the
reserve ratios had been raised
earlier, N.Z. would be more in
step with world monetary trends
today. As it stands, there’s a
time-lag of a year or more.
Of the Reserve Bank’s other
weapons, its discount-rate re-
mains merely nominal at 1 i p.c.,
and N.Z. has not yet thought of
creating a short-term money-
market. The long-term interest-
fate, in which the R.B. should
have a big say, is the lowest in
the world at the present pegged
level of £3 19s. per cent., to
which it was raised in May, and
the loan market is in a sluggish
condition, indicating that a
further rise will have to come in
1954. ,
Probably Mr. Fussell learnt
a lot on tour about how to set
things right and can see how he
should have acted earlier. He
admits frankly that exchange-
rationing is only a stopgap, and
agrees that if import-controls are
to be dismantled within a few
years monetary controls will
have to be brought more fully
into action. “Demand for and
supply of imports are now much
closer together than last year,”
said Mr. Fussell in October.
Maoriland has lost more than
a decade in building up a sound
monetary system through the
split between the first governor,
Leslie Lefeaux, and the Social-
ists, which brought a change in
leadership at a critical stage.
Since then the R.B. has been
more-or-less in the wilderness.
The course of events has proved
that Mr. Lefeaux was right in
opposing the Socialists, and New
Zealand has lost through taking
the wrong road. For four years,
until 1939, the first governor
used his wits to safeguard the
bank against Socialistic designs
and to give it a decent start in
life, only to be beaten in the end
by the politicians. It was the
bank’s’ misfortune to fall under
political domination at an early
age.
Kelliher on Banking
From Henry J. Kelliher
(Auckland, N.Z.):
I have read your comment in The
Bulletin of July 29 under the head-
ing of “Kelliher on Banking,” which
I regard as an erroneous and mis-
leading presentation of the views 1
have expressed when urging the need
for a sound and adequate money-
system. When you say that I should
be content “to leave things as they
are” under a system from which my
own interests have prospered, I can
at least claim that I am not activated
by any ulterior motive in advocating
a reform which I consider long over-
due, and which would be of tremen-
dous benefit to the economy of New
Zealand.
The major defect in the present
money-and-banking system is that
trading banks are compelled to create
new money when making advances
or purchasing investments. In other
words they have become creators of
money instead of —as is currently
supposed—lenders and distributors of
money. This is a fact which is almost
universally acknowledged by econo-
mists today, and has been confirmed
by our highest authority—the New
Zealand Reserve Bank.
Up to less than twenty years ago
our total money in circulation ex-
ceeded at no time £5O million, and it
was with this volume of money that
New Zealand succeeded in developing
its resources, and building up its
primary industries to a degree hardly
excelled by any other country. No
comparable progress in development
has been made during the last twenty
years; yet at the end of the Labor
regime in 1949 our money-supply had
been inflated to just on £2OO million,
and today three-and-a-half years
later —our total money in circulation
has been further expanded to approxi-
mately £270 million.
To show the extent to which trading
banks have usurped the sovereign
prerogative of creating or issuing
money, it is only necessary to state
that, according to Reserve Bank
statistics, trading banks during the
two years ended January, 1952, have
mind any increase of bank credit
is a creation of that amount of new
followg that this unprecedented bank-
credit expansion was the major factor
in price-inflation, as well as the root
cause of the increased cost of living
and industrial unrest and dissension,
In view of these facts which are
on i y too obvious today, I was sur-
prised at your contention that there
» no inherent defect in the system
itself,” but that it is ‘Government
d Treasury interference with the
freedom of the Reserve Bank and
with the banks in general that has
been chiefly responsible.” It is only
fair to say that there has been a
minimum of mtedctence by the
present Government with both Re-
serve and trading banks. Until quite
s-sx 00 rasas “asK
S*ST7
S?*. SjhTSSS“SS
permitted to indulge in an unprece-
dented expansion of the money-supply,
apparently on the erroneous assump-
tion that trading-bank credit-money
is less inflationary than Reserve Bank
money R i s j n this respect that the
National Government has failed to
implement its original monetary
policy as firmly pledged during the
1949 general election “to issue credit
and currency on the principle of
promoting and maintaining a stable
internal price-level.” This policy was
wholeheartedly endorsed by the elec-
tors -
Far from advocating the “scrap-
ping of overdrafts,” etc., I maintain
that there is ample money already in
existence to finance trade and corn-
merce, and national development;
that investment should come from
the current flow of savings within the
existing money-supply and not from
newly-created currency and credit,
The substance of my recommenda-
tions—which have not been examined
by the Reserve Bank, as suggested
™ your article-is to institute a
banking technique which would make
k impossible and unnecessary for the
trading banks to create or destroy
bank-credit money, this being a
prerogative to be used exclusively by
fhe Reserve Bank and to be exercised
on the principle of preserving pnce-
level stability. With this objective
in mind Parliament passed the Reserve
Bank Amendment Act, 1950, which
placed st^ ut ? ry obli gation upon the
Reserve Bank to use its monetary
powers to promote and maintain a
stable internal price-level and so
avoid both inflation and deflation,
The proposal t haV e advocated
does no t involve any new banking
system nor the elimination of existing
overdrafts or other banking processes,
there nQ suggestion of pre .
empt i on Q f any part of the existing
supply of money for the reason that
the owners of money would them-
selves lend or invest it in response to
adequate inKrest or other incentiwt


EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE do convey
If you have agreed to act as Executor of a Will, have you
considered the vital and immediate attention that will be necessary
when the time arrives for you to enter upon your duties; the
responsibilities that will descend upon you?
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited is always happy to give
full information on these matters, and to explain how the Company
may act as Executor (or Trustee) with or instead of a person who
has been appointed in those capacities.
If you would like further information on this important subject,
write for a free copy of our booklet, "Your Executor and Trustee ”,
or telephone for an appointment, without obligation.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS: D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HOBDEBN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A, G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director. TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £73,000,000 w. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
- s
a a
3 a'
i§K |
NS 3 a 3 ;i^=
a g a
la i
01
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAOBA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Repco, Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
Sept. Profit. !-* —Dividends Reserves.
30, £ p.c. £ £
Combined nominal reserves, Sept., 1943 73,014
1944 .. 36,879 10 30,000 79,893
1945 .. 41,900 10 30,000 91,793
1946 .. 47,087 10 30,000 108,880
Premiums on new shares, £BO,OOO .. 188,880
1947 .. 50,977 10 30,000 209,857
Premiums on new shares, £150,000 .. 359,857
1948 .. 102,202 12} 76,250 385,809
Premiums on new shares, £179,550 .. 565,359
June 30,
1949 .. 142,136 12} 95,250 612,245
Net share premiums, £110,375 .. 722,620
Intangibles written off, £24,841 .. 697,779
1950 .. 188,518 12} 108,994 777,303
Share premiums, £187,682 .. .. 964,985
1951 .. 262,672 15 155,255 1,072,402
Share premiums, £298,736 .. .. 1,371,188
1952 .. 302,239 15 218,237 1,455,140
Share premiums, £225,129 .. ..1,680,269
1953 .. 241,123 15 262,203 1,659,189
Reserves shown are subject to intangible assets
(now £452,416).
Formed in Melbourne in 1937, when three
established concerns owned by R. G.
Russell were taken over, the Repco group
—parent holding co. and 13 subsidiaries
and two associated cos. —has grown into
the biggest manufacturer of automotive
parts and accessories and drop-forgings,
etc., in the Commonwealth. And a sub-
stantial export trade with New Zealand,
southern Asia and South Africa has been
developed, too.
Behind the rapid and profitable post-
war growth of the organisation lies the
boom in the motor trade, and therefore
in demand for replacement parts and
accessories, etc. The policy has been to
bring under one control a number of
allied interests, integrate their activi-
ties by a process of specialisation in
manufacture, thus eliminating much waste
in buying and selling as well as over-
lapping in organisation, and to reduce
unit costs.
The network now includes:— *
Subsidiaries : A. T. Richardson and
Sons Ply.; Paton’s Brake Replacements
Pty.; Precision Metal Stampings Pty.;
Russell Manufacturing Co. Pty.; Repco
Bearing Co. Pty.; P. J. Bearings Pty. ;
Repco Universal Joints Pty.; Specialised
Engineering Pty.; all of which manufacture
automotive engine parts, including ring-
gears, brake parts, oil-seals, pistons, rings,
valve - guides, gaskets, bearings, universal
joints, etc. Replacement Parts Pty. and
Replacement Parts (Tas.) Pty., with 12
branches in Victoria and Tasmania, look
after the distributing and engineering side
in conjunction with Auto Grinding Co.
Pty. Brenco Pty., Warren and Brown
Pty. and Replex Pty. manufacture tools
and testing-equipment, while Repco Export
Co. looks after the overseas trade. Asso-
ciated Cos.: Payen, Byrne and Blackford
Pty. (Brisbane), makers of all types of auto-
motive and industrial gaskets; Kirkstall-
Repco, Ltd. (Melbourne), makers of truck- ,
and tractor-axles and components and
allied drop-forgings.
During 1952 a half-interest was acquired
in Payen, Byrne and Blackford, a sub-
sidiary of Engineering Components, Ltd.
(Eng.), whose new factory is not yet in
full production. Also a new subsidiary,
Kirkstall-Repco Pty., was set up in con-
junction with Kirkstall Forge Co. (Eng.);
it began operations only a few months
ago, and is expected to reach the profit-
earning stage about a year hence. Each
of the partners now has £400,000 of
capital invested in this venture. Then,
just before the books were ruled off in
1952, P. J. Taylor (Newcastle) Pty.,
makers of automotive bearings, etc., was
taken over and the name changed to
PJ. Bearings, Pty.
To acquire all these interests and pro-
vide working funds, £1,477,507 —it
brought with it £1,231,472 of share pre-
miums—has been added to issued capital
since 1946, raising the figure to £1,777,507
at June 30 last; there was then £23,588
still to come in. The lot has the support
and assistance of £1,659,189 of reserves,
subject to £452,416 of intangibles. Also
£1,066,500 of 6 p.c. unsecured registered
notes were issued in December, 1952;
they are convertible into ordinary shares
at a premium of 10s. on Dec. 1, 1956, or
redeemable at par a year later.
The slip of £61,116 in last term’s de-
clared net earnings of the group was
due to a fall in factory output and sales
during the first nine months of the period,
when distributors were working down
their swollen inventories. Turnover in the
export market, which exceeded £500,000
in the previous term, fell away, too. After
allowing £70,063 (up £14,640) for depreci-
ation and £160,739 (down £125,627) for
taxation at pre-Budget rates, the net
result was £241,123, equal to 13.4 p.c. on
average capital as against 20.8, 25.3, 21.6,
18.7 and 16.7 p.c. back to 1948. Still, the
board considered the outlook good enough
to maintain the div. at 15 p.c., though
it called for £21,080 more than the profit
claimed.
Continued expansion is the keynote of
balance-sheet figures:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,035,033 £1,585,166 £1,753,919
Unsecured notes .. 1,066,500
Bank overdraft v. 715,541 668,339 358,836
Creditors .. . . 398,954 414,056 340,436
Tax provision .. 244,632 391,593 180,748
Staff funds . . 25,654 26,074 25,763
Final divs. .. 1031,503 118,887 131,544
Freeholds .. .. 697,716 770,056 939,013
Plant . . .. 568,969 785,879 979,925
Shiires in assoc, co. 40,000 200,000 429,047
Stocks .. . . 1,081,914 1.693,194 1,793,103
Debtors .. . . 896,357 896,668 909,632
Cash .. .. 5,996 8,691 13,799
Intangibles . . 304,767 304,767 452,416
The additions to share-capital (up
£168,753) and share-premiums (up
£225,129) are related mainly to purchase
of the Newcastle business already referred
to, which also accounts for a large slice
of the increase in freeholds (up £168,957)
and plant (up £194,046). Most of the
£1,066,500 of new note-money was used
to build up shareholdings (up £229,047),
chiefly in Kirkstall-Repco Pty., to which
£145,000 was also advanced on loan, and
to reduce the overdraft (down £309,503)
and amount coming to sundry creditors
(down £73,620). There was a contraction
of £366,897 in the net working capital
(£612,707), due entirely to additions to
fixed assets, including shareholdings.
As for the outlook, there has been a
steady and persistent upward trend of
sales and profit toward and since the
close of accounts. A lot of money is still
tied up in assets which have not yet had
an opportunity to contribute to the pool;
and, with 1,712,000 motor-vehicles on the
roads in Australia, the board anticipates
further growth in demand for the pro-
ducts of the group.
At 455. 6d. (50s. 6d. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 shares return 6.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is 335. 7d.
The share-option certificates attached to
the notes recently sold at Bs. 2d. each.
Samuel Allen & Sons (Townsville)
r— Dividends —,
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£> £ £ £ £
1945.. 38,882 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 16,882 62,099
To staff fund, £llBO 60,919
From reserves re leases, £2282 .. 58,637
1946.. 35,693 8,571 6 p.c. = 13,929 13,193 71,830
From reserves re leases, £4077 .. 67,753
6J p.c.
1947.. 45,039 9,285 64 p.c. = 15,090 20,664 88,417
To tax provision, £5500 .. .. 82,917
Share premiums, £24,500 .. .. 107,417
1948.. 43,573 9,285 64 p.c. = 18,408 15,880 123,297
1949.. 47,170 9,285 6J „ ~23,052 14,833 138,130
8 p.c.
1950.. 57,813 11,428 8 „ ~28,372 18,013 156.143
Revaluation assets, £133,985 .. .. 290,128
Share premiums, £96,625 .. .. 386,753
1951.. 75,368 11,428 8 p.c. = 39,882 24,058 410,811
Share premiums, £4784 .. .. 415,595
1952.. 90,762 11,428 8 p.c. = 54,578 24,756 440,351
1953.. 70,508 11,428 8 „ ~56,372 2,708 443,059
The contraction of £20,254 in last term’s
net earnings of this old-established North
Queensland trader surprised the market,
which shortened its bid for the f.-p. £1
ords. from 255. in September last to 235.
7d. following publication of the accounts.
The return at 235. 7d. is 6.8 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. On the same basis, the
6 p.c. participating prefs. at 235. 6d. also
yield 6.8 p.c. Net tangible cover is 30s. sd.
all shares —the prefs. rank equally with
the ords. for surplus assets.
The directors’ report makes no com-
ment on the slip in net earnings. Appear-
ances are that it was due to narrower
profit-margins and the easing of activity
from boom peaks, especially in the motor
and light-engineering trades. The £70,508
of profit claimed by the parent was written
after allowing unspecified amounts for
depreciation and taxation (at pre-Budget
rates), and for a net loss of £lO9B on
liquidation of a small Townsville sub-
sidiary, Tropic Cordials Pty. The
£70,508 was equal to 8.3 p.c. on the
£847,500 of capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined) as against 11, 12.2, 11.6, 9.5 and
10.2 p.c. back to 1948. The div. was
kept at an all-round 8 p.c. —the prefs.
advance with the ords. in any distribution
beyond 6 p.c.—for the fourth year in
succession, making the average distribu-
tion over the last decade 6.9 p.c.
Combined figures of parent and sub-
sidiaries show a growth of £23,411 in
gross earnings (£590,890). But exes.
(£518,809, including provision for depreci-
ation and taxation, etc.) gobbled the gain
and £19,078 besides, leaving combined net
earnings at £72,081 (down £19,078), or
8.5 p.c. on capital.
The parent’s hotel interests and general
merchandising activities expanded con-
siderably since the war; they are centred
mainly in the area between Bowen and
Cairns and west to the Territory border.
The co. also widened the spread of its
net by formation of subsidiaries and
absorption of existing undertakings.
The latter include a controlling interest
in Holyman’s retail business, Townsville,
acquisition of Wypers (Cairns), Pty., an
engineering-supply and hardware business,
and of A. E. Clayton’s farm- and irri-
gation-machinery undertaking at Ayr. A
new offshoot, Magnetic Motors Pty,, took
over the parent’s Ford franchise, and an-
other subsidiary, Allen’s Investment Pty.,
was set-up to handle hire-purchase busi-
ness of the group. And franchises for the
products of Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., and
Essantee Switchgear Pty., have been
added to the parent’s list of agencies.
To help finance the growth £350,000
has been added to paid capital since 1950
—shareholders put up £128,375 at par
and £221,625 was issued at premiums
totalling £101,409 in acquisition of new
interests. Also the book-value of free-
holds was written-up by £133,985 for
mortgage purposes.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
reflect adjustment of the inventory to
altered conditions, as well as active trad-
ing at the close of accounts:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. £756,478 £847,475 £841,500
Mortgages .. .. 279,641 266,521 247,401
Overdraft . . .. 36,505 245,339 232,222
Creditors and tax .. 444,645 381,366 415,742
Final div 28,698 33,900 33,900
Properties and plant .. 684,374 720,765 709,760
Shares 286,064 283,340 286,429
Stocks 471,294 630,277 552,676
Book debts .. .. 508,954 571,221 657,207
Cash, etc 9,092 9,348 13,751
The reduction in stocks (in at cost or
under) was £77,601. Together with
£34,376 added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc., this enabled £85,986
to be added to book-debts, £19,120 to be
clipped off mortgages and £13,117 off the
overdraft. The more-or-less liquid sur-
plus (£294,369) was £10,649 stronger.
Prospects of a better showing at next
balance look bright enough at the
moment.
Gordon Edgell & Sons (N.S.W.)
Pref. To Re- Be-
June Profit. 6J p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
SO £ £ £ £ £■
1943.. 6,130 2469 8* p.c. = 4,626 43,521
1944.. 13,731 3900 9 „ „ 5,400 4,431 47,952
1945.. 11,495 3900 8 „ „ 12,800 42,747
Reduction reserves, £3OO .. .. 42,447
1946.. 27,428 3900 8 p.c. = 12,800 10,728 53,175
Share premiums, £55,200 .. .. 108,375
1947.. 29,856 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 5,795 114,170
1948.. 36,342 3900 8.1 „ „ 20,412 12,030 126,200
From inner reserves, £1247 .. .. 127,447
Surplus sale assets, £3688 .. .. 131,135
Goodwill written off, £2384 .. .. 128,751
1949.. 46,052 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 21,992 150,743
Share premiums, £20,900 .. .. 171.643
1950.. 69/07 3900 8 p.c. = 27,200 38,507 210.150
1951.. 70,411 3900 8 ~ ~ 27,200 39,311 249.461
Excess tax provision, £12,500 .. 261,961
Share premiums, £32,538 .. .. 294,499
1952.. 51,263 3900 6* p.c. = 26,552 20,811 315,310
Capital profits, £12,219 .. .. 327,529
1953.. 38,288 3900 6£p.c. = 31,005 3,383 330,912
The continued decline in profit of this
vegetable-canning and -preserving busi-
ness marks the transition from the post-
war era of scarcity to the economics of
plenty. The co.’s factories at Bathurst
and Cowra turn out tinned asparagus,
tomatoes, peas, beans, cauliflowers, etc.,
from crops grown on its own and other
farms on the near-by river-flats of the
Macquarie and Lachlan. In both spheres
production is aided by modern plant and
equipment.
Since 1946 £317,000, which brought
with it £108,438 of share-premiums, has
been added to paid capital, raising the
total on the register to £537,000, of
which £60,000 carries a fixed cumulative
6\ p.c. Last new share-issue was 137,000
£1 ords. at a premium of ss. each in
Nov., 1951 ; the premium makes a p.c.
div. worth only 5.2 p.c. on that lot. The
ratio of profit to ord. capital (after de-
ducting the pref. div.) advanced by annual
steps from 10.3 p.c. for 1947 to 19.5 p.c.
for 1951, and the div. was kept steady
at 8 p.c., the widening margin being
ploughed back into the business.
During the 1952 term benefits from a
slight increase in sales were more than
offset by the growth in operating and
other costs, which were aggravated by
seasonal conditions. The contraction in
net earnings was £19,148. At the same
time stocks accumulated, demand having
fallen off toward the close of accounts,
and the div, was lowered from 8 p.c. to
6i p.c.
Last term sales picked up from the low
level of the 1952 winter, and were “re-
markably steady,” though the co. felt
the effects of competition from local pro-
ducers in other States. There was also
a sharp fall in the export trade. A
bounteous season lifted production, which
outstripped demand, and stocks accumu-
lated again. After taking stocks into
account at a conservative figure (they
appear at or under cost) and allowing for
depreciation (£37,524, down £10,927) and
taxation (£16,775, down £47,390), the
board wrote the year’s profit at £38,288
(down £12,975). That was enough to pay
the pref, div. and show 7.2 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 11,5, 19.5, 19.3, 16.7
and 12.8 p.c. back to 1948. After repeat-
irig the 6 \ p.c. div., only £3383 remained,
which, together with a capital profit of
£12,219 on sale of properties, lifted
reserves to £330,912.
The growth in stocks was £399,861.
To meet the outlay, carry an extra
£27,724 of book-debts and reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£41,958 the co. went to its bankers for
an extra £514,218:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1952.
Paid capital.. £400,000 £400,000 £587,000 £537,000
Overdraft .. 36,783 101,067 884,550 898,768
Creditors .. 100,109 183,451 105,648 63,690
Tax reserve.. 57,078 78,952 94,228 45,319
Pinal divs. .. 18,700 18,700 17,452 17,152
Freeholds, etc. 193,594 225,425 276,209 300,508
Plant . . 103,838 130,865 215,298 197,907
Plantations .. 6,439 5,169 4,378 8,820
Stocks . . 468,854 514,046 873,194 1.273,055
Book debts .. 49,576 105,403 84,826 112,550
Cash, etc. . . 619 723 283 901
The net addition of £24,299 to freeholds
mainly reflects completion of alterations
and additions to the new sales premises
in Clarence-street, Sydney. When the
books closed there was 225. 2d. belong-
ing to the bank and sundry creditors in


sd
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
, . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAERHBE
acta like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Ton will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbere DISTKIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3b), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
p
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. ... 22/6
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
Manufacturers of: —
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overband and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Pfy. Limited.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
We manufacture the " Curvilinear *” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
Concentration
& © ©
T •
W' v
M
w
m.
im
iU
\
■
m
m
... on
communications
AT MOST AIRFIELDS the pilot
does not have to give advance warn-
ing of his fuel requirements, for a
green and yellow fueller of BP
Aviation Service will be ready to
meet him. But at some lonely air-
fields in the hills or desert conditions
have not changed much since
supplies of BP gasoline were specially
laid down for Alan Cobham’s
pioneering survey flight from London
to Capetown in 1925.
At such places the pilot must state
his requirements. While he is still
in the air a signal will have to be
sent so that, on his arrival, his need%
will be met with the same courtesy
and attention that he has come to
expect at larger airfields.
X AVIATION m SERVICER
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
LTD.
6/S3
the business for every £1 of
shareholders’ funds.
The co. recently entered into
an agreement for quick-freezing
of vegetables with Bird’s Eye
Foods (Aust.) Pty., which is to
supply the plant needed and
purchase the output. There has
been a “good reduction” in
stocks since the close of
accounts, thanks partly to a
vigorous sales offensive. At the
moment stocks dominate the
whole position, and much de-
pends upon the figure at which
they have been taken into
account. Competition in other
States is likely to sharpen
further, which means narrow
profit-margins and no marked
revival in the export trade is
anticipated—how much of the
co.’s turnover this trade accounts
for is not disclosed.
The market has revised its
estimate of the prospects of the
undertaking and shortened its
bid for the f.-p. £1 ords. from
265. to 235. over the last 12
months. The return at 235. is
5.6 p.c. on a 6£ p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 335. lid.
The prefs. seldom appear on
’Change.
Winns, Ltd.
Parent Co. Only.
ToJIe- Ee-
Jly., Profit. Y — serves, serves.
’49.29,191 16 p.c.=10,165 19,026 99,891
Private co. tax, £10,366.. 89,525
Unexp’d increase, £2224.. 91,749
’50.27,644 10 p.c.=13,685 13,959 105,708
■ Parent and Subsidiaries.
Ee-
serves.t
’51.52,830 10 p.c.=22,273 30,557 151,138
Private-co. tax, £8356 .. 142,782
Goodwill appears, £6OOO .. 136,782
Unexp’d increase, £470 .. 137,252
’52.40,254 9 p.e.=24,750 15,504 152,756
G’dwill written down, £lOOO 153,756
Unexp’d increase, £1617 .. 155,373
’53.28,833 9 p.c.=24,751 4,082 159,455
t After deducting goodwill, £10,340 at
31/7/’53.
The present co. took over
Winn’s old-established drapery
business in Oxford-street, Syd-
ney, in 1911. The public became
interested in 1948, when holders
of the £101,650 of paid capital
sold 184,876 of their f.-p. ss.
shares at 9s. 6d. each. The co.
thus qualified for taxation on a
public-co. basis and for Stock
Exchange listing, as well as
clearing the way for raising
fresh capital on the open market.
Average profit for the 10
years to 1948 was put at £16,022,
after allowing for taxation on
a public-co. basis, and fixed as-
sets appeared at figures well be-
low independent valuation. At
that stage there was one branch
(at Hurstville) and no subsidi-
aries. In January, 1950, the co.
bought all the capital of Winn
and Sons Pty. (Redfern) and
Winns Auburn Pty. for £45,844
in its own scrip. Shareholders
put up a further £127,512 in par
issues in 1950 and 1951. A
drapery business at Ashfield,
known as C. Winn, Draper, was
taken over in August, 1951.
For the first two years as a
public co. more profit was put on
the shelf than was needed to
pay the 10 p.c. div. In 1951
group turnover passed the £2-
million-mark, and net profit
more than twice covered the
unchanged div. In 1952 the
trend was abruptly reversed,
profit-margins were squeezed be-
tween officially-controlled prices
and ever-rising costs, and failing
turnover in the second half of
the term gave another turn to
the screw. The slip in net earn-
ings was £12,576, and the board
shaved a point off the div.
Last term opened with traders
striving to work down stocks
swollen by the import flood, and
turnover was still falling. How-
ever, the cost curve flattened out,
export income strengthened and
Christmas trade was a record.
By July, ’53, Sydney retail sales
were running 5.9 p.c. above the
same month in ’52. Winns’ sales
for the six months to July were
higher than for the correspond-
ing 1952 period, and the im-
provement continues, says the
board.
Notwithstanding the later im-
provement the year’s trading
was “difficult,” and group profit
dropped sharply by £11,421 to
£28,833, after undisclosed depre-
ciation and tax. The parent’s
profit was £26,952 (down £6336)
after £17,750 for tax (up £750)
and £3634 for depreciation (up
£506). The £28,833 was equal to
10.5 p.c. on paid capital of
£275,006, as against 14.6 and
19,2 p.c. in the two preceding
years. An unchanged 9 p.c. div.
left £4082 to take visible reserves
to £159,455.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Paid capital ~ 275,006 275,006 275,006
Mortgages .. 39,089 37,124 35,159
Overdraft .. 42,943 104,560 23,182
Creditors, etc.* 235.320 205,188 209,380
Inter-co. suspense 2,500 1,731 S 3
Dividend prov’n 22,273 24,750 24,751
Freehold .. 49,776 49,776 51,486
Leaseholds .. 18,976 17.076 15,178
Plant, furniture 36,788 51,761 62.406
Investments ... 4,037 4,036 5,145
Stock .. . . 452,108 641,723 452,716
Debtors ... 204,449 134,525 138,045
Cash .. .. 2,135 2,218 2.040
* Includes tax provision.
Stocks were reduced by
£89,007 during the year, and
£81,378 was slashed off the over-
draft, thus bringing finances into
healthier balance. There was
10s. lid. in liquids for every
£ of current commitments at
balance-date, compared with
Bs. Id. a year earlier. The £1660
increase in freeholds reflects the
purchase of land at Fairfield,
where the co. will soon start
building a department store with
a floor-space of about 14,000
square feet. Whether share-
holders will be asked to help
is not stated. At July 31, out-
siders had 13s. 2d. in the busi-
ness for every pound belonging
to proprietors.
Prospects for a better showing
at next balance are encouraging.
Retail sales are improving, and
good export prices, Budget tax-
reductions, and the impending
Royal visit should keep spend-
ing buoyant. The basic-wage de-
cision promises steadier costs,
too. The market notes the way
profits have moved over the
past couple of years and prices
the ss. shares at ss. lid. (6s. 6d.
12 months ago). At ss. lid. the
yield on a 9 p.c. div, basis is
7.6 p.c., with prospects of capi-
tal appreciation. Net assets
cover is 7s. lid, a share.
North Broken Hill, one of the
biggest and richest lead-zinc pro-
ducers at the Barrier (N.S.W.),
has announced a profit of
£1,600,058 (down £966,113) for
the year to June 30 last, and has
cut the div. from Bs. 6d. to
4s. 6d. per ss. share. The profit
was equal to 228.5 p.c. on the
£700,000 of capital as against
366.6, 350 and 211 p.c. for the
three preceding years. The
4s. 6d. div. (the final 2s. 6d. of
which is payable on Dec. 2 next)
is equal to 90 p.c. as against 170
p.c. for the two previous years.
The profit was struck after allow-
ing £349,000 (down £1,576,000)
for taxation and royalties, and
an unchanged £lOO,OOO for de-
preciation. The slip in overseas
metal prices was the trouble.
During the year to June 30 last
the London figure for lead fell
from £5161.5 to £5132.7 per ton,
and for zinc from £SI6O to
£SI36 per ton. , The co. has a
heavy programme of capital ex-
penditure ahead in connection
with shaft-sinking at the
northern end of the property.
Still, the cut in the div. was
deeper than the market antici-
pated, and the price of the scrip
fell sharply from 725. 6d. at end
of August to 695. 3d, last week.
* * * *
For the year to June 30 last
Hill 50, Mt. Magnet (W.A.),
announced a profit of £156,729
on a capital of £150,000, and
paid divs. totalling Is. 9d. per 4s.
share (£65,625). Another Is. 6d.
a share (£56,250) was paid in
July, and a further 2s. a share
(£75,000) is to go out next
month. Positive and probable
ore reserves are put at 820,000,
averaging B.9dwt., of which
100,000 tons (4.9dwt.) are above
the 600 ft. level, 384,000 tons
(9.9dwt.) above the 820 ft. level
and 336,000 tons (B.9dwt.) below
820 ft, The shaft has been sunk
to a depth of 960 ft., and prepara-
tions are in hand to deepen it
further. In reporting the results
of diamond-drill hole No. 86 the
co. said that “at the 1050 ft.
horizon, 230 ft. below 820 ft. level,
it is estimated that good-grade
ore extends over a width of
70ft.” Buyers recently offered
86s. 9d. with sellers standing off
at 88s. 6d. for scrip, which
could be had at 6s. 3d. in July,
1952.


Women's Letters
STiDNCr
Attended by a good deal of pomp and
circumstance, the Vice-President of the
U.S., Mr. Richard Nixon, and Mrs. Nixon
swept through Sydney last week and
maintained throughout a whirlwind series
of receptions and parties a gracious,
thoughtful and friendly approach to
Australians. The reception at the Town
Hall on Friday was the final and exhaust-
ing test, when the pair shook hands with
1200 people (this was the official number,
but the crush indicated that there were
another 500 there). Although the main
hall was decorated quite attractively with
bowls of waratahs and banks of other
wildflowers, the stage brightened up with
a large American flag and an eagle, and
the front of the building festive with
bunting and a red carpet up the steps, the
reception was somewhat of an ordeal be-
cause of the heat and congestion in the
foyer, where the guests waited to file
through to greet the receiving line.
Mrs. Nixon, a tall slim woman with a
friendly smile and an obvious interest in
people generally, wore a slate-grey taffeta
dress to the reception with a small hat
of multicolored sequins which matched
perfectly the beautiful bouquet of purple
orchids which was presented to her.
* ☆ ☆
Another interesting woman visitor to
Sydney during the week was Dr. Frances
Moran, who may also be addressed as
“Professor,” for she is Regius Professor
of Laws at Trinity College, Dublin. Dr.
Moran illuminated all her speeches with
her subtle Irish wit and delivered them
with that soft Dublin accent that is
scarcely recognisable as Irish at all, so
that she was a delight to listen to. It
was amusing to hear her say that she
came to study law because she bought
some law-books from a New Zealand
student with a view to selling them at a
profit, dipped into them, found them in-
teresting and decided there was more
profit to be made by becoming a lawyer.
* * ☆
Films showing the launching of the oil-
search in West Australia by the Ampol
Company and the introduction of Aus-
tralian life-saving methods to Hawaii
were shown to the 70 guests entertained
at dinner by the managing-director of the
firm, Mr. W. G. Walkley, and Mrs.
Walkley, at the Manly Golf Club.
Among the guests were the German
Ambassador, Dr. Walter Hess, and Mrs.
Hess, with their daughter Inge and son
Andreas, Sir James and Lady Bissett,
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Dekyvere, Mr. and
Mrs. Albert Joris, Dr. and Mrs. L. Mc-
Donnell, Miss June Fisher, Mr. Ted
Harris and Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Aucher.
Also present were the four American
women golfers who were to take part in
the Ampol tournament the following day.
* * *
Guest-of-honor at the afternoon re-
ception by the Australian-American
Association (women’s section) was Mrs.
Frederick Smith, who spoke on her ex-
periences in Shanghai when a prisoner-of-
war in the hands of the Japanese. Mrs.
Smith (who writes under the name of
Mabel Wain Smith) described how she
learned to draw during that time, and
spoke also on the .brighter side of life
in China. Mrs. Lilli Herling sang some
charming Latvian folksongs to Miss
Arline Lower’s accompaniment. Among
the guests welcomed by president Mrs.
Florence Taylor was Mrs. Edward Krieg,
from who is paying a visit
with her small daughter Robin Elizabeth
to her mother, Dr. Elsie Leonard.
* ☆ ☆
One of the most striking garments seen
at the opening night of “Dial ‘M’ for
Murder” was the full-length scarlet wool
coat with its royal-blue lining and its
jewelled yoke which Mrs. lan Jacoby
wore over her white crepe dinner-dress.
Mrs. Jacoby, who had had the staggering
good fortune to back the first three
doubles at Randwick during the after-
noon, dined at Romano’s with her hus-
band before going on to the theatre.
* ☆ ☆
The Poliomyelitis Society’s country
hostel is to benefit from the First Annual
Wool Ball, which the Combined Wool
Industry will hold at the State Ballroom
next Saturday. This hostel provides a
wonderful service for country polio
sufferers who are in Sydney for medical
treatment, and it also offers accommoda-
tion to country people who may need a
rest after caring for polio sufferers. The
treatment and accommodation at this
Kirribilli hostel is quite free, as it is at
the sister organisation, Cherrywood, at
Turramurra. It is hoped to make this
ball a great success annually, as the hostels
do not receive any Government subsidy
and are supported entirely by the Polio-
myelitis Society.
Many of the beautiful gowns Evie
Hayes wears in “Call Me Madam’’ were
designed and made by clever Beril Jents,
of Sydney. She has also designed stage-
Seaforth, on Saturday, November 21.
Helping her will be her enthusiastic com-
mittee, with Margaret Rawnsky as secre-
tary at id Jack Brisk as treasurer. Photo,
by Julia Leslie.
President of the newly-formed younger-
set working for the Dal wood Homes is
Shirley McLellan, of Balgowlah. The
fi r st venture of Shirley's committee will
be a garden-fete to be held at the home,
Joy Nichols’s place in the excellent
show at the Tivoli has been taken by
English singer Betty Driver, who must
be one of the hardest workers the Tivoli
stage has ever seen. By an astonishing
coincidence both Joy and Betty have
husbands called Wally Petprson (one with
an “e,” one with an “o”). Another co-
incidence is that while Pamela Page, at
the Royal, could scarcely bear to leave
her cocker-spaniels in England, Betty
Driver says she could hardly tear herself
away from her three poodles. Great dog-
lovers, the English.
☆ tfr
Among the season’s many attractive
white hats is Mrs. Noel Vincent’s
head-hugger trimmed with diamente-
hearted flowers. Mrs. Vincent wore
it with a black dress when she
entertained at Romano’s in honor of Mrs.
Maynard Jenour. Her other guests in-
cluded Mrs. Alan Copeland, Mrs. Lennox
Bode, Mrs. H. Hardy and Mrs. Norman
Hill.
☆ ☆ ☆
Thirty English model gowns in nylon
are to be given their world-premiere at
the mannequin-parade for Legacy set
down for Princes on 28th of this month.
The designers of these dresses include
Hardy Amies (who designs for the
Queen), John Cavanagh, Frederick Starke,
Susan Small and Teddy Tinling. The
materials are all from the West Cumber-
land Mills, whose manager, Mr. Miki
Sekers, has come to Australia for the
presentation. These materials show the
advances made in nylon, which has been
made to resemble tweeds and brocades in
opaque, heavier weaves. Two model
dresses and three dress-lengths may be
won at the parade, when the models will
be Judy Barraclough, Barbara Martin,
Margot Brickhill and Diana Andrews.
The hats will be by Stella Fraenkel.
☆ ☆ ☆
Latest district to identify itself with a
flower is Hunter’s Hill, which is to hold a
gladioli show in November. Mr. H. N.
Sarina, of the Royal A. S. Horticultural
Club, thinks that the show will be one
of the most colorful floral exhibitions
ever held in Sydney and will eventually
rank with the jacaranda, cherry-blossom,
and lilac festivals of Grafton, Orange and
Goulburn.
MCLECUBNE'
The Aide-de-camp in Waiting, on
behalf of his Excellency the Governor-
General, has issued invitations for a
reception at Government House, Mel-
bourne, on the evening of November 4.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the second reception given by the
Administrator, Sir Charles Lowe, and
Lady Lowe, at Government House, the
hostess received her guests wearing a blue
silk frock lightly etched with black under
a fitting black lightweight wool coat and
topped with a small black hat. Guests
included the Lord Mayor, Cr. R. H. Solly,
and Mrs. Solly, who wore a black-and-
green faille frock with a black hat; Sir
Frank and Lady Beaurepaire, her choice
being a black suit with matching hat;
U.S. Consul-General Henry E. Stebbins
and Mrs. Stebbins, Consul-General for
the Netherlands Col. F. H. Wright and
Mrs. Wright; Consul for Switzerland, M.
Paul-Emile Cattin, and Mrs. Cattin; the
Trade Secretary for Canada, Roy Blake,
and his wife; Major S. R. Jensen and
Mrs. Jensen, of N.Z,; Wing-Commander
and Mrs. Brecken, also of N.Z.
* ☆ ☆
St. John’s, Toorak, was the setting for
the wedding of Pamela Drane, youngest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. F. Cunning-
ham, East Malvern, and formerly of
Echuca. Her white figured organdie
gown had the oval neckline filled in with
white chiffon to match the full sleeves.
An organdie band held the finger-tip tulle
veil in place, and she carried lily-of-the-
valley in a silver filigree holder. Matron-
of-honor was the bride’s sister, Mrs.
Derek Caughey, and bridesmaid was Faye
Prossor, of Echuca. Both wore white
marquisette ballerina frocks, tiny pale-
green faille boleros and tiny white cloche
hats, and carried sprays of white orchids.
The bridegroom was John Gooch, elder
son of Mrs. E. M. Mitchellhill, ofjvan-
hoe, and the late Mr. R. N. Mitchellhill.
John Douglas, of Moulamein, was best
man and L. N. McKindlay, of Echuca,
groomsman. Reception was at the home
of the bride’s parents.
clothes for Elizabeth Bergner, Madge
Elliott, June Clyde and Sonia Dresdel.
Peril (who is married and has a daughter,
four-year-old Valli Mar go re tie) swims,
dances and cultivates orchids for relaxa-
tion. She is a life-member of (he Deaf,
Dumb and Blind Institute and raises funds
each year for it by staging a fashion-
show. Picture by John Warlow.
Gifted young designer Florence Ray-
mond supplied the lovely clothes dis-
played at the dinner-dance held at the
Australia in aid of Prince Henry’s
Hospital and the Astra Orchestral Society.
Designed for Royal Tour functions, the
gowns, of lace, tulle, organza and
organdie, were impressive for the em-
broideries of sequins, rhinestones and
silver and gold beads. One very bouffant
gown of lilac ombre organza had narrow
white guipure lace at intervals from hern
to the- edging on the strapless bodice. An
emerald-green tulle strapless gown with
an immense skirt had large roses made
from the material draped across the
bodice and trailing on to the skirt. “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,” a gown of pale-
citron organza, had large white daisies
outlining the strapless top and on the
skirt. A full-skirted white tulle gown
had a bodice of silver lace, with lace
appliqued in panels on the skirt.
Mrs. Frank Tait, wearing diamente-
trimmed black faille, opened the parade.
President of the Council of Auxiliaries for
Prince Henry’s, Mrs. W. K. Burnside,
wore bronze-and-green-shot taffeta. Mrs.
Felix Harber, one of the ticket-secretaries,
was in pale-champagne satin ; the other,
Mrs. G. Nesbet, in black floral satin.
Mrs. John Warlow’s frock was of orchid-
pink satin with an overdress of black
Chantilly lace, Mrs. Les Sangster’s of
ice-blue satin. Mrs. Ray Chapman’s
nylon tulle gown was eau de Nil. Smoke-
grey tulle, sparkling with sequins, was
Mrs. Geoff Brewer’s choice. Mrs, Keith
Krohn wore white satin patterned in
green and Parma-violets, Mrs. A. G.
Warner pale-lilac laces.
☆ ft ft
Dreary weather was responsible for
the back-to-winter dressing for the Caul-
field Cup. Grey, black and junior-navy
were popular for suits, many of which
carried braid and velvet on collars and
pockets. Hats were of all varieties;
beret, platter, shells and bonnets.
American flags flew in honor of U.S.
Vice-President Richard M. Nixon and
Mrs. Nixon, who arrived with U.S. Am-
bassador Amos J. Peaslee, and Mrs. Peas-
less, and the wife of the Premier, Mrs.
John Cain. Mrs. Nixon’s black-and-
white silk-tweed suit had the jacket
fastened with buttons of the material
ringed with gold; her tiny black hat was
of polished straw. Mrs. Peaslee’s rust-
toned wool suit was worn with a match-
ing hat. Mrs, Gain’s black suit had
jacket-re vers of braided velvet to match
her small bonnet hat.
A pale-grey suit' and small black-
trimmed white hat was worn by Mrs.
Norman Robinson. Mrs. Ken McCean
wore a dyed-ermine cape over her black
suit. Lady Disney’s suit of silver-grey
Bedford cord had for company a small
matching bonnet. Lady Wales wore a
black ensemble, Mrs. Harry Way a blue-
and-white-checked suit which had
sapphire-blue velvet on collar and revers.
Mrs. Ray Joseph’s tailored suit was of
fine grey tweed, her small pillbox of
turquoise-blue velvet.
' ft ft ft
At the Delphic dinner-dance in aid of
the Isobel Henderson -.Free Kindergarten
guests were received, in the absence of
the president, Lady Grim wade, by the
vice-presidents, Mrs, Ross Grey Smith,
wearing black, velvet, and Miss Wyn
Kellow, in black faille. Lady Snow
wore deep-blue tulle over pale-blue satin,
Mrs. Lionel Grimwade soft grey nylon.
Mrs. lan Miller’s short frock was of black
organdie embroidered with sprays of
white wattle. Mrs. Keble Johnson chose
black-printed, sea-green chiffons, Mary
Barr black chiffon embroidered in a white
flower motif. Mrs. Edward Campbell wore
black Chantilly lace over pink taffeta.
Mrs. Bruce Rose’s tulle was smoke-grey,
Sally Hardman’s dark-grey tulle gown
had an allover design in metallic thread.
☆ ft ft
The engagement has been announced
of Carolyn Mary, youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Buxton, of Armadale,
to Dr. John D. Stoney, only son of Mrs.
D. J. Stoney, of St. Kilda. Marriage
will take place next year, when Carolyn's
two sisters, Mrs. Ross Batten and Mrs.
John Teague, will be her attendants. Her
future home will be in Albury (N.S.W.),
where Dr. Stoney has been since his
graduation last year. Engagement-ring
is one large diamond with diamond
shoulders ; the engagement was celebrated
with a family dinner-party at the home
of Carolyn’s parents.
ft ft ft
Roses and cherry-blossom formed the
decorations when Claridge’s had a gala-
night to celebrate its eighth birthday.
Every woman guest received a silk hand-
kerchief embossed with Claridge’s crest,
and lights were dimmed as waiters in
procession brought in the lighted birthday
cakes, one .for each table. Mrs. Walter
Ebstein, who entertained a small party,
wore a short bouffant white tulle gown,
the strapless bodice covered with black
Chantilly lace. Her guests were Mrs.
Race Godfrey and Mrs. Athol Shmith.
Dr. and Mrs. J. E. Shilliday were accom-
panied by their daughter Wanda and
Bruce Nelson. Mrs. Robert Lane’s party
included her daughter Mrs. Charles Lane
and daughter-in-law Mrs, Robert Lane,
Junior.
☆ ft ft
Mrs. Philip Dare wore black tulle, Mrs.
C. Curtain japonica-pink jersey, Mrs. D.
Lumsden teamed a navy faille skirt with
a white guipure lace blouse; the strap-
less bodice of Mrs. Arthur Sayers’s white
faille frock was beaded.


I ladiA Bwqfefeit IHuMtaf to/
\V2» rtf**.
S-i
■
w
GEORGE FOSTER
AUNT JENNY
Here’s a novel new
radio quiz, based on
your musical favorites,
with Wilbur Kentwell
and Glenn Marks to
play them and a talented
guest artist to sing them.
And there’s easy money
to be won, too, by both
contestants AND listen-
ers. Make a date to
listen this week via your
member station of the
Macquarie Broadcasting
Service.
:::
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN • 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
The Macquarie Broadcasting Service
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Margaret Coen’s Flower
Paintings
Margaret Coen’s exhibition of
flowerpieces at the Moreton Gal-
leries, Brisbane, is a brilliant one
in several ways—in the number
of excellent paintings it holds ;
in the richly brilliant profusion
of flowers and colors ; in the
fine watercolor technique ; and,
indeed, in the attitude of the
artist herself to her painting.
The first, most striking thing,
of course, is the flowers them-
selves : iris, magnolias, crab-
apple, daffodils, anemones, jon-
quils, daisies, lilies, carnations,
tulips, azaleas, petunias, ranun-
culi, hydrangeas, camellias,
geraniums and *a dozen others
all superbly massed and ren-
dered in a blaze of rich, living
color.
But there is more here than
colorful profusion. Flowers, in
their charming errancy, rarely
have an ungraceful line about
them, and yet how often is that
errant grace lost in the formality
of one kind of “artistic arrange-
ment” or another. And that is
one of the secrets of Margaret
Coen’s flower-paintings her
ability to see and record
the perfect harmonies in the
apparently wayward lines and
colors of Nature.
Perhaps it is less a skill than
a gift—an unconfused honesty
of approach. Clarity of purpose
and execution, one of the
almost forgotten virtues of art,
is here confirmed with refresh-
ing and spectacular success, both
in the graceful drawing and in
a bold and forthright use of
color that acknowledges flowers
for the beautiful things they are.
That strong and brilliant use
of color could be disastrous were
it not for the technique that
backs it up. Clear transparent
washes with flecks of white
showing through give the colors
a lightness and luminosity that
are characteristic of Margaret
Coen’s work and preserve at
once the flashing colors and
varying and delicate degrees of
translucence of things as fragile
as flower-petals.
Altogether it is one of the best
exhibitions of flower-paintings
seen for years. Two landscapes
—“White Sallies” and “Hilltop,”
a lovely, airy view of gums
reaching into a sky of light and
clouds —suggest that an exhibi-
tion of those would be equally
interesting.
* ❖ *
The members of the Mel-
bourne Society of Women
Painters, holding their fourth
annual show at the Athenaeum,
repeat for the most part the
time-honored conventions that
have served them in the past, but
there are a few who show a
spirit of exploration. Of such
is Lesley Sinclair, whose “Spring
Morning at Kew,” a subtle piece
of landscape - painting, and
“Souvenir of April,” a still-life
with quince and blossom, have
the freshness and liveliness of
Nature. Margaret Benwell’s
“Schiaparella” is a good sou-
venir of a lush Italian landscape,
though her brilliant blues
and yellows would be better for
some of the tone which Aileen
Dent gets into her “Afternoon
Light.” The head is well handled
in Esther Paterson’s portrait of
Dorothy Gilsham.
* ❖ ❖
Evelyn Baxter’s exhibition at
the Sedon Galleries, Melbourne,
looks like selling out. Her
meticulously painted rhododen-
drons, magnolias, fuchsias,
daphnes and various species of
camellias would probably be
more interesting to a florist than
to an artist, but in some of her
work she is seeing deeper, and
in “Early Spring Bunch” she
gives some of the tender quality
of spring flowers.
❖ *> ❖
Clifford Last, at the Peter
Bray Gallery in Melbourne,
gives abstract form to a variety
of materials ranging from blue-
gum, silky-oak, almond-wood
and silver-poplar to sassafras,
Tasmanian-myrtle, New Guinea-
walnut and alabaster, but he will
have to indulge in a lot more
contemplation of Nature if he is
to make his abstract forms live.
Stage and Music
Britten Cantata
With a prolonged thunder-
storm improvising tympani-rolls,
lightning flashing behind the
great window of Sydney Uni-
versity’s Great Hall, the audi-
ence at the University’s Pro
Musica Society’s annual summer
concert could well experience
the feeling of John Taverner’s
(1495-1545) Mass, written as
variations on the song “The
Westron Wynde”:—
Westron Wynde, when wilt thou blow,
The small rayne down doth rayne.
Cryste yf my love were in my arrays
And I yn my bed againe.
Conducted by John D.
Gordon, the small choir, unac-
companied except by the storm,
showed that there were no
Enigmas about Taverner’s Varia-
tions ; as the lovely, difficult old
music kept them nodding vigor-
ously to keep true proportion,
the tune turned and returned
like the pattern of an old piece
of silk. Then there were three
motets, by Byrd, Morley and
Tallis Morley irrepressibly
graceful and cheerful, although
one detected the words
“Domine” and “misericordias”
in the singing.
Before this the full choir with
organ and orchestra, under
Peter Platt, had performed Pup-
cell’s anthem for the coronation
of 'James 11, the singing of the
verse, “Hearken, O Daughter,”
very soft and delicate; and the
conclusion, “Praise the
L0rd..,..” full of strength and
power. The orchestra had its
moment in John Ireland’s “Con-
certino Pastorale,” the first
movement, an eclogue, showed
that, when English musicians set
out for the Mediterranean of
Daphnis and Chloe, they seldom
get beyond Paris. The second
movement, the “Threnody,”
whatever its origins, was most
moving and beautiful music;
and the whole was finely played
by the string orchestra under
Professor Peart, who gave it that
certainty of style and phrase
which is so often absent from
Australian efforts to present new
music.
The main business of the even-
ing was a first Australian per-
formance of Benjamin Britten’s
cantata, “St. Nicolas,” written
in 1948 for the centenary of
Lancing College, Sussex ; a work
of the utmost brilliance, for
tenor solo, mixed chorus, semi-
chorus of boys, piano duet,
organ, percussion and strings.
Indeed, the gay waltz, to which
the chorus sings of the birth of
the saint, with its rattle of per-
cussion, and a child piping,
somewhat stridently, from the
organ-loft; and the section
describing his journey to Pales-
tine, with its superb evocation
of a shipwreck, the choir shout-
ing with terror, and the choir-
boys above keening like the
wind, have an immediacy of
effect which justifies the pro-
gramme-reference to Britten’s
“genius.” The whole piece is
full of that ability to see things
newly which enables Britten to
write modern marches and
dances into the conventional
sombre pattern of the cantata ;
there are also, alas, the jack-in-
the-box tricks of having choir-
boys come down the aisle, sing-
ing, and the audience join in
hymns ; put in with such power-
ful music as the “Nicolas in
Prison” section and “The Death
of Nicolas” they tend to spoil
the picture.
From the fine, still, effortless
solos of Mr. Archie Hamilton,
and a word dropped here and
there by the chorus, one got the
general drift of the story ; but
the incident of “Nicolas and the
Pickled Boys” escaped us com-
pletely. No one ever expects to
know what a choir is singing,
and the libretto was too much
for even the University to put on
a programme, though they
loaded the audience with an
itemised programme, five pages
of closely-typewritten notes and
the printed words of the hymns
—as usual, the best bob’s worth
of programme in Sydney. No
doubt the intriguing matter of
the “Pickled Boys” will be-
come plain at some later per-
formance. Meanwhile, this first
Australian performance con-
ferred great credit upon choir,
soloist, the St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral choristers, their master and
organist, Mr. Kenneth Long, the
orchestra and on Professor Peart,
the conductor. More and more
we find that whoever goes to
Sydney University to learn some-
thing unusual about music will
not be disappointed.
*S*
Brahms-Wagner Festival
In Brisbane the orchestral
season is dying in a blaze of
glory with a short festival of
Brahms and Wagner. The heroic
spirit being an essential element
in great drama, no composer is
better able than Wagner to lift
his hearers into a world of
splendor and majesty. Sir
Bernard Heinze’s programmes
temper Wagner’s passion with
the earthier romanticism of
Brahms.
At the first concert Brahms’s
Academic Festival Overture had
the right amount of drollery and
dignity proper to academic occa-
sions. The Second Symphony
gained in excitement from a very
taut, intense performance, but
lacked geniality.
Time has been kind to Harold
Williams’s voice, heard in a
masterly “Wotan’s Farewell.”
The world-weariness and pathos
of the old god were most mov-
ingly sung and acted. Sir
Bernard shaped beautifully the
orchestral part and presented a
most vivid picture of the magic
fire.
♦ ❖ ❖
“Thanks for the Memory”
Melbourne Princess is present-
ing good old-fashioned vaude-
ville, “Thanks for the Memory,”
with Jim Gerald and George
Wallace as stable companions.
There are also sundry mature
female stars of the radio singing
in the strangest voices the sort of
ditty that made our grandmas’
bosoms tremble; there are
jugglers, tap-dancers and a Sun-
kist ballet; and they are filling
the Princess better than the opera
and the ballet.
Although a] good half of the
show is an undisguised advertise-
ment (in the shape of a Caval-
cade of Fashion) for a well-
known firm of Bourke-street
haberdashers, the public is so
inured by the radio wizards to
having its entertainment served
up with toothpaste and some-
body or other’s headache-
powders that it takes no um-
brage even when leather goods
and sheet-metal manufacturers
get a look-in.
*t* ❖ ❖
Illness has forced Joy Nichols
to drop out of the current Tiv.
show, “Take It From Me,” and
she has been replaced by Betty
Driver, an import from Eng-
land with a bagful of exuberant
songs and antics. Otherwise it’s
still the same excellent show as
was reviewed here a few weeks
ago.
❖ ❖ ❖
Mosman Musical Society is
currently offering “Maid of the
Mountains” at Mosman Town
Hall. A few moths flew out on
the opening night, but she’s still
the same old girl and love still
finds a way. Betty Parsons fills
the Town Hall to overflowing
with her singing; Keith God-
dard is a handsome bandit
chief ; and Terry O’Keefe, Gay-
nor Mitchell and Edwin Pfeiffer
touch-in the comedy. Len (Jot-
ting’s production hasn’t a hitch
in it.
Talkies
“From Here to Eternity”
(Sydney State): With some
necessary emendations to get it
past the censor, James Jones’s
novel of American Army life in
Hawaii just before and after the
Japs struck at Pearl Harbor has
been transcribed for the screen
very successfully.
The cast is just about perfect.
Philip Ober is the vicious cap-
tain who, surrounding himself
with boxer-n.c.o.s, persecutes the
private who refuses to join his
boxing troupe; Montgomery
Clift is Prewitt, the persecuted
one, the individualist who refuses
to be broken; Burt Lancaster is
the tough but decent top-
sergeant with contempt for his
officer but a different regard for
the officer’s neglected wife;
Deborah Kerr and Donna Reed,
the two women; and Frank
Sinatra is surprisingly good as
the carefree, bibulous Maggio.
“The Band Wagon” (Sydney
Liberty); A slap-up musical in
color in M.-G.-M.’s most
polished style. The story —
about show-business —derives its
strength from the pungency of
its satire on theatrical geniuses
as well as from the lavish musi-
cal and ballet offerings.
Fred Astaire reappears after
a long spell out to grass, nimble
as of yore and peddling his
brand of whimsicality with easy
assurance. His partner is Cyd
Charisse, a gifted dancer who
can turn without effort from
classical ballet to hoof-’n’-croon.
But the show is stolen by Jack
Buchanan, whose portrayal of
a neurotic, fast-talking, highly
volatile producer who insists on
changing a simple story into a
Faustian soul-struggle is a bril-
liant piece of pure nonsense.
“Latin Lovers” (Sydney St.
James): A diverting comedy
about a multi-millionairess who
finds its hard to make up her
mind whether or not to marry a
multi-millionaire. She follows
him to a business conference in
Rio de Janeiro, where a Brazilian
with original ideas about women
steps into the picture.
The Rio settings, in color,
are pleasing, and the dressing is
something out of the box. Lana
Turner, Ricardo Montalban and
John Lund work out the Eucli-
dian problem, and Louis Calhern
turns in a tiptop job as a very
gay and chivalrous Brazilian
grandfather.


You're wrong Delaney
By BANT SINGER
CHAPTER 111
THERE’S fifteen hotels. The
Enterprise looks my size,
The man in the bar takes
ten of my forty deeners
as a deposit on room rent and
gives me a key and shoves a
register at me and pokes a pen
in my hand and goes back serv-
ing drinks.
There’s a Woolworth’s just
across the road, and I get a
cheap razor and a brush and
soap and some cigarettes and
I’m down to twenty-two-and-six
when I go back to the room,
That’s not a big bank, but it’s
enough for what I got in mind,
and I lock the door and peel
everything off and pull down
the blind and hit that bed hard.
I don’t have no pictures in my
mind, except a lot that don’t
make sense, and pretty soon I’m
asleep. Because the sleep I got
in the cage wasn’t worth writing
home about.
Around five in the afternoon
I come out of it. Lying there on
the bed, with the light dim be-
cause it’s winter and nearly sun-
set time, and it’s warm in the
blankets, I get to feeling good
and ready to eat. So pretty
soon I slip my pants on—not
having pyjamas or robe—and go
shave myself and take a shower
and put on my clothes. Across
the street there’s a cafe and I
take in a plate of steak and eggs.
I got about two hours before
the pool-rooms come to life, so
I put a cigarette in my face and
take a look at this Black Springs
town. You want to work a
town you got to know why it’s
a town.
It’s no different from a lot of
other towns I been in. There’s a
main street about a half-mile
long, with shops on both sides
and electrics in standards along
the kerbs and some strung up
over the road. Everything ex-
cept the cafes and milk-bars is
closed up. The big shops got
their windows lighted. Two or
three streets branch off the
main with shops in them, but
pretty soon the shops fade out
and then you got houses and
some churches and maybe three
or four schools and some little
parks. Up at the north end of
the main street I come to the
railway-station where there’s
some buses and taxis and pri-
vate cars waiting, and I see wool
and sacks of wheat and flour,
and quarry-stones and lumber
stacked on a goods-siding. So
there’s sheep and wheat out
around, and a quarry somewhere
and a flourmill, and a sawmill
and a forest.
It’s downhill from the rail-
way-station along the main
street, and you follow it down,
past the shops, you come to a
bridge over a little creek, with
willows and pines and acacias
and flower-beds, with lawns in
another little park, and a bowl-
ing-green. Farther down, after
some more houses and side-
streets running off, there’s a river
called the Diamond, but no
diamonds, only the bridge where
the main street runs over and
turns into a country road. Down
right of the bridge is a sawmill
w ith a bit of a wharf and
lumber-barges and a toy paddle-
boat to drag ’em up and down,
1 hang over the bridge-rail
anc i smoke another cigarette
ar, d what it means is there’s a
! ot of P eo P } e got nice, tight little
J obs in this Black Springs, and
a lot °f fellows got nice, tight
little businesses, and maybe
three-four big-shots like owning
the sawmill and the flourmill,
Somebody lives in them big
houses along the river, and what
means is where you have all
that you got fellows willing to
bet and money to do it with, and
you’re smart you get your share
of it. This Black Springs is dead
sure to have a bunch of bookies
and ivory-rollers and pool-room
runners taking their share, but
you’re careful there’s always
ro °m for another if they don’t
gang-up on you. Maybe they
wouldn’t have time to gang on
me, because I got to get it quick,
When you got to be quick you
act mighty sudden. Maybe they
wouldn’t have time to gang, be-
cause any time this Detective
Keough feels like it he can reach
out and gather me in.
I don’t like this Black Springs
or the police or the set-up, and
I got Martini hanging over me,
and what I ought to do is go on
up that country road and keep
going in the night. Only all I got
is twenty shillings and two feet,
and they got telephones and cars,
and it’s settled country, and I
wouldn’t get ten miles before
dawn. By now they got the
hotels and boarding-houses cased
to know where I’m at, and first
thing in the morning I’m there,
legitimately in my bed, or the
telephones and cars go to work,
So I go off the bridge by the
Diamond River and walk up the
street, under the lights, and
there’s people going to the
movies or to visit or some place,
and buses coming from the rail-
way-station. It’s a cold night,
and I got no overcoat. So I see
a pool-room I go in, and there’s
a, few playing pool and some
others round a centre fireplace
in the long wall. I sit on a
bench near the fife and wait, be-
cause what I’m there for won’t
start for an hour or two.
It’s better in there than out
in the cold street, a hell of a lot
better than in the cage. Pretty
soon the room starts to fill, and
the noise of talking and the
markers calling the play, and
feet shuffling, and coughing, is
the way I like it, because there’s
noise and a crowd a stranger
gets by. It gets warm from the
crowd and the heat from the
fire, and you get the smells from
tobacco and stale grog and dirty
shirts, and the smoke gathers in
the bright circles under the
shaded lights hanging over the
pool-tables. So there’s shadow
back from the lights, along the
benches, and you’re a stranger
you get by some more.
There’s a fat man with a coat
up round his ears sits by me and
says, “How is it?”
“Not bad,” I give him. “Cold
outside.”
“Yair,” he says. He’s looking
about the room. He don’t know
me and he don’t want to talk.
But somebody’s got to talk for
me to get the good oil.
“Fair crowd here,” I say.
“Yair.” He hunches himself
and I can hear him breathing
heavy, him being fat and in the
big coat and the room warm. He
don’t look like he works with his
hands.
“Any Murrum here?” I ask,
coming at what I want to know.
He turns and looks at me,
and it looks like I’m talking to
a pig, because of the fat and
the round nose and the little
eyes. I see the wheels turning
over slow in his mind and he’s
wondering who I am and what
I’m after.
“Not much here,” he says.
“Down at Swissen’s there’s a
bit.” He leans across me and
says to a boy on the other side
of me, “You playin’ at Swissen’s
tonight, Syd?”
This Syd is one of them thin
boys with a pointed face and
long hands. He turns to look
at the fat man and I see his
mouth. He’s a pushover for
anybody.
“Might,” he tells Fat.
I watch a pool game. All I
got to do is wait for Fat or Syd
to walk out and go with them.
They’re going to Swissen’s, all
right; they don’t have to tell me
in real words. I run into plenty
of Fat and Syd in my time ;
they keep the bookies and ivory-
rollers and spielers in goose-
berry-jam and houses at the
right end of town. I give my-
self six-to-four that Fat and
Syd been in Black Springs all
their lousy little lives, just like
all the Fats and Syds been all
their lives in all the Black
Springs towns. I got to get in
a Murrum game and I got to
get my hands on the bottle for
a few throws, and I got to do it
tonight, because I got to stay in
this Black Springs I aim to live
easy.
I didn’t shoot Martini, but
I’m stuck with it till Keough
gets another line. Maybe it was
Peters or one of them women ;
maybe it was Nugget and I’m
paying-off for Nugget; maybe
it’s someone else. Because
Peters takes a powder they let
up on me and I don’t know the
next move, except I got to get
my hand on the Murrum bottle
at Swissen’s. So it lies with Fat
and Syd, only they don’t know
it. So I watch the pool games
and wait.
Fat stands up and sort of un-
does himself and gives out a
sigh like he’s tired. Then he
buttons the coat again, shoves
his hands in his pockets and
heads for the street. I’m right
on his rear bumper and the cold
at the door cuts me sharp.
“Coin’ to Swissen’s?” I make
it easy like.
“Yuh. Bit dead in here.” He
jerks his fat head back at the
room. I get it that he wants me
to know that he’s used to a hot
game and quicker bets. So I
know it. What I know is that
Fat never made a big bet in his
life because the local bookies
and pool-runners see that he’s
never got enough for a big bet.
But Fat’s my meat for Swissen’s,
so I’m his brother in cunning
and make like him and me is pals.
“How’s the job?” I ask.
He tells me. He’s a checker in
a egg-house. That’s where they
take the eggs in from the farmers
and pack ’em and send ’em out
to the stores. Fat gives me a
long moan about what a drip
the boss is and Fat ought to get
more for what he does and he’d
had better offers and would take
one if they weren’t careful and
that would show them. He’d
like to see them checking with-
out him, by God. I let him talk,
because I’m his pal, and pre-
sently I got to wise him that
he’s my sidekick in the Murrum
game.
You play this Murrum with
the pool marbles. In pools they
shake marbles round in a leather
bottle and throw them out one
a time to each player. The
marble gives the player his place
in snooker and Kelly pool, and
in Kelly and devil’s pool they
shake them and feed them out
twice, and the second marble
you get has the number you play
to. That’s legitimate.
Murrum’s not legitimate. The
marbles are numbered one to
twenty-four. It’s a straight
gamble. You make an ante,
maybe a shilling, maybe twc
shillings, maybe a dollar a head
You got twenty-four players the
man gets twenty-four marble
takes the pool, less some for the
marker. You got less than
twenty-four players, highest
marble takes the money, less the
marker’s cop. There’s side bets,
too. You back your marble
against somebody else. That’s
aside from the pool.
It’s not legitimate, like I said.
The police jump in and you’re all
fined ; that’s how Keough’s boys
got me in this Black Springs
first off. There’s a set-up. The
players take billiard-cues and
stand round the table. There’s
balls on the table like you just
finished a legitimate pool. The
marker collects the ante, shakes
the bottle, rolls out the marbles.
The cues used, but the
police come they got to be quick
or you’re just getting your
marbles in a legitimate pool.
Murrum is slick. You play
forty games in an hour, maybe,
which makes it a good thing for
the marker, because he wins
something every game. But a
marker gets in bad with the
police they close his room. So
you got to be careful if you’re
running a room. Most markers
sit a guard near the door to
watch for police. They’re wise
they lock the door in back of
the room and they don’t start
Murrum till late at night, about
an hour or two before closing-
time.
The marker has a routine. He
calls for players, gets the
marbles in, drops them in the
bottle, shakes the bottle, stands
it upright on the table, slaps
the cloth twice with his palm to
show there’s no funny business,
then covers the bottle and deals
out the marbles.
You practise like me you
learn how to palm the marble
you want, slap the table with it
still in your mitt, shake the
bottle and deal that marble to
whoever you want. You got to
have some patter and be good
with your hand or you get your
slats kicked in. I got the patter
and I’m good with my hand and
I got Fat for a rammer.
So we walk along the cold
street and I say, “Wonder if
she’ll be a big game?”
“Aw, no. She’s generally a
two-deener pop.”
Two deeners was Fat’s size.
What does he think I am?
“Oh, well,” I bait the hook,
“you play well you do well at
two deeners a pop.”
Fat gives a bit of a laugh.
“Play well!” he wheezes.
“Only way you play Murrum
well is when you’re lucky in the
marbles.”
“Aw, I dunno. There’s ways.”
We walk ten yards before he
gets it.
“Ways?”
“Two chaps know their way
about they can do well at
Murrum.”
“Yeah?”
Fat stops and fishes in his coat
and gets some cigarettes. He
gives me one and puts a match
to his own. He wants to look
at me. Under my eyes I see his
little eyes looking me over.
Then I look up and straight at
him.
“Yeah!” I say.
He stares at me and I see his
mind asking questions. But his
mind is Jiungry, too. He could
use some dough, could Fat, and
he’s thinking maybe this is a
way to get it. But he’s going to
feel his way.
“You been here long?” he be-
gins.
“No, got here last night. I’m
at the Enterprise.”
We’re walking slow now, be-
cause Fat wants time to see
where he’s going.
{Continued on page 22)
For Those Who Missed
the Opening Instalment
Denis Delaney (who tells this
story in his own way) is picked
up by the Black Springs police
in a routine raid on a billiard-
room. He had got there from
St. Kilda, over 300 miles away,
where he was wanted in connec-
tion with the shooting of a night-
club proprietor named Con Mar-
tini: Interrogated by Det.-Sgt.
Keough, Delaney denies the
shooting, but refuses to reveal
his reasons for being in Black
Springs. Keough puts him in a
cell for the night, expecting he
will be charged with murder.
Delaney reveals to the reader
that he himself believes Martini
was shot by Fred (Nugget)
Coombe in a row over a night-
club singer, Lily, whom Delaney
loves. Coombe and Delaney
were A.I.F. comrades in New
Guinea, where Coombe rescued
the wounded Delaney under
fire and saved his life. He be-
lieves he owes Coombe some-
thing, and, discovering the mur-
der and assuming Coombe as the
perpetrator, clears out in the
hope that the police will concen-
trate on him, and that Coombe
will thus get time tp get away.
Delaney admits to Keough that
he had a dispute with Martini
some days before the murder,
and that he had to knock out
Peters, whom he believes to be
Martini's partner. Then it is dis-
covered that Peters is missing,
and Keough, for reasons of his
own, releases Delaney, but tells
him not to leave Black Springs
and to report every day.
Delaney decides he can get
money there without working for
it, and promises the place that
shortly he’ll be “looking it
straight in the pocket.”


%
The Chisel tvith
a Difference I
can see and feel the difference in a Titan Wood Chisel,
me gleaming, forged tool steel blade with its promise
of superb edge-holding qualities, the handsome hardwood
handle, the inherent strength and balance of a fine
chisel . . . these are qualities that come only from the
best in materials and workmanship.
And you know you are getting the best, because
every Titan Chisel is guaranteed against defects
in workmanship and materials. Only Titan
Chisels carry this guarantee proof of their
outstanding quality and value.
Furthermore, they are more economical.
Titan Chisels cost no more, and their
keen, long-lasting cutting edges, strength
and balance help you do a better job
quicker.
You save every way with Titan
Chisels . . . guaranteed, fine,
forged tools made by Aus-
tralians for Australians.
Write today to Dept. B,
P.O. Box 86A , Melbourne ,
for your free illustrated
Titan Catalogue.
Strength
to Spare
;v. >
#1
T
mm
r
■
B
■
:
Forged from
B.H.P. Steel
Every Titan Chisel blade
is genuinely forged tool
steel, processed from
B.H.P. special steel.
Expertly hardened and tempered
blades with a Rockwell C Scale
hardness rating of 59-61, ensur-
ing a keen, fracture-resisting
edge.
Handles of specially selected and
seasoned hardwood, finished with three
coats of clear lacquer.
Strengthening and protective ferrules of bright
drawn seamless steel tube.
Constant control of every manufacturing stage and
rigid factory tests guarantee the quality and work-
manship of your Titan Chisel.
Every Vi tan Chisel is GMJA.EA.WEEEE
and trill he replaced free if found
faulty in material or workmanship
See the full range
of Titan Chisels at your hardware store
MADE
AT HOBART, TASMANIA, BY THE TITAN MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.


“Uh-huh. Got a job here?”
“No. But that don’t worry
me. I’ll manage.”
We walk a little way.
“How you mean there’s ways?
About Murrum?”
“I run a pool-room myself
once.”
“Ah.” He gives a dirty laugh
and says “I always reckon a
marker ain’t on the level.”
He got “on the level” from
the movies. That’s all right with
me. He feeds on movies he’s my
meat.
“Well, markers has got to
live.* I laugh back at him.
“You get caught in funny
business the mob’ll do you over,”
he says.
“That’s for mugs, getting
caught.”
We walk some more and' he
don’t talk. Like this we’ll be at
Swissen’s before I get him in.
“Listen,” I say. “Them
players is out for your money
and mine, see? Well, we work
it right we get the money.”
“How you work it?”
“I’ll work it. You want to be
in it?”
He thinks it over.
“I’ll see how she goes,” he
says. He wants to be in it, but
he’s thinking about the chances
of getting his ribs kicked in.
That’s all right' with me. All
I got to do is show him how
she goes.
We sit in Swissen’s watching
the pool games for maybe half
an hour. A lot of cue-players
drift out. I take a walk round
the room, looking at the pic-
tures of racehorses and pugs
and them from the nature maga-
zines. But what I’m looking at
is the windows, all tight. I pass
the back door and it’s locked and
no key. All right, that’s to keep
the police to the front door, but
it means my play is spotted I
got to *work fast to get out with
whole slats.
Swissen is a big blond man
looks like he can use his hands.
He don’t smile and his voice is
gentle. You watch a big man
with a gentle voice.
So they start a Murrum game
and Fat and me gets cues and
stand up by the table. Swissen
runs a quick eye on me, know-
ing I’m strange, and I look like
I been there all my life.
In six throws at two deeners
a throw Fat don’t take a trick
and I collect six deeners in side-
bets. I’m tired of this. I catch
Fat’s eyes and wink at him. His.
face goes blank.
“Got to ease my mind,” I tell
Swissen. “Where is it?”
“Out that door, on your left.”
He gives me a key. “Lock it
when you go out and when you
come back.”
I go out the door and wait a
little while, then I come back
and lock the door. Then I go
quick to Swissen and nudge him
and say, “Listen. I see a couple
of men out there. They ducked
out of sight when I came, I
called, but they didn’t answer.
There’s somebody hanging
about. Could be the Jacks.”
Everybody stops talking and
watches us. I keep my eyes off
Fat. Swissen grips the marble-
bottle and frowns.
“Look,” I say, quick. “You
know your way about out there.
Mightn’t be anything. Suppose
you take a look. Just as well to
be sure. Here” —I reach out and
get a grip on the bottle —“I’ll run
the marbles. I been a marker.
I don’t mind doing it till you
get back.”
I feel his hand on the bottle
give way.
“Thanks,” he says, “Won’t be
long.” ✓
Swissen moves to the back
door and I rattle the bottle and
catch Fat’s eye and gives him a
look. I chuck the marbles
quick. There’s fourteen players.
When the winner collects and
the marbles come back I spot
the twenty-four, palm it and
drop the rest in. They throw
their money, I shake the bottle,
slap the table, run ’em out. Fat
gets the twenty-four. I pay him
twenty-five deeners and keep
three for the marker.
, “Lucky for the others you
didn’t make no side-bets,” I says
to Fat with a laugh.
He gapes at me somebody will
wake up, so I look somewhere
else. I hear him making side-
bets, gather the marbles, work
it again. Fat gathers another
twenty-five and twenty in side-
bets. He’s got a grin all over his
silly face.
“Twice in a row is good luck,”
I tell Fat. “I’ll lay four to two
you can’t make it three.”
Some of the others thought
that was a good bet. He got
several bets against winning the
pool, made some on the side at
evens, the marbles came in and
so did Swissen. But I got ’em
out just as Swissen got to the
table, and out of that throw
Fat collected three pounds fif-
teen.
.“See anything?” I asked Swis-
sen, handing him the bottle.
“No. You must of been
dreaming,” he grunts, and takes
up the game.
There’s seven pounds five shil-
lings in Fat’s pocket and I don’t
get him out of there quick it’ll
be in somebody else’s pocket,
because he’s flushed and his pig-
eyes shining. It’s been too
sudden and too clever for Fat.
All his mind can fasten on is
the money he’s got. How he got
it don’t stick like having it.
You take a Fat and put him in
a gamble, and he gets to winning
and he only sees himself
winning, and pretty soon he
wants to punt. That money he’s
got was got through me, and I
got to stop him punting with it.
So I work round the table and
say, out loud, “How about you
and me eating?”
He’s got this flush on his fat
face and is leaning over the table
watching Swissen shake the
bottle.
“You eat,” he grunts, “Reckon
I’ll stay a while.”
There’s a place just short of
halfway between a man’s bottom
rib and his spine. You jab it
sharp he’ll bend over backwards.
I jab Fat just enough to jerk
him a little, I’m close to him
and nobody can see the jab.
He jerks and turns sudden to
look at me.
“Let’s eat,” I say, hard, and
I got my knuckles on the spot
to tell him I can jab again, real
hard, if I want.
I watch his pig-eyes and I
see him thinking. And what he’s
thinking is if he stands pat I
can’t do a thing because I make
a noise it spills the beans and
they gang on me. So what, says
Fat’s mind. And he moves
away from me and in between
two players so there’s no way
for me to come at him without
making it look there’s something
wrong
So I throw two deeners into
the pool and lean on the table
and think how to get Fat out of
there. I draw back from the
light, quiet, and go out front,
and there’s Swissen’s guard
sitting where he can see down
the passage to the door. He
looks at me and don’t say any-
thing and I get to the street. I
lean against a shop, out of the
guard’s sight, and what I got to
do is get Fat out of there.
There’s a cafe over the road
and a phone-booth outside and
I look at it and think about this
big Keough man. I drift over
to the phone-booth and find the
police number. It’s one hundred,
and I whirl the handle and the
girl asks for the number and I
make like it’s Keough’s voice.
“Gimme one double - oh,
quick! ”
She’s quick.
“Police, Black Springs.”
“Keough here. Who’s that?”
“Martin.”
I don’t know Martin. Could
be a plain street-beater or an
inspector. How would Keough
act?
“Big Murrum school at Swis-
sen’s. You’re quick you can’t
miss. I’ll watch”
“Swissen’s! We did him last
week. I thought”
You run a pool-room or a
book or a swy joint in these
Black Springs towns and you
play along you don’t get into
trouble. The Jacks raid you at
times just to show everybody
they’re not asleep and breaking
the law don’t pay, but you pay
the fine and keep quiet you’re
safe for a couple of months or
maybe six. The police know
where most of their birds are at
night while a pool-room is run-
ning ; they close a room the
birds all get in other rooms ; they
close all the rooms the birds all
get in places a lot harder to
find. So they raid you just to
keep the killjoys quiet and
there’s no harm done. Maybe
you get raided too soon after
another raid you get the boss
Jack aside and squeal and he
tells you it’s policy or some-
thing. Maybe he’s heard you
got a big take 1 and he wants a
bigger cut —if he’s that sort of
policeman. Maybe they raid
you too soon for a blind or
because of some other reason.
So Swissen was raided last
week and here was Keough
calling for another. There had
to be a reason.
“Yes, yes, I know he was done
last week. I want him hit again ;
now! That Delaney’s in there
and I want him taken there.
Get it?”
“Oh, I see. Right We’ll”
“Quick! You got to be quick.
That Delaney might walk out.”
“We’ll be quick.”
I hang up and walk quick to
the next cross-street, sprint
down it till I come to the lane
in back of Swissen’s and wait
there. In five minutes there’s
noises in the main street and
Swissen’s back door opens and
fellows dive out and run to the
back fence. It’s got a half-open
gate and holes where palings is
pulled off.
Two boys come through the
fence and race along, and then
three, and then Fat comes
through the gate and stumbles
past me. He’s blowing hard and
he turns down the cross-street
and runs away from the main.
I go after him, and it makes me
laugh to hear him wheezing, him
with his fat and the big over-
coat, so I call out, “Stop, in the
King’s name,” and Fat gives a
squeal and runs harder.
I lope along. I can catch him
when I like, but it makes me
laugh to keep him running. Be-
sides, when me and Fat get
down to business I don’t want
anybody around. So he comes
to another lane and turns into
it and I run behind him. There’s
a fence at the end, and Fat
heaves himself over it and falls
on the other side with a real
funny grunt and I fall on him.
You do commando-training
you learn to act quick. Before
Fat can move I got his hands
behind him, and holding his
wrists with my right I shove the
left into his pants pocket, feel
the notes and grab ’em. I pull
out the money and then let go
of him.
“You play around with me
you’re buying trouble,” I tell
him. He’s so winded and
scared he don’t say a thing. He
just lies there, like a big jelly, and
I can tell he’s keeping still hop-
ing I won’t hurt him again. He’s
not worth hurting, because you
hurt a man it’s because you owe
him something or he’ll hurt you
or you want to get away from
him. So I’m square with Fat
and I get over the fence and
keep out of the street lights and
go back to the main street and
dodge the excitement in front of
Swissen’s and get to the hotel.
The night-clerk looks up
when I come through the door.
“ ’Night,” I says to him.
“Pretty cold out.”
“Yair,” he says. “You been
to the pictures?”
“That’s right. Good show.
Fat man getting pushed around.”
“Oh, up at the Grand, was
you? Me, I can’t stand them
Abbott and Costello things,”
“Well, me for bed. Be seeing
you.”
He nods and I go upstairs.
You can be lucky. I didn’t
know there was a Abbott and
Costello movie in town. Weil,
that’s how it goes. In the morn-
ing I got to look up this Grand
programme and make sure. But
I know it’s a safe bet; these
hotel-clerks always know.
I shuck my clothes and get to
bed quick, because I’m tired and
what I tell the clerk about the
cold wasn’t kidding. I could of
made a telling him I was
at the movies, only for the luck
about the fat man. Poor old
Fat. You live in Black Springs
you don’t get many nights like
Fat just had. Maybe I’ll see
him tomorrow night. Maybe
Keough will be doing some talk-
ing at the police-station to-
morrow. Soon’s they tell him
about the raid there’ll sure be
some talking. Well, Keough
would have to do the best he
could. So would Fat, when he
got home and his clothes all
muddy where he fell over the
fence, and the money he thought
he had gone.
One day, maybe, I’d tell
Nugget about it. Maybe I
wouldn’t see Nugget again. May-
be this Martini rap would be
too big. Well, this was tonight
and the bed warm and money in
my pocket. Keough and Fat
and Swissen and Martin, they’d
all be talking tomorrow, but
they’d have to talk without me.
You’re in this game you’re on
your own and I don’t talk till I
have to. Maybe I’ll have to talk
about Nugget and Lily before
it’s finished. Maybe.
CHAPTER IV
TN the morning the air is sharp
and I look from my bed at
the window and see the sun and
it’s half after seven and no
hurry. Fat’s maybe hurrying to
get to his job and sorry now he
didn’t play along with me be-
cause he plays along he’s got
some money. Now I got most
of the money and he knows it,
because he thinks it over he
knows it couldn’t have been any-
body but me rolled him in the
mud last night.
So I got the money and I
never even looked at it last night.
I get out of bed and get my
pants and hold them while I get
under the blankets again, be-
cause I don’t run to pyjamas yet
and it’s too cold to stand around
in nothing. The notes are
crumpled together the way Fat
shoved ’em into his pocket and
the way I shoved ’em in mine.
There’s five single notes and two
halves and an envelope. So I
“I pull out the money and then let go of him."


8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
—TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
f
* )
You can book to almost anywhere in the
world by 8.0.A.C. Speedbird Services —
on one ticket all the way. Your 8.0.A.C.
Agent makes no charge for expert advice
and trip-planning help.
sdf
Book from Australia to INDONESIA
BURMA • THAILAND • MALAYA
HONG KONG . JAPAN . CEYLON
INDIA • PAKISTAN* MIDDLE EAST
AFRICA*EUROPE*GREAT BRITAIN
U.S.A.• CANADA* CENTRAL AND
SOUTH AMERICA* BERMUDA
n MOM
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas Empire
Airways Limited ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia).
For Post Haste without waste—use Overseas Air Mall
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND B.A.A.
A4Q/AU
got £6 and one of Fat’s
letters. The envelope has been
opened, which makes it Fat’s
and the name and address is Mr.
H. R. Baler, 24 Rankin-street,
Black Springs. So Fat is Mr.
Baler to somebody.
Somebody!
People write letters they put
their address on the top. This
one didn’t. Because you’re writ-
ing letters to people you
shouldn’t write to you don’t put
your address.
“Dearest Herman,” it starts
(so Fat is Herman), “I was
dreadfully disappointed when
you did not come to me last
night. I had prepared for a very
special evening. Richard, as I
told you in my previous note,
went to Eastern Creek and did
not return until today. We
could have had a lovely time
and I was so eager to love you.
I waited and waited and you
didn’t come. It was awfully
upsetting. You naughty boy,
you’d better have a good excuse
for not coming or I shall be very
angry. Please send me a note as
soon as you can. In the mean-
time we shall have to wait for
another opportunity, for
Richard’s movements are so un-
predictable. So until then and
waiting to hear what prevented
you from coming to me, Your
loving Elaine.”
Fat! Fat, with his pig-eyes
and slow brain and him count-
ing eggs and hanging round
pool-rooms gambling in peanuts.
Not with a woman who used
words like that. I know good
grammar and spelling when I
see it, and this was it. So was
the writing. It was the kind of
writing a girl learns in one of
those colleges where girls don’t
go unless their fathers have
plenty of dough.
So it wasn’t Fat’s letter. One
he picked up or pinched some
place. Not Fat and a woman
like that. Mister Herman Baler
couldn’t be Fat.
I sit in bed and read the
letter again and get to wonder-
ing about Richard. About him
going to this Eastern Creek for
the night and Elaine all burning
to love Herman. I start think-
ing about Elaine all burning and
waiting and I got to get out of
bed and stand in the cold.
So I cool off and sit on the
bed, and what I got to do first is
shave and get breakfast and go
report to Keough. Then I got
to find this egg-house and see
Fat and how he’s feeling. Be-
cause I want Fat tonight, in
some other room where there’s a
Murrum set-up, and I want to
make him see he plays along with
me it’ll pay him. I got to give
him some of this money and
letter and sweeten him for to-
night.
I’m in the bathroom shaving
and it comes to me that maybe
Fat is Herman and that makes
me laugh. You meet some
funny things you’re in this game,
but if Fat is Herman that would
be the funniest. Under the
shower the water hits me and I
come real alive and see how
Fat couldn’t be Elaine’s lover.
So I shower and sing “Dearest
Her-er-man, I wait for you, my
darling; Richard is gone
awa-a-ay, so come at the end of
da-a-ay,” and I think of Fat
with his pig-eyes and his wheez-
ing and I got to laugh some more.
I’m in my pants and the
over my shoulders when I go
back to my room. There’s a girl
in there with a broom and dust-
pan. She’s in a black smock
and her hair tied up in a
’kerchief.
She looks at me, and she’s
about twenty and dark-eyed and
pretty and soft-looking. So I
look at her, because I’m still
thinking about this Elaine all
burning and waiting.
“Oh,” says this girl. “I
thought you was out. I’ll come
back later.”
She’s got a real warm, soft
voice. She’s quiet, but she’s not
shy, and gives me a little smile.
Through the smock I can see
she’s small and plump, like a
little well-fed pigeon. Pouter-
pigeon.
“Don’t you worry about it,”
I say. X got a smile for girls like
her and I give it to her. “Don’t
you worry about it. You come
back in ten minutes I’ll be
dressed. What’s your name?”
“Kathy.”
She’s by the dressing-table and
she’s rather nervous and looks
away from me and she sees the
letter on the table-top where I
put it.
“Oh,” she says, like someone
stuck a pin in her. “Wasn’t
that awful about poor Mr.
Baler! ”
So she knows this Mr. Baler,
who gets letters from Elaine for
Fat to pick up.
“Why,” I says, bright and
cheerful, because it looks like
she wants me to stay and talk
to her. “What hit him?”
“He’s dead!”
“Eh?”
“He’s dead. He was found in
the backyard of Owen’s house.
Didn’t you know?”
My mouth is dry, and my
brain feels like somebody hit me
with a hammer, but I got enough
sense to get to that dressing-
table and grab up that letter.
Mister Baler! So Fat is Mr.
Baler and all that from Elaine,
and they find Fat dead in some-
body’s backyard and this Kathy
seen the envelope with his name
on it and pretty soon she’ll get to
wondering what it’s doing in my
room and if she talks —so you
got to think fast, Del, and you
got to stop this Kathy thinking.
“No. I didn’t know, I only
got in last night. I’m strange
here. How long ago was it they
found him?”
“This morning. It was just
this morning. They say he was
dead all night. Lying in the yard
all night and nobody knew. Isn’t
it terrible?”
“Yeah. Bad luck, all right.
He live at this place—what you
say it was?”
“Owen’s? Oh, no. I think
he lived up near the railway-
station. Somewhere up that
way. He didn’t live at Owen’s.
Mrs. Owens fainted dead away
when she saw him in her yard,
and they had to get the doctor
and”
She talks that way she’s not
thinking, so I let her talk. When
I guess she’s full of talk and
mighty pleased to get someone to
listen I jolt the talk. You jolt a
person when they’re pouring it
out like Kathy was their thoughts
go haywire and you got that
much time before they get to
remembering things. Right now
Kathy forgot that envelope.
“Look, Kathy, I’m standing
here in the cold. You mind
going out till I get dressed and
come and tell me about it later?”
What I got to do is get her out
and get dressed and get to
Keough. I surge in on the
police to report myself they got
no reason to look for me, and
you stop them looking for you
stops them thinking about you.
I didn’t want nobody thinking
about me this morning.
So Kathy stammers she’s sorry
and goes out and I get my
clothes on and head for the
police. I’m thinking about Fat
and Nugget and Martini and
Elaine and Kathy and Murrum
and a whole lot of things, and
there’s this envelope with Fat’s
name on it in my pocket and
they search me they find it. So
I stop and lean on a shop and
think. They find this envelope
they tie me with Fat and they
conclude how I got the enve-
lope. They’ll tie me with Fat,
all right, because they ask
around about where he was and
who he was with last night and
they come to me and him in the
pool-room. I can prove I left
the room before Fat, but I got
that envelope and I got to have a
mighty good reason for it. So
I better not have that envelope
if they search me.
There’s a public lavatory just
off the main street and I go in
there and put a penny in and
shut the door on myself. The
attendant is reading a paper in
his little office. I put the enve-
lope in the little space between
the back of Jhe cistern and the
wall and plug it with screwed-up
toilet-paper. Then I pull the
chain and wait a little and walk
out. You’re in this game you
got to watch everything, and I
want to watch this Elaine. So
I put the letter in the basin and
flush it into the sewer I got noth-
ing on her. Now I can come
back and get the envelope and
think about Elaine and this
Richard and maybe it’s good
dice. If there’s no dice I can
burn the letter any time I want,
At the police-station there’s a
cop I never see before and he
says, “Well?”
“I’m Delaney,” I tell him. “I
got to report here.”
“That’s right,” he says.
“Well,” I says, “I’m report-
ing.”
“That’s right,” be says.
“You a parrot?” I says, be-
cause these street-beaters got
nothing on me. I’m Keough’s
meat and they know it.
“I know all about you,” he
says, nasty. “Don’t get smart
with me. You’ve reported. Now
blow.”
So I blow. You don’t get any-
thing giving them lip.
In the ma i n street there’s a
newsagent selling “The Black
Springs Beacon.” It’s got a pic-
ture of Fat on the front pfge,
looking a lot younger and not
s 0 pig |j, They JL of got it
from his people. The headline
says , “Well-known Springs Man
Foim d Dead.” I lean on a post
and read the res t of it:
« A senS ation was created in
t he ear jy hours of today when
the body of Herman Robert
Baler, aged 26, a native of this
c i ty was found dead-at the rear
of premises in Argent-street.
“Mrs. Hilda Owens, of 123
Argent-street, went into her yard
just after dawn. She saw a man
i y i ng on the ground and spoke
to him. When he didn’t answer
she concluded he was drunk and
called her husband, Mr. Michael
Owens, a garage mechanic at the
Superior Service Station. Mr.
Owens discovered that the man
was dead and identified him as
Mr. Baler. Police and medical
assistance was called and the
body removed to the local
morgue. It is understood that
the coroner has ordered that an
autopsy be held. So far police
have not been able to discover
how the body came to be in
Owens’s yard. It is believed that
it had lain there several hours.
The yard was muddy and there
was mud on the deceased’s
clothing. Police would not say
whether this was the result of a
fall. Inquiries are being pur-
sued into the theory that Mr.
Baler died or was killed some-
where and the body taken to the
Owens’s yard during the night.
Except for a superficial bruise
just above the left hip there were
no external marks of violence.
“Mr. Baler, who was born in
Black Springs and had lived
here all his life, was a checker
on the egg-floor of the Pro-
ducers’ Co-operative Society. He
lived with his parents and a
sister in Railway-parade. So far
as is known Mr. Baler had no
enemies and his life was above
suspicion.”
So Fat was above suspicion,
and they’d hold an autopsy and
nobody but me and Elaine
would know about Fat and
Elaine. They’d hold an autopsy
and God knows what that could
mean for me. I’m reading about
it and I don’t know what killed
him, but I know he was alive
when he climbed the fence into
that yard and he was dead when
I fell on him and yanked the
money from his pocket. The
money and the envelope. Pretty
soon Keough and his boys
would have rounded up the pool-
players and heard about me ask-
ing Fat to eat and they’d want
to know what I knew. Well,
they could have what I knew,
except about me chasing Fat and
about the raid and about Elaine.
Nobody was going to know
about Elaine until I saw what
was in it. There was Kathy, too,
who’d seen the envelope and
might remember it—unless she
got something else to remember.
There’s any way I can blow
from this Black Springs I’d
blow. But there’s no way, with
Keough keeping tabs on me and
not enough money in my pocket
to jump a plane. Maybe I could
pinch a car and get maybe fifty-
sixty miles and go into smoke,
only I don’t know this country.
Seems to me I’m in a bad run
of luck. I blow from St. Kilda
because of Nugget and Lily and
Martini gets himself shot and
these police think I’m the pea.
Then Peters shoots through and
they’re not so sure. So they
me out of the cooler and tell me
to stay around where they cah
see me. So I got to get some
money and I go for Murrum and
pull Fat in as a rammer and Fat
has to be found dead after I run
him down and get my money
from him. Sure, I got an enve-
lope, too, but that’s all I got up
to now. I take a powder now
some other gink gets shot or falls
over a fence and croaks or some-
thing and I’m the pea some
more. So I got to stay in this
Black Springs till the bad luck
changes. I’m where the police
can see me it don’t matter who
gets killed, they can’t pin it on
me. I’m careful they won’t pin
Fat on me, neither, because I
didn’t kill Fat like I didn’t shoot
Martini, and I hope justice
isn’t stone-blind. What I got to
do is watch my step.
I’m holding the paper and
thinking about watching my step
when somebody says, “Ha, De-
laney, just the man I’m looking
for,” and there’s this Keough, all
big and fresh in the morning like
he hasn’t a worry in his head.
“I just reported up to the
station.”
“They told me. Let’s go back
there.”
“I got to report again?”
“You have. You got to report
about last night.”
“Last night?”
“It’s in the paper,” he says.
And I don’t like the way he says
it.
{To be continued next week )


Timber Chief
gives you
GRADUATED
PARALLEL*
HEIGHT
ADJUSTMENT
'//.
\
I
Hi
w
nit.
m
a
v/
POSITIVE
ADJUSTMENTS
8
through a range of 12 inches
HARGANS
“TIMBER CHIEF
l
THE MASTER OF THEM ALL
at no increase in price
tilling
Its the revolutionary Morgans chassis
elevating device that does it!
you raise or lower the chassis, on a parallel plane, through a range
of 12 ins., setting the "Timber Chief" to suit your own
height for comfortable operation.
THIS HEIGHT ADJUSTMENT ENABLES YOU TO
★ Straddle and rip logs 24 ins. in diameter.
★ Cut horizontally 12 ins. from the ground.
★ Cut branches 6-7 ft. from the ground.
WALK IT AWAY —
thanks to the "Timber Chief's" optional
self drive. Just squeeze the handle grips
and the simple, powerful HARSANS
self drive comes into play to propel
the "Timber Chief" at normal walking
speed anywhere you wish.
OTHER “TIMBER CHIEF” IMPROVEMENTS
INCLUDE:—
■B Streamlined "easi-grip" handles.
B Folding Vee leg for clearance.
B Chain stop for depth control.
B Saw blade holder.
B 21" disc wheels.
IMPROVED TUBULAR CONSTRUCTION THROUGHOUT
HARGANS OWNERS!
Convert your existing Hargans to
a "Timber Chief" at low cost. Send
for full details.
Australasian Distributors:
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
P.O. BOX 509 PHONE : BU 5095
BRANCHES : Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga & Hay
MAIL TO-DAYi
Please send me without obligation:
I Full details of
the Hargans i —i
"Timber Chief" LJ
(complete unit).
NAME.
I Details regarding
conversion of my
present Hargans to
a "Timber Chief."
□
ADDRESS.
HSI 1.155


The story of the fierce fighting
PART TWO
The Huon
Campaign
By M. H. ELLIS
THE date fixed for the inva-
sion of the Huon Peninsula
was September 4, 1943, at
precisely 6.30 a.m. The
plan was carried out to the
second. The first boats hit the
sand at exactly that time.
For landing purposes the
Ninth Division’s 15,800-odd men
were divided into three groups.
The first consisted of 7068 men,
who were to be landed in 13
waves, each a few minutes apart.
The group was made up of the
bulk of the 20th Brigade, fol-
lowed by the 26th Brigade,
artillery and anti-aircraft units,
supporting medical corps, main-
tenance units to deal with equip-
ment and stores, engineers and
others to develop the beachhead
and its exits and rear assembly
areas. With the expedition went
all requisite guns, heavy mobile
machinery and munitions. This
group was to begin the landing
on Red Beach at 6.30 a.m., since
there was no moon to help a
night landing.
Simultaneously with the main
landing, the 2/13th Battalion
was to rush a second beach,
henceforward to be called Yel-
low Beach from the color of its
markers. This, lying to the east
and nearer Hopoi Mission air-
strip, was designed to protect
the right flank and secure an
alternative beachhead. All the
first group was to be ashore in
an hour and 50 minutes, all its
gear and supplies to be unloaded
within four hours 15 minutes.
At midnight the same day a
second group of 2388 in six huge
tank-landing ships full of stores,
vehicles and mobile plants was
to land. And next night, Sep-
tember 5-6, Brigadier Evans’s
24th Brigade, which had been
encamped at Buna —in all, 3828
more men —would be ferried
ashore. A few troops would
join the division after that when
the tactical situation was suit-
able. The Left Out of Battle
Group—the nucleus always left
behind for purposes not en-
couraging to those going into
action totalled 2304. The
Second Engineer Special Brigade
of the United States Boat and
Shore Regiment was attached to
the division under command to
take part in the landings from
the beginning.
It was on September 1, a hot,
steamy day at Milne Bay, 325
miles from the landing-beach,
that the troops of the first and
second groups in their jungle-
green splashed through the drip-
ping landscape to their ships. It
was actually the anniversary of
the Battle of Milne Bay, where,
to their cost, a year before, the
Japanese had first seen aircraft
and ground troops co-operating
against them in actual battle.
General Wootten, who had
been there then, must have
smiled grimly as he noted the
difference between the great
landing vessels swallowing fuel,
oil and soldiers and the rickety
improvisations which had been
scrounged for troop-transport a
year before.
The armada steamed up the
coast to Buna. There, on the
next quiet afternoon, the 24th
Brigade welcomed it. In the
evening the convoy slid out again
into the Huon Gulf, its lights
hidden, its movements as silent
as those of a steel convoy of 80
ships can be.
Dawn showed the misty semi-
circle of the Huon - Morobe
Ranges. Ahead was the low
shore for which they were
making, and beyond it the
giant heave of the Sarawaged
Range system with its foothills
sliding into the sea.
At 6.13 an Australian coast-
watcher, sitting concealed among
Japanese positions somewhere
behind Lae, sighted the ships.
From his grandstand eyrie he
carried on a daring radio com-
mentary on events for the next
hour or so for the benefit of the
Australian command.
Eleven minutes before the first
boats were to touch the sand a
vicious slap of sound, echoing
back from the hills, announced
that five destroyers had begun
to pound the shoreline behind
the beach. An aircraft climbed
down from the heavens and laid
a smokescreen half a mile off-
shore. The little rows of un-
armored plywood assault-barges
were unleashed from their pro-
tective transport destroyers.
They carried 270 men of the
2/15th and 2/17th Battalions
and small reconnaissance groups
of Royal Australian Engineers
and Signallers. These plunged
into the smokercurtain.
Blasts from well-sited auto-
matic weapons in the fringe of-
shrubbery along the margin of
the sand could have torn these
unprotected detachments to
pieces. But no storm of bullets
came. The only sounds which
they heard above the chatter of
their engines were the crash of
the destroyers’ gunfire and the
thud of bombs exploding far off
in Lae.
Ten minutes in their rear, in
two waves five minutes apart,
followed the bulk of the two
battalions with the 20th Brigade
Headquarters in eight great in-
fantry-landing-craft, a type of
vessel not intended for beach
assault, but designed to land
floating reserves after a beach-
head had been won. However,
they came in safely and each
poured about 190 men on the
beach over its ramps. Men of
the 15th Battalion set about
establishing temporary beach
defence. The 2/17th passed
through them to establish the left
flank on the side of Lae.
After these troops came in the
beachhead seemed secure. On
Red Beach no shot had been
fired. On Yellow Beach the
2/13th Battalion had en-
countered about 30 Japanese
who had fired a few rounds and
run away. The commanding-
officer whose 20th Brigade had
formed the assault force, and
who was now able to send out
by radio the inspiring word
“cabbage,” the agreed signal that
the landing had been successful,
was Brigadier W. J. V, Win-
deyer.
Now the operation proceeded
in steady order. Monster tank-
landing-craft carrying guns, bull-
dozers, jeeps, trailers, tractors
and the men and equipment to
run them backed up to the
sand. The bulldozers hastened
to shear off the top lips of the
beach and to dig bays in which
stores could be sheltered from
bomb-blast. The graders rolled
off to make a road to the
deserted village of Buso, 500yds.
inland. The engineer specialists
followed, unrolling huge steel
mats on which heavy vehicles
could ride over the beach with-
out sinking, and then, with their
assistants, paved with steel mesh
the road which had been made
inshore
Brigadier White
Brigade arrived m seven
mfantry-landmg-craft, ready to
uffioacl the ! of stores
brought in by the Engineer
Special Brigade aster ” ofth
They drew the fi rs t enemy_ fire
as the three Betty and
the six Zero g er ;
with a shattering blast of bomb
and bullets from 1500 ft.
Two of the landing-craft were
damaged, one by a direct hit, but
managed to come to shore. In
one of them the 2/23 Battalion
suffered the loss of its com-
manding-officer, five other
officers and 27 other ranks. No-
body had seen the raiders com-
ing until they had skimmed the
treetops behind the beach.
That was the only interruption
to the ordered rhythm of pro-
ceedings, though there was
naturally, sometimes, a little con-
fusion as, in a space less than
a quarter of a mile long and
60ft. wide, hundreds of men
fell on the mounting piles of
stores and the custodians of
mechanised vehicles tried to get
them away to their assembly-
points.
The grand finale came when
the two ultimate invasion waves
rolled in majestically. First six
huge tank-landing-ships opened
their mouths and each disgorged
400 to 500 men in green, tossing
out after them jeeps, compres-
sors, more graders, mobile work-
shops and electrical plants which
went clanking over the steel-
mesh road as fast they could be
cleared, to make room for fresh
mountains of stores vomited out
of another seven great vessels
not quite so large as the last.
Teeming manpower, pouring
with perspiration, hustled it all
off the beach; for everything
possible must be in laager before
darkness, the time of the
bombers’ harvest in such a situa-
tion. As it was, hostile craft
came rocketing over again
during the afternoon and blew
up a dump and caused some
casualties before the anti-aircraft
guns shot two of them down.
One hour and 50 minutes
from the start everybody and
everything was ashore except
the cargo, which continued to
pour out of the landing vessels
for two hours more. By sun-
down the face of the landscape
had been revolutionised. Where,
at sunrise, there had been only
deserted jungle and kunai, with
no inhabitants save the mos-
quitoes and the snakes, at sun-
set there was a humming, highly-
mechanised town with as many
people as Dubbo or Katoomba
spread over nine square miles
of country between the Bulu
River and points west of the
Buso River.
The 26th Brigade, with the
17th Battalion under command,
and the 2/23rd and 2/24th fol-
lowing, already had crossed the
first stream on the way to Lae.
This article is the second, concluding, instalment of an
abridgment of a lecture given before the R oya! Australian
Historical Society in Sydney by M. H. Elhs, F.K.Hist.S.,
F.R.A.H.S. (“Ek Dum”).
The Ninth Divisional Head-
quarters had occupied its posi-
tion. The 2/48th Battalion was
in divisional reserve. Anti-air-
craft guns defended the beach.
The 2 / 13th Battalion was patrol-
ling to the Buhem River to the
east. Two miles of road snaked
through the assembly area alive
with traffic. And the map of
that area had become full of
storied names culled by the divi-
sion during three years of war-
like adventuring round the
world —El Alamein, Kairi, Gor-
don vale, Tobruk, Kokoda,
Southport, Benghazi.
Red Beach settlement in pro-
cess of formation is, however,
only the focus of battle, which
is spread tens of miles around.
Had you the eyes of a mountain-
eagle and been able to swing
them round the horizon about
the middle of that day you
would have imagined yourself
in the vortex of a great whirl-
pool, full of fire and smoke and
noise and dust.
The Airacobras, the Kitty-
hawks, the Lightnings spun
among their own vapor-trails
above. Across the Huon Gulf,
to your left rear, if it were a
quiet night instead of a raucous
day, you would have heard the
clatter of the firing and the hail
of aircraft-bullets beating on the
tin roofs of Salamaua, and seen,
rim o£ its peri .
meter, .hi batde-haze rising.
• Far behind you towards Buna,
25 miles off Cape Ward Hunt,
Aichi 99 divebombers-Vals-
and a cloud of
Bettys were sweeping deck-low
on a herd of tank-landing mas-
todons, which were due to arrive
with men and stores from
Morobe and Buna at midnight,
have
m r ~ nothins
escor , . M f oiy'
H.M. . . ’ • ' t er
™a 1 J? . , chased back
by a bomb-blast and chased nacK
to Milne Bay ringed by near-
misses. But three enemy aircraft
were shot down as thev swooped
ware shot as they swo p d
mi*l’f r
*****“ r STtxude ot lhe
' 400-500 men
teach another JO 50(J men
25-30 vehicles and S 4
bulk stores apiece.
Still further round the hon-
zon to the east, somewhere off
Finschhafen, the radar-des royer
Reid was calling up squadrons
of Lightnings from our Papuan
bases. She had spotted tnree
large formations of enemy craft
battling down through moun-
tain fog from Rabaul along the
spine of New Britain
also, she called for help to save
her own life as the Vais which
found her peeled off over her
Three hundred miles up the
coast of New Guinea smoking
rubbish littered the three great
aerodromes beyond Wewak
And every now and then on Red
Beach the sweating soldiers
paused a moment to grin as they
heard what had been left of Lae,
after 150 tons of bombs de-
canted into it m the previous
two days being fur her smashed
to matchwood while it burned
as Rome never burned.
But now, beyond Lae, in the
remote hills between the Watut
and the Markham, another im-
portant event is m embryo.
There a large band of men, look-
ing more like walking heaps of
cargo than anything human, are
toiling with their loads down-
and sometimes up—the Watut
River trails. These, in fact, as
yet unnoticed and unheralded,
are the Pilgrim Fathers of the
Markham Valley operation, the
2/2nd Australian Pioneers.
Until the very verge of their
great adventure only their com-
manding-officer knew what their
beast-of-burden training on long
marches in the Moresby hills had
portended for them. This labor
ceased temporarily 11 days be-
fore the Red Beach landing.
Then, on August 23, they had
been led out one morning (less a
support-group of 71 men and a
left-out-of-battle group) and at
Ward’s aerodrome neatly tucked
into Douglas transports.
An hour or so later they were
streaming out on to the remote
airstrip of Tsili Tsili. There,
after some more hard labor and
preparation, they had been told
to assemble their equipment;
and, with a loud farewell from
the air-raid sirens, they had
started out on a 56-mile walk to
Kirkland’s plantation across the
Markham, from where the Lerap
tributary runs in on the side of
Nadzab airstrips. There they
were to conceal themselves
within sound of Gabmatzung’s
deserted mission, under the very
noses of the enemy.
With them marched parties
from the 2/6th Field Company,
the Seventh Division Signals, the
Field Security Section and a
train of 800 native carriers
carrying stores, reserve rations,
ammunition, rubber boats for
river-crossings. Ahead went
Angau’s stolid bushmen, mark-
ing the way along kanaka pads,
through swamps sandwiched be-
tween steep declivities up to
1200 ft. sheer, and patches of
evil-smelling jungle mud.
They crossed the fast-flowing
Wampit River in their rubber
boats. They negotiated the last
1800 ft. line of range, and it was
1500 very weary men, white and
native, who in the darkness of
the night of September 4 stag-
gered into Kirkland’s plantation
to hide themselves over a cold
snack and pass a fireless night
of whispers.
Equally weary were the En-
gineers and 60 of the Pioneers
who brought down through the
dangerous rapids of the fast-
flowing Watut River —and that
mostly at night, with no lights
save the reflections from their
watch-dials —12 large folding
rubber boats packed down to the
gunwales with heavy bridging
and other gear.
Next morning all were there
together to enjoy the reward of
their labors. As they finished
their silent breakfasts and con-
templated without enthusiasm
the many soft-bottomed, swift-
flowing channels of the Mark-
ham, some 200 ft. and more wide,
they heard a faint droning
sound to the south among the
hills. It soon swelled to a roar,
sending the birdlife of the coun-
tryside into multitudinous flight.
At 10 a.m. a bomber swept
round Gabmatzung Mission and
the deserted and overgrown Nad-
zab airstrip near it and hid the
area behind a smoke-screen.
Then, covering the shivering
heavens like a curtain, 96 Doug-
glas transports, 12 abreast and
carrying 1720 men of the 503rd
Parachute Regiment, came rol-
ling in over the mountains.
General MacArthur flying high
above them in his Fortress. The
air was filled with a whirling
storm of parachutes, red, green,
brown, blue, white.
The tail of the mass consisted
of a modest contribution of
might from the Commonwealth
—36 Australians of the 2/4th
Field Regiment, all vplunteers
for the job, whose officer had
never jumped in a parachute be-
fore, and whose men had only
one or two leaps to their credit.
Rolling in at about 1000 ft. they
tried their prentice hands suc-
cessfully at the first landing of
airborne artillery in the Pacific
war. They brought their two
sawn-off 25-pounders down
safely and soon had them trained
along the Markham-road, over
which dummy parachutists had
been dropped to deceive the
enemy, right into the environs of
The 2/6th Field Company
came out of hiding, ran an im-
provised bridge (complete with
handrail) over the main channel
of the Markham, at that place
240 ft. wide, 15ft. deep and run-
ning 7-j knots. They linked their
collapsible boats to act as pon-
(Continued on page 34)


SPORTING NOTIONS
Unproved as a stayer before
the running of the Caulfield Cup,
the speedy grey Silver Phantom,
starting a hot favorite for the
£lO,OOO mile-and-a-half strenu-
ous contest, was one of the first
horses beaten. He couldn’t do
the job at both ends of the race,
and, after showing the pace ex-
pected from him, was out of it a
couple of furlongs from home.
« • ■ •
New Zealander My Hero, who
went to the post at 10 to 1 and
beat Wodalla (14’s) and Most
Regal (25’s) in the smart Caul-
field Cup time of 2 mins. 28f
secs., is a six-year-old horse by
Neptune (imp.) from Otetanui,
and a proved stayer in his own
country. He is raced by Oliver
Watson, who also trains him.
In New Zealand My Hero
had won up to \\ mile and had
been placed at two miles, so he
should have an excellent show
of adding the Melbourne Cup to
winnings.
Otetanui, a 17-year-old New
Zealand brood mare, has proved
an outstanding success at the
stud. She is dam of My Hero
(£18,500 in stakes), also of Bruce
(£27,000) and of Golden Tan
(£29,000) —a remarkable record.
Champion stake-earners from
one mare are a rarity. Otetanui
was expected to foal this week
’to Treasure Hunt (imp.), a son
of unbeaten Bahram. She is a
daughter of Paper Money (imp.)
and Mudlark by Gay Lad (imp.)
from Dabchick by Formosan.
Dabchick traces back to Mer-
maid (imp.), ancestress of
Limerick, winner of £38,729 in
stakes, and Ballymena (A.J.C.
Derby).
• • t •
Perhaps the most foolish punt-
ing scheme is the laying of long
odds-on with two-year-olds.
This was brought home once
again to the layers of 4-to-l-on
Melbourne colt Clear Springs in
the First Gwyn Nursery at Caul-
field. Clear Springs had easily
won at the same track the week
previous, and the 71b. penalty
might have made some differ-
ence, but the prior win didn’t
justify the laying on of such
extravagant odds.
0 • • • •
Dicast, who beat Clear Springs
on his merits, is a first living
foal by Faircourt (imp.) from
Maniscus, who wasn’t broken-in
for racing and was got by
Deitrical from Pipette by im-
ported Parsee. The colt be-
longs to a staying family which
includes Counsel and Lincoln,
two winners of the Caulfield
Cup, so it was rather appropri-
ate that he should score on
Caulfield Cup day. Dicast on
the dam’s side goes back to
Musket (imp,), sire of Carbine.
Owner Roy Bryden must have
been not a little surprised when
he read about a plunge on
his good three-year-old filly
Redeswood in the Caulfield
1000 Guineas, because his in-
vestment on the filly was
modest. However, he was
pleased with the way the
filly raced at her first Caulfield
appearance and he is hopeful
she will improve in the Wakeful
Stakes and the Oaks Stakes, to be
run later at Flemington. George
Moore rode a good race on
Redeswood, who may be better
suited by the longer stretches of
Flemington. She didn’t have
much luck in running at Caul-
field. Olympic Girl won the
race well.
In the betting on the Mel-
bourne Cup which followed
immediately after the running of
the Caulfield Cup, My Hero was
advanced to first line of favorit-
ism with Carioca. Morse Code,
surprisingly, was kept on second
line with Welloch, who ran well
at Caulfield; then, on third
line. Hydrogen. Others fancied
at this stage are Windsor,
Friendly Feeling, Earldom,
Wodalla and Advocate.
Greatest outsider to win the
Caulfield Cup was Saint Warden
(100 to 1) in 1943, when the race
was run in two divisions. His
surprise victory was recalled
when Moomin, a three-year-old
gelding by Valiant Chief from
Spoonbil by Conspirator (imp.),
won his first race, a Wyong
Maiden, at the latest fixture of
that N.S.W. provincial club.
Moomin, who is from a grand-
daughter of Warlove, a winner
of the New Zealand Oaks, be-
longs to the family which pro-
duced Saint Warden. Bloodlines
on the dam’s side also include
Warstep, a winner of the Auck-
land Cup and other cup races in
New Zealand,
In the long history of the
double —the Melbourne Cup
dates back to 1861 and the Caul-
field Cup to 1879—the only
horses to win both races in the
same year have been Poseidon
(1906), The Trump (1937) and
Rivette (1939). Shepherd King,
in 1916, won the Caulfield Cup,
then was second in the Mel-
bourne Cup.
Moonee Valley’s £4OOO W. S,
Cox Plate is now the most attrac-
tive and richest weight-for-age
event in Australia, and the best
horses in training have been
entered for this coming Satur-
day’s contest. Prince Morvi,
A.J.C. Derby winner, will be
tested by the older horses,
but is expected to make
a bold bid for the big
end of the stakemoney. This
Valley drawcard is worth only
a couple of thousand pounds
less than the Victoria Derby, to
be decided the following Satur-
day. An unusual double, the
Cox Plate and Melbourne Cup,
was won in successive years by
high-class performers Night-
march (1929) and Phar Lap
(1930), but, apart from that pair,
the Plate has been no guide to
the longer handicap at Flem-
ington,
•j •' • •
Sydney-owned horses have
done well in the W. S. Cox
Plate in recent years, winners
including Hydrogen, Delta,
Flight, Mosaic and Young Idea.
Among other noted performers
to win the Valley highlights were
Tranquil Star, Beau Vite, Ajax,
Chatham, Amounis, Heroic and
Manfred. Starting favorite at
11 to 8, Hydrogen won the Plate
last season from Ellerslie and
Advocate. He was ridden by
Darby Munro.
The law of averages generally
is against the favorite in im-
portant handicaps, but the Mel-
bourne Cup last spring was won
by the elect, Dalray at 5 to 1.
Looking over Cup results for
the past 50 years, it is found
that the only other successful
favorites were Sirius, Dark Felt
(equal), Rivette, The Trump
(eq.). Marabou, Peter Pan, Phar
Lap (11 to 8 on and hottest
favorite to win the two-miler),
Bitalli, Prince Foote and Apo-
logue. In the same space of
time “roughies” to fill book-
makers’ bags included Old Row-
ley (100 to 1), Rimfire (66),
Wotan (100), Colonus (33),
Comic Court (25), Catalogue (25)
and The Victory (25),
•.. • !
Prince Morvi is given the
chance to add his name to the
13 three-year-olds that have won
the Victoria Derby-Melbourne
Cup double. He is prepost
favorite for the Derby. Winners
of the double have been Lantern,
Briseis, Chester, Grand Flaneur,
Martini - Henry, Newhaven,
Merriwee, Poseidon, Prince
Foote, Patrobas, Trivalve, Hall
Mark and Skipton. Last-named
took the honors 12 years ago.
There will be a lot of money
from Sydney to support a pos-
sible dual Derby success by
Prince Morvi, but few horses
have landed both the Randwick
and Flemington classics. In re-
cent years winners of both blue
ribands have been Alister, Mag-
nificent, Reading, Nuffield, Talk-
ing, Theo, Hall Mark and Phar
Lap.
King Amana won the Moonee
Valley Cup last spring from Gay
Felt and Quite Talk. An oddity
of this race, which dates back
to 1883, and which fits in be-
tween the running of the Caul-
field and the Melbourne Cups,
is that the distance has been
changed eight times, varying
from six and a half furlongs to
13 furlongs, its present distance.
Record for the 13 furlongs,
2.42 i, was made in 1939 by Gill-
town.
At City Tattersall’s meeting
at Randwick on Saturday every
favorite flopped. However, a
couple of them didn’t experience
the best of luck in running, and
one. Earldom, in the Club Cup
didn’t complete the course.
From the stands his jockey, Ted
Doon, appeared to attempt to
get through on the inside of
pacemaker Two Birdies where
there was not a great deal of
room. Earldom crashed and
Doon was hurled over the run-
ning-rail. Of course had he
squeezed through he might have
won, and it looked that way, as
Earldom was finishing fast. But
that’s the after business. Two
Birdies hadn’t won a Randwick
race for the best part of a year ;
it seemed a lucky win for this
War Eagle mare.
Sydney jockey A. Ward, back
from a successful visit to the
East, retained his fine form with
three winners at Randwick, the
first of them, Baudelaire, beating
the McCarten stablemates Far-
quhar and Castlefield. The last-
named carries the Delta colors
and may soon be on the winning
list. Baudelaire had finished
fifth in the Breeders’ Plate, and
4 to 1 appeared to be generous
odds. The T. J. Smith stable
probably expected a much
shorter price. The colt, who is
by Bois de Rose (imp.) from
Belgrade by Dhoti (imp.), cost
400gns. at the Randwick yearling
sales last April.
Dr. and Mrs. J. Gearin, who
°™ T°her W flmt r Itart' *=
Juvenile* Stakes at Randwick on
Saturday, offered the youngster
at auction as a yearling, but after
bidding had reached 900gns.
they decided to retain and
for wdlom she Chained at Rand-
wick by Fred Allsop. Hathor
showed gameness in her win,
and for once the bookmakers
who fielded on the result of the
photo-finish erred. Their “ex-
perts,” who are expected to pick
the winner after the judge s line
is crossed and quickly notify
them, evidently favored Fair
Daughter, who was downed by
the barest margin. Hathor is by
Nilo (imp.) from Johneen by
John James (imp.).
Passing Glance (imp.), a little-
known sire so far as the south-
ern States are concerned he’s
at the stud in Queensland at a
modest fee —hit the headlines at
the Eagle Farm meeting when
three of his progeny won the
chief events at the Q.T.C.
Guineas meeting. Kev Mar
landed the Guineas at 5 to 4
from Toshah and Forest Chief,
while Roseglade won the C. E.
McDougall Stakes and Thurlow
the Hopeful Stakes. Passing
Glance is a 10-year-old stallion
by Nearco from Cora Deans by
Coronach (imp.).
Leading jockeys in Australia
should be reasonably rich men,
but their American counterparts
earn really fabulous money.
Take, for instance, Willie Shoe-
maker. He has won 392 races
this season —a world record, two
more than the previous best
figure, also naturally held by an
American, since they race over
there almost daily. Last year
Shoemaker piloted 388 winners,
In the U.S. season which ended
December last Tony Despirito
won 390 races. It is 12 years
since a Sydney jockey piloted
more than 100 winners in a
season, Jack Thompson in 1940-
41 winning 107 races. The only
other Sydney jockeys to topple
the century at registered meet-
ings have been Bill Cook (126,
the best for Australia), and Ted
McMenamin (117). England’s
Sir Gordon Richards rode 269
winners in the 1947 season, while
Fred Archer twice won upwards
2 « 0 'T m ,°" e sea T„
Keith Voitre won 123 races in
one New Zealand year and Hec-
i°r < 7 11 ,
64 wins (1950-51), holds the best
record for Victoria,
Running of a win-and-place
tote and also a quinella on the
Caulfield Cup was appreciated
by visitors to City Tattersall’s
Randwick meeting. They could
have bet with bookmakers, win
and place, btit the tote scheme
was so successful that in the
limited time it operated (about
one hour) it held about £lO,OOO,
and dividends for a win and a
Plf<= were on a par with those
b“ of m“ Hero aU
Wodjß. on the qumella were
£ etl J rn ® d f * 5 Tas .
atoJon
Melbourne event on Satur-
■ d scheme has
bro™* much money to Cub
* * *
.
This year s Ampol Golf tour-
ney at The Lakes (Sydney) saw
public attention focused on some
brilliant youngsters at the start,
while the ultimate winner, Pick-
worth, ran unsighted for a
couple of rounds. He finished
with 74, 71, 72, 71 (288), three
ahead of L. Woodward, and six
ahead of Holder and P. Thomp-
son, It was the Victorian pro.’s
sixth Ampol—out of nine played
—and showed that steadiness
will beat brilliance in golf every
time.
• • • •’
Women golf pros are some-
thing new in Australia and
typically American. The Ampol
people brought four out for the
recent tournament, three feather-
weights and a cruiser. Alice
Bauer (312), almost a flyweight,
did best of them. But all four,
hitting from back tees, in strong
weather and in all-male com-
pany, shocked a lot of conceit
out of the males.
♦ * *
All the States expect to do well
out of the English tour. What
might be considered as compen-
sation for loss of the Ashes has
been estimated at nearly
£AIOO,OO0 —the profit to be
distributed round the six States
by the Board of Control. Never-
theless, there’s an economy drive
on by different State associa-
tions —as part of it some of the
Sheffield Shield teams this year
will be travelling by train, not
plane.
“J.H.”; In a recent grade-
match in Adelaide, University
batsman John Lill, when batting
brightly, was out in unusual
fashion. He was backing-up at
the bowler’s end when his part-
ner straight-drove; the ball
touched the bowler and crashed
into the wicket at that end. I
know of only one such instance
in first-class cricket, when
Toshack ran-out a batsman by
similarly deflecting a hard-driven
ball with his boot. I have for-
gotten just who the unfortunate
one was, but I fancy he was
one of the Indians of the 1947-48
tour.
“K.R.”: Night baseball has
caught on in Sydney and
Adelaide. Last season was a
fairly successful one for the sport
in both cities. Six teams com-
pete in Adelaide, and players
include State cricketers Dansie,
Manning and Grove. In Sydney
this year there are two night-
baseball comps—one run by the
N.S.W. Baseball Union and one
by a private promoter. On their
return Test cricketers Craig and
Benaud are to play- in the Base-
ball Union’s comp.
“Mid-on”: Who is the
youngest player ever to play first-
grade cricket in Australia?
Northern District club (Sydney)
claim that their Graham South-
well, who was selected in first-
grade last year when only 13,
holds the record. lan Craig had
turned 15 when he was first
chosen in Mosman firsts.
♦ ♦ *
Attacking in all 12 rounds,
Ambrose Palmer’s protege
Johnny Wheeler (9.1) outfought
southpaw Kevin James (8.10) at
Leichhardt Stadium. Continually
leading right hands, reckoned
the best way to beat unorthodox
opponents, Wheeler won the first
six rounds from start to finish,
and a jolting right knocked
James back to the ropes in ses-
sion seven. Wheeler’s right
counters kept connecting before
James’s right leads during the
next three rounds, in which
James did a lot of holding, and
Wheeler landed nine rights with-
out a return in round 11. In
fact, Wheeler appeared to win
10 of the 12 rounds. Decision:
James on points!
• • • •
A six-round support between
light-heavyweights Chappie God-
frey (12.4) and Ray Miller (12,4)
was full of action. Chappie, son
of Australia’s former lightweight
champion Sid Godfrey, bea
Miller in all six rounds; young
Godfrey’s third successive vic-
tory at Leichhardt.


Dad and Carey
Our New Selection
By "STEELE RUDD" (Arthur H. Davis)
ONE summer’s night. In-
side, close, suffocating;
outside, calm, tranquil,
not a sound, not a sign
of life.
The bush silent, restful. Dad
on the veranda, in his easy-
chair, thinking; Dave, Joe and
Bill stretched on the grass near
the steps, dreamily watching the
clustering stars.
Close to the house the eerie
note of a night bird suddenly
rang out. Joe and Bill turned
over to locate it. Dad and Dave
took no notice. The moon came
slowly over the range, weird
shadows fell before her and
crept over the earth, and Budgee
plain was a dim expanse in the
hazy, languid light.
Dad spoke. “Whose stock’s
on Lawson’s selection now?” he
asked.
“Everyone’s,” Dave said.
“Carey’s mostly.”
“Well, turn everything out
t’morrow that isn’t ours.”
Dave sat up and chuckled.
“And the Careys’ll run ’em
all back,” Joe joined in, “an’
put ours where well never see
’em again.”
“If they do I’ll make it warm
for them,” Dad said.
Bill laughed.
“You wasp, get inside and
don’t be grinnin’ like a damned
cat at everythin’ y’ hear! ”
Bill whined and said he wasn’t
grinning.
“Well, hold y’r noise, then!”
Dad shouted. Then he dragged
his chair nearer the steps and
spoke softly. “T’morrow that
selection’s mine,” he said. “Law-
son’s thrown ’t up.”
Dave mounted the steps.
“What, after fencin’!”
“After fencin’.” Dad chuckled
and sat back, and no more was
said.
Next morning Dad repeated
his instructions to Dave to turn
all stock off Lawson’s selection,
and started for town in the sulky.
At the Lands Office he was
told that Lawson’s selection was
in the Ipswich district, and late
in the day he left for home, in-
tending to take train to Ipswich
the following morning.
Dad pulled up at a wayside
pub. Several men were, leaning
on the bar, their empty glasses
before them. Dad invited them
all to drink. They drank. Dad
lingered a while and chatted
sociably and grew very enthusi-
astic about dairyfarming. He
exaggerated his interest and
spoke of Saddletop as though he
owned it all. The men became
interested, one in particular. He
was a Carey, and Dad, in his
exuberance, failed to recognise
him. Carey’s horse had got
away and he was walking home.
He had twelve miles yet to
tramp, and when Dad asked the
company if any of them wanted
work Carey said he did. Carey
knew Dad.
“Jump into the trap, then,”
Dad said, “an’ I’ll drive y’ out.”
Carey climbed in, and Dad
drove off. All the way along he
boasted of his possessions and
prospects. Carey was an atten-
tive listener and encouraged
Dad to talk. Dad took a fancy
to his companion, and in a
lowered voice, in case some of
the trees or fences concealed a
pair of ears, became confidential.
He revealed all he knew of Law-
son’s selection and his intentions
regarding it, and, approaching
Carey’s own place, he whispered,
hoarsely, “Nice set of scoundrels
live there!” His companion
never flinched.
“Whose place is it?” he asked.
“Carey’s,” Dad said, “a bad
lot!” And Dad shook his head
in the moonlight.
Dad pulled up at the gate.
“You camp in the barn there,”
he said, indicating the building
with a sweep of his hand, “an’
tackle the milkin’ in the morning
with the boys.” Then Dad un-
harnessed the mare and went
inside. The “man” went home
chuckling.
Next morning Dave and Joe
and Cranky Jack were in the
yard milking. Dad came out.
“Where’s the feller I brought
out last night— not up yet?” he
asked.
Dave didn’t understand. Dad
explained and hobbled off to the
barn. The man wasn’t there.
Dad returned to the yard swear-
ing.
“That cove wouldn’t be after
work,” Dave drawled. “He had
y’ ; he only wanted a lift. Plenty
of his sort about,”
Bill, bailing up, stood
laughed. Bill’s hilarity always
annoyed Dad. He chased Bill
out of the yard, then roared to
him to come in’again. Bill slunk
back. V
“Go in there.” Dad pointed
the way through the rails. Bill
hesitated sullenly. He dropped
his head and turned the whites
of his eyes on Dad.
“Y* hear?”
Bill moved sideways to the
rails, then judged his distance
and dived. But he miscalculated.
His head struck the bottom rail
and he rebounded, and Dad got
in his kick and grinned, and for-
gave the man who had taken
him in the night before.
Dad reached Ipswich at night
and strolled about till he found a
place to put up. Then he went
into the streets again and gaped
at things. But he didn’t see
many sights. There was a large
store with the shutters up. The
pallid light of a few flickering
gas-jets revealed the outline of
an old, weird, weather-worn
fountain around which “the
Army” crouched and yelled for
the salvation of souls —and a
church fence. A policeman,
motionless. At regular inter-
vals a huge clock broke the
silence. It had a sad, unhealthy
note, and seemed to toll a re-
quiem for the dead. Dad stared
up at it and wondered.
Morning again. Dad halted
at the foot of the Lands Office
steps and stared in surprise. Old
Carey was feeling his way down
them with a stick. Carey saw
Dad and grinned. Dad went
into the office and came out
breathing heavily. He went
down the street and searched
for Carey till he missed the
train.
“How’s it y’ didn’t get it?”
Dave said in an unhappy kind
of voice.
Dad gave no reason. He sat
down and thought, and we all
stood round waiting as if some-
thing was going to happen.
“They’ve got it all right,” Dad
groaned at last.
Then Dave’s opportunity
came. “Yairs,” he said, “an’
they’ve got all our cattle —
pounded every one o’ them, an’
ten shillings a head damages on
them.”
Sarah rushed out, so did Bill
and Barty; but Dave and Joe
held Dad down and saved the
furniture.
When Dad Went to
Maree
UP at the slip-rails Dad yarned
to a man passing with horses
from New South Wales and in-
vited him to dinner. An interest-
ing man, well-informed, ac-
quainted with Tyson and Bobby
Rand; knew the Queensland
and New South Wales bush
through and through, and told
Dad where some good grazing
land was to be selected.
Before leaving the man sold
five horses to Dad for fifty
pounds. Horses were horses,
then ; any old sketch was worth
a five-pound note, and Dad
went among the neighbors boast-
ing of the bargain he had made.
Dad always let the neighbors
know when he had made a
profitable investment; it helped
to keep their hearts up.
A brown mare among the five
—by Butler, a blood horse, the
man said—turned out to be
worth more than fifty pounds
herself; not to Dad, though.
Dave fed her and raced her
at Pittsworth, and was promptly
taken up on the course as soon
as she won.
“Stolen from old Magnus, on
the Barwon,” the policeman
said. “Been watchki’ six munch
forrer.”
The other four were stolen
also.
Dad cursed. Said he would
never buy another horse
as long as he lived. Then the
neighbors chuckled. They
always liked to remind Dad of
any bad bargains he had made.
It helped to keep his pride
down.
Newspapers gave full accounts
of the arrest of Palmer, alias
“Whistler” Smith, on the border.
“That’s the man,” Dad said.
“That’s the damn’ scoundrel —
red whiskers, strapped trousers,
bow-legged, finger missing—the
daylight robber!” And he
clenched his fists on the news-
paper as though he held the
delinquent in his grasp and
walked up and down like a caged
lion.
A constable from Toowoomba
waited on Dad with a handful
of legal documents and a cheque
for fifteen pounds to solicit his
attendance at Maree Circuit
Court as witness against
“Whistler” Smith. He explained
that the law couldn’t compel
Dad to cross the border, but if
he could see his way to make
the sacrifice he (the Law) was
certain of a conviction.
“B’ heaven, then,” said Dad,
“I’ve a mind to!”
He paced about, thinking the
matter out. “If y’ do,” the Law
observed, “call on tlje sergeant
at Goondi and he’ll fix you
with a fresh horse and give you
directions. An’ I’d advise y’,
meself, to put a revolver in your
pocket; it won’t be any load,
an’ y’ might want it.”
“Pshaw!” Dad blurted out.
“Pshaw, man! What would I
be doin’ with firearms? Haven’t
I travelled the country long be-
fore you were born? An’ see”
—Dad paused before the con-
stable, and, raising his hands,
punched his own left palm hard
with his right fist—“see here!
An’ though I’m saying it me-
self, never yet did I see the man”
—Dad tapped his palm gently
—“never yet did I see the liv-
ing man” —Dad raised his right
hand above his head —“I was
afeared” —elevating his voice—
“to take me shirt off to! ” Dad
pounded his palm hard.
The constable smiled and
said he quite believed it.
“Well, y’ better let it slide an’
stay at home,” Dave said ad-
visedly. “Y’re too old for that
sort o’ thing now.”
Mother and Sarah, who were
listening, agreed with Dave.
“Tut, tut,” Dad said. “Not a
bit of it—not a bit of it.”
Then his thoughts reverted to
the fifty pounds he had lost, and
an angry, vindictive spirit rose
within him.
“I’ll go. Policeman,” he said
in a loud decisive voice, “I’ll
go!” And when Dad spoke in
that tone persuasion was futile.
Mounted on his old brown
mare, Dad started one Friday
for Maree, and how anxious
Mother became the moment he
disappeared from view!
Maree was three hundred
miles off on the New South
Wales side, and most of the
track and the country were new
and unknown to Dad. Yet we
were sanguine enough about
him. Dad had always been a
wonder and an object-lesson to
us in the way of courage and
endurance. Floods, fires,
droughts—nothing ever stopped
him, and for anything the bush
contained in the shape of beast
or being he never held a dread.
But a drought was upon the
land-grass round Saddletop
withered, stock poor, water
scarce —and as Dad travelled
on, covering mile upon mile,
plain after plain, ridge after
ridge, things got worse and
worse. All was parched,
perished; nothing but dust and
desolation. The mighty bush
was a vast sorrowful waste —
cracked, burnt, baked. A
horror? It was hell!
Shapeless, blear-eyed, loony
bullocks, grotesque caricatures,
staggered pathetically by the
way. All day a foul, fetid air
filled his nostrils ; hateful crows
flocked from carcass to carcass,
clamoring in fiendish exultation.
And skeletons and bones lay
everywhere.
At intervals Dad met pairs
of grim, sullen souls along this
infernal avenue, mates on the
terrible track; strong, able-
bodied men ; men with bright,
clear intellects, not loafers, not
liars; British men, Australian
men shouldering their swags,
almost bootless in the blistering
sand, plodding through sicken-
ing, thirst-provoking heat in
search of a job.
Dad left Goondi with a fresh
horse, a water-bag, tucker, a
head full of directions and a re-
volver. The latter the sergeant
had pressed on him, and Dad
finally took it, saying “Perhaps
it’ll be company.” He carried
it projecting from his coat-
pocket like a cob of corn.
The fourth day Dad pene-
trated a dense scrub, emerged on
the bank of a creek, watered his
horse, and, throwing the reins
on the ground as with his own
old mare, left him standing on
the bank while he filled the
water-bag. The brute made
off. Dad tried to catch him,
but the old moke was as know-
ing as a detective. He trotted
when Dad ran and walked when
Dad pulled up.
Dad was in a mess. Deter-
mined not to lose sight of the
horse, he followed at its heels—
sweating, swearing, tripping over
ruts and sticks —followed till it
got dark and he could see the
fugitive no longer.
Weary and hungry. Dad
rested at the foot of a gum-tree
and thought of home and
Mother and us, and called him-
self a darned fool and wondered
if, after all, convicting horse-
thieves was worth the candle.
In the morning Dad’s horse
was only a few hundred yards
away, standing, its hindleg fast
in the bridle. Joy! Dad’s heart
thumped till he placed his hands
on the brute and was in the
saddle again. He was never so
proud of a horse before. He
leant over and patted it on the
neck. Any other time Dad
would have tugged its mouth
and belted its ribs with a waddy.
A stifling day. The sky a
great flaming oven. A hot wind
blowing. Sandy, wretched,
waste land to the right, the same
to the left. Never a soul had
Dad seen for forty miles but
one solitary horseman, and he,
at the sight of Dad’s revolver,
had galloped away.
The sun went down a ball of
fire. A swamp with water and
ducks in it showed itself, then
off the road a public-house, a
dusty, tumble-down old rookery.
A couple of saddle-horses out-
side fastened to trees. Four
persons lounged on the veranda,
two with beards, strapped
trousers and spurs, the other
two scarcely more than youths,
one a halfcaste.
“G’ day,” Dad said.
“ ’Day.”
And when Dad dismounted
every eye there was on his
horse.
Behind the bar, hurriedly
scrubbing a glass with a dirty
towel in anticipation of trade,
stood a lame, one-eyed warrior
with scars on his head.
Dad called for a beer, then
glanced back at the horse. Dad
remembered the sergeant’s
warning. Dad took the beer
and drank it at the door.
“Come far?” the publican
said, eyeing Dad closely.
“Two hundred and fifty
miles, I dare say,” Dad
answered.
“Queensland?”
Dad was wondering whether
he would answer or not when a
horseman of the flash bush type
reined up at the door. He spoke
to those outside, then called out
“Riley! ”
Riley crept under the counter
and limped to the door. «
“The traps passed Bingiloo
yesterday with the Queens-
lander,” the horseman shouted.
Riley didn’t understand.
“With who?” he asked.
“The witness to fix ‘Whistler’;
they’re fetchin’ him in irons.”
The half - caste sniggered
ironically. Riley looked grave.
Dad stepped out, and, clear-
ing his throat, fixed the man on
horseback with both eyes. “It’s
a damn’ lie!” he roared.
Every eye was upon Dad in
an instant. For a moment a
dead silence. Dad squared him-
self and stood up to it, hasty,
haughty-looking.
“It’s a damn’ lie!” he roared
again. “FT I’m the man, an’
were Te me irons?” He stepped
aside, displaying his big feet for
inspection.
The horseman scowled, but
something he read in a glance
from Riley changed his expres-
sion.
He dismounted and ap-
proached Dad, smiling. “You’re
Mr. Rudd, then,” he said, “from
the head of the Condamine?”
“I am,” Dad answered, never
changing a muscle. The man
said he had been to Dad’s
place several times. He spoke
well of it and told Dad he was a
nephew of old Gray’s.
Dad forgot the sergeant’s
warning. He seized Gray’s
“nephew” by the hand and
shook it.
“Well, well,” he said, “an’ I
took y’ for a horse-stealer.” And
Dad chuckled by way of
apology. Gray’s “nephew”
chuckled also.
The publican proposed a
drink. Dad drank and returned
the shout. That was at seven
o’clock.
Midnight. The moon shone
fitfully and lit up the belt of
cabbage-gums ; from the swamp
came the trumpet note of wild
geese ; owls on noiseless wing
were hunting round; a dim,
sickly light flickered at the pub.
Two horsemen rode away from
it through the trees leading a
horse with a saddle on. From
a back-room a voice kept calling
“Dorgsh! Robbersh! P-üb-
li’an! P-übli’an, wher’sh me-
hic-r’holver?”
The voice was Dad’s.
The principal witness for the
Crown failed to attend, and the
case against Palmer, alias Smith,
broke down.
(To be continued next week )
THYLACINE
(Tasmanian marsupial-tiger)
They’ll not find Kim in the hills
above the slow fern gully;
he’s gone to earth like a sunken
creek
in an unknown valley;
nor find the fur on the bent
thorn
nor hear him moan at the raw
moon:
he stalks down the valleys of the
years
with his old love, his old pain.
They’ll not find him in the hills:
he’s gone to earth in an un-
known valley
with legends of coal and Time
in stone,
with the sly fern, with the gully.
Tasmania.
VIVIAN SMITH.


4. <J a«^ dwtt4 '*
m
■
■
m
■
■
all the »<*®
\ exclusive rolls |
\ RAZOR FEALUR I
/ aT the budget |
/ reduced bbice
SS/SSSS"'
*sSSS' 4
Here’s the NEW Rolls
Razor “ VISCOUNT " an
entirely redesigned version of its
world famous predecessor. In its slim streamlined case, the “VISCOUNT”
incorporates all the tried and trusted Rolls Razor features, such as hollow-
ground, finely-tempered blade which gives years and years of perfect
shaving and is honed and stropped in its case.
RAZOR
MAKERS OF THE WORLD FAMOUS ONE BLADE SAFETY
■ 70/83 55
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE ATOMIC RACE
t .
In the atomic-armament race
the U.S. is apparently still well
out in front in quantity, but with
the pace at which the race is
being run no one appears to ex-
pect that this can last, despite
America’s big lead to begin with
and its present comparatively
strong position.
Advantages credited to
America by U.S. News and
World Report” are
1. A 4.7-billion-dollar atomic
industry that will nearly double
in size iy 1956.
2. A growing family of wea-
pons known to include the H-
bomb, hundreds of atomic
bombs, and atomic heavy artil-
lery. Keel for an atomic-
powered submarine has been
laid ; an atomic-powered plane
is being developed. Other wea-
pons, such as atomic mines,
atomic torpedoes and atomic
warheads for missiles, are under
development.
3. An increasing supply of
atomic raw materials, including
access to most of the world’s
raw uranium, and the world’s
first reactor that can “breed”
additional atomic materials,
The Russian score-card as
filled in by the same U.S. publi-
cation includes:
1. The atomic bomb—accord-
ing to all top U.S. officials.
2. A public claim of having
• the H-bomb.
3. An atomic industry that is
thought to be several years be-
hind the U.S. in general develop-
ment—operating and expanding
about half as fast as U.S. atomic
activities.
4. A limited supply of
~ , .
uranium, most of it apparently
concentrated in satelhte territory.
The publication also gives the
following as the mam highlights
of developments up to now:
Hiroshima Model T Atom
Bomb (1945): Total destruction
m one-mile circle; severe in-
juries and damage inflicted in
two-mile circle.
Advanced Atom Bomb
(1951): Total destruction m
three-mile circle ; injuries and
damage seven miles from blast.
Eniwetok “Baby H-bomb”
(1952): Total destruction in 10-
mile circle; heat and shock felt
30 miles from explosion.
Referring particularly to the
Woomera tests, London “Time
and Tide” states that develop-
ments in Britain’s guided-missile
programme promise to produce
soon a weapon that could be
effective in a “rocket-ver.JM.s-
rocket” war and would make the
hydrogen-bomb prohibitive on
the grounds of expense com-
pared with the chances of sue-
cess.
“One hesitates to guess at the
cost of a weapon which is so
closely shrouded in secrecy,” it
adds, “but it would not be un-
reasonable to suggest that each
bomb could cost a million
pounds or more. Apart from
the fact that the hydrogen-
bomb requires a conventional
atom-bomb to trigger it off, the
explosive used for the violent
fusion process is tritium, or
triple-heavy hydrogen, which
can be produced only slowly and
laboriously even in the vast
Savannah River plant in the
United States, built at a cost of
hundreds of millions of pounds.
Neither can the vastly expensive
tritium be stockpiled indefi-
nitely ; however it is stored it
loses its activity over a period
of years.
“The guided-missile pro-
gramme is itself expensive. A
much greater effort has been
diverted into it from the aircraft
and radio industries than has
been appreciated. Each missile
can make only one sortie when
its machinery, the delicate
artistry of its electronic brain,
its self-contained radar equip-
ment, is inevitably destroyed.
Yet if, as one can reasonably
suppose on the information so
far released, it will always find
and destroy its target, it may
well upset the economics of any
suggested hydrogen - bomb
attack,
“Possibly the science of attack
and defence will one day reach
a state of balance of effective-
ness when the whole art of
destruction by violence will
prove itself to be nothing more
than a waste of time, money and
energy, thus allowing a vast
army of scientists and engineers
to engage in more useful pur-
suits.”
That optimistically hoped-for
day is a long way off in the
opinion of “Yorkshire Post”
(also referring to Woomera):
“The rockets close a danger-
ous gap in our defences which
the fast high-flying jet-bomber
had opened. But the advantage
they give to the defence is only
temporary. In 10 or 15 years,
at the most, we can expect the
long-range offensive rocket—
with possibly a hydrogen-bomb
as its warhead —to be a standard
weapon. Whether this attack-
ing rocket can be met and ex-
ploded in mid-air by defending
rockets is another matter. The
new missiles are an excellent
shield against the weapons of
today. But against the weapons
of tomorrow —and in this sphere
tomorrow is only just around
the corner—they can hardly be
so effective.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman,” ac-
cepting that Russia now has the
hydrogen-bomb, emphasises the
huge cost for Britain in trying
to keep up in the race:
“Now that the Soviet Union
has the hydrogen-bomb, Britain
is faced not merely with the
prospect of making and testing
it, but of mass-producing it.
The weapon is only of military
value in quantity.
“It is known that the British
atomic-energy industry has the
St. Louis ( U.S.A. ) “Post-Dispatch”
END OF THE H-BOMB DEBATE
knowledge, the ability and suffi-
cient uranium to make the
essential ingredient, tritium, of
the hydrogen-bomb, but its mass-
production demands a vast ex-
penditure on plant to make
tritium from other sources than
uranium. For 80 kilograms of
valuable uranium must be sacri-
ficed to make one kilogram of
tritium. The U.S. Government
began building such a plant on
the Savannah River in January,
1950. It is not yet in produc-
tion, and will cost £BOO million.”
One thing on which all are
agreed, and on which, it should
be noted, American comment is
especially emphatic, is that new
approaches should now be made
towards trying to stop the race,
if at all possible. Thus, “Wash-
ington Post”:
“New efforts to prevent the
military use of atomic weapons
have become imperative. We
do not wish to minimise the diffi-
culties of securing a satisfactory
agreement with the Soviet
Union, but those difficulties are
not half so frightening as the
consequences of failure. The
fate of Western civilisation hangs
upon the outcome. Moscow has
once more bid for leadership in
this movement without offer-
ing any foundation on which a
trustworthy arms-limitation sys-
tem could be built. The effect is
to throw upon the United States
the major obligation for arrest-
ing the drift toward destruction,”
“New York Times” likewise:
“Of primary importance now
must be the attempt more than
ever to solve the terrible politi-
cal problems before mankind,
The most urgent of these prob-
lems is that of securing an in-
ternational control which will
prevent a nuclear Armageddon
being unleashed upon the world,
Past failure—a failure for which
Soviet obstinacy has been a
major explanation—cannot and
must not prevent the effort being
renewed in the light of present
conditions.”
All very well to talk thus, sug-
gests London “Economist,” but
on this matter it is best to have
no illusions;
“There will be no scrapping
of atomic weapons under inter-
national auspices until adequate
and enforceable controls have
been devised ; such controls are
out of the question until the
Governments of the Great
Powers will accept close and con-
tinuous international inspection
of their installations and stock-
piles. Is it conceivable that the
United States and the Soviet
Union, to say nothing of this
country [Britain], will in the pre-
dictable future accept such an
intrusion on vital secrets, such
an interference with national
sovereignty? '
“Logic may point to their
doing so and to the establish-
ment of an international
authority which alone could
wield the supreme weapon and
prevent war by the threat of its
use. But such a body would in
fact assume the powers of a
World Government; and if it is
the ambition of the United
Nations to act in that role its
prospects of success have never
looked more remote than they
do now.
“Clearly, the only hope of
calling a halt in the atomic race
lies in American-Soviet agree-
ment, not in the first place about
armaments but about some of
the issues that divide them. Dis-
armament, if it comes at all, will
come eventually from growing
confidence that the risks of con-
flict are diminishing; and that
confidence can come only from
the gradual removal of differ-
ences by negotiation.
“For the immediate future,
therefore, the prospect is obvi-
ous. The technical competition
between West and East, between
offence and defence, between
ways of getting the bomber
through and ways of getting the
bomber down will go on.
“If the West is to succeed in
its policy of negotiating with
the Soviet Union’from strength
it must keep its technical lead—
not necessarly by stockpiling
hydrogen-bombs—but above all
it must maintain its unity. Some
wa y must be found of surmount-
ing or removing the barriers
that divide American and British
scientists and military planners
i n the field of atomic develop-
ment. It is absurd that the
Americans should be—as it
appears—secretly well ahead of
the British in finding out how a
hydrogen-bomb can be made
and dropped while the British
are secretly well ahead of the
Americans in finding out how to
clear the sky of bombers,
“Such lack of co-operation in
research and development must
make a serious drain on the
resources of both nations. If
they were working fully together
and mobilising the resources of
the Nato nations to assist them,
it is a fair presumption that
Soviet chances of cutting down
seriously the Western lead would
be smaller than they now are.
Malenkov’s hydrogen explosion
should strengthen their deter-
mination not to be divided on
the really vital issues and to
maintain a powerful Atlantic
alliance,”
As an odd footnote to such
a discussion, London “Observer”
quotes Field-Marshal Harding
(Sir William Slim’s successor as
Chief of the Imperial General
Staff) as stating that the inven-
tion of atomic weapons and the
ever-increasing role of science in
war have paradoxically
heightened, not lessened, the im-
portance of the infantryman,
“In the widespread destruc-
tion and blockage created by an
atomic explosion, only the foot-
soldier may be able to get


CUAKD
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of business »« record*
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE ... Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
Missing Friend
HAMMOND.—WiII THOMAS FRANK
HAMMOND of Albany Place, Dover, Kent,
who left England for Australia in 1924,
communicate with EOOTES & ALLIOTT,
Solicitors, Folkestone, Kent, England
when he will hear news to his advantage.
Calorific
Value
PULVERISED FUEL FIRING-TYPE E MILLS
SPREADER STOKER
rnn
CHAIN GRATE
STOKER
OIL AND
GAS BURNER
The calorific value of a fuel is realised to the
maximum degree as useful energy, only
through efficient combustion; and efficient
combustion must be sought in many different
ways with different fuels. No one has been
more closely concerned with the problem
than Babcock & Wilcox, the world’s leading
makers of steam-raising plant, who have, over
a period of 75 years, developed methods and
equipment for the most efficient burning of
the widest diversity of fuels both solid and
liquid, from coal and oil to bagasse and blade
liquor.
sd
fs
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W,
Branch Office and Agencies in all Sfafes
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
through; also, dug-in and dis-
persed infantry are less vulner-
able to atomic attack than are
large concentrations of parked
vehicles. This, as Sir John indi-
cated, will mean a reversal of
the trend towards more and
more mechanisation, and a
revival of the importance of the
hobnailed boot.”
U.S. Shipbuilding Slump
Noting as a possible economic
storm-signal a serious decline in
American shipbuilding, London
“Financial Times” points out
that it has in the past often been
the heavy capital industries, par-
ticularly perhaps shipbuilding
and constructional engineering,
which have heralded recession in
other industries.
The “Financial Times” adds,
however, that in this case there
are local reasons to account for
the decline:
“Of the whole U.S. merchant
fleet, amounting to some 27 mil-
lion tons, 13.1 million tons have
been laid up. No other country
has any comparable proportion
of tonnage in reserve. The rea-
son for this is not difficult to
discover. In U.S. industry a
high degree of mechanisation,
and other economic advantages,
make high wages supportable.
No similar advantage exists at
sea, where wages are equally
high, and the costs of American
shipping are prohibitive.
“It is, of course, inevitable
that this should spread back into
American shipbuilding, which
now obtains hardly a single
order apart from those which
foreign yards are too busy to
execute in time.”
Clash Pending
Reporting from Paris, a New
York “Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent sees a U.S.-French
clash practically certain.
Himself an American, the
correspondent is a bit with the
French.
“The defence of Indo-China,”
he comments, “is the heart of
American policy in Asia. Yet
the French have no stomach for
the Indo-Chinese war, and it is
entirely likely that a Govern-
ment dedicated to the liquidation
of the war by almost any means
will soon come to power.
“The creation of a European
Army, within the framework of
which Germany can be re-
armed, is the heart of Ameri-
can policy in Europe. Yet the
French have no stomach for the
European Army, and it is en-
tirely likely that the French Par-
liament will finally kill the
whole idea before many months
have passed.
“If neither of these things
happens, it will be something
close to a miracle. If either —
or both —do happen, a Franco-
American crisis of the most
dangerous sort, capable even of
wrecking the Nato alliance, is
almost certain to ensue.
“The French attitude in both
respects is not surprising. In
Indo-China the French are being
asked to continue an immensely
costly, interminable war from
which they cannot hope to gain.
In Europe the French are being
asked to sacrifice their national
sovereignty in order to permit
the rearmament of their tradi-
tional enemy, while the bulk of
their own forces are engaged
half a world away.
“In these circumstances it is
rather strange that any optimism
at all still exists in American
official circles about the future
of Franco-American relations.”
Since the war (“U.S. News
and World Report” points out)
the U.S. has invested “close to
a billion dollars in France, only
about a quarter of which has
gone to the war in Indo-China.
That’s more than 100 dollars
per adult American, around
200 dollars for every American
paying income taxes.”
Despite that, France remains
“in a mess,” to the extent that
its value in the Western defence
set-up is being more and more
doubted. Still, there are some
assets:
“The geographical position of
France in the heart of Western
Europe makes it essential to any
Western European defence sys-
tem. Germany, on the border
of the Soviet empire, is exposed
and currently lacks forces of its
own. Italy is militarily weak
and has a big Communist
minority. Britain, on its islands,
looks to its Commonwealth and
Empire rather than to Europe.
U.S. forces in Germany count
on France as their second line
of defence, their supply-line.
“French possessions and pro-
tectorates in North Africa,
though troublesome, are still a
French asset. The U.S. depends
on air-bases built at great ex-
pense in French Morocco for
air-power over Southern Europe
and the Mediterranean.
“Politically, too, France is
held to be more acceptable than
Germany as a leader on the
Continent. Other countries, not
just France, fear a revival of
German military power.”
Aiding Persia
“New York Times,” which in
such matters usually reflects
official U.S, policy pretty accu-
rately, has strongly urged help-
ing Persia, now that Moussadek
is out of the way.
Moreover, the British Press
gives some support to that view
—provided the aid is American.
“The last thing we can afford
to do,” the New York paper
commented, “is to get cynical or
sardonic or indifferent. Persia
is a vacuum between the Soviet
Union and the West. She is a
buffer State holding the Russians
back from their ancient goal of
the Persian Gulf. Her vast oil-
reserves and the refinery at Aba-
dan constitute one of the greatest
of all possible prizes for the
Russians. Her northern frontier
is the only place in the world
where Russia has what Sir Win-
ston Churchill would call a ‘soft
underbelly.’ ”
In further comment it stated:
“Persia is not only a Strategi-
cally important country whose
loss would be a disaster to the
West; it is also a potentially
rich country which in the long
run can and must help itself.
It could have been brought to its
present pass only because of the
oil controversy with Britain, in
which the fault was by no means
on one side.”
London Labor “Daily Her-
ald,” perhaps remembering that
it was a British Labor Govern-
ment which at first bluffed over
Abadan and then ignominiously
caved in, has said that the argu-
ment about the rights and
wrongs of the old dispute can
go on until the Abadan refinery
rusts and decays. What is really
wanted now is an imaginative
endeavor to get the oil flowing
again.
It added: “The British Gov :
ernment should be busy pre-
paring new proposals for a
settlement —a plan fair to the
Persians and fair to the outside
world, which needs what Persia
has to offer.”
“The British Government,”
in “Manchester Guardian’s”
view, “is in a stronger bargaining
position than it was two years
ago, for we have no pressing
need of Persian oil, and produc-
tion in Irak, Kuwait and the
Trucial Sheikdoms has already
proved capable of making up for
its loss. We have, however, a
direct interest in trying to main-
tain a stable regime in Persia
and in helping the economic
development of her people.”
Naturally, British comment
keeps in mind the “once-bitten”
aspect. Thus, Edinburgh “Scots-
man” :
“The Anglo-Iranian Oil Com-
London “Daily Express”
“There, I told you to stop fiddling with that bomb, Comrade
Professor!”
pany have embarked on replace-
ment schemes in other areas, and
Persia has not the same attrac-
tion for them for this and other
reasons. Labor costs in Persia,
for instance, have increased.
What Persia has done once she
might do again, and the growth
of a nationalistic spirit, inevi-
table though it may be, does
not encourage other countries to
sink much money in Persia.
“It may be, therefore, that
Persia will have to depend in
the future mainly on herself. A
small but rich ruling class of
landowners and Army officers
will have great difficulty in
striking a balance between its
own interests and those of the
poor masses. They have made
no serious attempt to solve this
problem hitherto and it cannot
be solved on an empty treasury.”
London “Daily Telegraph” ;
“The world no longer needs
Persian oil as it did, because
other sources have more than
made good the loss of output
from Abadan. But the world
still needs, and always will, the
principles of good faith in inter-
national dealings from which
Dr. Moussadek’s behavior
marked such a signal departure.”
London “Financial Times”:
“The U.S. has, after all, as great
an interest as Britain in making
a clear demonstration in the
Middle East that expropriation
without compensation is not a
policy that pays in the end. It
would be a pity if any American
action resulted in the impression
that a State with a common
frontier with Russia and a strong
Communist party inside its
borders had a special right to
defy the foreign investor. The
question of how much financial
assistance the new Persian Gov-
ernment ought to be given is
thus a very nice calculation.
The British view would probably
be: Sufficient to keep it going
temporarily, but not enough to
make it really comfortable.”
Various Voices
Gen. Paul Gerardot ( France );
“Over and above the European
idea, the Germans are aiming at
the reunification of their coun-
try, and many of them are firmly
decided to obtain it even at the
price of a third world war. And
it is not at all impossible that in
place of something better they
will try for this reunification by
a complete about-face of their
present policy and, with arms
and baggage, pass over to the
other side of the Iron Curtain.”
W. Sterling Cole, chairman of
the U.S. Congress Atomic
Energy Committee: “Any fis-
sionable material which is used
in weapons today can be used as
fuel in atomic reactors to-
morrow. After we develop the
right kinds of atomic furnaces,
these materials can be used to
run factory engines and furnish
electricity for our homes. This
means that in manufacturing
fissionable materials we’re con-
verting our dollars into the
modern equivalent of gold.
We’re spending the public’s
money for a material which has
a double purpose —defence uses
and peace-time uses.”
Adloi Stevenson : “The world
is not one world. It is more like
three worlds —the Allied world,
the Communist world and the
uncommitted world. In nations
like India, Indonesia and Burma
they do not accept the thesis
that everyone has to choose
sides, that they have to be for
us or against us.”
Harold Watkinson, Parlia-
mentary Secretary to Britain’s
Ministry of Labor and National
Service, on Britain under the
Conservatives: “We have got
more freedom in our daily lives ;
more choice in the shops ; more
homes to buy and rent; more
security in foreign affairs ; more
vigor in our economic life;
more solvency in our national
accounts ; more national team-
work. Fortunately, we have
also got less unemployment;
less State interference; less
nationalisation; less industrial
unrest; less party political bad-
feeling ; less increase in the cost
of living ; less taxes to pay.”
General Gruenther, Supreme
Commander of the Allied
Powers in Europe: “It is a sad
commentary on the world today
that peace cannot be established
without power. Nevertheless,
that is a fact. We have tried
negotiation from weakness and
in the process have seen almost
half the world swallowed up in
the darkness of Soviet imperial-
ism. We must have military
strength not only to resist aggres-
sion but also to give our states-
men a firm basis from which to
negotiate a modus vivendi with
the Soviet Union.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Australian Poetry in Schools
Those remarks on the education system
and Australian poetry (B. 1/10/’53) are
timely. The teaching of Australian poetry
in the schools begins with “The Sick
Stockrider” and ends at “The Man From
Snowy River.” The same poems are
taught from year to year and from class
to class until teachers and pupils are
heartily sick of them. Children are never
shown that poetry is as vital as life itself,
and, like life, is moving through an end-
less stage of evolution.
The fault is, first of all, in the teach-
ing. Few teachers keep themselves up-
to-date on the development of Australian
writing. Except in the examination years
(third and fifth), where set books are to
be studied, the curriculum allows the
teacher very wide scope in his selection of
poetry. Yet, when I lately mentioned four
present-day Australian poets in the staff-
room of a city school, several' teachers
had not heard of any of them.
The teacher’s attitude is easy to under-
stand. All books must be provided by the
school itself —i.e., from contributions
from the pupils or from parents and
citizens’ associations. Books once bought
have to last until they fall apart. To
introduce new poems means laborious
copying or expensive duplicating.
Rarely is poetry ever taught as poetry ;
it is taught as a means of answering
stereotyped questions set in the end-of-
the-year exam. We never see lessons of
poetry-reading for the simple joy of hear-
ing poetry. The argument that school-
children wouldn’t understand anything
but ballads is merely an excuse for not
teaching anything else.
There is little hope that Australians
will become aware of the poetry that is
being written in their midst until some
effort is made to present it in the schools.
—Wackford (N.S.W.).
Price-fixing
Maybe price-fixing will not work (B.
30/9/’53), but the public needs some
form of protection against overcharging
and exploitation. That was plain enough
during Sydney’s recent meat strike, when
people had to pay exorbitant prices for
second-rate meat.
The past few years have proved that
neither price-fixing nor price-control
“ Where's the Slim-U Company? ”
could provide goods at a reasonable price
for the buyer and allow the seller a
reasonable profit. Government interfer-
ence in prices has generally resulted in
higher prices to the consumer, while the
producer received very little more.
On the other hand, opponents of price-
control have maintained that competition
would keep prices at a reasonable level.
In normal circumstances that may be
true, but the competitive element appears
lacking. Somewhere between the pro-
ducer and consumer there are groups
interested only in maintaining a high
price. The usual form of pressure seems
to be that of withholding supplies. Very
few retailers are free to mark their prices
down. If they do, the goods are not avail-
able to them.
Buyer-resistance has succeeded in some
cases with comparatively unessential
goods, but how can housewives “resist”
potatoes, meat, milk, eggs and other
essential foods? The result is that prices
of these stay where they are —up high.
The only place for Government inter-
ference seems to be in the form of anti-
monopolistic laws. If the direct supplier
to the public were given a free go with
his prices there would be no need for
price-control. Competition would be real,
not artificial. — Rann (N.S.W.).
The Suburban Press
“Bo’s” treatment of suburban news-
paper editors (B. 30/9/’53) was a bit off
the mark—humorous though it was. Big-
city dailies still have a tendency to fall
all over their advertisers, but not the
average suburban or provincial paper.
I’ve been editor of a chain of seven
weekly locals for 20 years and was the
founder of Melbourne Suburban News-
papers Association, so I know a little
about the subject. When I took over,
the advertiser was always right and no
one dare offend his august person. It’s
different today. The editorial and adver-
tising departments of suburban news-
papers work independently. If some-
thing should be fairly printed, even though
it may harm an advertiser, it is printed.
That occasionally causes minor blues be-
tween the two departments and a major
blue with the advertiser, who often cancels
his advertisement. But he comes back
because he has to —the locals look to the
“local” for what locals have to sell.
The truth about newspapers today is
that, while suburban newspapers have a
high code of conduct in all things per-
taining to journalism, daily newspapers
pander unashamedly to the big advertisers.
— E. J. Trait (Vic.).
Diesel-electrics
“Transporticus” (B. 30/9/’53) should
realise that most of the noise he is hear-
ing about diesel-electrics is being made
by diesel-electric salesmen. In the
Queensland railways speed is governed
by the state of the lines—-bad bends, etc.
—and even a magician can’t get over that.
It would be expected, then, that the
diesel-electrics would pull larger loads
These are not the correct figures, but they
give the idea: the d.-e. can pull, say, a
500-ton load. The couplings between
the carriages and trucks can
stand a pull of 300 tons. If
the diesel is given a full load
the couplings are pulled out
from under the trucks. That
has happened.
My only worry is whether
or not there will be enough
room for the diesel-electrics
and the Garrats which are
already rusting away at
Clapham Junction. Law
(Q-).
Are diesel-electric loco-
motives really fast? As far
as I know, steam-trains still
hold the record for speed.
The first British loco-
motive to reach 100 m.p.h.,
City of Truro, achieved that
speed between the Millbay
Crossing at Plymouth and
Paddington in 1904. That
loco is now at rest in the
York Railway Museum.
Nearly 30 years passed
before that feat Was re-
peated. Speed became a
battle between the major
railroad companies.
L.N.E.R.’s specially-
designed Silver Jubilee,
hauled by the Silver Link,
chuffed out of King’s Cross
on September 30, 1935,
reached a maximum speed
of 112 m.p.h. and held three figures on
the speedo for 43 miles.
Eleven months later the Silver Fox,
hauling the same train, touched 113 m.p.h.
Those standing on the plate had the
willies over the last few miles. A rain
of fragments from beneath the train in-
dicated that all was not well inside.
Inspection later showed that the middle
big-end had overheated and was dis-
integrating.
In June, 1937, L.M.S. put its Corona-
tion Scot into the fray and wrested the
“blue riband of the railways” from
L.N.E.R. with top speed of 114 m.p.h.
The laurels have rested with L.N.E.R.
since 1938, when its Mallard, under a
screen of secrecy, claimed the yet un-
beaten record of 126 m.p.h. — Gyro-Joe
(N.S.W.).
Communism
“G. Elburg’s” assurance (B. 7/10/’53)
that there is no prospect of Communism
ever becoming a major political or social
force in Australia is the kind of argu-
“I cant see how you can put it off much longer?"
ment encouraged by the Communists and
supported by Labor.
If we relax our vigilance there is every
prospect of Communism becoming far
more than a nuisance. The strength of
Communism lies, not in its numbers, but
in its control of essential industries and
public utilities. The anti-Communist
referendum failed, but the campaign made
many trade-unionists aware of the danger
in their midst. The Menzies Govern-
ment’s secret-ballot legislation has helped
to curtail the power of the Communist
in the unions, but it does not need much
imagination to picture the industrial mess
we would have had without those
measures.
An examination of all countries in
which Communism has taken charge
would show that it was in the minority.
An insidious white-anting of the public
service and the armed services gives the
Communists control before unsuspecting
people realise what has happened. “It
can’t happen here” has caused the down-
fall of a number of countries.
If the ultimate aim of the local Com-
munist bosses isn’t the control of this
country, then what is their aim? Com-
munism isn’t just a nuisance. It’s a
danger, and one to be attacked as such.
—Dorf (N.S.W.).
Another Bungle
The ill-fated Clare (Q.) soldier-settle-
ment scheme is another black mark
against Labor administration in that State.
The settlement was part of the Bur dekin
irrigation scheme. Its object was tobacco
and it was begun against the advice of
an officer of the Commonwealth Bureau
of Agricultural Economics who con-
sidered the soil would prove unsuitable.
The highest irrigation fees in Australia,
£lOO a year, were charged, plus four
guineas an acre-foot for any extra water
required. Rents were fixed at 10s. an
acre per year.
When the first settlers arrived with
their wives and children they found that
the farm buildings had been constructed
from materials salvaged from an old
hospital; the “homes” had no bathrooms
and were not weatherproof.
On a partly-developed and -equipped
basis these 50- to 70-acre farms were
capitalised at from £7OOO to £9OOO. That,
with exorbitant rentals, placed the settler
in an impossible economic position from
the outset.
Many settlers in the first year succeeded
in growing a fair crop of tobacco, only
to have the proceeds grabbed by the
Agricultural Bank. That denied them
the three years’ interest- and redemption-
free provisions of the Soldier Settlement
Agricultural Bank Act.
Some settlers in desperation applied for
work near their farms with the Irrigation
Department and the Main Roads Board
only to find that instructions had been
given that no Clare settlers, under any
circumstances, were to be employed.
Despite a good season the next tobacco
crop was a failure, as predicted by the
officer of the Agricultural Bureau. It
was then found, after bitter experience,
that tobacco could not be grown ,
same ground two years in Success! .
To give the settlers a chance of re-
habilitation it would necessary to
write down indebtedness by at least 50
per cent, and rentals and water charges
would have to be considerably reduced.
Also interest- and redemption-payments
would have to be reduced for mree
The vice-president of the Queensland
branch of the Australian Country party,
W. M. Ewen, is pressing for an inquiry
into the administration of the settle-
ment—Derf Reltuc (Q-).
Government Loans
“Ceg” (B. 7/10/ ’53) infers that the
1931 compulsory conversion of Govern-
ment loans to the four-per-cent, rate
diddled the investors out of the con-
tractual rate of interest for the unexpired
term. While this conversion was a down-
right breach of contract, at least there
was an attempt to provide some compen-
sation. Those who have the habit of
plunging on Government stocks will
recall that their conversion issue had a
higher face-value than the loans they
passed in ; the difference between the old
and new interest-rates was capitalised
and credited to the holder as new loan.
It might have seemed a bit tough at the
time, but how much better than the
wholesale printing of notes we nearly had.
-—Jackpot (N.S.W.).
New States
New States are not the answer to Aus-
tralia’s problems of government. The
creation of a new State would mean the
setting-up of another State Government
with the same sovereign powers as are
possessed by the six existing Govern-
ments. That would involve a new Par-
liament of one or two Chambers, new
Ministries and a new bureaucracy of
public servants, not to mention a new
Governor. Even if the cost of all that
could be met from local revenue, plus
whatever could be extracted from the
Commonwealth, it would still be a retro-
grade step.
With a properly-graduated system of
local government the demand for new
States would disappear. Such a system
would entail a complete reorganisation
of the functions of State Governments.
All powers not absolutely vital to them
would have to be delegated to regional
councils, which in their turn would hand
over strictly local affairs to smaller local
authorities. Each organ of government
would thus have its powers clearly de-
fined and would assume full responsibility
for its own affairs. State Governments
would remain to deal with purely State
matters and to guide and assist the
regional councils.
There is no reason why, as population
grows, such important fields as education
and police forces should not be adminis-
tered by regional councils. In England
the local police forces are in full con-
trol of their own areas, although Scot-
land Yard is called upon when help is
needed. The F. 8.1. in America is in
much the same position as Scotland
Yard.
Unfortunately, history shows that such
sweeping reforms are only brought about
in times of stress and disturbance. Eng-
land got its present system of local gov-
ernment during the political upheaval
occasioned by the Reform Bill of 1831-32,
and in Germany it took a world war and
a dictatorship to remove the petty
princelings and other dead wood which
stood in the way of effective local gov- ;
ernment. —R. E. F. (N.S.W.).
... - ... 3


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878,
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
d
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
CLOTHES
■
mm
m
*
mmm
m
&
rf&M aka, accMt&iti iAmv
a. wm iwwhiff faok iu Mo
One such occasion is his wedding day—you know those
other times —and you know how important it is to make
that good impression.
You know, too, that good clothes DO help. We are more
at ease and so more easily do our best when we FEEL
well dressed.
You can both LOOK your best and FEEL your best in the
new model Stamina De Luxe Suit. In attractive shades of
Navy and Coronation Blue, these De Luxe Suits are pre-
tailored from one hundred per cent. Pure Wool Crusader
Cloth.
They are Suits you will be proud and happy to wear.
YOUR special size is available!
Stamina
•B SUITS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
58.113
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of the “Lone Hand” contain-
ing an article on the Pinnacles Valley
(N.5.W.).—5607.
Complete words of “The Man with
the Concertina,” by Robert Stewart —
probably written in the middle of the
nineteenth century, in Australia. The
first verse is:—
Oh, once more I’m on the bridle track
And through the mountains steering,
With a horse to ride and one to pack,
I’m jogging down for shearing.
At night I pick the driest camp,
And build a three-logged fire
And when a man is on the tramp
What more could he desire?
I light my pipe and puff a cloud,
You’d think it was a steamer,
Then Finnegan’s Wake I finger out
Upon my concertina.
—5608.
To communicate with Australian
relatives of the late Michael Young,
retired sea-captain, brother of Isabella
Jane Young, who married John
Green. (Write direct to Mrs. Eva B.
Harrison, Darras Hall, Nurseries,
Ponteland, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Eng-
land.)
To buy copies of Six Australian
Poets, by T. Inglis Moore. —5609.
Copies of newspapers and maga-
zines containing articles on or reviews
of Australian children’s-books. —s6lo.
To hear from users of kerosene
refrigerators with a view to receiving
hints as to their economical opera-
tion; also the experience of users of
attachments fitted to kerosene refrig-
crators for improving performance.
Information Sought
When a dog is immunised against
distemper at three months, is one
injection only required or are three
required, or does the dog have to be
done every 12 months?
There are many methods of pro-
ducing immunity to distemper in the
dog, probably more than are used
against any other known disease.
However, the following five are per-
haps the principal ones: (1) The
Lebailly method: A dose of fresh
vaccine in one injection. If the dose
is large enough it will produce life-
long immunity. (2) The Laidlaw-
Dunkin method: A dose of vaccine
followed a week later by a dose of
living virus, i.e., two injections one
week apart. (3) The American
modification of the Laidlaw-Dunkin
method: Two doses of vaccine, one
two weeks after the other, followed
in two weeks by a dose of living
virus, i.e., three injections. (4) The
Green method: One injection of a
living virus which has been modified
so that it produces only a very mild
attack of the disease. (5) Serum and
virus simultaneously; This is the
common method used in Australia
and consists of an injection of living
virus followed by an injection of
antiserum approximately one hour
later. All these methods confer life-
long immunity and it is not necessary
to have the animal re-immunised
yearly.
* * * #
Names and authors of books on
opera ?
The Operatic Masterpieces (des-
cribed by Downes); A Treasury of
Grand Opera; The World’s Great
Operas, by John Tasker Howard;
Opera Nights, by Ernest Newman;
Operas and Musical Comedies and
Opera Synopses, by J. W. McSpad-
den; The Pocket Book of Great
Operas, by A. Veinus; Opera (Pelican
senes), by Edward J. Dent; Complete
Stories of the Great Operas, by Mil-
ton Cross. There are others, of
course.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
How to play shove-halfpenny ?
Shove-halfpenny is the modern
form of shovel-board, or shuffle-
board, a favorite game in England
in the 16th and 17th centuries. Now
mainly a shipboard game, it is played
by pushing or shoving disks with
hand or cue along a board marked
with transverse lines, the object being
to play the disk so that it comes to
rest between each set of lines or in
one of a number of squares chalked
on the neck of the board.
♦ * * *
Some information on the Sulman
award for architecture ?
■#l6 Sir John Sulman Medal and
Diploma is awarded annually by the
N.S.W. Chapter of the Royal Austra-
lian Institute of Architects for an
executed architectural work of out-
standing merit. The building must
be in N.S.W. or the A.C.T., and
any member of the N.S.W. chapter is
eligible to nominate a building, in-
eluding one of his own design. Each
entry should be accompanied by suffi-
cient photographs and drawings. The
judges comprise four architects, one
painter, one sculptor and the Director
of the National Art Gallery. The
award, made annually, is for the fol-
lowing classes —(1) public and monu-
mental (Government buildings, rail-
way-stations, hospitals, etc.); (2) edu-
cational and ecclesiastical (schools,
churches, etc.); (3) commercial and
industrial (office buildings, factories,
etc.); (4) recreational (theatres, etc.);
(5) domestic and residential (homes,
flat buildings, etc.). With the consent
of the owner, a suitable tablet may be
affixed to the chosen building.
* * * *
Particulars of essay competition fot
Australian schoolchildren being run
by the High Commissioner for India ?
The subject of the essay is “India
Since Independence.” The competi-
tion is divided into two sections, one
for over 15 and the other for below
15 years of age. The best essay in
each section will be awarded a prize
of £lO, The High Commissioner for
India will be the final judge in each
section. Essays (which should not
exceed 1500 words) should reach the
India Information Services, 58 Mar-
garet-street, Sydney, not later than
January 31, 1954. Entries should be
submitted through the headmaster of
the school.
* * * ♦
What were the printed papers
known as “pipes’'' ?
“Pipes” was the name given to cer-
tain scurrilous papers which were
circulated in the earlier days of the
colony of New South Wales, lam-
pooning high-placed officials or other
well-known persons. The word is a
slang term, and is the noun of the
verb “to pipe”: that is, to watch a
man and in some way victimise him.
The first “pipes” were circulated in
1803 against Governor King, whose
efforts to prevent the sale of rum
met with such hostility.
Brief Answers
E.R.D.: The Dominion of Pakistan
was constituted under the Indian In-
dependence Act, 1947, which received
the Royal Assent on July 18, 1947
C.W.W.: Write New Zealand Forest
Products, Ltd., O’Rorke-road, Pen-
rose, Auckland, N.Z T.C.S.: The
Hunter River (N-S.W.) has its source
on the western slopes of the Mount
Royal Range in portion 44 of the
parish of Bronte, county of Dbrham,
about 2i miles upstream of the Ellers-
ton-Tomalla road-crossing (Plan D
4627 - 2083 Lands Department)
A.W.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept,
of Agriculture, Farrer-place, Sydney,
who will supply all the information
you require H.M.J.: Try the Mit-
chell Library, Sydney A.W.R.:
Try Anthony Hordern and Son, Ltd.,
Brickfield Hill, George-street, Sydney.
. ...M.U.: It is now accepted that
a virus of which there are three
major strains, namely, Lansing,
Brunhilde and Leon, are the cause
of poliomyelitis. Recent advances in
the techniques of growing poliomye-
litis virus in tissue cultures have given
great impetus to the research into the
treatment of the disease. Work of
this nature is being carried out at
the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute
of Medical Research and the Com-
monwealth Serum Laboratories, Mel-
bourne; at the Institute of Medical
and Veterinary Science, Adelaide;
and at the Institute of Epidemiology
and Preventive Medicine, Prince
Henry Hospital, Sydney P.P.:
Vernon (1200 tons) was a Green’s
Blackwall Line frigate-built ship,
launched in 1839, with paddle-wheels,
which were removed before proceed-
ing to sea. She was an East India-
man until she was placed on Aus-
tralian trade from 1863 to 1870, when
she was sold to the British Govern-
ment for a reformatory ship. As such
she lay in Port Jackson until de-
stroyed by fire as she was being dis-
mantled alongside Golden South, a
wooden clipper-ship, in Kerosene Bay,
May 29, 1893... .F.F.: M. W.
Shapira (1830-84), of Jerusalem, was
a noted forger. His frauds included
alleged pottery objects from Moab
(1872) and a manuscript of part of
the Old Testament (Deuteronomy) of
very ancient date. The manuscript
was actually written on treated sheep-
skin some 300 years old. On the
exposure of this latter fraud Shapira
shot himself in 1884 K.G.W.:
Neoprene is a form of synthetic
rubber produced in America, the first
to be commercially successful. It is
obtained from butyl chloride, and
may be vulcanised with zinc oxide.
. ...R.A.: Marcasite is a mineral
consisting of iron disulphide. It is
chemically identical with iron pyrites,
and was formerly looked upon as a
variety of pyrites. Marcasite is
yellowish-brown and has a brilliant
lustre. It is mined at Littmitz, near
Carlsbad (Czechoslovakia), and is
used for the preparation of sulphur
and ferrous sulphite.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. snould
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
W.R.: Old-dog stories need a new
twist to their tails H.A.W.: Imag-
inative reconstruction of the thought-
processes of ancient aborigines is
rarely as worth while as direct obser-
vation of present-day ones 8.D.:
Not bad, but not quite DJ.C.:
“No Flowers by Request,” indeed
J.C.: Not a story 8.J.G.: It
was interesting when it was happen-
ing, but that was then... .L.P.: Not
ours J.V.D.; It fell off its tight-
rope W.W.8.: Something in it, but
not enough... .J.C.H.: Don’t like
that manner L.E.A.: Memories
of dying , abos. are bad enough,
but the memoirs of a stricken kan-
garoo leave us c01d... .J. 8.: Good
idea, but a bit far-fetched; might go
elsewhere... .E.P.R.: Not for u 5....
H.H.: “The blazing sun sank beneath
the horizon” —for a change, no doubt.
... .L. 8.: It’s all very thoughtful....
M.D.: Forced bath; forced humor.
K.McG.: Might go elsewhere,
but we’re short of space for such
sketches G.M.: Much too hearty.
M.B.: Alas, that old awakening
from that old dream!....D.McK.:
Try elsewhere C.H.P.: Involved.
L.McG.: We never read both
sides of the paper, but, judging
by what we can decipher, we’re not
missing much T.H.: Not enough
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
in it J.S.: Saw it coming
R.M.A.: Tillivalli J J.: You have
a good storytelling manner, but you
stretch probabilities a bit too far....
W.W.: It reads like hens clucking.
A.E.B.: It might have been a
good wedding, but it doesn’t make
a good story... .M.H.: As one of
your characters might say, “ ’Orrible.”
J.M.H.: The story’s there, but
it’s the kind that has to be done
just-so; and you have done it so-so.
P.R.R.: Effective stratagems
often look childish on paper
0.W.: We’re not so surprised that
your characters could talk to their
authoress as that they could talk at
all.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
m
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS.. NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES.. .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
dfs
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
DISTRIBUTORS: —'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building.
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: E. P. Melnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Baffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
&M-
-’ .of*
Situ
boh®
Itv**w*
ts%
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE! S.PO. foe 3583.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Bov 4Q58. MELBOURNE • SAG.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. 80. 7BBK. BRISBANE
• S.P.O 80. 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep-dipping
“Sundowner”: Dip when
wool is short. Follow instruc-
tions implicitly. Dip thoroughly,
carefully and cleanly.
See that the dip is clean.
When mixing, it is essential to
know the exact volume of the
dip. Ten days after shearing is
the ideal time for dipping. This
timetable gives a maximum
parasite kill, and there is no
danger from wound infection.
Dipping while wool is short is
important, because it allows the
sheep to dry quicker. The longer
they stay wet the greater the
danger.
Yard the sheep overnight, but
see that they have water. It is
courting trouble to dip thirsty
sheep. Don’t keep them in the
yards too long. Sheep about to
be dipped should not be hungry,
and, by the same token, they
shouldn’t be overfull. If sheep
are yarded overnight there will
be less risk of contamination of
the dip by dung.
Don’t overcrowd the draining-
pen nor hold the sheep in it too
long. Hold them only long
enough for the surplus fluid to
run back. After they are let out
allow them to wander in the
yard at their own pace. Dip
early in the day and stop early,
so that dipped sheep can dry
before night.
New Wheat
“Mr.”: A new Victorian
wheat, Sherpa, named after the
native State of Tensing, Hillary’s
companion on the Everest con-
quest, is a cross between the
well-known Ghurka and Amity.
Of early-mid-season maturity,
white-chaffed with strong straw
and harvesting well, it ripens
several days before Quadrat.
Sherpa has been tested for
grain-yield throughout Victoria
and for milling- and baking-
quality in cereal laboratories.
It is recommended by the Vic-
torian Wheat Advistory Com-
mittee for sowing in the Mallee
and north-east Victoria, where it
has yielded well. In the Mallee,
Sherpa has beaten all except In-
signia and has outyielded Quad-
rat at both Rutherglen and
Dookie. In the Wimmera and
mid-north it has not done as well
as the established varieties.
In baking-quality Sherpa is
superior to some varieties now
commonly grown in Victoria,
possessing special milling and
baking characteristics which en-
able it, when blended with other
varieties, to improve the overall
baking-quality of the flour.
Seed will be distributed to
farmers for sowing in 1954.
Bee-trees
“Old Nick”: Taking bees
from bee-trees between October
and November gives them a
chance to build up the hive
while honey is abundant.
You need a box of the same
length and about three-quarters
the width of a standard hive, into
which frames can be fitted. Ex-
pose the comb and colony and
then remove the honey- and
brood-combs carefully. When
the queen is found she should be
placed gently in a cage.
Pick out the best pieces of
worker brood-comb and cut
them to fit the frames. Then
secure them with string or
rubber-bands round the bottom,
and over the top, bars of the
frames. The cage with the queen
in it should be fastened to the
top of the inside of the box,
frames of brood placed within
the box and made secure.
The box should now be placed
in position to entice the bees
into it. By nightfall most of the
flying bees will have calmed
down and collected in it. When
transferring the colony to the
hive place the frame of brood
within it, liberate the queen and
attach a piece of queen-excluder
to the hive entrance. After three
days the colony will abandon
all idea of absconding.
Trees in Shallow Soils
“Pigi”: If cypress-pine wind-
break trees growing in shallow
soil over clay are dying, it’s
probably because the roots have
reached the clay layer and, in
dry weather, can’t draw enough
moisture to survive.
Native cypress, as well as
some imported conifers and a
number of hardwoods, require
between 20in. and 30in. of sur-
face soil over the impermeable
clay or rock. If it is not possible
to give the trees this condition
“Yair, Kelly sold out to one o' them migrants."
naturally, then they can have it
artificially. This may be done
by digging a large trench down
to the clay—and into the clay
if a fall can be obtained so that
the effect is not to produce a
basin in which water will ac-
cumulate and cause waterlogging
—and filling the trench with soil
into which humus or well-rotted
manure is incorporated.
An alternative is to dig a hole
about 2ft. square down to the
clay, but not into it, refill the
hole as above and mound up to
give 20in. of soil and then plant
on the top of the mound.
As these conifers are mainly
surface-feeders, soil-cultivation
around the trees should be
abandoned after the first couple
of years and a mulch of grass
or weeds strewn around the
butts. An application of phos-
phate, a handful to a 2ft. square
around each tree, but not right
against the bark, is beneficial.
Sowing Maize
“Zea”: It isn’t advisable to sow
maize in dry ground ready for
the rain so that when it comes
it brings up the crop, as wheat-
growers do. When only light
rainfall occurs on land ploughed
and prepared the soil moisture
may not be sufficient for maize-
germination.
When spring is dry in some
maize areas of U.S.A. the soil
is not generally compacted, and
is also clear of weeds, and the
routine practice of deep plough-
ing and cultivation to prepare
a seedbed is dispensed with. In-
stead, a single-furrow, shallow
ploughing or cultivation of the
intended row-lines is done, with
sowing the same day, before the
clods have a chance to harden
and the soil dry out.
If firming the seed-bed is con-
sidered desirable, the tractor
wheels are aligned with the
planter so that the seed is
dropped in the compacted wheel-
track.
Depth Is Important
“Ben Acre”: A tank or dam
must be deep to offset evapora-
tion. A 10,000-cubic-yard tank
would hold enough water to pro-
vide 1000 sheep with a gallon of
water each per day for 4| years,
but no experienced farmer would
expect it to last more than a
few months in a hot summer.
In an actual example it was
estimated that in five months.
from when it was filled until it
was dry, at one gallon per day
each, 500 sheep drank only 10
per cent, of the water in a
4000 yd. tank. The rest went in
soakage and evaporation
mainly evaporation.
Evaporation in Riverina is
rated at sft. of still surface-
water in summer, so a tank
would need to be at least large
enough to have a depth of 10ft.
The greater the surface area,
of course, the greater the
evaporation, there f or e the
greater the need for depth. This
further affects the degree of
batter, so that stock are not
forced to drink from a minor
precipice. All things considered,
the man who makes a deep tank,
fences it off, and instals a wind-
mill, storage-tank and trough-
ing saves a lot of water.
Making Better Silage
“Hock”: With modern equip-
ment silage-making is rapid and
pleasant work. The buckrake
method can be used for ensiling
either in clamp-s or in trenches
and is one of the fastest. Its sim-
plicity and ease of operation
give it a special appeal for the
one-man dairyfarm.
The wedge-clamp structure is
very suitable for our conditions.
For those farmers who intend
to use it there are seven points
to be noted: (1) Allow at least
16ft. and up to 18ft. to 20ft.
width on top of the clamp, to
permit the tractor to manoeuvre
easily when rolling ; (2) keep the
top level from side to side as you
build and avoid a crown in the
centre ; (3) keep the sides of the
clamp well built-up during con-
struction ; (4) use guide-poles as
markers during building; (5)
give extra consolidation where
necessary, by rolling the top of
the clamp during breaks and
after the day’s building has
finished, in addition to during
delivery of the green material;
(6) adjust the rate of filling
according to the temperature
being built-up in the clamp; (7)
if the material is particularly
lush, wilt before ensiling. It
should be moist, but not wet,
when put into the clamp.
Pigs in Small Spaces
“Wall”: Eight or ten pigs up
to baconer size can be accommo-
dated in 100 square feet of floor-
space. The floor, which may
be earthen (if well drained),
should be covered with a layer
of dry sawdust about Sin. deep.
Straw is not so effective, as it is
liable to pack down tightly in
layers. The pigs should prefer-
ably be fed on an ample dry
ration and have drinking water
available at all times. Green feed
or lucerne-meal is necessary.
Lime should be sprinkled
on the sawdust every second day,
and fresh sawdust added as re-
quired for absorption of
moisture. In three or four weeks
fermentation will have advanced
to a point where the litter will
be crumbly, relatively dry, and
dark in color ; it is then unneces-
sary to add further sawdust or
lime unless any part of the floor
becomes wetter than the re-
mainder. If for some reason the
sawdust packs down tightly it
should be loosened with a
garden-fork.
The floorspace must be com-
pletely roofed-over so that the
sawdust cannot be affected by
weather. Rain would wet it to
a point at which the fermenta-
tion would be interrupted. Good
results have been obtained from
running weaners on deep litter
right up to baconer weight, the
pigs spending the whole time on
the litter without any access to
grazing. Sow and suckers can
be run on deep litter after they
have come off the sloping, far-
rowing floor —about seven days
after farrowing.
Export Beef
“Oxo”: Queensland Minister
for Agriculture Collins believes
that, unless the carrying-capacity
of Australia is increased, it is pos-
sible that in less than 10 years,
with the ordinary rate of increas-
ing population, we shall not be
able to export beef.
Collins pointed out that
Queensland had a very uncertain
rainfall, particularly in the cattle-
and sheep-producing areas, and
said the Government was search-
ing the world for pastures which
would stand up to the State’s
climatic conditions better than
the native pastures. He did not
wish to underrate the native
pastures, because they were re-
markable in so far as use had
been made of them to date, but
the carrying - capacity of the
country had to be increased if
Australia was to maintain, let
alone increase, her beef-produc-
tion.
Meat is Queensland’s second-
largest land industry, and at
present there is a demand for a
greater slaughter of cattle than


mmmmmm
•v-v »>>>;>v-.-.:< -.
- ■
WSttfe
ssi
- ••- • •v.
• •.•.■■■ .
• : • a»
■■•yyyj>'--
’Xrz/y/'Xys
w»:—^
•;■-:-•••• ■-••s'
....... -■-I
:■;•.-• ■ ■ s’- ■
Features:
SILOS
• Heavy gauge galvanised sheets.
• Easily erected—permanent.
• Rodent and weatherproof.
• Extras available include: access
door, earthring, etc.
• Prompt delivery.
• Designed to fill and empty
Lysaght Silos.
• Segmented construction for easy
assembly and versatility.
• Unique vertical filling avoids
congestion.
• Vertical sets complete with wall
brackets, chute tubes, et<
AUGERS
df
AUGERS ARE PRICED AS LOW AS £75/13/-
POPULAR TYPE FOR 2000 BUSHEL SILO. £lO3/18/- (Motors not provided)
Write for further information and agents' names to
LYSAGHTS WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., in all capital cities.
L43a
fts afrfa/s toady!
Always ready
for cooking
Always gallons
of Hot water
A/wayS greater
convenience
All-fotde
ONB
U)W
COST
:r*v
n
EafunichcieL s*o
r
DOMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND WATER HEATER
with true thermostat control
• HEAVY CASTING within the range stores the heat, and
thorough insulation prevents heat loss.
• TWO LARGE COOKING OVENS and TWO BIGGER HOTPLATES
allow you to do all your cooking at the one time.
• CONTINUOUS BURNING means that the "520” is always
ready when you decide to cook.
• BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL—including coal, coke,
anthracite, briquettes, etc.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Car-
michael 520 is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
Write for free illustrated literature to Carmichael's,
Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W.
CONSTANT HOT WATER
★ In the kitchen
★ In the bathroom
★ In the laundry
The Carmichael 520
will supply enough hoi
water for all your
household needs.
Naturally it cooks perfectly .
Makers of fine fuel stoves since
.. if. *GuurdchadL
1892 ... A Unit of Email Limited
there are facilities to treat them.
That problem, is not as easy as it
appears to be. Statistics show
that there were more cattle in
Queensland 55 years ago than to-
day, although not the same out-
put of meat; the State also had
far more cattle and sheep 10
years ago than today.
Collins said that on this and
other problems the department,
through an advisory body on
which graziers had representa-
tion, was working very closely
with the Graziers’ Association.
Unknown Factors
“A.H.”: A disclosure on how
little help is received by apiarists
in their industry from scientific
branches came when Col. G. H.
Pulling, an N.S.W. beefarmer,
presented the C.5.1.R.0. with
some pertinent questions.
Among the more important of
them was (1) nectar-secretion
and the chances of reckoning it
before the tree bloomed, (2)
pollen and pollen substitutes, (3)
brood diseases, (4) breeding.
The reply to all these very im-
portant queries was that nothing
was known. The fact is that very
little or nothing is known either
of tree- or bee-behavior.
Dr. Clunies Ross, chairman of
C.5.1.R.0., is interested in
these problems, but no finance
is on hand to pay for investiga-
tion. He advised the beekeepers,
through Col. Pulling, to help
themselves by raising some-
where round £4OOO to set up
a Beekeepers’ Research Station
and so qualify for a £-for-£ grant
from the Government.
Diseases of Peas
“II.C.”: Infected seed is the
main cause of stem-rot and
black-spot of peas. Purplish
streaks in the lower parts of the
stems and spotting of the leaves
and pods are symptoms. In bad
cases the stem rots through
above the ground and the whole
plant dies.
To control, sow disease-free
seed harvested from late-spring
or summer crops and discard
shrivelled, discolored or cracked
seed. Planting on land that has
not been sown to peas for two
or three seasons, early destruc-
tion of weakly or spotted plants,
and good stake-supports to keep
the peas off the ground are
other precautions.
Once the disease is noticed,
the plants should be sprayed
with 4-4-40 Bordeaux mixture
till the stems as well as the
leaves are covered with it. Re-
peat till the disease is under
control.
Sub.-Clover
“My”: The best-known com-
mercial varieties of sub.-clover
in Victoria and their times of
maturity are: Tallarook (late),
Mt. Barker (mid - season),
Bacchus Marsh (early mid-sea-
son) and Dwalganup (early). All
have shown promise at Ruther-
glen research-station except Tal-
larook, which needs a higher
rainfall than the district average
of 22in., though in other north-
east areas with a rainfall of 25in.
or more it does well.
Mid-season Mt. Barker - has
been the standard variety for the
Rutherglen district for the past
20 years, giving vigorous, highly-
productive pastures. Bacchus
Marsh has hath only a limited
trial at Rutherglen, but results
to date indicate that in areas
with a rainfall lower than 22in.
it’s better than Mt. Barker and
sets more seed.
After Eighty Years
One Poll Shorthorn
cow, bought by chance in 1872
in a draft of horned animals, was
foundation poll dam of a large
Queensland beef-cattle herd, 75
per cent, of which now are
hornless. E. G. Conrick, Nappa-
merrie, Cooper’s Creek (Q.), said
his father bought a draft of
Shorthorn bulls and cows at the
Neil Black dispersal sale in
November, 1872. Hie only poll
cow in the draft, in those days
known as a sport, was mated
with horned bulls at Nappa-
merrie, breeding two bulls and
three heifer calves before she
died. Nappamerie’s present 75
per cent, preponderance of polls
stem solely from this cow and
her progeny.
Nappamerrie is in the extreme
south-west corner of Queens-
land. Explorers Burke and Wills
passed their last hours at historic
points on the property. The
Nappamerrie brand, C3K, is
well known in Sydney, Adelaide
and Brisbane markets.
During the war 470 young
bullocks of splendid quality were
marketed in Brisbane. Of these
about half were polls, a third
“snaillies” (short, crooked horns
resembling a snail-shell), the rest-
horned. They were walked 300
miles to .Quilpie, then trucked
over 600 miles to Brisbane and
landed in excellent condition.
Unfenced runs at Nappamerrie
made it impossible to concen-
trate on an exclusively-poll pro-
gramme. Anyhow, the persist-
ence and vigor of the strain in-
herited from the original poll
dam had to a large extent made
this unnecessary.
Hints for the' Farm
“Billjim”: Wood used for
garden-frames and seedboxes
should be treated with preserva-
tive. Oil-soluble preservatives
such as zinc naphthenate (2 p.c.
metal by weight), copper naph-
thenate (1 p.c. metal by weight)
and 5 p.c. pentachlorphenol are
available as proprietary lines
and, applied with simple brush
treatments, are effective in pro-
longing the life of all woods.
“Deejay”: Suspicion that the
growth known as Jassiena repens
causes deformed calves has been
confirmed by the district vet. at
Newcastle (N.S.W.). In one in-
stance, where the herd grazed
on a swamp where the stuff grew
during the early stages of preg-
nancy, seven out of the 11 calves
born were deformed.
“My”: Having no sweat-
glands, poultry are susceptible
to heat and need special atten-
tion during hot weather. At the
first sign of a heatwave place
drinking-vessels here and there
on the pen-floor, as the birds,
when distressed, aren’t able to
move freely around the pen.
Feed sparingly and omit the
morning feed, as fowls suffocate
quickly if they have a full crop,
especially on the nest. In a
protracted hot spell, hose the
litter lightly and frequently.
“Sundowner”: Mulching is
important in berry-fruit culture.
In addition to the usual advan-
tages of helping to prevent
cracking and packing, checking
weed-growth and conserving
moisture, the practice promotes
a cool root-run which aids good
fruiting during the summer.
Around strawberry plants it pre-
vents the fruit being splashed
with mud and reduces the
damage by contact with the soil.
Clean straw is best.
“Cock-o’-the-Walk”: A crow’s
very slynessmakes him easy to
deal with. No crow will
approach when it thinks any
human is about. A scarecrow
will keep crows away for a week
or more, but the moment they
become cheeky again the scare-
crow wants shifting and alter-
ing ; and a judicious rifle-shot
will keep them off for another
period. But you can’t fool
hawks that way.
PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studied
indicates a strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
from his sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin”
Wool Type Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.


toons. Eighty minutes after they
started work 550 men of the
aerodrome-construction force an
hour were passing over the river
to begin to condition the Nadzab
airstrips, which the Parachute
Regiment was already clearing of
accumulated growth with flame-
throwers.
On the morning of September
7 the Ninth Division was on its
way to Lae. Brigadier Evans’s
24th Brigade had been landed
from Buna the previous midnight
and was beginning to move up
the coast. Brigadier Whitehead’s
26th Brigade moved along the
foothills. The Naval Task Force
and the Engineer Special Bat-
talion sought to keep supplies up
to the moving fronts from the
coast. The Engineers busily
built a road —which was churned
up as soon as it was made —and
were ready to bridge streams
which seemed otherwise im-
passable.
Very early that same morning,
300 miles away, men of Major-
General Vasey’s Seventh Divi-
sion were transported to Ward
Aerodrome, near Moresby. It
took about four hours to get
them ready to fly. At 6.30 a.m.
the first aircraft of their trans-
port left the ground, climbed
over the peaks of the Owen
Stanleys, then slid down into
protective cloud-levels.
They seemed scarcely in the
air before they were bounding
like kangaroos across the crude
airstrips of Nadzab in a hurri-
cane of dust and cinders. The
ferry-service from Nadzab had
been started on the afternoon of
its occupation. And now one
of the first men of the Seventh
Division to land on it was Major-
General Vasey himself, who had
reconnoitred the whole adjacent
district by air before the para-
chutists’ invasion.
It needed roughly 42 aircraft
to move a battalion. Two
brigades, over 250 aircraft loads,
were flown in. The 21st Brigade
(Brigadier Ivan Dougherty) came
later and was flown direct up the
valley to Kaiapit, 46 miles be-
yond Nadzab, spearheaded by
the 2/6th Cavalry (Commando)
Squadron, which cleared the
Japanese out in a tough fight and
paved the way for the main ad-
vance.
On September 6 the 2/23rd
Battalion, advancing from Red
Beach on the other side of Lae,
had met the first Japanese troops
encountered in the operation,
about 160 strong, moving to-
wards the Australian beachhead
after having landed from barges
near the mouth of the Bunga
River. The 2/23rd exacted a
a full price for the death of its
commanding officer in his in-
infantry-landing-craft two days
before.
And now the converging ad-
vances of the two divisions from
each side of bomb-battered Lae
began in earnest. The Ninth,
with roaring streams in its path,
advanced much more slowly
and painfully than the 25th
Brigade spearhead of Brigadier
Ken Bather coming in from Nad-
zab, which had a road of sorts
to operate on and no serious
water hazards to deal with.
There was small, bitter fighting
on both sides, including the fights
on the Markham Valley side for
Heath’s and Jensen’s plantations,
in which Private Richard Kelli-
her won the first Victoria Cross
of the campaign ; also the tough
little action to win the fortified
Markham Point position. On
the other side, the charge, under
machine-gun fire, of the 2/28th
Battalion across the Busu River,
declared “impassable for loaded
men,” was one of the epics of
the Pacific war.
On September 8 four United
States destroyers stood off Lae
and pounded it viciously while it
was still smoking from the latest
of its many air-raids. Next day
the Japanese submarine 1-174
sneaked in and deposited Rear-
Admiral Mori on the beach, to
be welcomed the following night
by another battering by four
APDs. The Rear-Admiral looked
round and decided that the best
weapons the Japanese had left to
them were their legs, and obvi-
ously General Nakano agreed
when he knew, on September 11,
that Salamaua had fallen.
The arms of the 26th Brigade
on the east and the 25th Brigade
on the west, outstretched beyond
the Atzera Range, failed to
corral the retreating Japanese,
and they eventually organised
1500 skeletons into Sio on the
north coast, only 400 of them,
even by Japanese standards, fit
for service. They arrived there
nearly a month after the guns
of the Ninth Division had rudely
driven the entering advance-
guard of the Seventh Division’s
2/31st Battalion from the ruins
of Lae, which they had pene-
trated without meeting resist-
ance there at the last. Most of
the fighting had been part of a
delaying operation designed by
the Japanese to allow the bulk
xemnants of their Lae garrison to
escape. It was the 2/31st Bat-
talion of the Seventh Division
which finally raised the Aust-
ralian flag on Mt. Lunamen.
Thus ended the first phase of
the Huon Campaign, with Sala-
maua and Lae in Australian
hands, and the 20th Brigade
poised for a new landing de-
signed to take Finschhafen. The
initial blow had been a cheaply-
won triumph in surprise. The
Ninth Division had had eight
officers and 69 other ranks killed
and 470 other casualties. It had
counted the corpses of 200 Jap-
anese along its trail. The Seventh
Division’s casualties had num-
bered 270, including 38 killed,
half the rest due to illness.
But the smallness of the losses
was part of the glory of the vic-
tory. In these days of citizen
armies, the magnitude of military
success is no longer measured in
terms of battle casualties. It is a
first principle of all modern com-
manders that life must not be
needlessly sacrificed. In the
Huon landings, considering the
risks of the enterprise, its novelty,
and the fact that there were per-
haps 20,000 Japanese and 51
powerful enemy air-force within
reach, it had been a miracle that
so much had been accomplished
with such economy of manpower
and material.
Of course, the campaign was
not won. It was not even won on
October 3, 17 days after Lae had
fallen, when General Mac-
Arthur’s Supreme Headquarters
pronounced that the operations
had outflanked and contained all
the enemy’s centres from the end
of the peninsula to Madang,
Even after the fall of Lae the
fighting had only begun. The
Seventh Division, having handed
over the ruins of the town to the
Ninth, had turned its back on the
sea, pursued the enemy to
Kaiapit, to Dumpu and down
the side-tracks on the fringes of
the Markham-Ramu Valley, and
finally into his inner lair in the
Finisterres, in the region of the
Faria River.
There, on the eight-mile-long
razorback of Shaggy Ridge, the
2/16th Battalion achieved the
ultimate more than three months
after the landing, when it fought
its way up the Pimple, dugout by
dugout, on a shell- and bomb-
blasted edge with a drop of a
thousand feet on each side, and
along a track so narrow that two
men could not move abreast on
it. From the summit of this
eminence, 5700 ft. up, they could,
on a clear day, see Madang and
Saidor sitting on the shores of
the Vitiaz Strait.
But by that time another and
greater operation had opened the
way into the Bismarck Sea, and
the Navies had already passed
through Vitiaz early in December
to bombard Madang and Cape
Gloucester, and return unscathed
in daylight.
That great engagement had
been the Finschhafen battle,
which had raged back and forth
in the eastern tip of the penin-
sula from September 22 to the
beginning of December, and de-
stroyed enemy power in the
peninsula to a greater degree
than any other operation.
All campaigns have their sur-
prises. The Huon campaign had
been no exception. The ease with
which Lae had been captured in-
volved a pleasant one. The
strength of the Finschhafen-area
positions, the ability which the
enemy showed there to pour in
reinforcements, by sea and over
what seemed impassable tracks,
was to prove an unpleasant and
even frightening one. The
American command’s miscalcula-
tion of the effect of its bombing
and strafing on enemy air-bases
had provided still another basis
of miscalculation.
However, surprise is also the
test of the capacity of a com-
mand to overcome its effects.
And the command of the Austra-
lian fighting around Finsch-
hafen had plenty of chance to
prove this, and did.
Reconnaissance had suggested
that, where the 20th Brigade,
which was assigned to take
Finschhafen, would land, there
were no fixed Japanese defensive
positions. When the landing was
made before dawn on September
22 it was found that there were.
The enemy troops in the area
proved to be far in excess of
reconnaissance estimates 4400
in fact, and increasing. One pre-
estimate had placed the number
at 350, others up to 4000, but
not at the invasion stage.
Both the brigade operations
involving the capture of Finsch-
hafen itself and of the country
beyond and behind it before and
after the Ninth Division head-
quarters moved into the area on
October 9 were so extensive
that one would have no chance
of dealing with them even in
fair summary. To form a picture
of them and to understand why
General MacArthur’s €hief-of-
Staff described the Huon Gulf-
Finschhafen operations as a
model in conception and execu-
tion which would find its way
into the military textbooks, take
a map and imagine that the sea
rolls over Sydney and the County
of Cumberland right up to the
foothills of the Blue Mountains
and the Kurrajongs. Imagine
that the Blue Mountains have
become tropical, covered in
luxuriant growth, spawned out
of ooze and mud.
Imagine, too, that in the region
it is always raining and that
everybody in it is always pour-
ing with perspiration. Imagine
the countryside as empty of
civilisation and devoid of com-
munications. Imagine that there
are already 4400 of the enemy
ensconced in it with abundant
enemy reinforcements in its rear.
And now land, in your mind,
3000 or so men in grey morning
darkness and under fire on one
of its beaches which is com-
manded by enemy automatic-
weapon posts. Then start opera-
tions by fighting for a beach-
head in ragged, rising ground,
much broken up by gullies.
You must, having got your
men ashore, at the foot of the
Kurrajong Hills, seek to fight
your way in the foothills down
to Penrith and to the top of Mt.
Tomah through a maze of pre-
pared positions held by an enemy
to whom powerful reinforce-
ments keep seeping in from his
rear along routes you cannot
block.
In process of this operation
you must take 30 to 40 square
miles, a labyrinth of loosely-knit
but interlocking defences. In
these you will find the foe in
well-sited tunnels, in dugouts, in
foxholes, in masked bunkers in
the faces of spongy declivities
which your forces must assault,
sometimes with the bayonet.
You will find the enemy mobile
as water* ambushing every track
in some parts, desperate as
companies of maniacs when
cornered. You will meet him in
long grass, tall timber, bamboo
clumps. You will have to
approach him over hill and
gully, through bog and tangled
undergrowth.
At one stage, you may have to
fight your way across the Grose
River to take one of his
Gibraltar at bayonet-point.
And in the end, you must
imagine that you have gone
through all this, and that you
have reached the upper flank of
Mt. Tomah. Then you will know
what the 20th Brigade and its
reinforcements of the 2/43rd
Battalion achieved in less than a
fortnight, September 22-October
9, when they braved the Kreut-
berg Range, overran Finschhafen
and took fiercely-held defences
on precipitous ground at
bayonet-point and reached the
Jivevanang positions.
By that time the Australian
forces had control of the whole
of the coast from some miles
north of Finschhafen right
round to Moresby and beyond.
The south side of the Huon
Peninsula had been completely
cleared of the enemy by the
2 /22nd (Militia) Battalion,
advance - guard of the 4th
Brigade, in an astonishing march
from the Lae area, covering 50
miles to Dreger Harbor in 10
days.
There were still to be faced
the violent Japanese counter-
attacks after the 24th and 26th
Brigades had come into action
relieving the 20th Brigade. These
assaults drove our men back to
the beaches in mid-October,
though the situation was always
under control —sometimes by not
much margin. After these
assaults had been defeated the
way was open, with tank and
grenade, to Satelberg (3000 ft.),
captured on November 25, with
the culminating single-handed
grenade-throwing charge of
Sergeant Derrick to clear out the
last 10 obstructing-posts and
win the Victoria Cross.
Then came the drive to cut
the Wareo-Bonga supply-line,
the Battle of Pabu, the seizure
of near-coastal bases and the
opening of the track round the
north coast to Sio by the 9th and
4th Brigades. In the end the
proud 20th Japanese Infantry
Division and its attendant au-
xiliaries, nearly 14,000 men,
which had fought the campaign,
was reduced to a demoralised
band of fleeing skeletons.
All this was achieved despite
intensive enemy pattern-bombing
of every bit of country in Aus-
tralian occupation, including
divisional headquarters, in which
Brigadier Goodwin, C.R.A., was
killed. There were 115 raids be-
tween September 22 and No-
vember 26.
On February 11, 1944,
Brigadier Cameron’s Bth Brigade
of the sth Division, replacing the
7th Division, which was picking
up the pieces of the campaign
after the main fighting, linked
with the 32nd United States
Division at Saidor. The cam-
paign was over. The way had
been opened to Wewak and Hol-
landia. On the previous Boxing
Day, United States Marines had
been able to pass through the
Vitiaz corridor and occupy Cape
Gloucester.
Six months later, at the begin-
ning of July, 1944, the Allied
offensive front had moved
hundreds of miles onward. Its
face swept across a great arc of
ocean from Saipan to Noem-
foor. General MacArthur was
knocking at the gates of the
Philippines as the aftermath of
the operations begun on Red
Beach. Every. Japanese south-
east of the Saipan-Dutch-New-
Guinea Line, whether able still
to fight or not, was virtually our
prisoner. His fate was sealed.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 248
Across
I—Thus1 —Thus a sovereign is delivering
socks when boozing. (7)
5 —A line on a little musical work
is somewhat milky to give a view
about Jolson. (7) , .
9 —Spaghetti-eater had spaghetti in
the manner characteristic of
spaghetti-land. (10)
11—Ensign to slacken a paving-stone
reed. (4)
13— Wide swinging punches for rural
workers make Mary shake. (3-6)
14— Fuss about love. (5)
16—Passes on a message about
Macaulay’s ancient Roman bal-
lads. (6)
18—One who levers up ducks for a
station-hand. (8)
21 —Region in which Diana is very
severe in the application of rules.
(8)
24 — Fruit circle biographies. (6)
25 It runs through Gippsland giving
thanks to 1000 at the box office.
(5)
27 —Pursuer without the litigant and
pursuer who buys? (9)
30 — Girl is no artist. (4)
31 — The first Elizabeth goes to ah
Asiatic country region in Rou-
paania. (10)
32 — Drink keeps Bradman from a
century in this Scotch town ot
Cape Colony. (7>
33 — Touching fellow is a sun-bather.
(7)
Down
1— Ripped the male communist with
a knife and .slipped along. (9)
2 Silly sheep upset after a begin-
ning of the alphabet girl ap-
proaching the fifties is Narcissus.
(9)
3 Girl m air another way. (5)
4 Aladdin’s assistant. (5)
6 This bird mentions the traditional
location of two dozen other
birds. (3)
7 The residence of an oil-consumer
makes oil go wrong. (5)
8 — A glee is confusing for a non-
songbird. (5)
10 —Operatic work in Ascot. (5)
12 —Barker boys. (6)
15—Bit of a bounder. (3)
17 — Tweed is increased by this mil-
foil, but Lindwall is upset over
the rumpus. (6>
18 — Where the gas requires a light
black. (3)
19 — About six with fur can be
edited. (9)
20— Good at spotting a Siberian
river menial. (9)
22—80 y artist with ego in the air. (3)
23 —Wood seems full of police. (5)
25 — Keynote stimulant. (5)
26 Ethical lesson to be inferred from
a fable. (5)
28 — Again placed among trees. (5)
29 — This bird is Ronald, not Ronalda.
(5)
31—Protest loudly. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 247


New Cheap Editions . . . MERMAID BOOKS
Famous English publishers, Michael Joseph, have issued this most attractive new series of
inexpensive books. You’ll find theip impressive for their high literary standard and exceucn
production (fine cover design with protective plastic coating, and very legible type). these
are some of the titles already published ...
MISTER JOHNSON, by Joyce Cary; EAND BELOW THE WIND, byjlgneS’ Xnth,
DANGER FROM DEER, by Vicki Baum; THE EAGLE AND THE l>o\ E, by V.Sack-
"Ue West; ABBIE, by Dane Chandos; THE NATURAE HISTORY OF NONSENSE, by
Bergen Evans: THE LONELY, by Paul OalUco; A PULLET ON THE MIDDEN,, by
Rachel Knappett; ONE PAIR OF HANDS and (W E PA IR O V PE ET by Momca
Dickens; THE AFRICAN QUEEN, MB. MIDSHIPIVLAN HOBNBEOWEB, THE
GENEBAE, and THE SHIP, by C. S. Forester.
Size, bin. x 7Jin, 7/- (post 5 d.) each. Call in or write for your copies to .. .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney s: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
Novels in Constant Demand
YOU’RE WRONG, DELANEY by Bant Singer 12s. Od.
DIGBY by David Walker 13s. 3d.
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
by Catherine Gaskin 13s. 6d.
SUNDRY CREDITORS .. by Nigel Balchin 13s. 3d.
Available from all booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS.
Latest Australian Books
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
EARLY MELBOURNE ARCHITECTURE, by MAIE CASEY, JOAN
LINDSAY, D. A. CASEY, JOHN R. FREEMAN, TOM D. FREEMAN,
ALLAN HENDERSON. A photographic record. 9 x 6|. 200 pages.
200 half-tone illustrations, 1 map. Cloth binding. Oxford University
Press, Melbourne. 40/-.
SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY IN MELANESIA, by A. P. ELKIN. A re
view of research. 8f x s|. 180 pages. One map in text and endpaper
maps. Cloth binding. Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 27/6.
WITH THE SUN ON MY BACK, by J. K. EWERS. Descriptive of
country and natives of Northern Australia. 8J x sf. 256 pages. 39
illustrations, endpaper map. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd.,
Sydney. 21/-.
THE LITTLE BLACK PRINCESS OE THE NEVER NEVER, by
Mrs. AENEAS GUNN. Sketches of Northern Territory life. New edition.
8J x sf. 107 pages. 81 illustrations. Paper board binding. Robert-
son & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. .12/9.
AUSTRALIAN PLANTS FOR THE GARDEN, by THISTLE Y.
HARRIS. Handbook on the cultivation of Australian trees, shrubs and
other flowering plants. 10 x 7s. 352 pages. 10 colour plates, 82 half-
tone. 69 line drawings. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd.,
Sydney. 63/-.
WHAT’S WHAT ABOUT WINE, by WALTER JAMES. An Australian
wine primer. x 51. 48 pages. 4 illustrations. Paper wrapper.
Georgian House Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 4/6.
SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY IN POLYNESIA, by Dr. FELIX M. KEE-
SING. A review of research. 8f x sf. 136 pages. Cloth binding.
Oxford University Press. 27/6.
THE FACE OF AUSTRALIA, by CHARLES F. LASERON. Explanatory
geological description of scenery, 8| x sf. 256 pages. 39 illustra-
tions, 31 text figures. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd.,
Sydney. 21/-.
AN AUSTRALIAN ALPHABET,; by J. D. G. MEDLEY. Australia from
AtoZ in satirical verse. Illustrated by ‘Armstrong.’ 9 x sf. 48 pages.
Paper boards. Melbourne University Press, Carlton, Victoria. 10/6.
ANSWERS, by WALTER MURDOCH. One hundred essays in reply to
questions. 8J x sj. 166 pages. Cloth binding. Melbourne University
Press, Carlton, Victoria. 13/6.
A POWER OF ROSES, by RUTH PARK. Fiction. 8| x sf. 224 pages.
Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
GOOD LUCK TO THE RIDER, by JOAN PHIPSON. A story of great
interest to young readers. 8f x s|. 160 pages. 14 illustrations, with
numerous line decorations. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd.,
Sydney. 15/-.
HAPPY HIGHWAYS, by G. V. PORTUS. An outstanding Australian
autobiography. 8f x 5-2- 294 pages. 12 illustrations. Cloth binding.
Melbourne University Press, Carlton. Victoria. 30/-.
FRUIT TREE AND GRAPE VINE PRUNING, by GEORGE QUINN.
Complete pruning guide. Tenth edition. 8} x SJ. 290 pages. 201
illustrations. Cloth binding. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 21/-.
ROSES, by B. V. ROSSI. Practical guide for rose growers. 9 x sf. 272
pages. 108 illustrations. Cloth binding. Robertson & Mullens Ltd.,
Melbourne. 27/6.
SETTLERS AND CONVICTS, by An Emigrant Mechanic. Recollections
of sixteen years’ labour in the Australian backwoods, (c. 1825-1841).
Foreword by Professor C. M. H. CLARK. 9 x si. xxxiii, 245 pages.
4 illustrations, 1 map. Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press,
Carlton, Victoria. 18/6.
THE GATEWAY, by JUDITH WRIGHT, Verse. 9| x 6*. 224 pages.
Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 15/-.
The Australian Book Publishers * Association
not get performed until some years later,
in 1911, in Repertory, and has since then
had more than 3000 amateur and pro-
fessional performances.
He gives considerable attention to Miss
Horniman, Repertory’s angel, who
backed Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” in
London in 1894,. opened the Abbey
Theatre in Dublin in 1904, and bought
and opened a theatre in Manchester in
1908. There her director, Iden Payne,
gave Brighouse his first production, “The
Doorway,” in 1909, and later did his
“Spring in Bloomsbury,” “The Polygon,”
“Garside’s Career,” and “Lonesome-like.”
His first full play, “Dealing in Futures,”
was produced by Glasgow Repertory;
so was his “The Price of Coal”:
A Glasgow journalist sat at my elbow,
and, for production at the Royalty, “The
Price of Coal” was translated from Lanca-
shire to Lanarkshire.
Knoblock got Brighouse the job of
working an F. W. Bain story into the
material of a music-drama for a rich
American composer, Blair Fairchild.
They, were wrestling with the opera in
France —“Chandra” was the title —when
the 1914 war began. The turmoil of war
and his rejection for military service
gave him “an emotional load to get rid
of,” and finally, in the home service,
writing R.A.F. propaganda “in an attic
linen-cupboard of the Hotel Cecil,” he
remembered Salford, “where in Cross
Lane my father was born,” and wrote
“Hobson’s Choice.”
Oscar Asche turned it down, although
he had been casting about for a Lanca-
shire play for his Lancashire wife, Lily
Brayton; so Brighouse sent it to his old
director, Iden Payne, in New York, who
placed it with Shubert’s and directed the
production. It was tried in Atlantic City,
put on ice, sent to Albany, and finally
opened in New York in November, 1915.
The criticisms read like an actor’s
dream”; the play had a long New York
run, “with addenda at Boston and
Chicago” and two simultaneous tours.
In London in 1916, however, it had to
make do with matinee performances,
with evening performances on Wednes-
days and Saturdays ; on the other nights,
apparently, it had to make way for shows
that would please soldiers and their girls.
It still ran for 246 performances; never-
theless Brighouse has hard words for “the
flapper” whose effect on war-time
theatres was to minimise his greatest
English success.
The latter half of the book, as it
touches Brighouse, is largely a record of
his American tours, and although it has
a great deal to say about American little
theatres and actors, it is mostly tourism.
There is an amusing account of his being
secured an interview with living Thal-
berg, who offered him a job writing
dialogue: “in my ignorance 1 failed to
realise that a personal interview with
Thalberg was —Buckingham Palace or
even the Kremlin.”
His chapter on his service in R.A.F.
propaganda also covers his lunches at
the Dramatists’ Club ; we read how the
intensely patriotic playwright Henry
Arthur Jones led the campaign against
Shaw over his Common Sense About the
War and with W. J. Locke “piled insult
upon insult till Shaw had no alternative
but to leave” the club. Pinero was a
good club-president, but deaf; Barrie
succeeded him, and is here shown show-
ing Lord Dunsany and Clifford Bax how
to tie a knot in a scarf with one hand.
Lord Dunsany told them of the time
when, complaining of the heat at a New
York reception, and getting no comfort
from his hostess, he emptied a jug of
ice-water over his head in the crowded
room. Knoblock is credited with first
saying that a Criterion farce went “from
bed to worse” ; and there is discussion
of managers’ approval of British play-
censorship on the grounds that, “once
licensed, a play is not absolutely but
virtually shielded from interference by
Watch Committees and police”—a point
of view which. Mr. Brighouse vigorously
condemns;
The absurdity is apparent whenever pre-
censorship Restoration Comedy is acted,
and daily apparent when the 8.8. C. does
what it likes. It liked, for instance, three
times to broadcast Sartre’s “Huis clos,”
prevented by the Censor from being seen
and heard by hundreds in theatres, but in
the freedom of the air heard by, potentially,
millions.
There is also some account of his
earlier club, the Swan Club in Man-
chester, a luncheon club where Lascelles
Abercrombie ate, and “Mudie of the
library,” Gerald Cumberland of Set
Down in Malice, Kahane, the name to
which Brian Penton’s Landtakers is dedi-
cated, a Manchester cloth-salesman who
married a Frenchwoman and began a
Paris publishing business that “found”
the American bad-boy, author of Tropic
of Cancer, Henry Miller:
To his son, who succeeded to the pub-
lishing business, it seemed after the Libera-
tion that the G.l.’s entered Paris solely to
buy Tropic of Cancer.
Another member was Stanley
Houghton, author of “Hindle Wakes” ;
many references testify to Brighouse’s
affection and admiration for his friendly
rival who died young and to whose col-
lected works he contributed the introduc-
tion.
The Whole Man
Christopher Brennan’s champions have
a brilliant answer to people who say he
is unreadable: he is unprocurable. Mean-
while books and essays on his poems pour
from the presses. His is the most pure
of pure poetry that is unavailable today ;
published in 1913, his poems are a col-
lectors’ piece, and the only reprint of a
few of them is also a collectors’ piece;
what, for the ordinary reader, could be
more pure than a poetry which does not
exist except for commentaries upon it?
New Perspectives on Brennan’s Poetry,
by G. A. Wilkes, lecturer in English at
the University of Sydney, has now been
reprinted in large pamphlet form from
“Southerly” issues of 1952-53; Mr.
Wilkes makes a study first of the philo-
sophical ideas behind BrennanV poetry ;
then of his conception of poetic form,
and then makes an analysis of the poems
themselves, following them in detail
through changes in Brennan’s original
plans.
From these it emerges that if Brennan’s,
main ideas about reality, etc., were
German, his main poetic ideas were
French, notably the theory of “corres-
pondences” that informs the poems of
Charles Baudelaire ; and his method was
also derived from France; Baudelaire’s
and Regnier’s livre compose, or book of
poems all part of a planned whole. Mr.
Wilkes considers that, in his essay on
Henri de Regnier printed in the Red Page
in 1899, Brennan described the structural
method of his own Poems:—
A great human event (say, in de Regnier’s
As in Dream, the disdainful and remorse-
ful return, into one’s self, from Life, that
has but forced the soul to be traitor to its
original pride and purity) viewed broadly
enough to be almost abstract, hence a
symbol, mythical, is developed through a
series of poems, which are thus equivalent
to drama. The images are chosen and
assorted so as to render the mythical char-
acter of the theme (knights, princesses,
satyrs, centaurs), the metres vary from the
massive alexandrine in the great impersonal
movements to the loosest vers litres, con-
trolled only by emotion, in the shorter
lyrical passages. Such is the typical sym-
bolist work, by Kahn or de Regniqr; others
vary the formula, but the unity of the book,
its symphonic character, remain.
And Mr. Wilkes adds: —
Brennan’s own cycle, similarly, exhibits
“a great human event (say, the Eden quest)
viewed broadly enough to be almost
abstract developed through a series of
poems ”
It is a persuasive explanation and, in
the absence of a text to prove it upon,
conclusive. Mr. Wilkes mentions Pro-
fessor Hope and R. G. Howarth as of
the opinion that the poems make a whole ;
but the light his quotations and com-
mentary throw upon it is the first bit of
real insight into Brennan for at least one
reader.
Mr. Wilkes has also something to say
of the “anticipation” by Brennan of the
movement that came with T. S. Eliot for
“amalgamating disparate experience,”
“the sensuous apprehension of thought,”
and “the expression of the whole man”;
and while one can go a long way with
Mr. Wilkes in perceiving the debt both
Brennan and Eliot owed the French,
notably to Baudelaire and his successors,
one cannot quite see (speaking without
the book, as it were) where Brennan “ex-
pressed the whole man” or “amalgamated
disparate experience” more completely
than Eliot. Perhaps Mr. Wilkes means
that Brennan had less to express; in this
sense, the statement would be true:
Brennan’s range of experience and
reference is that of a scholarly monk;
Eliot’s is that of a scholarly man-of-the-
world.
It is indeed this limited range, this
poetry of the poetic, that marks the
difference between Brennan and the true
master of the expression of the whole
man, Baudelaire ; the poetry of poetry-
remembered : ; —
Kingdom awaits me, homage, swords, liesse,
battle, broad fame in fable, song: shall I
confide all hope to scanty shapes that fly
in dreams, whom even if they be all I
know
and the poetry of real sensuous experi-
ence —one makes a poor prose version
of the opening of one of those com-
paratively short pieces of genius that
touch in a few lines all of heaven and
earth:
Often, in the red light of a street-lamp,
Wind beating the flame and tormenting the
glass,
In the heart of an old suburb, a muddy
labyrinth
Where humanity grills in stormy ferments,
You see a rag-picker passing, tossing his head,
Stumbling, and knocking against walls like a
poet
Beginning in dirt it passes on to comedy;
the old man is muttering to himself ; he
is remaking the world ; he
Takes oaths of office, makes sublime laws,
Puts down the wicked, raises up the victims,
And under the sky like a suspended canopy
He luxuriates in the splendors of his own
magnanimity.
The tone changes ; the poem begins its
slow crescendo, marching the old men
through the city ; they are veterans on a
national day;
Yes, these old people harassed with domestic
chagrins,
Worn with work and tormented with age,
Jaded and yielding under a mass of debris,
Vomited confused from enormous Paris,
Return, perfumed with an odor of wine-casks,
Followed by companions, whitened in wars —
Their moustaches droop like old flags.
Banners, flowers and triumphant arches
Rise up before them, a solemn magic!
And in the astonishing and luminous orgy
Of bugles, sunshine, shouts and drums,
They bring back glory to the people drunk with
love!
With eight lines to go in praise of wine,
the poem has in all only 32 lines; for
compactness and variation of idea and
feeling, one of the wonders of the world ;
and certainly a celebration of the whole
man, in his humor, his dirt, his vanity,
his grief, his aspirations and his sense
of glory
But maybe when Brennan’s complete
works become available we shall find
more reason to consider him as a com-
plete man. —R. McC,


mm
Hll
■
X
: :•■' ■ : '
r
0
/
■ ; /.: : :;:--V^
*
ass
H
■ ■
.
1
kV>
; ;/- : '
isr
■L
■ C&
■&.
ill
V?
■ ■:■■
8
m
*
H
1
ii
?.. .1
■':
*
vB-
- \
• '
■
::;r
■ill
■
»
tnMHNHW
W»
Mi
A
n
H
>
i I
H
& : ■
m
m
*
1
I m
m
.< h\
m
>
m
W<:
.¥
M I
■■MHi m
i
m
m
mm
. -•• ,
j
ills
iM
■
»
I
1:
. M& i
II
*
m
}
U
ilill
? ¥ ¥
, ::
< I
: •
1*
m
■«Vi
m
ilfciliiic
ma& .
%%
CATERPILLAR
##
REGISTERED TRADE *«RR
means
ww
(g@§T
CATERPILLAR */£»£
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
ueensland
HASTINGS DEERING - QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD.
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane
Phone J 1456 (6 lines)
BRANCH: ERNEST ST.. INNISFAIL
Phone 475
