

dsa
i§anst of
Wtsijtß fnu % fHnat fibartg
(imltnga
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3853
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
Wednesday, December 16, 1953
Price 9dL
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W . Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ELIZABETH CASTLE DOMINATES THE CHANNEL ISLANDS SKYLINE
JERSEY, the largest of the Channel Islands, lies across the English Channel
within sight of the coast of France. Its sheltered position, as well as
many other natural advantages, contributes to the island’s fame as a popular
health- and pleasure-resort It is also renowned for the world-famous Jersey
cattle which have long been bred on the island.
For centuries before the conquest of England the Channel Islands were
used as bases for sporadic raids on the coasts on both sides of the Channel
by wandering bands from Norway and Scandinavia as well as from Spain
and Portugal.
In 1066, at the time of the Norman Conquest, Jersey was part of the
Duchy of Normandy, but when Normandy broke away from England in
1205, the Channel Islands remained faithful to the Crown. Jersey was
frequently attacked by France until the signing of a treaty of neutrality in
1483. Three hundred years later, however, the islands again echoed to the
sound of battle when further attacks were carried out by the Prince of
Nassau and the Baron de Rullecourt in 1781 when the French were defeated;
the ensuing peace remained unbroken until the German occupation in the
Second World War.
Among the industries on the island is the growing of tobacco, a plant
which was first introduced to the islands by Sir Walter Raleigh, who was
Governor of Jersey from 1600 to 1603.
Surmounting a high rock in the wide, sweeping Bay of St. Aubin, and
known to all visitors to St. Helier, the capital of Jersey, is Elizabeth Castle.
This imposing fortress was built three hundred and sixty years ago during
the reign of Queen Elizabeth I on the site of a monastery. Between the years
1646 and 1649, during the Civil War, it provided a refuge for Charles 11,
when Prince of Wales. The rooms which he and Lord Clarendon occupied
may still be seen within the castle, which may be reached on foot at low
tide over a causeway from the mainland. In times of war Elizabeth Castle
was a stronghold of great importance, but today the only evidence of its
warlike past are the dismounted cannon and the pyramids of shot and shell
on the battlements.


Storu Writing
»J V UI Vl at HOME
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters :
“M.v earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lOO/10/9.”
“I have had throe articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
MBMBIiiB
100 Russell St„ Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St..
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
.—— ctfT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -J
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli- |
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of ■
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1853) V AGE
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS FOR CHRISTMAS
“Spinifex Walkabout”
Of all the outback travel-books that
have been published lately, and there
■ seem to have been dozens of them,
Spinifex Walkabout (Australasian) by
Coralie and Leslie Rees is easily the
best. It is stiff not quite the kind of
travel-writing this Country most needs,
something that could be classed as belles-
lettres like Norman Douglas’s Fountains
in the Sand and Siren Land in which
every cadence is a delight upon the ear
and the spirit of the country is distilled in
urbane and leisurely meditation; but
both Mr. and Mrs. Rees write vividly,
and the book as a whole has a note of
enthusiasm, of delighted discovery, that
distinguishes it from most of its im-
mediate predecessors in Australia.
Mr. and Mrs. Rees seem to have
enjoyed exploring the outback: and why
else should anybody go on their travels?
To load the reader’s mind with informa-
tion?—well, up to a point, yes; but
nobody wants too solid a dish of re-hashed
guidebooks and histories: all that, any-
how, is in the Australian Encyclopaedia.
To agitate, as everybody does, for better
conditions for the aborigines? Yes
. again ; but it is not good manners, at
least without clearly warning the reader,
to be agitating. To demand, with all the
vehemence of a prophet, while returning
to the city, that everybody should rush
out and start a farm on the gibber-
plains? Yes again; but all that is old
stuff ; and really a great bore to encounter
in book after book after book.
The authors of Spinifex Walkabout
have plenty of wise words for the nation
on these topics—and they are, inci-
dentally, more temperate, more sympa-
thetic, altogether more sensible on the
missions than is the custom—but mostly
they just set out, with enthusiasm, to
explore the lesser-known parts of this
great continent, and that enthusiasm
communicates itself to the reader and
lights up the whole book.
From Geraldton in Westralia, through
Roe bourne and Broome to the cattle-
country of the Kimberleys, on to Darwin,
hy boat to some islands in the Arafura
Sea, back through Tennant Creek to the
Alice with the inevitable visit to Namatjira
and co. at Hermannsburg—it is the
journey everybody means to take sooner
or later ; and in the meantime how pleas-
ant to do it in the company of travellers
who are simply out to enjoy themselves.
We are all latter-day explorers in Aus-
tralia nowadays; the place has been
inspected ; but at least it is still possible
to enjoy a decent amount of moderate
discomfort, as when Mr. Rees bounces
about all night in the Banana-Wagon
from Geraldton to Carnarvon (the only
occasion on which Mrs. Rees evaded the
rigors of their Odyssey by taking a
plane); and since visitors—except for
authors —are really pretty rare, it is
stiff possible almost to feel oneself an
explorer, as Mr. Rees does when he
discovers the Daly. There is the double
pleasure of seeing new places and seeing
them, almost, as the first of white men
to do so;
The eager delight with which we looked
upon the noble stream of the Daly must
almost have rivalled that of Sturt when
first his whaleboat brought him swirling
out of , the Murrumbidgee into the full-
voluming Murray. It was the loveliest and
most opulent river we’d seen in the North.
Before us was a long straight, sixty or
seventy yards wide. Prettily shadowed, it
was fringed on the farther side by thick
vegetation, including kapoks, casuarinas,
pandanus and very tall paperbarks. On the
nearer side was a , beach of gravelly sand.
Diagonally across the stream, at a shal-
low place, a low weir and ford was built,
and the sound of the fast-flowing water
tumbling over the rocks was music in our
ears. Constable Fitzer showed us an
idyllic spot for a camp—on a grassy bank
below a great banyan-tree. “You’ll just
be able to fit the caravan in there,” he
said. “Afraid most of the wood’s burnt.
Try the bamboo.”
Down on the Daly River O (which is
the title of a song they sing around there)
Mr. Rees caught catfish, went shooting
wild geese, studied frogs and heard the
birds in the dawn. Indeed it is such a
pleasant chapter that one is tempted to
linger with it:.—
At first light water was pouring over
the rocks again, while scores of birds dis-
ported. High over the river big black
cockatoos passed in half-dozens, uttering
long-drawn cries. An occasional shag or
heron skimmed the surface. Corellas in
glittering white hundreds shrieked loudly.
Two crows were keeping the corellas in
their state of alarm, while big hawks were
on the fail of the crows. Swift flights of
excited parakeets crossed the river 500 feet
in the air. Green parrots clung to high
branches, squawking. Never was such a
dawn chorus. The cold light gave a ghostly
pallor to the whitish branches and bluey-
grey leaves of the paperbarks. Then came
the sun, painting a weak orange glow over
sand and gravel patches, lighting the tree-
trunks, reflecting lemon-green foliage in
rippling water or angular pandanus in
glassy pools.
But one must not forget that the
travellers went elsewhere and saw other
things. They went to Onslow and a
“husky-voiced septuagenarian in a tiger-
shooter hat” told them about hurricanes
which blew 5000-gallon tanks about like
children’s balloons. They went to
Wittenoom, the blue-asbestos town, and
Mr. Rees, enthusiastically climbing a
crag to look at the view, was prosecuted
for trespassing by an eagle. They went
to De Grey station, out from Port Hed-
land, and met another hearty septuagen-
arian, Herbie, who rides the boundaries,
70 miles of fences, on a bicycle. They
went to Broome and “peeped into
gambling-dens. We had an eyeful of some
of the twenty ‘hostesses’ imported from
the pavements of sinful cities to keep the
pearling crews happy.” They went to
Fossil Downs homestead and saw the
wagon, “the first four-wheel vehicle to
cross the continent” in which the Mac-
donalds made “the longest overland
droving-trip in Australian history.”
They saw a cattle-muster on Gogo.
They inspected the termite-towers in
the Kimherleys—“Against this elemental
background, architecturally horizontal,
the erect ant-hills catch the light of the
early or late sun. And within a flash
they have encouraged the most disturbing
hallucinations. At first it is a cemetery
of red tapering tombstones amid the
spinifex verdure. Then the tombstones
are not tombstones at all. With their
flickering edges of light they have taken
life, but it is a life of a grotesque and
eerie character. Those thousands of
figures have risen out from the earth in
some fearful, silent Judgment Day.”
They were in a truck that broke-down
in a dry creek, miles from everywhere.
They went to Louisa Downs station,
where Mr. Rees (who seems allergic to
birds) was insulted by a tame emu he was
trying to photograph. They went to
Margaret River homestead and heard
about the Negri Race Ball, “a concrete
dance-floor put down by station folk on
a barren plain in the shadow of the
age-old flat-tops, just for this one night
in the year lit by the headlights
of cars and trucks driven near to the
dance-floor gramophone music ampli-
fied from one of the trucks. Women in
model evening-gowns and nylons and
fashionable hair-dos. Even some men in
tuxedos.”
They went to the Methodist Mission on
Croker Island, seeing small wild Timor
ponies, kingfishers, parrots, pandanus and
orange-flowering gums.. They went to
the Daly ; they saw crocodile-shooting on
the Roper; they saw a corroboree ; they
visited the aboriginal artists of Her-
mannsburg . . . but at that point, since
one can have too much of even so good
a thing as the story of Namatjira, this
reviewer will reluctantly depart on a
short walkabout to Bopdi.
LATE WINTER
The pallid cuckoo
Sent up in frail
Microtones
His rising scale
On the cold air.
What joy I found
Mounting that tiny
Stair of sound!
n.s.w.
JAMES McAULEY.
Aboriginal Fairytales
Angus and Robertson have done a
fine job of dressing-up the aboriginal
legends collected by K. Langloh Parker,
in a new edition entitled Australian
Legendary Tales selected by H. Drake-
Brockman with illustrations by Elizabeth
Durack. Binding and format are so
elegantly and thoughtfully contrived as to
stifle the reviewer’s no doubt personal
and prejudiced disapproval of fancy titles,
sans-serif chapter-heads, and gilt titles
longways on the back of a book that
is wide enough to take them crossways.
Miss Durack’s black-and-white illustra-
tions are half black and half white. A
great, number of the stories are accom-
panied by full-page drawings as the blacks
might have done them on bark or stone.
For these Miss Durack derives her
authority from having lived among blacks,
and having had the advice and guidance
Of Australia’s only recorded black art-
critic, “an old man called Jubbul, who
taught me the difference between what
he called ‘play-about’ art and the serious
religious art of the sacred caves and
rock-faces.”
However good these may be, the
reviewer would give them all for
the precision and feeling of the
sketches in the white manner:
the mother and children on page
99, the dancing-girl on page 128, or the
little bad boy on page 168, very properly
repeated on the back of the dust-cover.
The stories are well worth the efforts
that have been made to present them.
“Mrs. Parker,” says Mrs. Drake-Brockman
in her introduction, “was one of the first
people to write exclusively of the Aus-
tralian aborigines as fellow-creatures.
Perhaps she was the first to set forth, to
any noteworthy extent, their own vision
of themselves and their conditions of
living.... However well-intentioned
earlier serious writers may have been,
there remains in their work a hint of
patronage, of ‘outside’ observance, of
‘case-book’ approach.”
This selection, made from four books
of legends published between 1896 and
1930, bears out the contention. There are
many collectors and translators of legends,
but width of appeal is denied to most of
them. An ability to record and translate
is useless if it is not accompanied by
the equipment which is most powerfully
exemplified by the brothers Grimm and
Hans Andersen: a ruthless insistence on
the story ; an absolute disregard for con-
ventional , fact; a feeling for the poetic
symbolism of the truth beyond the appear-
ance—the surreal —with at the same time
a refusal to treat even the highest flight
of imagination as anything but a casual
and everyday matter that can be spoken
about in words simple enough for a child
to understand. And the best of Mrs.
Parker’s translations are in this tradition.
The stories cover a very wide field.
We read how the turkey pretended to
have no wings 'so that the emu, in emula-
tion, might cut hers off for ever, and
how the emu revenged herself by pretend-
ing to have killed all her children but
two, which is why the envious turkey
lays only two eggs in a season; how
in a rage the native-companion threw the
emu’s egg into the sky, where it broke
on a heap of firewood and became the
sun; how a man digging rats from their
burrows dug so deeply that he reached
another world, where monsters with two
toes were torturing wrongdoers—the
aborigines had a hell:
“Only those who deserve punishment
are treated as you see. If a good spirit
comes here we send him to Bullima; only
the evildoers are kept here.”
There is the story of how the black
snake stole the poison-bag of the goanna ;
of the vengeance of Mullian-ga on Dee-
genboya (who stole and cooked his emus)
by calling to the thief’s daughters to
jump from their trees and failing to
catch them ; of Wahn the crow, the great
medicine-man or smart-guy, who
imprisoned the cold west wind in a
hollow log ; of the old wirinin or medicine-
man who changed two girls who had
offended him into frogs; of the fate of
the husband who sent his two wives to
collect honey, and, when their arms were
caught in the tree-hollow, chopped them
off so that died of shock,; of the
little strange boy who stole food and
was stoned to death ; and of the stratagem
used by Murree to avenge his wife’s death
on Bubbur the snake by tossing the
snakes balls of gum which stuck their
jaws together so that they died. There
are charming examples of aboriginal
humor, such as the little short-story of
Dinewan the emu, who kicked the wall
down, sent his wives, the crows, to repair
it and, while they were out, kicked the
other wall down. After several excur-
sions to repair the walls, the wives threw
hot coals over their sniggering spouse,
who had to run out into the rain him-
self to cool off.
It would not be proper to say that
these translations reach the level of the
very finest storytelling. The stories lack
the smooth finish of the best in this
kind, and there is still a remnant of
what Mrs. Drake-Brockman calls the
“case-book” approach in the use of “or”
—his “kumbu, or stone tomahawk.” The
simplicity of the fairytale surely requires
a universal weapon—-a stone tomahawk—
without any suggestion that this might
be found in a museum under another
name.
The use of “or” might be defended in
the case of “Dinewan the emu,” “Wahn
the crow,” etc.; for these animals are
tribe-totems, and in the same story may
figure as both human and animal —they
have a prodigious precedent in the Euro-
pean legend of Reynard the Fox; but to
the extent that such nomenclature draws
attention to the fact that these are Aus-
tralian aboriginal legends, and away from
the fact that these are very good stories,
it is a defect.
But whatever one can say against it,
one must admit that this is the most
readable book of Australian legends
one has seen, of surprisingly beautiful
conceptions, of gentle and kindly feel-
ing—and, a great deal of it, fifty years
old. At the back there is a biographical
note on Mrs. Parker, nee Katherine
Field, brought up on her father’s stations
among aborigines, and living among them
on her husband’s station, Bangate, on the
Narran River, N. S. Wales. She died
in 1940, aged 85. There is also a survey
of her works, with quotations from her
studies of aborigines; a complete version
of the story of the emu and the turkey
in aboriginal ; a note on spelling and
pronunciation, and a glossary.
OWL
Two sightless, staring eyes rimmed with
a thin
White circle bloomed between our fright;
And for my thoughtless sin
Grey feathers puffed alarm and mimicked
flight.
Still as the windless day, I stared at him
Until the eyelids, feathers drawn in tight.
There in broad daylight slowly wrapped
him in
The silent, star-spaced loneliness of night.
N.S.W.
ERIC IRVIN.
“Wings Off the Sea”
The things one looks for in a novel
of naval action are, of course, the sea
and action, both of which are familiar
to J. E. Macdonnell and both of which
he handles with direct and uncomplicated
clarity in his latest novel, Wings Off the
Sea (Constable, London), the story of an
aircraft-carrier in action in the Korean
War.
The two essentials of a good action
novel —that the action springs naturally
from character and that the action, in
turn, reveals character —are well built
into the story: the central theme is pro-
vided by the conflict between Lieutenant-
Commander Sherwood, Commanding
Officer of the carrier’s fighter-bomber
squadron of Fireflies, and Commander
Baumer, Commander Air on the carrier
and responsible to its Captain for all
flying operations.
Baumer, whose position on the carrier
is a non-flying one, amounts • to a
psychological case —-a one-time pilot with
a distinguished record of operations
whose nerve has snapped and who knows
it, and with whom the suppressed tor-
ment of his mind manifests itself in a
sarcastic challenging and goading hatred
of Sherwood and the other pilots,
including Swan, Sherwood’s friend and
Commanding Officer of the carrier’s
squadron of Fury fighters. The treat-
ment naturally enough draws from
Sherwood and the others an undisguised
hatred of Baumer, all of it kept in tense
restraint by the hard mathematical
formula of naval discipline.
The visual image of these two charac-
ters comes up remarkably well —Sher-
wood lean, agile and alive with a face
like the curved blade of a knife ; Baumer
florid, paunchy, bellicose—and the things
(i Continued on inside back cover)


A ,
Senior Store News Bulletin
■ :•■■■::■: . ■ • ■::' • ’ ' . - ** ' ’' '*"* >ll —■■■
weekly news of activities, values and advantages from Anthony Horderns’
Don 9 t entertain flies this Summer!
Buy expanding wire screens now!
r
iWiMii
mmm'.
mm
mm
' iii
I• ■■ i|
SkSb % ■ % ‘xXvV*i'< '• %j >x
i .A
?' <f ' %<c> £
y%Z ij . ' >• %&? .. «* ~ cj
' ";M
. : <•>:
W%
m
*mmM*
m&
mm
.... *'x»ti
m
fd
r "-\ ESSs
i.
14in . x 19in, 9 expands to 14in. x 36in, 9 from 12/3 ea.
In with the breeze and out with the flies with our modern expanding window screens
from, only 12/3 each. Just raise the window, place your wire screen to any width
you require (from 14in. x 19in, to any size up to 14in. x 36in. wide). When screen
fits snugly, draw window down and, presto, your window ft flyproof! They come in
unpainted wood frames (just ready for any handyman to put a dab of paint and
blend with your own colour schemes), with galvanised wire at 12/3 each, or with
bronze wire at 16/9 each.
Fly-wire screen door from 57'9
Come in 9 designs , 3 sizes in bronze or galvanised wire
Guard your family's health and keep those flies out this summer! Check your door
for size and order now! 'Phone M 2401, ask for T.O.P.S. (Anthony Horderns
Telephone Orders Personal Shopping Service), quote No. of door, size, whether
galvanised or bronze wire screen and your fly wire screen door will be on your next
delivery. Remember, Anthpny Horderns’ fly door frames are made by expert crafts'
men from selected Oregon, Yes, we can supply handles, bolts and spring binges
for only 3/6 set extra.
m
&
&
m
m
Noll
No 4
No 9
No 7
No 8
Colourful Cunvus Ml finds
Made up to any style you choose
This year the trend will be to “add colour” to your home with the latest
style of canvas blinds. Anthony Horderns’ can make up all styles of blinds,
either drop'out or plain drop style. Call into our famous Blind Department
(3rd Floor) and view our extensive range of canvases. Stripes or Gay Stripes.
RING M 2401
ask for T.O.P.S.
(Telephone Orders)
Quality Scotch. Mtolland Blinds
0
Made to any size and in six different colours
Yes! Anthony Horderns’ can make up all your Holland Blinds to any size,
in' plain, kilted or fringed, in six different designs. Our huge range of
colours include Beige, Brown, Sand, Slate Grey, Jade Green and Red.
Next time you’re in town be sure to call up to our Holland Blind Department.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
inthony Horderns'
df
BLINDS, Srd FLOOR. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2713, G.P.0., SYDNEY. THONE M 2401


New Zealand Fishing Characters
A SPINDRIFT
OF SHELLBACKS
By OLAF RUHEN
VOU will find them about the harbor-
fronts of any New Zealand cold-
water port, untidy old men with
whiskery faces. Every little fishing-
village has one or two of them, yet you
will not find them inland.
Nor are they in the Lotus-eating North
where you would expect them to con-
giegate, for they have weathered storms
m every tropic sea and fallen happily to
the temptations of every human beach-
head in Paradise.
But they drawlife from cold, blistering
winds and driving seaspray, and feed
their souls with upturned boats and tar-
pots, tanned Wets and glass floats and
cork and home-made grapplings, clean
timber and enormous copper nails.
They cling to the sea and its associa-
tions though their roving days are over.
With a permanent dwelling-place—a cabin
littered with junk and livened always
with the sound of the sea—they have
acquired a permanent slouch and a per-
manent thirst. Their fingers are shaped
for putting about a glass, though they
shaped them about the handle of an oar.
Their gait is a deep-sea roll, staggered by
alcoholic indecision, and their immediate
destination is always in doubt.
People pass them by, never giving them
a second thought in their slovenliness.
Yet they have travelled far and wide and
seen the golden places, and something of
that is with them till they die.
One of them was Russian Charlie. No-
body ever knew his other name. He
never had to sign it, and he could have
no other conceivable use for it. He was
small and thin, though wide enough in the
shoulders, and the storms of years had
graven deep into his leathern face. The
years had stiffened his joints, too, though
he was still agile enough to earn his beer
and tobacco with the fishing-launch Abe
Matthews hired out to him. Abe showed
more good heart than horse-sense in
this, though Charlie was a seaman to the
bone, and kept the Alice spruce and tidy.
As much as by his fishing he lived
by his wits. Except for a hastily-snatched
bite of counter-lunch, amply provided in
those days, I never saw him eat cooked
food. Certainly ho had no breakfast,
and even in the long day of the fisher-
man his lunch consisted at most of a heel
of dry bread, withdrawn from the pocket
where it had been lying in close conjunc-
tion with an engine-room rag, or a
smouldering pipe.
Sometimes I would spend a day fishing
with the old fellow, and then, after the
clean sea-wind had swept away his
morning’s headache, I would see another
side of him.
He was a friend of the birds which
flocked about the launch, even of the sea-
creatures which provided him with his
beer-money. On a day when the skies
were intensely blue, I remember him
talking to* a swimming crab. It was a
day when, in the shallow waters, the
bottom of the sea was deserted, left to
the crawling things and the weaklings,
while every creature that had the power
swam upward to the sparkling surface.
Russian Charlie talked to the crab as
though he were an election candidate at
a kindergarten; as though he were talking
to a baby of his own kind,
“How you like our sunshine, feller?
Nice day we got up here? Swim over
dere, Mr, Claws, swim in jus’ a little
way, you come to nice warm rock-pool.
You like it dere, all right. Ho, yes!”
And he leaned outboard to give the
crab a friendly push inshore with his stiff
and knotted hand.
But there was another view of Charlie,
when he reeled his chaotic way along the
street, filthy and dirty-tongued, one hand
clutching a bottle, under his ragged coat,
the other extended the better to feel
his way by the buildings he passed.
Children didn’t see it. When children
hove in sight, horrible little urchins though
they often were, Charlie pulled himself
up with immense dignity and maintained
a cautious silence till he thought they
were beyond hearing.
Charlie was not typical of the shell-
backs, for of all men.they are the most
individual. Peter was another of my
friends. The first I ever saw of him
was a fist like a ham holding the largest
mug of beer I’ve ever seen in my life.
I’d been all day steaming down from
Port Chalmers to one of the small ports
on the East Coast of New Zealand near
Foveaux Straits. The sun was setting
when I got there, and it had been a long
journey, and a hard one.
Cruising single-handed through un-
known waters always makes for a certain
degree of tiredness, though my 32ft.
schooner handled like a charm, and I
had been intimate with her for years.
But in addition there had been a choppy
head-sea with a hot dry wind, add my
clothes were stiff as boards with the dried
spray. My face and neck were still
thickly encrusted with salt ; so that my
eyebrows and lashes glittered and flashed
in my eyes, and made rainbows when I
faced the sun. Also the cork had come
out of my water-supply bottle early in
the run, and my throat was parched.
There were one or two people round
to see me come ashore, ’ but I didn’t
know any of them, and I was working
with my gear when this fist came over
my shoulder, holding the mug. It was
filled with good beer, and I emptied it
fast.
When the beer was in the right place
I swung round to look into a pair bf
sky-blue eyes set on a round, shaggy
head. It was the head of an old, old
sea-lion, rather than that of a man, and
almost I expected its owner to bark. But
old Peter turned without a word, and
made his way back to his hut under the
hill beyond the wharf. Later on he
became one of my best friends.
Old Peter’s wants were simple. All he
bought was a loaf of bread and a plug
of tobacco once a week, and tea when
he needed it. For these the fishing had
to pay, as it paid for his occasional bursts
of exuberance. He drank his tea quite
cold, just whenever he.felt thirsty, and
when his gallon teapot was empty he
brewed, another gallon, taking his tea
from a* huge chest of which the contents
were about a quarter dust.
I’ve often accepted the hospitality ofi
his cold tea, though I refused the fish
from his table. He ate fish and fowl
raw, and he ate the bones. More than
once I’ve watched in admiration when the
old man bit the neck off a bottle of beer.
He’d been a seaman all his life, old
Peter. He was a Finn of some sort, but
he spoke enough to get along of seven
languages, and he’d forgotten his native
land. He hadn’t seen it since he was a
kid. He’d beefh in every country in the
world that had a seaport, he claimed,
except for Japan, and he’d sailed Japanese
seas with the Russian fleet.
I saw him after a collision fitting a
new stem onto his 26ft. launch. He
set off into the bush with an axe, and
brought back a natural bend of broad-
leaf which was the exact shape to replace
the stempost without splicing. He had
taken no measurement whatsoever with
him. He set the natural bend down on
the “hard” alongside his beached craft,
sprung the planks, and removed the old,
splintered stempost. Then with an adze
he shaped the new timber. He clamped
it in position, dug a hole in the sand
under the bow so he could rebore the old
auger-holes, bolted the timber up, and
refastened the planks. By the time he
had added the finishing touches of caulk-
ing and paint, the job was indistinguish-
able from one done in a boatshed.
Peter was also supposed to have
lengthened the same boat six feet by
sawing it through the middle and adding
a centre section. That was before my
time, and he only grunted when I asked
him about it. But 1 examined the new
false keel and the splices in the main
keel and keelson several times, and there
was no other explanation for them.
Peter was too good a workman to let the
join show in the planks.
From Peter I learned to eat raw sprats,
very delicate in flavor, and at their best
with a salad. Raw sprats and straw-
berries formed Peter’s seasonal Lucullan
celebrations at Christmas-time. But I
never caught my sprats by the simple
method which Peter favored. He simply
caught cod which had lately been feed-
ing on sprats, and banged them against
a thwart until they disgorged.
Joe the Guinea was a different kind of
man agaih. He was a silent man for
the most part, a morose individual who
lived alone and kept to himself. But
there were times when he let himself go
and talked. And he was free with his
criticisms.
The children cheeked him, and ran
when they saw him coming. Joe always
looked very fierce and shouted impreca-
tions at them, waving his arms about and
using his worst language. Strangers
sometimes looked shocked, but the Port
women,' fishermen’s wives most of them,
passed pleasantly by, pretending they
didn’t hear. Sometimes Joe would forget
what language he was using, but most of
his comments were in forthright English.
Joe couldn’t read or write. Port people
swore that he had forgotten his own
name, or that he had never heard it.
He looked aristocratic, very Spanish, and
very noble. He carried distinction in his
walk, and he looked tall and dignified
even in his uniform of guernsey and
thigh-boots. But he couldn’t read or
write.
He went by the name of Joe Ginney;
but it was really only a fabrication of
the men, themselves unlettered, who had
done his correspondence for him. When
he sent a consignment of fish up to the
market he would produce a little piece
of paper and hold it out to the nearest
man, who would wet a tiny stub of
indelible pencil in his mouth and write
laboriously, “From Joe Ginney.”
Sometimes one would write it “Joe
Ginny” or “Ginnie,” but that didn’t worry
anyone. Everyone knew it was Joe the
Guinea except for office nitwits and tax-
people, who came round sometimes ask-
ing for “Mr. Jinny.”
Joe’s greatest economy was petrol.
Every night when he came home from
the fishing-grounds he hoisted a distress-
signal just inside the heads, and cleaned
his fish while he waited for some other
craft to happen along. He always got a
tow eight miles up the harbor to his
moorings. The other fishermen knew
that turning the petrol-cock would fix Joe’s
breakdown, but it was never too much
trouble to throw him, a fine and take
him up. Sometimes a man would slow
down until he saw that the launch ahead
had picked Joe up, and if he were stuck
with the job himself ho would curse Joe,
but genially, and without vindictiveness.
And there was always a certain amount of
interested conjecture about the amount
of cash Joe must have stowed away from
such economies.
Joe was incredibly old, even though he
was so spare and straight. He must have
been old, because Port citizens swore that
when he had come there, fifty years
before, a runaway seaman, he had looked
the same age.
“Joe the Guinea?” they’d say. “Fie
must be a hundred. He can’t be less
than ninety. Why, that boat of his is
fifty years old, and. he was an old man
when he built it. He’d been around
before, he ever came here. There’s a
lot of beer gbne down Joe’s throat, and a
lot of saltwater down his oilskins.”
He looked like carrying on for ever,
but he died at the end of one hard winter.
We drank a lot of beer to his memory,
and there were sixty launches at his
funeral. Russian Charlie died the same
week, so there were two boats out of the
fleet together, Joe the Guinea died on
the Tuesday and Russian Charlie on the
Thursday. They each had a fisherman’s
funeral, and we missed them about the
place when they were gone.
Port people said, “They’ve gone fish-
ing together. Joe and Charlie teamed-up
and went fishing.”
It was a nice thing for them to say.
It was a nice way to think about them—
the two old men, cast up there for so
long, and now gone fishing together.
Verbal Exchange
THE barber had no sooner tuckedj
the shroud around my neck and
reached for the electric-clippers
than a look of great anxiety
settled on his face.
“Your hair,” he pronounced sadly,
“is getting thin on top.”
“And your nose,” I said evenly,
“is distinctly bulbous and rubicund,
and becoming more so each time I
come in. Also, your ears remind me
vividly of a pair of those blown-up
water-wings kids used to learn to
swim with.”
“What’s it got to do with you what
my nose is like?” he returned hotly.
“That’s my affair.”
“Your selection of so apt a word
to describe your own proboscis
merits congratulation,” I replied.
“But you made, in execrable taste
and in public, a derogatory remark
about the hirsute condition of my
skull, and when I retaliated in kind,
as I have every right to, you take
umbrage at it. I always thought
barbers were thicker in the rind than
that.”
“Well,” he said sulkily, “I only
said it because your hair isn’t the
best.”
“Neither is your conk,”' I said.
“Were you under the delusion that
if you and Apollo were in a compe-
tition for masculine beauty you’d
win? Besides, your remark was in-
spired solely by the prospect of
selling me a bottle of stuff the appli-
cation of which would probably
result in the loss of what little hair
I have left. You were also going to
get around, before springing the final
sales-talk, to the starved condition
of my follicles.”
“I” he began.
“How do you know they’re
starved?” I went on inexorably.
“You haven’t subjected them to
clinical, analytical or microscopical
examination. Actually, they are well
fed —too well fed, in fact.
“That,” I continued, “is their
trouble. The follicles have, through
gorging themselves, become too fat
and lethargic to do their work. That
they could have become emaciated is
impossible, seeing they are regularly
given trace-elements.”
“But trace-elements,” he said
surlily, “are only used for soil.”
“What, then,” I retorted, “is a
scalp but soil in which a crop of hair
is grown? It has to be watered and
fed and cultivated —surely you see
the analogy between a comb and a
harrow —and weeded if necessary.
“So you see,” I added severely,
“your knowledge of the human hair
is limited to the task, which any
quarter-wit could master in a week,
of clipping and snipping it; and
even then I sometimes wonder, as I
view the results of your unhandi-
work afterwards in two mirrors,
whether you would not have achieved
more desirable results with a blow-
lamp and tinsnips.”
“Now look here”
“Desist,” I said sternly, “from in-
terrupting a patron who pays three-
and-nine for the privilege of getting
his hair hacked in the space of four
minutes dead, which is what you have
just taken to prune my sparse hairs.
Th&t means you are earning at the
rate of two pounds sixteen shillings
and threepence an hour, or one
hundred and twelve pounds ten
shillings a week —more than a
Supreme Court judge gets. Anyone
who earns that can afford to be
insulted while he works. No,” I
interrupted, as he reached for the
water, “brush it dry. My follicles
have been trained only to have beer.
Water nauseates them. Good-
morning ! ”
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 16, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3853
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
ATOM CRISIS
The Bermuda Conference added nothing new to the
world scene which could not have been added without
the participants leaving their capitals. The United
Kingdom, France and the United States pledged
themselves to end the Korean war —if possible—by a
political conference ; to offer France support in the
defence of Indo-China. They agreed to a Four-Power
Conference, to include Russia, in Berlin on January 4,
hoped that this meeting would settle the fate of
Germany and Austria, and “perhaps” other inter-
national problems. They declared that they could not
accept as permanent the present division of Europe.
Finally they agreed that the united strength of the
West was “the best guarantee of world peace and
security.”
Australia and the other Dominions had no part
in the discussions. Neither had any other Power except
the dominating three ; but this did not matter on the
face of the communiques issued afterwards. And
whatever was secret has not been, and will not be,
revealed. The conference, in the open, did nothing
unless it was to reconcile France in some degree to
the acceptance of a revivified Germany as an alterna-
tive to having the Red Army on the Rhine.
Meanwhile, the speech of President Eisenhower
before U.N.0., foreshadowed immediately the confer-
ence met, usurped the interest in whatever took place
on Bermuda. It was only a week ago in the Federal
Parliament at Canberra that Wentworth, M.P., a lone
voice, since everybody else interested even remotely
in foreign affairs seemed to be away in Gwydir or
some other remote spot, declared that there were two
courses open to th 6 “Big Three” pieeting: “Either it
can face up to the main issue of international control
of atomic weapons before it is too late or it can waste
its time and the attention of the world upon issues
such as. the European defence system.... an issue of
minor importance, the issue on which it will be the
Russian objective from now onward to induce us
to concentrate our attention.”
President Eisenhower apparently agreed with
Australia’s Lone Voice, and, at the risk of creating
serious division among the Western Powers and
wrecking the Bermuda meeting, decided to come out
mildly with an offer to join Russia and other countries
in a simple plan to create an international agency
which would develop the peaceful use of atomic
power.
The essence of his scheme is the creation of an
international atomic-energy agency under the regis of
the United Nations to which all Powers, “to the extent
permitted by elementary prudence,” would begin to
make contributions from their atomic stockpiles of
normal uranium and fissionable materials. He pro-
posed that the agency should be responsible for the
storage and protection of the material contributed
and devise methods whereby it could be allocated to
serve the peaceful pursuits of mankind. And he made
an offer to submit to Congress, “with every expecta-
tion of approval,” plans to encourage World-wide
investigation into the most effective peace-time uses of
fissionable material; to begin to diminish the destruc-
tive power of the world’s atomic stockpiles and to
demonstrate to civilisation at large that, “in this
enlightened age, the great Powers of the earth, both of
the East and West, are interested in human aspirations
first and foremost rather than in building up the
armaments of war.”
Whether any such scheme can succeed depends
very largely on Russia and Red China, and whether
they are prepared to abandon the firm objective of
world revolution and the destruction of all systems
opposed in principle to Communism. But if he has
done nothing else the President —and his speech
seems to have been approved by other Bermuda dele-
gates and to have widespread support among free
peoples —has at least stated the real, and, in fact, the
major, problem of the world .today in such a manner
that discussion of it cannot be shirked. The simple
fact is there is already enough atomic power in exist-
ence to wreck the major centres of civilisa-
tion. If the 43 atomic bombs which have been exploded
by the United States alone since July, 1945, had been
released over great cities instead of desert islands and
waterless wastes there would scarcely be a single capital
or great industrial centre of Europe and America
intact.
It is no wonder that Eisenhower declared that
“every new avenue of peace, no matter how dimly
discernible, should be explored.” It is quite clear that
THE BIG-THREE BOYS
major war on a sufficiently grand scale to call atomic
weapons into play would mean the suicide of the
human race if it were fought out.
If Moscow does not accept the facts and
face the reality in a spirit of co-operation—and it
seems on first reactions to the Eisenhower speech that
it won’t—Moscow is demented beyond cure. In fact
the main danger in the plan from the Western view-
point is that with U.N.O. in charge of the scheme the
Russians, as they did at Yalta and in the Korean
armistice, might succeed in making the control of
policy their own.
Barrels of Oil
.
Something of the glamor of the gold-rush days swept
round Australia when the news was announced that
oil had been struck at Exmouth Gulf. The smiles
and rejoicings were by no means confined to those—
relatively few, after all—with a financial interest, in
the find; the excitement which spilled out of the Stock
Exchanges of the capital cities and communicated
itself to passing crowds was shared in some measure by
the whole community And rightly so, for if future
developments justify the high hopes raised by the first
find all sections of the community will be affected.
The high hopes do not, of course, include all the
day-dreams indulged in by a suddenly-oil-conscious
Press and public ; there was a pronounced element of
hysteria in the rejoicing. Hysteria has already cost
some gamblers hard cash. Shares went to crazy heights.
And it seems most unlikely that we shall ever see
realised the dream of one prophet who visualised a
pipeline from Learmonth to Sydney—unless his idea
was to pipe blackmarket Sydney beer to the thirsty
oilfield. „ . x
But it should be a source of pride to all Australians
that the credit for the “strike,” whatever its true value
ultimately turns out to be, is due almost entirely to
Australian vision and enterprise, and that, although
American capital, American equipment and American
scientists. and technicians contributed principally to-
wards final success, their enlistment in this particular
close on twenty years on this side of the Tasman—
with faith in the skill and knowledge of Australian
geologists. ...
A London paper laments that British capital
allowed American business interests to seize the
initiative,” and says that “discredit lies with British
capital and finance that lacks the vision and energy
that might have won the same prize That is a case
of being wise after the event. No doubt capital tor
exploitation of the Rough Range site could now be
obtained almost anywhere in the world, but it wasn’t
that way last year, or even last month. Some months
ago Mr. Walkley, In reply to questions why he had
sought American capital, said that the sum needed
nowadays to give an oil-search a reasonable chance of
success was so great that “there just wasn’t ‘risk-
money’ on that scale available in Australia.” When it
is remembered that to bring the Exmouth Gulf pro-
ject to drilling-point cost £ll million, there will be
little quarrelling with that statement. Britain once
supplied “risk-capital” for half the world, but the
London barrel is now half-empty and America has
become the natural supplier.
Still, British capital on a considerable scale has
been invested in oil ventures in this part of the world.
The Shell group has put over a million into the search
in Queensland, and Anglo-Iranian and its U.S. associ-
ates have sunk £lO million in New Guinea and are
still trying. Until last month informed- opinion gave
New Guinea a better chance than Westralia of pro-
viding our first oilfield. But for the moment it is
upon Westralia that luck has chosen to smile.
For thirty years there has never been lacking
someone with faith in Westralia’s oil possibilities, but
for most of the faithful it has been a matter of hope
deferred. Freney Kimberley has been sniffing oil in
the Kimberleys since the early 1920’5, and it is still
at it —now, of course, with hopes higher than ever.
Oil Search, Ltd., was actually in the Exmouth Gulf
country as long ago as 1932, and in 1947 its present
partners in the New Guinea operations—Vacuum and
Anglo-Iranian—together with the Zinc Corporation,
surveyed the Ord River country, where Caltex had also
done some exploratory work.
Australian scientists, too, have contributed
mightily. But all that became history when the first
pint of oil came out of No. 1 drill at Rough Range. If
the petroleum goddess continues to smile Australia is
now to become an oil-producing country with all the
advantages and drawbacks that that implies. On
experience elsewhere it won’t be only oil-investors
who will make money out of the “strike.” The Wes-
tralian Government has been quick to announce that
it will do its best to see that go-getting company-
promoters do not fleece the public by cashing-in on
the success of W.A. Petroleum Co. with stories of
bigger arid better oilwells out beyond the horizon.
It is, of course, impossible entirely to protect
fools from their folly, and, despite good intentions and
all precautions, some fingers are bound to be burnt —-
and not all by hot oil-scrip. On the Monday after
the news broke every seat on every Perth-bound plane
out of Sydney was booked for a week ahead, and
already there is talk of land-speculators and other
racketeers at work as far south as Perth.
But, in the broad sense, that is of little moment.
Viewed nationally, oil-production even on a small
scale would mean a saving in oversea funds, especially
dollar funds, which would then be available to pay for
capital equipment for further developmerit in other
industries. On the defence side there is the advantage
of having a local supply of strategic fuel and, prob-
ably more important still, the certainty that the popu-
lation influx to the nor’-west will strengthen our defence
lines in what has been a dangerously empty area.
The real significance of the find is that almost
the only important item missing from our basic
national requirements is now shown to be not missing
at all, but merely competently hidden, and a sample
has now been very competently revealed. How much
of the bulk is there, and how long it will take to be
made commercially available, are now the big ques-
tions. In any case, too much should not be expected
in a hurry.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Seeds of Destruction
In spite of all talk about the A.L.P.
having “lost its grip on the voters,” it
is stark fact that, in a city threatened with
“Labor” totalitarian rule through the
compulsory-unionism and press-gag Acts,
“Labor” was returned under propor-
tional-representation with 11 aldermen
(plus a Lord Mayor with a casting vote) ■
against six Liberal Civic Reform men,
and two Communists and one “Muni-
cipal Labor,” whatever that may be.
Mr. Cahill must have foreseen what the
result would be when his Government
plumped for proportional-representa-
tion, but the outcome is nonetheless a
disgrace to the city, the capital of N. S.
Wales, Mother State of the Common-
wealth. Adult franchise in slum areas
and the fact that hundreds of tenants of
city buildings were left off the rolls had
a lot to do with the final result.
At a time when national security is vital
the electors have put into office, among
others, Mr. Wright, the member of the
Polit-Bureau of the Communist party
who is reputed to control the party’s
security-system' as well as its finances.
Comrade Wright, since Moscow sent out
Rubanoff to organise the internals* of
Communism in Australia in 1926, has
been in the van of every activity of the
party. He is Moscow-trained, having
spent two years in Russia to be educated
in revolutionary technique, and wrote
a specious book in praise of Moscow’s
brutal systems. He is a disruptionist and
agitator. He has been a delegate to over-
seas conferences aiming towards the
destruction of the British system.
Comrade R A. Maxwell has been a
vice-president of the Waterside Workers
in Sydney and is a vigilance-officer of the
union, which is Communist-run.
It will be a pretty lookout for city civic
defence if war comes with these two
Reds in the council full of knowledge
of every precaution and of every facility
of the council. But nobody seems to
care, particularly “Labor,” And why
should it?
Until quite recently it was the habit
of the A.L.P. to publish before each
election for the Commonwealth and
State Parliaments a Press appeal signed
by numbers of union secretaries begging
for the return to office of the “Labor”
party. This was invariably signed, with
other Communists, by Comrade Wright,
and by representatives of the Waterside
Workers whose delegates were so inti-
mately a part of “Labor” organisation that
in the post-war years they framed and
pushed through the annual A.L.P. con-
ference what became “Labor’s” soldier-
rehabilitation scheme. When Dr. Evatt
held his Fourteen Points Referendum in
1944 Comrade Wright was one of those
who sat on the official committee which
managed the industrial unions’ campaign
in support of the Doctor in Sydney.
The proportional-voting system has
always been advocated by the Communist
party, on the advice of Lenin, as a method
of using “Labor” to get its representatives
into capitalist Parliamentary and muni-
cipal bodies. Once there their objectives
are set out in the Communist-party Train-
ing Manual, the material in which was
approved by a junta of which the newly
elected Alderman Wright was a member:
The Communist party makes use of
bourgeois Parliaments [and, of course,
municipal bodies], and enters them for
the furtherance of this revolutionary class
struggle These [i.e., the Communist]
members enter Parliament not that they
may take the machine into their hands,
but that they may help the masses to de-
stroy it.
And of course to establish the dictator-
ship on Communist lines—an objective
towards which Mr. Cahill, in his own way,
also seems to be steering.
A Living Memorial
In 1818 Governor Macquarie caused to
be erected in what is now a tiny reserve
in Macquarie-place, Sydney, a sandstone
obelisk to mark the spot from which all
road-distances in the infant colony were
measured. Roads in New South Wales
are still measured from that point, and '
at various places along the Western
Highway and the Hume Highway Mac-
quarie milestones can still be seen. In
February next year the obelisk will take
an added significance when close to it
the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh
will plant two trees to mark the com-
mencement of the Remembrance Drive-
way linking Sydney and Canberra and
planned as a memorial to the men and
women of the forces who served in
World War II and Korea. Later in her <
tour the Queen will plant another tree at
the other end of the Driveway—outside
the National War Memorial in Canberra.
The memorial is not a Government
project, although the N. S. Wales Premier
and the Minister for the Interior have
promised, their support; the intention of
the sponsors of the plan is that it shall
be something in which all sections of the
community can have a part. Lieutenant-
General Berryman, chairman of the
Driveway Committee, says of the
memorial: “It will not be merely an
b unbroken line of trees, but will be
* specially designed with avenues, groves
and small parks to enhance the existing
beauties of the landscape along the
Hume Highway. The National Forestry
Department at Canberra will provide
free many of the thousands of trees and
shrubs that will be required, but citizens
are invited to subscribe the money neces-
sary for their maintenance.”
The sponsors hope that individuals,
shire* and municipal councils, ex-service-
men’s associations, women’s organisa-
tions, Boy Scouts, Girl Guides, schools.
Parents and Citizens’ Associations, in-
dustrial and business houses will arrange
for the planting of single trees or groves
of trees. These would be identified by
tablets inscribed with the names of the
donors and, the servicemen honored.
Ten pounds is the amount provisionally
fixed to cover the cost of planting and
maintaining a tree. Donations may be
sent to the Secretary, Remembrance
Driveway Committee, Public Works
Building, corner of Phillip- and Bridge-
streets, Sydney.
All Brides Are Beautiful
If this should meet the eye of the un-
fortunate English publisher of All Brides
Are Beautiful, Queen of the Chase and
Lover, Say It with Mirth, he will under-
stand —so far as it is ever possible to
comprehend the workings of a Govern-
ment department —why these three de-
lightfully-titled novels have hot been re-
viewed in The Bulletin.
What has happened is that the Customs
Department in Sydney, for reasons totally
obscure, has suddenly decided that books
published in England and sent to Aus-
tralia for review must be the subject of an
import-licence.
From time immemorial, or at least during
the 73 years of The Bulletin’s existence,
review-books from abroad have floated
unmolested from the post into this office,
there to be gently patted on the head or
disembowelled as the case might be. The
Bulletin, like all other newspapers and
magazines, does not import books for
sale; it does not even buy the books
it reviews: they are in the nature of
unsolicited gifts, no different from a gift-
book received from abroad by a private
person, except that the publisher takes
his chance in the lottery of reviews.
The first The Bulletin heard of the
new rule was last week when a notice
arrived from the Customs to say that a
parcel of books was held at the parcels-
office in Central Square. A Bulletin
man went along to collect them and was
told he must have an import-licence.
Very good, he said. Could he have the
titles of the books and the name of the
publisher so that The Bulletin, if it
wished to, could apply for a licence?
The Customs clerk told him the titles.
They were All Brides Are Beautiful, etc.
But, whether because it was a deadly
secret or merely because he himself didn’t
understand what he was doing, the clerk
refused to disclose the name of the pub-
lisher.
Since you can’t get an import-licence
without stating by whom the goods have
been sent (nor without stating the price
of the goods: an awkward point when
you are getting them free) this seemed an
insuperable obstacle to The Bulletin,
or any other newspaper, ever again re-
ceiving any review-book from abroad.
Supposing the required information
could somehow be obtained. A news-
paper would then have to buy the import-
licence forms; fill them in in sextuplicate;
trot down to the department’s licensing-
branch in William-street with the forms
to go through some rigmarole or other;
whizz back to the Customs House at
Circular Quay to go through some other
procedure ; send one of the forms to the
bank through which payment is to be
made (there is no payment to be made);
shoot back to the Quay with the appro-
priate documents from the bank ; rush
with all possible speed, when eventually
the Quay disgorged them, to the parcels-
office in Central Square ; and then . ..
And then, collect the books? Not at
all. At that stage the newspaper waits
for a fortnight or so until the department
decides whether or not the books are too
naughty for it to read —the fate of All
Brides Are Beautiful is awful to con-
template, and neither Queen of the Chase
nor Lover. Say It with Mirth looks too
hopeful—and then, and only then, if the
books creep past this direful scrutiny,
will the newspaper graciously be permitted
to review them.
Of course the only possible answer
to all this outrageous nonsense is to
refuse to take delivery of the books; and
that, alas, is precisely what has happened
to All Brides Are Beautiful. It is to be
hoped it is not an immortal masterpiece.
But when immortal masterpieces do
arrive for review, as happens often enough
both with contemporary literature and
the Everyman’s Library volumes, neither
The Bulletin nor, any other newspaper
in Australia will be able to review them
while this procedure is in force. It is
virtually a ban, so far as criticism and
notifying the public of a book’s existence
are concerned, on the entire body of the
world’s literature; and somebody in
authority able to read should look into it
at once.
Free Gifts to Railways
In the N.S.W. Auditor-General’s report
on the N.S.W. railways, for the financial
year which ended last June 30, this item
appears; “The contribution to the Gov-
ernment Railways Fund from the State
Transport (Co-ordination) Fund, although
less than in 1951-52, was again an im-
portant feature of the finances.” To
it the A.-G. gives the amounts of
this “contribution to the Government
Railways Fund” for four years: 1949-50,
£591,279;. 1950-51, £1,107,875; 1951-52,
£1,539,801 ; 1952-53, £1,453,915.
The curious may read on and discover
the A.-G.’s definition of.the money so
gathered:
Income of the fund consists of licence-
fees of motor-vehicles used for the con-
veyance of passengers or goods, for hire
or in the course of any trade or business,
together with charges levied on a mileage
basis for the right to carry passengers
or goods in competition with govern-
mental transport services.
After that, keeping to his careful lan-
guage, the A.-G. notes that costs incurred
in the administration of the State Trans-
port (Co-ordination) Act are a charge
on the fund, which “may also be used
in supplementing income of State-owned
transport systems,” and goes on to show
where the money comes from and where
it goes.
In 1952-53 the fund income totalled
£1,613,650, and £1,479,694 of it came
from “charges levied on a mileage basis
for the right to 'carry goods, etc.”-—in
other words, from the 3d. a ton-mile im-
posed on all motor-trucks and their
loads for daring to carry goods more
than 50 miles over an N.S.W. road.
In considering- where the money goes
the A.-G. remarks that it, or some of it,
“may” be used in payments to the Main
Roads Fund. The innocent and trusting
may believe that the proper destination
for funds collected as a tax on the tare
and load-weight of road-vehicl®s is the
roads fund. Indeed, operators of road-
vehicles fervently say that if the tax
went to roads they’d be all for it. But
the £1,613,650 for last year was divided
into £129,465 for administrative expenses,
£B7O for the Comrpissioner for Govern-
ment Transport, £1,453,915 for the rail-
ways, leaving a balance of £84,185.
Roads got nothing. The Cahill Govern-
ment looks on the penal road tax as a
very useful bolster of railway revenue,
for, though it has made loud claims
lately about its speeded-up and more
efficient rail-handling of goods, it hasn’t
thought of reducing the road tax. And,
like the railway-minded Governments
north, south and west of N.S.W., it keeps
on producing regulations designed to put
road transport out of business. It has,
in other words, a two-way bet, for if
its restrictive and penal legislation doesn’t
force all the State’s carrying business on
to its still losing, still muddled, and still
decrepit railways, it collects enormous
sums from those who still use the roads.
All eastern Australian transport, both
sea and land, has been made excessively
costly, incredibly confused with bottle-
necks and slow-points, and liable to
collapse by the railway-controlled trans-
port laws of the States. On a guess
these laws impose anything from 15 to
25 p.c. on both producers’ and consumers’
costs, and the end result is merely that
railway budgets don’t look quite as bad
as they would on a true actuarial exami-
nation. For a nation to add millions to
its transport bill every year for that
shady purpose is about the silliest thing
in modern times.
The Vultures Swoop
The Compulsory Unionism Act having
been passed, a thousand eager commis-
sars are waiting for the gun to go off
so that they may sweep on their prey.
The A.W.U. has reputedly organised
the barbers of country towns as agents
to help enforce the new unionism. The
Clerks- and Shop Assistants-union agita-
tors are eager to be in the field, for they
expect a rich haul —and some of them
get 10 per cent, or so commission on
every fee or levy they squeeze out of
unwilling victims in furtherance of Dr.
Evatt’s doctrine of human rights.
Within a few months, if Mr. Landa
and his minions have their way, the last
vestige of friendly human relationship as
between employer and employee will be
dissolved. The doctrine of force will be
supreme in the industrial world. No
worker under State awards in N. S. Wales
will be able to move hand or foot, to
work a little faster to catch a train with
a load of hay or stay on the jofi ten
minutes after time without the . permis-
sion of the union and without overtime
pay. No gestures of friendship as be-
tween worker and employer will be pos-
sible except by grace of the commissar.
The forces of the class-war are to be
fully arrayed, the human material of con-
scription—which, of course, “Labor”
hates—will be whipped into the trade-
union ranks,' forced to subscribe money
to support the Labor party or the Com-
munist party, forced under pain of
arbitrary fine or other discipline to do
what it is told.
It is no wonder that compulsory union-
ism has become a main issue in the
Gwydir campaign, where totalitarianism’s
noisy automatons, Dr. Evatt and his fel-
low-captive of the A.L.P. to whom he is
chained by the leg, Mr. Arthur Calwell,
are mouthing the principles of tyranny
in tjhe terms of class-war logic, and the
Federal Government’s candidates desert
other issues 40 point to the consequences
when what Mr. lan Allan, the C.P.’s man,
calls a “swarm of union grasshoppers”
descends on the country towns and
properties, “devouring the workers, col-
lecting their union-fees and standing over
the employers.”
Before the consternation .which exists
among sections of their prospective vic-
tims some of the organisers of Mr.
Landa’s victory have recoiled hastily
after their first threatening shouts and
are beginning graciously to assure those
whom they threatened that they are not
going to prosecute every resister at once.
They will give those who balk a little
time to get used to the idea of slavery.
This hesitancy in itself is almost as im-
pressive an advertisement for the kind of
thing compulsory unionism is as is Mr.
Landa’s prophecy that “after compul-
sory unionism has been in operation for
twelve months or two years it will be
accepted in just the same way as many
other great reforms brought in by the
‘Labor’ movement in the past few
years.”
In fact, just as the “great reforms”
brought in by Lenin and Trotsky were
accepted by the workers of Russia.
Muddle at Panmunjon
The awful muddle into which the armis-
tice negotiators have got themselves in
Korea speaks for itself. Confusion is
almost as powerful a weapon with the
Communists as military might. They are
obviously at Panmunjon not to bring
about peace but to fan hate and do their
part in preventing any settlement between
East and West.
During the negotiations they have taken
every point, shown no good faith and
conceded none. The United Nations
delegate, who is in the Gilbertian position
of being negotiator on behalf of a body
which includes a powerful section of the
enemy, has all along had to submit to
insult and abuse such as has never been
heard in discussion between nations since
the days of Assur-banipal.
As he reported when he withdrew from
the conference-room and left it to the
Communists to say whether they wished
to continue the debates on a more normal
plane, he has had to sit with men who
shrieked across the table at him that he
was a “rogue, a criminal, treacherous,
stupid, slanderous and perfidious” and
that the United States had “perfidiously
plotted with the South Koreans” last
June to release 27,000 prisoners as a
preliminary to the armistice.
It was this last wild accusation, untrue
on the face of it, which led to U.N.O.’s
withdrawal from the conference-table,
Mr. Dean believes that the enemy
wishes to delay till the spring the agree-
ment for a political conference. His
(Continued on next page)


objectives obviously are not peace but
the promotion of disagreement between
the Western allies and particularly be-
tween the United States and the British
Commonwealth —something which, in the
face of the attitude of the American Press
and some politicians, it is not so difficult
to bring about.
Linked with what is going on in Indo-
China and with the acceleration of Com-
munist propaganda in British Common-
wealth countries in Asia and the strange
softening of the attitude of Moscow at
the same time, there seems very little
doubt that in general the Kremlin aims
at the general confusion which is the first
step towards world revolution.
But in face of the fact that when a
showdown comes it will make the two
previous holocausts of the past 50 years
seem a mere pale shadow of war there
can be no let-up in patience, no curbing
of effort, however futile it seems, to ward
off the peril.
Perhaps the greatest dangers to civili-
sation are sdft-shelled and stupid idealists
and nations on our own side who are
always inclined to think the best of the
enemy and the worst of their friends and
protectors. When they can be convinced
of the reality of danger the negotiations
for world peace can proceed on firmer
ground.
POLITICAL POINT
Sydney’s new City Council —the one
that’s going to smell as sweet as new-
mown hay or a newly-painted barrow —
will consist of 11 “Labor” aldermen, six
Civic Reformers, two Communists and
one Independent Laborite. Plus, of
course, “Labor” Lord Mayor Hills. The
old Council consisted of 24 “Labor” and
six Civic Reform aldermen.
Proportional-representation meant that
one Comrade was almost certain of elec-
tion. That was Tom Wright, placed No. 1
of a team of .15 nonentities. His colleague
R. Maxwell can put his aldermanship
down to the luck of the draw which placed
the Moscow team on the left of the ballot-
paper. A quite appropriate place, of
course.
“Labor’s” 11 includes Alderman Green
whom the official ticket placed 15th—
equivalent to putting him in a parcel,
tying him with a ribbon and throwing
him in the deep, blue sea. As has some-
times happened before with objects thrown
in the sea, Green came back. The
A.L.P. executive is trying to find out why.
• •
Admitted that what happens outside
the Cabbage Garden isn’t real news to
a Melburnian, but surely the Melbourne
“Herald” overrated the parochialism of
its readers in its presentation of the story
of the oil-strike? On a map of West
Australia, showing the position of Ex-
mouth Gulf, was inset a map of Australia
with a dotted rectangle showing the
position of W.A.
• •
That freedom-loving body the Civil
Liberties League doesn’t seem to have
raised even a whisper against the Press-
Gag or the Compulsory Unionism Bill.
And for that matter Doc. Evatt hasn’t
yet explained how he squares his support
of Compulsory Unionism with the Decla-
ration of Human Rights.
• •
As proof of the keenness of the Gwydir
campaign one political commentator
mentioned that J. J. Dedman, former
“Labor” member for Corio and Minister
for Pink Icing, etc., was taking part in
a door-to-door canvass in the electorate.
Deddy as an election-winner, and only
a fortnight before Christmas! Looks
as if someone has blundered.
• •
When “Labor” last won Gwydir, in
1946, W, J, Scully polled on file first
count 22,434 votes against 16,313 cast
for Country-party man Treloar ; six other
candidates divided 7317. In the cut-up
Scully collected sufficient prefs, to get
an absolute majority on the fifth count,
but his margin over the three remaining
candidates was only 90. On this basis
the combined Liberal-C.P. vote on Satur-
day will need to be at least 1500 ahead
of “Labor” to make the seat safe for the
Government.
• •
When the House of Representatives
was enlarged in 1949 Treloar won the
truncated Gwydir, beating Scully by
3736, and in 1951 this majority was re-
duced to 2313. A further swing of 3 p.c.
to 4 p.c. next Saturday would give
“Labor” the seat.
• •
Communist “Tribune’s” poster: “Yanks
Grab Our Oil.” Wonder how many days
will elapse before Eddie Ward echoes
that? ’ .
• •
On Saturday morning, towards the
end of an all-night sitting which didn’t
finish till shops and offices were opening
for the day, Victorian Lands Minister
Holt walked out of the Assembly* after
tearing > up an amendment to the Land
Settlement Bill of which he disapproved.
His final words on the subject were “I’ve
bad it. I quit.” '
The effect of the amendment was to
allow Crown land not suitable for soldier-
settlement to be made available “to
approved persons or organisations.”- Holt
had opposed this in caucus and had not
included it when he introduced the bill
in the Assembly. He protested that it
opened the door to foreign migrant com-
munity settlements; the Opposition took
a similar view when the amendment was
moved in the Council, but after some
backing and filling it was passed. It
was when the amendment came back to
the Assembly that Holt acted. Aftei
he had walked out, Premier Cain took
charge of the bill and forced it through.
There’s a strong feeling that the amend-
ment had a sectarian origin and is designed
to smooth the way for the establishment
of what could become Little Italys. At
the weekend it was reported that Holt had
resigned and that S. Merrifield, Minister
for Public Works, and C. Stoneham,
Minister for Agriculture, might follow
suit.
• •
Most subtle question of the week put
by Mr. Manning in Sydney Bankruptcy
court to Mrs. Doyle, wife of the convicted
confidence-man:
You knew he had suddenly blossomed
from a man who had been convicted for
petty dishonesty into a companion and
friend of Ministers of the Crown?
Mrs. Doyle replied “I closed my eyes to
it all.”
BLOWING ITS TOP
A note in “N.Q. Register” states that
there is a probability of a shortage of
commercially-usefully crocodiles in New
Guinea in the near future. Well, that’s
easily solved. Set up a Crocodile Control
Board.
• •
One of the many things Evatt hasn’t
explained in his Gwydir speeches is what
happened to the depression and the
terrific wave of unemployment he was
predicting in his by-election speeches a
year ago. There are three possible
answers:
1. Bert’s speeches cleared things up.
2. Government policy effected a cure.
3. Bert’s diagnosis was phony.
The Doc. hasn’t claimed credit for the
first or admitted the truth of the second.
• •
A licence has been issued for the new
Tasmanian Tat L’s to function if and when
the old George Adams concern crosses
Bass Strait. Licensee is A. J. Drysdale,
who built the Wrest Point luxury tavern
at Sandy Bay. Drysdale’s first comment
after the announcement was that the
marbles used in his sweep-barrel would
be 'made of Tasmanian sassafras from
the Derwent Valley. This should not be
taken to imply that chips from outside
Tasmania will be refused.
No final lottery plans can be made
until the Tasmanian Supreme Court gives
its decision on the injunction sought by
Tatt.’s Hobart employees to restrain the
transfer of the sweep to Melbourne.
Hearing begins today.
• •
The Canberra conference on a new
wheat-“stabilisation” scheme, which was
to have been held tomorrow, has been
postponed indefinitely because “several
State Ministers.. . .could not attend on
that date.” So all the talk about giving
wheatgrowers “a basic plan to enable
them to plan their industry” doesn’t mean
a thing when Ministers have made their
basic plans for Christmas.
• •
A Sydney “Daily Telegraph” man made
a quick tour of Gwydir electorate and was
astonished to discover that people out
there weren’t all hot and bothered about
Sydney sensations:
In fact, it’s been rather horrifying to
find the average mind in the country is
still firmly centred on the parish pump,
and that anything that happens more than
a few miles away is something going on
in a foreign country and therefore of no
vital interest or concern.
If the “D.T.” man wants to know how
this sort of thing cuts both ways let him
now make a tour of Sydney and see how
many people there know what’s doing
“more than a few miles away.” For in-
stance, Gwydir is in the heart of a
strong movement for secession from
Sydney and the creation of a new State
of New England. How much notice has
this received in the Sydney daily Press?
Yet it is one of the most significant
political movements of our time.
• •
Several State Governments are prepar-
ing bills ostensibly, to ban certain kinds
of literature, although they already have
all the powers they need to take action
against anyone who publishes anything
which offends against morals and decency.
This reaching-out for new powers is
dangerous, particularly to the Press, be-
cause the new laws will be, in fact,
censorship laws; more dangerous still,
they will be implemented by Government-
appointed bodies.
• * •
Barbers are to be used by the A.W.U.
as agents for enrolling new members in
the union. This raises some interesting
points. Surely the new role will make
the barbers clerks or cashiers and there-
fore liable for membership of the Clerks'
Union. And as members of the Clerks’
Union will it be ethical for them to
canvass for members of another union?
Furthermore, shouldn’t many of them
belong to the S.-P, Bookies’ Union
already?
• •
Eddie Ward threw his little bit into
the Gwydir fight on Sunday. It wasn’t
at an election meeting, but at a Domain
rally arranged to explain (after the bill
had been gagged through) “Labor’s”
reason for introducing compulsory
unionism. Still, that wouldn’t make his
contribution any more pleasing to the
Doc. This is it:
Bank-nationalisation still remains the
policy of the Labor party, and I think
you will find, when the Labor party is
returned, we will set about correcting
the lack of powers, to allow us to imple-
ment the policy of which you approve.
Bert says bank-nationalisation is dead:
Eddie won’t let it lie down.
• • •
N. S. Wales Cabinet is considering the
claim of its former colleague, J. G.
Arthur, for expenses incurred while
studying or inspecting or looking at or
for coalmines in the course of his over-
sea honeymoon trip last year. Most
likely tip is that they’ll cross off a few
odd pence for tram-fares and pay the
rest. What benefit will the coal industry
get for the money?
• •
Cain’s Government won’t forget last
week’s Legislative Council proceedings in
a hurry. Including the Land Settlement
Bill squabble it was defeated half a dozen
times in the four sitting days and was
forced to accept amendments to its Land-
lord and Tenant Bill and its Transport
Bill.
• •
London “Daily Herald,” official organ
of Britain’s Labor party, has joined other
British papers in condemning the Press
Gag. Cahill may now be expected to
break off diplomatic relations with Attlee.
• •
Corrimal branch of the A.L.P. wants
an inquiry into allegations of malpractice
and maladministration in the Greater Wol-
longong Council, Greater Wollongong,
like Greater Sydney, is a legacy of the
reign of J. J. Cahill as Minister for Local
Government.
• •
Abie Landa is still repeating the
prophecy that compulsory unionism will
be accepted in a year or so in the same
way as “other great reforms” of “Labor.”
Reforms usually cited in this connection
include old-age and widows’ pensions,
child endowment and workers’ compen-
sation. All these items give; compulsory
unionism takes away,
• i
Mechanisation of the Collinsville (Q.)
coalmine hasn’t lived up to expectations
yet. Falls of rock have kept production
below the manual-operation figure and
have caused the loss of the U.S. Army
contract for supply of 100,000 tons for
Japan and Korea. N. S. Wales mines
were the gainers.
• •
Alderman Bartley asserts that the
A.L.P. executive has already asked the
N. S. Wales Government to bring in
payment of aldermen; he says the next
step will be to give ’em pensions, gold
passes and other “perks.” He hasn’t
explained the last item yet. Perhaps he
means they’ll make graft legal. That,
after all, would be a simple way out of
the present dilemma; no one could
demand a royal commission then.
• •
Horsham (Vic.) Chamber of Commerce
unanimously condemned the new £l-
- said the portrait of the Queen on
them is an “atrocious affront to queen
or shopgirl,” and has asked Lawrence,
M.H.R. for Wimmera, to urge Fadden
to withdraw them. Most people can’t
hang on to the things long enough to
study them.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TyrOW that he has struck oil in Wes-
tralia, everybody knows the name of
W. G. Walkley of Ampol: but for me
personally he established enduring fame
20 years ago because of one wisecrack at
a meeting of the Hawera Borough Council
in New Zealand, when he was a coun-
“ Don't Worry about me, dearie. All the boys have been extra-nice
since you've been here."
cillor and I was reporting for the “Tara-
naki Daily News.” They were proposing
to put electric lighting through King
Edward Park, and Walkley, who must
have known something about the habits
of the younger generation, disposed of it
in one swift blow—he said it was “an
unwarrantable interference with the
liberties of the subject, Mr. Mayor.” It
was a mild-enough piece of wit, maybe;
but only a rare and forceful personality
could have dared be as human as that
amidst the awful solemnity of meetings
of the borough council. Incidentally,
there are two other Hawera personalities
(it is a pretty little town with a superb
outlook across the green paddocks to
Mount Egmont) who are known to fame
in Australia; Maurice McCarten, the
jockey, who is now a top trainer in Syd-
ney ; and Jack Fryer, now president of
the Victorian Trainers’ Association, who
trained the Melbourne Cup winners
Wotan and Skipton—he and McCarten
both struck oil in their way, too. —
“Mac Hoots.”
& *2*
“Lao-dah”: Anti-evolutionists who re-
joice at the discovery that the Piltdown
jawbone is a Hoax tend to forget that the
rib said .to have been taken out of the
first.man to make the first woman has
never been thoroughly authenticated.
“Jade”: Psychologists say that the use
of profanity by children is a form of
exhibitionism and should be ignored;
nevertheless, when my grandchildren use
unseemly words I register suitable
horror. This is the result of the “psycho-
logical” approach used by one of my
friends. When her youngest grandchild
uttered a Word she blandly ignored it.
“Grandma,” chirped the eldest, “didn’t
you Hear what sister said?” “Yes, dear.”
“Well, Grandma, I taught her.” Grand-
ma’s new system is to clout big sister
whenever little sister swears. Results are
excellent.
A
v
“Alno”: Everyone knows of the sea-
sonal perplexity of mothers trying to
answer the questions concerning the
number of places in the city where
Father Christmas can be seen at this time
of the year. I wonder what answers were
given to the children who saw what I
saw —a Father Christmas hurrying up
crowded King-street, Sydney, with a jug
in one hand, to dive suddenly into the
saloon-bar of a hotel? It must be said
on behalf of this erring saint that despite
the urgency of his errand he nodded his
masked head and beamed upon every
child who turned to gape.
hJ*
“Spokeshave”: It now turns out that
Mr. Warren Kidd, the negro Sir Walter
Raleigh who cast his coat in a puddle
for the new Elizabeth to step on, had
good intentions: so had my wife when
she picked up a brick oh St. Kilda-road
just as the Duke of Windsor, then Prince
of Wales, was passing. Watched by scores
of startled eyes and four policemen, she
walked to a tree-plantation,, pulled out
a brick, returned to her position at the
rear of the thousands of spectators, put
the brick on the ground and stood on it.
The crowd breathed again and the police-
men, who were moving to pounce, upon
her, looked embarrassed. She got away
with it, but I’ve always felt that if some
zealous patriot had crowned her with an
umbrella she would have had only her-
self to blame.
*Z* * $
“Oriel”: Gladesville Hospital (B.
25/11 /’53) is not the only building for
which roof-slates are being imported.
Government House in Hobart is having
its roof renovated, and when the Tas-
manian Government placed an order with
a Welsh company the Agent-General was
told that it was pleasant to do business
with old customers. The firm had sup-
plied the original slate roof for Govern-
ment House in 1858.
“Romast”: Alarmed by the Press pub-
licity, thieves who stole a valuable
Alsatian from the Melbourne Dogs’ Hos-
pital released it, and it was found
abandoned in the street. Would that be a
hot dog?
❖ ♦> * •
“K.R.”: At least one punter would
have been more successful in his 1940
Melbourne Cup betting if he’d known
of the facts about Old Rowley given by
“Becks” (B. 9/12/’53). Dreaming on
Cup eve of Charles 11, so the story went
at the time, and deeming it a good tip,
he cast his eyes over .the starters. There
being no royalties among ’em, he
plumped for Dashing Cavalier, whose
name befitted the Merry Monarch. Not
till the race was over, with the dashing
one in 16th plac’e, did he find out
Charles’s nickname.
' ♦> ❖ ❖
“Villefair”; Topicalities in a news-
reel are usually good, for a laugh. The
audience at our local show chuckled
when the commentator, touching, on a
display of Christmas toys, got in: “And,
of course, the jack-in-the-box keeps
bobbing up like rumors of graft.” He
closed with: “And, finally, here is old
Santa himself. You can’t beat him,
parents —even with compulsory union-
ism.” That one got its reward, too, but
it wasn’t as topical as it sounded: Sydney
Santas were forced into a union years
ago, when the court' upheld a, claim by
Actors’ Equity that a store Santa Claus is
an actor. I don’t agree. A bloke who
can purr lovingly at 10 million kids a
day while he is being steadily dehydrated
in a garb intended for Greenland’s icy
mountains is not an actor —he’s either a
dauntless hero or a black-hearted
hypocrite.
*l* *
“Spoke”; Overheard at the Christmas
break-up of a Melbourne G.P.S. while
the music-master was demonstrating his
skill m a violin piece. Said the maths.-
master to the history-master in a stage-
whisper : “Very difficult to play, that.”
“Ah!” said the history-master. “If only
it were impossible!”
*l* *> ❖
“Pip Tok”; “C. 8.” (B. 18/11/’53)
seems to have been unlucky in his
language-teachers. At the State secondary-
school I attended in Sydney we were
taught conversational French by visiting
teachers, who were dinkum Frenchmen,
and so were our regular teachers in their
spare time. The regular teachers
drummed French grammar and composi-
tion into us, and, if exam* results are a
guide, the combined efforts were success-
ful. The result was that I and many
others found no difficulty in making
French people understand us during our
war service. Our difficulty was in under-
standing them, as their rate of speaking
was too rapid for us, to say nothing pf
the colloquialisms, which tricked us, just
as our own trick foreigners. Another
difficulty was the patois, which varied
in villages only a few miles apart; we
had a strong suspicion that the villagers
lapsed into the local patois whenever they
didn’t want us to understand them.
* ❖
“Sparks”: Maybe the films, don’t turn
out “great” criminals (B. 18/11/’53), but
there doesn’t seem much doubt that a lot
of juvenile brutality and viciousness, to
say nothing of petty sneak-thieving and
“bodgie” promiscuity, is influenced by
Hollywooden masterpieces of crime,
violence and horror. When you see
bodgie-types aping their film “heroes”
you can hardly claim they are not being
influenced by the type of celluloid rub-
bish that’s being screened at present. It’s
the same with the flood of comics por-
traying violence, brutality and sudden,
unpleasant death, plus sex in large doses.
If all that has no effect on some juvenile
minds, child-welfare workers and
psychologists, with their years of experi-
ence, are simply wasting their time.
* ❖
“Wai-Weer”; Local precedence? When
a Governor-General was listed to visit
Thursday Island three or four decades
ago the occupant of the Residency, a civil
magistrate, arranged an official reception,
with invitations to the “best people” ;
but just when he was considering whether
he should go out with launch escort to
meet the vice-regal ship a note came
from the mayor telling him that the chief
civic personage in the place was himself,
and that he would attend to all necessary
arrangements. The magistrate sought
official advice higher up, but found the
mayor was right. X still hear echoes of
the social-circle disturbance that beset
the outpost when the point of precedence
was announced.
&
“Piper”: Lips curling in scorn (B.
2/12/’53)? I’ve seen it. A few days
ago a rather dowdy woman entered a
tram with a dainty small girl aged about
four. Said child, with her ringlets, gold
bangles and neck-chain and red-lacquered
fingernails, obviously took up all the
time and money that Mama did not spend
on her own appearance. And you should
have seen the other females in the tram
curling their lips. This expression
changed by logical sequence to frozen
disapproval” when a cheeky small boy
called “Hiya, Goldilocks,” to which the
glamorous midget replied Y
. Y’ know what you can do!”
♦♦♦ ❖
“Q; Ree”: It is very satisfying to have
had some part in the work done on the
black beach-sands which led to the expan-
sion of an important industry on the
south coast of Queensland. But it was
rather nerve-wracking to have people
ask “What exactly do you do for a
living?” Without enlarging upon micro-
scopes, refractive indices, volumes and
densities, etc., I would answer simply
and truthfully “I count sand-grains.”
The questioner would hurriedly leave
me with some feeble excuse, and would
next be seen whispering to someone else,
with both gazing mournfully in my
direction.
THE GUSHERS
Suppose I’d saved a quid or two,
Suppose I’d sold a poem, and
Instead of wondering how to blue
The lot, I’d kept it close at hand;
Some racehorse-trainer I might know,
For favors that I might have done,
Might well have said “She’s going to
go—
A hundred, she may be, to one.”
Suppose I’d put the whole two quid
In bookies’ hands, or else the tote’s:
She might have won. Suppose she did —•
I might have had two hundred notes ;
Suppose, then, walking down the street,
Down Pitt-street, Sydney, for example,
Next Monday morning, I should meet
■ This Walkley cove, head man of
Ampol:
I might have stopped, I might have said
“Walkley, you’re pale; you’re looking
seedy.
How are you off for daily bread ?
Have you your fare home ? Are you
needy ?”
To which he might have made reply.
“What wrinkles me is mostly toil,
What greys my hair and dims my eye
Is selling shares to drill for oil.”
And then I might have said to him,
“I have two hundred smackers here.
I might have spent them on some slim
Young miss, or squandered them on
beer,
But I (I might have said) will not.
Nor let Australia feel a qualm
For lack of one pure patriot, '
Or lack of other oil than palm.”
Suppose I’d bought-in, then and there :
I might have had — let’s work it out. .-.
Two hundred pounds. . .two-bob a
share —
Two thousand shares to gush about;
When they struck oil, and prices rose
Beyond all hopes, beyond all bounds,
I might have sold out, I suppose.
For something like twelve thousand
pounds.
I might have bought myself a house
And had the double-bed rewired;
I might have bought a herd of cows,
A little farm, and then retired...
Alas, the luckless man-of-might
Must cultivate the flowers-of-May
And seek a present to requite
His gruesome past on Christmas Day.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


4 6 r T'WICE the speed of sound” does
, sound like a lot of speed, but,
somehow, it sounded even speedier the
other evening when the radio-announcer
announced dramatically that an Ameri-
can pilot had “flown at twice the sound of
speed.”—“O. F.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Spokeshave”: Not for one moment
do I believe that flying saucers emanate
from Mars. My idea is that Juno is
throwing the celestial crockery at Zeus,
having just heard of his turning him-
self into a bull and visiting Europa and
making her the mother of Rhadamanthus,
Sarpedon and Minos. According to
"No help from the audience —PLEASE!”
Sophocles, the gods are very like our-
selves, and a goddess’s marksmanship
wouldn’t be very good even on ordinary
occasions, while in her jealous rage some
of Juno’s missiles would go flying through
the window. It might be objected that
Zeus’s extra-marital escapade occurred
too long ago to have any connection
with the present manifestations. This is
actually evidence in my favor. The abode
of the gods, according to the best Greek
authorities, is several light-years away
from our earth, and the shower of
domestic utensils has only just had time
to reach us,
*z*
“Pat”: It was just after 11 p.m.; the
Scotch had run out; the chap in the flam-
boyant bow-tie grimaced, signalled his
wife and began to say his Thank-yous to-
host and hostess. Just then another guest
made a breathless return entrance, waving
a couple of bottles of whisky triumphantly
in our faces. “Guess we might as well
stay a while, after all,” laughed the fel-
low in the bow-tie. And host and hostess,
beamingly urging him to do so,. saw
nothing amiss with this sudden change of
decision.
* ❖ ❖
“Kel'lick”: ' Despite “Benbow” (B.
21 /10/’53), the Silent Service can be
silent when silence is essential. Take
Tobruk. Night after night one
of cur Scrap-iron Flotilla would
sneak up an unlit channel
through a graveyard of wrecks.
We would sweat and work like
niggers to unload our stores
and ammo, and you wouldn’t
hear a sound until the
bombers started again. As
for shaking the reliefs at night,
does “Benbow” realise the vast
difference in the numbers to be
called? Take a cruiser with
a complement of 800. Two
watches at night was the rule,
and that means half the men on
watch, the other half to be
called. You’d need a lot of
shakers to wake 400 men. And
the third-mate makes > the
signals! Often we have signalled “Thank
you, good-night,” after trying to get some-
thing coherent out of a merchantman
(Orient and P, & O. always excepted).
“Hands to dinner?” What’s that awful
din on a passenger-liner that reminds one
of a Sultan’s harem? I always thought
it was the dinner-gong.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Wackford”: I never minded sleeping
on the ground, though I agree with
“Becks” (B. 2/12/’53) that I could enjoy
a bed when I could get one. My main
objection to the ground in Palestine was
the moles. After spending ten minutes
or so getting the hip comfortable I’d go
off to sleep only to waken after an hour
or So because one of these little creatures
would be trying to push me aside to get
its little hill closer to its own conception
of a mountain.
♦t*
“Macro”: In the hullaballoo in Vic-
toria over indecent literature somebody
seems to have switched the points, and
legislation proposed is not likely to
make the original moaners happy. The
Federation of Mothers’ Clubs /irst got
steamed-up about the Yankee-style so-
called comics featuring crime and sex.
Preference for genteel phraseology pro-
duced the term “indecent literature” and
immediately the chase turned in another
direction altogether. Now the well-known
genus of supposedly-humorous magazines
with a few plates of nude photography
are being brought into the glare of re-
forming light, and it looks as though the
comics might get off scot-free.
“Mullum”: Calling the admission-,
charge a “donation” (B. 25/11 /’53)
doesn’t fully solve the problem of col-
lecting gate-money on a Sunday. As it is
not permissible to force spectators to
part with their money, there must be some
way for them to enter without paying,
Most grounds provide a “free” gate in a
remote part of the ground, and, if black-
berries won’t grow across the gateway,
the groundsman forgets to cut the grass
there. Most people would rather pay
than force their way through paspalum
3ft. high.
“Is this seat taken?”
“Thark”: Scene: the first art-show in
our subbub. Plump matron: “Well, I
like some of them all right, but you
know how I am about pictures. It would
have to be a small one. Too much dust-
ing on those big ones, and no glass to
keep off the flies.”
<£♦ ■*&
“Bo”; ’Schools of dramatic art are all
very well in their way, but for the ac-
quisition of the ultimate in histrionic
finesse and polish I recommend a prac-
tice as simple as it is inexpensive. And
that anyone who cares to pursue it will
lack no practice is certain. My own
martyrdom to it has made me such that
I feel I could, with complete confidence,
step upon the boards and hold my own
with Olivier and others of his eminence.
It flows from my inherently kind nature,
so that when a fellow comes up and starts
to tell a yarn I’ve already heard five times
I haven’t the heart, noting the eagerness
writ large on his phiz, to tell him I already
know it. So I have learned, through
long and painful experience, to put my
range of facial expressions—of necessity
of great variety —through their paces as
I again follow each turn and twist of
the story. Try it some time. It’s the
best form of self-discipline known to
man.
❖ ❖
“Narumee”: It’s not only the thrill of
outbidding rivals that makes auction-
sales fascinating (B. 25/11/’53); it’s
the hopeful belief that all other bidders
are much bigger mugs than yourself and
have not spotted the object which you
are smugly convinced is a valuable
antique. At one such sale I could hardly
maintain my pbker-face in my eagerness
to secure a graceful dark-blue vase
adorned with a painting of a cottage. It
was Rockingham, I was sure. No one
else evinced much interest, and I got it
for 7s. 6d. Did I skite? I’ll say. Oh,
yes, it was Rockingham, all right, but a
grinning dealer later pofhted out what I
had missed and all the other “mugs” had
observed, that one of the dolphin-tail
handles had been badly broken, and
skilfully repaired. It was worth, perhaps,
five-bob.
£«
“Ah Lee”: Early in 1945 we picked
up vehicles and about 1000 American
troops in New Guinea for transport to
Manila. We had on board a jeep of our
own which we kept in a clear space on the
fo’c’sle-head. As we approached the
anchorage at Leyte the fo’c’sle-head was
crowded with G.l.’s draped all over the
place. As we wanted to clear-away the
anchors ready for letting go, I sent a chit
to the adjutant and asked him to have,
the troops moved. The next thing was
a rich American voice coming over the
p.-a. system: “All U.S. troops are to get
away from the fo’c’sle-head. The
fo’c’sle-head is that part of the boat
located round the jeep.”
“Arthur R.”: Offered half-a-dozen
hams at a ridiculously low price, a Mel-
bourne publican hesitated. “They’re on
the crook,” the stranger whispered, and
winked. The publican understood. He
paid the man, telling him to leave the
hams in the cellar that night. “Mind
you,” he cautioned, “I know nothing
about this.” The following morning the
publican entered his cellar. He drew
back quickly, his smile of happy antici-
pation fading. An objectionable odor
assailed his nostrils. The hams certainly
were “on the crook.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tonsi”: Many a # bathroom-baritone
is accused of being tone-deaf, but tone-
dumbness is the more accurate diagnosis.
Most people can recognise a tune, but
many of these frankly admit their in-
ability to sing in tune. Radio-quiz con-
testants who are asked to sing get them-
selves into far more strife than those
who are asked to identify tunes.
*l* ♦> ❖
“Mem”: The lass behind the chemist’s
counter was a bit put-out when the old
lady she had served ignored her delicately-
manicured hand, outstretched for pay-
ment, and tried to thrust the money into
the limp, scarlet fingers of the rubber
glove that adorned a display-card.
♦> ❖
“Pawang”; Contrasts in considera-
tion? A busy intersection at peak-
traffic time. An old man, almost a com-
plete cripple, gets caught in the middle
of the street when the lights change and
makes a desperate attempt to reach the
safety of the pavement. A cop waves the
traffic on, a big van bears down on the
old fellow and he redoubles his efforts —•
without much success. The cop, eyeing
the old man as if expecting him to
sprout wings, continues to wave the van
on; the driver, glaring at the obstruc-
tion as if its very existence is an
insult, continues to obey the signal and
with one despairing leap the old boy
reaches the pavement, exhausted, but in
one piece. A few seconds later a hearse
with a coffin in it passes. Every hat in
the crowd comes off and the cop springs
to attention,
♦5 ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Tukang Kebun”; Profit doesn’t
always go to the middleman. Lack of
opportunity kept me out of the Changi
blackmarket, except on one occasion,
when I was approached by a fellow-
corporal on camp duties with a shirt to
sell; he wanted ten dollars. I took it
out on the job, and had almost sold it
to a Chinese for twenty-five when a Jap
guard intervened. He gave me five dollars
and a clip on the ear. Later I saw him
sell the shirt to the same Chinese for
fifty.
* * ❖
“Spoke”: “X.S.’s” version of the form
for asking for a beer in Melbourne is
corrupt—it should be “A wharfie —a big
bloke without a collar.” And the correct
way to show appreciation of the contents
of the tankard is to say “It’s so lovely
I’d like to have a suit made of it.”
CARD AFTERNOON
“It has a little scalloped brim.
I’m 'wondering now just what I’ll trim
It with. Some mist-blue veiling-—not
my deal again!
I dealt a little while ago.
It is mine ? Well, what do you
know !
Beth, I believe, is going out with Neal
again.”
“That’s not ours, partner — they took
that.”
“Well, I was saying about this hat.
You’d really think it was a most
expensive one —
I’m sorry, partner, we were caught;
You had a higher card, I thought.
I always make my first lead a
DEFENSIVE One.”
“I’ve had boned corsets, too, my dear,
They’re always sticking in me here —
/ am so sorry, partner —my forgetful-
ness.
Whose lead is it? Oh, mine! Um r .-.,.
um”
“My Heather’s sickening for some-
Thing. I’ve not really known her in
such fretfulness !”
“They’ve had new carpets through the
place.
And socially they go the pace —
I don’t know how they do it on ms
salary !”
“Oh, that has everyone intrigued ! —
Now, fancy that ! Have I reneged ?”
“Come on, you’ll shuffle all the spots
off, Valerie.”
“My sponges never seem to rise,
Although they’re all right otherwise —
Oh, fancy ! Did ye have another win
again ?
I’m using that new margarine,
Only for fruit-cakes, though, I mean.”
“I think it’s your deal this time, Mrs.
Finnegan”
“She wore those set-in sleeves that date,.
And those inverted pleats I hate.
The whole effect, my dear, was simply
shattering !
Mind you, I don’t say she’s a frump —•
Who was it led ? Oh ! It’s a trump !
Heavens! Just listen there to all that
chattering I”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
From head of the venerable Hutchins
School in Hobart Paul Radford goes to
Adelaide Scotch College, senior classics-
master. Born in Norfolk (Eng.), degrees
from Melbourne and Oxford, he has
served classics at, Eton and Sydney’s
Shore, with a decade at Melbourne Scotch
before southing to Hobart in 1945. He
takes over in Adelaide from F. J. Gale,
who reckons 30 years with boys of Scotch
is enough.
• • ,
The Bulletin called to shake hands
with William Gaston Walkley, and found
him, on this oilily auspicious occasion, no
different from when it met him, on an-
other happy occasion, in company with
the American golf-girls brought out for
the Ampol tourney. He seems to have
taken the oil-strike very well; to be ex-
pected of a man who’s been fighting for
something pretty well all his life—not
the least stoush being his struggle in
recent years to get someone interested in
a place called Learmonth.
A big man physically, with a somewhat
heavy face forming a permanently-tanned
SINKER
anchorage for a brushed-back wave of
frosty hair, Walkley is otherwise char-
acterised by a sort of restrained, ener-
getic competence, which seems to be on
the point of bursting forth into decisive
action, like, perhaps, a gusher. With,
one imagines, appropriately satisfactory
results for Ampol.
In between the sketching and talking,
he opened mail —some of it top-level
business stuff from America, some letters
from elderly ladies enclosing cheques for
£5 and asking for it to be suitably in-
vested, other letters from men who had
suddenly discovered topnotch managerial
qualifications for an oil-firm’s office in
Westralia.
A golfer who has mainly given that
game away for deep-sea fishing—hence
the facial coloring—W.G. in earlier New
Zealand times developed his present
huskiness with deer-stalking and pig-
hunting. He owns a keen sense of pub-
licity value, and events at Rough Range
have trumped the Redex Trial for front-
page stuff. .
• •
New Mayor of Auckland (N.Z.), John
Hector Luxford is outwardly distin-
guished by a sense of humor and a love
of bow-ties. There’s a bit more to him
than that. Admitted to the Bar at 23,
he had what seemed a promising future
interrupted by the Kaiser, whereupon he
backed his advocacy with a machine-gun,
serving it at, among other addresses in
France, the first battle of the Somme. A
chest wound —bad enough to get him a
permanent-disability pension—sent him
home in 1917. He was soon on his feet,
wrote a history of his m.-g. unit and
several other books (now standard legal
works), and in 1928 was appointed stipen-
diary magistrate. This was followed by
appointment as Chief Judge for Western
Samoa. By 1941, back in Enzed, he was
chief S.M. in Auckland. One of his first
—and certainly most important—mayoral
functions will be to entertain the Queen
of England. It is from Auckland the
Queen will make her Christmas Day
broadcast.
• •
New Zealand Rhodes men for 1954
are D. G. B. McLean and K. A. K. North.
McLean (Victoria College, Wellington),
aims at geology, with a bias, for oil-
bearing strata. North (Otago University)
has a medical leaning and hopes for a
Doctorate of Philosophy, specialising in
pathology.
Supervising-engineer of telephone-
equipment with the Post and Telegraph
Department in Christchurch (N.Z.), E. P.
Sanders has been selected by the Saudi
Arabian Government to plan and instal
telephone-equipment exchanges over
there. It’s part of a U.N. plan to assist
underdeveloped countries. Applications
for the job were invited a year ago—the
number of possible candidates looked so
vast that Sanders had a shot and then
. forgot about it, till apprised by U.N.
headquarters in New York that he was
the choice. He has already set out for
Jeddah on the Red Sea.
• «
A foretopman remembers :
There will be more than a few down the
hatch to the Australia before she goes. The
grand old lady trained, both in seamanship
and fighting, most of the permanent R.A.N.
at some time or other, and some of the best-
known fighting names in the Navy served
aboard her in her last war-
She was Captain Emile Dechaineux’s first
and last ship—he died on her bridge under
kamikaze attack off Leyte. Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins was her gunnery-jack on her
maiden voyage to Australia in 1928, and was
on her bridge with Dechaineux, Commodore
Commanding Australian Squadron. Rear-
Admiral Harold Farncomb flew • his commo-
dore’s pendant from her 150 ft. mast, relieving
the wounded Collins, and had her earlier in
the Coral Sea battle, at Guadalcanal, Arawe
and Cape Gloucester. Captain Galfrey Gat-
acre, destroyerman, was her Staff-Officer
Operations when she was a unit of the com-
bined U.S.-R.A.N. Task Force in the s.-w.
Pacific. Commander Warwick Bracegirdle,
gunnery-officer of Perth at Matapan, Greece
and Crete, remembers her as his first sea-
borne home. Captain Tom Morrison (she
also his first ship) was back aboard, Squadron
Torpedo-Officer at the height of the Pacific
war.
These are the famous names, men with
decorations and enemy ships sunk to their
credit. Her complement was always some-
where round 600 men, who changed and shifted
and came back to her. In her 25 years of
active life there will be a host of old friends
who went down to the sea in her, and who
will remember, her when she is no more.
• •
Wynford Vaughan Thomas, another of
the 8.8. C. team covering the Royal tour,
will concentrate mainly on setting the
scene and describing the peoples,, places
and things the Queen is about to see.
This bringer -to - your - armchair has
covered two Coronations, firstly that of
George VI, dnd, last June, the Queen's.
His was the voice which, coming from
the Queen Victoria Memorial outside
Buckingham Palace, brought to the
listening world the first ‘appearance of
the State coach through the Palace gates.
The earlier Coronation marked Thomas’s
first running commentary, delivered in
Welsh. He stuck to English for another
remembered commentary from a
bomber lambasting Berlin. Later in the
war he had his mike in Italy and north-
west Europe ; and, since the war, in an
aircraft on an eight-day “Jules Verne”
flight round the world.
• , •
“M.G.”: What Cecil Rhodes wanted
for his scholarships to Oxford was half
a Socrates and half a Bradman. - James
Duncan Anderson, Victorian Rhodes
Scholar for 1954, provides both these
halves plus a giant who stands 6ft, 4£in.
in his boots, which once set a public-
school record by helping their owner kick
107 Aussie Rules goals in the 10 matches
played in two seasons. As a scholar
the Rhodes man won a? Trinity College
major resident-scholarship from Mel-
bourne Grammar, which he had passed
through on a scholarship from Elwood
Central State School. At Oxford he will
study philosophy, politics and economics
as a preparation for the Australian diplo-
matic service. A good off-spin bowler,
his major sport will be cricket.
• • •
Colin Bednall —home town, Adelaide
—started in ink*as a copy-runner on the
“News” there 24 years back. At the end
of War II he was assistant-editor of Lon-'
don “Daily Mail.” While in London he
married Miss Abbott, daughter of the
one-time N.T. Administrator, and before
settling in the “Mail’s” editorial chair
was the paper’s air-correspondent. The
first British correspondent in action with
both British and American bomber-
forces over Europe, Bednall crossed the
Channel 14 times on operational flights,
the stories of which won him a reputation
on both sides of the Atlantic. In 1945
he was back in Australia, organising a
Pacific news-bureau for Lord Rothermere
and the “Mail.” Brother a journalist,
granddad a sub. on the old Adelaide
“Register,” Bednall shifted to Brisbane
in 1946, “Courier-Mail.” • He retired the
other day from its managing-editorship.
Composer Peggy Granville-Hicks, of
whom not much notice was taken when
she lived in Melbourne, has, since she
took to living in New York, caught the
eye of the Rockefeller Foundation. That
organisation commissioned her to write
an opera, and the result, “The Transposed
Head,” a play on a Hindu theme, is to be
performed by the* Kentucky Opera
Association and the performance televised
and recorded. She is the first woman
composer to be so commissioned in the
U.S.
• •
A fortnight after his friend and
musical associate, William Frederick,
who shared his Georgian house in
London, had died from appendicitis, Noel
Mewton-Wood, one of the most brilliant
musicians Australia has produced, was
found dead beside his grand-piano. He
was shortly due to play in leading concert-
halls in Europe. The fifth generation of
his family to be musical, he had played
at Melbourne Town Hall in knicker-
bockers at 12 years old, and at 14 had
made himself a local reputation. Three
years later Sir Thomas Beecham, who
usually gave young aspirants for his
attention unmerciful snubs, granted him
an audition and listened to him for over
three hours. Since then Mewton-Wood
(30 at the finish) had played with every
major orchestra in every big musical
centre in Britain, and in France, Italy,
Holland, Poland and Turkey ; he toured
Australia with Sir Malcolm Sargent in
1946. He was born in Hawthorn’ Mel-
bourne.
• •
“X.F.”: A man who works in a Mel-
bourne jam-factory has a special interest
in the Ampol oil-strike —A. C. Maddigan,
a 32-year-old engineer who supervised
the drilling of the first test-holes near
Exmouth Gulf in 1951. His rig-crew were
part of a research group organised by
the Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral
Resources. They went down 300 ft.,
set off explosions and listened to the
echoes, which told them there were indi-
cations of an oilfield and of a very large
underground sedimentary basin. Maddi-
gan had. struck oil. previously—with
Anglo-Iranian on the Agajari field. At Ex-
mouth Gulf he was more interested in
whale-oil; if he had had the money he
would have invested in the Point Cloates
whaling-station—there the oil could be
seen coming in. He hasn’t a single share
in Ampol; but is contemplating changing
from jam back to oil now,
• •
“Pip Tok”: Charles R. Heppingstone*
elected president of the 10th Light Horse
Association, holds the surely unique dis-
tinction of having been knocked off the
back of a camel by an aeroplane. An
original member of the 10th, he was con-
valescing ir. Egypt after Gallipoli when
he and a mate chartered a couple of
camels for a. ride in the desert near
Abassieh. A plane gliding in for a land-
ing scared Allah out of Heppingstone’s
oont, which couldn’t be reined out of the
way before a wing of the plane uncamelled
the rider. Heppingstone got off with a
badly broken arm, and a return to Aus-
tralia, where he did a good job as a
recruiting-officer.
• •
Succeeded Forgan Smith as Chancel-
lor of Queensland University, Otto
Hirschfeld has held a lien on the deputy-
SURGEON
chancellorship for years past. Under-
grads call him “Mr. Chips.” A product
of Brisbane Grammar and the institution
he now heads, Hirschfeld is on the com-
mittee of the Medical Legal Society, is
senior physician (part-time) of Brisbane
General, and practises in Wickham Ter-
race with his Rhodes Scholar brother,
Konrad. He’s also a member of the
Johnsonian Club and an Olympic
contract-bridge player.
“Macnell”: First ship of Commander
Ronald John Robertson (here Wool-'
cotted) was valiant old Australia. Then
Robertson was a long-legged,, quietly-
mannered snotty, at the start of his 20-
years sea-time. Now appointed com-
mander of the R.A.N. College at Flinders,
“Robbie” has .been in and out of a lot
of seaborne addresses in the time between.
A signals expert, he was in a British
destroyer on Channel convoys, in opera-
tions off the Dutch and Belgian coasts
SAILOR
and at the Dunkirk evacuation—D.S.C.
and two “mentions.” Transfer to Aus-
tralian destroyer Napier took him through
the Atlantic, and into the Mediterranean
for the Tobruk spud-run and his second
evacuation, Crete. It wasn’t all with-
drawal. After a period at Navy Office
he got back Dunkirk-way; this time, on
the staff of the Allied Naval Commander,
with a grandstand view of the return via
Normandy. Robertson later shifted east,
flag-lieutenant to Commodore Farncomb,
wearing his flag in Robertson’s first ship.
He witnessed the signing aboard U.S.S.
Missouri in Tokyo Bay, was back up
that way (Korea) in carrier Sydney, and
over England-wards again with the Coro-
nation contingent. Son of an A.I.F.
officer, he’s 37.
« •
New g.-m. of New Zealand Insurance,
W. I. O’Brien, expatriate of the Wes-
tralian capital, joined the co. there some
42 years back. Thirty years in Fernland, ,
he’s climbed up per most executive rungs
of the ladder.
• •
Into the Silence:
In 1 Sydney, at 54, Lionel B. Foster, whose
New Zealand journalistic career included
Wellington “Dominion” and editing country
papers. In 1929 he crossed to. Australia and
for the past 15 years was editor of “Fix” in
Sydney.
At Timaru (N.Z.), at 70, Dick Arnst, a few
days after Snowy Baker, whose career —insofar
as it concerned brilliance of achievement—he
closely followed. Arnst held world-champion-
ships in sculling, New Zealand and Australian
championships in cycling, and was an inter-
national trap-shooter. With nothing much
more to beat on the cycling-track he took to
sculling, and collected his first world-title on
the Wanganui River. Sponsored by a South
African millionaire, Arnst beat Ernest Barry
on a stretch of the Zambesi —to be in turn
beaten by Barry on the Thames in 1912. Later
the Enzedder regained the title from Australian
Felton.
V
In Washington,. Rear-Admiral William Par-
sons, U.S. Navy. He made the final settings
on the Hiroshima atom-bomb.
In Brisbane, at 56, Stanley Edward Holle,
after a life of education and encouragement
of the deaf, dumb and blind. Principal, since
1926, of the School-for the Blind and Deaf in
South Brisbane, he built it to its present mem- .
bership of over 200. All facilities of the
school are free.
In Melbourne, Old Digger Alex Girling,
senior vice-president of the Richmond Rowing
Club. Holder of the Croix de Guerre, he
maintained contact with the old mob by his
presidency of the Tunnellers’ Section of the
Ist A.I.F. Association.
At 55, in Adelaide, Charles Cave Brebner,
who, born in Victoria, educated in Perth,
shifted to Adelaide and became one of the
city’s leading solicitors. Member of the South
Australian Law Society Council, during War II
he handled many important briefs for the
Commonwealth Crown Solicitor.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 79, Professor T. D.
Adams. Appointed lecturer in Latin at Otago
University the year he graduated, 19 years
later he succeeded to the Chair of Classics at
the same university. He did a deal of broad-
casting from Station 4YA. »
At 80, in Perth, William Ernest Bold, ap-
f pointed Town Clerk of the city in 1901. Modest
in character and firm in conviction, he was
recognised as the father of town-planning in
Westralia; was largely responsible for the
Town Planning Act (now in operation), the
construction of Perth’s lovely Riverside Drive,
and the creation of parks and reserves —14 in
1901, 87 today. His service has been recog-
nised by the naming of Bold Park, and by the
C.B.E. awarded in 1948. Up to the time he
■ retired in 1946, he had served under 17 mayors.


dsf
PREPARATION


ABORIGINALITIES
TN a fair bit of time spent among them,
A I have never known an experienced
stockman wear, except for lamb-
marking work, the stiff dungarees
often favored by tyros. I’ve met plenty
of cattlemen who wouldn’t polish their
saddles with anything more delicate than
dingo mole; that material, when the
rammies'are worn out, can be used to
sole your "boots, but even so it hasn’t the
genuine, saw-edged seams of the dunga-
ree. Personally I incline to trouserings
thin enough to let me feel what my
saddle-hack is doing or about to do.
Before the war a Queensland firm with
a big outback trade used to sell stock-
man’s-cut pants made of a dark-blue
material as thin as shirting and as tough
as the hide of a union-secretary—ideal
stuff for hard riding in a hot climate. —
“Propalong.”
* * ♦ *
“A.L.D.”: A character who figured in
lon Idriess’s books Man Tracks and
Nemarluk, King ofthe Wilds, has suffered
the fate he meted out to others. Tiger,
an associate of Nemarluk, was sentenced
to a long term of imprisonment for
killing two prospectors, Stevens and
Cooke, in the Fitzmaurice River district
(N.T.) in the 1930’5. He escaped from
Fanny Bay jail, but was recaptured and
remained in durance until the jail-gates
were opened after the first Jap air-raid on
Darwin. Now Tiger has himself been
murdered, and police are searching
for an aboriginal named “Split Lip
Dick,” who has gone bush with Tiger’s
young wife.
“Old-timer”; Quicksilver Ted and
Calico Charlie picked up an aged geld-
ing called Solo down in the Wimmera,
noted that it had a bit of speed, clocked
it over six furlongs in 1.20 in a fat and-
uncouth condition and with the 9.10
Calico riding long, then withdrew from
public attention for six months, till they
turned up at Willenbrina races. Solo, as
a post-entry, got 8.0, They put up an
ancient jockey called Nobby, got fours,
and Solo beat the other three by a length.
A month later at Minapre (now Lascelles),
under the same 'weight and
jockey, and at evens, Solo
beat a field of six in a six-
furlong Bracelet. Quicksilver
excitedly noted the time, 1.16,
and began talking about the
Newmarket Handicap. Solo,
at 6-to-4 on, got left in a
Woomelang Flying, ran un-
placed in a field of four at
Charlton with 8.2, then
bolted home at Ultima under
7.12 and made a course
record of 1.12. As he’d
started at fours in a field of
five, this led to a stewards’
inquiry into Solo’s pedigree
and antecedents. This, like
the record, was quashed when
it was discovered that the
flag-start was made from the
wrong post and the distance
was only five and a half fur-
longs. The stewards then de-
clared the race and all bets
off, whereupon Quicksilver
assaulted the club committee.
Calico took on the two
policemen and Nobby hopped
into the starter. It cost them
all they had for fines and
costs, and north-west Vic-
toria’s last memory is of Nobby riding
Solo north towards the Murray, with
Quicksilver and Calico tramping behind.
The only clue to their subsequent fate was
a cab-driver in Swan Hill who called his
horse Misere,
* ♦ * *
“Qravelsnatcher”: The dispute about
Westralia’s flag (B. 18/11/’53) has been
resolved. The London Royal College
of Arms has ruled that the black swan
should swim into the flagstaff; and that’s
the way it’s to be. So the big State will
have a flag at last, although it still hasn’t
got a registered coat-of-arms—this is
under consideration.
**m * *
“Sackfair”: That amateur surveyor
who was not more than 24yds. out in a
10-mile run (B. 11/11/’53) did a lot
better than the professionals who plotted
the course of the Otford tunnel (N.S.W.).
Its purpose was to take the railway-line
through the mountain range that stretches
between Stan well Park and Otford. Work
was started from both sides, and, of
course, the gangs should have met in the
middle. They didn’t. Startled engineers
discovered that the tunnels had bypassed
each other. There were only two reme-
dies: go back to taws, or put an “S”
bend in and make the wanderers meet.
The bend was by far the cheaper, and
it, apparently, solved the problem —until
engine-crews began to lose consciousness
when passing through the tunnel. Investi-
gation found that noxious fumes from
the locomotives’ funnels became trapped
in the bend. A fan was installed ; it did
not completely overcome the trouble.
Finally a new and bigger tunnel was cut
through—without any divergences. But
the old tunnel was not a complete loss:
,an enterprising mushroom-grower grew
some fine fungi in it.
* * » *
“Sebak”; The simple explanation as to
why that head of a grasshopper continued
to feed although it had no body (B.
25/11/’53) is this: Insects have no brains-
in the true sense of the word, but each
part of the body has an individual local-
“Safety in numbers, eh?”
control centre called a ganglion. Each
ganglion regulates its own area and feels
pain for that portion only. Naturalists
have found, that the front end of wasps
can live for astonishing periods after
the rear half has been cut off. Perhaps
it is something similar to a ganglion which
detaches a newt’s tail when extreme
danger threatens and allows the head
and body to escape while the pursuing
bird stops to devour the jumping, writh-
ing latter-end.
* * * *
“Warrabulla”: Mules will not only sur-
vive (B. 25/11/’53), they’ll thrive under
conditions wherein most other quad-
rupeds could barely keep life going. One
I encountered with a droving outfit on
the Gascoyne River (W.A.) had covered
a journey out of about 700 miles, was
then about 200 miles of the way back,
and was still plump and sleek, though the
horses looked like doormats hung over
hatracks. And the horses worked only
one day in three, whereas the long-eared
gentleman carried a rider every day —a
different one each time, of course, as it
was the man who needed the spell.
During the week I was with them that
mule’s diet appeared to consist mostly of
twigs, dead leaves and kangaroo-dung,
but he never missed a chance to grab a
mouthful of something. Once he shoved
his long snout into a bush and gulped
down a bird’s-nest. Shortly afterwards he
began braying loudly, but whether this
was just a natural paean of triumph or
caused by the nestlings pecking his in-
side I wasn’t able to determine.
* * * ♦
“Kerba”: I was working on the roof
when two loud, splintering thumps came
from the vicinity of the road. A woman
screamed; there was a flurry of hoof-
beats ; then a gig came jolting and bump-
ing into view. In the second before the
runaway was beyond my line of vision
I got the vivid memory-picture of a
shaggy skewbald pony performing the
feat of bolting while still kicking-in the
floorboards of the gig; two traces whip-
ping and flying round the runaway’s
rump (no doubt the cause of the kick-
ing) ; a white-faced young fellow leaning
back on the reins with all his strength:
a screaming woman on the seat beside
him ; and the figure of a youth—or girl
in slacks—off-balance and hovering be-
tween tumbling over the back of the gig
or regaining equilibrium on the seat. By
the time I’d dashed down the ladder the
noise of the bolt was growing distant,
but I reached the road in time to see a
figure fall off the careering vehicle and
hit the dust. It rolled over twice, then
bounced up and set off in pursuit. Mean-
while the runaway reached a long hill and
galloped madly up the steep grade. For
100 yards he kept up the pace, and he
almost reached the summit before the
grade beat him. An object on the road
near me caught my eye —the swinglebar.
That accounted for the flying traces. It
also proved an amazing thing: the run-
away had pulled the whole load up that
gruelling hill with his mouth!
* * * *
“Kros”: Composition of meteorites
(B. 11/11/’53)? There are three kinds.
Aerolites (“air-stones”) contain little
metal and are mostly stone; siderites
usually contain a number of metals, iron
and nickel as a rule predominating ; and
siderolites, with an iron-nickel content
and a large quantity of stone. The rocks
in meteorites are igneous; i.e., formed
under intense heat or by volcanic action.
They differ from terrestrial rocks, and
suggest an origin in conditions lacking
air and moisture. Gold has never been
found in a meteorite (or silver either).
It looks as if the precious metal exists
only on earth, so interstellar gold-rushes
will be out.
* * * *
RUMINATING ’RODS
SCIENTISTS at W.A. University have
proved what some naturalists have
claimed for a long time —that the kanga-
roo and the wallaby are ruminants.
It was known that these marsupials
have what is virtually a rumen, but
apparently it takes more than that to
make a ruminant. The animal must also
be working in cahoots with certain bac-
teria which inhabit the alimentary canal
and make possible the ruminants’ peculiar
digestive process.
The true ruminants, such as deer,
giraffes, antelopes, sheep, oxen, etc., have
the stomach divided into four parts.
Each part has a special function, and
together they make it possible for the
animal to gulp down food and store it
away, to be regurgitated and chewed
later in the action we know as chewing
the cud.
In their wild state these animals eat
grasses and shrubs whose main source of
nutriment is in the form of carbohydrate
cellulose ; and this cellulose is digested,
not by secretions produced by glands,
but by the aforementioned bacteria,
which break down the complex carbo-
hydrates into more easily-digested pro-
ducts.
In most ruminants the rumen occupies
the largest part of the stomach area —it
holds about 30 or 40 gallons in a cow —•
and is able to store food for up to a week.
The kangaroo’s rumen probably couldn’t
be compared with a cow’s, but it evi-
dently plays much the same part, since
the presence of bacteria has been proved.
You’d have thought that such an
obvious fact would have been known
earlier. Anyone who has kept a pet
kangaroo must have seen it chewing the
cud, and it must often have been ob-
served in zoos. But there’s a point worth
noting. A cow usually, though not
always, ruminates while lying down.
I’ve never seen a kangaroo do that.
Always when I’ve seen them chewing the
cud they’ve been erect on their tripod;
and the lower jaw moves sideways, of
almost in a circular movement.
SALMON GUMS.
HAWTHORN AT IVANHOE
There’s a ruffle of blossom along the bend,
A flurry of crimson, cream and snow—
Fabulous wealth for the winds to spend,
Hawthorns, hawthorns, world without end,
About the river at Ivanhoe.
Bird-nesty bowers, thickset, thorny,
No longer laden with haws ■ and hips
Branching from boles age-scarred and horny,
Down where the Yarra takes its journey.
On to the wharves and the waiting ships.
Who was it built and planned and planted
Maybe a hundred years ago
This place of birds, bee-thronged, bee-haunted,
Incongruous, alien and enchanted,
Under the gumtrees at Ivanhoe?
The roar of the city is distant, dim,
Far away as its towers and spires;
Tethered reeds tremble, spent leaves swim,
Magpies carol a careless hymn,
Blue wrens trill in the wild pink briers.
Before the mirrors of morning break
You could lose your soul there and never know
Till a water-rat plopped in a ripple-quake.. .-
Or the frightening flash of a tiger-snake
Woke you again at Ivanhoe.
Not every serpent has its Eden.
I wonder if it is Eden still,
Do the waves of the may-bloom break
unbidden
Still where the young leaves flame and redden
The gums by a far Australian hill?
Even by now it may be ordered
That grim bulldozers should overthrow
And blot out the beauty the years have hoarded,
That half-mile heaven that long time bordered
The bend of the river at Ivanhoe.
vie.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


IN Maoriland’s Waipoua Forest there
has long stood a showpiece giant kauri,
Tanemahutu, with a girth of 42ft. But
this is a mere stripling compared with a
new one just opened to visitors, girth
55ft. and an estimated 92,000 super feet.
Ironically, the. road leading to it was
originally made for a Government kauri-
cutting campaign, which was scotched by
public uproar, belligerently led by the
usually mild-mannered botanists. Now
the area of 69,0Q0 acres has been de-
clared a national reserve, and although
the older, hard-headed bushman-botanists
say that much of the kauri is dying out,
anyway, and might as well be used, all
are agreed that the main damage is done
bringing out the monsters, wrecking the
surrounding bush, including much that
grows only in conjunction with the
kauris. —“Dr. Jack.”
♦ * * *
“Villefair”: Lambs can be as meticu-
lous in queueing-up order to receive milk
as cows are in giving it (B. 11/11/’53).
Knew a bush girl who handled nine of
them. They’d.all try for first go at the
bottle. If the winner was, say, No. 5,
none but No. 6 would follow him, then
No. 7 and so on. When No. 9 had filled
up it was stalemate ; one after another
the eager lambs would sniff the bottle,
protest loudly, but stay on hunger-strike
till the teat was washed thoroughly. Then
the stampede was on with all the fervor
of a quarter-to-six rush: §ut if any
other than the legitimate No. 1 got the
first cut the same rigmarole was a cer-
tainty to crop-up again. Finally the girl
“Care for a sherry, sir? It's opening-day.”
brought things to a sane level by putting
an identifying-collar on the limit-lamb
and taking care that he was always first
at the barrier.
$ * * *
“Bass”: To see just how blindly
savage an otherwise peaceful, grass-
eating bird can become you have to wait
till nesting-time. The coots (two varie-
ties) and the dusky mctorhen nesting in the
tea-tree thicket of the swamp look vicious
enough as they flap across the water after
an intruder (they seldom fly), but I d
never seen their fighting’ qualities till I
let the Christmas muscovies have the run
of the swamp. The first day I found one
dying, with its head literally pulped. I
lost three more before I found that the
moorhen was the attacker. It wouldn’t
weigh a pound, but. it attacked those
ten-week-old ducks with the ferocity of
a wildcat, and I had to drive it from its
last victim. Yet a ** 80
shy I couldn t get within IOOy s. o i.
“Edx”: There are nearer two dozen
than a dozen species of the genus
casuarina, order Casuarinacece (B.
11/11 /’53), and at least six are extra-
Australian, one growing as far away as
North Africa. Can’t agree with “West
Wimmera’-’ that bulloak (presumably he
is referring to C. glauca or C. luchmanii ),
or any other timber for that matter, is
too heavy for furniture. It depends on
the type and use of the articles. One
college at least in W.A. is (very sensibly)
furnished throughout in a heavy timber ;
tables, chairs, bookcases, beds and, of
course, floors, doors and wall-panelling
are beautifully done in solid jarrah, which
is heavier than C. glauca. There’s a Wes-
tralian species of sheoak that used to be
called karri-oak because it grows down
among the big stuff. It, too, or what’s
left of it after men and fire have been
at it for 120 years, is a prized cabinet-
wood. But the early battlers didn’t have
time to make fancy furniture of it; it
splits well, so they used it for roof-
shingles.
“Lower Tops’!”; A timber
that is always worth as much
secondhand as new is teak, the
finest for boat-building any-
where. Teak from the Mulgrave
battery, Hobart, was more than
a century old when 30 years ago
it was dismantled and taken to
the late Charley Lucas’s ship-
building-yard on the Derwent
to be fashioned into skylights
and coamings for ocean-going
craft. The companion-hatch of
the yacht Ronda, launched from
Lucas’s slip in 1922 and now a
shark-fishing boat at Beechport
(S.A.), was made of this century-
old wood, which will never
shrink.
“Bo”: As president of the Anti-
Vulgarian League I rejoice to observe
that a firm which makes a well-known
beef-extract is advertising that its product
is made from the best “buttock steak.”
For years our organisation has cam-
paigned against the use of the vulgar
word “rump.” It was most discouraging
to us when our* alternative suggestion of
the term “stem steak” was turned down
by the purveyors of beef some years
ago. So heartened have we been made
by this latest example of delicate thinking
in relation to commerce that the league
will now launch an all-out campaign
against the use of the indelicate term
“breast-bone” which butchers use. We
feel sure that our suggested “bosom-bone”
would appeal to all who have the finer
feelings well developed.
THE TURPENTINE
Here is no sickly plant
That lives a moment at the season s will
And pleads a pittance from unfeeling soil
Until the sap runs coldly still;
But is a core of time, '
Spun from strong seed and stubborn wood
And turned triumphant in a little earth
Where the untested sapling stood.
And wrests defiance from the wind,
And bladed heat that burns with surer mark
Than the swift stroke of lightning at the bough
Caughtly hotly on the cringing bark;
Then bury pity fof the stone
That rests within the valley’s lap
For its endurance is a paltry thing
Before the struggle of the sap.
n.s.w.
BERNARD PEACH.
What Name that One?
By N. GRACE
THE curious incidents here related
occurred in the Lower Darling
area at the tail-end of a former
rabbit invasion, after they had
eaten all before them in the dry years
of the nineteen-twenties.
On our place the mass of them had
either died on march or gone further;
only stray ones, over-poor or perhaps
diseased (or maybe more resistant to
natural causes), seemed to hang about
water, and these the cats and dogs gave
up catching and depended upon the even
poorer sheep, skin-and-bone, killed twice
a week.
With seventeen tabbies of all ages, one
kang-dog, five sheep-dogs and a half-
grown collie, hunger became the main
preoccupation. Cats got a few birds, but
these went nowhere; the hounds, digest-
ing their meat with wolfish celerity, were
ever on the alert for more.
Enmity between cats and dogs flamed
every time the tykes saw, through the
netting, plates of scraps put down for
the pusses. After that any incautious cat
going off to hunt was soon treed and
kept up all night. If the tree housed
birds she scored; if not, the tykes were
one-up. Undoubtedly all were enduring
hunger and ready to eat anything.
Fowls, too, had to be wholly fed, not
a skerrick of green remaining for them
to pick. In the garden only a little was
left; for rabbits had climbed and bur-
rowed over and under the 6ft. net, and
sometimes a gate was left open.
One evening, the family being at tea,
we were amazed at a spectacle seen
through the wide window. There sat up
all the seventeen assorted cats, in a
rough circle about 12ft. across, intent
upon the creature in their midst, an
extra-big, grey buck-rabbit almost the
size of a hare. He had ambled in at die
gate and was unconcernedly nibbling
some green thing.
That the cats did not seem to know
what to make of such bold intrusion was
our first thought, and we expected one
or other- of the old cats to leap and pull
him down for the rest to tear into. But,
every minute or so, a cat would stand up
and change place with another; and
should a young kit make a tentative move
towards him it was slapped back by the
nearest tabby.
Still the rabbit nibbled without so
much as a glance at the ring about him.
Remaining seated, we felt suspense
creeping on us, and feared any move of
ours might set every cat on the jump to
him. Even a brave rabbit, we argued,
ought to be saved from himself; but
how?
He moved a few feet to another choice
bit. “Now r we thought. But no;
instead, a couple of cats # rose before him,
backed a few feet also and sat down.
All fixed their gaze on him, as if he was
a strange kiqd of beast unseen by them
ever before. They just watched. He went
on feeding, minute-by-minute, inside that
ring which retreated or straightened as
he neared or left the plants he examined.
Not a cat attempted a hostile gesture,
while we were expecting the worst. It
was like a game. He moved; they
moved, but always out of his way,
whilst he appeared to be entirely unaware
of their presence whenever he sat up,
wiped a whisker or looked about for
more.
For us the tension became almost
unbearable; what the felines were ex-
periencing could not be come at. Only
the fine grey form, regal - in detachment
and absence of fear, was alone in a
world of inhibited creatures which
“mustn’t touch” him, and knew it. And
he knew it!
At length, having eaten, he sat up,
brushed his teeth (and adjusted his eye-
glass, you’d swear), and turned. The
cats seemed’ to know he was going;
they rose and changed their ring into a
wide lane and again sat watching.
Down this open road he loped right
out of the gate. Not a cat stirred until
he was gone; then they remembered it
was time for their plates to be ready,
and made a break for the kitchen.
, With a burst of relief that we all felt.
Dad said, “I’ll be shot if I ever saw any-
thing like that before!” He went out
the back-gate to give the fowls their
pollard at the woodheap.
And now the dogs, all loose, saw the
rabbit. With one surge, they rushed
towards the thing as it came round from
the front-gate, moving with complete
disregard for their yelps.
To our further mystification, every
dog stopped dead in its tracks about 6ft.
from the grey rabbit, then backed away
to the shed and sat down in silence,
watching. When the half-grown collie
got up and edged towards the visitor, the
kang-dog rose majestically and gave him
one welt with a paw, rolling him over,
and reseated himself. The rabbit, ignor-
ing the dogs, sniffed pollard on the wind
and slowly followed it to the woodheap,
the hounds remaining in place but never
taking their gaze off him as he drew up
within a few feet of Dad —a dumb-
founded Dad stiffly holding dish and
spoon.
There was a rush of fowls and much
pecking and scuffling where the stuff
fell —until two roosters, not believing
their eyes, stood each on one leg, too
stonkered to put the other down until
they had raised an alarm. The startled
hens, looking for the cause, espied the
“man in grey” helping himself to a taste
of pollard and liking it. They, too,
backed away from him, cookering un-
certainly but pecking any young birds
loth to leave, so Dad threw the food
after them.
When the rabbit, having eaten his fill
turned away and slowly loped down
the creek-bank, the fowls watched him,
the dogs let him go, as did the cats from
the tops of posts, all in silence, and
none following him.
Next morning again the rabbit made his
slow way to the woodheap and fed
near the fowls, none hindering him.
Silent dogs by the shed and cats upon
roofs and posts observed him. Watching
roosters, stalking afar from chance of
contact, warned the hens when picking
too close to him. Again he returned to
his camp, wherever it was, for that day.
Now, the garden was fenced four-
square ; outside, along this fence, genera-
tions of young dogs had worn a deep
path galloping round and round in ecstasy
of freedom off-chain. Also the four sides
gave them views of callers and other
disturbers of their peace. The half-grown
collie loved to speed along these pads
and collide'with anything alive.
At sundown that evening, the pup
started his usual gallopade. One lap com-
pleted, he set off on a second, increasing
speed terrifically until —until he met the
rabbit coming along the pad “fominst
him.”
The rabbit sat up, waiting. The pup
propped so instantly that he nose-dived
into the dirt; his hind-legs flew up, twist-
ing over his back, until, standing on his
head, he felt a bump Which
knocked the wind out of
him. Collecting himself, he
cut a wide half-circle and
go.t back to the other tykes
at the shed.
The imperturbable rabbit,
noting that the corybantic
no longer blocked the pad,
continued his easy pace to
the end of it, where, in full
sight of chained and loose hounds and
the statuesque cats, he turned, dipped his
ears going down the bank and slipped
across the dry bed of the creek into the
dusk. He came no more.


★ *
..HOSPITAL
,"l..fUli ,S.TBIENGTH •—;::
"‘ r.WKTtim . PiHTfc.Ttf.OJS~-;
.JL. ...-v.* . ~ ~
mmmmm
P5O/54
Mi aAdo/s
A/wayS ready
for cooking
Always gallons
of Hot water
Always greater
convenience
AfHbrtbe
.j. ■' y
one
low
cost!
• ••
DOMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND WATER HEATER
with true thermostat control
• HEAVY CASTING within the range stores the heat, and
thorough insulation prevents heat loss.
• TWO LARGE COOKING OVENS and TWO BIGGER HOTPLATES
allow you to do all your cooking at the one time.
• CONTINUOUS BURNING means that the “520” is always
ready when you decide to cook.
• BURNS ON A VARIETY OF SOLID FUEL— coal, coke, anthra-
cite, briquettes, etc.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Car-
michael 520 is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
it cooks
. . it’s a
*£a/umchasi
Naturally
perfectly
CONSTANT HOT WATER
★ In the kitchen
★ In the bathroom
★ In the laundry
The Carmichael S2O
will supply enough hot
water for all your
household needs.
A Unit of Email Limited
Country Distributors: Buzocott-Wolseley Pty. Limited,
9-11 Market Street. SYDNEY.
or Carmichael's, Rawson St., Auburn; Showroom, 302 Pitt St., Sydney.
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Bloom Goes Off the Boom
jpOLLOWING a restless week-
-1 end after the W.A. oil-strike
announcement on December 4,
on December 7 Ampol Explora-
tion 25.-paids (165.-17 s. a week
earlier, shot up from 98s. to
£7 7s. 6d. in Sydney, with £7 10s.
paid in Melbourne. Ampol
Petroleum ss. shares went as
high as 555. on the Mon-
day, and for some hours
pandemonium reigned within
the precincts of Sydney' Stock
Exchange. A high fever swept
through all oil-share issues, and
excitement even spread to
Tooth and Swan Brewery, which,
apparently, were considered the
next-best thing to oil.
While Oil Search (Papua)
shares, in the doldrums
around 6s. a Week earlier,
sold at 15s. in Sydney they
were fetching as much as
20s. in Melbourne and Adelaide.
Freney Kimberley, at 4s. a week
earlier, touched 455., cum rights.
The oil-share boom had
truly blown its top by Monday
evening. On Tuesday, December
8, the tumult .and the shouting
were beginning to die. There
was a sharp reaction through-
out the oil-share list. Even
Tooth scrip started to sober-up.
And on Wednesday, when the
Ampol Petroleum issue of
2,800,000 new ss. ords. (one for
three) at a premium of 10s. each
(as well as 350,000 £1 6 p.c.
prefs.) was announced, there was
a further decline in the tempera-
ture of the oil-fever.
On the whole, both Ampol
issues have been well held. Many
people holding the Exploration
Co.’s scrip, in particular, seemed
determined to see the venture
through, for better or worse.
In respect of its present issued
capital of 8,160,000 ss. ord.
shares, Ampol Petroleum’s hold-
ing of 2,800,000 fully-paid ss.
shares in the Exploration Co.
represent a holding of roughly
one Exploration share for every
three Petroleum shares. When
the total issue of Ampol
Petroleum rises to around
11,000,000 shares the propor-
tionate interest in the Explora-
tion Co. will drop to about, one
for four. Whatever capital-
increases the Exploration Co.
may make later, its share in
W.A. Petroleum will be no more
than a fifth.
This process of a reducing
equity (per share) will go
on so long as more capital
is required to exploit the
W.A. oil-strike. But the capi-
tal will be required if Ampol
is to retain its one-fifth
interest in W.A. Petroleum. And
it must be remembered that
when the Ampol Exploration
Co. asks for more capital from
the Ampol Petroleum Co. it will
at the same time be asking for
more from its holders of
1,200,000 other shares. While
this new capital assists in the
search for more oil, it does not
increase the amount of oil
under the ground: that amount
was ‘determined millions of years
ago. For’this reason new issues
of shares by most mining com-
panies are in a different category
from those made by industrial
companies. New mining issues
tend to become unpopular if
the value of the probable and
possible oil or ore reserves has
already been largely discounted
in prevailing share prices.
Improvement by February?
For a while it looked as
though the excitement generated
by the leap in Ampol shares
would spread through the whole
sharemarket and set off that rise
in investment-share prices which
has been expected for some
time by several authoritative ob-
servers, including the Cape!
Court people. Certainly some
shares did rise rather spectacu-
larly—Tooth, for example. But
Tooth shades soon receded from
the 80s. notched and settled at
765. That was up 6s. on the
price prevailing before the 16
p.c. div. was announced.
The investment sharemarket,
after a week’s excitement, was
rather stronger at the finish. But
generally the exuberance was
contained in the mining section.
All oil issues rose and fell,
finishing well above the level
established before the W.A. oil-
strike. But not only oil issues
were up. Peko (gold, Tennant
Creek) rose, and so did Moina
Tungsten-Tin (Tas.). Uranium
Mines*, floated only a few weeks
ago, and the scrip of which is
paid to 25., opened at 6s. in the
unlisted section.
Industrials, on the whole, are
still awaiting a definite lead. A
number of concerns are not yet
out of the woods, particularly in
the textile industry, ' But others
are doing very well, and, under
the considerable tax-relief that
has been granted, should be able
to show excellent figures for the
half-year to December 31. By
February some increased interim
dividends should be coming for-
ward.
North-west Tantalum, N.L.
An issue of 253,200 ss. shares
offered to the public by North-
west Tantalum, NX., has been
oversubscribed in Melbourne.
In addition, 280,800 shares have
been taken by Blue Spec Min-
ing Co., N.L. (the option to
subscribe was given in return
for services rendered), 60,000
fully-paid shares have been
taken in part-consideration by
the vendors, and 6000 have been
allotted, fully-paid, to the Uni-
versity of W.A.
Initial paid capital will be
£150,000.
The vendor co., Tantalite,
Ltd., was formed in 1931 to pro-
duce tantalite at Wodgina, 70
miles south of Port Hedland
(W.A.). Earlier records show
that tantalite had been produced
from these leases since 1905.
Tantalite, Ltd., became the
world’s leading producer of
tantalite.
Australia has produced 293
tons of tantalite to date, of which
270 tons came from the Wodgina
mine. Tantalum, the refined
metal, is used extensively in
heat-resisting alloys for jet air-
craft, for surgical sutures and for
“I didn't know the old man was at Work”
mapy other rust- and heat-
resisting purposes.
During World War II the
Commonwealth Govern ment
took over the co.’s leases at
Wodgina and Strelley (40 miles
e.-s.-e. of Port Hedland) and be-
gan production in 1943. The
concentrates were of such stra-
tegic importance that they were
flown from Wodgina to the
U.S.A. The property was handed
back to the co.. after the war,
but it lacked funds to carry on.
Properties and plant have been
kept in good condition by a
resident caretaker.
From July, 1938, to December,
1940, Tantalite, Ltd., treated
1940 tons at an average grade of
9.41 b. concentrate per long ton.
The Commonwealth project
from May to October, 1944,
treated 2507 tons at an average
grade of 31b. concentrate a ton.
The ore-bodies at Wodgina
occur in a pegmatite dyke 50ft.
wide and traced for more than
2000 ft. Deepest workings at
present do not exceed 100 ft., and
most of the ore has been won by
opencutting. Beryllium and
columbium are also recovered
from the ore, and are used in
similar processes to tantalum.
Ore-tonnage per vertical foot is
estimated at 60,000 tons.
According to F. A. Close, 8.E.,
productivity from the Wodgina
dyke has been equivalent to
£1,000,Q00 per vertical 100 ft.
with tantalite at its present price.
Beryl is now also important.
There are other properties to be
prospected and developed as well
as the main dyke at Wodgina.
At the main workings there
are 100,000 c.y. of proved
eluvial deposits estimated to
contain over £250,000-worth of
recoverable tantalite concentrate.
Operating on these, Mr. Close
speaks of a £206,000 net profit
in the first year of regular opera-
tions, and substantial (but some-
what smaller) profits in subse-
quent years. The board expects
continuous production to start
inside six months.
The prospectus speaks of prob-
able ore reserves, and of “indi-
cated ore of very considerable
quantity and value in three enor-
mous pegmatite dykes at Wod-
gina, Tabba Tabba and Strelley.”
J. S. Foxall, 8.E., M.1.E., says
it appears to be an attractive
proposition and a sound mining
venture. There is an open con-
tract for purchase by the U.S.
Government (up to December,
1956) of all tantalum and colum-
bium concentrates. The prices
are considered by the co. to be
good.
Purchase consideration to
Tantalite, Ltd., is £52,740 —
£37,740 in cash qnd £15,000 in
scrip. J, G. Donaldson gets
£4500 in cash or shares (at his
option) for other mineral claims
and water-rights. The new co.
will -also hold for him in trust
a 5 p.c. interest in the main
properties.


Value
i
i
■!
m
smm
m
»
E
■
■
(BBS
R
1
I
H
OIL AND
GAS BURNER
CHAIN GRATE
■STOKER
The calorific value of a fuel is realised to the
maximum degree as useful energy, only
through efficient combustion; and efficient
combustion must be sought in many different
ways with different fuels. No one has been
more closely concerned with the problem
than Babcock & Wilcox, the world’s leading
makers of steam-raising plant, who have, over
a period of 75 years, developed methods aud
equipment for the most efficient burning of
the widest diversity of fuels both solid and
liquid, from coal and oil to bagasse and black
liquor.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
“You can bank
on the ‘Wales’ ”
“Yes, it’s a good idea to have your own cheque
account with the Bank of New South Wales.
Apart from the safety and convenience of
paying by cheque, you will be in touch with a
knowledgeable Bank Manager to whom you
can safely refer on financial matters. The
ready advice of the ‘Wales’ will help you to
handle your own finances.”
You can open a cheque account today with
\o*
Australia’s oldest and
largest trading bank.
Consult and use—
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5326C
A REFINEMENT IN A
GOOD WHISKY IS
BOUQUET
Inhale the bouquet of
McCallum’s. The vapours
are mild but full; truly
indicative of a competently
blended and well matured
Scotch whisky.
the name is
(DTaLUims
the whisky is
c^
/Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wages Up 10 p.c.
N.Z. trade-unionists have come
up against a dilemma in the
struggle to keep abreast of the
rising cost-of-living, but still
refuse to acknowledge, as a body,
that further wage-increases aren’t
the answer, although individu-
ally many workers admit that
wages have no chance of winning
in the race with costs and prices.
The, sweets of the Arbitration
Court’s November order for a
10 p.c. general rise in wages and
salaries began to turn bitter
almost before workers had time
to spend the handout of ten
weeks’ retrospective increase
which was included in the court’s
order for good measure. Prices
for meals jumped immediately,
and 75 p.c. of the wage-rise was
added automatically over a con-
siderable range of goods.
Transport-operators promptly
lodged demands for authority to
raise fares, and the Cabinet got
into a huddle over an estimated
addition of £8 million to the
wrong side of the Budget.
• Farmers were given an extra
2.15 d. a pound for butter and
cheese to meet extra labor costs,
and other industries were work-
ing out how to pass on the rise.
The Federation of Labor and
its subordinate bodies, which had
asked the court for nearly double
the increase granted, held up their
hands in alarm at the Dominion-
wide reaction in prices and called
meetings to protest against “the
inadequacy of the 10 p.c. in-
crease,” which the Federate said
was going in “uncontrolled
price-rises.” The rises weren’t
uncontrolled, and did not include
essentials like bread, milk, butter
and most other foodstuffs, but
agitators tried to whip up feel-
ing among their followers by this
sort of extravagant talk.
The refusal of Labor to face
realities has been undermining its
influence with the rank-and-file,
most of whom are sane and
moderate. The great majority of
Maorilanders today expect in-
creased costs from any source to
be passed along quickly to con-
sumers.
A fair rate for the job, which
is all the Arbitration Court can
award, is only part of the pro-
tection workers need; it is
equally important to consider
whether industry can pay more
without affecting prices. In
short, productivity is at the root
of the trouble, and in N.Z. pro-
ductivity has been weak in all
industries except farming—where
most people work a seven-day
week and unlimited hours, and
cows are on the job continuously
—since the 40-hour week made
loafers of many workers a con-
siderable time ago.
N.Z. economists have, been
pointing out the conflict between
short hours, “over-full employ-
ment,” and high wages and other
costs for long enough to have
brought a general understanding,
but there are many who won’t
listen to their warnings. The
N.Z. pound has been steadily
losing value, and is taking an-
other knock as a result of the
new round of inflation started
by the lift in wages. Yet Maori-
land seems able to carry on pros-
perously so long as its exports
tell well, which is still the case,
and the slackers are able to ride
on the backs of dairyfarmers
and meat-producers and wool-
growers. .
Newsprint
Newsprint in 18 months’ time
is. now the production goal for
the Tasman Pulp and Paper Co.,
which, is getting well into its
stride with construction at the
millsite at Kawerau, midway
between the new deep-sea port
at Tauranga and the Murupara
pine forest,
A while ago the co. was aim-
;ng to turn out the first news-
print-in the final quarter of 1955.
The promise of an earlier start
is a sign of good progress on the
job so far, with an anticipated
quick speed up as oversea orders
for plant will be filled sooner
than expected. Experts will be
coming in a steady stream to help
the scheme along, and spending
in 1954 will be close to a million
a month. The co. will have to
make a call for capital before
long, but most of the cash to
float the outfit will be raised
abroad —£10 million in London
and 15 million to 18 million
dollars if the Americans will
lend.
In December a team of four
from the Export-Import Bank
arrived in N.Z. to size things
up and advise on a loan. R. H.
Rowntree, the economist of the
party, said: “From a financial
point of view this scheme is go-
ing to add very materially to
New Zealand’s foreign trade,
particularly in the direction of
improving the hard-currency
balance.” This pleased N.Z. and
made prospects for the loan look
brighter,* after months of wait-
ing.
The newsprint mill will have
a capacity of 75,000 tons yearly,
about double N.Z.’s needs. Pulp-
production should start about a
couple of months before this
mill gets into action, and the
sawmill in Jan., 1955. It’s a
closely integrated schedule which
will take a lot of skill to work
out.
Foodstuffs For Manufactures
If export prices turn downward
when John Bull throws open his
markets and competition takes
charge, N.Z.’s hopes for the
future will be based on improve-
ment in its terms of trade. Since
1952 the balance has been swing-
ing in the right direction and is
now a shade better than in the
pre-war years.
Taking the 1936-38 average
as 100 units, there was a drift
in the war years, then a climb
until the figure touched 124
during the wopl boom in 1950-51,
after which N.Z. lost ground
until the index took an upward
turn at 83. Now it’s above 100
again, and climbing. • This means
that every ton of N.Z. foodstuffs
will buy more manufactured
goods.
It should pay N.Z. to loosen
its controls and let competition
take a hand to halt rising costs.
N.Z. cowspankers will have to
meet the challenge of margarine
on John Bull’s market by selling
butter at a price that won’t
frighten British housewives, and
the only way to do this, and keep
on doing it, is by cutting the best
part of a bob off N.Z.’s cost % of
production.
If N.Z. can supply Britain with
cheaper food, then John Bull
will be able to manufacture
cheaper goods to sell to N.Z., and
the gains will go round. Every-
thing hinges on the outcome of
the struggle to get control of
costs in the New Year, which
will be a key one in economic
strategy "and planning in the little
country.
Housing
Statistically, N.Z. is in a
strong housing position, with
100 homes for every, 360 of the
population, but there’s so much
space going to waste that long
waiting-lists ef applicants for
State houses and for State-
sponsored loans make housing
N.Z.’s No. 1 problem today.
For this the Tenancy Act must
bear the brunt of the blame,
Nearly 10 p.c., or 50,000-odd, of
N.Z.’s 555,000 dwelling-places
are occupied by only one
individual, and 30-40 p.c., or,
roughly, 200,000, by no more
than two. Big, roomy homes
are a ] mo st empty because the
owners dare not let part of them
through fear of having to deal
with troublesome tenants for
the rest of their lives. New l Zea-
landers with capital to spare lost
interest in building to let many
years ago. Private landlords
have been getting out as quickly
as they can, but many have tried
in vain to end contracts which
give tenants all the rights.


=TC
omi umiiin ihiiioi
»t min . »nt» « iiimi ,
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland .
UT7B
Your Estate will be Safer
in these Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with .many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee,
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not of one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St, Melbourne; 2 O’Connell St, Sydney; 398-402 Queen St, Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
T ARGEST and eldest of the big-seven
■*-' privately-owned trading banks in
Australia, business of the 136-year-old
’Wales is well-spread throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand and extends
to Fiji and New Guinea, with, of course,
an office in London ; and in volume it has
kept in step with the rapidly-expanding
post-war economies in the areas covered.
Also the co.’s services to the public have
been considerably widened and improved.
These services, many of them not directly
remunerative, range far beyond the keep-
ing of accounts and making of advances
to credit-worthy borrowers, which is the
prime function of the banks.
Recently shareholders (there are 13,000-
odd) were doubly rewarded, firstly with a
lift in the div. and secondly with a one-for-
two new share-issue. Steady at 8 p.c.
for the four years to 1952, the div..was
lifted from 8 p.c. to 8i p.c. for the 12
months to Sept. 30, 1953, the final being
at the rate of 9 p.c. p.a., which is the rate
expected to be maintained. Then, on
Oct. 16 last, those on the register welcomed
the offer o£ 210,500 new £40 shares called
to £20 (the other £20 is a icserve liability)
at a premium of £7 10s. each. The offer
was in the nature of a capital-bonus
because the old scrip stood at a higher
premium in the market. Paid capital will
thus become £13,170,000, and visible re-
serves will benefit by £1,646,000 of share-
premiums, which will make 9 p.c. worth
only 6.5 p.c. on the new capital. These
additions to the co.’s own funds are to be
used to help support continued expansion,
sustain an already strong lending capa-
city, further expand services, improve
overall efficiency and so maintain the co.
in its leading position in the banking
field.
Because of hampering controls, the
growth in profits has not kept pace with
the increase in banking activity of
recent years. The position in this respect
was eased a little by last year’s new
banking legislation, which gave the private
trading banks a bit more elbow-room in
the field of advances and investment, etc.
At the same time management of the
special-account system was put on a more
satisfactory basis by a new formula,
which provides for freezing up to three-
quarters of any increase in deposits since
August, 1952. Still, in the long-run this
must have an “unduly restrictive effect on
a bank’s ability to lend,” the chairman of
the ’Wales declares. Also, the trading
section of the Commonwealth Bank has
been put on a slightly more competitive
basis, though it remains subject to the
same over-all control as formerly.
Two of the main pillars of our internal
economic strength during the balance-
of-payments crisis of 1952 were the
strength of the trading banks, and the en-
lightened policy adopted by them and by
-the Government and its central bank.
With the help of import restrictions and
a steadily expanding export income (a
major factor in national prosperity) our
internal position has become reasonably
stable, with no marked tendency to either
inflation or deflation.
After allowing unstated amounts for
taxation at reduced rates, and for de-
preciation and all other contingencies,
the cautious board wrote net earnings
£120,066 stronger at £1,117,835, best
showing since the late 1920’s: —
e . . To Re-
oept. f PrMit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1945552,907 6 p.c. = 526,800 26,107 6,467,111
6 t” » 537,776 31,610 6,498,721
®H’ 632 » ” 58!,675 35,857 6,534,578
M ” 558,500 70,403 6,604,981
io-n* * 8 ” ” 792,400 41,292 6,646,273.
lol?" 8 ” >’ 70 2.400 145,390 6,791,663
7991.. 954,006 8 „ „ 702.400 251,606 7,043,269
i f i *’ ” 792,400 295,369 7,338.638
19j3. 1.117,835 8J „ „ 746,300 371,535 7,710,173
rhe £1,117,835 was 12.7 p.c. on capital
as against 11.3, 10.8, 9.6, 8.4 and 8.3 p.c.
back to 1948. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was only 6.7 p.c. The lift in the
div. can be taken as an indication that
the board is satisfied with the outlook
as a whole and with that of the bank in
particular.
As wool and other export cheques
rolled in and traders worked down swollen
inventories deposits, etc. (up £46,778,643)
grew, advances (down £11,828,732) con-
tracted and liquids and statutory deposits
with central banks (together up
£58,387,539) expanded; —
„ , 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £8.780.000 £8,780,000 £8,780,000
Notes .. .. 80,957 80,955 80,928
Deposits, etc... 451,658,519 379,235,616 426,014,259
Final div. ... 175,600 175,600 197,550
Liquids . . 135,394,275 135,921,419 163,661,597
Special a/cs.* 152,102,584 46,722,589 77,869,950
Advances .. 175,639,486 207,857,008 196,028.276
Premises . . 4,600,000 5.100,000 5,700,000
Other assets .. 2,000 9,794 23.087
Statutory deposits with central banks, Australia
and New Zealand.
Liquids include £35,811,581 (up
£15,754,524) of Government securities *at
various rates of interest and,£35,000,000
(up £750,000) of 1 p.c. Treasury bills.
Statutory deposits, mostly carrying \ p.c.
interest, increased by £30,647,361,
Appearances are that the net return from
the investment basket approximated the
year’s declared profit. From the bank-
ing point of view the co.’s position is
exceptionally strong; any improvement
in the ratio of advances to deposits, etc.,
should help to stiffen net earnings.
At £37 15s. (£36 10s. a year ago) the
old shares return 4.8 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div,
basis. On the same basis, the new shares
through purchase of the rights, which
recently sold at £8 10s., would return
5 p.c. when fully paid. Including the
new issue, net tangible cover (book-value)
is £34 4s. 2d. per share.
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.
T AST week the alert board decided to
' offer those on the co.’s ord. register
at Jan. 15 next 2,800,000 new 5s. ords.
at a premium of 10s. each, one for three.
At the same time 350,000 new £16 p.c.
prefs. are to be put out at par. When all
the money (£2,450,000) is in paid capital
will be £3,735,600 in 1,000,000 £1 6 p.c.
prefs. and 10,942,400 ords. of 5s.
each, and reserves will benefit by
£1,400,000 of share premiums, which will
make a 10 p.c. div. worth only 3.3 p.c.
on new ord. capital. On the increased
capital, the pref. div, and 10 p.c. to the
ords. would call for £333,560, or £33,370
less profit than was claimed for the year
to Sept, 30 last. So the 10 p.c. wears a
comfortable look.
Of the new funds £800,000 is to be
used to take up the co.’s proportion of
an anticipated new share-issue (details
yet to be announced) by Ampol Explora-
tion, Ltd., the subsidiary which holds a
20 p.c. interest in West Australian Petro-
leum Pty., the drilling co. which has just
struck flow-oil in the Exmouth Gulf area
—details of the strike were given in
B. 9/12/’53 —and in which California
Texas Corp. (U.S.) holds the other 80 p.c.
At the moment the Exploration co. has
an issued capital of £1,000,000 in 5s.
shares, of which the parent holds
2,800,000 paids for rights, etc., and the
public the balance.
The remainder of the funds from
Ampol Petroleum’s coming issue will be
needed to meet final payments on a new
18,000-ton oil-tanker (due for delivery
this month), for completion of two 1600-
ton lubricating-oil tanks (one at Sydney
and the other at Melbourne), for erection
of new service-stations, and for reduction
of the outside debts and provision of
more working capital.
During the oil-boom fever of a week
or so ago, the price of the ords. shot up
from 11s.' 3d. to a peak of 55s, in four
days, and then, as the fever subsided,
eased to 29s. 6d. following announce-
ment of the new share-issue. Allowing
for brokerage and exercise of the rights,
the net price at 29s. 6d. is 26s. Id., at
which figure the return would be only
1.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The rights
thus have a theoretical value of 10s. 7d.,
and might become available for less.
The investment possibilities of the ord.
scrip depend upon two main factors: (1)
The co.’s prospects as an importer and
distributor of petroleum and petroleum-
products—a highly competitive field in
which it is now well-established and
making good progress—and (2) upon
benefits which might follow the recent
discovery of flow-oil in the Exmouth Gulf
area. It is the second factor on which
the market hangs its hopes, which are
largely speculative at the moment.
Ampol Petroleum would need to pay
30 p.c. to return 5.7 p.c. on the ords. at
26s. Id. On its increased capital the
pref, div. and 30 p.e. jo ords. would call
for £880,680. For net earnings to reach
that figure, the parent would need to
receive £284,799 from its holding in the
Exploration co. (presently to be increased
to £1,500,000 face-value) and 9.4 p.c.
(same rate as earned last term) on the
balance of its net assets. Since Ampol
Petroleum’s holding in ' the Exploration
co. gives it a 14 p.c. interest in the drilling
or proprietary co., the latter would thus
need to pay dividends aggregating over
£2,000,000, which means that it would
have to produce and sell over 160,000,000
gallons per annum, at a profit of, say,
3d. per imperial gallon ( = 9s. per barrel)
on crude.
Although more successful wells need
to be sunk before it can be said that the
find is part of a major oilfield, the declara-
tions of Government geologists and others
provide encouraging grounds for hoping
that it might be. For these and other
reasons it is impossible to say at the
moment exactly what harvests are likely
to be reaped by. the cos. concerned, or
by the economy as a whole. The crude
pil would have to be brought to a re-
finery—posfibiy the one now being built
by California Texas Oil at Botany Bay
(N.S.W.) at an estimated cost of
£25,000,000 —by tanker, and running-
costs of vessels on the Australian register
are very high. Also, the Government can
be expected to come in for its cut in the
form of excise or royalty. And there
might b© other obstacles in the path, too.
Last term Ampol Petroleum’s turnover
increased by £1,376,886 (13.8 p.c.), reach-
ing £11,346,807. The spring in net earn-
ings was £62,644: —
Ampol and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends Nominal
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1948 . . 164,444 6 • 71 76,796 228,105
Premiums on new shares, £61,616 ) onn
Added reserves, £442 .. .. j 390,16d
1949 .. 181,881 6 8 82,459 389,585
Cost cancellation contract, £24,OOQ 365.585
W/ofl oil exploration, £26,000 .. 340.586
Share premiums, £157,100 .. 497,685
1950 . . 190,594 6 81 104,995 583.284
Overprovided taxes, £20,187 .. 603,471
1951 .. 252,877 6 91 149,465 706,883
Sundry additions, £97,224 .. 804,107
Share premiums, £215,000.. .. 1,019,107
1952 .. 304,286 6 10 195,629 1,127,764
Issue exes., etc., written off,
£53,000 .. .. 1,074,764
1953 .. 366,930 6 10 128,801 1,203,565
* Subject to intangibles, £321,169.
The £366,930 of profit was written after
allowing £270,159 (up £62,836) for de-
preciation, £233,002 (down £78,248) for
taxation and £37,034 (up £163) for the
staff fund. It was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 16.6 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 16.7, 17.7, 16.7
and 20 p.c. back to 1949. So maintenance
of the 10 p.c. div. presented no difficulty,
and there is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest that ft is likely to be
interfered with at an early date.
To tighten its grip on the trade and
widen and anchor turnover, the co. issued
(during the last half of the term) 622,400
f.-p. ss. ords, in payment for a chain of
service-stations in Melbourne and owners
of other service-stations took 200,000
new ss. ords. at par. That increased
paid capital by £192,273 ; there was a
further £13,327 to come when the books
closed: —•
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,830,000 £2,480,000 £2,672,273
Long-term loan .. 227,500 309,000
Creditors* .. 1,187,547 1,947,445 2,757,381
Tax-provision .. 258,000 387,767 299,000
Final divs. .. 66,500 100,650 109,777
Freeholds, etc.f .. 380,585 672,230 1,208,375
Plant, etc. .. 1,083,497 2,043,152 2,833,705.
Shares and advances,
Ampol Explora’n - 80,000 81,510
Stocks .. .. 1,533,503 1,989,762 1,489,621
Debtors, cash, etc. 784,885 1,224,522 1,416,616
Intangibles .. 261,460 261,460 321,169
* Includes overdraft, t Includes country storage,
terminals.
The growth of £536,145 in freeholds, etc.,
was mainly in respect of storage tanks
at seaboard terminals. The addition of
£790,553 to plant, etc., largely reflects pay-
ments (£585,448 net last term) on the new
tanker, which figures in the books at
£1,106,872, and there is about £250,000
still to pay before the original contract
price is wiped out. Book-debts, etc.,
increased by £192,094, and stocks were
reduced by £500,141. To meet the balance
of the year’s outlay £891,436 was added
to the outside debt. Excluding tax-
provision, thfere was 17s. 3d. of outside
money in the business for every £1 be-
longing to shareholders at Sept. 30 last.
British Standard Machinery Co., Ltd.
TJIGGEST manufacturer of earth-
moving equipment, etc., south of the
equator, this 16-year-old has now run
into its first really difficult period of
trading. The brilliant performances of
recent years cannot, therefore, be taken
as a reliable guide to the future.
The co. handles Cletrac and Oliver
crawler- and wheeled-tractors, and makes
(at its Alexandria works, near Sydney)
’dozers, graders, rooters and a lot of
other tractor-drawn equipment, as well
as concrete-mixers, Coventry fork-trucks
(which only recently came off the pro-
duction-line) and a wide range of heavy-
engineering products.
Last term demand wilted and competi-
tion 'sharpened, following curtailment of
expenditure on Government and semi-
Government works and other heavy-
construction projects. The consequent
reduction in output and sales was
further aggravated by entry of some
Government departments into the dis-
posals field, and by the continued, though
less pronounced, advance of costs. In
the final wash-up it all translated itself
into an abrupt contraction of £93,146 in
net earnings—that was after allowing
£21,236 (up £2357) for depreciation but
nothing for taxation, existing reserves for
the purpose being adequate;
Dividends
Ist Pref. 2nd Pref. Ords. Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. 8 p.c. serves.
£/ £* £/£/£*
1947.. 16,119 2,100 205 6,258' 75,930
1948. . 26,599 2,100 2,500 13,600 84,330
9 p.c.
1949.. 87,706 2,100 2,500 15,300 102,135 •
10 p.c.
1950.. 70,683 2,100 2,500 17,000 151,218
Revaluation assets, £170,000 .. 321,218
Reserves capitalised, £170,000 .. 151,218
Share-issue exes., £996 .. 150,222
1951.. 101,601 2,100 2,500 34,500 212,723
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 277,723
Share-issue expenses, £2600 .. .. 275,123
1952.. ,103,428 2,100 2,500 6:2,400 311,551
To stock reserve, £lOO,OOO .. 211,551
1953.. 10,282 2,100 2,500 Nil 217,283
The £10,282 was enough to pay the pref.
divs. (£4600) and show only 0.7 p.c. on


DAVIES & QOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,. 0-1-
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
df
IT IS STILL NOT
TOO LATE TO BUY
THAT CAMERA FOR
3unas
We can
graphic
terms.
supply all makes of cameras and photo-
equipment. All goods available on easy
Lay-by—mail orders promptly executed.
We send C.O.D.
SPECIAL INDIVIDUAL
DEVELOPING AND PRINTING
SERVICE
Cairns Camera Centre
Hotel Australia Building,
19 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 9556.
r CAIRNS 1
CAMERA
L CENTRE ,
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
Manufacturers of: —
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overband and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Ply. Limited.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
We manufacture the “Curvilinear” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
Missing Friend
RITSON. —WILL anyone having any in-
formation as to the whereabouts of ERIC
JAMES RITSON, formerly of Tasmania,
the son of CHRISTINA RITSON, nee
MACMILLAN, please communicate with
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY,
472 Bourke Street, MMbourne?
GUARD
Os.
PROTECTA Is
SS/nil- *>(& Rtglt&Jufig-
TILL
/
Suitable for every type of business ll records
all Sale*. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.LuL
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
If
%
r>'
y vs
mm
'
* C °
m
i* 1 ?;
,ri*J
"■< -
. a\' v i
\>l V
i '^o 0 '* \.^xJ** - 6 * ’
L * C ° &v «vvt* ox** 1 %JS>*
& . » s "\t X ” .j»*sg* ,o _^^B
At
Home
or
Away
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH
WHISKY
From Scotland —every precious drop.
By Appointment to
the late King George VI.
m
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
Step out a
NEW MAN
in a
LINIA
BELT
Thousands of men are an*
joying greater comfort by
wearing the world - famous
Linia Belt. Evolved in co-
operation with the highest
medical authorities and
made from a patented
woven Tricot that supports
and massages with every
movement. Light and com-
fortable, the Linia Belt is
easily slipped in place and
readily adjusted. The Linia
method is world wide.
Write to-day for our
free illustrated
"Danger Curve"
Booklet and price
list.
m
r-’W
i\
'A
\ wm
\
A
"\
m
vmmm
LINIA BELTS
Sold in Sydney exclusively by
W. H. SOUL PATTIMSON & CO. LTD.
160 Pitt Street. Tel. BL 2684
Manufactured and distributed by
J. ROUSSEL of Paris Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
ord. capital as against 12.6, 18.6,
38.8, 19.4 and 12.9 p.c. back to
1948.
The ords. were- passed by for
the first time since the present
co. took over the then 10-year-
old business of W. H. Reardon
and E. R. Blackadder in 1937.
They had received a steady 8
p.c. for the 11 years to 1948,
followed by 9 p.c. and then 10
p.c. for the three years 4o 1952.
And the 10 p.c. had been
sweetened with a one-for-one
bonus share-issue (£170,000) in,
November, 1950, made from a
reserve created by a revaluation
of fixed assets. A cash issue of
180.000 new £1 shares at par fol-
lowed, and then (early in 1952) a
further 260,000 ords. were put
out at a premium of ss. each.
Paid capital was thus lifted to
£860,000 in 30,000 7 p.c. and
50.000 5 p.c., prefs. and 780,000
ords.
Import restrictions and a
steady rise in the economic
barometer as the year advanced
helped to ease the position, and
the financial structure was
brought into better balance;
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. £BO,OOO £BO,OOO £BO,OOO
Ord. .. 520,000 780,000 780.000
Overdraft .. 664,264 883,885 685,299
Creditors .. 534,135 364,672 155,068
Tax provision 99,282 171,632 10,224
Final div. . . 28,300 38,700 2,300
Freeholds .. 216,457 252,534 260.049
Office*
equipment 23,749 22,589 19,823
Plant, etc.. . 197,063 245,369 229,964
Shares subsid. 55,000 55,000 55,000
Stocks . . 1-,386,340 1,540,637 1,254,661
Book debts,
etc. . . 309,351 413,809 110,228
Cash, etc. . . 744 502 399
There was a contraction of
£303,581 in book-debts and
stocks were worked down by
£285,976. The management was
thus able to clip £198,586 off
the debt to the bank, reduce the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors by £209,604, and pay the
previous year’s tax bill, etc. —
reserves for the purpose were
down £161,408. There was an
improvement of £16,338 in the
more-or-less liquid . surplus
(£512,397), and when the books
closed there was 15s. 7d. (235. 3d.
at the previous balance) coming
to the bank and sundry credi-
tors for every £1 belonging to
shareholders in the business.
Stocks, which appear at the
lower of cost or replacement
value and are in excess of pre-
sent requirements, dominate the
immediate position.
Exactly what the future holds
for the business it is difficult to
say at the moment. The board
is confident of the long-term out-
look. Still, “shareholders should
not look for any rapid improve-
ment, but rather expect that re-
covery will be steady and pos-
sibly extended over a period,”
the chairman says. Trade,
though still sticky, has shown
some improvement since the
close of accounts, especially cerr
tain new lines (other than con-
structional equipment), the
range of which is to be presently
extended, following negotiations
with British and American
manufacturers. Much depends
upon this new development, and
upon the board’s commendable
effort to build up an export
trade. Despite the handicap of
a heavy national costs structure,
some of the co.’s products are
being sold in S. Africa, Rhodesia,
Mauritius, India, Malaya, New
Zealand.and Fiji.
Thp market sums up the posi-
tion by pricing the f.-p. £1 ords.
at 16s. (255. 6d. a year ago), at
which figure the return would
be 6.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribu-
tion. The 5 p.c. second prefs.
at 19s. lOd. yield approximately
5 p.c. The 7 p.c. firsts seldom
appear on ’Change. Net tang-
ible cover (book-value) is
£35 18s. firsts, £2O 18s. lid.
seconds and 255. 7d. ords.
Tongkah Harbour Tin, Ltd.
For the year to June 30 last
the co.’s two dredges, one at
Bidor (Malaya) and the other
at Bhuket Island (Thailand), to-
gether earned a profit of £76,609
(up £7854) equal to 40.1 p.c. on
the £l9l*ooo of paid capital (36
p.c. previous year), and paid two
divsf totalling 2s. per share, less
Malayan tax of 30 p.c., which
reduced the net sterling rate to
28 p.c. as against 31.6 p.c. for
1952. In Australian currency
the net rates of dividends were
35.9 p.c., 1953, and 39.5 p.c.,
1952. The improvement in net
earnings was due to a saving of
£14,000 in the allowance for
taxation (£19,000).
Combined operating figures
for the two dredges compare as
follows;
1952. 1953.
Treated, c.y. (’000).. ■ 3,205 2,814
Tin ore, tons .. 551.8 522.2
T.o. per c.y., lb. .. 0.38 0.5
Raw gold, oz. .. 316.7 105.2
Av. price tin* .. £5910.8 £5915.2
*Per ton metallic tin.
Richer ground and a small in-
crease in the price realised for
metallic tin practically offset the
effects of the drop in yardage
handled, and there was little
change in operating costs. The
tin-ore contained 398.6 tons
(down 3.8 tons) metallic tin, of
which 284.2 tons came from
879,000 c.y. of 0.951 b. ground
handled by the Bhuket dredge at
a cost of 28.4? T. per c.y.
The Bidor ’• machine had
treated all economical ore-
reserves on 6 last, when
it was put on care-and-
maintenaif«*? basisl 11 ' Conversion
of the co.’s Ronpil on dredge to
diesel-electric power and repairs
to the mine camp, etc., were well
under way when the books
closed at June 30, 1953. In 1941
there was some 33 million c.y. of
0.441 b. ground awaiting treat-
ment here. The quantity of pay-
able ground yet to be handled
at Tongkah Harbor is uncer-
tain, because of silting. But at
Bang Tao Bay check-boring
showed 28,050,000 c.y. 0.501 b.
ground, and there is an esti-
mated 13,319,000 c.y. of 0.391 b.
stuff at Chelong Bay —both these
sea-areas are within easy reach
of Tongkah Harbor.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £531,884, of
which £122,393 was stores, etc.
Current liabilities amounted to
£84,312. There was also a re-
habilitation loan of £10,170,
since wiped by a final payment
of £10,442 in respect of the co.’s
war-damage claims.
Last reported sale of the co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares, which reached
a peak of 19s. 3d. in 1952, was at
Bs.
The big imponderable at the
moment is the future price of
the metal. The London spot-
figure, which averaged £5644 for
the three months to Sept. 30 last,
stood at £S66I on Dec. 9. And
a fresh ray of hope has come
from the United Nations tin con-
ference now in session at
Geneva. Though no official
statement has been issued, it is
understood that a compromise
formula within the framework
of a proposed international tin
agreement has been arrived at,
the price bracket being £S72O-
- per ton metallic. No de-
tails concerning import and ex-
port quotas, or buffer stocks,
have yet been made known.
Yilgangie Queen, Yilgangie
(W.A.), in which Western Min-
ing Corp. is interested, has had
another good crushing. A parcel
of 180 tons ore put through the
State battery at Yarri yielded
277.75dwt. gold over the plates.
The mine has been a consistently
rich, though small, producer
over the last few years. Hopes
are that exploration, now in
progress, will disclose a sub-
stantial tonnage of pay-ore.
*** * *
Blue Spec, on the Pilbara field
(W.A.), doesn’t seem to have
much luck. The antimony in the
ore has been a metallurgical
nuisance from the start, and
efforts to interest some of the big
mining cos. in the venture failed.
Then, following unfortunate
happenings at the mine, it was
decided to rehabilitate the plant
and underground workings. Now
the prices for antimony and
pyritic concentrates are so low
that an alternative method of
recovering the gold is under con-
sideration. In June last blocked
ore was claimed to have a re-
coverable value of £970,000, and
that it could be extracted and
treated at an estimated cost of
£370,000 over a period of about
2\ years.


Women's Letters
MCLC€U£NE
As a “thank-you” gesture to all those,
other than club members, who have helped
its work through the year the executive
council of the Victoria League gave a
delightful late-afternoon party in the
clubrooms. The senior vice-president,
Mrs. H. F. Maudsley, received the guests,
and her black faille frock was worn with
a large rose-trimmed picture-hat of hibis-
cus-red straw. She was assisted by Mrs.
Robert Hamilton and Mrs. R. A, Staugh-
ton. An interesting guest was Lady
Pildich, who has come from England on
a 12-months visit to her family. Others
present were Mrs. Ian Connell, Mrs. J.
Bowen Allen, Mrs. Alec Cook, president
of the Young Contingent of the Victoria
League, Charmain Watt, Marjorie Tatnall
and Kay Hughes.
* * ft
Festive parties of the week included
one given by Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus,
of East Malvern. It was a house-
warming as well as an opportunity for
dispensing Christmas cheer to their many
friends. The hostess chose a lovely green-
and-gold-striped taffeta ballerina frock.
Among the guests were Mrs. R. Sander-
son, whose pearl-grey and white-flecked
shantung jacket-suit was very attractive,
Mrs. Norman Strange, topping her black
suit with a white straw hat with an un-
dulating brim and which matched her
white mink stole, and Mrs. Clive Watts,
whose frock was of grey-satin-striped
ripple nylon. Other guests were Mrs.
Charles Stubbs (U.S.A.), Mrs. Don
Webster (Canada), the Consul for Switzer-
land, M. Paul Emile Cattin, and Madame
Catlin, Phyl Knight, and Kath Minehan.
☆ ft ft
A brightly-colored face of Father
Christmas and a Snowman decorated
every table at Giro’s when the auxiliaries
of the Prince Henry Hospital organised
a dinner dance. President of the Central
Council of Auxiliaries, Mrs. W, K. Burn-
side, in a gown of deep-brown tulle em-
bellished with gold embroideries, received
the official guests. These included Mr.
and Mrs. Len Dooling, she in a gown
of junior-blue faille, Mr. W. K. Burn-
side, president of Prince Henry, Matron
A. Morgan, who wore midnights
blue crepes, and manager R. L. Thomas,
who was accompanied by Mrs. Thomas,
who chose grey nylon trimmed with white
guipure lace for her gown. Senior vice-
president, ' Mrs. W. R. G. Homan, who
was also ticket-secretary, chose powder-
blue crepes, and Mrs. L. Dessing, a com-
mittee member, wore pink satins. Among
the dancers were Dr. and Mrs. Alan
Wynne (she is former dancer Sally Gil-
mour) and Helen Bates, the latter celebrat-
ing her twenty-first birthday.
ft ft ft
Tiny Christmas-trees and bowls of
hydrangeas, red and white gladioli, and
Christmas-lilies were appropriate decora-
tions for the party Mrs. Dick Noone gave
at the home of her parents, Mr. and
A. E. Head, of South Yarra. Mrs. Head
chose a slim frock of black French crepe
and Mrs. Noone a paper shantung frock
in a pinky-beige shade printed with char-
coal-grey flowers. Guests included Mrs.
John Knox, in a frock of white cloque
taffeta, Mrs. W. Winter-Irving, whose
grey-and-white-spotted silk frock was
worn with a large white straw hat, Mrs.
Peter Wright, who wore a loose grey
faille coat over a black frock, and Mrs.
Ivor Mclnnes, who chose parma-violet
wool for her frock. Others who enjoyed
the party were Mrs. Rex Ebbott,. Mrs.
Tom Staughton, Mrs. Geoffrey Whitehead
and Mrs. Norman 'Mace, who is on
holiday from Sarawak.
ft ft ft
Mrs. Maie Hoban will spend Christmas
with her daughters, and on Boxing Day
will fly to America. At the Pilgrim
Theatre, of which she is director, Mrs.
Hoban was given a farewell party by
her daughters, Mrs. Lesley Leigh, Mrs.
Frank Lucas, Mrs. A. Hawksford and
Denise Hoban. Guests included Senator
Ivy Wedgwood, Mrs. Roy Chambers, Mrs.
James Rowan and her son Ian, Major-
General and Mrs. R. Kendall, Mr. and
Mrs. John Warlow, Mrs. Lelie Potter,
Mrs, W. K. Carnegie and Mrs. Nelson
Wellington. While in America, Mrs.
Hoban will stay with two former Mel-
bourne women, Mrs. Barney Howard, of
Connecticut, and Mrs. Lester Truex, of
New Jersey. Mrs. Hoban will then go
on to London, where she Will attend a
British Drama Course.
* ☆ *
The 65 members of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital wound up their final meeting
at the English Speaking Union rooms in
South Yarra with Christmas carols.
There were festive decorations; silver
bowls were filled with' red roses ; silver
candelabra held red candles and red
white flowers were arranged in gruX
clusters. One member read the Christmas
Story, and the traditional “farewell]/
spoons were given to members who are
going back to their homes in the U.S.
Recipients were Mrs, David Cheadle,
Mrs. Bert Drayton, Mrs. Omai* Vcss and,
in absentia, Mrs. J. Bolton.
☆ ☆ fx
ti
For the luncheon-party she gave at
Giro’s for 80 friends Mrs. Hyman Silk
wore a slirmfitting frock of black French
crepe, a sable stole and a small turban
hat swathed with grey-and-pale-pink
tulle ; her black suede gloves were em-
broidered with gold crowns set with tiny
jewels. Her daughters, Mrs. Harry
Sluice, whose frock was of sherry-toned
wool, and Mrs, Hudson Ralps, wearing a
hyacinth-blue wool frock, assisted their
mother.
The guests included Mrs, P. L.
Coleman, whose Ming-blue faille frock
had a pleated skirt; Mrs. Ray Joseph, in
navy ohiffon and matching tulle picture-
hat ; Mrs. T. W. Corrigan, who wore
pearl-grey tie-silk with a white melusine
pearl-embroidered cloche; Mrs. Con-
stance Day, her trim black suit topped
with a wide white felt sailor-hat; and
Mrs. R. Honeyman, whose green-and-
black-striped tie-silk frock was matched
with a wide-brimmed straw hat.
This is Mrs. W. J. Jungwirth, whose
husband, secretary to the Premier, is
Director of the Royal Tour in Victoria.
Mrs. Jungwirth accompanied her husband
to London for the Queen’s crowning and
has since told various groups of the won-
derful scene in the Abbey on that occa-
sion. Mrs. Jungwifth’s voice is specially
suited for talks because she has had wide
experience in voice-production and elo-
cution. Two small sons, Ian and Gary,
are other reasons for her busy life. Photo
by John Warlow.
Members of the newly-formed Kurneh
auxiliary to the Queen Victoria Hos-
pital met at the home of Lady Brookes,
president of Q.V., and planned for a gala
picture-night at the King’s Theatre on
March 4 at which the film yet to be
chosen will be an Australian, possibly
a world, premiem Mrs. Lindsay Mildred,
who presided at the meeting, is president
of the auxiliary, and vice-president is
Lady Hyde. Mrs. Warford Mein is hon.
secretary and Mrs, Frank Wilson hon.
treasurer. Ticket-secretary is Mrs. Ross
Grey Smith, who will be assisted by Mrs.
Robert Gove, A champagne-and-chicken
supper will be served in the upstairs foyer
after the show. Mrs. Wenzel is in charge
of decorations and Mrs. Simon Fraser
will look after supper arrangements.
SYDNEY
The carillon was playing as Vice-
Chancellor S. H. Roberts and Mrs.
Roberts welcomed nearly 600 guests to a
5-o’clock reception in the Great Hall of
Sydney University on Friday. Repre-
sentatives of the diplomatic and consular
corps, of politics, the arts, the profes-
sions, were there. It was a distinguished
gathering in a distinguished place. The
portraits of learned fathers looked down
from the walls on the spectacle of the
modern cocktail-party with expressions
ranging from benign indulgence to aloof
disdain, and the statues of Wentworth and
Challis posed an example of the correct
attitudes to take when conducting a dis-
cussion—an example which nobody
present- seemed to be following. Notable
items in the 'fashion line were Mrs.
Ftiberts’s peacock shantung dress, worn
with a black cocktail hat with a curly
. feather. Lady Lloyd Jones’s model suit
f of mush mom shantung by J acques Path,
?.nd tfe cocoa v/ool suit by Hollywood
designer, Irene, that American Mrs. Frank
Davidson wore with a broadbrimmed
cocoa summer-felt hat.
Allene Saalfeld, who recently returned
from a trip abroad, is the younger
daughter of Colonel and Mrs. A.E. Saal-
feld, of Mosman. While in England she
studied interior-decorating with the
famous firm of Lazlo Hoenig and travelled
extensively on the Continent, improving
her education in art and decoration.
Since returning to Sydney she has joined
a well-known firm of interior-decorators.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
One of the most interesting persons in
Sydney at present is Yeoman Edwards.
In a talk to the Royal Empire Society
during the week he told of the history
of the Yeomen of the Guard (who, he
said, had no connection with the Beef-
eaters, as everyone seemed to imagine).
Yeoman Edwards, though over 70, looks
no more than 50 with his imposing height,
dark hair and moustache. He has
attended the lying-in-state of four
monarchs and the coronations of two,
and at the coronation of Queen Elizabeth
II he walked beside the right front wheel
of the Royal coach for the eight miles of
the procession. Walking eight miles
apparently would put very little strain on
Yeoman Edwards, who walked most of
the way over the Nhllarbor Plain when
he arrived in Austfalia, and has seen
much of this country on foot.
☆☆ ☆ *
People who write humorous articles,
about women’s papers, columns, etc
always refer to such articles as, “How ££
make a ‘Christmas-tree out of an
umbrella.” Well, here is how you —SK
make a Christmas-tree out o f 3
umbrella.
First denude the umbrella of its clota
covering and unhitch the -h?wer spokes
from the upper. Then bind all the spokes
and the handle with green Scotch tape.
Next attach the lower spokes to the upper
so that about three-quarters of their
length protrudes beyond the upper ones
(do this with Scotch tape, also). It will
give a more artistic effect if the spokes
are cut off at uneven lengths with
secateurs. The ends of the spokes should
be then curved upwards with pliers so
that they can hold the colored baubles
which will decorate the tree later. Next
cut a roll of green crinkle paper into
strips about 2in. wide, slit at |in.
intervals and drape on spokes to look
like foliage. Stick the handle into a
flower-pot (red preferably), drape the
tree with tinsel, hang with colored baubles
and you have a Christmas-tree.
Seasonal and historical note: The
Christmas-tree is said to have been intro-
duced by Martin Luther. Looking up
at the starry heavens one Christmas he
was reminded of the Christ Child from
whom all good gifts flow. Straightway
he went into his house and decked a tree
with colored lights to represent the firma-
ment for his children.
*
☆ ☆ ☆
A feature of Sydney life at Christmas
that has grown vastly in popularity over
the past few years is carol-singing in the
open by candlelight. There were over
12,000 people in Victoria Park last Sunday
night for the A.B.C.’s annual carol con-
cert, to sing together in “Hark the Herald
Angels Sing,” “Come All Ye Faithful,”
“The First Noel” and “While Shepherds
Watched,” and to listen to excerpts from
the “Messiah” Overture and a programme
of beautiful devotional music by the
A.B.C. orchestra. On the same evening
there were carol festivals at Leichhardt,
Wahroonga and Rushcutter Bay, Next
Sunday -there will be a carol concert in
Hyde Park, and on Tuesday in Cooper
Park, Woollahra.
☆ ☆ ☆
A special guard of honor and the
school band were drawn up in front of
the main building of The King’s School
last Tuesday when the Governor arrived
for the annual distribution of prizes to
members of the senior school, and his
Excellency later congratulated the boys
on being “so splendidly turned out.”. It
was interesting to hear from the report
of the headmaster, Mr. Denys Hake, that
the school was likely to be full for some
years, the number of applications for en-
rolment being so great “as to be em-
barrassing,” and that changes had been
made in the curriculum which would
make it easier for more senior boys to
study history, which was considered more
desirable than ever today.
Dux of the school was Denis W. G.
Moore, who also won prizes for mathe-
matics and painting. The Burkitt Shield
was presented to Sam Stephens as the
boy who had done most for the school
during the year, and the headmaster men-
tioned that Sara had been one of the two
cadets chosen to represent Australia in
India during the year. Winner of the
Wade Prize for the best all-rounder under
16 was C. A. B. Sharpe.
☆ ☆ *
Mr. Teddy Tinling, designer of tennis
fashions, and members of "the cast of
“South Pacific” were present at the
mannequin-parade held at the Trocadero
on Thursday in aid of the Family Welfare
Bureau. The clothes by local designer
Frank Mitchell had verve and color. To
be smart for sports one apparently must
wear tops so voluminous one could swim
in them (though you don’t swim in them)
allied to pants narrow and tight—all very
dashing but trying to the figure. Skirts were
very full or very narrow and quite short,
the combination of Dior’s decree and the
Queen’s sponsorship being hard to resist.
Some interesting swimsuits by Scamp were
shown in tartan, in iridescent mignon-
ette and in bright pink satin striped lastex.
☆ ii ☆
Table-decorations were a feature of the
annual dinner and dance held by the
V.A. Detachments at the Barracks last
week. The Haberfield detachment, of
which Mrs. Dorothy Lindsay is com-
mandant, shared first prize for its arrange-
ment centred round the Crib and the Star
of Bethlehem. The other prize-winners
were the Mountbatten detachment, in
charge of Mrs. Sylvia Grabham. Highly
commended were the Scottish detachment
s with a sleigh and reindeer and a lighted
c'hurch, and the Northern Suburbs, which
had an Empire motif.
The V.A.s made a Christmas present of
, a to General Berryman, who
* waSg'uest-of-honor, and a gift of flowers
to Mrs. Berryman. A portable wireless
was presented to the V.A.’s commandant,
Mrs. Persia Porter, in recognition of her
work during the year. There were about
450 girls at the dinner, most of whom
stayed on for the dance, which included
a splendid exhibition of Scottish dancing,
and a very popular lesson in square-
dancing.
☆ * ☆
One of the stools used in the Queen’s
Coronation has been presented to Gov-
ernment House, Sydney, and should arrive
by the Orient liner Oronsay shortly. The
donors are Lord Gifford, Mr. Peter Lub-
bock and Miss Dorothy D’Arcy Irvine,
who have made the presentation in
memory of their service at Government
■House. It will be remembered that a
similar presentation was made after the
Coronation of King George VI.


Born 1820 —
still going strong .
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
d
Talk About Great Empty Spaces!
Wanted - Biographers
By W.E. FITZ HENRY
NOT so long ago, at the
request of an American
scholar seeking informa-
tion, particularly bio-
graphical information, about
some of our more important
writers, I sent him a working-
list of references, more a check-
list than a bibliography.
In a letter of thanks my
American friend, who, as it hap-
pens, knows more about our
literature than most Australians,
remarked:
What surprises me is the almost
complete absence in your check-list
of biographies of Australian authors.
It seems to me, imperfect as is my
knowledge of Australian writers,
that many of them merit the honor
of an authoritative biography. As
it is, I find that if I want to get an
authentic picture of, say, Henry
Lawson as a person I am compelled
to build the picture myself from a
hundred different sources.
Even to an Australian resident in
his own country, with the resources
of the various State and national
libraries near at hand, and other
sources not available to an outsider,
such an undertaking must demand
infinite patience, long research, and
have its other difficulties. There are
many Americans like myself—more
than you might imagine—who would
welcome a series of biographies of
important Australian writers. And,
if WE are interested, the Australian
interest, I should say, must be con-
siderable enough to warrant the pub-
lication of several such biographies.
Before that I had never been
greatly .conscious of the com-
parative non-existence of such
biographies, perhaps because I
am more-or-less familiar with
the details of the lives of most
of our writers. One learns a
lot, even if one forgets a lot,
during thirty - five - years’ ac-
quaintance with a subject.
The reason for the very few
biographies.of Australian writers
isn’t, of course, that the, writers
themselves were uninteresting or
had led a colorless existence.
Think of Gordon’s stormy
career, of Kendall’s melancholy
fate, of the ups-and-downs of
Marcus Clarke’s short life, of
Lawson’s hard battle for a crust,
of Becke’s wanderings and Chris
Brennan’s sombre last years.
Nor is there lack of material
of a biographical nature con-
cerning the various writers.
Actually there is a great wealth
of material buried in books in
the libraries, in newspaper-files,
in existing letters and other
documents, in the works of the
subjects themselves, and in the
memories of relatives and
friends.
There, is, naturally, labor of
digging. The trouble with a lot
of people who start out tq write
biographies in Australia is that
they want all their .material pre-
sented to them on a plate. They
want someone else to do the hard
work of delving, while they get
the credit. I have done a tre-
mendous amount of unpaid delv-
ing in my time, but that is by
the way.
We have contemporary writers
big enough to tackle the tasks of
full-size biography, as anyone
must agree who has read Nettie
Palmer’s work on Henry Handel
Richardson, Alec Chisholm’s
story of the making of Dennis’s
Sentimental Bloke, the Kate
Baker and Miles Franklin book
on Joseph Furphy, Vance
Palmer’s small book on A. G.
Stephens and Colin Roderick’s
life of Mrs. Campbell Praed.
Biography, however, cannot
be done overnight, or in a matter
of weeks. It calls for months—
sometimes years—of reading
and research, a slow collecting of
facts, a considerable amount of
correspondence and long inter-
views with the relatives and
friends of the subject—all this
the mere spade-work before
launching (4n the writing, which
will call for more months of
work. And there are few
writers in Australia who have
the means and the leisure to eim
bark on a' task that may not
bring financial reward until
some remote date in the future.
Anyway, the fact remains that
in biographies of our leading
writers there is a profitable field
waiting to be exploited, and in
view of the ever-increasing in-
terest in Australian literature —
not only in Australia but over-
seas as well —a field that
should pay handsome dividends
in monetary reward and prestige
to any qualified biographer.
Take Henry Kendall, for
instance, Kendall died more
than 70 years ago, yet there is
not a worth-while biography of
him: the curious and extra-
ordinary Hamilton-Gray books
about him are worthless; the
brief Sutherland biography is
inaccurate and must be read
with caution ; A. G. Stephens’s
little monograph does not go far
enough, good as it is in its way ;
“This is a smooth job if you get the right sponsor.”
and the Bertram Stevens and
E. A. Riley accounts of the
poet’s life likewise can only be
regarded as interesting brevities.
Had Kendall lived and died in
England the story of his life
would by this time have attracted
the attention of half a dozen
capable biographers. One has
only to read George Gordon
McCrae on Kendall to realise
what a full-size subject the poet
would make. What a story there
is even, say, at the back of the
letter Kendall sent to McCrae
introducing his benefactor,
Michael Fagan: “I want you
to know the bearer. He is the
man who led me out of Gethse-
mane and set me in the sun-
shine.”
Or take Adam Lindsay Gor-
don, Despite all that has been
written about him during the
past 80 years, he still awaits the
honor of a reliable biography.
No one these days pays any
serious attention to the Sladen
biography, nor the Edith
Humphris biography, nor the
Howlett-Ross books, quite away
from the fact that they are all
practically unobtainable.
What is needed is an up-to-
date biography of Gordon writ-
ten in the light of present-day
knowledge of the poet; J. K.
Moir, of Melbourne, has made
easier the task of any future
biographer of the poet with his
Chronology of the Life of Adam
Lindsay Gordon.
The Adam Lindsay Gordon
story is that of an adventurous,
if ill-fated, life, in which conflict
is rarely absent, from Gordon’s
undisciplined days at the Royal
Military Academy, at Woolwich;
until the fatal morning of June
24, 1870, when he rose early,
walked into the tea-tree scrub at
Brighton (Vic.) and shot him-
self. Kendall, his close friend,
could not go to the funeral be-
cause he was penniless.
And what about Henry Law-
son? We have the sketchy My
Henry Lawson, by Bertha Law-
son (his wife), and Henry Law-
son by His Mates, edited by J.
Le Gay Brereton, and a number
of small monographs, but noth-
ing yet published in book-form
about Lawson can by qny stretch
be claimed as a biography.
It is said that several bio-
graphies of Lawson have been
written, but that the circum-
stances of his life preclude their
publication while certain people
are still alive. That may be so,
but, though details of a writer’s
life may be unpalatable to some,
that is no reason for suppressing
authentic biography,
In Lawson’s case, having a
fair knowledge of the facts I
cannot see why the rumored bio-
graphics should be held back any
longer. The time is overdue
for a biography of Lawson in
which the truth shall be sifted
from the falsehoods, and the true
Lawson depicted from his boy-
hood at Eurunderee (N.S.W.),
through the years when “all the
world was wide” to his last days
at Abbotsford (N.S.W.). And
if those who have books on
Lawson up their sleeves are
reluctant to put them forth there
is enough material in the
Mitchell Library alone to pro-
vide new biographers with the
makings of several books on
Lawson. It is ridiculous that
over 30 years should have
elapsed since Lawson’s death
and still no Lawson biography.
Marcus Clarke is another Aus-
tralian author who has received
niggardly treatment from bio-
graphers. There is the unin-
spired Mackinnon biography
prefixed to a selected edition of
Clarke’s works; there are the
far from satisfactory accounts
by Turner and Byrne and the
inadequate Brazier tribute. In
these, and in other accounts,
Clarke never emerges as the
vital, colorful, industrious, bnl-
hant and resourceful man of
flesh-and-blood that he was.
The creator of For the Term
of His Natural Life was deserv-
ing of something better. There
has been too much stress on his,
after all, little human failings ;
not enough recognition of his
remarkable industry and gener-
ous nature. He was only 37
when he died, worn out by
anxiety and disappointment, but
he so impressed himself upon
the minds of his friends and
contemporaries by his compet-
ence and many good qualities
that it has always surprised me
that the writing of his life
should have been left to second-
class minds.
For more than 20 years landI —
and I am sure a thousand others
who admire his poetry —have
been looking forward to one of
the often-promised, but never-
realised, biographies of Chris
Brennan. There is always some-
one said to be writing a
biography of Brennan, yet,
strangely, the book never sees
the light.
A. G. Stephens put out a
small booklet on Brennan, as he
did on Kendall and Daley, and
a good little booklet it was, as
were the others. H. M. Green
and Randolph Hughes also pub-
lished booklets or pamphlets on
Brennan, falling foul of each
other in the process and becom-
ing more concerned with their
positions as critics than with
Brennan at the finish. But, in-
teresting as are the Stephens,
•Green, Hughes efforts, and
another work by A. R. Chisholm,
none can be described as a
Brennan biography.
When it is written it will need
to be a giant’s work, for Bren-
nan was a giant of a man, physi-
cally and intellectually. Bren-
nan once said: “I have been wild
and weak and wilful and way-
ward,” and no doubt that had
most to do with the tragedy of
his life. His biography certainly
should not be entrusted to some
earnest academician concerned,
perhaps, in winning his doctorate
of letters, as I’m afraid it might
be.
Again, in common with others
I have always been fascinated
with the details of Louis Becke’s
life. Louis Becke, short-story
writer and novelist, had twice run
away from home before he was
ten, and began his voyages in
the south seas at a very early
age. After spending many years
on vessels trading in the Pacific
islands he went to the Palmer
River (Q.) goldfields in its wildest
days, and during the middle
’seventies voyaged with the
notorious “Bully” Hayes.
During his writing years after
J. F. Archibald had found him,
Becke lived with his nose to the
grindstone and the bailiff hover-
ing somewhere in the back-
ground, for, like Lawson and
Daley, he could never keep
money. Becke’s life was full of
hard-lived experience, yet what
is known about him today apart
from what is in Morris Miller,
Green, Frank Clune’s Free and
Easy Land and one or two other
books?
Also there are Ernest Favenc
and William Astley (“Price
Waning”), In the ’nineties The
Bulletin published Favenc’s
The Last of Six and Astley’s
Tales of the Convict System,
both of which had quite a vogue
at the time of their publication.
Favenc was a first-rate ex-
plorer, resolute, yet careful, and
a born bushman. He was also a
brilliant journalist, who did
much good work for The
Bulletin. His verse is capable
and vigorous, his romances are
still readable, and his short
stories are always competent and
interesting. Few Australian
writers have led a more adven-
turous life —his own experiences
enable him to speak with
authority in his writings —yet
hardly anything is known about
the man himself.
William Astley wak another
brilliant journalist and short-
story writer; he made a study
of early Australian history and
worked over his stories with
great care. There is a certain
starkness about his work, but
his tales are full of human
nature and human pity.
Although he is ranked among
the best writers of the Aus-
tralian short story, only the bare
facts of his life are known
There is even some doubt as to
the date of his birth. It is known
((Continued on page 45)


First Instalment
Wings off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
CHAPTER I
5 LOWLY the sun lifted up
the veil of the morning
mist. Revealed, the sea
stretched, lightly blue,
clear to the sharp-cut wheel of
the horizon, calm and neutral in
the limpid, cool quietness of the
early morning.
To the south and north the
horizon curved round to meet
the bare Korean hills, rolling
back from the coast into the
distance fike the chest muscles of.
a giant. Abreast of where two
seagulls swooped curiously low
over the water a rocky peninsula
stood with its foot in the water.
While one seagull stayed
aloft, as though on patrol, the
other swept low and alighted on
the water, a few yards from the
rubber dinghy, bright yellow
against the deepening blue. Sud-
denly the bird flapped, urgently,
and clawed for height. Both
watchers circled clear above the
dinghy in which a man, clothed
in a pilot’s torn flying overalls,
handled himself unsteadily to
his knees.
The pilot stared a moment
into the young sun, whose com-
ing he had awaited most of the
night, then wiped his eyes
tiredly, like a child. He stared
without surprise at the blood on
the back' of his hand, wiped his
forehead again and verified the
source of the red stain.
Sinking back on his haunches,
one hand on the side of the
dinghy, he stared into the bottom
of his craft, shaking his head
slowly, like a drunk.
It was a young head, the
broad hair matted into untidy
strands by sweat and blood. The
eyes, squinting now with pain,
were set deep on either side of
a large, long, curved nose, which,
with the chin jutting out to
meet it, gave a good cutting-
edge to his face.
When the first shell landed,
turning the placid sea fifty yards
ahead into a spouting eruption
of dirty-colored white, the pilot
looked up, bemused after his
restless night, eyes squinted to
slits against the sun which shone
levelly into his face. When the
salvo landed, four gouts to the
left from the first sighting-shot
and nearer the dinghy, the
pilot swore soundlessly, a creas-
ing of his lips, and fumbled for
the paddle lashed to the side of
the boat.
The first dip of the blade
brought his left hand instantly
to his shoulder and a sudden
whitening in his sumweathered
face. Then, with the muscles
knotting in a taut ridge along
his jaw, he resumed his paddl-
ing. • He had almost reached the
still-creaming circles from the
last salvo when another landed
close astern, exactly on the
position he had left.
The paddler turned his head
shoreward, and noticed at once
the smoke, hanging still in the.
windless air, over the steep cliff
in which the peninsula ended.
“Bastards,” he growled. He
turned again to his paddling,
conscious of the futility of try-
ing to pull a heavy rubber craft
a sufficient distance at sufficient
speed to offset the line-correc-
tions of the shore-battery. Yet
still he pulled, now and again
lifting his bloodied face to scan,
with desperation in his eyes, the
calm, empty face of the ocean.
He was panting with the exertion
and with the pain each move-
ment lanced through his
shoulder.
“Where are you?” he mut-
tered, searching the sea. “Where
the hell are you!”
The dinghy, taut with sup-
pressed gas, pitched violently,
throwing him with a gasp of
pain on to its side. Lying there,
his chin on the rubber gunnle, he
wondered vaguely why he had
felt no searing blast of splinters.
“Using armor-piercing shell—
for ships,” he thought, dully, his
brain numbed with the pain of
that shocking pitch. Then the
sea seemed to rear up. A
smothering cascade of water fell
upon him, the salt stinging
fiercely his open wounds. His
eyes turned with the languidness
of weakness and looked at the
welling red patch on his right
shoulder, where the wound had'
gaped with the shock of falling.
A feeling of inertia, not un-
pleasant, crept over him. His
relaxed body slumped further
down in the dinghy. He had
often worried about what a
bullet or MIG 15 cannon-shell
would do to him. A’ twisted
smile formed on his mouth. He
wouldn’t have to worry about
what an armor-piercing 155-
millimetre shell could do with
his torso. And they had found
the range. He was almost out
when his eye caught sight of the
blurred outline of the coast. A
flicker of recognition of his posi-
tion woke in his face. He tried
to lift his head to stare out at the
sea. His face slipped down the
rough side of the rubber, unfeel-
ingly, his lips, brushing the yel-
low side, were still whispering
“Where are you?” when he
fainted.
A few minutes earlier, not
long after the salvo landed
which sent sprawling the
dinghy’s passenger, a thin black
object slid smoothly, almost
without a ripple, from some-
where beneath the sea. The sun
glinted on a glass face which
swung swiftly round the arc of
the horizon, then came back and
steadied on the smoke-wreathed
peninsula. Steadied with
sinister, malignant purpose.
While the underwater-eye
watched, four brief stabs of
flame broke from the shore-
battery. The dinghy lifted crazily
from the water before it was hid-
den in curtains of falling spray.
The eye swung towards the
dinghy, noticed it was still afloat,
though listing lopsidedly, then
turned again towards the battery,
perched on the top of its twenty-
foot sheer cliff.
Before the next salvo could
crash the periscope quivered
slightly. A close observer, had
there been one, would have
noticed that it rose a little from
the water before settling back
to its previous depth. Then two
twin streaks appeared below the
surface of the sea, arrow-headed
tracks pointing in the same
direction as the periscope, run-
ning fast. The next salvo
landed in a quartet of gouts
all around the periscope; it re-
treated quickly from sight be-
neath the boiling sea. Then the
cliff at the base of the shore-
battery seemed to burst outwards
from within, as though a volcano
had unleashed its pent-up energy.
Tons of rock hurtled skyward,
pulverised under the blast of
the two torpedoes. The thunder-
of the hit crashed across the
quiet sea; and a shivering
column of smoke, leaning
slightly in the windless air,
reached high above the raw
gash where the battery had been.
With his two hands out-
stretched, fingers open, the sub-
marine captain ordered; “Up
periscope.” As the long, greased
tube slid upwards from its well
the captain grasped the hand-
bars, rising with the periscope,
so that he was ready to peer
through its magnifying-lens so
soon as it broke surface. -
He stared a moment, then,
with a peculiar swinging motion,
dragging his feet round the well,
swung the periscope towards
shore. Satisfied, he stepped
back, clamped the hand-bars to
the tube and snapped “Down
periscope. Surface! ”
The submarine rose from the
depths like a great black slug,
cascading white water from her
casing. Five seconds after the
bridge was clear the forrard
four-inch gun was manned,
swinging towards the shore, a
cartridge ramming into the
breech as she swung. The coast
stretched guiltless, lazing under
the hot sun, now lifted well clear
of the rim of the sea to starb’d.
From the bridge two men ran
forward along the glistening
casing—she would not open the
forrard hatch in these waters—
and slid down on to the bulbous
bilges. They had only to reach
out their hands to drag the half-
full dinghy to the side.
Two minutes later the scene
was the same as the young sun
had earlier revealed —almost. A
sinking yellow dinghy, a brace
of curious seagulls, an otherwise
empty sea and a tombstone of
smoke ashore.
The captain, of something the
same age as the man he had
rescued, though he lacked the
other’s browned skin, watched
as the pilot was laid out on seat
cushions on the small wardroom-
table. He waited while the sick-
berth attendant cut, away the
soiled flying overalls, inspected
the torn shoulder and
straightened up.
“How is he?” the captain
asked.
The S.B.A. was worried —he
not being used to operative
casualties such as this.
“Mainly loss of blood, sir—
I think. Shoulder’s torn a bit,
but it looks as though the bone’s
okay. The forehead is just skin
wounds —splinters, probably.”
“All right, fix him up.
Sulphanilimide. He’ll stay on
the table till you’re finished.
Then —if we can move him —he
can go into my bunk.”
“Yes, sir,” answered the
5.8. A., and delved uncertainly
into his first-aid kit.
The captain came back.
“Yessir?”
“Let’s have a look at lys
identity-disk. I suppose he is
the man we’re after.” The cap-
tain took the circle of metal,
holding it to the light, “Yes—
Lieutenant-Commander Richard
Sherwood, That’s him. Com-
manding-officer of the Firefly
Squadron.”
The captain broke off his mus-
ing.
“All right, Thompson—quick
as you can,”
The S.B.A. began to swab
the jagged, bloody hole in Sher-
wood’s shoulder, close below
the collar-bone. With his limited
ability he could do little else but
cleanse the wound and bandage
it. He had soaked one swab
when Sherwood’s face twitched.
He squirmed and opened his
eyes, staring up into the S.B.A.’s
face. Then he groaned through
his teeth, closed his eyes and
seemed to lose all interest in the
proceedings.
Seeing which, the S.B.A. took
quick advantage of his patient’s
unconsciousness and probed the
ugly wound for the pieces of
overall which the bullet had
driven in with it. After ten
minutes of digging the S.B.A.
announced to the captain, whose
whiteness of face could be
ascribed to the confined life he
led, that he was through and
was ready to commence bandag-
ing.
Whereupon Lieutenant-Com-
mander Sherwood said faintly
but very distinctly:
“Thank God for that, old
boy. That hurt like bloody
hell!”
The captain stepped forward.
Before he could speak Sherwood
grimaced, dropped his pain-
lined face laxly on his other
shoulder and this time really
offered his now-painless body to
the S.B-A.’s ministrations.
“Well, I’m damned,” said the
captain softly.
v He walked through the narrow
passage-way, back to the con-
trol-room and picked up the
microphone of the ship’s broad-
cast system. Sentimental lot,
sailors —when they weren’t tor-
pedoing a shore-battery and
blowing forty-odd men to pulp.
They would want to know how
the new passenger fared. As he
flicked the microphone on the
captain grinned. It was possibly
the first time in naval history
that a shore-battery had been
torpedoed. Though he’d need
the corroboration of his officers
to back up his tale back in base.
No normal gunners would
mount their charges on a nice,
steep-to cliff facing the sea. But,
then, why not? Particularly if
their guns had to fire at close-
in landing craft? The captain
shrugged and lifted the micro-
phone. The only thing he had
no doubt of was that he had sent
two fish into that battery.
Luckily for friend Sherwood.
“This is the captain speaking.”
The voice was casual, with an
easy assurance born of years of
unquestioned discipline in a
peculiar craft where discipline
was preserved more by aft intelli-
gent appreciation by all hands
of the necessity for it than by
the authority of gold-rings on
uniform sleeves,
“The officer we picked up is,
I think, all right. ■ He is Lieu-
tenant-Commander Sherwood,
Commanding-Officer of the
Firefly strike aircraft from
carrier Hawk. We will return
him to Hawk when we rendez-
vous tomorrow. By the way—
target for those torpedoes was a
shore-battery firing at Lieu-
tenant-Commander Sherwood’s
dinghy. Far as I could see, the
whole gubbins dropped into the
water. That’s all.”
All day the submarine cruised
at six knots submerged. Judg-
ing then that he was clear of
enemy aircraft which the battery
could have put on to him, the
captain surfaced, running at his
top speed through a sea'which,
co-operatively, stayed calm. In
that war he had little to fear
from anything but aircraft. With
a message sent to Hawk, the
captain took a final look round
the empty sea and climbed down
the long, vertical ladder to the
control-room. He lingered a
moment, from habit. The con-
trol-room was a scene of
quiet (except for the muted
whine of the diesels), of silent
efficiency. With the officer of
the watch on the bridge, with his
engine-room telegraphmen, the
control - room was almost
deserted. In the forrard corner
the helmsman twirled his wheel,
staring with casual, yet prac-
tised, eye at the illuminated dial
of his gyro-compass repeat. His
left leg was cocked up with one
foot on a valve-stem in the deck.
From the back pocket of his
overalls poked a luridly-colored
comic. Imaginative enough to
enjoy the outer-space thrills of
futuristic rocket - travel, the
helmsman would have been sur-
prised indeed if anyone had ex-
pressed surprise that, in this
compartment-room thirty feet
below water-level, he was steer-
ing his two-thousand-ton charge
with as much omniscient exacti-
tude as if he had been handling
the wheel on the bridge in the
open air. Or that his craft,
through the ears of the asdic-
operator in his tiny cabinet be-
hind him, was sonically aware of
anything sub-surface that should
move within a radius of a mile
from the submarine’s bulbous
hull.
The captain grinned to himself
at his thoughts—being a young


submariner, he could Still be im-
pressed by the deadly efficiency
of his command —and stepped
into his small cabin. The man
on the bunk turned his head as
he entered and smiled.
“Well, that’s a bit better!
How’s the shoulder?”
“Feels like a lion’s been at
it.”
The captain pulled his chair
from the desk to face Sherwood.
“That could be a Gook bul-
let —or our sick-berth attendant.
I —we —must thank you for giv-
ing him some exercise. A
jammed finger’s been his limit
so far.” •
The skipper held out a
cigarette.
“Don’t usually burn-up down
here. But —special ships, special
cap-tallies, eh?” He looked into
the brown nutcracker face as
he lit the cigarette. “Like to
talk about it?”
The other did not reply. The
captain shifted in his chair.
“Sorry. I read somewhere in
a novel that you birds have inhi-
bitions about reliving those
sort of things—specially when
they’re a bit violent.”
Sherwood grinned and blew
smoke at the low deck-head.
“Must immediately get in an
aircraft and take-off again, and
all that, eh?” He looked for an
ashtray, wincing as his shoul-
der moved. “No. I was just
trying to remember when I
actually got it. Young Ventner
had reported a faulty motor.
I’d ordered him out of it. Any-
way, we’d just about finished the
job—napalm, trenches. Nasty
stuff. I’ve known it to melt a
gun-turret in a tank. Must have
been a bit too eager. Next thing
I knew my windscreen flew to,
bits. Then an unholy bang in
the shoulder. That novelist of
yours might have been right —
I’ll certainly relive that a few
times! ”
The captain held out the ash-
tray.
“Thanks. I seemed okay. Not
bleeding too much. So we re-
formed and headed for Mumma.
Just on dark when we left, and
she’d closed down completely
before we were halfway home.
I must have been losing more
blood than I thought. Anyhow,
when I woke up I was in a
beautiful little dive, nothing on
the clock. But she straightened
up before she hit. You can
have your jets—the old Firefly
knows a thing or two. That’s
about all. The dinghy worked
according to maker’s specifica-
tions. So did my Number
Three’s wireless, apparently. By
the way—you might accept my
undying gratitude, old boy. I
seem to remember being
straddled.”
I The captain grinned. “Yep,
you were. If they’d had sense
enough to use direct-action stuff
you’d have been holed —like a
colander. We picked up your
cove’s first message. Luckily
we were taking the air at the
time.”
The captain got up, stretch-
ing. “I think you’d better get
some more rest. We’ll meet
Hawk in the morning. Good-
night.”
“Good-night, old boy.”
Sherwood drew deeply on his
cigarette, the cheekbones of his
gaunt face projecting under the
tight, browned skin. Apart from
the dull nagging at his shoulder,
he was comfortable. His mind
returned to the subject on which
it had been musing when the
captain came in. Baumer, Com-
mander (Pilot) Reginald Baumer,
D.S.O. and Bar, R.N. Some-
times called Commander Air,
sometimes “Wings” and some-
times other things. Paunchy,
red-faced, bellicose, reticent,
snarly, smooth—depending on
your rank —and responsible to
the captain for all flying opera-
tions aboard carrier Hawk. And
to whom Sherwood, who hated
his guts, would have to make
report when the submarine re-
turned this fallen chick to the
mother-hawk.
It was a delicate position, with
Sherwood, almost of equal rank,
having to work in the closest
co-operation with a man he
despised. Not that the bellied
not efficient enough
Baumer SSSIX
he had been He
had been ir.the gutsy group that
slipped a brace of tm-fish
}j h r^t in S, Qver shat-
Trouble was,
burner hid never forgotten it,
nof allowed any of his young
brood of the Hawk to forget it.
doubt he was now> muse d
sh od itb a care i eS s grin,
nasty se
* n ? s on the Absence of
pi re fl y squadron’s com-
manding-officer • the only man
bad no t—yet—returned
from his mission
Sherwood pinched his cigar-
ette out in the ashtray on the
lowered it carefully, grim-
acing, to’the chair, eased \ack
the pi j low expelling his
breath and stared at the pipe-
iGfew: inches
above his nose As the sub-
marine, gently rolling, slipped
through, Sherwood’s musing
® ’ new turn Ag he had
dered a hun( i red times be-
fore h£ ndered now on j ust
> fiau^er kept rib bing him.
It * could not be professional
; ealousy _ Baumer was still, at
thirtv-five as good a flyer as
anv bis pilots He’d had prac-
* enoue h at carrier work. He
had same nastiness of
a p proach with Swan , command-
in Ft : officer of the F ury fighter
saaadron _though not so un-
d > g iged as his dislike Q f sher-
° d
The strike barter laughed, a
The submarine rose from the depths like a great black slug, cascading white water from
her casing, near the half-full dinghy.
ba lf - audible snorts Friend
Baumer would not see much of
b i m for the next few weeks, any-
bow. Thanks to a Gook
machine-gunner. He settled
himself for sleep.
Sherwood’s sleep was light
and restless; so that, in the
almost complete quiet of the
submarine’s running, the stac-
cato hammer of shells along her
outer casing woke him instantly,
Then, a muted scream through
t h e hull, he heard the fighter
overhead and climb away
“MIG ” he muttered his
training ’identifying the visitor
instantly. “Bloody long way
south for him.” He stared round
at the confining walls of the
cabin; their closeness, added to
the helplessness of his position,
brought a horrid, salty taste to
his m :ith. Unconsciously he
licked his lips.
Feet rushed urgently past
his door, feet heading for the
control-room in instant obedi-
ence to the harsh croaking of
the klaxon which blared
through the ship. The klaxon
was drowned by a shrill scream
of air, spouting into the con-
trol-room in a white mist as
the main tanks were flooded.
The captain dropped into the
control-room from the bridge-
ladder, clipping the hatch above
him with one decisive move-
ment . Sherwood heard him
order, crisply:
“Sixty feet.”
The flyer braced himself for
the plunge. His knowledge of
submarines diving in a hurry was
confined to Hollywood emana-
tions. He felt nothing. “God,”
he muttered, “get her down,
boy !” His head turned as the
navigator poked a grinning,
freckled face in.
“Captain asked me to let you
know what’s happening. MIG
jumped us from shore. He only
got one burst in, though.”
Sherwood managed a grin,
“Those boys can turn round, y’
know. What are we waiting
for?”
The navigator looked at him
a moment Before he understood,
Then he grinned.
“Unless the breed carries
depth-bombs- which they don t
—the picnic’s over. When 1 left
the control-room we were at
fifty feet—we’re down to sixty
by now.”
Sherwood relaxed back on his
pißow £ Do "d tew
sheepish.
“I never knew a crash-dive
could be so smooth.”
The other laughed. “Crash-
dive? Ain’t no such animal—
except in novels. Whenever we
dive—whatever the circs—we
get down in a hurry, even on
exercises. And she just slides
under, almost horizontally. Sinks
would be a better description.”
“You fish earn your extra two-
bob a day hard-lyers, or what-
ever it is. Give me the wide
open spaces. By the way, he
get a burst in?
The navigator paused at the
door “Yep, But we were
already diving when they lobbed,
May have belted the casing a
bit/but that won’t bote us.
The pressure-hull is well down.
Well, I’ve got work to do.
Cheers.
Sherwood nodded, smiling,
The navigator’s unworned dial
was all the assurance he needed
in his novel position. Thanks
for the pep-talk. The curtain
swayed-to behind his visitor,
In the control-room the cap-
tain waited for ten minutes. In
that time there was barely a
word spoken. A rating, passing
through, murmured: Pass
forrard, sir?”
“Yes, please, the first-heu-
tenant answered. A nuggety
youngster who looked hke a
Rugby forward, and probably
was, Number One stood directly
before the depth-gauges, in front
of his legs the two hydroplane-
operators, who were steering the
boat vertically, keeping her at
the sixty feet ordered by the cap-
tain. So finely w ns she bal-
anced, just holding her own at
neutral buoyancy, that the weight
of that man walking forrard
into the torpedo-room sent her
nose down. Instantly the hydro-
plane-operators twirled their
wheels. To help them, and also
to ensure that not too much ver-
tical rudder sent her plunging
up and down. Number One
pressed a button on a panel level
with his face. It operated a
pump in the engine-room. Sud-
denly, into the quiet of the
room, a disembodied voice
sprang from a voice-pipe.
“Number Two tank pumping,
sir.”
A moment; then, “Number
Two tank pumped, sir.”
At her exact sixty-feet the
boat slid on, completely silent
but for the quiet rush of air
from the ventilating trunking.
The only indication of where
she was —under a pressured
column of water sixty feet high
—was a slight trickle which now
and then squeezed through the
housing on to the brass peri-
scope-trunk and zigzagged
slowly down its greased cylinder.
There was something tremen-
dously impressive about that
apparently innocent little runnel
of 'water. For all its silent
trickling, it shouted: “I am
here! Always. Thousands of
tons of me. Here —always.
Waiting.”
If the captain thought about
his omnipresent enemy he gave
no sign. He turned aside and
leant his slight frame over the
chart-table fitted into the
starb’d side under a Clapham-
junction of pipes, looking at the
boat’s position charted by dead-
reckoning by the navigator, who
craned his freckled face back
for him to look.
The captain rubbed his face
reflectively, as though he were
deciding on a shore-going suit,
then stepped to the periscope-
well. “Thirty feet,” he said.
The silent tableau of men
standing by dials and pump-
levers broke into disciplined
life; the hydroplane-wheels
spun.
She angled up cautiously,
almost imperceptibly. Watching
the .big pointers on the depth-
gauges swing, the captain
snapped his fingers. At once,
accompaniment to a faint elec-
tric whirring, the periscope-
trunk slid upward. The cap-
tain met the hand-bars so soon
as they emerged, hanging like a
great bat with arms outstretched
over the twin lenses of the sight.
Suddenly his eyes became twin
reflecting-orbs of brilliant blue,
final receptacles of the sunlight
shafting down from thirty feet
above.
He swung expertly in the same
peculiar motion, scanning the
arcs of horizon and sky.
The control-room crew waited,
silent, a circle of backs before
the dials and levers, the only
movement the spinning of the
hydroplane-wheels and the cat-
like swinging of the captain.
They did not expect a running
commentary; the next order
would tell them everything.
The captain snapped the
hand-bars definitely to the trunk,
stepped back and ordered:
“Down periscope. Surface.”
Sherwood was eating a roast
dinner, propped up with cush-
ions, and feeling considerably
happier than he had been
twenty-four hours earlier, when
he heard again the rush of an
aircraft’s passing funnelled down
the bridge hatch. He tensed.
The roar died to silence, then
came again. This time he identi-
fied the engine which made it —
Firefly.
The navigator’s freckled grin,
poked through the curtain, veri-
fied Sherwood’s identification.
“One of your pigeons. Hawk’s
about 20 miles ahead. We’ll have
you aboard in half an hour.”
“Good show,” Sherwood
grinned back. “Frankly, I won’t
be sorry to get out of this float-
ing pipe of yours.”
The other laughed. “First and
last time a submariner, eh?”
“How right you are,” grinned
Sherwood.
(i Continued on next page )


For Present giving or Party giving
sss
I
w
a
K
■
*5%
e
SBw.
w v> ' >t 'x '*'<%„ *>;
A few bottles of Vickers,
some Vickers Cocktail
Books and some gay
Christmas wrapping paper
. . . and you’re all set to
spread Christmas Cheer
far and wide among your
friends. Vickers Gin is
the Christmas Gift with
a really personal flavour.
Lay in a stock of Vickers
Gin for your Christmas
entertaining, too. It’s easy
to get and sure to please
—p- and so economical.
0
VlCKERS GIN
for Christmas !
Slip a Vickers Cocktail Recipe Book into each
gift parcel. Write now to The United Distillers
Pty. Ltd., Box 759 G, G.P.0., Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, for your free copies.
■Spirits in Moderation Spirit of Hospitality
VGSB/44
CHAPTER II
TJERMAN A. PARSONS
(“Hap,” naturally) was a
member (temporary) of the com-
plement of carrier Hawk dis-
tinguished in several directions.
He was the ship’s helicopter
pilot, loaned from the U.S,
Navy—than which, in Hap’s
ever-ready opinion, there was no
mightier ; he was the only repre-
sentative of the great demarcracy
carried on board ; and he
usually wore, in addition to a
.45 revolver and a strap-flapping
helmet, a grin on his lean and
sunburned face as wide as the
Panhandle.
That grin was a most Versatile
ornament. It could register
happiness—which, that state of
health being Hap’s most nor-
mal, the grin registered most
often ; it could indicate a healthy
feeling of superiority in pro-
fessional ability ; which, that
being definitely the case, as re-
gards to helicopter piloting, it
registered often ; and it could
present, as it did now as Hap
watched the proceedings from
the multiple pom-pom platform
abaft the carrier’s bridge, a
patronising, indulgent contempt
(though that term might be a
little tiarsh to apply .to a nature
as normally happy as Hap’s),
for the flying ability of these
Limeys who took off in their
comparatively Wright-brothers-
vintage craft to do battle beside
the jets of the mighty U.S.N.
Hap made to spit, remem-
bered where he was, and swal-
lowed it, to direct his grinning
gaze again to where the flight-
deck crane was lowering its
wire-extended neck to meet the
submarine towing alongside the
carrier’s rearing bulk.
“Another chick home, eh?”
Hap murmured to himself.
“Goddam shame to let ’em up at
all. Not, leastways, till they gets
some dope on how to really
handle them box-cars from our
guys. Aw well, might as well
take a peek at who it is this
time. That sub. saved me a job,
anyways.”
When he landed on the flight-
deck Hap’s hand went to the
back pocket of his flying over-
alls as naturally as breathing.
It came out with a slab of gum.
Mastication giving a peculiarly
lopsided effect to his perpetual
gfin, the lank Yank strolled
along the stretching deck, to
halt, with arms akimbo, directly
above the submarine. He
addressed one of the aircraft-
handlers standing-by.
“Who is that guy, son?”
Hap was an officer—grin and
gum regardless—and the lead-
ing-airman replied accordingly ;
it taking something more than
*the casual camaraderie of a lone
helicopter-flyer to dent the disci-
pline of the Royal Navy.
“That officer is Lieutenant-
Commander Sherwood, sir.
Commanding-Officer of the Fire-
fly squadron.”
“Hum. How’d he catch it,
son?”
“Ground-fire, sir. The sub-
marine picked him up yesterday.”
“Yes, I see that, son,” Hap
murmured, peering over with in-
terest as the slings of the crane
were hooked on to the stretcher.
“These boys oughta know by
now that them Gooks rate a
cannon or two. Still, a guy
must admit it’d be a sittin’ shot
with the crates they fly.”
A little knot of - muscles
ridged themselves along the sea-
man’s jaw. He replied to Hap:
“Yes, sir,” and busied himself
unnecessarily with a guy-rope
to the stretcher ; to himself he
muttered: “Bloody Yank!
Sherwood was flyin’ before that
jumped-up baboon wet his
pants.” /
A deck-officer waved his hand
slowly. The crane took the
we i g ht and slowly and smoothly
drew thepSr up from the
narrow-gu«ed casing of the sub-
marine, up past the outward-
curving grey wall of the carrier’s
rearing side, over the Bofors
sponsons studding the edge of
her flight-deck with their black-
barrelled menace, then on above
to the*gently-heaving acreage of
the deck itself, on which twenty
submarines could have been
easily accommodated.
sh y rwood could not stifle a
feeling of self-consciousness as
he saw the circle of interested
faces waiting below him on the
ec ; ... -
This is. how the conquering
hero did not feel, he grinned to
himself. While the wane was
lowering he looked round for
Baumer. Not that he expected to
see him there-the great panjan-
drum would send for him, or
await his report; treating his
squadron-commander with the,
same indication of his remote
power of command that he
would show to an ordinary-sea-
man.
Sherwood noticed the surgeon
standing beside Swan, the Fury
C.O. As the stretcher swayed
gently to the deck both stepped
forward ; Swan concerned, the
doc. professionally hearty.
“Well, you bloody galoot,
Swan greeted him affectionately,
“what’ve you been up to?”
Sherwood grinned back at the
concern behind the spurious
cheerfulness. Nice bloke. Swan,
Nicer each time he flew with
him. Slight, browned, balding
—and as solid as anchor-chain.
“Nothing much, Swannie.
Gook bul f et , Am i after that
. sub.’s 5.8. A., nothing the doc.
can do will make it worse."
“That’s what you think,”
laughed the young surgeon, his
eyes glinting with professional
eagerness. Let s have a look
before we move you."
Deftly he removed the band-
ages. Swan waved the onlookers
back—sailors being a gory, as
well as a sentimental, lot.
“H’m,” decided the surgeon,
“Clean and sweet. I’d take back
what I said about that S.B.A. if
I were you. First-aid party —
into the sickbay. Easy, now.”
Lying on his back, his head
facing the island structure, Sher-
wood glanced up at the cliff of
steel as he waited for them to
manoeuvre the stretcher through
the bulkhead door. He saw a
lar f ef ePt for a huge
scar which 1 sed the redness
from left ear to mouth-corner,
!°° kl ] nS frn^nnH t pr h IIS/ SU V eptl ‘
J?o us ly from under lowered eyc-
hds from the flying-control
position thirty feet above the
deck At once the scarred face
turned away, but not before
Sherwood saw the curl of the
fu” hps.
“Bastard " he muttered
savagely. He replaced his sud-
den irei with a grin as Swan
missed you. He’s
most cut-up about your
absence . withouWe P ave ?. u your
. . y c - .
she >°° “P “ t0 t . th r
a nd „g on’ top'of" to stol
gan a minute pixie-cap
UK , P answer P ed
..7., „ , . /
noticed ea S<* look of wel-
come-.
{To be continued next week)
Captain Arthur Phillip
and the Birds
Copper-green Phillip,
with a beak like a hawk,
perches on his pedestal
and will not talk
to the stuttering starlings
fluttering around,
or the crumb-seeking pigeons
patterning the ground;
and though daylong
bird calls to bird,
copper-green Phillip
says never a word,
Copper-green Phillip
just stares and stands
with a scroll and a flag
in his strong bronze hands,
and the birds may wonder
what’s on the scroll:
is it th& Sirius’s
pilgrims’ roll;
or, perhaps, a commission;
or a declaration,
washing his hands
of the subsequent nation;
or, even, an inventory
of flocks and herds?—
but Royal Navy captains
never talk to birds.
Copper-green Phillip
just stands and stares
away down the Harbor
at the rolling years,
and the birds all gossip
of the nation’s vices,
and of some of her virtues,
and of whom she entices,
but whether she’s Magdalene,
or whether she’s Martha,
it’s all the same
to Captain Arthur.
n.s.w.
LEX BANNING.


Amazing Problem, Amazing Solution
Crisis in Arcadia
By H. V. HOWE
i “NERY early in its history
I / the Dutch East India Com-
\i pany learned that the most
v insignificant native wars
interfered seriously with the
profits of the spice-trade, and
to eliminate as far as possible
all causes of such troubles its
Governors -in - Council strictly
ordained that in no circumstances
whatever should its Residents in
the Indies interfere with estab-
lished native customs which did
not threaten the revenues of the
Company or the lives or pro-
perty of Dutch subjects.
This instruction remained a
cardinal principle of Dutch
policy until the end of their rule
in Indonesia.
In 1750 the Company found
necessary a revictualling-point
for its ships about halfway be-
tween Batavia and the farthest
east spice-islands of Amboina
and Ternate. A fleet was accord-
ingly dispatched to throw the
Portuguese out of the western
half of Timor and establish a
garrison of Dutch and Ambonese
troops at Koepang, the capital.
Development of the spice-
trade was then the Company’s
sole objective in the East. As
no spices grew in Timor there _
was no attempt at development
there and the Dutch occupation
made no difference whatever to
the native population.
The men fished, hunted and
pottered about at canoe-build-
mg Or other handicrafts. The.
women tended the gardens and
maize-patches, wove cloth for
the family sarongs, cooked and
cared for the children. The in-
numerable fowls, pigs, goats,
ponies, buffalo and dogs looked
after themselves.
Sea, forest, gardens and live-
stock provided abundance of
food in infinite variety for a
minimum of labor. Betel-nut
and tobacco grew wild. A
bamboo slipped over the cut
fruit-spathe of a palm-tree filled
in twenty-four hours with .toddy
as light and refreshing as good
lager beer ; if allowed to ferment
for three days it acquired the
characteristics of overproof rum.
Any new house required could
be built in two. or three days
with materials from the.nearest
clumps of bamboos and palms.
For amusements there Were the
village dances and sports-meet-
ings and performances by the
troupes of actors and musicians
who travelled from village to
village.
Any Koepanger feeling the
need of change or more excite-
ment than available at home
could always slip away to the
hills to kidnap a new wife or in-
dulge in a little quiet headhunt-
ing. To the townsfolk the hills
were a holiday-resort offering
attractions not yet afforded by
the most expensive modern
tourist-resorts. The hillmen re-
garded Koepang as a metropolis
providing similar diversions.
+ -f
The natives of Dutch Timor
were thoroughly happy and con-
tented with their lot. Each
worked for his own family and
tribe and for nobody else. They
had no money and wanted none.
They could not —and did not
want to —understand why any
man should work for another
except in communal tribal activi-
ties.
The only inhabitants of the
island who worked for wages
and knew the use of money
were the Dutch officials and their
household servants (brought
from other "islands to fill jobs
the Koepangers would not take),
the Chinese and Arab store-
keepers, and the Ambonese
soldiers of the garrison, about
10 per cent, of whom deserted
and took to the hills each year.
For a hundred years there was
no change in Timor. Then col-
lapse of their monopoly of the
spice-trade forced upon the
Dutch the alternative of either
vacating the Indies or developing
other commerce to meet the
cost of their island establish-
ments.
In 1850 there arrived in Koe-
pang from, Batavia a young and
ambitious Resident charged with
implementation of the new
policy. He was fully aware of
the position in Timor, which
was similar to that of other
islands in which he had already
succeeded in substantial develop-
ment of trade. He knew the only
thing he had to do was to in-
spire the natives with the desire
for money and commerce would
flourish as inevitably as night
followed day.
The technique of such inspira-
tion was thoroughly understood
by the Dutch and provided for
in the Governor-General’s regu-
lations issued from Batavia,
which had been framed speci-
fically to inculcate the profit-
motive in island populations
without exciting resentment
“What do we want with pergolas and barbecues? Everyone's got them.”
which might lead to an endless
succession of native wars,
• Imposition of a poll-tax on
the adult male population, with
a penalty of ten days’ imprison-
ment for non-payment, forced
the men either to accept work
for wages or to sell native pro-
duce for money with which to
pay the tax. In all the larger
islands imprisonment was re-
garded as a hardship to be
avoided at all costs, artd im-:
mediately the natives realised
that money was useful for other
purposes as well as payment of
taxes they became eager for its
acquisition.
Prison- regulations ordained
that prisoners should receive a
morning and evening meal, each
consisting of a pound of rice
and an equal quantity of meat
or fish and vegetable curry ; that
the labor to which they were
subject should impose no undue
strain upon their physical capa-
city ; that on Saturday after-
noons each should receive ten
stripes across the buttocks with
a rattan cane one metre in
length; and that wives' and
families should oe permittea 10
visit them on Sundays between
3 p.m. and 10 p.m.
The Resident knew the first
essential to implementation of
the new policy was a jail to
accommodate the inevitable tax-
defaulters. He therefore set the
garrison to work building one
large enough for five hundred
prisoners. On the bank of the
river, which provided splendid
bathing facilities, its courtyards
and rows of white cells shaded
by huge forest trees left standing
for the purpose, with everything
in strict accordance with Nether-
lands Indies prison regulations,
the jail, when complete, was a
job of which the Resident felt
he could be proud. There was
no better jail in Batavia itself.
• All being ready, he called
together the native Rajahs—of
whom there is one to every
second or third village in Timor
—and told them that in future
every laki (male head of a family)
would be required to pay a tax
of three guilders (five shillings)
per annum, that the penalty for
non-payment was ten days’ im-
prisonment with hard labor, and
that the first would
take place in one month from
that day.
He carefully explained that
their people could obtain the
necessary money by sale to the
Chinese merchants, or to the
Dutch authorities, of the buffalo-
hides, sandalwood, ebony, copra,
maize and innumerable other
products of commercial value
in which the island abounded.
The Rajahs listened politely,
but with little interest, and on
conclusion of the address quietly
dispersed to their villages.
On the appointed day armed
squads from the garrison de-
scended upon the twenty-five
nearest villages, each with orders
to collect as much taxation as
possible and to arrest not more
than twenty defaulters. By mid-
day the patrols had returned to
barracks, each with its full quota
of prisoners, but without a cent
in taxation.
Everything had gone as the.
Resident expected. He was sure
that imprisonment of these five
hundred men would spur the
rest of the population to payment
of taxation to avoid jail. At the
same time he hoped to be able
to round up another two or
three hundred defaulters every
ten days to provide an adequate
force of prison-labor to build
roads through the town and a
sea-wall around the foreshores
of Koepang Bay, both of which
he planned to commence at
once.
Lined up in the barrack square,
unhappy and bewildered, the
prisoners heard him sentence
them en masse to ten- days’ im-
prisonment with hard labor, and
were then marched off, under
escort, to jail.
Next morning they were all at
work on the roads and sea-wall,
each of them unconsciously
adhering to prison regulations
by taking particular care that
the labor to which he was sub-
ject imposed no undue strain
upon his physical capacity.
That evening, from his ver-
anda just across the river from
the jail, the Resident watched
them bathing. To him they
seemed unduly cheerful, shouting
and singing as they splashed in
the water. In all other islands
of which he had had experience,
tax-defaulters had remained
sullen and taciturn, bitterly re-
senting the loss of liberty en-
tailed by their imprisonment,
The Koepangers, however.
seemed quite happy about it.
“They won’t be so happy on
Saturday afternoon,” chuckled
the Resident to himself.
Quite unaware of what was in
store for them, at noon on Satur-
day the prisoners marched
briskly back to jail, to find them-
selves surrounded by a strong
armed-guard from the barracks,
Suddenly apprehensive, they
stood silent as soldiers dragged
the first twenty to the whipping-
benches.
As the sturdy Ambonese
sergeants laid on with their canes
the tension was broken by howls
of laughter at the antics of the
victims, all of whom, when re-
leased, rushed to the river to
cool their burning sterns in its
damp sands, and then rushed
back again to enjoy the plight of
their successors. Never previ-
ously had such superb entertain-
ment been provided in Koepang.
Next day, although the
majority preferred resting on
their stomachs to sitting on the
floors of their cells, they were
found in excellent condition by
their anxious wives and children,
who were given full account of
the rigors of prison life, of‘which,
as expected by the Resident,
they fully informed their villages
upon return home.
Immediately upon release of
the first prisoners another batch
were arrested, sentenced and im-
prisoned. Again no taxation was
collected. The third'and fourth
batches of defaulters went in and
out of jail and still no money
was forthcoming from the
villagers. *
The Resident was puzzled. In
the other islands he had
governed, imprisonment of the
first batch of defaulters had m-
sulted in a rush to pay by the
rest of the population. Obvi-
ously some factor peculiar to the
island, of which he was unaware,
was preventing similar success
in Timor.
At this stage the Rajahs re-
quested another conference, to
which he readily agreed. At the
meeting he observed to his great
satisfaction that they all appeared
very worried.
“Tuan Resident,” said their
spokesman, “all is not well in
the villages. Our people wish to
meet their tax obligations to
the Government, but complain
they cannot do so. There are
more than forty thousand men
in our villages, and, with only
one jail, more than two years
must elapse before they can all
serve one prison-term to pay
their first year’s tax. Moreover,
some of the unscrupulous among
us have contrived to have them-
selves arrested twice, and have
served two sentences before the
majority of their fellow-villagers
have been able to get into jail
once. This is most unfair. We
ask you to build more jails and
to make a law that no man shall
go to jail twice until every other
man in his village has served
one Sentence.”
Patiently the Resident ex-
plained there was no need for
anyone to go to jail—all the
people had to do was to sell their
produce and pay their tax with
•the money received.
“Tuan Resident,” replied the
Rajahs, “that would be foolish
indeed, for those who paid their
taxes wculd not be able to eat
rice in jail for ten days.”
+ . +
The shocked Resident realised
immediately the reason for
failure of tax-collections in
Timor. The people were maize-
eaters, to whom rice was the
greatest of luxuries, eaten per-
haps once or twice a year by
the few able to obtain it, but
never tasted by the great
majority. To them, imprison-
ment of a fortunate few in a.
jail where rice was provided
twice daily was conclusive evi-
dence of the Government’s bene-
volence, which all were impatient
to share.
Dismissing the Rajahs with a
promise to consider their re-
quests, the Resident immediately
wrote the Governor-General in
Batavia a full explanation of
local conditions and requested
permission to substitute maize for
rice in the prison-diet of the
island. He considered approval
a mere matter of routine and
confidently awaited the reply.
In due course it arrived.
Signed by the Governor-General
himself, it was a severe
reprimand for his temerity in
suggesting alterations of regula-
tions issued from Batavia.
“You are,” wrote the
Governor-General, “quite aware
that Dutch treaties with all native
rulers provide for equal treat-
ment of all native subjects
throughout the Indies. If maize
is included in the prison-diet of
Timor, it will be demanded, and
will have to be supplied, in ail
other islands. The cost to the
central Government would be
enormous, as it would have to
be procured from the few locali-
ties in which it is grown and
distributed over the whole archi-
pelago. Moreover, as maize is
considered a luxury by the rice-
eating peoples, who constitute
80 per cent, of the population,
its provision as a jail-ration
would popularise imprisonment
and completely disrupt the tax-
collection throughout the islands.
“You will adhere strictly and
without question to regulations
issued from Batavia. Any
further indiscretion on your part
will be seriously regarded by my
Council.”
Reading the letter, the stunned
Resident realised it meant the
end of all his ambitions. Failure
to collect taxation would pre-
vent any prospect of promotion,
and the best he could hope for
was to retain the Timor Resi-
dency and not be transferred to
a less desirable post.
For a few wild moments he
considered offering a prison-
term as reward for payment of
taxation, but dropped the idea
promptly as it would have neces-
sitated building prison accommo-
dation for the whole male popu-
lation of Timor. Concluding
that the laws of the Medes and
Persians were flexible and un-
stable as compared with the
edicts of Batavia, he resigned
C Continued on next page )


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOX $
OSIIIXIVAV
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson ft Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
m
&HERE
■
- g 9AHOI WOKS
Poiscwm
*>«•*•:
in
H
..■
„
"Where
Strange
Paths
Go
Down"
By
Mrs.A.M.Duncan-Kemp
PRICE 21/-
Posted 21/9
EXCELLENT REVIEWS
"THE BULLETIN.”
“Where Strange Paths Go Down” is a really
rare and original work.
As a child Mrs.. Duncan-Kemp tagged along
with black gins on their walk-abouts, and so
came to know them, not as enquiring scientists,
or as sentimental journalists, but as people
who had to live with them.
“THE MELBOURNE ARGUS.”
Mrs. A. M. Duncan-Kemp’s “Where Strange
Paths Go Down” is a story of a girlhood spent
in the “Comer”- —portion of south-western
Queensland and the north of South Australia —
before the blacks, as tribes, tragically vanished.
It is filled with fascinating stories, filled with
bush lore and the beauty and heroism of a
day long dead.
This book is one that will
be widely read
Obtainable from all Booksellers and Stores
or direct from the Publishers
W. R. SMITH & PATERSON PTY., LTD.
KEMP PEACE, VALLEY, BRISBANE.
himself to the inevitable and
obeyed his latest instructions.
Another sixty years passed
without change. Each succes-
sive Resident had ideas about
tax-collection, which, however,
he promptly dropped on reading
the files of his predecessor.
Year after year five hundred
tax-defaulters went in and out
of Koepang jail every ten days.
They worked continuously on
the roads and sea-wall. They
built magnificent roads, smooth-
surfaced, with deep drainage-
ditches to carry off the tropic
rains, and kept in perpetual shade
by the huge forest trees growing
on either side. No ruts ever
scarred their surface, for there
were no wheeled vehicles in the
island. The sea-wall was a
splendid structure, with each
stone carefully cut to shape and
cemented into place and the con-
venience of bathers served by
steps to the beach every hundred
yards or so.
By the beginning of this
century the prisoners had built
fifteen miles of road and half a
mile of sea-wall. Never before
in history had so many accom-
plished so little in so long a time.
Koepang continued on its con-
tented way until November,
1912, when from the monthly
steamer there landed two un-
distinguished Chinese, of starved
and poverty-stricken appearance,
with their worldly possessions
contained in four battered,
medium-size packing-cases. •
Without delay the new arrivals
secured the grant of some land
on the outskirts of the town,
and from sunrise to sunset every
day they labored there, erecting
around their property a stockade
of split bamboo, concave and
convex surfaces so interlocked
that, when the structure was
complete, there remained no
chink through which the inquisi-
tive outsider could view what
went on within.
On New Year’s Eve runners
went through the villages to in-
form the people that every night
for one week, commencing that
evening, they were invited to
view the marvels within the
stockade.
Only about a hundred old
men and women-—too feeble to
join in their village amusements
—accepted the invitation on the
opening night. Entering the
stockade at sunset, in the rapidly-
fading light they saw a vast
expanse of bamboo benches. A
small area at one end was railed-
off and roofed-over. Within the
rails were a few dozen cane
chairs. Behind them was a small
room with a window facing a
large scaffold in the centre of
the enclosure from which hung
a sheet of white canvas.
The visitors were asked to seat
themselves and wait a few
minutes.
As the last light faded from
the sky, blurred shadows moved
“Hold it, miss! Hold it!”
across the canvas screen, in a
few moments taking shape as
men and women, horses and
cattle, Indians and cowboys . . .
The cinema had come to Koe-
pang!
For a few minutes the audi-
ence sat spellbound. Then they
screamed with delight and sat
through the rest of the pro-
gramme in a state of ecstatic
hysteria.
Returning home, they sat up
all night telling their incredulous
fellow-villagers of the miracles
they had seen.
Next day a crowd commenced
to assemble at the entrance to the
stockade shortly after noon.
When the doors opened at sunset
four thousand natives* crammed
themselves into a space meant to
hold a third of that number, and
as many more left outside
clamored for admission.
The audience was no less en-
thusiastic than that of the first
night. Troops, on duty as police,
had to clear the theatre at the
end of the programme, and to
meet the vociferous demands of
those who had failed to secure
admission the Chinese pro-
prietors were forced to run
second and third sessions.
+ +
The whole population of Koe-
pang spent the next five days
squatting as near to the picture-
theatre as they could get, await-
ing the opportunity to enter.
The films ran from dark to dawn.
One company of troops was con-
tinually on duty controlling the
crowds inside and outside the
theatre. The soldiers not on
duty waited among the crowd for
their chance to get in to the
pictures.
On the seventh day the pro-
prietor informed his patrons that,
as he and his partner had to
eat and pay for the hire of their
films, henceforth admission
would be five cents (one penny)
to sit in front of the screen from
whence the captions (all rewritten
ip Malay before dispatch of the
films from Singapore) could be
read, and two and a half cents
to sit behind the screen from
where the pictures could be
seen in reverse but the captions
were illegible. The cane chairs
under the roof were intended for
Dutch officials and were priced
at twenty-five cents.
He explained—as had the
Resident sixty years previously
—that the money for admission
could easily be obtained by sale
of native produce.
Next morning every man,
woman and child from the Koe-
pang villages was hard at work
in the adjacent forest cutting
sandalwood and ebony or hunt-
ing buffalo for their bides. By
midday strings of laden ponies
were being driven along every
track leading to the Chinese
stores, and that night—and on
every subsequent night—the
picture-theatre was packed to
capacity by an audience of
which every member had paid
for admittance. By the end of
the week the cane chairs were
filled by the Dutch officials for
whom they were intended. All
Koepang was going to the
pictures.
At the next tax-collection each
village paid its quota in full —
nobody wanted to go to jail when
they could go to the pictures.
For the first time since it had
been built the prison was empty.
The Resident was jubilant. He
had succeeded where all others
had failed, and would conse-
quently be marked by Batavia
for early and rapid promotion.
Six weeks later he was not so
happy. Every stick of sandal-
wood and ebony growing within
twenty miles of Koepang had
been cut and was stacked high
along the sea-wall awaiting ex-
port. The wild buffalo in the
area had been killed or driven
further afield. Throughout the
territory of the Koepang tribes
the forests were completely de-
nuded of saleable products.
'The flow of trade—and oi
taxation —nevertheless continued.
News of the pictures had spread
to the hills, and the mountain
tribes were bringing down then
produce for sale, and occupier
the majority of the seats in the
picture-theatre while the im-
poverished Koepangers brooded
at home on their financial
troubles.
Wives nagged husbands for
not taking them and their
children to the pictures. Girls
jilted their local swains and took
up with the affluent hillmen who
were able, and only too willing,
to provide the desired entertain-
ment.
Village councils discussed the
position, and several of them,
deciding it could no longer be
tolerated when the remedy lay
in their own hands, sent out
armed bands of young men to
ambush the forest tracks, relieve
the hillmen of their produce, and
bring back the wherewithal to
take their fellow-villagers to the
pictures. All returned in
triumph, driving strings of laden
ponies. A number of the young
warriors carried newly-severed
heads of hillmen, which tremend-
ously enhanced the prestige of
their takers.
The hillmen promptly
countered this move by travelling
in parties four- or five-hundred
strong, determined if necessary
to fight their way into the pic-
tures, and frequently entered the
town carrying the heads of
defeated parties of Koepangers
who had tried to ambush them.
Before long pitched battles
between whole tribes were of
daily occurrence on one or other
of the tracks leading from the
hills. The Resident could do
nothing to stop them, for he had
only one battalion of troops at
his disposal, which was now fully
occupied keeping order in the
town. A full division would
have been necessary to patrol the
forest tracks and prevent fight-
ing between the tribesmen.
He knew the next development
would be combination of hill and
coast tribes to fight each other,
and he would then have full-
scale civil-war on his hands, with
the possibility that both sides
might turn against the authori-
ties and force the garrison and
small Dutch population to take
refuge in the fort and hold on
there until relieved by troops
from the division in Macassar —
xlve hundred miles away.
He was also quite aware that
any call for additional troops
would result in his immediate
and ignominious dismissal from
the Government service, for, as
there had been no previous
trouble in Timor throughout the
hundred and sixty years of Dutch
occupation, he would be blamed
for the present disturbances —
and the authorities in .Batavia
gave short shrift to Residents
who failed to keep order in their
territories.
The idea occurred to him of
stopping the trouble at its source
by closing the picture-theatre,
but he realised that such action
would probably precipitate a
mutiny among his Ambonese
troops, who were as obsessed
by the pictures as were the
Timorese.
The only prospect, therefore,
of improving the position lay in
somehow persuading the belliger-
ents to cease hostilities. With
this object in view he summoned
all Rajahs to a meeting at the
Residency, commanding them to
come unattended except by the
escorts of soldiers he provided
to guarantee safe conduct to and
from Koepang.
When the conference
assembled the Rajahs told the
Resident they all desired peace,
but their people were determined
to see the pictures, peacefully or
otherwise.
The coast Rajahs pointed out
that their forest resources were
exhausted, that their people
could not make copra until the
end of the wet season, and that
they would have no maize for
sale until the next harvest. At
least six months must elapse be-
fore their people could earn
picture-money within their own
territories. They could not send
their men into the hills to cut
forest products, for the hill tribes
would ambush and kill them as
they worked. In these circum-
stances the coast Rajahs could
not prevent their men attacking
and robbing the hill convoys for
picture-money.
The hill Rajahs retorted that
if they permitted the Koepangers
to cut sandalwood and ebony
and hunt buffalo in the hills the
whole country would soon be
stripped as bare as the coastal
area. Then nobody would be
able to earn any money and the
pictures would have to close
down. Their people would fight
to the last man to prevent such
a calamity.
+ +
Both sides stood firm on the
issue. Notwithstanding their ex-
pressed desire for peace, they
were obviously determined to
fight it out. At the end of four
days’ heated debate the confer-
ence was no farther ahead and
had talked itself to a standstill.
All sat silent and sullen await-
ing the next move. The most
powerful of the hill Rajahs broke
the deadlock.
“Let the Resident send for
Pteros,” he said.
Instantly from every Rajah at
the conference there arose a
unanimous and enthusiastic cry ;
“Send for Pteros! Send for
Pteros!”
That was the last thing the
Resident wished to do. In his
opinion that gentleman’s prestige
among the native population
already stood too high, and he
had no intention of doing any-
thing to enhance it.
Until forced by a Dutch gun-
boat to retire from the profession
and serve a five-year sentence at
the Tanah Merah penal settle-
ment in New Guinea, Pteros had
been Koepang’s most successful
piVate. Each year, with the last
of the south-east trade-winds, in
his prahu with its two-pounder
muzzle-loading gun, he had sailed
two hundred miles north-west to
the island of Flores, and there
preyed its coastal com-
merce—village craft carrying
rice to Maumari, the capital. Six
or eight weeks later, with the
first westerly winds, Pteros came
back to Koepang, his prahu
laden to capacity with rice, and
with several new heads to add
to those already hanging from
the ridge-poles of his and his
crews’ dwellings. He usually
o Continued on page 49)


Lions in the Spinifex
by Gavin Casey
WHEN the private yacht
Okie disappeared it
created no great sensa-
tion. Henry Lack, the
American owner-skipper, was
rich, but not that rich, and when
he vanished in the tropics his
widow was much more interested
in how rich than in his possible
survival and whereabouts.
He was a strange, eccentric
wanderer who kept himself rich
in some queer ways, and when
the Okie went cruising along the
African coast, down through the
islands of the Far East, and then
in the general direction of South
America, few were likely to
know what Lack was up to.
Drugs pr guns were possibilities,
or even honest articles of com-
merce if there was enough profit
in handling them.
His final disappearance was
almost certainly the result of
tropical cyclones that had raged
at the time, but just where the
Okie had foundered nobody
knew and few cared. For a long
while previously, for some reason
of his own. Lack had avoided
places where there were port-
authorities, and he had a kanaka
crew picked up here and there
without the signing and register-
ing of any papers or any likely
formality other than a few kicks
and hard cracks soon after re-
cruitment to force home the idea
that, while the voyage might be
a picnic for him, it was not to
be one for them. What he had
aboard, other than the crew and
plenty of Jamaica rum, was no-
body else’s business. And since
it seemed to be all at the bottom
of the sea anyway, nobody over-
exerted themselves to find out.
Had the authorities been more
curious, they would have dis-
covered at least one unusual
thing, and had they ever found
out what had became of Lack
the matter would certainly have
made newspaper-headlines. For,
as it happened, the American
had not quietly drowned. He
had been killed and partly eaten
—with some distaste, because of
his rummy flavor —by two wet,
hungry and very irritated lions,
on a desolate Australian beach;
r T'HE lions that ate him had
belonged to Lack, who had
got them, in return for three
rifles and a thousand rounds of
ammunition that didn’t fit, from
a minor African chief; He had
hoped, eventually, to sell them
to a South American zoo with
which he had had some earlier
dealings, but there were no bills
of lading or other commercial
papers covering the lions, and
when they had disposed of their
owner they were freer than they
knew. They moved inland, and
on the second day, when they
were hungry again, they caught
up with the only member of
Lack’s kanaka crew who had
fought his way ashore through
the storm that had wrecked the
Okie and burst open the animals’
cage. Because of hunger, and
with no idea of preventing him
from reaching civilisation to
report that they were abroad,
they ate him, too.
After that, the lions had a
pretty hard time. Immediately
inland from the sea there was a
lot of desolate, sandhill country
inhabited only by small, quick
creatures, mainly reptiles or
birds, that were hard or impos-
sible to catch and not a decent
meal when caught. Then there
was stony ground with stunted
scrub, and occasional kangaroos.
The kangaroos were tough,
muscly, and swift when they
smelled danger, but they were
nourishing and did not taste of
rum, and the lions felt better.
But the best meal they had
for days was a small, aboriginal
boy, whose friends and relatives
fled shrieking before the lions
far out of their tribal country,
and were mostly massacred by
the tribe that had rights to the
adjacent stretch of spinifex, red
clay and rock outcrops.
Some of the females who had
seen the lions survived, however,
and told the story about them,
and eventually the adventure was
re : enacted in fearsome corro-
borees, A few years later an
excited anthropologist was
laughed to scorn by most of his
contemporaries when he deduced
from the formal dances that the
country had once been inhabited
by some sort of huge, roaring,
carnivorous beast. The less
scholarly white men who, in the
years after the escape of the
lions, began slowly establishing
a little pearling port just along
the coast from where the beasts
had landed ha& a different and
simpler explanation.
“It’s just th’ bloody old
bunyip, with more hair an’
whiskers, that’s all it is,” an-
nounced Cuttlefish Joe Watson.
“Them niggers got bunyips all
over th’ place, an’ that’s the one
for here,”
‘ “I can’t agree, Mr. Cuttlefish,”
said the anthropologist, who was
very young and keen on his
theory. “These dances have
much in common with the lion-
dances of the Oompabele tree-
dwellers of the delta of the
Umpabauble River. They are
based on ancient truth, I’m sure.”
Cuttlefish Joe laughed, with
the grating, wheezing noise of a
ton of pearlshell sliding into a
ship’s hold while the donkey-
engine leaks steam. “Ho!” he
said. “T’ hell with the ancient
truths. These niggers reckon
them bunyips is still there. Can’t
git a blackfeller t’ go near th’
country inland an’ north o’ here
for love or money.”
BUT while the learned and the
" ignorant whites thus argued
the natives knew. What had
happened had been that the lions
had settled in a long, shallow
gully, in from the sea across the
sand and through the scrub, and
over a gibber-plain that had hurt
their pads and annoyed them
very much. In the gully they
had found an underground rock-
hole that always held water, and
that the aborigines had used
fpr generations. Here they had
not only been able to drink, but
kad found fine hunting because
me kangaroos and lesser
creatures had come to drink
also. They had settled down
comfortably, and begun to hreed.
Luckily they had not b*een as
prolific as rabbits arid various
other pests that had reached
Australia from overseas, but as
the years went on and the town-
ship on the coast developed, they
had several litters of cubs, and
the cubs grew to maturity, and
after a while there was not a
pair but a whole pride of lions
in the hidden gully across the
barren country where no white
men ever went.
The settlement had grown as
big as it was ever likely to be,
and included a few women and
children and a small church as
well as a pub, when Jerry Break-
away, an old abo. from the south,
found himself in possession of a
child’s picture-book, and ex-
citedly brought a page of it to
Cuttlefish Joe.
“Him-feller bunyip,” Jerry
jabbered, pointing to a picture.
“Him-feller allasame bunyip.
No plurry good.”
Cuttlefish Joe looked, and saw
a picture of a lion. He looked,
and roared with mirth, and
wished the young anthropologist
were still about. There would
have been fun for days, pulling
the anthropologist’s leg about the
lion-bunyip, but the anthro-
pologist had gone south, got into
scientific disrepute because of
his theories, and become a
chartered accountant. Cuttle-
fish kicked Jerry’s rear, unmalici-
ously but hard enough to main-
tain discipline, and forgot about
it.
OLD Coolgardie Jack, a lone
prospector, arrived in the
town, moved off inland to have
a look at the country, and never
came back. Nobody worried,
because Coolgardie Jack had
never been known to come back
to anywhere, anyway —he just
went on, to some other place.
But this time, had the townsfolk
only known it, he had gone no
further than the gully thirty miles
away, where he had given the
lions an interesting change of
diet, arousing in the old, stiff-
limbed grey ones tantalising
memories of Lack, but with a
whisky rather than a rum flavor,
and giving the young lions new
and disturbing ideas.
Then eight-year-old Johnny
Wotherspoon, son of the man-
ager of the shell depot, came
back from one of the wanderings
he carried further than any of
the other children, and announced
firmly that he had seen a lion
just over the sandhills. He and
the lion had looked at each other
for a minute or so and then the
lion had gone away.
“Don’t be silly!” Johnny’s
mother snapped at him. “There
aren’t any lions in Australia.”
“This one was in Australia,
unless I was somewhere else,”
Johnny insisted. “It was a big
lion, with yellow eyes and hair
all round its neck,”
“Stop talking nonsense,” his
mother ordered, up to her arm-
pits in the weekly wash. “Go
away and play, or I’ll tan your
hide.”
Johnny went away and played,
not too near the sandhills, be-
cause although the lion he had
seen had done nothing to him he
had read and heard some peculiar
things about lions. That night,
when he was safely in bed, his
mother mentioned the matter to
his dad.
“I don’t know how that boy
imagines the things he does,” she
said, in despair. “Today he was
talking about seeing a lion in the
bush.”
“Perhaps he reads too much,”
her husband grunted, reading
himself in a cloud of quiet, even-
ing pipe-smoke.
“He reads too much, and he
wanders op his own too much.
I don’t know how to keep him
home,” the wife said.
“Well, no lions’ll get him,
around here, anyway,” Wother-
spoon commented, amused by the
idea. To console his wife he
added, “Don’t worry about his
mad ideas. The psychologists
say it’s quite common for boys
about his age to dream and make
up stories about wolves and
savage beasts. It’s just a phase.”
The Wotherspoons followed
Johnny to bed, and slept much
more peacefully and soundly
than they might have had they
known that, for the brightest
hour of the night’s moonlight,
tyvo healthy and curious young
lions were stretched on top of
the highest sandhill behind the
township, watching the chimney-
smoke droop and die over the
rooftops of the clustered dwell-
ings as the lights went out. The
lions got a mild fright when, in
the middle of the night, the pub
rouseabout loaded his boiler fire-
place with logs, and sent flames
and sparks shooting high out
of the tin chimney like a volcano.
They stood up with their tails
stiff and their muscles tense, and
then jogged off through the scrub
and across the gibber plain to
where they belonged.
HOW long this situation might
have been maintained (in a
district where there were no
hunters for anything except
pearls, shell, grog and rest) had
not a hunter come to the settle-
ment is doubtful.
But a hunter did arrive. He
was Sep Hooker, a lean, dark,
sunburned battler who roamed
the country systematically
destroying anything that had a
skin or a scalp worth money,
and he was on the way further
north to have a go at the alli-
gators. For sentimental reasons
he had with him two of the
kangaroo-dogs, nearly as big as
lion§ but not so heavy, that had ;
been part of the pack with which i
he had been after ’roos in the
south and dingoes in the sheep-'
country that bordered the Nui-
larbor plains.
He v/ould have passed through
the settlement without a pause
for more than a drink but for
Kay Dunstan, a local natural-
blonde, by nature sweet and
contented, who had nonetheless
been wondering for some years
what lay beyond the township
—without thinking about lions.
When Sep saw Kay the hunting
gleam came into his eye, and
he began to make inquiries about
how a man like him with two
kangaroo-dogs could make a
living in the district.
“Go out as shell-opener on a
lugger. That’s the only way,
mate,” the publican advised him.
“I’ve been seasick on the Yarra
River,” Sep said gloomily.
“Then you better go some-
where else. There’s nothing but
pearling here.”
“Isn’t there anything to hunt?”
Sep asked, plaintively. “Kan-
garoos? Dingoes? Anything at
all?”
“Oysters,” the publican said.
“No kangaroo- or dingo-bonus,
and as, far as I know no kan-
garoos or dingoes, either.”
The lions could have told him
more about the kangaroos, and
also about the dingoes, which
had taken a dislike to them and
moved elsewhere. But the only
other person present at the time
to speak was Ted the Lug, an
opener then engaged in drinking
out the last few pounds of what
had been a fat cheque.
“Mister, there’s lions,” Ted
declared hoarsely, from the
other end of the bar. “There’s
rotten big lions just back in the
bush a bit. I seen two of ’em,
on two different occasions.”
The publican cackled with
weary amusement, “Ted was
seein’ striped elephants a fort-
night ago,” he said.' “He must
be gettin’ better now, ’cause the
bloody lions on’y come one at
a time, an’ the elephants used
to come after him in herds.”
“There’s lions,” Ted yelled.
“Listen, mister, he don’t believe
in anything that ain’t out of a
bottle, but you come up in th’
sandhills an’ I’ll show you the
tracks.”
Sep was patient with eccen-
trics, but it was hot and uninvit-
ing outside. He lifted a quizzical
eyebrow and said, “Okay, mate,
but what about another drink
first?”
After the drink Ted was pur-
sued by pythons in Elizabethan
collars, arid the subject of lions
was dropped by common con-
sent.
T>Y late afternoon of the next
** day Sep had progressed far
enough with Kay Dunstan to
be seeking privacy with her, and
in the township there was no
privacy except for people who
swam far out to sea or wandered
off into the sandhills.
They headed a little way in-
land, Hooker talking eloquently
and the girl listening without
obvious displeasure. After a
climb they settled comfortably
in the sun-warmed sand on top
of the highest hill, and Kay said,
“But you’re going after alligators.
I don’t want to hunt alligators.”
“My dear,” Sep told her,
scratching patterns in the sand
with a piece of stick. “I hunt
the alligators, and skin ’em and
everything. You just cook the
alligator steaks, while the money
for the skins piles up in the
bank.”
“Ugh! ” the girl shuddered
delicately. “I couldn’t eat alli-
gator.”
But suddenly and surprisingly
Sep was no longer listening to
her.
Sep Hooker was staring in
fascination at some softly-
rounded depressions in the earth
in front of him, while the hair
at the back of his neck erected
itself and then seemed to crawl
slowly along some “great-circle”
route towards union with his
eyebrows.
“What are those?” he de-
manded sharply.
• “How do I know? Just little
hollows in the sand,” said Kay.
Sep grabbed for his rifle,
gladder than he had ever been
that he lugged it everywhere with
him, as religiously as a Mel-
bourne stockbroker carries his
umbrella. He remembered the
drunken shell-opener in the bar,
and stared in half-belief at the
prints of what, if it were not a
lion, was certainly something
large and probably most un-
pleasant. He wished he knew
more about lions, and had a
sudden fear that perhaps a .303
bullet wouldn’t stop one, and
that what was needed was an
elephant-gun or something.
He said to the girl, urgently,
“Come on. We’re getting out of
here.”
He took Kay by the wrist,
and had started a brisk, downhill
sprint towards the town before
his proper hunter’s instinct re-
asserted itself. Beasts of prey,
from lions to domestic cats, pre-
ferred to stalk a fleeing victim.
He had his rifle, and even if it
would not perhaps kill a car-
nivore the size of a Shetland
pony it would at least discourage
anything with sense or feelings.
The thing to do was first to see
if there was any sign from the
top of the sandhill of the creature
that had made the tracks.
(Continued on page 45)


A Wedding Certainly Required
WASH AMAH’S NIECE
By MABEL WALN SMITH
* 1 r j LENTY of good linen
I 1" sheets in this place ana
not an inch of hem-
stitching on a single one
of ’em. What kind of home is
this anyway?” were Wash
Amah’s forceful words as she
propelled a squat girl of the
peasant type ahead of her into
my Shanghai living-room.
“This creature,” she added,
“belong proper seamstress,
trained in convent.”
The girl was sullen. But what
surprised me most about her
broad young face was the ex-
pression it bore: plainly of one
sophisticated towards life.
Angrily, Amah continued:
“This one before I speak you
about. Removed from bad-girl
house to nuns, now wanchee go
back there where ‘future more
bright,’ she say. Nuns ask rpe
help make girl think better, this
one day each week. No can
leave alone my small room. I
bring her work with me.”
Searching back through the
extensive ramifications of
Amah’s patriarchial family, the
drab stories she had told me
about several of her myriad rela-
tives and the lurid tales about a
few,*! came quickly upon this
girl. Sold as a baby to a
brothel-keeper. For $2. During
a year of famine.
“But, Amah,” I said, “this is
the niece you bought out of that
place and gave to the Mission.”
“So did,” said Amah. “I have
save wash-money little by little
ten years, pay all debts at
Peachblossom House in Mist-
and-Flower-lane, so get her and
release-paper. Deliver both to
Sisters at convent door. They
surprised, but take inside, treat
fine, teach spik English, teach
sew-sew. Now this bad girl
wanchee leave convent, go back
Peachblossom House. She say
life convent too sad. Allbody
doing nothing wrong she can
see, yet allday must pray, pray
and ask please forgive.”
Wash Amah, who “lived out”
and went from house to house
for a few chosen people, keep-
ing their clothes in smooth
sweet-smelling order, was given
money to do our laundry only.
She would have had no patience
with a 40-hour week, and was
wont to slip into my dressing-
room late at night as I prepared
for bed. She brushed my t hair
and massaged the typewriter-
cramp from my back ; she who
could neither read nor write, but
had great respect for the printed
word, was eager for things to be
laid down on the actual pages of
a magazine—she clucked with
approval over the sheets of
manuscript I had completed, and
demanded to see my black-and-
white drawings. Unerringly she
selected those most suitable for
illustrations.
No service like this can be
truly paid for. I never'tried to
do so. I just saw to it that her
relatives were provided with jobs
as need be, and that her children
—parked happily with the “old
people” in the country —were
given rudimentary schooling. So
now, as this energetic woman
with the demurely coiled black
hair, immaculate white coat and
shiny black trousers, did her
careful selecting from the snowy
piles in my linen-qupboard, I
knew I had been left no choice.
Together we would be working
out the problem of Wash Amah’s
niece.
“There,” stated Amah, hand-
ing the girl a pair of pillowslips,
thread-drawn for hemstitching.
“Do work very beautiful. Even-
ing-time I come back look-see.
Cookboy Liu give today’s rice,
I have fix.”
And she was off to her laundry
appointment. No matter what I
might think about it, the girl was
with me for the day.
The girl sank to the floor,
cross-legged, pushing aside the
big cushion I offered her if she
did not prefer a chair, and
already rummaging in a sewing-
box for fine cotton. She carried
her own needle and thimble.
Her serviceable blue homespun
gown had the usual high, modest
neck, but its slim skirt was
longer than that year’s mode,
and, although current fashion
dictated slit sides from ankle to
knee, no slit relieved that un-
compromising skirt.
She worked so silently that I,
busy in another part of the
house, forgot her until mid-
morning, when Chinese servants
like to take their first meal.,
Then, although Liu kept to his
dignified self over a bowl of
rice in the kitchen, ! heard him
set her food, without speaking,
at a tiny bamboo table on the
“This is a very busy place of a Frid’y—people in
from the country.”
pleasantly shaded end of our
back-veranda.
Amah took her niece away
without a word that evening, and
the next Tuesday brought her
back and placed her as before
on my spare-room floor, sur-
rounded by hemstitching and
mending. Her work was ex-
quisitely done, and passing by
her that afternoon I laid beside
her a sketch of our initials the
way I liked them. Her face
lighted up for the first time.
Eagerly she enlarged and en-
twined the letters to her artistic
needs. When I showed my de-
light she burst into tears.
Nervous at breaking her
silence, and at witnessing the
rare tears of a Chinese, I
voiced what I had been thinking
of her; “Aren’t you happy being
a Christian?” I asked her.
She darted a quick glance at
me.
“No, I am not.”
This was not unexpected;
nevertheless it shook me.
“But why?”
She kept silent for a while,
then said: “Everything I could
enjoy is a sin. And God
punishes for every sin. And He
sees everything, everything. You
cannot hide.- No privacy. No-
where. I don’t like that. And
always you must pray. You
cannot live in a convent if you
won’t pray. They won’t let you.”
“You don’t like praying?”
“I like it very much. I pray
to the Holy Virgin mostly,”
“Why not to Jesus?”
“You cannot tell everything
to a man.”
She dried her eyes, and, as she
took up her sewing, across my
brain flashed the word-picture
Wash Amah had given me con-
cerning this girl when a baby:
On the steps of a tumble-down,
thatched-roof farm-hut sat an
old Chinese woman clad in rags.
Her dishevelled head, with a
bald spot on the crown, was un-
covered. Dry, grey meshes of
hair hung down the wrinkled,
dirty face. On her knees should
have sat - the baby of Amah’s
sister. “They are both gone,”
the privation - maddened old
woman defended herself before
Amah, who had walked all those
long miles from the city to this
stricken countryside, to do what
she could. “The young woman?
By famine, what else. The baby-
girl?” Her senile cackle rang
out. “For one so small the
moneyman who came seeking
girl-children would give two dol-
lars only. How long could we
live on that, we old ones? What
have you brought us today, eh?”
I noticed the girl’s rough
hands and went into my bed-
room and found a half-used
bottle of hand-lotion. That night
I pressed it upon Wash Amah,
pushing the niece off home with
her early.
Not many days passed before
there came a gentle tap on my
front-door and I welcomed the
Mother Superior into my living-
room. Liu poured us cups of
tea and tactfully withdrew.
Her face was striking, unfor-
gettable. Pale and drawn, it
bore the outlines of severe
classical beauty in its aloof per-
fection. Then she smiled, and
one was warmed by the very
radiance of her goodness, her
understanding. She was a
woman of powerful intellect, and
she came to the point at once
about Amah’s niece.
“This girl,” she said, “is an
excellent worker, splendid. In-
visible threads draw children to
her as to a magnet. Sometimes
our children play in the yard—
all fifty-two of them. Then they
are called in to dinner and there
will be fifty-four. An unknown
distracted person has just pushed
extras in. With God’s help we
must feed them. The girls will be
growing to womanhood in our
charge. This niece should
marry, of course. But how can
I recommend an unpure bride
to a pure young convert grown
up in our boys’ orphanage?”
We ate Liu’s hot scones and
agreed to let the matter of the
niece rest for a few weeks. “God
I know will help solve this prob-
lem.” Her sweet voice was low
and confident. “We must pray
deeply about it and other
matters. Is this girl really
Christian, even?”
“Some seeds fall on stony
ground.”
She pressed my hand warmly,
and her clear blue eyes searched
my face kindly as she went away.
I closed the front door. There
rose the hubbub of our two ser-
vants disagreeing in the back-
quarters. Then the voices
stopped and cloth-shod feet
pounded determinedly up the
backstairs. Noises of another
kind began. Wash Amah was
clearing out my box-room, and,
although it would not be con-
venient, I realised that that was
the only sensible space for the
niece to live in. Amah must
have been listening, from behind
my kitchen-door, to our talk in
the living-room.
The girl, being of Amah’s
hard-working stock, immediately
proved of more value than the
food she cost *us. My linen was
expertly monogrammed, my
mending perfect, and my friends
were soon achieving their own
original designs embroidered on
the sheer organdie blouses so
fashionable that summer.
‘‘l’m glad you extracted
Peachblossom from that awful
cotton gown with its unsplit
skirt,” was my husband’s com-
ment when I brought him up-to-
date on happenings. Then,
“Who is that I see hanging about
the garden-pavilion when I come
home these evenings? Don’t
tell me Peachblossom is now a
sort of freelance?”
“Nonsense,” I assured him.
“That young man comes from a
small fifty-family village in the
country. Amah knows about
him. He’is lonely, with no
friends, just joined the police-
force. Lives at the near-by
barracks.”
“A policeman? Good hea-
vens, what next!”
“The men in this house are
not much help,” is the most
polite translation I can give of
Wash Amah’s reply when I told
her my husband’s reaction to
our enterprise. She had just
come off loser in a bout with
Liu, wherein he had refused to
become custodian of the key
which locked the niece in at
night. The girl was bright-faced
and giggling happily, as is nor-
mal with a 17-year-old growing
prettier each day and kept
within bounds by an older
woman. “Ripe time now for
marriage,” said Amah.
But how? Marriage in China
is a traditional ceremony which
climaxes the long years of two
families knitting themselves to-
gether. Even in the simplest of
homes such important things as
mating are not left to cruel
chance. Babies are carefully be-
trothed in their cradles ; at ten-
years-old the bride-to-be is pre-
sented with a tiny hoe or rake
as symbol of her intended’s
choice if he plans to be a
farmer; six years later pink-
embroidered pockets, the shade
used only for nuptials, are ex-
changed. Within each is a red
card brushed in gold with.the
names, birth-hour, -day, -moon
and -year of the contracting
parties.
An auspicious date for the
union is decided upon, and, after
a delicious confusion of lesser
relatives carrying between the
two households gifts of wine,
cakes, noodles, roast-goose,
browned - pork, chicken - livers,
candied-fruit, the girl’s dowry of
furniture, small articles and
chests of wearing-apparel are
wrapped in red covers and, mak-
ing a brilliant display, are
carried the longest way throng
the village from the house of
her girlhood to her new home —-
the bosom of her bridegroom’s
family. Here, then, in the midst
of her possessions, the bride is
settled. Flutes sound the “Wail
of Farewell.”
Thus had Wash Amah anc
her sister been married. Ife
near-envy when she told m
about it. And what hope of a
this glory had a poor orphanec
niece, who had been retrievec
from' a “Peachblossom” hous
where circumstances had lande
her, and an embryo policema
green from a remote country
district?
Wash Amah’s eyes were brigh
with vexation. “Must thin
heavy,” she said.
She was a woman never lon
without a plan, and when sh
didn’t come to do the laundry
on her usual day I knew Was]
Amah must be working on
something special. When
finally heard her cloth-shoc
feet pounding up our backstair
I joined her and her niece in
the box-room.
“Quickly! ” stormed Amah
bossing us in her great rush
“New Order of young people
Mass-wedding. Happen at Civic-
centre in one hour. * Young
policeman have help me fix
everything proper. Allbody no
family have got, never before
marry, can get man now. Each
girl get one man. For alltime.”
We threw the niece’s simple,
but ready, trousseau into a
carry-all.
“A clean rickshaw stands
ready,” said Liu generously in
dignified Mandarin.
We bundled the two women
and the carry-all into it. Bells
jangled as the rickshaw-man
leapt into a spirited gallop and
disappeared with his fares to-
ward the native city...
While brushing my hair in
my dressing-room the next night
Wash Amah told me about the
mass-wedding. It was not the
“catch-and-grab affair” she had
anticipated. Not at all. Care
had been taken. Twenty couples
were to be joined—a lucky
Buddhist number. The girls
were lined-up in a bare room
with red hangings. A city
official sat at a blackwood-desk.
First a brass-band banged
stoutly through Mendelssohn’s
“Wedding March.” Then the
official rose and said: “Formerly
all marriages were recorded only
in our family hearts. In accord-
ance with new ways, this mass-
wedding will be registered at the
City Bureau. Vote for me next
election-day, please.”
He opened his big book, and
as he called out names men
came from behind a screen,
lining-up beside the girls of their
choice.
“A-hem!” said the official.
This was the signal for a
coolie to bring in and pass round
the already-prepared marriage-
certificates. Wash Amah, ex-
cluded along with other out-
siders, was by this time impatient
with listening but not seeing.
She grabbed the box of white
papers from the coolie, and,
shoving him aside, strode in
through the curtains.
“I so glad see that niece-girl
stand there so happy, such good
man beside, true face and fine,”
•he told me. “I walk over and
give them biggest white-paper in
box.”
“You were pleased, then, with
the husband she got. Amah?”
“For sure. I very pleased.
Surprise, he have arrange. That
young man she get belong
policeman farmboy!”
They were off to make their
life, growing rice. Amah had
put them on a train bound for
his remote province.
“Third-class very good. All-
body in one big carriage, very
sociable, luggage in floor for
seats. Carry-all nice, soft.” She
sighed ecstatically. “Fifty-family
farm-village very small, very
friendly simple folk. This girlie
have so kind life—fine city per-
son, only one with beautiful silk
dress.”
Thus gracefully from my life
faded Wash Amah’s niece, per
Shanghai mass-wecfding.


The Yoke
by E.O. Schlunke
GEORGE frowns at his
wife and won’t take part
in the conversation be-
cause he knows she is
taking advantage of the presence
of her clever friends to man-
oeuvre him into another situa-
tion. George Schulz is one of
those bucolic individuals who
was married by a smart woman
because he had a good grip on
his money, and because a lot can
be done with a man like that by
the right woman.
“Oh, yes, George, you really
should go abroad now that you
have the money to do it.”
This from Wendy, the doctor’s
wife. George stares at her. Un-
doubtedly his wife put her up
to it, imagining that he might be
influenced by what other people
think, as she invariably is.
“We’d be going,” Wendy
quickly adds, before it might be
concluded that they are among
the infamous ones who haven’t,
“only Warren wouldn’t dare
leave his practice now. Good-
ness knows, the way things are
going, we might get a new Gov-
ernment that might nationalise
the whole profession, and he’d
be put on a salary, just like
another public servant. Make
hay while the sun shines, I say.”
George now turns to look at
Warren, sunk heedlessly into an
armchair, looking extremely
clever behind his wide, black-
rimmed glasses, and smiling to
himself as he always does. It
gives George an unpleasant feel-
ing in the bowels to think
of Warren making hay. No
pleasant romping around in the
sunshine about his method of
doing it. Warren’s face habit-
ually tells nothing. A doctor
does not get the opportunity to
commit enough operations to
buy a sheep-farm by going
about exhibiting his emotions.
George does not approve of
Warren ; a man who doesn’t de-
serve to own a good farm. In
the ordinary course of events
he would have chosen a different
type of man to sell his place to ;
but, because of his own deep-laid
plot, it had to be a man whose
interest in agriculture was likely
to be ephemeral. Hence
Warren ; but he is still annoyed
with him for not going for a
proper look over the land, to
study its problems and possi-
bilities.
“Oh, it isn’t only the money,”
George picks out of the back
and forth between his wife and
Wendy, “we’ve had that for
umpteen years, though George
would never tell me how much,
in case I might want to spend
some of it; or even boast about
it the way some wives do. It
was his old-fashioned ideas
about running a property that
kept us here. ‘He who by the
plough would thrive, himself
must either hold or drive.’ ”
There is a great laugh over
this, and a flutter pi near-witti-
cisms.
“Warren, be careful, you
might let yourself in for some-
thing you won’t like.”
“I can just see him, homeward
plodding his weary way.”
Now George won’t look at
his wife. Even though he had
modified the application of his
grandfather’s favorite proverb
over the years, he doesn’t ap-
prove of her blaspheming
against it like this.
“If the old-timers hadn’t been
like that, you wouldn’t be in a
position to talk about trips
abroad,” he says.
Both the women act as though
George is slaughtering them
with his heavyhandednes§j. It
annoys George very much; he
gets up with the excuse that he
has to hunt off a picnicking party
he can see trespassing.
“You needn’t bother about
them,” his wife reminds him
impatiently; “that’s Warren’s
worry now.”
“Oh, I don’t know about
that,” George says with sudden
jocosity as he sees an oppor-
tunity to be witty too. “He
hasn’t paid me yet, and how do
I know that he can?”
And off he goes with that
exasperating assurance of the
self-satisfied man who has his
money in broad acres for every-
one to see ; though underneath
it they have no difficulty in per-
ceiving a pathetic and forlorn
longing that somehow the deal
will fall through.
HE began it himself by sneer-
ing at the people who were
rushing in to buy land at boom
prices. Lawyers and doctors
and businessmen of all kinds
who could see good money in
woolgrowing.
“This isn’t the time to buy
land,” was the way he talked,
“this is the time to sell. Why, I
could sell my place now, go on
a luxury cruise for sevefal years,
and then buy it back at half
the price when the boom is
over.”
There were plenty of proofs
he could offer too, digging out
dusty old documents recording
his family’s century of land-
ownership in Australia, during
which none of the three gene-
rations of Schulzes had ever
lost any money. It had greatly
impressed his wife.
“Why don’t you do it,
George?”'
Her set of friends admired
above all things this sort of
cleverness.
And George had been making
too much money too easily the
last few years. “It’s the market
that makes or breaks you,” was
the lesson the wool-boom had
taught him, and this conviction
gave his wife her opportunity
to work on him. Step by step
she led him into it; even lined
up her friends to be the victims
(without any real conviction that
it would work out that way),
her heart fixed on that glorious
social achievement, a trip
abroad. And George’s un-
reasoning instinct resisted all
the way, even though he had
no doubt at any stage that the
plan was sound.
That they leave gates open,
and shoot carelessly to the
danger of his sheep, has been
George’s ostensible reason for
always chasing picnickers off
his property, but the real reason
was his excessive pride of owner-
ship. George hated to see heed-
less and irreverent feet trampling
about on his land, as if it was
a mere vacant allotment or the
town common. Stupid towns-
people who understood nothing,
who insulted his acres by strew-
ing them with orange-peel and
pieces of paper.
s “We’re not doing any harm,”
they always said in brainlessly
aggrieved voices. “Look, you’ve
got thousands of acres for your
sheep to eat.”
But George was always ruth-
less with them. Like locusts
and rabbits they are, coming
from their warrens and breed-
ing grounds. They’d overrun
the place and soon be acting as
if they owned it if he didn’t
stop them. A couple of big
staghounds he always took with
him, to frighten hell out of them.
A FTER he has hunted the
picnickers George walks on,
because he likes his dogs better
than his visitors. Also he is led
on from point to point by his
abiding sense of responsibility.
Seeing the grass bitten down too
closely in one paddock and run-
ning unseasonably early to seed
in another obliges him to move a
mob of sheep.
Things have to be watched
unremittingly day by day. A
farm’s best fertiliser, as another
of his proverbs says, is the foot-
prints of its owner. Things he
sees all the time ; like an odd
noxious weed missed by some-
one’s carelessness in the annual
burr-cutting, about to spread its
hundreds of seeds far and wide
if he hadn’t come along in time.
Striking back homeward when
he can, no longer decently re-
main away brings him to the
old homestead. The one his
grandfather built when he first
felt that he was getting ahead.
Walls made of pise, the timber
cut on the property so that all
he had to buy was the iron for
the roof. Thought it was pretty
good, too, and would be scandal-
ised to find that it was now used
to house the working-men.
From near the back of it he
suddenly hears the characteristic
cackle of a hen that has just laid
an egg.
Now, an egg is a very small
thing to a man with George’s
property and George’s income ;
but he doesn’t pause to think
about that. An egg is good food
and not to be heedlessly wasted.
“Don't take any notice of him, Elsie. He only does it
to attract attention.”
Wilful/ waste makes woeful
want.
He traces the cackle to the
top of the ceiling of the old cel-
lar, where, under the low-
.pitched roof, is all the old junk
which his prudent ancestors
deemed too valuable to discard
entirely.
The nest is hard to get at. As
George struggles among the rub-
bish, soiling with dust the expen-
sive sports-coat his wife made
him buy so that he will look like
a grazier instead of a farmer, he
is conscious of the folly of
exerting himself so strenuously
for a few eggs. Yet at the same
time, among these relics of the
past, he is very strongly aware
of the characters of his fore-
bears, and, even more, of their
approval of what he is doing. So
many implements speaking so
forcibly of unremitting industry.
Old crude hoes, mattocks and
axes, with blades so worn from
use and resharpening, that his
conscience smites him sharply
for discarding similar tools not
worn half so much; broken
baskets and buckets with holes,
undoubtedly put by to be
mended and used again. It
affects him profoundly to see
these proofs of .the work that
was done to create a prosperous
farm for him ; and it encour-
ages him mightily in his deter-
mination to find the nest, though
by this time his coat, his shirt
and his trousers are so soiled
that it would take many dozens
of eggs to pay for the cleaning
they will undoubtedly require.
This form of activity he finds
extremely stimulating to his
mind. He makes the great dis-
covery that the difference be-
tween what these grand old
people earned, and what they
spent, constitutes the wealth of
the nation. He is unable to
prove it by logical steps, not
being educated in the science of
economics, but he is enormously
pleased with the inspired con-
clusion.
At length he discovers the
nest. Two eggs are all he gets for
his labor. They are cunningly
laid in what looks like a shal-
low bowl, but when he tries to
turn it over to discourage further
laying there he discovers that
the bowl is only the central part
of a long object. He struggles
to extract it, very curious. He
finds that it is carved from a
kind of strong, light wood, un-
familiar to him, having an arm
at each end, to each of which is
attached a chain about two feet
long terminating in a hook.
He hauls it right out to have
a good look, and finds that it is
a yoke of the kind that he had
seen in pictures of coolies carry-
ing heavy baskets slung at the
ends.
/"GEORGE stares at this symbol
of slavery. This yoke of the
oppressor. It seems to speak to
him so eloquently of other times
and other manners. He tries to
imagine the conditions under
which it was used. Whose shoul-
ders were bowed under it; and
what force or threat was used to
compel such degrading labor.
First he thinks of convicts,
but has to dismiss that, because
they were not used so far west.
He thinks then of a Chinese
gardener perhaps, carrying water
for vegetables, which seems
more satisfactory, because no
one need worry so much about
the shoulders of a Chinese. He
studies it minutely, wiping the
dust off it; noting how it was
apparently whittled into shape
with a knife with great patience ;
a kind of bowl to fit over each
shoulder and a gap cut away to
fit round the neck. He keeps on
examining it and rubbing it
clean, until he is vastly interested
to find some letters carved on it.
Not Chinese letters, either. The
first word he uncovers is
worker, which is undoubtedly
apt enough, and apparently the
end of the inscription. Working
backwards he discovers good,
then a, until he has the sentence:
FOR A GOOD WORKER. I
This seems to throw an en-
tirely new light on it. There is
now an astonishing suggestion
that whoever carved it did it as
a reward well earned. It strikes
him as a strange reward ; this
oppressor’s yoke.
He rubs until he finds more
letters underneath. Not words
this time that he can understand.
G.A.C.S. and farther below that
C.E.S. When he at last under-
stands it it puts him into a
terrible mental flurry. The
initials of his grandfather and
grandmother. At first, his mind
still cluttered with modern fixa-
tions, he is filled with something
like horror. His grandfather
bowing his grandmother under
an oppressor’s yoke ; a man with
a sadistic sense of humor,
promising her a fine present and
giving her this.
X)UT slowly a combination of
-■-* family pride and reason
brings him a solution. Some cir-
cumstances obliged, or induced,
his grandmother to carry heavy
loads, and the yoke was a
thoughtful provision of his
grandfather to make it easier. He
decided instantly to prove it. He
casts round for a pair of heavy
objects, finds a couple of
lumps of old scrap-iron, gets the
yoke adjusted across his shoul-
ders and round his neck with
some difficulty, and is instantly
filled with delight to find how
right he was. He lifts a hun-
dredweight with absolute ease.
The thin shell of long dried-out
wood bends, but it does not
break, and that gives him
further reason for family grati-
fication. How cunningly old
C.E.S. selected the wood that
was so strong, so light and so
enduring. He gets a romantic
picture of the old man making
it; sitting by. the wide-open
fireplace after his day’s work,
whittling at it night after night.
And his grandmother un-
doubtedly busy, too, after she
has got the children to bed, knit-
ting, or mending, or something
like that.
Now he looks about to find
what it was that his grandmother
had to carry. He remembers
seeing a pair of identical buckets,
and when he examines them
there are marks worn in the
handles, undoubtedly by the
metal hooks ; deep marks, too,
that show they were filled many
times with something heavy;
water, perhaps, carried from a
well to the kitchen. But that
does not quite fit in; he’s never
seen any sign of a well. He
gazes about ruminatively until
he suddenly realises that the
objects which fill the whole
foreground of his vision un-
doubtedly supply the right
answer; a double row of oaks
and elms that surround the
“new” homestead that his
father built.
Now George has to do some
pretty hard thinking to get
things straight. In his dimly-
remembered childhood there
(Continued on page 49)


PASTEL VEILS
by C.S. BARRY
/I WIDE-open sand-blasted
f \ ocean of ground, dry as
(. I morning-afters and wind-
polished. There’s an air-
craft, a vehicle and a newcomer.
There’s nothing else.
“You’re Mister Van Leek,” I
tell the newcomer.
“Jingles with neck,” he tells
me. He giggles.
“All right,”. I say. All right
it is. Earth-moving is the task.
Not making repartee.
“Mister Leek is flimsy,” wrote
the personnel manager from
Adelaide. “He lost his job as
radio-crooner because his claque
of feminine fans wanted some-
thing more rugged.”
Not rugged enough for
crooning, Mister Flimsy tries
plant-operating. With built-up
soles on suede shoes. Flimsy
gives me a level look in the
navel. He wears off-the-shoulder
velvesheen slacks that hug his
waist like glasses hug glassfuls.
He’s got feverish eyes and a
girlish giggle.
The men will balk at this one.
We like to mix the best with the
best and hope for the best. But
plant-operators are scarce.
I put Flimsy in my Landrover,
take him over twisting jeep trails
to the tent encampment. A sign
says Kingyimba 143. Flimsy
glances along the road to verify
the assertion. Visually. He
gapes at the layer of beer-
bottles strewn over desert soil.
I show him the headstone for the
boundary-rider who starved to
death fifty years ago. Flimsy
giggles.
T SHOW him where to feed.
The mess is jammed with
beards, broken noses, stubbled
chins, check shirts, migrant
laborers, torn overalls and the
smug smell of hard work
honestly done.
Flimsy is conspicuous as
hiccoughs at a temperance-meet.
He wears the expression of a
Sunday-school teacher in a gin-,
mill. He takes out a pocket-
mirror to primp. Some men
stop eating. Some even stop
beefing about the food. They
make room for him so that he's
got four empty seats on both
sides.
Imaginary ties are adjusted,
imaginary specks are flicked
from imaginary lapels.. Lem - the
Lout looks into his scoured tin
platter to see if his beard is on
straight.
“You boyth are so uncouth,”
says Flimsy. He giggles.
The mess giggles a raucous
echo to Flimsy’s titters.
While 1 he nibbles through
roast pork and banana flummery
I try to billet him. Two men
go in each Army tent. But
blokes are averse from sharing
a tent with Flimsy. They have
reputations to consider. They
shy off his maniacal eyes, his
falsetto baby-talk and tittering
laughs. They drift away like
husbands at a millinery show.
6 6TTE needs a strong hand,”
I tell Lem. “For his own
sake.”
Lem’s last mate smashed up
in the stone-crusher,
“Give him half my tent,”
offers Lem.
Lem is a natural leader. Big
No-nonsense Lem. In the mess
Lem always gets steak as big as
a slouch-hat. The football-team
-is Lem, Lem drives his jeep like
a racing filly. He runs the
heads-and-tails and pays me a
tenner busy nights so as not to
visit him.
“Ooh, thanks,” warbles the
ex-crooner. The ex-crooner has
hit the wrong note. Fortissimo.
“Her name is Van Leek,” I
tell Lem.
“Jingles with < neck,” says
Flimsy. Wrong note again.
“My name is Lem,” growls
Lem. *
“Yeth,” says Flimsy.
“You smoke in bed?” asks
Lem.
“Yeth,” says Flimsy.
“You drink turps and boot-
polish?”
“Yeth.” ;
T A TER I find Flimsy pelting
a song across for the benefit
of amassed off-duty Waitresses,
A song about love, dove, love
which manages to rhyme with
mauve.
Lille, the least restrained,
dances time with ample hips and
bouncing abdomen.
“Happy?” I ask Flimsy.
“Screamingly.”
“You like him?” I ask the
girls.
“Screamingly,” they tell me.
I send waitresses back to their
compound. This stuff could
make Lem jealous.
Most of the girls are enticing
but unavailable. Like fruit at
“Your bonnet? I've just packed it!”
the front of a city barrow. But
Lille unabashedly swaps out-
size steaks for Lem’s attentions,
Rough as a cat’s tongue. She is.
With chest accoutrements like
turned-up theatre seats.
I introduce Flimsy to his road-
grader, and tell him not to get
out of easy stretcher-bearing
distance from the camp. I warn
Lem to keep an eye on Flimsy
while I work over cookhouse
invoices to ensure that Adelaide
suppliers give me correct com-
mission.
.
~pOR ekercise I take the Dodge
A weapon-carrier over red-
gibber wasteland. After a recent
fifteen points the desert has
patches of carpet greenery.
Emus I see, kangaroos and a
scrub turkey. But guns are
illegal in‘the area.
Behind Lake Koolymilka I
drag the three-oh-three from
under the dash, thumb sights to
two-hundred and slam a clip of
rounds at a couple of ’roOs. I
hear the slugs thud home. I see
one cripple writhing near the
water. I jounce down to the
lakeside and stick in the mud.
In lowest gear and four-wheel
drive I spin tyres till they smoke,
A motor-cycle sheep-drover
waves mockingly. He turns to-
wards the construction-camp,
and soon Lem’s road-grader
seeps over the horizon to hook
into my bogged vehicle.
“Shall I rev?” I ask.
“Put the brakes on if you
like.”
He has seventy horsepower to
back himself. He reverses with
the ease of a public servant
packing into a labyrinth of
official channels.
“How’s little Leek?” I inquire.
Lem is not happy about little
Leek. He goes on a talking-jag
while I listen sympathetically.
Flimsy’s hideousyncrasies are
famous. Already. According to
Lem, he uses his windshield-
wiper as a metronome for
ballads. He fumbles double-
clutching. His nose bleeds when
h £ gets hot- He wears hairnets,
He giggles.
“Pansy type,” I comment.
“You never know,” says Lem;
o
"DACK at camp I watch Flimsy
drive jUmpily through the
five-o’clock crush of slathering
disposals vehicles. He’s jittery as
a butterfly iff a swarm of wasps,
Impatient, hungry drivers of sig;-
vans, blitz-buggies, command-
cars, jeeps, tip-trucks roar pro-
fane rebukes. Traffic gets
tangled worse than the hair of a
hard-pressed heroine.
In the mess eaters gaze dole-
fully at dumpling stew.
Warmed-up bread poultices on
tin platters.
“When we get decent grub?”
they shout.
My reply is in tones of ring-
ing triumph: “The matter is
under consideration.” I hand out
friendly advice about esprit de
corps. How we ought to live as
mates in spite of feuds and petty
hates. I look meaningly at
Flimsy. Flimsy, glum and
fragile, mopes out of the mess
and aims for his snuggery.
Blokes wonder how Lem stands
him.
Standing him all right is Lille.
She goes after him.
“Leave him alone,” I call.
“We’re sisters under the skin,”
says Lille. She recognises a
chance of keeping Lem on his
toes.
During days that follow
Flimsy tries to drop his fluffy
ways. He discards hairnets. Fie
wears a blue canvas beanie just
like the boys in the workshops.
He swaps suede shoes for Army
boots. He flaunts dirty jeans.
But he can’t drop the lisp. He
can’t force kittenish character
into a foreign mould. So he gets
the habit of not talking. He
sulks. He pouts.
I see resentment among the
men. Flimsy ought to resign,
But to an unemployed ex-
crooner quids must look bigger
than Army blankets.
Lem learns to tolerate Flimsy’s
rumply hair, wistful smile and
languid air that make waitresses
want to squeal. But the tolera-
tion costs him effort.
/''vNE day Flimsy goes sick and
stays in camp. At midday
the Yugoslav reports money
stolen. Money he won in large
rplls at Lem’s game. I ask the
bank-manager to report any
extraordinary deposits. I ask
Lem to peek into Flimsy’s kit,
and by knock-off he reports that
the roll of notes is in Flimsy’s
tin box.
“All right,” I say. “Just carry
on as normal.”
“What’ll you do?” asks Lem.
I give him some official exas-
peration : “Right now I’m going
to help load this brewery truck,”
I snap. “Finished that I’ll come
and see.”
The brewery driver deserves
consideration. He brings our
camp more than the quota. He
sells the extra sly in the mulga
and splits with me.
TX/HEN I reach Lem’s tent
desert tones are enlivened
by the last gold of the evening
hour, soft as the glow on a
bride’s cheeks. A full moon
brightens quickly and so does the
night-life in front of Lem’s tent.
Off-duty men with time and
money work hard at two-up.
Centre of the ring is churned to
an ankle-deep sawdust. The
perimeter is stamped to a solid
pug. Lem, the supercharged
sweeper, is in full, blast. Heads
are falling.
“Right-oh, you headies,” yells
Lem. “About some chop,” No
chop. So Lem releases the kip.
The pennies butterfly and Lem
snatches them before they
bounce.
“Try that again,” says Lem,
“and you’ll need a plastic nose.”
Lem prefers punches to perora-
tion. Pennies spin to tails amid
cries, oaths and usual confusion
at the end of a run. Pennies are
more fickle than lovely women.
“Where’s leckie-neckie?” I
shout.
Tent-flaps whisk back to
reveal Flimsy on his bunk chew-
ing licorice allsorts, gazing up at
pin-ups of weightlifters. Over
Lem’s bunk pin-ups are beer-
labels. Lem’s side of the floor-
boards is scrubbed clean as the
new boy at school. Flimsy’s side
is as filthy as Port Said picture-
cards.
“The jig’s up,” I cry
dramatically.
“Jig?” says Flimsy. Suspici-
ously. “What’s jig?”
“Open your tin box,” ! say.
Dramatics go over big with the
men.
Flimsy’s heart beats so you
can almost hear arteries trickling.
His complexion is a mixture of
cornflour and synthetic gin. He
jumps up to protest, but Lem
pacifies him with a poke in the
tummy. Lem opens the tin-box.
The money’s there all right.
Lem shakes Flimsy like a
gipsy shakes a tambourine
Until Flimsy looks like weather-
beaten foot-and-mouth disease.
He lets Flimsy drop. Fear picks
up the shakework where Lem
left off.
“Goody-goody!” exults Lille.
She’s bloodthirsty as a female
mosquito. Flimsy has little to
support him except effeminacy, a
reputation for goings-on and an
incapacity for sport.
The Yugoslav steps up to
claim his notes. Lem riffles the
roll and shuts the money in the
tin-box.
“Thanker you, please,” says
the Yugoslav.
“Not yours,” says Lem.
“Yeah?”
“Yairs.”
“Yeth.”
“These notes are not even dog-
eared,” explains Lem, “Even
the numbers run.” Flimsy’s cash
is clean. The stolen roll was
groggy crumpled rubbish,
grubby from a two-up game.
“I saved it,” says Flimsy.
“Bank it tomorrow,” directs
Lem. Surly,
Lille pats Flimsy’s curls. Lem
grunts.
66 {jET set on the side,” yells
Lem. He tries to drown
memory of his mistake in a
stream of activity. He handles
enormous bets and soon owes
more than plenty. The game
(Continued on page 46)


You're wrong Delaney
By BANT SINGER
CHAPTER XVIII
I STAND there with my heart
jumping. Peters spoke up
in the pine-tree, way over
my head. For a moment my
mind wonders what the hell he’s
doing up the pine-trees. Then it
comes to me the voice is high
because he’s upstairs. The light
is still on up there and I can
see the window is closed. So
there’s another window up there,
open, or a hole of some sort in
the wall and his voice come out
through it. I wait, because it
could be that I been thinking
about Peters too much. Could
be I imagined the voice. You’re
all keyed-up at night and got
your eyes and ears and nose
working overtime you maybe
hear or see things that ain’t
there. Could be I imagined
Peters, only for the words.
“You want some tea, kid?”
I could have imagined I heard
him talk, but 1 couldn’t imagine
him saying a thing like that. It
was too silly. He’s a killer and
got police all round him and got
himself a hideout because he’s
got a letter, and maybe got a
girl locked up with him, and he
stands by an open window in the
dark, or is walking past it, and
he says, “You want some tea,
kid?” It don’t make sense. And
because it don’t make sense I
know 1 didn’t imagine it.
So it’s like somebody took me
and warmed me and rubbed me
down and gave me a pep
Because this is it. 1 been two
hours in the dark and cold get-
ting here, on a hunch, and the
hunch is right and Peters up
there in Elaine’s house. It’s
like buying three cards to a pair
of deuces when somebody
doubles the ante and being dealt
a couple more twos. That makes
it my play.
What I ought to do is slip
away from there quiet and go
get Keough and his boys and
pack police shoulder to shoulder
round that house and then
watch them go in and pull
Peters out. It’s only Peters
that’s what I’d do. But there’s
Kathy. My bet is she’s in there
somewhere, and before the
police get to him Peters does her
over. Because he hates my guts
and he sees they got him he’ll
do Kathy over to get even with
me. So I got to locate Kathy
first, or be dead sure she isn’t
where Peters can get at her be-
fore I go yelping for Keough.
- So it’s my play and I got to
get inside. You want to get in
a house without the people in it
knowing about you, start feeling
round back doors and windows
and before you know they’re on
to you. Because that’s where
they expect intruders to come.
They don’t worry about the
front door, because nobody
would think of using the front
door to get into a house on the
quiet. . Nobody would use the
front door.
I’m at the corner and there’s
a wide veranda with pillars run-
ning right along the front of the
house. I feel the floor with my
hand there’s tiles. That means
no boards to creak. I got my
shoes off and the big hospital
socks good now because they
make a cushion and more silence
than thin socks, and any small
things on the floor can’t hurt
my feet so much through the big
socks.
I make the front door. It’s
tall and wide, with a wooden
panel halfway up from the bot-
tom and small green and red
diamond leadlights in the top
half. Inside, so dim 1 got to be
close to the leadlights to see it,
is a small light, way back. The
door is shut tight, locked. Only
way I can open it is ring the
bell and have someone come, or
bash in the leadlights with my
bottle and have everybody come.
I stand there and think it out.
Down in the town the clock
chimes the full hour and it’s
eleven strokes. I been a long
time on this job. I slip the robe
off and .the hat and put them
against the wall beside the door.
Then I press the bell and jump
from the veranda and go flat,
close in against the foot of the
veranda where it rises from the
garden. Just an eye over the
veranda edge and behind a pillar.-
The door opens and a woman
looks out. She didn’t put any
lights on. She peers about and
sees the robe and hat at her
feet. She stands there looking at
them. She walks to the veranda
edge and looks over the garden,
but she don’t look down. She
walks back and looks at the robe
and hat, bends down and feels
them. Then she picks the robe
up in one hand and the hat in
the other and looks at them
again. She gives another look
at the garden, then walks to the
end of the veranda and looks
across at the house where the
party is.
“You could think of some-
thing better to do,” she says, and
turns round and walks back,
carrying the robe and hat, and
goes into the house. She’s got a
little mystery. She thinks it’s
likely a joke from the party, but
she wants it to be a mystery,
and she’s taking the evidence
inside to show somebody. Then
she’ll bring them out and they’ll
stand at the door and talk about
it. So she goes in to tell them,
but she leaves the door open,
and I’m through it, cat-footed,
behind her. She goes on down
a hall towards a stand where the
little light is, and I’m across the
hall to my right and behind a
big brass bowl standing on a
pedestal. - - j • •.
The woman is not much more
than a shadow in that dim light.
She walks to the right of the
light and stops a minute. From
behind the bowl I see a door
open. There’s a lighted room
beyond it. It must be in the
centre of the house, because no
light from it could be seen out-
side. The woman stands, black
against the light, and I hear her
talking. She holds up the robe
and the hat. A man’s voice,
slow and deep, talks back at her.
He gives a bit of a laugh. The
woman turns away from the
door, leaving it open, and goes
across the hall to the left, where
she opens another door and goes
through it, carrying the robe and
hat. She comes out without
them and closes the door. Then
she goes to the front door,
passing by about five feet from
me where I’m sliding round the
big bowl, and shuts it and puts
a chain up. She pushes her face
up against the leadlights and
stares out. , After about a
minute she turns back, goes to
the door of the lighted room,
says something inside it, then
pulls it shut. Next she goes to
the left along the wall, turns a
corner and fades. I ease down
on the carpet behind the bowl,
because the woman and the
people in that room got to have
a minute or two to forget about
the gink who rang their bell and
dumped things at the door and
scrammed.
So I’m inside Elaine’s house,
squatting in the dark. I know
Peters is there, because I heard
him. I know the woman
answered the door and a man
spoke in 'that room. Maybe
Elaine is in that room, maybe
the man spoke was Richard, I
wouldn’t know. I don’t want to
know, not just yet. ,n What I
want to know is whether Kathy
is here, and to know that I got
to find her. Upstairs Peters
said, “Want some tea, kid?”
and the kid could be Kathy.
There’s a lot of funny things
about all this—like how Peters is
in Elaine’s house if Richard
don’t know it, or the woman who
opened the front door don’t
know it, and how Kathy could
be here, too, without them
knowing it. Sure, a lot of funny
things about all this, but I got
no time to worry them out now.
I’m in that house and got one
thing to do and do it quiet and
quick—find Kathy.
There’s a upper storey and
there’s got to be stairs. I nearly
fall over them, they
come down flush with the wall
I’m catfooting along after I left
the bowl. They go up to a land-
ing, then half-turn .and go on.
It’s all dark up there.
It takes time because I got to
run a hand over each step to
make sure there’ll be no noise
when my foot comes on it. I
take the rum-bottle from my
coat-pocket and hold it against
me with the right hand, the one
in the plaster, and use my left
for feeling. I got to feel my
way and be ready for anything
and hold my nerves under. My
right side has felt the cold and
there’s an ache in it and I’m
tired all down there. But I’m
not cold any more. Creeping
and feeling and moving slow up-
wards in the dark with your
nerves tight is hard work. I
feel sweat run from under my
armpits. I’m about halfway to
the landing when I hear some-
thing below me and go flat
against the wall.
The door of that centre room
opens and Elaine comes out. She
pulls the door shut and moves to
the stairs and reaches to the wall
and hits a switch and all the
landing and the stairs in bright
light.
Elaine puts a foot on the bot-
tom stair and looks up. She
freezes there, her mouth open
and her eyes popping, one hand
halfway to the banister, the other
against her side. She don’t
scream. She just stares. Noth-
ing I can do only stare back.
She looks back quick at the
closed door. Then she looks at
me. Her mouth closes and her
eyes narrow. She holds on to
the banister with one hand and
now got the other on her cheek.
She looks back at the closed
. door again, then up at me. Her
eyes examine me. I see them
look at the rum-bottle jammed
against my body by my right
arm and at my feet with no
shoes. Her eyes close, then open
again. She turns and reaches
and switches the lights out and
goes back to that centre room
and opens the door and goes in
and shuts the door behind her.
I wait. Nothing happens.
Nothing happens because there’s
nothing for Elaine to do. She’s
quick and got plenty of guts and
she goes back into that room,
where the man is who must be
Richard, and she says nothing
and far'as he knows she just
went out and then came back
again. Now she’s got to sit there
and wait, knowing I’m in the
house and what I’m there for.
And it’s a lot easier for me now,
because Elaine doing that means
Peters is up there and she’s
happy to wait. Not a thing she
can do, only wait. Because of
that letter and because she’ll go
right to the last lap before she’ll
yelp for Richard or the police.
And that means that Richard
don’t know who’s upstairs. That
makes it strange, but that’s the
way it is.
And Kathy? Elaine’s action
got no clues for me about
Kathy. It don’t even tell if she
knows Kathy is missing. All it
tells me is that Peters is up-
stairs and I’m going after him,
and Elaine’s on my side because
she’ll keep quiet so Peters won’t
know I’m coming.
I wait a little where Elaine
seen me, till my nerves get
steady, then go on up.
The stairs end in a small hall.
I feel it rather than see it, be-
cause there’s no light up here
and the dark so thick a dog
couldn’t bark in it. I got the
bottle in my left hand and feel-
ing with the fingers of my right.
You come up stairs in the dark
in a strange house you lose your
direction. I don’t know which
part of this dark faces the front
of the house. I want to know
that, because that window
Peters’ voice came out of is on
the pines side, and I know where
that side is I got a rough idea
where Peters is.
The fingers find a door. I
grip the knob and hold the door
tight against the jamb and turn
the knob. I get the* door open
about a foot. The room is dark.
I wait. Nothing. No sound,
no smell, only, dark and cold.
Nobody in that room. I go in
and see a window faint against
the night. I go to it sideways
and look out and see the mer-
cury lamps down in Silvermine-
street. So this room faces front.
I put my back to the window
and where that voice Came out
has got to be somewhere ahead
of me and to the right.
I ooze out of that room and
pull the door, but don’t try to
close it. Then I see what I
hadn’t seen before —a thin light
low down ahead of me in the
blackness. That’s the bottom of
a door and there’s a room there
with a light on. I put my right
fingers on the wall and use it to
guide me to that door, my feet
in the big socks testing all round
before each step.
When I’m within hand-reach
of that door I touch it to make
sure I’m that close. Then I put
my back to the wall and lean
there and shut my eye%. Be-
cause it’s nearly too much for
me and what I learn in the jungle
is that you take a few seconds
out at a time like that and inside
you the works steady themselves
and your nerves slow down.
Down in the town the clock
starts to chime. I don’t wait to
count the chimes because the
moment I hear them I got my
left hand on that door-knob,
turning it. The door gives. I
shove it open and step aside into
the darkness. I got the bottle
ready in my left hand. Inside
the room there’s a sound of
movement. Somebody gives a
kind of a shut-off gasp. There’s
a pause, then a voice.
“Sit still, you. Who’s out
there?”
Peters’ voice.
I stand *just outside the light.
1 want him to come and put his
head out.
He’s too smart for that.
“Who is it? Who’s out
there?”
I wait.
“What sort of \a bloody game
is this?”
If I can shake his nerve I got
him. . I stand, balanced on my
feet.
“Is that you, Mrs. P.?”
Mrs. P.!
“What you trying to do?
Make me mad?”
Yes, chum, I’m trying to make
you mad. Mad enough to charge
out and give me a crack at your
noggin with the bottle.
Peters don’t charge out. He
knows now that whoever is out
there means him no good. £le
knows it isn’t the police, because
if it’s police there’d be so many
of them they’d stampede into
that room in a herd. He’s foxy,
this Peters.
He done what 1 wasn’t expect-
ing. He pqt the light out. That
sits me back, because now we’re
(Continued on next page )
What Has Been Told
Delaney, realising that Det.
Keough and a reinforced Black
Springs police force can’t find
the murderer, Peters, deduces
that, because she has threatened
him that Peters will harm his
sweetheart, Kathy, unless he
hands over £3OOO (which he
hasn’t got and never had), Mrs.
Paterson is hiding Peters in her
home. He also concludes that
Kathy is a prisoner there. The
Paterson home would be the last
place the police would think of
searching, because earlier Mrs.
Paterson hdti shot and wounded
Peters when he tried to black-
mail her. Delaney, bringing his
old commando training into
play, sets out to find the Paterson
home. Upstairs in the darkened
house he hears a voice . Peters !


even. I wait. I can’t see a thing,
but I know where that door is
and I move close, so that if any-
one comes out I’ll feel them.
Nobody comes out.
Just in time it hit me wliat he’d
do next. He’d shut the door and
lock it. I bend low and go round
the door-lintel. I’m almost round
when the door swings and hits
my leg. I snatch the leg up
quick and try to jump, but too
late. He must of kicked out, be-
cause a boot hits me in the side
and knocks me off my pins. It
doesn’t wind me, just knocks me
off balance. But before I can
stand up he’s on me. A hand
grabs my coat-front and jerks
and I make a sideswipe with the
bottle in my left hand. It hit
something, but not hard enough.
But I swung so hard I lost the
bottle, and in amongst "the grunt-
ing and breathing I hear it
bouncing across the room.
Peters’ hand let go my coat and
it, or maybe his other hand,
touches my face. He’s measur-
ing me in the dark when he does
that, so I duck down and side-
ways and he runs into me and we
fall. Something hit the wall be-
hind me, and I shove close into
Peters, because this is the way I
want it; in close in the dark.
I know about that kind of fight-
ing.
I get a knee in the side, but it’s
the plastered side and that
breaks the blow. I got my left
hand tight in the collar of his
shirt and got my teeth shut and
getting kneed and taking
punches. I keep that grip and
try to force his head away so I
can hit him under the jaw with
' the arm in the plaster cast. He
keeps ripping short-arm punches
into me and they hurt like hell,
but I keep that grip, and get his
head away a little. He’s got a
notion what I’m trying to do and
he twists his head sideways and
down and puts his teeth into the
back of my left hand. That was
his mistake. Because when I
feel his teeth I know just how
his head is and my right arm
comes up and collides with his
jaw.
I hit him with everything I
got. The plaster-cast crumbles
and my arm’s suddenly kind of
weak, but it knocks Peters
cold. I’m sore and near shot my
bolt, but I can hear him wheez-
ing and I feel for him and he’s
doubled sideways, his mouth
against the floor. When I know
where he is and how he is 1 get
in close and turn him till I can
tell with the fingers of my hand
where to hit him, and then I
chop him twice behind the ear
with my left fist. I know what I
done to him and how he’s fixed,
and I let him be and get to my
feet. I’m plenty groggy now,
because of the t fight and the
knocks I took and the tension
broke, and I rock there for a
minute and like to go out myself.
I don’t know where the door is,
and I’m rocky and blood run-
ning in my mouth and busted
ribs plenty sore. I got to have
light and start to feel for the
wall to find the switch. But
somebody finds it before me,
because she knows where it is.
I didn’t hear her come. Guess
I was too busy and me and
Peters making all that noise.
So the light jumps on and
standing in the door is Elaine.
Behind-her, with her eyes stick-
ing out, is another woman. She’s
the maid, or cook, or whatever
it is, the one found the robe
and hat. I stand there, shaking,
and look at Elaine and she looks
at me. Then she looks at
Peters, where he’s lying on the
floor. She’s white and a bit
shaken, but she’s got her mind
on one single thing. It looks
out of her eyes and it acts on
me like a tonic.
Before she can move I’m over
Peters. .There’s papers in the
inside pocket of his coat. I
sight the letter among them, pull
it out, shove the other papers
back and stand up.
Elaine gives me a wild sort of
look.
“Not yet,” I say. “Where’s
Kathy?”
This room we’re in is small.
There’s a single bed against one
wall, a chair, a small table under
a window, a chest-of-drawers.
There’s a door in the wall oppo-
site the door I came through.
Elaine don’t say a word. She
walks across the room and
knocks on the door and says,
“It’s all right. It’s me.”
I go across to the bed and
slump on it.. The cook keeps
standing there.
Inside the other room a key
turns and the door opens and
Kathy .looks out.
She looks at Elaine and then
past her and sees me on the bed
and she rushes out and comes to
me and presses up against me,
and all she can do is get close
to me and tremble and clasp her
hands together and twist them.
I put my left arm around her
and look at Elaine.
“So you snatched her! ” I say.
“Snatched her?”
“You picked her up and
brought her here to Peters.”
Elaine walked to the chair and
sat down. Looked like her legs
wouldn’t hold her.. She’s biting
her lips. They’re not playing
with each other now. She’s
beaten.
I look at the cook woman.
“Are you in this?” I ask her.
She’s on in years, with a hard
face and her mouth all primped.
“She knows about it,” Elaine
says.
“All right,” I say. “So she
knows. She better come in and
shut the door before some more
get in on it.”
“Yes.”
The woman come in, shut the
door and stood with her back
to it. I’m tired and a bit sick and
got Kathy shivering against me,
and the woman makes me mad,
“If I want to go out that
door,” I tell her, “you and all
hell won’t stop me,”
She just stares at me. I give
her away.
Peters give a grunt and moved.
I put Kathy aside and got up
and found the bottle and took
it by the neck and measured him.
“Oh, no 1 Kathy says.
I look at her.
And at Peters, where he’s mov-
ing on the floor.
“He hurt you?” I ask.
“No. Not hurt. I was only
frightened.”
I look at her and lift the
bottle.
“Don’t hit him,” Kathy says.
“Don’t hit him.”
Peters would have shot me.
He tried to knife me just now,
because the knife is lying by the
wall. He’d have knifed Kathy
to spite me. I owed Peters
plenty.
I looked at Elaine. Her face
is white, her eyes glowing. She
didn’t say anything, but I knew
she wanted me to hit Peters with
the bottle. I wanted to hit him,
too, but there was Kathy. She
got off the bed and come and
held on to the arm with the
bottle in it. I had to shove her
away, because Peters was shak-
ing his head.
“Don’t crowd me, kid,” I
said.
There was a towel on the end
of the bed. I put the bottle
down and got the towel and toed
Peters over on to his stomach.
Then I knelt on,his back. He
bridged and I shoved the knee
in, hard, and he relaxed. I got
his hands together behind him.
“Come here, you,” I says to
Elaine.
She held Peters’ wrists to-
gether till I got him tied with the
towel. I rolled -him over.
“You bastard,” he says.
I chopped him with my left
hand.
Elaine stands close to us.
Kathy sits on the bed, shaking.
watching me. The woman still
stands by the door.
“All right,” I says to Elaine.
“Go call the police,”
“Please,” she says. She’s got
a wild look on her.
“Kathy, go call the police.”
Kathy gets up from the bed.
“Please, wait,” Elaine says.
She’s got her hands clasped and
wringing thepi.
“Look,” I says, “there’s noth-
ing now. It’s finished. It’s a
job for the police. Nothing
more”——
“Delaney.” Elaine says it like
a scream. “My husband —
Richard —if the , police come
he”
“Before God,” I says, “I’d
forgot him. Where the hell is
he! Is he here?”
“He’s downstairs,” she says.
I reckon I just gawped at her.
Downstairs ! With all that noise
of the ■ fight and everything.
What the hell was he doing
downstairs?
“Downstairs?”
Elaine put a hand on my
arm.
“Will you come down and
talk to him?” she says.
I look at her and look at the
womaai by the door. Something
damn’ funny here. Will you
come down and talk to him, she
says. Come down and talk to
him. So there’s a killer living
in his house and the killer
snatches a girl, or Elaine
snatches the girl and brings her
here, and I come and me and
the killer have a little warfare
in the dark and it ends with the
killer tied up and everybody up
here round him. Everybody but
this Richard. He stays down-
stairs and his wife wants me to
go and talk to him. She knows
I got that letter and can blow
her wide open with it and she
knows I got it in for her over
Kathy, but she wants me t 6 go
down and talk to Richard.
I look across the room at
Kathy. And Kathy looks right
back at me and gives a little
nod. So she wants me to go
down and talk to this Richard.
This Black Springs and the
people in it just about the
queerest crowd I ever run up
against.
I get a blanket from the bed
and spread it and roll Peters in
it, tight, and rip a sheet in half
the long way and tie that blanket
on him good. He’s like a long
bug in a cocoon when I’m
finished, ,
I’m' not so good. It’s been a
big night. My busted ribs give
me trouble and my right wrist
sore. My legs are like water and
I got a ringing in my head. I
pick up the rum-bottle and shoot
some fire into me.
“All right,” I says. “We’ll go
and talk to Richard, Kathy, you
and this woman stay here. Leave
the door open. If this Peters
acts up you yell. Get it?”
“Yes, Del. Darling, thank
ydu for coming and”——
“That’s all right, kid. You
ready, Mrs. Paterson?”
We go down the stairs and
across the hall to the door and
she pushes it open.
It’s a living-room, small, with
one reading-light on and a fire
burning. Side on to the fire sits
a big, soft-looking man about
forty. He’s peering at us, but
he don’t get up. He don’t get
up because the chair he’s in has
wheels and there’s a rug cover-
ing him from the waist down
and nobody has to be told he
don’t get up because he can’t.
And all I can do is stand
there. Because it’s like some-
body jabbed me in the solar-
plexus. Because that’s Richard,
and when I see him I see a
whole lot of things.
CHAPTER XIX
*• .
CJO I get the strength of it, and
one vtey and another it’s the
kind of thing gets under a man’s
skin. I been around, and I
reckon I’m hard enough, but I
don’t know whether I could take
what Richard and Elaine took,
each in his own way.
Polio done it. What they call
infantile paralysis. Only Richard
was no infant when it hit him,
about six years before I come to
Black Springs. He was on top
of the world, with his flour-mill
business and a big shot in the
town and a real looker with a
ton of personality for a wife,
when it hit him. She took him
all over the world, it seems, try-
ing to get it fixed. Over two
years he’s in one of them iron-
lungs and she taking him to
these specialists. But it hit him
too hard. They get him out of
the iron-lung and able to eat
and think and run his business,
but he’ll never walk again. He
wanted her to leave him, get a
divorce or something, but she
ain’t that kind. They been
married two years when it hit
him and she goes for him in a
big way and when it happens she
sticks.
She sticks and she’s kind of
wife and sweetheart and mother
to him. She’s still plenty young
and got a young woman’s heat
in her—maybe more than her
share of it —and it’s like she told
me up on the hill. Now I know
why she’d of shot me and Peters
to stop Richard knowing about
that letter.
The letter !
I look at Elaine, where she’s
down on her knees beside
Richard, and his arm across her
shoulders; and I give a bit of a
laugh and pull the letter out and
look at it to make sure it'is the
letter. Then I walk over and
put it in the fire.
“Just a note I got rid of,” I
says to Richard. “Might of got
me in bad with the police if
they got hold of it. That feller
upstairs had it. He was holding
it on me.”
They look at each other. Elaine
put her head down in her hands
and cried. Richard’s face gone
a bit white and his mouth tight.
“You’re wrong, Mr. Delaney,”
he said. He’s got one of them
deep, slow voices. “You’re
wrong. I knew about the letter.
My wife told me about it.
Thanks, all the same.”
“You know about well,
about her playing round
and”
. “Good God,” he says, sharp.
“Some of you tough birds are
more narrow-minded than any-
body else. My wife flirted
around —played round you call
it. What do you expect? Look
at me! What do you expect?
A normal, healthy woman and
a man like”
“0.K.! 0.K.!” I cut in. “So
I get it. You knew about the
letter, but your friends, didn’t.
Black Springs didq’t. You didn’t
want them to know. O.K. I
got that. No need to work your-
self up. The letter’s gone.”
Richard didn’t say anything,
just looked at the fire. Elaine
still had her face in her hands,
crying. O.K. If he believed she
was only flirting around, that
was all right with me. Maybe
that’s all she meant to do, at
first. I wouldn’t know. All I
knew right then was that it was
their business, not mine. Way I
saw it I had no more business in
this Black Springs. All I got
out of the place was a lot of
trouble and worry and some
busted ribs, and Keough on my
tail, and being used as bait for
Peters, and all the rest of it. And
Kathy.
Kathy!
“There’s his nibs upstairs,” I
say. “What about him? Right
now the police is hunting for
him, and unless I’m a bad judge
they’re hunting for me, too. I
better get on the phone.”
“Just a minute,” Richard says.
“Can’t we do something about
this? If the police come here
the whole town will —well,
there’ll be awkward questions.”
“I’ll say there’ll be awkward
questions. Especially about how
Kathy Colter came to be hefe.”
“I brought her here,” Elaine
said. “Richard, you didn’t know
that. I had to do it. The man
upstairs, Peters, thought Mr.
Delaney had a lot of money. He
threatened me. He said if I
didn’t get the money he’d send
the letter to the police. He said
to tell Mr. Delaney that if he
ididn’t give up the money he’d
do something dreadful to Kathy.
You see, he found out, some-
how, that Mr. Delaney and
Kathy were — : well, sweethearts.
I was passing the hotel this
evening in my car. I saw Kathy
come out. She looked upset. I
stopped and spoke to her. She
told me Mr. Delaney had tele-
phoned from the hospital and
told her to go to the police. I
was frightened. I didn’t want
her to go to the police. So I said
I would drive her to the police,
and when she got in the car I
drove her here instead and took
her up and put her in the top
back-room. I”
“You got her for Peters,” I
said.
“No, no. I put her in that
room and gave her the key and
told her to lock the door and not
let Peters in. I gave her my
gun. That’s where the little gun
is, in that room. Peters knew
she was there, but he couldn’t
do a thing. I told him if he
touched her I’d bring the police
at once. Oh, it was mad and
silly, but I was desperate. I
didn’t know what to do. I had
to keep the police out of it.
They”
“The police are in it, now,”
I said. “Look, I know you got
your worries. I got mine. I’ve
nearly had this. Why don’t we
call the cops and get it over?”
“Delaney,” Richard said,
“what will you do when it’s all
over?”
I looked at him. I could see
he was fighting for something.
“Aw, I dunno. Get out of this
Black Springs for a start.”
“And this girl, Kathy?”
“She’s my business.”
“So she is. Look, there’s
about four hundred in cash in
this house. I want you to have
that. I want you to have that
just for burning that letter. I
mean that, Delaney.”
I stared at him. He meant it.
“Thanks,” I said. “I could use
some dough.”
“I’m giving you that cash,
right now, no strings to it.. It’s
a kind of a reward. Get Peters
out of here and have the police
pick him up somewhere else and
you can collect an open cheque
for six hundred. That”
“But Peters”
“Wait. That makes it a
thousand. Don’t misunderstand
me. You’ve got four hundred,
whatever happens. My wife
will get it for you now. You
get another six hundred if”-
“But listen. Peters’il squeal.
He’ll squeal to get even. Even
if we got him out of here he’d
tell the police all about”
“We’ll chance that. That can
be dealt with. If you and this
girl are ready to say”
“What about the woman—the
woman upstairs?” ,
“She’s safe.”
“Way I see it you want to get
him out of here. Then when
he’s picked up and makes his
squeal all of us deny it and
he”-
“It’ll be his word against the
rest of us.”
“Just so you can keep your
name good?”
Richard put out his arm and
drew Elaine closer to his knees
and held her there.
“Yes,” he says. “Just so we
can stay together in this home
and in this town. You see,
Delaney, I can’t get about very
well. It would be hell to have
to uproot everything and”
“Yes,” I says.
There’s a silence. I look at
the fire, thinking it over., I got
four hundred. That’s some-
thing. A thousand is a whole
lot more. Maybe we could get
away with it.
“Only thing is,” I says, “where
do they pick him up? Where
do they flush him? Got to be
some place they haven’t been
through already.”
“In a corner of the mill-yard,”
he says, and his face is all alive
now, “there’s an open space. It’s
not been used for years. It’s
overgrown with dock and other
weeds, four or five feet high. We
put an air-raid shelter there in
the war. Ten feet deep, big
enough to hold fifty people. The
entrance is only about two feet
wide and maybe eight feet long.
You go down steep steps. We
never bothered to fill it in. We
put a lid made of planks over


8.0.A.C. Takes Good Care of You
j: . r i ' . - ■" ' • •
Speedbird Services
link Australia with
INDONESIA, MALAYA, BURMA,
THAILAND. HONG KONG,
JAPAN, CEYLON, INDIA,
PAKISTAN, MIDDLE EAST,
AFRICA, EUROPE, GREAT
BRITAIN, U.S.A., CANADA,
CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA,
BERMUDA.
*
See your Travel Agent for complete
trip-planning help —no charge I
FLY BRITISH
d
fd
fdf
mi
TO MU six continent;
f
Wherever you fly it costs no more for 8.0.A.C. traditional
service and experience . . . for the unrivalled skill of
flying and ground staffs . . . friendly, courteous
attention . . . smooth efficiency. Speedbird
services link with 51 countries on all
6 continents —and you can travel on
one ticket all the way.
Four-engined Speedbird airliners are
fully pressurized for smooth
above-the-weather flying
Complimentary meals and meal-time
drinks. No tips. No extras.
8.0.A.C. LEADS WITH THE COMET!
FOR POST HASTE WITHOUT WASTE—USE OVERSEAS AIR MAIL
Reservations and information from all Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia)
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A42/AU
the entrance. The weeds have
grown over it and hid it. Most
people have forgotten it. I’d
say the police never thought of
it. A man like Peters could find
a spot like that, couldn’t he, and
hide there?”
“If he had eats and water.”
“Plenty of water in the mill
taps. He could get it at night.
He could have found it and put
in enough canned food to keep
him going for some days.”
I think it over. Anything
we’re going to do has to be
done quick, because I’m nearly
all in.
The clock says 1.15 a.m.
That’s not good. Anybody mov-
ing round Black Springs that
hour is going to attract some of
them hunting police.
“All right,” I says. “Rug
yourself up, Mrs. Paterson. Get
your car. Don’t put the lights
on. Bring it to the front door.
Wait, get me that robe and hat
the woman brought in. I’ll get
my shoes.”
• At the door I turned and said
to Richard, “If it don’t work
out don’t blame me.”
“I wish to God I could be in
it,” he says,
“The big car or the sports?”
Elaine asks.
“The big car.”
I got my shoes from under
the front veranda, put on the
robe and hat and went upstairs.
“It’s all fixed,” I tell Kathy
and the woman. “Don’t ask
questions. Just do as you’re
told. You know about Mr.
Paterson’s legs, Kathy?”
“Yes.”
Peters glares at me out of his
cocoon. I go across and drag
him against the wall and prop
him up against it.
“You got this coming, mate,”
I says, and chop him behind the
ear with my left fist. He sags.
I tell the women what to do.
We unblanket Peters. Elaine
comes upstairs. The four of us
tote Peters down and put to the
front and pour him on to the
floor of the sedan.
“You stay here,” I tell the
Patersons’ woman. “You drive,
Mrs. Paterson. Kathy, you get
in the back with me. Never
mind about Peters. Put your
feet on him. He’d a done plenty
to you if he’d got the chance.
Anybody stops you, Mrs. Pater-
son, you’ve left something valu-
able at i he mill and going to get
it. Think of something. Have
something ready, because there’s
police-cars and beat-pounders
all over this town. What you
waiting for?”
We make two streets and part
of a third when a siren opens up
behind us.
“Pull into the kerb,” I tell
Elaine. “Bit more into the
shadow of them trees. Duck
down, Kathy.”
'rtie police get out of their ear
we’re gone gooses. They don’t.
They pull up alongside and put a
torch on Elaine and one of them
“’Night, Mrs. Paterson.
What brings you out so late?”
“The tax people,” Elaine says,
laughing like it’s a big joke.
She’s got guts, all right. “My
husband and I only have until
tomorrow to get our returns in.
I left the wages-sheets in the
mill office.”
“Gripes,” says the cop. “They
keep you hopping, don’t they,
when you got a business. That’s
all right, Mrs. Paterson. We got
to check on everybody. You
like us to trail along with you?”
She gives the kind of laugh
makes the notion look silly.
“Don’t worry about me,” she
says. “Have you heard any-
thing about that man yet?”
• “Not yet, but we will. Good-
night,”
“Good-night.”
The police-car pulls ahead and
Elaine starts. She runs slow till
the police-car turns a corner,
then she steps on it. She turns
two corners, and then .another,
and then she kills her lights and
turns again and pulls into the
kerb.
“This is the corner,” she says.
“There’s a wire fence. The
shelter is just inside the fence.”
“Wait.”
I go through that fence and
into, the .weeds. They’re thick,
like Richard said. I find the lid
by walking on it and hearing it
hollow. It takes some lifting, be-
cause the weeds hold it, but I
get it loose and to one side. 1
go down the steps and chance
striking a match. There’s rub-
bish and dust, but it hasn’t
caved-in none because the walls
are timbered. I scuffle round in
the dust and make plenty tracks.
•Then I go back to the car. Elaine
raided her pantry and there’s
canned food and milk and stuff
in a gunny-sack. I take this
back and spread it round the
shelter. The three of us drag
Peters out and feed him through
the wire and get him down the
steps.
“Leave him,” I tell the women.
We go up to the top,
“Listen, Mrs. Paterson, you
know anybody near here got a
phone?”
“Yes, round the next corner.
People named Hatton.”
“Right. Kathy, come here.”
I lead Kathy in among the
weeds.
“Listen, Kathy. You trust
me?”
“Oh, yes, Del. But I’m
scared.”
“Won’t be long now, love.
Look, sit here, see? I’m going
to, that phone. For the police.
Minute you hear them come get
up and start yelling and run.
Got it?”
“Oh, I’ll be scared. That
man there and”
“He won’t know you’re here.
Look, try. If it gets too much
just get up and get out. But I
wish you’d try.”
“I’ll try, Del.”
I took time out to kiss her.
She clung to me. We kissed
again.
“All right, kid?”
“All right.”
I went down the steps, found
Peters, untied him. He mumbled
and moved. That’s how I
wanted liim. It would take hinf
all of ten minutes to come out of
it.
I went back to the car.
“Keep your lights out. Drive
to that house with the phone.
Drop me there, then scram for
home like the devil was on your
tail.”
She don’t say anything. When
we get to the house and she
stops she reaches out and pulls
me over and kisses me and
shoves me away. Before I was
in the gate her car-lights was
way down the street.
The people get a fright when
they sight me, because I’m dirty
from the shelter and blood on
my face and look like something
the cat dragged in. They get
out of bed to my knocking, and
when they see me they get a
fright. There’s a man and a
woman and two boys. They
stand watching while I whirl the
handle.
“Police-station.”
“Delaney here. Listen”— —
“Delaney, where you speaking
from? What?”
“Never mind that. Get police
round the Paterson’s flour-mill.
Jump to it. Peters is there!” >
“What! Delaney, what you
trying”— —
“Listen, copper. Get busy.
Keough hears you wasted time
like this he’ll”
“All right! All right! Hold
the line.” I hear him yell to
somebody. That’s all I want. I
hang the phone up and turn to
the Hattons.
“O.K. Thanks a lot. You
can go back to bed or stay and
see the show. It’ll be on in
about five minutes. I got to go.' 5
I go out their gate and
head for that weedy corner.
My ears is cocked, I don’t hear
a thing till I’m maybe a hun-
dred yards from the shelter.
Then I hear it—a siren way off
and near by the high revving
roar of a couple of cars. The
night gets full of headlights.
About all I got left in me is a
run. I start running. A police-
van races up and cops start
dropping out. Two of them
close on me.
“Not me, you dopes, I’m
Delaney. Get along that mill
fence.”
There’s more cars. Cops all
over the place. Why don’t Kathy
scream?
She screams.
The police-van turns on a
searchlight. It picks up Kathy.
She’s got her skirts kilted up
and running along the fence.
Two cops go through the fence
and grab her. I stop running.
Because now she’s safe.
1 lean against the fence and
I’m done. My head rings and
a pain all down my side and I’m
shaking like a lost dog. I hang
on to the fence, but it won’t hold
me and about all I know is me
sliding down along the wires to
the ground and there’s a lot of
lights flashing and feet running
and voices. Nothing more for
me to do, so I just let go and
went, down on the ground.
That Peters was tough. He
must of come to a lot quicker
than I expected. Because he
broke out of the weeds and the
searchlight picked him up. He
jumped back and went through
the weeds to the operi ground in
the mill-yard; But the cops was
in there. They called on him to
stop. He turned and made a run
for the mill-buildings and some
of them shot at him. They’re
supposed to''shoot over a man’s
head at first. Maybe they did.
Maybe some them was ex-
cited. The light wasn’t good.
Peters cried out and fell and
they rushed him. They had no
more trouble. Because he was
dead before they got him in a
car, A .38 slug hit him under
the ribs and struck a bone and
mushroomed through his lungs.
So I’m back in this hospital
and nearly a month gone by.
They reckon I’ll be right in
another week. Keough come.
“What give you the notion he
was up in the mill-yard,
Delaney?”
“Way I saw if he had to be
some place like that. Say, Mr.
Keough, I was lucky at that. I
was poking round in. them weeds
in the dark and I heard a cough.
Right under me. Couldn’t be-
lieve *it. Felt around and found
them boards under the weeds.
Put my ear to the boards. Heard
little sounds. Somebody mov-
ing. So I crawled away and
got into the street and found
that place with the phone.”
“Yes, but what took you to
the mill? My boys had been all
over it.”
“That was it. Way I seen it
he had to be some place where
they’d missed him. I looked
over the railway-yards, round
the town. Saw the mill. Some-
thing sent me in there. Just one
of them things, I guess.”
Keough held his chin and
looked at me a long time. I
can look blank if I have to. So
I looked blank.
“It strikes me, Delaney,” he
says, “you’d make a good cop
yourself. You gave us a lot of
trouble, sneaking out of the hos-
pital and all that.”
I didn’t say anything. No
need for me to say anything any
more. Peters was finished and
that wiped out anything between
Keough and me. It wiped out a
whole lot of things.
So I’m sitting here on the
veranda, sunny side, away from
the cold wind. I’ve had re-
porters and cameramen on my
back. I’m in the papers. Black
Springs knows about me now.
The whole country knows me, I
guess.
I got a thousand frogskins and
can go anywhere and start
something. No matter where I
go or what I start I’ll be known.
Because the papers splashed it
big, my picture and Kathy’s
picture and everything.
Richard Paterson paid me the
thousand. He sent Elaine to give
it to me and thank me. Maybe
I done them a good turn. May-
be I done myself a better one.
I wouldn’t know. Elaine was
quiet when she come. The
grateful lady. She said if I
wanted a job they’d give me one
at the mill. Way she put it they
could use a bright coot like me
at the mill.
I don’t know. I got to see
Kathy about that. She’s coming
to see me this afternoon. She’s
been here every day since that
night.
Yes, I got to see Kathy about
a few things.
You’re in this game you’re on
your own. I been in the game a
few years. Because this country
, owes me a living, way I see it. I
didn’t go up in them jungles and
get shot at and live in everlast-
ing rain and* stinking mud just
to come back and slave for a
few notes a week. So I been in
this game most of the time. It
hasn’t paid off before. Maybe I
didn’t get the breaks. It’s paid
off now. A thousand frogskins
isn’t peanuts.
Only I didn’t get them out of
the game. I got them for work-
ing hard and taking a hell of a
risk to let the Patersons keep
their life. Doing something for
somebody else got me a thousand
frogskins. That’s a laugh.
Because the thousand and the
job at the mill can get me
Kathy. I know I can have Kathy
without the job or the thousand,
but I don’t want her that way.
She done plenty for me and she
don’t look for no pay-off, Sfie
done it because she’s Kathy and
she’s in love with me. I’m her
trophy, I guess.
Sure, you’re in this game
you’re on your own. Maybe I’m
getting old or lazy or something.
I’m tired of being on my own.
Man on his own could finish up
like that Peters. No future in
that. So the game can get along
without me.
Kathy coming up the drive
from the main gates. She’s real
pretty in the sun, with her head
up, looking for me.
I haven’t told her about the job
at the mill. I haven’t told her
I got a thousand frogskins in the
bank and if she wants a honey-
moon she can have it.
Way I see it that ought to
please her.
[The End]


vMimvmim vmmvm^vmimvrnimvMi
? tw& == mrwA mmA mtwA =twa m twa mrwA mrmAmiWAm
TRANS WORLD AIRLINES
\
is the ONLY airline to offer you
Super Qonstellations
to carry you in luxury from San
Francisco or Los Angeles to New York
en route to
London, Paris, Frank-
furt, Zurich, Geneva,
Tel Aviv, Shannon,
Lisbon, Madrid,
Algiers, Tunis, Milan,
Rome, Athens, Cairo,
Basra. Dha hr an,
Bombay.
SUPER CONSTELLATION FEATURES:
© Most spacious planes in
commercial operation—
-744 square feet of floor
space.
O Seats 64 passengers,
plus 8 sleeping berths.
• Luxury lounge for pas-
sengers’ comfort.
9 Most advanced 4-engitie
equipment gives greater
Literature supplied on appli-
cation to any approved travel
agent, or TWA, Kembla Build-
ing, 58 Margaret St., Sydney.
BX 1219.
range—3,2so miles
cruising at 20,000 feet.
• Pressurised and air-
conditioned cabins give
low altitude comfort.
Outstanding cuisine.
HiUSonJ ****-
flow*
WO*l°
. as>»
AltlC*
ASK FOR TWA SUPER CONSTELLATION SERVICE ACROSS AMERICA
| mrwAmtWA wufAmiwAimrwAmTm JB
VMimvMiMm tfAumtr/Hi vma » wum km/ * mm/ s mu
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
bTRUAN ROBERTSON NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAP ANTI-YANKISM
Going by reports —not from
any possibly hostile source but
made by correspondents of
responsible American publica-
tions—the phenomenon of anti-
Americanism, already noted
here as widespread in Europe,
is now curiously prevalent in
Japan, too.
Thus, in one of a series of
articles on the phenomenon
there, the Tokyo correspondent
of “New York Times” has
reported;
“Evidence of the growth of
anti-Americanism is not hard to
come by today. Only rarely
does the subject fail to come up
in talks with informed Japan-
ese. Excepted, for obvious
reasons, are conversations' with
almost professional ‘pro-
Americans,’ who either avoid
the painful subject or pass it
off as the sentiment of a small
minority of ‘Communists and
Leftists.’
“A steady stream of articles
dealing with the problem has
occupied considerable space in
Japanese hewspapers and maga-
zines in recent months. In ad-
dition to editorials and com-
mentaries, the Press also carries
in its news-columns frequent
reports of rallies, petitions,
demonstrations and other activi-
ties centred on the theme of
anti-Americanism. Books and
movies, usually throwing more
heat than light on the problem,
are being produced in increasing
numbers.
“Public-opinion polls reflect
this growing bias. One such
poll, conducted recently by the
influential and moderate news-
paper ‘Asahi,’ showed almost
half of those questioned favor-
ing the withdrawal of United
States security forces from
Japan. Only 27 per cent, ap-
proved the continued presence
of United States troops, while
26 per cent, had no opinion. A
year ago, a poll by the same
newspaper indicated that 48
per cent, were in favor of
having the troops stay..,,
“Americans, grown accus-
tomed though not insensitive to
attacks from supposed friends
abroad, may not be too sur-
prised that many Japanese have
joined the ‘Go Home, Yankee’
chorus. What puzzles many
Americans here [in Tokyo] is
why the Japanese should have
waited so long. The basic
reason is that from her sur-
render until last year Japan was
under military occupation, and
it was a criminal offence to
criticise Americans, the United
States or the occupation. The
result of that policy has been
that in the last year the Japan-
ese have been offered and have
read avidly all the pent-up
criticisms that might have been
spread out over several years
and thus lost much of their
fascination and their effect of
exaggerating the troops’ mis-
behavior.”
In another of his reports the
“New York Times” man further
commented :
“The opposition to the United
States on display in Japan has
roots that go deeper than the
present or the recent past. Com-
petent observers see in much of
the outspoken criticism of the
United States today a reflection
of the ariti-foreignism that is
almost as old as Japan itself.
Even during those periods in
history when Japan has wel-
comed visitors from abroad, she
has kept a tight rein on their
numbers and activities ..,.
“Expressions of anti-Ameri-
can sentiment concentrate on
the alleged violence done to
Japanese independence by
United States policy. It is
argued, for example, that while
a majority of Japanese would
like to expand trade with Com-
munist China fee. United States
has forced them to limit such
dealings. Others attack Japan’s
Constitution on the ground that
it was imposed by the Allied
occupation and is not a ‘real
Japanese document,’ or point to
the United States-Japanese
Security Treaty as evidence of
the nation’s abject dependence
on foreign help.
“Another potent force in the
anti-American movement, and
probably the most vocal, is
composed of large numbers of
intellectuals writers, teachers,
critics and others. Strangely
enough, some of the most criti-
cal are those who grew up, went
to school or at least travelled in
the United States....
“Some critics concentrate on
the alleged lack of any real
American ‘culture’ compared
with the countries of
Europe.. ..
“The anti-American move-
ment in Japan undoubtedly has
strained relations between the
two countries. To avoid the
appearance of being too ‘pro-
American,’ the conservative and
generally pro-Western Govern-
mmpu liPSSgig
-American “Army Times”
“BUT I’M NOT LEAVING NOW—JUST THINKING ABOUT IT.”
ment of Premier Shigeru
Yoshida has been forced, re-
peatedly to give at least the
appearance of disagreeing with
the Americans. This in turn
has led some American officials
to complain bitterly about
Japanese ‘ingratitude’ and ‘hag-
gling,’ and has generated com-
pensating anti-Japanese feelings
among many Americans....
“Japanese politicians have
refused almost without excep-
tion to say clearly in Parlia-
mentary debate, ‘Yes, I favor
co-operation with the United
States and this is why.’ Yet in
private conversations these
same officials will admit that
unless the increase in anti-
Americanism is checked it can
only have unfavorable results
for Japan, for the United States
and for the free world.”
In racier terms, and with a
wealth of detail much more
frankly filled in, a Tokyo cor-*
respondent of “U.S. News and
World Report” has recorded:
“There’s big money in anti-
Americanism in Japan. Books
and movies about ‘occupation
babies’ and alleged American
atrocities are phenomenally
popular, especially among the
younger Japanese, and are pil-
ing up huge profits for Japan-
ese publishers and movie pro-
ducers. ....
“Instead of diminishing with
the end of occupation and the
arrival of Japan’s independence,
the anti-American feeling seems
to be increasing. It now is
noticeable in Japanese of all
classes and political hues.
“A movie called ‘Orphans of
Mixed Blood,’ for instance, has
become a box-office hit. It is a
semi-documentary film about
the Japanese-American babies
born since V-J Day, a contro-
versial and emotional question
if there ever was one.
“Actually, no one really
knows how many GI babies
there are in Japan. The Japan-
ese Government says 5083 ;
Leftists say 200,000 or more.
Whatever the correct figure, it
is big enough to have created a
problem. Japan’s newspapers
and magazines keep the prob-
lem stirred up with articles
about ‘race-pollution’ and sug-
gestions that maybe these
‘Amerasians’ ought to be ‘sent
back’ to America, or perhaps
segregated from ‘pure-bred’
Japanese in Japan.
“The man who directed
‘Orphans of Mixed Blood,’
Hideo Sekigawa, displayed con-
siderable ingenuity in producing
the film. He managed to con-
vince the U.S. Army that he
was producing a ‘friendly’ docu-,
mentary about U.S. bases in
Japan. He was therefore per-
mitted to shoot scenes on a U.S.
reservation at the foot of Fuji-
yama, GFs were allowed to
serve as extras, and U.S. Army
trucks and other U.S. equipment
show up in the picture as props.
“The U.S. Army was acutely
embarrassed when ‘Orphans of
Mixed Blood’ emerged from the
cutting-room.
“The finished picture shows
GTs arm-in-arm with prosti-
tutes, strolling down village
streets. The script has Gl’s tak-
ing mistresses, then abandoning
both them and their offspring.
An American officer, married,
is shown enticing a Japanese
girl into a bigamous marriage.
For a climax, the film depicts a
rape scene in which an Ameri-
can soldier is the villain.
“The biggest box-office at-
traction this year, even more of
a hit than ‘Orphans of Mixed
Blood,’ is a film called ‘Tower
of White Lilies.’ This is a
highly emotional story of the
brutal death —allegedly at the
hands of U.S. forces —of young
Japanese schoolgirls during the
invasion of Okinawa.
“When the ‘Tower of White
Lilies’ reached the screen in
Japan it packed the movie
theatres. Japanese girls and
women wept when they saw it.
Newspaper commentators said
sourly that ‘Americans obvi-
ously shoot everything that
moves.’
“Another recent hit in Japan,
a picture called ‘The Martyred
General,’ is also anti-American.
This film is based on the life of
Gen. Tomoyuki Yamashita, who
was executed in the Philippines
as a war criminal. Yamashita
emerges from the film not as a
war criminal but as a patriotic.
Emperor-fearing militarist who
died because Gen. Douglas
MacArthur wanted revenge.
“It is true that since Yama-
shita’s execution some Amer-
icans, and of course most
Japanese, have questioned
whether Yamashita got a fair
trial. But the film doesn’t really
concern itself with this ques-
tion. The film simply uses the
questioning as a springboard to
portray Americans as brutal,
callous killers,
“When Americans in Japan
protest at pictures like these,
many Japanese argue that
Americans are simply too sensi-
tive to criticism. These popular
movies, it is often said, are not
anti-American but anti-war.
“If Japan’s popular movies
are anti-American, some of the
popular books are more so.
‘Children of the Bases,’ a col-
lection of poems and essays
written by Japanese school-
children, recounts the alleged
brutality and sexuality of
American soldiers. A best-
seller entitled ‘Japanese Chast-
ity” portrays American soldiers
as rapists and degenerates and
tells, in pornographic detail,
what the author says went on in
billets, offices and lonely side-
roads.”
Just as the anti-Americanism
reported earlier as prevalent in
Britain and Europe seems art
odd harvest of the Marshall
Plan and all that, so the like
phenomenon in Japan would
seem an odd sort of outcome of
what has been called the softest
peace-treaty in history.
U.N.O. Money-wasters
The young chappie in the play
who would inherit a huge fortune
provided he could meanwhile go
through a specified large sum
of money within a certain time
• should apparently be the patron
saint of U.N.O. and its off-
‘shoots.
Actually, as a “Manchester
Guardian” article on the work-
ing of the Colombo Plan demon-
strates, U.N.O. spending is based
on that very principle.
Under the Colombo plan a
sum of £8,000,000 was origin-
ally fixed on for paying the
foreign experts who would be
helping the Asian countries to
be benefited by the scheme, the
sum to be spent in two years.
Those countries, however,
couldn’t use the experts’ help at
the rate contemplated; only
£2,000,000 could profitably be
used in the time, and so the
extra £6,000,000 budgeted for is
being kept for -future use. Which
is as it should be.
Contrast with that the spend-
ing by the U.N.O. technical
agencies operating in the same
area. The financial arrange-
ments under which these work
do not allow them to postpone
expenditure for which they have


No
»
45/
No
28/4
For
gift
for
self
Choose from the big, brightly coloured range
of Onoto pens, ball pens, pencils or sets .
Onoto
Peni and Sets
Pens from 25/- to 140/-, Sets from 45/- to £ll
Ball Pen, 17/6
Thomas Do La Rue & Co. Ltd., London
eittributors: NORMAN BAKER AND LONGHURST PTY. LTD., Sydney & Melbourne
Vt*
this
cofC*
LIVE]
•’WI
u
/
THCNUTS ">
>V mm nn
fjr;
!Z-*:
TCipj
IJvJc
£?'■,■«;;; ?. V: f '»»
mmmrn
«y
®2s v uo.
’’ •«, _
tro. I
The man who names his whisky is
wise; and wisest of all is he who
chooses White Horse. Every drop
is whisky at its finest, distilled as
Scotland—and only Scotland—
knows how. To appreciate this
noble Scotch shows wisdom;
to ask for White Horse by name
reveals the connoisseur.
a
WHITE HORSE
ask for it by name
WH27.63
budgeted. Unspent sums are
forfeited at the end of a finan-
cial year, and an agency which
allows this to happen will prob-
ably receive reduced funds in
its next budget. The agencies
have therefore a good reason
for unloading quickly their
funds for technical assistance.
They were able to do this
(reports the “Guardian”) by
setting up large. and expensive
planning-staffs. At the start
nearly one-third of their funds
was spent upon this. Also they
organised “study tours” and
“seminars” on a great scale. At
one time travel expenses took
nearly one-fifth of their outlay!
What were the results achieved
by this hectic spending? “Too
often,” the Guardian comments,
“the best civil servants in Asian
countries have been kept on a
perpetual spree of travelling at
United Nations expense when
they should have been attend-
ing to their duties at home.
Foreign experts have been con-
suming ostentatiously large
United Nations salaries while
they have fumed because the
Asian countries do not possess
the subordinate staffs able to
make use of their expert advi.ce.
Sometimes they have ended by
criticising their hosts with such
asperity that they have em-
bittered the relations of East and
West.”
In another article “Manchester
Guardian” noted how the pub-
licity item in the United Nations
budget has been growing. This
year it amounts to no less than
$3,700,000 (excluding the not in-
considerable amounts spent on
publicity by the United Nations
specialised agencies), and the
proposals for next year’s budget
call for an even higher expendi-
ture. In addition, some United
Nations branches appoint their
own information officers under
other budgetary titles, such as
“special assistant.”
Even the chap in the play
could learn something from these
people. London “Daily Ex-
press,” for instance, looks into
another of the lavish-spending
offshoots:
“This year nearly £6,500,000
will flow into the plushy offices
of the United Nations Educa-
tional, Scientific and Cultural
Organisation. How is the money
being spent? Unesco’s fifth
annual report gives the answer.
“A church is falling down in
Yugoslavia. Unesco sends a
mission to study means of
‘preserving its mural frescoes,’
An archaeological mission for
Peru? Unesco provides one.
“Concerts are arranged for
budding music composers, mil*
lions of words are published on
such subjects as ‘The Socialisa-
tion of Children,’ ‘What the
Behaviorial Sciences Can Teach
Us,’ ‘Some Attitudes in
Teachers.’
“To organise all these activi-
ties it employs hosts of officials,
including secretaries at a tax-
free salary of £6O a week;
typists at £2O a week.
“But is Unesco satisfied with
its income? Not at all. It
wants more! ”
Commonwealth Court
In the course of a “Man-
chester Guardian” letter, British
Labor M.P. for Aberdeen Hec-
tor' Hughes puts the case in
favor:
“Today one of our needs is a
Commonwealth Court. One of
our duties is to provide one by
agreement between all the free
and independent nations which
form our great Commonwealth.
The need and duty is to provide
a court more representative in
character and wider in jurisdic-
tion than any known before, so
that its functions would not be
only juridical....
“Discerning legal and political
intellects will realise the great
and various contributions which
a Commonwealth Court could
make to the science of law. Its
diversity would be enriched by
learning from, for instance,
Indian Law and Roman Dutch
Law as well as from British
Common and Statute Law. Its
field of application could be
made so wide as to enable it to
hear and determine not only
appeals from Supreme Courts
but also questions submitted by
and disputes between members
of the Commonwealth.
“The court should, of course,
include distinguished judges
from the whole Commonwealth
and should sit in the capitals of
the various member-nations as
required.
“A true Commonwealth
Court is highly desirable as a
practical link and as providing
an opportunity for the compre-
hensive and scientific exposition
of law at the highest level.
Goodwill could, indeed, thus
shape theory to facts and
utility.”
Dragnet Digest
Editors All. —London “Daily
Mail” report: “M. Grigorian,
Molotov’s Press officer at the
Soviet Foreign Office in Moscow,
was asked about sub-editors in
the Soviet Press. His reply: Tn
the U.S.S.R. all editors are
equal. There are no sub-
editors.’ ”
Scholastic Plastic. —In Edin-
burgh, at a cost of £lOO,OOO
(London “Times” report), they’re
building a school entirely of
Minneapolis “Tribune”
OF COURSE HE’S GETTING TIRED.
plastic. The largest building so
far in Britain using this new
method of construction, it will
have walls only 2in. thick, will
have a heating system, and will
accommodate 650 pupils.
Gay London, Sad Paree. —
Assessed by a “New York
Times” correspondent: “The
atmosphere of London is not
only more cheerful than that of
Paris; it is more confident than
at any time since the war. The
contrast between France’s self-
doubt and fear of the future and
England’s sturdy faith in British
destiny is immediately apparent.
Both attitudes are exaggerated ;
France has a vitality her political
action belies and Britain still
faces an uphill economic struggle.
Perhaps the difference is that the
British feel they are emerging
from their hardest period while
the French know that to survive
their most painful sacrifices are
about to begin.”
U.S. Aid Still Needed. —
London “Economist” finding:
“France is the country that most
vividly illustrates the extent to
which Western Europe still de-
pends on American aid. For
some nations, it is true, aid has
nowadays become marginal—-
that is, it tends merely to turn
small deficits into small sur-
pluses. But for France, amdng
others, American assistance is
crucial. Its extreme reliance is
partly the result of heavy mili-
tary expenditure both at home
and in Indo-China; but partly,
too, it reflects the truth of the
recent statement by M. Marjolin,
Secretary-General of the Organi-
sation for European Economic
Co-operation, that France is the
black spot of the European
economy.”
Mates of Mao. —Toronto
“Globe and Mail” finds, them a
little inconsistent; “The British
Labor party would scream its
head off if Spain were invited
to join the United Nations. Yet
it demands U.N. membership for
the Peking regime on the grounds
that it is the effective Govern-
ment of China. Is it any more
effective than the Franco regime
in Spain? Has it shown itself
any more peaceful or law-
abiding? It is Mao’s hands, not
Franco’s, that are wet with
British blood.”
The H-bomb. —“New York
Times” sums it up: “The H-
bomb is not war as it has been
known; it is a man-made vol-
canic eruption, hurricane, earth-
quake, pestilence, flood, drought,
famine—all rolled into one. It
is the Four Horsemen of the
Apocalypse riding through the
blood and tears of millions. And
this, from which the victor will
not be spared any more than
the vanquished, is the alternative
to agreement among the
nations.”.
Policing Malaya. —Report by
London “Times’s” Singapore
correspondent: “The internal
security services of Malaya are
probably the most efficient and
omnipotent, of their kind, and
the largest in the world in pro-
portion to the size of the coun-
try. In some areas there is an
armed man to police every two
of his fellows, and more than 65
for every known terrorist.”
Jap View of China. —In a
general gleaning of Far East
points of view a London “Sun-
day Times” correspondent
quotes a leading Japanese
banker, widely travelled in the
West, as arguing that Com-
munism in China will not be
expansionist; that the character
of the Chinese does not essenti-.
ally change; that given recog-
nition within the world com-
munity, and the right to trade,
their dislike of foreigners and
therefore of Russians, and their
individualism to which Com-
munism is alien, will ensure that
the Chinese Communists will not
be a threat to peace in Asia.
“This view is shared by a good
many Japanese politicians and
industrialists, especially by those
who see their future in trade
with China.”
Four-Power Talks. —Paris “Le
Figaro” comment: “A [four-
Power] conference of heads of
government without any definite
agenda, even supposing Mr.
Malenkov and Mr. Eisenhower
desire it, is not likply to change
the existing situation in any way.
It would either end in a pro-
clamation of good faith, or a
declaration of disagreement, and
perhaps in both at the same time.
The disadvantages of such a
conference, it would seem, out-
weigh its advantages,”


\
%
m.
i
B
m
m
mm?-
Good news I
Here is good news for you—and for all men who
enjoy comfort in their clothes. Stamina has produced 7
for you an “All-Purpose” Coat. This attractive coat
can be correctly worn for casual wear, for business,
to your favourite sport or for an evening at the
pictures. The cut is all any man can desire—the
workmanship up to Stamina’s exacting standard—the
cloth, that wonder wear-resisting worsted, “Crusader,”
the cloth that is guaranteed never to fade or shrink.
These coats are easily Australia’s outstanding value.
Secure yours before they are all snapped up.
ASK FOR
Stamina
Sports Coats
TAILORED FROM A SPECIAL CRUSADER CLOTH
5C4.113
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—-In Divorce.
TO CHARLES JOHN DE MARTINO late
of Ashfleld in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH
JANE DE MARTINO has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4507 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just*cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 23rd day
of February 1954 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from ADRIAN
C. R. TWIGG, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction.
TO LINDSAY JAMES WHEELER for-
merly of Glenelg, South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that BERYL JOYCE
WHEELER has filed a Petition No. 3317
of 1933 for Divorce under South Aus-
tralian law on the ground of your de-
sertion for a period of three years If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House King Street Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales by
the 18th day of February 1954 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from JOHN WARREN ‘BINNEY, Splicitor,
of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Ape Man of
A.J.0., by Arthur J. Ogilvy.—s6sl.
To buy Strange Experiences of
Tina Malone, by Ethel C. M. Paige;
The Temple of Saehr, by W. T.
Pearson; and God in the Sand, by
Theodore Price.—s6s2.
To buy Celestalia, by A. L. Pullar;
Mostyn Stayne, by Roderic Quinn;
and The Clairaudient, by C. Earnest
Robin. —5653.
Information Sought
Some information on ■ Piero di
Cosimo ?
A Renaissance painter (1462-1521),
his real name was Pietro di Lorenzo.
The name by which he was known
comes from his master, Cosimo
Rosselli. According to R. Langten
Douglas, in Piero di Cosimo, a. vindi-
cation of the painter, his reputation
has suffered because of this associa-
tion of his name with that of “the
mediocre, commonplace painter
whose apprentice he was.” Another
reason Douglas gives is that many of
his finest works were attributed, in
less critical periods of art history,
to other painters. Cosimo went
often to the classics for his subjects—
“ The Death of Procris,” “Vulcan
and /Eolus,” “Mars and Venus,”
“Hylas and the Nymphs,” etc. He
was very interested also in animals
and flowers, and drew them exten-
sively and with intimate knowledge.
He had a great reputation as a
portraitist, but not many of his
portraits have survived. Leonardo da
Vinci and others influenced him, but
he had imaginative gifts himself.
Examples of his work are in the
Louvre, the Uflfizi, the National
Gallery (London) and other famous
galleries.
* * * *
Who was Paracelsus?
His correct name was Philippus
Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus
von Hohenheim, but he assumed the
name of Paracelsus as an expression
of his belief in his own eminence.
A Swiss (born 1493), after studying
at Basel University, he went to the
mining districts of the Tyrol to
investigate minerals, mining and the
diseases of miners. He then wandered
through Germany and Austria prac-
tising medicine; he violently attacked
the then-accepted medical theories,
and was involved throughout his life
in perpetual quarrels. He has become
a sort of legendary figure, and it is
difficult to assess both the man him-
self and his work. He was accused
by his enemies of perpetual drunken-
ness and debauchery. It has been
said that he was the first to give his
whole attention to healing, and that
he had the first dim notions of what
we call today “chemistry.” He tried
to persuade alchemists to turn to the
preparation and dispensing of medi-
cines. He died in 1541, in mysterious
circumstances.
* * * *
What caused the War of the
Austrian Succession (1740-1748) ?
In 1740 the Hapsburg emperor
Charles VI died, with no male heir.
Not long before his death he had
obtained the consent of all the lead-
ing European Powers, in an agree-
ment called the Pragmatic Sanction,
to recognise his daughter Maria
Theresa as monarch. (The unwritten
Salic law, which most of the Powers
recognised, excluded women from
succession to the throne.) But when
Charles died, a number of princes,
including 'Frederick the Great
(Prussia), who also came to the
throne in 1740, refused to recognise
Maria and laid claim to portions of
the Hapsburg dominions. Without
declaration of war Frederick occupied
Silesia. Almost all Europe was soon
in arms. Prussia and France were
allies; on Austria’s side were Eng-
land, the Netherlands and Russia.
England and France fought out their
own quarrel, the war spreading to
India and the French and English
colonies in the New World. The war
was closed by the Peace of Aix-la-
Chapelle in 1748, Prussia keeping
Silesia. Carlyle’s summing-up was,
“To Frederick, Silesia; as to the
rest, wholly as they were.” The
peace was an uneasy armistice;
which was followed by the Seven
Years’ War (1756-1763), a direct con-
sequence of the results of the Austrian
Succession War.
* * * * *
Is “providing that” an alternative
to “provided that” in such a sentence
as “provided that he did so”?
No. “Provided” (usually followed
by “that”) is the conjunction mean-
ing “with the stipulation,” “with the
understanding,” “on condition.” It
is quite incorrect to use “providing”
as a conjunction, though Webster
does name it as an alternative to
“provided.” The Oxford English
Dictionary, however, gives only “pro-
vided” as the conjunction. Fowler,
in dealing with “provided (that),” is
concerned with the use of “provided
that” when “if” is preferable, and
omits any reference to the confusion
with “providing.” This probably
indicates the misuse of “providing”
is of comparatively recent develop-
ment.
* * * «
Brief Answers
1.G.M.: Get in touch with Stott’s
Correspondence College, 290 Ade-
laide-street, Brisbane (Queensland
office), which conducts correspon-
dence-courses in freelance-journalism
and short - story - writing A.A.;
George Colville was a Victorian
artist who was an original member
of the Society of Twenty Melbourne
Painters formed in 1917. He con-
tributed sketches to “O Pip,” the
journal of observation-post-men dur-
ing the 1914-18 war. This informa-
tion, all we could discover, is from
William Moore’s The Story of Aus-
tralian Art J.F.A.: The species of
Lathyrus known as perennial- or
everlasting-pea is Lathyrus latifolius.
The N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture has no seed of this legume, and
as far as is known seed is not
available anywhere in-Sydney. It is,
however, possible that you may
obtain seed of this species from Law
Somner Pty., Ltd., 123 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne. The department
has tested Lathyrus latifolius over a
considerable number of years in the
past and found it quite unsuitable
under N.S.W. conditions. It does not
produce sufficient bulk to be recom-
mended. A much better legume, par-
ticularly for the Macksville district,
would be kudzu (leaflet posted)
W.A.A.: The main portion of
Carrawobbity was taken over by the
N.S.W. Government for soldier-
settlement. The homestead block was
bought by the Catholic Church for a
children’s home A.Mc.: The
poems submitted will be considered
for publication for both The
Bulletin and the “Woman’s
Mirror.” If suitable for either they
will be published in due course. If
you let us know the titles of poems
we will endeavor to discover their
fate... .T.R.S.: The Curator of
Anthropology at the Australian
Museum, Sydney, Mr. F. D.
McCarthy, reports that, although the
museum has no record of an
aboriginal word meaning “gift,” the
following names might suit your
needs: Dameeli, affection; Yallul,
always; Nurrungi, remember; Wurin-
yan, to love. If these are unsuitable,
an appropriate name might be in
the museum’s booklet, “N.S.W.
Aboriginal Place-names and Euphoni-
ous Words, with their Meanings”
(Is., postage 3d.)....Q.C.: (1) Will
undertake further research, but think
it is doubtful whether there is any
record of when it took place, or by
whom. (2) If the Royal Standard
flew at Queen Mary’s residence it
would mean that the Sovereign was
under her roof. We do not think it
would be flown there in any other
circumstances. (3) The primary
reason why flags are not flown after
dark in shore establishments or in
ships at anchor is that they can’t be
seen. But ships at sea fly flags at
night L.J.: Lloyd Budge is the
elder brother of former world tennis
champion Donald Budge. Lloyd,
though playing professionally, was
more famous as a tennis instructor.
He wrote Lawn Tennis, an exposi-
tion of his theories of play. Not
known whether he is still an active
coach... .F.A.: The reason why it
is Cartesianism (and not Descarte-
sianism) is because the word has
been derived from, the Latin form of
his ndme, Cartesius E.L,JV.: The
lines
Know, then, thyself, presume not God to
scan.
The proper-study of mankind is Man.
are from Alexander Pope’s Essay on
Man (published 1732-34)... .F.S.:
Jorge de Montemayor was a Portu-
guese who wrote, in Spanish, six
books of an Arcadian prose-
romance, interspersed with verses,
Diana Enamorada. Published 1542-
49, they were translated into Eng-
lish by BartholSmew Yonge in 1598.
Shakspeare, in “The Two Gentlemen
of Verona,” made use of Monte-
mayor’s story of the shepherdess,
Filismena A.A.H.: (l)Yes. (2) If a
principle is new and a mode of carry-
ing it into effect is shown, this pro-
tects against other modes. If the
. principle is old, only a particular
mode may be protected. (3) The
effect of a patent is to give the
inventor sole right to make, use,
exercise and vend the invention for
a period of 16 years. (4) £lO up to
grant and renewal fees beginning at
end of fifth year. Forms may be
obtained from Patent Office. Can-
berra, F.C.T. ... C.H.: Write W. R.
Carpenter and Co., 16 O’Connell-
Street, or Burns Philp and Co.,
7 Bridge-street both Sydney
J.N.: Write Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney J. 1.: (1) Per-
mission to republish is usually given
in such cases. (2) Question too
vague C.J.E.: Jack Howe shore
321 sheep in 7hr. 40min. at Alice
Downs, near Blackall (Q.), on
Oct. 10, 1892.,,.F.C.: Consult the
Commonwealth Official Year Book,
available at the N.S.W. Public
Library L.H.S.: Write Depart-
ment of Territories, Canberra, F.C.T.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.F.J.; Send it to Sir Edward
Hallstrom... .C.A.: It was fare-
welled with the impressive ceremony
that marks the return of a rejected
manuscript.... D.D.T.: Without
glory K.J.N.: A ragged effort
R.M.E.: The horse-dream has no
longer any undreamt-of possibilities.
G.J.K.: If you had Tut a story
into your bushfire A.H.G.: If
you can’t sell your comic Fleet-
street journalists in Fleet-street what
hope have you here? M.M.: “As
she looked through misty eyes at
the jostling, merry throng”
G.D.-C.: Unbelievable**cruelty met
with incredible retribution
K. Doesn’t hang together
J.M.H.: Slight.... T.M.H.: We’ve
got a better child-belting story, and
after that probably no more
M.H.: Such goings-0n... .B.: “Out
Goes the White Man” —story, too.
E.L.-H.: Well, the background’s
better 8.J.G.; Things sure do
happen out there in that there
rugged Australian west J.M.:
Tillivalli R.G.P.: Not bad; but
when a story has been told so often
you have to do better than that
L. : No heavyweight-featherweights
must be rung-in ; we like to give our
readers a sporting chance H. 8.:
Sorry again Z.V.W.; Anyway,
among the crowd of Christmas-
storytellers, you’re the only one with
a kind thought for the New Year.
... .S.Y.R.: Doodlepop'... .A.C.-R-:
What we could make out seemed
extremely sinister.... G.D.: Dogs
doggedly dog the short-story sampler.
. ...E.R.R.: You don’t make what
it means to you mean anything to
anyone else JJ.S.: “The Para-
dox” was just what you’d expect
V.G.: Not V. 8.; but only F.A.Q.
H.A.: Sorry; it doesn’t make a
story G.A.8.: If you have good
travel-anecdotes, or some such ex-
periences, don’t try to force them
into a story-form just for the sake
of calling the result a story; send
them in clearly marked “Article” —
but in this case be sure that you
put in facts only R.C.S.: Your
sub-title made us think how long it
is since the “Humorous Australian
Short Story” died —alas, you have
not raised it up again G. 8.:
Well, we 11... .W.M.S.; Not one of
ours... .D.H.: You send too many
all at once; just one at a time;
preferably not about Europe, and a
story, not a sketch E.R.M.:
Muddled H.M.T.: You can sell
almost any kind of sugar at Christ-
mas, but not to us J.A.V.: Not
quite 8.D.: Another of these
flashbacks to the outback in which
an old story proves as drab as a vil-
lage of childhood’s dreams re-
visited... .R.J.: To play on the same
pun for four pages will, of course,
remove the smile from the face of
anyone who laughs when you sif
down to play J.H.: Hardly
F.R.: Not quite ours.


HE HAS A
RUPTUR
ds
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BARREKE
acts like a band
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Vou will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Wxite today for FREE LITERATURE
bakrere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. Se), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO PETER HOULIHAN late of 146
Edwin Street, Croydon.—TAKE NOTICE
that BETSY HOULIHAN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4409 of 1953 on the
grounds of habitual drunkenness and
cruelty and habitually leaving the Peti-
tioner without the means of support
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 11th
February 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from W. lAN
SHORT & CO., Solicitors, of 135 Bur-
wood Road, Burwood, New South Wales.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KAY JOHNSON late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that PATSY ADA JOHN-
SON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2842 of 1953 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 26th day of February 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MERVYN FINLAY & COM-
PANY, Solicitors, Newlands House, 141
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JESSIE ADA EMILY PSARAS late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that EMANUAL
PSARAS has fjled Petition in Divorce No.
272 of 1953 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
•years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Twenty-sixth day
of February 1954 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from McOAW,
JOHNSON & CO., Solicitors, of 75-77 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WALTER EDWARD WHITE, for-
merly of Balmain. —TAKE NOTICE that
EDNA FLORENCE WHITE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1926 of 1953 on
the grounds of repeated assaults and cruel
beating and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under 5.19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 26th of
February 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from W. D.
SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH
AND AUSTRALIAN BANK
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Summary of Position as at 30/6/1953
Total Assets £142,236,407
Australian Currency
Australian
CURRENT ASSETS— Currency
Cash, Bank Balances, etc £21,095,322
Treasury Bills 10,000,000
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 26,397,000
Bills Receivable 8,549,393
Investments 2,887,640
£68,929,355
Advances, etc 71,282,597
£140,211,952
Deduct:
CURRENT LIABILITIES—
Deposits, etc. including
Reserves Contingencies .. £131,423,450
Balances due to Other Banks 1,639,689
Provisions for Tax .. .. 738,254
Dividend Payable » M 137,913
133,939,306
£6,272,646
Add:
Premises, etc. .. » » •• .. 2,024,455
Shareholders’ Funds—Australian Currency £8,297,101
PROFITS
Each £1 of gross profit for year to 30th June, 1953 was
used in this way—
All Expenses of management, including £ s. d.
Salaries and Wages of Staff . • ••' 15 0
Income and Other Taxes 3 2
Payments to Officers’ Provident Fund ... 9
Dividends 11
£lO 0
E. G. WILSON,
General Manager in Australia.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Melbourne Art
Melbourne’s Christmas rush
of art-shows continued last week
with a display of Klytie Pate’s
pottery at the Lower Kozminsky
Gallery, with Allan T, Bernaldo
occupying the Upper with some
of his large watercolors. Miss
Pate obviously has the tech-
nique of the potter at her finger-
tips and knows all about firing
and glazing and blending of
colors, and her shapes and pro-
portions are often quite nice,
The one thing she seems to lack
is the artistic feeling. She seems
to be trying to attain to the
perfection of polish and finish
of the mass-produced article of
commerce rather than the variety
of Nature.
Much the same thing could be
said "of Mr. Bernaldo’s water-
colors. He has elaborated a
technique of watercolor-painting
which makes his pictures look at
a distance extraordinarily like
oils and he paints great masses
of rhododendrons, camellias
and grapes after the fashion of
the early Flemish painters in
which you can see the dewdrop
on a berry or the glisten on a
beetle’s wing, and count the
petals on a rose. His lack is
much the same as Miss Pate's.
There is an absence of atmos-
phere in his pictures which makes
one wonder why his flowers
look so fresh when they haven t
a sufficiency of air to breathe.
One of Dick Ovenden’s most
interesting exhibits at his latest
show at the Athenaeum Gallery,
Melbourne, is a view of the
garden of Norman Lindsay’s
studio at Springwood (N.S.W.),
wffh the artist at his easel sur-
rounded by his sculpture standing
about under the trees he planted
over forty years ago. Another
pleasant picture is “Tim,” the
portrait of a nice-looking girl
whom the painter has surrounded
with much more atmosphere
than he gets into any of his
other portraits. Paintiness creeps
into most of his larger land-
scapes like the extensive view
of Sydney Harbor from Pott’s
Point. There is the most feeling
where there is the least paint,
as in his smaller sketches.
“Autumn, Don Road, Heales-
ville,” where his country studio
is situated, is a good example.
The “Herald” Open-air Art
Show was ready to burst on an
excited public in the Treasury
Gardens when a cloud burst and
drowned the show in moisture,
causing a postponement. A
worse site for the enterprise
could not have been selected
than the gardens, which are
directly exposed to the pre-
vailing December weather. It
takes one and a half hours to
raise the blinds on the 3000
pictures and another hour to
lower them, and 2\ hours is
about the limit of continuous
calm weather in Melbourne.
An ideal place for the show
would been down on the
stone wharves by Prince’s
Bridge, which resemble the quais
on the Seine in Paris where free
open-air shows are held every
day all the year round. They
are protected from the winds
and the pictures could be hung
on the stone walls and shelters
made for them, and, what with
the boats and the lapping water,
everything would be lovely.
There are cafes there in
Which the artists could sit with
tortured faces trying to look
like Van Gogh, and the river is
handy if any one of them feels
an urge to make a really big
hit and throw himself in.
■ ❖
Christmas Exhibition
The. Christmas Exhibition at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
is light and varied with a touch
of weight* here and there from
a Sickert, Drysdale, George
Lawrence, Roland Wakelin and
others.
The dark figures of a gin and
child against the hot red back-
ground of Drysdale’s “Mount
White” have an effective hint
of drama or tragedy about
them ; Lawrence’s “Old Orchard,
Ryde,” is mannered, but rich in
its earth and trees; Wakelin’s
“Hurt River” is a warm, soft
landscape, those qualities a
shade too idyllised perhaps, but
still with quite a lot of charm
about it.
The Sickert, “La Guiseppina,”
is a dark painting of a head with
characteristic handling of half-
light and rich living shadows,
although one feels that, in this
case, the signature is of more
import than the painting.
“Derwent View,” by J. Car-
rington Smith, D. Orban’s
“Road to Pictpn,” Alison
Rehfisch’s “Still ’ Life With
Gourds,” the light charm of
Paul Jones’s v “The Blue Door,”
and Carl Plate’s cat in “Enemy
of the Birds” are the runners-up.
Stage and Music
A.B.C.’s “Messiah”
Conducting the combined
forces of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra and the Hurlstone
Choral Society, Albert Keats
was able to extract a fair degree
of exaltation in several choruses,
notably in the surging upward
passages of “And the Glory of
the Lord” and in the final
phrases of “For Unto Us.” A
decided strengthening of the
tenor section —which up till now
has been this fine choir’s only
real weakness-made possible .a
better - balanced “Hallelujah”
chorus than has been heard for
some years.
Harold Whitlock carried the
bass burden well except for some
loss of power in the lowest
recesses, ip which phases he was
forced to struggle against the
orchestral weight. His singing
of the recitative “For Behold”
and the following air “The
People that Walked in Darkness”
—the most difficult of all the solo
numbers —had much merit.
Betty Fretwell sang the
soprano airs with repose and
restraint; Florence Taylor used
her contralto with refinement;
and Repaid Dowd got proceed-
ings away to a good start with
a virile rendering of “Comfort
Ye” and “Every Valley.”
A feature of the oratorio’s
closing phases was the crystal-
clear trumpeting of John
Robertson. The orchestra’s
playing was never inspired but
never bad.
Talkies
“One Summer of Happiness”
This Swedish film, beautiful
in the simplicity with which the
moving story of young love is
told and in the deep human
understanding behind it, opens
and closes on the same tragic
scene: the burial of the 17-
year-old country girl whose un-
inhibited love for a young man
is a rebellion against her over-
strict upbringing.
The character-drawing is in-
cisive. There is a bigoted vil-
lage vicar who hates the sight
of young people dancing and
singing, and whose graveside
address becomes a cold, hard
condemnation of dead and liv-
ing ; the young man’s wise,
understanding farmer - uncle,
who follows the vicar’s address
with a direct talk to the dead
girl; the young man’s pompous,
overbearing father, who resents
his son’s obvious choice of his
uncle for the display of affec-
tion ; the girl’s narrow, tight-
laced people who back the, vicar
in his every act to suppress
joyousness.
Uila Jacobsson brings a shy-
ness and natural grace to the
role of the young girl. Folke
Sindquist is patently sincere as
the youthful lover and Edvin
Adolphson remarkably fine as
the farmer who sets out to con-
found the misanthropical priest.
(Sydney Savoy.)
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Robe”
CinemaScope, of which this
20th Century Fox screen ver-
sion of Lloyd Douglas’s Biblical
novel is the first example seen
in Australia, involves a “miracle
mirror screen,” multiple micro-
phonic sound-tracks and other
high-sounding features which
add up to a greater sweep of
vision than any medium previ-
ously devised, and enormous
crowd-scenes encompassed with
ease.
The new medium has remark-
ably few faults. There is a
tendency to flickering, and from
some angles the figures and
scenes at both edges seem
slightly out of focus. These
defects will doubtless soon be
overcome. But there is no doubt
that the big screen is here to
stay.
The enormous vista that can
be .achieved by . the new lenses
is demonstrated in a seascape
with a clearness in depth that
has hitherto been impossible to
capture. Here and elsewhere
the technicolor is excellent.
In contrast to the scenes in
Palestine, which give the im-
pression of forced glamor and
artificiality, the settings in Im-
perial Rome fully capture the
lavishness and magnificence of
the closing days of Tiberius’s
reign and the opening of Cali-
gula’s. The dressing here is
superb.
Douglas’s story of the effect
Christ’s robe had on several
Romans and a Greek slave has,
in the main, been faithfdlly fol-
lowed. Henry Koster, who
directed the film, showed his
artistic qualities in the Cruci-
fixion scenes, but sentimentality
takes charge too often in others.
The casting generally is good.
Richard Burton as the Roman
tribune Marcellus, who, under
Pilate’s orders, supervises the
Crucifixion and who finds peace
of mind only in conversion to
the new faith, is manly and
virile. Demetrius, the Greek
servant-slave who brings him to
conversion, is played by Victor
Mature, and at times over-
played. Jean Simmons is fair
enough up till her exit to execu-
tion and martyrdom, when, in-
stead of making an impassioned
avowal of her new-found faith,
she delivers a political speech.
The best performances come
from Michael Rennie, whose
Peter has dignity and serenity,
and Jay Robinson, who as Cali-
gula completely captures the sly
viciousness and the incipient
madness of that ranting, shout-
ing Emperor. (Sydney Regent.)
❖ _ ❖ *l*
“24 Hours of a Woman’s
Life”
Stefan Zweig’s thesis on love-
at-first-sight has been made into
an entertaining film, mainly
through the easeful, polished
work of Leo Genn in the role
of the narrator of the story of
a young widow’s brief, disillu-
sioning and passionate attach-
ment to a gambler she meets at
Monte Carlo.
Merle Oberon is the lady and
Richard Todd the gent, who
finds even a love-happy woman
of much less interest than the
prospect of the croupier’s push-
ing a fortune across the table to
him. (Sydney Embassy.)
* ❖ ❖
“The Moon Is Blue”
This is for those who like
their sophisticated comedy with
a strong dash of cayenne. The
chief character is a young lady
who, ' meeting a bachelor
casually, accepts his invitation
to visit his flat and proceeds to
floor him with some very frank
opinions and questions, lead-
ing off with a request to know
if he has a mistress.
Action in the film is almost
solely confined to the lower
jaws of three people, but
the dialogue is swift and witty
and is in the skilled hands of
David Niven, William Holden
and a newcomer with a distinct
personality, Maggie McNamara.
(Sydney Century.)
<£► <£♦ *
“The 5000 Fingers of Dr. T”
Fantasy, at times slow-mov-
ing, at others full of captivating,
unexpected whimsy, rides this
musical all the way. The
futuristic dream-world to which
a boy escapes from his piano
studies includes some design-
ing of great imaginative skill
by Rudolf Sternad. (Sydney
Lyceum.)


<£>[>' ■ ran tan cm ss ecocsu
Acu/i&
4wm7ruMwcaZoon
*cm*/
'■ey/Utfwrievit
m
m
x
i
Othen
1932. Designed and installed by A.W.A., the first wireless
equipment to be fitted in commercial aircraft in Australia.
,1 l
■
mm
DME
mm
m
■ . *
PP
f %
«? •&<?
■
r-:
Designed and Installed by A.W.A., the
first Distance Measuring Equipment to be fitted
in commercial aircraft in Australia, aviation's most modern Radar
navigation aid.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A
2-121 *
ESTR ALASIA) L IMI TED
Manufacturers of the AW.A. Radiola Australia's finest Broadcast Receiver
Australians' Striking Record
Fifty Years of Flight
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
ON December 17, 1903, at
Kitty Hawk, North
Carolina, a biplane and
Orville Wright left the
ground for 12 seconds, the aviator
reclining on his stomach.
We’ve come a long way since
then.
There have been other claims
for the honor, with varying and
somewhat complicated merits;
but it is generally conceded that
the Wrights, Wilbur and Orville,
made the first heavier-than-air
controlled power flight that day
at Kitty Hawk.
The beginnings, of course,
went back into theories of
flight which had fascinated men
for hundreds of years; to the
more-recent theories and experi-
ments of Lilienthal, Pilcher,
Chanute, and others ; and, speci-
fically, for the Wrights, to a slack
day in 1897, when they were
talking about the new machines,
the horseless carriages.
Orville was inclined to think
that, crude as these contraptions
were, they might improve and
might, eventually, hurt the bi-
cycle trade. Wilbur doubted it.
All the same, Orville said, they
might think seriously about mak-
ing an automobile —just in case.
No, said Wilbur, they’d never
be practical—“it would be easier
to build a flying-machine!”
The Smithsonian Institute was
known to be interested in theories
of human flight. The Wrights
wrote requesting information.
They were impressed, particu-
larly, by Lilienthal’s gliding ex-
periments in Germany. And in
The Australian Encyclopaedia,
published by Angus and Robert-
son in 1925, there is a statement
by G. A. Taylor which indicates
that they were influenced by the
experiments of the remarkable
Australian, Lawrence Hargrave.
Taylor says that in 1900 Wil-
bur Wright asked Hargrave’s
permission to use his patents;
Hargrave replied that he took out
no patents,' but that Wright was
welcome to make use of his
experiments.
By December, 1903, the
Wrights were ready. They had a
plane, designed and built by
themselves, which they called
“The Flyer,” powered by an
internal-combustion engine of
about 12h.p. The 14th of De-
cember was a bright, cold day,
with not much wind. They
took “The Flyer” to Kill Devil
Hill, in order to get extra
speed at launching by running it
downhill. They tossed, Wilbur
won, started, climbed a few feet,
stalled, and settled on the ground
after a flight of perhaps three
seconds. But “The Flyer” was
damaged, and it took until the
evening of the 16th to patch
it up.
On the morning of the 17th
there was ice on the puddles, and
a wind was measured as blowing
from 22 to 28 m.p.h. Because of
the wind they brought the plane
down on a flat, launching her
with the queer, derrick-like
apparatus, a model of which
(with one of the plane) may be
seen in Sydney at the Museum
of Applied Arts and Sciences,
Harris-street, Ultimo. It was
Orville’s turn, and this time the
machine stayed in the air for
12 seconds.
Then Wilbur had a go—l 3
seconds Then Orville 15
seconds. Then Wilbur again.
And this time “The Flyer” was
aloft for 59 seconds, and
travelled 842 feet against a stiff
wind.
But while the brothers were
congratulating theijnselves on this
achievement, the wind blew “The
Flyer” over and damaged her,
more seriously this time. So
there were no more flights that
year.
Accounts of the flight, mostly
inaccurate, appeared in the
world’s Press. Only one paper
in England ran the story, and
it credited the Wrights with a
flight of several miles. In
America the news was received
with some reserve. An astrono-
mer, Professor Simon Newcomb
the first American since Benjamin
Franklin to be made an asso-
ciate of the Institute of France
was the great authority on
flight. And Professor Newcomb
had written, more than once,
that flight without. gas-bags
would require the discovery of
some new metal, or a new, un-
suspected force in Nature. Even
if man could fly, he wrote in
1903, he wouldn’t dare stop:
Once he slackens his speed, down
he begins to fall. Once he stops, he
falls a dead mass. How shall he
reach the ground without destroying
his delicate machinery ?
The general opinion was that
what Professor Newcomb didn't
know about physics wasn’t to be
found in books. So, at first, the
work, of two unknown young
men who hadn’t even been to
college wasn’t taken too
seriously.
Looking back over the past
hundred years, however, the
increase in human mobility bor-
ders on the magical. Sir Hudson
Fysh, managing - director of
Qantas, pointed this moral the
other day when I interviewed
him in his office at Shell House.
Take, he said, our ancestors
coming out to Australia a hun-
dred years ago: a journey that
took, roughly, 100 days. Com-
pare it with the time taken by
the winning R.A.F. Canberra
jet in the London-Christchurch
race—a little less than 24 hours.
And you have, roughly, a de-
crease of a day a year.
Looking at the 50 years of
aviation there is this sort of
steady-quick improvement, in
speed, safety, distance, reliability.
But there are cycles in this
amelioration, viewed closely,
and, as it were, leaps. This is
true of the history of aviation
in Australia.
There is, for a start —to take a
leap backwards —the spectacular
jump into the unknown repre-
sented by the experiments of
Lawrence Hargrave.
Ask ten Australians who he
was and about five have never
heard of him, three think he dis-
covered gold, and the rest re-
member, vaguely, that he had
something to do with aviation.'
It is the exceptional man, the
expert, who really understands
and values his work: Such as
the historian, Malcolm Ellis (of
The Bulletin), who casually
added an unpublished bit of in-
formation the other day, when I
was talking to him, by mention-
ing the visit of Graham Bell,
the inventor of the telephone, and
Baldwin (later one of Canada’s
first war aces) to Australia in
1910 to acquire the* Hargrave
models for the Smithsonian
Institute —the models had gone to
Munich. Sir Hudson Fysh, tak-
ing Roughley’s pamphlet on
Hargrave’s work from his book-
case, turning the pages lovingly,
and telling me of inquiries made
by the Australian Government
concerning the fate of the Har-
grave models after the fall of
Germany. A couple of keen
youngsters at the Technological
Museum . . .
He was, as a matter of fact,
born in England. But it seems
fair enough to claim him as an
Australian. His father, John
Fletcher Hargrave, practised at
•the Equity Bar in London until
1856, when he came to Australia.
He became a District Court judge
in N.S.W., and, later, a judge
of the Supreme Court. Law-
rence stayed at school in Eng-
land and came out in 1866, when
he was sixteen. He was appren-
ticed to an engineering firm,
and was later an assistant at the
Sydney Observatory. There he
began to study air-currents;
this led him to study the prob-
lem of human flight, and this
became his life’s work. ,
As Roughley puts it: “It may
be stated at once that Hargrave
did not invent the aeroplane
but he probably did as much
to bring about the accomplish-
ment of dynamic flight as any
other single individual. He did
the pioneer work.”
There can be no doubt that
he could have made a lot of
money by taking out patents.
But he disapproved of them.
Something of the thoroughness
of his methods can be gathered
from his early investigations of
the movements of birds, fishes,
insects and worms. He was im-
pressed by the fact that fishes,
in diving, turned aside and
twisted their tails in a certain
curve. In the worm he found
three movements essential for
flight; (1) starting and stopping
while on a direct route; (2) turn-
ing to right or left; (3) rising
vertically. He made a large-
model worm, and, by means of
radial wires attached to fixed
points, recorded the curves along
which these points travelled dur-
ing motion. The curves, he dis-
covered, were trochoids, and his
paper “The Trochoided Plane”
was the first of many he read
to the Royal Society. In 1885
he read his third paper, describ-
ing the flight of a model built
of paper and thin cane, with
undulating wings, propelled by
rubber bands. It flew for
98 feet.
He experimented with flapping
wings, curved surfaces, the box-
kite, steam-engines, gliders, air-
compression, and a rotary engine,
Looking through the papers now,
one is astonished at the breadth
of his conceptions. The first
aeroplane to fly publicly, that of
Santos Dumont, in France, in
1906* wag simply an arrangement
of box-kites. This type of plane
was improved by Voisin (1908)
and again by Farman (1911). In
the opinion of Roughley there
were the two parallel lines of
development in the design of the
early aeroplane. From Har-
grave to Santos Dumont, to
Voisin, to Farman, and from
Lilienthal-Pilcher-Chanute to the
Wright brothers. Links between


6 YEARS
BEFORE "SMITHY" BLAZED THE
PACIFIC TRAIL IN 1928
INTRODUCED THE FIRST
AVIATION INSURANCE
TO AUSTRALIA
Lumley’s, by the introduction of Aviation Insurance
in 1922, once again anticipated Australian insurance
needs.
Over the years, Lumley’s has kept pace with the
tremendous advances in aviation and, to-day, can
provide Aviation Insurance Policies with the best
possible coverage and the most advantageous
terms. Whatever your Aviation Insurance require-
ments, whether conventional or out of the
ordinary, a safe and profitable rule to follow is
“Leave it to Lumley’s.”
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS
PTY. LTD.
263 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone B 0538
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter Street. Newcastle. 81810
87 Woodlark Street, Lismore. 'Phone 1962
EL5.97.16
Douglas Super "SKYCHIEF"
Airliners join the A.N.A. Fleet
m
i
w
i £
i
The fastest, largest and most luxuriously equipped airliners ever to serve Australia’s
internal air routes are now in service with A.N.A. Flying time between Melbourne
and Sydney, for example, is now reduced to 1 hour 50 minutes. Fully pressurised
and air-conditioned, the “Skychief” is preferred by experienced air travellers
overseas two to one over any other commercial airliner. Fly Douglas ... in
a BIG way . . with A.N.A.
FEATURES OF THE SUPER "SKYCHIEF"
DIMENSIONS: Span, 117' 6"; Length, 101' 6
Height, 28‘ 5".
SPEED; Over 315 m.p.h., Melbourne-Sydney,
Block to Block in 1 Hour 50 Minutes.
SEATING: 58 Passengers. Club Lounge. Air
Conditioned spd Pressurised Cabins. Cabin
Altitude Sea Level Pressure at 8,000 Feet.
POWER PLANT: 4 Praft and Whitney 2400
H.P. Engines.
PAYLOAD; 17,000 Lbs.; Weight, 106,000 Lbs.;
Max. Take Off.
CREW; Captain, Ist Officer, Flight Engineer,
3 Hostesses.
LOOK TO
for LEADERSHIP in the AIR
Australia's Most Experienced Airline
the two are interesting, but not
clearly established.
So much for the plane itself.
But what of engines? Here,
again, Hargrave is a pioneer.
My own opinion (not an expert
one) is that his rotary engines
were more important than his
box-kites. At the Sydney
Museum of Applied Arts and
Sciences there is, I think,
a Gnome rotary engine:
Gnome, Le Rhone, ’Clerget,
Monosoupape and other French
engines were pre-eminent up to
the time of World War I.
The Royal Flying Corps owed
much to French engine-makers
for its equipment. There is also
in the Museum one of Hargrave’s
rotary engines; light, efficient
and marvellously simple. The
family resemblance is striking.
As Hargrave said, in 1907;
“Ideas of a more or less bizarre
nature, apparently ridiculous
when first presented, are some-
times examined by the most
remote people and their merit
recognised and acted upon.
Then, maybe, after many years,
the invention is brought to its
place of origin as a valuable
foreign production. This, being
the unalterable way in which
humanity is built, must be
accepted without demur.”
A curiously attractive figure,
Lawrence Hargrave, with his
searching mind and his turns of
philosophy. We do well to claim
him.
After the Wrights’ first flight
there was a lull, a gathering of
force for the next leap. The
Wrights themselves were not
taken seriously until 1906. The
following year Louis Bleriot
flew the Channel; using, inci-
dentally, a monoplane with a
swivelling undercarriage and
other “modern” features. A
curve, as it were, of the recurring
cycles which seem to be intrinsic
to the pattern. The biplane and
the monoplane, for a long time.
were rivals. And at this distance
some of the arguments advanced,
for and against, sound quaintly
academic. At the time of War I
Britain inclined towards biplanes.
And some of these planes, as
Oliver Stewart (writing in “The
Times” special supplement,
“Fifty Years of British Avia-
tion”) remarks, were “admirable
designs, and would still look
clean aerodynamically if they
were placed alongside modern
aircraft.” The Avro 504; the
Sopwith Camel; and the SE 5,
for instance. But some designers
elaborated wires and struts fan-
tastically, There is a pleasant
story, repeated by Stewart, that
the Aeronautical Inspection
Directorate of those days tested
the rigging of a certain biplane
by releasing a pigeon within jthe
wires and struts. If the pigeon
escaped, something was missing!
Nineteen - hundred - and- eight
was a big year. In January
Farman flew nearly a mile in
Paris. In March he flew 2\
miles. In May the Wrights flew
6 miles. In June, Delagrange,
in Italy, flew 10 miles; in July
Farman flew 11 miles; in Sep-
tember the Wrights flew 56 miles,
and in December 61 miles.
In 1909 the Seguin brothers
developed the Gnome engine.
A leading English writer on
aviation states that the Gnome
air-cooled rotary motor “did
more to advance aviation than
any single invention until the gas
turbine more than 30 years later.”
He doesn’t mention Hargrave.
+ T
And in Australia? The Aerial
League was formed in 1909. But
already there were gliding-clubs
—Malcolm Ellis mentions one
in Brisbane, in 1908, in which
Tom McLeod was prominent.
In December, 1909, the first
machine—a Wright—came to
Australia "and was exhibited.
There are conflicting claims as
to the first Australian to fly, but
early in 1910 Houdihi brought
a Voisin plane here, and made
his first flight at Diggers’ Rest
in Victoria. He also flew at
Rosehill, J. R. Duigan made an
aeroplane and engine at Mia Mia
(Vic.), and on July 16, 1910,
made a hop of 24 feet, and in
September a flight of 100 yards.
In the same year a Bleriot
HARGRAVE
arrived, and a few short flights
were made in it by Cuthbert.
Early in 1911 a Bristol came out,
which was flown by J. Hammond.
This machine was later taken
over by W. E. Hart, who made
a flight from Penrith to Sydney
Showground, among others.
Hart held the first aviator’s
licence in Australia.
Harry G. Hawker, an Aus-
tralian, began to make a name
for himself in England. A
mechanic in the Sopwith works,
in 1912, earning £2 a week, he
became one of the world’s lead-
ing aviators. Seven weeks after
he first sat in a plane he broke
a world’s record, and kept op
breaking records, tested ahd
designed planes during the war.
He made an all but successful
attempt to cross the Atlantic a
month before Alcock and Brown.
He was killed at Hendon in 1921,
while competing in an “Aerial
Derby,” but had lived to see the
Sopwith firm become the Hawker
Engineering Co. All within nine
years!
In America, the chief rival of
the Wrights was Glen Curtiss,
who, in 1911, became the first
man to build a plane that could
take off from, and alight on,
water. For a number of years,
until after 1914, nearly all planes
flying in the United States were
either Wrights or Curtisses,
In 1912 the Australian Army
established the Central Flying
School at Point Cook. Two
pilots, H. A. Petre and E, Har-
rison, were brought out from
England* and given honorary
commissions. Five planes were
bought for training.
The two great leaps in aviation,
for Australia and for the world,
were, of course, the two wars.
The official historian for the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps, F. M.
Cutlack (of The Bulletin), has
covered his ground exhaustively.
But the official history of the
R.A.A.F, has not yet come out.
The A.F.C. was the smallest
air arm in World War I, but it
held some big names. Lieut.-
Colonel Watt; Captain Harry
Cobby, D. 5.0., D.F.C. and two
bars (now Air - Commodore
Cobby, retired); Captain Frank
McNamara, V.C. (now Air-Vice-
Marshal, retired) : Captain Ross
McPherson Smith, M.C. and
bar, D.F.C. and two bars ; Major
Murray Jones; Major Wackett,
later head of Commonwealth
Air Corporation; Captain
George Jones (later Air-Marshal
Jones, Chief of Air Staff, re-
tired) ; Kingsford Smith; Bert
Hinkler; P. G. Taylor.
In 1919 Alcock and Brown
flew the Atlantic, Ross and Keith
Smith flew to Australia, a daily
air-service was started between
and Paris, and the Inter-
national Air Transport Associa-
tion was formed.
Ross and Keith Smith flew
to Darwin in 28 days. The
cruising speed of their Vickers-
Vimy was 80. miles an hour.
Much of the country over which
they flew had never been flown
over by man before, and aero-
dromes had to be cleared for
them. Others, even in Europe,
were useless in bad weather.
Nowhere did they have any
shelter for the plane. At night,
often enough, all hands had the
pleasant task of holding it down
while monsoonal gales swept
over it. One night on the Malay
Peninsula ten inches of rain fell
while they clung to wings and
tail.
Ross and Keith Smith won
the £lO,OO0 —quite a sizeable
sum in those days, incidentally—
offered by the Australian Gov-
ernment for the first Austra-
lians to fly between England and
Australia in a British plane
within a period of thirty con-
secutive days.
The prize, and the glory, and
whatever else it was that made
airmen risk their necks, at-
tracted an interesting bunch of
aspirants. Hubert Wilkins, later
to be famous as a Polar ex-
plorer, and, in 1928-29, the first
{Continued on next page)


-
AM
59^"’
M
leads the way with pressurised
Convair-Liners
and DC6 services
■■6 • ■ ,-r ~‘v..
and during 1954 will add
to its fleet six new
pressurised
PS
Aid**
And
propeller-turbine powered
Vickers Viscounts
H/'H&Sa.
TAA GIVES YOU THE LARGEST FLEET
OF FAST ‘PRESSURISED* AIRLINERS IN AUSTRALIA
man to fly over the Antarctic,
crashed in the Mediterranean.
Ray Parer limped home in
and went on to
pioneer aviation in New Guinea.
Kingsford Smith wasn’t allowed
to start; Bert Hinkler couldn’t
find a backer; and Hudsorf
Fysh and P. J. McGinnis found
a backer in Sir Samuel Mc-
Caughey, but he died before he
handed over the cheque. The
hopeful young aviators inter-
viewed Sir Samuel’s solicitor
and asked him if he could
remedy this oversight, but he
couldn’t, so they took on the
job of surveying the Longreach-
Darwin air-route for the Federal
Government. At Darwin Hud-
son Fysh officially met Ross
Smith on his arrival and certi-
fied his machine eligible for
the prize. Five knighthoods, by
the way, have gone to members
of the above group.
In 1920 Australia’s oldest air-
line —and one of the first in the
world —was born when
Q.A.N.T.A.S. was registered.
Fysh and McGinnis (both had
been lieutenants in the Austra-
lian Flying Corps) founded it,
backed by graziers Fergus Mc-
Master (later Sir Fergus), Ains-
lie Templeton and others. The
idea took spark, actually, when
McGinnis helped McMaster get
his car out of the sandy bed of
the Clohcurry River, and the two
began yarning about the diffi-
culties of transport in those
parts, and what a help aero-
planes could be to the man on
the land.
Sir Hudson Fysh is one of
the few airline pioneers still
taking an active part in the
business. Piesman, of K.L.M.,
is another. K.L.M. is a little
older than Qantas, and is, in
fact, the oldest existing airline
in the world. (Others started
earlier, but are no longer
running.)
In the ’twenties and ’thirties
aviation developed rapidly, and
the names of famous flyers
come in a rush. Cobham,
Charles Lindbergh, Bert Hink-
der, Balbo, Amy Johnson,* Amelia
Earhart, Amundsen, Byrd, Wil-
kins. And, in various periods,
Kingsford Smith, Kingsford
Smith and Kingsford Smith
again. By any standards his
achievements were remarkable,
and for Australians, anyway,
there can be no more spectacu-
lar figure.
There were changes in de-
sign, speed and comfort.
Biplanes steadily disappeared—
the Southern Cross, for in-
stance, was a Fokker mono-
plane—undercarriages retracted.
Radio, and, later beam-flying,
increased safety, meteorological
services were provided, and net-
works of scheduled services
covered the larger countries.
The great revolution in air-
craft design was the work of an
American, Donald Douglas.
The DC2 abandoned for ever the
box-kite. Lord Brabazon of
Tara summed it up as “indeed
the basis of all bombers and
civil aeroplanes manufactured
today.”
Charles Lindbergh’s solo
flight across the Atlantic, New
York to Paris, on May 20-21,
1927, captured the public
imagination, and particularly the
American imagination. But it
has somewhat blurred the out-
line of other, earlier flights.
There was quite a bit of traffic
across' the Atlantic about that
time. In February, for instance,
an Italian, the Marquis de
Pinedo, flew the South Atlantic
from Cape Verde Islands to
Port Natal, with an intermedi-
ate stop at Fernando Noronha
Island, in four days.
An interesting couple of
aviators, almost unknown to
fame, were the Portuguese
naval officers. Captain Sacadura
Cabral and Captain Gago
Coutinho. Ages 55 and 51!
They set off from Lisbon for
Rio de Janeiro on March 30,
1922, but didn’t reach their
destination until June 17. They
used three Fairey seaplanes, two
of which crashed flighting in
heavy seas.
Nevertheless, Lindbergh de-
served his fame. He was the
first hian to make the solo
crossing, and he did it in 33i
hours, winning the substantial
Orteig prize for the first flight
between Paris and New York.
His Spirit of St, Louis was a
Ryan monoplane with a 220 h.p.
Wright Whirlwind motor.
In 1928 Bert Hinkler flew
from England to Australia solo.
ROSS SMITH
His plane was an Avro Avian
(80 h.p. Cirrus). He left Croy-
don on February 7 and reached
Darwin on the 22nd: 15J days.
In the same year Kingsford
Smith flew his trimotor Fokker
from California to Australia,
stopping at Honolulu and the
Fiji Islands. A flight of 2100
miles from San Francisco to
Honolulu, then 3200 miles from
Honolulu to Fiji and another
1550 miles to Brisbane. Assum-
ing the motors kept working,
it was a job that called for
tricky navigation.
It was the grand beginning of
the Kingsford Smith era. Kings-
ford Smith and Dim across the
Pacific; Kingsford Smith and
Ulm across the Tasman and
back. Kingsford Smith and
P. G. Taylor, The east-west
crossing of the Atlantic. The
first aerial circumnavigation of
the globe. Back over his own
route again, with P. G. I'aylor,
first to cross the Pacific from
Australia to America, as he had
been the first to cross it from
America to Australia.
It was the age of Kingsford
Smith, Ulm, G. U. Allan, P. G.
Taylor, Arthur Butler. It was
not very long ago.
It was quite recent, really.
Hinkler was killed in 1933
when his Puss Moth crashed
into an Italian hillside, Kings-
ford Smith was lost in the Bay
of Bengal, after surviving the
famous Tasman accident, when,
600 miles from the Australian
coast, a loose piece of manifold
broke a foot or so off the star-
board propeller. The trip was
to prove the possibility of a
trans-Tasman airmail. They
turned the Southern Cross back,
dumped 34,000 letters, and P. G.
Taylor climbed out to milk the
oil from the starboard motor
and fed this perilous fluid to the
port motor. Kingsford Smith
flew the plane on one motor to
allow Taylor to get at the
works ; then, as the waves came
dashing up, started the motor
again to gain height; and dur-
ing these intervals P. G. Taylor
waited, lying over the cowl.
Of this generation of flyers,
a good many lost their lives.
Amelia Earhart in the Pacific ;
Wiley Post in northern Canada,
Others in various parts of the
world.
But of the Australians men-
tioned P. G. Taylor, for in-
stance, is living in Sydney.
Among his later achievements
were the first Indian Ocean
flight from Australia to Mom-
basa, and the first crossing of
the south Pacific from Australia
to Chile and back. Arthur But-
ler, who, in 1931, broke the,
existing record for the England-
to-Australia flight in a tiny
Compur Swift (the record for
the trip by a small plane still
stands), is founder and manag-
ing-director of a flourishing air-
line. Charles Ulm carried on,
crossing the Tasman several
times, and helping to lay the
foundation of a permanent ser-
vice to England.
There are others: Captain
Edgar Percival, who followed in
the path of the amazing Harry
Hawker by combining competi-
tive flying with aircraft design.
His name, like Hawker’s, is per-
petuated in a great industry.
Guy Menzies, who first crossed
the Tasman solo; Melrose;
Broadbent (who, in a less active
field, was once licensee of the
Royal Hotel at Gundagai);
Lester Brain.
Taken all round, it was a
pretty impressive crop. The
first mail-service across the
south Atlantic was flown by
Jean Mermoz and crew in a
French Couzinet monoplane on
May 28, 1934, from St. Louis,
Senegal, to Port Natal. Time:
16 hours.
A K.L.M. Fokker FlB took
the first mail across the north
Atlantic in December, 1934,
from Amsterdam to Curafao,
in the Dutch West Indies.
In the same year, the Dutch
fllyers, Parmentier and Moll, in a
K.L.M. plane, were forced down
at Albury, but won the handicap
section and came second in the
speed section of the London-
Melbourne race. This year a
K.L.M. plane won the transport
ians, by' tradition, taste, and
church race.
In 1938 Imperial Airways,
after many experiments with
Short flying-boats, began a series
of “proving” flights across the
Atlantic. The Americans, using
Boeing Clipper boats, also ran
a “proving” service. Both com-
panies aimed at running one
aircraft in each direction each
week. This “proving” service
continued until the outbreak of
war.
After the first war, with air-
power growing, as it were,
around the necks of Govern-
ments whether they wanted it
or not, the question every coun-
try had to decide was how the
young giant was to be handled:
What was to be the adminis-
trative set-up? Who was to
have custody?
True, in most countries, the
infant was kept on drastically
short rations*. In Germany, at
first, in deference to the feel-
ings of the victors, polite ges-
tures, were made of smothering
it. In England the post-war
reaction, which, to some degree,
influenced the Governments of
all the belligerent countries, led
to a scaling-down of the Ser-
vices. But that state of affairs
could not be permanent, and
already the keen professionals
in the Services and in the
higher ranks of administration
were preparing their cases, ac-
cording to individual loyalties
and convictions. Also members
of those curious and select
classes who, in England, al-
though they are Parliamentar-
ians by tradition, taste, and
Service and administrative ex-
perience are themselves almost
wholly professional, taking on
something of the color and
habits of mind of both the
Armed and Civil Services.
Different countries solved the
problem in different ways.
America, for instance, had the
Army Air Corps and the Navy
Arm. Germany had a similar
set-up. It says a good deal for
the imagination of the few men
who decide such things* that
England took the unprecedented
step of establishing a separate
air force. At this distance it is
amusing to recall that the cham-
pions of an independent air
force were, for a while, very
frightened of Chufchill.
Here, the Australian Flying
Corps was demobilised in 1919.
Then, for a short time, there was
a body known as the Austra-
lian Air Corps, still a branch of
the Army. In 1921, following
the British precedent of the
same year, the Australian Air
Force was formed as a distinct
and separate service, controlled
by its own Air Board. A few
months later the word “Royal”
was added. The first Chief-of-
Staff was Air-Marshal Williams
(then Lieut. - Col. Williams,
D. 5.0.), one of the original four
trained at Point Cook. In the


89
%
ELECTRIC
ENGLISH
achievements
REFRIGERATORS
B
RANGES
ENGLISH
ELECTRIC
w
WASHING MACHINES
FOOD MIXERS
The ‘English Electric’ Canberra Jet, outstand-
ing world record-making aircraft, flies faster
and shatters world records because of superior
design and superb engineering, and crafts-
manship.
Domestic Appliances manufactured by the
English Electric Company are equally out-
standing in their sphere . . . . smarter appear-
ance, greater economy and efficiency and
greater convenience. That is why Discriminat-
ing People insist on ‘English Electric’ RITEMP
refrigerators, electric ranges, washing machines
and food mixers.
THE ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED
[lncorporated in England]
Sydney and Newcastle Melbourne :: Adelaide Brisbane
FLOWER, DAVIES & JOHNSON, PERTH
H. M. BAMFORD, HOBART
Ills
on quality
3$
•••>
3$
m
m
%
m
m
%
,;.v.v
m
❖*
V/A*
JYou know the BP Aviation
ervice. You have seen its
sen and yellow fuellers on
Jreds of airfields. But have
ver stopped to think what goes
ore the fuel reaches your air-
ik, or how that fuel’s quality
is ensured?
From the time that the crude oil is won
from the ground until it is delivered
to the consumer, constant checking
at all stages of production and dis-
tribution is necessary to maintain
the highest quality. The illus-
tration shows a chemist analys-
ing a sample of aviation fuel.
It typifiel the concentration
on laboratory research work
behind the Anglo-Iranian
Company’s aviation fuels.
AVIATION
m
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
new Service he took the equiva-
lent rank of wing-commander.
Then, in 1939, War II: and
the picture changed very quickly.
The first squadron in action
was No. 10. Its aircrews were
in England in 1939, to take de-
livery of Sunderland flying-boats.
They stayed, as a unit of R.A.F.
Coastal Command.
The first R.A.A.F. squadron
to be sent overseas was No, 3,
which went to North Africa in
1940, saw a lot of action in the
Middle East, and went on to Italy
and Sicily.
Under article. XV of the
Empire Air Training Agreement,
Australia formed 17 squadrons
in the U.K. and Middle East, as
well as feeding thousands more
into R.A.F. and R.C.A.F. squad-
rons.
In 1945, the R.A.A.F. had
131,662 men and women serving
in the Pacific as well as thou-
sands in other theatres of war.
(There would, of course, at this
stage, be considerable with-
drawals from the 17 squadrons
mentioned above.)
The whole business of names,
in the absence of an official
history of the R.A.A.F., is diffi-
cult. I noticed, in the transcript
of an address by the then
Minister for Air, Mr. White, a
bias towards the branch of the
R.A.A.F, of which he had per-
sonal experience, and a tendency
to mention the names of men he
knew personally. And that is
the natural thing to do. Even if
one is not ex-R.A.A.F., the
temptation is to neglect those
theatres in which one has not
served. My own tendency is to
neglect the Pacific.
The absence of an official
history is awkward, because of
the difficulty of selection: which
goes deeper than mere journal-
istic embarrassment, since it im-
plies jumbled values. It is
hardly possible to write, even
briefly, about the R.A.A.F, with-
out mentioning the men who
made it; and, particularly, the
men “who made it in battle.
About the V.C.s there can be
no argument; but once past
them, where to stop? The
R.A.A.F. had two V.C.s; count-
ing Edwards, an Australian who
served with the R.A.F., three.
On the other hand members were
awarded, in War 11, 62 D.S.O.s,
1880 D.F.C.s, 401 D.F.M.s and
many other awards and decora-
tions. Not counting such out- 1
of-the-way trophies as C. R.
Caldwell’s Polish Cross of Valor,
and Ron Rankin’s Belgian Croix
de Guerre.
As it happens, both these air-
men are well decorated. But the
principle holds good. In the
absence of a firm ruling, the
tendency is for the eye to pick
the exotic. One falls back on
personal opinions, what other
people think, what one sees or
reads. But a man who has re-
ceived a lot of publicity may
be overvalued; on: the other
hand, he may ln any case,
the danger in any unofficial
sketch is not that the wrong name
gets in—anyone who has been
decorated for bravery, and whose
name comes naturally to the lips
of fellow-citizens more familiar,
as a, rule, with the exploits of
jockeys and cricketers than with
those of V.C.-winners deserves
his distinction —but that the right
names are kept out. There are
so many. My own experience
is that any attempt in know-
ledgeable company to select, say,
the twelve outstanding names of
the war-time R.A.A.F. provokes
shrill cries of “What about old
so-and-so?” And so it starts
all over again.
And what about some of the
men at the top, non-combatants,
in a physical sense, in that par-
ticular war, but the ones whose,
nerve and judgment and imagina-
tion and resolution, in no small
measure, kept the great, complex
machinery moving? And the
men who died young, and the
unlucky ones, and the men who
did humble, necessary jobs in
uncomfortable places? And a
variety of unsung heroes.
There is a book called Guard
of Honor, by an American
whose name I forget, but it is
One of the great novels to come
out of the war. With life, color
and movement it gives a clear
and extraordinary picture of this
aspect of war ;• the complex,
irritating, human side, all within
KINGSFORD SMITH,
viewed by Ian Gall, 1930.
a framework, large, bold and, as
it were, architecturally perfect,
a sort of model of the giant
growth of the United States
Army Air Corps: a working
model brought down to the size
of a symbol, and therefore ma.de
comprehensible, by the peculiaf
magic of art.
This is not a literary article.
But it has often struck me that
the growth and range of action
of the R.A.A.F. were no less
remarkable than those of the
U.S. Army Air Corps, and, per-
haps, were even more signifl-
cant; and deserve some such
apotheosis.
Australian fighter-pilots were
prominent over Great Britain,
in the Middle East, over Nor-
mandy. R.A.A.F. bombers
took part in all the main raids
over Germany, including the
first 1000-bomber raid, and the
attack on the dams. Bennett,
of Pathfinder fame, was an
Australian.
In the Pacific, the R.A.A.F.
had four squadrons operating
in Malaya in December, 1941,
with Hudsons, Wirraways and
Buffaloes.
Seventy - five Squadron’s
Kittyhawks, led by a Queens-
lander, John Jackson, gave
Moresby air-cover until the
U.S. Air Force came. Only one
of, the squadron’s 25 Kitty-
hawks returned to the main-
land, and the Japanese lost 40
aircraft. At Milne Bay R.A.A.F.
Kittyhawks helped inflict the
first repulse the Japanese had
experienced in an invasion
attempt. “Bluey” Truscott, an
ace from the European theatre,
fought here.
In Australian factories Beau-
fort bombers, Beaufighters,
Boomerangs, Wirraway Army co-
op. planes, and, finally. Mos-
quitoes and Mustangs were be-
ing built. Spitfires came out
from England, and Vultee
Vengeances, Catalinas and
Liberators came from America.
From North Australian and
island bases attacks were
pressed over an increasing
distance until, as the- Allied
ground forces made succes-
sive invasions, Rabaul, Good-
enough, Aitape, Noemfoor,
Morotai. R.A.A.F. Liberators
were supporting the A.I.F. in
Borneo, R.A.A.F. Mosquitoes
were photographing bases in the
Philippines, R.A.A.F. Catalinas
had mined Hong Kong harbor.
And then the tide of war had
turned completely.
The Australian airmen who
won the Victoria Cross in War
11 are Group-Captain H- I.
Edwards, Pilot-Officer R. H.
Middleton, and Flight-Lieutenant
W. E. Newton.
After the war many Austra-
lians became aware of the fact
of air-travel. Many ex-service-
men had become accustomed
to air-travel in the forces.
Many had flown planes them-
selves. But, all the same,
the change was noticeable.
My own first post-war contact
with it was when I went to
Parkes (central N.S.W.) in one
of Butler’s planes. Going by
train one left Central at 9 o’clock,
1 think, at night, and arrived in
Parkes next morning about
breakfast-time. In summer it
was a nasty, hot, gritty journey,
and many trains were, anyway,
crowded, I made the same trip
in an hour by air, although there
was travelling-time to Mascot.
Arthur Butler started the
airline nineteen years ago, flying
from Cootamundra, in New
South Wales, to Charleville, in
Queensland, linking up with
Qantas there, and carrying mail
back to Cootamundra. After the
war the concern became a pro-
prietary company, with Arthur
Butler carrying on as managing-
director, and the line expanded
to take in more territory.
At present it runs to the
Central-West of N.S.W., up the
North Coast, down the South
Coast for a shorter distance, and
into South-west Queensland, In
Queensland there is an associate
{Continued on next page)


ITSIa
FLY Kangaroo Service for VARIETY a
Widest Choice
of Air Routes
r
Tj
to and through
7j
ZT
n
m
&
.
m
m
m
*T
m
Take your Choice
from These 26
Stopover Cities
in Europe.
ROME, NICE
MARSEILLES
BARCELONA
MADRID, PARIS
GENEVA. MILAN
ZURICH, BASLE
BRUSSELS •
AMSTERDAM
DUSSELDORF
COLOGNE
FRANKFURT
NUREMBURG
STUTTGART
LINZ, MUNICH
VIENNA .
SALZBURG
INNSBRUCK
ISTANBUL
SALONIKA
ATHENS. NAPLES
Fly QANTAS-8.0.A.C. Kangaroo Service
and see Europe as you want to see it. Use the
popular multiple-route plan. Make your choice
from almost unlimited combinations of no less
than 26 famous cities in Europe alone, each
packed with historic sight-seeing and commercial
interest. Stop-over wherever you wish, at no
extra air fare, see the sights, enjoy the individual
charm of each intemationally-famous city.
Fly all the way by air-conditioned Constellation
to Europe. Choice of alternative routes across
India and the Mediterranean. 6 services
weekly. Consult your Travel Agent.
★ XMAS OVERSEAS AIR MAIL INFORMATION youam«a
make sure of getting your letters and parcels to overseas friends before
Christmas—by using fast, overseas air mail. But post now ! You may
send postcards and greeting Cards, pre-stamped aerogrammes, first-class
air mail letters, printed matter —and all kinds of parcels (up to 11 lbs.
weight), at moderate cost. Wish all your overseas friends “Merry
Christmas”—by overseas air mail.
am as-bom
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED (Inc. in Q’land.) in parallel with 8.0.A.C.
- ears flying experience
company, Queensland Airlines,
Ltd. Butler’s call at 35 airports
and these embrace 59 towns.
Butler’s have concentrated on
the country business.
Arthur Butler is a man of
parts. Besides breaking an
England-Australia record, he
made the first all-metal mono-
plane to be built and licensed
in Australia. He is a capable
engineer, and holds all his ground
tickets. A pilot who still flies (as
first-officer) two, three and four
times a week, and he is popular
with his employees. But then a
good many of them are also
shareholders—of Butler’s staff of
242 employees, 196 have shares
in the company.
The company, or a subsidiary,
does all its own repair jobs, and
services planes for another com-
pany as well. Here, too, Arthur
Butler plays an active part.
Of the internal Australian
lines, Butler’s would come about
third in size, behind T.A.A. and
A.N.A., the big boys. But
Butler’s business is mainly intra-
state, whereas the bulk of A.N.A.
and T.A.A.’s passenger business
comes from city-to-city com-
munication.
The early story of Australian
National Airways (before a
company of that name was
registered) is largely a family
chronicle,
Mr. Ivan Holyman, managing-
director of A.N.A., has been
with the firm from the beginning.
The Holymans are a well-known
Tasmanian shipping family. The
first.one, William, came out from
Hull as an apprentice on a
trading-barque in 1850. He
settled at Devonshire and began
trading along the coast in a
small ketch. Over the years a
little trading-fleet grew up, and
as Holyman sons reached
maturity they went into the busi-
ness. The line went into steam
as William Holyman and Sons,
Pty., Ltd.
During the 1914-18 War Victor
Holyman, a grandson of William,
who- was on a deep-water ship
at the outbreak of war (he held
a mate’s ticket), joined the Royal
Naval Air Service in England.
After service in France he was
testing planes in England, then,
before the end of the war, he'
was sent back to Australia on
loan to the Australian N,aval
Board. He returned to England
in 1920, resigned his commission.
and was back in the family
harness, as master of the Koo-
ringa. But he was still keen
, on flying.
In the meantime his brother
Ivan, who had served with the
A.I.F. on Gallipoli and in France,
and won the Military Cross, had
come home, too, and was also in
harness. As Devonport manager,
and, on the death of his father,
as the firm’s chief executive.
On Victor’s initiative, and with
family backing, the Holyman
brothers started an air-service
in 1932. The first route was
from Launceston to Flinders
Island, a distance of 108 miles.
Their craft was a Fox Moth with
accommodation for three pas-
sengers. Everyone lent a hand,
Mrs. Victor Holyman driving
passengers to and from the plane,
and supplying cups of tea, other
members of the family doing
odd chores. In between, they
took on jobs.as an air-taxi. A
competitor, L. |/IcK. Johnson,
flying a Desomter high-wing
monoplane, came in, and Tasman
Aerial Services was formed;
shareholders being Holyman
Brothers and Johnson. In 1933
they began flying between Laun-
ceston and Melbourne. Johnson
was bought out, the firm becom-
ing Holyman’s Airways Pty.,
Ltd. In 1934 the Commonwealth
called for tenders for the opera-
tion of an air-service across Bass
Strait. Holymans, backed by
Huddart Parker and the Union
Steamship Co. of N.Z.—each
putting in a third of the capital
required—made a successful
tender.
The service began in October,
1934, with a new plane, a DHB6 ;
it had hardly started when the
plane, piloted by Victor Holy-
man, with passengers aboard, was
lost in the Tasman. This was
a severe blow, not only in per-
sonal terms, but in the loss of
goodwill involved in any air
disaster, even now, when public
confidence in this method of
travel has never been higher,
and in the outright loss of capital
represented by the value of the
plane and its earning-capacity.
But the company survived, after
some early struggles.
In 1936 Australian National
Airways Pty., Ltd., was formed.
Original shareholders were Holy-
man Brothers, Huddart Parker,
Union Steam Ship Co., Adelaide
Steamship Company, and the
Orient-S. N. Co., together with
Holyman’s Airways and Adel-
aide Airways.
Other airlines were absorbed,
directly and indirectly, Douglas
aircraft were bought, and A.N.A,
became a continent-wide organi-
sation. After the war, while
maintaining its extensive pas-
senger services, it carried increas-
ing quantities of freight, and
began overseas lines. Its San
Francisco^-Vancouver run was
taken over by B.C.P.A. in 1948.
Cathay Pacific and Air Ceylon
(in which the Government of
Ceylon held 51 p.c. of the stock,
A.N.A, 49 p.c., with a joint
board of directors) were ambi-
tious projects, the latter opening
routes to London, Singapore and
Madras. ■ During the year
A.N.A. withdrew from Air
Ceylon.
In post-war years A.N.A. has
developed its freight trade, hand-
ling impressive quantities of
perishables (fruit, vegetables,
fish, etc.). Wool (including
double-dump bales) is flown
from Hobart and Melbourne
sales. In 1949 four loads of
Haddon Rig sheep were flown
from that N.S.W. stud to the
Sydney Show. A.N.A. trans-
ported a metal-foundry for
Austral Bronze from the main-
land to Tasmania. The move
was made in four phases, in-
volving twenty-one DC3 loads,
all aircraft flying direct from
Sydney to Hobart. Seventy-five
tons of machinery was handled,
and the loss of production was
only fourteen days, instead of
three months. The staff and
machinery of Silk and Textile
Printers were transported from
Sydney to Hobart by the same
methods.
This, of course, is nothing to
what was accomplished during
the Berlin airlift. But, for a
country of vast distances like
Australia, air-freight has massive
possibilities. It is interesting to
note that in the “Times” Avia-
tion Supplement, which has a
number of authoritative special
articles, it is stated that, although
the volume of freight handled by
British airlines (chiefly overseas)
has • increased remarkably, air-
line operators agree that they
have as yet barely scratched the
HUDSON FYSH,
as Counihan saw him, 1936.
surface. Freight-planes in use,
or in the prototype or blueprint
stage, by a number of English
makers, are discussed. Among
other ambitious projects, a pure
jet-freighter.
It is not generally realised that
Australians were the first to
attempt flying heavy materials
on a large scale, over very diffi-
cult country. As far back as
1926 Guinea Airways were taking
machinery over 12,000 ft. moun-
tains to Bulolo. Some dredges,
flown in parts, weighed 4000 tons
when assembled.
One of the most interesting
developments in Australian civil
aviation of recent years is the
air-beef scheme. The idea is
not new: the loss of condition,
knocking-about, and actual mor-
tality of stock walking great dis-
tances to a rail-head and then
trucked many miles to market is
obvious.
But the first man to attempt
air-freight as a solution was
I. H. Grabowsky, a former pilot
and later manager of Guinea
Airways. In New Guinea he had
started a “meat-round” service,
delivering meat and other food-
stuffs to miners isolated in the
high ranges. He thought it
could be done on a large scale,
wholesale. •
In 1938 he went to the Com-
monwealth. Government with a
scheme for slaughtering cattle
on the stations where they were
bred. He was working at that
time for A.N.A., and the com-
pany promised him support. The
Government was interested, but
war put the matter on the shelf.
In 1946 the plan was brought
to light again, this time with
the Western Australian State
Government. A.N.A. and the
Macßobertson-Miller Aviation
Company were also interested.
So were individual graziers, but
everyone asked the same ques-
tions. What would it cost?
Would air-freight be too expen-
sive to leave any margin of profit
for the grower?
Grabowsky thought it would
be economical. It was decided
to give it a trial in the Kimber-
leys—remote, thinly-populated,
undeveloped. There was good
feed there in season, a rainfall
boosted by the monsoonal “wet.”
But it was 300 miles over the
stock-routes to Wyndham. A
group of station owners put in
£5OOO in capital; A.N.A. and
Macßobertson Miller put in
£lO,OOO between them ; th 6 W.A.
Government made a loan of
£lO,OOO for three years. A.N.A.
supplied a DC3 freighter. t
Killing-works, with chilling-
plant and storage, were built for
£20,000 —compared with an esti-
mated cost of £lOO,OOO, very
cheap—and the Civil Aviation
Department made an airstrip for
o Continued on page 50)


A
particularly
good
Scotch
has arrived
just in time
for Christmas
VWK If you’ve stayed in America’s most
distinguished hotels, you’ll know and re-
welcome this old whisky.
If you’ve ever visited exclusive in
the Eastern capitals, you, too, have met and
enjoyed The Real Mackenzie.
Yes, that’s its name —The Real Mackenzie
special Old Scotch Whisky. Even in Scot-
land men doff their glengarries when that
name is mentioned . . . and no one knows
Scotch like the Scot.
This is the first time The Real Mackenzie
has been brought to Australia. For the best
part of a decade. The Real Mackenzie
you’ll be savouring this Christmas has been
cradled with loving care in mellow oaken
casks, away ilk far Scotland, the land of its
birth. It is because of its age that The $
Real Mackenzie .is legally entitled to be called “old."
Now this aristocrat of whiskies, venerable and smooth
as milk, is here amongst us. Not in unlimited quantities
... but enough for those who know a really good Scotch
when they meet it.
The Real Mackenzie can now be yours for 29/ —but it
is worth much more.
To all but the dilatory it is available at the Hotel
Australia and at the other leading hotels which Cater
for men of keen discrimination.
No other Scotch is
"THE REAL MACKENZIE"
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS: Keith S. Hall Pty. Limited (Wine and Spirit
Division), 269-271 Sussex Street, Sydney. Telephones: M 6711-6712
- SB3A-53
Scotch
£“SS'
THE ALLERGY DESTROYING TABLETS
AS-MO-LETS
FOR INSTANT RELIEF FROM
HAY FEVER
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
MIGRAINE
HEADACHES
AS-MO-LETS give soothing, instant relief from Hay Fever
. . . Asthma . . . Bronchitis . . . Nervous Headaches
and all forms of Sinus and Migraine distress. These
dreaded and painful conditions are caused by an allergy,
either to flower pollen . . . house dust or other minute
organisms in the atmosphere. AS-MO-LET tablets attack
the basic cause of your complaint and ease breathing
.. . relieve congestion .. . stimulate healthy sleep and
appetite and DESTROY YOUR ALLERGY.
AS-MO-LETS
The Miracle Tablets
Distributors: Rickard Medical Products Pty. Ltd.
Union Bank- Chambers, 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
86 a bottle
AS-MO-LETS ONLY FROM YOUR CHEMIST
AS.3
THE FOX CUBS
VARIOUS VERSE
The gullies drain the faded sky
And bleached and clear is the peewee’s cry
Who inocks and sings from a nest of mud
At yellow fox and yellow flood.
“Peewee, peewee,” the fox cubs call,
“Droughts come down and young birds
fall;
We’ll pick their bones and let them lie
For gully winds to bleach and dry.”
“You may chew,” cried the bird, “at the
moon all night
But an apple-gum limb is a tidy height ;
And though droughts come down and
dust-whirls play,
We’ll sing like creeks in this cup of clay.”
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
DINGHIES
Dinghies, those disreputable carts of the
sea,
Driverless, and horseless, idle on the mud;
Out-of-date, yet still suffered; tied up
—As if they’d bolt—with chains to the
jetty.
Touch one, and watch the red furious
blood
Rising in some Lilliput admiral. Top
Of the tide, and they’re jostling likp wild
Sea-chariots. Never was a tribe of midgets,
but
They were like these little, pugnacious,
Racial upstarts; these sea-carts that a child
Can overload and lord it over. Put
One in the tide-race, where its spacious
Flat veranda-bottom entices kicks
And the sea will kick; show how a cart
rocks.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
THE LAST OF SNOW
It is the last of the snow
Under a bush on the heath
Like a little white calf forgotten
While sunlight bares its teeth;
And still where Bullock’s Head Creek
Spills down to the Eucumbene
And the granite highlands sprawl
Without one shoot of green,
That broken brier, that heath
Flattened and crushed and tramped
Show as if in vast shadows
The place where the cattle camped,
Drowsing all winter through
In a dream with their mild eyes full
Of blizzard and flying starlight.
The cow lying down by the bull.
And they pressed their mighty forms
On the rough green rug below.
And they swayed their horns of ice:
The wild white cattle of snow.
Little white calf, stand up
And follow the wild mob
Far over Bullock’s Head Creek,
Over Kiandra’s top.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
FOUR POEMS OF DISCOVERY
The Circumnavigation
So much for our welcome home I
The pot of rejoicing is off the boil.
The fire dies. Excitement merely simmers.
It will soon grow cold.
Let me now explain
that sailing out and coming home again
contrariwise, having circumnavigated
Africa, was an accident.
The adventure was not planned.
Our great achievement, 1 insist, •
amounts to nothing more than this.
I saw a headland
distant, floating in a mist
and set my prow thereat.
It is as simple as that
plus, of course, the addition
of a wearisome diurnal repetition.
A hero! Stuff! I say . . .
1 merely sailed across a single bay,
afloat in what is tangible and real,
the inescapable Now beneath my keel.
Atlantis
Friends, enemies, collaborators arid an-
tagonists!
The heart of the puzzle is lost, drowned.
Our world is hollow,
an empty socket gazing up at Heaven. A
solid land of fact surrounds
a waste of ocean mocking us. We follow,
we follow
one upon the other, generation upon gene-
ration
blind, asleep. We are like those flocks of
migrating birds that, flying .
westwards across the ocean, pause on
their way
to circle aimlessly a certain spot and fill
the air with sighing.
Balboa
Vasco Nunez de Balboa,
climbing out of the jungle of his debts,
cutting himself free
the thorned vines of human entangle-
ment,
becomes, late in life, a discoverer.
Climbing upward all day,
he and his companions,
and the sodden jungle endless . . .
suddenly tilts his nose and smells the sea.
The party stops,
all eyes upon their leader.
The only sound
the creak of leather straps, -the squelch
of boots in ooze, their breathing
coming in difficult gasps. Breastplate,
cuirass, sword-blade, buckfe, all
iron impedimenta rough with rust.
Wait. Wait here, he says. I gb alone.
Wait here for me.
And now high up at last the jungle thins,
the sweat beneath the leather icy cold, the
wind
sea-fresh. He turns about.
No sign of them, no sign.
The hollow where his men remain
is hidden
somewhere far below.
Looks back across the leagues
they traversed, turns again, looks upward
fo the last few feet of climb remain to him.
Chooses
each foothold carefully. He sweeps
the screening leaves away
to make a secret window for his face.
And there, westward,
what was suspected, a level
horizontal grey-blue, blue
blinding sheet and dazzle
to his eyes, the glitter
of the sea, the ocean,
the Great Southern Ocean.
The Inca Tupac Upanqui
The Inca Tupac Upanqui,
suffering from a surfeit of idleness,
amuses his scalp with a golden comb.
For the Sun does not stand still, the Sun,
embracing nightly the fairheaded
daughters of the Sun, rises,
arms himself and goes forth.
But the Inca Tupac Upanqui, Son of the
Sun,
is hidden. He dreams on his couch,
drowns in the sweat of his body, dreams
the rugs are pleated reeds,
his bed a raft of thong-bound balsa logs
groaning and complaining on the sea.
The curtain of his bed bends like a sail
marked with his regal emblem.
. . . All his wives,
a fleet of satis attending.
He has taken the look of the condor now
he has shaken off sleep, has bound
his hair in a loop,of wire. His ears
enclose twin suns in their thin-stretched
■ lobes.
He has taken a comb
of ships and set it lightly on the sea
to comb the sea for islands and for gold.
Four hundred ships,
each one in sight of two,
i
each two in sight of four ...
drifting in a line across the main.
They look like shepherds moving on a
plain.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“Big Ben”
Big Ben is still unconquered. Recent
rather cryptic reports from Heard Island
reveal that John Bechervaise (leader of
this year’s Heard Island expedition) and
two men spent 18 days on the formidable
peak and were turned back at 5000 ft. by
a five-day blizzard. They attempted a
climb equal in technical difficulties and
hardships to any in the world, and if
they had succeeded they would have
gained wide and lasting renown in moun-
taineering circles.
Big Ben is an active volcano, rising
9000 ft. in less than four miles. It stands
against roaring Antarctic winds that often
reach 125 m.p.h., bringing from the
frozen south a succession of fierce bliz-
zards that effectively paralyse all move-
ment on the tiny island. Its breath-
taking beauty, towering in frozen silence
into a clear, starlit night with a magnifi-
cent Aurora Australis as backdrop ; or
flying .long plumes of whirling snow
from every ridge of ice like a medieval
castle under siege; or shrouded in thick
cloud that often obscures the mighty
domed peak for weeks at a time —will
always be one of my cherished, memories.
But Bechervaise and his men, like
those of previous expeditions to Heard
Island since the first landing in 1947,
sadly lack adequate equipment for under-
taking the journeys on the island. Mili-
tary-boots such as were issued to the
troops in New Guinea are supplied for
field use, and these, combined with
ordinary woollen socks, cause more foot-
trouble than should be tolerated. Recom-
mendations by doctors and men who
have been forced to wear the boots on
the long marches over ice that are a
necessary part of any field-trip at Heard
Island have so far been ignored.
Air Force flying-boots are also issued,
but, beyond their comfort inside heated
huts when the day’s work is done, they
are useless. Thin uppers and soft leather
soles make them too susceptible to damp-
ness, and because they are essentially
loose-fitting boots, they are inadequate,
even dangerous, for field use.
The ideal boot is the strong, insulated
climbing-boot of the French or Nor-
wegian pattern. For the Antarctic
Continent expedition, due early next year,
finnesko, the thigh-length reindeer-hide
boots of Scandinavia, are essential. For
Heard Island proper footwear has so far
been ruled out on the strength of ex-
pense ;, it remains to be seen how far the
Continent party will be endangered by
such stupid pruning of costs.
Nobody has yet discovered the Antarc-
tic Division’s methods of staff-selection.
It seems that no other qualification is
required if an applicant states with suffi-
cient enthusiasm that he is a lover of
adventure. No trade-test is applied. Men
obviously unsuited to rigorous weather
conditions, or to confinement with a
dozen or so other men on a tiny island,
are included in parties that must act as
a perfect team if tangible results are to
come of the year’s investigation.
In 1951 the cost of the Heard and
Macquarie Islands ventures was assessed
at £200,000 yearly. That figure must now
be considerably expanded in view of the
additional staff and equipment allotted
to Macquarie. With the additional
expenditure on the Continent party the
cost of the taxpayer will go* close to half
a million pounds annually. For that we
should expect that the men sent south are
the best that can .be recruited and the
equipment the best procurable..—V. I. H.
(N.S.W.).
“Pooi Old Repat.”
After three and a half years (artillery
and infantry) in the M.E. and N.G. I
suffered acute bowel and stomach com-
plaint and recurring bad back. Army
diagnosed nervous dyspepsia and fibrositis.
Flown out of action, I was rated B-class,
and I still served north of Brisbane for 18
months. I was sent twice to a psychiatrist,
never to a, pathologist.
Repat. doctors confirmed the diagnoses
and refused a pension.
In Civvy-street I started out on my own
and lost three months’ work in the first
six. One visit to a local medic was
sufficient. He diagnosed, after patho-
logical examination, heavy hookworm-
infestation of long standing. Two brief
periods in the local hospital and my
“nervous dyspepsia” was cured.
During the next two years, my
“bludger’s back” became so unbearably
painful that I lost weeks of work at a
stretch. I had to give up my own venture.
Finally this was diagnosed and after one
major operation (six months), two minor
operations and a further long period of
hospital treatment I was discharged with
a permanently-impaired back. The speci-
alist told me that had I been treated
years ago I would have been quite fit.
That lot lost me the best part of three
years’ work. ,
Unfit for manual toil, I had to change
occupation. Hard swot at a corres-
pondence course and I landed , a
job starting at a boy’s wages. Now,
after two and a half years, I
have risen to a wage just comparable
with that of my former trade. On this
level I look like remaining as long as I
don’t stumble, work more than desultorily
in the garden of in any other way aggra-
vate an incomplete spinal column. A
long period in hospital would lose me
my job.
Periodical treatment to alleviate acute
pain and a feeling of insecurity and
frustration have reduced me almost to
the original diagnosis. An understanding
young doctor props me with sedative
treatment. Repat. compensation is free
treatment and a pension of £2 Bs. a week.
What really gets under my skin is
assessment of damages in civil, accidents.
Recently a Sydney*jury awarded a grave-
digger £B5OO for an ankle injury received
in a motorcycle accident. He had to
change his occupation to gardener. The
same week £13,000 was awarded a young
man for loss of a leg.
Let “Jonfor” (B. 4/11/’53) compare
these awards with “Poor Old Repat.’s”
assessment of similar injuries to volunteers
received in course of duty.— Erbar (Vic.),
Sustenance and Survival
“Keima” (B. 25/11/’53) should study
the history of agriculture, notably of the
soil and its ecohomy. Every substantial
culture-group known has outbred its
means of local sustenance. A few primi-
tives like the Amerindians and our
aboriginals established a balance with
local nature, but a hard life, with many
accidents, intertribal warfare and famine,
kept the natural increase under control.
The peoples of Mesopotamia, the
“ Good-morning "
Hwang-ho and Indus valleys used up
their soils after cultivating it - to the nth
degree, and passed out, or on, assisted
by war. and pestilence. Egypt has hung
on fairly successfully, but only with the
help of the annual renewal of her arable
land by flood-silt. Even then a low
standard of living, poor hygiene and war-
fare have helped to keep down the local
population. Now that malaria and hook-
worm are coming under control, her
population is a problem.
South-east Asia has so far hung on
fairly well, but .saturation is in sight,
despite high mortality-rates.
The grasslands of the Caspian area,
that womb of nations that has sent
“Every year less and less. I wonder if We can hang out long enough
to see the finish ?”
migrant hordes into Europe since the
dawn of time, maintained its soil-
economy till Genghis Khan decimated its
peoples. That gave the land a spell, and
later improved agriculture took care of
its peoples for a few decades. Then
migration eastward helped to ease the
strain. Now Russia is failing to recon-
dition old, and develop new, lands, and
the food-problem is serious. Russia is
land-hungry again.
Western Europe has saved its soils
and increased its food-production at the
same time (a thing few peoples have
done), but only by skilled agriculture.
There, again, the effects of pestilence,
war and migration helped to ease the
strain on local food-supplies. When the
industrial revolution, relative peace and
improved sanitation allowed big in-
creases in local populations, the food
situation was saved only by the exploita-
tion of American farms (later Argentine
and Australian as well) and migration.
Peru is the brightest exception. The
Inca peoples consolidated a large empire
on hungry soils and fed the increased
populations by terracing and irrigating
whole ranges of mountain-sides. The
work was tremendous, but they did it by
a system of communism (so far the
world’s only successful’ effort of that
kind) which was tough but efficient.
There were no unions, no 40-hour week,
no monoculture (one-man, one-crop), no
go-slow, no soil-capitalism. Nothing but
hard work and Government supervision
and real punishment for obstructionists.
—Historicus (Q.).
Egg Boards
As a retailer I have few complaints
about the actual business of the Egg
Board except, perhaps, on the miserable
8 per cent, allowed as a profit-margin
out of which bags, labor and breakages
have to be deducted.
My one real grievance: It does little
credit to the board that its goods have
to be carefully checked for cockroaches.
And that is just what happens after each
delivery. These boxes of neatly-stacked
eggs ' are a bigger cockroach-spreading
menace than anything else we handle,
including potatoes.
If any other business carried such
things to its customers its term of office
would be very brief. — Ebrius (N.S.W.).
Languages in the Schools
At this time of the year thousands of
secondary students will have sat for
examinations in French, ‘German or
Latin to test their alleged proficiency in
such tongues after two or more years’
study. It is doubtful whether more than
a very small minority will make any
■practical use of what they have learned.
Some, will go on with their studies to
university levels, to become, in turn,
teachers of these subjects, able only to
pass on their knowledge in the manner
in which they themselves were taught.
Few could make themselves understood
orally in the tongue they are supposed
to have mastered.
The fault is not in the pupils, or even
the teachers, but in the educational out-
look which foisted the learning of
languages for examination purposes only
on our secondary schools. Our earliest
educators were products of the English
public schools, and they committed
future generations to the studies they
had undergone when young.
It is only lately that the value of Latin
as an essential to a complete education
has been suspect. Once Latin was the
common language of all scholars, and
the only worth-while books were printed
in that language ; but that was in the
Middle Ages. Nevertheless, Latin is still
hammered into many young minds
today, and in some instances it is impos-
sible to matriculate without it.
French became popular in English
schools during the 19th These
languages were established mainly for
the wealthy, and every rich young man
was expected to finish off by making the
“Grand Tour,” when a knowledge of
Continental languages would be very
helpful. Also, many of them, following
the example of a Royal Prince, would
finish up with a weekend flat in Paris.
I wonder what some of the staid mis-
tresses in our posh girls’-schools would
think if they knew that they are teaching
French because it was once considered
necessary for young rakes.
Having committed our youngsters to
the study of languages that will be
practically useless for most of them, our
teachers make the study even more use-
less by concentrating on the. written,
syntactical side. Our Department of
Migration, after trying various methods
of teaching English to New Australians,
found that the only way was to make
them speak English.
It is time the whole system of teach-
ing foreign languages was drastically
overhauled. It might even be advisable
to defer such teaching till after the
Intermediate examination, and then offer
it as an alternative course only to those
who are reasonably sure they will require
any such language in later life.
—Bamekaw (Q.).
City Plans
The “Master Plan” for Melbourne pro-
vides for new road- and rail-facilities to
overcome ever-increasing traffic problems,
more civic- and cultural-centres, and a
general brightening-up of a city which,
like others in Australia, is rapidly becom-
ing crippled through its own growth.
Tentatively, the plan is to operate over
the next 50 years, and a City Development
Association has been formed to push it.
Parliament, Pulpit Press are en-
thusiastic. Some compare Melbourne’s
progress in the future with that of the
American Pittsburgh which, due to in-
spired civic effort, has come through the
doldrums of apathy and neglect, which
were forcing land- and building-values
down.
At all events, it is heartening to see a
plan for Melbourne being formulated and
then supported with equal enthusiasm by
all hands. All are saying: “Let’s get
on with it or it’ll never happen.’ 1
Is it a lack of such interest among
influential merchants and entrepreneurs,
as well as civic leaders, which is causing
Sydney’s County of Cumberland plan to
suffer by neglect and misunderstanding
until it has become a laughing-stock and
also a stumbling-block to any future
plan of development?— Karrimba (Vic.).


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO FRANK BIRKBBCK PELL late of
Bega-TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE
VIOLET PELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2276 of 1953 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office, Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 16th day of Feb-
ruary 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Public Notice
I EMERY KOVACS, Hungarian, born
at Szekesfehervar, Hungary, resident five
years in Australia, now residing at 31
South Avenue. Double Bay, Sydney, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
0 0
we
m
m
There are picture subjects
all around you . . . the
children, your pets, week-
end activities, as well as
happy hours spent with
friends, old and new.
Keep your camera always
handy and loaded with
Kodak Film, you’ll make
better pictures on Veri-
chrome or Super-XX. And
don’t forget to keep an
extra roll handy.
0«l
V?
w
i&l'l
KODAK
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) Pty. Ltd . XNH2.53
Australian Poetry
The Teaching of English
Dame Enid Lyons complains
that the teaching of English has
declined considerably over the
last 20 years. It is the use, not
the teaching, that has deterior-
ated. English-teaching in N. S.
Wales schools has improved
quite a bit, but not sufficiently
to overcome other factors con-
tributing to the decline.
English in schools has become
far more practical than it was
20 years ago. Grammar is no
longer taught as though it were
a branch of mathematics. To-
day it is functional. An Inter-
mediate English paper 10 years
ago had a long passage which
the candidate was asked to ana-
lyse into clauses. This year’s
paper still expected the child to
know, for example, a noun
clause in apposition, but he had
to supply it rather than find it.
In other words, he bad to turn
a simple sentence into a complex
piece of writing by supplying
certain clauses and phrases.
Grammar taught for gram-
mar’s sake was always useless.
I have found that the only way
to teach a child to speak and
write grammatically is by con-
stant usage rather than by a
detailed knowledge of parsing
and analysis. Very few child-
ren, or adults, could tell you
why we say “I did” and not “I
done,” yet most know which is.
correct. Constant correction
and constant repetition will
teach the correct form far better
than all the parsing exercises in
the world. ~ Still less formal
grammar could be given.
Professor Mitchell has the
right idea when he blames the
radio and trashy “literature” for
the decline. Nor can the news-
papers be excused. When a
Sydney paper reports that a cer-
tain horse was “literally jump-
ing out of it’s skin” one must
expect a misuse of words by the
readers. One of the complaints
about schoolchildren’s . com-
positions is that they are not
properly paragraphed, yet one
Sydney paper has one-sentence
paragraphs in all its leading
articles.
It does not require a pedant
to take exception to much that
comes over the radio. Nearly
every boxing-commentator re-
fers to one boxer as “laying on
the other”! One station makes
a feature of reading the Sunday-
morning comics to the children.
The accents and the English used
are atrocious.
How times have changed!
Thirty years ago a correspondent
wrote to the “Sydney Morning
Herald” complaining of the
grammar in a leader. A second
correspondent criticised the
grammar of the first and on it
went, letter after letter, until
the editor closed the argument,
-Rann (N.S.W.).
The Last Charge
, It is surprising that such an
authority on military history as
General J. F. C. Fuller should
have cited the charge of the
Chasseurs d’Afrique at Sedan as
the last great cavalry charge in
history (B. 11/11/’53). The
storming of the Turkish trenches
at Beersheba by the Australian
Light Horsemen was a genuine
cavalry charge.
There were other successful
charges by cavalry units in
Allenby’s army in the
stages of the Palestine cam-
paign. Maurice Collis has
recorded in his autobiography a
talk he had with some Austrian
gunners who had been captured
in one of these affairs. They
were in a very sour humor, de-
claring indignantly that Alienby’s
“That cowboy film-star is in town again.”
horsemen hadn’t been fair. The
rush had been so swift they
hadn’t had time to adjust their
gun-sights.
Still later, in the Spanish Civil
War, there were at least
two notable and successful
cavalry charges. Both were
by Moorish horsemen on
Franco’s side. The first was
during the operations on the
Jarama River, near Madrid ; the
second in the final contest for
Tereul.
A partly broken-down bridge
spanned the Jarama River, and
it was covered by machine-guns
sighted for infantry. Franco sent
a body of Moorish cavalry at
the bridge. Some fell into the
river, but sufficient got across to
take the machine-gun posts be-
fore they could be reinforced.
The Moors then dug-in, while
engineers threw pontoons across
the river for infantry to cross.
At Tereul vital heights were
also guarded by a few machine-
gunners, the mass of defenders
having retired to the town.
Moorish cavalry, their horses’
hooves muffled in cloths,
managed to get close to the
position in the early-morning
darkness, and rushed it before
the defenders could adjust their
machine-gun sights. Terry
the Tory (N.S.W!).
In the Rut
The report of the Queensland
Commissioner of Main Roads
for 1952-53 has just been issued.
As predicted in “The Hard Road
to Socialism” (B. 1/7/’53), the
repoVt offers no spectacular
record of achievement:
Type of Work. Mileage.
Clearing .. .. 250.41
Formation .. 298.42
Gravelling .. 140.82
Bituminising ., ' 64.32
Concreting .. 3.36
Total ... 757.33
Receipts by the Main Roads
Commission for the year
totalled £7,883,653, of which the
Federal Government contributed
£2,839,584 under provisions of
the Commonwealth Aid Roads
Act. Thus the cost to Queens-
land taxpayers was at the rate
of £10,000 per mile of road. The
position is worse than it looks,
because over 90 per cent, of the
work done was relatively cheap.
The fact that Queensland has
a disgraceful road network is a
matter of supreme indifference
to the State’s “Labor” Govern-
ment. If it gave the same dilig-
ence and devotion to practical
things like road-construction as
it does to the creation of its
Socialist Utopia, Queensland
would be much better off.—•
D. J. K. (Q.).
Homework
It would be unusual in N. S.
Wales for a third-year student
to do four hours’ intensive study
every night (B, 2/12/’53).
Most schools organise their
homework ; teachers don’t pick
the same night to give large
chunks of work. Homework
(officially known as “home-
study” these days) is so stag-
gered that there’s a little for
every night.
And homework is necessary.
In most high- or secondary-
schools the number of 40-
minute periods that can be given
to, say, English is from eight
to 10. Those few periods must
take in composition, spelling,
grammar, poetry, prose, drama
and oral work. Thus, no branch
of English can be treated more
than once a week. Four periods
are generally allotted to history
to cover the history of Australia
from Macquarie to Federation,
the history of England from
1815 to the present day and the
history of the British colonies.
Of the 40 minutes in a period
10 must be given to testing, some
to recapitulation and some to
note - taking. Consequently
there’s not much time left for
teaching. Without the assign-
ment- and homework-system a
child wouldn’t have a hope of
covering the course in any sub-
ject.
■ A teacher who knows his
game does not set homework
just for the sake of giving the
kids something to do at night.
Homework entails a lot of work
for the teacher, which generally
has to be done in his own time.
The homework must be planned
to follow some point of the
work being given, it must,be cor-
rected and the errors followed
up once more. Any homework
not thus planned is a waste of
time.
Time taken on homework ob-
viously varies with the child;
The slow worker or the fiddler
takes much longer than the
nipper who gets stuck into it in
a systematic manner. Anyway,
most parents complain today
that their children don’t get
enough homework. Perhaps they
remember their own schooldays,
or think they’re not getting their
money’s worth. Wackford
(N.S.W.).
The Victorian who complains
(B. 18/11/’53) of the lack of
good editions of Australian
poetry to send overseas could
not have looked far. There are
excellent volumes, as he would
have seen if he had read the Red
Page of the same week.
Notable among such publish-
ings are Douglas Stewart’s Sun
Orchids, with drawings by Nor-
man Lindsay, Judith Wright’s
The Gateway and Wolfe Fair-
bridge’s Poems, to mention only
three. All are of impeccable
and attractive format. If he
wants an anthology, the collec-
tions by H. M. Green and Dr.
Mackaness are well printed on
paper and would
not disgrace any bookshelf. Each
year, too, there is the collection
Australian Poetry, representing
the best writers, a small book of
good workmanship. And other
small volumes by individual
poets appear throughout the
year.
That’s for present-day poets.
There are also quite decent edi-
tions of Lawson, Paterson and
others, much the same in make-
up as the two anthologies re-
ferred to, and with bright dust-
jackets. Next year there’ll be a
similar collection of bush-
ballads.
Angus and Robertson, of
course, do not have “the sole
publishing-rights of Australian
poets,” but they do a sterling
service to the community, as be-
fits a publishing concern of their
status, in producing as much
poetry as they do.
The demand for poetry is in-
creasing slightly, but it is still
not great. From what I can
make out, however, poetry is in
a more healthy state here, con-
sidering our population, than in
England, where very few
volumes are produced. Pub-
lishers know that most of these
will only have un succes
d’estime, so that one can hardly
blame them for not producing
more. The day of the de luxe
edition has gone except for pri-
vate printings.—Thea Harker
(N.s.w.);


JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the
cost of residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to
£lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees.
Applications are invited for the above Bhrsaries, made avail-
able under the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means
are insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science
and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University
of Sydney.
Forms of Application, which must he returned duly completed
not later than the sth February, 1954, and further particulars, may
be obtained from;
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
1
Mi
mm
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
FOR OVER
100* 1
* YEARS »
limL
XmaM
When you give a
Lavina watch,
you, yourself, will L
always have the
joy of knowing
that someone is
constantly re-
minded of
you by a
thing of
beauty.
17-Jewelled
wXlfcfvzL s w ' ss Masterpieces
LW31.61
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ATHOL RONALD WALLACE late of
119 Australia Street, Oamperdown. —
TAKE NOTICE that DULCIE iyY WAL-
LACE has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3443 of 1952 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 17th February 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. W. RENOUF, Solicitor,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Raconteur, hot favorite for
the A.J.C. Villiers Stakes to be
run at Randwick this coming
Saturday, holds his position in
the betting-market. However, on
his good effort to Hans at Rose-
hill, French ‘Echo is selected to
win the Villiers from Raconteur
and Bronze Peak v
• • • •
The Villiers has been won by
top-ranking performers, includ-
ing Carioca, Bernborough, Fili-
pino, Yaralla, Rimveil, King's
Head and Closing Time,
Twelve months ago Carioca
won at odds-on ; ridden by Bill
Cook, he beat Tossing and Apex
in 1.36 i, which was fast time,
but not a race record. Jack
Thompson (expected to resume
race-riding soon, having almost
recovered from a broken leg)
won the Villiers in successive
years, on Barnsley and Filipino,
Several other riders have won
it twice. Ted Bartle won the
race three times, and one of his
mounts—Pavilion in 1930—ran
the mile in 1.36, which up till
then was one of the fastest miles
run in a Randwick handicap,
and still is equal to the best for
the Villiers.
• • • •
Lord Forrest, following his
stylish win in the Rosehill
Christmas Cup on Saturday, in
which he carried 9st., is a
warmer favorite than before for
the mile-and-a-half Summer
Cup on Boxing Day, in which
he will carry 8.10. At this stage
the only ones that appear to
have any chance against him
are Cymbidium and Dark Fife
(both in the race with a luxury
weight, 7.4) and former New
Zealander Unfaan (on 8.4).
Few horses have four joint-
owners, but Good Health,
winner of the fillies’ division of
the Rosehill Two - year - old
Handicap, is raced by that
number of partners, G. C. Ryder,
W. Laforest, D. Crystal, senior,
and D. Crystal, junior. The
combination probably didn't
profit much from the filly’s easy
success beyond £6OO stakemoney,
because the usual strong moves
by the Tommy Smith stable were
not in evidence. When Smith
keenly fancies a member of his
team, big bets are a feature of
the wagering. Good Health had
been galloping well and had
won a barrier trial, but she eased
from 4’s to 11 to 2. However,
she won like a good one. She
is by Port Vista (imp.), sire of
several smart sprinters, including
Gay Vista, Port Moonta, Eng-
lish Port (Brisbane), and Mr.
Vista (Melbourne). Decanter,
dam- of Good Health, was bred
in 1940. She is by Talking from
Glass Bowl by Air Balloon
(imp.).
Sydney Turf Club’s idea of
emergency runners was a pleas-
ing scheme to the Fil Allotta
stable at Rosehill, when
Spencer, trained by Allotta for
D. G. and P. G. Tail, was first
emergency, but got a run and
won the Parramatta Stakes at
20 to 1. Stable apprentice E.
Lee won his first race on
Spencer, and connections didn’t
let a betting chance slip through
their fingers. It had a nice re-
turn for a small amount.
Rose Song, costing her new
owners 500 guineas, didn’t take
long to win, doing so in good
style in the Second Maiden at
the latest Hawkesbury fixture.
The filly is by Bois de Rose
(imp.) from Silent Duchess from
Golden Silence by Heroic.
Rose Song, incidentally, also
gave apprentice Tim Odium his
first race success. This promis-
ing lad, who can go to scale at
6.12, is indentured to Rosebery
trainer Bill Stripe, who trains
Rose Song and several other
smart gallopers, including Be-
spoken, El Ziet, Aerofoil, Golden
Box, Deep Channel and Jolly
Sailor. The stable went for a
solid win on Golden Box in the
Rosehill Maiden Two-Year-Old
for fillies last Saturday, but after
showing pace to be in the lead
at the home-turn the filly
dropped out. She ran greenly
and wasn’t easy for Odium to
handle, but might soon do
better. Silent Duchess, dam of
Rose Song, also is dam of a
'Melbourne winner, Queen’s
Vista.
In winning the Rosehill
Maiden Handicap, Willy Willy
ran a race record, 1.32 f for the
“Ever read a book called ‘The Cruel Sea,' Bill ?”
furlongs. Ridden by Sell-
wood, he improved on previous
efforts and indicated staying-
power, as he came home strongly
from the middle of the fiaid and
covered more ground than any
other runner. Raced by his
breeders, T. R. and Mrs. Mac-
hattie, Willy Willy* is a three-
year-old colt by Whirlaway
(imp.) from Ack Emma, a Sion
mare from Morning by Brazen
(imp.). Keith Duggan trains
the colt at Randwick.
Tattersall’s (Sydney) Carring-
ton Stakes, to be run at Rand-
wick on Friday, lanuary 1,
should prove one of the best
contests in the club’s history.
Field for this test of speed,
which generally is run in about
1.11 for the six furlongs, seems
likely to include Cultured (New-
market Handicap winner), Hans
(the new sprint find, who
equalled Rosehill’s six-furlongs
record, 1.1 li, last Saturday),
Raconteur (W.A. champion),
Karendi, Suncup, Gay Vista,
Iroquois, Spearby and True
Leader. One of the keenest
contests ever seen at Randwick
could develop.
Rosehill attendance, 21,000,
was a slight drop on the figures
of the corresponding day last
year, but the ever-increasing
doubles-tote earnings advanced
by £4OOO to £33,000 on the
1952 meeting.
Caulfield’s Oakleigh Plate
always attracts the best sprinters
in Australia, and the coming
contest should be no exception.
Ope interesting competitor
should be Brisbane sprinter
Gresford, medium of a success-
ful plunge when he won the
First Fawkner Highweight (six
furlongs less 20yds.) at Moonee
Valley last Saturday. The five-
year-old High Title gelding,
owned and trained by R. W.
Roden, downed the Valley field
by half a dozen lengths. He
was heavily backed on the
course; a little 9 to 4 was
secured, but he went to the post
at 6 to 4. The visitor, having
his first start in Melbourne, had
won at his last start before
leaving Brisbane.
Sydney jockeys Bill Cook and
George Moore won races at the
Perth meeting, which they
attended at the invitation of the
W.A.T.C., but they were beaten
into the minor places in the
o
principal event, the mile-and-a-
half December Cup, won by
Side Real, ridden by local
jockey P. McKay. Moore was
second on Kindermyth and
Cook third on Farnmarc. Both
visiting jockeys were given a
rousing cheer when each won a
minor event during the after-
noon. The idea of the invita-
tion-race has caught on, and
Sydney clubs should give the
scheme consideration. It adds
much interest to a fixture.
When mid-week racing re-
turns to Sydney metropolitan
area it will be conducted on the
Rosehill and Canterbury tracks
once a month and there will be
no broadcasting of the meeting.
However, it is pretty certain
those who want to know what
is happening at the fixtures
won’t take long to find out.
This happened in the days be-
fore broadcasting was estab-
lished. Attendances at those
“pony” fixtures were small com-
pared to what may be expected
when the mid-week scheme is
restored. Rosebery is con-
sidered not fit for racing, though
more than 200 horses are' in
work at that track. Moorefield’s
future is up in the air, but it
seems certain to be sold later.
Cost of upkeep of both Rose-
bery and Moorefield must be a/
headache for the S.T.C., but
Rosebery cannot be discarded
for at least some years to come.
Randwick already has its full
quota of gallopers.
Randwick trainer Harold
O’Dwyer has returned veteran
galloper San Domenico to his
country owner, so Sydney
courses may have seen the last
of that noted sprinter, who, on
his best day, beat the best, win-
ning 20 races and running into
17 minor placings from some 65
starts. He won £29,369 m
stakes, best wins being in the
1949 Oakleigh Plate and the
1952 Caulfield Futurity Stakes.
He also ran second to St. Razzle
in the 1950 Futurity Stakes and
twice was in a minor place in
the V.R.C. Newmarket Handi-
cap.
When the late F. W. Hughes
was one of the leading owners
in Australia he raced many good
horses, and one of his class
mares, Nizam’s Ring, a stayer,
won, among other races, the
V.R.C. Oaks (1947) from Saxony
and Jalna. Nizam’s Ring’s three-
year-old daughter Niabell, raced
by E.' A. Coghlan, improved
upon prior efforts to win the
First Three-and-four-year-old
Handicap at the recent Wyong
fixture. Her sire, imported Bel-
vedere, is a son of unbeaten
Nearco. Jim McCurley, who
trains the filly, had charge of
many of Hughes’s horses.
The A.J.C. Committee gives
every encouragement to officials
conducting the apprentices’
school at Randwick racecourse.
Director of the school, lan
Feakes, is assisted by Norman
Larkin and Alf Taylor, and they
are doing an excellent job.
There was a record attendance
of boys and visitors at the annual
prize-giving, when L. Billett, dux
for the year, won the main
prizes, with D. Olive runner-up.
K. Davis and E. Sheather were
among other winners and many
lads were handed books. Prizes
were donated by club members,
trainers, jockeys and ex-jockeys.
Boxing exhibitions were given
by half a dozen apprentices, and
visitors and boys were later
entertained at supper by the
committee.
The V.R.C. must think there’ll
be a surplus of stayers in the
early autumn. Its £10,500 Queen
Elizabeth Stakes (w.-f.-a.; 13
furlongs) will be decided on the
opening day of the autumn car-
nival (Saturday, February 27),
and also programmed for the
same afternoon is the< £5300
Duke of Edinburgh Australian
Cup (2 miles If furlong). The
Royal party will be in attend-
ance. Then, on the second day
(Wednesday, March 3) the River
Handicap (three-year-olds, 14
mile), the Queen’s Plate
(w.-f.-a.; If mile) and the
Brunswick Stakes (14 mile) are
listed, while on the third day
(Saturday, March 6) the Autumn
Handicap (13 furlongs) figures
on the same programme as the
St. Leger (If mile). On the final
day (Monday, March 8) the
Carbine Stakes (w.-f.-a.; 2f
miles) and the Flemington Han-
dicap (If mile) are two of the
seven events.
s|* ♦
Whether or not it has anything
to do with the Biblical statement,
the Victorian State Xl’s last two
’keepers have had brothers in
the side. The recent ’keeper has
been lan McDonald (brother to
Test-man Colin); lan, a medico,
is now studying in England, and
his successor, selected in the
team to meet Queensland in
Melbourne this Friday, is Len
Maddocks. Ten’s brother Dick,
an attacking batsman, is also in
the side. Victoria, of course,
also has the Harvey fraternity.
lan Johnson is to lead Vic-
toria. Johnson skippered South
Melbourne at the beginning of
the grade season, on the
standing that he would hand
over to Hassett; Lindsay, how-
ever, doesn’t want the job; and
is content to play under John-
son. He will captain South only
when Johnson is away.
The Victorian team has only
two players new to Shield
cricket: Dick Maddocks and
Jack Power, a young Prahran
fast-bowler. Harry Lambert,
back again after a few years in
Lancashire-league, is a left-
hand batsman and bowler. In
the mid-thirties, he’s been turn-
ing-in excellent all-round efforts
in grade this year.
After India’s easy first-Test
win, the' Commonwealth team,
having pulled "up its socks or
something, had the better of the
second. It was drawn, but India
had to fight a long rearguard
action to stave off defeat, as
England staved off defeat in the
second Test at Lord’s this year.
(Commonwealth, 6-504, closed;
India, 153 and 5-447).
• • • •
“Keima”: Don Tallon, just
retired from first-class cricket,
made a chanceless 102 not out in
a recent Bundaberg game. After
which, handing over his ’keeping
gloves, he did some effective
trundling (8-49 off 13 overs).


Missing Friend
CHARLES JONES
DESCENDANTS of the abovenamed (a
son of ISAAC A. JONES and ELLEN
JONES, of Glastonbury, Somerset, Eng-
land), who was born about 1860, and
married a MISS COLLINS, are invited
to communicate with the ttndersigned.
—F. J. CHURCH & CO., Solicitors, 133
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Wanted to Sell
OWNER offers for purchase LUMBOM
(WALIS) ISLAND, Territory of New
Guinea. Location, St. George’s Channel,
Namatanai end of New Ireland. Area about
760 acres. Surveyed freehold. No en-
cumbrances. Approximately 2000 palms
(native), also grove Areca (betelnut)
palms. Excellent all-weather anchorage.
About 40 miles s.-e. Rabaul. Talbung
and lai-lai on reef. Price, etc., from
NICK (“TADJI”) CARTER,
67 Bayliss Street, Toowong,
Queensland.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
m which are merged
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
Established 1835
A-N-Z
UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Established 1837 •
■
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1953
(Expressed in Austrcdian Currency)
LIABILITIES £A
CAPITAL, AUTHORISED AND ISSUED—
-8,500,000 Shares of £2 each .. £17,000,000
Less Reserve Liability thereon 8,500,000
Credited as Paid up (English
Currency) £8,500,000 Equiv. to £A 10,667,500
RESERVE FUND (See Note I)
(English Currency) £6,000,000 Equiv. to £A 7,530,000
PROPOSED DIVIDEND—PayabIe January. 1954 (net) 352,028
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT BALANCE 1.112,089
£A
Total Shareholders' Funds .
CURRENT, DEPOSIT AND OTHER ACCOUNTS, in-
cluding Bills Payable and Drafts in Transit, provision
for Taxation and Contingencies Reserves
BALANCES DUE TO OTHER BANKS
AMOUNTS DUE TO SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES .. ..
ACCEPTANCES FOR CUSTOMERS, as per contra ...
19,661,617
335,534,581
6,452.345
’ 315,758
2,506,744
CONFIRMED CREDITS, GUARANTEES AND OTHER
ENGAGEMENTS on behalf of Customers and others,
as per contra
NOTES:—
1. The amount of the Reserve Fund includes the
equivalent of £1,030,000 English Currency, which
represents the former balance of the Share Pre-
mium Account of The Union Bank of Australia
Limited.
2. Assets Wind Liabilities In currencies other than
Australian have been converted into Australian
Currency at the rates ruling at the date of the
Balance Sheet.
3. There are forward exchange contracts for the sale
of currencies to the vajue of £A18,008,375 which
are covered to a corresponding amount by
forward purchases, by arrangements with central
banks or by the Bank's holdings of foreign
currencies.
4. Under the Companies Act, 1948, banking com-
panies, including this bank, are exempted from
showing the aggregate amount of their reserves,
the movements therein and the market value of
[investments.
364.471,045
26,815,739
£A 391,286,784
ASSETS £A
COIN, BULLION, NOTES AND CASH AT
BANKERS
CHEQUES OF OTHER BANKS
MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE ..
TREASURY BILLS—AUSTRALIAN 'GOVERN-
MENT
BALANCES WITH AND DUE FROM
OTHER BANKS
SPECIAL ACCOUNT WITH COMMON-
WEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA .. ..
INVESTMENTS AT OR UNDER MARKET
VALUE—
Quoted in Great Britain :
British Government Securities .. .. .. 7,016,914
Other Securities 117,744
Quoted outside Great Britain :
Australian and New Zealand Govern-
ment Securities 13,757,968
Other Securities . • 111,853
Unquoted Securities '■
BILLS RECEIVABLE AND REMITTANCES IN TRANSIT
LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS (less pro-
vision for Doubtful Debts) and Other Accounts ..
LIABILITY OF CUSTOMERS FOR ACCEPTANCES, as
per contra
£A £A
44.649.606
4,425,845
3,200.250
12.986,082
1,922.304
44.883,000
7.134,658
13,869,821
574,989
21,579.468
49,962,160
174.291,155
2,506,744
FIXED ASSETS—
Bank Premises and Sites at cost, less amount*
written off , ■ • ••
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary Companies at
cost, less amount written off
[The Subsidiary Companies have not traded at.
any time and ■ have made neither profit nor
loss. Their only assets are deposits with this
bank totalling £A315,758.]
LIABILITY OF CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS ON CON-
FIRMED CREDITS. GUARANTEES AND OTHER
ENGAGEMENTS, as per contra .. .7 .. .. ...
360,406,614
3,748.798
315,633
4,064,431
364,471.045
26,815.739
£A 391,286,784
16th November, 1953.
G. C. GIBBS.
A. T. MAXWELL,
A. MACKINNON,
Directors.
J. S. HARDIE, Head Office Manager.
S. K. BROOKE, Head Office Accountant.
W. W. RIDDINGTON
Joint General Managers for Australia. New
Fiji and Papua.
A. R. L. WILTSHIRE
that throughout his adult life he
had a succession of nervous
breakdowns, but nothing seems
to be known of their nature and
to what extent they were con-
tributed to by overwork.
To the present generation
Astley is hardly even a name,
yet he loomed large in his day.
He is a mysterious, almost un-
known figure, and as such repre-
sents a challenge to the bio-
grapher with the patience and
skill to reconstruct the details of
his life.
And there are, of course,
others. What we know about
the lovable and scholarly beach-
comber E. J. Banfield, apart
from Alec Chisholm’s fine intro-
duction to Banfield’s post-
humously-published Last Leaves
From Dunk Island, has to be
derived from Banfield’s own
books.
Victor Daley, prolific writer,
joyous companion and man of
many parts, who lived life to the
full, has earned only two small
booklets —one by A. G. Stephens
and the other by Muir Holburn
and Marjorie Pizer.
John Farrell has been
neglected except for a brief
Bertram Stevens memoir. A. H.
Davis (“Steele Rudd”), about
whom there is a wealth of
material awaiting attention, in-
cluding a manuscript of some
length in the Mitchell Library,
has been overlooked except for
the usual biographies in the
Press at the time of his death.
There are no biographies of
Bancroft Boake, George Essex
Evans, “Banjo” Paterson, Ed-
ward Dyson, Louis Stone, J.
Brunton Stephens, E. J. Brady,
Randolph Bedford, Roderic
Quinn, Charles Harpur, “Rolf
Boldrewood” and Ada Cam-
bridge.
Against this neglect it might be
claimed that the biographers
have not entirely overlooked
A. G. Stephens, Joseph Furphy,
C, J. Dennis, Louis Esson,
Henry Handel Richardson and
Shaw Neilson, but, with one or
two exceptions, what has been
done even on these hardly ever
measures up to what could be
fairly classed as full biography.
All the prospective biography
subjects referred to in this article
are dead, but we could do also
with biographies of some of
our elder living writers, such as
Mary Gilmore, Will Ogilvie,
Hugh McCrae, Norman Lindsay,
Ethel Turner and Mrs, Tineas
Gunn.
Perhaps ,the Commonwealth
Literary Fund might, look into
the whole matter and set some
of our present-day writers to the
writing of biographies of several
selected writers.
He pulled up, and towed Kay
behind him for a few paces back
up the hill. Then he squinted
earnestly over its summit, in the
direction away from the town-
ship. A couple of hundred yards
away, obscured by the coarse,
seaside scrub, something yellow
moved a little.
“What’s that?” he asked,
pointing. “What’s that, down
there, Kay?”
The girl peered over the crest
and said, unconcernedly, “Why,
it’s little Violet Wotherspoon,
wandering a mile from home.
We’d better take her home. She
must be like her big brother,
that one.”
Kay turned away, rubbing the
wrist by which Sep had half-
dragged her, and he had a
moment of relief as he saw that
it was, indeed, a toddling, two-
year-old girl. But then his gaze
reached the other side of the
bushes, and he saw the lion, too.
It was only a half-grown cub,
but it was four times the size of
Violet, and it was only feet away,
examining her with a great deal
of interest, and probably licking
its lips. The toddler was moving
towards it, fascinated and
pleased.
Here, thought Sep as he raised
his rifle, is one I don’t miss, for
any reason —and I hit it between
the eyes, or it might be worse
than missing altogether.
When the .303 cracked, Kay
jumped with surprise.' Then, as
the young lion bucked once and
collapsed, she heard the triumph-
ant cry from Sep, “Come here!
Come and see what I’ve killed.”
She poked her head over the
crest of the hill again, saw the
dead lion, and fainted immedi-
ately.
CEP found it a long haul
through the sand back to the
pub, carrying the unconscious big
girl and leading th© confused little
one whose new playmate had
suddenly dropped dead before
her eyes. When he reached the
place, and yelled for water,
brandy and general assistance.
Cuttlefish Joe was there, along
with Ted the Lug, and the pair
came out to see what went on.
“What’d you do t’ her?”
Cuttlefish asked, sternly dis-
approving.
“I didn’t do anything,” Sep
yelled. “I just shot a lion and
she got a fright, that's all.”
“Ho!” said the publican,
cynically. “If you’re seein’ lions
already you must’ve been drink-
in’ fer weeks before you come
here, that’s all I can say.”
“There is lions,” Ted the Lug
suddenly shrieked. “I seen two
meself.”
“Was they leadin’ th’ pink
'elephants,, or ridin’ on their
backs?” Cuttlefish jeered.
Kay Dunstan sat up, and said,
weakly, “There was a lion, too.”
“Gripes!” wondered Cuttlefish.
“An’ she don’t drink at all,
neither.”
“Right, you mugs,” Sep said.
“I’ll go and get his skin. PT’aps
that’ll convince jjou.”
He was pleased enough with
himself to face lions in any
reasonable numbers when Kay
cried, “No. Don’t go. There
might be more. You’ll get hurt.”
“ They’ll get hurt,” he
corrected, masterfully, patting the
stock of his rifle, “You don’t
have to worry about me, darling,
now I know this’ll stop lions as
well as kangaroos. I’ll clean up
any more there are around here,
too. It’ll be a new experience
for the dogs.”
“By cripes 4 it’ll be a new ex-
perience for the dawgs, all right,”
said Cuttlefish, suddenly awed
by the realisation that there were,
after all, lions.
“Well, I tried t’ tell youse
about ’em,” Ted the Lug put in.
“Wouldn’t believe me, would
y’? Anyway, it don’t matter
now we got a bloke to kill ’em
orf for us.”
TTAVTNG, indeed, found some-
thing to hunt in the district,
Sep Hooker in due course cleaned
out the lions, though the best of
his kangaroo-dogs had a nervous
breakdown after the first week
of cpntact with the beasts.
But Sep had them all shot and
their hides pegged out on the
sunny-side wall of the pub before
the city papers even found out
what had been going on away
up the coast in the near hinter-
land of the tiny pearling port.
When they did, it was a lot more
of a sensation than the original
disappearance down the gullets
of his lions of Henry Lack, and
Sep was a nine-days hero.
Better still, when he did away
with the lions he naturally dis-
covered the permanent water
around which they had lived, and
since the soil of the gully and
much around it was good he
secured a pastoral lease of the
area. He gradually acquired
pearling interests, too, and
though Kay Dunstan duly
married him, she never had to
cook an alligator-steak in her
life. She remained always
pleased with and proud of her
husband, but she always was
offended when townsfolk or
visitors referred to the owner of
Lion Gully Station and half a
fleet of twenty luggers by his
local nickname of “Pat.”
The nickname was, of course,
bestowed upon him by Cuttlefish
Joe, who, until the day he died,
told far and wide fantastic tales
of Pat Hooker, the mighty hunter
who had cleared lions out of
the district, “as thorough an’
complete, becripes, as St. Patrick
got the snakes out of Ireland.”


Reprinted from the SYDNEY MORNING HERALD August 21. 1953.
SHEEP LOSS
REDUCED
Vitamin ‘A’ Dose
Experiments
By V. G. COLE, B.V.Sc., Grazcos Veterinary Surgeon
The discovery by the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation that sheep dosed with vitamin A have
a Better chance of survival during periods of extended drought
is one of the most important in Australia’s pastoral industry.
In the lean years when green grass is unavailable for
months on end the loss of weaners and of lambs at birth or soon
after runs into hundreds of thousands in New South Wales
and over the Commonwealth into millions.
GREEN FEED DEFICIENCY
Graziers generally accept the
huge losses as an unfortunate out-
come of drought and, once a
drought breaks, set about rebuild-
ing their flocks.
But research by the C.S.I.R.O.
has shown that vitamin A admin-
istered as a drench to weaners and
lambing ewes will reduce losses
considerably. x
Already widespread interest is
being taken in the drought feeding
work of the C.S.I.R.O. and it is
important that graziers should
appreciate the results are still in
the semi-experimental stage.
But as seasonal conditions are
turning dry in many parts of the
State an explanation of how vita-
min A deficiency occurs will give
a better understanding of when and
how the results of the C.S.I.R.O.
research can be applied.
SAME THING
For a long time, vitamin A
deficiency has been known to occur
among poultry, where the disease
produced is described simply as
due to green feed deficiency.
Vitamin A and green feed de-
ficiency are the same thing.
Under ordinary grazing con-
ditions, green feed is the natural
source of vitamin A but as the
grass dries off so the vitamin A
content declines. Under drought
conditions it falls off altogether.
The C.S.I.R.O. work has shown
that the deficiency can be made
good by giving large doses of
vitamin A, which animals are cap-
able of storing in their livers and
using slowly over a long period.
The* experiments mainly con-
cerned ewes in lamb and weaners.
The ewes were fed a ration of cereal
chaff and wheat from mating on-
wards and, in the first year, they
lambed satisfactorily. But when
kept on this diet and mated a
second time most of their lambs
were either bom dead or died
within a day or so. Some of the
ewes were given large doses of
vitamin A at intervals and those
which were given this treatment
gave birth to normal lambs, all of
which survived.
FEWER DEATHS
In the case of the weaners the
results were more spectacular.
Some 250 weaners were fed on
cereal chaff and wheat plus lime-
stone. They were divided into two
groups, one of which was given a
single large dose of 500,000 inter-
national units of vitamin A, while
the other group was given no
treatment.
After seven months, 62 of the
untreated weaners had died, com-
pared with 17 of those which
received the vitamin A supplement.
During the last three months of
the trial the results were particu-
larly striking, since only four of
the treated weaners died compared
with 42 of the untreated ones.
The cost of the drench, which is
equal to about 3oz. of vitamin A
emulsion, is about 1/-.
HAY AN ALTERNATIVE
The obvious question is whether
vitamin A deficiency can be over-
come in any other way except by
dosing with vitamin A supplements.
The only foodstuffs, besides
green grass, which are rich sources
of vitamin A are carrots, green
lucerne or clover hay, and yellow
maize. Milk is also a rich source of
vitamin A, but it is hardly likely
to be used for drought feeding.
Thus, if yellow corn and lucerne
hay are fed either together or
separately, vitamin A deficiency
may not occur. In the case of
lucerne hay, whether it occurs or
not will depend to a large extent on
the quantity fed and the quality of
the hay. Poor quality hay contains
little vitamin A.
In drought time, however, sup-
plies of lucerne hay and corn are
never adequate, and the main
foodstuffs used are wheat, oats,
barley, grain sorghum, and cereal
hay, all of which are very vitamin A
deficient.
Putting considerations of
drought feeding aside for a moment
it might be well to explain that
vitamin A deficiency also occurs
whenever dry feed conditions pre-
vail and often when stud animals
are being hand-fed, but the symp-
toms produced are not significant
enough to bring them before the
notice of livestock breeders.
For example, it was proved
several years ago that the fertility
of rams is lowered when seasonal
conditions are dry and that cattle
become shy breeders, leading to
infertility among herds.
Use of vitamin A supplements
under these conditions has a
definite place in the future.
Other so-called sub-clinical
effects of vitamin A deficiency are
swelling of the brisket of cattle
which are being fattened by hand-
feeding, as well as scours, pneu-
monia, and blindness among calves.
The eyesight of racehorses will
be affected if they are fed for long
on vitamin A deficient rations, as
they frequently are, but, most
important of all, their hooves
show uneven and poor growth of
horn.
These effects of vitamin A de-
ficiency are comparatively un-
important, however, because it is
simple enough to correct them
either by making sure that the diet
contains foodstuffs rich in vitamin
A, such as lucerne hay, or by
dosing at intervals with vitamin A
supplements. The cost of doing
this is unimportant.
WISE DOSING
This is not so in drought time.
First, it is not possible to pick and
choose foodstuffs and, second, the
cost of dosing with vitamin A
supplements could add up to a
substantial amount.
Nevertheless, if present seasonal
conditions continue and a drought
of several months’ duration looms
ahead of us. woolgrowers should
seek advice about dosing ewes in
lamb and weaners with vitamin A
mixtures since the., results which
have been obtained indicate that
this will prevent losses of both new-
born lambs and young sheep.
If dosing is carried out wisely it
could be the means of saving many
thousands of lambs and weaners.
Past drought experiences have
shown that these are the most
difficult of all to pull through a
drought and we now know that
this is due, in no small measure,
to vitamin A deficiency.
VITAMIN ‘A’
CAN BE GIVEN EASILY TO SHEEP IN
CORRECT DOSES BY DRENCHING WITH -
The findings of the above experiment clearly show that adequate
vitamin A supply is essential for lambs and weaners if high losses are
to be avoided. Vitamin A also greatly influences lambing percentages,
fertility in rams and the health of new-born lambs when breeding
ewes have suffered prolonged deficiency. The natural source of
vitamin A is green feed and if always available in abundance there
would be no fear of vitamin A deficiency. But dry pastures, so
prevalent in Australia, have little or no vitamin A value and a
deficiency of this vitamin then occurs with serious results. The value
of High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ to sheep Owners during dry feed
periods can be readily appreciated—High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’
supplies vitamin A in a measure equal to the best pastures.
High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ may be obtained from your Pastoral
House or usual station supplier. Write for brochure ( B )
for full information.
HIGH POTENCY
/
\
TRADE MARK
‘VETEMUL’ is Australia’s original veterinary emulsion supplying
vitamin A and is used by the largest commercial poultry farmers and
livestock owners. ‘VETEMUL’ has now been introduced in high
potency form specially designed for use by sheep owners. Because
it is so highly concentrated, each dose of High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’.
supplies total vitamin A requirements for 3 MONTHS. The need for
only periodical instead of frequent dosing and the fact that it may be
given easily by drench makes High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ a most
convenient form of vitamin A dosing. One gallon of High-Potency
‘VETEMUL’ (£13.13.0) is sufficient for one dose each to 220 sheep
(rams, ewes or weaners) or 320 lambs—only l/3d. each for sheep
and lOd. each for lambs.
WARRANTY : High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ is sold with a warranty
that vitamin potencies are as stated on the label.
NICHOLAS PTY. LTD., Agricultural and Veterinary Division, 37 Swanston Street, . Melbourne, Victoria.
stops. Men grumble. Lem
promises to pay another time. A
soulless moon leers over silvered
tents. To the south a needle-
eyed coot points out the aurora
australis. A glacial breeze
picks up.
“That’s no aurora,” says Lem.
“That’s the workshops.”
The workshops are ablaze.
The gusty wind stiffens, and the
ground moves like malted milk
in the mixer. From the tyre-
stack flames irradiate the work-
shops along a vast circumference
with waves of disrupting heat
exploding petrol-drums. Till
midnight men skewer chemical
extinguisher through lethal
flames at time-and-a-half award
wages. The policeman jeeps in
for the finale.
When the fire is doused a gale
laden with red sand stings faces
like vitriol in a scent-spray. On
the way back to camp the weight
of wind makes vehicles stagger*
the ground seems fluid, mud-
guards flap like birds’ wings.
Out of habit men congregate
at Lem’s tent. Lem pays money
owed with neat respectable notes
fresh from / wage-envelopes.
Even the numbers run.
The area policeman arrives to
report fire damage. “Tyre-
stack must have gone up like
tar,” he informs. “Nothing left
but cracked cement.”
“Probably a spark flew wild
from a welding-torch during the
shift,” I suggest.
Flimsy emerges from his tent
clasping his tin-box.
“Money’s gone,” he squeaks.
He’s as astonished as a violated
chaperone.
“You paid your debts quick,”
I tell Lem.
A bad night for Lem. “Shut-
up,” he snarls.
“Too much thieving lately,”
says the copper.
“That’s brilliant,” comments
Lem. But the copper is grim.
Men stand shocked with ears
akimbo. Lem’s self - assurance
drains away like morphine in a
busy quack’s syringe.
“You never fool me,” I tell
Lem.
T EM points a decoy left, slow
• and conspicuous, so I don’t
shift for it. His right cross mis-
times wickedly. I bowl a couple
of googlies into his digestive
system and sit on the ground
pulling teeth from my tongue.
Lem jumps his jeep, but the
copper wrestles him while I
casually thumb his eyeballs.
“Goody-goody! ” shrieks Lille.
She’s full of mischief like a
punch-bowl.
Tonight never ends. The scene
is bathed in rippling light. Over
tents the wind-whine of flood-
light struts is echoed visually in
vibrating glare.
“Fair go!” cries Lem,
“Stop it,” screams Flimsy.
“There are no charges.” His
voice is still effeminate, but the
wordg. carry strength Lem’s man-
liness never attained.
Contrary to all the rules of
local conversation, ■ a silence
ensues while tries to
understand.
“Oh, the darling,” coos Lille.
“To hell with you,” returns
Flimsy.
“Yes,” agrees Lem. “To hell
with you.” His voice is dead as
a Christmas turkey. Lem feels
a new sensation. Shame. It’s
strange for him. And he doesn’t
like it.
“If Lem needs the money,”
says Flimsy. “It’s his.”
“Thanks, cobber,” says Lem.
Flimsy’s habits are queer, but
he doesn’t lack the iron of
loyalty tempered with the alloy
of selflessness. Not to Lem. He
doesn’t.
The sloven appeals to me.
“Need any attention?” she asks.
“See you in my office,” I tell
her.
TN my office Lille and I use
some relaxation with an olive
in it. The hurricane throws
pastel veils over all surfaces in
spite of doors and windows
wedged tight. I try the practice-
pass and soon I know that Lem
is displaced. Tonight she wears
a frothy blouse cut just high
enough to hold ber without spill-
ing. She’s alluring as artistic
bottles on the top bar-shelf.
Through the window I see the
brewery truck - trailer arrive
silhouetted against the ghastly
first light of day. Lille finds a
seat for herself. The brewery
driver comes in, crouches over
the radiator.
“Great fire,” he says.
“Sure.”
“Lem’s a surprise,” he says.
“Sure.”
He tables proceeds of slygrog
deals, keeps the cost price, and
cuts the remainder with me. If
I don’t own a country pub after
this job I deserve to finish my
days in a gunyah eating prickly-
pear.
For background music we
have the blizzard pouring out of
hell’s eighth basement.
The door explodes open and
Lem comes in out of the zero-
zero weather. He scrapes dust
from his eyes and grins.
“Hello, chiseller,” says Lille to
Lem.
“Hello, trollop,” says Lem to
Lille.
“Feelin’ better?”, X ask.
Sensible.
“Feelin’ better,” says Lem.
“I got a long drive,” the
brewery driver stands up.
“Look at your truck,” says
Lem.
Through the window we see
Flimsy pencilling the front tyre
valve till the brewery truck leans
cockeyed. Then Flimsy slashes
load-ropes till tarpaulins whirl
away like beer-froth before arid
moustachios.
“Hey,” says the driver.
“All right,” says Lem. His
fist rolls up like the tongue of a
sphinx moth.
The brewery truck is stacked
high with heavy-duty tyres.
■pLIMSY comes inside, rams
the door shut, clicks the
camp-address system into life.
“Where you keep it all?” asks
Flimsy while the gadget warms
up.
“All?” I ask.
“Rake-offs, secret commis-
sions, sly cash, rolls you thieve.”
He spits like a spurned Arab
trull. “You’re too smart to make
bank deposits.”
“Pansy,” I sneer.
“Bludger,” he says. He taps
the microphone and listens to
sledgehammer blows coming
from camp speakers.
“Police assistance required at
camp-manager’s office,” he
repeats several times into the
microphone. I hear the words
rumble through camp speakers
and shout back in disembodied
beseechment. x
“The copper will takq/some
time,” explains Lem. “You have
that much start if you show us
the cash.”
“Make it quick,” says the
brewery driver. His face turns
white as a virgin’s soul.
On my tongue I have the taste
of smoke from burning bridges.
“The stove,” I say.
The flue is tamped chock-a-
block with fat rolls in elastic
girdles. Enough shop-soiled
gambler’s notes to satisfy the
Yugoslav, enough untarnished
notes to reimburse Flimsy, and
enough cabbage-leaves left over
for a thick stew in a witch’s
cauldron.
“The cookhouse needs a
boost,” says Lem.
“Wait for me,” calls the
brewery driver.
But I’m already accelerating
the Dodge command-car.
MOONSONG
See how the whitened moon
lies like a withered leaf.
If I could sing in tune
there’s song for such a grief:
days when the only sun
burning white and white
moves like a tensing gun
slowly towards the night;
nights when the diamond moon
cuts clean and deep as glass
and shows that the old folk-tune
says nothing but alas.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
INFESTATION OF YOUR SHEEP WITH EVEN SMALL
NUMBERS OF PARASITES CAN REDUCE THEIR
APPETITE BY 50% AND CAUSE LOSS OF WOOL
PRODUCTION AND GROWTH.
WORMY SHEEP
Eats only 3 lbs.
Grass daily.
fds
HEALTHY SHEEP
Eats 5 lbs.
Grass daily.
/iM/iUl'mifi'
r
Don’t let worms starve your sheep. Obtain your
highest return from worm free sheep.
Drench with ‘PHENOVIS’.
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey as a
simple story the results of many years of research. Acknowledg-
ment is made to many research workers whose results have been
published in the Australian Veterinary journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
PHE. lex 4110"
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
THREE RIVERINA FARMERS
“Culrock”: Riverina wheat
champion this year by R.A.S.
standards is L. S. Irvin, of Barra-
long, Barellan, who did it with
a stand of Bencubbin likely to
go 14 bags to the acre. Next-
best was H. W- Guttler, Hill
Plain, Wagga (Ford, 47 bushels
an acre), and third was E. J.
Mills, Burnside, Yanko Weir
(Ford, 42 bushels). Only three
points separated the place-
getters; the winner’s crop got
home for its condition.
George Nicholson, N.S.W.
agronomist, who judged the
crops, says the agricultural
pattern in Riverina is undergoing
important changes. Wider crop-
rotations, designed to control
weed-gr.owth and improve soil-
fertility, are a feature. Skeleton-
weed on the red light loams ,is
being controlled by a pasture
phase, followed by sound culti-
vation and heavy stocking.
There was relatively little
disease in Riverina crops this
season. Root-rot diseases,
causing haying-off or premature
ripening, were most noticeable.
Loose smut was prevalent, par-
ticularly in crops grown from
seed which had not been selected
for some years. In general,
seed-type and -purity was not
high. Not enough attention is
being paid to the type and quality
of fungicide used in treatment of
seed.
Nicholson said the skeleton-
weed problem has forced growers
to change from one-crop farming
to a system of growing pastures
in rotation. Sub.-clover, Wim-
mera-rye, the trefoils, lucerne
and grazing oats could all be
used in such a programme.
“Although farming methods are
changing, it is still apparent that
sound cultivation methods,
designed to form a well-com-
pacted seedbed, conserve mois-
ture and suppress weed-growth,
are still most necessary. This
applies particularly to districts
where the rainfall is often the
limiting factor in crop-produc-
tion. Wimmera-rye can be
troublesome as a weed in wheat.
It is only by careful seedbed-
preparation that this valuable
plant can be managed.”
Competitors showed five
varieties, Bencubbin, Celebra-
tion, Ford, Kendee and Baldmin.
Ford did very well and is still
popular on the heavy soils.
Rates of seeding ranged from
451 b. to 981 b. an acre, the most
popular rate being from 601 b. to
651 b. Super, rates ranged from
401 b. to 801 b. In the northern
section 601 b. was the usual rate
and in the south 801 b.
Irvin sowed the champion on
old cultivation land last cropped
to wheat in 1939. Since then it
has been under Wimmera-rye,
which made it almost virgin soil
for wheat.
Irvin has 1480 acres, the
• wheat covering 400, all Ben-
cubbin. He thinks it’s the best
all-round wheat for the Barellan
district. Over a period of years
the cultivation paddocks have
been sown to Wimmera-rye,
which has provided excellent
winter pastures, on which about
500 Merino and comeback
Border Leicester-Merino cross
breeding ewes are carried.
With his father and two
younger brothers, Clarrie and
Frank, Mr. Irvin has a partner-
ship total of 2100 acres of wheat
on all their properties. The
partnership has 300 acres under
pats; 70 acres of it yielded about
4000 bales of hay. The Irvins
have just founded a Dorset Horn
stud. They’ve been in the district
40 years.
Guttler owns a 1904-acre •
property on Cockatoo Island,
formed by Old Man Creek, which
runs out of the ’Bidgee near
Collingullie * and runs in again
near Narrandera. The land is
mainly semi-sWamp creek-flat,
natural black gilgai, timbered
with redgum.
Guttler broke up the paddock
in 1945, took off five crops in
succession until 1949, then fal-
lowed it. In 1950 the river oven
flowed and flooded it.
He got another crop in 1951,
put it under fallow in 1952, then
worked it in August, September,
late November, January and
April, and once again before
sowing in mid-May, at 581 b. and
601 b- of super, an acre.
Guttler has 500 acres of Dwal-
ganup clover pasture on land
once badly infested with
skeleton-weed. During the past
seven years he has sown 41b.
Dwalganup an acre with all his
wheat. This year he increased
the pastures by a further 500
acres sown with a mixture of
Bacchus Marsh, Dwalganup and
Yarloop clovers with Tallarook
clover on the irrigable sections.
Last year he took about 20,000
bales of pressed clover and
Wimmera-rye off about 220 acres
of pasture, keeping it all for
fodder.
The family has been well-
known in the district for half a
century as fat-lamb breeders.
Guttler recently established a
Dorset Horn stud with about 700
ewes. He runs about 900 Merino
ewes for wool, about 200 cross-
bred ewes for fat lamjps.
Mills’s paddock had grown
only three crops in the previous
14 years. Last was in 1950, when
the land was flooded and the
wheat only partly stripped. The
paddock was scarified in August,
September and November, 1952,
then part-graded and spring-
toothed every month to May this
year, when it was sown with 601 b.
of seed and 801 b. of super, an
acre.
Mills has 270 acres of Ford,
Bencubbin and Dundee, sown
with 21b, of Wimmera-rye, 21b.
to 31b. of subterranean clover
and ilb. of lucerne an acre.
All his crop land is worked on
a three-year rotation.
He owns a Corriedale stud of
450 breeding ewes and 350 lambs,
and carries 20 mixed cattle.
There’s no getting away from
the lesson all these fellows are
teaching with cover-crop pasture-
sowing, wool and lambs. One-
crop fuming is out.
Wheal Quality
“Ben C.”: The chairman of
the N.S.W. Flour Millowners’
Association, M. R. Dunkley,
told an audience at Castle Hill,
near Sydney, that persistent
efforts must be made to maintain
wheat-quality.
Dunkley was handing to
Sydney University Senate a
£5300 wheat-research institute
and student-training centre
bought by N.S.W. flourmiilers
for the Faculty of Agriculture to
continue research into wheat
varieties, soil-improvement, trace-
elements and general education
on farming practices.
“I am quite sure it would pay
Australian wheattarmers to in-
vestigate for themselves the need
for better-quality wheat,” he
said. “An all-round improve-
ment in wheat in Australia would
result in an all-round improve-
ment in prices.
“Flourmiilers have been seri-
ously concerned at the trend to
“ You ’ ve lived too long among th' leaning timber , Bill.”
grow wheats for their yielding
properties without sufficient
regard being paid to quality im-
provements. Cultivated plants
have an awkward habit of ‘reced-
ing,’ apart from the damage
caused by a multitude of destruc-
tive pests that prey on them. This
means that new strains must be
produced and new measures
taken to save crops while they
are growing and when they have
been harvested. General re- 7
search to date has largely re-
sulted in improved yielding and
disease-resisting wheats. The
millers’ objective in presenting
the research institute and train-
ing farm to the University is to
encourage' work already being
done by the University to find
wheats which, while yielding as
Well as some of the popular
varieties today, will also possess
a much improved milling-
quality.”
Fertiliser Rules
“W.« Court”: Nitrogenous
fertilisers such as sulphate of
ammonia and nitrate of soda fre-
quently do more harm than good
to crops when handled by in-
experienced people. Common
errors include applying them too
plentifully or too frequently,
applying in dry weather, or to
plants which cannot tolerate
them.
These fertilisers tend to make
any soil very acid and inhospit-
able to most plants. A few
plants, including acid fruits, can
stand acid soils, but generally
when using nitrogenous fertilisers
one should use lime between
times to lower the soil-acidity.
Most gardeners apply sulphate
of ammonia as a top-dressing.
A sprinkling is enough, and if
any gets on the plants it should
be washed off immediately. It
should not be applied to bulb or
tuberous plants.
Sulphate of ammonia is used
to cause swift, lush growth in
sugarcane fields. But it is never
used unless there is plenty of
moisture in the ground and more
rain is certain.
Don’t use it unless you can
be sure of the area getting plenty
of water afterwards. It will
rapidly kill sparingly-watered
plants, especially vine vegetables.
It has no lasting benefit on any
soil, but acts only as a crop
booster. Soil-fertility has to be
improved by the use of farmyard
manures or compost, or by green-
manure cropping.
Similar in effect to sulphate
of ammonia, nitrate of soda is
very poisonous to stock. Sacks
that have contained it are likely
to catch fire spontaneously.
Stock have died in S.Q. after
eating pastures freshly dressed
with this fertiliser or after licking
emptied sacks.
Superphosphate is excellent
all-round garden fertiliser. It is
particularly beneficial to legumes,
since these plants, while getting
their nitrogen from the air, heed
phosphates in the soil. Blood-
and-bone may safely be worked
into the beds before plants are
set out. A little of either or
both at frequent intervals is
better than one big dose, but
there’s no point in dumping it
on constantly if the crop is grow-
ing freely.
Winter Tomatoes
♦
“Delta”: A frost-resisting
tomato —White’s Winter Smooth-
skin —introduced from Europe
last year by a Sydney seedsman,
should be a boon to the amateur
gardener. In our back garden,
eight miles north of Sydney and
about 300 ft. above sea-level,
seed was sown from mid-De-
cember to late autumn. The first
ripe fruit was picked in April,
and they ripened throughout the
winter, until late in September.
During the winter there were
several frosts, none of which
had any adverse effect on fruit
or foliage, and all the tomatoes
which formed in the autumn
ripened during winter and early
(Continued on next page )
Is Yours on the Wall?
The Bulletin Wool Type Card
is not a course in wool- or
sheep-classing. If it were it
would cost a lot more than it
does. Its purpose is to give
sheepowners, students, soldier-
settlers and others who handle
wool and sheep a practical
guide on the identification and
selection of fleeces, all the
way from very fine Merino
(74’s) down to Lincoln-type
(40’s). And with this selec-
tion of samples is a quick in-
dicator for breeding this or
that type 'of fleece by cross-
ing. A continuous stream of
orders proves its value at
7s. 6d. Send now to have the
card for spring and summer
drafting.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N,S,W, Board of Health . Guaranteed,
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS... NO EMPTYING... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES.. .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
fd
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
■” "DISTRIBUTORS ~
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building.
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIO.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: K. P. Melnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tag.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
• or ffm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Eadiolectrtx, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Baffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
% ‘C
LYSAGHT SHEEP
SEIF FEEDER...
MS'.-. , i
A t
■
«T
vr.
** *1
1
m
w\
. r» i
■ rv <» v ’fm
■ s
fX-S'
KKO<,^An
Hi
-V v
«•
*N=>-
*«*«;,; **:<i
T]
L7I
3
Sliding Hinged Roof for ease in
filling.
50 BUSHELS CAPACITY.
Rigid construction with Heavy
Gauge Sheets.
Opening adjustable for various
grades of feed.
Swinging Trough prevents blockage.
Sloping Sides prevent build-up of
feed in Troughs.
Sturdy Skid Base and Lugs for
Towing.
@ Overall Trough length, 16ft. (Bft. each side).
PRICE: (Assembled or Prefabricated) £42 (At Works)
Write for further Information and agents' names to
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
L46a
spring. Late fruit were neither
so large nor so sweet as the
earlier ones.
The plants were grown as
single stems, on 6ft. stakes, but,
because of their tall and slender
growth, had produced only about
three bunches each when they
reached the tops of the stakes,
and were still growing vigor-
ously. So horizontal battens
were tied along the tops of the
stakes and the tomatoes trained
along them.
In this way a satisfactory yield
was obtained, but the vines,
being slender and brittle, with
a strong tendency to vertical
growth, do not take kindly to
horizontal training. They were
severely buffeted by westerly
winds last winter.
Some seedlings, raised in late
autumn, were planted in the
shelter of a north-east-facing
brick wall in the hope of obtain-
ing a crop in early spring. Al-
though they made satisfactory
growth and blossomed freely
throughout winter, no fruit
formed earlier than September,
and the first ripe fruit was
picked in the middle of
November.
In the light of one season’s
experience we intend to sow our
first seed in February, to increase
the height of stakes to 7ft., to
set two plants to each stake and
top them when they reach stake-
top.
We expect to have 10 or more
clusters to each stake, and to
keep the size of the fruit to the
maximum, which is about that
of a hen-egg. Full advantage
will be taken of the brick wall
as protection from the westerlies.
During the past year we have
been without ripe tomatoes for
only six weeks, and hope to
reduce that gap in the coming
year.
Fits in Dogs
“Hux”; A dog which takes
fits is the victim of some
nervous trouble. Excitement
during high summer tempera-
tures, wrong feeding, or worms
can bring on an attack. While
a fit may pass off quickly, an
epileptic seizure may last some
hours.
Usually there is no warning.
Dogs out on the run may go
berserk' suddenly and run till
they drop unconscious. In other
cases the animal whirls about,
yelps incessantly, develops con-
vulsions and falls to the ground
unconscious. In these seizures
the neck-muscles may stiffen or
the jaw jerk as in St. Vitus’s
dance. Saliva dripping from the
mouth and discharges from
bladder and rectum are other
symptoms. A dog that suddenly
falls quiet may be working up
for another attack.
Immediate dousing with cold
water over neck and head gives
some relief. A dog in this state
should be carried home. Wedged
in a vehicle with old bags or
clothes, he’ll travel with least
excitement. 4 Once home, the
dog should be placed on a
blanket in a dark room away
from noises and other animals.
Exhaustion follows the attack,
and it takes several days for
complete recovery.
Get a vet. to prescribe a course
of bromide sedatives and a good
nerve-tonic. Feeding on good
meat food will help.
Weed As Lawn
“Dicky”: The perennial plant,
Dichondra repens, a member
of the convolvulus family, and
well known in the North Island
of N.Z. as Mercury Bay weed,
is being offered for sale as a
lawn plant.
Some people are aghast at the
idea of a weed making a good
lawn, not knowing of the attrac-
tive lawnsfcwhich have been estab-
lished with it. in N.Z.
Mercury Bay weed is a small,
low-growing, creeping plant,
which roots at the hodes. Under
most conditions lawn grasses are
preferable, but its main advan-
tages as a lawn are that it stands
up to relatively dry summer con-
ditions in the northern N.Z.
climate better than grass, and
that it needs mowing Only occa-
sionally.
It will not thrive where there
are severe frosts.
Under damp conditions the
runners extend rapidly and will
invade cultivated gardens, where
it can become a nuisance.
Establishment of a Mercury
Bay lawn is best done by setting
of small circular sods or plugs
of about Hin. diameter. The
lawn tends to thin-out in patches
after a few years and these
patches must be replanted to pre-
vent them being invaded by more
aggressive weeds. Regular fer-
tilising, as with grass lawns, is
essential.
Overstocking
“Archaps”; In its latest report
Queensland Land Board suggests
it was gross overstocking which
enabled Queensland to carry such
a high sheep population 50
years ago. The huge losses sus-
tained in the drought periods at
the beginning of the century
could be linked with the over-
stocking which preceded them,
said the board.
Periodically, some _ critic of
closer-settlement points out that
there were as many sheep .in
Queensland in 1896 as in, say,
1950. It would be just as
foolish to claim that closer-settle-
ment alone was responsible for
increasing sheep numbers here
from 7 million in 1903 to 25
million in 1942—the peak year.
As a background to the 1890’s,
it had to be remembered that
pastoral settlement gained
momentum in Queensland only
in the 1860’s, up to which time
there had been a run of better-
than-average seasons, and many
pests and diseases now so destruc-
tive of stock-life were then un-
known.
The board recalled that, in
evidence before the royal com-
mission on Land Settlement of
1897, even the most experienced
and capable of the then resident
pastoralists, who had nothing to
gain by boosting their holdings,
attributed to the lands of western
and northern Queensland stock-
ing-capacities which today would
be regarded as ridiculous and im-
possible. While there was no
doubt those stock numbers were
carried at that time, it also was
apparent that only the grossest
overstocking made it tempo-
rarily possible. The board did
not consider that the period of
overstocking had permanently
destroyed the State’s pastures;
rather was it probable that
longer experience had led to a
more accurate assessment of the
country’s capabilities, and that
a more practical acceptance of
business fundamentals had re-
placed pioneer enthusiasm for
“mere bigness of flocks and
herds.”
Hints for the Farm
“Billjim”: Waste food from
kitchens is the best protein feed
for pigs apart from milk pro-
ducts ; of boiled scraps,
together with greens and fresh
water, is sufficient for one pig
per day for fattening.
“S. Downer”: For baconer-
production a substantial part of
the finishing ration should con-
sist of barley or coconut-meal
to assist in producing firmer fat.
“Sarina”: Aconitium, com-
monly known as monk’s hood or
wolf’s bane, is a garden plant
that should be carefully handled.
A tuberous-rooted, blue-flower-
ing perennial, often offered for
sale by nurserymen, it contains
an extremely poisonous alkaloid,
aconitine. A very little of this
is enough to cause death.
“A.F.”; In all but high
districts, or where there is less
than lOin, of rain a year, it is
possible td grow an autumn crop
of potatoes if planted in early
January, using advanced seed-
sets obtained from early crops
lifted in late spring. They must
be watered well during dry
weather. Don’t plant too many ;
early frosts might force you to
lift them before maturity, in
which case they won’t keep for
long.
“Myrr”: Apart from their
bitter flavor, green potatoes can
cause a type of gastro-enteritis.
The greening is caused by ex-
posure to daylight, which develops
in the tuber an alkaloidal gluco-
side known as solanine, a mild
poison. Freshly-dug potatoes
are more likely to turn green in
daylight than tubers stored for
some time.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
In dications are for some rains in the Sydney |trea,
then a stretch of hot weather np to Christmas and then
cooling off.
Further north the longer cycle shows early rain, but
the shorter .cycle makes it later, probably about Christmas.
Later the longer cycle shows the dry spell of 1883, while
the shorter shows that of 1918. Both years were trouble-
some in Queensland, northern and inland New South Wales
and Victoria, but did not much affect the coast.


I»
A WOMAN’S WORK
IS TEN TIMES
EASIER WITH
AGA
Regd. Trade Mari
£
r
s
ct
CHECK WHY?
aga burns continuously
Ready for instant use day and night.
Safe and reliable for overnight cook-
ing.
aga cooks better unaided
Meals don’t have to be watched, tem-
peratures are automatically adjusted.
Separate hot plates boil or simmer.
Separate ovens roast or simmer.
aga gives hot water, too
The Cooker fire also heats ample
supplies of hot water for kitchen
and bathroom needs.
aga is clean
A wipe with a damp cloth keeps the
vitreous enamel surface gleaming.
aga is labour saving
Needs attention three times only in
24 hours. In all, approximately 10
minutes per day.,
aga is more economical
Even with constant use, fuel bill
can’t exceed the low consumption
of coke which 1* guaranteed.
aga keeps heat inside
Heavy insulation ensures Cooker
stays hot, kitchen stays cool, always
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND
BENDIX HOME WASHER
J
9-
..ifiS
/ot,/,
rich
mans/,
tost ,
/p d ~° r k~
r ... B mit
lif *timJi°
The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
OTHER AGA COOKERS
MODEL "E" (Four
ovens, two hot plates,
one warming plate).
MODEL "ET" (Four
ovens, two hot plates,
one warming plate,
plus hot water tank).
MODEL "CS" (Two
o Yens, two hot plates).
MODEL "DS M (Two
ovens, two hot plates,
plus hot water tank).
NEW SOUTH WALES _ _ _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND Cnr, Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd.,' Perth
One of the
best hands
\ ?
about the
place
A “Dangar-Gem” equipped as a two unit
milker will milk 20 or more cows an hour
with ease.
For segregating part of your herd, for stud
cattle or for small herds you can have all
the advantages of machine milking without
costly installation by using
DANGAR-GEM
Use it anywhere on the farm, in the milking
sheds, in a bail or even in the paddock and
save time, money and drudgery.
Full details from
DANGAR, GEDYE&MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney
P.O. Box 509 Phone : BU 5095
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga
and Hay
SMD.IB.
brought back about five toils
of rice—which he and his men
consequently enjoyed more fre-
quently and in greater quantity
than anyone else in Timor.
Five years at fever-infested
Tanah Merah was, throughout
the Indies, universally regarded
as the equivalent of a death-
sentence, but, to the surprise of
everyone, Pteros lived to return
home, none the worse for Wear.
His modest tales of courage and
fortitude under extreme hardship
and bold defiance of tyrannical
prison authorities added to the
high repute he had already
earned in practice of his pro-
fession. He was revered by
the wholfe population, who sought
—and took —his advice on every
conceivable problem. The steady
flow of gifts from grateful clients
enabled him, without working, to
maintain in reasonable comfort
himself, his twelve wives and
seventeen children.
The Resident knew he had no
love for the Dutch, and might
advise immediate attack upon
them —which advice would in-
evitably be taken. In face of the
Rajahs’ insistent demands, how-
ever, he had no alternative but
to summon Pteros to the con-
ference.
Simultaneously and hurriedly
he arranged for a 4etachment of
troops to wait in another room
in the Residency, ready, at his
signal, to arrest all at the con-
ference should it decide upon
any challenge to Dutch rule. In
such case he was determined to
ensure Pteros another ten years
at Tanah Merah,
Upon arrival the ex-pirate was,
with due deference, ushered into
the seat of honor facing the
Resident across the council table.
His dignity but slightly impaired
by the persistence with which he
chewed betel-nut and spat the
juice into a jar on the floor beside
him, he listened to the formal
greetings of the Rajahs and the
Resident, who said, “Pteros, the
Rajahs have asked me to seek
your advice on how to stop the
fighting among the people.”
“Tuan Resident,” immediately
replied Pteros, “I have long con-
sidered this problem. Its solu-
tion is simple. Four things only
are necessary.
“First, the hillmen must build
themselves a picture-theatre in
the mountains and sell their pro-
duce there instead of bringing it
to Koepang.
“Second, the Chinaman must
run each picture-programme for
two weeks in the hills and two
weeks in Koepang, and pay the
men of the coast tribes ten cents
a day to bring the hill produce
to the town.
“Third, in order that all may
share the’ work and the money,
not more than one man in any
family shall work for wages,
and then for not more than seven
days in each month.
“Fourth, until these things are
done the picture-theatre must
be closed and the Chinese for-
bidden to buy anything.
“If the Resident will make
these things law, the fighting will
stop, and every family in Timor
will be able to see each picture-
programme and pay its taxes to
the Government. That is,” he
continued sadly, “eveiy family
but mine. lam too old to work
and earn money, and my children
are too young, so we will not be
able to pay tax or go to the pic-
tures—unless,” he added hope-
fully, “the Resident will pay me
a pensin [pension].”
For ten or fifteen minutes the
Rajahs considered Pteros’s
advice, talking it over among
themselves. Then they chorused
“Pteros is right. Make a law
of the words of Pteros.”
Realising immediately that the
old man’s suggestions solved his
problem, the Resident said, “We
thank Pteros for his wisdom. His
words shall be law tomorrow.
For the rest of his life he shall
have a pensin sufficient to en-
able him and his family to see
every picture-programme.”
The ordinances of Batavia
made no provision for pensions
to native advisers, but as the
amount involved was only two
guilders (three and fourpence) a
month, the Resident felt only too
happy to pay it out of his own
pocket.
Next day the law was promul-
gated and the Rajahs carried
the news-to every village. Fight-
ing stopped at once.
Within a fortnight the hill
tribes had completed their
picture-theatre and were selling
their produce to the Chinese
there, and one man from each
of the coast families was leading
his ponies into the hills to earn
ten cents a day carrying it to
Koepang.
When the films had run their
first fortnight in the hills the
town theatre reopened. For the
first showing of each programme
the Chinese proprietor had per-
manently reserved twenty-nine
seats for Pteros’ wives and
family and had given the old
man himself a free life-pass to
one of the cane chairs within the
European enclosure —the only
native ever admitted to that ex-
clusive precinct.
Pteros died five years later,
honored by all as the man who
stopped the Great War of 1913.
were two stories about those
trees. The first, the official and
romantic one supported by his
mother; that his grandmother
with noble and commendable
foresight had planted them on
the site of what was to be the
new and grander homestead;
had carried water through no
one knew how many hot sum-
mers, nursing the trees that were
to shelter and beautify the home
that was to be for her children
and her chijdren’s children.
The other, the one his father
had once told him when moved
by a fit of annoyance against
his wife, which George had re-
jected with horror at the time,
had never entertained while his
chivalry lasted, and forgotten
since; that his grandmother had
never been satisfied with the
original “mud” homestead; had
constantly craved a bigger and
more imposing one of brick, and
had thought of this odd method
of planting trees on a new site
as a means of putting pressure
on her husband.
Furthermore, George’s father
had told him while his rage
lasted, the w°man had never
watered the trees, except whin
her husband was arriving home
from work, tired and hungry;
that he had really done most of
the carrying in order to induce
her to go inside and get him his
meals; that as soon as George’s
father had grown big enough
the responsibility had devolved
upon him ; and after his father
had died, he, George’s father,
had been the one who had been
obliged to lay out all the money
on the non-income-producing
new homestead, with both his
mother and his young wife com-
peting with each other in de-
mands for greater extravagances
in size and decoration.
A VERY different story to the
first and official one, and
now for the first time George
is able to receive it sympatheti-
cally. Just another example of
wife-trouble which has ruined
more countrymen than ever did
droughts, floods and fires com-
bined. Men of his own flesh,
with his own ideas of how to
run their lives and their farms.
And then what it had all led
to!
Because he had an impressive
home his wife had invited town
people out to be entertained in
it. And because she’d made
that kind of friends she’d got
their ideas of smart-alec ways
of making money and fool ways
of spending it.
George puts the eggs into his
pocket and flings the yoke back
among the rubbish. The worn-
out axes and mattocks he re-
places more tenderly. They re-
mind him of the sort of thing
he should now be attending to ;
improving the property and
saving money. In time of plenty
prepare for drought.
He changes his mind about the
yoke and fishes it out again, puts
it over his shoulders and hooks
the buckets on to it. He feels
that he can somehow use it as
powerful evidence in the argu-
ment he is going to have. He
starts off for the expensively
modernised homestead.
npHE others are on the front
-*• lawn now, with their backs
toward him. Warren is gazing
around, already showing intoler-
able signs of ownership.
“One of the first things I’ll
do,” he says, “is cut down all
those old trees ; they make the
place so damnably dark and
gloomy.”
George can’t wait for a better
opening.'
“By God you won’t!” he
shouts.
They turn, astonished at his
tone, to stare at him. He should
be ridiculous with his dirty
clothes, the yoke round his
neck and the broken eggs drip-
ping out of his Harris-tweed
pockets ; but there is such con-
suming fire in his eyes that no
one laughs at him.
“I want to buy the place
back again,” he says to Warren,
“How much do you want to call
the deal off?”
The doctor does not hurry to
reply. He can see that some-
thing fundamental has happened
to George. Two, three, four,
five thousand? He studies
George’s face, revealing noth-
ing in his own, trying to calcu-
late the ultimate penny. It is ]
money for nothing ; the sort of i
deal for which his crowd will J
admire him for as long as he
lives. J


fd
GEORGE FOSTER
.
AUNTJENNY
tr
r
Ik
Here’s a novel new
radio quiz, based on
your musical favorites,
with Wilbur Kentwell
and Glenn Marks to
play them and a talented
guest artist to sing them.
And there’s easy money
to be won, too, by both
contestants AND listen-
ers. Make a date to
listen this week via your
member station of the
Macquarie Broadcasting
Service,
..
|
SERVICE
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
Divorce Notice
in the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES—IN Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER MURRAY late of
NORTH SYDNEY—TAKE NOTICE that
AGNES MURRAY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1872 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street, Sydney by the 16th day of
February 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS-
WILSON & THOMSON, Solicitors, of 155
King Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
£lOO. In April, 1949, the first
load of chilled beef arrived at
Wyndham. From there it goes
by ship to the British market.
In 1945 the Chifley Govern-
ment passed the Australian
National Airlines Act, under
which it was proposed to set up
an Airlines. Commission which
was authorised to establish and
operate inter-State airline ser-
vices. At the same time the Act
provided that existing licences
held by private operators should
cease to be valid as long as suffi-
cient service was provided by
the commission, and that no
further licences should be issued
to .private operators for new
routes winch the commission
might establish, unless the com-
mission failed to cater for public
demand. In effect, the Act pro-
posed to set up an airline which
would have an inter-State mono-
poly.
The Act was challenged, on
the ground that a section of
the Constitution states that inter-
state trade and commerce should
be “absolutely free,” and the
High Court upheld this conten-
tion. However, the Govern-
ment’s right to establish an air-
line in competition with private
enterprise, which was also chal-
lenged, was also upheld by the
Court. Thus Trans-Australia
Airlines was established.
, It had an advantage in start-
ing with a clean sheet, in the
way of equipment, and with
adequate funds. Even so, its
expansion has been remarkable.
Im mid-1947 T.A.A, was serving
14 ports, including all the capital
cities and some of the larger
country towns. Later in the year
T.A.A. began an Adelaide-
Darwin service, at first in com-
petition with Guinea Airways,
although Guinea Airways later
withdrew. By June, 1948, the
number of ports of call had in-
creased to 33, and early in the
following year, with the consent
of the Queensland Government,
and in accordance with the
amended Act of 1947, T.A.A.
took over Queensland internal
services, which had been run
until then by Qantas Empire
Airways. Late in 1950 T.A.A.
began a series of services to the
north channel country, and in-
land parts of Queensland, New
South Wales and South Aus-
tralia. Number of ports served
at present is 100.
In addition to its regular ser-
vices, T.A.A. runs special charter
flights, and operates the Flying
Doctor service.
The Australian National Air-
lines Commission came into
being soon after the passing of
the enabling Act, and five
members were appointed to it.
This body has a certain indepen-
dence in policy and function,
the exact degree being difficult
to assess. Ultimately, it is re-
sponsible to the Commonwealth
Government, but is not answer-
able to a Cabinet Minister in
matters concerning day-to-day
administration.
Lester Brain, T.A.A.’s general-
manager, started flying with the
R.A.A.F., later went to Qantas
as a pilot, and was Qantas’s
operations-manager when he re-
signed to take on his present
job. In 1929 he found the bodies
of Keith Anderson and Bob
Hitchcock, and, six weeks later,
found two other missing flyers,
the Englishmen Moire and Owen.
Of the internal airlines in Aus-
tralia, A.N.A., T.A.A. and
Butler’s are the more important,
each, in its way, typical of the
growth of aviation in Australia,
its history, and of the tendency
of the times. And-the Govern-
ment line, T.A.A., has a consti-
tutional and political interest as
well.
All airlines in Australia are
expanding, and it would be
tedious to relate lists of planes.
There is a special interest in the
fact that many have, or have
ordered. Drovers, made by Dc
Havillands in Australia, because
the extension by this famous
English company of branches to
Canada and Australia has a
significance of its own ; as has
the fact that the English Electric
Company’s Canberra jet-bombers
are now being made under
licence in Australia.
The Drover, like the Holden
motor-car, has been designed
for Australian conditions. But,
in general, it can be said that
most airlines, Australian and
those overseas companies who
have branches here, have new
planes, of one type and another,
arriving, on the way, or ordered
well ahead.
A glance at the pink-pages in
the telephone-tjook gives an in-
dication of the overseas lines.
Pan-American, Air France,
K.L.M 8.C.P.A.. Canadian
*“*. A ' rlmeS -''. .
Qantas Empire Airways, of
COU rse, is the oldest Australian
airline registered in 1920 as
“Queensland and Northern
Territory Aerial Services, Ltd”
Fysh and McGinnis saw some-
thing of its possibilities in 1919,
on their surveying trip. Arthur
Baird, who was to have been
their engineer in the race, later
became engineering manager of
Qantas.
Fysh', McGinnis and Baird
fl ew around Longreach, Stone-
henge, Jundah, Windorah, Quil-
p i e , Hungerford and like Queens-
land towns, taking on general
air-taxi work. In 1922 they
started a regular service between
“I can’t help thinking I’ve forgotten something.”
Charleville and Cloncurry,
stopping overnight at Longreach.
Branches were thrown out over
the years. First link with over-
seas operations was made in
1931, when Imperial Airways
flew mails, as an experiment,
from London. Qantas co-
operated by carrying the mail
between Brisbane and Darwin.
Two years later Qantas Empire
Airways was registered. The
Australia - England commenced
in December, 1934.
Empire flying-boats were intro-
duced in 1938, and the Australia-
England service took off from
Sydney. On July 3, 1947, the
Government bought the
Q.A.N.T.A.S., Ltd., sharehold-
ings, and Q.E.A. thus became en-
tirely Government-owned, but
without any change of policy.
h> ™y ‘h“. manasing-
"es when l
: a wIU “i was born
intemewe , when
jg &ght
{J® Wnghts then mgnc
Hot Young
get mto the Light Horse. Young
enough _ /"started
° d Western
rV I ®, fh was j ust
Queensland, the time, was ]
right ‘ . . ,
A Tasmanian, incidentally, he
joined the 3rd Light Horse Regi-
ment in 1914. Served through
Gallipoli and Palestine, com-
missioned in 1916, with No. 1
machine-gun section Ist Light
Horse Brigade, and transferred
to No. 1 Squadron Australian
Flying Corps in 1917. He was
an observer, collected a D.F.C.,
and graduated as a pilot at
Heliopolis in 1918.
I asked him if he thought a
small company had any chance
of getting established in the air-
line business now, and he said
he didn’t think so. Not now. A
few years back, maybe, with a
reasonable amount of capital,
but not now. The business was
too big. He mentioned the price
of one plane. “But one’s no
good,” he said. “You need two.
Three, really, but let’s make it
two. And spares. What’s the
good of your plane if you can’t
get it off- the ground? That
comes to” he mentioned a
figure that-made me blink —“at
least. And where are you going
to get business?”
The opportunities were there,
in those days, he said. In that
western country—when it rained
everything stopped. . Someone
had an option on a mob of
sheep, wanted to get there in a
hurry, you were on the spot —he
grinned and waved briefly. He
had something of the air of a
man who might be interested in
a mob of sheep himself, I
thought. Not at first, coming
into the handsome office after
being warned that Sir Hudson
would only be able to see me
for five minutes, seeing him sit-
ting there behind the big desk.
But as he talked the impression
grew on me. A long face,
tanned. A long look in the eyes,
as if they found the walls a bit
close. A long, mobile mouth
over a determined chin. A
flash, now and then, in the
eyes. Or like one of those
photographs you come across, in
books at the public library.
Ross Smith standing in front of
his Vimy, in Army uniform.
Kingsford Smith grinning under
his goggles .. . And that, after
all, wasn’t surprising. Only you
forget these things in the Jet
Age,
I asked him for some general
observations. He grinned at
that, settled in the chair. “Well,
I made a speech the other day.
What was it I said? Flying
began as a sport, was continued
in a spirit of idealism —I’m re-
ferring to our late chairman.
He was, definitely, moved, moti-
vated, by those ideas. Saw it in
national terms, service, develop-
ing the country. And now it’s
big business.”
I said I thought I detected a
note of regret.
He looked surprised. “Re-
gret? No. Otherwise it wouldn’t
make sense. That’s what we’ve
all been working for, building
up.” He thought about it.
“Regret? Naturally, looking
back, talking about those times
—we were lucky. There at the
right time. It couldn’t be done
now. It’s big business. A very
big business,”
I asked him a question I had
spent some time preparing.
He laughed. “You don’t ex-
pect me to answer that, do you—
just like that? In five minutes.
A philosophical question.” But
he thought about it. “Or ever
answer it? You have the two
sides. Government control, pr
vate enterprise. Too much Gov
eminent' control and yo
have”
“Like the railways?”
prompted. But he didn’t rise
that. “A civil service. That sor:
Of thing. On the other han
the whole thing is so vast, now
all sorts of things come, into i
Defence. The whole seal
wealth and materials con
trolled.” He paused. “Th
answer’s there,. somewhere, be
tween the two. But don’t as c
me where, I don’t know.”
It is vast. We are in the Je
Age. The R.A.A.F. already ha
Canberra bombers, made i
England and others manufac
tured in Australia, and will hav
more. And the Ganberr
bomber has changed the balanc
of tactical power with it
superior altitude, which few
if any, fighters could rival, anc
its great speed. And with th
catastrophic power of the H
and atom-bomb added to thes
advantages, it seems probable
that such bombers would be
irresistible: only the catch is
the home-bases could be
bombed, too. Baldwin’s pre
war prediction, “The bomber
will always get through,” takes
an additional force from the
fact that with atomic power so
very few bombers need to ge
through to do awful damage
Whether this will lead to a “Pax
Atomica” is anybody’s guess.
But, at least, Britain’s achieve-
ments in the air, in the work-
shops and designing-room, in
all the complex background of
aviation, have been enormous.
There are many great aircraft-
manufacturers in England, and
it is almost impossible to cover
the field, to compress achieve-
ments. It is hazardous to put
down a record for speed, for
instance, or altitude, because
new ones come crowding in.
Not only in England, or course.
The U.S.A. is making great
strides, or bounds. But it has
been estimated that, with the
Comet, England has a start on
the rest of the world of from
four to five years. And may
yet, in commercial aviation, rule
the air as she once ruled the
seas. Sir Frank Whittle’s inven-
tion was a revolutionary one.
Australia, too, has a share in
this expansion. Besides de
Havillands, a surprising number
of British aircraft-manufacturers
have begun to strike roots here.
There has been a quick growth
in South Australia, and Woom-
era and Rum Jungle, among
other things, have turned the
thoughts of some English con-
cerns towards Australia, despite
the disadvantages of they
consider our somewhat “slug-
gish” economy, compared to the
brisker economic climate of
Canada.
In fifty years amazing things
have happened in aviation. And
in this development Australians
have played a not inconsider-
able part. In, as it were, bounds.
Like a kangaroo.


The Ideal Gift Book
The Book Of Cricket
DENZIL BATCHELOR 255. Od.
A collection of photographs of the greatest cricketers of the last
fifty years with full character sketches.
Over 300 Illustrations
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
AUSTRALIAN LEGENDARY
TALES
by K. Langloh Parker
Selected by H. Drake-Brockman.
The warm simplicity of the writing
records these delightful aboriginal
legends with all the liveliness and
intimacy imparted by the tribal
storytellers. Illustrated by Elizabeth
Durack. 25/- (post 9d.)
THE GAMBLING GHOST
and OTHER TALES
by Dal Stivens
A highly entertaining collection of
Australian outback fantasies. . .very
tall stories of such people as Iron-
bark Bill and Furious Ned, who salt
their bullets so that the game will
keep till they catch up with it!
Illustrated. 13/6 (post 7d.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, or any of the hundreds of wonderful gift books
yoi/ll find now at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l.
Latest Australian Books
Obtainable from all recognised booksellers
TAKING STOCK: Aspects of mid-century life in Australia, edited by W. V.
AUGHTERSON. 84 x SJ. 200 pages. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne. 12/6.
THE MORTAL SIN OF FATHER GROSSARD, by ERIC BAUMB. Fiction. 8| x SJ.
155 pages. With 20 drawings by Bonar Dunlop. Cloth binding. Angus and
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 13/6.
ARNHEM LAND; Its history and its people, by RONALD and CATHERINE
BBRNDT. 84 x SJ. 256 pages. 24 plates and colored frontispiece. Endpaper
maps. Cloth binding. P. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 30/-.
JAMES HOWARD QATTS, by DOROTHY M. CATTS. A biography. 9f x 6J.
265 pages. 21 illustrations. Cloth binding. Ure Smith Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 21/-
FRINCE DANDE LION, by MAY GIBBS. Adventure story for children. 10 x 74-
128 pages. 36 illustrations. Paper boards. Ure Smith Pty., Ltd., Sydney. 14/9.
CARCOOLA HOLIDAY, by NOURMA HANDFORD. A novel for teenage girls.
74 x 5. 235 pages. 7 illustrations. Cloth binding. Dymock's Book Arcade,
Sydney. 10/6.
OUR PACIFIC NEIGHBOURS, by G. S. BROWNE and N. D. HARPER. History and
geography of the Pacific area. 84 x 54. 387 pages. 39 illustrations, 37 maps.
Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 15/*.
IN SEARCH OF AUSTRALIA, by P. J. HURLEY. A companionable introduction
to Australian life. 10 x 7s. 140 pages. 59 Illustrations. Cloth binding.
Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
THE BED CHIEF, as told by the last of his tribe, by lON IDRIESS. The story
of a mighty warrior who once ruled the Gunnedah (N.S.W.) district. 8f x s|.
252 pages. 22 illustrations, 2 maps. Cloth binding. Angus and Robertson Ltd.,
Sydney. 18/-.
MORE FURRY TALES, by LESLEY LEE. Stories of Australian animals. 55 pages.
32 illustrations. Cloth binding. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd., Sydney. 13/6.
SQUARE DANCING FOR CALLER-TEACHERS AND DANCERS, by JOB LEWIS.
8i x 54- 72 pages. Paper boards. Angus and Robertson, Ltd., Sydney. 10/6.
AUSTRALIA WRITES; An anthology, edited by TOM INGLIS MOORE. Prose
and poetry by 74 writers. 84 x 54. 320 pages. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire
Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 19/6.
AUSTRALIAN LEGENDARY TALES, by K. LANGLOH PARKER (Catherine
Somerville Stow). Selected by Henrietta Drake-Brockman. Aboriginal legends.
94 x 64. 252 pages. 16 full-page and 58 smaller illustrations. Cloth binding.
Angus and Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 25/-.
ADAM WITH ARROWS, by COLIN SIMPSON. Inside New Guinea. 94 x 6J.
258 pages. 10 colour plates, 30 black and white illustrations and endpaper, 5
sectional maps. Cloth binding. Angus and Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 25/-.
FRIGATE BIRD, by P. G. TAYLOR. Story of the first air crossing of the South
Pacific Ocean. 84 x 54. 256 pages. 17 illustrations, endpaper map. Cloth
binding. Angus and Robertson, Ltd., Sydney. 18/6.
WOMBAT, by C. K. THOMPSON. Australian natural history story. 74 x 4f.
110 pages. 12 illustrations.. Cloth binding. Dymock’s Book Arcade Ltd.,
Sydney. 7/-.
THE SCARLET FRONTIER, by E. V. TIMMS. Fiction. 8} x sf. 319 pages. Cloth
binding. Angus and ‘ Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
The Australian Book Publishers’ Association
that make them tick are equally well
touched-in. Sherwood particularly. It is
an acute bit of observation and control
that ties together consistently in Sher-
wood the heroic man-of-action at one
moment and, in the next, the lover who
takes the nurse at Kure with all the
subtlety of a steam-engine and then
decides later that “she gave in too
easily,” and who further behaves some-
thing like a frightened kid when she tells
him she is pregnant.
The action flows easily and arrestingly
around the Sherwood-Baumer conflict
and gains considerably from Macdon-
nell’s knowledge of the Navy and its
people. A destroyer towing a disabled
tanker through a minefield; aircraft
hurling themselves from the carrier
while the nonchalant Yank chews gum
and hovers overhead in a helicopter
waiting to fish any mishaps out of the
water; a destroyer pounding a shore
battery to smithereens—these and other
episodes (such as two aircraft flying
under the wings of another and sup-
porting it until its pilot recovers con-
sciousness ; or one aircraft joggling free
with its wings a stuck bomb from the
belly of another ; or fighters and fighter-
bombers strafing and bombing ground-
targets ; or the engagement between
Fireflies and MIGs.) are all good, terse
action-writing in which the author—and
reader—are rushed along by the speed
of the action itself.
There are, of course, other things.
The handling of incidental characters:
not too much, not too little, just enough
to leave a vague sense of someone
known, somewhere, sometime ; the feel-
ing for the sea and for the winds that
sweep down the broad, flat deck of the
carrier; the eye that sees the distant
hilly coast like “the chest muscles of a
giant” ; the imagination that sees in the
tiny trickle of water on the trunk of a
submarine’s periscope a reminder that
thousands of tons of water are pressing
relentlessly outside the steel hull—these
are the illuminating details, the authen-
tic touches, to a story of action by a
writer who knows what he is writing
about and writes well about it.—O. F.
Marsupial Wolves
If one has a strange impression of
having read every word of Erie Wilson’s
Coorinna (Andre Dsulsch) somewhere
else, it cannot be because one is an expert,
like Mr. Wilson, on the marsupial wolf
of Tasmania—an animal rarely en-
countered in George-street—so it must
be because all animal-novels are essen-
tially the same, and perhaps also because
Mr. Wilson has studied Henry William-
son with as much diligence and pleasure
as the reviewer.
There is not, really, much you can do
with animals m fiction. Their lives lack
subtlety. They do not play golf ; or amass
millions of money; or read poetry;
or fall into the more intricate tangles
of amour. They are bom; they chew
bones or grass as the case may be;
they hunt; they fall in love; they bite
or butt their rivals out of the way; they
become parents ; they die. And generally,
during most of their careers, man chases
them around a good deal.
This is the substance of all animal-
stories from Tarka the Otter to Man-Shy,
and it is the substance of Coorinna ; as
for instance when he first encounters
love in the Tasmanian forest:- —
Soon done with the tiger-cat, the young
wolf moved off along the shore. The scent
of swans in the fern took him to where a
splayed double-track was still fresh in the
sand. Far out on the still lake the two
big birds that had left the marks were
floating in calm security. Coorinna moved
on. His nose wrinkled in a disgusted
sneeze at a grooved trail where a black
snake had gone to drink. He turned aside
between a moss-green boulder and a tree-
fern bole, then stopped dead, his nostrils
working with a scent that brought from
his throat a husky, coughing bark She
was waiting for him in a ferny glade: a
young wolf, weedy and undersized, but
' beautiful to eyes long deprived of the
sight of his own kind. Her name was
Loongana—Fleetfoot; for she was light
and swift, though semi-starvation in the
empty western beech-forest had robbed her
of the staying-power that is the marsupial
wolf’s substitute for speed. Coorinna
went forward eagerly....
The purpose of all nature-books,
whether fact or fiction, is presumably to
convey information ; and in most cases—
at any rate to a reader who thirsts
for completely reliable information about
marsupial wolves, as about any other
kind of wild creature —one would really
prefer the writers to leave the conven-
tional life-story out of it and set down
instead exactly what they have person-
ally observed. It is seldom one comes
across an animal-novel like Henry G.
Lamond’s Big Red where, in spite of the
presentation as fiction, every tiniest piece
of nature-lore seems a thoroughly
authentic bit of personal observation.
Mr. Wilson is no doubt an ardent
natuialist: but is it a fact, to take an
example ready to hand, that the marsupial
wolf “sneezes in disgust”- at the trail of
a snake? It may be so; one does not
feel finally assured on the point, as on a
thousand others.
But that is to criticise, from a nature-
, lover’s viewpoint, animal-fiction as a
genre rather than Mr, Wilson’s book in
itself; for in its own kind there is no
doubt that Coorinna is excellent; quite
as readable, as attractive, as well-written,
as observant, as full of the breath of the
forest as any of the Henry Williamson
books on which it is modelled. And —*
love among the marsupial wolves! That
is something different indeed. If the
general narrative outline is necessarily
familiar the specific subject-matter and
setting are certainly not.
Mr. Wilson gives us a spotted native-
cat trying to eat a possum and being
slain instead by one of his marsupial
wolves ; a she-wolf with (what a mon-
strosity of nature this animal seems!)
“two small yellow heads protruding from
her pouch” ; a cub being bitten by a
marsupial mouse which is promptly taken
and spitted by a butcher-bird; an eagle
flying off with Coorinna’s baby sister;
the wolves, driven by hunger from the
snowy highlands, attacking sheep and
being pursued by a shepherd (a char-
acter who seems rather unnecessarily
unpleasant to his wife); the wolves,
without a licence and never dreaming of
using the dry-fly, catching trout in a
backwater; landcrabs devouring the
corpse of Coorinna’s rival in love ; Coo-
rinna being chased, apparently for miles,
by a wild boar whose infant child he
has stolen (an incident one would like
to have verified ; one has not known a
pig so persistent); the shepherd lost in a
blizzard; Coorinna caught in a trap . . .
all-in-all a rich and rare dish of Tas-
manian scenery and wild-life.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 256
Across
I—Low-boy1—Low-boy proposed for discus-
sion. (6)
4—Fop makes an invitation to a
silly bird. (8)
9—Ruse for certain. (4)
10 —A member of a boat-crew on a
larger vessel in art. (13)
12— Quadruped from the shore. (5)
13— Checked where a mongrel sleeps.
(6)
16 — Where duellists fight catalogues
and their inclinations. (5)
17— Communist fell precipitately
when new sewers were provided.
(9)
19 —Nine cheer for this. (9)
21 — Pepper pop of a pig-thief who
drains? (5)
22 Spinner again immerses the
wrong way. (6)
24 —Mistake. (5)
26 —A calf may be seen in this New
York Chaney’s complement to
ticking. (5, 8)
29 — Rachel’s tender-eyed sister. (4)
30— Stone one takes me to your
street. (8)
31 — How would you indicate agree-
ment silently, or ponder in secret
t French drink? (6)
Down
1— Planet is to stop it with nothing
but an influential Slav. (7, 4)
2 Chu-Cin-Chow gets an Academy
Award like who in Italy? (5, 5)
3 Saved ’er for thesfe dodgers. (7)
4 Putrescence. (3)
5 Sea-ear or French sea. (5)
6 Vegetable found in case. (3)
7 He driveth furiously—not ac-
cording to cricket commentators,
but according to the Second
Book of Kings.
8 — Nips in this base talk. (3)
9 Flower score in the cricket ranch
stampede. (5, 3)
11—Coward takes one a girl, and
also gives one after Christmas.
14— Not sufficiently minced railway
in London resisters of an enemy
occupation. (11)
15 — Shoot a fire-eater in flower. (10)
18 —Marlene is to reduce plutocrats!
(8 > . u
20 — Don’t stop renting the epitaph
on a Yorkshire cathedral city of
a son of Hobart. (5)
21— -Chair before the team. (7)
23 —Fruit assignations. (5)
25*—‘-Ginger brawl with a policeman
in attendance, (4)
26 —The condition of the spiritually
unenlightened Oceanians without
a vowel. (3)
27 — The craft swear off slavery. (3)
28— Zero at the grain. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 255


$ll il H
II H ••
|i|S trooD no lIH !«
ii us an cm sn li H II
i aDununai] nil II
II i
•I (nut
i! mum tm an mi n
li
wmiui
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY,
Dr. W. J. McCRISTAL.
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR. A.A.S.A., A.C.I.S.
•
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA;
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Garrick, A.A.S.A.
QUEENSLAND;
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.A.S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA;
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry
Manager: W, Dwyer
Select
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated In New South Wales in JS7B)
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
REQUIREMENTS
Policies Issued to Sait
Every Individual Need
POLICIES CONTAIN
SPECIAL ACCIDENT
BENEFITS
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
