

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION , BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“EK DUNT' REVIEWS THE WAR HISTORIES
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74— No. 3825
Wednesday, June 3, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WESTMINSTER ABBEY—
THE NAVE
AMONG the many links between the
Abbey and the Coronation is the
Tudor pulpit which may be seen in the
Nave beside a pillar, shown on the left-
hand side of the accompanying photo-
graph. According to tradition it was from
this pulpit that Cranmer delivered the
sermon at the Coronation of his godson,
Edward VI (1547). It was also a pro-
minent feature at the Coronation of
Charles II (1660) and, in more recent
times, at the Coronation of King George
V when the sermon was delivered by
Archbishop Lang.
One of the outstanding features of the
Abbey is the dignified and lofty nave,
the highest in Britain; it was planned
by Henry 111 (1216-1272) but it was not
completed until a century and a half
later. In the year 1415, during the reign
of Henry V, the nave as we see it today,
was used for the first time at a service
of thanksgiving for the victory of Agin-
court. Henry V died in 1422 and he is
commemorated by a tomb in Edward the
Confessor’s Chapel; high up on a beam,
in accordance with Henry’s wishes, are
the helmet, shield and saddle that he
used at the Battle of Agincourt.
Westminster Abbey contains the bodies
of twenty-eight royal personages and
those of many great and famous men,
but the most hallowed tomb of all belongs
to one whose name will never be known.
In the centre of the Nave, near the west
door, is a polished black marble slab
(shown in the foreground of the picture)
which bears a noble and moving inscrip-
tion, beneath which lies the body of the
Unknown Warrior of the First World
War. He was laid to rest on November
11, 1920, in the presence of his Sovereign,
King George V, and his tomb commemo-
rates the many who gave their lives
during that war.
On June 2, 1953, the Coronation pro-
cession of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth
II entered the Abbey by the west door
and, passing the tomb of the Unknown
Warrior, moved slowly up the Nave to
the High Altar,


Learn
Storu Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, .Melbourne, Vic.
— CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
tS.B 253)... Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.-, specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 6/-.)
Wc specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
The Red Page
JULIUS CAESAR
A new translation by John Warring-
ton of Gcesar’s War Commentaries in
Everyman’s Library has made a timely
appearance in Sydney when the film of
Shakspeare’s “Julius Caesar” is being
shown; but apart from that happy
accident the translation is so much alive
and the Commentaries themselves so
vivid that it will be surprising if Every-
man’s does not score a popular success
with this volume comparable to the
Penguin achievements with Xenophon,
Homer and Chaucer.
To those of us whose only memory of
the Commentaries has been that Omnia
Gallia was divided into tres partes, that
lam hiems was doing something-or-
other when Ccesar in Britanniam transire
statuitj and that it used to be extra-
ordinarily pleasant to divert the classics
master into talking about a much later
war in France which he personally had
attended and which he, too, seemed to
enjoy more than Cassar, perhaps the most
astonishing revelation of this translation
is how intensely dramatic, and how near
to our own lives, recalling Dunkirk,
Hitler’s threat of invasion and D-Day,
is the conquest of Britain.
The eighty transports assembling at
Boulogne with their protecting fleet of
warships; the midnight departure; the
arrival off the white cliffs of England at
nine o clock the next morning where
Caesar saw “the enemy forces standing
under arms all along the heights” ; the
realisation that a landing at that point,
where the British could fire straight down
upon them, was impossible ; the delay
until 3 p.m. for Caesar’s full strength to
reach him from France; the final on-
slaught on “an evenly shelving beach”
eight miles further up the Channel; the
British charging down with their chariots,
the troops fighting hand-to-hand in the
surf—change the chariots for tanks and
it all might have happened yesterday,
and very nearly did ; and it is told in
magnificently clear, tight prose:
The natives realised our intention: their
cavalry and war-chariots (a favorite arm of
theirs) were sent ahead, while the main
body followed close behind and stood
ready to prevent our landing. In the cir-
cumstances disembarkation was an extra-
ordinarily difficult business. On account of
their large draught the ships could not be
beached except in deep water; and the
troops, besides being ignorant of. the
locality, had their hands full: weighted
with a mass of heavy armor, they had to
jump from the ships, stand firm in the surf,
and fight at the same time. But the enemy
knew their ground: being quite unencum-
bered, they could hurl their weapons boldly
horn dry land or shallow water, and gallop
their horses, which were trained to this kind
of work. Our men were terrified: they
were inexperienced in this kind of fighting,
and lacked that dash and drive which always
characterised their land battles.
At that point Csesar did exactly
what a modern commander would
have done—though today the pro-
cess would probably have taken
place before the landing was
attempted. He “softened up” the land-
ing-point by bombardment from his
warships, driving the British back a little
from the beach with “slings, arrows and
artillery.” Then, leaping out of memory,
comes that standard-bearer of the Tenth
who, while the Romans were hesitating
to land, shouted “Come on, men! ” and
threw himself into the sea and started
forward with the eagle”:
The action was bitterly contested on both
sides. But our fellows were unable to
keep their ranks and stand firm; nor could
they follow their appointed standards,
because men from different ships were fall-
ing in under the first one they reached, and
a good deal of confusion resulted. The
Bntons, of course, knew all the shallows:
standing on dry land they watched the
men disembark in small parties, galloped
down, attacked them as they struggled
through the surf, and surrounded them
with superior numbers while others opened
hre on the exposed flank of isolated units.
1 therefore had the warships’ boats and
scoutmg-vessels filled with troops so that
help could be sent to any point where the
men seemed to be in difficulties. When
everyone was ashore and formed up, the
legions charged; the enemy was hurled
back . . .
Caesar’s pretext for invading Britain
was as flimsy as any that has been used
in our time to justify aggression. He
said that the British “had rendered
assistance to the enemy in nearly all my
Gallic campaigns” ; and that was all he
did say; and yet in the very same para-
graph he admitted that the Gauls knew
“virtually nothing” of “the size of the
island, the names and strength of the
native tribes, their military and civil
organisation,” etc., so any help the
British had given them must have been
infinitesimal. No doubt there were finan-
cial men in Rome who wanted Britain
opened-up for trade and exploitation, and
Caesar took good care to impose the pay-
ment of tribute on the natives; yet he
seems to have crossed the Channel, and
killed a few thousand men in the pro-
cess, as much out of curiosity as any
other motive—“l thought it would be a
great advantage merely to have visited
the island, to have seen what kind of
people the inhabitants were, and to have
learned something about the country
with its harbors and landing-places.”
He was, in a sense, simply a tourist;
but a tourist like Bliicher, thinking how
fine a city was London to loot.
Caesar, as we see him through Shak-
speare, in the busts of marble, and
through the tradition of the centuries
where the civilising influence of the
Romans is taken for granted, is a noble
and marmoreal figure. Noble, despite
his inclination to dictatorship, no doubt
he was; especially in the circumstances
in which Shakspeare portrayed him when
he was at war with Pompey or in Rome
with his fellow-Romans. His notes on
the Civil War are included in the present
volume and all the way through it,
while Otacilius Crassus was treacherously
murdering 200 of his recruits from a ship
that had „ surrendered under promise of
safe-conduct and while King Juba of
Numidia, Pompey’s ally, massacred an
entire Roman army after it, too, had
surrendered on a promise of safety, we
see Caesar refusing to annihilate Pompey’s
armies in battle when he had the chance,
sparing the defeated, sending envoy after
envoy begging Pompey to come to the
council-table and make peace.
But all that was good politics. Caesar
wanted to be dictator, and he wanted
the support of as many Romans as pos-
sible. To the Gauls, when he cut off
both hands from every soldier who had
borne arms against him during his siege
of Puy d’lssolu, he must have seemed
considerably less noble: just such a tyrant
and man-slayer, though admittedly
clement for his times, as later ages have
seen in Napoleon, Hitler and Stalin.
Certainly he is anything but mar-
moreal in these enthralling and appalling
war-diaries. From his point of view,
the Gauls were in constant “rebellion”;
from their own point of view they were
patriots trying to free their homeland
from a foreign tyranny. When the book
opens Cassar is “intervening” in quite the
modern manner to rescue one tribe of
the Gauls from the “savage German
mercenaries” of Ariovistus: he slaughters
at least 16,000 of the Germans on the
banks of the Rhine. But from then on
he is mostly engaged in slaughtering the
Gauls themselves as, tribe by tribe, or
in concert, they rise in defence of their
liberties.
Fifty-five thousand of the Nervii are
killed in the battle of the Sambre, fight-
ing “with sublime courage in the face of
overwhelming odds. As their front ranks
fell, the ones behind fought from their
bodies.” Ten thousand of “an enormous
host of tribesmen” are killed by Galba
when Csesar sends him to clear the Alpine
trade-route and he traps them in a
mountain pass. After the Veneti have
been beaten in a naval battle in which
the Romans cut the halyards of their
ships with sharp-pointed hooks mounted
on long poles, their entire national
council suffered the death-penalty “and
the rest were sold into slavery.” Forty-
thousand native troops were killed by
Crassus in Aquitania. Dumnorix, a
Gaul who refused to march with Csesar
as a fifth-columnist and escaped with his
Akiuan escort and who, when ordered to
return, rashly declared “I’m a free citizen
of a free State,” was “surrounded and
killed according to instructions.” Acco,
the ringleader of another rebellion, was
flogged to death “in the old Roman
manner.” A priest active in patriotic
conspiracies was similarly flogged to
death. At the siege of Bourges there
was the relay of Gallic heroes stepping
out from the besieged town to certain
death:
The defenders... iwere convinced that the
fate of Gaul hung upon these critical
hours, and we now witnessed an episode
which I feel should be noticed here. There
was a Gaul standing just outside one of
the gates, receiving lumps of tallow and
pitch that were passed along to him, and
hurling them into the flames opposite one
of our towers. This man was mortally
wounded in the right side by a shot from
a quick-firing catapult. One of his com-
rades stepped over his prostrate body and
carried mi with his job. He was likewise
shot dead: a third took his place, then a
fourth, and so on. The post was only
abandoned when the terrace fire had been
extinguished and when fighting had ceased
after the enemy had been thrown back at
all points.
And after the heroic defence came the
frightful sequel:
When they saw the legions pouring round
the entire circuit without a single man
coming down to meet them, they were
terrified at the prospect of being cut off
from all chance of escape, threw away their
arms and ran for their lives to the furthest
quarter of the town. There some were cut
down by the legions as they jammed the
narrow gateways; others- managed to get
out but were slaughtered by the cavalry.
None of our troops gave a moment’s
thought to plunder: they were so infuriated
by the massacre of Orleans and the labor
of this siege that they spared neither the
aged nor women and children. Indeed
from a total population of some 40,000, a
bare 800, who had fled at the first alarm,
got through to Vercingetorix.
So it goes on—so Oesar goes on —
burning, slaughtering, looting, ravaging,
soaking the fields of Europe with blood,
as so often they have been drenched
again in the period of our own civilisa-
tion, until, disregarding what may be
said of Roman culture, and of the irre-
sistible ant-like impulses which drive an
expanding nation, and thinking only of
men defending their native land against
oppression, one is very much inclined
to agree with the Gallic leader Commius,
who, after the Romans had attempted to
assassinate him at a mock peace-con-
ference, “vowed he would never again
meet a Roman” ...
But that is no reason for refusing to
meet so superb a book as this, where
Caesar records for us so many curiosities
of history, like the story of the siege of
Salona when the women all cut their
hair off to make catapult strings; where
he explains with such wonderful clarity
the military tactics that made him so
successful a commander; where the
“light-minded” French and the savage
Germans (with a 90-mile no-man’s-land
left between them and the nearest of
their terrified neighbors) appear so fascin-
atingly in their immemorial character-
istics, as if time did not exist; where
Caesar displays his mind and high
policies so frankly—“My real motive was
to sacrifice Gallic rather than Roman
lives”; where one sees so clearly his
quick and firm intelligence, his admira-
tion for courage in Roman and Gaul
alike, his deliberate practice of such
humanity as he thought the circumstances
permitted; and where the Gauls them-
selves, Whatever we may think of the
Romans, are shown as no slouches in
cruelty—Critognatus at the siege of Alesia
was said to have advocated eating ail. the
inhabitants of the town too old or too
young to bear arms; burning Roman
prisoners alive was apparently a common
practice; and the Gauls enforced con-
scription by summoning all adult males
to a rendezvous, “and the last to arrive
is tortured to death before the whole
assembly.”
Ccesar’s War Commentaries is one of
a great new set of Everyman’s reprints,
the other volumes being The Decameron
(with the interesting passage in “How
to Put the Devil into Hell” still left in
Italian); Chaucer’s Trail us and Criseyde
edited by John Warrington in a very
mildly modernised version which this re-
viewer prefers to the overmodernised
Penguin Canterbury Tales; Steele’s
Tatler; and Homer’s Odyssey in a new
verse-translation by S. O. Andrew which
may please those who like to see verse
reproduced as verse but which misses
the directness of a good prose translation.
The Commentaries translation, changed
from the third- to the first-person, is de-
lightfully fresh and vigorous and the
only point on which one feels at all dis-
posed to query it is in the repeated use
of such terms as “fire,” “artillery fire,”
“discharged their weapons,” etc., which,
though it enhances the book’s contempo-
rary significance, gives too much the im-
pression of mortars and tommy guns go-
ing off in all directions on the plains of
Gaul. It is difficult, however, to suggest
alternatives which would have the same
strength.
Two French Novels
Simenon’s The Stain on the Snow
(Routledge) and Roger Peyrefitte’s Diplo-
matic Diversions (Thames and Hudson),
both in translation from the French,
illustrate the two main streams of French
literature: the tradition of grimy realism
to which belong Hugo’s Les Miserables
and Zola’s Germinal, a dark stream wind-
ing through the sewers of Paris, and the
light-hearted current running from
Rabelais to Maupassant and Clochemerle.
Both are rather lightweight examples
of their kind. Diplomatic Diversions is
supposed to have made a “succes de
scandale” in France, but one suspects
that the scandal lay less in its mild
naughtiness than in the fact that many
of the characters could be recognised.
It deals with love and diplomacy at the
French Embassy in Athens and makes
amiable light-entertainment.
The Stain on the Snow has rather
more substance to it, an impression of
more serious artistic effort —and, of
course, Simenon is no mean figure—but
a novel is never necessarily “great”
merely because it is sordid; and if The
Stain on the Snow is exceedingly sordid,
it is really not much else. Very much
like Graham Greene’s forcible-feeble
Brighton Rock, it represents yet an-
other attempt by a generation shocked
by war and brutality to get right down
to the gutter, swim there, and come out
clean again: the kind of book that re-
minds one of what D. H. Lawrence said
long ago about the American novel
Bottom Dogs, that he was glad he had
read it as a social symptom, but never
wanted to read another book like it.
Simenon’s sordidness, as usual in
novels of the kind, is offset by a senti-
mental and improbable love-story, much
like the flowerings of sentiment, the white
amongst the black, one finds in both
Crime and Punishment and Brighton
Rock. He deals with a young gangster
from the Paris slums, who lives in a
brothel, commits sadistic murders, and
yet is loved by a pure-hearted maiden
living in the same tenement.
A German Novel
Welcomed in New York as the “first
post-war German novel of substantial
merit,” The Slave Ship, by Bruno E.
Werner (Heinemann), takes Georg
Forster, Berlin newspaper-critic, from an
Italian seaside holiday with gay girls in
the early days of Nazism to a roadside
outside Munich where he stands bare-
headed as the first American tanks drive
in to occupy Germany.
It is a study of the effect of Nazism
on a journalist of liberal ideas and his
circle of friends. Early in the piece he
is pulled-in to answer a charge of inter-
fering with the arrest of a Communist
by a party-leader in Munich, Being an
ex-officer of World War I, he is treated
with a certain amount of care, imprisoned
for several days until his lawyer argues
him out, whereupon the man in charge
gave him a paper and told him to sign
it:
Georg read through a statement pledging
himself to be silent as to all he had
experienced, heard or seen during the
period of his arrest.
“Is this necessary?” he asked.
“I should recommend it,” the Regie-
rungsrat said, “Of course you can refuse.
But then I’m afraid 1 shall have to rerer
it back for orders, and that’ll take time.
It would mean you couldn’t leave yet. If
you’ll sign, you’ll be saving me the bother
and yourself a certain amount of incon-
venience.”
Georg signed.
Later, as Georg is trying to get the
music-critic to hand him his criticism of
the new “Magic Flute” production the
critic in a daze tells him how the editor’s
wife went to Gestapo headquarters to
get news of her husband, whom they had
taken away two days before. They
passed her round every room in the
building, and finally a policeman eating
sandwiches placed an urn in front of
her, and went back to eating sandwiches.
There is an extraordinary scene of
Hitler’s meeting German journalists,
members of the Reich Press Association,
walking from table to table, sitting down,
and entertaining the pressmen with
imitations of conversations between
foreign diplomats that had been obtained
from tapped telephones; evidently he
was a first-rate mimic.
The phony war gives place to German
victories, and they to the mass-bombing
of Germany. A high official, returned
from vanquished Italy, poisons himself
because he fears he will be blown to
unrecognisable pieces, but during the
burial of his ashes in the cemetery Allied
bombing blows the grave into a crater.
A rich businessman’s wild party is in-
terrupted by bombing; the guests go to
a shelter, and when they come out the
businessman’s mansion is a pile of
rubble ; so they go on to continue the
party in another man’s house. Again
and again in such books one strikes the
{“Red Page” continued on page 35)


Senior Store News Bulletin
• / ' ••- ••••-•• ■/ • ' ...-.C ' • ■ ' •- > * ;
weekly news of activities 9 values and advantages front Anthony Horderns’
Australia to see dioramas
Magnificent exhibition at Anthony Horderns’
“Coronations through the Ages”
||ifc
This is an exhibition showing
the Coronations of English kings
and queens from Ethelred 11. in
978 to that of our present
Queen. These dioramas are
theatrical stages in miniature
showing, in superb detail, out'
standing events from 14 different
Coronations. Mrs. Clothilde
Highton, G.M.C., created these
dioramas. For authentic detail
of Queen Elizabeth’s Royal
Coach, Mrs. Highton daily visited
the Royal stables at Bucking'
ham Palace to check details. This
truly historic exhibition is to be
shown exclusively in Anthony
Horderns’ Fine Art Gallery.
Royalty gift
books for
Coronation Year
Queen Elizabeth 11., by Marion Crawford
(Crawfie), portrays the daily life of our
beloved Queen. Beautifully produced . . .
7 colour plates and 125 other plates. 16/6
The young Queen, by Godfrey Winn.
The life story of Her Majesty, Queen
Elizabeth 11. Colour and black and white
photographs. Text on art paper. 18/9
Happy and Glorious, by Marion Crawford.
Events in Her Majesty’s life which have
had a direct bearing on the Coronation
Ceremony. Beautifully illustrated. 15/6
The Queen’s House, by Compton Mac'
\enzie. History of Buckingham Palace . . .
events, personalities and Court Etiquette,
with 48 pages of illustrations. 15/6
H.R.H. Princes Charles, by Lady Peacoc\.
86 pictures, accompanied by interesting
text about young Prince’s life. 13/3
Simple Heraldry, by lan Moncreiffe and
Don Pollinger. A light-hearted account
of Heraldry. Illustrated. Priced at 13/3
Elizabeth, Our Queen, by Richard Dim'
hleby, famous 8.8. C. commentator. History
of the Monarchy and the training of Her
Majesty for the throne. Colour plates. 15/6
Coronation Bible, in blue persianette
cover. Royal Cypher on front, ruby type,
15 coloured pictures, commemoration page,
frontispiece of Westminster Abbey,
presentation card, handsome box. 21/6
Coronation Prayer Book, with Hymns
A. 6? M. Portrait cover in colour of Her
Majesty, frontispiece portrait, many colour
illustrations. Presentation box. 25/-
Boo\s, Pitt Street Floor
Exhibition opens June 3rd.
Rear-Admiral H. B. Farncomb, C. 8., D. 5.0., M.V.0., will
officially open the exhibition, “Coronations Through the Ages,”
at 3 o’clock on Thursday, June 4th. Such tremendous
historic interest is attached to this exhibition that we urge you
to visit our Gallery during Coronation Week. Bring the
children, too, for this exhibition shows history in the making.
* Exhibition of superb
MSotjol
including souvenir and Coronation pieces
Another exciting Coronation Exhibition that you’ll see only at
Anthony Horderns’!! Ceramic art from Royal Doulton commem'
orating the coronations and reigns of six monarchs, from Queen
Victoria to our present Queen Elizabeth. Here are limited editions
of loving cups. Doulton also shows you works by famous English
ceramic artists over the past 100 years, such as
Percy Curnock and Raby. Very few of
these exhibits are for sale, as they’re
valued collector’s items. See them
in this exclusive exhibition in our China
Department, situated on the Third Floor.
4 minutes’ walk Anthony Horderns’ is only four
minutes’ downhill walk from either Town Hall or Museum Station
PHONE M 2401. BOX 2T12, G.P.O.
Do your
shopping through
T.O.P.S.
This Coronation Year, Anthony
Horderns’ introduce a new way of
shopping ... an effortless, quick
way. T.O.P.S, (Telephone Orders
and Personal Shopping). From now
on we’ll do your shopping for you.
Just dial our number—M24ol, ask
for T.0.P.5., and immediately you
can shop at any counter in the Store.
Trained assistants will shop for you,
then your order will be delivered
promptly to your home or office. Busy
housewives, executives, office, factory
and- shift workers all shop through
T.O.P.S. It was dreamed up for you
... it’s your own private shopping
service. Why not try it out to-day?
Bulletin Readers
A Combination Socket Set, £2O/11/6,
or 6/3 weekly over 12 months. A boon
to any garage mechanic, this set of chrome
vanadium ddublc'ended spanners. S.A.E.
and Whitworth sizes. People in country
workshops, breakdown and service
vehicles find these sets indispensable.
Tools, Lower Pitt Street.
We gladly offer easiest of terms through
our Hire Purchase Accounts. Pay a
small deposit and your purchase will
be delivered to your home. You then
pay off in small weekly or monthly
instalments from one to three years.
“Special"* far
Credit Wote:~
TRUTH
ADVERTiStNG
A
nthony
Horderns


A War-time Metamorphosis
THE FACTORIES
OF ST. MARY'S
By DEE
THE Pacific War made many sharp
imprints on the Australian scene,
some of them transient, others of
a more lasting kind, among these,
only thirty miles from Sydney, a surpris-
ingly important industrial community
which grew up directly from war-time
activity to point its own moral to the
present-day overcrowded metropolis.
The focal-point of this development is
an old-time village named St. Mary’s, on
the main western railway and highway
from Sydney in the Penrith district.
Penrith and St. Mary’s are on the western
edge of the coastal plain on which Sydney
is built; they are in the fertile Nepean-
Hawkesbury valley; they are still the
gateway to the Blue Mountains and the
country of the west as they were in early
historical times.
From Penrith, the exploring trio in
1813 made their successful attack on
the mystery of the mountains; from here
soon afterwards William Cox drove the
first road to the Bathurst Plains; later
on, the railway crept into the tangle of
ridges almost from the same starting-
point.
The countryside is the background for
much of the action in Ralph Rashleigh,
but it comes into the Australian story
long before the period of that book.
Soon after Sydney and Parramatta were
founded, in 1788-89, the Government
and the first settlers were looking further
afield for land suitable for farming, and
the rich river-flats of the Nepean attracted
their attention at once. Subsequently a
century-and-a-half of settlement left many
marks on the countryside, all of a quiet,
unhurried, rural way of life. The period
since 1940 has brought more changes in
a decade than happened in all the fifteen
decades before it.
A whole network of war-time factories
arose almost overnight. St. Mary’s was
able to satisfy most of the demands of
urgent industrial expansion: land avail-
able to build on; proximity to go6d rail-
and road-transport; quick access to
Sydney and its ports; proximity to
industrial labor ; a sufficient distance from
possible bombing-targets in the metro-
polis ; a kind of near-remoteness which
made its special defence projects easier
to guard and keep secret.
Within a few months a modern factory-
system, with scores of large and small
buildings, had come into use; their
defence-work was secret and remains
secret, but even the outsider passing-by
could recognise that something new, vital
and modern had come into the old scene.
When the war ended and the specialised
defence significance of the district ceased,
the authorities were faced with the alter-
native of putting the whole area —on
which millions had been spent—into a
rusty kind of cold-storage, or of attract-
ing ordinary civil industry to take over
the buildings and plants. On agreeable
terms, industrialists quickly saw the
advantages of a new industrial area well
removed from the rising pressures of life
in Sydney.
Today the high wire fences necessary
to the war-time purpose remain. There
are notices on the fences warning
intruders against dogs. There are sentry-
boxes at main crossings, empty and
weather-beaten now. Many of the build-
ings are still surrounded by high earth-
mounds, testifying to the earlier presence
of explosives and “top-secret” equipment.
There is a large area of roads, mainly
because a building there in the war-time
days might grimly require a considerable
distance between itself and everything else.
But the civil impact is different. The
firms all have their particular buildings
well designated, and the visitor drives past
factory after factory in use by textile,
engineering, can-making, clothing and
many similar concerns.
On this very ground the earliest
settlers grew their wheat. To the west
the blue haze of the mountains shimmers
in the sun as it did in the first dawn of
our Australian history. Eucalypts tower
over the near-by paddocks, and acacias;
crows squawk their way over the un-
expected patterns; beyond the industrial
environs the “old people” move sedately
along their ancient rural paths.
As the starting-whistle becomes due on
a week-day morning, and as knock-off
time comes in the afternoon, the whole
area springs into the kind of life familiar
in industrial suburbs but so strangely
out of place here —the surging flow of
thousands of men and women, girls and
boys, workwards or homewards. They
live mainly in Penrith, in St. Mary’s itself,
or in the outer suburbs stringing down
towards Parramatta.
St. Mary’s itself houses many. As a
necessary complement to the war-time
industrial organisation, a township was
hurriedly built near the railway-station,
and is still fully occupied. Newer, larger
and better houses are going up.
Many of the shops, too, are of the
modern, brick, suburban type, in sharp
contrast to the high-gabled little cot-
tages of a much older period, worn dry
by time and use. The cottages, at least,
have some of the charm and interest of
another age. Occupants of the box-like,
war-time houses have grown trees, lawns,
tiny gardens, and made homes; but the
houses are very small, obviously un-
suited to family life, and the allotments
are almost as small as the houses.
Thus St. Mary’s itself is a hotch-potch
of the very old, the very hurried, and
the very new, confident of its industrial
future and showing signs of much pro-
jected growth. Penrith, two or three
miles further west, is a much more
developed town, with definite civic leader-
ship of the whole district; its bright alive-
ness, too, testifies to the new note which
has been struck in the old countryside.
There is talk of a model suburb in
St. Mary’s, but ambitious plans have a
curious habit in Australia of remaining
plans.
But industrial St. Mary’s is a reality.
The Opera Characters Forgather
at the Club
|d | \ELL, well! If it isn’t
\A/ P ut it there, old
VV girl- By j°ve, your tiny
hand is frozen!”
“Well, so it ought to be. I die
of consumption every night, don’t
I? Oh, hello, Nadir. You look
pretty low. The other pearl-fishers
beating you to the best oysters?”
“Or perhaps he threw the best
pearl away, like the base Indian.
And talking of Otello, I saw him a
little while ago looking pretty
miserable.” ,
‘‘Still thinking of Desdemona?”
“Oh, no. But he’s so sensitive
about this dropping of his aitches.
I can’t see why Verdi couldn’t have
let him spell his name like Shak-
speare wrote it.”
“Oh, here’s Rigoletto. How are
you getting along, Rig?”
“How else would you expect a
man to get along except shuffle, with
a pair of misshapen pins like I’ve got.
And they expect that because I’m a
jester I should laugh every time I
find that it’s my own daughter I help
to kidnap and put her in the clutches
of my profligate master the Duke.
It’s no joke. Here’s Samson—he
looks almost as rachitic as I do.
What’s gone wrong, Sam? Last time
I saw you you could lift a camel
one hand.”
“Aw, shut up!”
“Well, there’s no need to get your
hair off. Why, it is off! I was won-
dering when someone was going to
start giving Figaro work at his right-
ful trade instead of him spending all
his time either flirting with Susanna
or arranging affaires d’amour for the
Count.”
“Figaro wouldn’t have made such
a hash of it as this.”
“That’s right. It looks as if it’s
been cut with a knife and fork. Only
a woman could have cut a man’s
hair like that.”
“You’ve said it. Delilah, curse
her. 800 hoo!”
“Shame on the hussy! But you
should have known, Sam, that a
strong-arm artist like you would be
sure to attract the attention of some
Philistine. Hello, Faust, still dream-
ing of youth and beauty?”
“The devil I am! I’ve had women.
I—oh, could you tell me who that
beautiful wench is over there? That
well-curved brunette with the rose
between her lips?”
“Who, Carmen? You want to
watch out, Faust, if young
Escamillo’s around..,. He’s gone.
Can’t keep away from ’em.”
“Poor old Faust! No sales-
resistance. Meph. just had to show
him a vision of Margarite and he
rushes to sign on the dotted line.”
“Oh, well, he had a good time
while it lasted. Ah, hello, Colline,
anyone would think it was cold the
way you’re shivering.”
“So would you if you’d Moscowed
your overcoat in mid-win ter to keep
a poor Parisian girl from starving.
It’s more than even Rodolfo did for
her, though he did offer to burn one
of his poems to keep her warm—
not that that would have been any
loss to the world ; a pity more poets
didn’t do it. But he gets the kisses
and I get the kind smile. You’ve got
to be a tenor to be ace-high with the
heroines in opera. I’m stiff enough
to be a bass. It’s just as well I’m
cast in it as a philosopher, I sup-
pose—well, by heavens, that’s pretty
hot!”
“What, Faust’s future home?”
“No, can’t you hear? It’s some-
one paging Cherubino. A page being
paged! Count Almaviva’s pretty
broad-minded for a seventeenth-cen-
tury Spanish nobleman, but I don’t
think even he would stand for such
democratic practices.”
Rigoletto looked sourly across at
a swashbuckling martial figure strut-
ting by. “That Aleck!” he snarled.
“Why, Don Caesar’s a very gallant
fellow,” said the benevolent Hans
Sachs,
“And he was a good soldier, too.
The only war your precious master
ever got into, Rig, was a bood-war,
and apparently he could never have a
win even there—always going around
singing that women are fickle.”
“Well,” replied Rigoletto sulkily.
“any man that has the choice either
of hanging or marrying and chooses
the latter, as Don Caesar did, ought to
get his head read. Him and his
‘Let Me Like a Soldier Fall’! He
fell for it, all right; but not like a
soldier. Now he’s got to put lip with
his Maritana.”
“Just take a screw at Canio and
Otello over there—still discussing the
best way for jealous husbands to
bump-off their wives,” said Herod
jovially. “I should have done it to
Herodias instead of to John the
Prophet—you don’t know how
jealous she was over my little affair
with Salome... Well, if it isn’t
Wolfram! Welcome, old boy—
but why the clouded brow? The
bad lad Tannhauser beating you to
the hand of the fair and saintly
Elizabeth again?”
“No, it isn’t that at all, see! It’s
because I still can’t make out
whether I’m supposed to be an opera
hero or a mineral.”
“I don’t see Don Giovanni around
tonight,” remarked Papageno. “That
Lothario isn’t usually far away when
so many good-lookers are floating
around. He must be crook.”
“No, he’s well enough,” replied
Boris Godounov grimly. “But you
know they’re taking up a collection
tonight to erect a statue to Music,
and you also know the painful
memories that statues hold for the
Don.”
“There’s that bunch of Rhine-
landers over there with their heads
together as usual, yapping about the
‘Ring of the Nibelung.’ They have
gods and giants and Rhine maidens
on the brain. What do you think
of the Ring, Escamillo?”
“All bull! ” replied the toreador
brusquely. “Got a gasper* on you,
Rhadames? It’s tough when a man’s
sheila works in a cigarette-factory
and he has to nip one from someone
else!”
Bo.
With Lolling Tongue and Wagging Tail
GUIDE-DOGS
ONE of the first guide-dogs to be
introduced into Australia was
brought from England by Mr.
Cook, a lecturer in Economics at
the Perth University. Dreena, a Labrador
female, is quiet, docile and fond of her
food, very rarely barks, is very adaptable
and extremely attached to Mr, Cook and
his family.
Mr. Cook and Dreena have been work-
ing together now for just over two years,
and a special pass allows the dog to
accompany her master on the buses.
They travel together from South Perth to
the centre of the city, and then take
another bus which carries them to the
University. The equipment used consists
of a harness with, a stiff leather handle,
designed to register almost every move-
ment of the dog.
Occasionally on very hot days, when
the pavements are scorching, Dreena
wears light leather shoes to protect the
pads of her feet. When off duty she is
allowed as much freedom as any other
dog, except that she is not allowed to
roam the streets. Mr. Cook has an
enclosed garden, but even when the gate
is open Dreena does not roam far; she’s
content to be where he is.
Dreena, very popular in Perth, now has
to share her popularity with other guide-
dogs being trained by Miss Betty Bridge
at the first Guide Dog Training Centre in
Australasia; address, Shenton Park
(W.A.).
A dog used wisely works well, and it
is very important that owners be trained
as well as the dogs. Not all blind people
are suitable. They need to be keen,
enthusiastic, fairly alert, and have plenty
of commonsense.
Blind men and 'women have written to
the Guide Dog Training Centre at
Shenton Park asking for application-
forms to be sent to them from as far
away as Brisbane. These dogs are sup-
plied free to any applicant who is deemed
suitable, and who has need for a dog,
either to go to and fro from work, or
just for pleasure.
At present the cost of the training is
borne by the generosity of the Western
Australian people, but a central guide-
dog centre part-owned by every State
would be better able to cope with the
needs of present and future guide-dog
owners all over Australia.
Dog supply is not good in W.A., as
there are not many breeders of the types
used. Many animals are imported from
other States, generally arriving at the
Shenton Park Centre when they are about
seven weeks old. Labrador females,
German Shepherd Dog females and
Border Collie females are being trained
and used.
They must be from parents classified
as “tail-waggers”—friendly and free from
aggression, nervousness and suspicion.
Many dogs respond to training, but not
enough to be trusted with blind people;
these are rejected.
Training usually begins between the
ages of one and two years. The dogs
are corrected but never punished, and are
always loudly praised when they have
obeyed an order. They are taught to use
their own initiative, and at times must
disobey their masters; for instance,
although urged, they must not cross a
road until it is clear both ways.
They are the “eyes to the blind.” With
lolling tongue and wagging tail they
walk briskly along, aware of their
responsibility, affording a measure of
independence to blind people only
equalled by eyes that see.
M. G. COLWELL
Short Story
“The Sea of Grass”
by Roland Robinson
Recently granted Commonjwealth
Fund assistance to print his poems,
Robinson is also a fine short-story
writer. This short story is of crocodile-
shooters in the far north, and a
dangerous game with abandoned
Army equipment—matters on which
he can speak at first hand.
In next week’s "Bulletin”


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 3, 1953
Vol 74—No. 3825
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington
LONG TO REIGN OVER US
The crowning of the young Queen is an event of
peculiar significance for Australia. She is neither
the first Queen nor the first monarch who has reigned
over this country; but she is the first who, by special
designation and the precise and separate statement of
her title, has been specifically Queen of Australia as
distinct from her offices as Queen of the United
Kingdom and each of the other great Dominions.
Australia has always from the first held a peculiar
position among British colonies and Dominions in
that at the time of its foundation it was not acquired
by conquest but by peaceful occupation. And this
gave it a special relationship to the Crown and to
the law, since it was held that in a territory occupied
and not conquered “the King’s subjects residing
there are, by a general principle of law, entitled to
all the rights and privileges of British subjects and
carry with them the law and privileges of their native
country, so far as it is applicable to their new situa-
tion and circumstances.”
These conditions affected the nature of govern-
ment in our earliest days, since it produced a state
of affairs in which, without Parliamentary prelimin-
aries, the King was able, by virtue of his prerogatives,
to establish executive councils and courts on the
model of those functioning at Westminster without
reference to Parliament, though the creation of legisla-
tive bodies called for statutory authority. ;
The government of Australia therefore might be
described as a Royal government until, after we had
been in existence nearly a generation, Parliament
began to intervene to legalise taxation, other than the
Royal duties such as tolls and port duties leviable by
the authority of the Crown, and to create legislative
councils, the embryo forms of Parliaments.
Today, though the average citizen is prone to
lose sight of its importance, the Crown is still a
keystone of government. The Parliament does not
merely consist of two elected Houses. Section 1 of
the Constitution reads:
The legislative power of the Commonwealth shall
be vested in a Federal Parliament, which shall consist
of the Queen, a Senate and a House of Kepresenta-
tlves.
And this is not in the Constitution for show. For
whereas Parliament frames the laws and gives its
“advice and consent” to what is to be done, it is the
Crown which makes the law operative and administers
it: “Be it enacted by the Queen’s most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives in Parliament
assembled.”
In plain fact the Queen (or her representative) is
the constitutional safeguarder of liberties, the repre-
sentative of the nation as a whole, the referee who
sees personally and through the courts that the rules
of the game are obeyed and that the Constitution is
maintained. For the judges are as much part of
the Royal staff of supervisors as the Governor-
General, and just as impartial and free of politics. And
while the Queen or the Governor-General would
scarcely in these days refuse to do any legal act if
advised by the Government of the day, her represen-
tative has wide powers of discipline in the ability to
grant or force dissolution or to dismiss Ministers
acting illegally. This power was exercised by Sir
Phillip Game, acting on the King’s behalf, when Mr.
Lang instructed civil servants to act illegally. The
prerogative of granting a dissolution of Parliament,
the choice between parties subject to the condition of
being able to govern, can be, and is, exercised on the
Crown’s own will and judgment.
Moreover, the sovereign and her representative
exercise a very potent influence behind the scenes of
government if they happen to be able and have a
flair for government. Sir Harold Nicolson, in his
life of George V, shows how powerfully that monarch
influenced the course of history. Because monarchs
are permanently in office, while Governments come
and go, they are the only continuing element in the
higher levels of lawmaking and policy. They know
what has gone before and they accumulate experience.
They acquire in a few years a knowledge of how
things are done which come rarely to a Prime Minister
and not until he has served for a very long time.
And, unlike Prime Ministers, they are trained to
their job from birth, both in executive work and in
the onerous and dull round of ceremonial duties
which go with the task of acting as the national
representatives of the community on great public
occasions. They are not only the guardians of popular
rights under our modern Constitution, the chairmen of
the board of directors, so to speak, of the national
company, but the unified embodiments and spokesmen
of the country and the race.
It is not altogether a paradox that two of the
queens who have reigned over the British Empire
during the past 300 years have been among our
greatest monarchs. To carry out the duties of king-
ship it is necessary to ensure for the ruler detach-
ment from the common interests of those who do
the actual work of framing legislation and policy. A
woman is naturally more isolated from her Ministers
than a man in her daily life, her interests and her
friendships. And she is the more likely to be treated
with tolerance and consideration than a man. She
is usually less political in her natural thought than a
man. And when she is gifted with industry, common-
sense and a firm mind and ideals she makes a good
ruler. Moreover, she has a greater appeal to the
imagination of the people at large by reason of the
unusualness of her position and her womanly gift of
sympathy for the young and the suffering. She can
reach recesses in the public consciousness and stir
emotions that no man can hope to reach or stir.
Given peace, the new Queen’s reign should be a
glorious epoch, one which will see immense advances
in science and education and in sheer creature com-
fort ; a Royal age which tire future will look back
on as it does on the ages of Elizabeth I and Victoria,
both of which marked stages of unparalleled advance-
ment in British freedom, culture and civilisation.
Long may that epoch' be, and happy Queen
Elizabeth’s rule for herself and her people.
Territories and Parties
Actions in two world wars have abundantly
proved the immense importance of the islands of New
Guinea in the defence of Australia. The erstwhile
Mandated Territory is now administered with Papua
as a whole. It is generally accepted that Papua-
New Guinea vitally affects the security of the Aus-
tralian community. Yet, in the face of this, “policy”
in Papua-New Guinea is denied continuity because
it is dictated by party politics. Executive and
Administrative responsibility belongs to the Common-
wealth Government, All parties would probably
agree that the economic, social and eventually political
advancement of the native peoples must go hand
in hand with the general development of the country’s
natural resources.
The problem could be described as one of race
relations between a million and a half native peoples,
at varying stages of development, and the Australian
people, primarily those living in the Territory.
Territorians are engaged in development, through
business or agricultural activity ;Mn missionary or
social-cultural work; or in a sweeping range of
activities under the Administration. For many
reasons, not all selfish, they have a stake in the future
of the Territory.
They are deeply concerned about the possibility
of a change in Government in Australia in 1954
leading to a major change in policy within the Terri-
tory. Many Territorians don’t see why the Territory
should be a football of party politics. Comparatively
few natives are sufficiently advanced to worry about
questions of policy as such, but they react very swiftly
to sudden change. In matters of employment and
treatment they naturally like to know where they are.
The possibility of a change of Government lead-
ing to a change of policy causes uncertainty, sows
doubt about the validity of present actions and gives
pause to some individuals with capital to invest.
It is not a question of agreeing or disagreeing
with certain lines of policy, but of desiring stability
of policy for the Territory and working out a method
of maintaining continuity over a long period.
Australian Governments have always been
anxious to carry out their “high ideals” for the Terri-
tory as cheaply as possible, so the development of
the country’s natural resources is basic to the advance-
ment of the people of the Territory. Any Common-
wealth Government has to face the twin problems
of the part to be played by private enterprise and
land settlement. Except in the Highlands area,
development calls for the financial resources of com-
panies rather than those of individuals, but companies
need reassurance as to the future.
' Even a Socialist Government would probably
continue the established policy that no land can be
acquired from the natives except by the Government,
which will make it available on leasehold to the
settler, the essential safeguard being that the land is
not required for native use in the foreseeable future.
The difficulty of lifting any Australian issue above
the level of party politics is only too clear. But
failure to achieve an all-party committee on External
Affairs need not mean an indefinite acceptance of a
frustrating approach to another great national problem,
one which is even nearer home.
G. C.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bureaucrats and Employment
Bureaucrats schooled by Socialists
talk a lot of economic nonsense when
they think out loud, and behind the
scenes they’re still using their power in
key positions to keep the economic
machine geared to the Socialist way of
life. This explains the slow progress made
in New Zealand in freeing enterprise
from the controls, frustrations and costly
methods of the 1940’5. In all their queer
notions and pet theories there is one
idea they hold in common: that the
greatest potential threat to prosperity is
surpluses of anything—necessaries of
life, manpower or resources, with the
single exception of money, which to their
type of mind is the symbol of wealth.
“Full employment” is, and always has
been, one of their favorite catchcries. In
practice they convert this into overfull
employment; thus they have what they
consider a margin of safety, a state of
things where any dud who wants a job
can always find one waiting for him.
To show how deeply rooted this idea
is, a top-ranking Treasury officer said
lately: “Full employment requires that
there be an unsatisfied demand for local
production. This unsatisfied demand will
tend to turn, at least in part, to imports.
If it is wholly satisfied by expenditure on
imported goods there will remain no
excess demand to maintain full employ-
ment internally; therefore, it seems that
the Government must ensure that some
part of the demand for imports is kept
unsatisfied and so turned back to main-
tain an excessive demand for local pro-
ducts.”
Strange economics, utterly in conflict
with the ideals, principles and interests
of free enterprise. In their day the
Socialists had shortages in every direc-
tion, so much so that there were 30,000
or more vacant jobs, and today there are
still vacancies years after their defeat.
Government economists worthy of the
name have no illusions. Not so long ago
a couple ofxthem, in unmasking'condi-
tions, condemned full employment for
taking economic activity to a point where
the economy was, in their opinion, so out
of balance that extensive controls were
essential to preserve order. How long
should N.Z, lean on those controls? The
issue, as anyone with understanding and
commonsense can see, is;
1. To get rid of the controls which,
in the upward movement, checked
natural reactions to such an extent
as to make the desirable employment
goal unattainable.
2. To find means by which infla-
tionary and other pressures banked
up behind controls may dissipate
themselves as harmlessly as possible.
Full employment pushed to the extreme
destroys mobility of labor, works against
efforts to make the best use of labor and
resources, takes toll of production, and
boosts costs. A good deal of the pressure
was lifted when the import boom put an
end to shortages in many lines, but there
has been a reaction since, mainly inspired
by exaggerated fears about the future of
employment. What Maoriland needs is
gradual release from controls to give
competition and free enterprise a chance,
and, as a prelude to this, a new attitude
to make the change possible.
Muddle In Korea
Under the 1945 settlement to bring a
peace to end all peaces Korea was divided
arbitrarily into halves for administration,
but the Americans in charge of the
southern half regarded north and south
as a theoretical whole, of which the
Russians were presently to give up their
portion in perfect good faith.
Russia instead armed North Korea,
and it attacked South Korea —which
theoretically contained a Government of
all Korea. The United Nations inter-
vened in the interests of peace and free-
dom, and also for the defence of Japan.
Soon more than 1,000,000 men were
facing each other in fortress positions
across the ranges of the 38th Parallel.
On the North side they are mainly
Chinese; on the South about half
American-armed South Koreans, the rest
mainly American, British Commonwealth,
Turkish and French.
A debate has been going on on the
spot about cease-fire terms for more than
18 months, and now seems to be reach-
ing a point at which a settlement might
be obtained by sawing Korea in half
m defiance of every principle the United
Nations were supposed to be fighting for
there. The South Koreans, being
Asiatic realists, know exactly what will
come of such a settlement, since
Korea is no more two countries econo-
mically than Germany—South Korea is
poor agricultural land ; the water-power,
fuel and metals are in the North!
Economic conquest of South Korea
would follow a settlement on U.N.O.’s
lines.
So the South Koreans insist that they
will fight on singlehanded if U.N.O.
deserts them. They are bitter with the
British for attempting to explore a peace-
ful settlement, and have suggested in
grossly insulting terms that, after an effort'
on South Korea’s behalf, which has cost
tens of millions of pounds and hundreds
of lives, “Britain’s interference is ruin-
ing the truce talks and forcing the free
world to surrender to the Communists.”
A Mr. Yoon suggests that “with only
nominal forces there the British should
pack up and leave quietly.” And he
sneered that Winston Churchill is “an-
other Chamberlain.”
Meanwhile in the United States Senator
Taft, Republican leader, said that the
United States might as well forget the
United Nations as far as Korea was con-
cerned, and echoed the Soviet Govern-
ment’s view that the Security Council’s
decision to defend Korea was illegal,
because of the absence of Russia, a veto
Power, from the discussion; also that the
Nato organisation to defend the West
was the antithesis of everything the
United Nations stands for. His view,
and that of a very large section of the
American Press and political world, seems
to be that the United Nations is only
worth keeping so long as it follows im-
plicitly the line set by the United States.
It was inevitable from the beginning
that some such position would develop,
and only starry-eyed dreamers like
Roosevelt and Evatt could have thought
otherwise. The United States, apart
from the South Koreans, has suffered the
bulk of the losses and provided the bulk
of the resources, though British troops
have had some of the toughest fighting.
The sooner the British Commonwealth
achieves a united-nations policy of its
own, based on the development of its
vast resources and abstention from
meddling with the politics of the rest of
the world, and particularly of Asia, the
better. The best and only successful
kind of diplomacy and the most per-
manent kind of goodwill are based on
strength and mutual respect, and a mutual
“minding of one’s own business.”
Socialist Setback
From London : The Conservative
victory in the Parliamentary by-election
at South Sunderland is a staggering blow
to Socialism in Britain. The Tory
majority was slight—ll7s out of a total
poll of 47,577 —but it is a true and
definite endorsement of the steady growth
of confidence in the Churchill Govern-
ment. And it also shows up the trivial
significance of the heavy Conservative
losses in the local-government elections.
To win just one seat in a marginal
constituency is a great boost, both to the
slender majority and to general prestige.
That seat has been won, and the result
is something of a sensation, as only three
times in 40 years (the last was in 1929)
has a Government gained a seat from
the Opposition at a by-election.
It would be misleading to read too
deeply into the result, since the voters
were markedly uninterested, even
apathetic. They stayed away from meet-
ings, showed no lively interest in current
affairs, and only cocked an ear when
personal issues were mooted. The Labor
candidate was, as they say, a “comer-
in,” while the Conservative, a local man,
had affectionately nursed the constituency
for some time. And the Tory organisa-
tion was more .efficient at rounding-up
the half-hearted and coaxing them to the
polling-booths.
But militant Socialism, with its Heaven
and Hell implications, quite failed to
inspire the multitude, which found that
conditions are no worse than they were
two years before the forces of reaction
set in. Mr. Butler’s “class” Budget
proved too innocuous to provoke a class-
war fever. All the old bogies were
trotted out —the bad old days, unemploy-
ment, the rich man’s party, and so on—
but they fizzled out. But no Labor
speaker dared to mention “warmonger”
except in embarrassed defence. The
desperate and calumnious attack on
Churchill in 1951 could easily prove the
most devastating political boomerang in
history. Perhaps honesty may be the
best policy even in party politics.
The Liberal candidate polled only
2524 votes and lost his deposit. The
significant fact is that he utterly failed
to sway the result. Previously the inter-
vention of a Liberal has always tended
to prejudice the Conservative in favor of
the Socialist. Now his intrusion appears
to make no difference.
A spate of rumors quickly followed
the result. Churchill, old hand that he
is, might cash in on his party’s popu-
larity and go to the country in the
autumn. The rumors would seem to have
their origin in the Socialist camp.
“Why,” say the Conservatives, “should
we? We’re doing very nicely, and we’re
only haif-way through our programme,”
Atomic Millennium
“Ek D.”; The firing of the first atomic
shell brings a new era more threatening
to civilisation than me mere invention
of the atomic bomb.
At the time of Hiroshima and for long
afterwards the large bulk of the bomb
was in itself one of the most potent
elements in defence against it. It was
so large that only the most powerful
aircraft could carry it.
The atomic shell is said to weigh only
10001 b., and the gun which fires it, though
among the “very heavies,” is completely
mobile. As the shell weighs only half
as much as that of a 15in. naval gun and
the firing-weapon is only an 11-incher,
both are manageable weapons of field
warfare, though there are no data
as to whether it is necessary to fire the
gun by remote-control or whether it can
be handled in the ordinary way. If it
can be it enters the field as a naval as
well as a land weapon and must revo-
lutionise naval warfare.
However, it is as engine of total war
that the new shell must be taken most
seriously. It is obviously now possible
to make versatile use of it against civilian
populations as well as armies. If the
Germans had had it to fit as a warhead
to their Vis and V2s the result of their
bombardment of London in 1944 would
have been far different. And since then
rocket ranges have been increased so far
that Rome and perhaps Moscow will in
the next outbreak be within range of
London, and vice versa.
It is a military axiom that a defence
can be developed against any weapon;
but this statement is only relative, and
has its limitations. Defence of humans
at a given point against atom explosion
is, if anything, easier than against h.e.
bombing of the type which may be ex-
pected in the next war with 20-tonners
or larger dropping about. But the wide
reach of atomic explosion makes defence
particularly difficult to apply unless the
whole population of cities is prepared and
able to go uhderground from the moment
war starts.
The one comfort at the moment is
that the rarity of atomic metals and
sources generally and the complexities
and expense involved in the production
of atomic weapons will certainly limit
their use in war —for the present. But
it is only a matter of time, at the rate
at which scientists are becoming familiar
with the interior of the atom, before
cheaper methods and materials repeat
in atomic military history the experience
of, say, aluminium, which within the
lives of men still living was a precious
metal in the gold and platinum class.
The comfort is that once atomic
materials become reasonably cheap war
must become such a menace to civilian
populations that the politician who is
prepared to venture on it will be sure of
martyrdom at the hands of his own
terrified followers. This, of course, has
been said with the advent of every new
weapon since the bow and arrow. But
in the case of atom warfare it seems
likely to be true.
Un-uniform Taxation
The question of returning income-taxing
powers to the States has now faded into
the background ; it seems almost as if
all parties have agreed to say nothing
about it. But it must crop up again
soon; the Premiers will be lining-up in
Canberra next month for the annual re-
imbursement wrangle, and the matter can
hardly be avoided then.
It was in answer to Premiers’ com-
plaints of a raw deal at last year’s meet-
ing that the Prime Minister suddenly
flung out his threat or offer to end
uniform taxation. “Labor,” of course,
favors the present system for two
reasons. When in power at Canberra it
is able to brandish a big stick at the
States ; out of office it is able, as at
present, to harass the Federal Govern-
ment with the importunate demands of
its State “Labor” Governments. There
are now “Labor” Governments in five
States, and they thoroughly enjoy the
arrangement that gives them the privilege
of spending tax-money without the un-
popularity that goes with raising it.
Dr, Evatt stumped from Perth to
Cairns and back promising that “Labor”
would force a tax-reduction if given a
Senate majority, and Acting-Premier
Heffron, at the Loan Council, asked
Treasurer Fadden to cut taxes by £lOO
million. Both knew very well that a re-
duction is almost certain in the next
Budget; both want to be able to claim
some credit for bringing it about. The
best evidence on “Labor” as a low-tax
party should be provided by its record
when in power, and Queensland,
“Labor”-governed (except for one short
break) for 38 years, should be the best
guide as to that.
The following table shows the taxes
paid by a Queenslander with a dependent
wife and two children in 1938-39 and
the current year. The figures for 1938-39
are for Queensland State tax only;
Federal income-tax was additional;
Income. Queensland, Federal;
£ 1938/9. 1952/3.
500 .. 23 15 9 8 14 0
600 .. .. 33 6 8 18 16 0
700 .. 45 18 9 31 6 0
800 .. .. 61 19 7 46 6 0
900 .. .. 87 10 5 63 15 4
1000 .. .. 114 0 0 83 4 0
1250 .. .. 154 9 0 139 5 0
Under the pre-war Queensland system,
incidentally, all allowances for depen-
dants vanished by the time the £lOOO-p.a.
bracket was reached; the family man
paid the same tax as the single person
without dependants.
Queenslanders, at any rate, should
have no illusions about “Labor’s” record
as a “low-tax party,”
A Word for C.S.i.R.O.
Two scientific developments of recent
years which are having, and will continue
to have, a profound effect on the Aus-
tralian economy are the use of minor
elements which vastly increase the carry-
ing-capacity of what was hitherto poor
grazing country, and the reduction of
the rabbit pest by myxomatosis.
Application of minor elements —
molybdenum, copper, zinc, manganese,
boron, irdn—-to light soils has opened up
a vast prospect of increased stock-
numbers which, in the words of Dr.
Griffiths Davies, means that “Previous
concepts of Australia’s possibilities for
development must be drastically revised.”
Use of myxomatosis to reduce rabbits
has, according to G. B. S. Falkiner, of
the Haddon Rig Merino stud, Warren
(N.S.W.), brought back to western
N.S.W. pastures, now flourishing for the
seventh successive good season, valuable
grass species which haven’t been seen
for years.
The effect of this was evident at the
Sydney ram sales, where sales rams from
the plains had a healthy, clean-fleeced
and lively appearance unusual in autumn.
Falkiner should know, because his
Haddon Rig rams dominated the sales —
125 of them making a total of 47,334
guineas. The sales generally were the
most successful ever held, with first a
record of 4600 guineas for a single ram
and then a new one of 4900 guineas,
the first for a Haddon Rig and the second
for a Bundemar.
For minor elements and myxomatosis
much of the credit goes to the Common-
wealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organisation, a body whose contribution
to the nation isn’t nearly well enough
appreciated by most people, though in
these two developments alone its work is
worth millions to us.
Doyle Inquiry
Most of the evidence at last week’s
hearing of the Doyle inquiry was con-
cerned with the circumstances surround-
ing the cashing by Doyle of a checflie for
£l4OO drawn by the Australian Guaran-
tee Corporation in favor of Minister for
Mines J. G. Arthur. Earlier, Doyle had
said that he had taken the cheque to
Parliament House when Arthur was en-
gaged in conference and had said: “This
is the cheque for the Buick.” Arthur
had signed it and said “Pay it into my
account.” He had cashed the cheque
and received the £l4OO in £lO notes.
Questioned by Judge Amsberg as to bis
financial position at the time, Doyle said that
he had had enough money to pay Arthur, but
that he had taken the attitude that his own
need was more urgent than Arthur’s. He had
lied when he told Arthur he was short of money.
In April, 1952, he had sold the car to a Greek
milk-bar proprietor in Redfern. He had not
told Arthur of the sale. Later he found out
that the original black Buick was not Arthur’s
property, but belonged to a Mr. Chesterfield,
manager of Construction Services, of Brisbane.
He understood that Arthur had the legal use
of it and had been authorised to sell it for
the company. Late in June, 1952, he gave
Chesterfield a cheque for £l4OO, asking him
not to present it until June 30. Chesterfield
presented it on June 29, so he (Doyle) “stopped”
the cheque.
After Arthur returned from abroad in July,
1952, he told Doyle the matter would have to
o Continued on page 7)


be fixed up. He had promised to pay as soon
as possible; at that time he owed Arthur about
£2lOO, the additional £7OO being winning bets
he had placed for Arthur. Arthur had pre-
sumably persuaded Chesterfield not to take
action against him. Subsequently he had paid
Arthur £7OO (at the Harold Park trots.
Asked by Mr. Miller (for Arthur) whether
he was prepared to swear that Arthur had not
asked him to pay the £l4OO cheque into the
company’s account and not to his private
account, Doyle said that that might have been
the case: —
I only wanted his endorsement on the
cheque. Mr. Arthur was given the rush
treatment and 1 got out of his office before
he collected his wits, I was only interested
in getting the money.
William George Andrews, accountant of the
Rural Bank, said that Doyle came to him on
February 5, 1952, and said “Joe wants you to
cash this cheque for me.” He told Doyle the
cheque would have to go through Arthur’s
account. Doyle had then said: —
Joe does not want this to go through his
account. The facts are that I have bought
Joe’s car for £l4OO. Actually, I paid Joe
last December. Have a look at his account
and you will see where I paid the money
in. Now, if this cheque goes through his
account Joe will have to account to the
income-tax people for £l4OO that is not
his money. He wants you to cash the
cheque.
After he had pointed out that Arthur had
not endorsed the cheque, Doyle left, saying he
would take it to Arthur for endorsement. He
then checked the ledger and found an entry
for £l4OO paid in to Arthur’s account. He
then phoned Parliament House and asked for
Mr. Arthur: —
Mr. Arthur did not answer immediately,
and then he said brusquely, “Yes?” I told
him who I was and said “Doyle has taken
back to you your cheque for £l4OO to be
endorsed; I understand you want it
cashed.” Mr. Arthur replied, “That is
right.”
Judge Amsberg: Do you know Mr.
Arthur personally?—Yes. Did you recog-
nise his voice? —Yes.
Later a clerk had told him Arthur and
Doyle were waiting to see him. He went out,
checked the endorsement on the cheque and
initialled it for the teller to cash. Doyle was
there, but he could not recollect clearly whether
Arthur was with him. He had no doubt what-
ever that it was Arthur who answered his call
at Parliament House.
Doyle, who had been present in court during
Andrews’s evidence, told the judge that it was
he who had really answered the call. He had
been in Arthur’s room two or three minutes
and anticipated that Andrews might call. When
the phone rang he told Arthur he was expecting
an urgent call. He picked up the phone and
spoke to Andrews.
Earlier in the proceedings Doyle had said
that while out on bail in February last he had
obtained information concerning Arthur’s
account at the Rural Bank by ringing up and
claiming to be Arthur. He refused to name
the person to whom he had spoken.
The manager and deputy-manager of the
Rural Bank testified that Arthur’s account had
been “impounded” under lock and key since
February 11. Arthur had asked for a copy
of his account on February 20. This had been
prepared and he had called personally to pick
it up, on February 24. No other person had
asked for or been given information.
Last Thursday, while Doyle was being
examined on his betting transactions with
Arthur, he became involved in an altercatibn
with the commissioner. Judge Amsberg there-
upon ordered him to be removed from the
court and placed in the cells. The judge then
said:
This man is an unmitigated scoundrel and
an unmitigated liar. The truth is not in
him from any angle 1 decline to sit
here and have my intelligence insulted by
a lying, perjured scoundrel.
At another stage of the proceedings when
Mr. Miller (for Arthur) was examining Doyle
on his associations with Arthur, Judge Amsberg
interposed:
I can assure you straight away that I am
assuming that Mr. Arthur is a man of
highest integrity. He is a Cabinet Minister.
Were this another court I would say “a
man of exemplary character.”
The commissioner further said that there was
not the slightest evidence to show that Arthur
was implicated in the frauds for which Doyle
was convicted.
Hearing of the first four terms of reference
was concluded on Thursday, and the court
adjourned till Monday, when the fifth term—
Arthur’s share - dealings with Constructors
(Engineering and Industrial), Ltd.—was to be
resumed.
POLITICAL POINTS
CrocoDoyle tears.
As a Coronation gesture criminals in
N. S. Wales are being granted remis-
sions of part of their sentences ; Reginald
Aubrey Doyle, incidentally, went in just
in time to participate. But traders are
getting no remissions from the bureau-
crats ; Abie Landa, N. S. Wales Prices
Minister, has in fact decided to reintro-
duce price-control in respect of clothing
items. His “Labor” colleagues in
other States are joining him in the
move, which must ultimately add to the
forces of inflation.
Reintroduction of price-control is a
retrograde step, completely unwarranted
at the present time, and will mean an end
to genuine bargain throw-outs which
were just creeping back into the rag-shop
trade after a dozen years’ absence.
• •
As soon as the Coronation is over
Empire Prime Ministers will begin a
series of family powwows which will
last a week. After that Churchill will
leave for the Bermuda Three-Power chat
with Eisenhower and the French Premier,
provided France has by then finished
shopping around for a Premier. If
Churchill isn’t briefed on the views of
the Dominions by the time he leaves
London, Dominion P.M.s will have only
themselves to blame.
• •
Acting-Premier Heffron on the Loan
Council proceedings;
the States outvoted the Commonwealth
on how much loan-money they should have
to spend, but the Commonwealth overruled
them Last week the States voted them-
selves £231 million, and the Commonwealth
told them that the most they could expect
would be £2OO million.
In theory Heffron is stating almost the
truth, but in fact, as he well knows, what
happened was that the States voted
themselves £lOO million loan-money and
£l3l million out of Commonwealth
funds. Fadden told them the most they
could have was £lOO million loan-money
and £lOO million out of Commonwealth
funds.
• •
Minister for Defence Production
Harrison in reply to N.S.W. Deputy-
Premier Heffron: “The plain fact is that
the Loan Council has deliberative
authority only over the matters of loan-
raisings and loan-allocations. It has no
authority whatsoever to ransack the
Federal revenue.” That can’t stop
Heffron wanting to do it.
If Moscow is in earnest with its barrage
of peace talk why don’t the Kremlin com-
missars agree to get on with negotia-
tions for an Austrian Peace Treaty?
Last week Russia once again turned
down an invitation to talk things over
in London with the Foreign Ministers
of Britain, France and U.S.
• •
(
Latest population figures for the four
main capital cities show that Adelaide
had the largest percentage increase during
1952, Melbourne the largest actual in-
crease. Melbourne, Adelaide and Bris-
bane are all growing at a faster rate than
Australia as a whole ; Sydney, for the
moment, has slowed down. These are the
figures: —
Increase Population at
during 1952. Dec. 31, 1953.
Melbourne .. 33,000 1,393,000
Adelaide .. 17,000 459,000
Brisbane .. 15,810 469,000
Sydney .. 10,460 1,631,000
Australia’s population grew by
154,211 during the year, to a total of
8,752,819.
• • -
The rapid growth of the Victorian
capital is reflected in the electoral-roll
figures for some of the Federal divi-
sions. Latrobe has 59,835 electors on
the roll; Deakin, 56,594; Higinbotham,
55,269 ; Lalor, 52,052. These seats are
all in the outer-metropolitan area ; some
of the electorates closer to the heart of
the city have actually declined in popula-
tion, though not to as great an extent
as the above four have grown. Jt seems
likely that there will be a redrawing of
boundaries before the election next year.
Victoria’s two-for-one State redistribu-
tion is to be based on the Federal divi-
sions, and most likely Canberra will co-
operate with Spring-street to get the two
jobs done at the same time. Normally
no change would be due until after the
next Commonwealth census.
• 0
McKerihan, of the N.S.W. Rural Bank,
has not had many pats on the back in
these columns, but he was talking
commonsense when he said last week
that Australian productivity would in-
crease enormously if the nation reverted
to a 44-hour week. And productivity is
the only real cure for inflation and
capital-starvation. This fact is very often
lost sight of in preoccupation with mere
money figures, such as Budgets, “national
income,” “profits” and the like.
0 0
Apparently stirred to the marrow over
alleged Indonesian “invasions” of Dutch
New Guinea, Calwell came out yelping
that New Guinea and the Geraldton-to-
Townsville coastline were Australia’s
“most vulnerable” areas, said that Com-
monwealth forces there comprised a
motor-boat and three planes, and de-
clared :
Indonesia is a highly unsettled country.
Communism is strong there. There is no
doubt that the war in Malaya and the
existence and successes of the Vietmxnh in
Indo-China must encourage Indonesian
Communists.
This is blatant hypocrisy. Who “en-
couraged” the Indonesian Communists
when the Indonesians first sought to
force the Dutch completely out of Indo-
nesia? The Chifley-Evatt Government,
in which Calwell was a Minister. Who
threw away the chance of U.S. help in
maintaining Manus? Who rejected
national-service training? Same answer.
• •
Westralia has just had a by-election,
but the result has not affected the balance
of parties. Kimberley, vacant through
the death of “Labor” member A. A.
Coverley, is one of those seats which
sprawl over a huge area on the map,
but whose electors could be accommo-
dated comfortably in a medium-sized
hall. The new member is J. J. Rhatigan
(“Labor”), who won by about 220 votes.
This may look like a narrow margin,
but the total votes cast didn’t reach a
thousand.
There’s talk of an election in Tasmania
since D’Alton, Government leader in
the Legislative Council, dropped a hint
in a radio chat. Premier Cosgrove is
in London. Like D’Alton, he is known
to be something of a punter, but it’s a
pretty safe bet to say that if he has
anything to do with it the talk will re-
main talk.
Present composition of the Tasmanian
Assembly is “Labor,” 15; Liberal, 14;
Independent, 1. With a “Labor
member in the Speaker’s chair the Gov-
ernment is thus dependent on the whim
of the Independent Wedd, and has been
for three years. On the basis of the
Senate poll there is no reason to sup-
pose that an election (under proportional-
representation) would change this posi-
tion at all except, perhaps, to substitute
a Liberal for Mr. Wedd. They have
five-year Parliaments in Tasmania, and
Cosgrove still has two years to go.
• •
In his memoirs, now being serialised in
several Australian dailies, the Duke ot
Windsor recalls his father’s displeasure
at reports that when Ramsay MacDonald
became Prime Minister in 1924 he pre-
sided over a meeting of his supporters in
the Albert Hall at which the Bolshevik
anthem L’lnternationale was “enthusiasti-
cally sung.” The Labor Prime Minister ad-
mitted that the song had been sung and
said that it would also have been sung in
the House of Commons but for his own
restraining influence. He explained that
his followers “had lately got used to
singing that song, and it may take a little
time to break them of the habit.” History
does not record how long it took to
break the habit, but at least there was a
slight change. In 1945, when Attlee took
over the Prime Ministership, “Labor”
members rose in the Commons and sang
“The Red Flag.”
• •
If the new-State movement is really
flaring up in N.Q. and New England it’s
piobably inspired by recent N. S. Wales
and Queensland elections, and perhaps
by the Senate election. The Sydney and
Brisbane Governments are flat-out to
centralise everything they can, and their
attitude to road transport is a very sore
point in rural areas. As for the Senate,
obviously both N.Q. and N.E. would
do a lot better with Senators of their
own.
• •
On May 16 Tasmanian Premier Cos-
grove visited the small Dutch village of
Lutjegast to unveil a plaque in the village
church, presented by the State of Tas-
mania “in memory of Abel Janszen
Jasman, navigator, born at Lutjegast, in
1603, discoverer of Tasmahia on
November 24, 1642,” The whole neigh-
borhood turned out, Queen Juliana sent
a representative and two present-day
Abel Tasmans, father and son, were
among the guests-of-honor.
• •
“Delta” looks back:
I was a poll-clerk at that first Senate election,
when the ballot-paper contained fifty names
(B. 6/5/’53). There were many open voters,
some frankly illiterate, and some who had
forgotten their spectacles, but others were dis-
concerted by the long list of candidates, and
the new method of indicating the men they
wanted —at State elections they had struck out
the name of the man they didn’t want. There
used to be a certain amount of satisfaction in
wiping a man off the ballot-paper with one
stroke of the pencil. Nearly all the open voters
asked me to read the full names of all the
candidates, sometimes twice, before they could
choose six for whom to vote. There was an
unusually large roll-up of absentee voters at
my booth, and our small supply of absent-
voters’ ballot-papers and declaration forms was
soon used up. The only solution of the
difficulty was to take pen, ink, and paper, and
use hand-written ballot-papers. I have for-
gotten how many of these I wrote, but I read,
wrote and checked that list of candidates so
often that I can remember several of their
names to this day.
To Britain, 1953
How do we speak of Britain, who live on
Across the void of oceans and of years ?
Shall some Antipodean antiphon
Chant a dull dirge of fears ?
Shall the old blood of Wales or Sussex clot
Ere Britain’s weary heart can pump it through
The arteries of those whose sires forgot
The Old —but to remake it in the New ?
We gave our pledge in your each day of pain.
The world has heard it; surely Britain’s ear
Grasps more than misery’s lugubrious strain ?
There is no change'’with us; our pathway deaf.
The Britons’ blood-tie is beyond the mess
Of caucus order, dogma, party, spleen ;
For Southern Cross and Pole Star each caress
A Queensland paddock or a Devon green.
Such certain love persisted; no malaise
Of body or of spirit crushed it quite.
No transient anguish in the fettered days
Could snuff the candle, dull for long the light.
No prim homunculus to the woolsack born
Could cause by any ill-conditioned phrase
More than a moment’s anger; with the morn
Came toil with sun-up. Tomorrow would erase .
We do not tremble in this startled day
At elegies from pocket-borough lips.
If need for elegy, we still have Gray;
We are not pledged to canonise a Cripps.
The Jeremiahs from the quacking benches —
Tory or Socialist, there is blame for each —
Alarm us not. Our hand of friendship clenches
Three thousand leagues—not too far off to reach.
Our bayonets with yours flashed, thrust and vanished.
Thrice on your brow the victor’s chaplet wreathed.
Our peoples soon, your days of travail banished,
Will share with you what hopes the dead bequeathed.
We are the heritors of the vanished glory,
Seeing it clearer as the days drift by.
We wrote with you the volumes of your story
From hulks at Gravesend, or from crofts in Skye.
N s w .
ERIC BAUME.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“C.M.D.”: Many and varied are the
ways of achieving notoriety, but one of
the strangest was that adopted by the
squire of Witham-on-the-hill, in Lincoln-
shire. The bell-tower of St. Andrews
has a fine peal of bells, the treble-bell
of which has been the subject of con-
troversy for well over a hundred years—
it is engraved with the following inscrip-
tion:
Twas not to prosper pride or hate
R Jnpr. me ’
cut peace and joy to celebrate
And call to prayer to heaven to save ye,
Then keep these terms and e’er remember
May 25th ye must not ring,
STSS
The donor. General Johnson, presented
this bell to posterity soon after the death
of George IV; he is believed to have
suffered in some manner from that
monarch’s ministrations. Succeeding
generations of villagers have been placed
in a dilemma by his unusual method of
expressing his disgust. Their loyalty
comes periodically into conflict with the
expressed wish of their squire, and also
with the possible infernal wrath of the
departed warrior. So, since 1831 a cranky
general who achieved no fanie in
his chosen profession is periodically
“exhumed” through the medium of a
treble-bell; this crops up at each corona-
“A hundred-and-sixty-three—and one for the pot."
tion. As the ban refers only to the crown-
ing of a King here is perhaps the oppor-
tunity to give that treble-bell the most
unholy beating in honor of a Queen.
“Erbar”; Among Coronation celebra-
tions those of Warrnambool (Vic.) will
have one feature that should be unique,
Children of city and district schools in
appropriate costumes and with decorated
floats will, in a procession, represent
most of the countries in the British
Commonwealth. There’s nothing original
in that, but here’s the difference. Warr-
nambool’s Town Clerk, Mr. K. L. Arnel,
hit on the idea of sending to each of the
129 countries in the Commonwealth for
their national flag to be used in the pro-
cession. Response has been excellent,
and a collection of flags unequalled in
Australia has been got together. The same
eagerness of other countries to co-operate
has not been evinced by four
Australian States. The City
Council already has a Victorian
flag and Tasmania sent a 9ft.-by-
4|ft. State flag as a gift from the
Government. Queensland said
“No flag available” ; New South
Wales “Not possible to accede
to your request” ; South Aus-
tralia “No authority for expen-
diture on flags,” and West Aus-
tralia’s reply was “No provision
for expenditure..... but we can
get one made for you for £8 10s.
if you wish.” An interesting
sidelight was the reply from the
Governor of Gibraltar (Sir
Gordon H. A. MacMillan). He
said he was “glad to say that this
British colony is sufficiently old-
fashioned to be proud to live
finder the Union Jack, and I
have no doubt Warrnambool is
in possession of one.”
“Pat”; Is there any commercial under-
taking for which the Coronation is not
providing a terrific if transient financial
boom? The children, having received
their usual twopence apiece for an ice-
block, arrived home announcing that the
colored ice-blocks were now threepence
each and we owed the local shop an extra
twopence. “Coronation ice-blocks,” they
told us. “Red, white and blue, see?”
I remarked that 1 could not see why a
red-white-and-blue concoction should cost
more than the multicolored rainbow
, . ~ , , , , r A ,
brand they had been buying for the
past six months. But they’d been given
the answer to that one. “ ’Cos the white
part’s milk : they informed. "Extra
nourishmen t.
* *
“Doric”: Strange as it may seem, the
American accent didn’t originate in
America. I have just seen the film
“Plymouth Adventure,” and I noticed
that man Y °f the Mayflower passengers
spoke with a decided nasal twang before
the Y even embarked on their voyage to
the New World,
* A *
“Bo”: A year or so ago I reported in
these columns the Strange Case of the
Enclosure at Belmore Park, opposite
Sydney’s Central railway-station. Part
of the park was summarily comman-
deered for some mysterious unreason,
A paling fence—a most expensive one,
for it couldn’t possibly have been erected
without there being four pannikin-bosses
to every workman—shut the hallowed
ground off from the vulgar gaze, and this
was topped by several layers of barbed-
wire; then what looked like a dilapi-
dated fowl-house was installed in it I
adduced several possible causes for this
action, botanical and otherwise. I over-
looked the obvious: that the City Fathers
had launched an experiment to determine
if the reverberations caused by the near-
by underground trains would gravely
affect the stability of the fowl-house,
Presumably it fell down, thus justifying
their action. Anyway, the structure has
now been spirited away and the weeds
are thriving. There doesn’t appear to be
an entrance into the thing, so it is assumed
that those aldermen who want to find
out if the braking of trains going down
the incline into the tunnel is causing
pollution of the air inside the enclosure
have to get in by throwing themselves
down and bouncing over the fence. Per-
haps they’re waiting now for the fence
to fall down
“Now you've found it what are you going to do with it ?”
“Brick E.”: We were having lunch.
Idly the apprentice glanced at an advert,
on the newspaper which had been
wrapped around his fish-’n’-chips, and
asked: “What’s this chloro-something
that they’re putting in toothpaste now?”
The job know-all came in with a rush;
“Chlorophyll? It is chlorophyll that
makes the grass green. Without
chloro” “Green!” interrupted the
apprentice. “Stone the crows, I’ve put
up with my sheilah dying her hair yeller
and painting her fingernails red, but if
she starts coming at green teeth I’m
ditching her! ”
“Tasmaniac”: That form of advertis-
ing reported by “Sack”—“Scaffolding by
M—” (B. 6/ 5 1 ’53) —is by no means new.
A Melbourne man, Whelan by name,
was an exponent whose notices were
something more than utilitarian; they
compared with Caesar’s utterance —“I
came. I- saw. I conquered.” Whelan’s
job was demolishing old buildings. His
first notice would be erected before the
first blow was struck: Whelan the
Wrecker Is Coming. Next, while bricks,
mortar and timber crumbled, splintered
and fell, and dust rose: Whelan the
Wrecker Is Here. And finally, the build-
ing wrecked, its bones carted away, the
last simple notice would tell the passer-
by who stared with curiosity at the
empty gap: Whelan the Wrecker Was
Here.
♦♦♦ <♦
“Tom”: Hollywood did not necessarily
play tricks with history in “Captain
Blood” in having an Italian pirate
operating in the West Indies in the 17th
century (B. 6/5/’53). Naples, Sicily,
and Milan were then possessions of the
Spanish Crown, and most of the nominally
independent States in Italy were Spanish
satellites. The Spanish and Neapolitan
diplomatic services were interchangeable.
Italians served in the Spanish armed
forces, some in high posts—Doha,
Spinola, Parma, for example. It is there-
fore quite probable that there were
Italians among the settlers and officials
in Spanish America, so why not an
Italian pirate?
♦> ♦+♦ ♦>
“Hoppy”: So the R.A.A.F. is to train
crews in the art of dropping bread
wrapped merely in protective covering of
paper and bagging—no parachutes. ’Way
back about the time the Japs harassed
our back door, a Wirra squadron used
the free-drop for all manner of articles
needed by radar-posts and stranded air-
men. For a long time the daily flight in
the much-maligned reliable wonder-crate,
followed the pattern of the anti-sub. run
to Bathurst Island at first glimmer, with a
couple of two-fifties, also bags of meat,
bread and mail beside the gunner-sparks-
navigator-dropper in the draughty rear
seat xhe f ash i o n among the drivers
0Q reaching the small listening-camps
around the coasts, was to paddle along a
few yards above the tents and endeavor
to lob the loaves handy to the table,
Often the boys on the ground ringed a
line between gum poles, and the mail,
perhaps a crab or two along with greet-
ings, were taken aloft by means of a hook
hanging a bit lower and aft of the bombs,
Tins of fruit have been dropped to bailed-
out blokes ; some cans burst upon arrival
although others, tossed singly, became
bent about, but retained contents. Bis-
cuit-bombers were an essential feature of
the Kokoda campaign, and even as late
as 1945 A.N.A. mail-planes were drop-
ping comforts —ice-cream, hams and so
forth —with the daily pagers all along the
north coast of New Guinea.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mem”: Sidelights on hospital life:
Is any medical term more often misrep-
resented by the laity than that useful
sedative, phenobarbital? Fillumbar, sen-
nibar, trinnibar and preenobarb are
among the titles more commonly
bestowed by patients. Then there is the
patient who wants a “sustificate” for
“twisted nerves of the stomach”; the
deceased relative upon whom a “port
mortal” was performed, and the new
mother with that painful complication,
white leg {Phlegmasia alba dolens to the
profession), “because all the milk went
to my leg, nurse!” Hospital life has
been complicated by the influx of New
Aussies. Nicholas, a Greek, admitted to
the ward, is left in the bathroom by a
harassed nurse, given a “bottle” for a
specimen, and told to undress. On return-
ing, the probationer finds the new patient
standing in the bath, ladling the water
shower-fashion over himself with the
gleaming receptacle.
*l* ❖ ❖
H. A. Lindsay: The Victorian Museum
of Applied Science, in collaboration with
the Department of Civil Aviation, plans
to commemorate this year the jubilee of
the first heavier-than-air flight of the
Wright Brothers at Kitty Hawk, U.S.A.
In the display, prominence will be given
to the part played in aeroplane-design
by Lawrence Hargrave in Australia.
Contrary to the general idea, Hargrave’s
model aeroplanes did little towards solv-
ing the problem, apart from the fact that
he invented, quite casually, the principle
of the rotary engine when he was seeking
a lightweight power-plant to drive some
of his models by compressed air. It was
a vastly different story with his box-kites.
In one of them —now preserved in
Sydney Technological Museum—he used
a curved wing-surface and thus discovered
that this, the forerunner of the modern
aerofoil wing-section, had three times
the lift of a flat one. This curved wing
was used by the Wright Brothers in their
first aeroplane. Now comes the snag.
The Wrights acknowledged their debt to
Hargrave’s discovery, and the Museum
would like to use a photostat copy of
this acknowledgment in their display, but
nobody can recall where it was published.
Can anyone help?
A STRETCH OF GIRAFFES
“An American expedition to Africa will
measure the blood-pressure of giraffes, which
pump blood 10ft. to 14ft, from heart to brain,
creating, in theory, blood-pressure that would
kill any other animal, including man.”
Don’t be, my son, a total wreck —
Refrain from sticking out your neck.
Take warning from the camel-leopard ; he
Puts his life in constant jeopardy.
When toasts are drunk and healths are
cried
He has to leave his spots outside.
He cannot smoke, but fumes instead, in
Foiled attempts to pull his head in.
And even though he’s well-designed
For necking, and that way inclined,
His choice is, either busted artery.
Or having his affairs-of-heart awry.
What a decision, that, to take —
To have one’s heart bust t or to break!
What a reflection on one’s loyalty
When everybody’s praising Royalty
To be a British-born giraffe
Graced to fly flags on one’s own staff
And yet perforce forgo the pleasure:
“Sorry, your Majesty — blood-pressure,”
And have to wish to Britain’s daughter
That blood had been less thick than
water !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Connie Sewer”; To “Mark Heim’s”
list of plagiarisms of “Earth lie lightly
on her, for lightly she lay on thee”
should be added Guedalla’s epitaph on
le Gallienne and the team of poets of
the 1890’s who practised gallantry in
artificial French forms: “Earth, lie
lightly on them, for lying lightly was
their forte!”
♦♦♦ ♦> $
“Zake”: Another beautifully simple
shop-racket (B. 6/5/’53), soundly based
on the known reactions of Homo sapiens
when he has a girl with him, was widely
practised with great dexterity by our
“Nothing exciting in the news these days."
milk-bar owner. When a gallant
ordered a couple of flavored milk-shakes
he would prepare the doings, then reach
under the counter, whip out a couple
of eggs balanced between middle fingers
and thumbs, ask “One or two?” and be-
fore his customer could get an answer
out he’d have one goog busted and
already in the drink, the other poised,
Almost before he could think the victim
would signify that one egg (which he
hadn’t wanted, anyway) would be
enough. I never knew a customer
aggressive enough to order him to dredge
the egg out of the drink or prepare a
fresh drink, just as he had ordered it.
“Q. Ree”: Some chap in America has
just written a book proving the natural
superiority of women. He said it could
be sub-titled “What Every Woman
Knows,” as women have known it for a
long time. I have often told my husband
that the works would be much better off
if most of the men were replaced by their
wives. His reply is that there is one major
drawback. Imagine how much work
would be done when the manager wasn’t
speaking to the assistant-manager, the
assistant-manager to the foreman, the
foreman to the secretary and the tele
phonist wasn’t speaking to any of them!
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“W.D.F.”: My boss is a stickler for
the right things (carnation in the button-
hole and all that), and is always meticu-
lously dressed for the daily round. More-
over, he is strictly a 9-to-5 man,
and never to be approached in-
side or outside the office except
between those hours. When I
received a Sunday-morning
summons to go to see him at
once on an important office
matter I cursed and growled at
having to rip off the beard, moaned
at putting on a clean shirt, clean
underwear and dean socks —at my wife’s
insistence. Thence followed a quick dash
to the boss’s place. His wife let me in
and informed me he was in his “work-
shop.” He was, too —in the dingiest pair
of dungarees that ever disgraced a
garage ; he had a greasy old scalp-pro-
tector on his head, and on sighting my
well-dressed self he slammed on an appro-
priately disgruntled look. “No wonder
there are so many blasted ulcers around,”
he snapped. “Haven’t you yet learned
to relax at weekends?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wilken”; The first Bulletin cheque
I ever banked, 40-odd years ago, wasn’t
mine. My Dad ran a pub. Late one
afternoon a bloke with a neat knapsack
strapped across his shoulders came in
for a drink. He was hot and dusty.
Walking from Toolangi to the railway
at Yarra Glen (Vic.) was a goodly tramp,
but this chap was fond of walking. His
unusual get-up impressed me as much
as the cheque he passed over the bar-
counter. My Dad’s eyelids flickered, then
he stared admiringly for a moments
before passing over a pen and ink. Duly
endorsed, the cheque went into the till.
Next day I was sent to the bank with
the pay-in. The cheque was made out
to and endorsed by C. J. Dennis,
“Chevroford”: In the good old days
when there was only one car to ten
people instead of ten cars to one-and-a-
half I regularly parked my car in the
lane behind my office. I did it for years
before an inspector booked me. A friend
told me to answer the charge in person,
The magistrate, he said, would be so
flattered at this unusual respect for his
office that he would probably let me off
for nothing. I did so. After a dozen
names had been called with no appear-
ance and the p.m. had muttered: “Twenty
shillings and costs,” a dozen times, I
heard my name shouted. ’Sonah nearly
fell off his seat when I answered, but
he listened politely while the charge was
read and equally politely while I gave a
lame explanation as to how I came to
leave the car in the lane. “Well, you’ll
know better next time, Mr. Chevroford,”
he murmured, “ Thirty shillings and costs.
Next please.”
“Sam”: I dare say Norman Lindsay
drew the hard-bitten victor of his cat
cartoon (B. 22/4/’53) from imagination.
Nonetheless the creature has a living
double. The defeated black-and-white
“Have you had a hard day, darling?”
was, of course, a common type; several
Toms in my neighborhood could have
served as the model for him. But as to
the victor —well, while walking in Bur-
wood (N.S.W.) I saw on a gatepost the
very cat —a pearly tabby with the identi-
cal broad, scarred countenance. And as
I looked him over he grinned precisely
as did his counterpart in the final scene
of the Lindsay cartoon.
♦ ❖ ❖
“Tasmaniac”: Similar to the bloke
who, when the pub was raided, dived out
of the window, stunned himself, and
dived back in again (B. 13/5/’53) was
George Budd, the eccentric medico who
was once a partner of Conan Doyle.
Budd was an unpredictable man, and
never more so than when he was drunk.
It was difficult to tell when he was drunk,
for he could still walk and run as
straight as when he was sober, but he
would suddenly and unconsciously com-
pletely change direction. One night he
asked a railway-clerk a question and
then, before the man could answer,
punched him on the nose. Th 6 clerk’s
yell brought a policeman, and the two
chased the aggressor. But Budd, a Uni-
versity athlete, outstripped them in spite
of his drunkenness. They s.topped for
a blow, and to their amazement, Budd
came sprinting back to them, unaware
that he had changed direction. Hauled
up before the Beak, he pleaded his case
so persuasively that he got off with a
small fine, then entertained police and
witnesses at the pub.
❖ ❖
“Pie-eater”: Overheard at the finish
of the last Amateur Cyclists’ Union’s
open road race; “So I said to him, Tt
looks as though you can’t choose between
that bike and me.’ But he could, so 1
won’t be going out with him any more.”
* ❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: Picasso’s much-pub-
licised “sculpture” of a goat made from
the handlebars of a bicycle isn’t the first
attempt to make a work of art out of
that surprising vehicle. Years ago the
Sydney artist George Finey showed at a
Fifteen Group exhibition a sculpture or
construction or something formed of the
wheel of a bicycle, to which were attached
little doll-like human figures, all looking
rather giddy. I think it represented the
Wheel of Life or the Cycle of the
Universe, but it continued to look
remarkably like the wheel of a bicycle.
* ❖ ❖
“Claremont”: An addendum to the
account of the attempted assassination
of the Duke of Edinburgh at Clontarf
(B. 13/5/’53). A second shot lodged in
the foot of Mr. George Thorne, of Clare-
mont, Rose Bay, who was near the Duke
when O’Farrell fired. There is a story
in the family that the bullet was extracted
and Queen Victoria expressed a wish to
see it, so it was sent to her. It was
returned to Mr. Thorne and is now in
possession of his grandson.
“I. Askew”; Noticing some dates neatly
packed in transparent paper on which
was printed BLACK SWAN DATES
accompanied by a sizeable picture of the
bird, I was interested. “Westralian
dates?” I bought a packet. They were
good dates, too, but they weren’t grown
in W.A, In smaller print I found “Packed
in Basra, Iraq.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“P.W.R.”: When in the early years
of the century I went for my second-
mate’s ticket I found that some wit had
conceived the brilliant idea of prefacing
the exam, by giving candidates a short
piece of dictation. The object, I believe,
was to keep foreigners out of the officer-
class of the Merchant Service. I don’t
know how it worked with the foreigners
—but it resulted in my being turfed out
three times running before I even got a
good look at the barrier. When I did
finally manage to struggle through and
went to the veteran London examiner.
Captain Saul, for my hard-earned blue
paper he said “Turn round, lad, and let
me have a look at you.” I did as
directed. He eyed me carefully, and
then said “No, there’s no signs of any
bulge.” I stared at him. “Well,” he
explained, “I thought maybe that this
time you’d swallowed a dictionary.”
❖' ❖ ❖
“NX Mick”: When the A.I.F. dis-
pensed with Robbo’s services he received,
in addition to normal clothing-ration
coupons, a booklet on which was red-
printed “250 SPECIAL CLOTHING COUPONS
—discharged personnel.” Newly back
at his old job counter-jumping in the
manchester department he was measuring
flannelette when he noticed, upside-down,
his customer’s red-printed booklet. So
he chattily reported “I’ve just used a lot
of those coupons myself, madam.” His
atebrin-tinted face took on the hue of
the coupons when he received them and
read, right way up, “250 special cloth-
ing COUPONS —PRE-NATAL ISSUE.”
*X* * ❖
“Vingter”: As the party reached the
torrid stages and weaklings were wilting,
he stood almost alone as a perfect example
of a gentleman who could hold his
liquor. Calmly he mixed the grape and
the grain with seeming impunity, and,
with faultless articulation, proceeded to
debunk the old fallacy of the dangers of
mixing drinks. Some people, he said,
would get drunk no matter how little or
what kind of liquor they consumed.
Physical metabolism had nothing to do
with it; it was all a matter of willpower.
He poured himself a double Scotch and
promptly measured his length on the %
carpet. Jonesy, who gets sozzled on the
smell of the cork, had listened in adula-
tion. He now resorted to vigorous face-
slapping and copious applications of cold
water in a vain attempt to reawaken the
fallen idol. Someone suggested calling
a doctor. “He is a doctor!” expostulated
Jonesy. When it was pointed out that
the physician was forthe nonce incapable
of healing himself Jonesy still refused to
see his idol’s feet of clay. “The poor
cow’s not drunk,” he explained. “He’s
just run out of willpower!”
COPPED!
That new body-rattle.
The loud back-seat prattle,
The bloke behind, tooting his horn;
The bang of a blow-out
That means parting dough out
When tyre is all tattered and torn;
The crash of your humper-
Bar taking a thumper —
Such noises will scarcely disturb
Compared with the flared-out,
The savagely blared-out:
“You, driver—pull inta the kerb /”
His visage rubific,
His voice quite terrific,
A figure of Jovian wrath,
The way he’s behaving
While rabidly waving
You fear at the mouth he will froth.
Yovill note, while lamenting
That he’ll be accenting —
Yea, double-accenting—the verb,
When, others ignoring,
At you he’ll be roaring:
“You, driver, pull inta the kerb!"
You steer for the gutter,
Your stomach a-flutter,
Your heart sinking down to your boots.
You know he’ll be thinking
That you have been drinking,
He just looks like one of those coots.
For licence you fumble
And something you mumble.
Your wife says: “I told you so,
Herb r
Oh, Fate that befalls you
When traffic-cop calls you:
“You, driver —pull inta the kerb /”
His signal you might’ve
By some means lost' sight of —
You may, by unluckiest chance,
At the time on some cutie
Of singular beauty
Let fall an pppreciative glance.
Without hesitation
Give this explanation,
Ifs better than hullo or blurb.
It might get him routed!
What, then, that he’d shouted:
“Hey, you—pull in there to the
kerb !" ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Keep in
GOOD
spirit 5
(ytlancta
( w«i ,srß£NoTtl
"hospital
b «AN DY
PERSONAL ITEMS
A Brisbane man, A. B. Brown, be-
comes Oxford’s mayor for Coronation
year ; and, at 42, its youngest. Brown
shifted Oxfordwards from Geelong
Grammar in 1931, was called to the Inner
Temple Bar and came back to practise
in Sydney for two years from 1936.
Now he’s a Fellow of Worcester College,
Oxford, and lecturer in law there. His
father, Harold Brown, was well-known
in Australian shipping.
Old Digger F. W. Jackson, also
in Australian shipping, has retired, after
25 years with Shaw Savill. Earlier with
the Commonwealth Line, he was joint-
manager in Australia for Shaw Savill
when he handed in his articles.
Yi-Kwei Sze, the Chinese basso now
touring Australia for the A.8.C., began
his musical training at the Shanghai Con-
servatorium, making his American debut
at New York’s Carnegie Hall four years
ago after concert-giving in China up till
the Japanese invasion, and, in Hong Kong
during World War 11, hundreds of con-
certs for Chinese and British relief-work.
He is a serious singer with an obvious
leaning to songs of some profundity, and
he has dropped into the Western style
with remarkable ease. His mastery of
diction in several Occidental languages is
CHINESE BASS
a tribute to his indefatigable study. His
wife, Nancy Lee Sze, who is his accom-
panist during his tour, was his fellow-
student at Shanghai. Not shown by artist
Binder —the mouthful of cough-jubes with
which the singer was striving to subdue
his first Australian cold.
“Fitz”: Louis Lavater, poet and scholar,
writer of essays and short stories, composer
and teacher of music, has passed on at 86.
He was born at St. Kilda (Vic.) in 1867 —the
same year as Henry Lawson —and was educated
at St. Kilda Grammar, Wesley College and
Melbourne University. He studied music and
at 21 was secretary of the Centennial Exhibi-
tion Orchestral Committee. In 1912 Lavater
was appointed librarian and examiner of the
Musical Society of Victoria, and became a
vice-president of that body. The Guild of
Australian Composers was founded by him, and
he was a leading member of the Association
of Music Teachers of Victoria and the Mel-
bourne Writers’ Club. Various Victorian news-
papers printed his lively musical criticisms, and
he adjudicated in musical competitions at
eisteddfods in different Australian States. It
was Lavater who composed the music for the
five old bush songs collected by “Banjo”
Paterson and printed in Paterson’s Swagman’s
Treasure, published in 1937.
The Bulletin knew Lavater best as a con-
tributor of verse and occasional Red Page
articles. Three'books of his verse were pub-
lished: Blue Days and Grey Days (1915),
A Lover’s Ephemeris (1917) and This Green
Mortality (1923). He is represented in six
anthologies, edited the Melbourne magazine
“Verse” and was associated with R. A.
Broinowski’s “The Spinner.” His major achieve-
ment, probably, was his editorship of the
anthology The Sonnet in Australasia (1926), in
which he drew attention to the predilection of
Australian poets for the sonnet as a verse-form.
David McKee Wright used to say kindly of
him that he had “a feeling for green places,”
but Arthur H. Adams complained that he
wrapped everything up in “myrrh and rose-
leaves and lavender.” Yet his warmth and tender-
ness and intimate knowledge of nature earn
him a place in the history of Australian litera-
ture. Twenty-seven years ago, when he was
getting his anthology of sonnets ready for the
press, I did him a small service. He rewarded
me with a most gracious letter of thanks written
in a clear and flowing hand, and an autographed
photo. I still have the photo, that of a
bearded, kindly looking gentleman of sixty, with
a high starched collar and a magnificent watch-
chain. It was a pleasure to have known him.
The oldest soldier to march in Perth
on the annual parade of the South
African and Imperial Veterans was 93-
year-old Harry Hills. Still active and
straight as a barrel, with a full issue of
greying hair, he joined the Cape Mounted
Rifles in 1878, and later the 3rd Dragoon
Guards. His war service was with the
Camel Corps of the expedition which
fought its way up the Nile and reached
Khartoum, just too late to rescue General
Gordon. A farmer for many years in
Westralia, the old-timer sold his property
and retired only three years ago.
A. W. Coles having had enough,
Patrick Leslie Coleman, M.L.C., mounts
the uneasiest throne in Melbourne —
chairmanship of the Olympic Games
control committee. If he can control
his controllers (when last heard
of they were discussing a dozen or so
suggested sites for the Olympic Pool),
he could do a good job. He
sandwiches the big task of financing
and constructing stadia and accommoda-
tion for the army of athletes between
membership of the City Council, two or
three of its committees, his duties as
Minister for Transport (to which have
been added Assistant-Treasurer during
Premier Cain’s coronating), hotelkeeping
and an accountancy business and life-
governorships of the Blind Institute and
two hospitals. He has been chairman of
the Commonwealth Salvage Commission,
a member of the War-time Business
Board, Board of Works and other bodies.
Born at St. Kilda in 1895, he was with
the R.A.A.F. in the late war.
A cheerful cleric of medium size and
maximum energy, Geoffrey Berwick,
Anglican Dean of Perth since 1947, is
packing-up to return to England. A
Cambridge graduate, he was choral
scholar of King’s College and a recog-
nised authority on church history and
music before moving to Westralia.
While in Perth he was responsible for
extending the usefulness of St. George’s
Cathedral, and did much to encourage
the use of oratorios, and the staging of
religious plays in the Cathedral; An-
other of his interests was the develop-
ment of religious films.
Rev. Walter Albiston, Federal presi-
dent of the Congregational Union of
Australia and New Zealand, was born
at Moonee Ponds (Vic.), and, except for
a war-time period as staff-chaplain of
the R.A.A.F,, has done most of his
service in Victoria, in his early days
mainly on horseback in the Robbery
Under Arms country. Things were
rough; in a pub in a mining
settlement where he sang hymns and
then look up a collection he found
nothing but trouser-buttons in the plate
when the schoolmaster returned it. The
reverend gentleman was not nonplussed.
He announced that all drinks were on
him. Soft drinks were poured, and the
drinkers toasted him. Then he pulled the
trouser-buttons out of his pocket and
slammed them on the bar. “That’s what
they gave the Lord,” he said, “and if it’s
good enough for the Lord it’s good
enough for the publican.” At Bung’s
request the crowd put their bobs in and
the Rev. Walter took his biggest collec-
tion.
“Standby” on a beef-man:
A man who can claim to know as much
about the beef situation as any man in Queens-
land is Alexander Hugh Paterson, for 30 ye ar
manager of the Central Queensland Meat
Export Co. (Lakes Creek), Rockhampton. Six-
teen at the time, he joined the staff in f° yi >
when fat bullocks were selling for about 50s. per
head. In those days operations at Lakes CreeK
were confined to preserving and freezing, lue
so-called “chilling-room” was open on three
sides to the breeze and in this building sides of
beef hung from the time they were killed until
they were manhandled into the freezing-room
next morning. Needless to say the losses from
bone-taint were heavy during the hot weather.
In 1901 a London company bought the
works and introduced modern killing methods,
but by 1926 this company was so hard hit by
the depression that Paterson was instructed to
close down. He retained three men as care-
takers and, having no idea where his _ next
month’s salary was to come from, cabled the
London owners in Latin, “We who are about
to die salute.” The reply, also in Latin,
expressed the hope that, like the phoenix, the
works would rise again from their own ashes.
Eventually they did so, but the ashes smouldered
for 18 months before Lakes Creek came to
life again.
In 1928, using his power of attorney for the
old company, Paterson finalised negotiations
with William Angliss for the purchase of the
works and the pastoral properties attaching to
it. Reappointed as manager by the new
owners, he was faced with the difficult job of
gathering the scattered employees and winning
back numerous cattle clients. The present pay-
roll of nearly 2200 men and women and the
output of the canning department (15 to 20
million cans a year) show how well he succeeded.
Paterson’s father (also Alexander) managed
the works from 1890 to 1898, when he retired
to become member for Capricornia in the First
Federal Parliament. The son is a quiet, frail-
looking man, liked and respected by cattlemen
from one end of Queensland to the other.
The late John Higginson, of The
Bulletin staff, used to say that, despite
no ziff, Gordon Trollope (here pictured
by Such) made him think of
Spy’s “Vanity Fair” caricature of
Anthony Trollope, published in 1873/
Grandson of Anthony, Gordon has
done quite a bit of writing him-
self; has had stories published in
The Bulletin, “Sydney Mail” and else-
where, and has written “Red Page,” wool-
trade and “Plain English” articles,
besides reams of “Man on the Land”
pars. He spent most of his life in the
wool-trade, and still thinks wool is a
lovely substance —synthetics regardless.
In later days Gordon has been growing
things himself —as a nurseryman on
Sydney’s north-shore line. Friend
of Harold Mercer, Percy Lindsay,
“T. the R.” and other Bulletin
men in the lower-George-street days,
Gordon entered a novel in this paper’s
first competition in 1929. It received
no mention ; but, rewritten in spasms, it
was sent Overseas, to be sent back for
shortening. That job done, the book was
GRANDSON OF TROLLOPE
redispatched, this time to be submarined
in war-time waters. Then came the
heartbreaking discovery that in moving
from one house to another the main part
of the copy had been inadvertently
dumped. Branxfield may be finished
yet, but when one is climbing close to
the 70-mark, it’s hard to flog the creative
brain into productiveness.
Having done a deal of weathering in
his 35 years, V. J. Bahr, a Brisbaner, gets
one of the weather-world’s top-flight
meteorological posts administrative
chief of the World Meteorological
Organisation, headquartered in Geneva.
A Queensland University man, first with
the Brisbane Bureau, Bahr was forecast-
ing with the war-time R.A.A.F. in the
Pacific, after the war took his M.Sc.
from his old university, then shifted to
Tasmania, deputy-director of met. ser-
vices, making Antarctic weather—the
Heard and Macquarie Island brand —
his particular interest.
BRIAN WALKER,
at 27 chief-chemist at Shell’s new
laboratory at the huge refinery at
Clyde, Sydney. Dabbles with petrol,
fuel-oil , lubricating-oil and bitumen.
Object — volatility, octane-rating and
clarity.
An enviable “first” has been scored
by Bruce Toomba Mayes, Professor of
Obstetrics at Sydney University—award
of the Sims-Black Professorship of the
Royal College of’ Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists, London. The first Aus-
tralian to land it, Mayes hails from Too-
woomba, on the Queensland Downs.
In 1927 the collected Sydney Uni.’s
Windeyer prize for obstetrics. Going to
London from the Royal Hospital for
Women on a Walter and Eliza Hall
travelling fellowship, he garnered further
experience at Frankfurt-am-Main, and
in 1931 returned as obstetrics lecturer to
his old hospital in Sydney. Professor in
the science since 1940, he has done much
research work, written two text-books,
and is a Fellow of both the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons (Edinburgh) and the
R.A.C.S., and member of the Royal
College of Obstetricians and Gynaeco-
logists, which body awarded him his
latest prize. He’ll use it to lecture in the
U.K, next year.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 46, Duncan John McWhirter,
joint managing-director of the big store in the
Valley. Grandson of the founder, DJ. joined
the family business at 19, got his experience
with Selfridges in London, and in the silk
factories of Lyons (France). A keen rotanan
and member of most of Brisbane’s clubs..
In Perth, at 85, Arthur Johnston Barclay,
veteran Methodist Minister, and one of the
founders of the Methodist Inland Mission,
which he had seen develop from the horse-and-
buggy stage to the present aeroplane service
based on Meekatharra. One-time president of
the Westralian Methodist Conference, he was
the only member of that body to become
President-General of the Methodist Church ot
Australia.
At Midland Junction (W.A.), at 85, David
Doig, a cousin of Sir James Barrie, with whom
he grew up at Kirriemuir (Scotland). For some
years Doig ran a bakery at Busselton, which
he named “The Window in Thrums,” after
his relative’s book.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 77, knight Thomas
Alexander Hunter, who was connected with
Victoria College for 46 years, firstly as lecturer
in mental science, philosophy and economics,
ending as principal of the college about five
years ago. Sir Thomas was vice-chancellor of
the N.Z. University, helped in the formation
of that valuable aid to farmers, Massey College,
and took a leading part in the workers’ educa-
tional association, one of his pupils being Peter
Fraser. His diversion from educational work
was exploration among Fernland’s mountains.


THE GIRL WHO WENT


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; The Gunner had been
dispatched to town early that morning
on a special mission for the boss’s missus.
It was only five miles and the mission
itself shouldn’t have taken more than ten
minutes, so when The Gunner didn’t
return till about 4 p.m. and was pretty
well tanked the boss wanted to know
things. “Well, it’s like this,” The G. said,
“When I get t’ the post-office I find I’ve
lost that fiver y’r missus give me t’ wire
away, so I do some worryin’. Then I
recollect I got me bank-book with me
an’ I’m right in the savin’s bank, so I
draw a fiver an’ send that orf. Reckon
I’ll tell y’ 4bout it when I get back an’
chance whether y’r missus’ll part up or
not. So I send the wire an’ hop on me
horse an’ head back. Strike me fat if I
ain’t canterin’ over that little sandhill
just out o’ town an’ there’s the five notes
layin’ be the track, where they must ha’
fell from me pocket. Was I pleased!
Back I go t’ town an’ there y’ are.” The
boss looked at him. “What do you mean,
there I am?” he demanded. “Well,”
strike me fat,” said The G., “a man
don’t find a fiver every day. Y’ can’t
blame me f’r celebratin’ a bit, now can
y ’?”
# * * *
“Bass”: I’ve been waiting for some-
one more qualified to discuss the relation
between the newest toothpaste-ingredient
and one of Nature’s most ingenious safety
devices. Among many wild animals,
when the female produces young her
body-odor vanishes or becomes negligible,
and for a time she enjoys an immunity
from her natural enemies. Is this due
to the action of chlorophyll, and, if so,
does the animal seek some source of
that substance of her own volition, or
is the stuff produced by the action of
some gland? I’d favor the gland theory.
because some animals also lose all sense
of taste at the birth of their young, and
that sounds like gland action. Body-odor
could be destroyed by a similar gland.
* * * *
“Koreelah”: Just how many gates can
a man manage when he’s drafting sheep?
Like everybody else, I kicked off on a
race with a single gate, drafting into two
lots; that’s easy. Then L got on to a
race with two gates, taking the sheep off
three ways; easy enough, also. Went
from there to a property where the wool-
shed-yards had a three-gate race, making
it possible to run the sheep off four ways ;
“Won't he long now —Harry's just mixing the rum-punch .”
and when I could draft full-woolled
Merinos, by earmarks, as fast as the
men could send them through I reckoned
I wasn’t doing so badly. Then one of the
boys weighed-in with a description of a
race he’d seen, which had a small spring-
gate set into one side as well, making it
possible to run off five lots, the fifth being
a small line, such as stragglers or sheep
cast for age. Now —unless my well-
seasoned leg is getting the stretching of
its long career —I’m told that some of
the big stations have a race where the
drafter sits on a platform, working three
gates with his hands and two more with
his feet. I’m willing to believe it —there
being no limit to what some men will
do to make their lives miserable —but
I’d be a lot happier if some member of
the Council could tell if, and where, such
a relic of the Inquisition exists. I just
want to go along and watch the operator
one hot day when the flies are bad, the
sweat is trickling into his eyes and he’s
got a mob of ewes and lambs alternately
stalling in the race and belting into the
gates in supercharged clumps. Yes, I’d
really like to see that.
* * * ♦
“Salmon Gums”: {Calgoorlie is arrang-
ing a celebration for June 17 to 20 to
mark the 60th anniversary of some of
the most important finds on the eastern
goldfields. Hannan’s was found on June
17, 1893, and the same year yielded the
45-mile, 25-milc, 20-mile, Broad Arrow,
Kanowna and Siberia. Hannan’s was
the most important, but Siberia may have
been the most valuable —not in gold won,
but in the lessons it taught. That rush
demonstrated tragically that men couldn’t
venture into the desert in the dry season
without an assured water-supply. The
four men who made the strike reached
Coolgardie with about 50 ounces about
the end of October, which is well into
the summer in those parts. They made
no secret of the find, but they wouldn’t
return to it themselves and advised others
not to —said there wasn’t a drop of water
in the vicinity of the find. But the rush
started and many got through. A lot of
them didn’t get back. The last 40 miles
to the find was completely waterless, and
that’s a long way when you’re dry and
the route lies over a blistering sandplain.
Charles Renou, who was in charge of the
water-supply on the goldfields, carted
water out with camels and saved a lot of
lives, but he and his men buried 10 who
died of thirst and saw where many more,
thirst-crazed, had left the track and
wandered off into the desert. Those who
got back called the place Siberia. It’s
still that.
* * * *
“M.H.E.”: I have often wondered
about the meaning of the name koala.
Paterson, who reported the first specimen
which can specifically be identified in
1804, gave the word as “cooler.” Earlier
—in the Wilson journal of 1798 —an
“You can't Watch th ’ test-flight, ’cos it's still on th' secret list.”
animal called the “cullawine” is men-
tioned as having been seen on the Upper
Hawkesbury. It is described as being
like the American “stoth,” but this
may have been due to miscopying. If it
meant “sloth” it was probably Old Uncle
Gum Tip. In the Port Jackson language,
according to the early vocabularies,
“culloa” meant to climb. The “wine”
termination in inland tongues seems to
have signified an animal, in which case
koala may have been a variation culled
from some adjacent tribal tongue mean-
ing “climber.” However, Paterson’s
“cooler” is the first version authenti-
cated,
* ♦ ♦ *
“K.”: That “freak” eucalyptus which
had two vastly different types of leaves
(B. 6/5/’ 53) isn’t uncommon. A
number of eucalypts have wide fleshy
leaves until they’re a few years old, and
then change to the leaf by which the
species can be known. The bluegum is
probably the most conspicuous example.
There ure some in W.A., too. Illyarrie,
for instance, a yellow-flowering variety,
has a wide, thick-fleshed, pimply leaf in
its early stages. Later it develops a long
slender leaf. To a botanist these juvenile
leaves show the ancestry of the tree —
apparently they’re a reversion to primitive
type. Often when a tree is chopped
down the suckers which it sends out
have these young leaves, or if a tree is
injured in any way they may appear.
Sometimes an adult tree will send out
young shoots of them from the lower
trunk,
♦ * * *
“Sebak”; When I read the American
expression “playing possum” I do not
get the impression the writer intends to
convey: a badly wounded little animal
pretending to be dead, enduring brutal
kicks, bashes with a stick, even worry-
ings from a dog, until the attacker decides
the victim is dead —and unwittingly
allows it to escape. No; to me, “play-
ing possum” is almost synonymous with
“acting the galah.” The Australian
possum shares his feathered compatriot’s
idea of fun and games. The technique
seems to be to select an iron-roofed
domicile, preferably occupied by men
who have earned a night’s sleep, then
proceed to frolic, gambol, have slippery-
slides and generally play chase-me-
Charlie thereon. When galahs get going
it’s time the blokes were up, anyway,
but the furry fellows can, and
generally do, give a whole night’s per-
formance. Still, I recall one silver-grey
who went too far —too far down the
skillion of the sleep-out veranda. Evi-
dently deciding on his next routine he
sat in the guttering with his western
elevation overhanging, andj silhouetted
against the moon. It was his bad luck
that our visitor was a beanpole youth
about 6ft. 2in. tall who wanted to get
some sleep after a strenuous afternoon’s
tennis. The long-’un’s irate eyes beheld
the tempting vision. Stealthily he left
the stretcher, picked up his racquet,
sneaked to the edge of the veranda, stood
on tiptoes, leaned out, and —whoosh!
He “served” that possum clean across
the roof. Did it end the midnight
frolics? Not on your life! It seemed
to have been just what was required to
give the party a real zip.
♦ ♦ ♦ .»
“Zake”: The National Trust of Aus-
tralia (N.S.W.), a body formed a few
years ago with the object of preserving
historic buildings and places of natural
beauty, has turned its attention to the
need for guarding fauna and flora, and
to this end has secured from the Com-
monwealth Government permission to
act as official guardian over Montagu
Island, about six miles off Narooma, on
the N.S.W. south coast. Covering an
area of 310 acres, the island has one
of the eastern seaboard’s most extensive
seal-rookeries. It is the home during
the nesting season of thousands of migrat-
ing silver gulls, and the permanent home
of many fairy penguins. Sooty terns
are also there in force. Lightkeepers on
the island will co-operate with the Trust
in the good work.
THREE-FINGERED BOB
Now this is a story Granddad told
While the kettle murmured upon the hob,
Of the cattle-duffers in days of old
And the Grampian ghost, Three-fingered Bob.
His own Dad told it him long ago
On winter nights when the wind blew chill
And the redgums rocked in the flats below
And the Wannon water roared round the hill.
How Bob and his mate, a kindred soul,
Came to the station after dark.
Cut the fencing wires and stole
Fifty bullocks from Devon Park.
They hurried the beasts without a stop
And when the sun slid into the west
Up on the range, where the split cliffs drop,
Camped in the timber and fern to rest.
A galloping rider pulled up to say
“Look out for yourselves, you are in a trap.
Someone has given the game away,
The troopers are waiting beyond the Gap.”
“Well,” said Bob, “they can have the cattle.
They can pick them up with the rising sun;
But we’ll not stay and look for a battle,
We’ll turn right back on our tracks and run.”
He turned the beasts up a way he knew,
Cold stars watching him overhead,
Belted them over into the blue
And the half-mile drop to the river-bed.
No one knows what quarrel began,
Only the gums and the sullen crags;
But Bob’s mate murdered the other man,
Fled with the horses and tucker-bags.
Got clean away. Nobody heard
Of him ever again, only far-fetched tales
Of a brawl at the border, a whispered word
And the legend “Somewhere in New South
Wales.”
They found the skeleton sometime after
Under the branches hung with dew;
Cracked skull, leering in gruesome laughter,
Fingers missing—that’s how they knew.
And many a rider, dawdling home,
Afraid on a sudden of some mishap,
Brought his horses all wet with foam
Home to the valley out of the Gap.
Many a drover with travelling sheep,
Trailing along in the noon-day hot,
Stared when his dogs would slink and creep,
Hackles up, past a certain spot.
Till came a day in the springtime, where
They said the ghost of the mountain showed,
When something frightened a carriage pair
And sent them galloping down the road.
The bolting thoroughbreds struggled free
When the buggy turned over, a fearful wreck,
But the squatter’s young wife against a tree
Had been flung, and lay with a broken neck.
Granddad sighed—“Oh, you don’t believe
In spooks in the least,” he said, and smiled.
“Only in things you can perceive . . .
But ghosts were ghosts when I was a child.”
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Eyenan”; When a mob of some 30
to 40 crows flapped noisily overhead on a
recent day and then wheeled in as if to
land beyond the shoulder of the hill I
quickly followed, expecting to find a cow
or sheep in extremis. Instead, the black
fowl were apparently digging holes in
the ground with their beaks while making
the place hideous with their cawing.
They flew up when I walked among
them but soon returned to continue
digging. Their prey, I discovered, were
the detestable black crickets which have
been swarming in plague proportions
about the rye-grass flats of our East
Gippsland property, digging sizeable holes
in the ground and dining on valuable
grass-roots. I gave the Kellys a rare
blessing and left them to their feast.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Jasper (B. 29/4/’53)
was the stuff that made the old pros-
pectors’ hopes rise. It is one of the
hardest rocks on the Westralian gold-
fields, and “G. Elburg” rightly assumes
that it’s been heaved up from below —as,
of course, all rocks have. Some jasper
bars are uniform brown or black, but
others, including the one from which
Marble Bar gets its name, are lamina-
tions of white, black, green, pink and
even bright vermilion. These laminations
may be straight or crumpled. Jasper
isn’t a precious or even a useful stone,
but it’s one of the rocks which, in
association with quartz, produces the
contact gold from which most spectacu-
larly-rich finds are made. When the
earth was more fluid, sometimes a river
of molten, gold-bearing quartz flowing
down a crack in the earth’s surface met
a bar of jasper—and usually stopped
dead. The gold, being heavier, tended
to concentrate around the point of con-
tact, to give the old-timers the idea that
it was the fusing of the two metals which
produced the gold. Sometimes the run
of quartz overflowed the jasper bar, but
it never carried the gold with it —that
always stayed on the higher side of the
bar. The owners of the Hidden Search,
at Cue, took a chance and followed the
line of the reef through the bar. They
didn’t get an ounce of gold on the other
side.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Against “Lemuel G.’s”
contention that mulga-wood is not much
chop as a fuel (B. 13/5/’53) is the weight
of evidence in the Boorara Bore murder
“Can he live on ’is ’ ump? 'E grows FAT on it!”
trial, which took place at Cunnamulla
(s.-w. Queensland) about 12 years ago.
The trial brought to light a masterly
piece of detection as the result of which
the police were able to prove the exist-
ence of a body, that of an old man after
whose disappearance his boss, a well-
boring contractor, was arrested for
murder. The police erected a sandpump
by means of which a quantity of ashes
was siphoned from some 900 ft. down
the bore-shaft, which had been in the
process of being sunk at the time of the
disappearance. Not until the recovered
wood-ashes had been sieved several times
was any trace of human remains, in the
form of several slivers of bone, recovered.
These, together with the buckles from a
pair of overalls, enabled the police to
get a conviction, since, when confronted
with them, the defendant admitted that,
after killing his employee, he had burned
the body on a pyre of mulga-wood,
the burning properties of which had en-
abled him to “nearly” accomplish the
complete incineration of the body.
* * * *
“Kelms”: A businessman has come
to W.A. from Bangkok to buy 300 light
remount horses for the Siamese Govern-
ment. The order is being split between
W.A. and S.A., and the Perth daily which
reported it said the estimated cost was
about £250 a horse. At that figure the
buyer should be rushed, and no doubt he
feels that he can afford to be choosy. He
has stipulated they must all be mares,
between 14.3 and 15.1 hands, and there
must be no greys, blacks or whites, be-
cause of what the paper rather tactlessly
describes as religious “superstitions.”
Just now on stations out from Meeka-
tharra they’re shooting horses that would
just about fill the bill. They’re good
horses, fast and tough, and well-bred,
descendants of stud horses gone
bush. They’re being shot because they’re
eating grass that’s needed for station
stock, and because they’re enticing station
mares to join the wild herds; and about
all the shooters get from them are the
tails, which are fetching a good price.
They’d take a lot of running-in, but it
can be done. Thirty years ago men
made a good living funning-in brumbies
and docking their tails and manes for
the horsehair, though a horse left with
no defence against the flies and
mosquitoes suffers agony and can be
driven mad. I merely cite the case as
proof that horses can be run-in by deter-
mined men.
♦ * * *
“Burindi”: We were out in the “long
paddock” with a mob of ewes and lambs,
and we’d been travelling about a month
when we camped on a little travelling-
stock reserve between Glen Innes and
Inverell (N.S.W.). There was a bit of
grass in it, and water, and it was just the
place to spend a couple of days while we
mended the cart. Two springs, a big one
and a little one, welled up near the camp,
about 40ft. apart; the smaller one was
covered with a rusty sheet of iron, a fact
which called for some cogitation. At
length, however, it became obvious to us
that the larger, open spring was for stock ;
the smaller, protected, for human con-
sumption, and consume it we did, for
about 48 hours. Only on the morning of
our departure was the real reason for the
shielding iron made manifest, when a
local arrived in time to see us filling the
tank from the smaller spring. “Have you
blokes,” he asked, “been drinking from
that?” We assured him we had—for two
days. What was wrong with that? Noth-
ing at all, we were told, except that it
couldn’t have been a more powerful
cathartic had it been pure epsom-salts,
and, furthermore, it had a delayed action
of about two days, when it more than
made up for its previous lethargy. At
this point his mirth nearly unhorsed
him, and, simultaneously, we received
our first intimation that he spoke truly,
Well, two things still puzzle me. How
can two springs, so close together, be so
different?
* * * *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Cannot agree that there
has been “extraordinary neglect” of
Murray history (B. 29/4/’53). After
several trips up and down the big river
in recent years I’ll nominate the people
who live along it as the most history-
conscious communities in Australia,
<Take the S.A. town of Cadell, named
after the Captain Francis Cadell who
brought the first load of wool down the
river in a barge towed by his steamer
Lady Augusta. The centenary of this
pioneer voyage takes place on August
24; the town plans to mark the occa-
sion by establishing a memorial to Cadell
and in celebrating, by a suitable
ceremony, the opening of the Murray to
“An easy fifty guineas you've earned today — IF you can sell it."
navigation 100 years ago. Everywhere
along the river you find the same spirit,
with plenty of people familiar with the
local history. The queerest tales of all
are related at Lyrup Village, where a
Socialist colony was established, only to
break down because a few found them-
selves doing all the work while those
who were so good at preaching Socialism
as the cure for all economic ills proved
woefully inept when it came to real toil.
* * * *
“T.C.R.”: Ever been stung by an
estuary catfish? If you do happen to
have that misfortune don’t treat it
lightly, for there is a venom associated
with the spine, and the wound may take
months to heal. I know. I was stung
a month ago. It was about 8 o’clock in
the evening when a friend I was with
landed one of the ugly brutes. He had
only one hook and had to retrieve it, so
he stamped heavily on the catfish’s head
with the heel of his shoe. He struck
the side of the head and the fish flew
straight to me, standing about 3ft. away.
Deep into my ankle sank one of its
spines. The wound soon became very
painful, and hot fomentations were
applied till the surrounding skin blistered.
Next morning the pain had gone but the
area was highly inflamed and the swell-
ing considerable. The sore continued to
increase in size till it was about Hin. in
diameter. Then I sought medical atten-
tion. Sulphadiazine was prescribed, and
in a short while the inflammation was
subdued, but then the tablets seemed to
have no retarding effect. Today, there
persists a large and deep sore, which
looks as if it will be there for a long
time. I have seen a fisherman laid up
for three months as the result of a cat-
fish sting. There are three spines—one
at the front of the dorsal (back) fin,
and one in each of the pectoral (side)
fins. Better cut your line and let the
thing go; it’s not much good to eat,
anyway. And if you are stung, get
to the doctor with the least possible delay.
* * * *
“Giris”: In December each year
around Tasmania’s Lake country the
snowflake-caddis-moth hatches, to give
Tasmanians the world’s best dry-fly
fishing. The Shannon flows three-
quarters of a mile from Great Lake to
Shannon Lagoon, and in this stretch the
moth breeds. As they hatch and drift
down the fast river, fish pack in to feed
on the millions. And that’s where the
anglers make their big catches.
* ♦ * ♦
“Gulliver”: Yes, the ’Ghans in West-
ralia —and everywhere else, of course—
have a special loathing for the pig (B.
13/5/’53). In the days before the trucks
ousted the camel-teams from the nor’-
west’s roads, the Sons of the Prophet
had almost a monopoly of the carrying
trade, and Mohammed’s anti-porcine pro-
nouncements extended even to what
might be carried on the Faithfuls’ camel-
wagons. Consequently, inland stations
desirous of brightening their breakfasts
with bacon were forced into deceitful
collaboration with the stores at the coast;
many a prime side was rammed into a
packing-case and labelled “canvas,” or
“crockery,” to ensure its being given
space on the load. Similar precautions
were necessary with saddlery, which
might contain contaminating pig-skin;
these items, too, would be cased and
given misleading descriptions on the way-
bill. Whether the wily ’Ghan—never
anybody’s fool—was truly deceived by
all this I don’t know, but his conscience
was elastic enough in many another
matter, and for all he knew the labels
might have been right. Where their own
saddlery was concerned they were very
particular, and wouldn’t buy a ready-
made saddle at any price; theirs had to
be made to order and guaranteed free
from pig-skin throughout. Price was a
secondary matter where the safety of
their souls was concerned.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: We’d just started a
country job and I had to walk in to the
township to check up on some materials.
Along the road I opened a gate for an
old fellow in a utility and was offered
a lift. Two minutes later I’d have given
quids to be tramping that five miles.
We careered from one side of the road
to the other, bounced in and out of ruts
that could have easily been avoided,
missed a corner-post by half an inch and
bumped right over a wayside stump that
stood a foot above the ground and well
to the side of the road. A car coming
towards us escaped a collision only by
swinging frantically out of our way. The
rider of a bike was “breathed” off by
the closeness of our passage, and a pup
nearly got his as we swung into the
township—on the wrong side. My
business done, I called in for a quickie,
saw the old bloke in the bar, and
promptly bolted. Better to walk home
than be collared for another death-ride.
However, a truckdriver was going ray
way, I accepted his offer and was en-
joying the lift until I happened to look
behind. The ute was coming towards,
us at a great bat. I waited for the
smash. But just at the right moment it
swung out, passed us with a nice margin
of safety, and pulled back to the left-
hand side. Near the crest of the hill
a car came screaming over on the wrong
side. Only a first-class driver could have
avoided an accident. The ute’s driver
did the right thing. “Well,” I gasped,
“I’ve heard of blokes who could drive
better drunk than sober, but that’s the
first time I’ve seen it.” “Old Mac?”
The truckdriver looked surprised. “He
never drinks more than three shandies.”
Mystified, I told him my experience. “Oh,
but he’s nearly blind without his glasses,”
explained the driver. “He broke ’em
last week and just picked ’em up again
this afternoon.”
MRS. APPLE-TREE
Old Mrs. Apple-tree, bent and worn,
Dress all faded, sleeves all torn;
Reared lots of children in the sun —
Now Mrs. Apple-tree’s life’s near done.
Hard old limbs, scarred and lean,
Sides all bony where life had been,
No more flowers or bursting bud,
Only a leaf or two left in her blood.
Oh, to remember her feeding her young!
Cheeks as rosy as ever were sung,
Pink little bottoms on every limb,
Bellies as round as a barrel’s rim.
Once her green tresses shone in the sun,
Bees caressed the flowers she spun;
And now she’s finished, like the old plough,
Lichen’s all over Mrs. Apple-tree now.
victoria.
JAMES HACKSTON.


(7
(?
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or CaH jot
Free Booklet
18 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, 0.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
A?*""!:
/
I
m
m
mm
i$
f /
tl# c
tio* 1
Cei e
1M-
THE
DEPENDABLE
CIGARETTE
1190.4.53
an
flltf
nt?iTw
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Share-price Rise?
Though there was a general
(but slight) upward movement
in quotations last week, on
the face of things at present
there is little in sight ’to
suggest a strong upswing in
share-prices. Until the wool-
sales reopen about the end of
August and the terms of the next
Federal Budget are known there
will be little definite to go on,
unless it is that wool-sales for
the present season are ending
on a strong note and that some
tax-relief is already implicit in
the Prime Minister’s and
Treasurer’s announcements.
There are still bargains to be
picked up among second-line
stocks, but the majority of front-
line shares are already yielding
little enough at present prices.
B.H.P. at 425. 9d. gives a return
of no more than 4 p.c., whilst the
Commonwealth-bond rate is
4i p.c. and the local-govern-
ment rate 4| p.c. C.S.R. shares
offer 4.2 p.c. (against 5 p.c. on
its recent debenture issue), Bank
of, N. S. Wales 4.3 p.c.. Burns
Philp 3.6 p.c., Queensland In-
surance 3.9 p.c.. South British
3.3 p.c.
Until there are prospects of
either a drop in the bond-rate
(at present not in sight) or a
general increase in profit-earning
there appears to be small chance
of investors accepting yields
much lower than these. And ex-
panding industries are finding it
more and more necessary to rely
upon internal finance for their
expansion—that is, they are re-
serving more of their profits and
distributing less.
Altogether, it is becoming
increasingly difficult, with the
wage-system, price-control and
taxation as they are, for industry
to reproduce itself and finance
itself. The incomes of share-
holders today have not inflated
with other incomes, and their
total incomes, including those
from personal exertion, on the
average are not sufficient, after
payment of taxes, to provide
any great source of capital for
new investment or for support
of existing securities.
The wool cheque for the sea-
son just closing is up considerably
on the previous season’s, but not
sufficiently to encourage any
rosy speculative dreams. And
it is speculative activity that
most people are at present look-
ing for to send shares up, though
few of them really want to see
it at the expense of the stability
of the national currency. It
would be the national currency
that would slip most heavily
under Dr. Evatt’s proposed
financial plans.
Real strength in the share-
market still depends upon costs
being brought lower, upon pro-
duction being raised throughout
the economy, upon transport
services being improved, and
upon industry (through the arbi-
tration system, through the tax
system and through price-con-
trol) being allowed a larger share
of the national income. Produc-
tion, enterprise and thrift, in
other words, must be given a
higher priority.
Davies Coop and Hollins
On May 22 shareholders of
Hollins Mill of Australia, Ltd.,
approved the sale of most of the
co.’s assets to Davies Coop and
Co., Ltd., for £410,500, to be
satisfied by the issue of Davies
Coop shares.
Hollins Mill, an offshoot of
the great British cotton-textile
co., was formed in 1946 to pro-
duce fabrics woven from
blended worsted, cotton and
rayon yarn at Villawood
(N.S.W). The public was ad-
mitted in 1949, when 50,000 £1
ords. were placed at 20s. 6d. and
150,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs. were
issued at par. The pref. div. was
guaranteed for three years by the
parent co. Up to April 11 last
accumulated losses totalled
£409,838, which had been
financed by advances of £294,214
from the parent and an over-
draft of £130,000.
The assets involved in the
deal are the freehold, most of
the plant and machinery, and
the stock of Hollins Mill.
Davies Coop will issue its ss.
shares at a premium of 3s. 9d,
in payment. The English co.
and the E., S. and A. Ban|: have
agreed to buy these shares from
Hollins at Bs. 9d. The proceeds
of that sale and of the disposal
of the other assets are estimated
to total £457,801, which, after
paying off the other creditors,
would leave £420,655 for the
bank and the parent, £3559 less
than their combined claims. The
two principal creditors, however,
have agreed that all other credi-
tors shall be paid in full, and
that if the indebtedness to them
is not fully discharged they will
give Hollins Mill a release from
further liability.
The estimated proceeds of
the assets is considerably below
their book-value, and it appears
that all of Hollins (Aust.)
£450,000 capital, £150,000 of
which is in pref. shares, has
been lost. But directors believe
that there is a reasonable pros-
pect of some return of capital.
The substantial accumulated
losses would be of value if the
co. remains in existence and
earns profits against which the
losses may be offset for income-
tax purposes. That is why the
proposed course is being taken
instead of liquidation.
Hollins Mill shares will pre-
sumably be sold to an estab-
lished concern, which would be
able to offset profits against
Hollins losses by transferring
part or all of its activities to
the control of Hollins Mill.
Most of the Hollins ordinary
shares are held by the English
parent, but the prefs. are held
by the Australian public. The
ords. last sold at Is. 9d., while
the prefs. have changed hands
at around 6s.
It is difficult to under-
stand how the market reckoned
those valuations, since any
arrangement almost certainly
must return 20s. on the pref.
shares before ord.-holders get
anything.
Oil and the Bureau
“Beadonite”: Oil-search com-
panies are hardly likely to accept
the view of “P. Mobile” (B.
29/4/’53) that the activities of
the Bureau of Mineral Resources
in the oil game have consistsed
of a series of abortive attempts
to develop unsuitable areas.
Those who know oil-search in
Australia have always agreed
with the official line that the
bureau’s function is to carry out
regional geological, and geo-
physical investigations with the
object of broadly indicating the
most likely areas, thus enabling
oil companies to concentrate on
the most favorable spots.
The search for oil in Western
Australia would have been aban-
doned long ago had not the
bureau made some fundamental
and original contributions to the
problem that really initiated the
present campaign by West Aus-
tralian Petroleum, the Ampol-
Caltex oil-search outfit.
The history of the matter —
which oil-men know—is that the
noted American expert F. G.
Clapp examined the Exmouth
Gulf area in 1925 and turned it
down, as did Anglo-Iranian in
1935. But bureau officers were
struck with the similarity of this
region to certain parts of
Wyoming and Montana. Their
systematic examination of the
area, begun in 1948, discovered
great thicknesses of marine rocks
hitherto not known to occur at
all in Western Australia. Because
the oil prospects of an area
increase directly with the thick-
ness of the marine sediments in
it, commercial oil-men were
quick to see the significance of
the bureau’s work and hopped
in.
Then bureau geophysicists
showed that the surface struc-
tures in the area did not persist
in depth. By demonstrating this
to W.A.P. they saved the com-
pany from drilling prematurely
on, a structure which, though
promising on the surface, held
little prospect of producing oil.
Again, in the Kimberleys work
by bureau officers has greatly
improved the chances of finding
oil there, and has caused the
major oil companies to alter
their whole attitude to this area.
In the past, Australian com-
panies have not had the money,
technique or equipment to con-
duct the surveys necessary to
estimate the oil possibilities in
these two basins. Large over-
seas companies, which did have
the resources, were too pre-
occupied elsewhere to do this
work.
By doing the job itself the
bureau showed previous assess-
ments to be wide of the mark,
established a new geological
conception of both basins and
was the first to produce the
evidence that really persuaded
the big commercial companies to
spend money on drilling.
The central bank’s holding of
gold and balances abroad rose
to £457 million on May 20, and
are at their highest level since
December, 1951. Whilst some
importers are seeking increased
quotas, others are still trying to
clear excess stocks established
during the last half of 1951 and
the first half of 1952. The in-
crement in our London funds
suggests that further relaxation
of import-restrictions may soon
be on the way.
STOCKS AND YIELDS
Good-quality stocks show-
ing fair yields in last week’s
firming market were Swans
(5.9 p.c.), Frederic Ash (6
p.c.), R. B. Davies (6.1 p.c.),
Bradford Cotton (5.7 p.c.),
Taubman’s (4.9 p.c.) and
John Mcllwraith Industries-
(6.3 p.c.). The newly listed
Minster, Ltd. (controlling
Westminster Carpets), pro-
voked inquiry at 20s. for the
10s. shares, showing a yield
of 6\ p.c. on a \l\ p.c. div.
basis. It is an interesting
venture.


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Fergnsou & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
Head office and factories
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK I
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
EULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
BRANDAUERS
'JACKS O^T
OSUUJVAN
Xj-i. iwm.u
BRISBANE
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
PI
Every point
guaranteed
do not expert•
S do not experi-
ment with
W imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
“What Can a Man Believe?” That question,
which recurs to me so often in my thought on
Australia’s future, faces me now in the title of a most
excellent publication by Arthur Goodfriend.
It comes out of America, and has reached me
through the United States Information Service. Let
me commend it to all Australians who have “faith
in' the future” of their country.
Here I see, in striking and beautiful photography,
the story of man’s striving for the better and juster
things of life. Passing in pictorial procession are the
modern tyrants who rose and fell; some of their
victims; the tragic outcomes of war, and a greed
for power.
And infused with it, is a depiction of the beliefs
to which men in their millions cling—Christians, Jews,
Mohammedans, Buddhists, Confucians, and the rest
—testifying that Freedom and Belief are indivisible,
wherever our individual lights may lead us.
The most powerful message I see for Australia in
this pageant of humanity, pressed into a 130-page
picture book, is in the stress it places on food and
soil as first essentials in a world of peace.
Much of its comparisons between want and plenty
are set in the Asian scene. And it is with reason.
Of the 2300 million people in the world today, 1240
million are in Asia. More than half of humanity
is m the continent above us —many of them famished,
subsisting with aid from the United Nations.
And eight and a half million Australians are
holding a continent that is capable of a prodigious
rise in the production of food.
Outside in the world, land is being saved from
desert and sea in a desperate bid for greater crop
space. Rivers are being dammed and diked to store
water that will nourish the soil in drought. Machinery
is being introduced to replace animal traction. Seed
and fertilisers are being distributed to yield richer
harvests.
This urge to a just survival is the most important
happening in the world of our time. If Australians
can grasp that, they will see the future as I see it—
with this country peopled, producing to the full, and
taking its appointed place in to-morrow’s world, with
“Faith in the Future.” .
The Search for Oil in Papua
[From R. Richardson, chairman of directors, Papuan
Apinaipi Petroleum Co., Ltd.]
We could weep with John
Pain iB. 13/5/’53) for the
gloomy decision of Australasian
Petroleum and Island Explora-
tion to abandon the Aure Trough
and the entire Gulf Division of
Papua but for the fact that this
procedure by no means indi-
cates a dearth of oil in that
promising territory. Let there
be no mistake about it. Oil was
discovered in the Gulf Division
in 1911 and recovered, in
quantity, a few years later. It
was reported by Dr. Wade at
Upoia in 1915. Its analysis was
published and discussed at
length in London scientific
journals after the then current
war. It was never exploited.
But there would be no reason
for the Papuan-Apinaipi Co. to
deliver over, as Pain suggests,
its 75 square miles of prospect-
ing rights to “an organisation
possessing a specialist and
experienced staff and ample
finance.” Anglo-Persian and its
subsidiaries have previously held
the Jokea-Apinaipi dome, and
abandoned the site, perhaps the
most promising in New Guinea.
Experts employed by them have
been unsuccessful everywhere in
the 65,000 square miles of
Papua and New Guinea hold-
ings as well as in their Com-
monwealth operations.
In “World Petroleum” for
January for this year it is
stated;
The Netherlands New Guinea field
is being produced commercially. The
Klamono field, discovered in 1936,
has been producing 4000 barrels a
day of 19 gravity from Miocene lime-
stone encountered at 300 ft. There
were 17 wells being produced and
five shut in.... The Was lan and
Mogol fields are capable of producing
light oil of 46-48 gravity. One well
is shut in at Waslan and four at
Mogoi, with one development rig
running in each field. Commercial
production has not yet been under-
taken.
In itself this report gives a good
indication why the Papuan-
Apinaipi holdings, comprising
some of New Guinea’s most
promising structures, should stay
under Australian control. But
why has the Papuan-Apinaipi
company not already brought in
oil on its holdings?
In 1921 the Anglo-Persian Oil
Company held this area in part-
nership with the British and
Commonwealth Governments. It
completed a survey over a wide
area which included the 75
square miles now held by
Papuan-Apinaipi. Amongst the
four geological structures favor-
ably reported bn, the Jokea-
Apinaipi dome was the subject
for special comment on account
of its conformation and the low
horizon for a test-well. Anglo-
Persian’s chief officers, in con-
ference with Commonwealth
officers, decided to develop the
field and to lay a pipeline to
Yule Island, where they pro-
posed to build a refinery with
a total initial outlay of
£2,000,000.
At this juncture Anglo-
Persian received word that oil
had been struck in their new
field in Sarawak, and this news
resulted in the withdrawal of
the British Government from
the New Guinea agreement. Its
object, after all, had been to
provide the Admiralty with sup-
plies of oil in British territory
adjacent to the Pacific. Im-
mediately—that is to say, within
the same week —Anglo-Persian
moved away from the Apinaipi
area to Popo. In 1923 the Com-
monwealth Government decided
to throw open Papua and New
Guinea to private enterprise,
whereupon the late Mr. R. S.
Haynes, having previously re-
signed from the employ of the
Anglo-Persian Oil Company, de-
cided to found an Australian
company to test the Jokea-
Apinaipi dome.
On January 1, 1924, he
applied for 640 square miles,
including the Jokea-Apinaipi
dome, the Apinaipi and Lesi
anticlines and the Oiapu struc-
ture. On January 8 a procla-
mation in the “Papuan Gazette”
withdrew 1000 square miles, in-
cluding these areas, from pros-
pecting applications, apparently
so that these oil-rich areas
could be reserved for Naval and
other defence use. Frustrated,
Haynes then applied for and
obtained an area at Hohoro,
which he considered had distinct
drawbacks compared with the
Jokea site.
His company, New Guinea
Oil, proved the existence of wet
gas and oil, but the conditions
were the same as those met by
Anglo-Persian at Popo and later
by the Australasian Petroleum
Company at Hohoro ; Common-
wealth officers’ reports dis-
couraged further development,
and the co, was forced to
liquidate. However, the samples
of gas he took from the bore at
Hohoro in 1926 showed a gaso-
line yield of 2\ gallons per
thousand cubic feet of gas. This
result was highly satisfactory,
and could still be of consider-
able economic importance to ’
this country. Gas and oil have
been proved to exist within the
Apinaipi area. Samples analysed
by Sydney and Melbourne Uni-
versities held by my company
sustain this.
Haynes longed to go back to
Jokea-Apinaipi, his first choice.
After a persistent and lengthy
fight he was told, in May, 1936,
he would be granted 75 square
miles. Thus was this area set
aside, which John Pain wants
handed over.
The company he formed
applied for the assistance sug-
gested in an Act of 1934-36 pro-
viding for subsidy and advice
from the Government for those
engaged in the search for oil.
The original prospectus showed
the Jokea-Apinaipi dome with
the location for a test-well
marked on the map, and stated
this to be the first objective. The
prospectus had to be approved
by the Commonwealth.
Even before the company had
its drilling-plant on the field it
was being “advised.” Soon it
was instructed that, if it wanted
to receive assistance under the
Act, it would have to accept and
follow the advice of the Com-
monwealth Oil Advisory Com-
mittee’s officers. In spite of the
commitment of the company to
its shareholders implicit in the
prospectus plan showing the first
drilling location, the Common-
wealth Oil Advisory committee
laid down a plan for scout-
drilling 11 bores, none of which
were to exceed 500 ft.
When the founder of the
company, then on the field, ques-
tioned this direction he was told
that he must carry out the in-
structions, because of the
superior knowledge of the Gov-
ernment’s officers. The only
bores drilled on the Jokea-
Apinaipi dome were carried to
509 ft. and 564 ft., Haynes pro-
testing all the time that he was
not being allowed to drill the
structure to a depth where it was
anticipated commercial oil
would be brought in.
Government inter ference,
which from the very start
baffled and badgered the com-
pany in its operations, could
not be shaken. From July to
August, 1938, the company com-
pleted an excellent aerial sur-
vey of the area. This proved
the correctness of the mapping
in the original application and
prospectus a topographical
survey on which Haynes him-
self had worked with other
experts.
The survey clearly showed in
great detail the presence of the
structures, including the vol-
canic sump and outcrops, and
completely outlined the Jokea-
Apinaipi dome, the Apinaipi and
Lesi anticlines and other struc-
tures. This work was rejected
by the Oil Advisory Commit-
tee as of little value, but when,
in 1947, experts from Richfield
Oil came opt they used these
photographs most extensively
and praised their excellence.
But even yet the Oil Advisory
Committee demands further
surveys.
In November, 1940, the
Commonwealth forced the
company, despite its protests, to
sink an 18in. hole 2086 ft. into
the neck of a volcano. In July,
1940, our geologist, Barrow, had
reported it as a laccolith —of
this Commonwealth officers
were aware in 1920, when the
Anglo-Persian Oil Company’s
reports were submitted.
Because of the attitude of the
Commonwealth, Haynes advised
many of the shareholders not to
invest in capital floats during
this period. The response to
an issue of 150,000 shares was
that only 5000 were taken up.
The Commonwealth Treasurer
had promised to provide further
sums to a total of £55,000 by
way of a loan to test the field
adequately. When the company
endeavored to return the appli-
cation-money because of the
failure of the float, the Com-
monwealth insisted they hold the
applicants to their contract.
Only £5OOO was granted before
the Japs forced the Common-
wealth and the company to with-
draw.
During the war the Common-
wealth impounded the proceeds
from assets of which the com-
pany disposed. It took pos-
session of drill equipment and
transferred it to the West Aus-
tralian field, incidentally break-
ing the contract of hire. The
company has never at any time
been given permission to return
to the original drilling-site at
Jokea, though the application
has been repeated many times.
If the major companies have
failed in their search for oil,
why do they not withdraw and
allow others to continue? There
is oil in New Guinea, and it will
yet provide power for Australia.
The Papuan-Apiriaipi Company
is still waiting for permission to
carry out its original prospectus
programme in the interests of
its Australian shareholders.


Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD fc»F DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B.
Hefferj W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Protect your Estate from
“Human Element” Risks
The appointment of an individual as
Executor of your Will may be fraught with
risks. He may become ill, die, leave the
country, or be fully occupied with his own
affairs.
By appointing the Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. Ltd. you secure, at a fixed and
moderate cost, a permanent reliable
Executor.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern & Sons (Sydney)
t Dividends Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 5.8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.)
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus after revaluing plant, £816,153 1
Goodwill (£273,153) written off ..1 106,799
To depreciation reserve, £ 43,000 .. J
1945. .114,761 43,594 5 p.c. = 62,500 8,667 115,466
5.9 p.c.
1946. .119,735 44,297 5i „ „ 68,760 6,688 122,154
6 p.c.
1947. .145,704 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 25,704 147,858
1948. .158,868 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 38,868 186,726
From tax reserve, £60,000 .. .. 236,726
1949. .150,172 45,000 6 p.c.= 75.000 30.172 266,898
1950. .125,374 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 5,374 272,272
1951. .131,547 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 11,547 283,819
1952. .127,286 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 7,286 291,105
1953. .125,030 45,000 6 „ „ 76,000 5,030 296,135
) Excludes depreciation reserve, etc. (now £679,813).
An encouraging result, all things con-
sidered, though it was written after
cutting the allowance for depreciation
(£45,000) by £52,975 —the previous year’s
allowance included a special tax-free pro-
vision. Owing to the universal nature
of the undertaking, its size and the very
wide area over which it trades, any
comparison with other retailers doing a
purely city turnover in which more-or-
less specialised lines predominate would
be misleading.
A.H. handles practically everything
that comes under the broad heading of
merchandise, from machinery and con-
fectionery to antiques and capricious
fashion-goods, and country trade has
always figured prominently in the volume
of sales. Among other things that sug-
gests that what the co. misses on the
swings it is likely to pick up, or largely
pick up, on the roundabouts, and that
a more-or-less stable rather than widely-
fluctuating level of net earnings is to be
looked for. Also solution of the unusu-
ally wide and numerous crop of prob-
lems that inevitably arise calls for alert
and efficient management.
Last term was one of readjustment to
changing conditions. The year began
with a commodity headache in the form
of a swollen inventory, tightening of
credit and consumer resistance. In the
scramble for liquidity there was some
price-cutting, gross margins narrowed,
and wage and other costs kept on rising.
The management countered with a care-
fully-planned policy of stock-reduction
—which was helped by import restric-
tions, growth of export income and
bigger pay-packets—a close overhaul of
controllable outgoings, simplification of
selling methods, and by further brighten-
ing and improving the shop. Turnover,
amount unstated, eased during the first
half of the term, but picked up later.
For the retail trade as a whole sales are
now running slightly above the level of
a year ago, due mainly to the time-lag
between lifts in the basic-wage and their
translation into selling-prices.
The £125,030 of profit claimed was a
modest 6.2 p.c. on the £2,000,000 of share
capital—£7so,ooo of it carries a cumu-
lative 1\ p.c. subject to the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act —compared with
6.3, 6.5, 6.2, 7.5 and 7.5 p.c. back to
1948. The div. was kept at an all-round
6 p.c. for the seventh year in succession.
The £5030 that remained lifted free re-
serves to £296,135. In addition there are
specific provisions of £679,813 for de-
preciation and alterations. Also pro-
perties are known to be worth a lot more
than their book-value, and there are
other inner reserves besides.
Stocks, in at valuation, were reduced
by £970,485, bringing them into healthy
relationship with current turnover with-
out serious mishap to net earnings:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Ord. capital .. £1,250.000 £1.250.000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital .. 750,000 750,000 750,000
Mortgages 300,000 500,000 640,000
Creditors, etc. .. 1,074,116 1,808,227 867,405
Tax reserves .. 301,749 345.188 121,049
Binal dws. .. 60,000 60,000 60,000
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 1,269,103 1,389,707 1,478,213
Plant, etc. .. 496,365 565,230 601,289
Stocks .. 1,825,936 2,696,057 1,725,572
Book debts .. 901,888 934,561 824,601
Cash, etc... .. 63,280 53,779 34,728
The contraction of £109,960 in book-
debts further reflects the year’s difficult
trading. The money that thus became
available, together with an extra £140,000
raised on mortgage, was used mainly to
slash £940,822 of the amount coming to
the bank and trade creditors, etc., and
to add £124,565 to the book-value of
fixed assets. The most vulnerable parts
of the financial structure have been thus
strengthened, and so has the co.’s indi-
viduality as a trader, which is linked with
a well-earned reputation for service.
Although the immediate outlook is
much healthier than it was a year ago,
the economy is still in a period of con-
valescence. Greatest threat to healthy
progress is the high level of costs, .which,
as chairman S. G. Rowe points out,
choke production, prevent trading at
normal profit-margins, retard corporate
savings, raise tariff levels and cause un-
necessary Government interference. Re-
imposition of price-control last week was.
an uncalled-for and retrograde step,
which puts the cart before the horse. It
is costs which force prices up. Hence
solution of the problem lies in reduc-
tion of costs, not in taking it out of the
trader. The textile, clothing and retail
trades are highly competitive, and con-
ditions are still those of a buyers’ market,
in which today’s prices for many essen-
tial lines are lower than when price-
controls were lifted. Since the level of
retail profits shows a marked dependence
upon turnover, the need for flexibility of
profit-margins is obvious.
Heartened by the co.’s performance,
the market prices the f.-p. £1 shares at
par as against 17s. a year ago. The
prefs. at 21s. yield 5.7 p.c. on the basis
of a 6 p.c. distribution, and it is difficult
to say when better than 6 p.c, need be
looked for. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £3 Is, 3d, prefs. and 245. 9d.
ords.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.)
£ £ £ £
1943.. 32,321 Bip.c.= 23,800 8,521 84,966
From inner reserves, £8,043 93,009
1944.. 25,810 Bip.c.= 23,800 2,010 95,019
1945.. 29,521 8| „ „ 23,800 5,721 100,740
1946.. 24,380 s| „ „ 23,800 580 101,320
1947.. 39,768 10 „ „ 28,000 11,768 113,088
1948.. 72,769 12 „ „ 33,600 39,169 152,257
1949.. 52,293 12 „ „ 33,600 18,693 170,950
1950.. 48,760 12 „ „ 34,502 14,258 185,208
1951.. 38,795 11 ~ „ 36,099 2,696 187,904
1952.. 60,310 12 „ „ 42,840 17,470 205,374
t Not including depreciation reserve —£381,722 at
31/12/’52.
This Bundaberg grower and miller has
an efficient crushing-plant, and its
near-by canefarms are well irrigated,
thus mitigating the effects of drought
upon cane production, and therefore upon
the outturn of raw sugar and upon earn-
ings. The three seasons to the end of
1950 were among the best in the history
of the Queensland sugar-belt. A dry spell,
severe winter frosts and sharp rise in
operating and other costs bit into earn-
ings for 1951, and the div. was eased
from 12 p.c. to 11 p.c.
The improvement of £21,515 in last
term’s net result came from better prices
received for raws in both the home and
export markets. The season got away to
a dry start, but good winter and spring
rains enabled an extra 6517 tons of cane,
making 197,820 tons in all, to be put
through the rollers. Still, the early dry-
ness affected the sugar content, and the
outturn of raws was 1168 tons lighter at
22,812 tons, which was only about 72
p.c. of the co.’s allotted mill-peak. Over
the last three seasons the home-consump-
tion, export and overall-average prices
have moved in this way:
Home Overall
Season. Consumption. Export. Average.
1950 .. £24 II 0 £32 16 0 £2B 5 4
1951 .. 33 14 0 36 15 6 34 7 6
1952* .. 42 10 0 41 10 0 7
* Estimates, subject to adjustment.
Last season’s overall average looks like
approximating £42 a ton or more. It
was the buoyancy of costs, or inflationary
pressures, that pushed up the price of
raws, and of fines, too. In a good season
about half the output of the industry is
exported, and, until recently, the high
prices obtained for the export surplus
helped to keep down the price in the
home market.
The year’s £60,310 of profit was 16.9
p.c. on capital as against 11.8, 17.4, 18.6,
25.9 and 14.2 p.c. back to 1947. It was
written after allowing an extra £17,915
for depreciation and whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation and other
contingencies. Restoration of the 12 p.c.
div, was thus a comfortable matter, and
the outlook for the co., and others in the
industry, is one of increasing production
and sales in both its markets, subject, of
coufse, to economic developments.
The sugar-pact with the U.K., which
has about seven years to run, provides
for export of 600,000 tons raws p.a.
(200,000 tons more than previously), over
half of which is to be taken firm at an
annually negotiated price, and the balance
sold on the open market under U.K. and
Canadian preference. Demand on the
home market is expected to increase by
12.000 tons or more p.a. on account of
population-growth. And the co.’s mill-
peak has been stepped up from 31,500
tons for 1952 to 37,000 tons for 1954.
To handle, the extra tonnage a lot of
new mill plant and equipment has been
installed, and to help meet the cost
140.000 new £1 shares were issued at par
in Nov., 1950. At Dec. 31 last there was
still £63,003 of the money to come, which
will lift paid capital to £420,000. Last
term £130,329 net was added to the book-
value of fixed assets, and stocks increased
by £66,925, due largely to transport diffi-
culties :
1949. 1956. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £280,000 £285,425 £335,852 £356,997
Depreciation
reserve .. 318,649 848,196 360,073 381,722
Liabilities* 4 168,030 250,884 893,791 530,609
Staff fund .. 13,593 16,000 14,290 14,213
Pinal divs. .. 19,600 20,502 20,995 26,730
Freeholds, plant,
etc. . . 643,115 711,375 854,239 984,568
Stocks . . 124,732 291,953 397,701 464,626
Sundry debtors 89,260 43,522 5,985 9,675
Govt, securities,
etc. .. 61,273 48,200 48,200 43,200
Cash, etc. .. 54,849 6,165 6,780 13,577
* Including provision for taxation.
Shareholders put up an extra £21,145
and the amount coming to the bank and
other creditors, etc., was increased by
£136,818.
As for the current term, a good season
and record crushing are in prospect, the
new export price is expected to provide
a net return of about £A4S 17s. a ton,
and the home market price should be a
little stronger than last season’s. Costs
are still climbing, though at a slower rate.
The mill at Bingera is scheduled to begin
crushing on June 24, and, subject to
seasonal developments, 330,000 tons cane
are expected to be put through the rollers.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the f.-p. £1 shares at 48s. 3d. as
against 435, a year ago. At the higher
figure the immediate return is 5 p.c. on
a 12 p.c. distribution. Including uncalled
capital, net tangible cover is 295. 9d., and
fixed assets are known to be worth a lot
more than their book-value.
Y ounghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re- Re-
Mar.. Profit.* Dividends. serves. serves.
£ & & &
1943.. 30,117 4i p.c. = 28,125 ) 142 32 7,208
Written off goodwill, £lB5O )
1944.. 29,496 4i p.C. =28,125 ) 171 327,379
Written off goodwill, £l2OO ) ,
1945.. 28,188 4$ p.c. £= 28,125 58 327,437
1946.. 28,452 4£ „ ~ 28,125 ) 27 327,464
Written off goodwill, £3OO )
1947.. 37,770 6 p.c. = 37,500 270 327,734
1948.. 47,295 7* „ ~ 46,875 ) 129 327,863
Written off goodwill, £291)
1949.. 64,109 10 p.c. = 62,500 ) 109 327,972
Written off goodwill, £l5OO ) Q 79
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 422,972
1950.. 92,306 10 p.c. = 62,500 ) 13 22 2 436,194
Written off goodwill, £16,584 ) ’
1951.. 158,243 124 p.c.=109,375 48,868 485.062
1952.. 88,857 10 ~,, 87,500 ) 357 485,419
Written off goodwill, £lOOO ) ass fua
1953.. 73,230 8 p.c. = 70,000 3,230 488,649
* After deducting contributions to staff fund.
The co. is in the woolbroking, pastoral-
finance, stock- and station-agency and
merchandising business in Victoria and
southern N .S. Wales, and has been for
the last 64 years. Growth of the under-
taking has been most marked during the
last eight of them, which covers the
greatest boom ever in the wool trade.
During this period the number of
branches increased from 25 to 45.
Last term another good season, seventh
in succession, was experienced through-
out southern Australia, the price of
wool strengthened as the year advanced,
and the cheque for the Australian clip
will be second-best in the history of the
trade. Figures for the first 10 months
of the last three seasons compare as
follows:
10 Mths. Bales Total Average
April 80, Sold. Proceeds. Per Bale.
1951 .. 3,041,731 £568,429,949 £lB6 17 7
1952 .. 2,904,148 263,510,256 90 14 9
1953 . . 3,159,161 328,136,382 103 17 5
For the last 10 months there was an in-
crease of 8.8 p.c. in number of bales
sold and of 24.5 p.c. (£64,626,126) in
total proceeds. The price of sheep re-
acted to conditions in the wool trade,
and cattle continued to fetch high figures,
too ; but turnover in the merchandising
section appears to have fallen sharply,
while advancing costs, albeit at a slack-
ening rate, pressed heavily upon takings.
The co. received 125,853 bales (up
6494 bales), but put 10,394 fewer bales
under the hammer. After making un-
specified provision for bad and doubtful
debts, etc., the slip in gross earnings
from all sources was £33,677:
Exes. p.c.
Wool Sold, Gross of Gross
Bales. Profit. Exes., etc. Profit.
1950 .. 124,411 £559,595 £461,289 82.4
1951 .. 114,112 962,018 793,775 82.5
1952 .. 129,787 ' 857,987 761,130 88.7
1953 .. 119,343 824.310 739.580 89.7
Exes, (down £21,550) include an extra
£4116 for depreciation (£22,370) and an
additional £BOOO tax provision (£81,000).
The declared net result was thus £12,127
lighter at £84,730, of which £11,500 (up
£3500) was sent to the staff funds, leaving
the net amount available for shareholders
at £73,230 (down £15,627), equal to
8.3 p.c. on capital as against 10.2, 18.1,
14.8, 10.2 and 7.5 p.c. back to 1948. The
cautious board chipped a couple of points
off the div., reducing it to 8 p.c., making
average distribution for the last five
years 10.5 p.c. compared with an aver-
age of 5.1 p.c. for the preceding quin-
quennium. Prudence, the chairman says,
calls for recognition of the extraordinary
conditions obtaining of recent years, and
for some provision for the future in anti-
cipation that such conditions cannot con-
tinue indefinitely.
The developments in the trade, outlined
above, are further reflected in balance-
sheet movements:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £875,000 £875,000 £876.000
Creditors .. 4,073,519 1,924,154 2,286,905
Tax reserve .. 150,000 73,000 81,000
Staff fund .. 15,000 16,500 20,000
Final div. .. 65,625 43,750 43,750
Premises and plant 481,791 546,277 615,044
Merchandise .. 159,809 224,122 84,667
Advances, etc. .. 1,876,653 1,508,090 1,405,075
Cash, etc. .. 3,145,953 1,139,334 1,690,518
The heavy reduction in merchandise
stocks (down £139,455) has lessened the
risk on that account. The addition of
£362,751 to the creditors item mainly


*0
All
• Every year a bonus year
• Prompt settlement of claims
classes of Assurances transacted
For service and satisfaction effect all your
assurances through the
AUSTRALIAN
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD'
HUNTER. AND 6EIDHSTREETF.SYDNEY.
lacorgapugd to QuetnslanA, ISSX
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
Manufacturers of: —
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overhand and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
We manufacture the “Curvilinear ” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * ♦ . *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Missing Friend
IP MARGARET WILKINSON. ANNIE
CAHILL, ELIZABETH <7i.ee ROBINSON)
MARY JANE ROBINSON, possibly of Syd-
ney or Newcastle, and GEORGE SIMP-
SON ROBINSON, of Western Australia, or-
their respective children, being relatives
of JOHN ROBINSON, who left
Pit-Town, Wallsend, Newcastle, for New
Zealand about 62 years ago, communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
P.O. Box 429, Dunedin, New Zealand, they
might hear something to their advantage.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. 2/~
Yearly Subscription... ... 22/6
reflects the growth in client’s
current accounts. Advances, etc.,
were £103,015 lower, thanks to
the bigger cheques received by
growers, who also won exemp-
tion, by a High Court decision
in April last, from income tax
on an Australian distribution of
about £64,000,000 of J.O. profits.
The big holding of cash, etc. (up
£551,184), places the co. in a
strong position to further assist
clients as the need arises.
The current term has opened
with another good season and
heavy clip in prospect, as well
as a strong demand for all
classes of the staple. On May
15 the average clean-on-floor
price of 60’s quality wool was
16Id. per pound, or over 26 p.c.
higher than the figure for June,
1952. What the course of prices
will be duripg the coming sea-
son is anybody’s guess at the
moment.
At 28s. (335. a year ago), the
co.’s f.-p. £1 shares return 5.7
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible; cover is 31s. 2d.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
and Subsidiary.
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1946.. 82,725 11 p.c. = 22,000 1 14 0 9QS
To doubtful debts, £4OOO .. ) ’
1947.. 39,158 10 p.c. = 20,833 1
Premiums, new issue, £12,500 1 167,118
To doubtful debts, £6000.. (
To Red Cross, £lOOO ..1
1948.. 48,335 10 p.c. = 25,000 ) IS9
To doubtful debts, £BOOO .. J 18Z ’ 400
Share premiums, £53,625 .. 236,078
Fire loss, £9814 .. .. 226,264
1949.. 60,700 10 p.c. = 29,333 1 „ n
To doubtful debts, £7OOO .. J
Share premiums, £27,500 .. 278,131
1950.. 74.706 10 p.c. = 33,383 1 „ ri4
To doubtful debts, £15,000 . . j ’
1951.. 118,718 12 p.c. = 51,000 1 0 4 7 222
To doubtful debts, £20,000 .. J
Share premiums, etc., £36,874
net . . . . . . . . 384,096
1952. .147,848 12 p.c. = 55,500 | 451444
To doubtful debts, £25,000.. J
1958.. 90,992 11 p.c. = 55,000 487,436
The contraction of £56,856
(38.4 p.c.) in last term’s net
earnings is an indication of
what happens when turnover
gets into reverse-gear while the
cost of doing business continues
to advance. The co., which has
been in the station-supply, pro-
duce, carrying, agency and
general merchandising business
for the last 69 years, operates in
the backcountry in Victoria
and N. S. Wales, where it has
26 and 16 branches respectively,
and there is another at Mt.
Gambier, South Australia,
The fatness of the 1952 profit
figure was due largely to sales
of imported heavy-hardware
lines, turnover in which reached
£l£ million. Collapse of this
trade brought last term’s total
turnover back by £BOO,OOO, leav-
ing it at £6| million, which sug-
gests that other sections of the
business continued to expand.
Steadying or compensating fac-
tors in the situation were import
restrictions, the strengthening of
export income and tendency of
costs to ease a little as the year
advanced.
After setting aside something
for bad and doubtful debts,
there was a slip of £91,316 in
gross earnings (£900,640). In-
cluding provisions for taxation
(£69,500, down £90,040) and de-
preciation (£21,944, down
£7713), the saving in exes.
(£809,648) amounted to only
£34,460. However, the resultant
£90,992 of profit was 18.2 p.c.
on the half-million of share
capital as against 31.9, 26.7,
22.4, 20.7 and 19.3 p.c. back to
1948. The cautious board
snipped a point off the distri-
bution, reducing it to 11 p.c., of
which 1 p.c. is labelled bonus.
The £35,992 that was left lifted
the lay-by to £487,436, which
is only £12,564 short of paid
capital. The two combined
therefore need turn in only 5.5
p.c. to show 11 p.c. on capital
alone.
It was a very satisfactory
showing considering that stocks,
in at cost or under, were re-
duced by £514,628, and that
selling-prices had to be cut in
some cases to do it. There was
also a contraction of £91,238 in
debtors’ balances:
and Subsidiary-^
1951. 1952. 1958.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 425,000 500,000 500,000
Notes .. 100,000 100,000
Creditors* .. 903.769 1,106,259 577,283
Taxation prov. 175,827 282,014 232,596
Final div. .. 29,750 30,000 30,000
Property and
plant . . 822,001 335,883 395,104
Stocks . . 729,405 1,380,898 866,270
Book debts .. 771,387 679,277 589,039,
Shares other cos. 4,800 4,800 4,800
Cash, etc. .. 53,976 68.864 72,105
* Includes unspecified “provisions.” ..
The board was thus able to slash
£528,976 off the amount coming
to creditors, etc., as well as add
£59,221 to property and plant,
mainly on account of rebuilding
the branch premises at Bourke
(N.S.W.), which had been
destroyed by fire. The financial
structure is well balanced.
The board’s immediate policy
is one of consolidation rather
than expansion. And since Aus-
tralia’s export income looks like
being the second-best on record,
and with some prospect of a
greater degree of stability in
wage-rates and of a little relief
in the tax field, the outlook is an
encouraging one at the moment.
Hence the market prices the
f.-p. £1 shares at 365. 7d. as
against 355. 6d. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is 6
p.c. on an 11 p.c. distribution.
Net tangible cover is 395. 6d.
per share,
“Kerogen”: In common with
the boards of all major oil
groups, the directors of Pacific
Oil and Gas Co., Ltd. (B.
27/5/’53), know from experience
that oil is a gamble, but this
should not be any deterrent to
the average Australian. The
reason why the technical advisers
were not mentioned in the pros-
pectus individually was by
arrangement, although both
State Universities and prominent
outside consulting geologists and
geophysicists have been co-opted.
As an all-Australian venture it
was felt that a chance to cover
the preliminary field operations
should be given to available Aus-
tralian personnel, and this policy
has and will be followed out
until the drilling-site selection
stage is reached. Then, of course,
outside interests knowledgeable
of, and experienced in, the global
oil industry will be co-opted for
the oil search in earnest. Mean-
time the basin possesses, as re-
vealed by the regional surveys
and investigations already made
over a period of years, irrefut-
able evidence of the presence in
the measures of both heavy
asphaltic oil and gas in signifi-
cant amounts, and it is this
evidence that the co. will extend
and amplify. As stated in its
prospectus, any located gas can
readily be assimilated into the
existing system of the major gas
undertakings, to which the co.’s
scheduled operations are well
known.
Speculative interest in Hill 50,
Mt. Magnet (W.A.), continues on
the strength of the lode getting
wider and richer as it goes down.
At June 30 last 150,000 tons of
5.25dwt. ore awaited extraction
above the 600 ft. level. The shaft
has i now been deepened to
1100 ft., or thereabouts, and driv-
ing on the 720 ft. and 760 ft. sub-
levels and the 820 ft, level has
disclosed a lot of 7.4dwt, ore
and better over widths of up to
60in. At the 1050 ft. horizon,
230 ft. below the 820 ft. level, the
management expects to meet
with “good-grade” ore over a
length of 70ft, But a lot of
work has yet to be done before
total tonnage and average grade
of ore available are known.
Meanwhile, the grade of mill-
feed has been bumped-up by
some of the rich development
ore. For the four weeks to April
21 last 6200 short tons yielded
24700 z. fine gold, an average
of 7.96dwt. Mill capacity will
presently reach about 8000 tons
a month. Paid capital is
£150,000 in f.-p. 4s. shares,
which the market priced at 575.
each last week as against 345.
on March 4 and 6s. 3d. in July,
1952. At 575. the market values
the entire undertaking at
£2,137,500.
YOUNGHUSBAND
LIMITED
Chairman’s Address
AUSTRALIAN OUTLOOK
In his address to shareholders at the annual meeting held on
Tuesday, May 26th, at the company’s office. King Street,
Melbourne, Sir Clive McPherson, Chairman and managing
director, said: —
I have pleasure in reporting that
the results for the past year have
been satisfactory and that once again
we have been blessed with a good
season. We have enjoyed a succes-
sion of seven good' seasons in
Southern Australia, and whilst at this
critical period of each year we look
forward once again to a favorable
break in the weather, it should not
be forgotten that the recent run of
good years is considerably above
normal, and therefore a period of
lesser rainfall might well be expected.
Stock are generally in good condition,
and with the amount of old feed still
existent could well carry through a
temporary dry spell. Looking back
over the last few years, we have been
particularly fortunate in that we have
enjoyed bountiful seasons as well as
record high prices for our stock and
produce—two favorable factors that
often do not occur together. Prudence
calls for a recognition of these
extraordinary conditions and for
some provision for the future in
anticipation that such cannot con-
tinue indefinitely. Further, it is essen-
tial that Government recognises before
it is altogether too late that reserves
in industry must be permitted if we
are to have a reasonable chance of
getting through successfully a period
of lesser prosperity, and I commend
to Government consideration of some
scheme that will allow a measure of
profits to be so allocated without
taxation, to be reserved for future
use.
Queensland and the Northern
Territory have suffered from severe
drought, but good rains came late
last year and now generally the
season is good in those areas.
STOCK
The Census figures for this year
not being yet available, it is estimated
that the approximate number of sheep
in Australia will exceed 118 million.
Cattle figures at a census taken last
year were about 15 million, but owing
to the severe drought in Northern
Australia, this number may be
depleted.
Our turnover of stock has again
proved satisfactory, and with good
prices realised throughout the year,
this section of our activities has
shown good results, in which our 45
branches play a major part.
WHEAT
Our wheat crop in Australia for the
1952-53 season has been a good one.
Whilst during the year there were
periods of apprehension concerning
the crop, late rains ensued a good
return resulting in 179 million bushels
delivered to the Australian Wheat
Board as against 146, million bushels
last year. .
It is to be regretted that United
Kingdom could not see its way clear
to join in the International Wheat
Agreement, but it is hoped that her
Australian quota can be allotted to
her. Australia’s quota under the
agreement has been reduced to 75
million bushels as against 89 million
bushels last year.
WOOL
For the first time in history wool
received in the Victorian centre for
the 1952-53 season will exceed one
million bales. The continued run
of good seasons, pasture improvement
together with measures taken for
rabbit destruction have all been fac-
tors contributing to the establishment
of this record.
Confident trading at satisfactory
and steady prices marked the .first
nine months of the current season,
and full auction clearances were made.
The United Kingdom demand showed
further improvement, and she easily
retained her position as our largest
and most versatile buyer. On the
other hand, American inquiry was
well below that of the previous sea-
son, due to a curtailment of orders
on military account. Increased pur-
chasing by Japan to some extent
compensated for the American reduc-
tion, and over all, competition was
well distributed. The average price
per bale for greasy wool during the
period at £lO3/19 / was £ll/16/10
higher than the corresponding period
of the previous season.
HIGH COSTS J
Now, whilst I have referred to satis-
factory figures in various sections of
our business, I feel that once again
increased costs must be referred to.
Costs in industry have increased by
over 50% in the last three years, and
our industry is no exception. Rising
costs, over which we have no control,
call for continuous analysis and are
our main problem ih the profit result.
J.O. PROFIT DISTRIBUTION
The High Court, on the 13th April,
1953, decided (by a three to two
majority) that about £64 millions
paid to Australian woolgrowers by
the Federal Government from profits
arising from the sale of Australian
wool overseas during World War 11,
was a gift and not liable to income
It is understood that there are yet
about £2B millions to be paid.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
I have often of recent years referred
to the necessity for reduced costs in
industry in Australia.
Favorable conditions must , con-
tinue indefinitely for the present cost
structure to be maintained. We know
unfortunately they do not.
Two main factors contribute to a
want of confidence in the future:
Firstly, too high costs in industry;
secondly, heavy taxation. These must
be rectified before we can find a
sound prosperity.
Other contributing factors such as
incentive payments to those engaged
in industry are worthy of the utmost
consideration, but without the main
contributing factors being corrected,
such others will not suffice.
Further inflation, to maintain a
fictitious prosperous economy, will
mean a greater reaction eventually.
As I see it, the only possible alter-
native to a reduction in wages—the
major factor in the cost structure—
is greatly increased production. This
appears the only sound method of
reducing present extreme costs and
taxation, and calls for a determined
effort throughout the community.
No mean effort will suffice, and it
is essential that all recognise that our
chance of regaining a sound economy,
justifying confidence in the future,
must be based on acceptance of this
outlook if we wish to secure the
highest permanent living standards
which Australia can bestow.
High costs may very well price us
out of our export markets.
The dangerous suggestion of the
unlimited use of Treasury Bills would
end in disaster.
Waves of optimism have con-
tinuously pervaded our country since
the end of the war in 1945.
Optimism in itself is a fine charac-
teristic and much has occurred to
justify it in Australia of recent years,
in that we have received extra-
ordinarily high prices for our primary
products. However, is it wise that
we should conduct our economy on
the basis that such conditions will
certainly continue, or rather should
we have regard to the commitments
into which we enter based on some-
thing less than the most extreme
prosperity of the immediate past?
I suggest that such thoughts are
worthy of the serious consideration
of Governments as well as of indi-
viduals.
One significant aspect in considering
the necessity for greater production,
in order to maintain our economy at
the present standard, is that of fhe
wage rate compared with wool prices
in recent years. Our total production
of wool in 1951 amounted to 636
millions when wages moved in sym-
pathy with this spectacular figure,
including 20/- a week prosperity
bonus awarded by the Arbitration
Court. The following year wool
realised 300 millions . . . There was
no downward move in the wage rate,
but rather an increase, and today
wages are higher than when wool
made its record figure.
I refer to this as an indication of
the necessity for greater production,
for much leeway must be made up
if we are to maintain our standards.
Present extreme taxation is a matter
which now must receive the earnest
attention of Government.
Whilst it is necessary to take a
balanced view of the difficulties of
Government in the courageous effort
made to combat inflation, neverthe-
less the time has now arrived when
there must be a considerable reduc-
tion in taxation generally.
It is the main general topic of dis-
cussion in the community and calls
for a determinated effort towards that
end.
It is gratifying to note that the
Prime Minister has made an
announcement indicating that he is
fully aware of this necessity, and in
what we trust is the first move in
tax reduction —abolished Common-
wealth Land Tax as from Ist July,
1952.
STAFF
On behalf of the Board of Directors
I should like to express our apprecia-
tion of the manner in which all sec-
tions have given loyal and efficient
service, and accordingly convey to
them our thanks.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
This city has taken on its Coronation
look. Flags and bunting fly from build-
ings and festoons of colored lights,
twined also in the trees, decorate Collins-
street from the Treasury building right
down to Spencer-street station. The
Town Hall and G.P.0., floodlit, appear
to be floating in space. In Bourke-street
a huge painting of the Queen set in a
gold frame and surrounded by colored
lights hangs in front of a large em-
porium, while from near-by buildings
streamers of colored pennants spill from
roof to veranda. Perhaps the most
beautiful window-decoration is at
George’s, in Collins-street, Here, as
though suspended over clouds (formed
by masses of frothy white tulle), are the
Crown and Sword of State.
☆ ☆ ☆
Before the curtain went up at the
Y.W.C.A. Coronation concert in the
Town Hall, Lady Brooks, wife of the
Governor and patroness of Y.W.C.A.,
delivered her Coronation message. The
bright scene in the foyer was colored by
the national costumes worn by those
who sold sweets and programmes. Also
in the foyer, a sweet-stall dressed in red,
white and blue and surmounted by a huge
gilt crown. Mrs. Ivan Holyman and
Mrs. D. J. Ross were in charge. In the
hall flags of Empire hung from the bal-
conies, and on stage tall gold Grecian
pillars supported urns filled with glorious
flowers. For the finale of the concert,
at which many groups of New Australians
contributed items, the curtains parted to
reveal a large portrait of the Queen.
☆ ☆ ☆
St. Vincent’s Hospital Building Fund
will be greatly assisted from proceeds
of the dinner-dance held in the Royale
Ballroom arranged by the wives of the
medical staff and honoraries of the hos-
pital, headed by Mrs. Harry Furnell as
president. Branches of chestnut-tree
foliage, red berries and autumn flowers'
decorated the ballroom, and clusters of
autumn flowers flared on the tables. Mrs.
FurneU’s gown was apricot chiffon and
had a front panel of deep-beige Chantilly
lace matched by the bodice and peplum.
Members of the committee were Mrs.
Frank May, whose black-beaded straw-
lace bodice was allied to a bouffant black
tulle skirt; Mrs. Max Biggins in oyster-
grey faille; Mrs. Kevin Rush, lovely in
American-beauty chiffons; Mrs. Luke
Murphy, whose white satin brocade gown
featured trimmings of silver beads and
ruby rhinestones ; Mrs. Maurice Clarke,
her black tulle skirt topped with a short-
sleeved bodice of white straw lace ; and
Mrs. Desmond Hollywood in pervenche
blue faille, the bodice studded with tiny
matching rhinestones.
Among the dancers were Mrs. Bob
Hadley, Mrs. Emmett Spring, Mrs.
Peter Furnell, whose white linen swing-
back jacket was trimmed with clusters of
green rhinestones circled with gold beads,
Mrs. Peter Heap, her florals of ballerina-
length, Mrs. Tom Sayle' in grey tulle,
Mrs. Harry Sinn in short, swirling black
tulles, and Mrs. John Mullany, whose
sheath-frock of royal blue was trimmed
with matching sequins.
Professional mannequins gave up* a
day out of their busy lives to stage a
fashion-show at Ciro’s for the St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital Building Appeal. Gwen
Weber was the organiser, and manne-
quins included Dawn Ingram, Greta
Dutch, Phyl Purvis, Yvonne Webster and
Peggy McDonald. Claire Lyons supplied
the frocks and suits, Ernest Ransome the
hats and blouses, whilst skirts came from
Maurice C. Dowd. Among viewers were
Mesdames S. Aarons, A. E. Davison, H.
Silk, L. F. Sparks, Hedley Ladd, Mar-
shall Gibson and Bill Cook, Jnr.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the big events of the season
is the “Fourth of July” Ball organised
by the American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Children’s Hospital, and at which
decorations are always original and
amusing. This year it will be-held on
July 2 at the Royale Ballroom, Mrs.
Charles McKay is president of the
auxiliary. Tickets are £2 ss. each. Mrs.
Laurie Tewkesbury (W 1044) is ticket-
secretary ; Mrs. Charles Bacon has
charge of the decorations and Mrs. W. W.
Killough the catering. Members of the
n LT ary are Mrs. J* Jacobs, Mrs.
■ M. Popadak, Mrs. Bert Drayton, Mrs.
Mel. Saunders, Mrs. Walter Pett and
Mrs. Richard Chaney.
* ☆ ☆
Lovely Alen?on lace, self-colored
needle-run lace, embossed nylon trim-
ming, permanently-pleated nylon and
lace were artistically used to beautify
nightdresses and slips in the Kayser
lingerie recently shown for spring- and
summer-wear. For those who like them
there were cut-short pyjamas in soft kay-
dream, the new material. Lawn in pastel-
pink tonings fashioned a half-slip which
was finished with a flounce of
Swiss embroidery. Nylon tulle was used
a great deal for flounces on petticoats.
[From a portrait by Edward I. Holliday .]
The Queen
for frills on panties and for trimmings
of nightgowns.
A dainty supersilk petticoat was
finished with a flounce of Duchess lace
and a half-slip with Alenpon lace inser-
tion and flounce. A new feature was the
number of matching nightgowns and bed-
jackets in blossom-pink supersilk and
trimmed with needle-run lace. A lovely
nightgown was of pastel-blue Brokay
trimmed with net and finished with tiny
guipure lace marguerites. In blossom-
pink tunings, a permanently-pleated
nylon slip was something to covet.
Imported models included a black
nylon taffeta slip trimmed with gradu-
ated rows of cerise ribbon, and Italian
Caprice, a black nylon lace half-slip
made over coral nylon. Swan Lake was
a white nylon nightgown with tapered
permanent pleats and the finest needle-
run lace bodice. Grecian Flame, also an
itnported model, was a nightgown of
watermelon - pink permanently - pleated
nylon and matching tippet trimmed with
layers of nylon tulle. Very beautiful was
La Mer, a double-skirted nightgown of
aqua-blue nylon over deep-hyacinth
nylon which gave it an iridescent effect.
SYDNEY
The Coronation means many things to
many people, but above all it means that
Elizabeth 11, who has been known to us
throughout her life as a person beloved
and protected on all sides, now becomes
the Monarch, and in that high office must
stand alone. Those who love her most
—her husband, her children, her mother
and sister—can do no more for her than
any of us can. Let us therefore sustain
her with all our devotion and loyalty,
sincerely praying that God will bless
and help her.
☆ ☆ ☆
A Scroll of Loyalty was signed by 350
members of the women’s group of the
Liberal party (N.S.W. division) when
they met at the Hotel Sydney for their
Coronation party, and with a message
of love from all the women of the group
it has already been sent by air-mail to
her Majesty. The chairman of the
group, Mrs. M. E. Furley, welcomed the
guests, and Mrs. E. J. Harrison, wife of
file Minister for Defence Production,
when moving the adoption of the
Loyal Dedication, spoke on “What
the Coronation Means to Me.” This part
of the programme was concluded by
everyone singing four verses of God Save
the Queen in the new version and as a
hymn,
☆ ☆ ☆
Say what you will about Sydney’s
narrow streets, they do respond to
dressing-up better than the broad avenues
of other villages. Pitt-street, seen from
Martin-place, presents a long gay vista of
flags, lights, crowns and decorations of
all kinds at present, but Elizabeth-street,
for all the flags that wave from its tall
buildings, is too wide to bring the deco-
rations together in one picture. How-
ever, this isn’t a plea for making all our
streets narrow. Coronations come too
infrequently to make it really worth
while.
☆ ii ☆
The Pickwick was decorated with
tropical fruit, poinsettias, strelitzias,
banana-fronds and palms for the South
Pacific Ball, which was organised by the
Junior Committee of the N.S.W. Society
for Crippled Children during the week.
Prue Bavin and Charlene Todman were
chief welcomers to the 200 young things
who came along. Patsy Kingsford, Beth
Nixon and Liddy Chandler dressed up
in Hawaiian costume (not of the most
extreme kind, however) to help with the
entertaining and serve punch. Noticed
Twink Parker in a strapless velvet dress
of lovely silvery-grape color, Mary
Hawkeswood in navy banded with rows
of white rac-rac braid. Particularly
lovely was the lilac organdie worn by
Mary Stephen, with its violet velvet sash
and shell-pleated bodice. The president
of the senior committee, Mr. K. F. Coles,
was present with Mrs. Coles,
☆ ☆ a
When Mr. E. W. Burbridge spoke at
the annual meeting of the Bush Book
Club he seemed enchanted by the poetry
of its name and said he hoped that
even when there was a municipal lend-
ing library in every town there would
still be a Bush Book Club. Miss Barbara
Knox, president, said she hadn’t realised
they were such a romantic association.
After Mrs. W. H. Cullen, president of the
Country Women’s Association, had re-
plied to Mr. Burbridge, Miss Knox said
that the club had always had good
speakers at its annual meeting and that
this year the standard was well main-
tained. With both these statements this
Letter agrees wholeheartedly. Unlike
most annual meetings, that of the Bush
Book Club is always a pleasure to attend.
☆ ☆ ☆
The odd things that committees have
to deal with. One of the members of
the committee. of the Black and White
Ball has been given a bullock, and
whether to raffle it or serve it for supper
is quite a question. When the president,
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, said that 300
chickens were needed, one committee-
member suggested getting them in the
egg and rearing them (the ball is not
till October 6). This suggestion was
(surprisingly) taken quite seriously. One
of the most interesting things decided at
last week’s committee-meeting was that
the price of the tickets should be reduced
from £2 2s. to 30s. —definitely a sign
of the times.
☆ ☆ ☆
A toast to the Queen was drunk by
the members of the Australian-American
Association (Women’s Section) at a party
given in honor of Mrs. Donald W. Smith,
wife of the U.S. Consul-General, who
has just returned from six months in
America, and Mrs. Georgia Travis, who
is in Australia as a Fulbright scholar.
President Mrs. Florence Taylor gave a
short talk on the Coronation. Among
those present were Lady McKay, Lady
Davis, Mrs. J, W. M. Eaton, Madame
Vrisakis, Mrs. David McCathie, Snr.,
Mrs. Grace King, Mrs. Florence Prim-
rose, Mrs. E. McMonigal and Mrs. E.
Scorfield. Mrs. M. Howard, Mrs. Char-
lotte Rutter, Mrs. M. Morrof and Mrs.
M. Ovington were among the Americans
present.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Committee of the Lady Mayoress’s
Relief Fund has arranged some interest-
ing functions for the year, including a
display of rare china by Mrs. Maxwell
Little on August 5 in the Lady Mayoress’s
rooms, a musicale arranged by Mrs.
Hope Gibson for July 23, when the
artists will include Clive Amadio and
Lily and Olga Kolos, and a mannequin-
parade organised by Mrs. C. M- Guiney
for September 4. The ball is to be held
on September 17, and already committee-
members are beginning their flower-
making for the decorations.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was remarkable how many members
of other repertory theatres came along
to see the first performance of the In-
dependent’s Workshop Group in “Top
of the Ladder.” It is, of course, a most
cleverly-constructed play, and the group
stage-managed it with commendable
skill. Sometimes there are three scenes
going on at the same time on the stage
and three different periods in time being
illustrated, but never was there any con-
fusion. This play will be performed
again tonight and next Wednesday night.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Mary Tenison Wood, who is
chairman of the Status of Women Com-
mission, U.N.0., when speaking at the
conference of the Advisory Council for
the Physically Handicapped, made a
striking contrast between the trifling cost
of maintaining peace through U.N.O. (77
cents a year for each person in America,
5-jd. for each person in Australia) and
the shattering cost of war in every way.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY UNITES
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
mjd PERTH
How to get a
promotion
Skill alone won’t get you a
top-level job; traits like leader-
ship, confidence, ability to
handle people can be even
more important, says Howard
Whitman. After all, the main-
springs of personality supply
the incentive, integrity, vigor
and enthusiasm a person brings
to his work.
In Reader’s Digest for June,
Whitman tells how big firms
are using psychological
“evaluation tests” to determine
not only how good a man is at
his job but how good he is as
a person. He gives sample
questions you can try.
June Reader’s Digest brings
you this and 32 other stimulat-
ing articles condensed from
world’s leading magazines and
books for only 1/6, at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
4tfirifltng drama of suspense and excitement I
fd
*
mi
mssmi
I
£
An enthralling series of original self-contained quarter-hour dramas bringing
you the finest writers, actors and actresses in Australian radio. For the
fascinating best in radio entertainment don’t miss this
brilliant weekly drama, sponsored by Scotts Emulsion,
the world’s largest selling cod-liver oil emulsion.
Ik Y M acqmriebroadcasting $emce
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
French Art in Melbourne
There is some evidence for
Norman Lindsay’s belief that
the art moveinents represented
in the French collection now at
the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne will eventually pass out
and become a dead fashion.
There isn’t a single dadaist
exhibit in it. Yet in 1920 when
I was in Paris dada was a raging
cult, and most young artists were
wearing tea-cosies on their heads
or carrying live snakes in their
pockets and sending dadaist
compositions to the salons.
Dada was started more-or-less
as a joke in Zurich in 1916 in
a tavern by the artist Tristan
Tzara, and in an incredibly
short time Berlin, Cologne,
Hanover, Paris and New York
had their sculptors making
statues out of drain-pipes and
their painters gumming match-
boxes on canvas.
Dada is a French expression
for a child’s first movements. It
sprang from cubism, then the
prevailing fashion. Allegedly
disillusioned by the 1914-18 war,
the dadaist artists applied to
art the same anarchy of reason
or lack of thinking they felt to-
wards life and politics in
general—that is, that it had no
meaning, so the artistic expres-
sion of it shouldn’t have any
either.
It didn’t. One of the cult sent
a framed bucket of whitewash
to an exhibition and another a
plain sheet of paper. When the
director complained that he
could see nothing on the paper,
the artist said “It contains a
whole world of unexpresed
ideas.”
The critics rallied to the move-
ment and gave it a language or
a jargon, and it was going great
guns when surrealism came
along and stole its thunder ; but
the jargon served just as well
for the new movement as for the
old. Surrealism was positive,
dadaism was negative. The
dadaists were anti-art, the sur-
realists had no objection to art
as such, but they were interested
in the unconscious ( and with
what went on below the level of
perception, not in the world out-
side them. Dali, Chirico, Miro
and others cashed-in on these
assumptions, and Picasso
stopped trying to paint like Rem-
brandt and reacted into the new
forms.
The surrealists’ assumptions
could have been blown out by
any competent sesthetician, but
the critics knew nothing about
aesthetics —they were too busy
talking about their feelings. It
might have been pointed out that
an image in the mind, a dream
or an introspection is just as
much a part of the real world
as a cup and saucer and can all
be externalised in paint on
canvas; but, if they are, they
are still subject to the same
visual laws as a painting of a
cup and saucer, a cathedral or a
Persian carpet, and the artistic
quality of a surrealist’s picture
does not lie in the form or the
subject-matter, but in how well
he does it.
The modernist artist may
claim that he invented new forms,
but he didn’t even do that—El
Greco painted elongated figures
and Rembrandt painted his
introspections, but there is a
great deal of artistic difference
between a Rembrandt Flight
into Egypt and a Blake Prize-
winner’s.
The dadaists, of course, were
talking nonsense, A rock, a
piece of barbed wire or a bucket
of whitewash is not a work of
art —it is a piece of Nature, and
as such it can be the material
for a work of art. The artist is
the individual who transmutes
his material, whether it be stone,
galvanised iron or human
nature. The movement died of
its own inanity in Europe before
it had settled in Australia, but,
if it hadn’t, the critics who are
reading all sorts of subtleties
into the French exhibition would
no doubt have been explaining
the beauties of framed kerosene-
tins to a bewildered public.
Which isn’t to say that there are
no subtleties in the exhibition ;
but there is a lot more which is
about on the dadaist level.
F. S.
***
Harry Hudson, who was
commissioned to illustrate with
pencil and brush the life of the
flying doctor in the Outback, is
showing some of his impressions
as well as other works at the
Victorian Artists’, Melbourne.
Not much can be said for his oil
paintings, though his portrait of
the late Ben Chifley is a good
likeness of that Prime Minister
just about to deal out verbal
stoush to a member of the
Opposition, and his “Charity
Race-meeting, Thargomindah,
Queensland,” has heat as well as
humor in it. In fact, he has a
flair for short, sharp, humorous
storytelling. His “Red Distance,
West Queensland,” might be
called a dry skil/ on the Never-
never landscape, and his
“Champ” is a telling descrip-
tion of a bruiser whose features
look as if they had been mauled
by Picasso,
Stage and Music
“Dial M for Murder”
In “Dial M for Murder,” a
thriller by Frederick Knott
current at Melbourne Comedy,
a wife in self-defence kills the
man who has been blackmailed
into attempting her murder, the
instigator being her husband,
who is after her money and a
measure of revenge for her hav-
ing taken unto herself a boy-
friend. The wife is found guilty
and is sentenced to be hanged,
but an astute police inspector
unmasks the real culprit a few
hours before the execution and
the law triumphantly removes
the last obstacle between her and
her boy-friend.
The author has worked out its
complications with a diabolical
ingenuity, and there isn’t a dull
moment in it once you’re caught
up in the doings—and it is diffi-
cult not to be caught up if you
like chess problems in which the
kings, queens, knights and pawns
are almost recognisably human
beings.
The most engaging character
in the piece is Tony Wenduce,
played expertly by Hector Ross,
whose superhuman aplomb only
breaks down when he learns that
the murderer he has hired has
been murdered by the victim.
Another is Captain Wesgate,
done monumentally by Grant
Taylor, whose attempted strang-
ling of the wife is most realistic.
He not only throttles the lady
but bounces her up and down
and nearly wrings her head off.
She still, however, has sufficient
strength left to drive an enor-
mous pair of scissors deep into
the broad of his back, and that
is the most convincing part of
Miss Pamela Page’s perform-
ance.
Alan White plays the lover
with a diffidence that is quite
charming, and Ellis Irving is a
magnificent detective.
Castro
At Melbourne Town Hall the
first of the 1953 youth concerts
was launched under Juan Jose
Castro’s insistent baton. There
is no nonsense about the Argen-
tinian conductor —he knows his
Bach and his Bartok backwards.
He drove his team through a
concerto by the last-named com-
poser with a sure hand to the
triumphant finale which was
written by the author to cele-
brate his recovery from an ill-
ness from which he succumbed
a year later. Karl von Ditters-
dorf, a lesser contemporary of
Haydn, provided the Symphony
in C Major which led off the
evening, and it provided the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra with
an opportunity for some incisive
playing of some rather arid
music.
The New Zealand pianist,
Peter Cooper, who was de-
mobbed to become a broad-
caster for the 8.8. C. and who
has played all over Europe, was
soloist in the Rachmaninoff Con-
certo No. 2in C minor. His
touch was certain, but the
quality of his playing lacked
feeling until he came to the
adagio sustenuto, . which was
inexpressively lovely.
❖ ❖ *
Youth Concert
Following its policy of en-
couraging young performers,
the Cammeray (Sydney) Music
Group introduced some ad-
vanced students, among whom
the honors heavily favored the
girls.
Two pianists, both Conserva-
torium scholarship-winners and
both intending to study abroad,
showed considerable promise.
Sonya Hanke, who goes to the
Royal Academy next month,
played three Chopin studies and,
with quite some fire, Liszt’s
Hungarian Rhapsody No. 11.
Meriel Owen brought off some
notable left-hand work in her
playing of the Chopin G Minor
Ballade, following up with good
fingering in Liszt’s Hungarian
Rhapsody No. 13.
Pamela de Joong (accom-
panied by Yvonne Craig) used
plenty of expressiveness in a
Schumann group and, later, a
lighter bracket, but her soprano
needs more depth of color.
Richard Meale (piano) and
Peter Richardson (flute) col-
laborated in a Hindemith sonata
—a dehydrated thing, and one of
his worst compositions. Even a
John Amadio couldn’t breathe
life into it.
The Adagio and Scherzo from
Beethoven’s E Flat Trio was
patently beyond the technical
and interweaving capacities of
Denis Condon (piano), Stan
Ritchie (violin) and Brian Strong
(’cello), a fatal hesitancy too
often marring progress.
* ❖
“Cauboy”: The Folies
Bergeres are still in possession
of the Tivoli, Melbourne, and,
by present audience indications,
should be still there in the New
Year, and may even be there
for the Royal visit, available for
a Command performance. I
agree with Chief Secretary Gal-
vin that a more decorous enter-
tainment could not be imagined.
On a visit I noticed that
the curiosity of the house with
regard to the “nudes” was ex-
hausted within five minutes and
attention shifted to what was
amusing, exciting, colorful or
skilful on the programme. Most
applause wentjo the grace, ease
and strength or the smiling giant
who carries his two companions
on his unsupported biceps, and
a lot more went to Lewis Jacob
as the devil throwing a dozen
Tivoli lovelies into the eternal
bonfire. Thus, contrary to the
expectations of the wowsers, a
repression has been lifted.
Talkies
The Girl Who Had Every-
thing
The “everything” in this
M.-G.-M. film-with-a-message
at Sydney St. James doesn’t
primarily refer to physical allure-
ments, of which Elizabeth
Taylor, however, has her fair
share.
A wealthy attorney, a widower,
brings up his daughter so in-
dulgently as to promote in her
a wilfulness that finally expresses
itself in a coquettish affair with
the big-time racketeer whom
her father is defending in a
Senate inquiry. The father,
knowing his client’s viciousness,
tries to break it up, and not until
he is “done over” by the thug
with the charming nightclub
manners does the spoilt brat
wake up to herself.
The proceedings are inclined
to drag in the early sequences,
but spark up when the racketeer
begins to shed the thin veneer
of respectability, William Powell
is the fatuous parent who sees
the error of his paternal ways.


ii
,
sKfRNi
SI
&■»
3&S
imp
•■-x •;. •;:>
ii
m
W>o ;
?iBliiiii|lP
CJ
mm i
VV.V -
IM
v?s>i4v
/’wductiwu a*ie nuukPmn ywk.
sss
r.
n
n
&*<»
i *■:* •
S*s
iKSf?
v:_:-
iii
V
gsg
■W
;;, i
■V.Y.: «
HHHHi
'■ :■■
■
*
; v-
■
m
88®
m
mm
mt
m
mtmm
m t
mm
mmm
KBSJ y ' S 8&
*
m&Mi
mmm
■
mssi
»w
m
mi
°f guAitf'
mmm®.
illiili
ftVoJ&S
“Nothing Equals woMfe -
g;WxSf
H
11
11®
LTD
ABBOTSFORD
N
9. VICTORIA
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS;
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP. A. H. DIOKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
A FLYING FRAGMENT
By "FREDDIE"
IT was hard on Mick Mooney
that, near the end of his
tether, he had to break-in the
rustiest bunch of pilots he’d
encountered. Being the oldest,
rustiest and one of the slowest
to get going, I was able to study
him at uncomfortably close
quarters.
It was said that his long and
colorful Hurricane career
included a Battle -of - Britain
bullet in the head. This was
hearsay.
Perhaps because planes and
ships were scarce, or frontline
losses temporarily few, odd times
saw groups of aircrew moulder-
ing in reserve or transit-camps
dotted round the world and, it
seemed to them, forgotten. Via
the back lanes of the East our
small party moved slowly and
spasmodically to Egypt.
There, after only three months
to get acclimatised and say hello
to old friends, who’d trekked
roynd the globe the other way,
we were told to fly.
“Hurricanes or Kitties
whichever they have when you
get there. Be ready in half an
hour,”
We reached our ’drome at
midnight, packed like pigs in the
back of a truck, dog-tired and
stiff with cold.
“Out, bods! ” cried a sing-
song English voice.
It was a hard, white night.
Scattered pagoda-like E.P.I. tents
squatted moon-hazed in the sand.
The “Out, bods” voice said
“Three to a tent, chums, wakey-
wakey 0430 hours.”
I chucked two blankets on the
ground and passed out.
■yuAKING grunts and snarls
revealed that the other
numbed hipbones in the tent
belonged to Steve and Hawkeye.
The new boys comprised Aus-
tralians, Englishmen and
Canadians, plus one, Rafe,
who’d made his way to this
R.A.F. ’drome from Texas.
Most were sergeant-pilots, and
in age retired schoolboys.
The ’drome was a big clay-
pan. Sustained by what passed
for tea at an M.E. R.A.F.
station we gathered flying-gear
and started walking to the Flight
tent nearly a mile away. The
ground was spread with thick
white fog and its surface was
treacherously greasy.
A prairie voice said “After
all, when you get right down to
it, in what way is this any dif-
ferent from Miami?”
Someone said “The things
they don’t tell you in books!”
We heard on either side the
reluctant stuttering of cold
Merlins. Occasionally, sil-
houetted against the fog, we saw
the ghostly, hump-backed shapes
of sleeping Hurricanes.
“Easy, easy,” said Rafe, “or
we trip on an erk in the dark.”
The English fitters and riggers
did seem jockey-sized. They
could be heard rumbling
batteries about, shocking their
winged charges into a fury of
wakefulness. Exhaust flames lit
figures .clinging limpet-like to
cockpits in icy, fog-swirling prop-
blasts. You felt the brittle pre-
dawn tension of any war-time
’drome.
A blot ahead became the
Flight tent. It was formed by
three joined E.P.Is. Inside some
Irving-jacketed fellows turned
and looked us over. They were
young, quiet and looked tired.
Operational men, instructing for
a “rest.” «
There was a muttered “Your
turn, Kim.”
One of them hooked his
elbows on the ’chute-bench and
kept looking at our faces, harsh-
lit by a hanging globe. He
threw his cap back on the bench.
Lank, bleached hair topped a
healthy brown face; a horse-
kick scar circled one of his
amber eyes, which had the
round, unblinking look seen in
some “old” fighter - 'pilots.
Medium build, a policeman
would have said. Outside it was
still dark. A soft Canadian voice
ruffled the silence.
“I’m Kimber. Here we teach
you to fight and shoot; to use
an airplane as a weapon, not an
airborne automobile. I guess
you all know by now if you
hold it wrong it kills you. We’ve
got about a week to teach you
all we can. No time for horse-
dung on your part or ours. Out
there,” thumbing the west, “it’s
really grim. The tougher we
make it here the longer, maybe,
you’ll last. I hear most of you
haven’t flown in a long time.
Here’s where you catch up.
You’ll find it’s like riding a
bike; you just don’t forget. In
a week you’ll be flying rings
round us; and that’s the way
it should be.” But he seemed
humbly aware of the gap he had
to bridge between our know-
ledge and his.
From outside came the fog-
muffled but sustained and
unmistakeable sound of an air-
craft committed to flight. A
glance richochetted among the
instructors. They straightened
and stode out and we followed.
The noise churned around in
the distance and we heard a
groaned “Not again, Mick, not
again!”
Cat’s-eyes head-high in the fog
grew to twin moons, and, when
we uncrouched, the tent still
breathed in the turbulence.
Again the Hurricane’s landing-
lights spread at us rocking as
wingtips were lifted over ill-
seen obstacles.
“Urrrr, Mick, ye don’t have
to do it,” burrd a voice near-by.
Soon we heard him taxi-ing.
“Who was it?” asked Hawk-
eye.
Kimber sighed “The
Squadron-Leader, seeing if the
fog’s cleared for flying.”
AS the fog thinned, a couple
of circuits in two-seater
Harvard's gave us a bit of the
feel back. I heard a heart-
warming Australian voice in the
earphones: “Give her a burst
for luck on the home turn —
go for a fast-wheeler —tell
Flight next gent., please.”
After breakfast a languid,
droopy-moustached and fashion-
ably unkempt type was nursing
a daschund near a Hurricane.
He beckoned and indicated the
cockpit, assuring the animal that
this would only take a minute.
Sitting among the unfamiliar
gadgets I listened to the cockpit-
drill. It wasn’t much trouble,
eyes shut, to put a hand on this
1 and that. Then the daschund-
fancier said “Don’t bfe more than
an hour old boy. Oh, and the
Squadron - Leader’s watching.”
Then he went away.
Gear on and back in the air-
craft, the situation still seemed
unreal. A battery was trundled
under the nose. A voice in the
cockpit screeched the “All clear,
contact” routine and I saw
gloved fingers press the maggie
buttons. The thing started with-
out the slightest hesitation, and
off went the erks and battery.
Looking around I saw other
props spinning and ground-crews
trotting on to wreak more havoc
among the atrophied pilots.
Hell, it must be fair dinkum.
And “the Squadron-Leader’s
watching.”
Brakes off, my machine
gambolled along to take-off point
like a cocker promised a walk.
Round the forty-four-gallon-
marker drums and into wind.
Nothing for it but to push the
throttle and hope.
Taking over from the
Hurricane a few minutes later I
rediscovered the Suez Canal by
some masterly pinpoint naviga-
tion and sneaked furtively along
it wondering if there were any
way of landing invisibly. Unable
to move the lever, I’d been beet-
ling around the sky wheels-down.
And since the same handle
worked flaps, I could only look
forward to a slightly spectacular
high-speed flapless arrival. With
no gate-crashing on my part, a
meeting with the fog-dispersing
Squadron - Leader seemed
imminent.
As the Hurri. slowed to about
sixty, a utility overhauled it. The
driver’s face seemed mottled with
rage ; his mouth was opening and
shutting. Unable to hear him I
waved in “See you later” fashion
and parked.
(i Continued on page 22)


Missing Friend
LESLIE WILLIAM BALOOMBE for-
merly of Gerangamete in Victoria and
Balka in Western Australia is entitled to
a share in his late mother’s estate. Will
he or any person knowing his whereabouts
communicate immediately with THE
TRUSTEES EXECUTORS & AGENCY CO.
LTD., of 401 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria?
JL
310
Wimm,
fiMi
I
%
i
i
t
-
:
iV*°V
Paradyne
*otf
k do*
7&w 19 M& lean*
you can ifustr..
They’re STILL far-and-away the best combination for
Happy Motoring I Backed by ninety years’ refining
experience, right in line with today’s petroleum devel-
opments. There’s Atlantic Flash, eager for the spark;
Esso Paradyne, for extra pep; Atlantic Motor Oil,
always on its metal and then, awaiting you at the
Atlantic Solo Stations, there’s today’s best in all-round
car-care service . . . fast, friendly, and dependable to
the last degree. That’s your combination for Happy
Motoring the Team you can Trust!
ATLANTIC
for
iiappij ffkdeiincj'
ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY
LIMITED
55.53/4
Wouldn't it make
your blood run
cold
By JEAN DUNSTAN
NOBODY noticed that old
Schwartz had not been
around until the telegram
came. Certainly his
friends did not notice. He had
none.
Schwartz lived alone on his
place at the foot of the range,
back in the tall timber, where the
river began. The boys had
cleared out as soon as they were
old enough, and his draggled,
anxious wife had escaped in her
own way—to a mental home.
The telegram was about her. She
had died.
When the postmaster said that
the telegram was urgent, and had
anyone seen Schwartz, people
began to miss him. He used to
come fairly regularly to town,
riding his old mare; his dog,
grinning uneasily, trotting
behind. The mare used to
stumble at times; she was blind.
People said that he had blinded
her in one of his rages; but
Schwartz would never have
spoilt his own property like that.
Possibly being clouted over the
head with lumps of wood had
sent her blind, but Schwartz
reckoned she got along all right
when he had the reins.
Schwartz had not endeared
himself to his neighbors, but
things had been peaceful for
some weeks. He had figured in
no brawls at the pub. No trees
had been felled across anyone’s
fences. No one had found
Schwartz’s cattle, “accidental-
like,” in their crops. The
forestry-men had not found any
of his usual weekly crop of texts
on trees and rocks. It had been
for years his Sunday habit to
take a pot of paint, and to
affront the local beauty spots
with untidily painted texts.
When the forestry had first
started, the men had worked for
a fortnight erasing the eyesores.
Schwartz had been warned, but
he had persisted, in the name of
the strange sect to which he had
belonged, one with unexacting
standards of conduct. Schwartz
often said that religion was his
ruin ; it made him “too soft.”
old Pop Christie had
ever beaten Schwartz in a
deal.
The Christies had lived most
of their lives in the district, but
they were still foreigners to the
descendants of Cornish miners
from over the range. The
Cornish grandmothers would sit
on their verandas in the evening
resting their swollen feet, look
across to where the Christies
lived by the lagoon near some
battered coconut palms, and dis-
approve of Mumma Christie sit-
ting on her veranda resting her
swollen feet, her family laughing
and singing and squabbling
around her.
Little did the Cornish grand-
mothers know, nor would they
have cared if they had known,
that from the seaport where Pop
Christie was born, the
Phoenicians had sailed to Corn-
wall for tin. Back in the days
when the British were savages
in woad some of the Christies’
ancestors had been ancestors of
the Cornish folk.
The hill-town where Mumma
Christie grew up had been a
crossroad of history since history
began. Alexander of Macedonia
had gone that way to conquer
the known world. Caesar’s
legions had built a fort there.
Some of the townsfolk’s own
ancestors had gone crusading
with their lords, and had become
also the ancestors of Mumma
Christie. Younger sons of the
best blood in Europe had sought
fortune and founded families in
that old land. Perhaps that is
how the reddish glint had come
in Mumma Christie’s ringlets—
or possibly more recently, when
Napoleon’s army was there.
The Christie girls were lovely,
with the beauty which comes
with blended blood. Sylvia, a
Mediterranean blonde, unlike a
Nordic blonde had dark amber
eyes and light amber hair. Julie
was blue-eyed and dark-haired
like a Cornish girl. Both could
have passed for princesses, while
they kept silent. When they
spoke it was pure Australian.
SCHWARTZ had bought a lot
of stuff from old Christie
and had paid with a bad cheque.
When the cheque bounced,
Christie’s eldest son, who had
been a prize-fighter, talked of
knocking Schwartz’s block off.
The youngest son, who was a
violinist in the city, spoke of
consulting a lawyer. Pop
Christie said nothing at all.
When the old man gave
Schwartz the contract for some
fencing, the townspeople decided
that “them dagoes” were yellow.
Pop Christie shrugged. He
was deaf anyway. “That
Schwartz work good when he
want to.”
The job was done and Pop
Christie paid for it, with
Schwartz’s own cheque and a
few odd shillings.
“This cheque” said
Schwartz.
“Your cheque, ain’t it?” said
Pop Christie. “Good enough
you pay me, good enough me
pay you,”
Schwartz blustered, but a
hard, bleak look came into Pop
Christie’s blue-grey Anatolian
eyes and a bleaker look came
into the eyes of his boxer son.
That was the only time any-
one ever bested Schwartz.
SOMETHING had to be done
about the telegram. There
was a lot of mail, too, bills and
catalogues and a rate-notice.
Maybe Schwartz was sick. The
policeman went out with one of
the Christie boys in the truck.
The road crawled over pine-
clad hills and around gullies
where palms and tree-ferns grew,
choked with lawyer - vines.
Schwartz’s place looked pretty
derelict. In the cork-berry tree
by the house, happy flock-
pigeons fluttered. It did not look
as if Schwartz could be home.
Then they saw the old mare,
limping and stumbling, sniffing
for the grass between the
bracken fern and groundsel
weed, fumbling her way around
her own familiar paddock, broken
reins trailing, the saddle under
her belly. They did not take long
to find Schwartz, what the
dingoes had left of him. It
looked as if he had been thrown
when the mare stumbled and
lamed herself, and then the poor
blind creature had stepped on
him.
They shot the old mare, the
kindest thing they could do for
her. Up at the house they found
the dog chained, only skin and
bone. It had kept alive drinking
the rainwater that had spilled
from the broken guttering.
Young Christie said that it would
live, with care, and that his
sister Julie would look after it.
When the news reached town,
people stood in shocked silence,
trying to think of something
good to say of the dead man —
and such a way to die, too.
JULIE CHRISTIE spoke, her
vibrant voice made piercing
by years of shrieking at deaf
parents.
“Wouldn’t it make yer blood
run cold,” she shrilled, “to think
of that pore dawg?”


. ' - > >
mm
ii
m
EVERY INCH A MAN
and looks it!
Clothes may not make the man, but they DO
help to make a man look his best. And that
is important! You know, by experience, how
we DO our best when we are correctly dressed.
Using only Pure Fleece Wool, the Crusader
Mills have woven for us beautiful, wear-resisting
Worsted Cloths. Pre-tailored by Stamina, these
Fancy Navy Blue, De-Luxe D.B. Suits are now
available at all genuine Stamina Men’s Wear
Stores.
iYes! You will look your best and be correct
In an attractive Stamina Suit of Navy Blue.
ASK for;
Stomina/r ,-f —
O-B PUUS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
S 2-113
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. OOLGLAbS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
CARRYING the ’chute over
the sand to the Flight tent I
could hear someone screaming
as if in unbearable pain. It was
Squadron-Leader Mick Mooney.
He was screaming at me.
I walked up to him and stood
still, wincing.
He was slightly-built, dark*
and a thin Hollywood moustache
writhed like a snake along the
violent contortions of his upper-
lip. The nose was small, sharp
and hooked ; the eyes opal-black
in wrinkled slits of skin. He was
perhaps thirty. That’s all I saw
the first time. Suddenly his voice
dropped to a comparatively
soothing level.
“How long since you flew?”
“Getting on for a year, sir.”
“No excuse for assuming the
Hurricane has a fixed undercart.
Overheats the motor. Looks
bloody awful . . . Do you expect
every in the R.A.F. to fly
wheels-down so YOU can stay in
formation ?”
“No, sir.”
“What did you fly?”
“Wirraways, sir.”
“Wirraway? Wirraway? What
is it? Some half-feathered
marsupial?”
With that Mooney turned and
walked into the tent.
Shortly my dog-nursing adviser
came out looking somewhat
unsettled. He made quite a
speech.
“It’s all right, you know. I’ve
just lost a strip, too. ‘Careless
instruction.’ Please don’t do it
again. At least you did bring the
plane back ; somebody’s vanished
with one. Probably hocked it in
Cairo. The Squadron-Leader is
taking five of you up now;
formation take - off. Do
remember that release-tit on the
undercart-lever.”
He made the nearest sandbag
and sat on it
It was nine o’clock.
In the tent Mooney said to us
“We fly Hurricanes hood-open
and goggles-off. Better vision.
We also like your eyes open >
Wingtip clear of the next man’s,
able to move forward or back
and level with his roundel.
Form up at take-off point in the
order you get there. Now get
cracking !”
VI/HEN we faced up at the
_ barrier Mooney was wait-
ing with all the patience of a
fire-engine at traffic-lights. I
found myself next to him, and he
stared at me with what could
only have been recognition. Up
went the thumbs and we were
racing. Some gremlin got in
front of the throttle-lever and
risked a hernia. I trailed lengths
behind on take-off.
The rest of the flight was
uneventful. Pansy, practice
stuff; it steadied the flying a
lot. Mooney swept the forma-
tion gracefully round to land
like a matador spreading a cape.
I heard it as my feet hit the
sand.
“Put that bloody parachute
back !” Mooney was standing
near his plane fifty yards away
aiming the words like bullets.
Signing at the Flight he spat
out “You can’t overtake the
leader on take-off ; he’s watching
you and progressively opening
the throttle. This time open
yours! Aeroplanes want to fly,
but you’ve got to help a little
bit!”
At the last moment I had to
switch to another machine, the
heavier, faster four-cannon job.
It had a lot more power for
take-off. There were just the two
of us. Determined not to be
left behind again, I shoved the
throttle-lever forward with com-
mendable enthusiasm. The look
on Mooney’s face as I sailed past
him and soared alone into the
dust-haze will live with me for-
ever. Back there no doubt he
was “progressively opening the
throttle” until it came out by the
roots.
I waited in a gentle turn. He
came sliding up on the inside
like a wide-finned, sand-colored
fish and led. Just above a
low, thin cloud-layer Mooney
signalled “Line astern.” In this
position, behind and a shade
below, you look as though the
leader were pulling you on a
short string. The still air caused
not even the usual gentle lift and
sway of one plane in relation to
another. We were as if fixed in
space forever.
In a flash he was upside-
down. He hung there for a
moment studying my reaction,
then plummeted from sight. As
he screwed down, my heavier
plane seemed to be catching up.
The thin cloud-screen whipped
away, the canal twirled up,
streamed by my shoulder, flecked
with felucca sails and went.
Dust-haze, white flicker of
cloud, blue sky and, thank God,
Mooney. I came to heel like a
guilty pup who’d almost lost its
master.
Again he rolled, dived, pulled
out and rocketted into the face
of the sun. His black silhouette
dissolved in the furnace. I
found him right beneath me like
a shark under a fishing-boat. We
must have looked like a biplane.
Then he skidded to one side and
did a brace of beautiful rolls,
Struth, I thought, the man must
be happy! He’d damn near led
me into the ground.
Mooney darted for home. As
I was closing-up for landing he
shied violently sideways like a
startled horse. I edged back
alongside and we landed. On the
ground he shouted “Blast you!
Out here never join up from
astern —come in from the beam
so we know what you are!
You’d better get some lunch.”
n AFE was standing in the sun,
hand-talking excitedly to
Steve and some Canadians. The
pilots’ universal pantomime,
infuriating when abused, can
describe almost anything that
happens in the air. Rafe’s hands
converged with a smack and
separated, fluttering ground-
wards. The inevitable “who was
it?” brought “Couple English
fellers in a practice dogfight—
man, you shoulder seen it. One
baled out.”
The ’drome was now hot and
dry. Walking to lunch Hawkeye
said “This time yesterday we
were busy swatting flies at
Almaza.”
Wacker said “Yes, flat-out
trying to fill in time! ”
Some of the lunch-time
babble: “They found the type
who disappeared this morning,
about thirty miles away.”
“0.K.?”
“Dead as a doornail —force-
landed wheels down in soft
sand.”
“Oh, bloody bad luck!”
“Bloody clueless!”
“Been up with friend
Mooney?” *
“Not yet and not anxious.
Believe he put an Aussie through
it this morning.”
“Don’t worry. Puts everyone
through it in turn.”
“Yes —if you don’t stick in
like a dart you’re 0.K.”
About sundown a group of us,
feeling justifiably weary, stood
watching the last formations
washing-off speed before land-
ing. Hurricanes came shoaling
in shark-like over the sand ; sank
into the dusk and lost shape.
The beer tasted good. Even
the food seemed palatable. The
tension was off.
In the dark next morning
Mooney performed his tent-high
fog-churning chore and stepped
into the Flight tent.
“Start with you again,” he
said. “Individual attacks with
film. Come in from five hundred
yards out and a thousand feet
above. And for God’s sake
fly!”
We climbed, levelled, separated
and I turned to wait for him.
The day exploded over Egypt
in a kaleidiscopic broken-egg
vastness of cloud and air. A
black speck raged towards me
along the rim of a mile-high
blood-red cliff of cumulus. The
world pitched on its side.
Streaked past the cowling,
steadied, and there was Mooney
far too small in the ringsight. I
fired the camera-gun, broke
away and climbed. Must be
quicker next time.
After half-an-hour of this we
dived to breakfast.
Armourers took the film, and
I rather hoped they’d lose it.
Mooney shouted “Out of range
and no deflection! Get in clone !
You don’t hit ’em when you’re
pointing at ’em. Be here after
breakfast and bloody well get
it right!
Rafe said “Jeez, you must hate
that guy.”
“No, strangely enough,” I
said.
“Strangely enough, I do!”
said an Englishman, with
curious intensity. He was a tall
bloke standing, bareheaded, in
open battlejacket and shorts.
His long, thin face was expres-
sionless ; and the reddish color
of his tight-kinked hair showed
in the skin and flecked his eyes.
He said no more.
LATER Mooney was squat-
ting, head bowed, on a sand-
bag. Faded cap, bulky fleece-
lined jacket, spindly drab-clad
legs. A white pup sat between
his shoes and he was patting it.
Suddenly, he twisted and shouted
back into the Flight tent,
“Where’s my bloody utility?”
The pup scuttled away.
A sergeant came out and said
“Transport’s fixin’ it, sir.”
“Fixing it or mucking it?” He
raced into the tent and grabbed
the telephone, “Transport?
Bring back that bloody truck or
I’ll drive a Hurricane tail-up
where I want to go! Get your
bloody fingers out. I’ve had you ,
Transport!”
He crashed the phone to the
table and ran to the nearest
plane. The motor burst into
life and the tail swung and lifted
as he raced down the mile-long


I®
YEARS
1852
1952
The dictates of elegance
and fashion have always
been reflected in the
beautiful designs of Lavina
Watches treasured by
generations of discrimin-
ating women as pieces
of exquisite personal
Jewellery.
LAVINA
„ WATCHES
jewelled
as *erpieceS
LW26.61
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PGBUO
SCHOOL. situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the. rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
LOOKING FOR
NEW MARKETS OVERSEAS?
Qantas helps you
sell to millions —faster
Speed is the essence of export contracts.
Qantas speeds merchandise, sample con-
signments, perishables—whatever you’re
selling —to buyers and potential buyers
throughout the world—saving you precious
time, money and deterioration risks, assisting your
drive for export business.
Substantial rebates on bulk consignments. Special
low commodity rates on a wide variety of goods on
our international services. Qantas inward air cargo
clearance and delivery service is available if required.
II W/
y>.
s>
mins
m
mm™
'•■tv
* I*’ .
Qantas Air Cargo
Insurance provides
effective cover from time
of acceptance to final
delivery——at amazingly
low rates.
AIR CARGO
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. (Inc. m Qfkmd& in assoc, with 8.0A.C. and TEAL
13 Bridge Street, Sydney. Telephone B 0271.
AC! 3c
road to the administrative
section. I sat and waited.
A plane had landed and taxied
to a stop near-by. I recognised
the pilot as the red-haired
Mooney-hater. He was said to
be eccentric. Some fitters
gathered expectantly. The pilot
rose in the cockpit, stood rigid
and announced at the top of his
voice, “Once again man has
defied Nature.” The show was
over.
Some of the erks were star-
ing upward. A plane was spin-
ning high in the sky. A sergeant
growled “Now then, lads, ain’t
y’ seen ’em doin’ that before?”
They still looked up. Kimber,
inside, sensed something and
came out. “Goddam it man,
pull out!”
Mooney, who had returned
unnoticed said “He can’t, or he
would,” and went into the tent.
Black smoke rose a couple of
miles out in the sand and
Mooney was saying on the
phone “I’ll tell you, sir, when
we know who it was,” when a
Hurricane came in and landed
very fast. When it taxied we
saw a third of one wing was
missing. It was Steve who
climbed out. He was sweating
and shivering.
He said “Me and Wacker —
did he get out, Freddie?”
I said “No.”
Mooney said “No ; you seem
to have won. See the M. 0., then
see me.”
To me he said “Up, Jackson —
let’s get some dung off our
livers. And this time come in
close !”
I found myself shouting “I’m
doing my best! I’ll show you
‘coming in close! ’ ”
Mooney’s smile was like the
Mona Lisa’s.
A Canadian sergeant-instructor
waiting near my plane said
“Take it easy ; makin’ guys mad’s
his technique.”
’’THE first attack was far too
-*■ close. The other plane sud-
denly overflowed ringsight, wind-
screen and filled most of the view
ahead. I wallowed in Mooney’s
wash before striking solid air and
breaking away. My plane got
the bit in its teeth and bored in
each time as though bent on
gnawing Mooney’s tail off.
When the cine-gun ran out of
film we landed,
Mooney screamed “You came
to within seven feet! Are you
trying to mate ’em ?”
“Anything for variety,” I said.
No comment.
After lunch Mooney flew with
the Eccentric; the post-mortem
was a delight to hear.
“I propose to cite you as list-
less, slow, consistent only in
unreliability and without a
vestige of natural ability.”
“But, sir, nothing detrimental,
I hope!”
That night in the crowded film-
hut there was some beautiful
demonstration stuff by Kimber—
bead stuck lijke glue ahead of the
target’s spinning prop while the
cloudy back-drop whirled and
raced. My own film was fright-
ening to watch. The target
turned its tail into the
camera and hurtled at us, filling
the screen with belly and tail
before it flicked from sight.
The film-interpreter said
“God! You could count the
rivets! ”
There was another exclama-
tion and someone said “That
was the Squadron-Leader. He’s
gone.” Each pilot’s films were
run off to expert comment such
as “Deflection about right—
slightly out of range —that’s
better —bad button-stabbing—
longer squirts, please.”
The Eccentric’s reel, after
showing the usual whirling
emptiness of sky with occasional
views of aircraft, concluded with
a screen-filling close-up of the
stolid face of an armorer.
After a moment of stunned
silence the interpreter said “Sur-
prise ending!”
■OACK in the sergeants’ mess
the senior W.O. answered a
knock on the door and returned
with the- Squadron - Leader,
dapper and polished, black hair
close-brushed and shining.
Tombstone asked “Like a
beer, sir?” Mooney dragged up
a stick-and-canvas chair and sat
down.
The Eccentric rose gracefully
and carried his drink to the
trestle bar. There, feet crossed,
and comfortably hooked by his
elbows, he stared back at us. A
hanging bar-light glowed on the
fiery hair, narrow forehead, high
nose and cheekbones. The rest
was shadow.
Mooney, sitting low in the
chair, looked steadily at him,
dead-pan and rigid. I had a
curious feeling that the Eccentric
stood, remote, to better concen-
trate on Mooney. His attitude
had a bone-pointing quality.
Tombstone came back and
whacked beer on the table; and
the honest sound was welcome.
Mooney said smoothly “Ah!
Quick work, Tomson—looks a
nice drop. Luck!”
Turning my way, he said
“That was extremely dangerous
today. Strike the happy
medium. Smoke ? ”
More instructors came in and
joined the growing circle. Fly-
ing revealed to its proper status
—“a piece of cake” ; child’s play.
An Englishman tossed in a
suggestion for a list of fineable
offences to be posted in the
Flight. From fifty-ackers for a
landing-/or taxi-ing-prang to ten
for “goddam” or “son-of-a-
bitch.”
Rafe said “Yeah, and fifty for
‘a-a-actualleh! ’ ”
“What price breaking a
neck?” shot from the figure
under the bar-light.
There was a noticeable
sprinkling of D.F.C.s and a
couple of D.F.M.s on the
instructors’ khaki tunics. Affect-
ing eye-trouble, Rafe jumped in
with “so many goddam gongs
here a guy could hammer out the
Anvil Chorus! ”
Steve’s laugh startled me —he’d
been unnaturally quiet for a kid
who laughed easily.
Mooney turned on him.
“Hear you’ve some damned
good songs, Hampton, what
about it?”
The usual all-in sing-song de-
veloped from tentative “da-de-
das” among the more cautious
to full-throated competition,
ending in husky goodnights
and sleep.
|~vNE morning was cloudless
and perfect for shadow-
shooting. We did this in pairs
using the four-cannon machines.
You dived at the other man’s
shadow, and the spurts of sand
showed where your shells were
hitting. Burton, an English
pupil, went with Hawkeye.
Hawkeye returned alone and
reported Burton crashed while
shooting.
Mooney, writing at a trestle-
table, grunted, “Probably
selected his own shadow and
pressed home the attack.”
Thwaites, of the daschhund,
picked up a piece of cloth,
walked to the roster-board and
looked inquiringly at Hawkeye,
who nodded. Thwaites erased
Burton’s name and went to the
telephone.
About an hour later Lofty,
who did everything with a
flourish, turned an ordinary run-
of-the-mill forced landing into
an arrival to write home about,
When the engine cut he dropped
the wheels and tried to reach
the drome. Skimming a distant
sandhill, he hit a nearer one and
bounced two hundreds yards
on to the runway. No damage,
Lofty had already established
a formidable reputation for
luck at poker, crap and the
Gezira races ; so, naturally,
Mooney was flying and not avail-
able for immediate comment.
He was giving the Eccentric
a last-chance test in individual
combat. On the joystick were
two buttons, one camera and
the other guns; and it was
important not to confuse exer-
cises. After this one Mooney
treated his languid opponent to
a brilliant, if vitriolic, discourse
on deflection,
He was saying “Well, what the
bloody hell were you aiming at?
Certainly couldn’t have been
f Continued on page 34)
LOVE-SONG
When bottlebrush grows in wreckers’ yards
And black crows scorn red meat,
When mothers-in-law give up playing cards
And a swaggie sleeps in a sheet,
Then will my love come back to me.
When haystacks hide not a single mouse
And lizards love the cold,
When politicians whisper in the House
And I myself strike gold,
Then will my love come back to me.
When the countryside is bare of tins
And bottles are never broken,
When mannequins have hair on their chins
Then I’ll take her word as token
That she will come back to me.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
QUIZ TO STRANGERS
Is death to me as love to you
the hidden night’s divided way,
and will we both at morning wake
and wonder that we left the day?
Is death to me as love to you
the magpie’s sudden scale of song,
that glistens on the morning frost
and lights the heart away from wrong?
Is death to me as love to you
the spring the deserts trap us with,
the turning selfness of the night
that is our individual death?
Is life to me as love to you
the end of living and the why:
the double way that is’the way;
I love I hate, I live 1 die?
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


INSURANCE —for your protection-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branchs 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 line*) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
©
H
m
mm
sr :
• ••'..••1V..
%
i
on quality
You know the BP Aviation
Service. You have seen its
green and yellow fuellers on
hundreds of airfields. But have
you ever stopped to think what goes
on before the fuel reaches your air-
craft tank, or how that fuel’s quality
is ensured?
From the time that the crude oil is won
from the ground until it is delivered
to the consumer, constant checking
at all stages of production and dis-
tribution is necessary to maintain
the highest quality. The illus-
tration shows a chemist analys-
ing a sample of aviation fuel.
It typifies the concentration
on laboratory research work
behind the Anglo-Iranian
Company’s aviation fuels.
sv : :
\AVIATIDN mi SERVICE^
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
AMPLITE
LIGHTING
i PLANTS
!
Brilliant light at the press of a button
with AMPLITE Home Lighting Units.
12 Volt 300 Watt, 32 Volt 400 Watt,
£B9/10/0; 32 Volt 750 Watt, £142/10/0
Ideal for Farms, Caravans, Boats, Camps,
Battery Charging, etc.
(A'ASIA)
AMPUQH
PTY. LTD.
88 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MAURICE JOSEPH LYONS formerly
of Chatswood New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MAVIS MARGARET LYONS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 187
of 1953 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 7th of August 1953 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from W. D. SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113
Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MERVYN GORDON STEAD.—TAKE
NOTICE that NORA PATRICIA STEAD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 8778
of 1952 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before 10th August 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from THOS.
E. RUMMERY & LIDDY, Solicitors, Lis-
more.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Geography of
Africa by Pickles. —5510.
To buy copies of Men and Women
by Pearl Buck and Lucretia Lombard
by Kathleen Norris.—sso9.
Words of poem describing the flight
of an aeroplane carrying mail across
the Nullarbor Plain.—ssoB.
Music of the following songs:
(a) “Le Petit Tambour” (also known
as “A Wet Sheet and a Flowing
Sea”; (£>) “Ring the Bell, Watch-
man”; (c) “Ben Bolt”; (d) “The
Standard Bearer”; (e) “Barney
O’Keefe” ; (/) “Calder Fair”; (g)
“Days We Went a-Gipsying.”—ssll.
Information Sought
Some facts about the British
Council ?
It was established in 1934 at the
instance of the Foreign Office, sup-
ported by a number of other Govern-
ment departments. A charter was
granted in 1940 under the terms of
which the council exists for the pur-
pose of promoting a wider knowledge
of the United Kingdom and the Eng-
lish language abroad, and of develop-
ing closer cultural relations between
the U.K. and other countries. Almost
the whole of its funds are derived
from a grant voted by Parliament.
Apart from its work overseas, thfe
council does work in Great Britain
for the recreational welfare of United
States and Dominion persons. The
headquarters of the British Council
are at 3 Hanover-street, London, W.l.
#*' * *
Did the Australian aborigines
migrate in the winter, and what pro-
tection had they against the cold
weather ?
The natives could not migrate,
either as small groups, or as tribes,
as each tribe had its own well-defined
territory, and to trespass on another
tribe’s domain meant severe punish-
ment. There are numerous references
to the way the abos felt the winter
cold. To keep warm they huddled
around small fires in cave or hut, or
used cloaks of animal skin. But it
must be remembered that an individual
who has lived without clothes from
babyhood builds up resistance to
changes in temperature.
* * * *
(a) Who was A. G. Steven? (b)
What were the characteristics of his
writings? (c) Titles of his books?
(a) Alexander Gordon Steven was
an Australian poet. He was born in
London in 1885 and came to Australia
as an infant. His father was a
doctor, and the future poet spent two
years at Melbourne University before
his health gave way. A trip to the
Continent failed to restore it and he
died in 1923. (b) The main charac-
teristics of his work are an intense
love of nature and a detestation of
the crowded life of the cities. His
poems are either lyrical or philo-
sophical with evidence of a striving
after image and artistry. He was
undoubtedly influenced by English
poets of the Georgian period, (c) The
Witchery of Earth (1911), The Wind
on the Wold (1914), Poems (1918),
Revolt (1919), Lures (1923), and The
Collected Poems of Alexander G.
Steven.
* * * *
Correct diet and treatment for
ducklings ?
If raised with the mother they
should be confined to a small run so
mat they do not exhaust themselves
following the mother over a large
area. Feed should be mixed in the
proportions of 61b. finely-ground
wheatneal (pollard could be sub-
stituted if available), 31b. bran or
coconut-meal and 11b. meatmeal;
dissolve 2oz. fine salt to 101 b. mash.
Drinking-water should be available
at all times, as heavy mortality may
occur through lack of water even for
a short time.
* * * *
How can Sturt’s desert-pea be
grown in Sydney suburban gardens?
This native trailing plant ( Clianthus
dampierii) requires careful handling.
It needs dry conditions, and there
must be no manure or fertiliser in
the soil. Leave the plants severely
alone after they germinate. Results
are often obtained by soaking the
seeds in hot water for ten minutes
before sowing and then burning grass
or brambles over the bed, the ashes
supplying potash,
* * * *
(1) Is Christ mentioned in any
secular history or any book other than
the Bible ? (2) Who wrote the Book
of Genesis? (3) What date was it
written ?
(1) Presumably you refer to his-
torians contemporary or near-con-
temporary with Jesus. Many books,
both by ecclesiastical and by secular
writers, have since been written about
Jesus (for instance, over 200 works
were published about Jesus in the
five years 1935-40 alone), and He
would of necessity be mentioned in
any history dealing with the period
in which He lived or with the rise of
Christianity. (And, of course, He is
mentioned in dictionaries and encyclo-
pedias.) As for contemporary refer-
ences, they are rare in non-Christian
historical literature of the first cen-
turies, but there are references to Christ
in Josephus, Philo Judaeus, Tacitus and
the younger Pliny. Generally, how-
ever, profane historians of the period
show complete ignorance of the life
of Christ. Most of our knowledge
of His life depends on the canonical
books of the Bible. (2) and (3)
Everyman’s Encyclopedia says:
“Without assuming that Moses was
the author, we find that many of the
events of Genesis were well known
to the earlier prophets, and the book
may have been compiled during the
literary activity of the schools of
prophets in the days of Samuel.
While, however, everything points to
a gradual process of editing, the
exact time cannot be determined.”
* * * *
What qualifications are necessary
before a town in N. S. Wales can be
proclaimed a city ?
A city may be declared to be so
under the Crown Lands Consolida-
tion Act, 1913, by the Governor or a
Minister in the Government Gazette.
It must have had during the five years
preceding this proclamation (1) an
average population of at least 15,000
persons, and (2) an average gross
income of at least £20,000. It must
be an independent centre of popula-
tion and not a suburb —whether resi-
dential, industrial, commercial or
maritime —of any other municipality
or centre of population. The City of
Parramatta was constituted by special
legislation in 1938.
* * * *
Can a captain demand a substitute
for a player injured during a cricket
match ?
M.C.C. rule 37 states: “A sub-
stitute shall be allowed to field and
run between the wickets for any player
who may during the match be in-
capacitated from illness or injury, but
for no other reason, except with the
consent of the opposite side.” There
is a note on this: “It is well to
remember that a side which loses the
player’s service through illness or
injury brought about by the match is
entitled to a substitute, whereas in
other circumstances consent is neces-
sary, which must depend upon the
courtesy of the opposing captain.” A
substitute, however, is allowed only
to field for the side.
Brief Answers
A.J.K.: A Municipal Corporation
in W.A. has a limited power to close
roads, and a Road Board also has
such power in some circumstances.
It seems surprising if no notification
has been given to the adjoining owner.
To give proper advice at this distance
is difficult, and it is suggested that
you or the society consult a local
solicitor, who will be in a better
position to ascertain all relevant
facts from the board and from the
appropriate Government department
before advising you M.J.W.: Yes,
the writer of the Plain English got
one as described in the article
A.McD.: Write to any of the follow-
ing: Dann and Farey Pty., Ltd., 127
York-street; T. W. Heath Agencies
Pty., Ltd., 189 Clarence-street; L.
Brown, 127 York-street; Wallace
Trading Co., 49 Clarence-street —all
Sydney F.T.: There is no truth
in the allegation....G.W.D,; Neither
the National Art Gallery of N. S.
Wales nor the Mitchell Library, Syd-
ney, has been able to trace any
reference to an early Australian artist
named Val Delawarr... .L.D.: Inigo
Jones, Crohamhurst Observatory,
Crohamhurst, Q’land K.W.; Build
Your House of Earth by G. F.
Middleton (225. 6d.), posted Bd.
extra, from Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
K.N.: Britomartis was a Cretan
goddess; daughter of Zeus and Carme.
Pursued by Minos, she flung herself
into the sea, but was saved and made
a goddess by Artemis, with whom she
was later identified. Goddess of
hunters, she is said to have invented
nets W.H.D.: Charles Clement
Bervic (1756-1822) was a French
engraver, born in Paris. His full-
length engraving of Louis XVI from
the portrait by Callet ranks among
the finest works of its kind extant.
G.R.G.J.: Wool Classing and
Shed Management by J. J. Hardie,
published by H. T. Wade, Box 4639,
G.P.0., Sydney P.McD.: For par-
ticulars of the St. Mark’s Literature
Prize, write Rev. C. L. Oliver, St.
Mark’s Rectory, 39 Jamieson-street,
Granville (N.5.W.)... .0.N.M.: The
lines occur in the last verse of “Fears
and Scruples” by Robert Browning.
B.D.: (1) Yes, there are some
Carboniferous rocks in the coastal
area between Onslow and Carnarvon.
They occur over a comparatively
short, narrow length of country at
the head of the Minilya River on the
eastern side of the sedimentary basin.
(2) Geologically, the district consists
of a west-dipping succession of sedi-
mentary rocks of Cretaceous ana
Permian age, with the Cretaceous
rocks occupying the coastal areas
and the Permian rocks outcropping
further inland on the western edge
of the Pre-Cambrian basement mass.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.G.D.: Weighed and found under-
weight... .J.A.S.: N 0... .8.A.C.:
Suggest you read Bernard O’Dowd
and see how he handled a similar
subject... .M.T.: The only novel
thing about it was the fancy typing.
. ...J.8.L.: Not worth a Bathurst
burr T.H.: A bit better than “S.
M. Herald” “In Memoriam” verse,
but not much... .R.D.: It just
manages to jog along D. 8.: Your
mosquito lived for only a fraction
of a second M.J.C.: “Vengeance,”
shivering in its “meagre, tattered
clothes,” huddles in the w.p.b., “stiff
with c01d”... .MJ.B.: Unmoved by
the “ceaseless rise and fall, the end-
less boom and roll” J.C.C,: That
swagman has had his day....P.8.;
It must have been one of your sad
days when you wrote that sorry little
piece R.W.S.; In the good old
days the editor of some bush weekly
would have shouted you beer all day
for the privilege of printing that
ballad, but not now, alas
T.N.: “A spate, similar to the en-
closed, could proceed in your
direction on request.” Heaven forbid.
P.H.: Keep on trying D.E.T.:
“Either”? Neither R.W.M.: The
poem is as dead as the Chinaman
in it M.M.: You will never hit
the mark so long as you continue to
submit verse that ends with the line
“Thank God! It was only a dream.”
J.H.S.: Will forgive you this
time DJ.C.: Pleased to note that
the rains came K.McA.: You’re
still plodding along 8.M.: You
might run across a hillbilly singer
who could use it S.G.R; Well,
who is Blinkers? “N”: for No.
J.S.: In his delirium he rambled
as though reading it from the script.
G.T.: Your “Ulysses” has re-
sumed his wanderings N.D.: We
don’t mind dark doings, but yours
are opaque J.H.L.: “Industry—
I’ve Had It.” So have we P.S.:
Your Italiano, he not spik good da
broken Ingleesh... .J.J.L.: No reason
why a story should not be fictitious;
but it should be credible E.K.H.:
“Too much corn,” as you said about
Dan’s lively mare H.V.C.: Who
cares what happens to sar’majors?


The First Three Volumes
The
Second -War Histories
By "EK DUM"
NOBODY seems to have
carefully organised the
timetable of the issue of
the new Australian War
Histories, so that the first volume
of a projected 22 to come out
was called Clinical Problems of
the War, by Dr. Allan S. Walker.
As an account of these prob-
lems it is no doubt a valuable
contribution to medical litera-
ture, but whether it is suitable
for issue to the public in a
general series of popular war
histories is another matter. It
contains naturally an epitome
of all that is most repellent in
war ; it is illustrated largely with
horrible pictures of reconstruc-
tive surgery, grafts and mutila-
tions calculated to make the
blood of the young prospective
recruit run cold and mothers and
wives shudder.
As a volume for the private
shelves of the medical profession
it provides a service which the
surgeon and the physician will
universally find interesting and
useful; but as something which
is offered for general circulation
it is a gift to the phony peace-
propagandist who gets his effects
by the don’t-let-this-happen-to-
your-son method. Moreover, it
is apt to produce in the mind of
the average lay reader a com-
pletely unbalanced view of the
chances of war, because it does
not, and cannot, make it plain
that the matter in the book rep-
resents something which hap-
pens to a minority in armies, the
most unpleasant features to a
very small minority indeed.
The second volume which has
appeared for sale is To Benghazi.
by Gavin Long, editor-in-chief
of the whole series. It is just
over 300 pages long, plus appen-
dices and index. In common
with other volumes it is printed
royal size, with a type-
line, which is rather too long for
comfortable reading.
It is divided into three sec-
tions. The first, of 130 pages,
covers the political history of
defence before the war, the en-
listment of the Second A.I.F. and
its organisation and training up
to the opening of the desert
battle.
The second part deals with the
drive across the desert, which
begins with the Sidi Barrani
operations of December, 1940,
and the attack on Bardia, to the
end of the campaign in March,
1941.
Finally, there is a detached
chapter which has no relation-
ship to the rest, on the A.I.F. in
the United Kingdom.
There are three methods of
writing war histories. There is
the economical one adopted by
the New Zealand Government,
which appointed General Kip-
penberger to systematise and
issue the actual official docu-
ments in volumes arranged
according to both operation and
chronology, leaving it to private
enterprise to interpret the facts.
From the point of view of the
future historian this will prob-
ably prove the most useful
method, provided all the rele-
vant documents are included and
properly systematised.
Another method is that of the
military historian, which gives
the clearest overall picture and,
if the writer is skilled in prose,
a very graphic bird’s-eye view as
well. By this method the terrain
is described, the stage set so
that the reader has a vivid pic-
ture of the places in which the
drama is enacted. Then objec-
tives are set out clearly, the
resources of both sides are de-
scribed, and the description
of the campaign and its time-
tables is launched. It is closely
related to orders; the commen-
tary is limited to those events
which cause deviation from the
original plan or which highlight
the progress of the advance or
fighting. The enemy’s counter-
operations are described in detail.
Every stage is illustrated and
made clear by properly prepared
military maps and pictures
of the terrain and typical parts
of the proceedings.
Such is the method pursued in
Aspinall - Oglander’s Gallipoli
history, one of the clearest
descriptions of a large military
operation ever written. Nobody
who has made use of it is ever
likely to disagree with Dr. Bean’s
judgment of it that it is “admir-
ably lucid” and “likely to re-
main the chief authority on the
subject.”
+ +
Bean himself combined the
military historian’s method with
a third system which Mr. Gavin
Long uses. In Bean’s volumes,
whether written by himself or
Others, the overall epitomes of
the campaigns or battles are
excellent, the statistical matter
is all that any historian can ever
want and is in the places where
he can find it most easily. But
the details of the engagements
are reported very largely by the
eyewitness method, though with
a view all the time to keeping
the picture of the operation as a
whole clearly in the mind of the
reader. Bean’s canvas is so large
and his detail so meticulously
thorough that he is not always
successful; but he and his
writers would have had to be
superhuman to achieve complete
success.
Mr. Long’s method is almost
purely journalistic and lacks
some features which make it
possible to gain a clear and
accurate picture from Aspinall-
Oglander’s and Bean’s volumes.
In Bean the maps are military
maps ; the elevations of hills, for
instance, are always given, thus
producing a clear understand-
ing of the terrain, and this is
intensified by the use of a type
of photograph which is not so
elegant as that normally used in
the World War II history but
gives a fine idea of the type of
country.
The maps in the new history
give no elevations. Though
operation orders are included as
appendices, understanding of
them depends on having the
“traces” related to them, and
these do not appear in file book.
It is no use pointing out that
the objectives, for example, in
the battle of Bardia are shown
in “Traces A to D” if Traces
A-D are not available.
The journalistic method of
approach to the story gives a
result which is bound to pro-
duce criticism from those who
feel that some parts of the
campaign have not been given
proper weight. Obviously in an
attempt to be descriptive of
detail, much of which he has not
seen personally, the reporter-
historian finds his mind more
receptive to some narratives than
to others.
In a group of firemen at a
fire it is not the man who knows
most whose version makes the
greatest impression on the local
reporter but the one who has
the best turn for description. It
is probably due to this fact that
there appears to be a lack of
balance at times in Mr. Long’s
assessments of the part played
by various individuals —Major-
General Allen is one to whom
full justice is not done —and by
units and formations in opera-
tions. The 17th Brigade may, for
instance, appear to have been
assigned credit for its part in
the advance out of proportion
to the actuality, great as its role
was.
Overall there was not a great
deal to be added to what had
already been written by earlier
historians about the campaign,
but the book fills in a lot of
detail, and often ties the credit
for particular actions to people
who had hitherto not had the
credit publicly. But it does not
produce a close-knit, fully in-
telligible military picture, and,
in any case, before the
reader can reach the story
which he wants to read he has
been compelled to wade through
120 pages of mixed politics,
overall strategy, and excursions
into other war theatres inserted
by way of explanation. The
edge has been taken off his
appetite before he reaches the
essential heart of the book —the
campaign story.
It would have been better to
isolate all the preliminaries else-
where and begin the war story
with one initial chapter descrip-
tive of the situation and the
forces involved before Bardia,
and then to carry the whole tale
of Australian operations through
to end in one volume on the
scale of the civilian and medical
volumes which have been issued.
Anybody who could not say
all that was worth saying about
the North African, Greece and
Crete campaigns in one volume
of 700 pages could scarcely be
called .a historian. And the tale
done in one piece would have
been infinitely more vivid, acces-
sible and readable and had a
greater unity.
Under the present system the
reader will get his story broken
into bits, without continuity of
thought and method, since dif-
ferent volumes are being done
by different hands. He will
switch from Mr. Long, where
the tale is broken off sharp in
its preliminary stages after the
advance to Benghazi, to Mr.
Chester Wilmot, who is to deal
with Tobruk. The latter’s style
and method are entirely different,
and his book written in 1943
will never be superseded as a
classic account of an epic, hot
from the battlefield.
+ +
The reader will next have to
switch back to Gavin Long to
read about Greece, Crete and
Syria. And, though these cam-
paigns are episodically separate,
they still have so much relation-
ship to the overall picture of
the Australian part in the Middle
Eastern war that they would
have been better dealt with in
direct relationship to other
operations in their chronological
order. The cumulative effect
both as picturing the whole
achievement of the A.I.F. and
the continuing services of indi-
vidual officers would have been
infinitely more impressive if the
lot were presented in chrono-
logical relationship and written
by the same author.
Mr. Paul Hasluck’s The
Government and the People,
the first of two volumes dealing
with “Australia in the War of
1939-45,” overlaps the earlier
part of Mr, Long’s book. It is
one of the volumes which will
make the official history worth
while, though its quality may not
be appreciated for a century. It
makes unnecessary the first
lengthy chapters of the Benghazi
volume dealing with the domestic
history of defence between
World War I and World War II
and overshadows them by reason
of Mr. Haslyck’s intensive and
practical knowledge of politics.
The picture of the political
scene which emerges in Mr.
Long’s volume is of two parties
of sterling fellows contending
in Parliament, each grimly differ-
ing in principle as to how
defence should be conducted,
but united in unswerving pat-
riotism, though sometimes a
little misguided or carried away
by emotion. The impression is
conveyed throughout that Labor
thought was sincerely in line
with the doctrines of a particular
school of expert naval and mili-
tary thought—a school whose
academic expressions of view
Labor actually used piecemeal to.
suit its own purposes.
How shallow has beeti Mr.
Long’s digging in that period
is shown by the fact that in
dealing with the development of
defence programmes and poli-
tical discussions during the whole
of the between-war years he does
not find it necessary even once
to mention Communism, which
at times, through its temporary
control of Labor machinery,
dominated Labor defence-think-
ing.
+ +
Mr. Hasluck is not like that.
He is thorough and fearless. His
approach to the job is purely
historical and detached. The
independence of spirit and
originality of metaphor which
enabled him to coin the phrase
in which he depicted Dr. Evatt
as changing his plumage in mid-
flight shows itself as a charac-
teristic throughout in his work.
There will, of course, be a
good deal of disagreement as to
facts and emphasis in his de-
tailed story of the development
of the political, industrial and
general civilian association with
the war and of the trends of pub-
lic opinion. Just as every officer
in the Bellerophon differed
about the color of Napoleon’s
eyes and the state of his teeth, so
everybody involved in the events
and developments which Mr.
Hasluck describes will have his
own version and his own assess-
ment.
But nobody can honestly dis-
agree about his dispassionateness
or quarrel with his method of
estimating personalities and
characters, which is usually fac-
tual and, where events are
involved, documented. The
amount of work he has done is
immense; he shirks nothing as
a matter of tact and omits noth-
ing which is likely to prove
inconvenient even to-his own
friends. His assessments of indi-
viduals are particularly striking.
While he describes Mr. Men-
zies, his own present leader and
head of the Cabinet in which
he now sits, as “a man of fine
presence, ease of manner, poise
and style,” and gives high tribute
to his qualities of mind and
spirit, he does not hesitate to
record that “he incurred the sus-
picion of being vain, of lacking
in sincerity, and of being aloof” ;
that he “had been too obviously
a potential Prime Minister for
too long” ; that as “a man whose
democracy had been shaped by
thinking rather than by physical
contact with the crowd, and a
man whose attainments and dis-
tinction marked him out in any
company, he incurred the risk
of being charged with losing
touch with the common man
and having no feeling for the
daily problems of the worker.”
The development of his picture
gives him opportunities to write
such passages as this;
A shrewder and craftier man than
Menzles would have learnt from Aus-
tralian politics that ordinariness was
sometimes an asset and he might
have dissimulated. A less talented
man might have learnt to depend
more on others and to trust the
people rather than trust himself.
Above all Mr. Menzles suffered that
disability of the great advocate and
of the logical mind in a world of
political conduct governed and ob-
structed by political motives. Having
reached an impeccable conclusion by
faultless logic and demonstrated the
argument clearly to the public he
had a sense of achievement and an
expectation that from that conclusion
the Inescapably correct consequences
would flow. Of course they seldom
did.
His summary of Dr. Evatt in
1940 says that he was “a restless,
energetic member of brilliant
parts, and one who, as his own
biography of the Labor leader
Holman had shown, had an
inordinate interest in political
manoeuvres rather than in ideas.”
And Archie Cameron, who in
private life is a personal friend
like many others whom he deals
with as fearlessly, reaches his
climax in the story with this:
Cameron, who had been a vigorous
and determined Minister, offered his
resignation from Cabinet on October
16. For the rest of the war, from
the back benches, he became one of
the sbarpest-tongued and most un-
compromising critics of anything in
the conduct of hostilities that seemed
to him to be less than the utmost.
From the start his view had been
that wars could only be won by
fighting and the sooner and the
harder Australia fought the better.
Ho became increasingly and indiscrim-
inately intolerant of any hindrance to
the war effort, and ended by being
described by a journalist as a power-
ful locomotive with a full head of
steam but no rails on which to run.
Cameron's rejoinder was that some
others in Parliament had a fine set
of rails and no steam.
On Mr. Curtin, Hasluck has
written one of the best and most
sympathetic analytical and de-
scriptive essays, and Mr. Chifley
he estimates as “a central pillar
of strength standing squarely on
Socialist ideals and supporting
the edifice of a working-class
party... .of unchallengeable in-
tegrity.” But he makes no bones
about dealing frankly with Mr.
E. J. Ward, who was “apparently
opposed to any preparation for
war by Australia,” believed that
“money spent on the League of
Nations was wasted,” and was
“against ‘brasshats’ and ‘war-
mongers’ and warned them that
the unemployed were not going
to fight their battles for them
again.” He depicts him as a man
who “thought that great nations
were restrained from going to
war only because of the know-
ledge that if they exhausted
themselves on the battlefield an
opportunity would be given to
the people to rise in revolt”:
His was a new voice—militant,
emotional, class - conscious and
making its appeal to men's dislike
of one another.
The whole book is not merely
a war history. It is a political
and economic history of Aus-
tralia in all its important phases
except the more complex and
technical aspects of finance dur-
ing the years in which defence
preparations and war formed the
main ingredients of events.
Nothing of its status has ever
before been written in Australia.
And there is no doubt but that
it will always be a standard
work and that it will gain in
stature and reputation with the
passing of time. Even now it is
an invaluable reference work for
the writer who deals with current
affairs* written with a perspec-
tive which is astonishing in view
of the writer’s closeness to
events.
As with the other volumes Mr.
Hasluck’s suffers somewhat from
misprints and from the method
of illustration. Both in his and
in Mr. Long’s volume the por-
traits are more beautiful than
nature. Even the most rugged
of Cabinet Ministers look as if
the subjects had been made up
in Hollywood studios and
photographed under the super-
vision of Cecil B. de Mille. And
the misprints which occur in
places are unaccountable. Mr.
Hasluck has illustrated public
opinion by using a representa-
tive cross-section of notable car-
toons on current events, mainly
selections from Bulletin pages
—Scorfield, Unk White and
Lock; but Scorfield’s name ap-
pears throughout as “Schofield,”
though he can scarcely com-
plain, since in the list of volumes
which appears on the jackets of
all the three books so far issued,
one of the war history’s own
authors, Mr. John Hetherington,
has his name uniformly spelt
as “Herington.”


A best
seller every month beauti-
fully bound and printed —yours for only 8/- ea.
plus 9d. postage.'
Here is your chance to acquire the world’s finest literature at
really low cost —a best seller every month as shown below, or your
choice from our previously published works instead, if desired.
British Book of the Month Club books are special editions of
recent best sellers, are unabridged, and handsomely bound in
buckram with gold blocked titles on indented leather panels.
Send your subscription, which covers all costs, now. Titles for
the next 8 months are:
June - .
July . .
August .
September
October .
November
December
January -
THE ''CAINE” MUTINY Herman Wouk
THE LOVED AND ENVIED Enid Bagnold
- - - - Lt.-Col. Vladimir Peniakoff
WORLD OF DON CAMILLO - Giovanni Guareschi
VENUS ------ Jerrard Tickell
LONG MEMORY _ - Howard Clowas
THw T m>rTE'^' o ciw? E INTERIOR .... Laurens Van der Post
THE CRUEL SEA - - - - - - - - - - Nicholas Monserrat
Stocks of many titles ... ask for a complete descriptive list of all books.
Specials for
M^tn^er^^only
r--
Send this co»P«"
A KING’S STORY (the Duke of
Windsor) 12/e
BOSWELL’S LONDON JOURNAL 12/6
The three Churchill Books—
THE GATHERING STORM
THE GRAND ALLIANCE -
THEIR FINEST HOUR
12/6
each
BRITISH BOOK of the MONTH CLUB
83 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Postal Address: G.P.O. Box 285, Sydney, N.S.W.
for I !*®™! 0 ! 1 ,! 1 ? remittance of £2/12/6 for 6 months’ subscription / £5/6/-
r°r 12 months’ subscription. Please send my books to:
name
address..
836
US'
SPECIAL FEATURES
1952 ANNUAL REPORT
•
PAID TO POLICYHOLDERS DURING YEAR
£5,275,331
NEW POLICIES ISSUED IN 1952
£55,523,459
•
TOTAL FUNDS
to provide future benefits to Policyholders
£76,900,727
PURELY MUTUAL • NO SHAREHOLDERS
r
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
L j
SPORTING NOTIONS
Her Majesty’s colt. Aureole,
is at time of writing the most
popular choice for the Derby.
“Coronation - happy” punters
have more than a hunch to guide
them. If the three-year-old is
true to his bloodlines he should
not be troubled to stay the mile
and a half this coming Satur-
day. He’s a Hyperion, and that
noted stallion is the sire of
numerous notable stayers.
Aureole is from a half-sister to
Above Board, a winner of the
mile-and-three-quarters Cesare-
witch Handicap, which \ also
seems a pointer in the colt’s
favor.
Keen Australian turfmen
were surprised when the Ken-
tucky (U.S.) Derby winner,
Dark Star, a son of Australian
sire Royal Gem, was not placed
in the rich Preakness Stakes
(£A46,000) won by hot favorite
Native Dancer. Dark Star de-
veloped lameness after compet-
ing in the Preakness; it may
have been on its way before
that race. Owner Harry Gug-
genheim later announced that he
would retire the colt. Inci-
dentally, Native Dancer’s share
in the Preakness was £A29,000,
It was his 13 th success in 14
starts. Dark Star downed him
in the Kentucky Derby. Jamie
K was second in the Preakness,
with Royal Bay Gem, another
of the Royal Gems, third.
Some of Australia’s greatest
gallopers are absent from the
lists of fastest-time holders in
the Commonwealth. That, how-
ever, isn’t surprising. For ■ex-
ample, Phar Lap won many of
his races without being ridden
and he held on to one
distance record for many years.
His name doesn’t appear on to-
day’s list of fastest times. A
glance over the records show
that since 1946 only four
changes have been made, two
at Randwick and one each at
Flemington and at Caulfield.
A new record this season
is that for nine furlongs, made
by Delta in September last at
Randwick, Imin. 49isecs.
Sydney Turf Club has altered
the rule covering races restricted
to apprentices who have not rid-
den 10 winners. In future these
events will be for apprentices
claiming a 71b. allowance, which
embraces a much wider field
and gives the young horsemen
more winning opportunities in
their particular division. The
alteration also will please execu-
tives of the provincial clubs, be-
cause apprentices can now win
races at these tracks without
affecting their allowance; this
will encourage masters to take
apprentices to the near-country
fixtures. First event under the
new scheme will be the Auburn
Graduation Stakes, \\ miles, at
Rosehill this coming Saturday.
• • • •
Carioca’s owner. Jack Boo-
shand, is still considering an
offer from the U.S.A. to take
his champion across the Pacific.
It would be a wonderful oppor-
tunity of quickly adding to the
horse’s earnings. Other Aus-
tralian gallopers taken to
America have won fabulous
stakes, especially Windbag. Of
Windbag’s total stake-earnings,
£84,648, no less than £65,661
was lifted in the U.S.A., while
Phar Lap at his one appearance
in America won a stake of
£10,313. As all expenses are
guaranteed for Carioca, his
owner and trainer, it seems an
opportunity not to be missed.
Carioca will be a six-year-old in
a few weeks’ time, and there
may not be a great deal more
racing for him if it is intended
to plan a stud career for the
Sydney Cup winner. Meanwhile
both trainer “Duck” Hoysted
and Carioca are on holiday.
<
Sydney-owned sprinter Aqua
Regis won the StrlKdbroke
Handicap in 1951 (he was trained
by Leo O’Sullivan). Owner of
the former sprinter, Dr. G. H.
Kennett, of Norwood, Goulburn
(N.S.W.), paraded the first and
only progeny of Aqua Regis at
the recent Randwick yearling
sales, but he declined an offer of
700gns. for the colt from Circus
Comedy by Piccadilly (imp.)
from Love Comedy by Comedy
King (imp.) from Amoureuse by
Wallace (son of Carbine). Aqua
Regis on one occasion at Rand-
wick won two races on the same
afternoon, the George Herdsman
Stakes and the Club Welter (a
City TattersalTs meeting). Aqua
Regis also won at Moonee
Valley, and in his first season
landed the A.J.C. Canonbury
Stakes. O’Sullivan, who has fit-
tingly been given the yearling
colt to prepare for racing, trains
a few horses at Rosebery, and in
recent months has won with Gay
Vista, Blank Music and Poitiers.
Where does brilliant Sydney
three-year-old Karendi get his
speed? The answer is readily
found by referring to the colt’s
pedigree. His granddam was
one of the fastest mares of her
day—Merry Smile, winner of
the AJ.G. Gimcrack Stakes,
V.R.C. St. Albans Handicap and
other fast sprints. Alec Hig-
gins, now on the way to Eng-
land, bred Karendi at his
Piercefield Stud, Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.). He had catalogued
Karendi’s half-brother by Gene-
tout (imp.) for auction at the
Randwick yearling sales in
April, but didn’t parade the
youngster on sale-day. Karendi
is by Wayside Inn (imp.), located
at Bill Mackay’s Tinagroo Stud,
Scone (N.S.W.), and from Belle
Fille by Beau Pere (imp.) from
Merry Smile by Chatham from
Merri Merrigal by Valais (imp,).
Two-year-old Buthus was
withdrawn from the autumn,
1952, sale-catalogue. Had he
won his first race before
the recent sales at Rand-
wick his close relative, a
colt from his dam. Lady Presi-
dent, and by one of two sires—
Jacket (imp.) or Scorpion (imp.)
—would not have gone as
cheaply as 300 guineas. Rand-
wick trainer Cecil Rolls secured
the chestnut colt —Buthus is a
bay—at what now seems a bar-
gain buy. Buthus is by Scor-
pion. Lady President is a
daughter of Gold Spark, a
winner of several middle-dis-
tance races, including an A.J.C.
Anniversary Handicap, Jacket,
by the way, is an interesting sire.
There were only two of his
progeny listed at the Randwick
autumn sales, and they opened
the four-days bidding, realising
small prices, the early paradings
seldom realising big prices.
Jacket is a son of Blue Peter
(Derby winner), and was a
winner at a mile and a half in
England. His oldest progeny are
two-year-olds. His dam, Gold
Apple, is by Winalot, sire of
Enfield (imp.).
Thracian Lad, a winner of
the Rosehill Guineas, and Wise
Boy, a winner of the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate, are close rela-
tives of Gosford Maiden Three-
and-four-year-old winner Jolly
Mac, a member of the success-
ful Rosebery team of former
jockey Vic Thompson. Jolly
Mac had given early promise,
but it was not until a week ago
that he broke the ice. He is a
three-year-old gelding by Mac-
Arthur from an unraced mare,
Joyful, by Grand Joy (imp.)
from Lady Brunswick by Tre-
clare (imp.) from Sanity (imp.)
by Santry.
* * * *
It seems plain that Queens-
land was badly treated by the
selectors of the Australian
Rugby Union team to tour
South Africa. Only one Queens-
land forward was picked: but
it was fiery play by Queensland
forwards that upset established
N.S.W. reputations in two
games.
In South Africa the Aus-
tralians will come against dour
packs. The weaker the opposi-
tion, oddly enough, the more
conservative the forward play.
Stronger teams can afford to
take risks by letting the ball out
to their backs. But it is here
that some of Australia’s weak-
nesses in defence are likely to
stand out.
South African forward play
can be spectacular—a wedge of
forwards driving down the
centre of the field, alternating
dribbling with a type of short-
passing rush seldom seen in this
country. It is generally agreed
that they cannot be beaten at
their own game. A New South
Wales team, coached by Johnny
Wallace, once forced the Spring-
boks to play their game, on a
wet, muddy day, tossing the ball
around among the backs. One
of the few defeats the Spring-
boks have suffered.
A colorful team of visitors
from the U.S., playing Rugby
League in Sydney, have raised
the question of the merits of the
long gridiron pass in Rugby. It
has been tried by Rugby men
before, but is more useful as a
forward than as an orthodox
pass, and, in any case, is more
a strategic than a tactical wea-
pon. Used once, perhaps, in a
season, it can achieve surprise.
In a Maher Cup (Rugby League)
match between Gundagai and
Tumut, a good many years ago,
Gundagai coach “Chook”
Fraser drew the Tumut defences
to one side of the. field and sent
a long pass across to “Bluey”
Freestone (an Australian
winger), who scored and took
the heart out of the defence.
The American ball is easier to
toss, fitting snugly into hand
and wrist.
* * *
H. A. de Lacy, Melbourne
“Sporting Globe’s” football
editor, holds that the small man
is back in the Aussie Rules
game, and teams which concen-
trate solely on big men are being
beaten. As though to support
him, Carlton has recalled John
Hardy from North Sydney.
Hardy, short and nuggety, has
the ability to be with the ball
everywhere it goes. Last year
he captained North Shore to
the Sydney Rules premiership.
Small men faded from the
V.F.L. when the penalty for
forcing the ball out of bounds
was brought in. That forced
play to the centre and naturally
restricted scouting and, to some
extent, forward positional play.
With restoration of the boun-
dary throw-in the game opened
out and back came the scouts,
Essendon has persisted in
feeding its star forward. Cole-
man, and has suffered for it.
No matter how good a star may
be he can’t win matches on his
own. When on top two or three
seasons ago Essendon had big
Bob McLure in its ruck. Mc-
Lure never got headlines, but he
was always on the ball and
always kicking-on. It’s men like
him who make the Colemans
and the Goninons.
• «. • -• ‘ '
A lot of exiled Croweaters
will gather at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday week
(June 13), when North Adelaide
and Norwood meet in a com-
petition game of Australian
Rules. Norwood Were favorites
for last year’s Adelaide premier-
ship, but Norths took the
honors. The game, part of the
A.N.F.L. drive to popularise the
code north of the ’Bidgee, will
be the only one played “abroad”
this season because of the big
inter-State carnival to be played
in Adelaide.


GUARD
cis
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of buslnesr *• record*
•II Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appears nee. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Brea. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Pardon ft'Son* Ltd.
PERTH .. . .Docket Book 00. (Auafc)
Men of a Queensland Centenary
THE ARCHERS WHO
FOUND THE FITZROY
By R. S. PORTEOUS
ON May 4, 1853, two
brothers, Charles and
William Archer, halted
their tired horses on the
crest of a Queensland coastal
range, and, as Charles recorded
in his diary that evening:
A most astonishing view lay be-
neath us. Through a large and
apparently open valley, bounded by
Pyramidal and Domite mountains, a
large river wound its way to the sea.
We supposed this river to be the
Dawson and Mackenzie joined, and
the sea before us Keppel Bay.
After taking a series of bear-
ings on the principal peaks and
making a detailed sketch of the
valley the brothers returned to
their previous night’s camp.
They were elated. No white
man had looked on this fertile
valley before. Only one man,
Dr. Ludwig Leichhardt, had
even guessed of its existence. In
one of his many letters to the
Archer brothers, Leichhardt had
described his discovery of the
Dawson, Comet and Mackenzie
rivers. In his opinion, he said,
these three rivers would all
eventually join in one big river
and “disembogue” on the east
coast.
Two days later, when their
horses were rested, the brothers
descended into the valley, and,
after riding seven miles, came
on a lake which Charles
described as “a most magnifi-
cent sheet of water for this
country, about two miles long
and three-quarters wide.” A
small promontory jutted out
into the lake, and on this they
camped, naming the lake
Farris. Already they had de-
cided that this would be the site
of their future homestead. Later
they changed the lake’s name to
Gracemere in honor of Grace
Archer, wife of a younger
brother.
The following day they set
out on a rough survey, marking
a few trees “A” to establish their
claim. Coming on the river,
which Charles records as “a fine
navigable-looking stream with
the tide running up strong,”
they named it Fitzroy River.
Their preliminary investigation
over, they headed back for the
settled south.
The discovery of the Fitzroy
and its fertile valley marked the
end for the Archer brothers of
15 years of restless wandering
in search of rich pastures —a
record of pioneering probably
unequalled in the history of
Australia,
In all, nine brothers took
part (though only some of them
figure in this record). Sons of
Scottish parents who had settled
in Norway, they were forced
through lean times to get out
early and fend for themselves.
The call of adventure must have
been strong in all of them, for
they quickly scattered from one
end of the world to the other.
Charles, the eldest, started
work on a sugar estate in Trini-
dad at the age of 19. John, the
next son, signed-on in a whal-
ing-ship and chased whales
throughout the Pacific, from
New Zealand to Japan, eventu-
ally signing-off in England six
years later. He was then first-
mate and not yet 24. David, at
the age of 17, was the first of
the brothers to take to Aus-
tralian bush-life. A family
named Walker, relations of his
mother, had already settled out
here, and David started work
on one of their properties—
Wallerowang, on the western
side of the Blue Mountains. The
year was 1834.
Charles Darwin, in his book
A Naturalist’s Voyage Around
the World, mentions that David
Archer took him kangaroo-hunt-
ing. He refers to David as
assistant superintendent, and
says that, although they saw no
kangaroos, he enjoyed the ride
through the bush. That was in
January, 1836.
On the last day of 1837 two
more brothers, William (aged
19) and Tom (aged 14), arrived
to join David, who was then
manager of Wallerowang. Two
years later David handed over
the managership to William and
launched out for himself by
forming the firm of David
Archer & Co. Having no capi-
tal, he accepted most of his
salary in sheep—about 1500
head —and bought more on
credit. A Walker relation was
sleeping-partner in the firm,
supplying enough stock to bring
the total to about 5000. With
this flock the brothers started
north in search of new country.
Young Tom, then 16, was
appointed overseer and general
useful, and the cart-driver was
the seafaring John. Although
now a master mariner, John had
evidently decided that the
younger brothers had hit on
something more remunerative
than seafaring. Still, from
master of a windjammer to
driver of a dray does seem
rather a comedown.
At Biambil, near Dubbo* the
party met with a very serious
setback. Scab broke out in the
sheep. In those days scab was
a serious disease, one that could
easily wipe out the entire flock
unless correct remedies were ob-
tained quickly. Drays had to
be sent right back to Sydney
for these remedies and unoccu-
pied land found for the diseased
sheep. Huts, yards and wool-
sheds had to be built and the
sheep shorn and washed ready
for treatment. All this, of
course, meant heavy expenses,
but worst of all was the delay of
almost a year.
+ 4-
When the party eventually
reached the Darling Downs all
the best country had been occu-
pied, and they were advised to
push on to some good country
reported at the head of the Bris-
bane River. Brisbane was then
a penal settlement, and* no
country could be occupied
within 50 miles.
Descending into the Brisbane
valley by Hodgson’s Gap, the
brothers finally settled at a place
they called Durundur (native
for Moreton Bay ash), some
miles west of the Glass House
Mountains. The McConnels,
of Cressbrook, and the Mc-
Kenzies, of Kilcoy, bad pre-
ceded them by only a few
months. As usual, the Scots
were well to the fore.
Right from the start the
Archer brothers seem to have
realised that they had settled on
a spot unsuitable for sheep, but
after several unsuccessful excur-
sions in search of better coun-
This is the centenary-year of the discovery of the Fitzroy
River country in Queensland, here narrated from family
letters and diary written by the pioneering Archers,
descendants of whom still occupy the splendid old homestead
at Gracemere,
try they settled down to the
work of building huts and yards
and clearing land for cultiva-
tion, A diary kept at this time
records that corn, wheat, pump-
kins, grapes and watermelons
all flourished in this country of
high rainfall. Everything, it
seems, did well except the sheep.
About the middle of 1843
Charles Archer left the West
Indies and joined his brothers at
Durundur. He was then 30,
and must have been an outstand-
ing personality. His young
brother Tom said that he made
himself proficient in everything
he undertook. Besides proving
himself a natural bushman, he
was a first-class rifle- and gun-
shot, a fine swimmer, sketcher
and carpenter.
Later Charles Archer started
surveying, and the degree of
efficiency he achieved in this
difficult field is evident in the
remarkable accuracy of his
maps, some of which are still
in the family’s possession. He
had a pocket-sextant sent up
from Sydney, and for an arti-
ficial horizon he used a pint-
pot three-quarters full of water
with a layer of oil floating on
top. His compass was sent to
him from Norway —and his
theodolite he made himself!
No wonder it is recorded that
this astonishing man was looked
up to by white men and black
alike. And, regarding the
latter, it is pleasing to note that
in all the Archer letters not once
is there a mention of trouble
with the natives. Most other
settlers of that period record
cases of spearing, treachery and
massacre, but the Archers’
letters indicate only trust and
mutual understanding.
In 1844 David Archer took
cattle on terms for the Walkers.
By this time the brothers had
noticed, in a series of expedi-
tions from Durundur, that the
further west they travelled the
better the sheep looked. De-
ciding to find more suitable
country, they rode west, and,
after about two weeks’ explora-
tion, two places were selected:
Emu Creek, about 50 miles west
of Durundur, and Cooyar, near
the present town. Once the de-
cision was made the sheep were
moved across, and the hard,
slogging work of building huts
and yards was once more
started.
Family ties really meant
something in those days, for in
the following year William came
up from Wallerowang on a
visit. After a month with his
brothers he returned by way of
the Darling Downs and New
England. As he said in a letter,
“a weary ride of 600 miles in
22 days.”
By 1847 natural increases in
the flock had brought a threat
of overstocking. It may have
been this, though more prob-
ably it was the irresistible
Archer urge for adventure, that
started young Tom off again.
Inspired by Sir Thomas
Mitchell’s report of vast plains
around Mount Abundance
(where Roma now thrives), he
set out alone, riding and lead-
ing a packhorse. On the banks
of the Condamine he came
across a young chap named
Chauvel, also on the lookout
for country. Joining forces,
these two spent nearly four
weeks battling through almost
interminable scrub, and when
they reached the plains their
rations were so low they had to
return at once.
It was a hungry trip back.
The last cartridge had been
used, the last scrap of food
eaten, and a decision had already
been reached to convert Tom’s
packhorse into grilled steak
when they stumbled on their
base-camp.
Apparently young Chauvel
had had his fill of scrub-bashing
and hunger, for when Tom set
off again with more supplies and
a fresh horse he was accom-
panied by a Mr. Blythe. He
returned delighted with his dis-
coveries, and took a lot of per-
suading that the immense diffi-
culties of transport would out-
weigh the advantages of this fine
new country. The wool would
have to be carted to Brisbane in
bullock-drays over 300 miles of
rough, trackless bush —a journey
that might take three months
or more.
A lesser man might have been
content to leave it at that, but
after a short spell Tom Archer
was off again, this time to the
northward. His sole companion
was his blackboy, Jacky Small.
On the Upper Burnett they came
on a large tract of good sheep-
country. From the transport
angle this was more like it, as
Port Curtis was less than 100
miles away. Therefore, on May
14, 1848, the Archer brothers
were once again on the move
with their sheep, shepherds and
heavily-laden drays.
+ +
To give some idea of values
in those days—the Emu Creek
property was sold for £250, plus
£5O for improvements. Two
months out from Cooyar they
settled on their new properties,
naming them Eidsvold and
Coonambula. Once again the
work of building homes, yards
and woolsheds started.
In 1849 the restless Tom was
once more on the move—this
time to try his luck on the new
goldfields in California. Four
years later he was back again
with a charming Scottish bride.
By her personal charm and wil-
lingness to share in all their
pioneering this Grace Archer
captivated the entire family, and
it was to show their affection
for her that, as stated, they
changed the name of their lake
to Gracemere. But during
Tom’s absence John had gone
back to sea and yet another
brother, Colin (aged 20), had
arrived after first trying his luck
in California.
In 1853 Colin, writing to his
family in Norway, said:
Charlie and I only came In the
other day from a trip to the Dawson
which occupied three weeks. Though
the results of the journey did not
come up to our expectations we en-
joyed it very much. We found lots
of country which Charlie says is
equal to the choice parts of the
Darling Downs, with this rather im-
portant drawback—there is no water
on it, excepting two small creeks
which Charlie has applied for under
the names of Dagoon and Ruin Peak
Creeks.
But exactly one month after
this letter was written Charles
was on the move again, this time
accompanied by William and a
blackboy, and it was on this
trip that he discovered and
named the Fitzroy River. Later
in the year he returned and,
with Colin and two friends,
traced the Fitzroy upwards to
the junction of the Dawson and
Mackenzie. He also made an
excursion further north to
Broadsound, surveyed and made
an excellent map of the area.
In 1855 Charles arrived with
his sheep at Gracemere, and
there, except for minor excur-
sions, his wanderings ceased.
Once, accompanied by Colin, he
rode west to Peak Downs, but,
although he was greatly im-
pressed by the quality of the
country, he considered the'lack
of water too great a handicap.
Instead of travelling overland
when Charles moved the sheep
to Gracemere, Colin went to
Maryborough and bought a
small ketch which he named
Ellida. Then, loaded with
stores and with a crew of only
one, he set sail for the Fitzroy
River. Unfortunately he gives
no account of his cruise, but on
September 1, 1855, he rounded
a bend of the Fitzroy and saw
Charles’s favorite grey horse,
Sleipner, tied under a tree on
the south bank. Immediately an
excited party lined the bank.
Colin was two weeks overdue,
and supplies of everything ex-
cept rice—and, of course, mut-
ton —had given out. Demands
for tobacco were so vociferous
that a quantity had to be thrown
ashore before the ketch tied up.
Today the city of Rockhamp-
ton stands on that spot, while
at Gracemere the original home-
stead still stands. Set in its
beautiful lakeside garden, this
splendid old homestead is today
occupied by Archers.
What manner of men were
these hardy pioneers? Photo-
graphs on the walls at Grace-
mere show them to be big, hand-
some men, dignified beneath
their flowing beards. Letters
preserved by the family prove
that they were strangely culti-
vated, despite their rough,
rambling lives. They were fond
of music and, judging from the
names they gave to mountains
and streams, deeply interested
in Norwegian folk-lore. Quiet
humor and, above all, integrity
stand out in all their letters. It
would seem that their unswerv-
ing honesty prevented them
from becoming successful busi-
nessmen and made them easy
marks for those who did their
buying and selling and advanced
them money with a 12| per cent,
interest-rate.
All of the brothers were versa-
tile, capable of turning their
hands to anything. Colin re-
turned to Norway and took up
boat-building and -designing.
The whole seafaring world
knows how successful he be-
came, first with his Colin Archer
rescue-boats and later with
Nansen’s Fram, the Polar expe-
dition ship which defied the
terrific ice-pressure of the frozen
seas.
As to what drove these
remarkable brothers onwards,
always beyond the last settle-
ment, I quote from a letter
Charles wrote home in 1854:
1 gathered from your last letter
that you did not at all approve of
the pioneering mania that has again
laid hold of the family.
Liife would be hardly worth living
in the humdrum routine of a settled
station when better lands are to be
had for the taking.
Call it wanderlust, itchy feet
or any other name you like, the
fact remains that without that
indefinable something Australia
would never have been opened
up.


TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
w
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining- TILXEY
products.
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
Otis TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1 pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power,
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE guardsman”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Q&*2.
iivi
Di*nufi
sSsr
* ? 1
G 9
0$
Quaty
yncoTnJba/utOte
Gordons
Stcmcls Sup*a24ful
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon & Co. Ltd.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WORLD LEADERS' MEETING
Only one addition needs to be
made to cabled reports on
British reactions to the major
foreign-policy speech in which
Prime Minister Churchill
pressed for a meeting of world
leaders, at the “highest level,”
to discuss differences and try to
find a common road to a real
peace.
The significant point is the
extraordinary British unanimity
which the speech, and that sug-
gestion in particular, evoked. A
wide readirig of British Press
comment shows all applauding
— all, from the “Times,” “Daily
Telegraph” and “Spectator”
through the “Manchester
Guardian” to the “New States-
man,” “Tribune” and even the
Communist “Daily Worker.”
Certainly nothing like that has
happened since the end of the
war. When, joining in the
happy choir, the Communist
sheet can say of a Churchill
speech that “it remains the most
pacific and hopeful speech de-
livered by a leading British
Minister in recent years,” and at
the same time the Thunderer and
the rest can applaud on the
same grounds, the speech must
have voiced general British feel-
ing to a quite extraordinary de-
gree. And no doubt it was
weighed and assessed accord-
ingly in American foreign-
policy quarters, and has a direct
bearing on this month’s coming
meeting of the West’s “Big
Three.”
Actually the speech was ad-
dressed more to the American
than to, any other audience, and
was probably made either to
bring about the coming meet-
ing or possibly with a fore-
knowledge of that arrange-
ment.
Cables, concentrating largely
on the outbursts of ratbag ex-
tremists, gave an impression that
the American reaction was noth-
ing but up-in-arms hostility. In
fact, the reaction (judged on a
fair sampling of the responsible
U.S. Press) was cold and criti-
cal, but it was respectful (to
Churchill) and sympathetic (to-
wards the British outlook). The
samplings here given can be
taken as much more representa-
tive than the mere ratbag utter-
ances (though they, too, could
have some importance),
* * * *
"Christian Science Monitor’s"
*?f
ff No hought-
fu!.A”erlc“. w , IU tarn
asl^a ,! >ir Winston Churchdl s
carefully - weighted, carefully-
timed proposal for a top-level
conference with the new Soviet
Government. Winston Churchill
always has been a bearer of the
hard > grim, face-the-facts truth
to the democratic peoples. Ob-
viously he is speaking out of ex-
dato ftat the &e 8 world stop
look Usten
* * * ♦
New York "Daily News”:
“We have always respected
Winston Churchill’s judgment
and statesmanship. But it seems
t 0 us that m his foreign-policy
speech he sounded unduly opti-
mistic. We think the Churchill
suggestion of a high-level con-
ference of the big Powers must
treated with extreme caution
Washington.”
* * * *
Baltimore “Sun”: “No sug-
gestion put forward by Winston
Churchill can lightly be brushed
aside. It is not unreasonable to
ask that the Communists, as a
preliminary to any discussions,
give one true sign that they are
willing to deal on honorable
terms. If they are willing they
could easily give the sign in
Korea; or they can give it in
London, where another effort is
b ei pg made t 0 . d l6 dead-
°,y er an Austrian Peace
Treaty,
* * * *
“Washington Post” : “There
is nothing wrong with secret
meetings in themselves, provided
that the results are promptly
communicated to the people.
The real objection to the
Churchill proposal is that it
puts the cart before the horse,
The proposal, and the endorse-
ments of it, place altogether too
much confidence in the ability
of top-level leaders to solve
great problems before the
groundwork for solutions has
been laid. [Former U.S. State
Secretary] Byrnes, in 1946 and
1947, exhibited a Jobian patience
in negotiating with the Russians,
but to no .avail, because the
basic desire for settlement was
not reciprocal, and the Russians
frustrated the discussions with
side-issues. The penalty for
“Vrij Nederland,” Amsterdam .
AFTER THE “COLD WAR ,” THE “COLD PEACE”
failure of a high-level confer-
ence, in present circumstances,
might well be general war.”
The same: “Britain, France
and the United States must, of
course, show every readiness to
sit down with the Russians and
discuss practical settlements after
the proper preliminaries. Presi-
dent Eisenhower is more flex-
ible than his predecessor on this
score. But there is a difference
between the sincere bargaining
that would derive from a care-
fully prepared and delimited
agenda, and what Sir Winston
seems to want —a personal meet-
ing of political heads to resolve
the world’s problems.
“Sir Winston, as the last sur-
vivor of Yalta, has a perhaps
understandable desire to vindi-
cate himself and rebuild faith
in personal diplomacy. In view
of the unhappy consequences of
such sweeping, personalised de-
cisions, howevef, the reaction
against the practice has in the
main been healthy.
“In this connection it is per-
tinent to observe that Sir
Winston himself must bear a
share of the blame for the failure
at Yalta —blame that the British
too often have self-righteously
allowed to be heaped on the
shoulders of President Roose-
velt.
“The fact that the Churchill
proposal was sprung independ-
ently is perhaps indicative of a
deterioration in Anglo-American
unity—though it is well to re-
member in this connection the
British irritation over American
failure to consult them on mat-
ters affecting Korea. The United
States will infallibly find itself
denied of its leadership among
the free nations if its allies con-
clude that changes in the world
situation leave it inflexible in its
policy.
“Our policy, then, ought to
be not to throw down the idea of
an eventual general conference
but to insist that it be condi-
tioned on the experience of past
negotiations —in other words,
that there be tangible evidence
beforehand that it will not
merely bog down in recrimina-
tions.”
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“Coming from a formidable
realist. Sir Winston’s hopes for
an improvement in the climate
of world affairs cannot be lightly
dismissed. He was careful to
point out that it would be a mis-
take to think that everything
could be settled at ‘one great
stroke,’ and to make it clear
that no hard agreement might
result from his proposed con-
ference. The settlement of some
outstanding problems, however,
and improved understanding be-
tween East and West would be
no small gains, if they could be
achieved.
“Moreover, a meeting of the
heads of State of three or four
major Powers, ‘with a measure
of informality and a still greater
measure of privacy and seclu-
sion,’ could sample, as could no
other method, the thinking of
the Malenkov Government by
direct contact. The reality of
the Russian change of heart —if
it exists —would have to be
proved in other ways, to be
sure, by specific negotiations on
particular subjects of dispute,
“Sir Winston’s speech gave
evidence of his recognition of
the mutual privileges and re-
sponsibilties which an alliance
entails, and of the special bur-
dens which the United States
bears in Korea. It should be
studied in a similar spirit in
America, as the words of a
statesman of wisdom and experi-
ence, speaking for this country’s
principal associate in world
affairs.”
* * * *
“New York Times ” foreign-
affairs commentator: “The pro-
posal of an ‘unconditional’ meet-
ing on the highest level of the
leading Powers expressed not
only English but European
popular sentiment. This feeling
is so strong that it constitutes a
factor in the present world situa-
tion that has to be reckoned
with by all democratic Govern-
ments.
“Sir Winston’s suggestion that
he could not see why anyone
should be frightened at ‘having
a try’ at agreement with Soviet
Russia accomplished two things:
it satisfied public opinion at
home and it put Washington in
a slightly embarrassing position.
“For the President has in-
sisted that the Soviet leaders
prove the sincerity of their peace
talk by positive action. The
[Eisenhower] Administration has
also intimated that certain con-
ditions should be laid down in
preparation for top-level conver-
sations.
“In his address cm the same
subject the President affirmed
his willingness to meet the
Russians halfway in the ap-
proach to peace. ‘The United
States,’ he said, ‘is ready to
assume its just part’ In our [i.e.,
America’s] judgment the pro-
posed parley might be disastrous
if held prematurely; it might
raise false hopes only to dash
them to the ground. Neverthe-
less, we could not possibly
throw cold water on the idea,
much less refuse a suggestion to
take part in such a meeting if it
could be held. We are bound to
go along on a search for peace
even if it turns out to be a wild-
goose chase.”
* * * *
The same: “The new hope is
in some degree Sir Winston’s
own aspiration to end his extra-
ordinary career as a peace-
maker. Evidently he sees in the
change of Government and in
signs of ‘internal’ evolution in
Russia the opportunity of which
he has long dreamed. Here [in
America] there is more scepti-
cism in regard to the intentions


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F, W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
it
w
&
Itself
«
in
r
*
£VT>
saTt
THE
Hi
9TJ3 .24.52
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South
Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
- » : ■■■
Hwmv
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, N.S.W
mn id
MALES
'.H6 W
Hint males liglt of an? jei /
First cost Is lost cost when you invest in 6
Nuffield Universal Tractor, Completely
equipped with (I) Power take-off; (2)
Swinging drawbar; (3) Belt pulley; (4) 3-
Linkage Hydraulic lift; and (5) and (6)
2-lever control hydraulic power unit, enabling
front and rear mounted implements to operate
independently, plus 5 forward speeds and full
electrical equipment, the Nuffield Tractor is
a "Task Force" in itself. It- has all the power
of a 10-horse team, and amazing versatility.
Top speed is 18 m.p.h. and average fuel con-
sumption only Ws gallons per hour! If your
present implements are trailed, take your
Nuffield Tractor without hydraulics, and save
on the initial cost! This is the tractor for
you—
, If has everyth/*?/
I. // does everyth/*?/
TRACTOR
The last word in
efficient Trader design
of the new men in Moscow,
more doubt as to whether the
real authority is yet settled. But
the only survivor of the Big
Three has unique experience
among living statesmen. Let’s
hope he is right.”
* * * *
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “When Sir Winston
Churchill speaks on foreign
affairs we hear what is prob-
ably the most qualified and is
certainly one of the wisest voices
on the subject in the free
w0r1d.....;
“Speaking generally, one can
say that Europeans are a little
more willing to take the Russian
‘peace offensive’ seriously and
meet the Reds in a conciliatory
spirit than we [Americans] are.
Since Churchill was suspicious
and antagonistic to Russian
Communism long before Ameri-
can leaders were, he cannot now
be accused of naivete when he
speaks of ‘the change in atti-
tude and, we all hope, mood’
that has taken place in Russia
since the death of Stalin.
“This change has been noted
by President Eisenhower, who
rightly asked for deeds, not
words. Sir Winston, in effect,
is suggesting that we should not
ask for too many deeds to begin
with or for too many commit-
ments in advance of a possible
Big Power conference.
“This, incidentally, is a Euro-
pean point of view and not
merely a British one. The pro-
posal that ‘a conference on the
highest level should take place
between the leading Powers
without long delay’ is a case in
which Sir Winston was speaking
for all of Europe.
“Without saying so specifically
the Prime Minister implied that
we may be at a great turning-
point in world affairs. He
called the Russian peace offen-
sive ‘a supreme event.’ To be
sure, he hedged his optimism
with strong reserves of caution,
but that anyone of his experi-
ence should be even cautiously
optimistic is impressive.”
No Change in Moscow
The assistant general secretary
of the British Trades Union
Congress, Victor Feather, in
London “Sunday Times” de-
bunks the wishful-thinking in-
spired by the soft words from
Moscow,
What Marx and Lenin and
Stalin always believed, and
Malenkov believes today, he
says, is that war between capita-
list countries is inevitable; and,
indeed, from the Soviet point of
view desirable. Also, when
Malenkov or any other Marxist
talks about the “peaceful co-
existence” of capitalist countries
and “Socialist democracies,” it
is necessary to understand that
Marxism has a language of its
own, with meanings very dif-
ferent from those of normal
parlance;
“Malenkov’s message of peace
means that the Soviet Union,
while keeping out of a ‘hot’ war,
will do all it can to get ‘capitalist
countries’ like America, Britain
and France at one another’s
throats, using the Communist
parties of • those countries to
that end. That is why the*Com-
munist parties are concentrating
so much on the so-called ‘Peace
Movement,’ which they formed.
That explains why the Com-
munist party in Britain is anti-
American while the United
States Communists are anti-
Europe.
“Malenkov wants war between
the ‘capitalist countries’ for two
reasons: first, it would weaken
those countries and therefore
relatively strengthen Russia ;
secondly, it would create a
‘revolutionary situation’ in which
capitalism might be overthrown
in one or more of the countries
at war, and enable the national
Communist party, possibly with
the aid of the Red Army, to
seize power.
“Among peace-loving peoples,
the emergence of Mr. Malenkov
or indeed of any other new
figure is bound to create a little
wishful- and even wistful-think-
CAUSES AND EFFECTS
"Frankfurter Rundschau," Germany.
ing; but the meaning of the
changes in Moscow is, unfor-
tunately, ‘no change.’ ”
Peace "Threat"
“If the Kremlin means peace,”
comments “Manchester Guar-
dian” editorially* “there will be
a serious risk of an economic
setback in the Western world.
“If the new Soviet rulers still
agree with the views that Mr.
Stalin made public last year they
may have considered this pos-
sibility, To upset a delicately-
balanced capitalist system which
has come to rely a good deal
on the stimulus of armament-
demand would be a worth-while
gain. That may be one of their
calculations, or it may be an
afterthought; we have to see
that it does not come true.”
. Even without a real all-round
peace, the “Guardian’s” London
correspondent comments that the
question whether a Korean truce
and a general relaxation of world
tension could precipitate an
American trade recession is im-
portant enough to Americans
but many times more important
to Britain, to Europe, and the
sterling area: “The Americans
would probably recover from
such a recession in a matter of
months without lasting harm;
but what would be merely a
sharp adjustment to a less
feverish level of economic ac-
tivity to the United States might
be disastrous to the rest of the
free world.”
Caviare to Malaya
Malayan delegate A. Gilmour,
speaking at a trade conference
in Indonesia:
“In 1951 Russia’s direct im-
ports of raw materials from
Malaya were valued at no less
than 73.6 million Malayan
dollars. What were Russia’s ex-
ports to Malaya in return?
“They take up half a dozen
lines only and were valued at
$40,000 —less than a dollar's
worth for every $ 1800-worth of
rubber. And of this $40,000 —
$38,500 consisted of motion-
picture films.
“Let us turn to the latest
Malayan import-figures for 1952.
During the 11 months covered
by this volume in front of me,
the entire imports of Malaya—
that is to say, the Federation of
Malaya and the Colony of Singa-
pore—from the U.S.S.R. have
been as follows: 9 tons of as-
bestos, 24 cameras, $ 1800-worth
of proprietary medicines, 5001 b.
of canned fish, 4001 b. caviare,
Total value—s27,l29, of which
the caviare accounted for
$16,772.
“During the same 11 months,
the U.S.S.R.’s direct imports of
Malayan rubber came to 28.7
million Malayan dollars. Last
year, therefore—despite the very
considerable fall in the world
price of rubber—Russian im-
ports from Malaya were still
over 1500 times the value of
their exports to Malaya. The
ratio was, in fact, 1560 to 1.
“Here then is the fulfilment,
so far as Malaya is concerned,
of the Soviet promise—made
both in Singapore and Rangoon
—for ‘numerous types of capital
goods in exchange for raw
materials.’ ”
Dragnet Digest
Com. “Demands.” —London
Communist “Daily Worker’s”
“demands,” quoted by “York-
shire Post” as indicating the
eoldAvar measures that are hurt-
ing beyond the Iron Curtain:
(1) End ban on East-West trade ;
(2) Put a stop to the China
blockade; (3) End the 8.8.C.’s
anti-Soviet propaganda and (4)
Stop the rearming of Western
Germany. *
Real Danger to Peace—Sign-
posted by a “New York Times”
correspondent: “Russia will
never rest while an armed Ger-
many attached to the West
stands beside her. The segment
she controls cannot be
thoroughly sovietised while the
rest is self-governing, so that
East Germany will remain a
source of weakness rather than
an added strength. And Ger-
many will never rest while she
is divided. Here is the real
danger to the peace of the
world.”
Ike. —As reported by New
York “Herald Tribune”: “He
won’t pose, as Mr. Truman did,
with cross-armed double hand-
shakes ; that is, shaking hands
with two persons at once. He
doesn’t go for some of the Tru-
man stunts, such as the ‘once-
more club’ for photographers
and the ‘early-morning walking
society’ for reporters.”
Vital Pakistan. London
“Daily Express” foreign editor’s
two - point assessment: “(1)
Pakistan is the largest Moslem
State. From the Atlantic shores
of North Africa, through Egypt,
Persia, Arabia, and across to
Singapore, British prestige stands
or falls on how we treat her.
(2) Pakistan is the sturdiest, per-
haps the only remaining, bul-
wark against Russia in the East.
She is the key to peace in Asia.”
Trade with China. —Britain,
co-operating with the U.S. in
blocking China trade, not only
suffers heavily in Hong Kong
but sees Chinese contracts it has
refused rushed by its trade com-
petitors. Only cure would be
suspension of all free-nations
trade with China, but that isn t
likely (suggests Edin-
burgh “Scotsman”) “it would be
more disadvantageous to coun-
tries such as Japan, Pakistan and
than it would be to
China.”
.
Germany’s Gam. No gteat
wonder (in London bcono-
mist’s” view) that Germany
signed-on for the European
Defence Community: “When all
is said and done, the basic facts
remain that Germany wins an
army, while the other nations in
the E.D.C. give up a vital part
of theirs.”
Britain’s Food. Toronto
(Canada) “Globe and Mail” sees
only one solution: “Britain’s
food problem, as it now exists,
is essentially a population prob-
lem. There is not enough food
because there are too many
people. Their number must be
reduced, and the most effective
way to reduce it is by large-
scale emigration to other Com-
monwealth countries, such as
Canada and Australia. These
countries have too few people,
and in consequence their
economies are no less precarious
than Britain’s ”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Collective Farming
Away with “H.G.” and his quaint
notions about collective farming (B.
22/4/’53)!
What is now known as the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area was pioneered by
individual graziers who made pastoral
holdings on “these desolate plains” and,
by individual effort, put the Riverina on
the map as the home of the world’s best
fine-woolled sheep. The success of those
individuals made it worth while for the
N. S. Wales and Victorian Governments
to build railways to replace the bullock-
teams and river-steamers of the pioneers,
and to carry the products of this area to
the seaboard.
But that collective-carrying enterprise
did not make the woolgrowers collective
graziers.
One progressive individual. Sir Samuel
McCaughey, experimented in irrigating
this low-rainfall country and growing
fodder-crops for his sheep. He demon-
strated the possibilities of irrigation on
“these desolate plains.” The N. S. Wales
Government, as the only body having
authority over our inland rivers, then
impounded the waters of the Murrum-
bidgee and resumed some of the pastoral
country and subdivided it into farms.
The original intention of the bureau-
cratic mind was that these should be
dairyfarms, and many of the settlers fell
by the wayside before the survivors turned
to growing rice or fruit or raising fat
lambs. Mainly because of the individual
efforts of these men the area has become
one of the most prosperous small-farm-
ing districts in the State.
Another outstanding individual who
assisted in making a success of rice-
growing on the Murrumbidgee was Hugh
Victor McKay, who adapted his well-
known Sunshine Harvester to the needs
of ricegrowers, thus enabling them to
harvest this difficult crop more expedi-
tiously than was done in any other part
of the world.
The N. S. Wales Government cer-
tainly supplies these farmers with water
from the Murrumbidgee at certain fixed
charges. It also supplies water from the
Sydney catchment-area for my little
suburban garden, and, through its De-
partment of Agriculture, gives me advice
on the control of garden pests and plant
diseases. But does that make me a col-
lective gardener?
As for prickly-pear and rabbits, the
protection of the State from diseases,
pests and other enemies, internal or ex-
ternal, is the legitimate function of the
Government.
Before many years the Snowy River
Scheme will be feeding electric current
to manufacturers as well as water to
farmers. Will that mean that manufac-
turing will become a collective industry?
The two most extensive collective-
farming ventures on this side of the Iron
Curtain have been the peanut-growing
scheme in Africa and the sorghum-
fiasco scheme in Central Queensland.
These Government-controlled farms
lacked nothing in the way of capital,
labor and scientific advice. They pro-
duced nothing but huge deficits. — Delta
(N.S.W.).
Country Towns
I lately visited the Victorian town
where I spent rhy boyhood and was
forcibly struck by the almost complete
disappearance of what were once flourish-
ing small industries.
We hear a lot about decentralisation,
and something has been achieved in that
line by the opening of annexes to
factories in the larger centres. They
seem, however, to provide more open-
ings for female labor and many of the
local lads still drift off to the city for
a job.
In my old town there used to be a
brewery, and as the water used in it
came from the near-by mountains the
beer was reputed to be very good. That’s
gone. 'The foundry is no more, likewise
the cordial factory. There was a tannery,
and the surrounding bush provided all
the wattle-bark needed. That’s gone;
and so has the soapworks, which used to
buy all the household fat.
There were a brickworks and at least
three chaff-mills, but motor-cars don’t
use chaff. So four coachbuilders, who
turned out jinkers, buggies, wagonettes,
drays and wagons, have disappeared.
Where do the cockies get their horse-
drawn vehicles now? Then there were
three or s four saddlers, always kept busy.
No sign of them, now. Even the two
local photographers who did all the
wedding-groups and pictures of murh and
dad with the baby have been replaced
by travelling photographers.
It seemed to me that if a local boy
wanted a job, attendant at a petrol-pump
was about all that was available. Most
of the small industries which I have
mentioned had the great merit of training
craftsmen who could do good work with
their hands. Any fool can work a petrol-
pump.—Ceg (Vic.),
Middle East Campaigns
“Peter Mike” (B. 29/4/’53) is on firm
ground when he questions the conten-
tion that the Wavell advance should have
continued to Tripoli. Although at the
time we all felt it would mean the end of
the North African campaign, it is fairly
certain, in the light of later events, that
it would merely have resulted in the early
occupation of Vichy France and the
seizure of French North Africa. Such
action would have rendered Tripoli
untenable and made our subsequent land-
ings in Algeria difficult, if not impossible.
It must be remembered that at that time
Hitler was not committed in Russia.
It is difficult, however, to follow
“P.M.’s” contention that the advance
should have stopped at Tobruk. The
original advance was made to cut the
road some 70 miles south of Benghazi at
Beda Fomm and thus clean up the whole
of the remainder of the Italian Army.
This action was justified in the event.
The road-block party, consisting of one
under-strength battalion and a battery of
artillery, collected, if I remember rightly,
some 30 tanks, 300 lorries, 60 field-guns
and (with the help of the armored
brigade) 14,000 prisoners. Other cap-
tures may have been made as a result of
this engagement, but I can only speak
from my own knowledge of the collec-
tion at the road-block.
As regards the tactical decision to hold
a line in this area, the use of the name
Benghazi is misleading. Benghazi was
never defended or defensible ; its fate was
decided by the result of armored battles
100 miles to the south and east. Ground
had little value in the desert, and the first
essential was to select a place which was
easily defended. The front was finally
stabilised at Jedabaya, which, after
Alamein, was probably the soundest posi-
tion to be found. The fact that this posi-
tion was not held was due mainly to the
rawness of the troops concerned, plus a
really classic command muddle.
It is also difficult to see how Bardia
could have played any useful part in the
subsequent attempts to relieve Tobruk.
Had armor been placed in, or based on,
“Thank goodness we're out of that cloud-formation —the damp
affects my rheumatics."
Bardia it would have lost its prime
advantages of mobility and surprise. It
was far preferable to advance from, and
disappear into, the blue. Infantry in
Bardia could have had little effect on a
battle for Tobruk. Furthermore, there
is the question of supplying this garri-
son. The approaches to Bardia from our
side were difficult; the road up the
escarpment at Solium was sufficient of a
mountain-pass to render it easily blocked
by air attack alone. The alternative route
along the top of the escarpment would
have required an extensive screening-
force of armor and artillery, and provi-
sion of such a screen would again have
tied our armor to a fixed position. In
any case, the force did not exist to form
lt- In fact, WavelTs battle of June, 1941,
never had more than the slenderest
chance of success. It was
always supposed by those
of us who took part that it
had been undertaken for
political reasons. Part of
the blame, however, must
be taken by Intelligence. If
I remember correctly, the
report issued before the
battle stated that there
were 60 enemy tanks in
the area, whereas there
were actually about 200,
and that destroyed any
possible hope of success.
WavelTs force consisted
partly of “I” tanks, with
a speed of 5 m.p.h. and a
radius of 40 miles, and
partly of cruisers, with a
speed (in action) of 15-20
m.p.h. and a radius of 100
miles. It was necessary
for the two- groups to stay
together till the German
tanks had been met and
defeated, as, singly, they
would have been too weak.
With the very restricted
route possible to the “I”
tanks, this meant' that the
advantages of surprise and
outflanking ’ movements
were largely lost. Had it
been successful the cruisers
would then have lighted
out for Tobruk. In the
event the enemy tanks, by threatening to
outflank us, forced the cruisers to
separate from the “I” tanks, which were
insufficiently mobile to be able to counter
the threat. The cruisers were then dealt
with by the German tanks, which were
superior both in number and armament,
while the “I” tanks were left to a screen
of 88mm. guns. It is difficult to see how
these tactics could have been countered
and the operation made successful with
the weapons then available. — J. Denny
(Tas.).
Potatoes and Controls
If “The Missus” (B. 13/5/’53) had only
realised that most Government and board
regulations can be circumvented her
friend in Melbourne would now be en-
joying a feed of fried potato-chips.
Here’s a tip. Take one empty bag, fill
it with spuds and then add one mouldy
turnip and one ditto carrot. Sew up the
bag and consign it as “one bag of mixed
vegetables.” I understand that the regu-
lation then does not apply.
Doubtless the powers-that-be will soon
wake up to the little stratagem and re-
quire a statutory declaration that the bag
does not contain more than a certain per-
centage of murphies. When that happens
we can give the problem further con-
sideration. — Ardin (Vic.).
“The Missus” could have overcome her
difficulties by describing the spuds as
vegetables, or, in fact, any kind of pro-
duce other than murphies.
The transport of wheat is under a
tighter restriction. A specially-authorised
type of consignment-note is required for
acceptance by rail, and these are only
obtainable from the Wheat Board.
In this district most of the bag-of-
wheat-a-week fowl-farmers would be out
of business were it not for sympathetic
railway employees who pass the grain
under the description of corn or seed of
“ Look -let’s hitch!”
one variety or another involving the same
freight-charges as wheat.
These restrictions are said to be im-
posed for the benefit of the producer, but
I’m sure the most virile of clod-busters
cannot show where they have put an extra
bob in his pocket. — Ann (N.S.W.).
Those Jap Luggers
The news that the Commonwealth
Government is stationing a well-armed
patrol-boat at Darwin is interesting in
view of the reports of Japanese pearl-
fishing poachers operating again off Aus-
tralian shores. Northerners haven’t for-
gotten the patrol-boat farce before the
war, when, after repeated demand for
action, a craft was stationed at Darwin to
police the area across to Thursday
Island.
When captures were made there was
reluctance on the part of Canberra to
follow up the skipper’s action because of
anxiety concerning possible wool-sale
losses, and fear of antagonising the people
of Nippon. One vigilant captain even got
it in the neck for not turning a blind eye
towards the poachers. The Common-
wealth paid out a lump of cash as “com-
pensation” at the time to soothe the
outraged feelings of the Japanese.
I’m tipping that history will repeat
itself if the new vessel takes its job too
seriously, although the R.S.L. is urging
that the Government should not let sales
profits and business sentiment betray the
position of Australians trying to make a
living from marine industries.—Wan-
dana (Tas.). ______
Taxing Charity
High on the list of sufferers from the
modern blight of money-grabbing Govern-
ments are those institutions, ranging from
universities and hospitals downward,
which used to depend largely on endow-
ments and benefactions from a widely
philanthropic public.
In days gone by people had money to
leave behind them, and many left it
generously and spread it wisely. Pre-1914
records in one publication show dozens of
pages of wills for the year leaving
bequests to hundreds of established insti-
tutions and charities, a total running into
many millions of pounds, .
Since then,' confiscatory death duties
have destroyed the ownership of capital
without filling the blank left by the
absence of philanthropy. And the cry
for charity is more urgent than ever.
As with most ideologies founded on
Socialism, the theory that Governments
know best how our money should be
spent has proved a fiction. Great educa-
tional and medical institutions, as well
as many other establishments for the
care of the human unfortunate, must stilt
depend upon the charity of the general
public.— Shellback (N.S.W.).


Australian Poets
In Canberra lately I noticed in the
King’s Hall at Parliament House a fine
array of busts of Prime Ministers and
portraits of Governors-General, while
only a short distance from Parliament
House there was a fine statue of Bobby
Burns. I looked in vain for a statue or
even a portrait of any Australian poet.
We should have a statue or two of
Australian poets somewhere in the
national capital. Lawson, Kendall,
Brennan, Dennis and many others have
earned a place and, if we cannot have
statues of some of them in and about
the beautiful Canberra gardens, we might
at least have a bust or two in the National
Library.— Eureka (N.S.W.).
Number-plates
Why is it compulsory to fix a front
number-plate to a motor-vehicle? If it
is to enable someone to take the number
of a vehicle involved in an accident or
breaking some traffic law, then it is rather
defeated by the fact that the law does not
require the front number-plate to be
illuminated at night. They don’t have
front number-plates in Queensland. —
W.P. T. (N.S.W.),
Kingsf or d -Smith
Commenting on the cause of Kingsford-
Smith’s death, the Service Department
(B. 29/4/’53) states “he was not in good
health. It is believed his physical condi-
tion was the most probable cause of the
disaster.”
Kingsford-Smith was originally exam-
ined for a civil pilot’s licence on June 1,
1921, and from then on underwent a
thorough medical examination every six
months (or more frequently if he flew
more than 125 hours in any one month)
until July 16, 1935, when, just before he
left for England, he was examined by a
Sydney consultant physician of wide ex-
perience in aviation medicine and assessed
as fit to hold the highest class of flying
licence.
There is nothing perfunctory about
these examinations —they are a thorough
check on physical condition.
At no stage of his career was Kings-
ford-Smith grounded for medical reasons.
Medical causes have always been a
speculative way out in investigations into
aircraft accidents, but from 25 years of
handling and critically scrutinising the
“Funny place for a pouch."
medical records of every pilot licensed
i n Australia, I can recollect only one
instance of an accident being due to a
medical defect of the pilot. In that
case the man was suffering from a heart
condition and, refused a licence against
medical advice, took off, died in the air,
crashed and killed his passenger,
There was, too, I believe, a case in
Tasmania in 1946, but there the pilot
had concealed a history which, if known,
would have disqualified him from hold-
ing a licence.
It is a tribute to the panel of medical
men and their conscientious examinations
that confidence in pilots is so high. —
J. S. (N.S.W.).
Child-delinquency
“Phil O. Sopher” (B. 13/5/’53) might
have stressed that there is a proved
connection between good citizenship
and housing, child delinquency being
most marked in those areas where hous-
ing standards are poor.
Basil Henriques, well-known London
magistrate, lately said that the most com-
mon characteristic about young delin-
quents was the nature of their homes.
Almost invariably they were found to
have come from unsettled homes, the
greatest cause of unsettlement being the
physical conditions of living. Cramped
and usually overcrowded slum homes on
pocket-handkerchief areas of land so
lowered the tone of family life that
children developed an anti-social atti-
tude towards the community.
Psychologists of the Melbourne Uni-
versity who interviewed hundreds of
families living in Melbourne inner
suburbs discovered that the degree of
dissatisfaction with their job, ignorance
of local. State or Federal affairs and
generally “anti” views about society rose
and fell with the type of house occupied.
Rehousing such people has led to a
marked improvement in attitudes, as the
first rehousing scheme of the Victorian
Housing Commission, established before
the war, has had time to prove. People
who were moved from the very worst
type of houses gradually became in-
terested in the community about them,
began to take a pride in the house and
its surroundings, and child-delinquency
dropped.
Density of housing also has a bearing
on delinquency. The Melbourne
psychologists found that in very closely-
populated areas the most common com-
plaint from all members of the family
was that they had no space for hobbies
and gardens. This led the psychologists
to declare that in high-density housing
developments, such as large blocks of
flats, it was essential for good citizen-
ship that community-centre facilities
should be provided.
In the absence of slum-reclamation,
many youth organisations are providing
organised activities for the children of
inadequate homes, and they have proved
that constructive use of leisure-time re-
duces delinquency. The key to their
work is not to be found so much in
discipline as in the opportunity for
children to express themselves in useful
activity. They generally do, and the club
successfully replaces the embittered
atmosphere of the frustrated slum home.
This evidence demonstrates that the
development of good citizenship, which
implies the growth of worthy character
in the individual, springs more from
decent housing than it does from heavy-
handed discipline. — Rag (Vic.).
TWO DOMINIONS
By K.A.S.
I ' NHY is Australia lagging behind
\ A / Canada? Their rate of progress
VV has keen consistently greater
than ours, and today we seem
to be dropping further behind than ever.
Our population, boosted in the last
five years by large-scale immigration,
is still short of nine million. Theirs
has passed fifteen million, and on
present trends they will have double
our numbers before 1970. The
growth of their secondary industries in
the last 15 years has made them one of
the world’s major industrial nations,
while our own much smaller industrial
expansion has been limited to a few, big
cities. The Canadian area under crops
continues to lead ours by millions of
acres, and the gap is widening. The
Canadian dollar, free to find its own
value on the world’s exchanges, is, un-
like our own leading-roped pound, about
the “hardest” currency in the world.
To an extent we can blame Nature
and circumstances beyond our control.
The enormous Canadian wheat output,
more than double ours, is partly-—but
only partly—due to a steadier rainfall,
higher acre-yields and nearer overseas
markets than we have. Our timber and
papermaking industries are peanuts to
theirs, since we have only a tenth of
their forest area. They have a big oil-
field, and we are still looking for ours.
They have more gold, copper, bauxite,
cobalt and nickel. A land of mountains,
lakes and rivers, Canada’s hydro-
electricity output and potential naturally
dwarf ours. Canadians are closer to the
main world markets for their produce
and the proximity of the U.S.A. gives
them a greater industrial potential and
know-how.
But Australia can go a long way to
balance all this. We have more pasture
land. We have six times more sheep
than Canada, and could have—but
haven’t —twice as many cattle. If we
have far less timber, ours grows much
quicker—it may take a Canadian forest
as long as 400 years to mature. We
have plenty of high-grade iron ore, lead,
zinc, silver and gold, copper, tin and
tungsten, to say nothing of our uranium
deposits. We have a first-class steel in-
dustry. We have as yet no oil; but we
have better and more convenient coal
than Canada. We have a huge advantage
in our climate. All Canada freezes
every winter, which in the Arctic north
abutting on the Pole means all the time.
The whole country, except for a bit of
Pacific coast at Vancouver, is blanketed
every year by feet of snow for from three
months upwards. Lakes and rivers are
frozen for three to eight months each
year, and transport is kept moving by
icebreakers and snowploughs. Aus-
tralians, who moan and shiver in over-
coats and woollies whenever the mercury
sinks to the forties, can hardly imagine
what a forty-below-zero Canadian winter
means,
. The fact that Canada’s population is
mixed and ours isn’t gives us no
advantage. Only half the Canadians are
British stock, a third are French, and
most of the rest a medley of Slavic,
Germanic and Scandinavian types, but
this hasn’t proved nearly as effective a
brake on their progress as apathy,
centralisation and bureaucratic regulation
have on ours.
Both countries have vast size and
vast useless areas in common. Well
over half of Canada’s 3,700,000 square
miles are too cold for any large-scale
settlement —even the few Eskimos are
dying out in the far north. More than
a third of Australia’s 3,000,000 square
miles are empty, blistering, irreclaim-
able desert. Unfortunately, unlike
Canada’s Barrens, this desert has prac-
tically no wild-life and therefore no fur
trade. Both countries are, in fact, best
at the edges, particularly in the south
and east. If Canada has a bigger south
than we have, at least we have a tropical
north, where they have a frozen, icy
wilderness. Their great forest belt, which
reaches far into the Arctic, will always
be much more valuable for timber than
for settlement. By and large, their good
country has little greater area than ours,
but they have done a better job of settle-
ment.
+ +
For instance, Nova Scotia, smaller,
colder, and no more fertile than Tas-
mania, has 650,000 people, much more
than double the population of our island
State. Prince Edward Island, of 2184
square miles, has nearly 100,000 people,
while our 1500-square-mile Kangaroo
Island has fewer than 1000. Even New-
foundland, nearly as bleak as sub-
Antarctic Macquarie Island, contains a
population of 330,000 hardy souls.
More striking than the numbers is the
spread of the people. No Canadian city
has the preponderance of our Big Smokes.
Montreal, their biggest, contains about
one-twelfth of the Dominion’s popula-
tion. No Canadian province has more
than a third of its people packed into
its biggest town —in most it is much less.
In New Brunswick the proportion is
about an eighth, in Nova Scotia a tenth,
in Saskatchewan only about a twelfth.
The Canadians are digging-in all over.
In Australia, by contrast, settlement is
clotting at a few focal-points along the
coast. Half of the population lives in
six towns. Two of these, Sydney and
Melbourne, hold more than a third of
the people of the continent. Two-thirds
of the South Australians are in Adelaide,
half the West Australians in Perth. Apart
from the six State capitals, there is only
one city over 100,000 people, and only
nine with over 25,000. Although primary
products bring in most of the country’s
income, only six per cent, of the popu-
lation is actually on the land. Aus-
tralians are becoming a nation of well-
tamed suburbanites.
■+* 4-
Everything considered, the two
Dominions should be much nearer level
than they are. Canada as a whole didn’t
get a long start. When Britain took it
over from France in 1763, only 25 years
before our First Fleet, Canada had only
70,000 white settlers, nearly all of them
in the St. Lawrence valley. Most of the
country was settled in the late 18th and
19th centuries, about the same time as
Australia.
The real answer as to why a divided
nation living part of the year under
Arctic conditions has been able to leave
us standing is given by the different out-
look and attitude of the Canadian and
Australian people. Most Canadians be-
lieve their country to have a great future,
and they are prepared to work hard for
it. Their national characteristics of enter-
prise and self-help are still allowed to pay
something like their due dividends. Aus-
tralians, on the other hand, are content
that things shall remain more or less
as they are. There is a fairly widespread
idea among them that most things worth
doing in this country have been done,
and they are content to rest on their
grandparents’ laurels. If the empty
North has to be settled for safety’s sake,
it is the Government which in some vague
and wonderful way is expected to do it,
as it is expected to do most other things.
The development of New Guinea and
the islands, when anyone thinks of it at
all, is, since dark-skinned natives are
involved, usually dismissed as exploitation.
This attitude is fostered by big-city
bureaucracy and trade-unionism, the
metropolitan Press, centralised manufac-
turing, marketing and retailing, and other
influences which combine to keep a large
number of amenable human beings con-
veniently herded together in a few places.
To keep them quietly there, the Aus-
tralians have been sold the unadventurous
idea of “security,” and taught to leave
all enterprise and initiative to the Gov-
ernment. They have learned so well that
today the ambition of most teenage
youngsters is an easy, steady, well-paid
job in the city, with a home in the
suburbs. The rugged, individualistic,
self-reliant, pioneering Aussie supposed
to typify our race is almost a figure of
mythology.
An obvious beginning to the altera-
tion of this state of affairs would be a
Constitutional amendment allowing any
rural area with a population of over
200,000 wishing to set up its own
Government to do so. That would go a
long way towards meeting the need for
local vitality and autonomy, which the
present oversize mainland States never
have done, and to breaking the big-city
political stranglehold. At present no
new State can be formed within an
existing State without that State’s per-
mission, and since all Australia except
the N.T. is already divided between the
six existing States this has been a ban on
rural development for the last 50 years.
Under a new provincial set-up the
monstrously overgrown and overpaid
State Parliaments with their separate
Governorships and mushrooming public
services would necessarily be whittled
down to handy one-chamber council
size, but full local powers would remain,
except that railways and main roads
would pass under Federal control. The
railways where possible ought to be let
out to private enterprise. The Loan
Council ought to be abolished, and the
new smaller provinces be given the power
to raise their own local taxes and loans
for their own strictly local purposes.
This should compel them to live within
measurable distance of their means, for
it isn’t easy for local men to squander
local money under local eyes. All major
national-development schemes should be
undertaken by private enterprise under
contract to the Federal Government.
The hope behind such a reorganisation
is that it would bring about a regenera-
tion of the spirit of enterprise, adventure
and self-reliance in the nation at large.
Without it we are not in the race with
Canada, But there’s more to it than that.
If we fall down on the job of develop-
ing our continent and its rich islands,
there are tens of millions of others not
far away who are willing and able to
do it instead of us.


LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
fern
m
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Sheep Show
“R. Ney”: After Walter
Merriman, of the Merryville
Merino stud, Yass (N.S.W.), had
finished with it there wasn’t
much left to say about this year’s
Sydney sheep show. Merriman,
whose stud has been famous for
fine wools both in the showring
and on wool-sales floors for
about as long as anyone can
remember, “copped the lot”
with a group of sheep whose
quality has seldom before been
equalled at a Sydney show. He
thus celebrated the stud’s golden
jubilee—it was founded in 1903.
On the first day Merryville
won five championships in fine-
and medium-classes, on the
second day the stud won the
grand championships for ram
and ewe, the prize for best
group, the Stonehaven Cup for
best group of three rams and
two ewes, and consequently the
trophy for most successful
exhibitor, equalling the Egelabra
record of 1940.
Anthony Hordern’s Mungadal
stud, which had won the Stone-
haven Cup the previous three
years, had to accept third place,
second going to the Starrs’
Eshcol stud, which is located at
Dalton, in the Yass district, and,
though founded on Boonoke
blood, took Merryville infusions
from about 1931 onwards. Had
the Eshcol sheep been a little
better in all-round conformation
they might have won.
Inclusive of the Merryville
sheep the general quality of the
Merinos on show reflected the
past good seasons and the
stability of breeding. Here and
there, in a parade of generally
good quality, a sheep wanted
something to bring it up to show
standard, but this was more than
offset by distinct advances, par-
ticularly in some of the novice
and small-grazier classes.
In both classes F. C. Clark and
Sons, of Boorowa, were
prominent, as were E. Watson,
G. T. Tyers, W. T. Pratley and
T. R. Hazell in the novices, and
Cox Bros., J. H. Reid, D. B.
Milthorpe, Pratley and Tyers in
strong wools.
Corriedales drew large entries,
but the top sheep came from
long-established studs, their
quality being as good as ob-
servers have come to expect.
The Redbank (Molong) stud of
M. Carroll and Sons showed
both ram champions, and the
Prells’ Gundowingra (Goul-
bum) stud the ewe champions.
Other prizes were distributed
among these two and J. M.
Phelan and Sons, L. F. Ben-
nett, D. A. Cavanagh, J. B. Mac-
farlane and Goodacre and Son.
Polwarths are never the fea-
ture of Sydney sheep show that
they are in Victoria, and cham-
pionships went to H. J. Mc-
Donald (ram), A. E. Coote (ewe
and reserve ram) and J. C.
Smith (reserve ewe).
The wool boom of the post-
war years has affected the de-
velopment of British breeds, and
it was noticeable that most of
the sheep on show came from
breeders who may be described
as old faithfuls, and most of the
top awards went to them.
At the sales of British breeds
the bidding was rather slack and
prices at auction not at all satis-
factory. The best was 165gns.
for a Dorset ram. There were
many private sales after bids
failed to reach reserves.
Starritt and Sons, Beer and
Sons, Squire and Fairbairn, and
J. T. Foord shared the Border
Leicester prizes, J. Mclntosh,
Patrician stud, and J. M. Woods
did best in Ryelands, the Brun-
skills and Newbury stud took
all Southdown prizes—Brunskill
and Sons winning all champion-
ships, Dorset Horn trophies
went mostly to G. R. M. Smith,
A. Taylor and Shepherd and
Son, and what R. B. Glasson
and H. W. Yelland didn’t win
in Romney Marsh went to Row-
lands and Sons.
When the sheep sales opened
the emphasis was on wool. Some
of the Corriedale and British-
breed people must have looked
thoughtfully at their prize ani-
mals when they heard the
Merino prices. On the first day
of the Merino sales Haddon Rig
set a new auction record when
it got 4200gns. for a 21-year-
old ram, but this was quickly
topped by Bundemar —4900gns.
for one the same age. It goes
to Yumoo Pastoral Co., at
Moree. The Haddon Rig went
to Mullengudgery, and the stud
got 4000gns. for another to
Murray Downs. On the first day
289 rams were sold for an aver-
age of £290 a head.
Sydney Fat-stock Show
“Doddie Boy”: When the
N.S.W. Royal Agricultural
Society introduced the innova-
tion of a fat-stock show in mid-
year in 1951 it is doubtful if it
expected the event to grow as
rapidly as it has. A competition
for various ages and classes of
steers, wherein points and prizes
would be awarded in judgments
on the hoof at Sydney show-
ground, the beasts then sold and
slaughtered and more prizes and
points awarded at a carcass
show at Homebush abattoir,
meant a great deal of organisa-
tion and hard work, and to
some extent faced a risk of
failure.
The failure risk vanished
almost overnight. So popular is
the contest with cattlemen and
the meat-trade that Sydney
Showground was hard put to it
to accommodate the entries this
year. A distinct drawback at
the Showground is the cattle-
pens. The cattle are hard to see
through the bars, and the job of
handling lively steers in the
judging-pens is difficult.
Idea of the R.A.S. was to
provide an educational display
of beef cattle. It was hoped
that breeders, the meat-trade
generally, and the public would
gain from the displays of live-
stock and carcasses. How far
that has been realised it is too
early to say. But there is no
doubt that breeders have quickly
gained something, for the steers
entered this year were on the
whole better than previous
entries (they were being
slaughtered as this was written).
Two of the most noteworthy
features of this year’s lot were
that winning steers on the hoof
came from improved pastures in
the State’s high country and were
the progeny of very well-bred
stock. There were more than
600 of them, all told, and when
put up for auction realised
flattering prices.
Loading Beehives
“Art”: Some time someone
is going to make a name for
himself and a little bit on the
side by inventing a light loading-
"Now, don't forget to bring us back a boomerang."
platform, thus enabling lone-
hand travelling bee-herders to
move an apiary with ease.
Yes, I know you may
have a loader on the back of
the truck right now. Allow it to
stay there. I’ve heard of most
of them. Some work on the
fishing-rod principle, whereby
you struggle a colony up to the
truck side, slip a hook under the
strap and then race around the
other side and heave on a pole.
I know of one scientist who
carries two greasy poles as
standard equipment on his
wagon.
There may be a dozen and
one such inventions, but I’m
waiting to see something as
efficient and as smooth as the
bag-loader used on wheat-
farms. Some contraption that
can be affixed quickly—or even
permanently—to the truck-side ;
a platform that will raise both
man and hive to the truck-floor
level and higher at the touch
of a lever. The colony could
be picked up on a rubber-tyred
trolley, wheeled on to the plat-
form, then wheeled to its posi-
tion on the truck two or three
decks high even, and with no
exhaustive effort.
Americans have invented a
tailboard which works as a
hydraulic loading-ramp, but
that’s not the answer. If the
makers of the hydraulic bag-
loader could induce their ad-
mirable machine to lift, rather
than throw, its load, the bee-
herders would overcome the
other minor hazards.
Dingo Decoy
C. F. Rich: I’ve worked out a
lure for dingo bitches. Dissolve
£oz. of synthetic musk in a
small quantity of rectified
spirit, then add £oz. of valerian.
Shake at once and keep on shak-
ing for a while until the musk is
dissolved.
Get some small essence-
bottles. Put some of the decoy
in them. Then sink a bottle in
the ground in a spot where
you’d normally put a decoy and
set your trap. Leave just the top
of the bottle aboveground, un-
corked, and covering lightly
with grass or bark, using pliers
to handle bottle and bark so as
to avoid human scent.
Just a few drops in each
bottle will last for weeks. After
that it can be revived with a
touch of methylated-spirit.
Don’t drop any of the stuff on
the floor or about your clothes
or car or you’ll have no friends
for weeks.
Tomatoes in die Garden
“Delta”: In a temperate
climate such as Sydney and its
suburbs the bearing season of
tomatoes may be greatly ex-
tended by raising a few seedlings
before winter. They may be
potted in comparatively poor
soil and kept in a sheltered
place until early spring, with
a minimum of water to prevent
them growing too rapidly.
They are then hardened-off
by gradual exposure to outdoor
conditions and planted on the
northern side of a building or
fence, without disturbing the
root-ball. Six-foot stakes should
be driven into the ground before
planting and the young tomato
placed beside them in a shallow
trench, with the root-ball just
covered and the upper portion
turned up and tied to the stake.
The plant will then send out
more roots from the nodes be-
tween the main root and the
stake, and all roots will be close
to the surface, where the soil
will be warmed by the spring
sunshine while the deeper soil
is still cold. Have protection
ready for frost.
In this way ripe tomatoes
may be picked in November and
December, when they are scarce
and dear, several weeks earlier
than from the normal spring-
sowing of the main crop.
Newly-sown Pasture
“Mr.”: Premature grazing
weakens sown pastures and en-
courages invasion by weeds and
undesirable annual grasses. In
Victoria a new, autumn-sown
pasture should be left undis-
turbed until late August and
then given regular, judicious
grazings to encourage stooling
of the grasses and to give clovers
a chance to compete with them.
A few inches of growth left
on the plants helps protect the
crown and shade the soil in the
warmer weather. Light graz-
ing, however, does not mean,
necessarily, that a few animals
are put on a pasture for a pro-
tracted period. Provided it’s
firm enough to carry them, it
can be safely grazed for short
periods by a large number of
animals. The pasture is then
spelled for three or four weeks
to encourage development of
the perennial species.
Herbs
“Myrrhee”: Every garden
should have a herb-bed. Stews,
soups and sauces are vastly im-
proved in flavor by a few leaves
of herbs. Fresh herbs impart
a flavor impossible to attain
from synthetic essences or dried
herbs.
Most herbs are perennial, and
will grow readily in almost any
soil and situation. A little
blood-and-bone occasionally is
all the feeding they require.
Establish them handy to the
kitchen-door or as a border to
the vegetable-bed to hold the
soil together. They may be
grown either from seed or cut-
tings.
In Victoria seeds are sown in
August and planted out in Octo-
ber ; cuttings taken from side-
shoots with a heel of older wood
attached are put out in Septem-
ber. As they grow, nip back the
tops to induce bushy growth.
Space sage and marjoram 12in.
to 15in, apart, but thyme, with
its prostrate habit, needs a little
extra room.
Cane-growers’ Manual
“Beroo”: King, Mungomery
and Hughes, of Queensland
Bureau of Sugar Experiment
Stations, are preparing a new
manual of cane-growing to


Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all witHt greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HAND MADE
ELASTIC - SIDE
RIDING BOOTS
A boot of smart
appearance that
will give comfort
and service.
In best quality tan calf. Welted
soles and heels. Sizes, 3-10.
Price, 79/6. Postage paid.
John Charlton & Co.
31 Sailors’ Bay Boad, Northbridge,
Sydney.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
m
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved bp N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS. . NO EMPTYING. . NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
u
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for W years
DISTRIBUTORS : ""*•
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St, Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or ffm, Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Trading Co., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
FAST-EFFICIENT-THRIFTY
WOOLCLASSING
( TUBULAR STEEL 1
WOOL
TABLE
v:
• ’*?. *r
It *1
“*v
ty, -I' - .„■ . ..■■■■ '.iJl '
CV! ■
ALL PARTS.
REPLACEABLE
LENGTH 9'3"
WIDTH 5'0"
ADJUSTABLE
HEIGHT
Obtainable from your
Woolbroker, or
2'8r to 3'1
313 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. C3541
256 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE. W2326
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. BU2614
CAN BE A FEATURE
OF YOUR WOOLSHEO
Featuring roller top with non-rust,
self - lubricating, machine - tested
bearings, the Renlita wool table
will pay for itself in time saved by
quick handling. Only 1401 b. weight,
but very rigid, Renlita can be
quickly assembled and adjusted for
height by one man.
replace that issued in the 1930’5.
It will include chapters on all
aspects of cane-farming from
clearing the land to combating
pests and diseases.
It is written in the simple
style which farmers have be-
come used to in the Bureau
“Quarterly Bulletin,” but there
is no loss of technical accuracy
and information on that
account. The volume will have
more than 100 illustrations and
several plates in its 350 or so
pages, and is being published by
Angus and Robertson in their
Australian Agricultural Series.
It is free to cane-farmers.
Boonery
“H.C”: Boonery is a good
fodder-tree. The nutrient value
of its foliage rises to 69 per
cent. ; that of the kurrajong is
46 per cent. Boonery leaves are
definitely poisonous at certain
seasons. Hurst, an authority on
Australian poison plants, states
that under conditions not yet
known prussic-acid content of
the foliage rises to dangerous
proportions. At such times
heavy stock losses have occurred.
The botanical title of boonery
is Heterodendron oleifolium.
Other vernacular names are
rosewood, rosebush, emu- and
bullocky-bush. But it is not
whitewood (A talaya hemiglauca ).
Though the foliage of the latter
is apparently non-poisonous to
cattle and sheep it is poisonous
to horses, and causes the fatal
walkabout or Kimberley horse
disease in northern and central
Queensland districts. In this
case poisoning comes from a
water-soluble saponin which de-
creases in strength as the tree
strays south. By the time it
reaches N.S.W. it is non-
poisonous.
Insecticides
“Gamma”: D.D.T. was hailed
as the arch-destroyer for all
insect pests. Some chinks in its
armor have since been found by
several insects, including strains
of resistant flies and mosquitoes.
D.D.T. still remains best for
most fruit pests. 8.H.C., or its
refined gamma isomer, lindane,
is better brought to bear on cut-
worms and wireworms.
Cockroaches and ants are best
knocked by chlordane, while
aldrin is sudden death to grass-
hoppers.
Mites are still left over un-
scathed by these killers, and
parathion and other organic
phosphates do the deed for these.
But they have a highly attendant
danger for human beings, unless
carefully used.
Aramite is the latest miticide,
already widely used in U.S.A.,
and considered safe for humans
and animals.
Elephant-grass
“W. 0ourt”: Elephant-grass
has great food-value and can be
just as useful to the man with
a couple of milkers as to the
regular dairyfarmer. Though it
likes good soil it does better than
most other grasses on poor stuff,
and it doesn’t mind stones. A
good rainfall, however, is neces-
sary should the soil be poor and
shallow.
When between 3ft. and 4ft.
high, elephant-grass makes really
nutritious chaff, and the yield of
forage from a small patch is
good. Stock are so fond of it
at this stage that it is easy to
overgraze it, but when it’s
allowed to grow taller they will
nip only the leaf-ends and ignore
the stalks.'
The seed of elephant-grass is
of small value for propagating
the grass ; the best way is (a) to
plant cane sections like sugar-
cane, or (b) the suckers from the
roots. Spring is the best plant-
ing-time.
Liming Veges
“My”: All vegetable-plots
except those intended for pota-
toes and tomatoes need an
annual winter dressing of lime
to correct the build-up of acid
that normally takes place during
the previous season.
For general use ground lime-
stone is the best form to use, as
its effects last longer, but where
it is necessary to correct acidity
quickly hydrated lime is prefer-
able. A dressing of |lb. per
square yard will be sufficient,
except in plots where liming has
been neglected for some years,
when this quantity should be
doubled.
Where animal manure or sul-
phate-of-ammonia has been
applied heavily the high acid
content of the soil calls for
heavier liming. Spread the lime
over the freshly-dug surface,
from where it will be gently
diffused through the soil by rain.
If dug in at once it will be
placed in a spot where it will be
of least use.
Hints for the Farm
“Sundowner”: Test level of
lawn or garden with two bottles
and a hose. Fill the hose with
water and insert each end in a
bottle. When either of the
bottles is raised or lowered the
water moves into the lower one,'*
and when both bottles are at the
same level the water-level in
each will be the same.
“Breck”: Postpone tree-seed
plantings till the worst of the
frosts are past. Keep tree-
seedling boxes in sheltered spots
out of reach of westerly winds.
Avoid positions beneath trees.
Dripping from foliage will cause
damping-off and heavy losses.
Tree-seedlings make slower
growth than weeds; to avoid
smothering, weed regularly. Do
not dose young seedlings with
trace-elements and artificial fer-
tilisers ; forced growth is poor
growth. Soil of average quality
has all the vitamins the young
plants need.
“L.C.”: Don’t lop eucalypts
in winter. Cut back in early
spring they make quicker and
better growth. Right pruning
proportions of the ordinary tree
is half the trunk and half the
branches. For shade-trees in
paddocks leave two-thirds trunk
and one-third branches. De-
ciduous trees should be pruned
before leaf-bud burst in late
winter. Evergreen cuttings can
be taken at any time bar mid-
winter and mid-summer.
“My”: Coarsely - crushed
wheat should be introduced to
the cattle ration very gradually
and mixed with roughage or a
bulky concentrate such as bran.
Up to 41b. per day per cow is
all right provided it doesn’t ex-
ceed one-third of the concen-
trates fed. Food-sickness in
dairy-cows on crushed wheat is
almost always due to a too-
sudden introduction of wheat to
the mixture, feeding it with in-
sufficient roughage, or grinding
it too finely.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Under the present cycle Sydney shpuld have some
showery weather early in June, with good rain late in the
month. The earlier rain seems to apply to the eastern coast
of the continent, in the south-west of Queensland and along
the Darling, decreasing as it reaches the Darling Downs.
Along the southern littoral and extending to the wheat-
belt June should bring useful rains. The sun has now only
one weak spot, so that these results should he mainly cyclical.


IX L
v This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies;—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
CRIPPLING
RHEUMATIC MINS
quickly eased with
Emms
nmu mark I
II
arts'*
h'e« m
tic*
S CIA
RlttS
NE«
f,AG°
io^
CTI* f
.eff*
r«*
rEI'A
«n»
a*
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
g During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
. DOLCIN is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
. DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years. , „ . .
. 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throng boat
the world.
. DOLCIN is easy to take In tablet form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolan
will be sent on request to Dolan
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
me!” when he noticed a rigger
at attention beside him. “Well,
what do you want?”
“Sergeant Smithers, sir; he
just found a bullet-hole in your
tailplane, sir.”
Mooney swung back to. face
the Eccentric, who didn’t' miss
the trick. “Certainly couldn’t
have been me,” he said.
Mooney knew when to be
silent.
In the mess afterwards I heard
a whisper that the Eccentric
a-a-actually was really rather
hot. Just didn’t want to be in
it. Someone had seen him doing
things when he thought no one
was looking. And that a few
days ago he’d forgotten himself
and pulled off a wizard bit of
flying, then deliberately mucked
it up. Rafe voiced a wish that
in his own case this process
could be occasionally reversed.
The man from Texas provided
the following morning’s chai-
time entertainment:
“Ambitioning” to ultimately
join a Yank unit, he’d “organ-
ised” a Kittyhawk. Landing the
first time, he was travelling so
fast that when he tried to put
the flaps down nothing hap-
pened. He touched-down at
some extravagant speed, hurtled
across the ’drome with fire-
tender in pursuit, saw a sand-
bank and date-palms coming at
him, took-off again and barely
cleared them. He went round
again and this time got in
nicely.
As we picked up our tea-mugs
again Kimber said “God send
me back to the war where I’m
safe.”
“Touching on that,” said
Thwaites, “Mick intends to give
the hundred-and-nine a whizz
round after lunch.”
The captured Messerschmitt
109 was a neat little job ; and
half the fuselage seemed engine.
It heated quickly on the ground
and was started-up at takeoff
point. Mooney got in and went.
The cooling system blew up
and an oil-pipe burst. With
cockpit full of fumes and oil, the
ME came over at about a hun-
dred and fifty feet, leaving a
snowy trail of glycol.
Mooney, half-blinded, and
with little control, was a trier.
He skidded round and reached
the runway via a gap between
some tents and a parked Toma-
hawk. The Messerschmitt
crouched steaming with fury;
and Lofty said “Must be a one-
man dog.”
Mooney drove to the mess.
T>EFORE breakfast on our
second-last day the Eccentric
stood facing Mooney on the
sand between theit planes. We
would hear Mooney’s voice,
pitched high.
“That was a bloody stinking
gutless imitation of an attack!
Your breakaway perfect ex-
ample of straight and level fly-
ing! Aren’t you game to do
it ?”
What the Eccentric said we
don’t know. Mooney seemed
about to spring; then turned
and came toward the tent. The
Eccentric just stood out there
staring after him.
During that afternoon vapor-
trails marked the high, blue ceil-
ing of the sky ; and, looking up,
we saw a pinpoint star of fire.
Mooney burst out “Burn* you
bastard, burn!” and watched it
down the long air-lan6 to the
horizon. Some Arab wprkmen
also watched; and .one asked
“Inglezi?”
Mooney blasted them. “How
the bloody hell should we know?
Escut! Yallahimshi!”
He strode off, his small black
shoes jabbing the sand.
Thwaites said to Kimber
“Saw him cannon-firing at a
camel today, all directions. Wog
chappie scuttling around seek-
ing safe side of the beast.”
An Australian instructor
laughed. “Believe he’d spend
his last leave with a saucer of
milk and a waddy—killing
cats.”
I said “Oh, I dunno—saw him
one day patting a pup.”
“Probably interrupted him,”
said the Eccentric. “Anyway, he
shan’t kill me /”
There were curious glances at
the speaker; the chatter had
ended on a wrong note.
Trudging over a sandhill in
„the dark next morning pilots
saw a plane, wing-lights ablaze,
rolling along the surface of the
low fog.
“Aha! The act’s improving! ”
exclaimed someone unseen.
'THIS was the day of the ulti-
mate demonstration.
The crew of the Nazi JUSB,
briefed to scan the port, had no
thought of meeting Mooney in
the final frenzy. The 88’s four-
Messerschmitt escort, too, must
have been surprised. Mooney
had attained the suicidal reck-
lessness which sometimes accom-
panies the limit of fatigue.
In a bloodshot mackerel sky
the four school-Hurricanes
weaved in loose, patrol forma-
tion at 15,000 ft. Mooney and
his three charges—Lofty, the
Eccentric and myself. It was
the hour when “Lo! The
hunter in the East has caught
the sultan’s turret in a noose of
light.”
At the sight of a simple,
stupid minor accident Mooney
had led us off downward in
silent fury. In the bracing upper
air the camouflaged, light-bellied
planes performed a wobbegong
quadrille. I was singing with
the engine “First lady forward ;
second lady back.”
Our leader, just ahead, rolled
violently, and, wings vertical,
skidded high above. Beneath
him streaked a three-pronged,
black-crossed shape and a
Hurricane shrank in vertical
pursuit. They faded chameleon-
like into tfie emptiness below.
My head almost whanged the
cockpit edge; it surprised me
that the plane was diving and
dodging. v
A Hurri. was plunging abreast
of me, barrelling. Beyond it
another was simply standing on
its nose. And hurtling past us
dived the four Messerschmitts.
Sleek darts with a flash of sun
on them.
Intent on removing the threat
that was Mooney, they’d left
their run too late. As my con-
trols glued stiff with speed I saw
an orange-colored shooting-star
below.
The radio crackled in my
ears, and this time I got some
words “ get ’em on the
way up.”
THE Eccentric turned away ;
he was pulling out. With
the anticipation of a veteran he
cut the corner of the Germans’
dive and zoom- I followed, with
a momentary impression that
he’d done this thing before ; and
sand, sea and sky all misted
into blackness.
With vision clearing and face
back in position, I saw one of
the gnats, rocketting after
Mooney, trailing smoke. As
the Hurricane behind it pulled
away an ME followed with the
inevitability of a shadow. I
heard myself screech something
on the radio.
We all winged over in a curve
of flight that seemed as pre-
ordained as the path of planets.
A Hurricane like a hump-
backed projectile came firing on
a tangent, and I hastily took
thumb off cannon-button. The
Eccentric’s German shadow
staggered, flipped over, shedding
pieces from a wing-root and
vanished. Something struck my
plane with a terrifying “Crack! ”
Desperate shove on rudder-
pedal, stick in corner, and I
spiralled in a maelstrom of con-
fusion. I lifted hard against the
safety-harness and slammed back
with a spine-buckling jar. The
goggles dropped down over my
eyes and I snatched left hand
from throttle and pushed them
off.
There was a taste of bile,
smell of petrol, blackout, sight
again. Going straight up.
COMPARATIVE calm, and
'■' an even keel restored, with
no apparent damage, I did some
overdue looking-around.
To my left an ME nosed shell-
like from the depths, turned,
levelled. Above a Hurricane
poised, falcon-like, careening,
whirled, and with split-second
fury struck.
A black-crossed wing spun
feather-light in a dust of smaller
fragments. Flame blossomed in
the air below; then the sky was
empty.
I flew home feeling that I’d
sat out an exhausting film.
ON the ’drome:
“Freddie! Were you in
that do? Here, have a smoke!”
“Light it for me. I was there
—and that’s about all.”
*“Lofty’s back —boy, you
should see his kite!”
“They reckon Mooney got an
eighty-eight, and an ME went
off smoking.”
“On a training flight!”
“Probably arranged the
whole thing.
“Oh, fair go!”
Kimber came into the circle
with Lofty, He said “0.K.?
Well, what did you see of it?”
“A bloody awful collision —
Hurricane rammed an ME.”
“So the ack-ack says on the
phone. See who it was?”
“No.”
“The long red guy—pounds
to ackers,” said Rafe.
I said “Well, he shot one
down, I think.”
With the phone filling-in the
gaps, the picture fell together:
The JUBB skimming the desert
burning like a torch; the
doomed rear-gunner still firing
point-blank back at Mooney. In
the vengeful skyward chase two
MB’s hit, and the collision.
Someone suggested that who-
ever rammed the German had
been hit mortally; nothing to
lose. A German had baled-out
o.k.
My plane seemed to have been
struck by a bit off another air-
craft.
A Hurricane screamed low
across the ’drome, flashed over
us, zoomed and circled to land.
A dozen voices: “Mooney !”
The prop stopped spinning
and the pilot shed his headgear.
We saw the red thatch of the
Eccentric. It was the first time
we’d seen him laughing.
MORNING WILL BE BORN OF MORNING
Morning will be born of morning,
In unbroken lineage the days will come.
From the bleeding heart of Time
The drops of blood will fall.
Each silver blood-drop of today will fall.
Morning will be born of morning
When the ash clots on the embers of our stricken
sun
And in each planet-room the lights fail.
Even as the dead bones thaw to melt
And be re-frozen in the earth’s ice
Morning will be born of morning
And Time suckle her children.
Since light and thought are one and intertangled
Then the great, strong hands of light
Must close around the dark and crush it,
Crush with transforming force each new-sprung,
malignant night,
Crush with the power of knowing,
Crush to beyond the point of nothing,
Beyond the point of nothing where nothing is the
primitive trace of beginning,
Nothing crushed through itself, to the thought of
recommencement,
And morning again is born of morning
And Time will suckle her children.
N.Z.
HENRY BRENNAN.


THE REVISED STANDARD VERSION OF THE
Roly Bible
Here is a Bible in clear, simple language of our time, making its message
more understandable, more powerful. It corrects misleading passages, but retains the
poetic beauty of the King James version, in a modern translation more faithful to
the original Scriptures than any other version.
Cloth bound, 50/- (Post 1/9); Rexine, 61/- (Post 1/9); New Testament,
cloth, 17/9 (Post Bd., or 2 for 1/3); Old Testament, cloth, 2 vols, 50/6
(Post 1/3).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
NOW AVAILABLE AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
PRICE 16/-
The long-awaited new novel by the author of “Turning Wheels’ ’
THE CURVE AND THE TUSK
By STUART CLOETE
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
tone of surrealism in straightforward de-
scriptive prose:—
The air was suddenly clear and trans-
parent. .. .The Grunewald seemed to be
illuminated. The Red Mill movie house
was on fire. So was the building where
die dairy had been, and the big block of
flats at the crossroads. The villas and
gardens were burning t 00.... In the street
the incendiaries were hissing like discarded
fire-crackers. In the front gardens he could
hear people calling and shouting as they
tned to get furniture out of the houses.
Apparently almost every second house was
burning. There was no more blackout.
The street was lit as though for a celebra-
tion. The ripped blackout blinds fluttered,
the rooms stood out brilliantly illumined.
Inside one could see the chandeliers and
standing-lamps alight, and red flames blow-
ing out of the windows like banners.
Werner’s descriptions of successive
bombings come to a climax with the
account of Georg’s visit to Dresden to
see his pregnant wife, who was staying
there to be out of harm’s way. He
arrived there twenty-four hours after the
city had been bombed; the buildings in
flames and falling, the dead lying thickly
in the streets, as though asleep, the parks
full of dead, firemen suffocated in their
still-running fire-engine, their uniforms
burnt off them, and his wife crushed to
death in a collapsed shelter.
From her© Georg travels to Munich,
and in the last pages of the book helps
sabotage a handcart of grenades with
which thirty of the Hitler Youth, boys
of fourteen or so, are preparing to
defend the town against the oncoming
American tanks.
Two Travelogues
“We who ‘flowered’ in the Thirties
were an odd lot,” says Cecil Day Lewis
somewhere in An Italian Visit (Cape),
describing such poets as himself, Auden,
Spender and MacNeice as “horizon-
addicts and future-fans,” But what is
odder, considering how alarmingly
■‘modem” these poets were thought, is
to see Mr. Day Lewis and Mr. Mac-
Neice quietly stepping into the shoes of
Wordsworth and Matthew Arnold and
reporting in verse on their Continental
tours just as the other English travellers
did before them.
Mr. Day Lewis has a set of seven
longish poems in which he chats about
travel at the airport, describes a flight to
Italy, writes a letter from Rome,
describes a bus-ride to Florence, medi-
tates on works of art in Florence in
parodies of the style of W. B. Yeats,
Dylan Thomas and others, has hofne-
thoughts of love from abroad, and
sums-up in a final dialogue. Mr. Mac-
Neice in Ten Burnt Offerings (Faber), a
set of rather longer poems, journeys to
Greece, but ranges some distance from
that central point.
The traditional Grecian shepherds and
shepherdesses lead him to a considera-
tion of Elizabethan pastoral poetry;
Saint Paul gives him a meditation on
Christian and pagan religions; Misso-
longhi gives him the death of Byron;
Pindar gives him a poem on water,
John Watt and the steam-engine;
a continuation to India gives him Doubt-
ing Thomas among the worshippers of
Shiva; there is a sequence on Odysseus;
and he too concludes with a love-poem.
Both these poets seem to the present
reviewer to write at too great length. A
habit of rumination instead of the clear
presentation of images is a characteristic
fault of the age ; for rumination needs
to be as compelled and compelling as
Eliot’s to be really worth while. Thus in
Mr. Day Lewis’s bus-ride there is one
striking image:
We found on a wall of the Pincio a
bas-relief,
A wide white calm imperious head sud-
denly
Surveying us out of the blank wall like
some racial
Memory still not deep enough bricked
up....
but this is embedded in a couple of
hundred lines of very little interest ex-
cept that they constitute, perhaps, the
first poem ever written about a bus-ride
to Florence. And Mr. Day Lewis is
clear and compact beside Mr. MacNeice,
who, with a compensating richness, pours
out words in a disorderly and needlessly
difficult flood.
Still, one would like to quote, as
better than the travel landscapes, being
more deeply felt, some delightful lines
from Mr. Day Lewis’s love-poem:
All woman she was. Brutalising, humanis-
ing,
Pure flame, lewd earth was she, imperative
as air
And weak as water, yes all women to me.
To the rest, one of many, though they felt
how she was rare
In sympathy and tasted in her warm words
a sweetness
Of life that has ripened on the sunny side
of the tree;
and from Mr. MacNeice’s “Suite for
Recorders” a passage which displays his
technical dexterity in a rare simplicity
and music:
In a little room, a little plot, a little life-
time.
Hark, the shrill recorders after meat; the
Elizabethan
Mayflies in a silver web which dangled
over chaos,
Twirling round and round,
Waited for the silent headsman, countering
his silence
With arabesques of sound.
There is, in fact, a great deal of fine
poetry in both books; a lavish ingenuity
in Ten Burnt Offerings, and in An Italian
Visit a firm clarity of both thought and
expression.
Reviewed Briefly
The Blind Spot: Austin Hall and H. E.
Flint (Museum Press). First published in
America in 1921 and thus a bit out of the
interplanetary rocket and atomic-cracker
business, this science-fiction story has for
theme the penetration of another dimen-
sion, co-existent with but not interfering
with our own. In this other plane
there are no wars or taxes or transport
deficits ; all food is delicious and chemi-
cally manufactured; and the girls so
incredibly beautiful that the determined
efforts of our extra-dimensional ambassa-
dors to return through the Blind Spot
(a vague sort of gap in both dimensions)
to our miserable existence is somewhat
bewildering, though entertaining enough.
* * * *
Each Bright River : Mildred Masterson
McNeilly (Shakspeare Head). The
heroine from Carolina sails round Cape
Horn to join her fiance, who has gone
to settle the hew country of Oregon,
then at issue between Britain and the
U.S. Landing up the Columbia River,
she goes overland to the British fort under
the protection of a huge and handsome
wolf, who makes it clear he wants to
marry her or something. Her fiance has
killed himself on hearing of her approach,
and only his Indian mistress is there to
greet her. The heroine disposes of Hand-
some Wolf, to whom she is secretly
attracted, by marrying his good-natured
backwoodsman friend; there are skir-
mishes with Indians, in which the back-
woodsman dies, leaving the Wolf and the
heroine to come together sublimated by
sorrow, looking eagerly into the lime-
lighted dawn of the great tomorrow. The
book is packed with detail of the suffer-
ings and privations of the early settlers
and the woes of those who came overland
on the “Oregon Trail”; and this
authenticity makes it worth reading.
♦ * * »
The Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book,
1953 (A. and C. Black, London), now
in its 46th year, is a directory for writers,
artists, playwrights, filmwriters, photo-
graphers and composers. Its most useful
section is a list of English, British Com-
monwealth and American journals accept-
ing outside contributions with details of
their editorial requirements. There is
also a book-publishers’ section and a mass
of other information of use to all whom
this invaluable annual seeks to help.
* * ♦ ♦
Walking under the Water: Dannie
Abse (Hutchinson). This attractively-
printed book of poems is the first of a
series from this publisher, the other new
writers to include Rachel Bates, A. C.
Carnegie, Agnes Herbertson, Gladys
Haines, Olga Levertoff and Theodore
Nicholl. Notwithstanding some echoes
from Yeats, Eliot and Dylan Thomas,
Mr. Abse has a distinctive lyrical quality,
not so far developed into any particular
force, but pleasant as it runs along:
Singing today I married my white girl
beautiful in a barley field,
wise are her eyes so touch holy wood —
give my love to the loveless world
and all that is ours and gently good
to all the living but not the dead.
* * * w
Three new reprints in Cape’s admir-
able standard-edition of the plays of
Eugene O’Neill are Strange Interlude
(the enormous play filling an entire
volume), The Emperor Jones (with “The
Straw” and “Diff’rent”) and/ All God’s
Chilian Got Wings (with “Desire under
the Elms” and “Welded”).
***•'.
Tiger Lady: Olive Smythes (Heine-
mann). Mrs. Smythes is the wife of a
forest-officer in India and spent 30 years
hunting, fishing and observing in the
jungle. There are plenty of tigers; some
unexpected information such as the
danger of sitting on bilour nuts ; some
duck-shooting in remote, jade-green
rivers in Nepal; and some superb fishing
for mahseer up to 231 b., to be hooked at
almost every cast in the Himalayan
rapids of the Sarda River.
♦ * * *
Congo Pilgrim: Merlyn Severn
(Museum Press). Miss Severn says that
the natives in the Belgian Congo firmly
believe that Europeans eat them, and
during her stay the Government had to
deport by air a Czech sculptor who was
modelling native heads in clay—the belief
got around that there were real heads
enclosed in the clay, while the bodies of
his sitters had been converted into
corned beef. Which must make it rather
difficult to govern the Congo. However,
Miss Severn’s chief concern is not with
politics but with the tribal life, cere-
monies and dances of the Watussi, who
are said to be descended from the' ancient
Egyptians and who live high up in the
mountains. A fascinating chapter de-
scribes an ascent of “The Mountains of
the Moon” among giant heaths 40ft.
high draped with streamers of pale-grey
lichen.
* » * *
Nutrition and Health: Sir Robert Mc-
Carrison and H. M. Sinclair (Faber). A
reprint of McCarrison’s Cantor lectures
first published in 1936, with Dr, Sinclair’s
postscript bringing the work up-to-date.
McCarrison worked on nutritional prob-
lems in India for 30 years and demon-
strates, for example, how much better
experimental rats fared on the Sikh diet
of whole-wheat flour chapatties, butter,
fresh raw vegetables, fresh meat once a
week, etc., than on the “poor European”
diet of white bread, margarine, tinned
meat, tea and boiled vegetables (which
made the rats liable to pneumonia and
gastro-intestinal ailments). Dr. Sinclair
carries on to the feeding of starving
prisoners in Germany after the war with
protein hydrolysates; and also points
out that a Canadian war-time soup-ration,
on which rats flourished, made soldiers
sick.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 228
Across
I—East1 —East Victorian soldier from
Columbia with a pianissimo
defamation. (11)
6 A help in some calculating
journal. (3)
7 Noted fbr their milk producing
garments for footballers. (9)
9—Behold approval! (4)
11 — Turning an Australian State dye
with money features of French
and American speech. (5, 7)
12 — Set out a turn in a game. (2)
14 — Spotted the unconsumed lie about
the English Test team of 1928-29.
(6)
15— Celebrity place where marriages
are wrecked by two directions. (6)
17—Obstructing incursion. (6)
19 —Hope to hit over the fence a
half-gross of pennies. (3-3)
22 — Judah’s first-born often named
by a hesitant speaker when return-
ing. (2)
23 — Y-trap given to endorsed can-
didates. (5-7)
25 The objective is one bit of luggage
chronicle by Dr. Watson. (4)
26 — Contract in false-teeth. (9)
27 — 160 stone your French. (3)
28— The donkey, which the original
lady scolded, swore. (11)
\
Down.
1 — Such people as David and the
beanstalk grower make a carriage
caper over a danger time for
Caesar. (12)
2 The humorous talk includes en-
treaties with an effort. (10)
3 Chant allowed ohly one tea shift.
(7)
4 Diana cast off when served up.
(6)
5 Turn again—not in Whittington
style—about articles from France
and England. (7)
6 Boy whose age is under 50. (4)
B—Rouse.8 —Rouse. (6)
10—Star yelling a little publicity on
the noise nook, this being neces-
sary equipment for a plumber.
(8, 4)
13—Outer squib (anagram). (10)
16—Seafaring teller of tail stories is
evil and wicked. (6)
18—A crippled one in an avenue of
trees. (7)
20— Taxi upset a single pig bar about
an ice-cream container. (7)
21 — Comics often come like this
journey in a steamer with sancti-
fied scoundrels. (6)
24 —Chief parent isn’t out. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 227


|::r
■s''
m
r/
A.
PRODUCTS OF EXPERIENCED
DESIGNERS & MAKERS
HhBI
m
m
E
m
>
p
sSSB
.
MARS iok/ii All Geared
Head, S.S. & Sc. Lathe
Gap bed, hollow spindle, available to 12 ft. centres.
Built to Schlesinger limits of accuracy. Manufactured
of Meehanite castings produced in Mars laboratory controlled Meehanite Foundry.
EARLY AND IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES FROM CONTINUOUS SCHEDULES
MARS 1 in.
SHAPER
This is an ideal all-
purpose shaping
machine with a wide
operational range.
Designed to cut key
ways in long shafts.
Guaranteed accuracy.
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
THE “MARS”
GEAR DIVISION
Provides prompt service.
Gears completely manufac-
tured or your own blanks
generated by Sutherland,
Fellows, Hobbing or Glea-
son Bevel processes.
Makers of the
greatest range
of machine tools
in the Southern
Hemisphere
m
m
MARS
HIGH SPEED
PLANER
6' x 2' 6" capacity —-
Automatic feeds -
Ideal general purpose
planer. Castings of
heavy sections are of
robust design.
MEEHANITE
(Regd. Trade Mark)
CASTINGS
All castings are produced
in the Mars Foundry under
supervision of highly
trained metallurgical and
laboratory staffs. WE
MANUFACTURE ALL
GRADES of MEEHANITE
IRONS.
THE MARS No. 4
UNIVERSAL MILLING MACHINE
A fine and modem milling machine with guaranteed accuracy and outstanding qua-
lity. Rapid Power Traverse all movements. Wide range of speeds and feeds. Built in
electrics. Schlesinger standards of accuracy. Complete with all accessories.
Distributors in all States
W.A.; The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W, H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide. Vic.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke St., Melbourne. N.S.W.; Herbert
Osbourne Pty. Ltd., 109 Oxford St, Sydney. QLD.: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd. TAS.:
Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins St., Hobart... INDIA: (Bombay Province) R. S. Mehta & Co., AJi Cbr&«
Port Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
df
MACHINE TOOL 1
Manufactg. Co. Pty. Ltd
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
