

o
ò
ó
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
GOROKA TRAMP
,( The Bulletin,” VoL 74—No. 3855
Wednesday, December 30, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
LONDON’S GREAT FIRE
IS RECALLED BY
“THE MONUMENT,” A LONDON
LANDMARK
ONE of the sights of London is the fluted
Doric column known as “The Monu-
ment,” which commemorates the Great Fire of
1666.- It stands near Billingsgate Market, at
the corner of Fish-street Hill and Monument-
street. '
This great pillar of Portland stone, erected
1671-1677 to the designs of Christopher Wren,
is 202 ft. high and is the highest and finest
column of its kind in the world. It is crowned
with gilt flames instead of a phoenix, which
Wren had planned to place there as a symbol
of London’s resurgence from the ashes.
The fire started 200 ft. distant at a baker’s
shop in Pudding-lane on the night of Septem-
ber 2, 1666, and, fanned by a strong wind, it
raged through the city for three days consum-
ing all before it. An inscription on the north
side of the Monument records the fact that
89 churches were destroyed in addition to the
Guildhall, hospitals, schools and 13,200 houses.
Of the 26 London wards, the fire completely
destroyed 15 and the ashes of the fire covered
an area of 438 acres. In helping the citizens
to rebuild the city. King Charles II remitted
their taxes and funds were raised for public
works by a duty on the import of coal to
London.
The building of the Monument was
authorised by an Act of Parliament in 1671,
and its erection was completed six years later.
It was at first used by the Royal Society for
astronomical purposes until vibration from
traffic became too great for accurate
observation.
The Monument is 15ft. in diameter,
hollow inside, and every year some 50,000
people pay sixpence to climb the 345 steps
which wind round the middle to the upper
gallery, which provides a magnificent view over
London’s skyline. In the 18th-century the
column was popular with suicides, five of
whom fell to their death before the top was
enclosed in a cage.
Near the Monument is the ancient Church
of St. Magnus, notable for various reasons,
but more particularly for its associations
with Miles Coverdale, the great reformer,
who spent many years of his life translating
the Scriptures. On October 4, 1535, the first
complete printed English version of the Bible
was published under his direction.


The Red Page
THE OLIVIERS
Felix Barker’s biography of Laurence
Olivier and Vivien Leigh, The Oliviers
(Hamish Hamilton), is the story of the rise
of the son of an English clergyman and
the India-born daughter of a well-to-do
exchange-broker to the top of the stage
and film professions.'’
The Oliviers were clergymen right back
to their Huguenot origins in Gascony.
Laurence was a third son; his main
schooling was at the choir-school of All
Saints’ church near Oxford Circus, which
maintained 14 boy-choristers, one of the
best choirs in the country. The vicar and
precentor organised play-productions;
and invited the great, wherefore none
less than Ellen Terry and Sir Johnston
Forbes-Robertson praised little Larry
Olivier’s Brutus. He was also a great
success as Katherine in “The Taming of
the Shrew.”
Much to the boy’s surprise, when he
suggested that he follow an older brother
to a clerkship in India, his father calmly
insisted that he was to go on the stage.
But then, Forbes-Robertson had advised
it; and the church was not without stage-
connections ;
Canon Thorndike’s daughter would have
some advice. If he played his cards right
her husband, Lewis Casson, might even
give him a start.
Elsie Fogerty, whose Central School of
acting was in the Albert Hall, gave the
17-year-old Larry a year’s free tuition
and a bursary of £5O; on this, with £1
a month from his father, the boy eked
out his year. A few small parts in charity-
shows, a tour in a curtain-raiser to “The
Ghost Train,” some suburban Shakspeare,
an “assistant-stage-managership” of a
Lewis Casson production of “Henry
VIII,” and he was acting for Sir Barry
Jackson, first in Birmingham, then in
London: wide experience in Elmer Rice’s
“Adding Machine,” “Macbeth” in
modern dress, Shaw’s “Back to Methuse-
lah,” and Tennyson’s “Harold” —in this
last, he had progressed to the leading
role.
At that time the word had gone round
that Basil Dean was looking round for
a leading man for P. C. Wren’s “Beau
Geste,” and Olivier, in common with
many other young actors, began to
cultivate a Ronald Colman moustache.
With the idea of impressing Mr. Dean,
Olivier took the part of Stanhope in a
much-turned-down play by an amateur
actor called Sherriff, “Journey’s End.”
Sure enough, Dean narrowed down his
decision to Olivier and Maurice Evans,
who was playing, Raleigh in the same
play; and finally decided on Olivier.
Olivier banded over his part to Colin
Clive, and went on to a boosted, head-
lined, limelighted melodramatic flop in
“Beau Geste,” while “Journey’s End,”
moving into the West End, established
itself as a dramatic masterpiece.
Nevertheless, the play had established
Olivier as a star in the £3O-a-week class,
and as a rising young actor he went on
from failure to failure, concluding with
a flop in New York in “Murder in the
Second Floor,” a subdued return to a
London, where “Journey’s End” was still
playing after eleven months, two more
failures, and eight months of what actors
used to call “resting.”
Then Coward offered him the part of
Victor in “Private Lives.” Olivier said
he couldn’t see himself as the “deserted
prig of a husband,” his real objection
being to the thinness of the part:
“Look, young man,” said Coward,
“you’d better be in a success for a
change!”
So Olivier accepted the £5O-a-week,
married Jill Esmond, as he had hoped to
do for some time, and when “Private
Lives” went to New York, Jill Esmond
took Adrienne Allen’s place in the little
cast.
In three months, when Coward closed
his “Private Lives” season to concentrate
on his “Cavalcade,” the young Olivier
couple went on to Hollywood. The
talkies had created a demand for Eng-
lish voices; and Olivier played with
Menjou in “Friends and Lovers,” oppo-
site Elissa Landi in “The Yellow Ticket,”
and in “Westward Passage,” with Anne
Harding,
whom he found the complete antithesis of
the Hollywood star.... During the shoot-
ing of a scene, she would turn slightly so
that he could be photographed to greater
advantage, and sometimes even insisted on
completely reversing positions so that his
face should be to the camera instead of
hers.
The Oliviers got on well with Fair-
banks Junior and his wife, Joan Craw-
ford, but the depression had struck
Hollywood, and brought reorganisation,
and after several months of fruitless tests
and indecisions he went back with his
wife to London. Then the Hollywood
people engaged him in a fierce exchange
°1 cables: did he want to play opposite
Garbo? He left London in a flurry of
publicity as Garbo’s new leading man;
but when the screen tests began—the
film was to become “Queen Christina” —
Garbo sagged coldly in his embrace, and
when he tried talking her into a good
mood, she replied to his long, would-be
engaging monologue with one remark;
“Life’s a pain, anyway!” she observed,
J n the end the studio broke it to him
that Garbo thought he was not tall
enough ; but next day it was announced
that John Gilbert was to get the part:
Garbo was being loyal to her old play-
mate. Holidaying in Honolulu after this
gigantic setback, Olivier turned down
an M.G.M. offer of £12,000 a year, and
went back to London, where he played
in “Queen of Scots” and had considerable
success in the Ferber-Kauffman “Theatre
Royal,” a satire on the Barrymores,
playing the part of Tony Cavendish
(John Barrymore).
Next came Olivier’s first real step into
the classical arena: alternating the parts
0 f Romeo and Mercutio with John
Gielgud in Gielgud’s 1935 production at
the New Theatre ; and it was during this
run that Gielgud gave an audition to a
young actress called Vivien Leigh for an
Oxford performance of Richard 11.
Governesses in India, schooling at an
English convent, finishing-schools in
e.„.„ 0 __j r*.
France and Germany, a three-year grand-
tour of Europe with her parents to
celebrate her father’s retirement; a de-
cision to continue her interest in amateur
dramatics with a course at the Royal
Academy of dramatic art; marriage at
19 to a young lawyer, Leigh Holman ;
a baby girl at 20—Vivian Hartley was
the first to be taken-up by a newcomer
1° London theatrical agency, John
Gliddon. He felt that English stars
should be popularised in the Hollywood
manner; he escorted her round London
to the Iv y, etc., tried to change her name
to “April Morn”—she compromised by
usin g her first name, Vivien, with an
“ e ” for an “a” and her husband’s first
name > Leigh-got her,jobs in “quickie”
fil ms at Elstree, which led to a part in
a Florentine play; then she became
heroine of a film starring Gracie Fields,
“Look Up And Laugh.” Then, by de-
fault of Peggy Ashcroft, Jane Baxter,
Diana Churchill and Anna Neagle, she
wa s given the lead in the London stage
play, “The Mask of Virtue,” adapted
fr °m the German by Ashley Dukes, and
became headline news; Alexander Korda
P ut her under contract at £l3OO for the
first year, with options rising to £lB,OOO
m the fifth year.
So that when, in 1936, Korda cast her
as the Queen’s lady-in-waiting in “Fire
D ve r England,” to play heroine to
Olivier’s hero, they were both famous:
a friendship developed in the film-studio,
Olivier was persuaded by Tyrone Guthrie
to play for the Old Vic. From this re-
suited his “Freudian ‘Hamlet’” (devel-
oped when found among the books he
took with him to a holiday at Capri a
study of “Hamlet” in Dr. Ernest Jones’s
Essays in Applied Psycho-Analysis ); also
his Sir Toby Belch in “Twelfth Night,”
and his King Henry V, put on for the
Coronation season, a character whom he
did not like because of the heroics ;
though
, Laughton came round to see him after
the performance, and, quite obviously
moved, exclaimed, “You’re England!”
seaso „ a[ led to lhe jllvitation
, h Danish Tourist Association to
-Hamlet” at Elsinore; Olivier
tQ have pu i, ed strings to have
Vivien Leigh taken along as Ophelia;
a " d from those rainswept rehearsals and
final triumphs over weather, Ohvier re-
turned to tell his wife and son, and
Vivien Leigh to tell her husband and
daughter, that new arrangements would
have to be made.
The Old Vic. performances continued,
with Olivier’s “Macbeth,” and Vivien
Leigh as Titania in “The Midsummer
Night’s Dream” in the Victorian manner,
gauze backdrops, Mendelssohn's music,
fairies of tinsel and sequins and Robert
Helpmann as Oberon—there the Pnn-
cesses Elizabeth and Margaret saw their
first Shalcspeare.
The 1938 performance of Othello
produced the best story in the book.
Olivier and Ralph Richardson, such
friends that Olivier rarely struck a tough
acting-problem without writing off to
Richardson for advice on it, had long
w j sbed to act lago and Othello; and it
a fUof
occurred to Tyrone Guthrie that the
Freudian Dr. Jones, who had been so
helpful with “Hamlet,” might also have
notions on “Othello.” Guthrie and
Olivier visited the Doctor in his Regent’s
Park house, and found that he did in-
deed have ideas:
Dr. Jones told them to his mind the clue
to the play was not lago’s hatred for
Othello, but his deep affection for him.
His jealousy was not because he envied
Othello’s position, not because he was in
love with Desdemona, but because he him-
self possessed a subconscious affection tor
the Moor, the homosexual foundation ot
which he did not understand.
This exciting piece of woolgathering
formed the basis of Olivier’s characteri-
sation, “a flippant, smiling, strangely-
affectionate” lago, which mystified
critics, audience and Richardson into the
bargain, for a very good reason: —-
As they left Dr. Jones’s house Olivier
asked Guthrie what he thought of the
theory. “I think it is inescapable,” said
Guthrie firmly, “on an unconscious plane,
of course,”
“Oh, of course,” echoed Olivier, and
added, “I don’t think we dare tell Ralphy.”
At this point, in the summer of 1938,
Hollywood began to dicker with Olivier
for him to be Heathcliff in “Wuthering
Heights,” and after some argument with
the director, William Wyler, who came
across the Atlantic to see him, Olivier
decided to go. He tried to get Vivien
Leigh substituted for Merle Oberon in
this film, but, that proving impossible, he
left her to her English theatricals.
According to the biography, it was the
mournful tone of Olivier’s letters to her
which persuaded Vivien Leigh to make a
visit to Hollywood which, because of
London rehearsals, could last only five
days; however that may be, she arrived
at‘the height of the hue-and-cry after a
Scarlett to play in “Gone With the Wind.”
Olivier’s Hollywood agent was Myron
Selznick, brother of David Selznick, who
had the say ; Olivier had put Miss Leigh’s
name forward as soon as he knew she was
coming. A few days after her arrival in
Hollywood brother Myron introduced
her to brother David on the streets of a
blazing city in the film already started:
“David,” said Myron Selznick, “I’d like
you to meet Scarlett O’Hara!”
The great man was then preoccupied
with filming the great fire, but after-
wards he asked Miss Leigh was she
seriously considering the part, and she
replying that she was—very —he handed
her over to Cukor, the director. There
were screen-tests and hurried lessons to
prove that she could master the southern
drawl; then a party on Christmas morn-
ing at Cukor’s home, where, having heard
that Cukor was secretly in favor of
Katharine Hepburn, Miss Leigh asked
whom they had picked.
“Well, I guess we’re stuck with you!’”
he said cheerfully.
While Vivien Leigh, receiving £6OOO for
her part in the film that cost £2,000,000
and grossed more than £9,000,000, went
through her five months as Scarlett,
Olivier struck a tremendous success in
New York, playing opposite Katherine
Cornell in “No Time for Comedy.” At
the conclusion of the film they both went
for a short trip to London and returned,
he to star in “Pride and Prejudice” and
she to await the prodigious opening, in
December, 1939, of “Gone With the
Wind” in Atlanta, Georgia.
This premiere was no sooner over than
Olivier and Miss Leigh descended upon
New York with “Romeo and Juliet,” on
the' plans for which he had worked be-
tween shots of “Pride and Prejudice.”
They had put their entire savings, some
£12,000, into this production, devised
costly scenery and bought wines for a
huge celebratory party. The production
opened in San Francisco, was reasonably
popular in Chicago and flopped fright-
fully in New York. The Press unani-
mously damned it—“ His only passion is
one for detail,” said Brooks Atkinson.
The crowds queued up outside the theatre
—to demand their money back. Olivier
and Vivien Leigh left their costly pub,
arranged return of the celebratory wine
and went to a War Relief ball organised
by Noel Coward;
“My darlings,” he murmured, “how
brave of you to come.”
The only anticlimax to this anticlimax
was for the pair who had been bally-
hooed for “Romeo and Juliet” as public
lovers (“See real lovers make love in
public”) to marry in secret. The ceremony
was performed by a Santa Barbara judge
at one minute past midnight of August
30, 1940, and then the couple kept a
secret assignation with Ronald Colman’s
yacht at San Pedro. Colman recalls the
scene next day, the yacht anchored in a
quiet bay:
We had just finished lunch when Larry
asked if we bad a radio on board. I said
we had and that we might just catch the
two-o’clock news. “That would be inter-
esting,” said Vivien. “Wouldn’t it?” said
Benita [Colman]. I turned on the news.
Fifteen minutes—and no mention of any
wedding. “Wonderful,” said Larry.
“Ronnie, you really managed it superbly.”
“Oh, it’s nothing,” I said modestly, “but
the four o’clock has the more important
events.**
“Indeed,” said Larry, stretching himself
out on a deck-chair. It was, of course,
only by coincidence that at four o’clock
Larry pulled himself out of a siesta.
Benita said, “Would you mind if Ronnie
and I listen to the news?” “Not at an,
but keep it down, won’t you?” Larry said.
rolling over a little closer. “It’s a pity to
spoil the quiet of an idyllic spot,” said
Vivien, coming over and sitting by me. I
turned on the radio —still no news of the
Oliviers.
“Of course,” I said quickly, “you can’t
expect to escape Winchell at six o’clock —
he gets everything.” “Oh yes, he’ll have
it,” said Benita, helpfully. “Have what?”
said Vivien, opening those large and
\yonderful eyes at us. “Oh, darlings, you
can’t think for one moment that we are
the least bit interested in....” Larry
interrupted this with a laugh that started
the rest of us off, but by nine o’clock we
might have been described as definitely
fidgety. After all, there’s not much.point
in having a secret that the other fellow
doesn’t want to know.
“We certainly pulled it off, didn’t we?”
I said. “We certainly did,” said Larry
gloomily, downing some apple-pie. At
ten o’clock, thank goodness, the story
broke, and thinly-disguised relief was on
every face. “Too bad,” said Larry
heartily, “Too good to last,” sighed
Vivien with an incandescent smile. “Well,
that’s the way.it goes,” contributed Benita
wittily. After that we had a very happy
evening.
This perfect story of actors’ love of
peace and quiet brings us perhaps
nearest to this remarkable couple, but
only a little more than halfway through
the book. They have yet to make “Lady
Hamilton” together as a war measure ;
Olivier has to join the Fleet Air Arm, in
which his no little ability to crash planes
is frequently interrupted by Information
Department demands for his services at
public meetings, entertainments and
propaganda films (“Demi Paradise”). He
has to be inspired by one of his own
8.8. C. broadcasts into the production of
a full-size film of “Henry V,” and with
the backing of the Italian producer, Del
Giudice, to be released from war service
to go to Ireland, where only he could get
the horses and horsemen for the battle
scenes. He has to work with slings,
crutches and bandages, the result of
illustrating to the Irish farm-hands who
became his horse-soldiers, how to act;
he has to overcome British sales-resistance
-—the film did well as a long-run show,
but was booed in some theatres where it
was put on as just part of a schedule —
and Giudice has to get the film past
America’s Hays office and the wise-guys
of the American film business who knew
it would fail. It played in Boston for eight
months and in New York for eleven.
Then Vivien Leigh has to tour Egypt
entertaining the Army, and shiver in Den-
ham studios, acting Cleopatra in Egypt
in a British November ; sustain a law-
case with Selznick over her right to play
for Rank, quibble with Shaw over
whether Claude Rains made a “lean and
stringy” Cssar; and then open in
Olivier’s production to an astonished
Edinburgh audience (1944) of Thornton
Wilder’s “history of mankind in comic-
strip,” “The Skin of Our Teeth.”
At the London opening of this play
Olivier, sitting in the stalls, has to hit
James Agate “a glancing blow across the
shoulder,” at the same time hissing
“You’re late, blast you!” and. Agate
having turned in a review of praise both
for Vivien Leigh’s Sabina and Olivier’s
production, to remark “I’ve always
thought the only way to treat critics was
to hit them.”
Next Vivien Leigh has to get hospital
treatment for a tendency to tuberculosis,
and Olivier to get bad notices for his per-
formances as Sergius in “Arms and the
Man” ; next, from 1944 to 1946, come
what his biographer calls “the great roles”
with the Old Vic. company at the New
Theatre; Richard 111, Shallow, GEdipus,
Astrov, Hotspur, Mr. Puff, Lear, Sir
Peter Teazle, the Duke of Altair, Antony
and Caesar. After this he has to act and
produce his film of “Hamlet,” be knighted
(July, 1947), make his Australian tour
with the Old Vic. company, note in his
diary of the tour that in Canberra he went
to Government House and found
Mr. McKell very affable in a manner
rather resembling a Peter Ustinov imper-
sonation.
During this tour Olivier receives a letter
from the Old Vic. authorities dispensing
with his services, and those of Sir Ralph
Richardson —it seems that their opposi-
tion knew them as “the Knights,” and
“chose to believe that ‘the Knights’ were
using the Old Vic. as a vehicle for them-
selves.”
And so on to the concluding Old Vic.
appearances, and Vivien Leigh’s tragic
success in the “Antigone” of Anouilh ;
her success under her husband’s manage-
ment in “A Streetcar Named Desire,” the
development of Laurence Olivier Produc-
tions, his own company, and the opening
of the St. James’s Theatre under his
management with Christopher Fry s
“Venus Observed.”
It is a profoundly interesting success-
story, the more so because it shows what
terrible flops can be encountered on the
way, and what power must be used to
overcome them.
{“Red Page” continued on page 35)


This is the story of a
Shoe
that brings new comfort to tired and ill-supported feet. Sir Herbert Barker was ;
Orthopaedic Surgeon, who performed miraculous cures on crippled joints and
muscles. One of his theories was that much of a person’s good health depended on the
welbbeing of his or her feet, so he set about designing for himself the perfect pair of shoes.
famous
He tried
o
European bootmakers, Italian and Spanish. A London
craftsman almost gave him what he wanted, but the shoes were finally
perfected by an Indian Maharajah’s bootmaker. They were such a success
he had them adapted and crafted for women. Sir Herbert Barker’s
Orthopaedic shoes correct your foot problems, strengthen and support
tired muscles. And, if you’ve never had
the slightest foot complaint, these English
remedial shoes will keep your feet
perfect for the rest of your life.
ò
Sir Herbert Barker
m
m
A
Nature form last
2
Correct balance
Complete arch support
B. Welted sole tie Gibson in
black, brown or blue kid, =£6/7/'.
2nd Floor, Shoe Salon.
Mail and ’phone orders.
in and have your Sir Herbert Barker Shoes fitted by an expert in our special Sir Herbert Barker
A. Derby tie with suede punched
vamp. Lightweight sole, covered
sports heel. In black, navy or
brown suede and kid. £6/5/<
G. Welted sole two bar in tan
calf £6/9/'. Or black kid £6/1/'
D. Welted Derby tie in black,
brown or blue. Priced £6/16/-
E. Derby lightweight kid in
black, blue, brown. Priced £6/3/'
F. Kid court in colours black,
brown or blue. Priced £6/3/'
ft
>'
t
m
1 "truth in Advertising-
nthony Horderns’
••iik
PHONE T. O. P. S. (M 2401) FOR YOUR ORDER OR MAIL
TO BOX 27 12, G, P. O,
f
, SYDNEY


Melbourne Music, 1953
Music as a Fashion
By M.G.S.
THE Melbourne music-lover—that is.
the variety that frequents subscrip-
tion concerts—is a rapidly-diminish-
ing figure. In fact, attendance at
this year’s concerts has fallen off so badly
that concert entrepreneurs are looking
worried.
Hector Crawford, the conductor and
organiser of the Music for the People
concerts at the Botanic Gardens, says
that the clatter of coin at the box-office
has fallen to such a faint tinkle that you
can scarcely hear it. He says that a really
desperate state of affairs is indicated which
will eventually have far-reaching effects
on the musical activities of the country.
The phenomenon, I’m told, is not con-
T S free C °Tl
-fr"
lf, ” n y , *¥■ consldered a ” lm P artlal
nf g vo,?l T i ” e „ WaS T “ T® 9 “, eUeS
Sekel “mod or saf n ColUns s re f out'
■ j All , ./ n u „ street
‘ the T T n ? aU * aS packu ',
eV “ cha “ ber ; con “ r,s a ° d
song-recttals were well attended. Tins
X walked i V n,o y thrown- M toK
some renowned world-artist like Joan
Hammond was apt to be depressed to find
only a handful present.
Yet, from the artistic standpoint, the
season was as good as any, and there was,
if anything, a plenitude of talent and
'pfetty well every instrument was repre-
sented.
There were singers like Yi-Kwei Sze,
with, for a Chinese, an astonishingly deep
bass; Inngaard Seefned, in more senses
than one a lovely singer ; Erna Sack, who
combined with a more than remarkable
coloratura a talent for dancing; Joan
Hammond, who dispelled any lingering
doubts that in intelligence and quality
of singing she was as near perfection as
is possible in this world but who yet had
to remark after her season that Aus-
tralian singers were appreciated anywhere
but in their own land ; and Marie Collier,
who disclosed an amazing vocal and acting
talent as the half-crazed Marie Sorel in
Menotti’s modern opera, “The Consul,”
at the Princess.
Andr^Marchal
a.rssrMSr
the fine quality of Isador Goodman,
William Kapell, and the New Zealander
C °°l* ■ while WiUner, a
New Australian, gave a distinguished
series of recitaU in celebration of the
150th anniversary of Schubert, There
were violinists s y chneiderhan and A! an
S. h ew SET
There were positively oodles of con-
ductors—the Argentinian Castro, one of
the most sensitive musicians to visit Mel-
bourne; the half-virtuoso half-conductor
Walter Susskind; Professor Bishop;
Schmidt-Isserstedt; Goossens; Joseph
Post; Professor Heinze. And there were
youth concerts and vocal and concerto
competitions by the dozen.
Pretty well every major work of the
great composers was given a performance,
sometimes several, and, thanks largely to
Castro, there was an unusually large
leaven of new works by Hindemith,
Mahler, Bartok and others, plus a few
novelties from the engineering shops of
the ultra-modems, as well as the Aus-
tralian AntiU s Endymion and Arthur
Benjamin s The Devil Take Her. There
was an excellent opera company at the
Princess, and a not-so-excellent one
ousted the crooners from the Tivoli in
Bourke-street for a season.
So it could not be said that the entre-
preneurs and impresarios and executants
didn’t do a good job. It might be argued
that there is too much music; actually,
there has been no more than last year.
Then why the falling-off? One explana-
tion is economic—people can’t afford it.
But they can afford football-matches,
Some blame the quality, but there is no
evidence for believing that it is the con-
ductors and executants who have suddenly
gone off music.
Nobody has suggested that it might be
boredom. Anybody who has attended
symphony concerts at the Town Hall
over the last so many years can’t have
helped observing a curious phenomenon
—every four or five years the faces in the
foyers almost completely change. The
old familiar faces vanish, and a new lot
turns up.
I know one man who has attended
every concert for 25 years and has grown
bald in the service, but he is an excep-
tion. With him listening to music is a
solemn duty. But with most people, en-
thused by teachers of musical apprecia-
tion, it is a genuine interest. They want
to know more about it and they think the
more they listen the more they’ll learn
about an art that it took Beethoven a
lifetime of practice to understand a little.
After attending a few concerts and read-
ing a few notes on the programme they
become pretentious and you hear them
in the foyers putting this or that com-
poser in his place and knocking this or
that conductor off the rostrum. “Musical
diarrhoea,” I heard one young man de-
scribe a Bach fugue to his fair com-
panion. Probably he read it in a book,
but he thought it was a private judgment
and so did she.
After a while they become bored and
then critical or blase, and the next year
wild motor-cars wouldn’t drag them to
a concert. A friend of mine loved music
so much that he bought a most expensive
gramophone and a whole library of
records and used to sit night after night
nodding his head out of tune to Brahms,
Shostakovich and Tschaikowsky. The
worst insult you could offer him today
is to ask him to listen to a record —he
simply loathes them.
So, if my theory is correct, what one
writer calls this disappointing develop-
ment after 20 years of enormous and
heartening improvement in Melbourne’s
musical appreciation need not discourage
the A.B.C. and other musical organisa-
tions for bringing music to us. They have
only to train up another generation of
music appreciators, since the last lot
seem to have lost their interest. Or it
would be better still, perhaps, in this new
Elizabethan age, if they went back to
Elizabeth the First’s age, which was the
Golden Age of British music, when people
made it instead of listening to it and when
subscription concerts and broadcasting
commissions were unheard of.
Putting Sanity Into Certificates
Give Everybody a Leaving
By a TEACHER-PARENT
AS usual, at the end of their last
school-year, thousands of children
sat for their Leaving Certificate
examination —a test for many of
them affecting the whole course of their
future lives. A test which, it is not too
much to say, had wasted a good deal
of their time and the time of their
teachers for the past five years.
For what exactly does it mean when
a child produces a piece of paper show-
ing that he has managed to get at least
half the answers right in, say, maths.,
chemistry, French or geography?
It is no real evidence of his fitness
or unfitness to go to a university. For
one thing, only a small proportion of
those who sit for the Leaving ever go
to a university at all. And if the Leaving
were a reliable test of fitness for uni-
versity study, there would be fewer
failures in first-year university exami-
nations.
It is no real evidence of the child’s
general intelligence. If it were, the
elaborate system of intelligence-testing
now in operation would not be so
necessary
It is no help to an employer who
wants a capable filing-clerk. No one
in his senses, for instance, would keep
a filing-clerk who could get only half
his files in the right places.
And it is no guarantee that the child
has acquired what is called “culture”
in any significant sense. If it were,
fewer people who look like adults would
be listening to “soap operas” and buying
comics.
Moreover, a Leaving Certificate in one
year is not necessarily the same as a
Leaving Certificate in another year. All
teachers know how the standards vary.
To take only one example, in one year
a passage was set for translation in a
French pass-paper which appeared
another year in an honors paper.
Roughly speaking, all that the Leaving
Certificate in its present form can do is
to test the child’s ability to remember a
mass of un-co-ordinated and often irrele-
vant facts —facts which he sets down for
the most part in fifth-rate English.
Why then do we go on putting our
children year after year through this
incredibly silly machine? Simply be-
cause society in general and parents and
employers in particular continue to de-
mand that we should do so. Or rather
because society doesn’t bother to demand
anvthing else instead. And as long as
society continues to demand the sort of
things implied by the present educa-
tional system, it will continue to get
them. The fact that it sometimes gets
more is a tribute to the vision, devotion
and stamina of certain teachers.
This throws the responsibility for
educational reform right back where it
belongs—not upon teachers alone, but
upon society as a whole. All of us,
parents, politicians, professional men
and the rest, will have to take a hand if
children are to get the kind of education
they deserve.
At present, for instance, five years’
valuable time is spent teaching thousands
of children in this country to read and
write French who will never after they
leave school do either of these things.
Anyone who has a really genuine desire
to read French books can be taught the
rudiments of the game in a few months.
The rest is practice and a good, up-to-
date dictionary. The very small number
of children in Australia whose way of
life may make it necessary for them to
speak, read and write French could be
sent to Noumea for six months ; it would
be cheaper than the present system. The
rest of us who wish to learn about the
French contribution to civilisation can
do so by means of excellent translations.
Similarly, hundreds of children spend
five years learning how to prepare a pure
specimen of copper-nitrate who will
never again have to prepare one after
they leave school. If they must learn
science, nearly all of them would be
better off learning how the introduction
of artificial fertilisers has affected and
is affecting world food-production. The
second piece of information is relevant
to every child’s experience, the first
matters only to the few who wish to be-
come chemists.
Most children, too, would be better
off if they had some clear idea of the
social significance of mathematics, in-
stead of a sketchy acquaintance with the
binomial theorem. They would be less
likely to be impressed by statistics when
they grew up.
In spite of much tinkering with it,
the present pattern of secondary-school
studies is little better than the old. In
some respects it is a good deal worse,
What is needed is a completely new ap-
proach—a course designed with the needs
of citizenship in mind. And this doesn’t
mean slapping a layer of civics or social
studies over the existing foundations to
hold them together. It means putting
down new foundations.
The aim of such a course should be
twofold: to enable a child to know him-
self and control himself, and to enable
him to see where he stands in relation to
his own environment and the world as
a whole. Or, in other words, to give him
inner peace, stability and awareness
with which to face a world of strife, in-
security and confusion. Teachers who
try to do these things as well as carry a
load of matriculation requirements ex-
haust themselves, take refuge in cynicism
or resign in despair.
It will take courage to design a course
with the above aim in view. A good
deal could be achieved by making history,
Latin and the history of science (includ-
ing scientific method) compulsory sub-
jects and teaching them from a social
point of view.
Why not English, the diehards will
scream? Simply because in the hands
of cultivated men and women, every
lesson is an English lesson. A good deal
of the English taught in schools is not
the business of children anyway. They
would be better off reading poetry be-
cause they liked the sound of it. And if
history is properly taught it will range
deep and wide and cannot ignore litera-
ture.
Why Latin? Because it is necessary to
know how language works if we live
in a literate democracy, and Latin is the
simplest medium for illustrating the pro-
cess. Why the history of science? Be-
cause our life today is largely con-
ditioned, whether we like it or not, by
the processes of science and we remain
ignorant of their history at our peril,
Why scientific method? Because it is
important for everyone to know how to
marshal facts and deduce valid con-
elusions from them.
The few children who go to a uni-
versity would not suffer under such a
system and teachers of special subjects
would benefit by smaller classes with no
dead wood. The universities could make
their own entrance-examination arrange-
ments. For, obviously, specialist tech-
niques are best left until a child knows
what he wants to specialise in. Children
will learn them fast enough if they have
been taught in their first high-school
years some sense of direction and pur-
pose, how to recognise the essentials of
a situation and how to handle the facts
of their experience. With the removal
of the Leaving Certificate a great burden
which becomes almost intolerable during
the last year of school life would roll
away, leaving everyone free to get on
with the real business of education,
Many of these things were pointed out
ten years ago by Eric Ashby, then Pro-
fessor of Botany in the University of
Sydney. But since the questions he
raised have been quietly shelved it is
high time someone raised them again in
public. He has provided the best answer
to those who will cry: “But how shall
we know what a child can do, if he
hasn’t got a certificate?”
His answer was: “Give everybody a
certificate.” A certificate that is designed
along the lines of a headmaster’s report,
incorporating the opinions of the child’s
teachers and inspectors, so that everyone
who reads it will know precisely what
the child can and cannot do, on the basis
of the available evidence. This certifi-
C ate will be of more use than knowing
that he got four B’s in the Leaving,
The primary syllabus has already been
improved along certain lines. Is it
unreasonable to ask for the reforms to
be carried further? Both syllabuses, of
course, will require the very highest
quality of teachers that we can find,
And that is another story altogether,
. , ,
[This is the first of two articles based
on N. S. Wales experience, but obviously
of much wider application. Fixe second
article, to appear in next wfek s Bulletin,
will deal with the need for a higher
standard of quality in teachers, how this
might be secured, and what at present
acts against it.}


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 30, 1953
Vol 74—No, 3855
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
HISTORIC YEAR
This week Australia, not less than the world, enters
upon one of the great and momentous years of its
history, a year which should put the coping-stone on
the structure of its nationality, completing the develop-
ment which began with the formation of the Australian
Imperial Force in 1914.
That year saw the Commonwealth just emerging
from its swaddling-clothes. The colonial complex
still governed most of its thinking, for it must be
remembered that the population still included a very
large proportion of citizens born in the United King-
dom ; that, indeed, one of the early A.I.F. brigades was
at one stage 60 per cent, immigrant. Today, with
4,000,000 people more than in 1914, the population,
though still well over 90 per cent. British stock, is so
predominantly Australian-born that the inhabitants
from abroad are only a flavoring of the whole.
We have become a nation with our own policies, our
own independence and representation in every country
of note. Our own voice is heard in world affairs. We
have ceased to be a vague colony six weeks’ journey
from European civilisation and have become a major
unit of a powerful group of nations operating under
a single Crown and a single system of free thought
and government. This continent, in fact, has become
one of the central stages on which the dramas of
great events are played, brought by air-travel into
close proximity with its partners and neighbors, an
influence and a source of power to be reckoned with.
We have stable government in the Federal sphere.
There seems room to hope that 1954 may see the
Commonwealth entering on a period of political
stability with a moderate free-enterprise Government
maintained in power for many years in a manner simi-
lar to that which has paid such rich dividends to
Canada. It seems certain that the year will be marked
by the decline of “Labor” popularity in the State
sphere. The very fact that Dr. Evatt, the most keen-
nosed apprehender of adverse trends outside the rodent
kingdom, has deserted the Cahills and their policies
indicates how far they are on the slippery-slide and
how far the star of the Menzies-Fadden Government
has risen in the past few months.
The year 1954 will be important in other aspects.
The presence of the Queen here during the early
months will put the seal on the relationships between
the Australian people and the Crown which has be-
come their Crown. During its early months for the
first time her Majesty will take her place as part of the
Australian Parliament, which consists not as most
people are apt to think in loose terms of two elected
Houses, but of “the Queen, a Senate and a House of
Representatives” in which “the legislative power of
the Commonwealth shall be vested.” Thus it might be
said that the Royal visit completes the nationhood of
Australia, besides bringing to it some of the pageantry
and dignity which have always been an appanage of
British rule, but of which this country has enjoyed too
small a share.
The year, too, will become important for the hold-
ing here in January of the first great financial confer-
ence in which the nations of the British Common-
wealth will seek to co-ordinate their resources and
economic policies, a conference marked by the first
visit here of a Chancellor of the Exchequer in office
(he is bringing a staff of 80 in his train) and of a
Canadian Prime Minister. This gathering in itself
would be enough to put a red mark against any year
in history. Its effects may ultimately breed results of
importance to the whole world. For if the plans
which it makes lead to the eventual co-ordination in
development of the huge latent resources of the British
Commonwealth they will also lead undoubtedly to a
reorientation of the world’s economic power and pos-
sibly restore Britain and the Dominions to their old-
time dominant position among nations.
Certainly 1954 promises to be the most important
year to Australia in any generation of peace since the
discovery of gold ; and this is true whether or not the
events of its local scene should seem to be over-
shadowed by those of the outside world.
In the doubtful event that the Berlin conference
opening on January 4 may bring about the reduction
of armaments and the prohibition of the atom-bomb,
what happens within Australia will become doubly
important as giving impetus to a great programme of
peace multiplying its effects for years. If the peace
should fail to be kept and we must face a third world
war the country will go into it infinitely the stronget
JET-PROPELLED
for the newly achieved integrity of relationship with
the Crown which it shares with sister-Dominions, and
for the practical agreements which will have been
reached within the Imperial British partnership on
Australian soil.
Happy or unhappy. New Year 1954 should see
the Commonwealth making a giant stride forward
in strength and prestige.
In Praise of Laziness
It has often been stressed in these pages that there is
no real substitute for hard work, and that an improve-
ment in general living standards can be brought
about only by increased output and greater endeavor.
It is therefore perhaps only fair to admit in the dying
moments of the Old Year that, although industry and
devotion to duty are qualities which can never be too
highly commended, there have been occasions when
laziness has paid dividends. Out of evil sometimes
cometh good, and although it may be true that neces-
sity is the mother of invention, there is a strong case
for laziness as the putative father.
In modern times the element of laziness seems to
have been transferred by the wonders of advertise-
ment from the inventor to the person for whose use
the invention is intended. At any rate, the emphasis
is all on the labor-saving qualities of the new device ;
the amount of work and drudgery it will eliminate ;
the extra leisure that will accrue from its use. But,
getting back to first principles, it was the lazy man
who was the first inventor.
Back in cave-man days the average man—-the
common man beloved of present-day
was an energetic bloke who killed his food with his
bare hands. If he didn’t kill he didn’t eat. This was
altogether too strenuous for the lazy man, so he
invented pitfalls, traps and nets in which the animal
caught itself, or bows and arrows, with which he
could bring down his prey at a distance. No doubt
the common man of the period muttered something
about unfair tactics, but it wasn’t very long before he
found himself adopting the new inventions and boast-
ing of the ingenuity of his tribe.
Fishing, still pre-eminently the sport of the
indolent, was obviously originated by the lazy man.
Not for him the quick dive into the icy stream, the
wild flurry of arms and legs to finish up with a fish
held firmly in his teeth! Better by far to recline at
ease on the river’s bank, waiting for the foolish fish
to impale itself on his baited hook.
The bucket and the basket and all the carrying
paraphernalia descended from them are clearly the
brain-children of Homo lazibones. Why go down
to the river every time you want a drink or into the
forest every time you want a handful of berries?
It’s far easier to lay in a stock. There is Biblical
authority for believing that the sluggard learnt this
from the ant, but the reverse seems more likely to be
true. In any case, if the ant did think of the idea
first, the sluggard improved on it by getting someone
else to do the carrying. He did this by inventing the
institution of matrimony —a little piece of ingenuity
which was later to recoil upon the heads of his
descendants
Having thus acquired a permanent domestic
slave, possessed of the faculty of what might be
termed self-perpetuation, the way was clear for Lazi-
bones to think up other inventions which might add to
his creature comforts or gain him more leisure. The
discovery of weaving certainly belongs to this period ,
it entails too much work to have appealed to him
before he acquired a work-force in the shape of wife
and children.
On the other hand the wheel, hailed by many
thinkers as man’s most important invention, is of
much more ancient origin. It bears all the hallmarks
of an early lazy-man job. Too tired to drag heavy
weights, our indolent ancestor noticed that a fallen
log had a tendency to roll. Hence the first wheel-
barrow, or perhaps billycart. The nagging of his wife,
a natural corollary of her growing realisation of his
dependence on her, probably led to the first improve-
ments in this primitive wheeled-transport from which
all later refinements sprang.
Much of history is determined by little things,
and it is interesting to conjecture what might have
happened had Lazibones’s wandering gaze come to
rest not upon the rolling log but upon a squid or
cuttle-fish. Jet-propulsion might have been achieved
without all the intervening stages.
There is no doubt that engineering owes its begin-
ning to Lazibones, who naturally would not for long
put up with the necessity of walking a mile or so to
the nearest ford every time he wanted to cross the
creek that flowed past his front-door. His wife
couldn’t be expected to carry him there and attend to
the cooking, weaving, milking and gardening as wen,
so there was only one thing to do. He built a budge
across the creek. To cover up his laziness and make
it sound an energetic job he spoke of having “thrown”
it across the river. Engineers have been throwing
bridges across rivers ever since.
Even the Arts sprang from laziness. Finding
that the crude diagrams he scratched on the rock to
explain his work-dodging inventions and the ingenious
yarns he evolved to justify them interested his fellows
just as much as the inventions, it occurred to him that
life might be easier still if he eliminated the functional
side of his fock-carving and yarn-spinning and con-
centrated on pure Art and Literature. It worked, too,
and despite all that has been said to the contrary, all
artists and writers are spiritual descendants of Homo
lazibones.
Shakspeare, of course, is the outstanding example.
There is no evidence that the Bard ever did a day’s
honest work in his life —except a vague story about
his alleged proficiency as a horse-holder —and even
that has now been largely discredited.
But for the fact that Shakspeare was born tired
the world would never have been given the great gift
of his plays and verse, and what is true of Shakspeare
must surely be true of all lesser writers. The strength
of the argument is not confined to creative writing;
it is well known that “he who can, does, and he who
can’t writes a book about it,” which is just another
way of saying that laziness is responsible for the
writing even of learned treatises. This one, for
example.
JASBY.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dog-collar Effects
Six groups of employers have decided to
challenge Mr. Cahill’s Dog-collar Act in
the High Court after taking legal advice,
the effect of which is that the Act in-
fringes Section 92 of the Constitution and
cannot apply to the employer and em-
ployees in any business an essential part
of which, as actually carried on, consists
of inter-State trade and commerce ; or to
those engaged in transactions of inter-
state trade, or—something vital indeed —
to any employer in respect of any em-
ployee to whom “the only available in-
dustrial union appropriate to his occupa-
tion is a State branch of an organisation
registered under the Commonwealth Con-
ciliation and Arbitration Act.” Of course,
this also applies to the employees con-
cerned.
The challenge is important not only to
this particular Act but to the whole absurd
principle of competing State and Federal
arbitration systems which produce dif-
fering wage-standards and wholesale ex-
pense to industry, not to speak of muddle
and dissension in the unions themselves.
If the principles are wrong in N. S.
Wales they are equally inadmissible in
Queensland.
It is a pity that the questioning of the
Act needs to be made on these particular
grounds. The most monstrous feature
of the measure undoubtedly is the com-
pulsion which it imposes on the new type
of slave-unionist to subscribe to and
support political organisations which are
members of, and/or subscribers to, the
A.L.P., and, worse still, to the Com-
munist party, against his will. This strikes
at the very basis of personal political free-
dom In some cases it compels law-
abiding citizens to subscribe to bodies
whose policies are dictated by men en-
gaged in treasonable activities in the in-
terests of a foreign enemy. And they must
do this under the law of a British State
which is due to be attacked in time, on
present showing, by foreign associates of
the very tyrants to whom it forces decent
unionists to submit. A Government
which imposes a compulsion to that end
is almost as much a saboteur as those
whose ends it knowingly serves.
The prospective effects of the Act must
be obvious to all. Given the choice of
organising employees into unions under
the control of a Federal system (which
is concerned with national defence and
security) or into unions which are under
the compulsory system of Mr. Cahill and
Mr. Landa, no Communist would hesitate.
Already, though they oppose compulsion
as a matter of party line, the Communists
are preparing to take advantage of the
new opportunities offered them. Fended
off by the bodies managed by nominees
of industrial A.L.P. groups who have
sought to deny them membership or to
curb their operations, there is now no
weapon to keep them out of these unions,
which will be forced to take them in any
quantity they like to offer. Hitherto Com-
munist organisations have shunned union-
ism in their own party-occupations be-
cause they ignore awards, and (as clearly
shown by the evidence given before the
royal commission of 1949) they pay
wretched wages. But now they have
to come in, and consequently will have
to pay State award wages, they are
quick to realise that under compulsion a
new world of opportunity has been
opened up.
Nobody need have any doubt why
Comrade Ernie Thornton, Moscow’s
ruffian ambassador-at-large, has returned
to Australia at this juncture. This emis-
sary of the Kremlin is here to design the
new tactics appropriate to the opening
which Mr. Abie Landa has given Malen-
kov and his allies in Australia as a
Christmas-box.
Helping Asia or A.C.T.U.?
“In the ACT”: It would be interesting
to know just how much the constant
peregrinations abroad of Albert Monk,
of the A.C.T.U., have cost the unions
and the Government. Monk has played
along with the Libs, as well as with
“Labor,” and there seems no end to his
journeyings. One of the nicest plums
has been the 1.L.0., which never stints
its delegates, but it looks as if even this
may not last for ever. In the wordy re-
ports of the 36th session of the Inter-
national Labor Conference at Geneva last
June, which have just been circulated,
Monk voices alarm that at the last four
conferences Governments and employers’
representatives have voted together to
restrict the budget of the organisation.
He doesn’t suggest that his own wings
may be clipped. His line is that the 1.L.0.
has embarked into fields of operation
such as technical assistance, immigration
and like questions. “Offices, in addition
to already established field-offices,” he
says, “have been set up in most Asian
and South American countries. This
desirable work cannot continue without
greater financial assistance being afforded
to the 1.L.0.” He goes on to say that
the Australian Government has not given
enough help to this work, announces that
the “goodwill of Asians towards Aus-
tralia depends upon, amongst other things,
the extent to which they feel we are pre-
pared to assist them during the next
decade,” and adds that “it is shortsighted
policy for Australia not to give all the
financial assistance possible to the 1.L.0.
during the period that the Asian coun-
tries which have accepted self-deter-
mination need so much direct assistance
in the technical-assistance and social
spheres,”
This would not be a happy argument,
even if we were not putting something
like £6 million a year into the Colombo
Plan, and sending technical advisers who
are probably a lot more useful to the
Asians than Mr. Monk could ever be.
The social emancipation of our Asian
neighbors, the raising of their living
standards and the encouragement of their
productive capacity will never grow out
of the bickering futilities which seem to
engross so much of 1.L.0. gatherings. We
have responsibilities to our Asian friends
—and to ourselves. They won’t be met by
pouring more money into the 1.L.0.
More Beautiful Than Ever
Having read The Bulletin’s senti-
ments on the seizure of its review-books,
the Customs Department rang up to say
that it was all a beautiful mistake: it
would seize no more books, and instruc-
tions had been given for the release of
All Brides Are Beautiful, Queen of the
Chase and Lover, Say It with Mirth.
Thus it is demonstrated that even in
the Customs Department there is, as Dr.
Johnson would have said, a sound bottom
of good sense. Kindly permitted once
more to review its review-books. The
Bulletin is delighted to wish the depart-
ment a belated Merry Christmas and an
enlightened New Year; while, if the
censoring-clerks really wish very much
to read All Brides Are Beautiful, they
are welcome to borrow it after it has
been duly dissected at this office.
Nothing But Their Chains
The Soviet Union commentary on Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s Note on atomic
weapons sounds reasonable on its face,
but, as usual, it implies enough reserva-
tions to produce frustration.
Its declaration that the Soviet Union
consistently struggles for a ban on atomic
weapons is only true if the qualification is
added “at the expense of all the opponents
of the Soviet Union.” It is equally true
that it struggles (as it says) for a reduc-
tion of all armament, but again this needs
the qualifications that its plan aims to
leave all other countries at a severe dis-
advantage, Russia being in favor of a
proportional reduction of existing equip-
ment at a time when the military forces
of the U.S.S.R, are on a scale designed
for offence, and would still be on a scale
designed for offence if reduced by a third,
as proposed, while the forces of Western
nations are on a scale scarcely adequate
even for defence, and a one-third reduc-
tion would place them at the mercy of the
Communist Powers.
The only new feature of the Soviet
Note, which is mostly cunningly pres-
ented “peace” propaganda directed to-
wards the ends of the world revolution
through the creation of confusion among
Western peoples, is its sudden ardor for
the League of Nations agreement for the
prohibition of chemical- and gas-warfare.
Moscow argues that this worked, and
that therefore a ban on atomic weapons
would also work.
In plain fact, chemical- and gas-warfar©
were ruled out in the last war not by
agreement—neither Russia nor Germany
was party to such arrangement at the rele-
vant time —but by war conditions. Gas-
warfare belongs to the battle of short and
static fronts, and it is unbelievable that
either Germany or Russia would have
failed to use these methods if they had
promised advantage. However, in dis-
persed, fast-moving warfare they are in
the main impracticable and generally less
economic than other kinds of attack.
Furthermore, the best proof that mere
agreement means nothing is to be found
in Moscow’s own continuous breaches
of agreement. It is clear now that when
Germany attacked Russian teritory the
Communists were already preparing to
double-cross their new allies, with whom
iheir ties, according to Stalin six months
before, were already “cemented by blood”
—that of the ravaged Poles. The agree-
ments made at Yalta respecting China
and Manchuria were broken by Russia
in a manner which would have made the
most habitual criminal blush. The worth
of “solemn and unconditional pledges”
proposed by Malenkov “not to use atomic
or hydrogen or other weapons of mass-
extermination” —which in the next war
must exclude all air-attack —can be judged
only from the past, unless the pledges are
extended to guarantees of strict inter-
national control and universal inspection.
The test will be whether Russia will
agree to that inspection and supervision
within the Soviet Union of all industry
likely to produce mass-destructive power.
That would mean the opening-up of
Russia to the free world in a way in
which it has never been open even to its
own peoples, and the disappearance of
totalitarianism and Communism. An
effective plan could not be made to work
without these changes. And it remains
to be seen how far Russia will go in
January at Berlin towards allowing them
to be made into reality.
It would be to the vast benefit to the
Russians and their Government if the
burden of armaments were taken off the
world. About the only thing which is
really true in proverbial philosophy of
Communism is Marx’s dictum that the
Russian workers, in achieving a working
plan, have nothing to lose but their chains.
Danger in Censorship
The fact that at least four State Govern-
ments are planning legislation to ban
the publication and sale of what is
generally termed “pornographic and un-
desirable literature” calls for some atten-
tion. Not only because the limit has just
about been reached in the way Australian
bookstalls are snowed under by the stuff,
but because the legislation itself can be
dangerous.
From what has been said and written
on this matter of banning, it is obvious
that many would-be banners are on the
wrong track. Again and again they de-
mand that “children must be protected,”
or “these things will corrupt our chil-
dren.” The plain truth is that magazines
with highly-colored pictures of near-
naked females are seldom bought by
children, and as seldom bought by ’teen-
agers. And it’s to be noted that popular
magazines with wide circulations among
adult readers lose no chance of playing
up bare bosoms and exposed thighs on
their front pages. The daily Press,
apparently, finds the same sort of pictures
necessary.
So that the exercise of bans looks like
being full of prickles. Who is to inter-
pret the new laws, if and when they come
into force? What sort of people are to
constitute the censorship committees
which at least two States propose to
appoint? Who is competent to shake an
admonitory finger at the public and say
“You may read this but not that”? Shall
a magazine of smutty jokes and sugges-
tive pictures be considered a graver
threat to public morals than a race-tipping
sheet or a Government which conducts
public lotteries?
This isn’t to deny that it’s about time
some sort of action was taken against
certain publications. But police already
have power to do that, if they care to
use their power. History is full of the
failures of Governments to save people’s
“morals” by acts of suppression. And
mostly the failures lay in the evident
differences of opinion as to what is or is
not “pornographic literature,” the refusal
of responsible persons to accept any-
body’s ruling on what they’ll read, and
the inevitable use of the censoring power
to ban what the particular Government
doesn’t like or fears. It is in the last that
the gravest danger lies.
Gair Is Alarmed
Queensland Premier Gair, possibly a
little disturbed by the effect on North
Queensland of the New England (N.S.W.)
vote for a new State, announced that for
financial reasons alone any move to divide
Queensland would be “impracticable,”
and wanted to know “where three Queens-
land States would get enough revenue
to maintain their services.” By “three”
he was referring to a statement that
Queensland was big enough to divide into
three States.
This isn’t the first time Mr. Gair has
claimed that North Queensland as a
State wouldn’t have enough revenue to
live on. And the answer is still the same:
That wouldn’t be Mr. Gair’s problem.
As for North Queensland, one of the
main reasons why it wants to break away
from Mr. Gair’s Brisbane-dominated
Government is because it believes it
could do a lot better if it had the spend-
ing of its own State revenue and the share
of Commonwealth tax-money and grants
it would be entitled to as a State.
This, generally, is the belief of those
in Queensland and N.S.W. who want
separation from Brisbane and Sydney—
a belief well founded on figures. As for
the services Mr. Gair speaks of, it is
unlikely that a North Queensland Gov-
ernment would perpetuate the huge rail-
way losses of the existing Queensland
Government, nor would it attempt to run
other services in the same extravagant
Socialist manner. What is more import-
ant, it would have its public services con-
ducted by its own men from its own
offices instead of being in the hands of
authorities hundreds of miles away.
What really scares Mr. Gair is not the
spectacle of a new State in the north, but
the spectacle of having to run his share of
Queensland without the north.
Our Underdeveloped North
The development of uranium-mining in
the Northern Territory and the revival
of the search for oil in Queensland and
the Kimberleys give a more-than-usual
interest to the subject for discussion at
the 1954 Summer School of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Political Science.
Speakers will be asked to read prepared
papers on various aspects of the theme
“How Should We Develop Northern
Australia?”
Outlining the scope of the subject,
Professor F. W. Whitehouse, of the Uni-
versity of Queensland, will give a geo-
graphical survey of Northern Australia,
and Mr. M. A. Mawby, director of ex-
ploration and research for the Zinc Cor-
poration, will tell of the mineral
resources, known and potential, of the
area.
Mr. J. W. Fletcher will discuss the
future of the cattle industry, and Mr.
P. J. Skerman, another Queensland Uni-
versity man, the agricultural possibilities.
Those responsible for the programme
have realised the important part trans-
port must play in any plan for developing
the north. Mr. C. R. Lambert, Secretary
of the Commonwealth Department of
Territories, is to deal with transport in a
general way, and Mr. I. H. Grabowsky, of
Australian National Airways, with the
contribution air-transport can make.
Political aspects of northern develop-
ment will be discussed by Mr. J. N. Nel-
son, M.H.R. for the Northern Territory,
and Sir Raphael Cilento will speak on
“The Social Challenge.”
On the final day of the school Dr. H. F.
Bell, economist to the A.M.P. Society,
and an important figure in its Coonalpyn
Downs settlement scheme in South Aus-
tralia, will consider the problems associ-
ated with raising capital for northern
development, after which a speaker yet
to be named will summarise the points
raised in the various papers.
The summer school, the 20th organised
by the institute, will be held in Canberra
from January 30 to February 1, 1954.
Applications for attendance close with
the secretary of the institute at Rural
Bank Building, 34 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney, on January 12.
More Board Control
From Auckland; To those who believe
in free enterprise —mainly the business
section of the population—the past year’s
revelation of the extent to which the
Holland Government is dominated by
powerful producer organisations has come
as a shock. Until a few months ago the
majority of Maorilanders had an almost
childlike faith in the Nationalists as
friends of the people, but lately this faith
has been shaken by legislative measures
or proposals.
The first sign that the Government was
going back on its free-enterprise prin-
ciples was the passing of the Primary
Products Marketing Act last autumn,
when a bill was rushed through* Parlia-
ment just before Mr. Holland’s departure
for London. Everything happened so
quickly that only a few realised at the
time the danger of this hasty piece of
legislation, but the truth has dawned on
many since, most of all on the Chambers
of Commerce, which have demanded
repeal of the Act or radical amendment.
Primary products are defined as lines
not already covered by legislation, and
therefore exclude dairy produce, meat,
wheat, potatoes, pip fruits, tobacco, wool
and livestock, which are all under board
control, as they have been for many years.
Marketing authorities are to be set up
where they don’t exist if the majority
o Continued on next page)


engaged in various branches of pro-
duction decide to seek more power. If
everyone sought to operate under the
Act, N.Z. would become saddled with
marketing monopolies for everything pro-
duced.
As if this were not enough, there was
a move lately to make the wealthy,
dominating Meat Export Control Board
an all-powerful marketing body. This
time the champions of freedom were
more wide-awake, and there was
an immediate howl in protest. The
proposals were framed to give the
board a buying monopoly of the
whole of N.Z.’s surplus meat, now
close to 400,000 tons yearly, and ignored
the interests of everyone else, companies
or individuals, who collectively had sunk
many millions of capital in the industry,
one of the most important in the country.
The bill was autocratic in letter and spirit,
made nonsense of Government pledges
to restore free enterprise, threatened to
kill competition, and included privileges
undreamed of before. The board was to
be free to form tie-ups with overseas
interests, to make a levy on all meat, out
of which to pay the running costs of the
Federated Farmers’ Organisation, and was
to be backed by a Government guarantee
against loss in the event of getting finan-
cially out of its depths. The levy pro-
posal was designed virtually to place the
board in the position of an independent
tax-collector.
This extraordinary set of draft powers
provoked the N.Z. “Economist and Tax-
payer” to denounce the bill:
This bill proposes to make the board a
power unto itself. It is to be judge of its
own cause, is to make regulations as it
thinks lit, is to act in an unfettered manner,
is to be an agent willy-nilly, and is to
deprive owners of meat of any or all
powers of ownership. Its members will
not be personally liable for any act of
default. No one who suffers loss through
negligence, incompetence or gross in-
capacity of the board will be able to make
a claim against it. It is to be given
absolute authority to do what it likes.
To all who abhor controls and mono-
polies these proposals were the last straw.
The Government has been forced to think
twice before flouting public opinion by
translating them into law. This could be
the turning-point in the contest control
v. freedom.
POLITICAL POINTS
With the counting of each additional
batch of votes from outlying parts of the
Gwydir electorate the majority for the
Government candidates has grown bigger.
At the weekend it was near the 3000-mark.
Distribution of preferences should take
place this week, but this will be a mere
formality, as it is virtually impossible for
Country-party man A. I. Allan to lose
the seat; his vote exceeds the combined
score of Mrs. Kirkby and A. M. Howard,
the other two Government candidates.
• •
Newspaper heading: “Threat to Export
Prices.” Well, it might be a way of getting
rid of high ones.
• •
Sydney “Sun-Herald,” assisted by a son
of Arthur Conan Doyle working in col-
laboration with a modern writer of de-
tective stories, has revived Sherlock
Holmes. It is understood that the idea
is to let him solve a few simple cases to
get his hand in and then turn him loose
on the Sydney City Council mystery.
• •
The usual howls and accusations of
“giving away the people’s assets” may be
expected from the usual quarters at the
news that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has sold 11 vessels engaged in the
coastal trade of New Guinea and
adjacent islands. The ships range from
100 to 300 tons gross ; they were sold by
tender ; there were six purchasers, and
the total price was £147,705. A condi-
tion of the sale was their retention in the
island trade.
• •
In the Gwydir campaign Doc. Evatt
made quite a song-an’-dance about the
iniquity of proposing to sell the Common-
wealth Line and the actual disposal of
C.O.R. shares. Nick McKenna and
others strongly supported him, adding a
bit about “selling-out Australia’s oil to
the Yanks.” If the idea was to test this
line of talk as a vote-catcher for the
general election it was a dismal failure.
• •
“Balance-sheet” Thornton is threaten-
ing to make a comeback in Australian
trade-unionism. He’s never had experi-
ence of a union election since the court-
conducted ballot was introduced.
Thornton’s story is that his work in
Peking is finished and that it is good to
be back “in my own country.” The exact
nature of the Peking job has never been
explained, but Thornton was doing it
while men from his “own country” were
being killed in Korea by conscript troops
of the Peking Government.
• •
After a St. Mary’s (N.S.W.) publican
had sold about 5000 bottles of beer one
day last week the supply ran out. Those
who were too late then proceeded to
wreck the pub, police were called, broke
up the riot, and arrested several. Then a
meeting declared the pub black. Tem-
perance reformers should note that this
trouble wasn’t caused by drink, but by
the lack of it.
• •
As was expected, J. H Smith was chosen
to fill the vacancy in the Victorian
Cabinet caused by the resignation of
Lands Minister Holt, In addition to
Lands, he will also be responsible for
Soldier Settlement and Soil Conserva-
tion. M. J. Gladman, member for
Warrnambool, will succeed Smith as
Honorary Minister.
• •
Probably feeling like King Croesus of
old, Minister for Education Heffron went
along to the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation
and said the N.S.W. Government would
spend £3O million on education during
this financial year. The federation there-
upon carried a resolution demanding £6O
million.
• •
Moscow sometimes lets the local Com-
rades down badly. Last week’s “Tri-
bune,” carrying a December 22 date-
line, reported that Beria would “soon be
tried.” As was revealed by Moscow
later in the vyeek, the trial was already
over ; Beria was shot next day. Kremlin
justice doesn’t allow much time for
appeals.
• •
As a sobering thought for the coming
year a Melbourne “Herald” man in
London points out that the ending of
Government controls and rationing in
England, with the return to trader-to-
trader marketing, will compel Australia
to market most of its food exports on a
strongly competitive market in the U.K.
There’ll be no business for slapdash
methods of production, grading and pack-
aging.
• •
Thomas Patrick Murphy, “Labor”
member for Concord in the N. S. Wales
Assembly, gives his definition of “per-
suading” :
“The whole of the exertions of a true union-
ist are directed to persuading his fellow-
workers to join the union. Indeed, on many
occasions, the fight has been fought on the
ground that work would cease unless a certain
employee, who was enjoying benefits that had
been won by his fellow-men, joined the union.”
• •
A “Labor” man wrote in the Melbourne
“Herald” that the Cain Government’s
legislative record for the past year was
“an impressive one.” He listed 15 pre-
sumably impressive results, including a
lottery, a “new deal in land-settlement”
(which the Minister for Lands couldn’t
stomach), and sundry other achievements.
Whether these were attained because of,
TAIL-END
or in spite of, the Menzies Government
wasn’t stated. It will be stated during
the Federal election campaign next year.
• •
New florins struck to commemorate
the Royal visit will include the letters
F.D. in the Queen’s title, in addition to
Elizabeth II Dei Gratia Regina as worn
by the current issue. So the explanation
that the letters had been omitted through
lack of space wasn’t right after all! No
one ever really believed it was.
• •
An announcement that the Arbitration
Court will no longer issue quarterly cost-
of-living figures has roused Albert Monk
to describe the court as a “dictatorial
economic organ.” His A.C.T.U. will now
work out these figures itself. Monk is
making a fuss out of what is merely a
question of procedure. The Common-
wealth Statistician calculates the index-
numbers ; the court has merely been
relating these to the basic wage in accord-
ance with a predetermined formula. As
the court is no longer granting automatic
variations, there is no point in its con-
tinuing to issue the figures. Presumably
the Statistician will continue to publish
his index-numbers, so it is open to any-
one to calculate the effect, if any, on the
basic wage.
It’s a safe bet that as soon as the
index-numbers show a fall Albert and
his cronies will forget all about their
demands for automatic adjustments.
Out again, in again! At the beginning
of October H. Grant, Communist secre-
tary of the Sydney branch of the Boiler-
makers’ Union, was suspended by the
union executive on which the industrial-
groups have a majority. On October 12 a
special general meeting refused to endorse
this action and Grant resumed his duties.
Grant was again suspended on December
11, and the assistant-secretary, J. Chap-
man, was appointed acting-secretary.
Another special meeting held last week
upset the suspension and told Grant to
carry on. Next move is up to the
Groupers.
• •
For the first four months of the finan-
cial year Australia’s wool-cheque was
£119,262,000, for the same portion of
1952 it was £90,565,000. For the first
third of last financial year our coal ex-
ports were 73,000 tons; for the same term
this year they reached 258,000 tons. And
this is the first year in which no coal
has been imported. Yet Evatt and Co.
spout about Menzies bringing the country
to ruin.
• •
An Irish journalist, alarmed by
attempts now current in State Parlia-
ments to put bans on “indecent literature,”
reminds Melbourne “Herald” that in
1946 the Eire Government set up a
censorship on the same grounds. It
stopped a lot of real pornography and
eliminated some comic-strips, but the
banning goes on, and today in Eire you
can’t buy such magazines as “Argosy,”
“Illustrated,” “Woman’s Own,” “Picture-
goer,” “Photoplay” and “Picture Post,”
London Sunday papers, or such authors
as Bernard Shaw, Hemingway, Sinclair
Lewis, Steinbeck, Graham Greene and
Maugham.
• •
“N.”: The Victorian Government’s
tinkering with the Licensing Act and the
move to stagger city business hours to
help ameliorate traffic congestion have
confused at least one Melbourne woman.
In a suburban tram she was overheard
to say “I’m all in favor of the liquor
laws being reformed, but it looks so
horrid the way the papers will call them
‘Staggering Hours’! ”
• •
Hearing of the N, S. Wales Public
Service Board’s inquiry into Education
Department contracts with R. D. Vitnell
and Perficut, Ltd., was concluded last
week after sitting for 83 days. No date
has been announced for the publication
of the board’s finding.
• •
Six employers’ organisations in N. S.
Wales are challenging in the High Court
the validity of the compulsory-unionism
law. The main contention is that the
law cannot apply to employers or em-
ployees in a business of which inter-
state trade and commerce is an essential
part, as this would infringe Section 92
of the Commonwealth Constitution.
T. Dougherty, of the A.W.U., disap-
proves of this action by “the most power-
ful enemies the workers of Australia
have.” Yet Dougherty himself has found
an unexpected snag in the law ; it will take
away his right to refuse admittance to
his union—which could mean that Asians
would have to be granted membership if
they applied for it —thereby breaking a
principle as old as the A.W.U. itself.
Dougherty and others want it both ways ;
they want the power to compel member-
ship and also the power to refuse it.
• •
“How to Win Friends, etc.” When it
got out that Melbourne City Council
would have 40 double tickets to allocate
for the Royal Ball on March 2, a flood
of invitations to lunch, dinner, cocktail-
parties and other festivities poured in on
the aldermen. Honi soil qui mat y pense.
• •
“Melb’n”: At least one former Vic-
torian houseowner grins wryly at Cain’s
new landlord-tenant legislation. Being
hard-up, he asked his tenants to vacate
his house so that he could sell it. They
refused on the grounds that they had no-
where else to go. In desperation he sold
them the house at about half its market
value. Now owners in their own right,
they had no difficulty in finding another
dwelling and promptly sold the house at
a profit of £l5OO.
• •
“In the ACT”;
Many knotty points of procedure have to
be settled before the Royal visit to Parliament
House, Canberra, including the possibility that
the President and Speaker may receive the
Queen and the Duke on the front-steps instead
of sending their deputies—the Usher of the
Black Rod and the Sergeant-at-arms —as they
do when the Governor-General arrives. One
interesting question has been settled by a
decision to cover the mace with a green cloth
as soon as it is borne into the presence of
the Sovereign, when the Reps, arrive in the
Senate Chamber in response to the Royal
summons. The mace is the symbol of Royal
authority, and therefore cannot logically be
exhibited in the Queen’s presence, although it
will be borne shining and uncovered before
Speaker Cameron as he crosses King’s Hall.
Incidentally, a precedent involving the mace
was created when the G.-G. opened the cur-
rent session. The new mace, a gift two years
ago from the House of Commons, was in use
at an official opening for the first time. The
Bergeant-at-arms in the past has held the
mace on his shoulder during the reading of
the Speech, which didn’t require much effort
with the three-pound job. The new mace of
gilded silver weighs eighteen pounds or so,
and Sergeant-at-arms Parkes jibbed at the
thought of sustaining it aloft for half an
hour or more. Therefore he lowered it so that
its foot rested on the ground while the Speech
was read. Nobody complained.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
r T , HE sanitary-man’s and the garbage-
man’s habit of exploding into poetry
at Christmas has, of course, like all
other creative literature, something of a
pecuniary motive. But beyond that it is
an extremely interesting social and
literary phenomenon. Obviously, by
humor and rude eloquence, the poetry,
as Aristotle very justly would have said,
“purges” the disadvantages of their pro-
fessions ; thus, like the “In Memoriam”
“You can never trust these new cars till they're broken-in .”
verses of the dailies, performing poetry’s
immemorial function of speaking out for
mankind on matters of the most vital
importance. If only people would die
more often, or if sanitary-men and
garbage-men were as plentiful as civil-
servants, there would be no need to
worry about poetry’s popularity. —
“Mac Hoots.”
“Findy”: There must be something in
the New Guinea air that affects tele-
phonists. It isn’t confined to native
operators; white ones have been known
to catch it, too. At Buna in 1942, Charger,
one of our battery-signallers, was over-
heard having a furious and one-sided con-
versation with a field-telephone. His
script went something like this: “Hullo!
Hullo! Who’s that? What? Hullo!
Strewth! These bloody phones! Hullo!
Who’s that? Oh, hell, it’s me!”
4*4 £4
“Becks”: Some of this year’s Christ-
mas-cards, the work of Australian artists,
have reached a high standard and present
a welcome change from the everlasting
snow-and-holly tradition of the English
cards. One series, printed on simulated
bark, represents aboriginal art, and the
subjects are copied from cave-drawings
and other native art-galleries. They’re
admirable in their way, but in one at
least sentiment seems a trifle out of tune
with the spirit of Christmas. It symbol-
ises the witchcraft principle common to
many native races, whereby the prac-
titioner, wishing a man to die, drew a pic-
ture of the intended victim with an arrow
or spear embedded in his body. By the
working of sympathetic magic the person
depicted was supposed to die. In the de-
scriptive phraseology of the card “the
thin-legged, thin-armed figure, eyeless
and naked, its head thrown back, its
hands clawing the air, powerfully sug-
gests an unendurable death-agony.” It
does, too, but where does the spirit of
peace and goodwill come in?
“G. Elburg”: It’s to be hoped Aus-
tralian newspapers will assign a bit of
intelligence, and not flunkies with foun-
tain-pens filled with slush, in the train of
the Royal visitors. Writing in a Sydney
daily of the then Princess Elizabeth’s tour
of Canada, one said:
She is just as stubbornly determined
never to be a party to any diminution of
the ancient dignity of the Monarchy.
“How is your father. Ma’am?” someone in
Canada asked her. Elizabeth replied with
an icy look: “Are you referring to his
Majesty, the King?”
The then princess, of course, did not
reply “The old man’s oke, thanks,” but
just as certainly she was not guilty of the
bad manners attributed to her by that
recorder. What she would have said with
a gracious smile was, no doubt, “The
King is well, thank you.” These ill-
equipped sycophants do disservice to
those in high places whom they seek to
extol.
“Change”: It was years since I had
visited Sydney, so friend Charlie took me
for a tour of inspection, winding up with
a stroll over the Harbor Bridge. As we
approached Wynyard-square two fellows
came out of the shadows and asked for
a couple of bob for a feed. Charlie said
he had no change, only half a quid.
“That’s 0.K., mate,” said the taller
borrower, “our cobbers over in the
corner have plenty of silver.” Forth came
another lurker with “Right-oh! Here’s
y’r eight-bob change, mate.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Threeply”: Even those Sydneyites at
large who’ll fail to catch a sight of the
Queen —and there’ll be some —are not
likely to miss one of the accompaniments.
There’s size, and more, to the arches, due
on the scene next month. Designed
mainly by Ralph Symonds, there’ll be a
huge 88ft.-long log for the Timber De-
velopment Association ; the City Council’s
four boomerangs; the R.A.S. arch in
Bridge-street; the retail traders’ huge
winged canopy supported by pylons; the
bankers’ four golden parabolic arches;
and the insurance companies’ representa-
“ Someone's playing ducks and drakes around here!”
tion in Macquarie-street. All constructed
of plywood. They’re “different” in other
ways, too. The “spotted-gum” log (for
example) will roll slowly, will carry a
picture-screen showing continuous films,
will have water cascading down over its
supports, and will be festooned with
“jungle”-vines. The four boomerangs—
a most dramatic arrangement, spanning
some 130ft. —will be surmounted by a
golden crown and decorated with Aus-
tralian and abo. motifs. Accent’s on
originality—which is in itself something
original.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Cahill Marx”: A complete set of
gynaecological instruments was among the
spare-parts salvaged from battle-cruiser
Australia before she met her fate in 1924.
The spokesman for the Navy of those
days always maintained the traditional
silence when questioned about the weapons.
As Australia was in commission before
the advent of she-matelots (or should it
be “matelottes”?), Nelson’s famous signal
hardly furnishes the answer. Ultimately,
the instruments were wished on to the
Air Force, and it is hoped they are still
occupying an honored niche in the surgery
at Point Cook.
£♦
“L&o-dah”: If it is true that Chinese
Communists are building up funds in
the big banks in Hong Kong as an insur-
ance against an uncertain
future, the fact would not sur-
prise me. When civil war was
raging round ''international
Shanghai after the first “revo-
lution,” not only did admirals
and generals of both sides bank
a large proportion of their
troops’ wages with the Hong
Kong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation but they main-
tained mansions and suites of
rooms in the best hotels so that they
could sleep between clean sheets the night
after a major defeat in battle. I used to
dine at the same table at Bickerton’s
Hotel on the Bubbling Well-road with an
admiral of the Republican fleet —a charm-
ing and cultured man, educated at Har-
vard and trained in the British Navy. He
made no bones about it. He told me he
never knew from one day to another
whether his gunners would be firing shells
into the rebel army or at their fellow-
servicemen on shore. Further, he found
he could get this information more
accurately and comfortably from the
Shanghai dailies than on his own flagship.
❖ ❖
“P.O.M.C.”: “Propalong” is in ex-
perienced company in his preference for
thin riding-pants (B. 16/12/’53). Apart
from their lightness, the significance of
racing-silks for jockeys is their thinness
and, consequently, better “feel” or control
of mount by rider in a field. A jockey
using light gear but wearing heavy strides
would be at a big disadvantage in urging
his mount through a heaven-sent opening
or in avoiding a squeeze; intimate con-
tact between horse and rider would be
hindered and response would come too
late,
“Irving”: Industrial psychology, recog-
nising the need for special treatment for
repeat-victims of accidents, has classified
the mishap-tendency as accident-prone-
ness,” and large industrial concerns in
Britain and the U.S. employ staff
psychologists who are on the alert for it.
They admit its presence when it is ob-
served that a section of the workers are
suffering more than a reasonable share
of mishaps. The workers making up this
section are then tabbed as “accident-
prone”—incapable of the normal avoid-
ance-techniques which keep the majority
of people out of trouble. The next step
is the cure, which may be teaching those
techniques, a transfer to a less-hazardous
operation, or, perhaps, the sack under a
cruel-to-be-kind policy. In view of the
traditional immunity to accident enjoyed
by drunks, a less scientific though even
more humane cure might be free and
compulsory dosage with beer.
♦}
“Mem”: How has it come to pass that
solitary garments such as pants and bath-
ing-togs have collected the title of “a
pair”? I can see some relationship be-
tween nether garments and the twin
limbs for which they provide, but, then,
why not a corresponding term for that
small but handy feminine upper cover-
ing? And I recall 'a time when a neck-
lace long enough to go twice round the
neck and still leave a loop to reach the
knees was understatedly referred to as
“a pair of beads.”
*l* ♦>
“Pat”: Madam had been doing the
secretary-stenographer job quite com-
peter/.ly for several months. The busy
time of the year arrived and the boss
asked the staff to work one Saturday
morning to cope with the rush. Madam
handed in her notice the next day. “Is
this because I asked for one Saturday
morning’s work?” asked the boss. “It’s
the only occasion in the year, you know.
“Oh, yes, I know,” purred Madam. “And
of course, I wouldn’t mind a bit. But
when I mentioned it to my husband he
was most upset. It’s his decision, really.
♦♦♦ *>
“Kerba”: My young nephew has been
fighting a cold war with a zealous lady
determined to shanghai him into her one-
woman Sunday-school. As an erstwhile
Sunday-school-getter-out-of myself, Ive
watched his struggles with silent sym-
pathy. But when his mother was
cajoled into detailing him for it I wrote
the boy off as a gone coon. On the Mon-
day, however, the zealous one informed
his mother; “I’ve just asked Geofrey why
he did not come to Sunday-school, ana
he told me: ‘Aw, I met some kids and we
went down to have a look at the new pub
they’re building.’ ” The'mother, appeas-
ingly: “I’m afraid Geof will never make
a Sunday-school boy. He seems to take
after his uncle.” “But don’t you see?
interrupted the good lady, with a tanati
cal gleam in her eye. “He is the type.
Did he tell a lie? Did he attempt to de-
ceive me? Did he even try to evade the
question? . . .” I’m afraid young Geots
sunk this time.
BEAUTY-SECRETS
The Hollywood Women’s Press Club
voted actress Esther Williams and actor Dale
Robertson the most un-co-operative film per-
sonalities of 1953.”
Oh, what will be the cruel fate
Of stars who won’t co-operate —
Of her who will not show the dress
To lady-members of the Press
She means to wear tomorrow night,
But keeps it secret out of spite ;
Or won’t be seen to bake a scone
While husband, child or friend “looks
on” ;
Who has a figure sleek and silm
She won’t disclose except on film :
Who very pointedly refuses
To publicise her choice of Muses ;
Or will not, seven days a week,
Dance in night-clubs, cheek-to-cheek,
In such a way as to give rise
To rumors and astonished cries;
Or will not let it leak about
That she and he have fallen-out.
And may be trusted in due course
To. stage a succulent divorce ?
Oh, she is damned, and she is cursed
And rated as the very worst
Of Hollywood’s ungracious daughters
By female Hollywood reporters:
Telegraphists and Press-attaches
Transcribe it into dots and dashes.
And news of her disgrace is hurled
To every corner of the world,
And readers of the daily-papers.
Listeners, television-gapers.
Feel their faith in nature rock
And wonder, reeling from the shock,
That she who has so much to give
Should be so un-co-operative.
So, modish Madam, model Miss,
The morah —need I say ? —is this:
That she who slights and runs, today,
Gets more publicity that way.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TN Navy style, when the American
cruiser Marblehead made fast ahead of
us in Durban we sent along the usual
invitation for her officers to come across
for a few spots in our wardroom. A
very young “lootenant,” accustomed to
Uncle Sam’s dry Navy, wanted to know
all about the running of our bar. I
explained our system and finished up
by saying that at sea the bar closed at
ten o’clock. He gaped at me and said,
“Do you mean to say the bar’s open at
sea?” I replied that it was. “Well,” said
he, “who looks after the ship?” —“A. L.”
“We just popped in to crack a bottle."
“Ceg”: Keyless locks, fitted to strong-
room doors and safes, permit of myriad
combinations, so that the chance of a
thief fluking the correct combination is
infinitesimal, as a competition in Mel-
bourne has demonstrated. A sentence of
about five fairly short words was given,
and a prize offered for the greatest number
of words built from it. When the result
was announced it was in the form of a
bald statement of the winner s name,
which prompted one disappointed con-
testant to state that, after spending many
hours searching dictionaries, he had
accumulated some 8700 words. Then a
newspaper, in response to many critical
letters, reported that the winning entry
contained 16,411 words! Amateur an
potential safe-breakers, please note.
❖ ***
“Crunch”: Travelling by road from
Brisbane to Melbourne, we were im-
pressed by the reluctance of cafes to
divulge their bills-of-fare. Usually the
waitress would swoop down on us and
demand “Yes, please?” with pencil
poised above pad ready to write. We
would ask what was on, at which a pair
of eyes would fix us with a stare and
then become as distant as the tradi-
tional Australian horizon. Then, in the
gush of words that followed we would
catch the first and last dishes and order
one of those. But my friend was quick to
learn. “What’ll y’ have?” demanded the
waitress at Tamworth (N.S.W.).
“What’ve you got?” friend parried.
“What would you like?” the waitress
countered. “Whatever you’ve got!”
friend replied. The waitress was
trapped. “Steak-and-eggs? she
gested uncertainly. Friend nodded. For
two, please,” he said,
* ❖ *
“H.A.L.”; Although with the Greek
Olympic Games sport came first, there
was quite an interest in the cultural con-
tests of the Dionysia, where dramatists,
poets, sculptors and painters competed
for the laurel-wreaths of art. But they
no more thought of limiting these cultural
competitions to one motif than they
would have limited the athletic contests
to, say, footracing. For some unknown
reason, in the modern Olympics entries
for the cultural section are limited to
sporting themes. No serious challenge has
been offered until quite recently, but
now there’s a world-wide movement to
have the absurd restriction deleted. In
Australia, Professor Paton is a member
of the organising committee and is giving
the views of our universities on the matter.
Here’s hoping they wipe out a restriction
the ancient Greeks wouldn’t have dreamed
of applying.
* * *
“Macnell”: Silent service (B.
16/12/’53)? Cruiser Australia had just
towled the Med. Fleet in the annual
regatta. We winning crews, traditionally,
were being towed from ship to ship in
our boats. Passing each British craft, we
were roundly cheered —till we came to
brand-new Sydney, straight from the
U.K. Their fire-hoses were waiting.
Cheers from the British, salt-water jeers
from our own Australian. A moral there,
somewhere. Anyhow, back on board,
soaked, and the chief bosun’s mate
(Buffer), a black-bearded, barrel-built
man with the physical, if not piratical,
attributes of Captain Kidd, called for
volunteers. After supper, dark, we
slipped into the pinnace and headed, with
our un-naval cargo, for Sydney. There
must have been upwards of 200 of her
company packed in the after-waist enjoy-
ing the open-air cinema. Carefully we
eased alongside. “Stand-by,” whispered
the Buffer. We were abreast the unsus-
pecting audience. And then Buffer, in a
piratical hiss, “Broadsides!” Up and
over flew the furious fusillade—paper-
bags full of best black funnel-soot;
paper-bags full of pure white flour ; old
gas-mask carriers full of viscous fuel-oil;
spuds, eggs, tomatoes scrounged from the
galley garbage-can. Up and over shot
the squelchy shower, with the pinnace,
drifting ahead, distributing our favors
evenly down the packed length of the
target. Target smothered, and “Full
“ They're th' sort o' bathers YOU oughter wear , Mollie —TEASERS.”
ahead!” roared the Buffer. She heeled
on the turn away, leaving astern of us
—well, what’s the word most violently
opposed to “silent”?
* ❖ ***
“Fairf”; The young fellow walked
into Saturday’s matinee at our local
picture-house carrying a portable radio.
It looked comical, of course, but eccen-
tric behavior often has a perfectly sane
and normal explanation. He could have
bought the set on the way home from
work, or picked it up from a repair-
shop, then dropped in to see the show.
Probably there were other possible ex-
planations, but I forgot such things in
the agony of sitting through a third-rate
Western. An hour later, just as the pic-
ture neared its climax, with baddies fall-
ing thick and fast, I heard something
that didn’t belong to the sound-track:
“Coming into the straight Dark Warrior
is leading by a length from Glenlaw
..., ” Two rows in front of me the
eccentric one was crouched over his
radio.
♦♦♦ ❖
“P.G.”: He was grumbling in the train
of his domestic trials. “It’s all right to
say she’s a good cook and takes a pride
in the meals she serves,” he rumbled on,
“but a woman can turn out something
edible without fussing like she does.
There she was last weekend wanting to
serve the steak some special way and
said it had to be cooked in this special
wine. Wouldn’t consider any of the
sherry we had in the house. Oh, no! Had
to send me out chasing round the pubs
all Saturday afternoon for a particular
brand. All afternoon I was out,” he
concluded with bitter emphasis. When
he left the train his mate, recipient of the
above confidences, shook his head sadly.
“Funny world, isn’t it?” he commented.
“Now, my wife’d serve hash and mash
day after day before she’d send me off
to the pubs for even five minutes.”
»> ♦>
“Pat”: If baby-sitters haven’t yet
formed a union, when they do it’ll be the
toughest yet. After rather a late dinner-
dance, our host drove us home, then,
very kindly, offered to save us the expense
of a taxi for our b.-s. by driving her
home. She announced her strike by phone
next morning. “That man who drove me
home Jast night drives too fast.” “But
he got you home safely,” I protested.
“Not the point,” said she firmly. “The
way he drove he might easily have killed
me. I didn’t enjoy the ride at all.”
*l* ❖
“Spinifex”: Driving north with his
parents, a Sydney man had Dad beside
him on the front seat and Mum curled
up in the back seat with a couple of rugs.
About midnight they pulled up at a
garage. It was a modern one, with rooms
wherein dishevelled travellers might
temporarily subdue the discomforts of
the road. The men hopped out briskly;
but Mum announced that she was very
comfortable, and didn’t wish to be dis-
turbed. Father and son wandered in,
brushed their hair, straightened their ties,
pulled up their socks and resumed their
journey. Fifty miles further on Dad
remarked that Mum was very quiet in the
back of the car. A brief investigation
showed why; the rugs were there, but
Mum was no longer with them. Back
at the garage they found her, and her
remarks concerning the stupidity of men
found the culprits too stunned to reply.
A hundred miles of night driving on a
wretched road, and five gallons of petrol
all gone for nothing—just because a
woman had changed her mind.
Possibly a survival from
Dead Man’s Gulch melodramas, I’ve
noticed that, next to the point-blank shot
with a young cannon, the favorite weapon
of offence of crooks is still the sledge-
hammer blow on the head from behind
with the butt-end of a six-shooter. Good
film or bad, the formula never varies.
Suppose 3-D will go further, giving us a
realistic view of the bump on the skull
rising and receding in a matter of seconds,
or, when results are fatal, the butt crash-
ing through the cranium like a tack-
hammer through an egg. In real life
police-records show the use of the shoot-
ing-iron as a blunt instrument is almost
negligible.
♦>
“Muskeen”: James Jones, author of
From Here to Eternity, on which the
movie is based, got his title from Kipling’s
“Gentlemen Rankers,” and full acknow-
ledgment is given on a fly-leaf of the
book. I have, however, just heard a disk-
jockey state that the title of the picture
came from an American ditty sung by
Mr. Crosby:
Gentlemen songsters out on a spree,
Damned from here to eternity,
God ha’ mercy on such as We.
After hearing the rendering of this flag-
rant plagiarism, I heartily endorse the
sentiment.
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“P.G.”: “Of course,” he explained
slowly, ‘I could have afforded a car
years ago.” “Then why didn’t you get
one?” I demanded, remembering urgent
requests for out-of-the-way lifts and in-
cessant grumblings about train- and bus-
services. “Wouldn’t have done until I
retired,” he said. “You see the wife in-
sists on driving. Well, when I was work-
ing, that would have meant weekend
jaunts and you know what weekend
traffic is like. 1 couldn’t have faced it.
Now it’s all right, though. We drive out
on week-days, when she’s got the roads
more or less to herself. And weekends
I always insist on washing, polishing and
overhauling the car. So it suits us both.”
“Gambit”: My favorite film-hate is
reserved for the sprightly blonde who,
asked by a spindle-legged male to dance,
bows her head coyly and modestly pro-
tests that she has never danced before, or,
more rationally, can dance only im-
perfectly. Within a minute, however, she
is doing a complex dance-routine.
Jealousy, probably. It took me years to
master simple dance-steps.
SOUND ADVICE
“Many a girl has realised, sometimes too
late, that the ideal she has set for a young
man has been far too high. Who, anyway,
expects any man to be an angel?”— Dorothy
Dix.
Oh, it’s beaut., girls, to dream of some
bloke
Who has qualities far from the earthy.
One who’d not answer back
When he’s put on the rack,
And in later years wouldn’t get girthy ;
Who’d never in bed want to smoke.
Who with contretemps ’s quite un-
acquainted.
Who would never sow ire,
Other figures admire.
Nor have breath that’s the slightest
hop-tainted.
The dream-man you’d own would possess
(As well as the gifts abovementioned)
The will not to shirk
All your own household work.
To your folk he’d be e’er well-inten-
tioned.
Have the brain of an Einstein, no less.
And be of most singular beauty.
He'd make love (not just "neck”)
Much like Gregory Peck ;
He’d be strong, too, on conjugal duty.
Now it’s highly significant, this:
In angelic conceptions pictorial
Those who’re harping away
Always wear negligee
As they did (both) when they were
corporeal.
No man there makes a hit with a miss
As he tried to on earth, base deceiver!
'Mong Celestial guests
You’ll see no hairy chests
Or a dial that is sporting a beaver.
So you see, girls, that no hope you’ve got
Of any man-angel to marry.
Such a dream, though it’s nice.
If you’re wise you will dice,
And, remember, if too long you tarry
You may slip-up on tying a knot.
A bove all, get this in your noddles:
Grab a meal-ticket now !
Angel-men, you’ll allow,
Never drive snappy supercharged
models.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


I»
I I
i •
on TAAs ’pressurised’
CONVAIR and DC6 SERVICES
•*.TAA | l9 Phillip St., Sydney. BO 526
PERSONAL ITEMS
Sir Charles Lowe, in retiring from
the Chancellorship, deprives Melbourne
University of one of its most scholarly
and businesslike heads. On the Bench
of the Supreme Court he is an
ideally-equipped judge, one who not only
knows a fact when he sees one but who
is a born analyst of facts, sifting the essen-
tial from the irrelevant with a careful
diligence. He keeps a close control of his
court, says little, writes painstakingly in
a shorthand which (differing from many
judicial shorthand-writers) he seems
able to read with ease. He is popular with
the Bar because he has clear-cut ideas
about where judicial function ends and
that of advocacy begins, and with intelli-
gent witnesses because he guides care-
fully, but does not try to give, their evi-
dence. He is a sound scholar, with a wide
knowledge of the literature of Western
Europe, particularly the German. As the
Royal Commissioner who inquired into
the events connected with the February,
1942, air-raid on Darwin, and into the
operations of the Communist party in
1949, he produced two reports with
voluminous documentation, which are
among the most interesting of the 1940-
50 decade to historical students.
• •
In between showing The Bulletin his half-
dozen huge plywood arches, which will give a
boost to the decorations of Sydney’s streets for
the Royal visit, Ralph Symonds settled just
long enough for Prior to get him down.
Spoken of by sober engineering men as a
“genius,” Symonds reaches about two kerosene-
tins tall, and stares up at higher men with an
RALPH SYMONDS—PLYWOOD
eagle-like glare which seems to shout defiance
of their height and demand recognition of his
own comparative brilliance. And it is brilli-
ance. The plywood arches are a minor facet
of his performance, designed though they be
from a revolutionary method of sucking the
wood together instead of pressing.
He built the dome of the Mt. Stromlo
Observatory (plywood), and the form-work for
concrete construction (plywood again) of the
N.S.W. Warragamba and Keepit dams.
Collapsible tunnelling equipment for the same
State’s Glenbawn dam on the Hunter River is
his invention—as is, on a minor scale, but
just as indicative of the man’s restless mental
energy, the motor-vehicle which he uses to
get around his factory. Started on Saturday,
working by Monday, this miniature motor-car
uses for engine an aircraft starter-motor, a
couple of batteries for power, and rear landing-
wheels from an aircraft.
But wood is Ralph Symonds’s passion—wood
ranging from Australian scrub-timber to hard-
woods for which he has tramped the forests
of Africa, South America and Borneo. In his
Sydney factory the conventional supporting
arches of steel or brick have been replaced
by arches of timber-lengths glued together.
Also, the tail-fins of Australian-built Canberra
jet-bombers have the Symonds stamp on their
immensely-strong plywood.
• •
Come up with what R. G. Casey calls
“an important new theory on the method
of producing rain artificially,” Dr. Ted
Bowen, head of the Radiophysics Division
of C.5.1.R.0. The theory, in brief, is that
meteoric dust percolating down through
the atmosphere from outer space provides
the minute nuclei which trigger-off rain-
clouds to discharge their cargo. It was
Bowen—a dark, slight, modest Welsh-
man who came here in 1948 —who, with
Watson Watt, peered into a fluorescent
screen in 1935 and saw leap therein the
first radar-echo in history. The British
Government a couple of years back
awarded him £l2,ooostg. for that. More
recently his team invented the distance
measuring-equipment now in use on most
Australian aerodromes. They’re now
working on measuring-equipment with a
range of upwards of 2000 miles to help
aircraft find their way exactly across
pointless oceans.
• •
Steve Zoranich, now Australian
amateur heavyweight boxing-champion, is
the first Westralian boxer to win an Aus-
tralian amateur title. A husky son of
Yugoslav parents, he has held the State
title since 1950, had been runner-up the
year before, and was reserve man for
the Olympics. Outside the ring he’s a
vigneron at Herne Hill, near Perth.
• •
Complete with tam-o’-shanter and
camera (the marks of a Scottish tourist),
Alexander Simpson, temporary unofficial
ambassador in Australia for Largs, a
beautiful seaside resort on the Firth of
Clyde, where he directs the publishing
firm of J. R. Simpson, Ltd., is a fiery
champion of an Old Australian —a man
called Brisbane. This fellow. Brisbane, it
seems, was born in Largs at Brisbane
House. Simpson will show you a photo
of this ancient mansion (before it was
used by commandos during the war for
target-practice and completely de-
molished), photos of Brisbane in general’s
uniform, and of Brisbane’s tomb. He will
tell, you that this man, Major-General Sir
Thomas Brisbane, K.C.8., commander of
one of Wellington’s brigades in the Pen-
insular War, was one of Largs’s greatest
products, and that he founded a city in
Australia bearing his name. You learn
from Press-cuttings from the “Largs and
Millport Weekly News” (Simpson’s own
publication) of Brisbane’s versatility—
astronomer, soldier. Governor and sports-
man. Simpson was last seen heading for
the Royal Historical Society in company
with Malcolm Ellis, champion of Lachlan
Macquarie. A salesman if ever there was
one. Watch for an outbreak of Bris-
baneitis. *
• •
“R.M.”: Dr. Kevin William Hinrich-
sen, eldest son of Dr. W. H. Hinrichsen,
of Melbourne, now assumes the pro-
fessionally traditional and respected
“Mr.” A cable from London tells that
he has passed his final for a Fellowship
of the Royal College of Surgeons—at 28.
A Scotch Collegian, K.W. was champion
sprinter of his school, and when he grad-
uated from Melbourne University in
1946 was the youngest medical aspirant
to do so. For a while he was Assistant-
superintendent at Royal Perth Hospital
before leaving for the U.K. in 1950.
His sister,' Gladys, graduated in medicine
in Melbourne a few days ago ; brother
lan is in his final year of dentistry ; and
youngest brother, Gordon, is in his
second year of medicine. Medico father
is of Danish extraction.
• •
Russell Grimwade, who presented Cap-
tain Cook’s cottage to Melbourne and
helps as a trustee to look after the be-
quest his grandfather’s colleague, the
chemist Felton, left to the National
Gallery, is, at 74, a man of many parts.
He is a carpenter, an aboriculturist and a
forest-expert (he wrote the valuable
Anthology of the Eucalyptus), and he is
one of the veteran motorists of Australia,
He drove the first T-model Ford to arrive
in Melbourne, and got several convictions
for dangerous driving at speeds ranging
from 16 miles. That was in the days
when the police had to be taught to drive
by the drivers in order to be able to test
the drivers.
Handing themselves a New Year
present of slippered ease, A. R. L. Wilt-
shire and W. W. Riddington, joint
general-managers of the A.N.Z. Bank.
Son of a parson, Wiltshire has been con-
nected with coffers pretty well all his
life, except for a remembered break,
1915-1919. In banking he was manager
of branches of the Australasia (before
its merger with his present concern) in
Melbourne, Perth and Sydney; rising to
g.-m. in 1944 and chairman of the Asso-
ciated Banks of Victoria in 1949. With
the 22nd Battalion, First A.1.F., he won
D. 5.0., M.C. and four “mentions,” and
early in War II the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment got hold of him for the job of
Inspector-General of Administration.
W. W. Riddington started his banking
with the other mate of the present
alliance, the Union Bank, in 1910. By
1946, having come up through the posts
of accountant and sub-manager, he was
the Union’s manager in Sydney. A
couple of years before the merger he’d
risen to assistant-g.-m., and on A.N.Z.’s
birth in 1951 was appointed deputy-g.-m.
He took over his chair-sharing with
Wiltshire last year.
• •
“Fitz” views a collector:
Harry Chaplin, president of the Book Col-
lectors’ Society of Australia from the time of
its foundation 10 years ago, has just published
a limited edition of Chris Brennan’s The
Burden of Tyre, poems written more than
half a century ago protesting against the South
African war, and now for the first time
gathered together in book-form.
Chaplin has one of the finest private
libraries in Sydney. Nowadays he collects only
the works and manuscripts of Australian
authors. His Henry Lawson collection is
probably the most valuable and complete in
private hands. He has letters and manuscripts,
inscribed copies and the rarer Lawson items
that are seldom seen in the bookshops.
His Norman Lindsay collection includes
manuscripts and rare early writings, in addi-
tion to all the books and items in which
Norman’s major work appears. In it, too, are
copies of “The Boomerang,” the bright little
magazine issued by Norman when a school-
boy in Creswick (Vic.), and copies of Norman’s
schoolbooks in which are many Lindsay
sketches.
The Chaplin library also includes a repre-
sentative range of manuscripts and inscribed
copies by Chris Brennan, Hugh McCrae, Shaw
Neilson, E. J. Brady, Victor Daley, Bernard
O’Dowd and others. Outstanding among the
manuscripts are a number by McCrae, includ-
ing the whole of Du Poissey and a series of
essays and short stories, some accompanied by
Hugh’s delightful drawings. Chaplin recently
acquired the whole of the manuscript libretto
for McCrae’s The Ship of Heaven and the
accompanying pencil-drawings.
Manuscripts by Douglas Stewart, R. D. Fitz-
Gerald and many others figure in his collection
HARRY CHAPLIN—BOOK-
COLLECTING
of present-day Bulletin writers, and his
advice to the young collector of Australian
books and manuscripts is to concentrate on
writers connected with The Bulletin. The
field is vast enough—almost every Australian
writer of any importance during the past 73
years has been a contributor to its pages.
A Melbourne native in his late fifties,
Chaplin has been in the dental trade for 46
years.
Taken silk in Perth, Roy Vivian Nevile,
a rangy six-footer, who was admitted
to practice in 1930. The new Q.C. has
been Crown Solicitor since 1946, and has
appeared for the Crown and Government
departments in important cases before
the Westralian Supreme Court and the
Australian High Court. He served with
R.A.A.F. Intelligence in War 11.
KING O’MALLEY—as Hal Gye knew
him at the height of his hirsute growth
and power.
Reported back the other day to Bris-
bane’s Victoria Barracks from hell —or
close enough to it—Lieutenant Graham
Jenkinson, of the Royal Australian En-
gineers. It was Jenkinson who walked
into the Woomera blast-area a few hours
after he’d watched the bomb explode its
energy. He performed a similar job at
Monte Bello, macabrely rigged—a new-
type rubber respirator over his face,
rubber gloves on his hands, rubber boots
on his feet, plus white overboots, and
the rest of him sealed against radio-
activity in a special cloth-suit. Before
reporting back to base in Brisbane, Jen-
kinson lectured senior Army officers on
what he had found in the seared areas
he investigated.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 48, Colin Hope Wood, in
the Army a Tobruk Rat, major, in commerce
one of the city’s best-known businessmen.
Away back, Wood’s grandfather, then skipper
of a sailing-vessel trading Adelaide-Melbourne,
came ashore and started a tiny grocer’s-shop;
C.H. was a director of the firm which grew
from that first shop to one of the largest
wholesale grocery and manufacturing con-
cerns in the State. Through directorates on
two other companies his interests reached to
Centralia and southern Queensland. He be-
longed to the Royal Adelaide Golf Club and
to the Adelaide Hunt Club.
In Sydney, at 71, Lionel Jago, artist and
former Westralian public servant. Born in
Sydney, he joined the Westralian Lands Depart-
ment in 1905, returning east when he retired
in 1941. In art he was a painter of water-
colors, and he was, as well, a violinist and a
photographer.
At 74, in Adelaide, Charles Buxton Ander-
son, South Australian Railways Commissioner
between 1930-46. From the School of Mines
he joined the Public Service in 1898, and was
successively draftsman, surveyor, railways
engineer, railways superintendent, acting chief-
engineer and, finally, commissioner, in succes-
sion to the American W. A. Webb. Awarded
C.M.G. in 1946, C.B, was sometime chief of
S.A.’s Caledonian Society.
At 71, in Sydney, Percy Watts, solicitor and
Challis Reader in Conveyancing at the Sydney
Law School. He had the longest term of any
reader of the school —just under 40 years.
In Perth, at 64, F. D. Moore, former all-
round athlete and father of Westralian jockey
F. Moore. F.D. played football for Boulder
City and afterwards for Essendon (Vic.), as a
cricketer was a noted spin-bowler, and in box-
ing was State bantamweight champion.


EVE AND EVENING


ABORIGINALITIES
TN the cutter’s-camp out from Lakewood
A (W.A.), thirsts were once quenched
with a potent brew of hop-beer, dispensed
in bough-shed shanties. Then the coaa-
pany employing the cutters acquired a
gallon-licence, and competition looked
like forcing the amateur brewers out of
business. It wasn’t long, however, before
the shanty-keepers found that many were
,only too happy to trade-in their ration
for Is. 9d. a bottle. Further, the majority
were more than eager to buy it back at
“ Sam’s not just an ORDINARY plumber.”
2s. 3d. a bottle, simply for the privilege
of sitting in the bough-shed at the end of
a day’s toil and discussing axes and saws,
rails and sleepers, trees and logs and
billets. Sixpence a bottle was a pretty
good cop simply for cooling a bloke’s
beer ; and it only goes to prove what
I always maintained, that drinking is
more, social than thirst-quenching. —
“Nimrod.”
“X.N.0.”: The Queen has passed the
kava-test, as, of course, she will pass many
more tests, each more successfully than
the last. Even so, I suspect that the kava-
test was modified —it certainly wasn’t the
dinkum old-fashioned test, traditional
of Pacific custom. Genuine kava
was a terrible drink, muddy and potent.
Its manufacture was by lassies chew-
ing the rhizomes and stems, spitting
the mess into a bowl and letting it
stand a while (but originally not long
enough for fermentation). It was then
strained and mixed with coconut-milk.
The ceremonial potion used to be rather
more than a pint, and was quite beyond
the “straight” imbibing powers of any
but a native Queen.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: Reports that a tornado
has caused death and destruction in
Vicksburg, Mississippi (U.S.A.), remind
me of a curious Australian link with that
city—the fact that there is, so to speak,
one corner of a foreign field that is for-
ever Vicksburg. It started when a member
of a Yank detachment in 1940 smuggled
a puppy aboard his transport and brought
him to Australia. Christened “Vicks-
burg,” after his birthplace, that affable
terrier became the mascot of a U.S.
battery stationed in Queensland, and he
led a thoroughly enjoyable life until, in
a moment of indiscretion, he tried to drive
a car off a street in Southport. Mournful
G.l.’s buried what was left of Vickie,
erected a monument to his memory near"
their quarters, Camp Cable, on the road to
Tamborine Mountain. The memorial re-
mains in good order. Below a figure of
a fox-terrier it carries this inscription:
“In loving memory of Vicksburg (Mascot)
A Battery, 120 F.A., 32 Division, U.S.A.
Born Vicksburg, Mississippi, August,
1940; Killed, Southport, Queensland, Bth
Oct., 1942.”
* * * ♦
“W.J.W.”: Cronulla (N.S.W.) Fisheries
Department is getting some results in- its
attempt to trace the movements of fish
around the coast. A fish bearing tag No.
9217 has been caught at Busselton, around
the Leeuwin, on W.A.’s sou’-west coast.
* * * ♦
“Narumee”: Hearing a blistering flow
of expletives from on high, I peered out
and beheld the leathery old Cousin Jack
who was repointing our chimney
clambering down the ladder, blood
pouring from his hand. “Trowel slipped,”
he grunted. “Got any pepper?” Half-
way to the first-aid box, I stuttered
“P-pepper?” And pepper he meant. I
was made to wash the gash under the
cold tap, dry it and then apply about
half-an-ounce of pepper before bandag-
ing it. “Be healed clean tomorrow,”
declared Jack, not having batted an eye-
lid during the horrid operation. “Noth-
ing like pepper,” he assured me. And
he turned up the following day, bandage-
less —with the wound cleanly closed.
“C.W.J.”: It was in June, 1942, when
the Taroona, withdrawn from the Tas-
manian run, was taking badly-needed
reinforcements from Townsville to
Moresby. On the second day out a
largish bird joined us and was promptly
identified by the battalion’s “ornitholo-
gists” as an albatross. It delighted us
with its persistent display of carefree
aeronautics. It seemed able to suspend
itself motionless in mid-air for minutes
at a stretch and, while thus relaxed in
space, it would lazily lift one foot to
scratch the back of its head. To alight
on the ship it would extend one long leg
and wait for the ship’s rail to come up
to meet it. Having taken up its position,
its disdain for the clusters of troops play-
“Let’s go to Young and Jackson’s.”
ing poker or crown-and-anchor was
matched by its utter unconcern at all the
evidence of war about it. The albatross
—if it was one —left us some hours be-
fore we reached Moresby.
* * * ♦
“Nimrod”:. The boss, who had fallen
out with him because of the low
correlation between his ability and his
performance, came across Tony cursing
his equipment. “When I was p.-0.-w. in
England,” began Tony, “You’ve been
around a bit then, Tony?” the boss
asked. “Oh, yes!” said Tony ; “America,
Holland, England.” “How did you find
the English compared with the Aus-
tralians?” asked the boss. Tony reflected
a moment, then; “Oh!” he pronounced.
“Some of them fellers were blankards,
too.”
* ♦ ♦ «
“Bass”: For nearly a year Westralian
spear-fishermen have been sending unusual
catches to the South Australian museum,
and they’ve chalked up at least three im-
portant discoveries. One is an entirely
new species, another’s a probable new
species of toadfish, and the third is a'
fish that’s not only a new species but be-
longs to a group which hadn’t previously
been found in Westralian waters. The
most interesting discoveries attach to
small fish, which aren’t normally caught
or netted, and the spearmen had to adapt
their equipment to obtain them. Often
the warheads were bigger than the quarry.
One chap fixed a small tin-can, with
spring-trap doors, in front of his spear,
and trailed a small net behind it. It
worked, too. He got some good
specimens, alive.
* * * *
f
“Wippegong”: Most avian migrants
return to much the same places at much
the same time—around Bass Strait the
folk will tell you to the day when the
mutton-birds will be back —but not the
white-browed wood-swallows. Because
the white-brows did all the beetle-
bashing in the orchard one year doesn’t
mean they’ll be on strength the next.
A few years ago on the central N. S.
Wales coast there were plenty of them,
then for two years divil a bird. A
month ago, however, one warm morning
brought many faint “cheeps” high over-
head and the air-borne invasion was on
again. For days they streamed by,
hawking, calling, passirig on ; then fol-
lowing squadrons came in at lower level
and soon began settling on what always
seems to be their first target—the flower-
ing silky-oaks. There was a skirmish
with the honey-eaters already in occupa-
tion, but there’s plenty for everyone. In
a few days flimsy nests are stuck in be-
hind jutting bits of bark or fitted into
broken branches and the tops of hollow
posts. Then the creamy-grey eggs are
there. Apparently the birds haven’t
heard of the grasshoppers to be had in-
land.
* * * «
“Colonial Cove”: There’s no doubt
about the lasting qualities of roofing-
slates (B. 25/II / ’53). Slate has truly
wonderful endurance, quite contrary to
what one might expect from its softness
under the cutting-tool. Looking at the
headstones, most of them approaching
the century, in a Bunbury (W.A.)
cemetery I was struck by the preservation
of the inscriptions on those of slate: the
grooves still chisel-sharp, though some
of them dated from the 1850’s. Marble
one expects to fret away, for it is merely
fused limestone, very subject to the sol-
vent action of rain. Granite, by legend
as enduring as the eternal hills, was, how-
ever, the material which most rapidly
decayed. In hollows, cut in a rough
surface to take an inscription, the small,
intermittent accumulation of rain had in
some cases completely destroyed the
lettering, though as headstones the granite
had served no longer than the slate.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A novel suggestion has been
made by a grazier in Victoria’s Western
District. He wants his rates raised instead
of reduced, and he argues it in this way.
Some of the increased rates will be saved
in his income-tax assessment. His tax
is spent by Canberra on remote objec-
tives which may or may not benefit him.
On the other hand, his rates will be
spent by the local council on roads,
bridges and other things that are of
benefit to the farmer as well as to the
community in general. As he has a
direct interest in the council he will have
some control over his own money,
whereas he has about as much control
over Canberra as he has over Antarctic
weather. If his idea were accepted and
extended it could lead to a progressive
movement in decentralisation.
♦ * * *
“Kelms”: Bauxite leases have been
taken out near Kalamunda, in the Darl-
ing Ranges about 18 miles from Perth,
so there’s a chance that aluminium-pro-
duction will take its place in the general
boom the big State’s enjoying. Although
aluminium is the third most-abundant
mineral in the earth’s crust, being not far
behind oxygen and silicon and well ahead
of iron, practically all in commercial use
comes from bauxite, and extracting it is a
job for electricity. Bauxite, which usually
looks like a dirty-white clay, is dissolved
in a fused-bath of cryolite (another source
of aluminium) and subjected to electro-
lysis. Takes about 25,000 kilowatt-hours
of electrical energy to produce a ton ot
aluminium ; so, although there may be
plenty of bauxite deposits in W.A., only
those near a good electricity supply can
be worked. The deposit near Perth prob-
ably gives a clue to the type of climate
the district had a few million years ago.
It was formed by the decomposition o
aluminium silicates, and that occurs bes
under tropical conditions, the process
probably being helped along by bacteria
action. The occurrence of bauxite m
France, Hungary and northern Russia is
taken as proof that those places once en
joyed a tropical climate.
A GREAT YEAR FOR FIRES
For weeks last winter creeks ran that no man
could remember
as more than a few days’ tricklings, some
cellars were flooded,
roads turned to rivers of rutted mud, feed hid
the fences,
rabbits were almost top fat to run, seedling
gums came up
where even the fallen trunks of rung giants
have rotted,
and down at the store old Joe from up beyond
the cutting
kept saying, “Be a bad summer for fires, the
worst one ever.”
It is summer now, mild, with a scurry-rain
now and then,
hardly a day when pumpkin-leaves wilt and
shout for water.
Only two northerlies so far have roared down
upon us,
fruit has been slow to ripen and slower even
to dry;
if he’d wanted to a man could’ve eaten
Christmas dinner
in a coat and collar and tie; but Joe is still
worried;
down at the crossing he turned off his motor,
and shouted,
“Another winter like last one’ll be real
dangerous;
bring on a bad summer for fires; the worst
one ever,”
Then off old Joe went again, up the back track
to Carlings
leaving me wondering if he can ever be happy
when the winter rains come down as they
should in their season,
and if in summer it’s cool apart from in the
water-bag,
and there’s no codlin in the apples or rust in
the wheat,
and no lambs die, no cows are bellowing with
the fever,
no one's being sold-up, there’s no funeral
to go to
—or if it’s perhaps that he likes being proved
a liar
when after all each summer isn’t the worst
one ever.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


, ~i t , .
AN aged and blase gelding with a lot
°f tolerance for us young humans,
Alf lived in cur backyard, where he sub-
sisted on docks, marshmallows, what
chaff and hay we could beg, borrow or
otherwise obtam from a near-by hvery-
stable, and kitchen scraps. One Christ-
mas Mother made a huge> pudding; and
was so pleased with it that she made
another, the second one for New Years
Day. She hung both puddings, cooked,
in their cloths from the kitchen rafters,
and off we went on Christmas Eve to the
local festivities (in those days country
publicans and storekeepers “turned it
in,” shops and pubs remaining open till
II p.mAnd J town band serenading
the populace). It was nearly midnight
when we fell into bed. Tragedy struck on
Christmas morning, when both puddings
had vanished, only scraps of their cloths
remaining. Suspicion pointed clearly to
Alf, the kitchen-door having been left
open for coolness during the night. His
guilt was established after my father, a
quiet man who knew the value of a hint,
drew me aside and pointed out that
Mother had put some silver in those pud-
dings. Like a detective of fiction, I
shadowed Alf, gleaned what I could, and
from secret washings in the creek
recovered Is. 9d. It was the only time I
ever profited from following a horse. —•
“Old-timer.”
* * *
“W.P.T.”: In Australian history (or
legend) bullock-teams are given the
blame for the narrow, winding nature of
Sydney’s streets. But apparently their
effect wasn’t the same everywhere in the
State. When I commented on the wide
streets of Bathurst, an old resident re-
plied; “Yes, they’re a chain-and-a-half
wide; the reason was to allow room for
the bullock-teams to turn round.”
* * * *
“Riverine”: What heretic thinks
Barellan (N.S.W.) is in Riverina (B.
16/12/’53)? To all true-born sons of
the land of “wool, wheat, wine and
women” (and how magnificently it excels
in all four!) Riverina is all that part
and parcel of land bounded by the
Murray on the south and the Murrum-
bidgee on the north, with an imaginary
and elastic line somewhere to the east.
Perhaps its northern inhabitants do not
feel as deeply about these boundaries
and the grace that comes from being born
and dwelling within them as we who live
further south. To us there is Victoria, a
land of pleasant people rather like our-
selves ; there is Riverina ; and there is
the rest of N. S. Wales, which is where
Barellan is, as are also quite a number of
other places, well enough in their way ■
but not Riverina.
* * • ♦
“Benbow”: Ageing ships (B. 25 /11 / ’53)?
Wortanna, built as the paddle-steamer
Albatross in 1876, but now propelled by
motor-engines, still makes her three voy-
ages weekly between Queensland’s Port
Douglas, Cairns and the Johnstone River,
carrying sugar cargoes,
* * * *
“Wandana”: Crime and films (B.
2/12/’53)? On Thursday Island a young
colored lad was nabbed for entering and
stealing. The point that caused general
curiosity was why the youngster had
gone to the trouble of getting a ladder
and climbing through a second-story
window when there was ample oppor-
tunity to slip in otherwise. Also, instead
of simply opening unlocked cases he had
cut out sections of the sides with a knife
to obtain his booty. I was present at the
inquiry. “Yes, I been take them thing,”
he admitted. “I been look along fikisur-
show, and when man he go for take
something he must climb along ladder for
get inside house.” “But why did you
cut the cases with a knife?” the sergeant
asked. The culprit smiled tolerantly.
“Oh that proper way. All same fikisur.
Man he must takem knife and cut I” he
explained
y t * * *
“S.G.”: A bloke who claims to have
worked on most opal-fields in Australia
reckons he’s struck opal-bearing country
near Jarramongup, in sou’-Westralia.
There are several types of opal in W.A.,
and some really fine-quality stones of
"Stay put. pal—I’ll go back and get a longer ladder.”
precious opal were found at Coolgardie
early in the century. The patch was
worked, but the mine didn’t pay and was
abandoned. That’s about the extent of
precious-opal mining in W.A., but other
types have been found. Nice specimens
of flams opal have come from near
Laverton, and cat’s-eye and tiger’s-eye
opals occur in the asbestos deposits of
the nor’-west.
“D.L.”: It’s not only the presence
of a demure little hen that will set the
rufous whistler singing. A peal of
thunder, a gunshot or even a clap of
the hands will draw an immediate re-
sponse from him. Now, my Irish terrier
hates rattly bridges. Should we pause
near any bridge with loose planks, she
keeps one eye open for cars, and, at the
first rattle, tears off bent upon the demo-
lition of bridge and vehicle. When we
\
are travelling she abuses the bridges from
the back of the truck and, between times,
watches ahead for white posts and rails
that indicate the enemy. Many a harm-
less post is abused just on the off-chance
that it might be capable of rattling and
a pair of such posts guard a culvert down
our side road. The rufous whistlers are
currently nesting in the saplings beside
the culvert. You can guess the rest.
THREE BLACK SWANS
I met with three black swans one sunny day,
Below where Mingo shimmered in the sun
Beside the river, where platypuses shun
Publicity, the proletarian cray
Tunnels the banks and mullet feed and play
At eventide: the tall gums every one
Mirrored their forms where never ripples run,
Nor winds the stream’s placidity betray.
Trees, hills, the homestead and the summer
Studied their still reflections equably, _
And three black stately swans sailed slowly by.
Now why (the reason is not clear to me)
Should I remember them across the years,
Through laughter, tears, fond hopes and foolish
fears?
NSW
H UI TE RANGIORA.
Scallop Technique ...
By A. W. Fuller
FOUR months ago I arrived in
Tasmania from the mainland. Two
months ago I had my first taste
of scallops. Seven and a half
weeks ago I wrote home to Mother and
told her how tasty these bivalve molluscs
are, advising her to buy some and taste
them for herself. Seven weeks ago I
received a letter from Mother asking me
whether one eats scallops with a fish-
knife and -fork or with a dinner-knife and
-fork. For the past seven weeks I have
tried to get an authoritative ruling on
the subject.
Firstly I obtained a copy of Emily
Post’s book on etiquette. I thought I had
solved the problem when, under the
heading Oyster Fork, I read: “Small,
slim, about six inches long and is used
for clams, oysters or any other cold shell-
fish cocktail at the beginning of lunch
or dinner.” However, in view of the
facts that Mother does not eat cold shell-
fish cocktails and that I had my doubts
as to whether scallops can be served cold,
I was forced to discard the idea of
advising her to use an oyster-fork.
On looking up “Fish-knife” in Mrs.
Post’s excellent book I was surprised to
read: “A special fish-knife is wasteful
since it must be bought and kept polished
for no other purpose than eating fish.”
This, of course, is very sound reasoning,
but the fact is Mother owns fish-knives
and likes to use them at the appropriate
times.
Having obtained no finality from Emily
Post’s book, I posed the question: “What
type of knife and fork do you use to
eat scallops?” to a representative cross-
section of Hobart’s population. The fol-
lowing are the replies 1 received.
Eminent barrister: “Dinner-knife and
Member of a well-known club: “Tea-
spoon.” .... i r 1 »>
Wharflaborer: “Fish-knife and -fork.
Schoolboy: “With my hands.”
I presume the schoolboy was referring
to fried scallops. As there was no general
agreement here I decided to approach
the subject from a different angle.
I thought to solve the problem by
practical investigation and accordingly
had scallop dinners at four different cafes
in Hobart. At each one I was given a
dinner-knife and -fork.
Ah! At last I had found the answer.
Feeling very happy I went back to the
boardinghouse where I was lodging, my
intention being to write to Mother after
“And y' better speak up before ’e crosses the hill —'e's gettin' deaf.”
tea and advise her that the correct type
of cutlery for eating scallops was an
ordinary dinner-knife and -fork. For tea
at the boardinghouse we had scallops;
we ate them with a fish-knife and -fork.
This was maddening: perhaps the cafes
had made a mistake ; perhaps they didn’t
own fish-knives and -forks. Then again
I had observed that my landlady was not
particularly well-versed in the laws of
etiquette.
Desperate, I confided my problem to
a fellow-lodger. With a great show of
commonsense he suggested that I phone
the two most exclusive hotels in Hobart
and obtain their views on the matter.
Surely they would know the answer to
what, after all, was a very simple ques-
tion?
To my inquiries the first hotel answered
“Fish-knife and -fork.” The second,
“Dinner-knife and -fork.”
Perhaps that is the answer: one pleases
oneself what particular type of cutlery one
uses to eat scallops. But was not this
taking the easy way out? Surely someone
somewhere could give a definite ruling
on such a simple question!
Last week, in a flash of inspiration, I
sought the Encyclopedia Britannica. If
this august authority grouped scallops
under the same heading as fish all my
troubles would be over. It would be a
very rash and foolhardy person who would
dispute information gleaned from such
an authoritative and recognised source!
The encyclopedia informed me that
“scallop” is the popular name for a
genus of edible molluscs belonging to
the family Lamellibronchia and that fish
are that class of vertebrate animal which
lives exclusively in water, breathes
through the gills and whose limbs take
the form of fins.
Another brilliant idea blasted! I
cannot truthfully say that scallops belong
to the fish family.
By this time there was a voice inside
me saying: “They live in the sea, of
course they are fish! Don’t be such a
fool. Write home and tell your mother
to use fish-knives and -forks.”
But no. I will get to the bottom of
this problem, come what may. To date
I have lost a stone in weight, three very
good friends who now consider that I
am certifiable as insane, and nightly I
see in my dreams a vision of twelve
scallops trying to attack me, six
armed with fish-knives whilst the re-
mainder carry dinner-knives. My eyes
are beginning to show the effects of my
unremitting research. So far I have read
thirty-seven books about shellfish. I
have learned, among numerous other
facts, that there are over three hundred
species of the scallop. However, these
books, despite their wealth of technical
knowledge, have not been able to tell me ’
how one eats scallops.
I will persevere. This is no minor
matter to be lightly thrust aside; it is
essential that someone examine the
problem and give a ruling. With this
object in view I hope to be able to publish
before the opening of next year’s scallop-
season the results of my research. These
studies will be entitled: “The Scallop
Fried, Curried: How to Eat It.” On
present indications this work will consist
of six volumes of collated evidence, two
volumes of general conclusions and an
i index volume.
May I put your name down as a sub-
scriber to this most important work?


fat'
e/mfa/wrM
171
m
,o
/.
./ ■
■' 11 i
? :
af3BBsy:
memm
%
cuv&
’ t! . r< tff,
, n ROOTY ML
1 '* ! ( 'V-?? < £'"*rVrrr
CHAMPAGNE
& SPARKLING
BURGUNDY
PENFOLPS WINES PTY. LTD.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS
osuixivAur
v mnu
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants
Manufacturing Stationers
WRAP OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ò
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAREERE
No Pads —
No Springs
'The NBO-BAERERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
the orifice.
Ton will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAKBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 8p), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Business.Rollery.Etc.
The 1954 Outlook
'THE past 12 months have seen
A a distinct improvement in
most aspects of the Australian
economy. Wool prices have
firmed, the trade-balance has
been righted, London funds are
in good shape, industrial-share
prices have risen appreciably,
interest-rates have stopped
rising, and there has been a
definite steadying in the inflating
cost-of-living, which showed it-
self even before the Federal
Arbitration Court’s wage-freeze.
There have been very worth-
while reductions in income tax
and sales tax, in which com-
panies have not been over-
looked. And tomorrow capital-
issues control will be suspended.
The measures taken by the
Menzies-Fadden Government in
1951 in order to check the run-
away inflation then obvious in
the economy have been largely
effective, though our man-hour
production-rate is still too low
and our costs of production too
high. Not many people in 1951
expected that a Government
would have the courage to take
the unpopular steps which the
Menzies-Fadden Ministry then
undertook: there was a great
wailing and gnashing of teeth,
as well as much unfair criticism.
Some unemployment resulted,
but much of it was bound to
happen, anyway, especially in
the textile trades. Those indus-
tries which were already headed
for trouble showed reduced pro-
fits or made losses. The build-
ing trade suffered a severe shak-
ing, more especially since the
liberal credit terms of the early
post-war period were cut out.
Even the less-discerning Aus-
tralians seem to be coming
round to the viewpoint that a
good job was done by the deci-
sions of 1951. Unemployment
is again back to almost nothing.
The building trade is reviving,
and people are paying for their
own homes with their own
money to a much greater extent.
The inflation in home-building
costs has been very largely
halted. The motor-trade is busy,
but the blackmarket in cars is
finished. There is a great deal
more health in all sections of
industry.
The new year will open with
some confusion in many minds
about the importance of the oil-
strike in the West. Whatever its
ultimate value, Australian flow-
oil will have no direct influence
on our economy in 1954, though
speculation may extend to many
channels in W.A. and else-
where.
The problem of costs-reduc-
tion will remain with us in 1954,
especially if import-controls are
relaxed. The real costs problem
in Australia arises from low out-
put per working-week. The
position is improving, but until
output in return for the weekly
pay-envelope improves even
more we cannot hope to compete
on equal terms with overseas
countries. Only the efficiency of
our wool industry enables us to
obtain enough overseas funds
to support our present import
standard. Without wool our
other industries would have to
provide a great deal more for
export at a much lower cost
than at present.
Early in the new year there
will be a Commonwealth Minis-
ters’ finance conference in Syd-
ney. It will discuss the problem
of sterling convertibility. Con-
yertibility of all sterling-linked
currencies will depend princi-
pally on this problem of output
5 per man per working-week.
The New Boom
The year is ending with undue
emphasis on oil and uranium in
the public mind. The news about
oil in the last month of the year
“ You'll do Well in this country if y’re prepared
t’ Work ’ ard .”
was intensely interesting and
encouraging, but its direct invest-
ment importance has already
been fully discounted in the oil
sharemarket, whilst its actual
national importance will take a
long time to be estimated, and
longer still to be realised.
Oil at present in Australia is
mostly the subject of furious
gambling. And uranium is also
largely an unknown quantity
from the public point of view.
Everything about so-called
“finds” is so new and (in some
cases) so hush-hush that there is
more than the usual element of
a pig-in-a-poke. The Geiger-
counter is only a prospecting
instrument. Not until an ore-
body is developed—that is,
blocked out, sampled and
assayed—will much be known
about any particular deposit
carrying uranium-ore. Even
then there may be problems of
treatment.
Anyone who has had experi-
ence in the mining of gold or
other minerals knows what treat-
ment problems can arise even
when ore reserves are proven.
Within the memory of the pre-
sent generation zinc was another
name for the devil in the treat-
ment of silver-lead ores, and it
was not until De Bavay, Delprat
and others had worked hard on
the problems of Broken Hill
sulphide-ores that their treat-
ment became economic. The
same with goldmining. Many
types of ore carrying good gold
had to be left half a century ago
because the complex nature of
the ore raised treatment difficul-
ties, and cyaniding was of no
avail. Then came the flotation
process. Today many such min-
ing propositions are payable be-
cause of improved treatment
techniques that had to go even
beyond flotation methods.
Australian uranium ores may
present few or no treatment
problems. But there is a great
deal of mystery about the whole
subject, and under the veil of
mystery the public can be led
into making very serious invest-
ment blunders. Every mining
boom has its casualties. Any
apparently spectacular success in
mining a particular mineral
almost inevitably leads to a flush
of new promotions, most of
which shrivel and die early, and
with their demise confidence is
lost in the more worthy floats,
making it difficult for them to
raise more capital in order to
carry out needed development.
That was the experience in the
gold boom of the mid-1930’5,
and it has been so of most other
mining booms.
In the oil-sharemarket at pre-
sent a company needs only to
have the word “oil” in its name
in order to attract excited specu-
lative support. Anything new
with an office and with “oil” in
its name may quickly be floated,
provided it gets going soon
enough. But this again is just a
symptom of the mining hysteria
which every generation passes
through, and which provides
that experience which is never
earned in any other way except
through the personal loss of
money.
Many people in Australia
seem still to think that the oil
concerns they are buying into
are in the nature of syndicates,
whereas the capitalisation of
W.A. Petroleum, estimated on
the basis of Ampol Exploration’s
interest, is the equivalent of
20,000,000 Exploration shares.
Some syndicate! And the num-
ber of shares is likely to be in-
creased as time goes by.
New issues of shares by a
mineral development concern,
while they may develop its re-
sources, actually add nothing to
its natural asset —the metal or
oil concerned. New issues of
shares in mining cos. almost in-
variably lead, eventually, to a
diminution in the market
premium on its shares. A recent
illustration of this was the new
share-issue announced by Peko
(Tennant Creek), N.L.
The amount of capital invest-
ment needed by an oil-refining
co. is indicated by the proposals
of Anglo-Iranian at Kwinana, in
W.A. Here something like £3O
million or £4O million is to be
expended. It follows that, in
order to get the refiner’s as well
as the driller’s profit, an oil-
exploration co. will be up for
enormous capital expenditure
apart from its field expenditure.
And if it does not go into the
refining and distributing business
it has to be satisfied with a single
profit on its crude oil.
The lure of far horizons, of
new mineral fields, of the possi-
bility of “striking it rich” away
from the confines of the cities, is
a good thing in many ways. It
leads to greater national de-
velopment. Thus the oil-strike at
Rough Range has been a
splendid and heartening achieve-
ment. But a gambling orgy on
city Stock Exchanges is another
thing. In the crash that always
follows, genuine prospecting and
development are done great
harm.
Ford Sherington
The £27,512 of net profit
shown by Ford Sherington and
subsidiaries (makers of Globite
and Fordite travel-goods) was
an improvement of £6670 on the
results for the previous year, and
it represented 23.8 p.c. on ord.
capital. The 10 p.c. div., again
paid wholly out of tax-free re-
serves, was amply covered. There
is enough left in tax-free reserves
to pay a further 27 p.c.—that is,
nearly three years’ dividend at
last year’s rate.
The business, which is spread
throughout Australia and South
Africa, continues to do well, in
spite of the reported slackness
in some sections of the travel-
goods industry. Ford Shering-
ton makes a good product, and
it is widely known. The business
also has strong finances. At last
balance-day reserves of various
kinds totalled £164,635, against
ordinary capital of £lOO,OOO and
8 p.c. pref. capital of £45,550.
The assets include £75,000 excess
of cost over par value of shares
in a subsidiary company, but
even at that assets appear con-
servatively valued. The liquid
position is attractive —£58,494 of
cash. Consols and other invest-
ments and a light outside debt.
In paying 11s. for the ss. ords.
the market includes nothing for
goodwill and for the present
obtains a tax-free yield of £4 11s.
per cent., with prospects. The
course of competition from over-
seas can only be guessed at, but
the co.’s goodwill and strong
finances should stick to it. The
South African branch is also a
source of growing strength.
Grocery and General Mer-
chants, Ltd. (N.S.W.), showed a
consolidated loss of £511,559 for
the year to June 30 last. (This
compares with an estimate of
“about £400,000” made three
months ago. The loss includes
special provision of £198,877 for
depreciation of stocks. In the
preceding* year a consolidated
loss of £388,362 was shown.
Bank overdraft has been reduced
from £3,072,938 to £2,858,234.
Losses are still being incurred
in some of the subsidiaries,
though on a smaller scale. Turn-
over has been increasing. There
are 5,832,506 ords. of ss. each
issued, and 400,000 6 p.c. prefs.
of £1 each. The ords. are at
2s. each on ’Change.


T. & G. Mutual Life Society
CONTINUED PROGRESS
ASSURANCES IN FORCE EXCEED £280,000.000
At the 77th Annual Meeting held on Wednesday, 23rd December, at
the Society’s Head Office, the Chairman, Mr. J. T. Thompson, said:—
New Business.
“I am pleased to report once again an excel-
lent volume of New Business in the Life
Departments, comprising 119,316 policies as-
suring £39,922,798. This amount of New
Business, the highest ever recorded, exceeds the
previous year’s aggregate by £3,031,457. In the
Accident Department 14,349 policies were
issued and Accident Benefits assuring
£12,920,221 were added to 32,804 life policies.
It is gratifying to note that a large number of
policyholders in the Life Departments have
taken advantage of the opportunity of attach-
ing to their policies valuable Accident Benefits
available to them. The whole of the New
Business was derived from Australia and New
Zealand.
The Group Assurance Department experi-
enced another very successful year, completions
again being a substantial percentage of the
business written in the Ordinary Department.
Group Assurance Policies provide for life
assurance, endowments, annuities and other
benefits usually found in individual policies.
Membership of a Group, however, is especially
advantageous as the premiums are usually met
by regular deduction from wages, the Society
receiving one cheque covering all payments.
The Society has been entrusted with the Group
Assurance contracts for the benefit of em-
ployees of some of the largest Institutions and
Companies, due, I feel sure, to the splendid
service rendered by the Society’s trained
Officers. This service continues actively for as
long as the contract endures.
Income and Payments to
Policyholders.
The cumulative effect of the steady growth
of New Business is to increase the Society’s
Income, which amounted last year to
£15,970,476. This exceeded the previous year’s
Income by £1,203,967. That such a large
amount in one year should be diverted from
spending power to National Savings is very
gratifying. Disbursements made last year
include the large total of £6,170,778 to policy-
holders and their dependants.
Expenses of conducting and extending the
business are greatly affected by the high level
of wages under Industrial Awards and resultant
high cost of commodities and essential services.
The ratio of total expenses (including all taxes
and contributions to Staff Superannuation) to
total income shows a decrease from 16.31% to
15.76% in the Ordinary Department. In the
Industrial Department, where the agent renders
extra service, including frequent attendances at
the homes of policyholders, the rate was re-
duced from 32.07% to 31.88%. The question
of further economy is receiving unremitting
attention. As I mentioned last year, steps have
been taken for additional mechanisation on a
large scale, but some time must elapse before
the change of system will be completely
effective.
Assurance Funds.
The Funds increased by £6,264,187 to
£86,425,394. As the Society is conducted on
the mutual system these Funds are held solely
for the policyholders, to meet future liabilities
under existing contracts. These Funds are
built up by millions of separate payments
every year, some of which, particularly in the
Industrial Department, are so small as to be
incapable of yielding much interest if individu-
ally invested. However, when paid to the
Society, they form a huge reservoir of funds
upon which the satisfactory rate of interest
applicable to large-scale investments is ob-
tained. This is one of the main advantages
derived from the co-operative system of a
Mutual Life Society. It is customary for the
Society to invest a substantial percentage of
its Funds to provide capital for developmental
works and the expansion of industry. Last
year the amount invested in Government and
Public Body securities in Australia and New
Zealand increased by well over £2,000,000.
Loans on mortgage include investments in
industrial companies for the expansion of
secondary industry. They also include a very
large number of loans to policyholders under
the popular home purchase system, under
which borrowers take out life policies so that
in the event of death of the borrower the
loan would either be reduced to a comparatively
small amount, or completely repaid, leaving an
unencumbered title to his beneficiaries.
The book value of the Society’s premises
has increased by £193,255, mainly due to the
acquisition of buildings for the Society’s use
in various parts of the Commonwealth. Most
of the Society’s splendid buildings were pur-
chased or erected many years ago and, there-
fore, stand in the books at a very conservative
figure.
The rate of interest earned in the past year
on the Mean Assurance Funds in the Life
Department was £3/15/9%, an increase of
l/8d.% over the previous year’s rate.
Actuaries’ Report.
The conservative bases of valuation adopted
last year were used again and the surplus was
£1,593,689, of which £1,462,053 was allocated
for Reversionary Bonuses. It has not been
possible to continue payment of the same
scale of bonuses in the Industrial Department,
but provision has been made for an increase
in the bonus scale in the Ordinary Department.
Value of Voluntary System.
As the Society continues on its traditional
course with unswerving faith in the value of
thrift to every member of the community, it
is very gratifying to find so many people will-
ing to use Life Assurance to obtain protection
against the uncertainties of life and to secure
something more than a modicum of comfort
in their old age. The very large volume of
New Business completed last year truly reflects
the valfie and extent of services rendered by
members of the Society’s Field Staff in
soliciting applications for policies and advising
applicants of the most suitable arrangements
for family protection. The prospects for ex-
pansion in the immediate future are excellent.
The National Income from the export of wool
and other primary products remains relatively
high, and a measure of stability has been
reached in the trend of wages, although much
remains to be done towards reducing costs.
I am confident that the results of the ensuing
year will reveal continued progress by your
Society.
Staff.
I have already referred to the highly com-
mendable efforts of the Field Staff. I should
also like to thank the Indoor Staff for the
excellent work performed by them. On behalf
of the Board and myself, I take this opportun-
ity of expressing sincere appreciation of the
valued services rendered by the Field and
Indoor Staffs and of their loyal and devoted
attention to the interests of the Society and
its policyholders.”
Retiring Directors, Messrs. R. A. Rowe and
D. I. Menzies, Q.C., and retiring Auditors,
Messrs. J. M. F. Relph and W. M. Scott, were
re-elected.
ODDS ON OIL
By JOHN PAIN
THE risks encountered in
drilling for oil are so numer-
ous and, usually, so unpredict-
able that any actuarial appraisal
of the chances of success in any
one region—to say nothing of
those in any one untested district
—verges on charlatanism. The
workaday oilman would de-
scribe such effort “as B.S.” —
which, I hasten to explain, is
oilfield argot for the bottom
settlings or black sludge accumu-
lated in the lower parts of oil-
storage tanks. By and large, it
is one of the least useful of the
by-products of the petroleum in-
dustry.
Of the world’s oil-producing
areas, U.S.A, is the only one
from which accurate statistics as
to the number of wells drilled.
and figures (as nearly accurate as
is possible) of their individual
production, are readily available,
and it is fortunate that F. H.
Lahee has gone to the trouble to
compute, annually since 1944, a
critical and extremely valuable
analysis of the voluminous and
scattered data. Using Lahee’s
definitions, the total number of
“New Field Wildcat Wells”—
that is, wells drilled on a struc-
ture or in an environment never
before productive—sunk in
U.S.A. from 1944 to 1952, in-
elusive, was 39,576.
Of these, 4445, or just under
one in nine, were producers. For
the year 1952 (which are the
latest figures available), there
were 741 producers out of 6698
“new field wildcat” wells drilled,
or just over one in nine. In the
nine years from. 1944 to 1952,
“non-technical” (that is, guess-
work) locations in unproved
areas were successful in, roughly,
1 in 25 wells; where geological
advice was employed the success
ratio was about 1 in 10, and,
where geological and geophysical
petroleum experts acted in con-
junction, the ratio rose to 1 in 5.
It should be emphasised that
these figures are applicable only
to unproved areas within the
boundaries of U.S.A., whose
regional and local geology and
(even more importantly for
petroleum) whose geological
history has been studied in detail
from die oil point of view. More-
over, the trends of all the oil-
bearing belts are known with
considerable accuracy, and the
policy of locating on these belts
is followed, whenever possible,
even by non-technical wild-
catters. The ratios quoted are,
of course, to be treated as
generalised averages with a varia-
tion of at least 20 per cent, up
and down, according to locality.
In Australia conditions are
very different, as there has not
been, to date, a single commercial
producer, and the study and the
detailed interpretation of the
geological history—particularly
of the conditions of sedimenta-
tion throughout the several sedi-
mentary epochs —is still in its
infancy.
On general grounds it can be
stated that any real prospects of
oil are confined to the two geo-
synclines which run sub-parallel
to the eastern and western shores
of the continent. The Eastern
(or Tasman) geosyncline offers
little hope, as the Permian and
younger strata have been in-
tensely studied, either at the sur-
face or in mines and bores, and
have given no indication of the
existence of possible source- or
reservoir-beds on any com-
mercial scale. Beds older than
Permian have been so severely
metamorphosed by mountain-
building movements, and their
accompanying widespread
igneous intrusions, that any sub-
stantial “pools” of oil which they
may have contained will have
been dispersed and lost.
Small but non-commercial
production has been obtained
from the Tertiary (Lakes En-
trance, Gippsland Basin) and
from the Triassic (Roma,
Queensland), but even this oil is
believed by some authorities to
be derived from carbonaceous
shales by destructive distillation.
The Shell Co. made a very
thorough examination of South
Queensland in general (and of
the Roma-Springsure Basin in
particular), which extended, with
a three-year war-break, from
1940 to 1951 and included the
sinking of a major test through
4634 ft. of Permian beds to base-
ment on a carefully-chosen loca-
tion. Not a trace of oil, nor
even extensive strata of sufficient
porosity and permeability to act
as reservoirs, were encountered,
The lack of permeability in the
Australian Triassic and Permian
is in fact a characteristic of
those beds’throughout the Tas-
man geosyncline For that
reason, apart from others, its
several residual basins offer but
very meagre hopes of petroleum,
and it is only within what is now’
left of the Western geosyncline
that the prospects of striking
commercial oil are sufficiently
good to justify the inevitable
heavy expenditure of time and
money
Of these remnants the Ooastal
P 1 . „ . . n ,’ 1 p 1
nain msm (wim Perm as
centre) is not particularly attrac-
five from a structural point of
view, and it is questionable
whether the Desert Basin (with
Broome as centre) should be
regarded as a part of the Western
geosynchne or as a distinct lobe
of the Malaysian arc. The same
is true of the Bonaparte Gulf
Basin (north-east of Wyndham),
but this does not affect their oil
potentialities to any serious
extent.
Pride of place, for the present
at least, is taken by the North-
west Basin, which extends from
Geraldton northwards to Onslow
and has an average width, from
the seashore inland, of 100 miles,
The area has been intensely
studied, within recent years, by
experienced oil-geologists and
-geophysicists, working in co-
operation. A carefully-located
major test has already reached
a depth of 4524 ft. and, were the
structure located within the
limits of U.S.A., the probable
rat '° of success, as indicated by
Lahee’s researches, could be
accepted as one producer for
each five wells drilled
Unfortunately, the North-West
Basin has not a Umted States
background, and it suffers from
other disabilities. Firstly, the
Tertiary sedimentaries are com-
par£ively thin (maximum about
1000 ft.) and no sign of oil has
Jeen observed in them in bore-
holes or in the major well now
drill ing. As the Tertiaries are re-
sponsible for half of the world’s
p ro£ j U ction of petroleum, their
absence, alone, reduces the 1:5
ra tio of success to 1:10.
Secondly, although the pre-Ter-
tiary outcrops have been inten-
sively studied, no indications of
oil have been observed at surface
eV en at the unconformable junc-
tions, which would be the most
likely paths along which oil
would migrate from buried
porous and permeable lenses.
The actuarial value of the
factor covering this complete
lack of manifestations of petro-
leum aboveground, under cir-
cumstances otherwise favorable
to their presence, is dependent, to
a great extent, on the idiosyn-
crasies and experience of the in-
dividual computer, but on a very
conservative devalution it re-
duces the chance of commercial
production by at least half.
The winning of about 600
barrels of oil at 3605 ft. to 3620 ft.,
quite apart from the character-
istics of the crude obtained,
which are typical of migration
from a distance through very
restricted channels, affects this
drop only slightly, but, again to
be conservative I shall reduce
the ratio from 1:10 to 1:18 only,
A third factor, and an import-
ant one as far as the North-
West Basin is concerned, is the
absence of regionally porous and
permeable beds within the geo-
logical column through which
the drill is anticipated to pass,
The statement that the 3605-20 ft.
sand from which the showing of
oil was obtained is very wide-
spread is against the chances of
unbroken permeability, as a
much heavier flow of oil under
pressure would have been ex-
pected in such a case. Presum-
ably this sand has been inten-
sively studied at outcrop, and
the presence of even traces of oil,
wax or tar would have been
noted. Their absence again re-
duces the hopes of regional per-
meability. This ties up with what
is known of the sedimentary
remnants of the Tasman geosyn-
dine, where the lack of porous
and permeable beds is a marked
feature. Actuarial valuation of
the effect of the permeability
factor on the success ratio is
difficult owing to lack of positive
data, but, leaning heavily to-
wards optimism, the ratio cannot
be reduced by less than from
1:18 to 1:25.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
A London Loan
It’s a long time since N.Z. has
experienced anything financially
as spectacular as its December
success on the London loan
market. The £lO million issue
for the pulp-and-newsprmt in-
dustry was raised at a rate or a
million a minute, on a yield basis
of .4.1 p.c., for a 25-year term,
which looked as good tor N.Z.
as 3.95 p.c. for the nine-year
internal two months previously,
This was a feather in the cap
of N.Z.’s credit, only a few weeks
after Australia’s conversion effort
of £10.79 million had a poor
run. It was the kind of loan
most likely to attract support,
seeing that N.Z. planned to spend
the money on British plant and
machinery, and because of the
“model character” of the pro-
ject as measured by the exacting
standards laid down at the Com-
monwealth Economic Confer-
ence a year ago.
Weahh from N.Z.’s pine forests
was something that appealed to
London as much as to financiers
in the little country, and the
outcome of the loan showed
what lenders thought of the
scheme as a prospective profit-
earning proposition. Just at this
time a four-man delegation from
the U.S. Export-Import Bank
was looking into the pulp and
newsprint scheme as a dollar
investment for a sum approach-
ing £8 million, and the result of
the London loan came at an
opportune moment to confirm
the favorable impression formed
by these experts after an in-
spection on the spot. All N.Z.
wanted for everything to go
ahead according to plan was
approval of its dollar applica-
tlon'
Million-pound Gift
An Australian-born business-
man> §; r John McKenzie, has
j um ped into the limelight with a
gyj to the nation, shared by his
w jf e a nd two sons, of £1 million,
w hi c h sets a new standard for
p U hii c benefactions in N.Z.
This knight, who hails from
Victorian town of Yarraville,
wa s educated and given a busi-
ness grounding in Melbourne,
went to the Boer War with the
3 r d Victorian Bushmen, and
came to N.Z. to start a fancy-
goods store. As the profits grew
he launched out, and at the end
of the ’twenties, when Wool-
worths raised their challenge, he
decided to stand and fight it out
with the new rivals to such pur-
pose that profits snowballed,
xhe family grew rich in the
1930’5, and in the 1940’s gradu-
ated to a leading place among
N.Z.’s small group of million-
aires. By shrewdness in in-
vestment, as well as business
sagacity, they got into a good
strategic position to take full
advantage of post-war inflation,
P.M. Sid Holland spoke for
present and future generations of
New Zealanders when he
applauded this “extraordinarily
generous action” of the Mc-
Kenzies, after a number of
smaller, but not insignificant,
gifts. Sir John confessed he
timed the gesture for Coronation
year and the Royal visit. At 77
he is still young enough to get a
thrill out of giving as great as the
kick he had in making his
fortune.


EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE - What do these words convey te yen?
If you have agreed to act as Executor of a Will, have you
considered the vital and immediate attention that will be necessary
when the time arrives for you to enter upon your duties; the
responsibilities that will descend upon you?
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited is always happy to give
full information on these matters, and to explain how the Company
may act as Executor (or Trustee) with or instead of a person who
has been appointed in those capacities.
If you would like further information on this important subject,
write for a free copy of our booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee”,
or telephone for an appointment, without obligation.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
Directors; Hon. T. A. J. PLATTAIR, M.L.C.. Chairman; B. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LTSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMTTAGE, Managing Director, TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £73,000,000 W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
:
JLO
Im
iwe
33-39 HUNTER ST. a
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of A/asia, Ltd.
T ARGER output, which a big pro-
■*~J gramme of expansion and develop-
ment will make possible, is one of the
attractive features of the scrip in this
highly-efficient producer of zinc, sulphuric
acid, superphosphate, etc. Others are that
the co. has a highly-efficient staff and
plant, is well-shod financially, and is a
vital contributor to Australia’s industrial
needs in both peace and war.
The four focal points of expansion—
which is being financed out of past and
current savings—are: (1) Lift in smelter
capacity at Risdon (Tas.) to 100,000 tons
zinc p.a., now complete; (2) extension
of the zinc-residue, sulphuric-acid and
superphosphate plants; (3) erection of a
large new mill for production of 55,000
tons p.a. of sulphate of ammonia; (4)
increased mine and mill output at the
co.’s own rich zinc-lead deposits at
Rosebery on the west coast of Tasmania.
Meanwhile much will depend upon what
happens in connection with metal prices
and costs.
Existing plants were unable to operate
to capacity last term owing to restriction
of Government-supplied electric-power
(average load was 55,404 h.p.), which is
to be gradually stepped-up until 97,500
h.p. becomes available in March, 1963.
Completion of the sulphate-of-ammonia
plant is scheduled for early 1954; but
it is not expected to operate at more
than about one-half rated capacity for
some time. First section of the residue-
retreatment plant has started up, and a
second contact-acid unit at the roasters
is nearing completion—it will enable the
co. to treat the whole of its zinc-concen-
trate requirements (about 210,000 tons
p.a.) and lift acid-production to some
120,000 tons p.a.
There was a slip of £429,461 in last
term’s declared profit, due to the sharp
fall in overseas metal prices and con-
tinued rise in operating costs; the com-
bined effects were only partly offset by
sale of larger quantities of metals (at
higher average price for local delivery)
and a big saving in tax-provision
(£1,042,000, down £1,078,000):
, Dividends — To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
3949. .1,168,585 25 25 750,000 418,585 1,685,692
1950.-1,399,841 25 25 750,000 649,841 2,335,533
3 951. .1,677,535 35 351,050,000 627,535 2,963.068
1952. .2,112,476 45 45 1,350.000 762,476 3,725,544
1963. .1,683,015 40 401.200,000 483,015 4,208,659
* After deducting intangibles, but not including de-
preciation reserve, etc. — £172,226 and £6,829,245
respectively at 30/6/’53.
The £1,683,015 of profit claimed was
equal to 56.1 p.c, on the £3,000,000 of
capital (one-half of it is 8 p.c. cumu-
lative participating prefs.) as against 70.4,
55.9, 46.6, 38.9 and 18.9 p.c. back to
1948. The div. was lowered from 45 p.c.
to 40 p.c., making the average over the
last eight years 26.7 p.c.
The roasters treated 195,240 tons zinc
concentrates (25 p.c. of them from the
co.’s own mines and the balance from
Broken Hill) for 174,302 ton calcines,
which the smelter and by-products plants
handled for the following results:
Cad-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, mium,Copper, Gold,
Tons. Oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz.*
1951.. 77,529 274,207 1,807 211 115 1,261
1952.. 83,501 291,014 1,774 210 141 1,479
1958.. 87,356 300,328 1,861 204 144 1,563
* Includes residues from copper plant.
Over 58 p.c. of the zinc was sold locally
and the rest mostly in U.K. and partly
in India and U.S. Zinc ingots and lead
concentrates sold in U.S. realised about
$2,000,000. Output of sulphuric acid (all
plants) was 97,828 tons (down 11,163
tons), and of superphosphates 64,377
tons (down 2869 tons).
At the co.’s mines at Rosebery (Tas.)
168,761 tons of high-grade but complex
zinc ore was treated for the following
concentrates:
Concentrates, Zinc, Lead, Copper,Silver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. p.c. p.c. Oz.* Dwt.*
Zinc .. 48,004 55.3 2.4 0.31 2.6 0.7
Lead .. 9,380 14.1 58.6 1.18 32.7 4.3
Copper .. 4,361 18.2 28.6 8.10 122.5 33.7
Residues ..106,990 1.6 0.8 0.13 1.2 0.8
* Per ton.
Declared ore reserves remain unchanged
at 2,000,000 tons average grade, and
developments in the Hercules mine indi-
cate that a lot more payable stuff exists.
Expansion and use of more working
capital, owing to the change in market-
ing methods, are the features of balance-
sheet figures:—
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Depreciation prov’n 5,579,955 6,200,633 6,829,245
Overdrafts .. 648,228
Sundry creditors.. 1,852,446 2,533,222 1,622,416
Deposits .. . , 247 185 141
Tax reserve .. 1,636,827 1,986,657 1,086,790
Final div. .. 750,000 900,000 825,000
Mines and roads.. 587,257 695,191 624,823
Freeholds, etc. .. 670,318 760,011 1,000,756
Plant, etc. .. 6,519,116 7,124,460 8,699,036
Shares, etc. .. 921,199 752,029 865,832
Stocks and stores 1,890,794 2,902,403 3,679,426
Book debts .. 995,251 1,271,626 1,702,366
Cash, etc. .. 4,198,608 4,940,521 1,748,140
The co. drew upon cash, etc., for
£3,192,381 and went to its bankers for
£648,228 in order to meet additions total-
ling £1,858,756 net to plant, freeholds,
mines, shareholdings, etc., carry an extra
£777,023 of stocks, £430,740 more book-
debts and clip £910,806 off the amount
coming to sundry creditors.
London spot prices for lead and zinc
fell sharply following return of the metals
to the open market—lead in August, 1952,
and zinc in January, 1953;
Lead. Zinc.
Year to 30/6/’5O ..£S9S 16 4 £SB6 12 4
Year to 80/6/’5l .. 135 18 0 148 13 11
Year to 30/6/’52 .. 167 10 11 183 14 3
Year to 30/6/’53 . . 102 0 7 98 5 10
4- mths. to Sl/10/’SS .. 94 5 9 72 6 2
In Australia control of both metals—•
fixed price of each was lifted from
£A6S to £A9S per ton in Sept., 1952 —•
ceased on April 17 last.
With zinc and lead now fetching around
£S74 and £S92 per ton respectively a
further but less pronounced drop in net
earnings is in prospect for the current
term. At 28s. 3d. (28s. 6d. a year ago)
the co.’s f.-p. ss. ords. return 7.1 p.c. on
a 40 p.c. div, basis. The prefs. at 28s.
yield 7.2 p.c.—they enjoy priority as to
capital and participate in new ord.
share-issues.
Beau Monde (Australia), Ltd 1 .
/”vNE of the most consistently profitable
sections of the Australian textile in-
dustry is women’s full-fashioned hosiery
manufacturing. In this field Beau Monde
is technically efficient and financially suc-
cessful. The co. set up in 1929, and paid
an average of 23.8 p.c. for the four years
after the public became interested in 1935.
In 1939 a jump in the price of raw silk and
price-cutting in the trade combined to
bring the div. back to 10 p.c., where it
remained for the decade to 1948. The rate
then climbed to 25 p.c. in 1952, and last
term dropped to 10 p.c., which, however,
was worth 30 p.c. on capital (£114,768)
as it stood before a two-for-one gift issue
made in June last:
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946 .. 16,571 10 p.c. = 11,475 5,096 99,768
1947 .. 23,327 10 „ „ 11,475 11,852 111,620
1948 .. 27,764 10 „ „ 11,475 16,289 127,909
1949 . . 24,026 15 „ „ 17,212 6,814 134,723
1950 . . 26,517 15 „ „ 17,212 9,305 144,028
1951 . . 37,712 22J „ ~ 25,819 11,893 155,921
1952 . . 43,696 25 „ ~ 28,688 15,008 170,929
Revaluation assets, £256,234 .. .. 427,163
Reserves capitalised, £229,500 .. .. 197,663
1953 .. 62,184 10 p.c. = 34,425 27,759 225,422
A major factor in the co.’s success, asserts
the board, is its policy of continually in-
stalling in its mills af Moreland and
Dandenong (Vic.) the most modern
machinery obtainable and of keeping in
close touch with overseas developments ;
of being, in fact, “first with the latest.”
Since 1945 it has added £104,318 to the
book-value of plant, etc., and £65,025 to
freeholds (excluding revaluation), and
over the same period has written-off no
less than £192,083 in depreciation. Total
outlay, therefore, has been around
£360,000, none of which has come from
capital-raisings. Apart from the very
liberal depreciation charges, past and
current savings have provided the neces-
sary finance: in the eight years to the
close of last accounts, visible reserves
have grown by £130,750 (including
£26,734 revaluation surplus). It all gives
the co. a very solid and comfortable air.
Business boomed for women’s-hosiery
manufacturers in the year to June 30 last,
thanks largely to import-control, which
reduced overseas supplies to a trickle.
Beau Monde’s sales shot up by 40 p.c.,
and its gross profit by £100,614, or 56.8
p.c.;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Gross profit .. £165,136 £177,052 £277.666
Exes 56,078 60,399 84,398
Depreciation .. 32,092 35,748 51,084
Tax .. .. 39,254 37,209 80,000
Net profit .. 37,712 48,696 62,184
Exes, took £23,999 more, and the hefty
charges for depreciation and tax an extra
£15,336 and £42,791 respectively. The
profit claimed was thus £18,488 higher at
£62,184, and equalled 18.1 p.c. on the
trebled capital, as against 38.1, 32.8 and
23.1 p.c. back to 1950. Judging by the
size of the tax-charge, the year’s profit
from the taxgatherer’s point of view was
much more than the accounts admit.
The business is soundly financed;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £114,768 £114,768 £344,255
Overdraft .. 29,673
Creditors .. 70,961 32,774 91,997
Tax provision .. 40,409 37,100 80,091
Final div. .. 8,606 11,475 17,213
Freeholds .. 94,873 106,784 878,142
Plant .. .. 83,321 87,311 112,122
Stocks .. .. 120,573 143,038 93,505
Debtors . . .. 38,512 54,269 52,766
Cash, etc. .. 58,876 5,323 122,443
During the year the co. reduced stocks by
£49,528 and book-debts by £1503. The
proceeds, with retained profits and
£107,952 added to outside commitments,
were used to eliminate the overdraft
(£29,673 at the previous balance), add
£15,124 net (excluding revaluation) to
freeholds and £24,811 net to plant, and to
increase the cash holding by £117,120.
Demand for full-fashioned hosiery since
June 30 has been very strong, and Beau
Monde reported opening business “much
heavier” than in 1952. Orders for its
“ladderless” stockings exceed output, and
it plans to install more machinery to
cope with this demand. So far, easing
of import-controls has had little effect on
local hosiery-manufacturers, because im-
porters apparently prefer to use their
quotas on goods carying higher profit-
margins. Further relaxations, however,
could lead to renewed competition from
imports.
At 395. 6d. (525. a year of so ago, cum
the two-for-one bonus-issue), the £1 ords.
return 5.1 p.c. on the 10 p.c. div., which
looks safe enough at the moment. Net
assets cover at June 30 was 335, Id. a
share, book-value.
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd. (Syd.)
SHELTERED war and expanding post-
war markets did much to hasten
establishment and quicken development
of Australia’s infant carpet-manufactur-
ing industry. Paid capital of this 17-
year-old, which turns out high-grade
Axminster body-carpet, rugs, etc., from
yarns spun by a local subsidiary, ad-
vanced from £72,847 in 1939 to £461,896
at the close of last accounts. Shareholders
came into the picture with 5 p.c. in 1940
(third year of production), and the rate
climbed by halting steps to 10 in 1947
and remained steady until 1951.
In the following year earnings received
a severe but temporary jolt, from which
a heartening recovery was made during
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, as the following table shows:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit, t Dividend — serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1948 .. 24,371 10 p.c. = 13,908 10,463 23,274
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 18,274
1949 .. 24,437 10 p.c. = 21,656 2,781 21,055
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 19,055
Share premiums, £46,422 .. .. 65,477
1950 .. 47,673 10 p.c. = 33,659 14,014 79,491
To staff fund, £2OOO 77,491
1961 .. 89,607 10 p.c. = 34,642 64,965 132,456
To staff fund, £7OOO 125,456
Share premiums, £57,709 .. .. 183,165
Profit sale assets, £1286 .. .. 184,451
To taxation, £7990 .. .. .. 174,461
1952 .. 7,262 5 p.c. = 20,207 163,516
To staff fund, £396 163,120
Share premiums, £2B .. .. -. 163,148
1953 .. 59,732 9 p.c. = 41,569 18,163 181,311
To staff fund,, £5OOO 176,311
* After deducting intangibles (now £7517).
Behind the collapse of the 1952 profit
figure lay a flood of imports and some
price-cutting, as well as credit restric-
tion, slackening tempo of demand, steep
rise in wage-rates and fall in prices for
wool and other of the co.’s raw materials
—these raw materials account for nearly
two-thirds of carpet-production costs.
However, worst of the co.’s troubles
had passed when the books were ruled
off in 1952, thanks to import restrictions,
which eased the pressure of competition
from overseas, and to the appropriate
monetary policy followed by the Gov-
ernment and the banks. As the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts advanced,
and money from bigger cheques for wool
and other exports began to circulate,
there was revival of manufacturing
activity generally, including production
of carpets. Imports of carpets, lino.,
etc,, for the year to June 30 last were
valued at £2.3 million as against £l6
million for the preceding 12 months.
There was marked improvement in
turnover (amount not stated), especially
during the last half of the term. After
allowing £31,496 (up £818) for deprecia-
tion on the basis of original cost and
£44,500 (up £39,500) for taxation at pre-
Budget rates (£9700 in excess of actual
requirements) the parent’s own trading
profit was £50,680 as against a loss of
£1791 and a profit of £80,555 for the two
preceding years. The subsidiary, Sydney
Woollen Mills, netted £13,623 (down
£10,739), or 13.8 p.c. on its £98,605 of
capital, of which the carpet co. owns 51
p.c. It sent along £9052 (same as for
two preceding terms), thus making the
carpet co.’s profit from all sources
£59,732 (up £52,470), or 12.9 p.c. on
capital as against 1.8, 25.8, 14.1, 11.2 and
17.5 p.c. back to 1948. The div. was
lifted from 5 p.c. to 9 p.c, —2 p.c. of it
tax-free —which can be taken as an
expression of the board’s confidence in
the outlook.
Stocks (in at the lower of cost or
market price) were reduced by £160,782,
enabling a cut of £143,081 to be made
in the overdraft, £9734 to be snipped off
the amount coming to trade creditors, a
mortgage of £3333 at the previous balance
to be wiped out and £31,970 to be added
to book-debts;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. £346.422 £461,841 £461,896
Depreciation provision 111,801
Mortgage .. .. 3,333 3,333
Overdraft . . .. 208,139 248,425 100,344
Sundry creditors .. 73,691 92/708 82,974
Tax reserve .. .. 51,453 5,1)00 44,469
Final div 17,321 20,207 23,095
Premises .. .. 264,552 254,759 288,852
Plant 265,328 192,655 186,829
Shares subsid. . . . . 98.076 93,076 93,076
Stocks 259,612 368,316 207,534
Debtors . . .. 64,044 79,824 111,794
Cash, etc. .. . . 1,005 1,005 1,005
The net addition of £34,093 to premises
was due to extension of mill buildings to
house additional broadlooms, more of
which are on order. The contraction in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£69,451,
excluding shares in the subsidiary) was
only £15,021.
Although import restrictions have been
eased, sales have remained buoyant since


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
/7 'Her
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
ó
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
Providing profit-
able protection
for policyhold-
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
Every Year
a Bonus Year
■■II
run
>ll|R
iiiii
yin
ar
Bonus Year
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
{lnc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO -DAY'S PROTECTION TO-MORROWS SECURITY
K
“ASK ME ANOTHER”
Jack Davey’s favorite show, he says. It’s the perfect vehicle for
his lightning-fast wit, pitted against the quick-witted panel
Elizabeth Riddell, Keith Smith, Carolyn Berntsen and Jim Russell.
The famous animal, vegetable and mineral games brighter man
ever —every Tuesday night at 8 p.m.
268 - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
the close of accounts, and the
tariff on carpets has been raised
by 1\ p.c,, making it 20 p.c., thus
strengthening the co.’s com-
petitive position. Prospects ot
the 9 p.c. distribution being re-
peated for the current term are
thus encouraging.
At 295. 6d. (275. 6d. a year
ago) the f.-p. £1 shares return
6.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c, div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 275. Bd.
National Radiators, Ltd.
(Melbourne)
OF the two specialist motor-
radiator manufacturers in
Australia, this National co. is
the bigger ; the other, in Sydney,
is a private concern. Hungry
post-war markets, and the trend
towards Australian manufacture
of motor-vehicles and parts, are
behind the co.’s extraordinary
growth in recent years. Back-
bone of its business are the con-
tracts to supply General Motors-
Holden’s, and probably Chrysler
and International Harvester, with
radiator-cores and assemblies as
initial • equipment and replace-
ment-spares for their products.
It also turns out radiators for
new tractors, earth-moving equip-
ment, stationary engines and
diesel locomotives, and for
general replacement purposes.
There are factories at Melbourne
and Sydney, and sales-and-
service branches at Melbourne,
Horsham (Vic.), Sydney, Bris-
bane and Townsville. In other
States, N.R.’s products are
handled by independent distri-
butors, who are also service
specialists.
Ord. capital in 1948, before the
public came in with £81,488
£25,000 of it in 5 p.c. prefs.—
was £31,512. Since then paid
capital has grown to £274,263,
including £50,000 pref. money,
and the co. has made profits and
paid dividends as follows:
, Dividends. \ He-
Jne., Pit. Pref. Ord. serves.
£ 5 £ C * £ £
’49.20,649 1250 14.16 p.c.=12,467 1,998
Tax overprovided, £1954 .. 3,952
Share issue exes., £625 .. 3>32<
’50.31,022 1979 13.33 p.c.=14,400 17.970
Tax overprovided, £5 .. 11.975
Assets revalued, £27,469 ..
’51.42,392 2500 13-33 p.c.=18,783 66,553
Share premiums, £40,000 .. 166,5au
’52.53,203 2500 13.33 p.c.=27,901 129.355
’53.44,157 2500 13.33 „ „ 29,902 141,110
Last term import restrictions and
the general tightening of private
and Government expenditure
pulled down overall registrations
of new vehicles by about 26 p.c.,
reduced demand for tractors,
earthmoving equipment, etc., and
affected the replacements market,
too. Though buoyant sales of
Holden cars and trucks softened
the impact on N.R.’s turnover,
its gross revenue slipped by
£162,317, or 16.7 p.c.:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Sales .. £761,000 £971,831 £809.514
Tl profit .. 90.314 122.385 101,592
Depsema-.. 15>155 16(263
Taxation .. 33,750 54,027 41,172
Net profit.. 42,892 53,203 44,157
P.c. to sales 5.57 5.47 5.46
After setting aside £12,855 less
for tax (the provision still seems
high) and £llOB more for depre-
ciation, the board wrote net
earnings £9046 lighter at £44,157.
That was enough to cover the
pref. div. and a satisfactory 18.2
pc. on ord. capital, as against
22.6 p.c. in 1952. A steady 13*
p.c. payout to the ords. lert
£11,755 to swell reserves to
£141,110
Principal balance-sheet move-
ments were a fall in stocks (both
raw materials and finished goods)
of £67,267, and a consequent re-
duction of £51,338 in the over-
draft :
Paid capital • 1951. 1952. 1953.
1 aid capital. £SMOO £so>oo o £50,000
Ord." . . • • 141.263 224,263 224,263
Overdraft .. 84,275 76,017 24,679
Creditors . . 75,656 45,839 44,305
Tax provision .. 52,850 48,196 41,831
Final div .. 13.272 19.938 19.939
Freeholds, lease-
holds and plant 159,066 165,601 170,60 l
Stocks . . . . 184.537 276,433 209,166
Debtors .. 142,976 151,238 165,937
Cash ■ • . . 290 336 373
Reflecting brisker sales at the
close of accounts, book-debts
were £14,699 higher. Finances
are comfortable.
Easing of import-controls and
strengthening demand for new
vehicles suggest better sales and
net earnings for the current term.
At present the co. is building a
new factory, and plans to install
more plant there and at the Mel-
bourne works. With its excel-
lent tie-ups, particularly with
G.M.-H., and with the big present
and potential market for parts,
National Radiators appears to
have encouraging possibilities.
Nevertheless, the motor-vehicle
market is highly sensitive to
changing economic conditions,
and sudden variations in demand
are always a possibility.
At 11s. the ss. ords. yield
6.1 p.c. on a 13* p.c. div. basis.
The prsfs. are seldom traded on
’Change. Net assets cover is
£8 6s. 2d. prefs. and Bs. 2d. ords.
Bulolo Gold* Dredging, Ltd.
The three focal-points of
investment interest in this Bulolo
co. are: (1) surplus funds, especi-
ally the balance of the amortisa-
tion reserve, (2) the mine, and
(3) a joint-interest with the
Federal Government in Com-
monwealth-New Guinea Tim-
bers, Ltd. Registered in Van-
couver, Bulolo has a paid capi-
tal of $5,000,000 in $1 shares,
many of which are held in Aus-
tralia. The mine, or dredging-
and sluicing-gravels, are in New
Guinea, and so is the timber
venture.
The board proposes to distri-
bute to shareholders $1,000,000,
or $1 per share (=9s. Aust.)
from the amortisation fund on
a date yet to be announced in
February or March next. And
further distributions from the
fund are to be made later on.
After transferring $1,679,997 to
capital surplus for investment in
the timber co., the amortisation
reserve stood at $1,753,508
( = ss. lOd. Aust. per share) at
May 31 last. It was repre-
sented by a fund of like amount
in Commonwealth bonds and
cash.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets, excluding the amor-
tisation fund, exceeded current
liabilities by $5,192,165. The
holding in the timber co.
(499,999 £1 shares) figures at
$1,119,998, shares in a small sub-
sidiary at $lO,OOO, fixed assets,
at $14,363,850 (including
dredges $3,255,555), and de-
ferred charges (mainly cost of
dismantling No. 8 dredge) at
$788,800.
Dredging performances over
the last couple of years compare
as follows:
1952. 1953.
Dredged, c.y. .. 11,458,120 16.910,200
Recovered— . _
Gold, fine oz. .. 79,637 115,745
Silver, fine 0z... 33,603 51*275
Value, c.y., cents* 25.55 25.31
Costs, c.y., cents* 10.62 10.38
* Canadian.
The 1953 profit, which was won
from better-than-average ground,
was $2,345,104, equal to 46.7
p.c, on capital as against 31.9
р. for the previous term. The
div. was lifted from 15 p.c. to
20 p.c. and called for
$1,000,000.
Gravel reserves at May 31
last were estimated at 67,154,000
с. of which about 55,359,000
c.y. (average value 17.5 cents)
are dredgeable. The other
11,795,000 c.y. (average value
16.1 cents) are to be worked
hydraulically.
Of the co.’s four operating
dredges, one is scheduled to close
down presently, and another in
about a year’s time. The other
two, which are big deep-digging
machines, have over 10 years’
work ahead of them.
The timber co. (paid capital
$1,000,000) expects to get its
machinery running early in
1954. It will produce sawn tim-
ber and plywood from large
stands of hoop- and klinki-pine
in the Bulolo valley. No esti-
mate of probable net returns
from the venture has been given,
but a “suitable return on capi-
tal” is anticipated.
After earlier sales at 555. 9d.,
buyers recently offered 60s. for
the co.’s $5 shares on Sydney
’Change.
Emperor Mines, Ltd.
TO avoid heavy Government
bleeding by way of Austra-
lian income tax, this holding co.,
through which the public is in-
terested in the Emperor mine
(Fiji), adopted a policy of reduc-
ing paid capital instead of paying
dividends. During the seven
years to 1950, £858,100 of capi-
tal (9s. per 10s. share) was re-
turned, leaving the figure at
£95,700 in Is. shares. Further
reduction was considered inadvis-
able, so divs. began to flow again
in December, 1952, when 6d. a
share (50 p.c.) was paid—first
thing of its kind since 1941.
At June 30 last assets con-
sisted of shares in Emperor Gold
Mining Go., Ltd., £517,946,
shares in public cos. £39,956, and
cash, etc., £12,220. Current
liabilities totalled £2544, and
there was £107,398 coming to
the subsidiary.
For the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts the operating
co. treated an extra 5982 tons of
slightly-richer ore for a better
outturn of gold, as the following
table shows:
r —Gold v
Treated Head Re- Silver
Ore, Value, covered, Recov’d,
Tons. Dwt. Fine Oz. Fine Oz.
1949. .139,588 8.89 59,241 17,004
1950. .133,089 8.73 52,928 14,186
1951..153,847 8.32 58.887 20.020
1952. .151,000 7.69 51,666 16,015
1953.. 156.982 7.97 57,221 14,677
Mining and treatment costs were
Bs. 4.7 d, heavier at 71s. 1.9 d. per
ton, due mainly to increased cost
of fuel-oil, bigger proportion of
underground ore handled, and
expenditure on re-timbering the
Wallace Smith shaft. Recovery
was approximately 91 p.c., and
sales of the yellow metal aver-
aged £l4 11s. sd. per fine ounce,
or about 19s. more than the
statutory price; the premium,
however, is now rapidly dis-
appearing.
After allowing for deprecia-
tion (£26,869), development
(£117,205) and taxation, etc.
(£48,956), the profit was £81,692
(up £1852), or 85.4 p.c. on capi-
tal, and a 6d. div. (50 p.c.) called
for £47,850.
Ore reserves at June 24, 1953,
were put at 1,000,000 tons (down
only 40,000 tons), of which
850,000 tons, averaging 7.9dwt,
was positive and 150,000 tons,
averaging 7.2dwt., probable.
Interest now centres largely in
two new developments. First is
discovery of new makes of high-
grade stuff on No. 9 level, which
look like giving ore reserves a
nice boost. Values met with
range from 9.Bdwt. to 19.2dwt.
over varying widths, and indi-
cations are that the new makes
will continue down to and below
No. 10 level. Second is the pos-
sible extension of the ore-bodies
a couple of miles north-east of
present workings. A joint ex-
ploration programme on the
new area has begun. To date five
churn drill-holes (aggregate foot-
age 5089) have failed to disclose
any pay-ore, though “very
promising geological conditions
were found to exist.” Much de-
pends upon the outcome of these
two developments.
The market prices the co.’s
f.-p. Is. shares at 15s. 6d. (Bs. a
year ago), thus valuing the under-
taking at £1,483,000-odd.


W omen's Letters
MELCCIJGNr
Among Christmas-greeting cards re-
ceived by this Letter has been one from
Lady Dugan, which took the form of
photographs of her lovely home in
Oxfordshire. Air-Vice-Marshal and
Mrs. F. Scherger sent from Singapore
their card, which carried a picture of a
Government building. The High Com-
missioner for Canada in Australia sent
out a simple card embossed with the
Canadian coat-of-arms. Lady Disney’s
was a colorful scene from “Les Syl-
phides.” On the front of that sent by
Cr. and Mrs. Gordon Coulter was a
colored reproduction of their home in
Toorak; inside, also in color, was shown
a corner of the garden. Sir Leslie and
Lady McConnan and daughter Bunty
sent out cards which had Holyrood
House featured in color. Town Clerk
Harold Wootton and his wife chose a
Collins-street scene. Colorful cards
from America include those from
Colonel and Mrs. Rufus Ramey and
Commander and Mrs. Robert Macklin.
☆ ☆ ☆
Forty-one orphans from the Andrew
Kerr Home at Mornington had a memor-
able Christmas. Completely outfitted
with new clothes to attend a bumper
party at Craigie Lea, the Mornington
home of the Bernard Dowds, the chil-
dren had a barbecue luncheon and then
were allowed to help themselves to novel-
ties and sweets from gaily-decorated
stalls. Artists from the cast of “Goody
Two Shoes and the Pirate” assisted
Father Christmas to entertain the small
guests and distribute gifts from the huge
Christmas-tree. A leading manufacturer
of children’s shoes donated footwear, as
he had done to another 300 when they left
for a holiday in the country under the
Lord Mayor’s Holiday Appeal Scheme.
At the Craigie Lea party were also 59
New Australian children. A group of
New Australians had made frocks which
were given to the orphans.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the morning reception given by
Lord Mayor Solly and his wife to both
Davis Cup teams, Mrs. Solly wore a
full-skirted junior-blue silk frock and
small white hat. Eileen and Noelle,
daughters of Cr. and Mrs. Solly, assisted
their mother in entertaining. U.S. Consul-
General Henry E. Stebbins was with Mrs.
Stebbins, who wore a Ming-blue eyelash-
straw cloche with her black frock. Belgian
Consul M. George Nopenaire and
Madame Nopenaire were there. Mrs.
E. Ellsworth Davenport, wife of the
manager of the American team, chose a
silk frock patterned in grey, pink and
blue, with a small platter hat of beige
straw.
Mrs. Harry Hopman wore a printed-
silk frock in aqua-blue and black and a
head-hugging off-white straw hat. Mrs.
Alex Finlay’s black frock was printed in
a floral design ; her small beige straw hat
was trimmed with matching chiffon. Mrs,
Bernard Evans, wearing an aqua-blue
linen frock with black accessories, was
accompanied by her daughter Mary,
whose choice was a black linen frock and
black straw picture-hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
By a very clever arrangement of cactus
plants, imitation-grass and bowls of
multicolored flowers, Dorothy Ganley
turned the Buckley and Nunn salon into
a tropical garden for the party given on
behalf of Elizabeth Arden, who sent a
cable of greetings from New York —
Dorothy Ganley is her deputy. Dorothy’s
white grosgrain frock had the scooped
neckline trimmed with pearls and crystals.
The Ian Buckleys, from Sydney, were
there, she in a full-skirted frock of
silver-grey embossed cotton which had
narrow pipings of black on bodice and
skirt. A gay Mexican silk stole was worn
by Mrs. Violet Street with a black crepe
frock cut on slim lines. Mrs. George
Matthews topped her dove-grey frock
with a wide-brimmed rose-pink straw hat.
Mrs. Anne Martin’s royal-blue silk frock
was patterned in a gold-leaf design, and
Lizbeth Caspar chose an anthracite-grey
shantung frock and rust-toned beret.
☆ it ☆
Five hundred guests were at the re-
ception given by Sir Richard and Lady
Linton at their Toorak home following
the marriage of their younger son
Richard and Mrs. Nell Challingsworth.
The ceremony was at the Toorak
Methodist Church, and the bride was
given away by T. T. Hollway, M.L.A.
The bride, who is the youngest daughter
of the late Mr. and Mrs. John Reade,
formerly of Rochester, chose a pearl-grey
brocade frock with pearl cabochons on
the draped bodice, which was allied
to a redingote skirt. Pale-pink gloves
matched the small pink-satin hat em-
broidered with pearls, and pink orchids
were pinned on the pink-and-grey beaded
bag she carried. Mrs. Stanley Carnegie,
the matron-of-honor, wore a ‘ white
organza frock etched with black fern-
leaves. Her picture-hat was of black
Chantilly lace; Frank Worthington was
best man.
Lady Linton received the guests wear-
ing a frock of lavender-grey brocade
woven with a tiny black flower-design.
Her large hat was of fine black straw.
Among the guests were Sir Rupert and
Lady Clarke, she wearing an ensemble of
navy and white; Lady Disney, whose
junior-blue organza frock had tiny white
flowers embroidered on the bodice and
was worn with a small bonnet of matching
organza; Sir George and Lady Wales,
Barbara and Lindy Challingsworth, the
former in black-spotted lemon linen, the
latter wearing a white broderie Anglaise
frock and small white straw hat.
Anna Maria Vamszer, ballerina, will
appear at Her Majesty’s in the Borovan-
sky ballet season which begins today
(Wednesday). Born in Hungary, Anna was
educated in South America and Paris.
She was prima ballerina with Janine
Charrat (a French company ) when Boro-
vansky saw her dancing while on his visit
to Paris. He arranged to bring her here
at the conclusion of her contract. Al-
though very young, she has already
achieved considerable success.
A feature of the latest Ecstasy collec-
tion is the material used in the many
lovely designs. There is the Stunzi
Alpaca, which is woven from rayon wool
and cotton. Colors are cactus, rhodo-
dendron, Canadian-mink, grappa, avoc-
ado, smokeless, romany and carbon.
Crepe Mornay is woven entirely of wool
and comes in autumn-earth, blue-grass,
blue-shadow, crushed-violet and lilac-
haze. Jersey from England was also
shown and an all-wool frocking from the
Returned Soldiers’ Mill is of pure Merino-
wool and is available in azure, acasia,
champagne, sparkle, cruise-aqua and
petal-pink.
Ecstasy also featured a new French
fabric, “Waterfall,” which looks like
corded faille, in colors new and attrac-
tive. Coats were loose or slim, or fitted
with “bell”- or “crescent”-shape,
shoulder to hem-line. Suits emphasised
a trend to candle-slimness in skirts made
practical with varied pleats and half-
wraps. Evening-gowns were short and
full or slim floor-length and very regal.
By using 54-inch silks, nylon-net and
silk-organza, evening skirts were seam-
less.
Street velvet was used for several all-
round-the-clock coats, and also for a
dining-out suit in blue-grass tonings.
This had a slim skirt and fitted jacket
cut high to the neck, without revers and
with push-up sleeves. Black-and-white,
the ever-popular color-combination, was
featured in a short black organdie frock
with white roses printed on the fitted
bodices and with roses appliqued on the
skirt. Tiers of black nylon formed the
siart of another frock, each tier being
banded with rows of white guipure lace,
SYDNEY
Pantomime-time has brought the
children to town in flocks and coveys
and gaggles and groups (not to mention
the prides of parents). At the Tivoli
“Aladdin” offers almost three hours of
swift and lively entertainment, dancing,
singing, comedy, spectacle, ventriloquism,
tumbling, trick-cycling and plenty of
audience-participation. The children
seem to love it so much one wonders how
the little American children get along
without it.
Panto, is an essentially English enter-
tainment, with its particular tradition
of girls as principal-boys, men as dames,
good fairies coming from one side of the
stage, demon kings from the other, so that
it gives children just that combination of
the familiar and the fantastic which they
need. Every now and again there is a
cry that pantomime is dying, but it always
comes up again with such verve and gusto
that it really seems one of the most jiving
parts of the living theatre.
Another entertainment for the children
is Walt Disney’s “Peter Pan,” which is
showing to packed houses in two city
cinemas and three suburban ones. Typi-
cally American this, with a really thrill-
ing flight through the night sky by Peter,
Wendy and the boys, a glorious crocodile
and some very funny Indians. It’s first-
class children’s entertainment if you
haven’t read the book, for it bears very
little resemblance to the Barrie classic.
Tinker Bell, who sheds fascinating
showers of star-dust as she flies or ex-
presses emotion of any kind, is not shown
as dying for lack of someone to believe
in her (probably this wouldn’t appeal to
sophisticated American children), nor is
Mr. Darling shown as living in the dog-
house in self-punishment for expelling
Nana, and the whole story is lacking in
that homely quality that made it a
classic. Still, it has Disney-charm, and
that seems quite enough to delight the
child audiences in Sydney today.
The third children’s entertainment
offering is the Peter Scriven Puppets at
the Theatre Royal. Peter Scriven is an
Australian who has lived for some years
in England and who is putting not only
his skill, but also his money (which is
quite considerable) behind the movement
to make the marionette-theatre popular
again with children. On a tiny stage
with delightfully miniature props and
scenery and with beautiful lighting he
shows little plays, “St. George and the
Dragon,” “The Sorcerer’s Apprentice,”
etc., and several variety turns.
He himself does not appear until the
end, when he comes out and explains the
marionettes to the youngsters. This is the
part the children seem to like best, and
they seem anxious to see all the puppets
(except the masculine four-year old in
the dress-circle who called out “I don’t
want to see the fairy princess. Bring
on the dragon! ”). Presented by the Arts
Council, the puppet-show has a quieter
appeal to the children, but it is likely to
grow in popularity.
iflf ☆ *
In spite of striking the hottest night of
the year for its Christmas Belle Ball, the
Junior committee of the Food-for-Babies
Fund brought 250 dancers to the Hotel
Rex last week for a very enjoyable even-
ing. Belle of the ball, chosen by Miss
Joy Flower, was Mary Joyce-Brandon,
whose black curly hair was set off by a
dress of pale-pink organdie with a frilled
bodice. President of the committee Anne
Marriott wore a romantic dress of white
nylon net with sprays of opalescent
sequins on bodice and skirt. Her sister
Judy’s dress was of pale-pink net over
white, with soft-pink and green hand-
made flowers.
Among the many other lovely dresses
worn were Robin Harrison’s white tulle
with its spray of roses cascading from
bodice and scattering petals along the
skirt; Gay Browne’s lemon chiffon with
white guipure-lace jacket; Jan Lawn’s
grey tulle; Monica Mayers’s white tulle
and lace; Neoma Swan’s red-net balle-
rina ; and the lace-sprinkled white net
worn by Barbara Need.
☆ * ☆
Reports that the French designer Chanel
is to return to the Paris couture after an
absence of 15 years seem to indicate that
the trend towards the fashions of the
’twenties is gaining strength. It was
Chanel who made the short skirt popular
30 years ago, and she may be able to do
so again. Looking round any ballroom
where smart young people gather these
days, one may see any number of indica-
tions of interest in the 1920’5. Haircuts
are quite similar, and the little curl in
front of each ear that used to be called
a kiss-curl is quite popular again. Other
indications are the fishtail skirt, the
chandelier earrings and the pointed shoes
of satin. Waistlessness, however, does not
seem to be finding favor, and it is to be
hoped it never will.
Jenny Howard, noted stage personality,
plays Aladdin in the pantomime at the
Tivoli Theatre with her customary verve
and liveliness.
Christmas-party of the Women Writers
was attended by about 35 members, all
of whom brought a gift and bought a
gift. Entertainment was also provided
by the members, Vinia deLoitte with
Margaret Lloyd, Noel Kelly and Grace
Smith giving extracts from Gilbert and
Sullivan, musical comedy and grand
opera, and “Sundry Sketches from Old
England” 1 being presented by Jean Gar-
ling, Rosemary Marriott and Nell
Williams. Among those who were
present were Kitty Burton, Gladys Lister,
Marie Irvine and Ruth Bedford.
* ☆ ☆
The names of 11 prominent women who
will be judges in the arts and handicrafts
section of the Royal Agricultural Show
next year have just been announced.
They are: Needlework: Mrs. J. E. C.
Langley, of French’s Forest, Sydney, who
holds the medallion of the London Royal
School of Needlework, its highest award ;
Mrs. P. A. Bower (Longfield, Mullum-
bimby), and Mrs. P. C. Coffey (Glen
Burra, Dubbo). Judging of jams, jellies
and preserves will be done by Miss Mar-
garet Beale, senior lecturer in foods at
East Sydney Technical College.
Miss Jean Bowring will judge non-
perishable entries in the cookery section.
Basketry will be judged by Mrs. B. M.
Marsh, of Dee Why; knitting and
crocheting by Mrs. L. R. Thornbar
(Egerton, Henty); Miss N. McCredie
(Epping) will judge the pottery; and
Mrs. J. Douglass (Harbord) all the
crafts. Mrs. A. Binnie, who will judge
the perishable cookery, is a leading official
of various country agricultural societies,
particularly in the Singleton area. Miss
U. Gretschel (Mittagong) will judge
weaving and spinning exhibits.
☆ ☆ ☆
It is interesting to hear from W-A.
that the first ward of the Westralian
Native Affairs Department to qualify as
a State-schoolteacher has just achieved
that honor. She is May Millar, of Perth,
who was one of the first group of girls
to enter Alvan House, the hostel estab-
lished in Perth for near-white girls who
wish to continue their higher education
and vocational training in the city.
Having finished a course at the Teachers’
Training College she will, at her own
request, be appointed to the Mt. Margaret
Mission School, near Laver ton (W.A.),
in which she herself was taught the three
“r’s.”
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the lesser-known but no less-
effective groups working in the interests
of the T.B. Sailors, Soldiers and Airmen
is the Northern Suburbs Auxiliary, com-
prising 18 members under the leadership
of Mrs. William Duncan, of Northwood.
This group has raised since April, mainly
by means of amateur plays and an occa-
sional fete, the sum of £352, of which £4B
has been distributed direct to the T.B.
patients at the Repat. Hospital at Con-
cord in the form of cigarettes, and the
remaining £304 has been handed to the
association. The auxiliary meets monthly
in the board-room at the War Memorial,
Hyde Park, and would welcome all who
w'ould like to lend a hand.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANNIE ELIZABETH MAUGHAN
(formerly Whittaker) of G.P.O. Mel-
bourne Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN THOMAS COOPER MAUGHAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3738
of 1951 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the Bth of March 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
Messrs. JAMES & GRAHAME, Solicitors,
16a Bolton Street, Newcastle, or their
Agents, Messrs. McDONELL & MOFFI IT,
6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG-
HAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Matrimonial Causes.
TO JACK HOLDEN HAYLES late of
Wallsend.—TAKE NOTICE that SHIRLEY
DAWN HAYLES has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3859 of 1958 under Queens-
land Law on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by Bth February 1954 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from HICKSON, LAKEMAN & HOL-
COMBE, Solicitors, of 10 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Talkies
“Julius Caesar”
The American National
Board of Review of Motion
Pictures selected the Hollywood
filming of “Julius Caesar” as the
best film of 1953, and, together
with sundry newspaper critics,
including some in Sydney,
eulogised various members of
the cast, including Marlon
Brando (Antony) and James
Mason (Brutus) for giving out-
standing performances.
Taking the cast one by one,
I’ll concede that John Gielgud’s
Cassius was acceptable ; a good,
nerve-strung performance that
touched on everything
spare Cassius” with his l
and hungry look,”
and “never at heart’s ease.
And, although the actor showed
a tendency to make an lago ot
Cassius, it was stilt good pro-
fessional Shakspeare and made
the rest of the acting look like
amateur bumbling.
Louis Calhern played Caesar
like an American tycoon with a
hint of megalomania about him
and possibly a lot of American
tycoons see themselves as
Caesars, but I can’t imagine
anything less like Shakspeare s
soldier-statesman—whatever his
infirmities than the pop-
eyed old goat Calhern made ot
him. And there was an unmis-
takable pent-house atmosphere
about Calhern’s moments with
Calpurnia, rather dreadfully
done by Greer Carson.
Then there was James
Mason’s Brutus completely
negative and all beautifully-
spoken, soft-eyed emotion; it
had no strength about it, no
driving sense of duty or high-
minded patriotism, not even a
“passionate wrong-headedness.”
Certainly he was not ‘ the
noblest Roman of them all” by
any stretch of imagination.
The worst performance in the
film, I thought, was Marlon
Brando’s Mark Antony. How
could anyone connect this sul-
len, oafish character with the
“eloquent Mark Antony ... a
man of genius and feeling but
not of principle, resourceful and
daring, ambitious of power, but
unscrupulous in his methods
and a voluptuary in his life”?
I quote there from M. W. Mac-
Callum’s admirable summary,
but you might also take Shak-
speare himself on the subject
when Cleopatra says:
His legs hestrid the ocean: his rear’d
arm
Crested the world; his voice was
propertied
As all the tuned spheres, and that
to friends;
But when he meant to quail ana
shake the orb, ~
He was as rattling thunder. For his
bounty,
There was no winter in t; an
autumn ’twas
That grew the more by reaping: his
delights
Were dolphin-like; they showed his
back above . .
The element they liv’d in; in his
livery
Walk’d crowns and crownets; realms
and islands were
As plates dropp’d from his
pocket ...
Think you there was or might be
such a man
As this I dream’d of?
Brando also made an unholy
mess of Antony’s oration. He
gave it a mixture of puppy-
grief and clumsy sarcasm, which
were only two faltering steps in
the right direction. He seemed
incapable of giving it that essen-
tial element of shrewd self-
interest. Possibly the director of
the film recognised the actor’s
limitations in that respect be-
cause, as I remember, someone
snipped from the film
Now let it work: mischief thou art
afoot.
Take thou what course thou wilt!
and
Fortune is merry,
And in this mood will give us
anything.
And that removed the very key-
stone of that whole magnificent
arch of political oratory.
So, with Caesar played like an
old dolt, an almost feminine
Brutus and a crude, uncouth
Antony, what sort of film could
you expect? Certainly there
was no suggestion of the clash
between Caesar’s aspirations to
imperial majesty and the stern
republicanism of Brutus, and,
without that, the misleading of
“ You’ll soon be reformed, dear .”
Brutus and the destruction of
Caesar became quite meaning-
less.
My last complaint was with
the film itself. Why do they
waste running-time with com-
plicating pictorial elaborations
of scenes that don’t need them,
and with meanderings of the
camera to peer at interjectors
and other minor characters?
Drama hangs on the lips of its
actors —never more so than
with Shakspeare —and anything
that interrupts them in their
business is an unnecessary dis-
traction and a slowing-down of
the business in hand. Such dis-
tractions are the greatest weak-
ness of films, and it was never
made more plain than by the
timing which put the film of
“Julius Caesar” on in Sydney at
the very time that the Shak-
peare Memorial Theatre people
were giving such rich, swift and
flowing performances in the
same city.
P.D.
“Kiss Me, Kate”
M.-G.-M. has spared nothing
on this sparkling screen version
of the Cole Porter musical.
The backstage bickerings of the
actor and his fiery ex-wife,
which are carried on to the
stage during their work in “The
Taming of the Shrew,” are
handled by Howard Keel and
Kathryn Grayson with ex-
plosive elan. There is a delight-
ful merging of the Middle Ages
and the contemporary scene,
and the witty lyrics and tuneful
airs are sung with some style
by the two principals.
In the comedy line exuberant
work is turned in by Keenan
Wynn and James Whitmore as
the pair of gangsters who put
the heat on the leading lady to
stop in the show, and by Kurt
Kaznar as Baptista, father of
the shrew. The “Brush Up Your
Shakspeare” number, sung by
Wynn and Whitmore, is a win-
ner. (Sydney Liberty.)
♦2+ ❖ ❖
“Peter Pan”
Walt Disney has brought the
full weight of his particular
talent to bear on J. M. Barrie’s
play, with the result that Wendy
Darling and company come
vividly to life in a dream-
fantasy that is often touched
with beauty and in which comic
situations and adventure mingle
at a great rate.
Characterisation is sharp and
clean and the voices a delight,
from the comic basso-profundo
of the Indian chief and the
quavery ditherings of Captain
Hook’s factotum Smee to the
well-bred modulations of
Wendy and her mother and the
boyish forthrightness of Peter.
The settings are richly imagina-
tive. Disney never binds him-
self to the rigid conformations
of the book, but such liberties
as he takes are more than
justified by their natural
assimilation into the tale.
While Disney can produce
such touches as the implacable
crocodile “doodling” on the
water with his paw as he
patiently awaits the inevitable
arrival in his element of the
terrible Captain Hook, or of the
closing-in of the Indians to the
camp of the youthful dreamland
adventurers, his art is never
likely to wither. (Sydney May-
fair and Park.)
♦♦♦ ❖
“The Beggar’s Opera”
An air of unreality hangs
heavily over this screen version
by Christopher Fry of John
Gay’s “opera.” There are, to be
fair, some excellent scenes, the
best of which is the tumbril-ride
through cheering thousands
taken by the gay, swashbuckling
highwayman Captain Macheath
on his way to the inevitable
appointment with a hempen-knot
on Tyburn Hill. And there is
some authority in Laurence
Olivier’s handling of the hero’s
rough diplomacy with his numer-
ous loves. But somehow the
strenuous heavings-about by
Olivier in an effort to outdo the
athleticisms of a Douglas Fair-
banks sort none too well with
his style.
The music by Sir Arthur Bliss
has at times some moderate
attractiveness, but for the most
part it is quite undistinguished.
Olivier and Stanley Holloway
use their own rather pleasant
baritones, but most of the other
characters have vocal stand-ins.
Of drama there is practically
none, while the reckless derring-
do of Captain Macheath is con-
fined in the main to his rushing
innocuously somewhere on a
steed or recklessly staking his all
at the gaming-tables, surrounded,
of course, by hordes of admiring
females. At no time does he
appear to be imminently lethal.
Dorothy Tutin is an appealing
Polly Peachum and Daphne
Anderson puts some pep into
her role as the jealous but indul-
gent Lucy Lockit. Of the voices,
Australian John Cameron’s fine
baritone is outstanding.
* *
“Water Birds”
This fascinating and beauti-
fully-photographed study of the
flight-mechanics, ground- and
water-activities and nesting and
mating oddities of a wide
variety of aquatic birds, from
small coots and terns to the
pelicans and flamingoes, is the
best yet of Disney’s natural-
history series. In a long, final
sequence, a Liszt Hungarian
Rhapsody and the choreo-
graphic patterns woven by birds
in massed flight, with the peli-
cans a miracle of aerial grace,
combine to make an enchanting
avian ballet. (Sydney Mayfair
and Park.)
♦♦♦ <♦ ❖
“The Road to Bali”
This follows the formula set
for the previous “Road” films,
with Bob Hope, wisecrack-in-
chief, and Bing Crosby, larynx-
teaser-in-ordinary, trying to out-
wit one another in the lists of
love, and Dotty Lamour there
just to make up the requisite
number. The doings, which
concern the strange machina-
tions of an Eastern potentate
who is searching for submarine
treasure, assay a fair quota
of laughs, although the opus
generally is a shade behind the
earlier ones in the series. (Syd-
ney Prince Edward.)
Stage and Music
A Christmas Reading
John Casson, Sybil Thorn-
dike’s son and J.C.W.’s producer,
introduced a new form of enter-
tainment with a Christmas
reading at the Assembly Hall in
Melbourne. Flanked on each
side by a small bookcase of
selected volumes, he took his
audience through the history and
legend of Christmas per medium
of folktale, carol and even
recipes for Christmas dinner,
including some very quaint
examples.
By the time the evening was
finished one got the impression
that every English poet except
Shakspeare has found it neces-
sary at some time or other to
write a poem about the Infant in
the Manger—beautiful but
innocuous and more and more
conventional and literary with
the later poets, like John Mase-
field.
Shakspeare, for some reason
or other, only mentions Christ-
mas once in seven lines in “Ham-
let.” Mr. Casson’s beautiful
voice, clear diction and lively
commentary, however, kept the
audience’s interest, and his read-
ing of James Bridie’s “The
Christmas Card” got them laugh-
ing. His most impressive item
was a chapter from the Gospels.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Elijah”
Highlight of the Melbourne
Royal Philharmonic Society’s
celebration of its 100th year of
singing was Mendelssohn’s
“Elijah,” given in the vast
bowels of the Exhibition Build-
ing. It was also the 64th per-
formance of a work which had
its first performance in Australia
from the same hands in 1857,
with its first conductor, John
Russell, wielding the baton.
Sir Bernard Heinze performed
the service on this occasion with
Harold Williams as the prophet.
Mr. Williams is one of the really
great Elijahs, but his voice gave
out before he reached his most
dramatic moment, and, unre-
hearsed, Robert Payne took over
and brought the performance to
a satisfactory conclusion.
The acoustics of the building
weren’t as kindly to the aug-
mented choir of 400 voices as
to the soloists, who, led by
Ronald Dowd with his almost
perfect tenor and Marie Collier,
with her soprano attuned to
opera, made an impressive
showing.
*x*
“Messiah”
When the Middle Ages artist
painted a Nativity he liked to
emphasise the importance of
the occasion by painting the
manger in a vast bam as big as
a cathedral and peopling it with
kings, commoners, saints and
choirs of angels. Nobody saw
anything incongruous in such a
metamorphosis of a simple
stable.
It was something like that when
the Melbourne Philharmonics
staged the “Messiah,” the last
of their centenary celebrations,
in the vast barn of the Exhi-
bition Building, with 500 singers,
the Victorian Symphony Orch-
estra under the Heinze baton
and an audience of 3000 people.
Things would have been better
if a few hundred of the 3000
hadn’t found it necessary to
arrive late and tramp half a
mile up the aisles in squeaky
boots during a good half of the
proceedings. Their disrespect
to music, however, didn’t alto-
gether obliterate the “Messiah’s”
glory, prevent the choristers
being exceptionally thrilling,
diminish the lustre of Mervyn
Simpson’s trumpet or the sol-
emnity of Lance Hardy’s organ.
Ronald Dowd aired his mag-
nificent tenor and Robert Payne
made his brown bass eclipse
its previous performance in
“Elijah,” though Betty Fretweli
did not quite come up to former
achievements with her soprano.


Wings off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
CHAPTER IV
STANDING-BY his air-
craft, Sherwood jiggled
with his helmet-strap and
noted automatically, as his
head craned up, the recog-
nition signal for the day on the
after end of the bridge. He
noted also Hap’s whirligig, gyrat-
ing impatiently a few hundred
feet up and clear to port. He
turned and smiled at his observer
waiting behind him.
“Our friend’s got enough
steam up there to keep him up
if his arms dropped off.”
The petty-officer grinned back,
a wide stretch which opened up
his teeth, white in an alert face
weather-tanned to the hue of
a well-used pick-handle.
“Not ’arf he ain’t, sir,” he
answered, craning upwards.
And, because officer-pilot and
rating-observer in a Firefly on
active service are in a peculiarly
intimate relationship, added:
“Y* know, sir, I think the
wardroom takes too much notice
of that whirligigger. I’ve heard
him ribbin’ you. He really
enjoys it, does that U.S. bird.
And after all, they’ve got four
flat-tops here to our one and
only.”
“True enough,” answered
Sherwood. “Just the same, I’d
like to show him that the Royal
Navy isn’t here merely in an
observing capacity—which is
what he seems to think we are.”
Sherwood squinted along the
deck as he heard Swan’s Fury
bellow. He turned to his air-
craft.
“Right, Blake, Up.”
His tone and the movement
indicated that the interlude of
familiarity was over.
“Aye, aye, sir,” responded
Blake briskly.
In the familiar seat, the feel
of his headrest behind him, the
Strike Leader ran a practised eye
over the instruments before him,
noted the dual-purpose safety-
catch on gun-trigger and bomb-
release button in its right posi-
tion on the control column,
carried out his cockpit check,
then transferred his undivided
attention to the conspicuously
clad flight-deck control officer
standing up near the catapult,
the wind whipping his trousers.
Hawk thrust on, working up
to her 25-knot flying speed. With
her deck crowded with bombed-
up Fireflies and Furies, the
catapult would be used. There
was not room enough for free
take-off. Swan’s, first to go, was
the only aircraft with its wings
down. The others, with wings
broken to economise in space,
looked like giant praying-mantis
—chock-a-block with menace.
With the parallel, red-nosed
rockets slung under each wing.
the two fat T.N.T.-packed 500-
pounders near the belly, each
aircraft packed the punch of a
destroyer’s full broadside. And,
to back that little lot, she
mounted four 20mm. cannon, the
ugly snouts projecting from each
wing’s leading-edge.
Hawk was almost ready now,
her great bulk steady in the seas,
pouring the wind back over her
rounded bow and down the
length of the deck. To starb’d
the Korean ridges massed in
jumbled array back to the fanged
horizon, dark with trees. Above
hovered Hap, his craft’s great
arms whirling.
Chewing slowly and methodi-
cally, Hap looked down at the
white-tailed monster below him.
“What’s up with those guys?”
he muttered to himself. “Want
a hurricane to lift ’em off?
“Ain’t their fault, though,” he
allowed. “Ought to give ’em
some time with our boys—really
learn to fly,”
He dropped lower, still craning
down at the carrier.
“There they go. Careful now,
bud. One dip in the drink and
you’re down half the British Air
Force.”
Hap grinned at his own wit,
and settled himself comfortably
in his seat as the Furies hurled
themselves off the catapult.
Sherwood was not concerned
with his humorously critical
Yank now. His turn had come.
The control-officer waved his
flag. Sherwood released park-
ing brakes. The handlers ran
her smoothly along, easing her
on to the bogie on the counter-
sunk catapult, the rails of steel
which would squirt her weighted
bulk skyward from a standing
start to 100 m.p.h. in a few feet.
Behind him the next Firefly’s
wings were lowering into posi-
tion. There was an air of
urgency about the big ship now.
All eyes, from Baumer’s on the
bridge to the weirdly garmented
fire-fighters waiting below it,
were on Sherwood’s aircraft. The
flight-deck-officer began slowly
circling his green flag. Sher-
wood pressed his throttle, feel-
ing in his guts the curling tension
which was always present at take-
off and landing. The Firefly’s
contented growl crescendoed to a
bellowing roar of power. The
aircraft shuddered. The flag
whipped down. Five seconds
later Hawk’s flight-deck was
receding rapidly astern. The
next Firefly moved up.
One after the other, grey bats
streaked with the white-black
markings of the United Nations,
the bombers shot off, gained
height and orbited behind their
leader in a fast circle above the
ship.
As the Strike Leader put his
squadron on-course, eight air-
craft in a slightly dipping and
rising “V” streamed astern of
him either side, he caught a last
glimpse of the helicopter, bank-
ing to follow them at her
clambering 60-odd knots. That
blasted Yank! A perverse pride
surged through him. They had
propeller-driven aircraft; the
Yanks flew jet Banshees and
Panthers. All right, so what?
You didn’t need 600 knots up
your tail diving on pill-boxes
and camouflaged tanks. What
you wanted was plenty of bombs
and rockets —and guts. They
had the explosive, all right. He
laughed suddenly, a snort audible
to Blake behind him. He’d show
that Yank a circus. This was
one of their tough assignments.
It had to be good, A couple of
hundred yards ahead of the
Australians, the ops.-officer had
said. And that meant the enemy
was a couple of hundred yards
ahead of them. With his very
respectable fire-power.
English, Australian, American
—they all had a wholesome
respect for the Gooks’ flak.
Nothing, yet, like you met over
Berlin or Hamburg; nothing
much bigger than 20mm., in fact;
but plenty of it. And in close
support of infantry—what they
were heading for now—flak
targets were low and big.
Over the coastline, scalloped
with white lace, on over the
rolling ridges; parallel for a
moment with twin black snakes
which ran, abruptly, into what
had been a tunnel-mouth, and
now was a tumbled avalanche of
rubble, A glance showed Sher-
wood the Furies ahead and above
him. Comforting sight. Par-
ticularly when you remembered
who was leading them. Sher-
wood grinned behind his mouth-
piece. He’d requisitioned some-
thing for Swannie in Brisbane.
That freelancing poetess. Free-
lancing in more than poetry —
and doing it a damned sight
better. About the only thing
about her he couldn’t understand,
her poetry; she made her other
purpose plain enough. Yet,
subtle. Or, better word, prac-
tised. No, not the poetess for
Swannie, He wouldn’t want to
be bothered with a warming-up
routine. And the poetess had
admitted she worked better when
she was inspired. He’d look her
up himself, again. Hamilton
was the suburb. Classy, too . . .
“Ahead and to starb’d.”
Blake’s voice came through the
inter-com,, brittle and efficient.
“Auster spotter. See him? Left
of that forest on the ridge.”
The Strike Leader peered,
thinking that he must tell the
poetess the circumstances under
which he last thought of her.
She’d appreciate that. Make her
more inspired . . .
“Have got,” he answered,
sighting the little silver butterfly
pinned against the green. The
pilot of the spotting aircraft was
an Australian; there was no
question about his guts! His
ship was armed with a dozen or
so smoke-flares and the .45 on
his hip. And the only place he
could fulfil his purpose was right
above a concentration of the
enemy. As he was now.
Sherwood’s earphones crackled.
“Sinbad strike [Hawk’s call-
sign] this is Highball. Something
juicy for you here. See that
ridge off my starb’d wing? The
forest below the rim this side?
Five hundred of ’em in there.
Trenches, pill - boxes. Don’t
know what they’ve got in the
way of welcome. Seen nothing
yet.”
He wouldn’t have, thought
Sherwood. Not with a flight of
bombed-up Fireflies sighted in
the distance. Anything they had,
would not be wasted, revealingly,
on the little Auster.
“Before you go in-r-our blokes
are pinned down behind and to
the left of that big shelf of rock
this side of the valley. See ’em?
Certain? Okay, feller —they’re
all yours!”
Now the enemy was pin-
pointed, the tension in Sher-
wood’s stomach relaxed enough
to let him grin a moment at the
laconic permission to slaughter
or be slaughtered. For a
moment. Then the grin hardened
into a thin line between the nut-
cracker pincers of jaw and curved
nose. His jaw set like a trap, he
spoke curtly into his microphone.
The right-hand aircraft of the
flight tilted on one wing; engine
note and rush of wind combined
in a snarling whine as it plum-
meted for the trees.
Sherwood and Blake watched.
The forest and what it hid re-
mained dark, grim, menacing—
and quiet.
“Blast you!*’ Sherwood mut-
tered. “Open up, will you?”
“No go, sir,” Blake answered.
“Those boys didn’t join yester-
day,”
“How right you are, Blake.
Let’s see if the lot of us will
flush ’em,”
The Firefly was pulling out of
its dive now, without a betraying
shot to pin-point hidden guns.
It swept round in a tight bank
and resumed position. Watch-
ing, the Strike Leader spoke an-
other order. In answer the whole
Firefly flight tilted and fell head-
long out of the sky upon the
trees,
Sherwood flicked his safety-
catch aside. His thumb rested
comfortably on the milled face
of his trigger. The trees loomed
larger and larger in his gyro-
sight ; and, suddenly, broke into
a pretty pattern of little flickering
stabs of flame.
He did not see the tracer
climbing in beautiful, graceful
arcs of close red stitches towards
him; no time to. He saw in-
stead a thick cluster of flickers,
machine-guns snarling in vicious
retaliation. He swerved slightly.
Pressed his button. In immedi-
ate response two rockets tailing
flame whooshed from under his
wings and bore with undeviating,
malignant purpose towards the
flickers. Hit, and exploded at
the base of spouting bursts of
black smoke.
The flight was unloading now,
vicious bursts erupting at the
prolongation of their noses’ lines
of sight. Sixteen rockets boring
their armored five-inch snouts
into pill-boxes and expending
their energy in shattering blasts
and tearing slivers of white-hot
steel.
Close on Sherwood’s tail the
formation climbed for height.
As he banked for the next run-
in he saw waving figures below
him, behind the Australian rocks.
He waggled Ins wings, a “hello”
in any language. Then he was
round, and lining-up.
He spoke again into his mouth-
piece, clipped and low. Bombs
this time. When they had
finished the trees were almost
hidden in rolling palls of black,
through which, now and then in
the gaps, a defiant ring of flickers
still competed against the bright
sunlight.
They were almost round on
the turn away when Sherwood
felt, before he saw, a blinding
flash of orange flame close on
his port hand. Fuel-tanks. The
stricken Firefly, a torch, plunged
headlong for the trees. Fascin-
ated, a salty fear rinsing a horrid
taste through his mouth, Sher-
wood watched it drop; saw it
hit and everything it carried ex-
plode in a soaring flux of flame;
saw a score of brown-clad figures
break cover under the heat and
scuttle for other cover; and saw
the leaders stumble, fall
grotesquely, and saw the vengeful
streaks of flame squirting from
behind the shelf of rocks.
The scene rapidly dwindled,
like a film camera withdrawing,
as he climbed. The exchange of
fire below was still in progress,
seeming puny and remote from
6000 ft. But to the Australian
infantry behind their rocks the
bursts of fire their own fire had
brought upon them was neither
puny nor remote —they were ex-
tremely intimate; and still in
respectful volume.
The Auster was calling.
“You’re on target okay. But
there’s still a mite of Gooks
above ground. Suggest frying.”
“Concur Highball, See if this
suits you.”
Sherwood’s next order crackled
through the ether and reached
into three cockpits. As the trio
banked in acquiescence they
showed their oil-streaked bellies.
Clutched to each in place of the
customary bombs was a long
cylinder. They bore down. The
flickers came to life.
“My Godl ”
SYNOPSIS
Returned aboard his carrier
after crashing into and being
rescued from the sea l Sherwood
finds his friend Swan about to
test a faulty catapult. Swan is
flung into the sea ahead of the
carrier, but is rescued by Heli-
copter Hap. Baumer, of whom
Sherwood, Swan and Hap suspect
some as yet unvoiced fault, tests
the catapult himself, and all
three flying friends have to admit
their enemy has scored a point.
After some weeks in sick-bay
Sherwood is ready to fly again,
and to take command of an im-
portant mission Scheduled for
the next day. He has a dis-
ciplined clash with the sarcastic
Baumer in the briefing-room;
then both Sherwood and Swan
climb to the flight-deck and man
their waiting aircraft.


Sherwood stared. The right-
hand aircraft of the trio, one
second a closely integrated in-
strument of destruction, the next
exploded in a sun-defying glare
of light. Its cylinder, struck by
a burst of cannon shells, had un-
leashed its disciplined energy in
a fury of flame. Napalm. Wrap-
ping the aircraft in a pall of
searing fire. Burning after it
struck.
Sherwood had forgotten the
other two aircraft, his brain
numbed. Then he saw them
deliver their jellied petrol cargoes.
The frightful stuff ran and oozed
and searched into trenches and
foxholes, making of the pine-
trees an unbearable inferno.
A dull sickness in his guts,
Sherwood banked away from the
hell below. He had no cut-
and-dried thoughts about the
horror and futility of war —just
a starkly-etched imprint on his
brain, one he would remember
while he lived, of that ship of
his flight fused to liquid before
his eyes.
“That was Lieutenant Brookes
and Skid Keogh.”
Blake’s voice was dull, too,
with the horror drumming at his
brain. His next words were the
complement to the thought in
Sherwood’s mind. “They
wouldn’t know anything about
it.”
Grim comfort, Sherwood
thought. That would help their
wives a lot; Brookes had two
kids.
Without warning, his aircraft
lifted as though a vast breath
had blown its nose up. The
altimeter and speed-indicator
burst from their panel and lay,
like two eyes gouged out, de-
pendent on wire nerves.
Instantly Sherwood flung her
sideways, out of the stream of
tracer reaching to nail him. And
into another, red stitches which
exploded in a rippling chain of
detonations along her length,
breaking her smooth streamline
into an ulcered colander.
“In the face of the explosion, Baumer remained outwardly calm. The only indication of his detestation of Sherwood was in
his voice, so low it was almost a hiss. ‘Another outburst like that Lieutenant-Commander Sherwood, and you’ll do some
explaining—to the Captain!’”
The aircraft shuddered. It
fell off in a helpless sideslip,
gathered speed. Sherwood had
barely time to shout: “Stand-
by crash-landing,” cut his igni-
tion and desperately haul her
stubborn nose up a fraction be-
fore she hit. The underbelly,
travelling at 100 knots, hit a
rock ; the rock won. The air-
craft' screeched along on her
belly, struck her snout violently,
crumpled her propeller like
licorice, slewed as her wingtip
carved off a sapling and shud-
dered to rest in a cloud of dust.
Before Sherwood and Blake
had stumbled from the aircraft
Swan had passed word to the
helicopter. And a viciously-
spoken word to his flight. In
pairs the Furies dived, so that
the wreck was not left unattended
for more than a couple of
minutes at a time.
Blake leant his bruised back
against the wing, now almost on
the ground.
“Nice work, sir. That last
lift at the end did the deed.”
Sherwood stared at the left-
hand edge of the forest 300 yards
across the valley. Though the
main part of the pines was still
burning, this area seemed un-
touched. Certain now of what
he saw, he answered:
“Bit of nice work going on
in those trees. See ’em? There
—bloke diving behind a tree.”
Blake examined his .38 pistol,
spinning the cylinder and noting
the bullet filling each hole.
“I think,” he said, squinting
down the barrel, then snapping
it shut, “they might be aiming
to get a bit of their own back.
And I also think”
The profundity of his
observer’s next thought was
denied his skipper. As one man
they dived for the aircraft’s belly,
in automatic response to a
snarling chatter from the trees.
A burst of bullets struck under
her nose and ricocheted from
the rocky ground in high-pitched
screams.
Both men raised their heads
at a new sound—a note beginning
high above them and prolonging
itself into a steady beat of sound.
Sherwood grinned through the
sweat and dust.
“Now I know what it’s like
on the receiving end. Look at
him!”
Swan’s Fury was almost
vertical. Brown balls of smoke
broke from his wings. A
rippling flash of light ran among
the trees, went out in little spurts
of smoke.
“Blake!” Sherwood spoke
urgently. “Another will be
down shortly. Soon as we hear
the dive, nip round and try and
swing her tail. We’ve got to
hold off till the helicopter lobs.
If we can get her nose aimed at
those trees”. . .
Blake’s answer was to look up.
The snarl started again, high in
the blue. They scrambled up
and dived for the tail. Straining
and grunting, they struggled to
heave the heavy tail a few feet
to the left. The Fury had dived,
strafed and climbed on the
avoiding turn before they had
shifted her nose more than a
couple of feet. They flattened
on the ground as another burst
splattered and whined off the
engine. \
Again and again, in the brief
respite of each aircraft’s attack,
faces streaming, they heaved,
feet scrabbling in the pebbly
ground. Foot by foot the air-
craft’s nose, ludicrous with its
propeller’s four blades bent like
the wilted petals of some huge
flower, jerked towards the
enemy-held trees. The nose was
ludicrous —not so the four wait-
ing mouths of her cannon,
sniffing across the little valley.
At last, panting, looking along
the fuselage, Sherwood saw the
trees dead in front.
“On target,” he said.
Blake flattened again on the
ground behind her wing. Sher-
wood was on the wing when a
score of sledgehammers beat in
a staccato tattoo against the
underside of her cocked-up nose.
He flinched back, his mouth
snarled back, face twisted under
the whistling threat of the bul-
lets. With a curse he tucked his
head down in his shoulders and
flung himself for the cockpit.
Without waiting to seat himself,
his knees on the seat, he reached
for the control-column and the
grooved trigger.
Blake jumped. A few feet in
front of his grounded nose the
wing shuddered, its leading-edge
squirting a leaden hail at the
trees. Four cannon pouring
nearly five hundred rounds a
minute in a steady, whistling
stream. The smooth, pointed
shells erupted in countless slivers
of steel among the trees.
“That’ll keep you bastards
down!” Blake shouted hysteri-
cally above the rhythmic caco-
phony. Then he felt a great
breath of wind above him and
saw the dust and leaves on the
ground whirling. He stared up.
Fifty feet above them, great arms
swinging, hung the helicopter,
From out of her wide, open side-
door a belt came out, snaking
down on the end of a thin steel
wire.
Blake waved skyward. “Oh,
you beautiful Yank! Send her
down!”
In the next few seconds
several violent things happened
at once. A Fury dived ; Blake
jumped eagerly to grab the belt;
he lurched against the aircraft,
the belt swung forward and
dropped in front of the wreck;
and the pouring stream from
her cannon whipped round and
through the thin steel wire hold-
ing the belt —cut through its
steel like a scythe through a stem
of grass.
“Hell!” Blake groaned.
Hap, craning down, had a sec-
ond to make his decision. With
his winch useless, the next move
was obvious—in normal circum-
stances. Here it was simple
suicide. No carrier-captain
would expect the helicopter to
land, a sitting duck in the face
of those trees. The obvious and
sensible thing now was to wire-
less for tanks, guns, to get the
Firefliers out. Provided the
Furies’ ammunition lasted. Hap
drew up the saliva in his mouth,
spat, and spoke into his micro-
phone.
“Escort-leader, this is Whirli-
gigger. Do those trees over
proper, will yuh? I’m goin’
in,”
In all of Korea for the next
few minutes there could not have
been a more violent few hundred
square yards. The energy of
a hundred men was concentrated
on one wrecked bomber. A per-
sonal, intense concentration,
confined to this small arena.
More than half of those hun-
dred were striving with a savage
intensity of effort to keep the
wreck company with several
others —a helicopter and three
men. Of the three men, two
were striving to reach the third,
reaching out his hand from the
wide, welcoming door.
All three had faces wrought
upon by fear, barely hidden
under the concentration of
effort. The others, grim, their
concentration centred on the
efficient use of their skill and
power, were diving in succes-
sive plummets upon the venge-
ful trees.
The aircraft won. Human
endurance, though stiffened by
balked hate, wilted under the
fury of their attack. Rockets,
bombs, cannon-shells ripped the
trees apart, blinded and buried
the men they hid. Then the
helicopter rose, clumsily, whirl-
ing arms clawing its weight up-
ward. Fifty, a hundred, two
thousand feet up, moving side-
ways, away, at the same time,
Soon it was clear, clambering
over the ridges towards the sea,
the centre of a fast-orbiting
circle of Furies, hawks protecting
a lumbering fowl. Over the
arena a strange, stunned silence
settled, hardly broken after the
violence of noise by the crackling
of flames in the trees. Above
them a tombstone of smoke
reached leisurely into the watch-
ing sky. Then a running group
emerged from the shelter of the
rocks, firing as they ran, dis-
rupting the silence, an arm here
and there drawing back, swing-
ing forward and heaving a small
black object to burst among the
unburnt trees. The group disap-
peared, completing its work
hidden from the peaceful pel-
lucidity of the heavens.
Hap turned in his seat and
looked at the two huddled be-
hind him.
“You guys okay?”
Sherwood grinned, a faint re-
laxed creasing of his dirty face.
“I think so —physically, any-
way. But don’t worry about
taking us on a trip round the
bay.”
Hap grinned himself.
“Y’ know.” He stopped, then
the chewing, and the grin came
back. “This comes kinda hard.
But I was watchin’ what you
guys did down there. Saw you
shoving that crate round. I guess
that took more than shoulders.”
Sherwood and Blake watched
him, both with interest on their
strained faces.
“What I’m tryin’ to say is—
aw, hell! Like* to have a drink
with you fellers when Jelly-belly
has finished with you. Y’ know,
we might lick these Gooks, after
all, between us.”
Sherwood eased himself
against the ship’s side.
“Y’ know, Hap, if there’s
many more like you in the great
and glorious U.S.A. I think
we might. You’re on for that
drink.” He turned sideways to
Blake. “And that goes for you,
Blake. In my cabin.”
“Aye, aye, sir,” the rating
murmured, and leant back, his
eyes closed, a twitch on his dusty
lips. The relationship between
officer-pilot and rating-observer
in a Firefly on active service is
peculiarly intimate —and, some-
times, sweet.
CHAPTER V
BAUMER was in the A.D.R.
when they intercepted the
call for help from Hap to the
Fury flight. He knew then that
he could write-off at least one
of his precious stock.
The mystic light from
the glowing radar-scopes, making
a weird spiritualist’s room of the
otherwise darkened compart-
ment, lighted his fleshy face with
a demoniac glow. Baumer was
angry; and as he was not the
sort of man to stifle anger in the
presence of subordinates, it
showed clearly i» his blood-
suffused face and squinted eyes.
A strange mixture, this com-
mander. At the same time as he
showed his ire, he felt the in-
justice of it. Whatever else he
was, he was a British naval
officer of long training—honest
enough to admit to himself that
the fact that the downed plane
was a Firefly was the chief cause
of his anger.
Standing beside the direction-
officer behind his bank of tele-
phones, Baumer lifted his head
to the big circular perspex screen
facing him across the room, as
he heard the reports of contacted
aircraft coming in. A rating
marked them on the concentric
rings of the plotting-screen,
pinpointing their range, height,
speed and course. Fireflies and
Furies, approaching from the
land, in flying formation. That
meant the attack was over.
Baumer turned to the D.O.
“Have they reported visual
yet?” he rapped.
The D.O. looked up in sur-
prise, hiding his chagrin at this
interference with his complex
job. You silly newt, he thought.
You know damned well why they
haven’t. Aloud, he answered:
“Not yet, sir. Too far off.”
Baumer turned impatiently, to
stare at the plot. Gradually,
as the continuous radar-contact
reports came in, the aircraft
were shifted towards the centre
of the plot, like flies edging to-
wards the centre of a giant web.
The centre was Hawk. The
range was decreasing rapidly.
(Continued on next page )


SUBSCRIPTION RATES
im ADVU
♦
"THE BULLETIN"
£l/16/- for 12 months
18/6 for 6
9/6 for 3 „
THE "WOMAN'S MIRROR"
£l/6/- for 12 months
13/- for 6 „
7/- for 3 „
These prices include postage, and apply
whether the subscription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” Office or to any newsagent
in Australia.
DO NOT PAY MORE
A magnified voice crackled
from a loudspeaker.
“Sinbad, this is Twenty-five
Leader with nine aircraft, visual,
over.”
Swan’s voice. Baumer listened
intently to the report. He
breathed deeply, audibly through
his nose. Three aircraft down!
Swan’s voice went on, detachedly
matter-of-fact. He was in sight
of the carrier now.
“Have the surgeon stand-by.
Sherwood and Blake picked up
by helicopter. May be injured.”
Sherwood! Injured again.
That meant one of the three lost
aircraft was his. Then the hate
Baumer felt for the hawk-nosed
Fireflier swamped his concern
at the aircraft’s loss. A savage
smile curled his thick lips. Shot
down twice in four weeks. That
would hurt Sherwood more than
a Gook bullet. Baumer took
another look at the plot and felt
his way out of the room, head-
ing for the flying-bridge.
With Hawk below them, like a
rectangular tadpole with a white
tail, the Furies and Fireflies left
the helicopter to form-up for
their landing circuit. Hap headed
his craft directly for the flight-
deck, zebra’d with its yellow
lines.
Sherwood was beside him in
the cockpit, Blake further aft in
the body of the plane.
Without taking his eyes from
the ship. Hap said:
“I reckon Jelly-belly’ll be
pleased to see you, friend.”
“Your reckoning is out, Hap,”
Sherwood answered. “But I get
what you mean. No heroics,
the gentleman said. And all air-
craft back.”
Hap grinned sideways at him.
“You don’t seem worried none,
son.”
Sherwood laughed.
“Worried? Why the hell why?
I was worried, all right. Bloody
worried! But not now, by a
jelly-bellied commander who
ought to be medically examined.”
Sherwood realised, suddenly,
what he had said. He shut up
abruptly. Hap looked quizzi-
cally at him, chewing slowly.
“More of that later, friend,”
he said. Then he directed all
his attention to landing.
So soon as Sherwood and
Blake had climbed from the air-
craft and hurried across the
flight-deck to the door in the
island-structure. Hap took her
off again, climbing almost verti-
cally and slipping sideways at the
same time. His work, with the
first aircraft lining-up astern,
was just beginning.
After assuring the surgeon that
both he and Blake were unhurt,
Sherwood climbed down through
Hawk’s cavernous innards to the
briefing-room—now the de-
briefing-room. As he made his
report to the
he could hear the successive
thumps and slithers as Hawk
gathered in her satiated brood.
By the time he had finished, the
great ship was quiet, except for
mechanical noises coming from
the hangar, into which the air-
craft were being struck-down for
maintenance.
In groups of two and three the
pilots were coming into the
room. As' this had been a com-
bined operation against a joint
target, they would have little
to to Sherwood’s report.
Watching them, the Fireflier was
struck, as he always was when
he saw them grouped, by the
youngness of his command.
Though the youthful faces were
now tired, lined with strain, by
dinnertime Sherwood knew that
the strain would be gone, leaving
the usual boyish, sun-reddened
faces of youth without a care in
the world. Most war-time pilots
lived, for very good reason, for
the day. These of his had the
additional inducement of youth.
Few of them were older than 22.
Several of them, Ventner
among them, called to Sherwood,
grinning. Then Baumer came
in, and the stuffy room was in-
stantly quiet. It could have
been respect. Not bloody likely,
thought Sherwood.
The Strike Leader was not
particularly interested as the
pilots made their reports, Baumer
listening, close-lipped and silent.
He was back again in that valley,
feeling the hammer of shells
splattering against the engine as
he tried for ihe cockpit. That,
he reflected, was as close as ever
he’d been to finis. He was not
really listening even when
Baumer stepped up before the
blackboard and began to speak.
Suddenly, Sherwood sat up.
He could hardly believe what he
was hearing. The smooth voice,
sarcastic and loaded with malice,
was saying;
“I made it clear that, though
the mission was an important
one, I wanted as few casualties
as possible. That meant, in our
present state, no casualties.” He
looked at Sherwood. The room
shifted restlessly.
“No doubt you think you have
struck a heroic blow for the good
fight. I think that three air-
craft lost in attacking a holed-up
enemy group, unsupported by
any sort of effective A.A.
defence, is bloody awful! ”
He paused, beating down the
restlessness with his glaring eyes.
“When we attacked Bismarck —
Bismarck, mind you—with
Swordfish, we lost one aircraft.
Seeing as we know so little about
elementary evasion tactics against
light A.A. fire, both Firefly and
Fury groups will fly off in half an
hour. The ship’s close-range
armament will be closed-up for
the same practice. That’s all.”
The last words were rapped.
There was no sound but the
scraping of feet as the pilots rose
“ Dress-uniforms are to he worn on Sundays ONLY.”
and left the room. But there was
a babble in the passageway out-
side, gradually receding.
Swan looked at Sherwood, and
said, aloud. “He’s joking, Dick,
Bloody poor joke, what! ”
Swan followed Sherwood up
to Baumer, waiting for them on
the platform.
“Look here,” Swan started, his
face working. Sherwood silenced
him with a gesture.
“I’ll handle this, Swannie,” he
said curtly.
Baumer leaned forward
slightly, facing Sherwood. His
voice was silky.
“Handle what, Sherwood?”
Swan caught the tone. Watch
yourself, Dick, he muttered to
himself.
Baumer continued before Sher-
wood could answer.
“Handle the exercise? Oh
yes, you’ll handle the exercise,
all right. You may have
gathered, from your recent fly-
ing .. . mishaps . . . that the
exercise is designed primarily
for you.”
Sherwood, for the moment,
was speechless. The man must
be cracked. Sherwood had not
established the record for sorties
flown in the west Korean area
sitting in the mess. But then his
professional competence was so
established that its questioning
was merely ridiculous. Even
while anger was impelling him
to smash the big, sneering face
before him, a lifelong sense of
discipline, combined with natural
commonsense, warned him to
watch himself. So that when he
did speak, his voice was re-
strained and even. He stared
straight into Baumer’s eyes, on
a level with his own.
“Listen —sir. You may have
your opinion of my flying
ability, but you can’t intend to
send those boys up now? They
did a damned good job back
there. And so did the Gooks.
Our losses were unavoidable.”
Suddenly his restraint broke.
“God, do I have to explain
that!”
In the face of the explosion,
Baumer remained outwardly
calm. The only indication of his
detestation of Sherwood was in
his voice, so low it was almost
a hiss, loaded with menace.
“Another outburst like that,
Lieut.-Commander Sherwood,
and you’ll do some explaining
—to the captain!”
Sherwood stepped back as
though Baumer had struck him.
“By God,” he mouthed, “you
fat fool, that’s exactly what I
will do! Now 7”
He turned violently, almost
knocking little Swan off the
platform, and strode from the
room.
Swan recovered and faced
Baumer, His voice was placat-
ing.
“Look here, sir. This can’t
go on like”— —
Baumer pushed him aside.
“Get out of my way, you
bloody squirt!”
Then he, too, was out the door,
striding urgently.
The bridge was a scene of
quiet, disciplined efficiency. The
officer of the watch stood be-
hind the gyro-compass, swaying
easily to Hawk’s slight roll. Be-
side him the wheelhouse voice-
pipe, an extended throat, its
mouth hanging open; before
him the wide sweep of the
carrier’s deck, lifting with slow
rhythm over the watery ridges.
In the fore-end of the bridge,
before the officer of the watch,
the captain stood talking quietly
with the navigator, both officers
sipping tea.
When Sherwood burst on to
the bridge from the steep ladder,
the influence of this holy of
holies laid a calming hand on his
mental turmoil instantly. For
one second he hesitated —he was
a man and an officer, not an
ordinary-seaman. Then ‘ the
memory of Baumer’s sneer, and
his wholly irrational conduct,
sent him stepping lithely forward.
He heard a step on the copper-
plating of the bridge behind him,
and sensed, without turning his
head, that it was Baumer.
The captain turned as he heard
their footsteps. For a brief
moment his face showed surprise,
almost disbelief, at the look in
the faces of his two visitors.
His eyes, deep-set under an over-
hang of eyebrows, narrowed
slightly,
“Yes?” he queried.
“May I see you in your sea-
cabin, sir,” Sherwood said.
The captain looked at him a
moment, and turned to Baumer.
“Yes, sir,” answered Baumer.
The captain did not hesitate.
He stepped between them, call-
ing as he passed the officer of
the watch.
“Sea-cabin, Bolton.”
“Aye, aye, sir,” answered the
officer of the watch, and glued
his eyes on the gyro-compass
card. The navigator turned and
watched the trio leave the bridge.
He set his cup down slowly.
Then he, too, avoiding the officer
of the watch’s eyes, turned and
stared intently at the whitecapped
sea ahead. The bridge was now
a scene of quiet, disciplined dis-
comfort.
The captain stepped in over
the coaming of his cabin door,
waited for the other two to
enter, and gestured to Sherwood
to shut the door. When he had,
in pregnant silence, the captain,
still standing, looked at Baumer.
Baumer was the senior officer.
This disconcerted Baumer for
a second. The complaint was
Sherwood’s. But the captain
was waiting, and this man was
of a breed who were not used
to being kept waiting.
Baumer cleared his throat.
“It’s really—er—not a case to
worry you with, sir. I —Lieut.-
Commander Sherwood”
The captain’s voice, coldly in-
cisive, interrupted him.
“Then why were you on the
bridge?”
Sherwood stepped forward.
He, too, felt like Baumer. There
are many complaints in her
Majesty’s Navy on which the
participants therein threaten to
go before the captain. Few
really do. But they were here
now.
“It’s my complaint, sir.” He
spoke quietly, looking the captain
in the eyes. He could not look
at this man in any other way.
“Commander Air thinks that
both Fury and Firefly groups
should fly-off in half an hour for
exercise in evasive tactics with
the close-range armament.”
Sherwood stopped. “Yes?”
asked the captain.
A feeling of the weakness of
his case, so baldly stated, with
none of the heated feelings of
the briefing-room intruding,
made Sherwood reply bluntly.
“I don’t think they should,
sir.”
Not letting go with his eyes,
the captain folded his arms.
“Why?” he asked, on a rising
inflection.
“Because, sir ... Well, they’ve
just returned from a mission.”
The captain knows that, you fool.
His voice trailed off lamely.
The captain turned to Baumer.
“Those are your orders, Com-
mander?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You believe that the groups
need this extra exercise?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Very well.” The voice was
curt, assured with the conscious-
ness of unquestioned authority.
“Both groups will fly-off in half
an hour.”
The captain looked at Sher-
wood. “Aye, aye, sir,” the
Fireflier answered. Both officers
turned and walked to the door,
Baumer leading. The captain
waited till the curtain swung
back. He continued staring at
the door, his lips pursed in a
soundless whistle. Then he
reached to one side and pressed
a buzzer. Almost instantly the
messenger appeared.
“Sir?”
“Ask the commander to speak
to me, please.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
The ship’s commander, her
second-in-command, was, like
the captain, a normal deck-officer
—non-flying. Unlike the captain,
he was short, rotund and cheery-
faced. Dissimilar, also, in the
fact that a goodly part of his
long experience had been spent in
submarines, he was, at the same
time, identical, in the same all-
important facility—both captain
and commander were superb
handlers of men. Not that that
necessarily followed. Some
captains ruled by the force of
the rings on their uniform-
sleeves; Hawk’s two senior
officers ruled by the force of
their personalities.
The messenger found the
commander, having just thrown
his cap on to his bunk, about
to light a cigarette after a tiring
turn of inspection of the ship’s
’tween-decks —his province.
He looked up at the mes-
senger’s knock.
“Captain would like to see
you in his sea-cabin, sir.”
“Very well.”
The commander picked up
his cap again, and was almost
out the door when he remem-
bered his telescope. He was
always forgetting the useless
thing. He had not yet got used
to the fact that in anything in
and above a cruiser the com-
mander without his telescope was
as conspicuous as the commander
without his pants. He grinned,
a wide crinkling of his chubby
face, and picked up the beauti-
fully knotted instrument, snowy-
white with the daily scrubbing
and salt-rubbing of his own mes-
senger. This worthy, waiting
outside the cabin-door, stood to
attention as his lord emerged,
then trotted dutifully at his heels
—another adjunct of the big-
ship commander; though this
time a useful one.
The commander poked his
cheery face into the captain’s
cabin.
“Yes, sir,” he announced his
presence breezily.
“Oh, come in. Commander.
Shut the door, will you?”
The captain walked over to
the big, brightly covered divan,
sat down, and motioned his
deputy to a chair.
“Trouble, Tubby,” he began
without preamble. These two
had known each other for 30
years, from battleship to
destroyer. The commander
waited, “Baumer and Sher-
wood.”
“Ah,” said the commander.
“You know?”
“Not the particular strife you
are talking about. But even in
o Continued on page 24)


■
mp&am/t
a
O Q
0.01
0 0‘
\j
&
n
T\
C&m :
Av
.IT
3
m
•"'l
§2?
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K8.13t.18
THE KNIFE
by David Canmplell
u JT\ LL right,” the cool
r"\ voice said in his ear.
I “She’s all yours.”
“Taking over,” Max
Viner said.
There were five aircraft
ahead: two on the cross-wind
leg, three on the approach. The
runway was hidden under the
port wing—just the way he
liked it.
“I’ll take her in,” he said.
And, as they had to in the
jungle, he acted very quickly;
chopped back the throttle,
dropped the port wing, trod on
the upper rudder. And while
the aircraft fell away, he felt
the stick into the right-hand
corner, feeling with his fingers
for the stall, learning as he
went, his head to the side
watching the strip over his
shoulder, the instruments for-
gotten. The earth was coming
up at him sideways with a rush
of air; and just where the
controls softened, he held them,
stick and rudder; dropped the
wheels, the flaps, letting the
nose come round until the end
of the runway was there, where
he wanted it, coming like a
train in the angle of the wing
and engine.
Almost at the point of im-
pact, he changed rudder-pedals.
The nose came up and round
sweetly into the line of flight.
He kicked three times each
way, washing out the last of
the speed, the stick in his guts.
When the aircraft stalled, the
runway took the three points
cleanly with no feeling of touch-
down at all —a slight shudder,
an easing of the olios.
He turned off the strip a third
of the way down. The other
aircraft were still way up: three
on the approach, two on the
cross-wind leg—not like the boys
of the squadron who would be
there, swinging in beside him,
lifting their thumbs,
“She’s sweet,” he said. “She’s
a sweet kite for a trainer.
Thanks a lot. I know her now.”
“If you’ll taxi back,” the voice
was saying, “we’ll do a normal
circuit and landing.”
“Just as you like.”
But when he went for a burst
of throttle, the lever was held
back, dead.
“Look both ways,” the voice
said. “Then take her around
on an even throttle by the taxi-
ing lane.”
TWINER loosened the safety-
strap, turned around, his
elbow on the fuselage, and smiled
at the man in the cockpit behind
him. He met two candid eyes
above the mouthpiece.
“Can’t we skip that?” he said.
“I know all the patter. Let’s
just brush up at the bar, huh?”
“You’re not on operations
now,” the voice said in his ear.
“Teach that landing to your
pupils and we’d have no aircraft
left at the end of a week.”
“Jolly good, eh? We’d all
get some leave. But seriously,
that may have been a bit smart.
I know how it goes though:
Wheels, 1500 ; flaps on the turn.
Watch the instruments and kiss
my aunt. It doesn’t work like
that in practice.”
“We’ll try it,” the voice said.
The straight eyes had not smiled.
All right, he’d try it, if that
was the way of it. Knee-deep in
tape. And from a man who’d
not seen a shot fired in anger!
All the way around the voice
was in his ear. Stealthily he dis-
connected the inter-com. cord.
He was free at last to breathe, to
look out at the great hot hemis-
phere of sky: mountains in the
distance and no threat in the sun.
A friendly corner where a man
could relax, forget the tension in
his hand. But the tension was
there; he felt it; the old anger,
the wariness—this time for the
man in the seat behind him, the
man with the cool voice and the
soft job.
If it was kid-stuff he wanted.
Viner would give it to him: the
standard circuit, the groove cut
in the sky back home above
Forrest Hill, two tours ago. He
could do it with his eyes shut.
And again he felt the prickle of
his moustache as he smiled, in
the old groove, following the
leader onto the broad arm of the
runway crossing the plain.
He swept in on the merry-go-
round with a trickle of throttle,
ready to wheel her on. But for
some reason he was uncomfort-
able ; there was too much time.
He checked late. The port wheel
struck first and the earth threw
them at the sky, nose high and
a wing going over. A burst of
motor to ease her —but the air-
craft was no longer his. The
throttle moved in his hand, and
the stick. The instructor had
taken over.
Furious, he switched on the
inter-com., and maddeningly the
cool voice proceeded; “The
wheels and then the flaps at
five hundred feet, easing back
the throttle.”
“Here!” Viner said. “What
do you mean, taking over?
Who’s flying this crate?”
“I am,” the voice said.
“Squadron-Leader Viner, take her
around again, and this time
check earlier. Bring the tail
down in stages. And, by the
way, leave the microphone on.
Handing over.”
“All right—Squadron-Leader
Graham,” Viner said. “Taking
over.”
HE was white, dead white
with anger; but his eyes—
his shrewd, brown, calculating
eyes that knew so well the angles
through the gunsights, just where
to freeze and for how long, while
the tracer ripped, it seemed, from
them studding the enemy aircraft,
each kill a mathematical ecstasy,
a thing of the mind —these eyes
were shrewd again, calm.
They spent the morning there,
practising circuits and bumps.
“Well, that’s all right,” Dad
Graham said, climbing out,
swinging off his sweating helmet,
rubbing a hand through greying
hair. The tar sweated. Wing-
tip to wingtip, the training two-
seaters shimmered in line down
the plain. The last aircraft
coughed, shutting off. Hawks
wheeled again in the fierce sky.
Brown-skinned pupils trailed out
of the hangars for lunch.
“That’s all right. You settled
down well after the first round
or two. It’s strange, I guess,
after operations. They all find
it. Here it’s a matter of saving
lives —through care.”
Max Viner smiled. He rubbed
his moustache down, checking
the smile. He looked about him,
the smile still itching at his
moustache —at the brown-
skinned trainees and the hawks
in the sky.
“Squadron-Leader Graham,”
he said. “May I see you in
your office? Officially.”
“Certainly.” Graham met his
eye. “I’ll be there after lunch.
And if it’s official, shall we make
it two o’clock?”
He was smiling.
“Two o’clock.”
Viner swung the parachute
onto his shoulder and, brushing
down his moustache, walked off
into the hangar.
A T two o clock he saluted and
salc *>
Sir X would like to make a
fomal apptoion-I believe
thaU the: phrase >
Cut it, Graham said. Sit
down
But Viner did not sit down.
Instead, he leaned his hands on
the desk so that the fingers
whitened.
“Sir, I’d like to return to my
squadron.”
“Sit down. Don’t be a fool.”
But you see, I am not a
fool. I want to return to opera-
tions.”
“You’ve done your two tours ”
Graham said. You need a rest,
Look at you.”
“What’s wrong with me?”
Fire suddenly shot in Viner’s
eyes. “Look at that hand.” It
was his trigger hand, hard,
steady. “You think because of
this morning”
“I think nothing of the sort.
it’s usual, after operations,
Relax. You’ve done with the
war.”
“So you won’t recommend it?”
And quite suddenly Viner did
relax. He put his hands in his
pockets. He sauntered stiff-
kneed over the linoleum.
“Well, well,” he said. “Just
so Jong' as we know. It’s a
pleasure to learn. So it’s dr-
cu i ts and bumps. Training
boongs.”
“That's another thing,”
Graham said, “while we’re get-
ting t 0 know one another. There
boongs on this station ,
Remember that. There axe our-
. and our »
’ '
viner stooa sun. lie loojcea
at the other. He raised his eye-
brows. He smiled a little
partisan smile,
“That’s good,” he said. “That’s
good. Where did you get that
one? Ourselves—and our
allies! He nad loosened a
button of his jacket and slipped
his hand in against his hammer-
mg heart. “Say often
enough and maybe there s
always the chance—maybe you 11
§ et that 0.8. E. after all.
He was smiling his most
charming smile, a smile that made
him young again, reckless and
arrogant.
“Squadron-Leader Viner,”
Graham said. He was tapping
the desk with a pencil, tired now,
a little old. “I thought we
might talk things out. You
came here with a good record —
I almost said brilliant. It would
be a pity to spoil it. You will
take over A-Flight tomorrow.
Right?”
“Right, sir.”
All the way over to the mess
Viner kept repeating, “Ourselves
—and our allies!”
THE imperturbability of
Graham infuriated him —
that grave pipe-smoker’s smile:
like Christmas-pudding. Like
Dr. Mac. Somehow it seemed
to him theatrical; but he ad-
mitted envy, he who was most
composed, most at ease, at 500
m.p.h. with the enemy in his
sights.
And at the bar he found sud-
denly that he was shaking, trem-
bling all over, in a fever, like
his spells at night when he woke
shaken by unknown terrors.
“You all right, sir?”
“Of course I’m all right.
Whisky-and-soda, Corporal.”
To prove it, he lifted the drink,
his hand firm again, unflinching,
and toasted the bar-steward.
“To ourselves,” he said. “And
our allies!”
There was nobody else in the
mess.
And after the third whisky, the
cold fire, he could smile again,
easily; smile the slow arrogant
smile that he pushed down,
thumbing his moustache.
“Yes,” he said, “Corporal.
We’re going to see a lot of one
another. See this corner?”
“Yes sir.”
“You’ll find me here.”
He took a knife from his
pocket, opened the blade, and
cut a quadrant on the bar counter
between the wall and his elbow.
His reserve. Then he dug the
knife in the soft wood of the
bar with the cutting edge to the
world. It was war.
HE was there each evening
and night, leaving his corner
only for dinner. The corporal
had his whisky-and-soda ready
for him when he came in from
flying and he drank steadily until
midnight. But he did not get
drunk. The only change as the
evenings wore on was the little
smile that lifted the corners of
his moustache. He would thumb
(Continued on page 27)


AUSTRALIAN
“BOY”
FORTNIGHTLY
The National Magazine for Boys
• It’s entertaining, informative, exciting, clean.
• Stories, strips, hobbies, sport, features.
• “BOY” is a suitable magazine for your children.
• ITS AUSTRALIAN. ITS NEW.
• It’s the best boys’ paper in the world.
32 pages 9d.
FROM ALL NEWS STANDS
a wagon this size a man can’t
help seeing things. And hearing
’em.”
“You’re right, of course. I’ve
seen it coming for some time.
The only reason I haven’t acted
is that I’m damned if I can see
what I can act on. Baumer is
completely efficient in his job.
He ought to be. He was in the
Bismarck show, at Taranto”
“He’s told you, too,” the com-
mander grinned.
“What d’ you mean?”
“Nothing, nothing. Go on.”
“I just can’t fault him pro-
fessionally. And a man’s en-
titled to his personal foibles,
when he does his job 100 per
cent. But Sherwood gets his
hackles up—so bad I wonder that
it’s taken this long to break out.
Why?”
The commander offered his
cigarette-case.
“It’s significant, don’t you
think,” he said, in between puffs,
“that the only character we’ve
discussed is Baumer’s. Sher-
wood seems, in your eyes, not to
rate a mention.”
“Sherwood,” said the captain
slowly, “is the finest squadron-
commander I’ve shipped with.”
“And as a mess-mate?”
“That goes for all sides of
him. And for his pint-size go-
ashore opposite-number. Swan.”
“Then,” said the commander,
“friend Baumer seems to be the
feller that’s bothering us. I
don’t see much of him, myself.
Being a mere seaman.”
The captain found himself
grinning back at the cheerful
face.
“Fat lot of use you are, Tubby.
I expected some sage advice.
God knows I’ve got you out of
enough scrapes—ashore and
afloat! ”
“You answered this one a while
back yourself,” the commander
went on. “There’s just nowt you
can do —so long as Baumer pulls
his weight. If we cracked down
on a man because he was un-
popular with the troops —brother,
the French Revolution would be
a borough election by compari-
son.”
The captain nodded slowly.
“You’re right. Tubby. But I’ll
need to watch things.” He
thought of telling the commander
of his distasteful decision in up-
holding Baumer’s superior
authority over Sherwood. He
dismissed the thought. He had
made the decision. And it was
a long time since the captain had
felt impelled to explain his deci-
sions.
He got up. The commander
rose with him, and walked to the
door. “I wouldn’t lose any
sleep over it, Edgar. They’ve
both got sense and experience
enough to keep it to themselves.
I’ve got my own idea on
Baumer’s attitude. But it’s not
clear enough yet to go bruiting
it abroad.”
The chunky figure stepped
over the coaming. The captain
called to him.
“Oh, Commander. I’ll be doing
Saturday-rounds tomorrow.”
“Aye, aye, sir,” answered the
commander briskly.
(To he continued next week )
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of verse called “There’s
Only Two of Us Here,” containing
the line “And I replied, ‘lf I can
only find me flamin’ boots, there’ll
only be one of us here.’ ”—5663.
Christmas issue of “Strand” maga-
zine, 1950 or 1951, containing story
by Kipling on Shakspeare, and
Ben Jonson discussing translation of
Bible into English.—s6s4.
To buy small quantity of seeds of
Green Jade lettuce.—5655.
Words of old-time song containing
the line “Ain’t it grand to be
bloomin’ well dead?”—5656.
To buy copy of Port Hacking and
Sutherland Shire, by Frank Crid-
land.—5680.
Any printed references to the
duboisia-tree and its drug properties.
—5679.
Copy of old “Lone Hand” maga-
zine containing an article on The
Pinnacles Valley (N.S.W.).—5678.
To buy copy of Farming 750 Acres
Without Artificial Fertilizers, by
Sykes.—s 677.
To buy copy of The Kerrigan
Boys and Boundary Bend, by Edward
Harrington.—s 676.
Printed references to the sinking
of the troopship Heluis while
evacuating troops from Greece in
1941.—5675.
To buy copy of archy and
mehitabel, by Don Marquis.—s 674.
To buy For Life and The Romance
of Runnibede, by “Steele Rudd”. —
5667.
To buy copy of Six for Heaven,
by Dorothy Lucie Sanders.—5670.
Typiste, Sydney, own machine,
will type authors’ manuscripts, neat
and accurate.—5669.
Words and name of author of
poem “The Song of the Walgett
Drover” beginning:
Oh, if I could live once again I’d give
All my wealth and a little over,
To be there outback on the old bush track
With the song of the Walgett Drover.
—5668.
Middle-aged gent., Sydney, perman-
ent position, wants full board and
lodging, own room with small, pri-
vate family in quiet suburb near
city.—s 673.
English family, Sydney, husband,
wife and two small children, recent
arrivals from Devon, want furnished
or unfurnished flat or cottage, not
too far from city.—s 672.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of Ingebyra, a place in
the Monaro district (N.S.W.). —5671.
Information Sought
Some information on the big rail-
smash in the north of England dur-
ing World War I?
On May 22, 1915, a slow local
train in the Carlisle district (north
England) was shunted on to the
down-line at Quintinshill (Scotland)
while the London-Edinburgh express,
which usually passed it at Carlisle,
went through. The signalman at
Quintinshill, Meakin, due to be re-
lieved by James Tinsley, after shunt-
ing the train (on which Tinsley
arrived), forgot to “close” the down-
line. Even when Tinsley was shortly
afterwards notified by phone of the
approach from the north of a troop-
train, he didn’t do anything about
it. Rushing down from the Cheviot
Hills, the trooper (with 470 men and
12 officers of the Royal Scots bound
for Ypres) crashed with terrific force
into the stationary train. With
wrecked carriages strewn over troth
lines and dead and wounded lying
everywhere, Tinsley and Meakin for-
got about the north-bound express,
which, tearing round a bend at
60 m.p.h. a couple of minutes later,
ploughed still deeper into the wreck-
age. Huge fires started and en-
gulfed some of the trapped men
(soldiers from the Western Front
said they had not seen scenes of
greater horror in the trenches). All
told, 277 lives were lost in the most
terrible of all British railway acci-
dents. Tinsley and Meakin, brought
to trial before the Edinburgh High
Court, were found guilty of culpable
homicide; Tinsley was sentenced to
three years’ imprisonment, Meakin
to 18 months’.
♦ * * *
What amount did the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment collect in tax in 1948-49 ?
For 1948-49 N.S.W. collected the
following sums: Probate and succes-
sion duties, £4,871,876; other stamp
duties, £2,809,202; land, £2243;
income (arrears), £142,765; liquor,
£1,191,308; entertainments,
£1,354,952; motor, £3,957,563;
licences (n.e.i.), £81,337. Com-
monwealth tax-reimbursements,
£21,878,947. Total, £36,290,193.
(Figures from the 1951 Common-
wealth Year Book.)
* * * ♦
Some information on the recent
motor exhibition held in Sydney
Town Hall?
Opened from Nov. 10 to Nov. 14,
inclusive, it was arranged by the
Automotive Products Manufacturers’
Association of Australia, and was
the first exhibition devoted entirely
to displaying products of the Austra-
lian automobile industry. Forty-
seven manufacturers displayed com-
ponents associated with the build-
ing, servicing and maintenance of
motor-vehicles. On the first three
days only invited members of the
trade were admitted (to give them
full opportunity of examining articles
shown), but on the last two days it
was open to the public. It is in-
tended to hold similar shows
regularly.
* * He *
Some information on the revolt of
Judas Maccabceus ?
The third of five sons of Matta-
thias of Modin, he took over a revolt
led by his father when the latter was
killed (166 b.c.). The revolt was
against Antiochus Epiphanes, ruler of
the Seleucid (Syrian) empire and
overlord of Judea, who, after mak-
ing extortionate tax-demands, perse-
cuted the Jews and proscribed their
religion. Judas, together with his
brothers, moulded the Jews into a
disciplined force, and routed half-a-
dozen hosts under different Syrian
generals. After these victories (and
the death of Antiochus shortly after)
Judas was enabled to occupy
Jerusalem and restore Jewish worship
there (165 b.c.). After more skirm-
ishings religious freedom was granted
to the Jews (162 b.c.), and the main
object of the war was achieved. But
Judas and some of his followers,
resolved on political independence,
continued the fight, in opposition to
the wishes of large numbers of his
countrymen. At Eleasa (161 b.c.)
Judas was defeated and slain by
Bacchides. Hie brothers of Judas
are known to history as the Macca-
bees (the name, originally bestowed
on Judas alone, means “the ham-
mer”); one brother, Jonathan, on
the death of Judas, became high-
priest and ruler of Jerusalem, and
another, Simon, in turn succeeded
Jonathan.
* * * *
Why has Britain no written Con-
stitution ?
Not easy to give a short answer.
According to Modern Constitutions,
by K. C. Wheare, if the Common-
wealth of Cromwell had persisted
Britain almost certainly would have
had a Constitution; several attempts
were made to establish a Constitu-
tion during the Protectorate. Such a
project was abandoned at the
Restoration (1660), but was revived
to some extent in the Bill of Rights
(1688). The Bill of Rights, however,
though “as near to a Constitution
as you can get in England” (Wheare)
and dealing with Constitutional mat-
ters, covers only a small part of
the ground. Moreover, it makes no
attempt to limit the powers of
Parliament, usually one of the most
important functions of Constitutions.
“So it was that,” again quoting
Wheare, “whereas in certain countries
of the world in the 18th and 19th
centuries people were at work fram-
ing Constitutions which would limit
the powers of legislatures, in Britain
Parliament was supreme, and it was
controlled by political means and
not by the law of a Constitution.”
Of course the whole body of British
law (custom and tradition and
“extra-legal” as well as statutory
law) can be regarded as a Constitu-
tion; and, says Everyman’s Encyclo-
pedia, “The British Constitution
stands in our days a great deal
firmer and less vulnerable than all
the European Constitutions for which
it has been a pattern.”
* ♦ ♦ *
Why is Prince Louis Napoleon
(French emperor 1852-70) referred to
as Napoleon III? I have seen no
reference in history-books to Napo-
leon 11. Was there a Napoleon 11 ?
Napoleon I’s only son, Napoleon
Francis Joseph Charles, was born on
Mar. 20, 1811—his mother was
Napoleon’s second wife, the Austrian
Princess Marie Louise. He was at
first designated King of Rome, after
the analogy of the heirs of the
emperors of the Holy Roman
Empire. In 1814 Napoleon’s abdica-
tion was ostensibly in favor of his
son, who was then acclaimed by the
Bonapartists as Napoleon 11. For a
few days only he was titular
emperor. But the Allies who had
defeated Napoleon proposed to re-
store the Bourbons (Louis XVIII),
and the young prince and his mother
had to return to Austria while
Napoleon was sent to Elba. (They
did not return to France even during
the Hundred Days.) After the final
downfall of Napoleon his son be-
came a pawn in the complex game
of European politics; claims on his
behalf were put forward by the
Austrian Chancellor Metternioh and
sometimes he was used by mal-
contents in France to discredit the
Bourbons. On July 22, 1818, he was
created by the Hapsburgs Duke of
Reichstadt (the title he is usually
given in reference-books) as compen-
sation for a decision to prevent his
succeeding to his mother’s duchy of
Parma. The upheaval in France in
1830 turned many Frenchmen to
thoughts of Napoleon 11, but Metter-
nich, then dominating European
affairs, did all he could to dis-
courage a Napoleonic revival. The
duke, interested in military affairs
and devoted to physical exercise,
overstrained himself in these pur-
suits ; he suffered from chest-
weakness, and died on July 22, 1832.
Louis Napoleon’s assumption of the
style Napoleon 111, seeming to in-
volve a dynastic claim, gave offence
to some of the hereditary monarchs,
in particular the emperor Nicholas I
of Russia.
ŏ
opinion is that an operation should
not be necessary, but a properly-
fitted plaster jacket may be needed.
(2) Don’t know qualifications of the
people you name. (3) Wouldn’t
advise such exercises unless under
supervision... .J.G.: Write Elliott’s
and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.,
20 O’Connell-street, Sydney
L.E.8.: Cannot trace any relation-
ship between the two families
P.T.G.: Write Commonwealth Ex-
perimental Building Station, Chats-
wood (N.S.W.), for a copy of Earth
Wall Construction, by G. F. Middle-
ton; price Is H.S.: Walter
Richard Sickert (1860-1942) was a
British painter and etcher who was
born at Munich, of German des-
cent F.J.R.: Charles Marie de la
Condamine (1701-1774) was a French
traveller and mathematical geo-
grapher. In 1735 he went on an ex-
pedition to Peru to measure a meri-
dional arc. He explored the Amazon
and worked on the establishment of
a universal unit of length
C.McW.: The verse is “The Swag-
man’s Rest.” You will find it in
A. B. Paterson’s Collected Verse
J.W.A.: “Rusty Bugles,” the play
by Sumner Locke-Elliott, was pre-
sented for the first time (other than
in a public reading) at the Indepen-
dent Theatre, Sydney, on October 21,
1948 E.W.G.: Write Common-
wealth Copyright Office, 5 Hickson-
road, Sydney... .H.S.D.: The line
“They left the vine-wreathed cottage
and the mansion on the hill” is the
opening line of George Essex Evans’s
“The Women of the West”
P.8.W.: Write Repatriation Depart-
ment, the Grace Building, 77 York-
street, Sydney, for pamphlet: “War
Widows: Notes on War Pensions
and Repatriation Benefits”....
C.J.H.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Agriculture, Farrer-place,
Sydney... .W.F.: Write Eric M,
Bonner, 9 Belsize-square, London,
N.W.3... .J.D.C.: The first issue ot
The Bulletin appeared on Janu-
ary 31, 1880. It was founded by
J. F. Archibald and John Haynes.
A.H.M.: A description will be
found on page IQ6 of The Letters of
Rachel Henning, published by The
Bulletin D.F.: You would need
to make application giving experi-
ence and qualifications... .A.J.A.P.;
From Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 281
George - street, Sydney M.S.:
Write Director, National Art Gallery
of N. S. Wales, The Domain,
Sydney A.D.S.: The poem was
written by Edward Harrington. The
words are being posted L.P.: At
the by-election to fill the vacancy in
the Dailey (N.S.W.) seat in the
House of Reps, caused by the death
of J. S. Rosevear, the results were:
A. E. Greenup (Labor), 23,812;
W. L. Cole (Independent), 8285;
J. Sheehan (Communist), 1667
G.D.: Further ihforroation may be
obtained from the Secretary, Com-
monwealth Literary Fund, Prime
Minister’s Dept., Canberra, A.C.T.
W.M.C.: Heber Hedley Booth
was born in Brisbane on June 2,
1864. He was educated at Gympie
and Brisbane Grammar School. He
entered the Post and Telegraph
Department in 1879, retiring in 1929.
Booth wrote fugitive pieces for many
Australian papers. He died at Bris-
bane on August 9, 1936. In 1909
there was published a book of his
verse called Opalodes.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
V.M.H.: We had to buy an extra
w.p.b. to accommodate all the Royal-
visit verses that have been pouring
in of late D.M.H.: Aren’t you a
trifle late with that verse? C.P.Y.:
That jackass will not laugh in our
pages G.D.: A lightweight
A.D.8.R.: That was one shot that
missed... .S.M.E.: You travel a
well-trodden path..,. A.C.S.: Plant
it somewhere else.., .H.M.F.: See
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
answer to V.M.H M.P.: Send
it to the Jindyworobaks M.L.:
Don’t they end up pulling milk-carts
these days? M.L.L.: Johnny
didn’t even get a nibble J. 8.:
Just a bag of bones M.D.R.:
Reads like something that Bernard
O’Dowd might have written and
tossed away F.H.F.; Applaud
your sentiments but not your verse.
P.S.: Back it goes to its home
by the lake P.S. (Sydney): Sug-
gest that you try singing it on the
Town Hall steps... .M.H.T.: A long
journey all in vain S.K.C.: You
will have to do better than that
E.C.: Here goes:—
JACK-OF-ALL-TRADES
In an outback pub in Queensland
While the troop-train waited by.
Filling up with coal and water
For the track ahead was dry.
We were taking liquid also,
Pints of lukewarm Townsville beer
As the publican kept saying
Soldiers’ money’s no good here.
Drink it up and have another
In the keg is plenty more;
So we gargled .while he told us
How he also owned the store.
Ran the bank and was post-master
Of the little office there,
Took the bets of all the drovers,
In his spare time cut their hair.
But the O.C. of the troop-train
Then came running through the door
‘•Come on, men, you’d best get moving,
There’s no time for any more.”
Then the publican, went scarlet
“That train moving? Strike me blue!
It won’t go until I say so,
I’m the station-master too.”
.... D.M.; Stone the crows!
R.C.P.: No handouts K.K.: Not
for us B.McL.: Left her with her
heart tucked under her wing asleep.


Hazardous Flying in New Guinea
Garaka Jramp
By JACK LUSBY
“7" HERE’S a manner of
S shifting freight in and out
C j of apparently-inaccessible
places which is peculiar
to New Guinea. The technique
was evolved back in the days
of early gold-finds and it hasn’t
altered much. Still strictly an
acquired taste. It’s all done with
aeroplanes, of course, and
you’re about to spend a day on
a typical run.
“I’ll show you round the
valleys,” says the pilot.
He’s a big, fair, competent-
looking bloke of War II vin-
tage. Behind him are the moun-
tain planes, and they look as
tough as mountain ponies.
They’re solid, chunky, single-
motored high-wing monoplanes
with undercarts built for rugged
service. You recognise the type
with relief —designed in Canada
for bush aviation.
The sun climbs the razor-edged
rim of the Goroka Valley and
it’s a cool, clear, mountain-blue
morning up here in the New
Guinea Highlands.
Today’s run is, via various
landing-strips, to Tari and back.
You ask, “Where’s Tari?”
“Our ‘Farthest Outpost,’ ” with
a grin. “You’ll find the locals
amusing.”
Someone pokes his head out
of a thatched office and shouts
“0.K., John,” to the pilot; so
you strap-in beside him. He’s
been doing this stuff for nine-
teen months now—a good point.
The big radial Pratt and Whitney
wakes with a groan, grunt and
solid burst of sound. Near-
naked, dark, befeathered high-
landers and their unbrassiered
spouses back off in alarm;
while the self-appointed aircraft-
attendants (uniform, string-belt
with bunch of leaves fore and
aft) view this retreat with a cer-
tain blase amusement and stand
their ground.
The green floor of the Goroka
Valley is 5500 ft. up, rimmed by
purple peaks rising a long way
into double figures. Despite
its Katoomba climate it lies six
degrees south of the Equator.
The drill is to get enough
height over one valley to cross
to the next, avoiding cloud.
Clouds are mainly solid here —■
white-shrouded Matterhorns.
Your pilot doesn’t mess about.
Once airborne he goes for height
in a forthright, businesslike
manner. You look at the air-
speed indicator and turn away
with a shudder.
As we clamber towards our
pass, cloud begins to form above
and below like magic. At 9500 ft.
John says “Good enough,”
levels, and curls round a perpen-
dicular rockface. Limpetlike, a
native village clings to a ledge
and you could spit into the
spotlessly-neat compound. The
thatched huts are round as Aspro
tablets. From one runs a child —
black against the lighter ground
—and waves excitedly. A woman
follows and draws it back.
The first chore is to dump
our load of 44-gallon petrol-
drums at Minj airstrip, below us
now on the Wagi River, and
take on food-supplies for Tari.
We’re going to need that petrol
later in the day.
Diving for Minj the airspeed
needle goes back to where you
feel it properly belongs; full-
load climbing at 90 m.p.h. is
something you’ve obviously just
got to get used to. John points
and you spot the strip; a long
one, strangely enough. There’s
a large native town beside it,
orderly in plan as a Roman
camp. We’re among the Shangri-
La valleys which amazed the late
Jack Hides.
There’s no room or time for
pansy circuits and concern for
wind-direction on this valley run.
John puts her down so the land-
ing-roll ends at the business part
of the strip. The plane scoots
past a crowd of tribesmen work-
ing on the strip. Parked, we
yank open the freight-door and
roll the gas-drums out.
On a near-by mound stands
a man in violent regalia and
John asks him for the Tari food,
which is being guarded in this
village. The man turns and
hulloos loudly. He wears an
impressive headdress, paint on
face, colorful armband, axe,
long knife, bow and arrows, and
carries a decorated spear. His
call brings the town-crier, simi-
larly but less-gaudily accoutred.
This fellow also stands on the
mound and hulloos at length and
with great force.
John curses with impatience.
“I want to make Tari twice
today, and all these blanks do is
yodel! ”
Again “Hulloooooooo! ” A
curious, high, quavering, dist-
ance-busting sound, ending in a
tired sort of death-rattle. As he
delivers it the human foghorn
holds hands to ears as if listen-
ing instead of giving voice, and
turns his head here and there
aiming the noise. His whole
body quivers.
In a flash, it seems, we’re
surrounded by a horde of armed
and bizarrely-decorated warriors
and more variety of faces than
you’d meet in Pitt-street, Sydney.
Though planes land here regu-
larly you’d swear it was the first
these blokes had seen. Women
approach with an upright, hip-
swaying stride, and their narrow
knee-length grass sporrans and
“tails” swing from side to side
with Caledonian aplomb. Be-
hind stride little girls, each fol-
lowing her mother’s every walk-
ing action in touching and un-
conscious mimicry, even to the
metronomic swing of the sketchy
little “skirts,”
The older women, of course,
sag badly. In the farther back-
ground sentries pace impassively.
These people are very small, but,
perhaps because of well-formed
figures and decorations, at a
short distance they look life-
sized.
You keep an eye on the
Comanche-like carriers while
John crosses the strip to see the
District Officer.
Soon you’re in the air again,
climbing west for Tari—climbing
so steeply there’s no visible
horizon. Heavy cloud ahead
may come down and we're racing
for a gap. All along John points
out and names the peaks—Mt.
Wilhelm, wearing a crowning
plume of white, highest in
British New Guinea; Mount
this, that and the other, men-
tioning their heights. Sometimes
you see them clearly ; sometimes
just a tip or a blurry shoulder.
“Mount Hagen,” he says,
jerking a thumb.
You see a streaming hump of
rain-forest through a porthole
in the clouds. You wonder how
he picks ’em —it’s like recognis-
ing a woman by a square inch
of skin. But these are danger-
ous ladies ; and recognition must
be faultless. The other day
pilots saw snow on Mt. Wilhelm
. . . They’re chilly ladies, too.
We’re sandwiched between
broken cloud-layers now, and
see slices .of mountains like
mackerel-steaks. Our first crack
at crossing the barrier to Tari
is no good. The white stuff
squats on the pass as we race
for it; John gestures disgustedly
and turns away. He shouts
“We’ll try somewhere else,”
You’re glad he knows his way
around —fishing for breaks in
this weird set-up is no game for
strangers.
The plane noses up and circles
till at 12,000 feet we “come out
on top.” Why not just “navi-
gate to Tari and then come
down?” thinks someone. Too
much of the murky stuff today,
my friend, and remember —too
much of it is solid! You must
see known ground every moment
of these flights. Through misty
holes beneath us John can see
his landmarks and would dive
if weather threatened contact.
You’re becoming acutely aware
of the mountains now. Some
rise high out of this cloudy sea
like islands; some lurk dark
beneath its surface—treacherous
reefs indeed. One dun, humpy
shape barely breaks the surface
close beside you: it’s like a
sleeping whale. A slippery-
looking lava ridge goes by.
“Nice spot for a picnic,” you
say.
“Yes —lovely grassy slope,”
from John.
He’s seen where there’s an-
other chance to cross, and we
dive slightly, westwards, till the
upper cloud passes majestically
above the wing. Over us it
thickens and closes and we’re in
a hazy twilight under-
neath. We aim for the
lightest spot ahead, and
sure enough there’s a
hole left through the
pass. There’s even a
distant vista of a valley.
Going through we brush
the jungle and the prop
flails wraiths of cloud.
“Hope that hole’s there
when we come back,”
shouts the big bloke, “or
it’s a night at Tari.”
You hope he’s the
cautious type.
Now the ground falls away
and you’re diving at the bottom
of your valley. Each of these
crossings brings a slightly
triumphant feeling. The hazy
climbing search is partly for-
gotten. Below a river twists
in a patterned mosaic of gar-
dens. Sinking towards them,
your eye is caught by a discord
in the decor something too-
regular in the pattern. You
point to show how clever you
are, and John nods. It’s the
strip, cutting through village,
gardens and surrounding fight-
ing-ditches.
Smoke from cooking-fires
indicates that, believe it or not,
we’re landing into wind this
time.
Great activity on the ground.
A brown swarm along the strip.
Individual welcomers run and
jump, twirling axes and spears.
The touchdown is smooth as
usual, and we step out to a
reception overpowering in a
couple of ways. The novelty of
the plane is very fresh here;
not so the aroma of the crowd,
which presses tight upon you.
John is recognised with nods and
fangy smirks, while you are
pointed out as something new,
amid repeated “AAOOoos” of
pleasurable surprise.
These Tari men are compara-
tively “new boys” under white
control. They look a rough and
raffish crew, and the brandished
weapons seem as utili-
tarian as decorative.
Many sport Napoleon-
style headgear, and one
fellow —the Court Jes-
ter, if you please—can
spin his on his head
and become an admiral
at will.
The plane is not yet
“balus” here, but a
more primitive “oon-
goongoong” imitative
sound. Over a cup of
tea a young, bearded
patrol-officer tells you
of a colleague who
brought a pushbike in
and rode it. The spec-
tacle was almost too
much for the high-
landers; there was a
near-riot, and more
profound amazement
than a plane could con-
jure in them.
In our audience as
we drank tea was a
diminutive young woman
half - swathed in bandages.
Her lord, sensing that her
affections lay elsewhere, had
clubbed her considerably before
holding her down firmly on the
family cooking-fire, being inter-
rupted at that point by an un-
sympathetic patrol-officer. And
apparently the lady has not yet
learned her lesson; she shows a
decided yen for John’s company,
holding his arm and returning
after several forcible removals.
“She wants to fly away with
you,” says a P.O.
“Tell her I’d cook her
thoroughly,” says John, backing
off again.
We take on two passengers —
native policemen —and taxi out
of a barrage of “aaooos,”
“eeeeEEEs” and “oongoongs.”
Now the job is to fill the tanks
at Minj and bring another
supply-load to Tari. Up comes
the nose once more, and the
ground climbs with us toward
the cloud-base. In the New
Guinea sense our pass is still
negotiable, and, hooraying
through it, we’re planing down
again to the Wagi River. It
twists like inlaid silver in the
green flats, gardens, ditches,
roads and those Aspro-tablet
villages.
High-noon lethargy has settled
down on Minj; we’re not rushed
with proffers of assistance.
“Again,” says the big bloke,
“I’ll have to summon me a
savage.”
But the head-man materialises
with our friend the town-crier,
and between them they summon
many “savages.” The police-boy
passengers help channel this
exotic manpower into some sem-
blance of efficiency; a line of
small brown men staggers and
wavers from supply-stack to
plane bearing bags of flour and
salt and wooden cases. They
remind you of foraging ants.
Another line forms a bucket-
brigade from the petrol-drums
we’d dumped earlier to “one-
feller man i stop on top” of the
fuselage, pouring bucket after
bucket into the tanks through a
chamois funnel. The discom-
fiture of a tribesman who gets
a bucketful in the face from
above brings squeals of laughter.
The air is heavy with native
sweat and petrol; you watch
lest some brave slips a smoke
from behind his ear and blows
the lot sky-high.
Loading and fuelling goes on
at frantic speed; but some
handlers manage to tear a bag
of salt, and bolt with handfuls.
Smoked wharfies!
Soon “belly b’long balus i
full,” and balus even spits sur-
plus petrol down on his atten-
dants.
You scramble aboard ; John
starts, swings her round, and
we’re hurtling back along the
strip toward Tari. The plane’s
big blunf nose thrusts up seek-
ing the dark grey ceiling of your
world. The clouds are lower-
ing as the day wears on, and here
and there long fingers of rain
grope down into the jungle. The
plane veers right and left, and
ever upward, rising in the con-
tours of the range.
A craggy bluff that points the
way to your pass comes slowly.
reluctantly down to meet you.
John squints intently beyond it.
“We’d probably get in, but
not out of Tari today,” he says,
and turns away.
Freight planes must pay, and
if one customer’s door is closed
you try another. We dive for
Mendi, where, too, the natives
have recently come under
limited control.
“The Mendi blokes can use
the stuff; we’ll go to Tari next
time.”
We land in a bleak drizzle,
and the Mendi people huddle
about us hugging naked shoul-
ders in the wind.
“Weather’s always like this
here,” the District Officer tells
you cheerfully, and you re glad
you live elsewhere.
His assistant, eyeing the un-
loading, says “Difficult crowd
here.”
“In what way?”
“Oh, just all-round difficult-
suspicious. Accept anything we
hand out to ’em, but not us”
“Can’t blame ’em being ex-
clusive,” says John.
It was near Mendi that he was
asked on one trip to stop a
native war by flying low over the
combatants. All in the day’s
work, the manoeuvre was fairly
successful. It takes a mighty
strange request to surprise a
New Guinea pilot.
From Mendi we cross to Mt.
Hagen strip to pick up a young
mother, her baby and all the
luggage, crates and odds-and-
ends a woman can contrive to
accumulate for a permanent
move, including fowls and
chickens,
Hagen is a mission- and
Government-station set in lush,
green, parklike grounds. The
natives look clean, handsome
and richly ornamented. All the
people of these valleys seem to
live in permanent ceremonial
regalia. Those here at Hagen
promenade hand -in - hand in
family groups—behavior not in
(Continued on page 34)


THE GREATEST SELECTION OF THOROUGHBRED
YEARLINGS EVER OFFERED
to be sold at the
28th Annual
NEW ZEALAND NATIONAL SALES
Trentham, Wellington, N.Z.
MON. aW THURS. 18lh and 21st JANUARY
364 OUTSTANDING COLTS AND FILLIES
The Catalogue comprises the most remarkable collection of
highly related yearlings in the history of the National Sales. A
half-brother to DALRAY and two other close relations to this
champion, and a half-brother to another Melbourne Cup winner
in FOXZAMI, are included.
There are full or half relations to four Derby, three Oaks, and
two St. Leger winners, including GENDARME, champion N.Z.
3-y.-o. last season.
74 Sires are represented, 60 English or Continental bred, and 14
Colonial, each a top flight racehorse.
OTHER IMPORTANT SALES IN THE COMING SERIES;
TUESDAY 19th JANUARY: Complete Unreserved Dispersal of the
successful Glen Lyon Stud, at Levin. Includes 10 CHOICE
TYPE ENGLISH-BRED MARES by Fairway, Turkhan, Rocke-
fella, Watling St., etc., mostly in foal to Bois Roussel’s son
BOISSIER*, also to be sold.
SATURDAY 23rd JANUARY: Annual National Sale of Pregnancy-
tested Brood Mares at Trentham. Includes daughters of Fox-
bridge*, Balloch*, Broiefort*, and other leading Brood Mare
sires.
WEDNESDAY 27th JANUARY: Second Annual Auckland Yearling
Sale, at Avondale. 82 GRAND COLTS AND FILLIES, along
with a special consignment of 8 English fillies. These include
a half-sister to Pamphilos*.
THURSDAY 28th JANUARY; Complete Dispersal of Mr. M. J.
Nash’s Stud at Whangarei. Includes Beau Pere’s* great sire
son Beau Repaire, sire of the champions Beaumaris and Beau
le Havre.
FRIDAY 29th JANUARY: Part Dispersal (due to part of the
property being taken over for industrial purposes), of Mr. W.
Fisher’s select Ra Ora Stud at Auckland. 10 CHOICE YOUNG
MARES in foal and/or served by the royally bred French sire
Gabador*, or Underwood* (by Bois Roussel).
Buying commissions for absentee buyers arranged, and given
special care.
CATALOGUES NOW AVAILABLE, ALONG WITH FULL INFOR-
MATION AS TO EXCHANGE ALLOCATIONS AND TRAVEL
BOOKINGS, etc., ON APPLICATION TO ANY OF OUR AUS-
TRALIAN BRANCHES:—
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON BLOODSTOCK (Aust.) Ply. Ltd.
482 Bourke St., Melbourne. Telephones MU 4711, MU 3670.
Telegrams and Cables “Bloodstock”
49 Market St,, Sydney. Telephone M 3972.
Telegrams “Transtock”
or
direct to our Head Office at Wellington, N.Z. (G.P.O. Box 1895).
Telegrams and Cables “Wrightson.”
SPORTING NOTIONS
Double Blank, winner of the
£2799 A.J.C. Summer Cup at
Randwick from Dark Fife and
Regal Glitter, was foaled in
1945, and probably has raced
more extensively than any
prominent stayer now in train-
ing in Australia. It is a tribute
to the expert training of his
veteran mentor Neil McKenna
and to the shrewd placing of
owner K. D. (Bill) Godby that
he landed the big end of the
stakemoney. Upwards of 60
years ago McKenna rode in
races against the crack horsemen
of the time.
One also mustn’t forget in
Double Blank’s Summer Cup
win the clever riding of Bill
Camer, who had his mount in
an easy place in the centre of
the field to the home turn, raced
him up fast over the final fur-
long or so and scored narrowly
in a “blanket finish.” Camer is
riding with dash and ability, and
he should be near the leaders in
winning mounts before the sea-
son is many more months old.
Double Blank has at least one
rich relation —Chicquita, a full
sister, who was a champion of
the Victorian Turf in recent
seasons. They are by Blank
(imp.) from Starr Faithfull by
Equator (imp.) from Linton
Lowrie by Woorak. Last-named
was a brilliant miler of the 1915
era, when he won, among other
races, the A.J.C. Epsom. Double
Blank was heavily backed by the
stable, and had been taken in a
double with Villiers winner
Raconteur for £20,000.
Double Blank has started in
about 70 races, so he is one of
the real hardy warriors of the
Turf. In his many seasons of
racing he has contested two
Melbourne Cups, two Caulfield
Cups,, an Australian Cup, an
Adelaide Cup and a Doomben
Cup in Brisbane. In the Doom-
ben event, in July last, he fin-
ished third to French Echo and
Earldom, coming from 15th
place at the half-mile. The
mile-and-three was a trifle short
for the veteran, and plans for
his Summer Cup engagement
were formulated on that Bris-
bane contest. Double Blank has
won several races in Adelaide
and other centres and has had
many minor placings for about
£15,000 in stakes.
It was suggested on this page
a few months ago that the three-
year-old Constant Son (imp.)-
Titian Beauty colt Undaunted
could develop into a useful
stayer, as he had the right back-
ground. The colt has acted up
to those anticipations, and his
win in the mile-and-a-half
Novice Handicap at Randwick
on Saturday was full of merit.
His dam, Titian Beauty, got by
Braeburn from Ashmond (imp.)
by Cramond, traces back to
stayers well known in Australian
Turf history. Her owner, E. A.
Lamb, who bred the colt, and
who has in his possession a
remarkable pedigree tracing the
colt’s family-lines back many
decades, has been an owner-
breeder for half a century.
Undaunted, at present raced
on lease by his trainer, Fred
Onslow, was capably handled by
apprentice W. Toohey, who is
retaining his winning run; he
scored also on Hans at Rand-
wick on Saturday. Undaunted
won his race without much
effort; the company was modest,
but it seems he will quickly rise
to better things. Good judges
saw in the win excellent pros-
pects for later in the season over
staying distances.
“Handsome is as handsome
does” can well be applied to
Sydney colt Indian Empire, a
4000gns. purchase, whose four
starts have yielded three wins
and a third. Despite a penalty
of 71b., which brought his weight
to 8.12, Indian Empire cantered
in with the £1166 A.J.C. Decem-
her Stakes from Magic Chant,
who had won at his two prior
starts at Randwick, and Pipes of
Pan, who had previously started
three times for two successes.
C. F. and F. Mills, owners of
Hans, are racing one of the
sprint finds of the present Syd-
ney season. The four-year-old
son of imported Ingenious has
been out of a place only once in
12 starts, and before winning the
Chisholm Handicap at Rand-
wick on Saturday had been first
in four of his previous six races,
On Saturday he scored easily
from former country champion
Aussie Sol and Foreign Ex-
change. Hans is trained at
Newcastle by Ray Cashman;
successful apprentice W,
Toohey handled the horse well,
This midget jockey had piloted
23 winners up to last Saturday,
He was 17 on Christmas Day.
Dame Legion, dam of Hans,
was got by Legionnaire (imp.)
from Thaisa by Comedy King
(imp.), so Hans might later prove
a useful middle-distance galloper.
Latest form points that way,
though he has been racing over
sprint distances only.
An interesting winner at Caul-
field on Saturday was Sydney-
owned but now Melbourne-
trained Pressman, who led all
the way in the First Malvern
Handicap. Carrying the colors of
former crack galloper Columnist,
Pressman was having his third
start following a spell, but a win
was anticipated and he started
favorite. The mile event suited
Pressman; it was restricted to
apprentice jockeys, and Brian
Shaw gave a clever riding exhi-
bition, jumping the winner clear
from the electric starting-stalls,
which were used for the first
time on a Melbourne track.
Peel Bros., of Coolangatta
stud, Geelong (Vic.), bred Star
of Stars, surprise winner of the
Holiday Stakes at Caulfield. The
colt was sold at the Melbourne
yearling sales last March for
2800gns., the bid of F. W.
Hoysted, who is training him
for N. H. Peel. Star of Stars,
a 14-to-l chance, jwon cleverly
from 50-to-l Royal Halo and
the odds-on favorite Glen Gala,
who also is a member of the
Hoysted team.
« • t •
Star of Stars is by Helios
(imp.) from Arch Lady (imp.),
who didn’t race, and who was
got by Lemnarchus from Lady
Fay by Gay Crusader. The colt
is a half-brother to Coy Lady, a
good winner in England, and is
from the same family as Chic-
quita.
In bygone years it was the
practice of stewards to inflict
heavy penalties on jockeys for
continually looking round at
opponents after taking the lead
nearing the winning-post. One
rider, and a noted horseman of
his day, was heavily fined for
looking round in a V-RC.
Derby, though he won the race
with ease. Looking round un-
balances a horse and contributes
to defeat, which is why at Caul-
field on Saturday R. Dean was
fined £2O for carelessness over
the final stages of the Shoobra
Hurdle. Dean rode the heavily-
backed Just Mark, narrowly
beaten by Hall Prince, the latter
coming through on the inside
for victory. Just Mark had a
lead of some lengths at the final
obstacle.
...»
Jockey Doug Weir accomp-
fished the rare feat at Newcastle
last Saturday of riding the pro-
gramme of six winners, four of
which were heavily-backed fav-
orites. This was the first time a
jockey had ridden all winners
in Newcastle, though the feat is
not without parallel in Austra-
lasia, several jockeys haying
won a programme at minor
country fixtures. W. Thomas, at
Townsville (Q.) in 1929, rode all
seven winners, as did Albert
Whittaker at Huntley (N.Z.) in
1910. A. Mulloy (at Ada-
minaby), C. Kelly (at Wauchope)
and R. Finn (at Kempsey) were
others of N.S.W. to ride a pro-
gramme. One of Weir’s winners
was former Perth galloper Morn
Patrol, who atoned for many
failures by landing the chief
event, the Boxing Day Handi-
cap, at odds-on.
Among yearlings to be offered
on the second day (Jan. 21) of
New Zealand’s National Sale
is a brother to Idaho, best of
the year in the Dominion and
winner of five races, including
N.Z. Derby, Wanganui Guineas
and the Canterbury Cup. The
colt is by Timanova (imp.)
from Aspen. During the past
25 years yearlings sold in the
Dominion have won 174 classics,
claimed to be a world’s record.
Auctioneers have arranged to
execute commissions for absen-
tee buyers, a pointer which
prospective Australian buyers
should note, after a study of the
catalogue. Several Australian
trainers will attend the sales as
well as the races and the Royal
Visit celebrations. The first day
(Jan. 18) will see 178 lots
offered. They include a half-
brother to Melbourne Cup win-
ner Foxzami by the new im-
ported sire Khorassan by Big
Game. A sister to Gendarme
(13 wins and £14,880 in stakes)
by Ruthless (imp.) from Sal is
also listed.
• • • •
The Carrington Stakes, prin-
cipal sprint on next Friday’s
Tattersall’s Club meeting at
Randwick, dates back more
than 50 years and has been won
by brilliant sprinters, most of
which covered the six furlongs
in round about 1.11. In recent
seasons Skip Court, Bern-
borough, Delmestor and Pavi-
lion all broke 1.11. In 1945
Bernborough equalled the race
record, I.loi, made 15 years
earlier by Pavilion.
The Auckland Cup is one of
the richest of staying events and
it was hard luck for the club
that rain spoiled this year’s con-
test, for which the Queen
handed over the winning tro-
phy. The event went to out-
sider Coaltown, who beat
Rangitau in a photo-finish, with
Red Jester third. Red Jester was
second-favorite for the A.J.C.
Doncaster Handicap in April
last, but ran a poor race,
finishing in the middle of the
field. On the third day of that
meeting he won the All-Aged
Stakes from Bob Cherry and
Oversight. Auckland’s Cup was
worth £12,650; it was run over
two miles at Ellerslie.
* * * *
In its first Shield game of the
season Victoria beat Queensland
outright with over 250 runs to
spare. Luck was against the
Northerners, who were without
spin-bowler Flynn through ill-
ness and also had to bat last on
a crumbling wicket. Queensland
has a young side which should
do well; the Victorians in this
game had too many big guns for
them.
lan Johnson capably led Vic-
toria, all its Test players were
in form and its new fast-bowling
prospect, John Power, came
through satisfactorily. The Mad-
docks brothers proved adaptable
(on the Saturday ’keeper Len, off
the field ill for a while, was cap-
ably replaced behind the sticks
by Dick). Victoria played the
same team against N.S.W.,
whose selectors, in order to in-
clude Alan Davidson, had to
drop the 17-year-old Bob Simp-
son from the team which over-
whelmed South Australia.
• *
“Keima”: Queensland skip-
per Ken Archer should try him-
self out lower down the batting-
list ; an attractive stroke-maker,
his talents might be better
suited at third- or fourth-wicket.
He’s a tiptop cricketer (Neil
Harvey is his only possible Aus-
tralian superior as an outfielder),
but somehow he has never
quite “arrived.” He was in and
out of Tests before his younger
brother Ron was heard of, and
he’s far from being too old to
get back. But as an opener in
Tests he never did himself jus-
tice, and in Shield cricket has
not really been a success there
either. It’s not as if Queensland
lacks openers; in Melbourne
there were at least four others,
Harvey, McLaughlin, Grout and
the stubborn Mackay.
• • • •
“K.R.”: Queensland fast-
bowler Cyril Smith, who has
no pretensions as a batsman,
second-top-scored in Queens-
land’s second-innings against
Victoria with 27, made in a last-
wicket stand of 32. In a recent
Brisbane club-game Smith hit-up
39 (top-score) after his club’s
batsmen, including Ken Archer,
hadn’t done too well. Smith’s
days in first-class cricket may
perhaps be limited —assuming he
it is who will make way for
Lindwall. That won’t be this
season. At present Lindwall is
in the anomalous position of
living in Brisbane, shortly to
play grade-cricket there, but for
the rest of this season eligible to
play for N.S.W. only.
• • • *
“Zorok”: Former Westralian
State cricketer Tom Outridge,
who retired earlier this season,
mainly because, living at Bun-
bury, he couldn’t get down to
Perth to play, has been a
prominent Australian Rules
footballer as well. (His father
was one of W.A.’s leading foot-
ballers.) In W.A.’s last two
Shield games last season Tom
got three “ducks” running, but
hit a neat 50 in his fourth innings
(it was to be his last Shield
knock). An all-rounder, he
batted and bowled left-hand;
remarkably, however, he always
threw-in to the ’keeper with his
right arm.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: Belgian tennis-
players Washer and Brichant
have played in more Davis Cup
matches than any of the other
still-playing Cup men lately here.
Washer has played in every Cup
match Belgium has been in since
1946, some 70 games in all,
singles and doubles; Brichant,
in the team since 1949, also tops
the rest, even U.S. veteran Tal-
bert. Reason, of course, is that
there are far more matches
played in the European zone
than in the American.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CHARLES CHRISTIAN MOLES also
known as CHARLES CHRISTIAN
McGREGOR CHARLES CHRISTIAN
LEWIS and ALLAN GEORGE PLAY-
FORD formerly of Hay.—TAKE NOTICE
that SYLVIA JUNE MOLES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2991 of 1952 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 26th February 1954 and ob-
tain a copy of the Petition without charge
from HALLIDAY, STAINLAY and
BOLAND, Solicitors, Murwillumbah, or
their Sydney Agents, CURTISS, DEZAR-
NAULDS and BUTTFIELD, Solicitors,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG-
HAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO RUSSELL ANDREWS late of Brook
Street Ooogee.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY HEATHER ANDREWS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2693 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by sth March
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. PIGOTT
STINSQN & Co., Solicitors, Sydney, or
MESSRS. WOODGATE & CLEAVES,
Solicitors, of Cessnock.—J. DOUGH AN,
Registrar.
mm
mm
r—>
.
m
%
•m
R
mM.
EBS
WH
m
V
/.
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
(Truss bet*
- (Tlotk -
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C113.J
it down but it would return,
though his eyes were cold.
“The same again, Corporal.”
He drank at first on his own.
Then two or three officers took
to drinking with him, those with
a grouch, with an itch, the
fashionably bored. They tried
at first to get him drunk, to out-
drink him.
“Step up the pace,” they said,
s’ll take over from you at
eleven.”
In the end they fell into his
ways.
His end of the bar got the
name of C.O.D. It was a Viner,
his own joke—The Corner of
Discontent. Tbeir toast was “To
ourselves—and our allies!” And
they clinked glasses gravely.
Then his Flight came over,
for he knew how to lead men.
He would look a man hard
in the eyes —a pause, a calcula-
tion. And after he would laugh,
tease. He was gay and charm-
ing. But the look was remem-
bered, like the sear of a knife.
Their own weapons sheared off,
for he did not seek even their
company. They came to him.
Deliberately, too, he neglected
station orders, overlooked them,
let his men do as they liked.
Then he enforced them, as he
chose, as his own orders —a
round turn, the reins suddenly
hard. The hand was there:
look out! His arrogance, his
charm, his dozen kills, did the
rest, N ,
“You never quite know,” they
said, “quite how to take Max.”
Gradually the atmosphere on
.
the training station changed. It
was evident in the way the
officers wore their peaked caps-
the crowns tented creased fore
and aft, operationsl style. There
were more accidents, they drank
more, there were all-night parties
in the mess. But what worried
Dad Graham was the feeling be-
tween the staff and the trainees
—between the white instructors
and their dark-skinned pupil-
pilots: a subtle change, a lack
of trust, a look in the eye. And
the grave toast, “To our allies!”
Graham saw it and worried.
He suffered in other ways, too.
He found himself drinking with
the older non-flying men. There
were hints, silences. He had not
flown on operations.
“That .forward strip,” a boy
said. “What-do-you-caU-it?—
cut out under the mountain?
Max says they landed and re-
fuelled ten kites there in thirty
minutes —touch-down to take-off.
What do they call it? You’d
remember —no, you weren’t in
Burma.”
And the boy looked down,
silenced.
GRAHAM felt it keenly. It
was the trouble with the
trainees, he told himself, that he
did not like. But there was no-
thing tangible.
And as a flight-commander,
Max Viner knew his job. He
put his flight on a war footing.
“They’re going to the war,
aren’t they?” he said. “These
allies? That’s the idea, isn’t it?
Well, we’ll train them under war
conditions.”
And he dispersed his aircraft.
He trained his men to get away
quickly.
“Right,” he said. “There’s a
raid.”
He stood by the window
watching them, a microphone in
his hand.
His formations took off like
clockwork. There was an exact
patter, an exact drill. He gave
them interceptions, evasive
tactics, his voice always with
them, sharp as a knife, from the
leading aircraft or the transmitter
in his office. It was the same
when they landed: disperse, re-
fuel.
He worked his instructors as
hard as himself, at fever-pitch.
And at night he showed them
how to drink.
“You’re late,” he said next
morning. “We don’t have hang-
overs here. Let’s see,” and he
smiled. “There’s a job on to-
night, cross-country. Take off
at ten and at two. You’ll lead
both formations. Right? —H’m.
You don’t look too good. Better
take a kite up now and clear
your head.”
They grumbled and liked it.
His ideas caught on. All air-
craft were dispersed. The air-
craftsmen grumbled and liked it,
too.
“It’s all right,” they said, “for
Buggerlugs,” craning their necks
at the ice-chalkings a mile up
above the hawks. “He doesn’t
fry his fanny in this heat. Just
feel that leading-edge.”
Then the aircraft came down
with the sound half a sky behind,
and they swung around, talking
of Viner.
“It’s the moustache that gets
me in.”
“You’ve got to hand it to him.
He can fly a kite.”
AND the trainees, though they
hated him —hating the bland
patronage of his smile, his
clipped speech, abrupt as gun-
fire —responded. This was the
real thing. Dad Graham’s
methods, safety first, were on
the way out.
Once a week Viner checked
through all the pupils in his
flight.
“I don’t mind if you kill your-
self,” he told them. “But don’t
kill me. Leave that till you’re
solo.”
He finished each test high up
above the low-flying area.
“Right-oh,” he said. “Taking
over.”
The aircraft tipped on its wing
and went down past the vertical.
Air screamed, and quite suddenly
the wide plain of paddy-fields
with its lazy river became one
field, a bullock dray, a straw hat.
And, blacked out in the front
cockpit, they knew they were
rolling, a confused world of
greens and browns rolling round
like a barrel. Then they were
climbing, stalling, coming down
again to roll along the river be-
tween the palms.
“Work with me,” he said.
“That’s it. That’s it. That’s it!”
And they climbed again for a
simple roll at three hundred feet,
working together, the nose pivot-
ting on the horizon.
“That’s the stuff. That’s the
stuff. You’ll make a fighter-
pilot yet.”
But when they landed —his
own landing: slip, kick and wash
out speed; once only for each
pupil—the old smile was back
on his mouth, mocking, superior.
And the clipped voice:
“But that’s not for you, re-
member. You’ve got to be a
pilot before you can fly ... //
you’ve got it in you” . . .
The same formula for each:
the smile and the warning. It
drove them wild. It was almost
as if he taunted them with his
skill, daring them to match it.
They would practise rolls high
up amongst the vapor-trails.
THEN, towards the end of the
course, there was a succes-
sion of accidents; three in a
week.
Dad Graham looked into
them. The wreckage told him
little: long scars across the
paddy-fields, an engine three feet
in. The aircraft had exploded
on impact. All he had to go
on was the place—they had all
happened in the low-flying area
—and the fact that the pilots
were pupils in Viner’s flight.
But when a fourth went in,
he felt the pain of it in his own
body. He walked thoughtfully
to the mess.
There was no one in the mess
but Viner. He was in his usual
o Continued on page 34)
THE AWAKENING
No glistening cowpat, after all, but the first, worst
snake of the season, dissatisfied with the sun
of October, though the branches began to burst
a month ago, and fruit has set too soon
this dry and wind-wrung spring.
Apart from the thread of cattle-track, in a whorl curled
outward from its hard and angry little head
it lay shining deceptively at the world
that stepped aside with quick and careful heed
for the shy, savage thing.
Winter melted slowly from the delicate frail scales
that sheathed its devil where it lay so sleek and still
forming a deathly purpose that seldom fails:
for it has all the rapier-speed and steel
of death for a heritage,
and today (I thought) or tomorrow, in the bright light
with shining topaz eye and wide mouth extended
it will move; or in the quiet hours of night,
perhaps, it will move and kill and with the deed
quench its herpetic rage
and winter’s fast in one; each will smother the other
in very repletion, and no more manifest
this cold malice: it will have become blood-brother
to warm life by virtue of that feast
swallowed alive and whole . . .
But now it waited until I had looked, gone on
and returned: it was still on the starved grass,
deadly, lovely, painfully absorbing the sun
into its smooth self-seeking coils of grace,
into its dark soul.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET SPY-RINGS IN THE U.S.
Britain and Japan
TN the British Press (and this
A applies to Australia also,
echoing the British lead) the
U.S. internal anti-Communist
crusading is practically invari-
ably dubbed “witch-hunting,”
to be dismissed as a quaint
American form of hysteria.
The short sneer for it is
“McCarthyism,” And as to this,
many wonder what special sort
of strength, or magic, Senator
McCarthy has that he can go
on making his country a world
laughing-stock.
Perhaps some answer to these
mysteries will be found (by the
few outside critics who will read
it) in a unanimous report by a
U.S. Senate committee of eight
(Republicans and Democrats)
which in clinical style traces the
whole web of Soviet espionage
in America, involving not only
such well-publicised spies as
Alger Hiss and the Rosenbergs
but literally scores of others as
well.
It’s a long report, giving the
details of investigations into two
distinct Soviet spy-rings; the
following summarises the two-
party committee’s findings on
what the mass of com-
pletely documented evidence
uncovered;
1. The Soviet international
organisation has carried on a
successful and important pene-
tration of the United States
Government and this penetra-
tion has not been fully exposed.
2. This penetration has ex-
tended from the lower ranks to
top-level policy and operating
positions in the U.S. Govern-
ment.
3. The agents of this penetra-
tion have operated in accord-
ance with a distinct design
fashioned by their Soviet
superiors.
4. Members of this con-
spiracy helped to get each other
into Government, helped each
other to rise in Government and
protected each other from
exposure.
5. The general pattern of this
penetration was first into
agencies concerned with econo-
mic recovery, then to war-
making agencies, then to
agencies concerned with foreign
policy and post-war planning,
but always moving to the focal
point of national concern.
6. In general, the Commun-
U.S. “Army Times”
NO PLACE (OR TIME) TO HIDE
ists who infiltrated the U.S.
Government worked behind the
scenes —guiding research and
preparing memoranda on which
basic American policies were
set, writing speeches for Cabinet
officers, influencing Congres-
sional investigations, drafting
laws, manipulating administra-
tive reorganisations always
serving the interest of their
Soviet superiors.
7. Thousands of diplomatic,
political, military, scientific and
economic secrets of the United
States have been stolen by
Soviet agents in the U.S. Gov-
ernment and other persons
closely connected with the Com-
munists.
8. Despite the fact that the
Federal Bureau of Investigation
and other security agencies had
reported extensive information
about this Communist penetra-
tion, little was done by the
executive branch to interrupt
the Soviet operatives in their
ascent in Government until
Congressional committees
brought forth to public light
the facts of the conspiracy.
9. Powerful groups and in-
dividuals within the executive
branch were at* work obstructing
and weakening the effort to
eliminate Soviet agents from
positions in Government.
10. Members of this con-
spiracy repeatedly swore to
oaths denying Communist-party
membership when seeking ap-
pointments, transfers and pro-
motions.
11. The control that the
American Communications As-
sociation, a Communist-directed
union, maintains over com-
munication lines vital to the
national defence poses a threat
to the security of the U.S.
12. Policies and programmes
laid down by members of this
Soviet conspiracy are still in
effect within the U.S. Govern-
ment and constitute a continu-
ing hazard to U.S. national
security.
While Britain and other on-
lookers have made a joke of
what they call all this “witch-
hunting,” the upshot of it is
that the U.S. at least won’t have
much of a Communist fifth-
column to deal with if a world
war does get going.
The “witch-hunting” has pro-
duced results, so that now in
the U.S. (reports New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
Roscoe Drummond), of the
Communist party’s two major
tools—the Communist advocate
and the Communist agent —the
Communist advocate has lost
much, if not most, of his influ-
ence and the Communist agent
has never had it so bad, has
never found it so difficult to
infiltrate the Government and
other posts of public trust.
The blot on the Truman
Administration and it looks
like sticking—is that it practi-
cally gave open-entry to Com-
munists in all manner of Gov-
ernment departments. The
“witch-hunting” has actually
been a cleaning-out of those
who eagerly took that oppor-
tunity.
As a result, the above-ground
Communist party in the U.S. is
now almost leaderless. Most of
the principal Communist-party
office-holders have been con-
victed on charges of conspiring
to teach and advocate the over-
throw of the Government by
force. As others take their
place they will face indictment,
and meanwhile it appreciably
weakens the party to lose its
first- and second-string teams:
“Nearly all of the established
Communist - front organisations
have folded. Most non-Com-
munists saw how slickly they
were being used and when they
withdrew there was no ‘front.’
The Communist party is far
less influential now that it can-
not enjoy innocence by associa-
tion.”
The present Administration
has made it somewhat easier to
remove those who are deemed
“security risks” and harder for
them to get into Government
service in the first place.
Also, “the largest American
trade-unions have never been
more alert to Communist pur-
poses and Communist tactics.
For several years now the Com-
munists have been steadily
ejected from leadership, and
even from exercising an impor-
tant voice, in the big unions.
“The Communist-party mem-
bership is at an all-time low and
its fellow-travellers have thinned
out. Membership has dropped
to approximately 30,000, or
about a third of what it was at
the peak of its apparent inno-
New York “Herald Tribune"
THE OLD ARTILLERY CAPTAIN OF BATTERY D
(One version of the effect of the spy-ring disclosures on
Truman’s record as President.)
cence just before Stalin made
his deal with Hitler in 1939,
which preceded the Nazi attack
on Poland.
“The finances of the above-
ground Communist party are
reported to be more than ordin-
arily precarious, in part because
of the heavy costs of the court
trials of its leaders. The Com-
munist ‘Daily Worker’ must
frequently appeal to its readers
to throw it a lifeline.
“Communist agents are going
to keep on trying, but they are
running up against constantly
tighter methods by Government
authorities, including the F. 8.1.,
to safeguard military and diplo-
matic secrets.”
“There can be no longer any
doubt that Japan is on the way
to re-emergence in world affairs,
not merely as the strongest
industrial Power in Asia after
the Soviet Union but also as a
considerable military Power.”
On that assessment which
seems somewhat more realistic
than the notion that Communist
China is cast for both those
roles London “Economist”
argues strongly for a more
tolerant stand by Britain:
“The view is sometimes held
that the affairs of Japan are now
beyond the horiion of British
concern and are best regarded
as a sphere of American policy
and responsibility with which
Britain should have nothing to
do beyond a minimum of nor-
mal diplomatic relations. This
attitude of detachment and in-
difference does not, however,
correspond to the facts of inter-
national relations. Britain is not
isolated from Japan in another
world, but is involved over a
wide range of export markets
in a commercial competition
which is likely to become more
intense....
“The British people have
grounds in recent experience for
being wary and suspicious with
regard to Japan, and there is
good cause for alarm among
British manufacturers at the
prospect of a renewal of inten-
sive Japanese commercial com-
petition in world markets. But
this country [Britain] has not
maintained its immediate post-
war attitude of dislike and dis-
trust towards Germany, though
there were comparable reasons
for such a state of mind, and it
is most undesirable that war-
time feelings should be per-
mitted to influence British policy
towards Japan at a time when
it is being rearmed as a part of
the defensive structure of the
free world.
“The security arrangements
recently concluded do not simply
make Japan an ally of America ;
they bring it into a scheme of
Pacific defence, which also in-
cludes the Philippines and
Anzus, and is a partial equiva-
lent of the Nato system on the
other side of the Soviet bloc.
“Whether one recognises it or
not, the Japanese are indirectly
becoming an Allied Power, and
the only real alternative to their
being such is that they should
pass into the Asian Communist
orbit. Certainly it will not help
the political leaders of Japan to
keep their country on the side
of the free world if they are
cold-shouldered by the nation
which ranks second in impor-
tance among the Western
Powers.
“On the other hand, if there
were to be closer and more
friendly relations, it might have
a highly significant effect in con-
firming Japan in its present
course of political development.
For various reasons its relations
with the United States give rise
to tensions that are not without
danger for the future. Japan
remains dependent to a high de-
gree on American economic
support, and this dependence
enables the American Govern-
ment to bring strong pressure to
bear on Tokyo whenever it
wants to influence its policy.
But even though such pressures
may be hard to resist, they
evoke strong nationalist resent-
ments and provide favorable op-
portunities for agitations pro-
moted from Moscow and
Peking.
“The present [Japanese] Gov-
ernment may agree on a pro-
gramme of rearmament and
conform its foreign policy to
American requirements, but this
is a course which cannot be fol-
lowed indefinitely if the most
active political elements in the
country, especially of the
younger generation, are per-
suaded that Japan has become
a satellite, or even a “colony,”
of America and that its new
armed forces are intended for
use only as mercenaries .
“There should, of course, be
no question of Britain compet-
ing with the Americans for in-
fluence in Japan or trying to
undermine their position there.
It is ultimately to the American
interest that Japanese policy
should not depend simply on
Washington’s capacity to offer
inducements or threaten sanc-
tions, but should be reinforced
by a deeper awareness of belong-
ing to a world-wide association
of free nations with which
Japan’s future is bound up.
“No country can do more
than Britain to strengthen these
ties. Many Japanese still look
back with pleasure to the days
of the Anglo-Japanese alliance
as the most successful period of
their modern history; British
institutions are more congenial,
Britain’s national problems more
comparable and Britain’s ex-
perience more applicable from
a Japanese angle of view than
those of the United States.
There is no reason why the
contacts of the two island coun-
tries should not be greatly ex-
tended if there were a will for
closer relations. If the two
peoples become accustomed to
think of each other only in
terms of rivals for markets, the
disputes that will arise must
become more exasperated by
lingering feelings of distrust and
antipathy.
“Japan, as its internal political
struggles show, is at the cross-
roads of sympathies and aspira-
tions ; men of goodwill are try-
ing to take the right turning. If
they receive no encouragement
from Britain and its associates,
they might quickly turn back
to the sullen vindictiveness of
the disinherited.”
Europe's Atom Fears
As viewed by London “Spec-
tator” ;
“Is America, and are her
European allies, prepared to face
the fact that any war in which
Nato forces are involved will
automatically mean the use of
the worst method of atomic de-
struction at that time invented
by scientists?
“America, perhaps, is already
facing this fact. If Mr. Gordon
Dean’s proposal that Russia
should be warned that any new
breach of the peace would mean
retaliation with atomic methods
reflects official thinking in Wash-
ington, the time may not be far
away when America will ask
her allies to face the fact also.
“But for the Governments of
Europe it is different. They are
in the position of a jury return-
ing a verdict of guilty in the
knowledge that the penalty is
death, but adding a recommen-
dation to mercy ; if they had
known that their man would be
hanged would they have returned
the same verdict?
“European Ministers have to
act as though atomic-war were a
possibility and as though their
countries would take part. But
if they knew that an atomic-
war was a certainty, would they
or could they be committed to
take part?
“It may be shameful but it is
true that Western Europe has
not in its heart resolved this
question.... For Americans,
there could still be a chance of
escape even in an atomic-war,
(And even for Americans, at the
present rate of development, this
may not be true for long.) For
Europeans, the only chance is
that there should be no atomic-
war. So long as that chance
remains, they will go on rearm-
ing and by doing so they may
secure that there will be no war


DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cl high-priced imported
"THIS
SEND FOR machines at only a frac-
ILLUSTRATED tion ol their cost. The
LITERATURE -National- Rotary Duph
DETAILS AND cator will reproduce
PRICES ON Typing. Writing. Plana.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND UtUSBANK
Distributing Agent »—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
APPLICATION
* 1 Music, etc.
BuiLt entirely In Australia by
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STKUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. O. MAITLAND. Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
of any kind. Remove that
chance and, like the rabbit in
the headlights, there will be
paralysis,
“This does not mean that
atomic-cannon should not be
landed in Europe or that the con-
ventional armaments should not
be reinforced by the unconven-
tional. But it does mean that if
the conventional is to be replaced
by the unconventional and
American troops are at any stage
to be withdrawn in favor of
atomic-cannon, there may be no
one left in Europe willing to pull
the trigger.”
Principle at Stake
What the p.-0.-W. hold-up in
Korea was really all about, as
explained by U.S. Secretary of
State Dulles:
“The terms of the Korean
armistice established a principle
of great importance to us: the
right of enemy prisoners to enjoy
political asylum.
“The Soviet leaders fear that,
if they were to launch a major
war of aggression, many of their
soldiers and airmen would seize
the opportunity to desert or to
allow themselves readily to be
made prisoners. Such desertions
are occurring even now. There-
fore, the Soviet leaders hoped
that the Korean armistice would
establish a principle which would
discourage future defections and
thus make their Red armies
more dependable. They de-
manded, in Korea, that any who
deserted or who were made
prisoners, and who espoused the
cause of freedom, must be
forcibly returned to where they
could be punished for their de-
fection,
“In Europe, after the end of
World War 11, many who were
claimed by the Soviets were
forcibly returned, except that
some elected suicide as a prefer-
able fate. The Communists
wanted the Korean armistice to
elevate that practice into gener-
ally accepted international law.
We refused. 1
“A new and healthy principle
has been established.”
Coming Conference
London “Economist” letter by
J. O. N. Perkins, National Uni-
versity, Canberra, replying to a
suggestion that Australia wasn’t
the right place for next month’s
meeting of British Common-
wealth Finance Ministers:
“There are sound economic
reasons why Australia should be
chosen as the first overseas
venue for a Finance Ministers’
Conference.
“Apart from the fact that the
size of Australia’s total trade is
second only to that of the United
Kingdom among sterling coun-
tries, the volatility of the Aus-
tralian balance of payments over
the past three years has shown
how economic events in Aus-
tralia are among the most potent
factors influencing both the level
of the central reserves and also
the extent to which the resources
of the sterling countries are
diverted from the task of closing
the gap in the area’s balance of
payments with the rest of the
world.
“Moreover, the vulnerability
of Australia to any American
recession, to the development of
synthetics and to adverse climatic
conditions means that Australia
is as exposed as any sterling
country to the sort of problems
that will have to be faced in
the coming years,
“The holding of such a con-
ference on Australian soil might
well help to bring home to Aus-
tralian opinion the extent to
which the strength of sterling
may well depend upon the
policies of Australian Govern-
ments. And, at the same time,
surely nothing but good can
come from giving the policy-
makers of other sterling countries
the opportunity to learn some-
thing at first hand of Australia’s
problems and of her capacity to
contribute to solving those of
the whole sterling area.
“At any rate, there is no reason
to believe that there is little the
sterling countries can consult
about until American policy
crystallises. Their common
problems are constantly chang-
ing in point of detail, and there
must surely be plenty of room
to improve their plans to meet
probable future contingencies—
such as an American recession.”
Churchill Hopes
Sir Winston Churchill, after
reviewing dominant events of
the last couple of years, sees
them all as overshadowed by the
“rapid and ceaseless develop-
ment of atomic warfare and the
hydrogen-bomb”; but he has
hopes:
“These fearful scientific dis-
coveries cast their shadows on
every thoughtful mind, but
nevertheless I believe that we
are justified in feeling that there
has been a diminution of ten-
sion and that the probabilities of
another world war have dimin-
ished or at least become more
remote.
“I say this in spite of the
continual growth of weapons of
destruction such as have never
fallen before into the hands of
human beings. Indeed, I have
sometimes the odd thought that
the annihilating character of
New York “Herald Tribune ”
RED CHINA MAKES A GREAT PUPIL
these agencies may bring an
utterly unforeseeable security to
mankind.
“It may be that when the
advance of destructive weapons
enables every one to kill every-
body else no one will want to
kill anyone at all. At any rate,
it seems pretty safe to say that
a war which begins by both
sides suffering what they dread
most —and that is undoubtedly
the case now —is less likely to
occur than one which dangles
the lurid prizes of former ages
before ambitious eyes.
“I offer this comforting idea,
taking care to make it clear at
the same time that our only hope
can spring from untiring vigi-
lance. There is no doubt that
if the human race are to have
their dearest wish and be free
from the dread of mass destruc-
tion they could have, as an
alternative, what many of them
might prefer, namely, the swift-
est expansion of material well-
being that has ever been within
their reach or even within their
dreams. By material well-being
I mean not only abundance but
a degree of leisure for the masses
such as has never before been
possible in our mortal struggle
for life. These majestic possi-
bilities ought to gleam and be
made to gleam before the eyes
of the toilers in every land and
ought to inspire the actions of
all who bear responsibility for
their guidance. We, and all
nations, stand at this hour in
human history before the portals
of supreme catastrophe and of
measureless reward. My faith
is that, in God’s mercy, we shall
choose aright/’
Fair Year Ahead
Since at least the beginning
of this year there has been plenty
of quaking elsewhere about the
possibility of an American
slump.
“It looks now,” comments a
New York “Herald Tribune”
writer, “as if 1953, based on
total business activity, will turn
out to be the highest year in our
[United States] history, and the
estimates are that the year 1954
will come out as the second-best
year.
“This means that 1954 will be
better than 1951 or 1952—both
of which were high years. At
the bottom of the decline to-
ward the end of 1954 it is ex-
pected that business activity may
touch the 1952 level. The de-
cline in total business activity
as between this year and next is
expected to be around 9 per
cent. Measured by the output
of industry alone, there will be a
smaller dip than any previous
downward curve—smaller even
than the turndown in 1949,”
London “Sunday Times ”
"ONE MAN IN HIS TIME PLAYS MANY PARTS”
(Most striking of the many British Press cartoons congratulating Sir Winston Churchill
on entering his 80th year.)
France Sets a Price
France’s price for a European
Army agreement, and its good
reasons, as viewed from Ger-
many, in “Frankfurter Allge-
meine”:
“In the eyes of the French,
the Germans would gain more
in a European federation than
they themselves.
“At the moment, the Ger-
mans have no sovereignty in
Europe, but they would parti-
cipate in a supranational sover-
eignty. The Germans .have no
soldiers in Europe; they would
gain 12 divisions.
“But the French do have
national sovereignty and they
do have a national Army, and,
in a European federation, they
would lose part of their sover-
eignty and it would be the end
of the proud history of the
French national Army.
“The French are, therefore,
giving up much more than the
Germans and for this they want
their price: for them an agree-
ment on the Saar—an agree-
ment in which the European
Army is exchanged for a
European status of the Saar.”
Dragnet Digest
Range of Reading. —“ Ma-
nchester Guardian” might per-
haps have put this a little
better: “Sir Winston, who gives
the impression of reading every
newspaper from the ‘Christian
Science Monitor’ to the ‘Sydney
Morning Herald,’ had read the
report.”
Way to a Peerage. —Looking
across the Atlantic, “U.S. News
and World Report” sees Suez
being “added to India, Burma
and a long list of other pieces
of real estate from which
Britain has had to vacate in
something of a hurry,” and, it
comments, “it’s bitter medicine
for Britons accustomed to think-
ing in terms of the prewar
British Empire. As ‘Punch’ says,
in some sarcastic advice to
British diplomats, the way for a
diplomat to win a peerage now
is to make concessions at con-
ferences and to give away what’s
left of the British Empire.”
“ Tenuous Bonds." —London
“Recorder,” a trifle despondent:
“Talk of the ‘tenuous bonds’
lulls us as the Empire falls apart,
It is not just a matter of form
that the great, modern, increas-
ingly wealthy country of Canada
is discussing a totally new flag
instead of the old one with the
Union Jack in the corner. Both
small countries and large coun-
tries of the Empire are making
the bonds look very tenuous
indeed.”
It Ain’t Done. —In a London
“Daily Telegraph” review, Tanya
Matthews (Russian by birth)
quotes from a cookery-book
issued by Moscow Food Industry
Publications: “If food which
requires the use of a knife is
served, the fork should be held
in the left hand and the knife
in the right. It is categorically
forbidden to extract remnants
of food stuck between the teeth
with the help of the fork or other
objects. Use a toothpick.”
Rare Commodity. —New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent,
assessing the South Korean
President: “Rhee may be a wilful
madman, as so many people be-
lieve. His vision of the Far
Eastern future may be altogether
wrong, although it is hard to
find flaws in his arguments. But
naked courage, whether lunatic
or sane, is now so uncommon
that even a weak country’s leader
can still shake the whole world
by displaying or just threatening
to display this rare human com-
modity.”
Formosa Cost. Figured out
by a New York “Herald Tri-
bune” correspondent: “Ameri-
can aid has now reached a level
where the American taxpayer is
footing more than three-fifths of
the annual bill for keeping
Formosa going,”
When U.S. Will Pull Out.—
Glance into the crystal-bowl by
an Edinburgh “Scotsman” cor-
respondent: “The year 1956 is
likely to be a key-year in
America’s foreign policy. By
that date it is virtually certain
that there will be twelve West
German divisions in being and
some 300,000 Japanese troops
under arms. The numbers of
American troops in Germany
will then certainly be reduced,
leaving only sufficient to main-
tain bases there and to en-
able them to be reactivated
immediately in time of danger —
which is what Britain is seeking
to do in Egypt.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Aerial-spraying
Seven years ago, during April and
May, large egg-laying swarms of the
Australian plague-locust turned up in
various parts of the northern Mallee.
The egg-beds were scattered over wide
areas and the danger of an outbreak in
the following spring was obvious.
The Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture was smartly on the job, its plans
including arrangements for large-scale
aerial spraying. About 20 tons of
benzene-hexachloride were imported to
make 130,000 gallons of insecticidal-
solution. The R.A.A.F. co-operated
efficiently.
This year the locust egg-beds were
found across the border into N. S. Wales,
and it is a pity that these swarms were
not dealt with during the late autumn
and early winter along the lines of the
Victorian campaign. In early November
the winged hoppers appear and it is then
a costly business to eradicate them or
prevent them from spreading over vast
distances. The 1946 campaign by air
reduced the flier-swarms considerably
and no major losses were sustained.
Hopper-plagues appear to recur in
seven-year cycles, but that is no reason
why control-measures should not be up
to scratch. The R.A.A.F. is always will-
ing to co-operate and State agricultural
departments could pool their resources
to wage an all-out war on the pests,
particularly in the pre-egg-laying stages.
The cost would be a fleabite compared
with the damage that hoppers on the
wing can do. — Rooster (Vic.).
The Public Service
The Public Service must be controlled
by Parliament on behalf of the people,
who are, after all, its employers. The
trouble is not its inefficiency (B;
9/12/’53) but that it is trying to control
the people.
When any particular body is open to
criticism from all sections of the com-
munity, and when it is using public
money, then red-tape is not only inevit-
able but essential. Recent inquiries in
N. S. Wales have shown the danger
present when there is not sufficient red-
tape involved in the paying of money
and the letting of contracts.
Seniority does play a big part in pro-
motion, but efficiency is looked for as
well. If it isn’t, that’s the fault of the
individual in charge, not the system. To
overcome the weaknesses of promotion
by seniority, more use could be made of
the “black mark.” Possibly it would
keep officers at their best.
Security of employment is about the
“Here we have the ‘Kid From Kalgoorlie' in some
toons of the roaring West.”
only thing that attracts so many recruits
to the Public Service. No useful purpose
would be served by removing that advan-
tage, because pay and conditions do not
compare with similar jobs in private
enterprise.
The Public Service has become too
high-handed, too prone to regard itself
as the privileged class. That could be
remedied by selecting a permanent head
who would insist upon efficiency and
who would be given the power to carry
out penalties, such as demotion or loss
of seniority, when his orders were not
carried out. — Rann (N.S.W.).
Land-reclamation
In his Land of Australia, just pub-
lished, Frank Clune recommends that
South Australia should drain lakes
Alexandrina and Albert at the mouth of
the Murray and turn the land thus re-
claimed into 50-acre farms —“as the
Dutch have done with the Zuyder Zee/
Such a project was investigated years
ago and turned down. In its lowest
reach the Murray was once bordered by
miles of flats carrying dense beds of
reeds. Private enterprise showed how to
use this land. Levees were erected to
keep out the water at flood-times, the
reeds were burned and the land was then
ploughed and sown to pasture. The
result was some of the richest land in
the world, carrying up to 20 sheep per
acre.
In the hope that the soil in the lake-
beds would be just as rich, a team under
Dr. Allen Walkley, of Waite Institute,
sank bores there. They struck nothing
but clay and silt, whereas bores put
down on the reclaimed swamps higher
up showed a depth of several yards of
rich, peaty soil built up by decaying
reeds through the ages.
Dr, Walkley also exploded an idea
that the low-lying mangrove- and
samphire-flats north of the Port Adelaide
River could be reclaimed in the Dutch
fashion. He found that the soil there was
nothing but sand, silt and beds of old
cockle-shells. Samples of it wouldn’t
grow anything after the salt had been
leached from them.
Holland’s example is very different.
After a new area is enclosed by a dyke
and the seawater pumped out, a real soil
is revealed. Rain and more pumping
leach out the salt. Clovers then build up
the fertility of the reclaimed land and
it becomes highly productive in a few
years. But there are mighty few counter-
parts of those conditions anywhere else
in the world. — Bogaduck (S.A.).
Libraries or Roads?
Why should councils devote all their
money to roads at the expense of
libraries (B. 9/12/’53)? I live in a coun-
try city with a population of close on
20,000. Its roads, without exception,
vary from poor to appalling. Its civic
amenities are excellent, including well-
equipped sportsgrounds, children’s play-
grounds, magnificent baths and a library
which is well-stocked,
capably run and well-
housed.
I’m a ratepayer, and
no doubt a small
portion of my money
is spent on all these
amenities. I’ve never
used the sports-
grounds, nor am I
likely to. I’ve never
used the children’s
playgrounds or the
baths. I do use the
library and the many
extra services it pro-
vides in the way of a
film-library, an excel-
lent reference-section,
newspaper - files and
the Public Library of
N. S. Wales service
for country borrowers.
Because I have no
use for the sports-
grounds, playgrounds
or baths, I do not
for a moment hold
that those things
should be abolished
and all the money
spent on the library.
My fellow-ratepayers
have rights which
must be considered.
Councils have a re-
sponsibility to supply
all kinds of services,
and one must not be
scrapped in favor of
another. Every
council worth its salt aspires to a civic-
centre which will provide an art-gallery,
museum, library, theatre and rooms for
all kinds of communal activities. If the
councils could be relieved of the strain
on their resources caused by road-main-
tenance and -repair, those centres would
soon become a reality.
Roads throughout N. S. Wales are
generally poor and the only way to
improve them is to give councils a more
equitable share of petrol- and road-taxes,
To allow private enterprise to run
‘It’s funny how the womenfolk always get together at these parties .”
libraries would be to provide for major-
ity tastes only. There is no money to
be made out of minority tastes, and
private enterprise must show a profit.
—WOLLUNDRY (N.S.W.).
Tasmania’s system of State-sponsored
libraries operated through municipal
councils in country districts has proved a
fine thing. Ratepayers are given the
opportunity to say whether they want a
local centre or not, and a penny rate
(slightly higher in some districts) provides
the running expenses.
Cases of fiction and non-fiction are
sent out to the centres and distributed to
various sub-centres in each municipality ;
borrowers may obtain special books by
asking for them.
There is also an excellent individual
country service from the State Library,
and it has proved a boon to hundreds of
students, schoolteachers and others. The
State Library also lends gramophone-
records and documentary films. — Wan-
dana (Tas.).
Pollution in Newcastle
After suffering smoke-pollution for
decades, through the use of easily-fired
but overrich coal, and grit-clouds,
owing to excessive ash-content in its
fuel, Newcastle, through its Smoke
Abatement Advisory Panel, is getting into
its stride and has brought to Public
Works Minister Renshaw’s notice many
complaints and suggestions. The
Minister’s reply to the advice that smoke-
arresting equipment should be installed
at the Zara-street power-station was that
the Electricity Commission knew of no
such plant. The panel countered this by
supplying the name of a Sydney inventor
whose arrestors could be installed within
six months; now the commission
expresses doubt as to the effectiveness of
the plant recommended.
In addition, the panel has advised that
a new technique should be used in deter-
mining the degree of atmospheric pollu-
tion in Newcastle. Mr. J. L. Sullivan
(Board of Health Industrial Hygiene) has
stated that sand-intrusion in bottle-gauges
(dependent on micronic particles for true
readings) can cause erroneous showings.
The source and the intensity of pollution
in any area, moreover, varies according
to the direction of the wind. Pollution of
the city section, for example, by Zara-
street, railway and waterfront activities,
is at a maximum with north-easterly
winds, while the B.H.P. steelworks and
allied industries are responsible at other
times. The same industrial centre, accord-
ing to the direction of the wind, can
pollute such separate districts as Tighe’s
Hill, Kotara and Stockton.
With reference to pollution by dredge-
smoke, panel-members have found on
investigation that the drawings used for
the boilers of the recently-constructed
Richard Vowell are the same as those
employed for the Remora in 1911. The
general furnace arrangement of three new
boilers to be fitted to the steam-hopper
barges Grafton and Lismore, and io the
bucket-dredge Hunter, respectively, is
faulty ; the surface volume is too small
for efficient combustion, and the exces-
sive emission of smoke could be
remedied by lifting the boilers and mak-
ing building and mechanical adjustments.
Incidentally, the Hunter is considered to
be the worst smoke-offender in New-
castle Harbor.
Suggested improvements to the furnace-
settings of three colonial-type boilers at
Wickham, with the object of allowing of
the substitution of steam-coal for gas-
coal as fuel, has resulted in an increase in
evaporative efficiency, quite apart from a
decrease in atmospheric pollution, and
the panel points out that it is deplorable
that the proven successful advice of tech-
nical experts should be ignored on a
matter which affects not only the welfare
of the residents of Newcastle, but also
the efficiency of its commercial activities.
—Abdul Assiz.
Sustenance and Survival
It is depressingly true, on the general
historical picture, that every substantial
culture-group known has outbred its
means of local sustenance (B. 16/12/’53),
but erosion, hastened by wasteful abuse
of the land, has been the main factor.
The process is continuing inexorably
today. Kimble, the American geographer,
says that we have built ourselves the most
advanced culture, technically speaking,
but because we have neglected to con-
serve our natural wealth we have come
perilously close to bankruptcy. He adds:
“From now on mankind has got to re-
member that we are living on a strictly
limited earth, two-thirds of which is
either too wet, too dry, too hot or too
cold for everyday use.”
As a classic example of land waste the
African coast of the Mediterranean can
be cited. Where endless leagues of desert
now stretch there grew in the Roman era
many thousands of acres of corn, wheat,
maize and other crops. Africa, because
of the fertility which for centures filled
the granaries of Rome, was so thickly
populated that in the fourth century there
were (as a fair indication) 123 bishops
sees in Numidia and 170 in the consular
province of Africa.
A vast agricultural region was de-
populated as much by the destruction pt
arable land as by war and conquest.
Clem Lack (Q.).
DoubleSpace It
Contributors to these pages, as well
as to the rest of “The Bulletin,’
should double-space their lines,
whether using pen or typewriter.
If you do that you give your con-
tribution a good chance; otherwise
the odds are against it.
Double-space the lines, leave a
margin top, bottom and left-hand
side of each page. And number the
pages.


Compulsory Unionism
Had the voluntary system not proved
such a failure, I’d have much more
time for these objections to compulsory
unionism.
Taking things as they are, however,
and not as we would like them to be, it
is no more illogical to compel people to
join unions than it is to compel them
to vote or to pay taxes. In fact, the one
big trouble about the current proposals
is that, as usual, we make no attempt to
finish the job.
Let us carry the matter to its logical
conclusion. We have compulsory mem-
bership and compulsory payment of
dues. Let us now add compulsory vot-
ing, under effective supervision, so that
no major decision can be taken without,
say, 90 p.c. of the members voting.
That would eliminate control by the
usual small clique and would spread
responsibility for such decisions over the
entire membership.
Next, make the entire union respon-
sible financially for the actions of its
executive or its individual members, so
that, for instance, a shipowner whose
million-pound ship has been tied up by
the frivolous action of an irresponsible
fireman could sue and recover damages
in a court of law.
There’s more to it than that, of course,
but what I’ve outlined would introduce
that element of personal responsibility
so sadly lacking on the Australian
scene, — Transporticus (Singapore).
Twofold Bay
The Snowy Mountains hydroelectric
scheme should lead to Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.) becoming a great southern port,
serving the immediate district and a large
area towards the Riverina and a big part
of Victoria.
Twofold Bay is a magnificent harbor ;
if storms had not hidden it from Captain
Cook it might have been the capital of
N. S. Wales. It is a tragedy that this
rich south-eastern corner of the State
has been so sadly neglected.
With power and water from the Snowy
scheme, Twofold could become the second
port of the State. The district’s farming
potential is tremendous, and there are
timber and mineral resources at yet almost
untouched.
A short extension of the railway from
Bombala would at least link Twofold Bay
with the State’s railway-system, while the
much-needed extension of the coast line
from Nowra would give the far South
Coast a railway-service such as the North
Coast has enjoyed for many years. —
W.P.T. (N.S.W.).
Queensland’s Main Roads
“D.J.K.’s” attack on the Queensland
Government’s “supreme indifference” to
“a disgraceful road network” (B.
16/12/’53) is all nonsense. He makes it
appear that the “record of achievement”
by the Main Roads Commission was
757.33 miles of clearing, formation,
gravelling and other work, whereas, in
fact, as the report shows, no fewer than
1479 miles of road were completed,
including 757 miles of new works, 419
miles of up-grading and 303 miles of
resheeting.
“D.J.K.” also omitted to mention that,
at June 30, 1953, 832 miles of new con-
struction, 380 miles of up-grading and
140 miles of resheeting were under con-
struction.
He should, too, have admitted the
justice of the comment in the report that,
whereas money needed for new works in-
creases at the rate at which labor and
other relevant costs increase, money
needed for maintenance-work increases
at a far greater rate, the principal reason
being that the length of road to be main-
tained is becoming greater year by year.
For example, maintenance expenditure
in 1936-37 was £294,532, but in 1951-52
it reached £1,486,919, an increase of 405
per cent, in 15 years. During that time
labor costs also increased by 150 per
cent. So efficient was the control over
maintenance expenditure in 1952-53 that
a reduction of £260,000 was recorded.
“D.J.K.” should support the demand
that the whole of the petrol tax collected
by the Federal Government be allocated
to the States for improving transport
communications. There is no sound rea-
son why the whole of the petrol tax col-
lected by the Commonwealth —and a sub-
stantial part of the sales tax and customs
duty on cars —should not be remitted to
the States.
The Federal Government anticipates
collecting £27 million from petrol tax
this financial year. The States will re-
ceive only £15,500,000 of that. In other
words, the Federal Treasury takes
£11,500,000, which it spends on projects
far removed from road-maintenance and
-construction.
The tax is being paid by road-users for
road purposes. In the past 20 years the
Federal Government has collected £242
million from petrol tax. Of that amount
only £94 million, or 39 per cent., has
been allocated to the States for road-
majntenance and -development.—C. L.
(Q.).
The Umpire’s Decision
There was a time when the umpire's
decision in any sport was final, but
nowadays it seems the accepted thing
for players in all kinds of sport to dispute
his rulings. I think it began with
wrestling—grapplers broke all the rules,
and if the referee had the audacity to
interfere he was generally given a straight
left or thrown out of the ring.
Now we have tennis-players disputing
umpires’ and linesmen’s decisions and
throwing their racquets to the ground,
and getting away with it. More and
more cricketers no longer accept the
umpire’s ruling without question, and
footballers take the rules into their own
hands.
This contempt for authority is reflected
on a much wider scale in our attitude
to the law and those who administer it,
such as the Arbitration Courts. A return
to respect for the umpire’s decision would
improve both our sport and our national
life.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Rent and Tenancy Restrictions
, , . • y ,r.
ted by virtue or necessity, the Vic-
torian and Western Australian Govern-
ments have taken big strides towards
elimination of the restrictions that have
irked so many landlords and frustrated so
many potential home-seekers during the
past seven years.
Naturally, a lot of tenants are com-
plaining, but, on the other hand, many
property-owners are preparing to open-
up accommodation that they’ve had out
of circulation for a long time. In the long
run many more families are going to
enjoy the comforts of home-life at reason-
able rents.
Removal of rent- and tenancy-restric-
tions will permit owners to let premises
at economic rents and enable them to
get rid of the tenant who proves a nuis-
ance. One of the most wretched features
of post-war tenancy legislation is the ill-
feeling it has engendered between owner
and tenant. Tenants, knowing their land-
lords must suffer them and their goings-
on, have developed some nasty - habits,
including a disregard for the rights and
comforts of their neighbors as well as of
their landlords. In W.A. those days are
over ; respect for the landlord's rights will
carry some meaning in future.
For a while there may be some rough-
and-tumble arising out of ill-feeling be-
tween owners and tenants, but a few
months should restify all that. With
months should rectify all that. With
ting, rents will stabilise and owners will
be chastened by the fact that unlet
premises are heavy losers in these days
of high rates. New construction will fol-
low as a result of the encouragement
given to rental investors.
Nothing is more important to the
community than its housing, and in N. S.
Wales the situation is bad. The State
Housing Commission has made no real
inroads into the demand, and State
legislation has frustrated all the good
intentions of private enterprise.
Only urgent action to get the private
investor and property-owner again in-
terested in renting dwelling-accommoda-
tion will achieve any worth-while result.
—Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Tuberculosis
The successful handling of medical prob-
lems usually rests with enforcing reason-
able discipline. The medical profession
does not know all it would like to know
about curing and preventing disease, but
it could do much better if it could only
apply its present knowledge.
Years ago I was health-officer at
Flinders Naval Depot. My professional
equipment was no better than average,
but I had a captain who trusted me and
“the custom of the service” to back me
up. Result? We had a case of scarlet-
fever among the civilian residents;
routine quarantine was enforced and
there were no more cases. Likewise with
a case of meningitis.
So it goes with tuberculosis and every
other infectious disease except leprosy,
the one disease where quarantine should
Kp rplsYPn
Una Auld (B. 9V?/’53) is right—if
human beings were cows tuberculosis
could be wiped out in a generation or
sooner. But they are not; they are
merely fair cows to handle in almost all
medical respects.
With people all sorts of spurious and
specious reasons are thought up and used
for evading preventive measures. Preven-
tive medicine never gets a real chance,
and less with tuberculosis than with other
infectious diseases.
Taken by and large, Australians with
tuberculosis just don’t mind spreading
their infection, and cannot be relied on
to co-operate in an effort to restrict the
spread of the disease. Don’t tell me that
“it is only a few” who are careless; it is
only a few who are careful. —E. M. PVric
(Q.).
Australian Biographies
There are difficulties in the way of
would-be biographers of famous Aus-
tralians (B. 16/12/’53). The most im-
portant is financial. The Commonwealth
Literary Fund is not looking kindly upon
requests for grants for historical or literary
research pure and simple: grants for his-
torical novels, yes. I know of at least one
serious applicant who has been told that,
while an application in connection with
literary history was rejected, an applica-
tion for a more “creative” work might
be more successful—a book of short
stories was suggested.
Anyone who really has fiction to write
will do it regardless of difficulties: writing
in the spare time from a full job may not
be the most desirable of conditions, but it
can be done, whereas detailed research
cannot, especially when most libraries are
only open on certain nightf. Moreover,
in a spread-out country like ours bio-
graphers of some subjects will be faced
either with considerable travelling-ex-
penses or heavy costs for copying and
photographing distant documents.
A second problem is the number of
friends and families of famous Austra-
lians who are jealously guarding valuable
papers. I don’t know whether, in other
countries, persons related to or friendly
with authors feel themselves uniquely
fitted to become biographers, but the
families of at least two of our most in-
“Smile for Mother!”
teresting writers are denying access to
papers (and not on the grounds that those
papers contain anything of a very private
nature) because family members intend to
do the job themselves “sometime.”
“Sometime” has already run into de-
cades.
A third difficulty is that Australians
have inflated the importance of some of
their writers. A good biography is a huge
undertaking, and any competent bio-
grapher would think twice about spending
years of work on popular literary figures
who, by world standards, are quite in-
significant, and who, moreover, are be-
coming less important to Australians (in a
literary sense) as our judgment improves,
Undoubtedly adventurers like Adam
Lindsay Gordon would make fascinating
studies of human motives and action,
but most literary biographers would pre-
fer more congenial subjects to his highly-
derivative writings. Moreover, as with
ò
“ Wouldn’t Mum scream if she could see us now!”
ó
WHISKY WINNIE (N.S.W.).


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Good for the South
“Ben C.”: Celebration wheat,
estimated to go 45 bushels an
acre, won for T. E. Gorman
and Sons, Fairfield, Yerong
Creek, the R.A.S. wheat cham-
pionship for the southern-slopes
division of N.S.W. Celebration
is popular on the southern
slopes because of its vigorous
early growth and tall, slender
straw which stands up against
skeleton-weed and wild-oats.
Seeding-rates of successful
crops varied from 601 b. to
751 b. an acre, with an average
of 641 b., and super-rates aver-
aged 681 b. an acre. Heavier
rates for both were favored in
the southern part of the divi-
sion.
Wheat expert Nicholson, who
judged, said crops had shown a
singular absence of stem-rust,
that interest was increasing in
wheat grown as a rotation crop
for pastures, that less sheaf
cereal-hay but more baled
pasture-hay was being pro-
duced, and the importance of
an improved pasture-lea to
boost soil-fertility and discour-
age weeds was being more gen-
erally recognised. He added
that southern farmers should
consider growing oats after pas-
ture and before sowing wheat.
The oats to be used first for
grazing, then mown and baled.
Nicholson’s answer to soil-
fertility, erosion and weed prob-
lems is primarily pasture-
improvement. Skeleton - weed,
and, to a less extent, wild-oats,
provided added incentive to
adopt a more diversified and
stable farming programme.
Second place went to a
43-bushel crop of Ford, grown
by F. Downes, Trenayr, Boo-
rowa, and third to another crop
of Celebration, grown by F. L.
and J. Scott, Hillview, Coota-
mundra, estimated to yield 48
bushels. Only a point separ-
ated each placegetter.
Better Flour
“Triticum”: N.S.W. flour-
millers may think they will im-
prove flour-quality by encourag-
ing Sydney University research
with a farm on which to test
theories. But the fact is that
although N.S.W. growers have
increased the acreage of strong-
flour varieties in recent years,
the gluten content of f.a.q. wheat
has been steadily declining.
This means that the solution
doesn’t lie solely in wheat
varieties; obviously some other,
stronger influences are at work.
Climate is a permanent influ-
ence, affected by seasons, while
seasons can be an influence apart
from climate. From the
climatic aspect there is the hope
of expanding areas, especially
in the north-west, where high-
gluten wheat is produced. But
this will take years, especially
while wool pays better than
wheat.
Another influence is the fer-
tility of wheat soils. Nearly all
of them need their fertility im-
proved, especially in nitrogen,
but again it will take many
years to do this over areas large
enough to affect the general
flour-quality of N.S.W. wheat.
“Call me at seven, Tomkins. I must make an early
start in the morning."
The quickest way to increase
the gluten content of flour for
bread-making is to add more
gluten. But that can’t be done,
for the N.S.W. Government,
though it aims to compel bakers
to use flour containing not less
than 10 p.c. of gluten (the
gluten content of N.S.W. f.a.q.
wheat is now down to 8.6 p.c.)
will not allow gluten manu-
facturers to charge a home price
equal to the export price.
Naturally, the export market
gets the lot.
Mineral Supplements
“C.H.”: Mineral supplements
are vital to sheep and cattle on
drought rations. Sheep need
salt and calcium; cattle need
both and phosphorus. Feeding
of salt, however, is only justi-
fied in dry periods when the
sodium and chlorine contents
of pastures and crops are low.
One of salt’s main drought-
time purposes is as an appetiser
to make new and tasteless foods
more palatable. Too much can
be harmful. One to two ounces
per sheep per week is sufficient.
Unnecessary to dry cows or
average milkers, salt should be
mixed with the feed given high
producers at the rate of 1 p.c.
of the ration.
If deprived of salt, some
cattle develop a craving for it
within a few months, lose con-
dition and go off milk-produc-
tion.
Drought feed for sheep that
consists of hay, straw, grain or
bran has an ample phosphorus
content but is low in calcium.
Even scrub feed has a higher
calcium content. This lack of
calcium can lead to stunted
growth, poor wool and bad
teeth.
To make up calcium defi-
ciency feed the sheep lucerne
or clover hay, which is high in
calcium, or add 1 p.c. of ground
limestone to the feed (slaked
lime is useless).
For a calcium lick mix to-
gether equal parts of ground
limestone and salt. A little
diluted molasses makes it more
palatable. When a laxative is
needed, 101 b. to 201 b. of
Glauber salts can be added to
every 1001 b. of lick.
On deficient country cattle
should be supplied with loz. to
2oz. per day of bonemeal or
dicalcic phosphate in the feed ;
for pregnant cows increase to
240 z. per week.
For a good drought-time lick
for cattle mix two parts of
bonemeal or dicalcic phosphate
with one part of salt. When
grains form most of the ration
the lick should consist of equal
parts of ground limestone, bone-
meal or dicalcic phosphate and
salt.
The belief that superphos-
phate, mixed with hay or other
rations, benefits stock is a
dangerous one. This fertiliser is
rich in fluorine, a poison. Small
doses affect the animal’s teeth
and bones and cause disorders
of the stomach and intestines ;
large quantities cause death.
That Plating Job
“Electro”: When you go to
have bumper-bars or household
appliances or ornaments re-
plated, always be sure of what
you want. For instance, the
greater part of jobbing work
comes under the heading of
“chrome-plate.” As chrome-
plating is deposited to a thickness
of only 0.00002 in. and is used
only as a “color” coat over
nickel- or copper-nickel-plating,
the term is a misnomer. Yet I’ve
never had a customer ask for
anything else but “chrome-
plate.”
As a general rule, specify for
indoor conditions a nickel-
chrome plate, and for outside
conditions a copper-nickel-
chrome plate.
A table put out by the
British Standard Specifications
Department is worth quoting:
For electroplated coatings of
nickel and chromium on steel
and brass the thickness of the
nickel-coating on steel for
severe outdoor conditions and
extra-hard wear shall be not
less than O.OOOSin.; on brass for
the same conditions and wear
not less than 0.0006 in.; for
normal outdoor or hard indoor
conditions, 0.0005 in. (steel) and
O.OOOSin. (brass); and for ordin-
ary indoor conditions 0.0003 in.
and 0.0002 in. respectively.
The deposited thickness speci-
fied may be a composite deposit
of nickel and copper provided
that the final deposit of nickel
be at least 50 p.c. of the whole.
The thickness of chromium shall
not be less than 0.00002 in.
If nothing else this table
should convince people not to
clean chrome-plate with wear-
ing abrasive powders.
Though the customer can
specify the thickness of plate he
requires he has no way of
checking it. Better to tell the
plater the conditions to which
the article will be subjected. It
is still no guarantee, but if the
plating cracks up before it
should it stops the plater say-
ing he didn’t know how it was
to be used.
As for costs, decorative plat-
ing is close to luxury. A cycle
of operation to, say, replate a
car bumper-bar will give an
indication why plating is so
dear. Basically, the procedure
is: Strip old plating in electro-
lytic-acid bath; pickle rust in
concentrated acid; dress base
metal with various emery
wheels, finishing with a fine
emery grease wheel; chemically
clean with alkaline cleaners;
electrolytically acid-etch (to
bond plate to base metal); cop-
per electroplate ; copper polish ;
chemically clean, give acid dips,
etc.; nickel electroplate ; nickel
polish; chrome electroplate;
light polish if necessary.
Of course, there are varia-
tions (some shops have a bright
nickel solution that eliminates
the nickel-polishing operation),
but generally the procedure
quoted is used for plating of
ferrous metals. Approximately
three-quarters of the cost of
decorative plating is taken up
in polishing-labor charges.
If you want electroplating
done get the job replated before
corrosion takes too great a
hold ; choose a reputable firm ;
specify type of plating: nickel-
chrome or copper-nickel-
chrome ; inspect finished article
for peeling, small blisters or
excessive pitting, which are
signs of defective plating.
Check appearance and for
missed parts. Polished nickel has
a yellow tint; chrome is bluish.
When the job is finished look
after it. No abrasive powders.
Use a damp rag and French
chalk for cleaning. For outside
conditions waxing will preserve
the plate considerably.
Feeding Gulf Cattle
“Outback”; The Australian
Estates Co., Ltd., is conducting
feeding trials on two Gulf-
country properties, Granada and
Canobie, to determine whether
the cost of feeding cattle there
during droughts—estimated at
3s. per head per week —is a pay-
ing proposition. The company’s
pastoral - inspector, W. A.
Beattie, states that on present
indications it looks as though
it would be sound practice to
feed balanced concentrates from
mid-October till the season
breaks in mid-December.
Prepared feed-mixtures used
on Granada with promising re-
sults comprised lucerne-meal,
linseed-meal, bone-flour and
traces of copper and cobalt.
Young stock took most readily
to the concentrates, which were
fed twice a week at the rate of
11b. per head per day. More
hand-feeding was not encour-
aged, as it was desired to keep
the cattle foraging on natural
pastures. Besides keeping stock
in tip-top health and condition,
feeding had the effect of quiet-
ing the weaners —important in
the case of future stud- and
herd-bulls.
At Canobie cows and
springers are being fed concen-
trates to test the value of addi-
tional feeding on the breeding-
herd. Results so far show that
those on supplements do much
better. Beattie believes the pre-
dominant red-soil country in the
north-west could be increased in
carrying-capacity by the estab-
lishment of buffel-grass, which
has done well on alluvial coun-
try along watercourses there.
The company has invited an
agrostologist from Queensland
Department of Agriculture, S.
Marriott, and the department’s
botanist, S. L. Everist, to go to
Granada and advise on pasture-
establishment. Buffel-grass is
doing well on another of the
company’s holdings Dalgon-
ally—in the same area. Al-
though only 60 points of rain
fell on the Cloncurry River por-
tion of the property the buffel-
grass shot-up into a lush sward.
Wax-moth Pests
“Springvale”: Wax-moths —
there are two kinds, one larger
than the other —appear to
flourish under dry conditions,
when beehives tend to become
weak. Combs not required by
bees in weak hives should be
promptly transferred to strong
hives, permanently if the hives
will stand it. If they won’t, put
the surplus combs on stronger
hives for brief periods at regu-
lar intervals throughout the
summer. This enables the bees
to destroy most of the moth-
larvae. The alternative is to
store under cover from the
weather, but where as much light
and air as possible can perco-
late the combs. Failing these
counters, fumigation is neces-
sary.
Chlorosal fumigant destroys
the larvae and eggs. One treat-
ment does, and it’s easy td apply.
There’s no danger with chloro-
sal ; its chemical components
are ethylene-dichloride (three
parts) and carbon tetrachloride
(one part).
Combs for fumigation are
placed in an air-tight room.
Paste paper over all cracks. The
fumes are heavier than air ; place
the chemical in open containers
at the top of the combs before
they’re covered. Use Igal. of
chemical for every 1000 cubic
feet of space. Combs should be
kept sealed until required to pre-
vent further infestation, but
don’t forget to give them an air-
ing before they’re put on to fresh
hives.
Should chlorosal be unobtain-
able use carbon-bisulphide. But
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Absence of sunspots imposes much difficulty on the
Crohamhurst system of weather forecasting, since it makes
the weather itself erratic. A spotless period like this has
no regular occurrence as far as observations during the
last 300 years show. The normal cycles show rain of a
coastal nature early in January, while the rains which
should have come in early November may now come at the
astronomical cycle early in January, and so enhance those
on the normal cycle. The present cycle is predetermined
partly by that of 1882 and the seasons of the early 'eighties
of last century were not very good, but finally led to a
series of very wet years.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
o
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS. . NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
ò
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
" DISTRIBUTORS **
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIO.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN; G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co, (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
4
,
■ mmki
miH-in smkiiii.Hi
su. tei!®
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BAYES:
Single Rooms—
From IS/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From *4/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
with this stuff be careful. It’s a
quick-acting chemical, highly
inflammable and explosive and,
if inhaled, damaging to the
lungs.
Useless Grasses
“Bill C.”: Two mongrel pas-
palums damaging pastures in
Queensland are carpet-grass
(Paspalum compression), long
known for its uselessness, and
the not so well-known yellow-
grass (P. conjugatum). The
latter looks like becoming a real
curse in N.Q.
Also called “sour-grass” be-
cause of its rank growth in low-
lying areas, it is a couchlike
thing which forms tremendously
long reddish stems with upward
shoots forming a dense carpet up
to 2ft. deep. The leaves are yel-
lowish-green and narrow; the
seeds are on two spikes at the
end of a short stalk.
Nothing can exist along with
this pest. It has no food-value,
even when stock will eat it.
Wherever it grows it is regarded
as a menace to good forage
grasses. Root it out as soon as
it appears.
One-stem Tomatoes
“Lyco”: A new and remark-
able mutation in tomatoes, viz.,
absence of lateral shoots, has
appeared at the John Innes
Horticultural Research Station,
England.
This mutation was found in
a variety called Antimold B,
which was developed from a
cross between Vetomold (a
well-known leaf-rhould resistant
glasshouse tomato) and Leaf-
mould Resister (an English
mould-resistant glasshouse
type). . .
Even if Antimold B is not of
direct value, its character of no
lateral shoots could make it use-
ful to local breeders.
Preserving Eggs
“Sundowner”: Oldest and
most popular method of preserv-
ing eggs is with waterglass.
Earthenware crocks, tins or gal-
vanised buckets may be used.
The vessel should have a wide
opening so that eggs may be
placed in and removed from the
liquid easily. A wire basket which
fits into the utensil is handy.
Don’t use a deep vessel, as
the pressure on the bottom layer
of eggs may cause them to crack.
Always put a lid on the vessel
to cut down evaporation to a
minimum. Store in a cool place.
Eggs preserved in waterglass
should be used chiefly in cook-
ing. When boiled the shells are
liable to break. Eggs to be pre-
served should be as fresh as
possible; newly-collected eggs
should be cooled before preserv-
ing.
Young Heifers
“Bully Bert”: After they’re a
year old, and up to about
two-and-a-half years, heifers
shouldn’t be grazing with the
milking-herd. Growing heifers
need different food from cows
in full milk. The latter require
lush pastures to maintain quan-
tity and quality of milk-produc-
tion ; the former need harder,
rougher feed, preferably in
country of a limestone nature.
Heifers become heavy and soft
on rich pastures, instead of de-
veloping leaner, hardy, sturdier
frames. A month or two before
the first calving is ample time
for introduction to lush pastures.
When too fat they are apt to
develop a tendency to beef,
which they may never lose. But
don’t starve them; keep them
in good growing-condition.
The age for service depends
on climate and breed. In a
fairly warm climate heifers tend
to fatten if not put in calf
early, and they’re apt to become
uncertain breeders. As a general
rule 18 months is a good ser-
vicing-age, though some breeds
such as Jersey may go a little
earlier, and others, like the
Friesian and Ayrshire, a month
or so later. Poorly-conditioned
heifers should be delayed a
month, while those going to fat
can mate a bit earlier.
After the first calf —at about
27 months—a heifer should not
go to service again for about six
months. Any shorter rest would
certainly retard growth, and
you’d be left with a stunted
youngster, very prone to sickness
and economically a failure. The
extra six months gives her the
chance to mature thoroughly,
and induces regular and satis-
factory calving in the future.
She’ll most likely go dry a few
months prior to calving, thus
“It said on the packet they were the giant type.”
giving the foetus a better chance
of being properly nourished.
Impaction
“Rooster”: Calves up to the
age of six months are likely to
suffer if given free access to
silage, lucerne, hay or straw.
They are unable to digest large
amounts and the food packs in
their stomachs. Impaction may
also follow sudden feeding
changes—as from pasture to in-
tensive handfeeding at calving-
time ; or it may occur in cows
whose bowels are sluggish after
milk-fever.
Symptoms are weak appetite,
failure to ruminate, loss of pro-
duction —and difficulty in bowel
evacuating, the faeces being
scanty, firm and dark. Breathing
becomes fast and shallow, the
animal grunting in distress and
hanging its head. In severe
cases the symptoms are more
alarming ; the hind-feet “paddle,”
there is kicking at the belly,
swishing of the tail, and turning
the head towards the flank. The
beast goes down finally with
paralysis of the hindquarters, a
stage of impaction often con-
fused with milk-fever.
Evacuate the alimentary
canal and restore it to normal
function. Give no grain, and re-
duce the food intake to a mini-
mum. The paunch may be
emptied with a drench of lib. to
21b. of Epsom-salt combined
with molasses. Repeat in 24
hours if there is no response,
this time with 2gal. to 3gal. of
water. After drenching, knead
the paunch With the fist at regular
intervals until relief is obtained.
As an alternative drench, Igal.
of liquid paraffin or a quart of
linseed-oil may be used. If im-
paction is accompanied by
bloat, a tablespoonful of turpen-
tine, or a dessertspoonful of
formalin may be added to the
above drenches.
Coping with Liliums
“Wilco”: Lilium bulbs wither
and lose their vitality if kept out
of the soil for long. Allow them
to rest undisturbed or, if they’re
too crowded after years of
growth, subdivide the clumps
and replant at once.
Liliums don’t like lime.
Plenty of well-rotted leaf-refuse
(found in any gully) helps them
along, but avoid fresh animal
manure or artificial fertilisers,
except super, which may be used
sparingly and well away from
the bulbs.
Planting-time is from April
to July; they may be planted
very early in mild to warm
climates. The summer heat will
bring them on to flowering
around December or January,
whereas in cooler areas they
may not bloom until March.
Late planting in warm districts
means that the plants are often
undersized when they come into
bloom, meaning fewer and
smaller flowers.
In the tropics they should
have some shelter from noon
and afternoon heat. I sow
Giant Crego asters amongst
mine during the summer. With
a little care, such liliums as
formosanum, tigrinium, wil-
mottce and regale are a success,
even in hot climates. Lilium
longiflorum is also a fine
variety, but subject to a virus
disease which browns the foli-
age and prevents them from
flowering.
P.I. in Queensland
“Agric.”: Improved pastures
sown last autumn in the Stan-
thorpe - Inglewood - Warwick
triangle of Queensland took a
gruelling from an adverse sea-
son —Warwick is having its
driest period for 30 years—but
the manner in which the pastures
battled on has impressed even
the sceptics.
Those who went in for p.i.
certainly did not reap the bene-
fits this year they could reason-
ably have expected, but the
feed they did obtain from
“droughted” pastures has en-
couraged them to prepare for
the 1954 sowing.
Possibly the outstanding
lesson demonstrated by the
drought is that a well-prepared
seedbed is the prime essential,
and, secondly, that the seed
should be sown on a firm, moist
seedbed and covered by up to
lin. of soil. Other points demon-
strated were (1) that pastures
sown on virgin country generally
had done better than those on
land previously cropped with
cereals, even when the cropping
was only one crop of oats, and
(2) pastures did better on the
lighter soils (trap and granite)
than on the heavier black soils —
due to a two-way moisture influ-
ence the black soils crack and
dry out more severely than the
light soils, and there is usually
more weed-growth on them.
Hints for the Farm
“Ann”: A sanitary method of
supplying greenfeed to poultry
is to make containers of wire-
netting. Place the greenfeed in
these and suspend from the
fowlhouse or an overhead yard-
rail. It prevents waste and gives
all the chooks a fair go.
“A.F.”: Birds for the table
shouldn’t be fed for 24 hours
before killing, but given plenty
of clean, cool water to drink.
The starving allows the crop and
intestines to empty, a guarantee
of freshness until cooking. After
plucking, weather permitting,
hang the carcass head-down-
wards in a cool place for 12
hours. Legs and feet should be
thoroughly cleaned.
“Ghandi”; An Bft. length of
flexible heavy-gauge woven wire
hooked to the rear of a tractor
makes a suitable light cultivator
for final smoothing of the soil
for sowing vegetable-seed. It can
also be drawn over the soil to
destroy young weeds which
shoot after the seed is sown
but before it germinates.
“Breck”: Clear a circle 3ft.
wide around a young tree, taking
care not to injure the surface-
roots. Level off, scatter a light
layer of old, well-rotted stable-
manure on top and water well.
Over this place a 2in. to 3in.
mulch of old leaves. A few
light battens, laid across the
leaves, will stop wind scattering
them. Mulches of this type not
only conserve moisture but pro-
vide fertiliser.
“L.C.”: To obtain seed, cut
cucumbers or rock-melons in
half, scrape the seed and pulp
from the hulls and let the mass
ferment for 48 hours. Later,
wash free of foreign matter and
dry well. After extracting seed
and pulp from water-melons
force the mass through a sieve
that will retain the seed; wash
and dry quickly. Seeds of
maripws, pumpkins, squash,
should be removed with the pulp
clinging to them. When dry rub
the seed free of surrounding
flesh.
“Billjim”: Lucerne will need
irrigation after the first cut. If
conditions are dry irrigate again
before the second cut is taken.
Third and fourth cuts can be
treated similarly. A final irri-
gation towards the end of April
will assist early growth in the
following spring. If an early
spring top-dressing has been
omitted give the stand at least
lewt. of super, after the first
cut.
“Sundowner”: Cucumbers
will do well where tomatoes
thrive but need more plant-food
and water. In addition to
organic fertiliser, a side-
dressing of blood-and-bone at
flowering-time will help the
formation of large fruits. In dry
districts sowing on hills may be
a disadvantage, particularly if
they cannot be watered regu-
larly. Sow seed now yin. to lin.
deep in well-worked soil. To
encourage prolific growth of
succulent fruits, pick regularly
while they are still young.
Regular watering will maintain
growth and assist in giving
crisp fruits. If the crystal-apple
variety is sown, cut when the
skin is a lemon color but before
it turns deep yellow.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD JOHN GREENLAND. —
TAKE NOTICE that LURLENE THER-
ESE GREENLAND has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4627 of 1953 on the grounds
of your desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Su-
preme Court King Street Sydney by the
Ist day of March 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor. 109
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO EVA BACKHOUSE.—TAKE NOTICE
that WILLIAM FREDERICK BACK-
HOUSE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4626 of 1958 on the grounds of your
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Ist of March
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES GRIFF-
ITHS, Solicitor, 109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. —J. DOUG-
HAN, Registrar.
j N THE “supreme COURT OF
TASMANIA (Divorce.)
Launceston District Registry
TO DORIS AGNES COX formerly of 79
Great North Road Five Dock Sydney in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that a has been filed
in this Court endorsed with a Notice to
you to appear and answer the charges
in the Petition of WILLIAM DAVID
COX of Launceston in Tasmania praying
for a dissolution of his marriage with
you on the ground of desertion In de-
fault of you so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce judgment
in respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of this
publication an appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street,
Hobart, or at the Launceston District
Registry, Cameron Street, Launceston. —
D. W. SHIELDS, District Registrar.
N.B. Friends of the abovenamed Doris
Agnes Cox who may see this advertise-
ment are requested to bring it under
hex notice.
corner having his first for the
day. The low sun threw burn-
ing slats from the foot of the
blinds.
“Max,” he said, “I’ye got some
news for you.”
“News?”
Viner no longer masked the
contempt in his eyes. He had
the station with him. His knife
was open on the counter and he
spun it, looking down with his
black brows raised.
“You know. Max, I m begin-
ning to wonder a little Those
accidents last week-they were
all m your flight.
“They go in threes.”
“But this evening there was
another.”
Viner’s eyes became very still,
“Who was it?”
“Another of yours. And in
the same way.”
“All rieht ” Viner said,
“We’re not playing Bo Peep,
These things happen. What are
you drinking— whisky? Or”—
and the old smile was back,
twitching his lip ; he smoothed
it—“or maybe, Dad, you’d like
some champagne?”
While the whisky came, he
played with the knife, whittling
at the counter, lost in thought,
“Things aren’t going well for
you. Dad,” he said, “are they?
You don’t want to let it influence
you. Methods change . ~ Was
that your news?”
“You’re fond of that knife,”
Graham said. “You’re fond of
whittling, aren’t you, Max?”
Q n an impulse he leaned for-
ward and ran his finger along
t^e colln t er edge,
Three se[Tations bit into his
beginnin g s 0 f a
fourth
1 ,„ , , ,
It was all he needed. He
straightened up.
“No,” he said. Viner, This
is my news. You’re grounded.
I’m sending you home.”
And he held Viner s wrist
while they looked into each
other’s eyes.
T>UT for some reason, when
13 Viner left, Graham took
to drinking on his own. He
went missing soon after on opera-
tions over Burma.
evidence at the other strips
you’ve visited today.
While the young woman is
being farewelled by a gathering
of Aussie friends you assess her
formidable impedimenta with
mixed feelings- As box after
box and crate after crate are
loaded your suspicions become
absolute certainty. John shrugs
in silent apology; but it’s
obviously impossible to squeeze
a woman and baby in through
the small aperture left among
the cackling poultry.
“How long?” you ask.
“Only about an hour.”
“0.K., but go for your life.
I’ll get in when the goodbyes
are over.”
On this leg a fuselage window
slips open and you can’t reach
it. The plane seems to be
climbing over some new Everest,
and you shiver in your shirt and
shorts. Fowls poke their heads
through wire-netting and cackle
within six inches of your face.
You wonder if it’s safe to
smoke, and decide no you’ll
shiver-and-cramp it out to
Kainantu, the next stop.
Squinting out the side you get
a passing vista of tumbling
streams and a great cliff veiled
with waterfalls. Your ears tell
you John is diving for his des-
tination. The engine - note
changes, the prop sings into fine
pitch and you see the wing-flaps
go down for a landing. A fine-
looking plantation rises on either
side, and you’re running on a
splendid strip bang through the
middle of it.
There’s no way of getting out
till you’ve done most of the
unloading from within, sliding
crates doorwards to a forest
of upreaching brown hands.
Slam goes the cargo door and
you climb gratefully back to the
cockpit. The plane taxis in a
half-circle and flies off pointing
for home. You clear your moun-
tain —not quite so truculent,
this one —tearing the wispy ten-
drils of the cloud-base, and dive
in a long, down-slanting beeline
at Goroka. It’s late afternoon
and the light is failing. In
your earphones you hear the
staccato chattering of homing
planes scattered far over the
Territory. The mountains can
have it till tomorrow.
That, on an ordinary unevent-
ful day, is the “valley run.”
you can't take it with you
by Mary Durack Miller
ONTIL the other day it was
twenty years since I’d
seen Bluey Matthews. He
had not changed much.
He is an old man now, and he’d
seemed an old man then, though
a little less scraggy, perhaps, the
skull a little more tactfully con-
cealed under the parchment-
flesh, but his eyes are still keen
and he has the same uncom-
promising directness of manner
for which I remembered him.
“You’ve aged,” he said.
“It’s twenty years,” I re-
minded him.
He nodded.
“Nineteen years ten months.
I was coming down with cattle
from the Ord, last mob of the
year. We had that drink of tea
at Emu Spring and you said the
water was bad, remember? I
said ‘Go on,’ I said, ‘you can’t
stand a stick up in it,’ I said.”
He laughed, revealing big gaps
between isolated yellow fangs.
“Your memory’s as good as
ever,” I remarked.
He shook his head.
“Time for a yarn? Come over
here in the shade.”
I followed him.
“You got any money in the
bank?” he asked.
“Not much,” I admitted, and
looked at him again. Poor old
devil, I thought. He’d come
into Broome with cattle the day
before and he wouldn’t be broke
—or shouldn’t be, unless he’d
got into debt somehow, or given
his cheque away. He could
have been retired and drawing
the pension the last ten years or
more, but they don’t like that,
those old-timers.
“I’d have enough to help you
out,” I said.
He brushed the suggestion
aside.
“You take it out before it gets
worth having, or they’ll be on to
it. You bet your life they will.”
“Who?”
1 hunched his bony shoul-
ders, cast a furtive glance
over his shoulder and spoke in
lowered tones.
“When you saw me last I was
worth a few quid, wasn’t I?”
My memory, never of the
calibre of Blue’s, stirred hazily
through local legend and gossip
of the past.
“That’s what they used to
say,” I admitted.
“Yes, I was worth a bit all
right. I used to reckon on a
trip home in my old age—New
Zealand, see me sister, get a
couple of new suits, a set of
teeth, cut a bit of a dash. No
one ever been able to say Blue
Matthews got adders in his
pocket, but every trip I done I
reckoned up what was a fair
thing to spend and what I was
going to put by. I never handed
me cheque over no bar-counter.
So what did I do?” He looked
at me challengingly.
“You banked it?”T suggested.
It was clearly the answer he
had hoped for.
“Now, that’s the point I’m
leading up to. I always
reckoned there was something
crooked somewhere about banks.
‘Put your money in here—we’ll
keep it safe for you!’ Well, I
looked at it this way —that’s not
human nature, somebody going
to look after your money. What
do they care what happens your
money without they got some
reason?” He closed one eye.
“I didn’t come down in the last
shower.”
“What did you do with it?”
“One time,” he explained, “I
carried it round inside a canvas
belt under me shirt, but I
figured sooner or later someone’s
going to find out and I get
bumped off. Anyway, that belt
give me prickly-heat all round
the belly. A chap like me —here
today, gone tomorrow, address
anywhere on the stock-route be-
tween the Queensland border
and the west coast. ‘All right,’
I says, ‘it’s the stock-routes for
me. So I starts planting me
money different places, see?”
“How do you mean?”
“When I says ‘plants,’ I mean
‘plants.’ Buries. Buried a bit
here and a bit there, all over the
country—sewed it up in canvas
and put it in a tin, perfectly
watertight, perfectly safe.”
“How many plants did you
have?”
“Twenty - two,” he said.
“Sometimes I buries several lots
in the same plant, but there’s
twenty-two different places.”
“How did you remember
them?”
He tapped his forehead.
“That’s one thing me old dad
always said. ‘Son,’ he said,
‘your friends’ll fail you; your
luck’ll fail you; your health’ll
fail you and you’ll fail your-
self, but one thing you got,
that’s your memory. Don’t
clutter it up with no book-read-
ing,’ he says. ‘Keep it clear and
it’ll hold good.’ I used to run
over them twenty-two plants in
me mind, like some runs over
women and some runs over grog.
Riding along, watching cattle at
night. ‘Thirty quid under the
coolibah, ten paces west the red
ridge, two miles on from Goose
Hill.’ I says. ‘Fifty quid under
the big bottle-tree ten yards off
the road from Mulligan’s Gap,’
I says. ‘Hundred quid under
the boulder, twenty yards south
of Egan’s grave.’ I could reel
’em off in me sleep.
“Then sometimes, coming out
of town, I’d plant a bottle of
rum along the track. It’s not
every man could do that. Took
a bit of will-power, but I
reckoned I’d be mighty glad of
that rum later on, and I was, too.
Coming along with cattle, maybe
six months, maybe a year later,
maybe more; ‘ ’Nother two-day
stages,’ I’d say. If I was by me-
self I had it on me own. If I
was with a plant I’d say ‘What’d
you give for a nip of rum right
now?’ I’d say. ‘Wouldn’t it be
funny if there was a bottle of
O.P. buried abouts here?’ I’d
say. I start pokin’ around off-
hand like, and after a while up
comes the bottle, and there’s me
mates with their eyes popping
out. It was a good stunt, that.”
He chuckled reminiscently.
“It was the forty-eight wet
settled me,” he went on. “When
I bogged-in at Mataranka there
was a case of books, magazines
and detective-yarns, and there
was nothing else to do but get
into them. I had a hell of good
mate there that time, and when
he was going off I said ‘Bill,’ I
said, ‘when you get twenty miles
out, through that tea-tree gully
you come to a big, old cadgibut.
Dig down on the south side
facing the creek and you’ll find
a bottle of rum. You have it, old
man,’ I said. T want you to do
that for the sake of our good
times.’ Then he rides off and I
don’t see him again for twelve
months.”
He paused.
“Did he find the rum?” I
asked to hasten him along.
“No,” he said. “Bill never
found the rum. He dug under
that cadgibut all right and he
got up a tobacco-tin with
seventy-five smackers inside.
“How come?” I asked.
“It was a mistake,” Blue ad-
mitted. “Me memory let me
down, see? It was all that read-
ing I done. X had the rum
buried under a corkwood fifteen
miles on, and somehow I’d got
the two boxed-up.”
“What did Bill do with the
money?”
“He tried to get in touch with
me,” Blue said sympathetically,
“but I was over west on the
move with cattle, as usual. Then
he got thinking maybe I meant
him have that seventy-five quid.
‘Blue don’t make mistakes,’ he
said. ‘He’s got a memory like
an elephant, Blue.’ Still, he’s
only going to buy a bottle or two
and keep the change till he sees
me and makes sure. But when he
spends the first fiver, you know
how it is, it’s goodbye to the
rest. I don’t hold it against him.
It was my mistake.”
6WTT had to come,” I said,
“reading or no reading,
you were bound to slip up some-
time.”
“No, it was the reading,” Blue
insisted. “Later I got telling a
bloke I met in the Derby pub.
Nice chap, he seemed, just
passing through; clever chap,
reckoned he was a businessman.
‘Look here,’ he said, ‘you’re not
getting any younger,’ he said. (I
could see he was shrewd.) ‘You
take my advice. Gather up that
money and put it in the bank.’
‘No fear,’ I says. ‘Well, take
me,’ he says. T had money in
the bank all me life, and me
father and grandfather before
me. It’s the only safe place,’ he
says. ‘S’posing you get sick,
what good’s that money going to
be in twenty-two plants between
here and Queensland? You get
it all together and then you can
make a will. Anyone you want
to leave it to?’ T got a sister,’
I says. ‘Well, leave it to her,’ he
says. ‘Better do that than have
it rot in the ground if you hap-
pen to die sometime. You can’t
take it with you,’ he says.”
“That was reasonable
enough,” I agreed.
“Reasonable, eh?” Blue
scoffed. “You know who that
fellow was?”
“No,” I said.
“He was a spy.”
“What sort of a spy?”
“Gubmint spy,” Blue said
convincingly. “You think there
ain’t no such thing as a Gub-
mint spy? You wait till your
little nest-egg mounts up a bit,
and you’ll see.”
“Did you do what he said?”
He nodded.
“Pity help me for a gordamn’
fool. Next two years I took
droving right through the coun-
try —got to every one of them
twenty-two plants bar one and
dug up two thousand five-hun-
dred quid. That was me savings
for forty years, pokin’ along be-
hind the mobs, fever and sandy-
blight. That might sound a lot
to you, two thousand five-hun-
dred quid.”
“No,” I said, “it’s not so much
for forty years’ hard work.
There’s plenty get through that
in a year.”
“So I banks it like he says,
and I makes a will. ‘Another
year,’ I says to meself, ‘just
another trip out east, dig up fifty
quid 1 got under that Leichhardt-
pine, other side the Victoria, and
I’ll go for that trip. New duds,
teeth, everything.,
WATT’S then they come at me.
1 ‘lnvasion of income tax!’
That’s what they calls it. Three
thousand quid!”
“You didn’t have to pay?”
“Well, I got a lawyer beat ’em
down five hundred smackers, but
they got the two thousand five-
hundred cold.”
“What about the fifty quid?”
“The lawyer got that.”
“Enough to break your heart,”
I sympathised.
“Took me a month to get over
it,” he agreed. “After that it
come a kind of relief. I don’t
bother to nurse me memory any
more, but one thing, me eye-
sight’s still good. That ain’t
failed me yet, so I can still read.
It’s wonderful the writing chaps
there are. Doubt if I’ll five to
get through the lot of them, but
they give me more pleasure now
than the money I lost.”
“Still, you never got your
trip.”
“No,” he said, “but New
Zealand’s a tumble cold place
as I remember it, and I never
got on with me sister, anyway.”
“You shouldn’t have had to
lose it all.”
He shrugged.
“Think of it —two thousand
five-hundred and fifty pounds of
grog! I mightn’t have lived
through it. Just so long as you
take my tip and get your money
out quick.”
“Think I ought to bury it?” I
asked.
He scratched the thin hair on
top of his head.
“That’s the question, isn’t it?”
he said. “What to do with it,
eh?”


The Ideal Gift Book
The Book Of Cricket
DENZIL BATCHELOR 255. Od.
A collection, of photographs of the greatest cricketers of the last
fifty years with full character sketches.
Over 300 Illustrations
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
Looking for Foreign Language Books?
Angus & Robertson’s is the place to find them all. The famous classics,
the new novels, children’s books, art books, poetry, drama . . . and a fine
collection of Continental art prints. In fact, we have the most compre-
hensive collection of foreign language books in all Australia.
Come in and see them for yourself. If you can’t call
send in your orders, or write for our free lists . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney ; : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l.
THE COUNT
A Life of Sir Paul Edmund Strzelecki, K.C.M.G.
Explorer and Scientist
By Geoffrey Row son
This first full-length biography vividly portrays an extraordinary life of many adven-
tures and makes a valuable contribution to the history of the discovery and
exploration of Australia.
24 pages of half-tone illustrations, including some of Slrzelecki's
letters reproduced in facsimile, also 7 maps.
At all booksellers, 27/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
London ; : Melbourne : : Sydney : : Auckland
The Brennan Myth
There is generally some basis in his-
torical fact for what we call a myth, and
if one says that the stature of Christopher
Brennan in Australian poetry is largely
mythological, magnified by recollections
of his large and colorful personality,
that is not to deny the fundamental fact
that he wrote excellent verse.
The versification in The Burden of
Tyre, a sequence of 15 poems newly
published by Harry F. Chaplin (177
Elizabeth-street, Sydney), seems, in fact,
as good in its kind—the kind of Milton
and Dr. Johnson rather than that of
Mallarme —as anything ever written:
Beyond the deeps what silence broke?
the hour returns to whence it came,
and gods of a departing.-folk
fill all the west with stormy flame.
Their day was hot with war and lust;
their wars were base with hate and greed:
them-seem’d their sordid realm of dust
was all the stainless deeps might breed.
Therefore the silence bids them home:
yet once, ere quite their kingdom cease,
their rage is slaked in bloody foam
and still’d in broad and golden peace.
This is indeed a pleasant, sonorous
noise ; it is clear and precise in language ;
and it is also directly applicable to life,
not hidden in cloudy symbol (a very
different thing from vision). Several
other passages in The Burden of Tyre,
while practically all are smoothly-turned,
reach the same depths of gloomy organ-
music ; and there are moments, as in
“One Apart,” when the gloom breaks
out into an impressive rage, and one
thinks —though with the proper reserva-
tions —of “Samson Agonistes.” In indig-
nation at the Boer War (though this
poem was written after the rest of the
sequence, presumably in 1903) Brennan is
invoking upon Australia destruction by
the Japanese;
Let them devour and be devour’d!
so spake my anger yesternight:
and watch’d where the loud city tower u.
black, reddening all the western night
because their men of war had done
some little deed of blood and fame:
my anger watch’d till night was run
and lit a sombre answering flame.
For I was fall’n into their mood
and slew my peace with wrathful lips:
Ah, when the East shall come in blood,
I triumph’d, and the howling ships!
But if fine versification is everywhere
through the sequence (indeed there is
only one line, “hope still: the tranced
abysms imprison,” which one would care
to quibble at: it seems to buzz a little)
the directness of these quotations is rare.
Most of the poem takes place in abstrac-
tion, some dark Miltonic hall, and were
it not for Mr. Chaplin’s useful little
introduction it might be very hard to
guess what it is all about, other than
doom and gloom in general.
For this reviewer’s taste, at any rate,
it is all too vague. It seems essentially,
not the attack upon the Boer War which
Mr. Chaplin explains it to be, but a
musical composition in a few monotonous
counters of sonority, all to be found in
Milton and common to Lionel Johnson,
Davidson, Dowson and the rest of the
English school of the ’Nineties ; and be-
yond that a re-statement of the single
mood of personal despair and rage to be
found in all Brennan’s poetry ... a
weak and negative outlook, lacking both
the delight and the breadth that make
great poetry; excellent in its kind, but
far outmatched in range and variety by
the English school in its period; at best,
limited.
But in suspicion of Brennan’s poetic
reputation one must not forget the debt
of gratitude which all students of Aus-
tralian literature, as well as connoisseurs
of fine printing, owe to Mr. Chaplin (a
veil-known Sydney book-collector) and
the printing-firm of Waite and Bull for
this beautiful edition. The project to
publish Brennan’s Collected Works is still
inexplicably delayed; here we have at
least the 15 poems of The Burden of
Tyre, only one of which has ever before
been printed.
Bound in a blue cloth decorated ‘with
gold lettering, the book contains an
etching and a pen-drawing of Brennan
by Lionel Lindsay; some pages of
Brennan’s handwritten MSS. have been
reproduced letterpress in blue ink ; and
the layout and decoration of the poems,
where simplicity balances embellishment,
is a model of good taste and fine crafts-
manship. The pages, though, might well
have been numbered ; while the index
of first-lines should have been labelled
Index —there is considerable danger of a
newcomer to the book mistaking it for
a poem; as which, incidentally, it reads
very well.
The edition is limited to 300 copies, of
which 250 are for sale. The price is
three guineas.—D. S.
Search for U.S. Manuscripts
A census of American literary manu-
scripts is being undertaken by a com-
mittee of the American Literature
Group, Modern Language Association
of America. We hope to publish, ulti-
mately, a checklist of manuscript-holdings
in all hands whether public or private,
whether in America or abroad —a list as
complete as available information can
make it.
To this end we will be most grateful
to learn of the existence and exact loca-
tion of several different sorts of Ameri-
can literary manuscript: whole manu-
scripts of literary works, letters by or to
American authors, documents associated
with these authors, books formerly
owned by them—particularly books con-
taining marginal notes —and, generally
speaking, all manuscript material asso-
ciated with any American author either
recent or remote.
Any Bulletin readers having informa-
tion about such American manuscript
materials would greatly oblige and assist
the committee by writing to Joseph
Jones, Department of English, University
of Texas, Austin 12, Texas, U.S.A.
—Joseph Jones (Fulbright Lecturer in
American Literature).
Leichhardt Bibliography
Mr. L. L. Politzer of Melbourne has
continued his well-known series of Aus-
tralian bibliographies with two new
privately-printed volumes, Bibliography
of Literature on Dr. Ludwig Leichhardt
(limited to 75 copies and priced at £3 35.)
and Dutch Literature on Australia,
1642-1952 (limited to 100 copies; same
price).
One notes with regret that Francis
Webb’s fine poem Leichhardt in Theatre
is omitted from that volume, though Mr.
Politzer has included Henry Kendall’s
“Poem dedicated to Leichhardt” and also
“Leichhardt’s Grave,” by Robert Lynd—
“an elegvac [s/c] ode on the scarcely
doubtful fate of Leichhardt, etc., Sydney,
1845.” However, the bibliography is
mostly of original Leichhardt material,
letters, diaries, newspaper-clippings and
the like, and should be extremely useful
to anyone contemplating research.
As well as Tasman’s Journal and other
such documents, the Dutch bibliography,
like Mr. Politzer’s previous German tabu-
lation, lists works by English and Aus-
tralian authors translated into Dutch, so
that we come upon Watkin Tench’s notes
on Botany Bay transfigured into “Be-
schrijving van den Togt naar Botany
Baaij,” while in later days there are
“Idriess lon L. —Gondzoekers Het
Romantische Verhael van de Gouvelden
in Nieuw Guinea” and “Clune, Frank —
Zwerftochten (Try Anything Once).”
Reviewed Briefly
To See the Queen: Ann Shead (Faber).
Set in a rather synthetic “outback” Aus-
tralia this children’s book is timed, of
course, to appeal to young readers ex-
cited by the impending royal visit. Three
boys and two girls, ranging in age from
eight to fourteen, set off to ride a hundred
miles to a railway-line where the royal
train is to pass by. Some of the young-
sters have permission for the expedition,
others take French-leave. There are
delays and adventures on the way—
a swagman, a circus, a family in distress,
a bushfire—and every page contains its
quota of (on the whole accurate) local
color.
* * * *
Fighting Ships of Australia and New
Zealand: Frank Norton (Angus and
Robertson). Mr. Norton, the R.A.N.’s
official war-artist, has produced a book
of drawings which purports to depict
all the ships of both countries’ navies.
One wonders why. If information is
required on these matters one naturally
looks up Jane’s Fighting Ships, a large
volume which gives details of every ship
in every navy in the world, from displace-
ments and dimensions to machinery,
speed, armament, complement, cost of
building and when built. So Norton’s
slim vol. cannot hope to compete with
Jane’s, which, of course, lists all the
ships found in his own. He has added
some chapters on bosun’s calls, ships'
organisations and so forth, but these are
necessarily sketchy. It might have been
better if the artist had devoted his un-
doubted talent to depicting various classes
of ships in well-known actions of their
war-careers.
# * * *
The Time of Indifference: Alberto
Moravia (Seeker and Warburg). When
this, his first novel, was published in
1929, Moravia, later to attain celebrity
with The Woman of Rome, etc., was
only 22. The work reads neither like
a first book, nor, except perhaps in its
objective lack of compassion, as the
writing of a very young man. The
action is limited to three days, the
characters to five people. The theme is
the futility of lust untempered by love.
Mariagrazia is an ageing woman living
with her son, Michele, and daughter,
Carla, in a villa which is mortgaged to
her lover of 15 years’ standing, Leo.
The family is on the brink of ruin;
Leo is about to foreclose on the mortgage
and has his eye on the daughter. Angus
Davidson’s translation of this study of
a fragment of a decaying society is
excellent.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 258
Across
I —The malignant forward teeth
may be so slandering a foot-
baller having a nip. (10)
s—lt has four short legs, and often
instigates a leg glance. (4)
9—Bearded entertainer causes a
little laughter in the south-west
wood. (4)
10 —Allies pass associations. (10)
12— Are missing cries by a Spanish
composer seemingly light, yet
wrong? (9)
13— Inquisitive remark. (5)
14— It makes us forget a quantity to
auction us. (5)
15— Although put into apple-pie
order, it turned back and kicked
the bucket. (6)
19—The slips may be worn out by
them according to the devil m a
steamer. (6)
Ik-Express an artist in a can for
t2—Bliley’s 6 the joker who takes the
devil’s place in 19 across. (5)
fc—Potatoes seen over the eyes by
Miss Gwyn’s namesakes. (9)
24 — Blushing cafe mashed and
mashed. (10)
25 A dead queen. (4)
26 — The time my ears drop the
manuscript. (4)
27 — Monster stretches of water that
the Queen shut up. (3-7)
Down
1 — Beat them up thoroughly —if
with diffidence. (9)
2 Garlands for little blokes. (8)
3 It cost him much change and
refers to the Aquinas doctrines.
(9)
4 Cromwell’s heads. (5)
6 Are you allowed charm? (6)
7 If turning shy and suspicious.
(5)
8 — Place to spot a boy going to the
east in a ship. (11)
11—Where Frankenstein, Dracula
and Wolf-man spot an indication
of somewhat spotty ancestry.
(3-8)
16 — Finds record bowling spells. (9)
17 — Childless children rise, and are
being born again. (9)
18— A pretty good round weapon, in
a manner of speaking. (8)
21 — Toumanova thanks the parent
artist. (6)
22 — Effeminate fellow. (5)
23 — Be carrying a boy beard-
destroyer. (5)
Solution to Crossword No, 257


Money
i
\
\
vr
\
8 0
that slip; through your finger;
Those small amounts that are so easily
frittered away can just as easily be saved.
The M.L.C. Saving and Protection Policy
is designed to help you save them.
The Policy has three aims and three direct
benefits.
First —it is a means to easier, systematic
saving.
Second —it is a form of old age investment.
Third —it is, in the case of death, a guarantee
that your dependants will be provided for
financially.
.
if 1
V-
«®P .*
1 T\ f&
■
wm
V-
* -•>
i
MIX.
The
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS
♦
Assurance Co. limited
* »M»
SSSSr’
wm
■*r
J
■*o
BE WELL ADVISED
BY THE M.L.C. MAN
ML2S/FP
