

FOR PORT
SEPPELTS
WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
ROYAL PURPLE PARA
I
The Bulletin
PARKES, THE CHAMPION BORROWER
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No 3849
Wednesday, November 18, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WODALLA
Brown horse by Helios—The Rip. Four years
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP, 1953
OWNER: TRAINER: JOCKEY:
MR. E. A. UNDERWOOD R. SINCLAIR J. PURTELL
WEIGHT: 8st. 4lb. TIME: 3min. 23¾ sec.


STORY WRITING
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL,
Bead these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lOO/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlercagh St.
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St, Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
-—-"—CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
•■(••••
MY NAME . I
address
(S.R. 1153) age
The Red Page
TALES OF NEW GUINEA
A ferocious little anecdote about a
man who, taken prisoner in tribal war,
was given to the women to “play with”
and escaped with many scars after they
had tried to cut him up with their
digging-sticks may be taken as typical of
the material in Colin Simpson’s Adam
with Arrows (Angus and Robertson);
except that prisoners of the Kukukukus
along the Banir River and in the 4000
square miles of adjacent New Guinea
and Papuan territory are rarely so for-
tunate. Watching the children at the
patrol-post of Menyamya, Mr. Simpson
records: —
Buka had made himself a little bow
and he was shooting small arrows of pit-
pit cane and chasing them happily across
the grass. I watched him for a while and
then went back into the house thinking of
something Lloyd Hurrell had put in one
of his patrol-reports: “If a man is cap-
tured he is taken to the village and the
children are taught to kill him with stone
clubs"
Another typical'anecdote with a touch
of precarious comedy concerns the
arrival of the first aircraft at Menyamya
in 1933 —the natives brought food for the
monster, then peered beneath it to dis-
cover its sex —and the first plane-ride in
history ever undertaken by a Kukukuku
(the name, by the'way, appropriately for
a tribe with their virile appetites, is
pronounced Cooka-cooka), The pilot of
the plane. Tommy O’Dea, thought it
would be a good idea to demonstrate the
wonders of the white-man’s world by
taking one of the Kukukukus for a ride
to Salamaua. A dusky gentleman was
more or less shanghaied ; McCarthy, the
patrol-officer, explained by signs to the
yelling and wailing tribesmen that the
plane would return, with their brother
safe, while the sun was still high in the
sky.
In Salamaua, though the other natives
shrank from one of the notorious tribe
of killers, the Kukukuku thoroughly
enjoyed himself:
He saw houses and motor-cars and a
thing that was monstrously more surpris-
ing than seeing his first white abuga
(woman) —a horse. He saw, flanking a
track that must have seemed to him extra-
ordinarily wide and incredibly straight, the
displays in shop-windows. He was taken
into a trade-store and, when he seemed to
respond most to a cake of cheap-scented
soap thrust under his nose, O’Dea bought '
it for him, and a bright-colored pecker-
chief. Down at the Government store he
was given, among other things, an axe and
a knife, a length of red calico for himself
and a length of blue which, they tried to
convey, was for his mary. .. .Perhaps he
thought he was being garlanded like a
sacrificial goat, and they would kill him
soon.
A storm blew up; it rained; and it
became doubtful whether the return-
trip to Menyamya would be possible.
Five hundred Kukukukus, fully armed
with bows and arrows and stone-clubs,
gathered about the patrol-officer and the
surveyor; “from then onwards about
every quarter of an hour a small party
came forward, and their signs said
plainly enough, ‘Where is our brother?
What have you done with him? If he
doesn’t come back soon we will know
you’ve killed him, and we are going to
fight and kill you! ’ ” Mr. Simpson makes
a very effective little drama of suspense
out of the situation, and, after the plane
comes back through the storm with the
reformed and enlightened passenger, adds
a footnote which illustrates equally effec-
tively the difficulties of civilising New
Guinea: —•
Two weeks later McCarthy was escorting
the Bulolo prospectors and the party was
violently attacked. He could not withhold
his fire any linger as the Kukukukus were
closing in and the carriers, arrows falling
among them, were crying in terror. He
'got the leading bowman in the sights of
his rifle and, as an arrow was loosed at
him, fired. This broke the attack and the
patrol went on and came up with the man
who had been shot. He was only a young
man and he was quite dead, and not diffi-
cult to recognise as the one who had been
taken into Salamaua.
In style and narrative movement Adam
with Arrows, which is essentially an
account of the Kukukukus and of the
gradual Australian attempt to penetrate
and pacify their territory, is rather an
awkward book to tackle. It opens with
the author flying promisingly into Men-,
yamya to inspect these wild people, some
of whom “still (1953) have never seen a
census-taking patrol-officer or, for that
matter, any other white man,” but the
book is about half-way finished before
he actually lands. In the interim there
are mountains of information and anec-
dotes taken from other people’s books,
from the reports of patrol-officers,
from correspondence with Miss Beatrice
Blackwood (an intrepid ethnologist from
Oxford who lived alone among the
Kukukukus), and from subsequent inter-
views Mr. Simpson conducted, usually
in the alarming presence of an A.B.C.
tape-recorder, with local missionaries and
officials.
No doubt this mass of recapitulation—
or some of it; for one massacre is very
much like another—is necessary as a
background to the Kukukukus. But in
the end, though Mr. Simpson does land
and see some interesting things for him-
self, there seems to be much more back-
ground than foreground ; and it is mostly
a little raw and (disjointed, as if it had
been hacked reluctantly and desperately
from a positively prodigious mass of
information which Mr. Simpson would
have liked to publish in full. It was
tranquil digestion, rather than haphazard
slashing, that this material needed.
The style, due to the same too-hasty
mastication, is often strangely un-
approachable ; wordy and journalistic—
“lf I seem to have left Lloyd Hurrell
half-introduced and gone off down an
ideological garden-path, try to view this
as a quick circuit of the background it
is necessary to see him against, at a point
where he is setting out to do something
he did very well indeed.” The criticism
would hardly be worth making, since the
anecdotes are the main thing in a book
of this kind, were it not for the fact that
Mr. Simpson, when he is free from
journalistic responsibilities and at leisure
to record his own experiences, can write
so very well;
A few hours later we were in a strangely
beautiful moss-forest. Every tree and root
and stone of the watercourse track was
softened with plush-green moss. Our boot-
steps were muffled, the call of a bird
seemed unnaturally shrill, the tall trunks
of the trees were like furred green pillars
in stillness one associates with empty
cathedrals, and even the sunlight that
shafted down through the moveless tree-
tops was palely green. We became aware,
as we went down and down through this
green world, of a sound that grew louder,
and resolved itself as a wild river called
the Ram, brawling its way between great
black boulders down to join the Lai.
But ail this is, after all, only another
way of saying that Mr, Simpson’s book,
if journalistic, is crammed with the
liveliest yarns from New Guinea. It
should certainly be popular; and any-
thing which draws Australian attention
to that dark, strategic island, so huge a
chunk of potentialities On our northern
approaches, is important. Mr, Simpson
announces, incidentally, that it will be
followed by another volume to be called
Adam in Plumes, dealing with the Cen-
tral Highlands and the Sepik River.
Yarns of the gold-seekers, their pene-
tration of unknown territory and their
mostly disastrous fates, fill the opening
sections of Adam with Arrows: the
German prospector Wilhelm Damm-
kohler, for instance, who is credited with
the discovery of the rich Watut and
Bulolo fields but who, Mr. Simpson
believes, was in a different area on some
tributary of the upper Markham—at any
rate he found gold and his partner
Oldorp buried him with the wounds ot
ten arrows in hisjpody.
There was also Helmeth Baum, “a
pink-faced, smoothly-barbered man in
immaculate white shirt and trousers,”
who was offered sugar-cane by the
Kukukukus while he lay in his tent, and
then was clubbed to death, his fate sub-
sequently being investigated by Eric
Feldt of The Coast-Watchers; and
Michael Leahy, whose diary, which he
lent to Mr. Simpson, contains such
incidents as, “Surrounded and attacked
by a mob of kanakas just before day-
light. ...Got away on rafts about
7.30 a.m. Pulled in to get two more
logs to make them wider. Pat’s sore [an
arrow-woundj, doing pretty good bu( may
get crook later. My neaa very baa now
and cannot keep my eyes open in the sun
but it may only be the effects of the
crack.”
There are some rather brief glimpses,
of Jack Hides ; many of Patrol-officer
McCarthy’s adventures and those of
A.D.O. Lloyd Hurrell, who established
the aerodrome and present Government
station at Menyamya; information on
native ceremonies and customs (the
Kukukukus, a dwarfish people perhaps
mentally as well as physically, have
practically no art and even the most
ardent enthusiasts find their singing
monotonous). Then are Mr. Simp-
son’s own experiences in the Kukukuku
country, where he inspected smoked
corpses—which make an exceedingly
macabre photograph—on a mountain-
top ; and towards the end is an account
of the reputed pygmies of Pinata, across
the Azana River from the Kukukuku
country, who were inspected and photo-
graphed by A.D.O. Gordon Linsley in
1949 and found to be “a friendly,
inquisitive and cheerful people, eminently
likeable.”
It cannot be said, in spite of Mr.
Simpson’s insistence that all men are
human, that one finishes Adam with
Arrows with any particular liking for
the Kukukukus ; but at least they display
a weird and yet understandable kind of
humanity on two occasions when, meet-
ing the white invaders of their country
for the first time, they either fall down
in a faint or, as Patrol-officer Sinclair
reported in 1951, “spin like tops’- with
terror and amazement: “Suddenly a man
ran into the camp and started to jump
up and down on stiff legs, twisting and
turning like a top. Three more men
staggered to their feet and repeated this
extraordinary performance. After a bit
their relatives came to them and in a
very gentle manner led the men away.
Wonego, the interpreter, said afterwards
that this performance was induced by
fear that we were going to attack them.”
COUNTRY MORNING
I heard the cock at morning crow
Among the bright-bunched parsley leaves
And with my curious, wilful eye
Saw the bird of paradise.
Marvellous creature that can yet
In fury and in flame beget
Itself upon its own decay.
I heard in darkness as I lay
The horses’ hoofbeats on the hill
And saw the coursers of the sun
Trampling into beaten gold
The patient labors of the frost.
Then wheeled, that fiery, fuming host,
And leapt the world from height to height.
The farmer’s wife began her day
With yawns and sighs and sleepy cries
And though I knew she went to milk
My inward eye saw otherwise.
Oh strange—the rattle of the pail
Was Phoebus shaking out his mail
Who puts such glittering armor on.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Australian Book Design
Dear Red Page—As you perhaps know,
the Australian Book Publishers' Associa-
tion decided to have an annual competi-
tion for the 12 best Australian books —
best, that is, from a production point of
view. The object is to focus attention on
design and Craftsmanship-
Arrangements were mad© with the
National Book League in London (which
conducts an annual competition in Eng*
land along similar lines, for the 50 best
books of the year) for their judges to
judge the Australian books submitted by
the same standards as they judge the
English books. A preselection com-
mittee (comprising Professor J. Burke, Mr.
W. G. Anderson, Mr. Hal Missingham
and Mr. L. F. R. Apthorp) was formed
in Australia to weed-out the entries, and
out of over 50 books submitted this com-
mittee selected 18 which were sent to
London, where, in turn, 12 were selected
from the 18. These 12 have been ex-
hibited in London in the N.B.L.’s Fourth
International Exhibition;
As you will see from the report of the
British judges (Hugh Williamson and Will
Carter) the Australian books made a very
good impression indeed. They said: —
Although this [Australian] section of the
exhibition is a small one, it is attractive.
The general style of Australian book-
design appears to be similar to that in
Britain. It is interesting, for instance, to
see in George Bass a book printed in Ade-
laide but with more than a touch of the
Oxford style. The title-page of Ralph
Raskleigh. too, with its well-chosen and
accurately-placed type and ornament, would
be a credit to any British book-designer.
Some of the books show a particularly
skilful use of illustration; effective use of
line-blocks, for instance, is made in Drift
of Leaves, Sun Orchids and Rabelais. In
addition to these successes in a familiar
style, however, some of the Australian
books have a little of the imagination and
enthusiasm for experiment which charac-
terise the best of American books. The
binding, endpapers and preliminary pages
of Adam in Ochre, for example, are strik-
ing and we were impressed'by the planning
of text and illustrations in The Australia
Book, one of the most charming books in
this year’s exhibition and a good example
of offset-printing in color.
As in Britain, the choice of paper seems
to be a stumbling-block; there is a ten-
dency to use unattractive papers, as in
Ralph Rashleigh and Adam in Ochre. The
paper in Camellia Trail, on the other hand,
is strong and hard, and although it can-
not have been easy to print the presswork
is admirable. Good presswork is evident,
too, in The Rosebowl, at the end of which
the Hawthorn Press has printed its attrac-
tive device, reminiscent of Chiswick.
Rabelais is an example of clean presswork
with small type (Messrs. Angus and Robert-
son are particularly fortunate in their book-
design staff). Bindings on the whole are
unadventurous, though that of Adam in
Ochre has already been mentioned. That
of Sun Orchids is particularly pleasant,
though its plan is simple; the grey paper
used for the jacket reappears in the end-
papers, and the purple printing on the
jacket matches the color of the cloth. It
is, however, a mistake to have fore-edge
bolts uncut, as in Wine in Australia.
The future of Australian book-design
seems likely to be interesting. The designers
and illustrators are there, and the interest
in quality on the part of printers and pub-
lishers. The combination of care and
accuracy in the old style with enthusiasm
for experiment in the new may make the
Australian section a notable feature of
book-design exhibitions to come.
The 18 books sent to London were:
Wine in Australia, by Walter James, and
Hawdon’s Journal of a Journey (Georgian
House) ; Australia’s Home, by Robin
Boyd (Meib. University Press); David
and His A ustralian Friends, by Enid Bell,
Drift of Leaves, by John Fairfax, and
Camellia Trail, by E. G. Waterhouse (Ure
Smith Ply.); Legend and Dreaming, by
Roland Robinson (Edwards and Shaw);
The Rosebowl, by Aubrey H. L, Gibbon
(F. W. Cheshire); Hostess Cook Book, by
Helen Co . True Patriots All, by Geoffrey
C. Ingletoh, Little Billee, by W. M.
Thackeray, Ralph Rashleigh, by James
Tucker, Adam in Ochre, by Colin
Simpson, Sun Orchids, by , Douglas
Stewart, and Rabelais, illustrated by
Broadhurst (Angus and Robertson); The
Australia Book, by Eve Pownall (John
Sands); Stones of a Century, by Michael
Sharland (Oldham, Beddome and Mere-
dith) ; George Bass, by Keith Macrae
Bowden (Oxford University Press). —
G. Ferguson (president, Australian Book
Publishers’ Association).
Books on Printing
B. N. Fryer, known to patrons of
“Newspaper News” as Ben, with some-
thing of the respect accorded a Jacobean
Ben by his contemporary poets, has set
in linotype-Janson his book, A Book Is
Built: More Conversation for Authors
(Hawthorn Press), printed on Beau
Brilliant wove paper, which means that
the book is an object-lesson in clearness
and crispness, as, indeed, is Mr. Fryer’s
prose.
The main part of this little work is a
terse treatise on the form and order of
a book. There are, of course, longer and
more comprehensive treatises, but this
one is tendential, especially on such
matters as fat ink and two- and three-
page title-pages; moreover, it is put
gently and simply for the use of authors,
not to frighten them unduly with printing
difficulties, but to persuade them of the
enormity of putting out a badly-designed
book, and to suggest adventurous ways of
heightening their literary effects.
One should like to be able to write
about format as Mr. Fryer writes in his
second-half causeries about bookmaking;
for example, on a little American tour-de-
force of printing: —
Endpapers are lighter green than in the
cover-design that is built-up of type-
ornaments. An olive-green line begins a
thematic course for structural unity above
centre on the blank ivory-tint flyleaf of
the paper used within the book, a
pleasantly-flexible stock of agreeable tone,
continuing to the fore-title, where a smaller
size Libra repeats the title on the cover in
one line of black lettering. Below the rule
and at the end of the lettering depends a
little outline-star in red. The line then
runs on to the title-page, where it blooms
in anabranch into a large outline-simulation
, of the cover-page ornament to enclose the
book-title in three lines of Libra, happily-
placed adjacent stars in red and green
reiterating the seasonal motif that animated
the printer.
It is like Tovey analysing Beethoven;
and one should be able to say something
similar about this little tour-de-force of
Mr. Fryer’s, with its flexible-board covers
covered in light-blue paper printed with
(i Continued on page 35)


Anthony
Horderns 9
has long
been famous
for
M
I
Kill
in
m»i
if Iff
it
m
«
iiii
■
H
* I
Service!
for nil our customers
in all times 9 tor all
Wi
z
$
a*
n
r-iW
■j?-'
38»
->^
ST
&
£
w
131 years ago we set ourselves a task . . .to give more service to our customers than any other store in
Sydney. It wasn’t always easy, yet we’ve managed to give you the kind of service that counts, through
two catastrophic world wars, through the disaster of our fire in 1901. Not only is our staff instructed
to give you superb service at all times ... our individual services, such as our Clothing Hospital, our
Branches of the Commonwealth Savings Bank and Post Office, our Delivery Service . . . turn shopping
into a pleasure. We can’t exactly say how many customer services you’ll find in our Store, as they
multiply each week. Our Clothing Hospital (unique in Sydney) was opened a short while ago. Yet
the amount of business it has done fully justifies our belief that if you serve your customers they’ll stay
with you. Apart from increasing the prestige of Anthony Horderns’, these services promote customer
goodwill; they’re an added inducement for you to shop in our Store. Not that these services are limited
to Store customers! Our customers in the country regularly send their furniture to us to be refurbished,
renovated. They have their furnishings made up by our experts. When building new homes they seek
advice on colour schemes, on the type of furniture best suited to country conditions. They know,
through experience, that they can depend on us. The big business organisations of Sydney shop in
our Store, too! We’ve equipped whole offices with furniture, flooring, draperies. So you see, there’s
no customer discrimination at Anthony Horderns’. We will give the best service to all our customers,
in all times, for all time!!
Here are just a few of our famous services:
Commonwealth Post Office on our Gnd. Fir.
Commonwealth Savings Bank Branch
2 Restaurants and 2 Buffets.
Rest Alcoves and Free Toilet Rooms.
Numerous Public Telephones on all Floors,
Hiring out of Crockery, Glass, Cutlery.
Shoe Repairs, Orthopaedic Shoe Salon.
Optical Prescriptions and Repairs.
Clothing Hospital, Gnd. Fir,, George St.
Dry Cleaning Section, George St. Floor.
Women's Suits man-tailored, George St.
Men's Leather Jackets Repaired, George St.
Ladies' Hosiery Repairs, Pitt St. Floor.
Umbrella Repairs, Pitt St., Ground Floor.
Racket, Sporting Repairs, Lower Gnd. Fir.
Trout Fishing Licences Renewed, issued.
Watch and Clock Repairs, Pitt St. Floor.
Re-silvering of all Household Silverware,
Venetian and other Blinds Repaired.
Curtains, Blinds made to your order.
Home Advisory Bureau, Third Floor.
Lounge Suites repaired, reupholstered.
All furniture expertly repolished.
Wire Mattresses re-wired in our factory.
Furniture made to your own design.
Mirrors re-silvered, repaired.
Lino and Carpets laid in your home.
Electrical, Household Repairs, 2nd Floor.
o| T 3.
n? V MbjS’rc
yfs.
m
y££?
A
TWJTH !M ADVtRTiSWG"
nthony Hordern
f
•PHONE M 24 0 1, NIGHT AND DAY. MAIL ORDERS
TO BOX 2712, G. P. 0., SYD N E


New Zealand's Choice
Tourists or Industry
By MARGARET CLARKE
THE continual roar of steam gushing
out of a bore doesn’t help the weary
traveller to sleep well. ,
“And the amount of power
they’re likely to get from his thing won’t
compensate for the loss of tourists it’s
likely to cause,” groused the man at my
table, a bit blear-eyed, for his room was
on the bore-side of the hotel. “I think
they’re making a great mistake to go on
with it. New Zealand has unique
scenery, especially in this part. Tourism
ought to be one of our major industries.
When I was in Switzerland ”
The locale of this conversation was
the dining-room at the Wairakei Hotel.
The bore in question was one of 15 or
so sunk in the district and part of a
£5,000,000 project to exploit geothermal
power for industrial purposes.
From the tourist’s point of view
Wairakei offers some of the most spec-
tacular sights of the kind in the world. It
is fantastic almost beyond crediting, even
when you see it.
About two or three years ago the New
Zealand Department of Works and the
D.S.I.R. began putting down experi-
mental bores in various parts of the
thermal region, which covers some 3750
square miles, (Wairakei is only a part of
it.)
The experimenters are now satisfied
that there are “great power potentialities”
in the thermal belt. So much so that not 4
long ago the Minister of Works
announced that the Government had
“approved in principle” the construction
of a combined plant to produce elec-
tricity and “heavy water” by using geo-
thermal steam.
New Zealand needs more electric-power
for her growing industries,'■and for her
primary producers: New Zealand farmers
are electric-power-minded and expect to
have electric milking-machines, etc.
With drills imported from the United
States, the drilling programme is being
stepped-up. These new drills make it
possible to go deeper more safely. About
£200,000 is earmarked for this part of the
project.
I had a look around Wairakei during
a recent visit, and talked to a lot of the
people concerned with the geothermal
project. I learned of the trouble they had
had to get dry steam (steam mixed with
water won’t do); of their war against
the corrosion of pipes caused by various
chemicals ; something of immediate plans
to build a 2000-kw, power-station at
Wairakei to be driven by geothermal
power; of long-range plans to augment
the North Island’s supply of electricity
by linking the geothermal power-scheme
to a big new hydroelectric project which
would include a chain of dams along the
Waikato River.
I also heard a lot of arguments against
the whole business. They were based
on cold hard facts about tourist revenue.
Was it possible to implement these
schemes without marring the scenery
which drew people to the thermal region?
The 50-odd-mile run from Rotorua to
Wairakei is through this region. Steam
rises from the tranquil streams by the
roadside. Signboards make known the
whereabouts of this and that “thermal
wonder.”
The road also traverses the huge
plantations of pines and larches and
Douglas-firs destined to become paper
and other forest products.
The experimental bore which was caus-
ing so much concern to visitors to
Wairakei comes into earshot some little
time before one reaches the hotel. One
expects to see a waterfall. Instead a huge
plume of steam is gushing from a bore
into the bush and turning to ashen grey
the trees in its way.
Then you come to the hotel. Govern-
ment-built and a bait for tourists. It is
well-appointed, comfortable and the
meals are excellent. There is golf, tennis,
excursions to all the neighboring wonders,
a hot swimming-pool, up-to-date bar
service, etc.
The protagonists of tourism don’t
criticise the bores and all the other para-
phernalia of industrial progress merely
because they clutter the landscape with
“unsightly” sights. They are afraid that
big-scale use of geothermal power for
industry might curb the frenzy of the
geysers and the blowholes until there
aren’t enough thermal wonders to attract
visitors.
Could it? The impartial scientists at
the Geological Survey in Rotorua are
disinclined to commit themselves, though
they admit they keep an eye on the
mineral waters at Rotorua, reserve a
certain amount for public utilities and
generally see to it that they are not
unduly squandered.
Most of the hotels have natural hot-
water services and central heating;
similarly in some private homes. And
there are one or two geothermal indus-
tries —the beginnings of a movement to
exploit the earth-heat for commercial
purposes. An estate-agent who has four
geothermally heated glasshouses where
he grows tomatoes and orchids on a com-
mercial scale hopes he is the forerunner
of a big industry which will supply
tomatoes and pineapples, say, to the whole
of the North Island.
The boiling soda-water spring in his
garden he also uses to heat his home and
furnish it with hot water. There is also
a geothermal timber-drying industry in
Rotorua. Such projects are supervised
by the Survey men.
What effects the steam bores may have
on the scenery no one is prepared to say.
The scientists will point out that the
Karapiti Blowhole has been blowing his
top at a pressure of 1841 b. to the square
inch ever since the white man came to
New Zealand over 100 years ago.
According to Maori legend the blowhole
is older than their 500-year-long residence
of New Zealand.
In any case, extraordinary changes are
apt to take place in these turbulent regions
without the provocation of industrial
projects. Take Lake Rotomahana and
Tikitere.
When I first saw Rotomahana about
13 years ago it was jade-green and
opaque-looking; silica terraces, white in
appearance, were forming, like a shallow
flight of steps, on one side. About two
years ago the water ceased to be jade-
green. Rotomahana now looks much
like the other lakes in the district, except
that one end is hot and the other cold.
At Tikitere in the 13-year interval be-
tween my two visits a piece of ground
that quaked and trembled under one’s feet
has disappeared and in its place is a pond
of boiling water.
Once I visited Rotorua in war-time.
There were lots of American servicemen
about. Those with itching palms Were
irked by all the chemicals lying about
unexploited. “Why don’t you folk do
something about it?” they rasped.
In Italy the geothermal power-scheme
at Lardarello did tag along behind a
chemicals industry. Tie New Zealanders
are going about it the other way, possibly
because electric-power is more important
to them. So the chemicals lie there a-
plenty for tourists to have fun with: you
drop your small change on one patch of
earth and see it turn black. With another
you make it so bright the bank would
blink at it.
And women visitors to the Maori
village at Whaka surreptitiously snatch
up a bit of smooth white mud from some
of the plopping pools, and when they get
back to their hotels slap it on to their
faces, and come to dinner looking as if
they’d had film-star-sized beauty treat-
ment.
If an American beautician of enter-
prise . . ,
And as well as making money she’d
doubtless become a tourist attraction.
The Flowering-shrub Society Holds Its
Annual Meeting
/~1 FTER the minutes of the
f \ previous meeting had been
k | read by the secretary, Miss
Magnolia Stellata, and the
motion for their acceptance had been
passed, the president, Mr. Herb.
Aceous, began his address.
The year just closed, he said, had
been one of intense activity. The
society, which only a couple of years
ago had been of spindly growth, had
been revitalised by the committee
with a well-balanced fertiliser of
enthusiasm, hard work and a drive
for new members.
A voice; “And it was applied in
liquid form, too. I’ll bet!”
Continuing, the president said there
had been, and still were, disrupting
elements in the society, and he would
see that those not already attended
to would soon be weeded-out. If
he had his way they would all J?e
treated with arsenate-of-lead or
paris-green. They were comparable
with the aphides with which so many
of the decent members were horti-
culturally pestered. He was in pos-
session of concrete evidence, which
he would produce at the appropriate
time, that those disrupters were out
to wreck the society if they were
unable to capture it.
A voice; “Liar! It’s a plant!”
The president went on to say that
personally he didn’t care a Ficus
macrophylla for the attacks of such
rats, whose background he was con-
vinced was extremely shady. Some
members unfortunately allowed
themselves to be swayed by what-
ever wind was blowing.
A voice: “Garn, you slimy slug!
You’re getting collar-rot.”
From a long observation, con-
tinued the president, he was satisfied
the root-system of the society was
sound. This was indeed confirmed
by the fact that the society had put
out two more suburban branches, and
these would, he felt sure, flourish.
A voice; “More underground
engineering by the committee! ”
He would, went on the president,
compare the last interjector with a
Pyracantha coccinea lalandei —which
was full of thorns, but yellow—were
it not that he couldn’t, as an ardent
shrub-lover, bring himself to offer a
gratuitous and wholly-unjustified in-
sult to such a useful garden speci-
men. As it was, the interjector’s
bird-brain reminded him of the
Strelitzia regina.
The society was most gratified
that its researches in the field of
hybridisation had resulted in the evo-
lution of a promising veronica of
some beauty
A voice; “Was that the one you
were caught biting her ear in the
office the other day?”
It was also a matter of considerable
pride to himself that he had helped
in getting a polygala to propagate
indoors, which was something that
up till then hadn’t been thought
possible,
A voice: “You old rooey. Polly
who?”
The society’s ceaseless efforts to
evolve a dwarf sport of the popular
Leptospermum sandersii were at last
beginning to bear fruit —or, he should
say, flowers.
A voice: “Why don’t you call it
plain tea-tree so everybody can
understand you?”
Experiments had also been suc-
cessfully made with new chemicals
with the object of giving a much
darker color to the Christmas-bush.
A voice; “Why don’t you use the
proper botanical name of Ceratopeta-
lum gummiferum ?”
It was, went on the president, a
matter of deep concern to him and
the committee that the question of
rising costs had not been completely
solved. Although the pruning-knife
had been used ruthlessly on expenses
and a lot of deadwood hacked away,
the gap between revenue and out-
goings was still too wide.
A voice: “It’s because a lot of
saps are running the show!”
He could see nothing for it but a
slight increase in membership-fees,
and this, if no improvement occurred
in the financial position before next
winter-pruning, would be put for
members’ approval at an extra-
ordinary general meeting.
A voice; “The members are the
suckers, as usual!”
The president said that, whilst he
was democratically in favor of open
discussion and intelligent interpola-
tion, he was convinced that the pre-
sent crop of interjector-weeds had a
mental capacity slightly inferior to
that of a bottlebrush, or, if they
thought it might flatter them better,
Callistemon lanceolatus. Some mem-
bers who talked a lot but never
offered to do any work were always
demanding a new broom
A member; “What do we want
another type for? We’ve already got
junceum and multiflorum!”
The president said he would con-
clude his remarks with the hope that
in the coming year the society would
get right on top of the worst pests —
and he certainly wasn’t referring to
those of the insect world.
After the general business had
been finished and election of new
officers for the year determined the
president extended a hearty invita-
tion to members to make an inspec-
tion of some very fine specimens of
liquid-amber, if someone would
kindly supply the bottle-opener.
BO.
THE NAVY IS CONFUSING
THE hero of J. E. Macdonnell’s
Gimme the Boats is never just a
plain P.O. He is “captain of the
gun,” “chief bosun’s mate” or
“cox’n.” Very, very confusing to a
soldier accustomed to his n.CdO.s and
warrant-officers being corporals, ser-
geants, or w.o.s. regardless of the job
they are doing (certainly they are never
anyone’s “mate”).
Reminds me of when we boarded
H.M.A.S. Westralia in Darwin Harbor,
in 1941, to go to Timor. A bearded
character with an impressive quantity of
gold-braid on his shoulder-straps was
bellowing orders at everyone, officers and
seamen alike. Regardless of rank, they
obeyed with alacrity. We were certain
that he was the C. 0., an impression
strengthened when the sailors told us
he was the “Commander”... but no, he
was only 2/i.c.
He lined us up for a pep-talk. “You
may sit easy,” he told us. In Army drill
that means “Men may smoke.” Not m
the Navy. We lit up. When he spotted us
his eyes glittered, his beard bristled. “Do
I see soldiers —no actor could scramble
rage, contempt and disgust into one word
ifnTiimnrA?’-
"“may have realised.” he said,
“that with three hundred soldiers^ on
board we have not enough lifebelts to
go round, nor is there enough room in
the lifeboats. Don’t worry. If we do go
into action there’ll be plenty of room in
the boats and more than enough belts
before the order ‘Abandon ship!’ is
given. Finally, if there is no action job
for you, sit down and read a book.”
That became a catchphrase in the
unit, replacing “Don’t panic!” “Shut-up,
you so-and-so’s” and such phrases.
He surprised us when we were dis-
embarking. He stood at the head of the
gangway and each soldier received an
individual salute as he went over the
side. Someone shouted, “Hope you’re
not reversing the old order, sir, ‘You
who are about to die, I salute.’ ” The old
boy grinned broadly.
Several things boosted our regard for
the way the Navy does it.
First, a casually-worded telegram on
the sailor’s notice-board. It read, simply,
“Commence hostilities against Japan
immediately.” Three hundred soldiers
decided to have that telegram for a
souvenir, but it was still hanging there
when we left the ship.
Second, the generosity of the sailors.
We had no tobacco and the ship was
long overdue for revictualling, but,
“She’s right, Dig. We’ll get plenty when
we get back.”
Third, that fresh bread at 4 p.m. every
day. Very, very tasty.
W. M. SIMMONS.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 18, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3849
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521 ;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
CAHILL'S COERCION ACT
Though the Cahill Government went to the N. S.
Wales electors only two or three months before the
decision to introduce its Dog-collar Bill was made, it
did not ask for a mandate, because it knew it would
not get one. The first announcement was made, as
it would have been in Russia, not to the electors
in general but to a closed session of the junta of the
native communist party of Australia which calls
itself the Annual Conference of the N. S. Wales
Branch of the A.L.P. No details which the Govern-
ment wished to have concealed were allowed to leak
to the public until the moment for action came.
Members of the Ministry who opposed it were
dragooned. There was no doubt about Mr. Clive
Evatt’s opposition—neither he nor anybody else who
was present in Cabinet denies that he threatened to
resign if the bill were introduced. But the Ministry
proved that it had enough hold over him to make
him change his mind.
The manner in which the bill was brought down
was similar to that used in the Kremlin. Though
the measure was one of the most important and
most bitterly-opposed ever seen in an Australian
Parliament, Mr. Landa devoted to it only a cynical
two minutes. It was flung at the Opposition with a
take-it-or-leave-it air by the Government, which once
more, as in the Arthur case and in the matter of
alleged City Council corruption, has shown that it
does not care a button for public opinion and that
it is a cowardly dictatorship.
And if ever any act was politically corrupt it
is the introduction of this bill, which attacks the
rights of every human being who comes within its
dutches. It is primarily a bill carrying to a climax
the kind of principles of liberty endorsed by the
professional agitators, bookmakers, publicans and
speculators and rich legal mouthpieces who make
“Labor” policy. It is a class-war measure because it
discriminates between two classes of citizens—those
who are within reach of the tyrant through working
in industries under State awards and (for the present)
free men and women who happen to come within
the scope of Federal awards and whose throats the
Cahill-Landa totalitarians cannot reach.
To those who choose freedom are applied the
same principles as rule in Russia. Unionism, so
far as N, S. Wales is concerned, is to be socialised ;
and through the socialisation of unionism so is the
community, since the compulsory principle once
adopted in employment on the lines now proposed
can very easily be applied also to the whole of the
life of the workers.
No man or woman in Cahill-land will have the
free choice to get work where work is offering, to
keep himself and his family. Human rights, including
the simple right to work, are cast into the dust. Any
person who does not join a union must be at once
dismissed. If the employer has any charity in his
heart he will be fined up to £lOO ; if the employee
has any principle and refuses to be dragooned into
subscribing to something opposed to the Declaration
of Human Rights and against every tenet of public
morality, not only must he starve but he must
be fined, also, up to £lOO and become an outcast,
along with his family; perhaps to go to jail if he
cannot pay.
Of course there is a let-out —the same sort of
let-out that Comrade Malenkov or Kaganovich would
have thought of. A conscientious objector, whether
or not the grounds of the conscientious objection is
based on religion, may apply to the Industrial Registrar
for exemption. The Industrial Registrar of that day,
whoever and whatever he may be, then becomes the
keeper of the applicant’s conscience. In any case, even
if the registrar —that is, the State —permits the applicant
to have a conscience he must pay for having it a special
tax equal to the levy which he would have paid had
he joined the union. He becomes, in fact, a prisoner on
probation, a marked man apart under penalty. A
man who has had to buy hjs liberty to exist in the
country.
This is one feature of the bill which the Gov-
ernment did not borrow from Stalin. It borrowed it
from Hitler. It is on a par with his segregation
and special taxation of the Jews, and though it is
not proposed, as far as is known, to force the conscien-
tious objectors to wear a brand on their clothing,
they will be known and spat upon accordingly by
brutal union commissars who many times in N. S.
A PARROT FOR THE PRINCE
“A London message says that Prince Charles wants a parrot from Australia as a memento of his parents’
visit. He has been promised one of the best talking-parrots in the Commonwealth."
Wales have done their best to deny the right to
live to workers who have not agreed with them.
If, on the other hand, a conscientious objector
does allow himself to be forced by the Industrial
Registrar to join a union there need be no doubt
about his status. He will be known as a resister of
mob law; his union bosses will ruin him if they
gan. And even if he is not persecuted to the point
of destruction he must abide by union rules which,
on past experience, are just as apt to have been
drafted in Moscow as in Sydney, and to make it
impossible for any person subject to them to be any-
thing but the serf of somebody with the mark on
him of Ernest Thornton and Jim Healy and, through
them, of the Communist party.
Every man or woman who pays a subscription
to a Sydney union must take the risk that part of his
fees will be handed over to the Communist party for
treasonable purposes or to the Labor party for cam-
paigning purposes. Let that member be also a
member of the Liberal Campaign Executive, yet he
will have to suffer it that at election-time his union
secretary makes the customary appeal to voters on
his behalf to vote for Mr. Cahill, Mr. Landa or
perhaps—since the Government apparently thinks no
wrong of him —for Mr. Joe Arthur.
Indeed, seeing the carelessness with which this
State Government picks up its friends and lets its
contracts, he might even find the union of which he
is a member using funds subscribed by him to
persuade the country to vote for a Mr. Vitnell or a
Mr. Doyle. He will have no say in the matter. His
union executive under the rules can in most cases
decide. And if he resists he will find himself in the
same position as some of the members of the Miscel-
aneous Workers employed at Parliament House who
have dared to say that they believe this monstrous
infringement of human rights is an attack on liberty.
They have already been expelled from the union.
Labor's Terrible Twins
Newspapers are now able to keep a stock double-
column heading to cover the oratory of Dr. Evatt on
all occasions: “Evatt Attacks Government.” If the
Government came out next week and made every-
body Governor-General, gave a universal pension of
a million pounds a head and paved the Trades Halls
with gold, the summary would still hold * good. The
ponderous “leader” of the agglomeration of totalitar-
ianism and flabby political flesh which now calls
itself the A.L.P. would still be shouting, as he did at
Canberra to the national politbureau: “The Govern-
ment on its record should pass into oblivion ... its
reckless promises falsely made . . . deceptive nature
and audacity of its claim that taxation is being
reduced . . . niggardly hospital benefits . . . menace
of inflation . . . unemployment widespread . . .
industrial dislocation . . . panic legislation . . . gloom
misery . . . Depression”—the last a word to which
he and his followers always give a capital letter in
writing and which they never utter except after a
sharply-drawn breath of horror.
Onlookers are apt to marvel why either Dr. Evatt
or his deputy, Mr. Calwell, fresh from his duties as
pallbearer to the late John Wren, are tolerated by the
unions neither has anything much in common
with the aspirations of unionism and neither is a
leader towards anything except disruption. They
have repudiated socialisation, which is the only objec-
tive of the movement. They have repudiated each
other. They are afraid to speak openly on vital issues
such as compulsory unionism. They have abandoned
and been abandoned by the Left, which elevated both
of them —Dr. Evatt because the Communist section
was able to give him a powerful reference in 1940
as a “liberal” (which means “tolerator of Commun-
ism” in Moscow jargon) and Mr. Calwell because of
his uses as a corrosive acid that could help to eat
the heart out of our Parliamentary institution-, which
Communism seeks to destroy.
The only thing which “Labor” leaders do not
attack is their opponents’ cleanliness of government.
Even the rhinoceros A.L.P. hide must go into goose-
flesh when the long association of the Federal party
elements with the Wren interests are mentioned.
Even in the not-over-fastidious atmosphere of the
A.L.P. the smaller States shrink away from the
branches of N, S. Wales and Victoria in which the
Federal leaderships are seated—branches with batches
of privileged agitators elevated to Parliament and
with officers on the political side who seem to feel
that the morals of party representatives are no concern
of theirs.
It is true that at the Canberra conference a
resolution was passed praising the pair for their
untiring and effective” work in the Senate campaign,
but it sounded like the disillusioned cry of a father
that his son in the dock used to be a good boy.
Coming on top of the severe rebuff involved in
the displacement of their candidate and the repudia-
tion of their firm principles in the matter of the
Federal secretariat, the praise was an anticlimax which
adds to the general conclusion that the only reason
why there is not an explosion to destroy the party s
Federal leadership is that it would afford a triumph
to Liberalism. Hate being the main ingredient of the
class-war, this must never happen.
A fact which has been emphasised once more by
what happened this week at the Canberra conference
is that the Australian Labor party, which professes
to be firmly unificationist, continues to be merely an
aggregation of State branches which do not see
eye-to-eye with each other, and each of which has
any “Labor” Prime Minister at its mercy.
This is something which is cloaked as much as
possible; but it becomes obvious as soon as any
major question of principle comes under discussion,
as in 1943, when the ex-Communist R. A. King
and his friend Mr. P. J. Clarey, who farewelled him
when he visited Russia in 1938, forced Mr. Curtin to
refer to individual State branches the question of
militia service outside Australian territory for the
purpose of pushing war towards Japan. The branches
refused the Government and the Commonwealth per-
mission and covered it in shame with its Allies. The
kind of leadership which “Labor” has when in office
was very well illustrated on that occasion when that
champion of free-speech, Mr. Calwell, sided with the
Left-wing, and, though a Minister of the Crown,
opposed even allowing the Prime Minister to speak
without a special vote of permission—he said it was
“presumption if any delegate considered he could
speak for the rank and file on such a proposal.
Mr. Ward, another Minister, was raucous in oppo-
sition to the majority of the Cabinet. But then Labor
is a party of which this sort of Gilbertian proceeding
is typical; a party full of the Cahills, the Keons, the
Calwells, the Beazleys, the industrial-groups, the
Lefts, the Rights, all tearing at each other’s throats;
a party without fixed principles which has thrown its
objectives, its ideals, in some sections even its honesty,
overboard in an attempt to keep afloat the rickety raft
on which it shivers and in which political knives
are out every time it seems possible to brawl without
tearing the whole structure of the “movement” apart.
It is time that unionism, which provides the life-
blood of political “Labor,” realised that there is noth-
ing legitimate for a militant political party to fight
for in its sphere. It should throw the degener-
ate offspring of the movement of Spence and Glassey t
Hughes and Holman on the dump.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Moscow's Newest Line
Moscow has changed its policy with
its usual suddenness about a major issue
on which it has stood pat ever since the
matter first arose in U.N.O. Only on
November 6 Vyshinsky'was fiercely de-
manding the usual hackneyed prelimin-
aries to an international discussion on
disarmament —a reduction by a third
of all armament by the great Powers,
destroying the margin of safety of the
West, plus a declaration prohibiting
manufacture of atomic and hydrogen
bombs and weapons generally. And no
inspection to prove that Russia was
carrying out the contract.
Moscow has now suddenly come for-
ward with a new plan very much more
in line with practical thought in the
West a “substantial” reduction of
weapons by all the five great Powers,
including Communist China ; prohibition
of weapons of mass-destruction —and the
condition which the Kremlin has hitherto
firmly refused to accept and which has
been the main bar to discussion—“estab-
lishment at the same time of strict inter-
national control over the observance of
prohibition” of weapons of mass-destruc-
tion. It is proposed that a plan embodying
these feaures should reach the Security
Council before March 1 next.
Combined with the sudden genial
eruption into world publicity by Molo-
tov, who held the first Press session of
foreign correspondents in Moscow since
the war, talked pleasantly and answered
questions with some freedom, there is
certainly a change of fine in being.
Whether it is a change of heart remains
to be seen. Communist technique is to
make a pretence of agreeing on large
issues in a handsome manner and then
make agreement impossible by adding
some stipulation to which nobody but a
lunatic would agree.
There are plenty of issues on which
world peace may still be sabotaged.
Molotov’s stand on Germany made it
clear that this might be one, and the
admission of Red China to U.N.O. is
another.
Until the Soviet Union gives proof
of good faith beyond question it seems
likely that the present moves are only
preliminary undermining to confuse
the conference of the Big Three which is
due to take place in Bermuda in a few
weeks. But that the Kremlin should
concede as much as it has may be an
indication that all is not going well
as it might with its policies and that
it feels drastic methods and riskily ex-
tensive concessions necessary.
On the other hand, every care should
be taken not to throw away the chance
that internal conditions and the results
of its long isolation may be telling on
Russian morale and that there is at
least a wish behind Moscow’s thoughts
that wasn’t there before. The longest
shot for world peace is worth trying.
"Labor 11 and Communism
One of the ugliest charges which has ever
been levelled at the “Labor” party in
the Federal Parliament was that put for-
ward by Mr. Berry, member for Oxley
(Q.), on November 12 that the party
had accepted a donation of £12,000 from
the Communist party to help the fight in
the 1951 referendum on the Communist-
party Dissolution Bill. Mr. Berry sug-
gested that another sum of £20,000 went
to Dr. Evatt, leader of the Opposition, to
appear for the Communist party before
the High Court, (Dr. Evatt has described
the figure as “ridiculously exaggerated.”)
Aimed at the Liberal party such a
charge might be laughed off. But even if
it is based only on rumor it cannot be
laughed off by the “Labor” party, and
especially by Dr. Evatt, in view of his
professional appearance for the Com-
munist party, and the closeness of the
linkage between his committees and the
Communist party in the Fourteen Points
Referendum campaign in 1944.
After Mr. Berry’s attack the trustees
of the Parliamentary Trust Fund, Dr.
Evatt and Messrs. Calwell and McKenna,
issued a statement in which they declared
that “any suggestion that the Federal
Labor party organised or received any
contribution whatever from the Com-
munist party in connection with the
referendum campaign of 1951 is a com-
plete and wicked fabrication.” They
stated that “never at any time in con-
nection with any campaign have we or
the trust fund received any contribution
whatever from the Communist party.”
Mr. Sharkey, of the Communist party, has
also issued a denial. Mr. Kennelly,
the Federal Executive secretary, said that
there had been no Communist gifts—
so far as his knowledge went.
Explicit as these statements are, nobody
knows better than Dr. Evatt how ineffec-
tive they are in clearing the party. It
would be unlikely that any contribution
of the kind would be remitted directly
to the Parliamentary trustees or that they
would handle it.
This is not merely a charge that the
party has taken money from local
saboteurs. Dr. Evatt, in one of those
rare moments in which he could bring
himself to say a bad word about the
Communists, declared that they were
operating against the Rocket Range “for
the purpose of defeating the Australian
defence policy in the interests of a
foreign Power.” The accusation which
has been made is, therefore, an accusation
that the official Opposition of the Aus-
tralian Parliament has not hesitated to
be subsidised by treason.
This is no matter in which the secrecy
of political funds should stand in the
way of inquiry. If he finds that the
Prime Minister has delicacy (which he
should not have) in appointing a High
Court judge to make a searching inquisi-
tion into the whole matter. Dr. Evatt or
some decent members of the Federal
“Labor” party should themselves request
such an inquiry—of course, with proper
safeguards to political freedom and secrecy
of organisation. “Labor” would not hesi-
tate a minute if it had evidence that the
Liberals were receiving Communist funds.
And if Mr. Berry cannot produce some
ground for making such a charge, even
though he put it forward merely as rumor,
Parliament should deal drastically with
him.
Master-p San for Melbourne
“M.G.S.”: Melbourne’s master-plan is
out.. The mere preparation of it cost
£200,000, and it must be said that the
planners, all thoroughly well trained in
theory, have done a good job.
The pictures of what the city will be
like in a.d. 2003, when its population is
2\ million, though badly drawn from the
aesthetic viewpoint, are most impressive.
Great elevated highways swing across the
city over the Yarra on a dozen bridges
or dive under it through tunnels ; Flinders-
street and Spencer-street stations are
roofed over to provide car-parks; the
alignment of the “little streets” is set back ;
there are clover-leaf intersections and
roundabouts; flanked by St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, a new Town Hall, Federal and
State Government offices, and the Princess
and National theatres, Parliament House
will be the focal point of a civic-centre;
five district business-centres will be
scattered over the metropolitan area to
give planned facilities for shopping,
medical and dental care and culture and
divert the traffic from the city; a vast
new road-system has been provided which
includes a city ring road to enable traffic
to bypass the Golden Mile and fan out
along a series of radial routes to the
outer areas and the main State highways;
wharves in deep and shallow water,
schools, hospitals, parks, airports, sale-
yards and an underground railway have
been thought of; and an urban area of
265 square miles—a “green-belt”—has
been frozen to check the outward sprawl
and provide space for market-gardens,
though most of it is poor soil.
In fact, everything has been thought
of, except the cost and the political im-
possibility of implementing even a quarter
of the programme.
The mistake the planners have made is
in acting on the assumption that Mel-
bourne was planless. No city was ever
planless. When Batman said, “This is
the place for a village,” he was planning.
When the first settlers built their roads
and houses they were planning. When
they built them they were determined by
prevailing conditions, not by the con-
dition that might be prevailing 50 years
hence and which they had no possibility
of knowing. There was no other way
in W'hich they could have been deter-
mined. There are still wide stretches of
grassland marked “stock-route” cutting
across the outer suburbs, although most
stock are trucked, railed or aeroplaned
into the saleyards these days. Not being
Nostradamuses, the early settlers couldn’t
have foreseen that.
If Melbourne’s master-plan fits into the
conditions 50 or even 10 years hence
it will be accident that will do it. Archaeo-
logists have recently unearthed a vast
city in an Indian desert which was built
4000 years before the Christian era. Its
king was the town-planner, and, being a
dictator, he naturally made his palace-
fortress the focal point from which great
arterial roads projected into the country
like the spokes of a wheel. Four or five
other cities were subsequently built above
it and they all had different political
systems and different ideas about things.
For all anybody knows, in 50 years’ lime
Melburnians will be living beneath ftieir
present city or suspended in midair above
it —the change from the bullock-dray and
the cabriolet to the helicopter isn’t less
surprising. And it has to be remembered
that it is 27 years since the Degraves-street
tunnel, a burrow below Flinders-straet
about 100 yards long, was mooted to
save pedestrians from being mown down
by the surface traffice, and it has only just
been started. The rock-drills opened-up
the bed of an old creek that must have
been a crossing problem for the early
settlers.
Out of Tune
A year ago everything seemed to be
breaking right for Doc Evatt in his bid
to lead “Labor” to victory at next year’s
Federal election and thus achieve his
ambition of becoming Prime Minister.
Plugging the twin themes of unemploy-
ment and inflation, he was in the middle
of a winning sequence of by-elections and
his whole team seemed to be content to
sing the same songs. To outward appear-
ances, at any rate, they presented the
picture of one big happy family, the
only jarring notes being caused by differ-
ences of opinion over the allocation of
“portfolios” in the “shadow Cabinet.”
It’s a different picture today. Unem-
ployment and inflation are no longer
useful theme-songs, being as out-of-date
as last year’s hit-parade winners, and,
although the Doc. himself still clings to
them with a touching faith, his henchmen,
instead of singing to one clear harp in
divers tones, are giving an excellent imita-
tion of a choir that has got its music
mixed.
Latest songster to ring in his own solo
without reference to the arranged pro-
gramme is Clyde Cameron, M.H.R. for
Hindmarsh (S.A.), who last week revived
“Labor’s” favorite ballad of a few seasons
ago—“ We’re A-goin’ to Grab the Banks,
Yes We Are.” That his rendering of
it didn’t get the applause of former days
is due to the fact that the party had
decided that the song is rather strong
meat for a general audience and should,
for the present, be reserved for party
functions only. The Doc. himself an-
nounced this not so long ago, with the
comment that bank-nationalisation was
dead as a political issue,
Cameron, apparently, doesn’t agree.
His attitude is that anyone who thinks
“Labor” is going to run away from its
Socialist objective “has another think
coming.” The banks, he says, will be
nationalised “if ever the “Labor” party
can persuade the people to give it the
chance to do so.” There is nothing new
in that revelation, any more than there is
in his reminder that the sugar industry,
shipping, insurance, radio, iron-and-steel
and sugar are also on the list. Dr. Evatt
may protest as much as he likes that these
items are not on the programme for the
current season, but he cannot deny that
they are listed in detail on “Labor’s”
standing programme, the party platform.
Communists in High Places
There is a tendency to treat the U.S.
Senate Judicial Committee’s inquiries into
“un-American activities” as hysterical
witch-hunting; but the holders of this
view have obviously not seen the com-
mittee’s thoroughly-documented reports
in which legions of Communists are
specifically proved by documentary,
and sometimes by their own, evidence
to have honeycombed almost to the top
bodies associated with American Govern-
ment.
The committee which inquired into
Communist penetration of the State De-
partment and which originally un-
earthed the official history of Harry
Dexter White, about which Mr. Tru-
man has refused on legitimate constitu-
tional grounds to testify, was, on its
proceedings under the chairmanship of
Mr. Nixon, now Vice-President, a model
of judicial fairness and patience.
Apart from discovering the fact that
Alger Hiss, Mr: Roosevelt’s close ad-
viser and virtually the architect of the
disastrous Yalta Agreement (probably
history’s greatest betrayal) was a Soviet
agent sending tons of confidential docu-
ments to Moscow, it unveiled organised
groups in high places doing the same
thing, not to mention Harry Dexter White
himself —erstwhile assistant-secretary to
the U.S. Treasury and virtually the
author of the Bretton Woods plan. Also
Vincent Reno, a former organiser of the
Communist party who was a chief mathe-
matician working on top-secret bomb-
sights ; Henry Julian Wadleigh, an expert
in the Trades Agreements Division high
up in the Government; Noel Field, well
up in the Western European Division of
the State Department; and Laurence
Duggan, who presently became chief of
the Latin American Division of the State
Department. It was sworn that the
amount of documents and information
which this group and allies sent to Mos-
cow was so great that they maintained
two (and for some time three) expert
photographers in two permanent work-
shops employed in making their micro-
films. White died of a heart attack after
an overdose of drugs after making a
desperate denial of the charges. Others,
including the head of the powerful group
known as the Ware-group, died in cunous
accidents.
It is notable that the charges against
a host of infiltrators of the U.S. State
and Defence Departments which were
at first disbelieved as fantastic proved
all too true when the evidence was
assembled.
Milk Board "Rort"
The 2,000,000 people living in the area
controlled by Sydney Milk Board have
had a red-hot “rort” put over them in the
so-called milk-price inquiry. If they
put up with it they’ll put up with anything.
At lid. a pint retail Sydney people
pay more —up to 3\d. a pint more —for
their milk than those of any other Aus-
tralian city. The Sydney Milk Board
alone is responsible for that. Yet it
proposes itself to hold the demanded
public inquiry into the price of milk.
This Milk Board restricts the areas
from which milk may be drawn, restricts
the quantities a dairyman may from day
to day send in for sale, says who shall
handle it, orders the kind of containers
in which it shall be delivered to house-
holders, and even attempts to order the
form of payment from householder to
vendor. It fixes the price the producer
shall receive and the price the consumer
shall pay.
And now. In answer to widespread
public protest against a price which makes
this essential commodity a luxury, the
board has decided that it and it alone
will inquire into the matter. For hide
and pure cheek that takes the cake.
If it does nothing else it should show
the people how far these commodity-
control boards have gone towards dictator-
ship. It should show Prices Minister
Landa, too, how wise he is getting price-
control off as many commodities as pos-
sible. Because if the Milk Board gets
away with this, every other commodity-
control board will become its own judge,
with the right to accept or reject evidence
as suits it.
Ibn So'ud
“L. 0.”: With the death of Abdul Aziz
ibn Sa’ud the curtain wa® rung-down on
the last of the leading actors in the
sometimes colorful and often sordid
drama of the development of the Middle
East during the first half of the twentieth
century.
By world standards, Abdul Aziz was
a great man, and —if success be the
measure of fame —he was certainly the
greatest Arab of his generation. In 1930,
when hard living had made him pre-
maturely old at 50, he towered physically
over his contemporaries, for he was six-
foot-four and his massive body was still
well-knit.
Essentially he lived in superlatives.
Like most of his race, his passion for
power, for money, for women and (rather
strangely) for expensive perfumes knew
no bounds. Yet he was the strictest of
the fanatically religious Wahhabites, who
forswear alcohol, tobacco, music and
dancing and who—as the Spaniard puts
it —possess none of the minor viqes.
Like most Arabs, also, he was com-
pletely ruthless towards his enemies and
even to those in his power who denied
his slightest whim. While his avarice
was boundless, so was his hospitality,
and he always succeeded in overspending
his available income, although onfy a
small part of the revenues accruing to
him found their way into public
He ran his empire single-handed, for he
knew his compatriots too well to delegate
any real power to them, and he subdued
recalcitrants by destroying their date-
palms, thus reducing them to supplicant
starvelings. He logically reasoned that,
as most Westerners had little or no under-
standing of the Arab mentality, he also
might make mistakes in dealing with the
West. Hence his contacts and financial
dealings with foreigners were always
carried out, even long before the oil
companies made him astoundingly rich,
through a one-time British civil servant
who had already garnered a sizeable
{Continued on next page )


fortune by selling automobiles to Ibn
Sa’ud for the pilgrim traffic.
With all that, he ran his kingdom more
efficiently than any other Arab princeling.
During World War I he was kept quiet
by a payment of £5OOO in gold a month
from the British Treasury, which, as it so
often has done in the Middle East,
neutralised any permanent good that
might have been produced by paying his
hereditary enemy, the Amir Abdullah
(later King of Transjordan), forty times
that amount.
Towards the end of the 1914-18 war,
Ibn Sa’ud’s income amounted to £lOO,OOO
a year in gold currency, and the balance
of this, over annuities, was derived from
extortionate charges to Muslim pilgrims
and perquisites in connection with the
Haj. At the time of his death, his annual
income had reached some £3O million
sterling from oil royalties alone.
The new ruler is Ibn Sa’ud’s eldest—
and favorite —son, and the Crown Prince
and Prime Minister is another son.
Whether they will hold their power re-
mains to be seen, as there are thirty
other recognised sons, any one of whom
might go desert-mad, see visions, and
start a revolution. There are also the
husbands of Ibn Sa’ud’s daughters, reputed
in the suks to number over a hundred,
who might also crave for power now that
the iron hand of the late king is no longer
there to restrain them.
POLITICAL POINTS
No Maxwell liquor report before
Christmas. And no N.S.W. bottled beer,
either.
• •
Federal caucus is due to meet today
to discuss, inter alia, the charges about
Communist contributions to “Labor”
funds during the Anti-Red campaign.
Part of the alia may be the fate of Kim
Beazley, whose speeches become more
like those of Bill Wentworth every day.
Beazley having adopted the words
“moral” and “rearmament” to label him-
self, “Labor” circles are beginning to
wonder whether there is room for him
iff a party whose mainstays include the
N. S. Wales Ministry and Eddie Ward.
• •
According to the Doc., “Labor” is
burning with zeal to advance Australia.
No wonder it is burning ; it has been
raising smokescreens ever since the last
election.
• •
Country-party leader Bruxner confesses
himself amazed at the way. ex-Mines
Minister Arthur still fraternises with
prominent “Labor” members of the N.
S. Wales Parliament. “The ease with
which he mixes with those who judged
him unworthy to be one of them suggests
that the whole expulsion move was a
cooked-up sham.” Not necessarily. It
may be just an example of the sweet
charitableness for which the party is
so renowned. After all, the “Labor”
Speaker, who sets the standards for the
party, holds his office by Divine appoint-
ment. He says so.
• •
Cain and Co. caved-in over the Holl-
way Libs.’ threat to oppose their price-
control bill in the Council unless the
period of the extension was reduced
from two years to one. There was no
mention of it in advance, but when the
bill reached the Upper House the change
had been made.
• •
Ex-Senator Morrow, back from a
pilgrimage behind the Iron Curtain, gave
the Communist “Tribune” nearly a page
of his impressions of how peace-loving
the folk in the Peoples’ Republics are.
This sort-of thing: “Everywhere I saw
peace signs displayed, just as in Western
countries one sees recruiting-posters and
signs advocating preparations for war.”
In China he was impressed with the
cleanliness—“l saw six flies in ten days
in Peking.” Surely the Senator is wrong
there. What he most likely saw was the
same fly six times —and it an escapee
from a Yankee germ-warfare bomb.
•' •
Queensland Liberals admit that for
years their party has supported com-
pulsory unionism, but “with safeguards”
—proper audit and publication of union
accounts, and prohibition of the use of
union funds for political purposes. That’s
just side-stepping the issue, and has obvi-
ously been dictated by expediency after
long years in Opposition. Now that the
subject has been dragged out into the light
it is time the Brisbane Libs, got back to
first principles ; they either believe in
freedom or they don’t. Compromising
has got them nowhere. Why not try
boldness?
• •
October was a good month for Aus-
tralia Unlimited, the big proprietary
concern operating down south. In that
months it shipped out £B7-million-worth
of goods, the best October in its history.
Total sales exceeded total buying for the
month by £37.3 million, and the trad-
ing surplus for the first third of the
financial year is £70.9 million. It was
£64.8 million for the same period last
year. The shareholders will get their
chance to express an opinion of the
management in May or June next.-
• • '
The Australian Meat Board says that
Australia can sell good quantities of
meat in the United States and Canada.
It can sell good quantities in Australia
if the price is right.
Warner, M.L.C., telling the Victorian
Legislative Council that attempts at price-
control were nothing new, said that the
first book on the subject was written by
Confucius about 500 b.c., and that
several Chinese emperors had introduced
price- and wage-pegging, always without
success. He was right on that, but Con-
fucius was not the first by a long chalk.
Price-fixing was tried in Babylon; the
system is recorded in the Code of Ham-
murabi, dated about 2000 b.c. It was a
washout there, as in China, but the
modern Confuciuses and Hammurabis
just won’t learn from other peoples’
experience.
• •
Haylen is still hawking the marriage-
loan scheme which he borrowed from
Hitler or someone and which was turned
down by his own party when in power.
THE PRESSGANG
He claims it would increase the birth-
rate and that it has been tried in Scandi-
navian countries “with outstanding suc-
cess.” Which Scandinavian country?
Sweden’s birthrate in 1951 was 16.5,
Norway’s 19.3 and Denmark’s 17.8.
Australia’s birthrate for the same year
was 22.93.
There is no evidence to show that
marriage-loans will raise the birthrate.
The promise of them may raise the
“Labor” vote, and that is Haylen’s main
concern at present.
• •
N.S.W. Minister for Labor Landa,
appealing to flour- and bread-makers to
cook a better loaf, said he knew of no
worse bread than that produced in Aus-
tralia. He meant N.S.W. —all these Syd-
ney politicians think Sydney is Australia
—and if he wants the remedy it’s there;
in the N.S.W. Baking Act which almost
compels bakers to cook bad bread.
• •
Bert Evatt, accused of having received
£20,000 in legal fees for defending the
Communist party in the High Court
appeal against the Anti-Red bill, said the
figure was ridiculously exaggerated and
that he had not appeared for the Com-
munists, but for the trade-unions “as I
was entitled, and bound to do as a
member of the Bar.” Anyone who feels
like challenging Cahill’s Dog-collar Act
should have no difficulty in briefing the
champion.
• •
Cahill’s back-seat drivers are getting
impatient at his delay in carrying-out their
orders on the three-bob cost-of-living
adjustment. There are grounds for the
belief that the N, S. Wales Premier is
trying to buy his way out of that bother
by pushing on with their other demand —
compulsory unionism’ But the Trades
Hall is very hungry—it wants both'.
From Molongloside:
Death of T, J. Treloar, Federal member for
Gwydir, after a long and painful illness gal-
lantly borne, means another by-election in a
few weeks. Last time Treloar had a majority of
2313 in a vote of about 36,600, his advantage
having declined since the 1949 election, when he
won the seat from Chifley’s Commerce Minister
W. J. Scully. Gwydir is a good testing-ground
ImS’SSMK “SEaSTtfS
c p is wranelbe over t will have Mrs
Y who is
ta fte y iieid. a fZJSf St hS? Speaker
Srans^lT 1 S Ur ™tS'<5 le *e°"nonLS
aate to give it a
councds on the new-btate issue should give it a
nmp ’ # _
Evatt minor can t be accused of having
a mind impervious to reason. He was
president of the Australian-Russian
Society and the A.L.P. told him to resign
. i , . r .. tL
or risk expulsion from the party. He
thought it over — and got out. Last
week in caucus he opposed compulsory
unionism and was .old to drop his oppo-
sition or risk expulsion. He thought it
over — and stayed in.
Tt nntvnrs that the Prime Minister of
it appears mat me Fnme minister or
Ceylon was wrongly reported by the
Colombo newspaper which had him writ-
ing to the Governor-General of the island
expressing wonder “why in this free land
„„ I®, ij . .
there should be a foreign Governor
General? According to the Prime Mini-
ster, what he really said was that he
sincerely hoped Ceylon would have a
British Governor-General as long as
possible. “I’ve been misreported” is a
familiar cry of Australian politicians.
Perhaps it slipped into Ceylon as part of
our contribution under the Colombo Plan.
• •
Menzies plainly wasn’t pleased to learn
that, on being refused an instant annual
provision of £5 million from Common-
wealth funds, the Gair Government de-
elded to stop soldier-settlement unless
the Commonwealth accepted the propo-
sal. The Gairs asked to be accepted as
an agent-State for soldier-settlement after
the Loan Council had done its stuff;
they were rightly told the application
couldn’t be considered until the end of
the current financial year. Suspending
all action on soldier-settlement was the
Gairs’ answer, though they’d included
provision for it in the works programme
submitted to the Loan Council. More
hide than Jessie the elephant!
• •
“Uco”: It isn’t often that the origina-
tor of a bill votes against it, but that’s
what happened to E. P. Oldfield, L.C.L.
member for Maylands in the W.A.
Assembly when his State Transport Co-
ordination Bill reached the second-read-
ing stage. Apparently thinking the motion
was to be declared lost on the voices, he
called for a division. The Speaker, how-
ever, had murmured that the “Ayes” had
it, so when the division was taken Old-
field was compelled to vote against the
bill, as Standing Orders lay it down that
the member calling for a division must
vote with the minority. Motion defeated
21-16.
# #
w n Wpf i,i fm-nw Tndpnpndent
w * w ® aa ; ro ™r inaepenaent
member tor Denison in the I asmanian
Assembly, replies to comments in B.
4 / J j / ’53 •
M, action in resigning was not so much to
bl ‘ n S about another election as to draw attention
to the irresponsibility of party politics and the
= ner in which Parliamentary work was bring
During my ten years’ Parliamentary life I
assisted to force the" Government to the
CQUntry on tWQ other ocoasions . Bot h times
the public seemed to take the attitude: well,
we are not keen on the Cosgrove Government,
but we also have little confidence in the
Liberal opposition.
The lack of objectiveness and realism by the
Tasmanian Liberal Opposition does not create
in the P ublic mi ? d a se ? se confidence, and
my own opinion is that if an election took place
{ be Labor Government would win; not be-
cause it was an efficient and good Government,
but simply because the people had little faith
55.“ **
My action was deliberate: to draw attention
to the time spent on political intrigue and
manoeuvring rather than on the many problems
facing out State by both political parties, and I
was of the opinion the seat would go to an-
other Independent, which has occurred.
The two parties have now the opportunity
to work out their own destinies, and if a costly
election is brought about it will be only be-
cause they both refuse to accept their Parlia-
mentary responsibilities, and will continue on
with the game of party politics, with the people
the sufferers.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
*z* ♦♦♦
pLEASING conjunction of street-names
A on a signpost near St, Ives, N. S.
Wales: “Riddles Lane to Peace Avenue.”
—“MacHoots.”
♦> ❖ *
“Ceg”: On the fishermen’s pier at
Queenscliffe (Vic.) there’s a small shelter-
shed which must be unique in its way—
its four inside walls are decorated with
oil-paintings of ships. There must be a
couple of hundred of them, from giant
Atlantic liners down to tugs, sailing-ships
and paddle-steamers. The collection is
the work of Zanoni, a one-time fisher-
man of the ’Cliffe. A fine memorial
to him, too!
♦♦♦
“She”: Moved to a new suburb and
patronised the local chemist-shop for
several weeks. Then one Sunday the pro-
prietor sat next to me in church —out-
side we exchanged greetings and went our
separate ways. A few weeks later we
met in the foyer of the Town Hall during
the interval at a concert. Next chance-
meeting was on the beach, the one after
in the paddock at Randwick. Finally,
we succeeded, in spite of our re-
spective disguises, in recognising each
other at the Artists’ Ball. His comment
when I entered his shop today: “What
odd places you get yourself into! ”
<s*
“E.G.S.”: When an inspector asked
a lad at Westbury (Tas.) school his name
and got the reply, “Churchill,” he asked,
“Any relation to Winston?” “Yes,” said
the youngster quite seriously, “brother.”
He was, too, and the same district also
boasts a Lloyd George.
■ijf
“Cauboy”: Houdini, who spent his
life escaping from handcuffs, chests and
suits of armor riveted onto his body, and
delighted to expose the charlatanism of
“spiritualists” by performing identical feats
and then explaining how he did it, left
with fellow-magician Joseph Dunniger
a ten-word code message which he said
he would communicate from the other
side if he could get through. Dunniger
offered 10,000 dollars to any spiritualist
who could communicate with Houdini,
and recently Bodin, who once ran for
the U.S. Presidency on the spiritualistic
ticket, made an attempt to claim the
money. A small dog named Patricia was
tied securely to the balustrade of a
stairway, under a strong light, and the
spiritualist and the magician passed into
the darkened seance-chamber. Chairs
and tables began to dance a mazurka;
there were the usual rappings and knock-
ings, and after half an hour Patricia walked
in minus her fetters. Dunniger admitted
that he didn’t know how the dog had
done it, but he refused to believe that
his old friend would have put his spirit
into the dog, especially one called Patricia.
A spiritualist friend of mine is indignant
at this judgment. He once called up
the spirit of his grandmother, a decent,
dignified, self-respecting old lady, and
it turned up in a bottle of Melbourne
Bitter.
“Windhover”: Mention of mayoral
gaffes reminded Jiggs of the mayor of
his home town “Poor old Miss Spragg
—our maiden institution,” he reminisced.
“She went to no end of trouble to organise
and finance an exhibition and sale-of-
work for charity. Even went from shop
to shop begging for money. The mayor
praised her no end when he officially
opened the exhibition, finishing up by
explaining to his audience that ‘she herself
went on the streets to raise the money/' ”
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Brick E.”; Melbourne Cup day found
us doing a job in one of Sydney’s poshest
suburbs. “Huh,” growled my mate, “if
it was a Redfern lane any of ’em would
invite us in to hear the Cup run; here
they’d call a cop if you asked ’em to
turn the wireless up loud.” However,
he crossed the road to ask a chap if
there was a radio in his car. “Ring that
doorbell when you’re ready,” said the
motorist as he started the car. “The
lady will fix you up.” The house was a
mansion, but at five-to-three we rang—
and waited for the rebuff. Instead, the
lady invited us in! You don’t do those
things when you’re wearing old overalls
and dirty working-boots. She insisted —
parked us in a spacious lounge, passed
cigarettes, gave us a choice of beer or
tea, with biscuits, chatted brightly before
and after —but not during—the race.
When it was over she filled-’em up again,
and finally ushered out two semi-dazed
blokes with chips on their shoulders—
for the next coot who makes a crack about
“snobby areas.”
• • • • • •
“Looby”: Biggest fright of Cup Day.
Charlie was in the barber’s chair being
shaved when the sweep was drawn. His
name came out for the favorite; the
barber drew the roughest nag in the field.
“He didn’t say anything at first,” Charlie
told me. “Just put his razor down, picked
up another, looked at it, looked at me,
then stropped it like mad. Then he
came back to me and said ‘That’s a
funny thing. Wasn’t it you I agreed to
save five-bob with?’ ” Charlie paused in
his story. “What did y’ say?” I asked.
“What d’ you think?” said Charlie.
“Rowie”: Unlike “S.W.K.” (B.
28/10/’53), we, on the Darling Downs,
Jake discoveries of past-age inhabitants’
remains seriously. Recently, near War-
wick, a fossilised jawbone was found,
belonging—the palaeontologists aver —to
the Nototherium, a nightmare that
lumbered in these parts a million years
ago and looked like a hippopotamus, but
bore the same relation to that handsome
"I hope they know when to stop. The book Was dreadful in this part."
creature as. Gulliver did to the Lilli-
putians. Like Bernard' Shaw it was a
vegetarian; it had, by scientific accounts,
more hide than the Taxation Department,
the demeanor and flat feet of Pluto, and
the eyes of Donald Duck. That all these
features should have been divined from
a set of teeth has stricken us with a
fearful respect for the palaeontologists,
who are locally accredited with an
omniscience as marvellous as that of
Sherlock Holmes. But, as usual, there
are the extremists among us who have
allowed their awe to degenerate into bad
taste. There is, for example, the resident
who tactlessly warned a leading lady of
the district not to drop her teeth on the
Downs; otherwise science might find
them and before she could say Noto-
therium she’d be turned into one.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pandanus”: Mum practised driving
the car round the well in the yard, then
round the back-streets of the town, and
cruised up to the police-station to get
“Another jerry-built job!"
her licence. “You’re doing all right,”
the constable said as she cleared the
bowling-green gates. “Now let me see
you turn round.” With the front-wheels
too near the storm-drain. Mum put her
foot on the accelerator instead of the
brake, and the old bus rocked over
the deep drain and slewed round the
telegraph-post. An expert driver couldn’t
have done it, but Mrs. Muddle got over.
When the officer recovered from his heart
attack, he gave Mum a licence to get her
out of his sight.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“X.S.”; Something queer cropped up
in a Melbourne suburban court when a
constable referred to defendant’s “pupil-
lary action.” Barrister pricked up his
ears and asked constable what it meant,
and John Hop said he didn’t know.
Another constable appealed to said he
didn’t know, either, and finally ’Sonor
murmured “Well, to be quite frank, I
don’t know myself.” Nonetheless,
“pupillary” is a dictionary word meaning
“of or pertaining to pupillage,” which
is, in turn, defined as “the state of being
a pupil,” But perhaps the defendant
meant “pupilarity,” which in Scots law
means the interval between birth and
the age of 14 in males and 12 in females.
That, however, will never be known.
The Gent. One said he didn’t know,
either, and closed the discussion.
♦> ❖ $
“J.J.A.”: Experts are for ever threaten-
ing or promising to do something about
Australian bread. My advice is that they
should do some research on either the
Italian variety or its German counter-
part. Italian bread is snow-white ; it con-
tains no air-bubbles and it is of unbeliev-
able fineness. Even at a week old it
almost melts in the mouth. The black
bread of the Germans has the consistency
of fruit-cake, being moist without being
doughy. But don’t go skiting French
bread to me. The French may eat it
and they may use it as walking-sticks,
and as far as I am concerned that is as
close as French bread will ever get to
being the staff of life.
i
“Sam”; My neighbor, opening his
paper on the morning after a fire had
gutted Woolworth’s George - street
premises in Sydney, read out the news to
his wife. Their young son showed de-
cided concern. Asked why he should
take the matter so much to heart, he
answered; “Think of all the spacemen
that must have been burnt!”
*l* *t* ❖
“Pawang”: A new variant of the agent-
provocateur idea, which hitherto has only
manifested itself in Melbourne in the
shape of plainclothes policemen going
into pubs after hours and asking for a
snifter, has been suggested by a columnist
of Melbourne “Herald.*' He suggests that
a couple of snappy-looking policewomen
should parade in straet-clothes followed
by a couple of plainclothes policemen.
Any youths jostling or accosting them
could be promptly picked up. No doubt
they could —but what about the effect on
the police-girls? I suppose even the cop
who tempts a soft-hearted publican to
give him a drink after hours feels mean
about it.
*l* ❖
“Tonsi”: On visits from Hobart to
that other city with a bridge I’m always
impressed by the manner in which
drivers unfailingly get their trains along-
side Sydney suburban stations with plat-
forms only a few feet longer than the
train. If Hobart trolley-bus drivers were
doing the job many a passenger would
have to tramp along the line to the plat-
form.
*z* ❖
“Muskeen”; We never miss in Victoria,
Every year during the racing carnival
we see the headline “Armed Guard for
Lazylegs” or whatever it might be. If
only, in one year, a favorite didn't have
an armed guard, what a scoop it would
make! In our State, you can chop a man
to bits and throw him in the river, or bash
in the skull of a club steward for a
couple of bob, and Mr. Cain and his
friends will take care of you for the
rest of your life. But it seems that,
should you stray near a racing-stable,
you are liable to be a sitting shot for
any stable hanger-on, who will become a
national hero after you have received
the death penalty at his hands for a
crime you never attempted to commit
ON A LOWER PLANE
“Visiting Australia as guest of the Women
Pilots’ Association, Miss Jacqueline Cochran,
an American, and first woman in the world to
fly faster than sound, says she means to stand
for Congress.”
If you stand for Congress, lady fair.
Instead of racing through the air,
The only kind of jet you’ll need
Is a jet-black heart, not a jet-plane speed.
Perhaps in America the conditions
Are more hygienic for politicians,
But judging by what they are out here
You’ve flown in finer atmosphere.
And though the first woman to get round
To breaking the barrier of sound,
Ydull find it a barrier very much weaker
Than that put up by a Sydney Speaker.
This may seem double-Dutch to you —
Does Congress have a Speaker, too,
Or someone set aside to marshal
Debates, and known to be impartial?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


■CITHER the Melbourne police and
i -*- / sleuths are getting more efficient or the
crooks less so. Anyhow, Uncles from Fiji
were conspicuous by their absence from
this year’s Cup, and as far as I know only
two investors in city property bought
Captain Cook’s cottage in the Fitzroy
Gardens. The most elegant performance
was put up by a gentleman who, dressed
in a faultless dress-suit, walked down the
grand staircase at a posh Toorak party
with £6OO-worth of mink and squirrel
over his arm and, striding nonchalantly
through the gilded mob, stepped out of
the front-door past two detectives and
vanished into the night. The worst was
that of a street-sweeper who toured
Flemington with a tin marked “The Salva-
tion Army,” seeking donations. He
collected £lO and three months. —“X.S.”
❖ ❖
“Peers”: When Tatt,’s was illegal its
agents were a varied bunch. A “good
address” was a great protection from in-
terference with mail; this was doubtless
the reason why a one-time lecturer at
Tasmania University was a successful
Tatt.’s man.
* ❖
“J.K.D.”: You don’t have to go back
50 years to see “miracle-cure” ads. (B.
28/10/’53). There’s a fair sprinkling of
them still to be seen in some publications.
Admittedly most of them have been
brought up to date and the term “doctor”
is no longer used, but the claims still seem
unconvincing and exaggerated. The con-
tents of the “miracle prescriptions” haven’t
changed much, either. In a recent prose-
cution in Queensland, an analyst testified
that tablets prescribed by a herbalist for
a liver complaint contained only a small
quantity of sugar of milk of no medicinal
value.
“Helldud”: Several Australian
swimmers won races abroad before Percy
Cavill (B. 28/10/’53). In 1855 W. G. P.
Wallis, of Enmore (N.S.W.), an engineer-
ing contractor, who laid the first few
miles of the Sydney-Parramatta railway,
took his son J. W. Wallis to England,
where the lad’s unorthodox stroke (single
overarm, taught him by an abo.) attracted
much notice and was adopted by the
then-acknowledged champion and teacher
Professor Beckwith. One of Beckwith’s
pupils, H. Gardiner, used it and became
champion of England. Young Wallis
won several important swimming events
before returning to Australia. The first
Australian to win a swimming champion-
ship of another country was Arthur T.
“ They’re just among my souvenirs.”
Kenney, son of Captain Kenney, pro-
prietor of the famous bathing-ship at
St. Kilda, Melbourne. In 1892 he won
the 880 yd. and mile championships of
U.S.A. and remained undefeated over
the distances for some years. In 1894 a
team of N. S. Wales swimmers visited
New Zealand, where Tom Meadham won
the 100 yd. and W. I. Gormley the 440 yd.
and 880 yd. championships of Australasia.
It is claimed that this team was the first
to represent any country overseas.
* ♦> ❖
“C. 8.”: There’s something radically
wrong with school methods of grappling
with foreign languages. I hate to think
of the number of hours I wasted “learn-
ing” French, German and Latin from
teachers who had no more real know-
ledge of those lingoes than I had and
“Don’t mark the polished floor...watch the carpet...
don’t bump the chair.”
certainly couldn’t speak them. The net
result was that when I trotted out my
schoolboy French in Pans in a few pen
feet textbook phrases my landlady took
me not for a foreigner but a Frenchma
who had gone mad. You can t teach a
child anything unless fie wants to learn
it, but if the need arises he can learn
it very quickly. A stationmaster in a
Melbourne suburb speaks German almost
like a native, though a year or so ago
he had hardly a word of the language.
Then there were wished on him by the
Railways Department so many Balts,
Estonians, Poles and other Europeans
that the place was like a tower of Babel.
He found they all used German as a
lingua franca, so he learnt it and his
station is now one of the best-run in
the Melbourne metropolitan area.
* ❖
“Pip Tok”: I’ve often heard that if
a horse shies at any particular point on
a road, he is likely to shy whenever he
comes to that spot again. In Westralia,
even the iron horse seems to be develop-
ing the habit. Last July an engine jumped
the points at a suburban street-crossing
near Perth, tearing up a large strip of
the permanent-way. Three months later,
to the day, the same engine jumped
the same points.
♦> *
“Cine Ma”; Despite all the propaganda
to the reverse, I doubt if all the crook
films in the world have made a single
crook, any more than the cowboy pictures
have made a single cowboy hero, listening
to subscription concerts has made a soli-
tary musician or looking at masterpieces
in art galleries one artist. When
people look at a film they forget
their own problems and identify
themselves with the crook who is making
war on society with a six-shooter although
they are not in the least bit like him;
the timid little boy who won’t say boo
to a goose in real life can identify him-
self with some great hero, while a girl
can weep tears at the plight of a rejected
lover on the screen yet can’t feel any-
thing whatever for the plight of the
young man who was supplanted in her
affections last week. There are very few
great crooks in any generation, just as
there are very few great artists. If the
films manufactured them, there’d be
dozens.
<s►
“C.P.”: “Algol’s” Italian who “earned
full marks” for his letter of application
(B. 21/10/’53) has a rival in a young
German who applied by letter to the
Deutsche Bank, London, in 1913. The
embryo banker set out a list of excellent
qualifications for the position and finished
his application by stating that he was
fully conversant with all the “little twigs”
of banking business. He meant
“branches,” but he got the job.
* <♦
“Fairf”: My little mate on the job
is the kind of kid I would have liked
even if he hadn’t lost a foot in a traffic
accident. As it is—well . . . Anyway,
the other day a lady who had stopped to
ask what was going on looked across
at the mob of kids that always gathers
where there is sand, and exclaimed:
“Look at that poor boy! Isn’t it a
terrible thing to see a boy hobbling along
on crutches like that?” It is. But she
hadn’t got things quite straight. The
boy hobbling around on crutches wasn't
my little mate— he was playing on the
sand with a toy tip-truck; the other kid
had lent it to him in exchange for “a go
on your crutches.”
*l* £♦
The quaint American Service
game of publicly criticising colleagues had
lately been in the doldrums, but it picked
up nicely with publication of the sixth
volume of Sir Winston’s war memoirs.
Concerning Admiral Halsey’s handling of
the Leyte invasion, Fleet Admiral William
D. Leahy had a few soothing words to
say: “We didn’t lose the war for that,
but I don’t know why we didn’t....”
Halsey’s reported comment was that, given
the same information as that available
at the time, he would do the same thing
again. Personally, I wouldn’t know an
admiral from an invasion barge, but I
think Halsey hit the nail on the head
when he said that information available
at the time was the key to the situation —*
“a thing nobody is generous enough to
recognise.”
* *> ❖
“Muskeen”: Jenny Lind, the Swedish
nightingale, who was the subject of a
Service Department inquiry recently,
toured the Americas under the auspices
of P. T. Barnum and was a phenomenal
success. It is recorded that a gentleman
named Ossian E, Dodge paid 625 dollars
at auction for an admission ticket to her
first Boston concert in 1850. Jenny always
wore her hair close to her ears, a custom
that gave rise to the popular belief that she
had no ears —the public would not believe
that Barnum could deal with a complete
woman, even if she were a singer. Hen
share of the take from her American
concerts was 175,000 dollars, but she
broke her contract with Barnum to marry
a gentleman named Otto Goldschmidt.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Sparks”; Ever since men began to
wear ties various inventors have been
churning out gadgets aimed at maintaining
the things in a fresh, creaseless and un-
beer-stained condition. But the chap who
came into the hotel bathroom where I
was shaving caused me to stare in wonder.
Silently he held his tie, a dazzling, ultra-
modern specimen, under the hot-water
tap for a minute or so, screwed it up into
a sodden ball of damp rag and then
climbed on a chair and wrapped the tie
round the electric-light bulb. “Best way
of pressing a tie in a hurry,” he said.
After a few minutes he took it down —
and it did look as if it had been pressed.
& ♦>
“Seek”: Mr. is a gentle-
man with whom I have had a purely
business acquaintance for some years.
Friends of mine, however, know him
socially, and from them I have listened
to admiring accounts of his virtues as
husband, father and weekend-gardener—
which makes today’s phone conversation
with the young lady employed in his
office the more intriguing. Me : “May L
speak to Mr. , please?”
Young lady : “Sorry, Beryl. He’s not in
this afternoon.” Me : “This is not Beryl.”
Young lady : “Oh, sorry. Well, you could
ring him at home—his wife’s away.”
COCKTAIL-PARTY
It’s the wife who is keen,
For she wants to be seen
In her latest and best bib-and-lucker;
So you tag’along, too.
With the feeling that you
Are a martyr as well as a sucker.
You’re not there very long
When some goat in the throng
Fastens . leech-like to you and starts
nattering.
You seem stuck there for hours
While with fine spray he showers
Ybu, and, boy ! do your ears take a
battering !
You escape, though, at last
But you soon are downcast
For some female casts up as you put
away
A cocktail I—of 1 —of course
She’s a face like a horse;
And a good sort, there, vacant, a foot
away !
As she yaps about ’flu
Or her daughter’s debut,
Absent-mindedly, frankfurts you’re
bolting,
With abandon supreme.
Very soon } though, they’ll seem
A comestible simply revolting.
tSk
You join up with the wife
But you’re in for some strife.
For she’s seen you both have a Martini
And—you brute! — why, you laughed
As you chipped and you chaffed
That sleek-looking blonde in the beanie.
“Oyster patties ?” you’ll say !
The wife waves ’em away;
“You mustn’t have those, Fred —they
fatten.”
They don’t come back again.
Very glpomily then
You soak up your sixteenth Manhattan.
Time speeds like a slug
Which is under a drug.
You cry: “When the hell will the
place shut?”
For terrific’s the strain
As again and again
You endeavor to yawn with your face
shut.
What a state you are in !
Frankfurts floating in gin !
All about you the welkin lies mangled.
O how fervent your hope
That before the next dope
Can throw one, she’ll quietly be
strangled !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


The pick
of Me bunch
since
/&f7
(SKlomta
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Jamaica-bound from London, Royal
Gothic starts her antipodean tour, tak-
ing a weight off the organising mind of
Vice-Admiral Edward Michael Abel-
Smith, R.N. He is Flag-officer, Royal
Yachts, and Gothic was very much his
baby. Appointed in 1950 chief of Naval
Air Equipment and the R.N.’s chief
representative in the Ministry of Supply,
Abel-Smith was in a position to know
what he wanted and where to get it
for Gothic’s conversion. Equerry and
A.D.C. to Royalty during and after
War 11, he’s captained cruisers and
destroyers and is a qualified pilot,
• •
Sulu skirt and sandals and power-
ful brown legs, Lieutenant-Colonel
Cakabou (followed by small boys) has
been seen about Melbourne lately. He
is not half as exotic as he looks.
Educated at Auckland Teachers’ Train-
ing College and at Oxford, where he
took a course in colonial administration,
he led a company of Fijians on Bougain-
ville, got M.C. for it, and then went
back to civvies. He rejoined the Army to
lead a Fijian commando unit against the
terrorists in Malaya and is on his way
back to his islands to take up a post in
the Fijian Government administration.
He was in the belting-ring at Fleming-
ton when he was handed a cable from
his late unit to say that they’d just
accounted for their 100th terrorist.
• •
There is no better-known figure in
clerical cloth in the west of N.S.W. —•
Wilcannia, Forbes, Peak Hill, Nyngan,
Trundle —than Monsignor William
Brennan, D.D. of the Propaganda
College, Rome. Bora in Sydney in
1904, priesthood studies at St. Columba’s
College, near Springwood in the Blue
Mountains, he took over the diocese of
Wilcannia-Forbes in 1927, and has been
shepherding in that district ever since.
Now he goes north, to Toowoomba on
the Queensland Downs, Bishop,
• •
To fill its newly-founded chair of
Inorganic and Physical Chemistry,
Adelaide University has selected Dr. D. O.
Jordan, an Englishman at present lectur-
ing in the subject at Nottingham Uni-
versity. The new professor has concen-
trated on research in England, for which
the British Empire Cancer Campaign, the
Rockefeller Foundation and the Royal
Society advanced him substantial financial
support. Author of a sheaf of scientific
papers, Jordan is now in the middle of
a book on the chemistry of nucleic acids.
• •
“Bosun’s Mate”: I’ve been inspected by
some eagJe eyes in 14 years’ naval time . . . but
that boiling afternoon anchored off Bahrein in
the Persian Gulf!
Ibn Sa’ud came slowly up the starb’d gang-
way, well oyer 6ft., stooped—crouched might
be better —limping from nine leg-wounds re-
ceived in desert fighting, and halted at the top
of the gangway. The officer-of-the-day stood
opposite him, me, bosun’s-mate, on his right
hand, at the salute. He raised one hand with
a gracious gesture to his turban’d forehead,
and for one instant his eyes, under the two
fingers, met mine. Hawk-eyes, slitted from long
sighting over sun-glaring sands, probing from
either side of a huge hooked nose in a bearded,
crafty face. I felt I’d have rather been facing
a bayonet.
Then the King stepped aboard, and, stooping
to listen to the officer-of-the-day, limped his
height to the wardroom hatch.
Ibn Sa’ud carved out his kingdom by a series
of desert wars lasting for 30 years from 1902,,
in which he brought to heel all rival chieftains.
Came oil, concessions to Standard Oil of Cali-
fornia in 1933, to other companies later, and
an annual revenue now well over £3O million.
The development of his kingdom was just as
spectacular. But the tough old warrior had
Solomonic methods of dispensing justice. We
heard the tale before we left. An Arab woman
was walking with her husband along a village
road when a picker fell on her man from a
date-tree and accidentally killed him. She came
before Ibn Sa’ud for justice, demanding the
luckless picker’s execution. The King suggested
cash payment. On her insistence, he delivered
judgment—that the picker should be killed in
the same way as her husband, by having a body
dropped on him from a tree; the woman to be
dropped on him till he was dead. She settled
for cash. The King was 73 at the end.
Pictured herewith by Binder, Dr. P. R.
McMahon, professorial head of the
School of Wool Technology, Sydney,
and lecturer-in-charge of the Sheep
and Wool School of Sydney Tech.,
introduced the first degree-course in wool
technology in Australia ; as well, he pro-
posed the establishing of a degree-course
in wool commerce. Post-graduate
students are now attending the school
from all over the world. A New Zea-
lander, the wool expert graduated from
Massey Agricultural College, Palmerston
North, with a degree in agricultural;
science and honors in animal husbandry.
Awarded the McMillan Brown Agri-
cultural Research Scholarship, he studied
McMAHON, OF THE S.W.T.
at Leeds University, and in 1937 gathered
a doctorate for a thesis on the action of
light on wool; the thesis also won him
the silver medal of the Worshipful Com-
pany of Woolmen of London. Back in
N.Z. as Wool metrologist for the Depart-
ment of Scientific and Industrial Research,
he was responsible for the first applica-
tion of statistical genetics to problems
of sheepbreeding in N.Z. and Australia.
Two years ago he visited New Guinea
at the request of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment to make a survey of wool tech-
nology there.
• •
Now rector of St, Clement’s, Mos-
man, and Archdeacon of Cumberland
(N.S.W.), F. O. Hulme-Moir goes off to
New Zealand, Bishop of Nelson. Trained
at Sydney’s Moore Theological College,
and a Digger-chaplain for almost the
whole of War 11, the new bish. will be
the second from the Sydney Diocese in
charge at Nelson —Bishop Hilliard, now
back in Sydney, was over that way
between 1934-40.
• •
“Spinifex”: Jack Kyle-Little (B,
28 /10/’53) and I were boyhood pals in
1891, when, at 16, he was jackerooing
on Clare station, while I was on the
adjoining run, Boongoondoo, then owned
by my father. Clare was owned by the
Fairbairn Estates Company, and Steve,
of rowing fame, and his brother Charley
were occasional visitors. Also on Clare
at that time were Alan Gairdner, a crack
tennis-player who had played against
the Doherty brothers, and Rupert Watson
(son of George Watson, one-time V.R.C.
starter, and brother of Tom, who acted
in the same capacity in Sydney).
Before coming to Clare Jack Little had
been with another of the Watson brothers
(Bill, of Currawilla station), a former
amateur heavyweight champion of Vic-
toria, who taught Jack to use his hands.
The accomplishment came in handy. Well
built, but lean, like most horsemen. Jack
was something of a “Saltbush Bill” to
drovers and outback pugs of his time
who unwisely picked a fight with him, as
they sometimes did when, at 18, he was
running his own droving plant. A lot
of people didn’t like taking orders from
a boy. But they took them.
Major Clarrie Owen is the third Thirty-
niner to become president of Legacy in
Melbourne. Bunged into Changi with
the Eighth Division—-he was in the 4th
Anti-Tank Regiment —he had time to
think about things, and the thing he
thought about most was what he might
do for other people if he ever got back
home. He got back, joined Rotary and
Legacy, and of recent years has given
most of his time to the activities of the
boys’ classes Legacy has established in
the city.
• •
David Rowbotham farewells a poet:
News of the death of Dylan Thomas in New
York revives the impression I got when, in 1951,
I sat in the lecture-hall of the Victoria and
Albert Museum, London, to hear him reading
his own verse. The hall was filled. When
Thomas entered there was enthusiastic clapping.
He was introduced as “a great Welsh poet,
writing, in English,” and, after he had given
his lecture, was declared by the introducer to be
“a monstrous genius.”
Thomas’s voice was excellent for oratory. He
read with great clarity and feeling, a booming
in his throat one minute, a singing the next.
He read his “heavy” poems in a staccato but
resonant, rumbling fashion, and some of the
deeper passions of a poem were growled out.
His comment on his poetry—really comment on
himself —was a masterpiece of cadence, satire,
biting humor, self-pity, and tilts at critics, the
8.8. C., students, society and Welsh poets ex-
patriate in England.
Of the several poses he adopted, not the least
was one of a lonely, savage genius standing
against the world. He came of a humble Welsh
family, left school at 14, read everything from
Shakspeare to “Ghums,” and developed a dis-
like for the society he believed responsible for
his origin.
Off the platform his attitude was different —
deferential to the people who pressed around
him. On-stage, too, he had looked like a foot-
baller ; actually he was loose-featured, pink-and-
white-faced. He was 39 at the end. To the
themes of love, death, rage and joy and the
mystery of these he gave a new and eloquent
expression. He was a fine poet.
• •
The radio-men are gathering in Sydney
for the broadcast of a lifetime —“The
Queen’s Journey,” a Christmas Day pro-
gramme of one hour on the Royal tour,
ending with a speech by the Queen in
Wellington (N.Z.). The broadcast will
reach out to some 20 countries, from
Kenya to Canada, Cape Town to Cyprus,
with Sydney as the technical centre.
Handling the Australian arrangements
(with 8.8. C.-man Laurence Gilliam), the
A.B.C.’s Neil Hutchison (big, beaming
and able) was first heard hereabouts
when, at George Vi’s Coronation in 1937,
he was a 8.8. C. commentator in the
HUTCHISON t OF THE A.B.C.
Abbey. Going into radio from Oxford,
Hutchison was soon in the War II R.A.F.,
member of a speech-unit whose job was
to decide on the acoustic properties of
words for ground-air communication. So
were born “angels,” “scramble,” “vector”
and so forth (the universal “roger” was
an American contribution). Demobbed
in 1945, Hutchison, in civvies, dropped
into a London pub, met a 8.8. C. execu-
tive, and three weeks later was in Sydney,
8.8. C. rep. in the Pacific area. Now he
directs A.B.C.’s drama and features, a
province ranging as far afield in its cover-
age as the story of leucotomy and abo,
customs.
Met in his lab. at Radiophysics, Sydney
University, Harry Minnett, who has been
demonstrating to N.S.W. police the New
Zealand-produced radar gadget which
records the speed of cars. An object
like a small searchlight is mounted on
the police-car: it’s an aerial which bathes
the road ahead in its elliptical-shaped
radar-blip. A stationary car sends back
a radar-echo at a certain frequency; car
moves, frequency increases, in the same
way as an approaching train’s whistle
rises in volume. The echo goes through
a piece of crystal—in effect, the same as
that used in the old cat's-whisker days
of radio —and the crystal decides the
difference between both frequencies. That
difference —directly proportional to the
speed of the car —is reproduced audibly
through a speaker. Car speeds up, hum
rises; even when the car changes gear
the difference in note is detectable. Also,
there’s a meter calibrated in miles per
hour, and a glance at its needle tells the
radar cop your speed, with an error of
less than two m.p.h, in 35. ' Having
packed his short-range detector off to
London (they’re interested over there),
Minnett, senior research officer of radio-
physics, goes back to researching into
radio-navigation ; he aims at ranges up
to 2500 miles to help trans-ocean aircraft
find their way,
-A**'
• •
Appointed (as successor to William
Dargie) to the directorship of the Mel-
bourne Gallery school, Alan R. M. Sumner
belongs to the contemporary group, was
assistant-director for three years, went
overseas and attended the ultra-modern
Courtauld Institute in London, returned
to specialise in stained-glass window work
for city and country churches and paints
in the modern fashion.
• •
Passed over m Sydney, Dr. Alwyn
Tom Hays Nisbet, son of one of Towns-
ville’s most beloved old-time physicians,
and, himself born in Creswick (Vic.), a
lifelong friend of the Lindsays. He was
the model for the small boy receiving the
attention of Creswick’s famous wielder of
the tawse drawn by Norman Lindsay for
The Bulletin’s edition of Saturdee many
years ago, and his juvenile personality
figured largely in the text as well. Owner
of one of the best collections of Lindsay
first-editions, he was personally a like-
able, sensitive, zestful spirit, with a love
of good books, art, color, fine furniture,
old silver and, not less, good companion-
ship. Professionally, after war service, he
became a pioneer deep-X-ray therapist
in Macquarie-street, and before his long
illness (the root causes of which lay in
his association with his branch of the
profession in its experimental days) made
it necessary for him to go more slowly,
he did a great deal to advance the study
of cancer-treatment. He was a founder
of the Association of Radiology, which
named its library in his honor, and his
advice helped in laying down the basis for
training X-ray-therapy technicians and
forming them into an effectively organised
body. He contributed many papers to
standard medical journals.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 82, in Brisbane, Joseph Patrick Canny, old
friend of The Bulletin and well known in
Queensland and N.S.W. banking. He joined the
Q.N. Bank at Warwick, on the Queensland
Downs, in 1886; shifted to Townsville two years
later with the Bank of North Queensland; joined
the Bank of Queensland on amalgamation in
1917; and transferred to the National Bank,
manager of the Sydney branch opposite The
Bulletin’s address in George-street, in 1922.
His son, Alan Joseph, was a brilliant graduate
of Sydney University, lectured in pathology
there, was for a time acting-director of its Insti-
tute of Pathology, and is now professor of the
subject at Queensland University.
In California, Dr. Jean White-Haney, a dis-
tinguished Melburnian. A graduate of Mel-
bourne University, she joined the C.5.1.R.0. at
its inception and made researches into various
problems of weed-control; her biggest achieve-
ment was the introduction of the cochineal insect
to Queensland prickly-pear. As a pupil of the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College she was a fellow-
student of Henry Handel Richardson and Melba.
In Melbourne, a few days before his 92nd
birthday, Charles Macknight, who gained his
medical degrees in Edinburgh in 1889 and
returned to practise at Warrnambool (Vic.).
He had been looking after the district’s ills from
then till he retired in 1945, aged 84 —apart from
a break in War I, when he practised on
Gallipoli. He was a colonel, A.A.M.C.


THE POTTED PLANT


ABORIGINALITIES
COMING down from Bourke (N.S.W.)
on the diesel we hit Girilambone
about midday. After we’d been stationary
about five minutes (stopping-time is
usually a minute) the guard walked
through and informed us the west-bound
goods was late by half an hour and we
couldn’t go on until it arrived at G’bone,
because it was carrying the beer for
Bourke, and Bourke was dry. If we’d
like a walk a long toot on the whistle
would give us plenty of notice. The first
thing we saw as we walked into the bar
was a board behind the barman and to
it quid, five- and ten-pound notes were
pinned so as to form the words “Far
West Children’s Fund.” It was April
and already there was £97 on the board,
which is cleared at the end of the year.
Last year the board logged £340. Could
anyone imagine a thing like that happen-
ing at a city five-to-six hog-swillery?—
“Macßopus.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Making new flags
in W.A. in preparation for the Royal
visit, they can’t decide how the State’s
emblem should appear. It’s a pure black
swan on a circular gold background, and
all authorities I’ve seen show it mounted
“ Let’s ’ope f'r better luck erodin’ THIS crick.”
so that the swan is facing away from
the hoist, or mast. That’s probably how
they’ll have it, but it seems to be against
convention, which holds that heraldic
animals and birds should face the hoist.
Point is, W.A.’s emblem is a plain, not
an heraldic, swan. Correctly proportioned
and symmetrical, it’s based on a design
submitted by Governor Weld and
approved by the British authorities about
1890; hardly likely that approval would
have been granted to a design which
didn’t conform strictly to tradition —a
strong force in those days.
“Kelms”; A Perth daily, discussing
flag-emblems, spoke of the “crow” on the
South Australian flag, and was pounced
on by an ex-South-Aussie who pointed
out that it wasn’t a crow, but a magpie.
This brought in an ultra-purist, who con-
tended that it wasn’t either —it was a
shrike. He called it a common shrike
“Stop cracking hardy , Rupert. You’ve been in long enough.”
(which is wrong, for it’s a crow-shrike),
and insisted that the bird is no more a
magpie than our wagtail is a wagtail.
With equal justice he could have added
that our wrens aren’t wrens and our
toads aren’t toads; but the purpose of
language is to convey thoughts, ideas
and impressions, and if, when I speak
of a magpie, everyone in my country
knows immediately to which bird I refer,
then that bird is a magpie in my language.
The same holds for wrens, wagtails and
toads. The early English settlers thought
these birds and frogs were related to
similar species in Europe, and it took
scientific research to show they were not
wrong but not strictly right. Australia
for aeons had been cut off from the rest
of the world, and its birds and animals
developed along individual lines; so
that species which started off on the
same road have taken different tracks and
developed certain minor structural differ-
ences.
* » * *
“Bamekaw”: Always thought the male
spider ended as a wedding-breakfast for
his grim spouse, but a bloke who has
watched the Arachnida closely assures me
it’s not invariably so. He claims to have
observed one fleet-footed male which has
mated at least three times, winning in
the frenzied dash for safety which follows
immediately the marriage is consummated
(strangely enough, before the lethal honey-
moon Pa lives in comparative safety near
his bride-to-be). These observed escapes
would seem to dispose of the notion that
the eating of the male is necessary to
complete the fertilisation process.
« * * *
“Spoke”: Strangest phenomenon to be
put down to the atom-bomb is the non-
arrival in Melbourne of 350 homing-
pigeons released at Bookaloo in South
Australia to fly 604 miles to Melbourne
in a championship competition. Die
birds left in a compact mass and should
have reached Melbourne within 24 hours.
None arrived, although there was good
weather. There are sundry explanations,
one of which is that radioactive waves
from Woomera neutralised the magnetic-
wave instinct which guides pigeons to
their destination. Professor Martin, Dean
of Melbourne University’s faculty of
physics, says that it has never been
proved that pigeons use a magnetic-wave
instinct, and in any case radioactive
waves could not affect the earth’s magnetic
field if they happened to be present—
and they couldn’t be, as they had been
well dispersed before the pigeons started.
A more likely story is that the birds in-
quired the way of a flock of sulphur-
crested cockatoos and that those larrikins,
ever ready to take a rise out of city-
slickers, misdirected them. Footnote:
One wanderer, appropriately named Lind-
bergh, clocked in six days late. Three
others were reported resting in Adelaide.
* * «
“Narumee”: Our pair of attractively-
shaped lamps with matching shades are
the finest party ice-breakers ever. When,
during that polite, sticky, opening stage
of almost any party, one of the guests
makes the inevitable remark about the
“charming and unusual” lamps, we cry
brightly: “Yes, aren’t they? What do
you think they’re made of?” Innumer-
able guesses are ventured: “Parchment,
vellum, the skin of some kind of animal,”
though all agree that none of these
materials would have quite the trans-
lucently soft color (they could add, and
extraordinary durability) of our lamps.
Eventually the ice is not only broken
but melted in the laughter and conversa-
tion which follows our information:
“They’re made of camels’ bladders! ”
They are, too; we got them in Kashmir
10 years ago. Whether they were once
receptacles for the “unappetising but
drinkable” water used by teamsters in
the manner described by “Kelms” (B.
7/10/’53) we wouldn’t know, but it is
certainly evidence of the superiority of
the camel over the horse —at least in the
drawing-room!
* ♦ * *
“Jindivick”: Must dispute Service
Department’s description of shove-half-
penny (B. 21/10/’53) as “the modern
form of shovel-board or shuffleboard....
mainly a shipboard game.” The only re-
semblance to shovel-board lies in the
marking-out of the playing area and
the object of the players. Shove-ha -penny
is played with halfpennies on a piece of
smooth-surfaced board, a foot or eighteen
inches long by about a foot wide, marked
with lines at intervals just sufficient to
take a halfpenny between them. A varia-
tion contains lines lengthways on the
board also. Values are ascribed to each
area and the game is played by placing a
halfpenny at the foot of the board just
overlapping the edge. The coin is struck
with the heel of the hand and sent sliding
up the board, points being scored accord-
ing to the division in which it lodges
without overlapping a line.
• •••*•
“Macquarie”: Only shove-ha’penny-
board I’ve ever seen was owned by little
Cockney ’Arry—a piece of slate about
2ft. long by 18in. wide. ’Arry took the
board to every camping job, and, though
we all became fairly proficient, he re-
mained the master. One night a new
carpenter saw the board and threw out a
challenge to play anyone for a quid.
He sounded too confident for us; we
looked at ’Arry. There was no accept-
ance. Then Chippy grew boastful. “I’ve
played this game all my life,” he declared,
sweeping the ha’pennies into his hand
for a trial shot. Suddenly ’Arry spoke-
up: ‘TU play yer, mate.” He did —and
won by a street. Later he told me: “A
good player don’t put the ha’pennies in
his ’and —makes ’em sweaty and they
won’t go where you shove ’em.”
* * * •
“Snips”: Boolarra Joe, who lived in a
Murrayside shack, was generous with
the cod from his tethered stock, and a
woman along the road to whom he had
given several beauties came to light with
a pressure-cooker. “I’ve got two, Mr.
Boolarra. You eat too much fried food,”
she said. He thanked her shyly and
hinted that the old camp-oven was good
enough for him. When she called on
him in hospital, where bits of metal were
being extracted from his brown hide, he
tried to explain how he had heaped up
the coals all around and over the con-
traption. “But didn’t you read the
directions?” she asked. “I did, sort of,
lady. Chucked in half a pannikin of
water. But I ought to go to the iron-
monger’s and get a new pair of specs.
The ones I got ain’t too good.”
* * * ♦
“Looby”: The out-of-town house was
definitely unsuitable, and we couldn’t
help saying to the owner, as we shook
our heads and faced the four-mile walk
back to the town: “But in your advertise-
ment you said the place was only three
minutes’ walk from the shops.” “That’s
right,” said the old chap placidly. “It’s
only three minutes’ walk down to Steve’s
place and he always takes me to town
on his cart.”
* * * *
Paging a Bottle-oh
6 6 a double-gate on your
A right just past the pine ridge,” he
said. “Turn in there and it’s about
three mile to the tank. She’s dry now,
but you’ll get plenty o’ pigs.”
We found the tank, and the pigs—and
the best collection of bottles I’ve seen
in years.
The team that sank that tank were
30 miles from die nearest store, post-
office or pub; they knocked off when
the weather was against them, and when,
after due respite, they converged again it
was with every form of solace that could
be gathered.
So we found beer-bottles there as
common as hoof-marks in the mud;
whisky—lrish, Scottish and skittish —had
apparently been used for scouring the
scoops; rum, gin and the various forms
of joy to which the grape is prone
were evidently tossed off with the morn-
ing brownie, and even bubbly was repre-
sented —the stuff tastes crook but the
bottles are handy in an argument.
Then there were the odd ones; long,
thin stone schnapps-bottles, crockery
vases that held Chinese rice-whisky, and
a range of liqueur-bottles that would
have done credit to a base-officers’ mess.
Some of these were away up in the scrub,
as though somebody had grabbed a prime
sample and run away till he was sure
nobody knew where he was, before settling
down to enjoy the spoil.
The labels on all are mostly faded
now ; the bottles are seen only by forag-
ing wild pigs, wandering emus, and Spotty
the bower-bird, who is interested in any-
thing shiny.
Yes, she’s dry now; but I’d like to
have seen her when she was really wet
Billy. Xi
WINTER IN CANBERRA
Trees, trees, there’s nothing but trees...
And berries.. .and frost...
And emptiness wrapped
Not even in a glory lost!
Often I’d go on my knees
To see no more of the leafless trees
And the shivering sheep
And the hills snow-capped
And silent...
“It’s pretty,” Of course it’s pretty
With its shaded trees and the grey-green grass.
But the absence of a city—in a city—•
Is a farce!
They say
It will be, someday,
The loveliest city of our sunny land.
Thus was it planned.
But it isn’t sunny!
It’s funny
How one misses the sun,
And the flowers,
And movement..,
In my sleep I see those motionless sheep
By the cold stream;
A dream that isn’t a dream
For it’s true.
They’re there, standing for hours
With nothing to do.
But what could a sheep do anyway?
Do you know, I haven’t heard
A bird
Except a magpie, once ...
Nor even a tram,
damn it,
Not even a damn’ tram!
N.s.w,
R. M. KEMP.


TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
df
While import restrictions
remain you may have diflfi-
culty in obtaining TILLEY
products.
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Barns 12 hours on 1J pints of Ker*. 300 Candle Potver.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL X 246
(“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
d
tl
ft /f)^*
y*
h
&1L O'
*
Here’s a novel new
radio quiz, based on
your, musical favorites,
with Wilbur Kentwell
and Glenn Marks to
play them and aValented
guest artist to sing them.
And there’s easy money
to be won, too, by both
contestants AND listen-
ers. Make a date to
listen this week via your
member station of the
Macquarie Broadcasting
Service.
fd
f
K,
GEORGE FOSTER
AUNT JENNY
mm
3te MACQUARIE |
CASTING SERVICE
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
HTHE Papuan is a sensitive soul as well
as being a bom gambler. In his
borrowing he is both eloquent and
plausible, and you can collect from him,
too —that is, if you get in before the
other debtors, or before he can reach
the nearest game of “lucky.” Having
steadfastly refused all loans for a long
time, I’d reached the stage where it was
no longer attempted. However, the loan
market apparently being exceptionally un-
responsive, I was accosted by one of my
charges with a. grimy note. “Who from,
Mero?” I asked. “Me, Taubada,” he
replied. Mystified, I opened it. It began;
“Dear Sir, I would like to owe you one
pound.... ” Who could resist such a
naive appeal?— “Mero.”
* * * •
“Old-timer”: Once when you looked
for a job you arrived in some town, put
up at the cheapest pub or boarding-house,
made a few inquiries of the publican
and the barber, then set out to try the
neighboring stations. If you could afford
it you hired a horse and rode out; if you
couldn’t you walked. You approached
your prospective boss rather nervously,
knowing you wouldn’t be the only one
after the job, and he talked to you at
the homestead gate or, at best, on the
veranda. Different now. Young Charlie
tells me all you have to do is put up at
the best place in town, let it be known
you’re available, and the sheep-kings for
miles around will either (a) ring you for
an appointment; (b) send an agent to
interview you ; or (c) race in personally
in the Jaguar and invite you to lunch to
put before you the very desirable advant-
ages their particular place has to offer.
Young Charlie says it’ll do him.
♦ * * *
“K.R.”; It’s extremely unlikely that
“somewhere out in space there is a new
kind of matter” (B. 28/10/’53). Up to
the present no element unknown on earth
has been found on any meteorite examined
(though some common terrestrial ele-
ments, including strongly radioactive
ones, have not yet been detected on
meteorites). Furthermore, experts believe
that most meteors originate far outside
our solar system, the result of the
breaking-up of bodies of planetary
dimension, and if there were other forms
of matter in outside space it is practically
certain some traces of it would have
been discovered in meteorites,
“Bogaduck”: Ability to recognise a
meteorite could lead to fame. Twenty
years ago a man at Bordertown (S.A.)
described to me an object he had found
on a sandhill. It was jet-black, about
the size of a tennis-ball; one side was
smooth and curved, the other ridged.
He had carried it for some distance, then
“shied it at a crow.” It could have been
a valuable meteorite. A farmer named
O’Malley, some 100 miles north of
“ Incentive-payments and bonuses certainly get results."
Bordertown, showed more sense when he
found a black object about the size and
shape of a duck’s-egg. Sent to the S.A.
Museum, it was hailed as the largest and
most beautiful Australite meteorite ever
seen there. It proved to be only a few
grains lighter than the record one in the
Perth Museum. Named the O’Malley
Australite in honor of its finder, it has
been made the subject of a scientific paper
by Dr. Fenner, a world authority on
space-visitors.
* * * *
“W.J.W.”: Somewhere in all animals,
particularly in those whose safety lies
in flight, there’s a gland which acts under
the stimulus of fear, giving an added burst
of speed when most needed, or, in a
reverse way, inducing fear-paralysis.
Which reaction it produces seems to be
decided in a split-second. Thus, a rabbit
which bolts for cover at the first sign of
danger will keep running, if necessary, till
it drops; on the other hand, I once put
a bullet into the ground just beneath a
rabbit squatting beside a fence, and it
sprang straight into the air, higher than
the fence, three or four times rapidly
before taking off. Apparently, too scared
to run, its motive nerves acted to keep it
moving until natural intelligence took
over and its legs functioned correctly.
Another time I was spotlight-shooting
with a mate whose first shot missed by
a fraction. He got in four more near-
misses before we realised bunny was
paralysed with fear. And bunny stayed
that way while we walked up and caught
him.
“Gulliver”: The Merino’s ability to
keep alive (B. 4/11/’53) is matched only
by the strength of its determination to
die. Punching starving ewes over
drought-stricken routes I’ve had ’em die
of thirst when water was only a mile or
so ahead, because, with the wind in the
wrong direction, they simply gave up
walking. They died of hunger when close
to feed —just stuck their heads in a dried-
up tuft of Flinders-grass and refused to
move. Occasionally one would lie down,
feet folded under her. When lifted, she’d
decline to extend her legs, or, if she did,
she’d collapse again immediately her
weight came on them. Abandoned as
hopeless, she’d wait till her frustrated
saviour had ridden off some distance, then
leap nimbly to her feet and set out in
the opposite direction with the speed of
a Cup-winner. That, of course, was just
when the boss would com© riding round
the wing and want to know why the
soanso you didn’t know enough about
droving to keep the tail together, and
what was the idea of cutting off good
sheep like that? One’s only satisfaction
came from watching him pursue and
overtake the fleeing pest, who’d promptly
go into her act again.
* * * *
“B, A. Ker”: That brick invention
noted on “Personalities” (B. 11/11/ ’53)
solves the centuries-old problem of pro-
viding a brick that could be used on
diversely-shaped corners without being
cut to fit. Beyond the squint, which
fitted a 45deg. angle, there’d been nothing
in the line at all; now, thanks to its two
Australian inventors, we have a brick that
can be used on any angle. Known as
the general-purpose bullnose, it is shaped
like a lower-case “q” or a gudgeon-hinge
(iron-strap type that fits over a pin on
heavy wooden gates). Possibly the brick
was inspired by a gudgeon-hinge; any-
way, it works on the same principle.
Imagine a “q” placed on the comer of a
triangle, then lap another over it with
the tail running along the other side of
the angle, and you have the effect achieved
with the patent brick, even to the graceful
semicircular scroll on the corner. In
addition, the g.-p. bullnose can be used
to form ornamental sills, corbels, panels
and copings. Co-inventor with Harry
Garvan (mentioned in the “Personalities”
par.) is Garvan’s erstwhile pupil at Sydney
Technical College, Norman Shortus, now
general foreman for a big Sydney
building-firm,
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Most noticeable
feature of the swamp—home of
thousands of ibis, and cormorants,
blue herons, night herons, coots
and dozens of smaller birds —is the
overpowering stench, and it’s mostly
caused by dead chicks. This high
mortality-rate stems from accidents to
parents, chicks toppling from the nests,
hawks and natural weaklings, and it
seems wasteful and pitiful. The ibis
build on community-platforms erected in
trees, each platform holding five or six
nests, and when an intruder approaches
the nestlings raise themselves aggressively
and squawk defiance. Many must topple
to their death in doing so. Young cor-
morants jump into the water when danger
looms. Of a dozen I saw do that, not
one emerged. Perhaps they could swim
well enough to be able to surface out
of sight behind distant reeds, but could
they find their parents again, or their
parents find them? And if so, could they
return to their nest? If not, do they
perish, or can they fend for themselves?
MINNAMURRA FALLS
Beneath the tall tush growth rooted in decay
a lost world looms moss-hung through filtered
day.
Here lie bones of grotesque animals; these
are giant serpents coiling round the trees
which writhing spring the boughs and come to
rest .
at a great winged creature’s fronded nest;
strong the scent of far-off centuries.
Through the labyrinth of ancient stone
and sallow water, by the sun unknown,
Echo, old familiar of those years,
winds a phantom way, till it appears
suddenly on the sense, and then is gone,
vanished in clamor rising through the past,
funnelled in gorge-dark curtaining and vast
dim boles as shadowing as that old age
that lingers haunting through this heritage.
N.S-W.
E. NORMAN.


... /
m
<7
C?
• 7*
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
GUARD
PROTECTA
Suitable for eeerj trpe «»
.11 Sale.. Credit.. Payu««* CfldeUiU
pleulnf I. appear* nee. Send tor
and literature t« .
JACKSON & Pty LU)
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents— ■ Lt d.
MELBOURNE .. Non C d on S Son* Ltd.
U“£ DE . ca*>
Business Rollery Etc.
Selective Share-buying
WITH the bond-rate firm at
p.c., costs tending to
stabilise, consumer-buying re-
covering, and real company-tax
relief, there is likely to be a firm-
ing trend in the market for
some better-class stocks. Tooth
and Co,, yielding £4 10s. 6d. per
cent, and offering intriguing
future prospects, can be expected
to go higher later on ; the board
would hardly have raised the
div. to 16 p.c., in all the circum-
stances, unless it was confident
about the outlook.
There are other concerns,
mentioned in these pages from
time to time, which give a
much higher yield than Tooth
shares do, and which are attrac-
tive in present circumstances.
These are generally selected as
old-established distributing busi-
nesses with a good financial
and management record, or
manufacturers known to be
efficient.
Under present sharemarket
a 1 economic conditions the im-
{ >ftant thing is to be selective
i"! making an investment. The
immediate problem of all busi-
nesses in Australia is high costs,
and next to costs as a general
thing come prospects of more
intense overseas competition in
particular industries.
There has been considerable
gloom in some manufacturing
industries, notably those en-
gaged in the production of cer-
tain electrical goods and motor-
car parts, and of electrical
domestic appliances (including
stoves) and commercial refrigera-
tion.
In lines involving many man-
hours of skilled labor some of
our industries will find the going
uphill as import-control disap-
pears. If unrestricted importing
resumes in the near future, then
for the first time in 14 years
many of our manufacturers will
have to meet competition in a
buyer’s market. And in those
14 years our costs have rocketed.
What is more to the point, per-
haps, is that since import-
controls were imposed in 1952
the average capital-cities basic
wage has risen by 265. a week,
while the cost of many imported
manufactures has fallen in the
same time. Since the end of the
war hourly wages have increased
by 149 p.c. in Australia, com-
pared with 59 p.c. in Britain
and 71 p.c. in the U.S.A.
Transport costs in Australia
in particular have risen at an
astonishing rate, and are kept
inflated by State-Government re-
strictions on motor-transport.
It is relevant to consider the
Tariff Board’s remarks in con-
nection with our high costs
generally:
The evidence of rising- costs in
Australia does little to encourage
belief in the existence of a sound
competitive position.
The board’s g’eneral feeling is that
there are some worth-while indus-
tries that wiU experience some
shocks when they meet the blast of
overseas competition, particularly if
that blast has behind it the full
reserve of competitive strength which
the board believes exists in some In-
dustries in the United Kingdom.
These will need protection. There
will probably be others, not so worth
while, which will not survive.
But at the back of these is a wall
of well-established economic indus-
tries which in the past have met and
survived many difficulties without
panic and which, with a little ad-
justment, can do so again without
further recourse to the tariff.
These would represent the largest
proportion in value and importance
of production
It is clear that the tariff can only
provide temporary protection.
The lesson for the investor
to read from that report is that
which has been put forward
here several times in the past
12 months, namely, that invest-
ments must be made more
selectively than has been cus-
tomary during the past dozen
years.
It will be worth paying a
premium on the sharemarket
for managerial ability, manufac-
turing efficiency, a large special-
ised turnover, long experience in
the trade, and for working assets
written-off in advance of obso-
lescence. A low man-per-
machine ratio needs to be looked
for, however much the trade-
unions may feel otherwise. And
a long stocking filled with
ploughed-back past profits is
always to the good.
Tooth’s 16 p.c.
The final div. of 8 p.c. from
Tooth and Co., Sydney, making
15i p.c. for 1952-53 and indi-
cating 16 p.c. for 1953-54, is the
cheeriest development in the
N. S. Wales brewing industry
since the Liquor Commission
began. Tooheys, of course, paid
8 p.c. for the past year, against
4 p.c. in 1951-52 ; but before
that the rate was steady at 8 p.c.
back to 1942, before which it
was 9 p.c. The Tooth 16 p.c.
distribution, on the other hand,
is the highest in living memory,
and the excusable impression is
that there’s a lot more where
that came from.
At the liquor inquiry, Tooth
and Co. revealed that it owned
35 p.c. of the hotels in N.S.W.
—628 freeholds and 85 lease-
holds. That is apart from tied
houses. All Tooth’s fixed assets
appeared in the books at
£7,666,652 at June 30, 1952, and
the figure had grown by only
£1,720,000 in 22 years. In the
same time paid capital has ex-
panded from £5,620,598 to
£6,182,657 —a matter of only
£562,059. But visible reserves
have put on £3,179,241 in that
time. There hasn’t been a
bonus issue since 1929,
Invisible strength in Tooth’s
figures would appear to be ex-
traordinary. The brewery capa-
city has been greatly increased
and modernised, hotels have
been acquired year by year, and
yet, in spite of the great inflation
m all values, the expansion in
asset book-figures has been
trifling over nearly a quarter of
a century. The only catch is
this: if the co. is obliged to
modernise its large string of
hotels it will find present build-
ing costs very high. But in that
respect it is in the same boat
as almost any other large enter-
prise.
At 70s. 6d., ex div,. Tooth
shares give an immediate return
of £4 10s. 6d. per cent, on a
16 p.c. div. basis. Slightly better
than bond interest, and a fas-
cinating potential besides.
The Losers
Of listed Stock Exchange com-
panies to show actual losses
during the past two years, by far
the greater number fall into the
textile and clothing category.
Next would probably be trans-
port enterprises of various kinds,
but with coastal shipping and
air-transport to the front. (Most
road-transport concerns are not
listed.)
Various importers and distri-
butors of softgoods have been
hit. There have been losses by
some plastic-manufacturers..
Prominent among the losers,
too, have been business-
systematists and stationery-
suppliers.
Tractor and earthmoving
enterprises have not fared uni-
formly, but most have shown
much-reduced profits, with some
losses. Though, generally, en-
gineering contractors have
shown reduced profits, few have
reported losses.
One of the heaviest losers
(Felt and Textiles, loss £473,577
in 1951-52) is now operating at
a satisfactory profit, and paying
dividends. Argus and Aus-
tralasian, Melbourne, has shown
thumping successive losses.
“I reckon Dad's is more sensible than Mums."
Figures of Grocery and General
Merchants (loss £337,485 in
1951-52) for the latest term are
awaited with interest by those
who speculate in low-priced
shares. Burlington Mills (loss
£71,045 for 1951-52) is now back
on the div.-list.
Cooper Louvres Gissing, Ltd.,
has shown a loss for 1952-53,
though it earned a profit and
paid a div. for 1951-52, which
was generally regarded as the
critical year. Other concerns
which weathered 1951-52 are
now reporting losses —Hansen
Consolidated Industries (box-
makers) being an example.
The canning industry at pre-
sent is heavily overcapitalised.
Its unhappiest period may still
be ahead of it.
The textile trade seems to
have left the worst behind. Some
sections of the rayon-weaving
industry are booming.
W. C. Stevens (Holdings)
Out of W. C. Stevens (Hold-
ings) paid capital of £350,000,
the public has been offered
£lOO,OOO in £1 ordinary stock-
units at par, and the issue has
been oversubscribed.
The business had its begin-
nings in Newtown (Sydney) as
a sheet-metal processor in 1913.
In 1948 W. C. Stevens Pty., Ltd.,
took over the firm, which by
now was making motor-car
exhaust-mufflers on a large
scale. During World War II
the firm made aircraft-parts. At
present the co. has two divi-
sions: automotive (the largest
manufacturer of exhaust-systems
in Australia) and refrigeration
(making sheet-metal cabinet parts
for the Crosley refrigerator and
components for the Kirby re-
frigerator sealed-units, which are
used by manufacturers through-
out Australia).
Today the co.’s plant, now at
Camperdown, is “modern and
well-maintained, and is capable
of undertaking a wide range of
work in the sheet-metal, pressed-
metal and engineering fields.” A
new factory at Aracliffe is partly
completed.
The present co. was registered
on October 8, and it issued
344,992 £1 ord. shares for
102,321 shares in W. C. Stevens
Pty., Ltd. It has since issued
£30,008 of stock at par to help
completion of the Arncliffe fac-
tory.
Plant in the books at £105,163
on June 30 last has been re-
valued at £218,520. Other fixed
assets are in at cost, less de-
preciation. Net tangible assets
of £419,406 are equal to 225, 4d,
per £1 of stock, without taking
into account profits earned since
June 30 last.
Earnings for the five years to
June 30, 1953, averaged 12.3
p.c. on the present capital. For
the year to June 30 last the figure
was 20.8 p.c. Production and
sales since June 30 last “show
a substantial increase over the
corresponding period in 1952,”
The business appears to be
very busy, and, on profit figures,
to have taken the 1952 setback
in the automobile and refrigera-
tor businesses in its stride The
Arncliffe factory should ‘ assist
eammgs shortly.
The memorandum of sa l e
from the sharebrokers (Hordern
Utz and Bode) says that “the
directors anticipate the payment
of interim and final divs. at
the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., profits
and economic conditions per-
mitting.”
Canada Dry
, Last weekend Sydney had its
first real summery spell for years.
But the hot weather is late againj
and cordial-makers and ice-
cream manufacturers will feel
the effects in their turnover.
Canada Dry is heavily capital-
ised—£4oo,ooo in £1 ords.—and
it has gone into debt desides.
There has been a swift change
in the soft-drink position in the
past three years, especially in


Vf« ended
30(b June
Pald-ap
Capital
-e
CoiLwliitofed
Net Profit*
.liter Ta*
A
Ordinary
DMdund
Rate
1939
831,914
94.184
10%
J94t>
869,247
159,613
10%
1941
1,183,786
156,674
10%
1942
1,419,839
193,861
10%
1943
1,419.839
186.M8
10%
1944
1,419,839
208,663
10%
1945
1,490,312
214,454
10%
1946
1,490.312
218.506
10%
1947
1,812.890
301,953
12$%
1948
3,294,783
374,340
121%
1949
4.349,674
564,783
12$%
1950
4,349,674
597,(180
121%
1951
5,299,565
672,851
121%
1952
5,299,565
473,577 Ncl I/OS» —
1953
5,299,565
506,054 Reeom’tl 8%
Sydney. The trade generally
seems x to be overcapitalised,
which makes it tough for all.
Canada Dry £1 shares last
sold at 7s. They were up to
245. 6d. last year.
The co. commenced selling to
the public on January 21, 1952.
Its first accounts covering trading
operations for eight months (to
Sept. 30, 1952) showed a loss of
£38,233. The accounts to Sept.
30 last will cover the summer
of 1952-53, which was also cool.
The 1951-52 accounts were pre-
sented on February 23, 1953.
Shareholders. therefore may not
see the 1952-53 results until after
Christmas.
Hides and Leather
Associated Leathers, which has
done well during the recession
of the past couple of years, re-
ported at last week’s annual
meeting that its sales for the
three months to September 30
increased over those for the
previous corresponding figure,
but were below those for the
first quarter of 1951.
Tanneries, on the whole, have
had a fairly steady output over
the past five years.
The trade has been growing
dissatisfied with existing hide-
and-leather control. R. Ludo-
wici, president of the Federated
Master Tanners’ Association,
said last week:
The Australian Hide and Leather
Industries Board has now lost control
of hide distribution throughout Aus-
tralia. The board is a relic of war-
time legislation, and does not have
the power to prevent a large number
of hides being purchased direct from
the producer or his agent. As a
result, the whole system of hide-
distribution is about to break down.
In May this year the Hide Board
recommended its own abolition, and
since that time it has become increas-
ingly evident that the whole economy
of the leather industry is being con-
fused and disrupted as the victim of
ineffective and outdated controls
which a section of the industry is
disregarding with complete immunity.
Another factor adding to the con-
fusion is the board’s inability to
enforce even those regulations which
appear valid, due apparently to lack
of confidence in its own legal status.
Freedom from these controls will
provide graziers and hide-producers
with proper incentive to minimise
the damage in branding, flaying and
curing of hides which is currently
costing the country over a million
pounds annually.
This saving would be passed on to
the shoe-buying public by the
elimination of unnecessary wastage
of leather in shoe-production.
Australia’s export income from raw
hides and finished leathers would also
benefit, for the same reasons, by a
return to free-marketing conditions.
In leather belting and other
leather manufactures Australia
is finding itself priced out of
overseas markets by British ex-
porters. But exports of leather
itself from Australia continue
to be good, according to R.
L. Michaelis, of Associated
Leathers.
Australian Wheat
Maoriland’s interest in quotes
for Canadian grain isn’t just
something that concerns wheat-
growers, merchants, flourmillers
or poultry-keepers ; it’s a matter
of balance-of-trade as well. For
a long time N.Z. hasn’t been
happy about its heavily-lopsided
trans-Tasman trade, most of all
since the difference in the
pounds made commerce almost
one-way. As N.Z.’s wheat-
harvest has shrunk to four mil-
lion bushels, imports from across
the Tasman have mounted to
eight million bushels, at a cost,
with freight, of £8 million
yearly,, and Maoriland is look-
ing for some way to cut this
cost. Today it is counting on
the swing to a buyer’s market in
grain to help.
Cheaper Canadian wheat
would be a strong card in the
game, but it would suit N.Z.
better to continue buying from
Australia at something like com-
petitive prices, mainly because
shippiag is easier and less costly
and big business in pulp and tim-
ber should put trade on a more
equal footing before long.
Scarce dollars, of course, are a
main obstacle to a deal with
Canada. Altogether, Australia
should have a secure place in
N.Z.’s market, even if it doesn’t
retain its monopoly.
Felt & Textiles of Australia Limited
Statement by the Chairman Mr. R. J. WEBSTER
RELATING TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1953.
Before reviewing the Company’s activities
I would like to refer to the substantial recovery
in the financial position and in profit earning
during the year under review.
Shareholders will recall the loss for the year
ended 30th June, 1952, which, in the main, resulted
from the drastic fall in wool values and the world-
wide catastrophic slump in the woollen textile
industry during 1951. .4s a result of this loss, for the
first time in its history, no ordinary dividend was
paid to shareholders in respect of the year ended
30th June, 1952. It will be gratifying to shareholders
to note from the accounts for the year ended 30th
June, 1953, such a substantial recovery in the profit
earning position and to read of the recommendation
of the board to declare a dividend of 8% for the year.
It is appropriate to refer briefly, at this stage,
to the profit earning history of the Company for the
last 15 years which can be seen at a glance from
the following figures: —
The improvement in the
Company’s net profits for
1953 is due to the better
trading conditions and
results and to extensive
reorganisation within the
Company and its Subsidi-
aries. Pelt & Textiles of
Australia Ltd., as an org-
anisation, had developed
very rapidly over a com-
paratively short period
rather than as the out-
come of a long-range in-
tegrated plan. This in-
evitably resulted in some
weaknesses in the struc-
ture which became appar-
ent under the changed
business conditions of the
last two years. To assist
in the reorganisation of
the Company the Board
sought the advice of W.
D. Scott & Co., the well-
known management con-
sultants. As a result of
the recommendations
made by these consultants
and of your Board’s study
of the most suitable form
of organisation for our
Company, our Australian
production activities have
been divided into four
divisions —Wool, Felt and
Carpets, Textiles, and
Footwear —each of which
is under the administra-
tive control of a General
Manager, who is respon-
sible to the managing
Director for the opera-
tions of his Division; in
turn, the managers of
each unit within the re-
spective Divisions are re-
sponsible to their gen-
eral manager. This divi-
sional organisation pro-
vides for clearly defined
lines of authority and
responsibility and has
greatly facilitated the
administration of the
Company. The new form
of organisation was ad-
opted in February, 1953,
and is a pronounced suc-
cess. The immediate re-
sults have in no small
measure contributed to
the improved position of
the Company, including a
substantial reduction in
overall stocks and a
marked general improve-
ment in the financial
position.
Your Board has also in-
troduced into the organi-
sation modem methods
engineering practices and
Srocedures. This also is
eing done with the ad-
vice and under the super-
vision of its Management
Consultants. The applica-
tion of these modern
methods engineering
practices to all our manu-
facturing operations will
take time but already
substantial progress has
been made with the work
which, as it is developed,
will result in greatly in-
creased production and
reduced costs of manu-
facture. f
During the year, im-
portant additions to the
executive staff were made
in the Woollen and
Worsted section. The
Managing Director visited
England and engaged Mr.
S. R. Simpson as Man-
ager of its Woollen and
Worsted operations and
also Mr. J. H. Mellor as
Manager for the finishing
department at- Totten-
ham. Both appointees
come to us with a back-
ground of extensive ex-
perience in leading Eng-
lish mills and with an in-
timate knowledge of the
requirements of the
worsted and woollen
trades in their respective
spheres of operations.
Many changes of both
a minor and a major
character have been made
by Management during
the year. They are too
numerous to refer to in
detail in this survey.
Many changes of both a
minor and a major char-
acter yet remain to be
made. The problems
which still confront us
have to be tackled in an
orderly manner and plans
to do this are well in
hand.
Up to the present, the
Board has devoted its at-
tention to the reorgani-
sation of the manufactur-
ing and distributing side
of the Company’s activi-
ties. At the appropriate
time, it intends to review
the financial structure
with a view of taking
whatever steps may be
necessary to strengthen
and improve the com-
pany in this direction.
One other major prob-
lem to which the Board
has given attention dur-
ing the year is the
method of executive re-
muneration in Australia.
The Board has adopted a
policy of remunerating
managers on a uniform
basis providing for a fixed
salary and incentive
bonus related to results.
The arrangement is that
no bonuses are paid un-
less the Company as a
whole earns profits. Un-
der this system the man-
agers have the incentive
of producing results on a
scale determined by the
Board in their respective
undertakings. No com-
missions on profits will
be paid.
FINANCIAL
The Consolidated Ac-
counts for the year show
an aggregate net profit of
£506,054 after providing
£366,107 for depreciation
and £217,979 for taxa-
tion. This profit com-
pares with a loss in the
preceding year of
£473,577. Shareholders
will recall that at 30th
June, 1952, to offset the
aggregate debit of the
Subsidiaries Profit and
Loss Appropriation Ac-
counts a sum of £210,520
was transferred from the
Special Reserve Account
in the Parent Company
books and credited to an
account styled “Reserve
for Losses in Subsidiary
Companies.” This trans-
fer had the effect of
providing in full in the
books of the Parent
Company for the aggre-
gate debit balance on
Subsidiary Companies
Profit and Loss Accounts.
During the year now
under review the total of
profits earned by Subsi-
diaries more than over-
took the above,, debit bal-
ance and consequently
the Parent Company s
provision of £210,520 for
Subsidiaries’ Losses was
no longer required. As
far as the Parent Com-
pany is concerned this
amount now reflects pro-
fits earned by the Subsi-
diaries during the year
ended 30th June, 1953, and
it was therefore decided
that it should be trans-
ferred to the credit of the
Profit and Loss Appropri-
ation Account of Pelt and
Textiles of Australia Lim-
ited. I would emphasise
that this transfer is an
internal accounting mat-
ter only and does not af-
fect, in any way, the ag-
gregate profit figure of
£506,054 for the year
ended 30th June, 1953.
The Parent Company s
Special Reserve has been
increased to £200,000 by
the transfer of £70,520
from Profit and Loss Ap-
propriation Account. This
Reserve is available to
meet any unforeseen
contingencies.
Inspection of the Bal-
ance Sheet figures shows
the striking improvement
in the overall financial
position as compared with
the position in the last
accounts placed before
you as at 30th June, 1952.
Comparison of the cor-
responding figures in each
financial year is as fol-
lows:—
- 30th June, 1952 30th June, 1953 Difference
Stotef.. £473,577 £506,054 £979,631 Incr.
(Loss) (Profit)
SSs CU " £n £ 11,019,682 £9,119,980 Deer.
Liabilities re . n * £5,520,755 £3,534,563 £1,986,192 Deer.
drafts (H T. £3,755,625 £1,867,406 £1,888,219 Deer.
Stocks .... £8,049,031 £5,873,619 £2,175,412 Deer.
Debtors .. £2.642.460 £2,933,771 £291,311 Incr.
The decrease in stocks
and increase in debtors is
satisfactory when viewed
in the light of the large
volume of business done
by the Company and its
Subsidiaries.
WOOL DIVISION
This division comprises
the operations of pur
wool buying, wool sorting,
scouring and carbonising
and wool trading sections
and operates through
plants in New South
Wales, Victoria and South
Australia. The division
purchases and processes
all wools for our own
manufacturing require-
ments and, in addition,
conducts a large business
in commission scouring
and carbonising and in
wool trading with over-
seas markets.
In the earlier part of
the year, the division felt
the impact of conditions
in the wool trade but in
later months the in-
creased demand for wool
for our own requirements
was accompanied by a re-
vival of trade demand. At
present, all plants are
working on satisfactory
volumes of production-
in some cases 24-hour
shifts are required to meet
demand
The General Manager
of the division is Mr. J.
D. Kerr, who has been in-
timately associated with
the main businesses of
this division since their
establishment.
FELT AND CARPETS DIVISION
This division consists of
our Woollen Felt Mills in
New South Wales and
Victoria, our Carpet Fac-
tory at Tottenham, Vic-
toria, our Needled Felt
Mills in New South Wales,
Victoria and Western
Australia, our Textile
Wastes and Upholstery
Supplies Factories in
Sydney and Melbourne
and two other ancillary
Melbourne factories.
The new Felt Mill at
Granville, New South
Wales, is now in full pro-
duction, and we are cpn-
centrating there on the
manufacture of “Marbled
Feltex.” The present de-
mand for our felt floor
coverings is strong and
the market potentialities
are encouraging.
The Carpet Factory at
Tottenham, Victoria,
operated by our Subsidi-
ary Company, British
Australian Carpet Manu-
facturing Co. Pty. Ltd., is
now producing a wide
range of Axmmster and
Wilton Carpets. Dur-
ing recent months, pro-
duction of broadloom ax-
minster goods has been
commenced and the de-
mand for all our carpets
is clamant with the fac-
tory production booked
out for a long way ahead.
Recently, the factory was
visited by the Technical
Director of The Carpet
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.,
of Kidderminster, Eng-
land, our associates in the
Australian enterprise, and
he gave us a valuable re-
port with recommenda-
tions for the future and
commented most favour-
ably on what has been
done to date. The pros-
pect for this industry is
bright and we can look
for further satisfactory
developments in the
future.
Since 30th June, 1952,
the Tariff Board has in-
creased the protective
duty on English carpets
from 12 J% to 20% and
this added protection is a
source of further strength
in the Australian carpet
industry,
Mr. L. B. Jacobs, who
has had a long experience
of administration in the
Company, is General
Manager of this division.
TEXTILE DIVISION
Included in this division
are the activities ranging
from the combing of wool
tops through the spinning
of woollen and worsted
yarn to the -weaving and
finishing of woollen and
worsted cloths and the
manufacture of clothing.
These activities are all
undertaken in subsidi-
aries located in Victoria
and South Australia and
the division is under the
General Managership of
Mr. C. Blackburn, who
has been associated with
some of these activities
since their inception.
It was in these sections
that the Company sus-
tained the heaviest trad-
ing losses through the fall
in wool values in 1951 but
these losses were fully
brought to account in the
stocktaking at 30th June,
1952. During the year un-
der review steady progress
has been made in the
division but some sections
are not yet working to
capacity and although the
division is trading at pro-
fitable levels much re-
mains to be done to bring
these sections to full effi-
ciency. Shareholders will
appreciate that of neces-
sity heavy stocks in the
weaving and clothing
sections at 30th June,
1952, meant reduced ord-
ers for the combing and
spinning sections until
those stocks were ab-
sorbed. It was not until
the second half of the
year under review that
this was effected and the
benefit of increased pro-
duction felt in the comb-
ing and spinning sections.
' As mentioned above, ex-
perienced management
for the weaving and fin-
ishing sections has been
obtained from England
and has played an impor-
tant part in improving
the position.
FOOTWEAR DIVISION
All the footwear fac-
tories of the organisation
in New South Wales, Vic-
toria and Western Aus-
tralia are included in this
division, of which the
General Manager is Mr.
H. Goodman.
Our Footwear division
was on the whole, the
least affected by trade
conditions m 1951, but
valuable lessons were
learnt from the, experi-
ence in that period. As
a result, we have now en-
tered on a policy of spe-
cialisation by manufac-
turing units in this divi-
sion and the resultant
economies in production
and increase in operating
efficiency are gratifying.
Our footwear factories are
now in the main operat-
ing satisfactorily, includ-
ing a country unit in New
South Wales which was
closed down in 1951 but
has now been reopened.
The object of tfie Com-
pany’s footwear opera-
tions is now to produce in
specialist factories types
in popular demand rather
than fashion footwear
and to use as much felt
as possible.
NEW ZEALAND
Pelt and Textiles of
New Zealand Ltd. showed
a satisfactory trading
profit for the year ended
31st March, 1953, and
maintained its customary
8% dividend on ordinary
shares. In general, .the
trading experience in
New Zealand has been on
similar lines to that in
Australia—a general re-
covery in demand follow-
ing the quiet period in
1951-52 and a clamant de-
mand for the products of
the floor covering fac-
tories. The financial posi-
tion in New Zealand has
also shown a most satis-
factory improvement with
substantial reductions in
stocks and bank over-
drafts.
SOUTH AFRICA
Pelt and Textiles of
South Africa experienced
a recovery in trading con-
ditions for the year end-
ed 30th June, 1953, and
earned a satisfactory net
profit for the year. In
South Africa, as in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand,
the success of the carpet
subsidiary has been out-
standing.
GENERAL
During the absence of
the Managing Director
overseas on business for
the Company and during
the period of his subse-
quent illness the Board
appointed Mr. H. W.
Rowden to act as Chief
Executive Officer of the
Company. The Board
wishes to record its great
appreciation of the splen-
did work carried put by
Mr. Rowden for the Aus-
tralian organisation at
great personal inconveni-
ence to himself.
The year ended 30th
June, 1953, can be regard-
ed as a period of substan-
tial recovery from the
reverses of the pre-
vious year. Viewed in
comparison with the pre-
ceding year, the recovery
in profit earning and the
improvement in the over-
all financial position of
the Company are gratify-
ing. No abnormal profits
were earned during this
year nor could the profits
disclosed be considered to
any appreciable extent as
due to a recovery of
amounts written off in
previous years.
The position of the
Company since 30th June,
1953, has continued to im-
prove. For the first quar-
ter of the current year,
the Company has earned
estimated net profits be-
fore tax equivalent to an
annual rate in excess of
£1 million.
The current year has
seen further improvement
in the financial position.
At the end of October,
bank overdrafts were
nearly £650,000 less than
at 30th June, and stock in
trade at 30th September,
1953, was substantially
lower than at 30th June.
Taking everything into
account, the position of
the Company to-day is
vastly different to that of
12 months ago. As we now
see it, the financial posi-
tion of the Company is
sound, the profit earning
capacity is steadily im-
proving, and the reorgan-
ised administration is bet-
ter equipped to meet the
problems of the fiititte.


'
Procrastination over your Will may be serious for your dependents
PROCRASTINATION in Estate Planning and Will-making—
and in bringing a Will up-to-daite—has robbed many a family of
its just share of an Estate.
If you desire to make your Will-—or . bring it up-to-date—you
are invited to call and discuss the matter beforehand with Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited.
The Company’s wide experience will probably enable it to
offer practical suggestions so that the maximum of your Estate
will become available to your beneficiaries.
If, when making your Will, you appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company limited as your Executor and Trustee —alone or jointly
with a relative or friend—you will be following the lead of many
prudent men.
Ring B 0377 to-day—or write—and make an appointment--
vHthout obligation. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the Company’s
helpful booklet on this subject be sent to you.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
Director*: Hon. T. A. J. PLATFAXB, M-L.C., Chairman: EL B. KNOX; AUffl C. LEWIS; D. B. LYSAQHT: SAMUEL HOBDEBN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. a. AKMYTAGE, Managing Director. TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £73.000,000 W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
3*
ru
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAOOA WAOGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGB.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries
T>ROFITS in the brewery trade today
are not as fat as they used
to be; but they are still satis-
factory, especially where turnover is
large, as in the case with The C.U.8.,
which enjoys a lion’s share of the trade
in Victoria. Over the last 14 years the
co.’s output of beer has more than
doubled and funds employed in the busi-
ness have nearly trebled, yet the 1953
profit of £509,093 was nearly £20,000
short of the 1939 figure. That was be-
cause of the pressure of ballooning manu-
facturing. and other costs against a less
buoyant ceiling of controlled selling-
prices. For these and other reasons, in-
cluding a one-for-one gift-scrip issue
in 1951, any further benefits to share-
holders have been pushed into the back-
ground for the present.
The gift, which called for £2,925,000,
was made from a reserve created by
writing up the book-value of freeholds
by £5,371,484. Paid capital thus be-
came £5,850,000 —£300,000 of it carries
a cumulative 7 p.c. and advances with
the ords. in any distribution beyond that
rate —and the rate of both net earnings
and dividends (the latter was cut in half,
reducing it to 6J p.c.) was brought into
a more moderate yet truer relationship
to actual capital employed. Interest now
centres mainly upon maintenance of the
div., which, unless something very un-
expected happens, isn’t likely to be inter-
fered with at the moment, and upon
trade and other trends bearing upon
present and future earning-capacity of
the business.
Last term the co.’s output of beer
totalled 47,037,300 gallons (up nearly
2.000. gallons), which included
7.000. dozen (up about 2,000,000
dozen) of bottled beer, and there was a
small lift in selling-prices in September
last. Still, the profit from actual brew-
ing operations showed a “considerable
decline,” the chairman says. Sharply
rising prices for malt, hops, sugar, etc.,
and continued lifts in wage-rates were
the principal troubles. It was better re-
turns from properties (mainly hotels), a
first div. from accumulated profits of a
subsidiary and the abolition of Federal
land tax that put the spring of £58,300 in
the year’s overall net earnings:
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.)
r- —Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 8J p.c. 8J p.c. serves. Reserves.*
££>£>£ £
1948.. 355,179 25,000 218,750 111,429 3,422,740
Net addition reserves, £11,104 .. 3,483,844
Added intangibles, £30,125 .. 3,403,719
1949.. 350,000 .25,000 218,750 106,250 3,509,969
Surplus sale assets, £40,241 .. .. 8,550,210
Net reduction reserves, £48,957 .. 8,501,253
Intangibles reduced, £15,631 .. .. 8,516,884
12J p.c. p.c.
1950.. 554,212 37,500 328,125 188,587 3,705,471
Revaluation freeholds, £5,371,484 .. 9,076,955
Reserves capitalised, £2,925,000 .. 6,151,955
Add reduction intangibles, etc., £13,998 6,165,953
Less reserve adjustment, £1333 .. 6,164,620
6i p.c. 6i p.c,
1951.. 467,110 28,125 337,500 101,485 6,266,105
Surplus sale assets, £3683 .. ..6,269,788
Net tax arrears, £3339 .. .. 6,266,449
Intangibles reduced, £29,316 ..6,295,765
1952.. 450,793 28,125 339,750 82.916 6,378,681
Net addition reserves, £6lBO ..6,384,861
Reduction intangibles, £1371 .. 6,386,282
1953.. 509,093 28,1.25 339.750 141,218 6,527.450
* After deducting intangibles, etc., now £1,021,666.
t Excluding outside interest in subsidiaries.
The £509,093 of profit claimed was written
after allowing £305,684 (up £18,009) for
depreciation and an unstated amount for
taxation —whether at the old or new rates
isn’t stated. The £509,093 was a moderate
4.5 p.c. on shareholders’ net tangible funds
(capital and reserves combined less in-
tangibles), or 8.7 p.c. on capital alone
as against 7.7 p.c. and 8 p.c. for the two
preceding terms.
Prospects of further improvement in
net earnings for the current term are
encouraging. Beer-consumption is still
on the up-grade, the co.’s output of the
bottled stuff is now running at the rate
of 12 million dozen a year, and the Royal
visit can be expected to stimu-
late spending. The co.’s plant is effi-
cient, a lot of money is being spent on
modernising and rebuilding hotel pro-
perties, and the board expects more
stability in commodity-prices and wage-
rates, despite shortsighted opposition to
the Federal Arbitration Court’s attempt
to stabilise the basic wage.
Continued expansion and modernisa-
tion of the brewery and remodelling of
hotel properties are reflected in net addi-
tions of £789,982 to plant and £193,021
to freeholds;
0.U.8. and Subsidiaries.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £5,850,000 £5,850,000 £5,850,000
Outside interests.. 18,733 22,903 29,394
Creditors*.. .. 1,139,576 1,762,469 2,951,156
Suspense account, < 16,646 27,020 987
Final dividend . . 182,812 190,875 190,875
Freeholds,
breweries, etc... 9,370,873 9,550,206 9,743,227
Plant .. .. 1,182,324 1,724,746 2,514,728
Stocks, etc. .. 915,968 1,294,842 1,446,540
Book debts . . 1,513,082 1,374,760 1,704,620
Cash, etc. . . 491,624 287,394 140,697
* Includes tax reserves.
Stocks increased by £151,698 and book-
debts by £329,860, while £1,188,687 was
added to the amount coming to creditors,
which includes an undisclosed provision
for taxation. Work has begun on re-
building two of the co.’s Melbourne
hotels at an estimated total cost of
£750,000.
C.U.B.’s capital is not held directly by
the public, but mostly by the following
holding cos., which also doubled their
paid capital (three-for-one in the case
of Melbourne Co-op.) following the gift
from the operating co. already referred
to:
Holding*
Paid in Div.f Market
Company. Capital. C.U.B. p.c. Yield.}
£ p.c. p.a. p.c.
Melb. Co-op. (10/-) 1,727,923 33.8 5§ 3.8
Carlton (20/-) .. 1,633,984 31.8 7i 4.7
Castlemaine (15/-) 450,000 6.0 6 5.4
Foster (20/-) .. 230,400 4.3 6$ 5.4
Shamrock (20/-) .. 282,690 4.3 6i 5.2
Other interests .. 19.8
Figures in parenthesis are face-value of shares.
* Proportion of C.U.B. capital held, f Based on last
declared div. % At current market price of shares.
In addition to divs. from C.U.B, some of
the cos. gather rents, etc., from properties
and other investments of their own. In
conformity with the general trend of the
market, the price of their scrip is slightly
higher than a year ago.
Concrete Industries (Aust.)
IN the concrete-construction trade, this
enterprising 17-year-old group consists
of parent holding co. and 25 subsidiaries
—lO N. S. Wales, four Queensland, four
Victoria, two S. Australia and two Wes-
tralia. The main factories are at Villa-
wood, near Sydney, where operations
follow flow-lines, thus quickening and
cheapening production. Output is taken
in almost equal proportions by the build-
ing industry and by public-works and
civil-engineering projects, and ranges
from manufacture, reconditioning and
lining of water-supply pipes (the line on
which the business grew up) to erection
of “Monocrete” homes, schools, factories,
the making of concrete tiles and bricks
and to a wide range of other concrete
articles used by public authorities and
rural and other industries.
Profitable from the start, the business
expanded rapidly after the war. Since
1946 shareholders put up £400,000 of
fresh cash-paid capital, plus £15,000 of
share-premiums, and received £50,000 of
bonus-scrip, thus lifting paid capital to
£550,000. Divs. averaged 10.6 p.c. for
the six years to 1942, 5 p.c. for the next
four years and 8.2 p.c. for the eight
years to the close of last accounts—
during the latter period the rate climbed
from 6 p.Cs in 1946 to 10 p.c. in 1951
and has remained steady since.
Though these results were won mostly
during a period of scarcity, when the
problem was one of production rather
than sales, net earnings stood up well
to the change in conditions last term,
as the following table shows:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. , Dividends N serves, serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
1948.. 13,310 6J p.c. = 11,018 2,292 26,475
Issue expenses, £1875 .. .. 24,600
1949.. 20,924 8 p.c. = 16,844 4,080 28,680
1950.. 36,638 9 ~ ~ 26,240 10,398 39,078
Proceeds asset revaluation, £45,000 .. 84,078
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 34,078
Issue expenses, £1667 .. .. 32,411
Unexplained reduction, £14,274 .. 18,137
1951.. 52,638 10 p.c. = 34,359 18,279 36.416
Issue expenses, £1667 .. .. 34,749
1952.. 63,001 10 p.c. = 45,755 7,246 41,995
1953.. 57,503 10 „ „ 54,347 3,156 45,151
* After deducting intangibles, £18,567.
The tightening of credit retarded activity
in the building sector of the organisation,
but business held well in the pipe and
contracting sections. So, despite the con-
tinued up-trend of costs, albeit at a
slackening pace, partly offset by savings
following the cut in co.-tax, the board
was able to show £4502 more profit
at £57,503. That was after allowing
£36,121 (up £3124) for depreciation and
£29,000 (down £10,000) for taxation. The
£57,503 was 10.6 p.c. on average capital as
against 11.6, 15.3, 12.5, 9.9 and 7.8 p.c.
back to 1948. The div. was kept at 10
p.c., the board being confident that the
co. can win a satisfactory and profitable
share of a reviving market for its pro-
ducts.
Continued expansion of the undertaking
and a comfortable financial position are
the features of balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Figures,
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. £401,243 £530,824 £550,000
Creditors and overdraft 229,660 257,569 283,480
Tax provision .. . . 19,750 43,374 40,385
Final dividend .. .. 20,854 24,297 27,500
Freeholds and leaseholds 91,396 110,119 125,067
Plant and machinery .. 182,608 221,321 .272,280
Vehicles and furniture.. 43,618 56,559 49,412
Stocks 244,330 315,«23 344,6 s ?
Debtors 145,360 193,665 154,460
Cash 611 570 409
Completion of the new tile-factory at
Darra (Q.) and purchase of part of the
old Brighton cement-works building to-
gether with 40 acres of adjoining land,
near Adelaide (S. A.), sent freeholds, etc.,
and plant up by £14,948 and £50,959
respectively. Stocks increased by £29,064,
but book-debts were down £39,205. Only
£25,911 was'added to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, etc.
The current term has opened with turn-
over in most sections of the business on
the up-grade, and, with an eye to future
potential demand for the co.’s products,
the board has decided to expand manu-
facturing activities thus far confined
mainly to N.S.W. —in Queensland and
South Australia, and to enter the
speculative-building field.
The market, doubtful of exactly what
the future holds, notes the narrow mar-
gin between last term’s net earnings and
distribution and the none-too-stout prop
for capital, and prices the f.-p. £1 shares
at 265. 6d. (365. 6d. a year ago) to return
7.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c, div, basis. Net
tangible cover is 21s. Bd.
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.
SINCE the public became interested
in the then 51-year-old H. C. Sleigh
business in 1947, Australia’s imports of
petroleum and petroleum-products have
more than doubled, and competition in
the trade has sharpened, and threatens
to become sharper still. To keep abreast
in the race, the cos. concerned have had
to meet heavy capital outlay in expanding
seaboard terminals, and city and country
distributing facilities, including kerbside
electric-pumps and rail- and other-tank
cars, as well as carry more stocks and
book-debts. For these and other purposes.
including purchase of a 12,600-ton tanker,
this co. gathered £484,000 of fresh share-
capital over the last three years.
It was not enough. To provide for
still further expansion and help lighten
the outside debt, those on the register
(pref. and ord.) at November 10 were
offered 412,000 new £1 shares at par, one
for four, payable 10s. application Dec. 8,
and the balance on or before June 30
next. The issue (underwritten) will lift
paid capital to £2,060,000 in 600,000 5 p.c.
prefs, and 1,460,000 ords. On that lot
the pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £176,000, or £14,325 more
profit than the parent co. alone earned
last term, as the following table shows:
* Parent Co, Only.
f Divs. -!
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£, £> £ £ £
’49.. 92,833 15,000 8 p.c. =40,000 37,833 78,605
Sale assets, £3980 .. .. .. 82,585
Unexplained addition, £2Bll .. .. 85,396
’60..168,019 15,000 10 p.c. =50,000 103,019 188,415
To staff fund. £5OOO 183.415
Share premiums, £24,000 .. .. 207,415
Unexplained addition, £7626 .. .. 215,041
’51..108,679 16,250 10 p.c. =55,841 36,589 251,630
To staff fund. £5OOO 246,630
Sale assets, £101,422 348,052
Share expenses, £BOOO .. •• 340,052
Unexplained addition, £1568 .. .. 341,620
*52..116,113 30,000 10 p.c. =82,925 3,188 344,808
To staff fund, £5OOO 339,808
Profit sale assets, £56,010 ~ .. 394,818
Unexplained addition, £2140 .. .. 396,958
’53..161,675 30,000 10 p.c.=104,800 26,875 423,833
To staff fund. £5OOO 418,833
* Subject to intangibles (now £77,074) and exclud-
ing staff contingency reserve (£19,756).
The £161,675 (up £45,562) of trading
profit covered the pref. div. (£30,000) and
12.5 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 10.4, 16.5, 30.6, 15.5 and 13.8 p.c.
back to 1948. That leaves out of the
reckoning a capital profit of £55,010 on
sale of redundant plant, an unexplained
addition of £2140 to reserves, and a profit
of £28,680 (a loss of £1032 in 1952}
earned by the subsidiaries. Combined
net earnings of parent and subsidiaries
was therefore £190,355, or £14,355 more
than will be needed to meet the pref. div.
and 10 p.c. to the ords. on the increased
capital. And “earning power will be im-
proved materially” when the new capital
is fully employed, the chairman says.
So the 10 p.c. distribution, of which 2 p.c.
is called bonus, is in no immediate danger.
The improvement in the parent’s profit
was due mainly to bigger sales (over
£8,000,000) of petroleum products at
higher prices. The recent reduction in
selling-prices of these products was based
on the drop in tanker freight-rates, now
lower than at any time since 1947. The
co.’s new tanker (operated by a sub-
sidiary) began work at the end of 1952,
and completed two runs from the West
Indies to Britain and Africa before enter-
ing the Persian Gulf-Australia run during
the current term. It is expected to show
a satisfactory return on the capital in-
vested (£708,634 net at June 30 last),
despite the drop in freight-rates. A sub-
stantial part of the outlay on the tanker
appears to have been financed on mort-
gage, which doesn’t show up in the
parent’s accounts. The import-export,
general merchandising and ship-chartering
sections of the business all earned satis-
factory profits.
The financial structure was brought
into better balance by reductions in stocks
(down £665,797) and book-debts (down
£204,153) and cuts in the overdraft (down
£705,234) and creditors item (down
£83,845):
Parent’s Accounts Only.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,275,165 £1,647,049 £1,648,000
Mortgages .. 98,000 102,000 125,000
Bank overdraft .. 35,300 1,210,583 505,349
Creditors .. .. 1,241,950 1,380,883 1,297,038
Tax provision .. 144,446 249,214 352,951
Final divs. ~ 64,591 97,925 119,800
Staff funds .. 10,000 15,000 19,756
Freeholds .. 295,919 437,933 571,978
Leaseholds .. 50,365 92,000 128,124
Plant and equip-
ment . . .. 966,644 1,380,652 1,498.336
Shares .. .. 2,751 20,450 19,202
Stock .. .. 984,933 1,739,433 1,078.636
Debtors .. .. 740,552 1,312,070 1,107,917
Cash . . .. 19.Q41 12,046 10,458
Intangibles .. 55,877 47,877 77,074
The growths in freeholds and lease-
holds (up £170,169) and plant (up


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
e-
JACKSO^Tv
OSIIIXIYVv
K T€»se ris*T Vi
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers,
man OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARREBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The nbo-barrere
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABKEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. So), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Public Notice
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COM-
PANY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
LIMITED.
■N NOTICE OF MEETING
THE SIXTY-SIXTH
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF
SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Company’s Offices,
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
on Tuesday, 24th November, 1953
at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To receive the Directors’ Report and
Balance Sheet to 30th September, 1953.
To declare a dividend.
To elect two Directors. Dr. George
Moncrieff Barron and Mr. Alfred Edward
Bond retire in accordance with the
Articles of Association, but are eligible
and offer themselves for re-election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their re-
muneration. Messrs. Yarwood Vane & Co.
with G. Mason Allard, Chartered Account-
ants (Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for re-appointment and offer
themselves accordingly.
To receive any other business of which
due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
N. L. SHAW, Manager.
11th November, 1953.
The "Curvilinear" Ore Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin &
Prices
Jr
Simple.
Reliable
and
Efficient
We are the Patentees and sole manufacturers of this renowned Table,
Classifiers, “Everlasting” Steam Blow-off valves, and “Abbot” Water
Filters. All classes of Tools, explosives and accessories supplied.
Sole Agents for George Ellison Limited, Birmingham, Electrical
' etc., and Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd., Birmingham,
manufacturers of Magnetic Ore Separators and Magnetic Lifting
Equipment.
Guthridge Pty. Limited
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
Providing profit
able protection
for policyhold-
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
m§nt.
Every Year
a Bonus Year t
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
MU
*sn
■Mis
"Mil
UIU
yiis
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(inc. in CP'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION TO-MORROW’S SECURITY
SEA)
7 ' vS
m
•m
St® 1
fa
bvS
c*?' c
0 .-
tW
At
Home
or
Away
BLACK 4 WHITE
SCOTCH
WHISKY
From Scotland—every precious drop.
By Appointment to
the late King Georg© VI.
fd
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Lid.
JAMES BUCHANAN A CO. LTD.. GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
£117,686) reflect completion of
a new bulk-oil terminal at Balls
Head (Sydney) and progress in
construction of the new Matra-
ville (Sydney) terminal and bulk-
storage facilities at Hobart and
Adelaide.
The old f-p £1 shares sold
« rights at 26s 3d "to bS
7.6 p.c. on a 10 p c distribution
3s P 6d make fte
total cost of a new share when
f.-p. and including brokerage
['lc .u •Tj
" 3 'f, -» at which figure the yield
would be 8.4 p.c. on the same
basis of distribution. Including
the new issue net tangible cover
is 235. 4d.
Clifford Love & Co. (Syd.)
'T'O provide for further expan-
-*■ sion of the business, those
on the register of this well-
handled Sydney dry-goods co. in
January next (exact date yet to
be announced) are to be offered
60,983 new £1 shares at a
premium of 10s. each, one for
four. Paid capital will be thus
lifted to £304,914, on which
maintenance of a 12£ P- c - distri-
bution will call for £38,114, or
£4092 more profit than was
claimed last term. Reserves will
benefit by £30,491 of share-
premiums, which will make
p.c. worth only 8.3 p.c. on the
new capital.
The old shares recently sold
at 61s. Allowing for brokerage
and exercise of the rights, the
net cost would be 555. 4d., and
the return 4.5 p.c. on a 12£ p.c.
distribution, which the market
obviously expects to be main-
tained. The rights might become
available at less than their
theoretical value of 245. Bd., and
thus provide an opportunity to
obtain a sound equity on slightly
more favorable terms. Including
the new issue, but not the depre-
ciation reserve (£259,503), net
tangible cover is 325. lOd.
As a long-term investment the
scrip has yielded satisfactory
results. Sincg the public became
interested some 33 years ago,
shareholders have had a steady
10 p.c., sweetened with a 2\ p.c.
bonus during the half-dozen
years to 1930, again in 1944 and
for the six years to the close of
last accounts. Though share-
premiums have taken some of
the icing off the cake, periodic
new share-issues have been in
the nature of capital-bonuses,
because of the high premium the
scrip has always commanded in
the market.
One of the features of the p.
and 1. account is the remarkably
even keel on which net earnings
have been maintained, despite
steep increases in wage and other
costs, including prices for oats,
maize and other of the co.’s raw
materials:
Nominal
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends, serves.serves.f
£ p.c. £ £ £
1948.. 38.005 12$ = 28,501 9,504 220,894
1949.. 34.663 12$ = 30,396 4,267 225,160
1950.. 34.645 12$= 30,491 4,154 229,314
1951.. 32.365 12$= 30,492 1,873 231,187
1952.. 32.858 12$= 30,492 2,366 233,553
1953.. 34.022 12$= 30,492 3,530 237,083
f Subject to trade-marks, etc., £72,500,
and excluding depreciation provision, now
£259,503.
Last term’s £34,022 (up £1164)
of profit was written after allow-
ing £23,003 (up £11,503) for de-
preciation and an unstated
amount for taxation, etc. It was
13.9 p.c. on capital as against
13.4, 13.2, 14.2 and 14.2 p.c.
back to 1948. The visible margin
between net earnings and distri-
butions is thus narrow, and
always has been. It all sug-
gests a well-entrenched business,
able management and efficient
plant.
The financial set-up is as fol-
lows :
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. 243,931 243,931 243,931
Depreciation
provision .. 223,359 242,434 259,503
Overdraft .. 243,605 111,647
Creditors and tax
provision! .. 148,300 193,791 268,065
Final div. .. 12,197 12,197 12,197
Properties* .. 272,708 278,822 276,364
Plant, etc.* .. 289,830 306,374 312,607
Shares .. .. 14,854 17,554 20,348
Stocks .. .. 321,121 233,502 209,305
Debtors .. 131,455 133,699 127,335
Cash .. .. 11l 102 2,320
Intangibles . . 72,500 72,500 72,500
f Includes something for contingencies.
* At cost.
Last term’s reductions of £24,197
in stocks and £6364 in book-
debts, together with an addition
of £74,274 to the amount com-
ing to trade creditors, etc. —the
etcetera includes provision for
taxation and other contingencies
enabled the overdraft
(£111,647 at the previous bal-
ance) to be wiped but.
The current term’s net earn-
ings will benefit from the recent
cut in co.-tax, and probably more
stable wage-costs, while in-
creased turnover should help to
offset the effects of a dry spell
in country areas upon grain
prices.
Hill 50 Mine, N.L.
One of the most spectacular
of recent developments in gold-
mining in Westralia has been
the enrichment at depth of Hill
50, at Mt. Magnet. At June 30
last the mine had been developed
to the 820 ft. level; and to get at
the rich ore disclosed by
diamond-drilling further down,
the main shaft had been
deepened to 1051 ft. at October
28 last, and timbered to 1014 ft.
The intention is to cut a new
level at 1050 ft., which, of course,
will take some time to open up.
For the year to June 30 the
co. treated 72,673 tons (up
20,336 tons) ore, averaging
7.62dwt. (up 2.62dwt.), for
24,9300 z. (up 13,0500 z.) fine
gold. Mining- and treatment-
costs amounted to 60s. 6d. ton
(including 13s. for development)
as against 565. Bd. a ton for
the previous year. The profit
was £156,729 (up £132,852),
equal to 104 p.c. on the £150,000
of paid capital. Two divs. total-
ling Is. 9d. per 4s. share, or
43.7 p.c., called for £65,625.
The profit was written after
charging revenue with £47,625
(up £23,407) spent on develop-
ment and allowing £17,967 (up
£2507) for depreciation. Capi-
tal expenditure, also paid out of
earnings, was £28,379, mainly on
additional plant and buildings
(£24,215) and the main shaft
(£4104). Average grade of ore
treated (head-value) rose from
6.7dwt. for the first to B.2sdwt.
for the second half of the term,
and to 9.96dwt. for the first four
months of the current year.
Since the close of accounts
two divs. totalling 3s. 6d. per
4s. share (Is. 6d. in July and 2s.
in November) have been paid.
Because money will be wanted
to meet the cost of equipping
the main shaft and opening up
the new level, no estimate of
likely dividends can be given,
but it is hoped to continue regu-
lar quarterly payments,, the
chairman says. Treatment and
recovery figures for the four
months to end October last com-
pare with corresponding period
of 1952 as follows;
Ore Fine
4 Mths. Treated. Gold. Value,
to Oct, Tons. Oz. £
1952 . . 21,410 5,917 91,400
1953 .. 31,947 14,232 220,478
Since the beginning of October
throughput of ore has been at
the rate of 8220 tons per four-
weekly period.
At June 30 last ore reserves
were figured at 820,000 tons,
averaging B.9dwt., made up as
follows;
Grade,
Proved— Tons. Dwt.
Above 630 ft. .. 100,000 4.9
Above 820 ft. .. 384,000 9.9
Total .. .. 484,000 8.9
Probable —•
Below 820 ft. .. 336,000 8.9
Possibilities are that develop-
ments on the new 1050 ft. level
will swell the tonnage.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £156,564, of
which £58,795 was stores, and
current liabilities amounted to
£11,120.
The co.’s 4s. shares were re-
cently split into Is. stock units,
which have sold at 245. 6d. each.
The market thus values the
undertaking at £3,675,000. With
gold at £l5 9s. lOd. per fine
ounce, and with costs at, say,
60s, per ton, the net value of the
mine on the basis of ore reserves
at June 30 was £3,193,000-odd.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
On Remembrance Day 2000 people
gathered in the‘forecourt of the Shrine
for the service, and the Administrator,
Sir Charles Lowe, Service chiefs and repre-
sentatives of other nations placed wreaths
on the Stone of Remembrance, At night
the Returned Sailors, Soldiers and Air-
men’s Imperial League held its 10th annual
Festival of Empire and Remembrance in
the Town Hall. In a night of impressive
pageantry there was one poignant moment
when, during the singing of “O Valiant
Hearts,” the lights were dimmed and
100,000 poppy-petals fell softly from
the ceiling.
☆ ☆ ☆
Douglas Cox has shown, in his 1954
autumn collection, how well Australian
woollen mills can turn out fine-quality
fabrics. The most important of these
woollens is the carpet-tweed, made to
give the effect of carpet, either tweed or
Axminster-stripe. Illustrating this material
was a charcoal Axminster-striped teenage
fitted coat cut on slimming lines, with
box-pleats m the back. Another was in
brown-and-white carpet-tweed. At the
back was a deep pleat, the sleeves were
finished with a tab, and it had a roll-
collar.
The “diamond” cut was seen in the back
or front of coats, suits and frocks;
small diamonds were cut at the back or
front of the waistline, also half-diamonds
were used in skirts, necklines, sleeves
and pockets. Importance was given to
the silhouette by the length of the skirt.
For women 5ft. 4in. and over it is 15in.
from the ground, for those under that
height 13in.
Colors in this collection are mostly
in jewel-tones: sapphire-blue, moonstone,
amethyst, ruby-red, opal, pearl-grey,
agate, crystal-white, diaihond-white, gold,
silver, onyx-black, garnet, topaz, emerald
and jade-green. Jersey was used a lot
for smart day-frocks, and the tucked
shirt-front was a feature of both jersey
and shantung frocks. Pleats vied in
popularity with the slim skirt One
attractive skirt was cut into box-pleats
with a series of knife-pleats between the
wider ones. The cowl neckline was seen
on many frocks, also the large, draped
collar. Cocktail- and ballerina-frocks and
ball-gowns were of taffeta, organza.
French-brocade and shantung-taffeta. A
dream-frock for the young girl was a
pearl-grey-and-gold-diamond-check Swiss
silk threaded with gold. The skirt, full
and flaring, was allied to a demure
bodice. Deep Ming-blue and onyx-black
Swiss brocade was used to make a ball-
gown which had a draped halter-neckline
and slimming skirt with “diamond” train.
☆ ☆ ☆
The dinner-dance at Giro’s on
November 25 for Sutherland Homes for
Children Auxiliary is to have something
for everybody. It’s to be a “Night in
Waikiki,” and mannequins will parade
in smart swimsuits and beach-wear; a
dancer will perform the hula-hula, and
there are wonderful prizes to be won by
purchasing a lei. Mrs. Margaret Saker
is the organiser and Jean Davies ticket-
secretary. Reservations at Giro’s, but
better not delay—they’re in great demand.
☆ ☆ ☆
The buffet-dinner given by Mr. and
Mrs. W. K. Burnside in their Toorak
home gave friends an opportunity of
meeting their daughter and son-in-law,
Mr. and Mrs. David Raeburn Brown, who
were on a visit from their N.S.W. Riverina
property. The hostess’s frock of cocoa-
brown nylon was trimmed with medallions
of bronze sequins. Lady Disney wore
a black coat with the collar and hemline
of silver-fox and a small black velvet
cap. Lady Beaurepaire covered her black
frock with a dyed-ermine coat. Mrs.
K. B. Hammond’s frock was of black-
and-gold-striped paper-taffeta, Mrs. Edgar
Miller’s of silver-grey taffeta.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Puppets in the current Tivoli show
are the hit of the year. In the first-night
audience were Mrs. Charles Doming, who
wore pale-gold nylon-brocade; Haidee
Moffatt, who covered her black faille
frock with a deep-blue velvet stole ; Mrs.
Frank Tait in a midnight-blue faille
ballerina frock ; and Mrs. Frank Nicholls,
whose short black frock was treated with
white ermine tails.
Famous English designer of sports
clothes, Teddy Tinling, presented his first
Australian collection at George’s, with
the proceeds going to the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital. Lady Brookes, president
of the hospital, was accompanied by the
wife of the Governor of Tasmania, Lady
Cross, and her two youngest daughters,
Karina and Susanna. Viewing the show-
ing were Mrs. J. E. Shilliday and her
daughter Wanda, Mrs. Colin Chisholm,
Mrs. D. Salthouse, Mrs, Valda Normoyle,
Lillian Wightman, Pat Christie and her
sister Mrs. Peter Lynch, Mrs, Albion
Walkley, Mrs. M. Gilruth, Dr. Betty Mc-
Comas, Lady Hyde, Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh, Mrs. Mickey Paxton and Mrs.
Dick Doyle.
This collection was as gay and amusing
as the commentary which Teddy and Reta
Findlay shared. Entrancing was a blue
felt skating-skirt teamed with a white
angora sweater and pretty white-and-blue
bonnet, A white cotton everglaze tennis-
frock was trimmed with gold straw. For
the plump girl there were tennis-shorts
with a £iny pleated skirt which just
fastened on at the sides and showed the
shorts in front. Terrylene, the new
fabric, was used in a permanently-pleated
skirt.
The official Coronation Crown symbol
was used to decorate a two-piece outfit
for summer evenings or the cocktail-
hour. A collar and pockets were on the
halter-neck, and the crowns were of
organdie appliqued with washable gold
thread. Another striking outfit had a
wide, flared skirt of pale-pink felt with
large black Chantilly lace motifs for
trimming. Another skirt of white flannel
had bands of black lace sewn on the
front in an apron effect, with another
band just above the hemline. It was worn
with a black organza blouse. White
ermine tails were sewn over the skirt
of a black rayon strapless frock and
edged the matching black stole. “Noel”
was the name given to a white nylon
frock with a wide skirt worn over stiffened
petticoats. One thousand sprigs of holly
set in lace rosettes trimmed skirt and
bodice, >
Carolyn Buxton, youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Buxton, of Armadale,
whose engagement to Dr. John Storey
has been announced, was educated at
Sacre Cceur and Invergowrie. Since re-
turning from a trip to England and the
U.S.A. with her parents, she has been
a transport driver with the Red Cross.
Wedding is planned for next April.
/
It was a day of pretty summer clothes
at Caulfield for the Williamstown Cup.
Shantungs, linen and cotton came into
their own, and grey and white were the
popular colors. Mrs. S. Garnsworthy,
wife of the chairman of the M.R.C., wore
black-spotted white surah under a coat
of black faille lined with white; and her
picture-hat was of white ostrich-feathers.
Lady Sanderson, wife of the chief of the
R.A.F, in Singapore, wore a white shark-
skin ensemble with a small white hat. Of
dark-grey shantung was Mrs. Reilly’s
frock, and her head-hugging hat was of
turquoise straw with a matching ostrich-
feather. Mrs. N. Thompson’s sleeveless
frock was of London-tan linen, her white
hat wide-brimmed.
Black-and-white-spotted shoes matched
Mrs. A. G. Hunter’s handbag, and she
wore a grey frock with a black-and-grey
lace picture-hat. Mrs. Ken McLean’s
choice was black faille.
SYDNEY
As the Royal visit next February will
probably bring many visitors to Sydney,
it would seem suitable now to give some
hints in this Letter on life in our city,
so that our guests may have some idea of
what to expect and be prepared for it.
The weather in February will be very
hot, so it would be wise to bring light
summer clothes—cotton, nylon, silk—but,
as it could quite easily rain, the prudent
will bring raincoats, umbrellas, galoshes,
too. It is not improbable, of course, that
the weather might turn quite cold, so fur
coats and woolly underwear will not be
out of place. The fact of the matter is
tfiat the weather in Sydney is so unpredict-
able one has to have all one’s clothes
handy in order to be prepared for every
contingency.
Stout shoes should be brought, too, for
Sydney is very hilly and there is very little
transport up the hills in the heart of the
city. Taxis may be hailed anywhere on
the streets and, although they seldom, if
ever, stop, the hailing adds some drama
and a dash of hope to the scene.
One of the few things that are said
about Sydney without fear of contradic-
tion is that its girls are among the most
beautiful in the world. Sydney model
Diana Andrews, in our picture, illustrates
this fact. Photo, by Bruce Minnett.
The shoes will be useful, too, in walking
from suburb to suburb, for it looks as
though transport will have become far
too costly by February for all but those
with gold passes. Bushwalking also will
call for strong shoes, for the bush around
Sydney, though it has its enchantment,
is rough and prickly. It will get under
your skin in more senses than one.
It will not be necessary to bring any
food. In Sydney shops can be bought
artichokes, asparagus, strawberries, rock-
melons, caviare, oysters, mushrooms,
lobster —any luxury at all. True, it is
often hard to get meat or potatoes, and
there was a dreadful time not so long
ago when onions were unprocurable.
(Cooks and chlorophyll-manufacturers
nearly went out of their minds.) But,
on the whole, food is good and plentiful.
Even milk, butter and eggs can be pro-
cured in large quantities if you have
enough money to pay for them.
Perhaps it would be wise here to
correct a common misapprehension about
the six-o’clock closing of hotels, or “beer-
swill” as it is colloquially known. Hear-
ing all the complaints about it by those
who engage in it, and reading that it is
“legally - imposed,” “Government-
enforced,” etc., visitors may get the idea
that there is some law in Sydney com-
pelling men to consume large quantities
of beer between the hours of five and
six p.m. This isn’t so. No one has to
go into the hotels, so one can only con-
clude that men go because they want to.
Women, indeed, are not permitted to
join the beer-swill (although one hears
that in the more free-and-easy hotels they
may stand in the corridor and peep in).
Visitors may expect to see a good deal
of outdoor-living in Sydney. From
Palm Beach to Cronulla there must be
over 20 beautiful ocean-beaches where
the population may get sunshine, fresh
air, sea-bathing, fishing, boating and
sand-castle-building as well as bluebottle-
stings, sandfly-bites, sunstroke, concus-
sion from surfboard blows, one’s morals
guarded and one’s life saved-—all free.
The lifesavers on every beach do their
work voluntarily, and when some grateful
citizen, snatched back from death by
drowning, gives them a guinea or so to-
wards their club funds, the lifesavers faint
and this is written up in the papers.
Sharks are very seldom seen, but the
lookout-tower and warning-bell add
adventure to this pastime, and occasion-
ally it is reported that they are lying
“shoulder to shoulder” outside the head-
land.
Barbecues are another form of outdoor-
living popular in Sydney. Most week-
end homes and summer parties feature
meals of steak, chops or sausages grilled
in the open, and this habit has led many
New Australians erroneously to believe
that by building a barbecue in the back-
yard and cooking all their meals thereon,
they will receive a reduced bill for gas
and electricity.
One thing visitors should be warned
about is that Australian girls are mad on
getting married. It wouldn’t have seemed
necessary to mention this but that an
English writer. Miss Marie Gallati, in
her book My Lowdown on Down-Under,
indicates that it is peculiar to Australians.
She says that if an Australian girl “is
unhitched by the time she is 25 she
considers herself ‘a dead duck’ and that
most mothers instigate this attitude.”
After reading Pride and Prejudice and
hearing the more modem American adage
“There’s no alimony without matrimony,”
one had come to believe that it was the
same the world over, but apparently not.
This strange attitude on the part of Aus-
tralian girls should be made known, it
was felt, at least to any unsuspecting men
who might think of coming here.
There is plenty of culture in Sydney,
no matter what may be said to the con-
trary. There is a symphony orchestra
which gives well-patronised concerts in
the Town Hall and even better patronised
ones in the parks (perhaps because
these are free). There are many
musicians, so highly-paid that the ordi-
nary person regards them as luxuries,
and there are brilliant concert-artists sent
forth from Sydney to be acclaimed on
the stages of the world (whence they re-
turn home again to perform to semi-
empty, apathetic halls).
There are many “little theatres” in
Sydney and three big ones. There is an
opera season by the National Opera, then
another season by another National
Opera. There are pantomimes at Christ-
mas, and recently a suburban musical
society put on “The Maid of the
Mountains.” There are several ballet
companies and an array of radio-an-
nouncers, of whom the flower are those
who announce the races on Saturdays.
These gentlemen, it may be said with
simple pride, are the wonder of the
world, not only for their fluent glibness,
their eagle-eyedness, but also for their
individual and racy style. To them a
horse never wins, it is “first to greet
the judge.” It never comes last, it “fails
to beat a horse home.” They must be
quite unique.
Art and literature are lively in Sydney,
too. Sherry is served at ail openings of
art shows and there is at least one of
these a week, so it is really quite a gay
round. The slums as settings for novels
and many paintings indicate how modern
in thought our writers and artists are,
while the conversation at cocktail-parties
often reminds one of Noel Coward. It
is not at all uncommon to hear remarks
such as “I can’t bear food, can you? It’s
so edible!” and “Oh, please don’t say
you’re happy. Life is too short for that.”
So it can be seen that Sydneysiders are
really quite mentally alert.
In the world of fashion Sydney women
are not behind the times. Costly French
models may be bought here and chic
little hats at 20 guineas if you want some-
thing exclusive. Moreover, Sydney
women are very sweet and don’t seem
to worry if their exclusive models are
repeated several times over at big social
gatherings. This is because it helps them
all to know what expensive clothes the
others can buy.
Overseas writers who bother to men-
tion us (usually it takes an atom-bomb
to bring us into the conversation) all
agree that we are oversensitive to criticism.
Visitors look us in the eye and say
“You’re very touchy, you know! It
must be your convict ancestry.” When
we go red in the face at this and protest
that we have personally no convict
ancestors, they reply “There you go, too
touchy, just as I said.”
Maybe we do have a sense of in-
feriority, but it seems more likely that it
is due to the fact that we are always
being referred to as “the antipodes” and
“down under.” If we are the antipodes
to other people, then they must be the
antipodes to us, and when the globe is
the other way round even England is
“down under.” Surely? So you see
that Australians have quite a good cause
for resentment, though, of course, we
don’t intend to show it next year when
the visitors arrive. We will all be on
our very best behavior then.


Missing Friend
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
BETTY RANDALL, aged forty-four years,
who left Perth, Western Australia, in
1940, will hear something to her advan-
tage by communicating with the PER-
PETUAL EXECUTORS, TRUSTEES AND
AGENCY COMPANY (W.A.) LIMITED,
89 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Legal Notice
I, ANTONIOS ANTHONY KARANJIS, of
Greek nationality, born at Geva-Tegea,
Greece, resident 46 years in Australia,
now residing at 22 Francis Street, Sydney,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO DONALD KENNETH SMEDLEY of
Wonthaggi Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that
NETA VANA SMEDLEY has filed a Peti-
tion for dissolution of marriage No. 2859
of 1953 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 2nd February 1954 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from W. R. THOMSON & CO., Solicitors,
14 Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND VICTOR MARTIN late
of 5 Flora Street Sutherland. —TAKE
NOTICE that GRACE ISABEL MERLE
MARTIN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4826 of 1952 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 21st January 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from GORDON L. BEARD, Soli-
citor. of 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JUNE EDITH ARNOLD late of 248
Anzac Parade Kensington near Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that STANLEY OWEN
ARNOLD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4833 of 1952 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 26th January
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from RUSSELL AND
RUSSELL. Solicitors, of 350 George
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
TO BENJAMIN HENRY LIBBY Address
Unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
MURIEL ENID VERONICA LIBBY of
Darkan in the State of Western Aus-
tralia has commenced proceedings against
vou in the Supreme Court of Wertera
Australia for Divorce on the ground of
desertion If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must within 30 clear days
after the date of this publication file in
the Central Office Supreme Court at Perth
a statement of your defence In default ot
your so doing the cause may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you. DATED the
4th dav of November, 1953. —U. J.
BOYLSON. Registrar.
Make your choice from
i
gives you so
much more
the Vauxhall range!
m
as
Come on in and see Vauxhall’s value features!
Take a good look at the spreading comfort for 5
even 6 in Vauxhall’s quietly luxurious interior . . .
the “sparkle" of Vauxhall’s swift-lined styling the
“look” that will retain Vauxhall’s high resale value.
Then take a run in both the 4 cylinder “Wyvem”
and 6 cylinder “Velox”. Although identical in
dimensions and looks they’re so different in
purpose and appeal. The 15.63 h.p. O.H.V.
“Wyvem” is a smart performer with outstanding
petrol-economy . . . the 23.44 h.p. O.H.V. “Velox”
has flashing acceleration and true top-gear perform-
ance. Note all these features , . . check prices and
facts . . . you’ll quickly appreciate that you get so
much more with Vauxhall! List prices from £920
plus Sales Tax.
VAUXHALL
G.M.A.C. CONFIDENTIAL HIRE PURCHASE PLAN.
Choose your favourite from the Vauxhall family and
let GM.A.C. General Motor’s own Finance company
FOR THE SPORTSMAN
Vauxball “Vagabond” for those who delight
in the Open Road and the Sunshine Trail.
Room for 5-6 plus extra large luggage
boot. A dashing sports-tourer, quickly
convertible to a snug all-weather car. Lis'
prices from £9OO plus Sales Tax.
FOR THE BUSINESS MAN
1
XU
The ideal combination of 3 passenger coupe
and true 10 cwt. carrying convenience
the Vauxhall 10 cwt. coupb-utility. A stream-
styled unit you’ll drive on social and business
occasions, too! Available “Wyvern” or
“Velox”. List prices from £B9O plus S/Tax.
A General Motor* Produet
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by'VauxhalT dealers throughout Australia V "J 3C/ J
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Melbourne Sculptors
No artist worth his salt has
been content merely to copy
Nature, to get that “awful veri-
similitude” as Cezanne called
it. He wants to penetrate below
the surface to that inner thing
which makes a Rembrandt self-
portrait glow like a ruby and
the absence of which makes the
academic picture look as dead
as frozen mutton. But there
are right and wrong ways about
going about that. Cezanne hated
that awful verisimilitude, but he
also said “We must paint
Poussin over again from Nature.”
The modernists, generally speak-
ing, have missed that point.
Most, of the sculptors at the
sculpture exhibition at the Vic-
torian Artists, Melbourne, make
a merit of distortion. They
distort so much that most oi
them become completely ab-
stract and end up, like Norma
Redpath, with a contraption of
wood and wire which, with a
brilliant flash of inspiration, they
label “Wooden Shape with Steel
Wires.” Or they adze something
out of a block of freestone and
call it “The Bather,” like Max
Lyle; but it doesn’t suggest a
bather but an adzed block of
freestone. Or they generalise
about the human figure, as in
Stanley Hammond’s lifeless
“Sketch Designs for Sculptured
Panel.” If you generalise, you
must generalise about some-
thing ; you can’t make a general-
isation about nothing. If I
have never seen a horse, I can’t
generalise about my experience
of horses. How much Mr. Ham-
mond really knows about the
world as a sculptor is indicated
in his realistic portraits. His
“Aged Chinaman” has that very
verisimilitude that made old
Cezanne see red.
William Ferguson’s “Mater-
nity,” “Head of Rhoda,” by
Mary McChesney, Norma Red-
path’s “Standing Figures,” which
won the Stanley Hammond
prize, Teisutis Zikaras’s “Lord
of Sorrows,” Pam Hallandal’s
“Sunday Afternoon” and Ron
Greenaway’s twists of wood and
wire come into one or other
of these classes, all more or less
eccentric ; but the “Acrobats” of
Charles Miller seem to be strug-
gling into life, and there is
dignity without much variety in
the mother and baby of Victor
Greenhalgh, while Jeffery Wil-
kinson’s richly-colored “Carni-
val Ceramic” of a Pierrot
mounted on a fat horse has
vigor, Ola Cohn has attempted
to realise something in “Flight”
and Tina Wentcher has a head
which is quite nice.—F. S.
* ❖ ❖
Considered as collections of
color-patches without any objec-
tive reference to their alleged
subject-matter, Carl Plate’s pic-
tures at the Peter Bray Gallery
in Melbourne are often pleasant.
Considered as descriptions, they
lack substance and in observa-
tion aren’t comparable to the
slightest little sketch of a
Chinese artist. “Bird on Bough,”
“Backward-glancing Bird,” “Cat
Thinking About a Bird,” “Up-
right Grasshopper,” “Snake and
Roosters,” “Fast Snail,” etc.,
are intriguing titles which don’t
fulfil in the execution. “Enemy
of Birds,” depicting a cat with
a thin neck and an outsize in
heads, may be as a bird sees it,
but as nobody knows what a
bird sees it can only be put
down to an eccentricity of the
artist’s imagination. “Dark
Bird” has been reserved for the
National Gallery of Western
Australia.
Stage and Music
“The Bartered Bride”
Smetana’s delightful opera
buffa, which follows closely in
spirit those of Mozart, and
which contains much graceful
ensemble-writing and some rol-
licking Bohemian dances, was
produced by Mina Shelley for
the Sydney Con. Opera School
on Saturday night.
Generally the performance
was meritorious. The choruses
were the most animated the
opera school has so far achieved,
and the singing and acting in
the two character roles were out
of the ordinary. William Dia-
mond used his powerful baritone
with good judgment as Kezal,
the marriage-broker, in whose
schemings the comedy is centred,
and he captured admirably the
tortuous mental processes of
that unworthy. Lance Lloyd
was a distinct success as Vasek ;
he has a pleasing light tenor,
and his wide-eyed surprise,
guilelessness and shrinking shy-
ness were cleverly sustained and
varied.
Joy Tasman was a most
attractive Marenka, and her
soprano worked well except in
the extreme heights, when it took
on a metallic edge. Its quality
when not pushed beyond its
natural gamut is quite good.
Michael Khlentzos, who has a
commanding stage-presence, was
troubled throughout with a
“thick” throat that refused to
respond to lozenges, and it was
in a measure due to his preoccu-
pation with it that he was any-
thing but an ardent lover.
Harry Collin and Mary Bran-
nigan, and Clifford Grant and
Joy Walters were the two sets
of parents involved in the mis-
understandings.
The ballet under Raissa Kous-
netzova danced as if they really
enjoyed it, especially in the scene
which closes Act I. Another
scene which gained from easy
natural treatment was that in
which the various circus acts
were introduced, though better
voice - inflection should have
been at the command of Jusef
Kayrooz as the ringmaster.
The orchestra, under Noel
Nixon, did reasonably well with
the lush score, but there were
times when the weight of sound
forced the singers to fight hard
for survival.
* *
“Arms and the Man”
Melbourne National Theatre
is a nicely proportioned build-
ing inside which would be
enormously improved by a
simple coat of whitewash over
the red brick, especially if it
covered the appalling Shak-
spearian frescoes whose feeble
ineptitude would have made
Shaw snort, though he wouldn’t
have snorted so much at the
performance of his play prob-
ably a mild snort at Pauline
Madison’s Catherine Petkoff and
Edward Morcom’s Major Pet-
koff, but not at Joan Harris s
Louka; and it is reasonably
certain that he would have
emitted loud cheers at the per-
formance of George Pravda as
Bluntschli, the chocolate soldier
who seeks refuge in a lady’s
bedroom and by revaluing war-
like courage, patriotism and the
romantic ideas of generals in
Shavian fashion, turns the lady’s
eyes in his direction and away
from her copybook - soldier
fiance. The Viennese actor
doesn’t seem to come from any
school of acting. He not only
gave Shaw’s arguments full con-
sideration but made his audience
feel them. Most of Shaw’s
characters are symbols for
human beings, but Pravda made
his Bluntschli seem like a human
being.
*l* +> ❖
“Le Bourgeois Gent ilhomme’ ’
The Independent Theatre pro-
duced this classic comedy as a
vaudeville farce. Moliere gave
each of his characters a language
proper to his kind, and no doubt
he would have welcomed some
of the English slang with which
this production was freely
tagged: he was robust, but
robust in the French tradition
—within its limitations; and
from the whole production one
missed a sense of style.
We have it from Montague
that the declamation, acting and
stage-business of French per-
formances of Moliere’s pieces
follows an unbroken tradition,
handed down and added-to,
from the productions of the
author himself. How much of
Edwin Finn’s bellowing for his
valets, or general clowning fol-
lows this tradition, not knowing,
cannot say. As a rowdy farce,
of well-contrived situations,
good-humor, strokes of im-
mortal wit, and portraits as true
today as ever they were, this
presentation was reasonable
enough; but the only part
played with persuasive style was
that of Count Dorante, by
Gordon Petrie; amazingly
handsome, superbly dressed ; he
could easily hold the stage with
a smile of disdain or produce
the supercilious authority which
fathered still another delusion
upon the credulous old parvenu.
There is a case for presenting
M. Jourdain softly, as a poor
little man, foolishly aspiring, but
rather charming and pitiable.
Mr. Finn played him more as a
Jiggs, of the comic-strip ; rough
and tough; not only not the
kind to be taken-in but not the
kind to want to be improved.
Madge Ryan was excellent as
Mme Jourdain; Inge Gessner
as the maid ; and Benita Harvey
made a pretty picture as their
daughter ; and, if the production
as a whole lacked style, Peter
McDonald’s autocratic Tailor
might be mentioned as an excep-
tion.
Talkies
“Plunder of the Sun” (Syd-
ney Plaza); This is an above-
average film on treasure-search,
this time in the uncovered ruins
of a lost civilisation in Mexico.
The story has a feasibility which
gains credence from the films
being shot on the actual loca-
tion.
The hero (Glenn Ford) is—
praise be! —no haloed Galahad.
He is, in fact, none too scrupu-
lous himself, which is a refresh-
ing change. Also, it gives him a
better chance of survival against
the plotters who want to beat
him to the auriferous metal.
Sean McLory mixes disarming
geniality with cold-blooded ruth-
lessness as the chief villain, and
there are a couple of girls to
make the prospective spending
of the ill-gotten gains much more
interesting.
“Gentlemen Prefer Blondes”
(Sydney Regent): This yawn-
provoker hadn’t a hope from
the start, burdened as it is with
Marilyn Monroe and Jane
Russell, who can waggle hips
and fill out bras with some dis-
tinction, but can’t act for nuts.
In fact. Miss Monroe’s efforts in
trying to portray a “dumb”
blonde —she should have been a
natural for it—were quite pain-
ful to behold, as were Miss
Russell’s endeavoring to be very
sophisticated.


You're wrong Delaney
By BANT SINGER
CHAPTER XI
SO I went on the lam out of
St. Kilda that night and
never waited to get any
money from where I lived.
I went from Martini’s and
picked up a cab and got
driven way out of town and
paid the driver my last penny
and walked across them farms
in the cold dark and picked
up that freight-train. All
that night and next day I’m in
that stinking cattle-van letting it
take me some place I don’t know
about. I got nothing to eat and
use all my cigarettes, and dirty
and cold in the cattle-van, and
when it’s dark the train stops
and I see it’s a big town and I
drop into the railway-yard and
go into the town and into that
pool-room. And that’s where
Keough and his boys pick me
up and I get taken to the police-
station, and jabbed, and put in
that cell and they try to pin
Martini on me. So I do all that
because I reckon Nugget must of
shot Martini and I want to give
Nugget time to make a break
because of that day in New
Guinea. I want to give him and
Lily a break because of New
Guinea and what I feel about
Lily. And what I got is some
bruises and busted ribs and a
bad name in this Black Springs
and in my hand this statement
with Lily’s name on it.
I turn back a couple of pages
and make like I’m reading it
again, because I don’t want to
talk to Keough till I get a grip
on myself. I don’t have to read
it again, because it’s all in my
mind, and it’s like someone was
screaming it at me. I make a
bunny out of myself running off
that night, because Lily took all
her clothes off for Martini and
she don’t want me or Nugget to
know about it. She’s playing
round with Martini because she
smells big money and bright
lights. She takes her clothes off
for him. She’s playing round
with him and she’s getting ready
to dump Nugget like she dumped
me. But Martini gets shot and
she knows who done it, but
there’s three thousand frogskins
in her bag and she thinks nobody
knows about that, and she don’t
want anybody to know about her
naked in there with Martini, so
she keeps quiet. She keeps quiet
while Delaney hits the breeze
and the police pick him up and
jab him some. She keeps quiet
while Delaney gets his name in
the paper on a murder charge.
She’s quiet and Peters put a gun
—the same gun—on Delaney
and would like to shoot him like
he shot Martini.
She’s quiet, and she’s going to
stay quiet, and she’s going away
with Nugget with that three
thousand, only she buys a
hundred-guinea fur-coat and that
lands her in the blue. Just be-
cause they got a tail on her and
get curious about that coat she’s
in the blue. She don’t buy the
coat they maybe forget her and
she says nothing and I’m left
with it.
I’m left with it, and the only
thing gets me in the clear is
Peters getting himself shot by
Elaine and dropping the gun that
shot Martini. Lily don’t buy that
coat and Peters picks some other
woman last night means I’m not
in the clear. All the time Lily
knew who shot Martini and
knew why the police got
Delaney, but she don’t say a
thing till she slips over the coat
and they find the big dough. So
she don’t mind taking off her
clothes for Martini and it don’t
bother her if I get Martini
pinned on me. Turned out a
real nice girl, Lily. Sort of a girl
a man could go for in a big way
—unless he reads the statement
she makes.
And Nugget!
Nugget gets an idea about who
shot Martini. Nugget is worried
about me some, until he sees
that dough. All he worries after
that is getting out with the dough
and Lily. She’s got three thous-
and and she tells him nobody
knows about it. So he stops
worrying about Delaney and he
thinks about that dough. It’s
good dough, and he can go a
long way with it and take Lily
with him. Well, he took Lily
from me first off, and now he’s
got her and there isn’t any
dough. Maybe he knows she
took her clothes off for Martini
and maybe he don’t. What he
don’t know isn’t as bad as what
he knows, because what he
knoyvs is the police got the
dough and he’s got Lily and the
police will. ...hey!
“Lily in the cooler, Mr.
Keough?”
He takes back the statement
she made and folds it and pokes
it in his pocket.
“Yep,” he says. “She’s in the
cooler. Charge of theft. The
boy-friend, too, that Nugget
chap. Statement makes it clear
he was conspiring to keep the
dough. That makes him a
accessory.”
“Who gets the dough?”
“Goes into Martini’s estate,
I’d reckon. Statement’s good
enough that it was Martini’s
money.”
I got a kind of hot feeling
inside about Lily. There’s
another kind of feeling about
Nugget; sort of sick. I went
through plenty for Lily and
Nugget. They wasn’t going
through anything for me; they
wasn’t even thinking about me.
They get smart about the three
thousand and now they’re in the
cooler. Way down under the
heat and sickness there’s a laugh
rumbling around, and pretty
soon it’s going to bust out of
me. Only it’s a kind of a mixed-
up laugh because I’m laughing
at Lily and Nugget in the cooler
and I’m laughing in a different
way about myself. About my-
self shooting through to give
them a break because I thought
Nugget shot Martini. Lily
knows who shot him, but she’s
got three thousand and what
happens to Delaney don’t bother
her any. It don’t bother Nugget,
either, after he sights the three
thousand. So it’s a funny kind
of a laugh, way down there
under the sick heat. It comes
out in a funny way, like a sigh-
ing sort of a grunt.
“You all right, Delaney?”
“Yair, I’m all right. Just a bit
of wind I guess.”
“Anything I can do for you?”
Anything he can do for me?
He was going to do a lot for
me when he picked me up. He
was going to pin Martini on me.
He made a bait out of me to
bring that Peters killer after me.
So Peters come and might of
shot me...
“Look, Mr. Keough, reckon
I got to thank you. Reckon
bringing Peters here and all that
—well, it helped me a lot.”
“That row you wouldn’t talk
about, Delaney, is that the one
in the statement?”
“Yes.”
“You wouldn’t talk because
you didn’t want that girl mixed
up in it?”
“That’s right.”
“You think a lot of her, don’t
you?”
I didn’t say anything. What I
think about any girl is my busi-
ness.
“You got some queer friends,
haven’t you, Delaney?”
I didn’t say anything to that,
either, because my friends, like
my girls, is my business.
“You don’t have to tell me—
now,” he says. “But I wouldn’t
mind knowing why you cleared
out that night.”
No, I didn’t have to tell him
—now. No reason at all to tell
him. No reason not to tell him.
Because he must have worked
hard on this business, and what
he does by working hard is put
me in the clear over Martini. If
he wants to know it don’t matter
if I tell him. It’s all gone, any-
how, It’s something past —like
me and Lily, like me and
Nugget, like me and Lily and
Nugget. All past. Things being
past like that make you kind of
lonely. You’re lonely and there’s
somebody to listen it’s good to
talk. Because there’s just my-
self now and maybe Kathy, only
it don’t look like being Kathy.
You’re in this game you’re on
your own, and maybe it’s a
whole lot better if you keep it
that way. You keep it that way
you got no Lily to worry about
and no Nugget. Well, I guess
I’m not worrying about them any
more. I don’t know why it’s
kind of lonely, but that’s the
way it is.
“Aw, it don’t matter, Mr.
Keough. I’ll tell you if you
want.”
“Let’s hear it.”
“That part in the statement
about me and Lily, that’s right.
Right about me and Nugget in
New Guinea, too. He got me
out of a pretty bad spot up
there ; might of stopped a packet
himself, doing it. So when I see
him and Lily click I don’t take it
real hard. Not after I see how it
is with them. It hits me at first.
I guess it hit me some hard at
first. I wanted to go Nugget
about it, and Lily, too. I felt like
doing him over. Her, too. May-
be I ain’t sure how I felt. Any-
way, after I see how it is with
them I reckon if she has to dump
me it couldn’t be nobody better
than Nugget. You get a girl goes
cold on you and keen on some
other feller, and you still keen on
her, you got a problem. Fellers
act different ways they get prob-
lems like that. Me —well, guess
I sort of realised she wasn’t for
me, and if she wasn’t for me
the best she could be would be
to be for Nugget, see? Maybe
if she’d fallen for some other
coot I’d have acted different.
But it was Nugget, and that’s
how it was.”
I been looking at the roof
while I’m telling Keough this. I
stop and look at him and he’s
got a serious look on his face
and sits there with his arms
folded and looking out from
under the thick eyebrows at the
floor.
“Well,” I tell him, “I know
more about Martini than she
does. So when I see Martini’s
game with her I take a hand.
That’s how come the fight with
Peters —the row you wanted to
know about. One night—l for-
get just when it was—l talked to
Nugget about Martini. Nugget
was worked-up, I guess, and he
said what I’d said myself. That
if he caught Martini putting it
over Lily he’d do him in.
So I’m in my room that night,
after»cleaning-up the joint when
all the customers left, and I hear
the shots. Sounds like it’s up-
stairs somewhere, so I rush up
and straight to Martini’s rooms.
The door’s open and I barge in
and there’s Martini on the floor.
I see blood on him and smell
gunpowder. I go out quick and
there’s Lily and Nugget in the
passage. Lily’s white as death,
with her eyes big and starey, and
she’s shaking like a leaf.
Nugget’s got a funny look on
him, like he’s done something.
Way I see it then Nugget caught
Martini trying it on with Lily
and shot him. That’s the way I
see it when I come out into that
passage. Lily and Nugget look
like they don’t know what to do,
so I shove ’em out and tell ’em
to beat it. Thinking Nugget
done it, I reckon he’ll take Lily
and blow. So I blow, too.
Straight away. Because way I
see it, when somebody finds
Martini and they get the police
the police will line everybody up.
Maybe Nugget and Lily will be
missing, and I dope it out that
if Delaney’s missing, too, it’ll
give Nugget a start. I reckoned
I owed him a start, over New
Guinea I owed him that, so I
just grabbed a cab and shot
through. I jumped a train and
next night you got me in that
pool-room and that’s how it
was.”
So I told Keough and now
he knows, and that’s about all
there is. I kind of feel easier
about it. Because you get some-
thing off your chest you’re easier.
I lie there, thinking about how
it was and about Nugget and
Lily and the three thousand, but
it don’t mean much now. Be-
cause if Nugget gets panned
over the dough, and Lily, too,
it’s too bad for them, but it
would have been a whole, lot
worse for me if maybe they
don’t get caught with the dough.
I still got plenty of trouble,
with Fat, and with that Peters
loose and looking for me, and
if I let Nugget and Lily trouble
me I’m a bigger fool than I
look. It’s been a bad show all
through, and
“It’s *a bad show, Delaney,”
Keough says. “That’s what hap-
pens when you get in with queer
characters.”
I got nothing to say to that.
All characters are queer to other
characters, I bet I’m queer to
Kathy now she reads about me
in the Black Springs paper.
She’s queer to me, too, but she’s
the kind of queer I like. Be-
cause she’s queer she don’t get
panicky and she don’t talk silly
when she finds me in that yard.
She drags me into her room
and cleans me and does things
for me, and when she hears me
say police she wants to hide me.
Sure, she’s queer. Lily is queer,
too, and Elaine. Guess every-
body is queer some way. So I
got nothing tq say to Keough.
“Well,” he says, and he sits
up and eyes me close. “We got
Martini and Peters and all that
tied up now. But you ain’t clean
about Baler yet, Delaney.”
He says that like it’s a ques-
tion. But I’m tired of questions
and he wants to know about Fat
he’s got to get it out of me with
a drill or something. Because
Fat was dead when I fell on him,
and nobody but me knows I fell
on him and-
“It’s still got me worked up,”
says Keough. “Why this Peters
went to Paterson’s. I think I’ll
leave you now, Delaney, and go
up and talk to the Patersons. I’ll
see you later.”
He stood up and gave me a
nod and a bit of a grin and I
watch him go out of the ward.
He’s no chicken in years and
he’s big and heavy, but he walks
like he could spring if he had
to, and I watch him go and tell
myself not to laugh. Because
you get mixed up in what I’m
mixed up in and a man like this
Keough gets into it you got noth-
ing to laugh about. You got
nothing to laugh about until
you’re right out in the clear. I’m
not right out in the clear, and I
watch Keough go out and I’d
give a lot to know what he’s
Slinking about the Patersons and
about Fat and about me.
This Keough’s got a wide-
open mind and a thought pops
into it he don’t throw it out
The Preceding Chapters
Under police surveillance in
Black Springs, where he is sus-
pected of the murder of Con
Martini and of complicity in the
death of Herman Baler, Delaney
had found a love-letter written
to Baler by Mrs. Elaine Paterson
and had demanded from her
£lOO for the letter. After meet-
ing her he is waylaid and
attacked by Peters, Martini’s
missing partner, who. demands a
mysterious £3OOO. Delaney is
found by Kathy Colter, whom
he loves. She assists him. Later
he is taken to hospital, where he
learns that Mrs. Paterson shot
Peters, but that Peters got away.
Delaney fears that Peters, still
believing he has the £3OOO, is
hiding in Black Springs waiting
to attack him again. In hospital
Delaney is told by Det.-Sgt.
Keough that Lily, a night-club
singer employed by Martini,
witnessed the shooting of Mar-
tini by Peters, and that she stole
the £3OOO.


because it looks silly. Sillier it
looks the more he wants to
know why it popped into his
mind. Because he’s got the kind
of mind doesn’t have room for
silly thoughts and he knows it.
He knows it and maybe he’ll go
up there to Patersons and talk
and listen and watch and maybe
the thought stops being silly and
Elaine lets something out and
there’s that letter and me want-
ing to sell it. He gets one little
thought about that he’s right
back to Fat again and Delaney
bang in the middle of it.
So I lie back and shut my
eyes and try for a little sleep,
because I’m tired after talking
to Keough and all that about
Lily and Nugget, and my arm
is sore and my ribs tired and
these plaster things hot and
heavy, I got a wild sort of
feeling to get out of that bed
and go and get my teeth into
something; only there’s nothing
to get them into and I got to
wait. You got to wait and
worry on you, even after a thing
like Martini lifted from you,
and you get irritated and sore
and everything is all wrong and
the bed like a jail.
So there’s no sleeping and I
just got to lie there and take it
and wish it was maybe six
months ahead.
And right about then a nurse
comes and says, “How are you,
Delaney?”
“I’ll live.”
“Has that interview upset
you?”
“Not so you’d notice.”
“Would you like to wash your
face and hands?”
I look at her, because I don’t
get this.
“I thought,” she said, “it
would freshen you up. Because
there’s a young lady to see you.”
“Who?”
“A Miss Colter.”
“Colter? Colt . Kathy!”
“Oh, is that her name?”
“Nurse, get me that dish of
water to wash.” t
“My, what a difference!”
She brought the dish and I
washed my face and hands and
combed my hair, and the nurse
pulled the bed together and took
the dish and went away.
And then I see Kathy coming
in. She’s kind of shy and looks
about the ward till she sees me,
then she comes and she’s looking
at me and she wants to smile
and isn’t quite sure about it, and
gets to the bed and stands there.
She’s got a little grey hat with a
half veil and a blue feather
standing up on one side of the
hat like it’s cheering. And a grey
tweedy coat with a belt and the
coat open in front and a white
blouse under it and pinned in
the neck of the blouse a little
bunch of violets. She’s wearing
grey wool gloves because it’s
a cold afternoon and she’s there
with her fingers moving in the
gloves and a leather bag hanging
from one shoulder. I can’t see
her stockings or shoes, but I
see enough and she’s Kathy and
her brown eyes with a smile right
back in them and her mouth soft
and it’s like all the tiredness and
being sore and worried run right
out of me.
Never in all my born days was
I ever stumped for something to
say. Because you want to get
a living you got to be ready to
speak up any old time. But
when I look at Kathy standing
there something like a big dry
bone gets stuck in my throat and
when I open my mouth to say
hullo to her nothing comes out
but a kind of a rasp. I turn ray
head away because I don’t want
Kathy to see I can’t speak. But
she’s quick. She comes close to
the bed and I hear her words
warm and soft, like when you
dream and it’s a good dream
and somebody in the dream likes
you a whole lot.
“Oh, poor Mr. Delaney” the
words are, and that makes it
worse because the bone goes out
of my throat and a great thunder-
ing kind of feeling comes in my
chest and I’m stone dumb.
CHAPTER XII
SO I’m in a bed again and
Kathy sifting beside me. The
thundering in my chest slows
down and I get kind of light in
the head because she comes to
see me, and I remember how
she pressed herself against me
last night when I went out of
her room,
“People like me they call me
Del.”
“I’m so glad you’re feeling
good.”
“I’d like to hear you call me
Del, Kathy.”
She got up and took the chair
and moved it so that when she
sat down again she’s got her
back to the other people in the
beds and she’s facing me.
She’s facing me and when
she’s got her back to the others
it’s easier for her. So now she
smiles right out at me.
“Were you badly knocked
about—Del? What did the
doctor say about you?”
“Oh, I’m hard to stop. You hit
me you got to do it with an
axe. Nothing much. Couple
of ribs bent a bit, wrist got a
little break. I’ll be up tomorrow
and out of here in a day or
two. Gee, you look real nice,
Kathy.”
“Do I really?”
“I’ll say. Couldn’t you kiss
me?”
“No.”
“The others wouldn’t notice,
if you did it quick.”
“No.”
She was looking down at her
hands in the wool gloves. She’s
got one hand in the other, on her
lap, moving the fingers a little.
I reached out of the bed with
my good hand and touched her
hands and let my hand rest on
them. She took her hands apart
and turned up the left one and
“She’s got her eyes on Kathy in a funny kind of way, and when I look at Kathy I see that Kathy
feels the look and don’t like it.”
took hold of mine and put her
other hand over it and .held my
hand tight. I could feel her
hands trembling. The wool
gloves was warm and soft and
through them I could feel her
hands holding my hand.
“Kathy—l”
“It was awful last night,” she
said. Her voice is so low I
can just hear it. “After you
went out, I mean. I had my door
open a little. I heard you fall.
I didn’t know what to think. I
thought perhaps it was that man
—the one that fought you—
then I thought about the police.
I heard the noise and somebody
moaning. I was coming out,
truly I was, but the yardman and
another man came out, too.
Then some more came, and two
policemen. They was all round
you. I went out but they didn’t
take any notice of me. So they
took you away. They was too
quick for me. I’m so sorry.”
“Sorry? What you got to be
sorry about?”
“The police. They got you.
If only I hadn’t let you go. 1
didn’t think you was so bad.
You seemed to be so sure you
could make it to your room”
“Good Lord, Kathy, do you
think I blame you for them find-
ing me?”
She was squeezing my hand,
all nerves and worry, and 1
thought she was going to cry.
“Kathy, listen! Listen, kid!
It’s all right. It was the best
thing. I’m in the clear. I never
done it —that what you saw in
the papers about Martini. It
was Peters done it. It was Peters
•—that’s the man did me over.
He’s a crook sort. He tried to
rob that Mrs. Paterson and she
shot him. The police was look-
ing for him. Not for me. They
knew he was in Black Springs.
Mr. Keough—that’s the detec-
tive —he was here. He told me
about it. I’m in the clear, kid.
Isn’t that good? It was Peters
killed Martini. They proved it
because the gun he had was the
one that did it and they got a
woman back in St. Kilda saw it.
So it’s all right, Kathy, it’s all
right.”
She lifted up her face and
looked at me and I never saw
nothing like it. There’s a sort of
light starts in her eyes and
spreads all over her face, and
then it seems to shine out of her
face and all over me. Her hands
hold my good hand like they’ll
never let it go, and she leans
forward and there’s a wild sort
of joy in her and the glow in her
eyes. She isn’t shy any more,
She’s bold and laughing in a
funny way, and she gets up half-
way from the chair and her
eyes on me and I’m sort of lost
in them, and the next thing I
know she’s kissed me on the
mouth and then she’s back in
the chair, smiling at me.
“Del. Del. Del,” she says.
“I’m so glad. I didn’t know what
to think. All that in the paper
about you. I thought you”
“You thought last night I was
in trouble? Last night you
thought that?”
“Well, you talked about the
police and”
“You thought that, Kathy.
But it didn’t make no difference.
You helped me. If you could
of got to me when I fell down
them steps you’d have”
Like I said, she wasn’t shy any
more. She lifts one hand and
put it on my mouth and looked
at me with a little smile and says,
“That was last night, Del. I
didn’t know what to think. But
I had to help you. I was scared
you was in bad trouble, but I
just had to help you. I’m glad
now I did.”
“Me, too,” I said.
A bell started ringing some-
where and Kathy looks at me.
“That means it’s time to go.”
“Will you come back to-
night?”
“I can’t. It’s my day off. I
promised to go home tonight. I
promised to go home and stay
till the morning.”
“Home? I thought you lived
at the hotel?”
“Only when I’m working. I
go home when it’s my day off,”
“Home? Is that in Black
Springs?”
“No. I live at Greenvale.
That’s ten miles away. A little
town.”
“Who’s at home?”
“Father, Mother and my
brother Bob. He’s sixteen. He
goes to high school here. We
have a farm-produce store.
Father” She went on talk-
ing about her family. A woman
came in the ward. A tall, dark
woman. She had on one of them
silver-tipped fur-coats and a red
beanie-cap on her black hair.
She carried a basket and she
went to a man in bed across the
ward and spoke to him, and to
the people visiting him, and
gave him a package. Then she
walked to the boy that was
smashed on the motor-bike and
talked to him. There was some-
thing about her for me. Like
when you hear a couple of words
and they remind you of some-
body or you see a face in a
crowd and it rings a bell in your
memory. So I watch this woman
while 1 listen to Kathy and I see
her go from the boy to another
bed and talk. Kathy sees me
looking past her and she turns
and sees the woman.
The woman leaves the bed
and comes towards us. When
she turns I see her nose and I
know who she is. I didn’t see
much of her the last time I saw
her, because it was dark and
most of her was hidden in a fur,
but I got good cause to remem-
ber that nose and some other
things.
“It’s Mrs. Paterson,” Kathy
whispers, quick. “She goes
round visiting the sick.
There’s”
She stopped, because Elaine is
right on top of us.
“How do you do?” she says,
and it’s like honey coming out
of her. She stops by the bed
and smiles at us.
“And what have you been
doing to yourself?” she asks
brightly. Lady Merciful, that’s
her, going round the hospital
with smiles and good cheer.
“He had an accident,” says
Kathy, standing up.
I’m watching Elaine. I’m
watching her because there’s
something phony about this.
Hospital visitors like the kind
she’s supposed to be don’t come
in at the last minute. So I
watch her. Because her eyes
are darting from Kathy to me
and back again, and in back of
her eyes there’s something. I
can’t give it a name, but there’s
something in back of her eyes,
and when she moves so she can
read my name on the card hang-
ing on the foot of the bed and
looks at me I know she’s just
making sure it is me'.
She’s making sure it is me,
and there’s got to be a reason
for that. Because the way I see
it she’s got no more cause to
worry about me. She shot
Peters when he tried to attack
her, and when the police get
there and go through him they
must have found that letter.
They must have —then it hits
me, and I know why she’s
anxious to locate me. The
police don’t tell anybody about
that letter, so Elaine don’t know
they got it. She thinks I got it,
and that’s why she wants to
locate me. I lie there with my
thoughts racing, watching her,
and I think maybe if I’m quick
I’ll get that hundred frogskins
after all,
A nurse come through the
ward hurrying the visitors out.
“I have a car,” Elaine says to
Kathy. “I’d be glad to give you
a lift.”
She’s got her eyes on Kathy
in a funny kind of way, and
wjien I look at Kathy I see that
Kathy feels the look and don’t
like it.
“I don’t know,” Kathy says,
confused. “I’m catching a bus
to Greenvale.”
Elaine is all gracious and
smiling. * “Why, I go right past
the bus-stop on my way. We
can go together.”
The nurse is hurrying every-
body out.
“Good-bye, Del,” Kathy says.
She’s nervous because Elaine is
there. She won’t kiss me or
anything, just gives me her hand
and then turns away. I know
she’s annoyed, though not with
me. Elaine steps up along the
bed and puts a package on my
locker.
“There’s some cigarettes for
you, Mr. Delaney,” she says.
She’s close to me and Kathy be-
hind her, and she looks intently
at me and says, keeping her
voice light, “I hope you soon
get well. I may see you again.”
“Thanks,” I say. I know she
means to see me again. I know
what she wants to see me about,
I know that, all right, but I
don’t get why she looks at Kathy
and why she’s all gooey over
Kathy. It’s guineas to goose-
berries she knows Kathy isn’t in
her social set. She don’t have
to get gooey over Kathy unless
there’s a reason.
I lie there, watching them go
out together, my little trusting
pigeon and the tall woman in
furs beside her, and there’s
something wrong. Because you
been around like me you get a
kind of feeling for things; you
know when something isn’t just
{Continued on page 25)


THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
WITH WHICH IS UNITED
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED
Registered Office : 271-279 Collins St., Melbourne, Victoria
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th SEPTEMB E R , I 9 5 3
LIABILITIES
£
AUTHORISED CAPITAL-
-10,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each £10,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL—
-3,726,025 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, fully paid 3,726,025
4,800,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, 12/6d. paid 4,800,009
£8,526,025
Paid-Up Capital 6,726,025
Reserve Fund (used in the business) ... 5,500,000
Final Dividend Proposed 269,041
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 335,398
Total Shareholders'Funds ... 12,830,464
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities (including Provisions for
Contingencies) 227,222,597
Notes in Circulation ... ... 47,484
Balances due to Other Banks ... 97,299
The Queensland National Bank
Limited (in Voluntary Liquidation)... 170,290
240,368,134
Liabilities under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, Forward Exchange
Contracts, etc 16,481,239
£256,849,373
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other
Banks
Treasury Bills Australian Gov-
ernment
Public Securities (at or under market
value ) ...
(i) Australian Govt. Securities
(ii) Other Govt. Securities
(iii) Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities’ Securities ...
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittance
in Transit
£
11,875,005
3,610,185
674,320
11.500.000
22.977,131
1,439,814
678,853
45.637.000
17,964,501
116,356,809
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting provision for
defns considered bad or doubtful) ... 118,198,146
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
(at cost less amounts written off) ... 3,651.000
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company (at cost) (The Company
has mode neither profit nor loss) ... 2,000
All Other Assets ... 2,160,179
240,368,134
Liabilities of Customers under
Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
Forward Exchange Contracts,
etc. —as per contra 16,481.239
£256,849,373
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1953
To Expenses—Head Office, 681
Branches and Receiving Offices
(including Directors’ Fees £9,000) ... 5,377,231
~ Income, Land and Other Taxes 955,446
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down ... 668,954
£7,001,631
To Amounts written off Bank
Premises 100,000
„ Dividends :
Interim paid 27th May, 1953 269,041
Final proposed—payable 25th
November, 1953 ... ... 269,041
„ Balance Carried Forward ... 335,398
£973,480
d
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Figures are stated in Australian Currency)
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on the books at the Head Office
and with the certified returns from the branches. We have obtained all the information snd
explanations we have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and Profit and
Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s
affairs and of the results of the business of the Company for the year according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
J. R. BISHOP, F.C.A. (AUST.)\
Melbourne, 30th October, 1953. SHERRARD WARNOCK, F.C.A. (AUST.)/Auditors.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Brandies In ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
HORSES FOR PLEASURE
by
Danid
Camplell
HERB BYE was looking for
a horse. This was known
up and down the rolling
stock-routes of the Mon-
aro; and as he travelled to-
wards the mountains, a seven-
mile stage a day, the big-boned
wethers cropping the coarse
grass by the roadside, cocky-
farmers led out likely hacks and
yarned the morning away under
the gumtrees. Bye had an eye
for a horse and a gift for
divining why it happened to be
on the market.
“Terrible spadey in the
hooves,” he said. “A man not
knowing would swear she’d been
down with red-water all winter.”
At such times he clapped the
mare on the rump and praised
her coloring.
“But I think the old nag will
take me a piece yet”—nodding
to where his own horse drooped,
lop-eared, between the shafts of
the droving-wagon.
It was at The Sandy Crossing
that he found and bought the
horse he was looking for: a
springy quarter-draught with
spread nostrils that would stand
all day nodding at the flies, and
start and stop at a word. The
price was right and Bye did not
waste time over the sale. There
was little to say to an honest
man. The name of the horse
was Baker.
He backed Baker between the
shafts, hitched the old nag up
beside the waterbag, cried Hup!
and set off behind the stringing
wethers to the monotonous
clang and squeak of his plant.
The billy swung 'from the
centre-rail of the canopy. His
tucker and swag were stowed
among the sheepskins on the
floor of the wagon. His plant
was Bye’s home.
C|EVERAL times during the
morning he got down from
the wagon and, walking in the
hot white dust, cried “Woah!”
and “Hup! ” to Baker. It pleased
him to see the horse halt and
move off at his command ; and
each time, climbing back on to
the shaft, a secret smile curled
his dark lips.
They had reached the hard,
bare down-country. The feed
was poor, and the mob moved
along the white road in a body,
raising miniature dust-whirls,
the sheep walking as if in sleep,
without the need of dogging.
“Woah!” cried Bye. “Here,
Nigger.”
A black kelpie leapt up on to
the planking beside him and,
tonguing broadly, scraped at his
hand with its forepaw.
“Hup! ” cried Bye, smiling
himself, fondling the dog’s ear
in his hard hand. The dog
sat motionless.
“Yes,” he said, “there’s not
much your old man don’t know.
Dogs and horses for pleasure;
and jumbucks in the way of
business,”
The daylight-moon rose in
the pale sky, hung suspended
over the blond, treeless hills.
The wethers followed the white
road in a dream. Whenever
the drover stopped fondling the
dog it scraped with its forepaw
at his hand.
About noon the mob curved
over a hilltop and below, cling-
ing to the lower roadside, the
township of Adanimbella shim-
mered in the heat. Opposite the
pub with its whitewashed stone-
work, its iron posts and upper
veranda - rails, Bye called
“Woah!” and Baker halted at
the same instant. He tossed the
reins inboard, whistled his dogs,
and walked, thumbs in belt, into
the cold yellow darkness of the
bar. The wethers fed on down
the upper roadside, stood in
groups, heads-down, in the short
pencil-shade of the fenceposts,
A DANIMBELLA is a sleepy-
brained grazing town. Bye
made out two men in the bar-
corner. Drinking the first loving
schooner, he learned without
speaking that they were casuals ;
that they had cashed cheques
for lucerne-pressing and rabbit-
trapping ; that one could use
his hands and that the other had
made a suggestion to the boss
about his lucerne-press. Their
names were Curl and Deacon.
Drinking his fifth schooner,
Bye was telling Deacon about
his purchase while Curl listened-
in with eyebrows raised and lips
drawn firm at the half-open.
“Hup! ” said Bye, “and he
moves off. Woah! and he’ll
stand till prohibition. And a
great doer, mud-fat.”
“Hup! my ass,” said Deacon.
“How do you know he’s a
great doer?”
The secret smile was back in
Bye’s dark eyes.
“I asks him,” he said.
“ ‘Where’s he been running?’
And there’s this paddock, as bare
as your hand.”
“Bare as my foot,” said Dea-
con. “Running on the lucerne-
flats, most like.”
“That’s right,” said Curl. *
“I can pick ’em,” Bye said.
“This cove wouldn’t know how
to ring one in on a church col-
lection.”
“About this Hup and Woah,”
Deacon said. “One day you’ll
cry Hup! and hell fall down <
dead in his traces.”
He gazed down seriously at
Curl, doubled-up over his
schooner —a long, bone-thin man
in an open waistcoat, with nar-
row dark temples and sucked-in
lips. Curl was a bleached,
vacant - eyed young man who
moved his shoulders like a boxer.
Bye was measuring them up.
“Hup!” he said, “and he goes.
Woah! and he stops. Like to
bet on it?”
“Done,” said Deacon, taking
out five notes. Bye covered them.
The barmaid held the stakes.
/"\UTSIDE, Nigger tongued in
the dust; Baker nodded at
the flies between the shafts of
the wagon ; the wethers stood in
knots down the fenceline, their
heads lowered towards the nar-
row slats of shade. The moon
hung over the unsubstantial hills
that wavered in the hard light.
The township slept. They may
have been on another planet.
“Hup!” cried Bye. “Hup!
/Baker.”
The horse did not stir.
“Must have dropped off,” Bye
said. “I’ll wake him.”
Deacon and Curl leaned on
their shoulders at either side of
the veranda-post,
“Hup! boy,” Bye called, clap-
ping Baker on the crupper.
“Hup! Hup!”
Baker went on nodding at the
flies.
He tried sitting on the shaft,
clapping the dust from the
horse’s rump with the slack of
the reins ; striped him hard with
the buckle-end. It was no use.
Baker and the whole world
seemed to be at a standstill. The
two rabbit-trappers leaned with-
out expression against the iron
post of the veranda.
‘Til shift you!” Bye swore,
taking a long-handled frying-
pan from amongst his gear.
“Never known it to fail.”
He was uneasy now; his
money and reputation wjere at
stake.
“Hup! Hup!”
The flat of the pan clapped
dust-rings from Baker’s rump
like dust from a carpet and
quoits of sound ringed the still-
ness. The rabbit-trappers em-
braced like wrestlers On the ver-
anda. Galahs screamed in torn
patterns over the town. But
the horse, trembling, stood his
ground, hooves planted square.
It was outside the drover’s
experience. “What’s so funny?”
he said, getting down into the
dust with the frying-pan in his
hand.
“Day’s getting on,” Deacon
said, glancing up at the moon.
The town had gone back to
sleep. The wethers dozed down
the white stock-route. Again
Bye had the uneasy feeling that t
he had stumbled into a strange
world.
“Only way you’ll shift him is
light a fire under him,” Curl
said.
“Very clever!”
But the inhumanity of the
remark eased Bye’s feelings, was
in keeping with his mood. He
sat down on the veranda-ledge,
mopping sweat and dust from
his hair. The black dog scraped
at his hand, but he slapped him
aside.
“I’m not beat yet,” he said.
came back around the
corner of the building with
a packing-case and a roll of
newspapers.
“I’m serious,” he said. “It’s
the only reasonable thing. Seen
it done many a time when a
horse bailed-up. Nice clear
patch he’s standing in.”
“All right,” Bye said. “Got to
get him started some way. Due
f at the Five Mile before sun-
down.”
Curl began breaking up the
packing-case with his boots, and
Bye split the boards between his
hands, looking over at the horse.
“We’ll win this bet yet,” he
said.
“Couple more boxes round
the back,” Curl said, making off
around the building with his
springy boxer’s stride.
So in the main street of the
town, while children sucked at
pencils in the bush school and
wethers wriggled their tails at
the flies, the two men sat and
lit a fire under the horse Baker.
Deacon, slouching in the shade,
looked on with a critical,
appraising eye.
The paper flared, the kindlihg '
burned blackly, a wreath of
smoke curled up around the
horse’s belly. The smoke cleared
and the flames sprang out. Curl
capered about the road, casting
a short ape-like shadow.
“That ought to shift him,” he
yelled; “or it’s horse-steaks for
supper! ”
He backed towards the pub,
doubled up as if in pain.
But quite suddenly Bye was
sober. It was like waking in a
nightmare. For the horse was
not going to move.
“Hup! ” he cried, straining
back on the bridle. “Wake up
to yourself. Don’t you know
what’s good for you?”
AT that moment Deacon put
two fingers in his mouth and
whistled a shrill double note
followed by a single note.
Baker walked forward three
paces and stopped. Bye fell on
his back in the road.
He scrambled to his feet, sat
{Continued on page 25)


With more Farm-right Features than any other tractor
MEANS LESS WORK PER FARMER. MORE INCOME PER ACRE
New Fordson Major provides new
all-farm, all-purpose capacity
and new operating economy.
Right when it’s needed most—when Australia’s big power
farming job is to both step up production and lower working
costs comes the entirely new Fordson Major tractor. Its
extra work capacity, all its farm-right features, its low
purchase prices and downright operating economy will make
life on the land easier and more profitable.
:
m
WM-
m
m
m
wmmmM
4&k
m
• ■
v;-':
>. SSSB&
NEW
i-SPEED TRANSMISSION IS RIGHT FOR THE
BROAD-ACRES OR SMALL FARMS
From 6 forward and two reverse gears,
the operator can select the gearing
that’s right for the particular job on
which he is working whether heavy-
duty tillage, manoeuvring or high land'
speed in all types of haulage work.
No other tractor has so many Farm-right Features
Below are mentioned only some of the many farm-right features of this
new tractor. Fordson Dealers are now ready to show you the New
Fordson Major and to tell you its full farm-right story.
NEW {ENGINES WITH CHOICE
OF DIESEL OR KEROSENE FUEL
Each of these 4 cyl. Overhead Yalve
engines has features that mean new
efficiency and economy with its particu-
lar fuel. In addition, a Ford engineering
achievement in use of parts common
to each engine helps low pricing particu-
larly so in the case of the Diesel model.
NEW HYDRAULICS a new
“Touch-Control” system allows instant control
through one lever raising, lowering or holding
implements in intermediate positions.
3-POINT LINKAGE allows fast attach-
ment of mounted implements.
LOW CENTRE OF GRAVITY
with ample “under-sump” clearance means
farming of hillsides with greater safety.
CAR-TYPE CONTROLS. Every-
thing from hydraulic power lift to reserve fuel
supply is controlled from comfortable seat which
is rubber-mounted for insulation from ground
shocks.
POWER TAKE-OFF is standard equip-
ment for all types of direct-coupled drives.
2-SPEED BELT PULLEY is another
standard equipment feature.
m
K;
Fordson Sales Managers have first viewing of latest, finest
product of Australia’s greatest name in power farming.
Lately, at Ford-Australia’s Geelong
plant, tractor executives from all over
Australia had first sighting of the New
Fordson Majors that were being made
ready for delivery to Fordson Dealers.
Seasoned tractor men, they checked
feature by feature, the advances the new
tractor brings to mechanised farming.
They were in complete and enthusiastic
agreement that the New Fordson Major
has more farm-right features than any
other tractor Australia has seen. Another
important pre-announcement fact was
that Schools in all Ford Branches
instructed Fordson Dealers and their
mechanics in all servicing data. These
Service Schools will be held regularly
and will ensure throughout Australia,
availability of specialised, knowledge-
able service facilities.
Kerosene model with
pneumatic tyres
£9lB
Diesel model with
pneumatic tyres
£1077
PRICES F. 0.8. FORD PLANTS
Ml
Range of
Crown implements
increases tractors
year-round
usefulness
m
m
w.
m*
1 ;
' ■ I I
■v
In combination with new “touch con-
trol” hydraulics, these implements are
matched to the efficiency of the New
Fordson Major. They allow versatile,
time-cutting use of the tractor not only
in straight agricultural jobs but also in
“rouml-lhe-farm” maintenance and con-
struction. The range includes—Spring
Release Tine Scarifier —Rear End Jib—
3-Furrow Disc Plough—Post-hole Digger
—3-furrow 10 in. Plough—Farm Dozer
Reversible 2-Disc Plough.
YOU’LL FARM-RIGHT WITH THE
nan
wm Ka^ocejca
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD,
SEND THIS COUPON FOR FREE
ILLUSTRATED BROCHURE.
Simply fill in your name and address and mail
coupon to FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Name
Address
FM7I-105


- ; ■
i
</
m
ro-
..
V
A recent survey reveals that a
man’s first concern is the fit, then
the color, then the material. This
explains why so many Australian
men wear only STAMINA Self-
supporting Trousers.
Yes! What you want, what you
rightly demand, is yours when
you INSIST on getting Stamina
Trousers. A comfortably stylish
fitting —lO attractive colors to
choose from Crusader Pure
Wool Worsted Cloth. Yes! you
certainly buy well when you
ASK FOR buy STAMINA *
Stamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
Tat-i is
82%
of
AUSTRALIAN MEN
wear
Self-supporting
Trousers
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
Canyon detect
a ‘classic’?
BELtS
oi t
»00%SCOTCH
DISTILLED AND BLEND*
‘. Hi SCOTLAND
d 'STILLERS ««"< SCOT^^
p «ODL/CT Of
One of life’s little joys lies in
making your own discoveries.
Nosing out a good thing.
Picking a ‘surprise’ winner.
Quietly finding the best. Many
a man has been delighted to
come across Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky which has that true
classic flavour that only the
rare, the very best, whiskies
can achieve. All the natural
advantages of soft Highland
air, peat and water, together
with the best of barleys are
made the most of by slow
maturing and careful blending.
Good whisky takes time.
You have only to open a bottle
of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky to
appreciate its classic bouquet
and flavour.
(00% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
J^/LuJse&'*dcnrvd
DISTILLERS ferth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
_ buy Habit and Heritage by
Prof. Wood-Jones.—s629.
To buy The Americans at Home
and other books by Rev. David
Macrae.—s63o.
To buy Ghost Stories, by Alec
Beer; Clotilda, by “Colymbia”; any
items by Dulcie Deamer.—s63l.
To buy A Visit to Blestland, by
W. H. Galier; A Christmas Gift and
Other Stories, by Edward Gordon;
and Lazarus of Bethany, by William
H. Holcombe.—s632.
~ To buy The Electric Gun, by
Harold Johnston.—s 633.
Information Sought
Some facts on the French expedi-
tion which climbed Mt. Annapurna
in 1950?
Under the leadership of Maurice
Herzog, the party consisted of nine
Frenchmen and eight Sherpas. Of
the Frenchmen only one, Ichac, had
had previous experience of the
Himalayas. Herzog had either of two
objectives—Mt. Dhaulagiri (26,795 ft.)
or Annapurna (26,493 ft.), neither of
which had been climbed. (Both are
m Nepal, which has eight of the
world’s 14 highest peaks, including
Everest.) Arriving in Nepal on
April 5, 1950, the party concentrated
at first mainly on Dhaulagiri, but
decided it was unclimbable. On
May 14 they began preparations to
climb Annapurna, and on June 3
two, Herzog himself and Lachenal,
reached the summit. On the way
back several were attacked by frost-
bite, Herzog and Lachenal very
severely, both losing toes and fingers
and having to be carried on the
porters’ backs down the mountain.
They both had a long spell in hospi-
tal. Herzog later related the story of
the climb in Annapurna. At the time
of its conquest it was the highest
mountain then climbed. The Eng-
lish mountaineer Frank Smythe once
said, ‘Mountaineering in the Hima-
layas presents such difficulties that,
as far as one can see, no expedition
will ever succeed in climbing one of
the 12 highest peaks at a first
attempt.” Herzog’s expedition did
just that.
* * ♦ ♦
CO What is pre-stressed concrete?
(2) How does it differ from ordinary
concrete ? (i) For what is it used ?
(1) Pre-stressed concrete is a form
of construction whereby compressive
stresses are introduced into a struc-
tural member before load is applied
so that under load these stresses
must be cancelled out before the con-
crete reaches a state of tension. This
is a very broad and somewhat over-
simplified definition; to explain the
term fully would need several pages.
(2) Pre-stressed concrete differs from
normal reinforced concrete in that in
the latter, if overload causes crack-
ing of the concrete in a beam, it has
no recuperative powers and will re-
main deformed. On the other hand,
a pre-stressed beam, due to the poten-
tial force in its steel tendons, is able
to resume its original form even after
quite high overloads. There are a
number of other differences between
the two types of concrete construc-
tion, but these would require too
much technical language to explain.
(3) Pre-stressed concrete has many
advantages over normal reinforced
concrete apart from its recuperative
power as mentioned above. Weight
for weight it is stronger and there-
fore the size of concrete members
can be reduced, thus enabling many
structural units to be pre-cast in fac-
tories and transported to the build-
ing site for erection. The types of
jobs on which it may be used extend
from roads and airports to bridges
and buildings.
* * * *
(i) What is the correct spelling of
the name of the horse which finished
second in the 1900 Melbourne Cup,
Malster or Maltster ? ( 2 ) The breed-
ing of Nizami back to The Tetrarch ?
(1) The correct spelling is Malt-
ster (maltster = maker of malt).
There is no such word as “malster,”
However, there has apparently always
been some confusion as to the spell-
ing. In The Bulletin of Nov. 3,
1900, it is spelt Maltster, but in the
following issue it is printed as
Malster. The “Australasian” Turf
Register has it as Maltster, and in
Miller’s Sporting Annual it is Mal-
ster. (2) Nizami is by Firdaussi from
Mumtaz by The Tetrarch from Lady
Josephind.
* * ♦ ♦
1 have seen the following lines
attributed to Lawson but cannot find
them in his published verse:
“For the cause that needs assistance
Against the wrongs that need
resistance
For the future in the distance...’’
Are they by Lawson?
They are not Lawson’s. They
belong to the poem “What I Live
For,” by George Linnaeus Banks.
The correct version is:—
For the cause that lacks assistance.
For the wrong that needs resistance.
For the future in the distance....
Banks (1821-1881) was a British
writer. After trying several trades,
he began at 17 to contribute to vari-
ous newspapers, and subsequently
became a playwright (author of two
plays, a couple of burlesques and
several lyrics). Between 1848 and
1864 he edited in succession a variety
of newspapers, including the Birming-
ham “Mercury” and the Dublin
“Daily Express.” In that time he
also published several volumes of
miscellaneous prose and verse.
Brief Answers
N.8.J.: Ryde (in England) is a
seaside resort on the Isle of Wight.
It occupies the site of a fishing vil-
lage called in Norman times La Rye
or La Riche. It is now a fashionable
holiday resort J.R.; The motto
Tria juncta in uno, as printed on offi-
cers’ “pips,” means “Three joined in
one.” It is actually the motto of
the Most Hbnorable Order of the
Bath. The “pips,” properly styled
the Star badge of rank, were origin-
ally an accurate representation of the
Star of the Knights Grand Cross of
the Military Division of the Order
of the Bath. The star now used is a
modified version of this former
badge, and was adopted in 1880.
From the use of three Imperial
Crowns in the badge the motto would
appear to refer to the three countries
of the United Kingdom—England,
Scotland and Ireland C.W.W.: A
peneplain is a once-mountainous
area which has been eroded away to
a featureless plain almost at sea-
level (pene = almost) 5.5.8.: (1)
The rate of movement of a glacier
can be determined by the distortion
in a line of stakes driven into the
ice. The movement usually amounts
to a few feet a day; also, the centre
of the ice moves more rapidly than
ice at the sides, where there is more
frictional resistance. (2) It is be-
lieved that the interior of the earth
is very hot and under terrific pres-
sure, and consists of very heavy
material (probably nickel-iron such as
makes-up iron meteorites). The
former belief that the interior is
molten is now regarded as erroneous.
. ...G.W.D.: W. Denby Sadler was
an English artist. He was born in
1854. Studied in London and Dussel-
dorf. First exhibited in 1872. He was
a member of the Society of British
Artists and the Royal Institute of
Painters in Oils. He is represented
in a few English galleries. He died in
1923. The work mentioned might
have a small value J.H.: Can
find nothing on the artist mentioned.
Restoration and cleaning can be done
by any of the following: Miss Marita
Brahe, No. 2 Flat, (42 Macleay-street,
Potts Point; Mr, D. Setelik, 127
Macquarie-street, Sydney; John
Young’s (Mrs. Thomas), 3 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. It is impossible
to estimate the cost of cleaning, as
it depends on the state of the paint-
ing and how much is required. The
people mentioned will quote on the
work to be done. Surface-cleaning
would probably cost a few guineas,
but this is only a rough estimate.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.G.S.: When it’s so hard to write
fantasy, who do so many beginners
begin with it? F.K.E.: It’s a
good subject, but you haven’t risen
to the occasion M.C.: Those cosy
little second-rate English stories
B.C.: Let’s hope your office-boy
licks stamps better than he writes
diaries E.C.: It would be amus-
ing enough in a letter, but it doesn’t
make a story M.T.: Neither
E.S.: You don’t bring out the point
at all.... V.I.K.: It’s a riot, but a
riot isn’t a story J.A.V.: The
scene of the man with the boys isn’t
bad, but the rest is fustian K.L.:
Having nice feelings doesn’t compen-
sate for not having much to say
I.Y.H.: Tush, tush! Murder!....
M.D.: When people go wrong in
life, it’s often as slow and un-
eventual a business as you’ve made
it; but going wrong in a story
should be caused and cause things
to happen... .E.J.L.: We have no
faith in good fairies W.W.: Uni-
versity sketch ploughed G.D.:
Not bad, but not quite... .R.R,: It’s
the faintest typing we’ve never been
able to read L.S.: Pooh to you,
H.B.: “Dead Drunk” thrown
out P.P.: Not a story J.P.8.:
Cheerful enough, but not for us.
K.H.H.: Much too sad E.T.:
Might go elsewhere G.T.: It’s not
bad, but you don’t make the
denouement credible 0.P.: It’s
from the Territory, all right, but not
a “Tale” L.M.: You bring it
home to us how much easier it is
to criticise a play than to describe
it....A.L.; Sorry D.McK.; Boils
down to that he died and there
wasn’t much to say about him
8.D.: You haven’t got the manner.
K.N.: You do the guilty lad’s
shame and hysteria very well, but
your machinery for producing it is
too mechanical.... R.T.: Tillivalli.
J.M.: Fabulous .... 8.J.G.: It
doesn’t rise above the commonplace;
no doubt that’s unusual in a fishing
story; but


PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
Poi|OH
realise
Ifcatqou
canbHtf
a
for as little
**£Bs7
NT.21.24
N
t*SK
CHECK ALL OF
THESE POINTS
The Nuffield "task force"
Tractor (power kerosene)
powered with an engine
developing 43 b.h.p. at 2,000
r.p.m., coil and distributor
ignition with automatic ad-
vance, electric lighting and
starting, 12-volt battery, 5-
speed gear box, 4 steel wheels,
fronts, 30" x 5", rears, 55" x
9" with spade lugs.
Standard Equipment
includes draw bar, belt
pulley, hour meter, chaff
screen and sponge rubber rent.
For as little as. .. £857
Optional Pneumatic tyre
equipment to the same
mechanical specification, 6.00
x 19 front, 11 x 36 rear, £935
or with 7.50 x 18 front and 11
x 30 rear, 600 lb. incorporated
in each rear wheel . •.. £ 1,119
Optional extra equipment:
Power take-off £l4/78/-.
Hydraulic lift and power
take-off unit, with six-way
power providing a variety of
applications £99/78/-.
The Nuffield range Includes Diesel-
powered models and row-crop models
with twin front wheels.
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER UOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW'FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA! PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK. JOTNTON AVENUE, ZETLAND
right, though you can’t name it,
and when something isn’t just
right, then it’s likely to be
wrong. Kathy looks back from
the door and waves to me, and
I wave back with my good hand,
and then they’re gone. I lie back
in the bed and a funny kind of
a scared feeling goes through me.
Because I know I’m not finished
with Elaine and because of
the way she looked at Kathy
and went gooey over her.
I lie there and can’t do a thing,
but what I want to do is get up
and go out and be with Kathy.
Because I got this scared feeling
and I don’t like it.
They have an evening visiting
hour in that hospital, from 7
p.m. to 8 p.m. I didn’t expect
any visitors, but one came. By
herself. She’s still wearing the
fur coat, but not the red beanie,
because now her hair is under a
blue-and-white dotted scarf.
“I just thought I’d pop in,”
she says, so everyone can hear
her, and sits down in the chair
beside me.
“Thanks,” I say. She makes a
great play of taking off her
gloves and settling down in the
chair. Two friends going to have
a chat, or the kind lady visiting
the sick. Take your pick. She
talks about the weather and this
and that, and I talk back, and
both of us know we got some-
thing more to talk about. It’s
the first time I get a good close-
up of Elaine.
There’s that perfume I remem-
ber from I was sitting in
the green sports with her, and
when she opens her coat she’s
wearing a light-blue sweater. It
looks like she was melted-down
and poured into that sweater,
and what she’s got under it is
only about three feet from my
face. The heat starts in me like
when I was in the car with her,
only this time it’s stronger.
It’s an easy face to look
at. Elaine is around thirty,
I’d reckon, and got that smooth,
dark-creamy skin the brunettes
have. Her eyebrows are black
as her hair and run in long thin
lines above her eyes, and her
eyes are deep. A sort of a liquid
browny-black and big, with
long eyelashes and lids slightly
hooded. There’s a shadow of
color on each cheek and the
mouth is small and just the right
amount of color on it. The
upper lip overshoots the lower
when her mouth is still, but when
she talks and smiles both lips
sort of play with each other, like
they was remembering kisses or
expecting some. The nose is
straight and pointed. It’s too
long for the face, but it’s strong
and got character, and when you
look at the nose it comes to you
Elaine knows what she wants
and has the guts to go after it.
So I lie there and listen to her
chatter and look at her. I can
look at her and feel the excite-
ment, but I know that’s only
part of the play. Maybe she gets
something out of exciting me,
because she sits back a little in
the chair and crosses her legs,
and her coat falls open some
more and her skirt is short.
So she come for business, but
she gets something out of excit-
ing me. I don’t mind. When
she’s ready she’ll get on with
the business, and there’s noth-
ing I can do to hurry it up,
even if I want to.
“That’s a nice little girl you
had to visit you,” Elaine says,
and something in her voice tells
me she’s coming to the business.
“Yeah.”
“She seems to think a lot of
you.”
“Maybe.”
“She tells me she works at
the hotel where you’ve been
living. That must have been
convenient.”
“Convenient?”
“Oh, forgive me if I’ve said
the wrong thing. I understood
you were sweethearts.”
“I don’t see it’s any of your
business what we are.”
At that she turns her face right
on me and wriggles her torso
some and gives me a big,
womanly smile,
“I’m sorry if you feel
offended,” she says. “I really
didn’t mean to offend you. I’m
not very tactful. I’m afraid.”
“Look,” I said. “I don’t
offend easy. And I don’t kid
myself, either. You and me
don’t run in the same groove,
Mrs. Paterson. If it wasn’t for
that business the other night you
wouldn’t even notice me. You
got me here in the bed, with
this plaster holding me down.
I know what I’d be doing
if I could. But I can’t,
and you know I can’t, and I
know you know it. And I know
you wouldn’t be so free if there
was half a chance of me doing
anything. Plenty of women like
you. Give a man a come-to-bed
smile out of a train, press
against him in a crowd, talk
naughty to him on the street in
daylight, pull their skirt up.
Plenty like that. But they take
all sorts of care a man don’t get
’em alone, in the dark, some
place where there’s nothing to
stop him. So I liked the show,
but I ain’t kidding myself. You
got anything on your mind you
might as well let me have it.
And I don’t want no side-swipes
at Kathy.”
I give her all this in a low
voice, with a grin on my clock,
so the other people in the ward
think we’re just a couple of
friends cracking jokes or some-
thing. After I give it to her she
looks round quick. Then she
pulls her skirt down. Her two
hands come together on her lap
and I see the fingers tight and
the knuckles white. I think it’s
because I got under her skin and
I look at her face. There’s more
color in her face, and her eyes
gone kind of smoky and she’s
got a corner of her bottom lip
caught under her top teeth and
she’s leaning forward like she’s
trying to see right down inside
me. And when she speaks her
voice is husky, way down in her
throat, and it’s like Lily’s voice
used to go sometimes, before she
dumped me for Nugget.
“For two pins,” she said, “I’d
kiss you in front of everybody.”
She leans forward some more,
and the sweater is right close to
the bed, not a foot from where
my left hand is lying along the
cover.
“Touch me,” she breathes it
out. Her lips are playing with
each other and her eyes half-
closed. “Go on, touch me. If
you do it quickly nobody will
notice. Please, please.”
“Oh, God,” she says. Her
eyes is closed and her face white
and kind of sick-looking. I’m
kind of sick myself, all excited
and scared and with a part of
me wondering what the hell I’ve
run into. There’s a million
things flashing in my thoughts
and no sense about anything.
“This is dreadful—l never
thought—ah!” It’s all in a
shuddering whisper and she’s all
trembling and her hands twist-
ing together and her face white
and like she’s in pain. It’s all
way beyond me. Because she’s
in one of them throes or what-
ever it is they call it that women
get into and no man knows
what’s going on. So I lie there
and watch her and wonder, and
I got a feeling I oughtn’t to be
seeing this. It’s like when you
see a grown man who thinks
he’s alone and he’s all shaken
and weeping about something
nobody knows but himself. You
see that you want to look away
and go some place else, because
it’s bad to look at. It was that
way watching Elaine, but I
couldn’t go anywhere and I
couldn’t look away because I got
to know why she come. I got to
know because it means me, and
because it means Kathy, too, the
way Elaine looked at her. I
guess it’s all mixed up while she’s
in this throe or whatever they
call it, but I can’t stop watching
her.
She shoots a funny, hunted
sort of look at me and says,
“Excuse me,” and springs off
the chair and nearly run put of
the ward.
I watch her go and I guess my
mouth must of been wide open.
Because I’m so rocked I’m
stupid, and all I can do after
she went is lie back in the bed
and have my mind in a whirl.
She’s back in no time. She
must have gone to the ladies’-
room and pulled herself together,
maybe had a drink of water,
because she’s calm and cold and
new color on her lips and
cheeks.
“Perhaps now,” she says, “you
understand about Herman Baler
and —and everything.”
“Herman Baler?”
“Oh, I don’t mind,” she says.
“Since you found that letter you
know about me and Herman.
You found out who I was and
you knew who he was. You
needn’t look surprised. I don’t
mind you knowing about me,
and I’m not a silly girl. I can’t
pretend it’s not what you think.”
“What do I think?”
“You think I’m no good. You
think when the wife of one of
the town’s leading citizens has
an affair with a boy like Herman
she can’t be any good. But what
do you know about women —
about a woman like me?”
“I never said I knew anything
about you.”
“No, but you’re thinking it.
I know what you’re thinking.”
She was talking quick and sort
of angry and yet sort of
ashamed. “That—just now—
when I lost control of myself.
I know what you’re thinking
about that, and everything ; you
think I’m just a trull, don’t
you! Don’t you!”
It looked to me as though
she’d start screaming in a
minute.
“Mrs. Paterson,” I said, “get
a hold of yourself. You’re up-
set. You got me wrong. What
you did with Herman —that’s
your business. I found the letter.
It was worth money, way I saw
it. That’s all. That business
just now—you talking about
kissing me—Torget it. It don’t
mean a thing. Get a hold of
yourself,”
She didn’t say anything. She
was twisting her hands together
again, looking at the floor, her
lips drawn in, her eyes fixed on
something inside her. It was
beyond me, but I didn’t want
her screaming or throwing fits.
Women get all worked-up like
that you don’t know what they’ll
say or do.
“Look,” I said, and my voice
was fierce because I was scared
she’d start screaming. “Look.
Snap out of it. Come on, snap
out of it. You got guts. I know
that. You put a gun on me, and
before God you might of used
it. You shot that Peters when
he tackled you. That means you
got guts. Then snap out”
“Peters!”
She looks at me in a kind of
shocked way.
“Peters! ” she says.
She stood up and straightened
the fur and pushed her hair in
under the scarf. She looked all
round the ward. Then looked at
me. A queer little smile breaks
her lips. She bends over me.
“Peters! ” she whispered.
“Peters! I thought it was you
when I shot him.”
Then she turned round and
walked quickly out of the ward.
(To be continued next week)
down at the roadside, dazed
from the fall and breathing
heavily.
“Close shave,” he said. “Only
just saved him.”
Then with a yell he was on
his feet again.
“Me plant!” he cried. “Me
plant’s afire! ”
The wagon had halted directly
over the flames. They licked
through the warped floor-
boards and smoke was pouring
out the end of the canopy. The
old nag pulled back, breaking
the bridle.
Bye poured the waterbag over
the fire, wrestled it with sheep-
skins, but the; canopy had
caught and flames were leaping
all around him.
Feverishly he unhitched Baker.
From far down the road he
heard a shrill double-whistle.
Quietly the horse led out from
the burning wagon.
He stood back on the white
road, holding the horse, and
watched his plant crumble. The
canopy skinned off, the ribs be-
came hoops of flame. The
wagon shuddered, the wheels
toppling inwards. Schoolchil-
dren danced around it in the
glare, their voices high-pitched
and primitive. A thin feather of
smoke trailed in the pale sky,
clouding the daylight moon. It
was all over.
Bye hitched Baker to the
fence-barb and shouldered
through the small group of
people gathered on the pub
steps from nowhere.
“Must have dropped a butt
or something,” he said. “It
went up while I was inside.”
THE rabbit-trappers were not
to be found. The stakes had
vanished with them.
Outside Bye unhitched Baker.
He whistled twice and the horse
moved off; he whistled once
and he stopped.
“A baker’s horse!” he said.
“I should have dropped to it.
Won’t pass a house without a
whistle. They must have seen
me coming.”
But he fondled the horse for
some time before mounting the
old nag and leading him off
after the stringing wethers.


GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAfcKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
aw.ise.ta
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN Divorce.
TO MERVYN THOMAS ELLIOTT late
of North Rothbury in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE
ELLA ELLIOTT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2307 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 26th January 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from WALLER, FRY & FAULK-
NER, Solicitors, of 456 High Street, Mait-
land, or their Sydney Agents, BRA YE &
MALOOMSON, Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN JOSEPH CLANCY late of 52
Reuss Street Leichhardt. —TAKE NOTICE
that LOLA PATRICIA CLANCY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3678 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 2nd
February 1964 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. BIRNIE
JACKSON & COATES, Solicitors, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
[N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
ro ADRIAN NEVILLE FRANCIS RYAN
late of 174 Holden Street Canterbury.—
FAKE NOTICE that JEAN GRACE
RYAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4242 of 1953 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
lefend you may enter an appearance in
she Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 28th January 1954 and
ibtain a copy of the Petition without
Jiarge from GORDON L. BEARD, Soli-
citor, of 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Royal Radiant, bought at the
1950 Sydney yearling sales for
2800gns., won his best race, the
Williamstown Cup (H mile),
at Caulfield last Saturday. By
Delville Wood, he is from the
Limond (imp.) mare Sunshine,
whose dam, Drax (imp.), was
got by Spearmint, a noted son
of Carbine. Royal Radiant indi-
cated Cup prospects when he
won the V.R.C. Handicap (If
mile) a week earlier. In the
Williamstown Cup he beat My
Hero and Gallant Rob in the
smart time of 2.31 for the mile
and a half, fastest time for the
event since the distance was
reduced from 13 furlongs.
• • • •]
One of Melbourne’s most con-
sistent performers, Rio Janeiro,
winner at three of his last four
starts, and third in w.f.a. com-
pany to Silver Phantom at
Flemington,' is a five-year-old
horse by High Peak (imp.) from
Jasina by Cimbrian, and is
raced by his breeders, H. H.
Berry and A. Humphrey. Rio
Janeiro started a hot favorite for
the Caulfield Strand Handicap
on Saturday, and won narrowly
from Purtell’s mount, Bright
D’Amour, and Sir Dallas. He
could win more races before the
handicapper gets his full mea-
sure.
Sydney owner E. R. Williams
has won his second Q.T.C.
Derby. Two years ago Forest
Beau carried his colors to vic-
tory, and last Saturday at Eagle
Farm Castillo was successful at
what appeared a generous price,
4 to 1. Kev Mar was favorite,
with Forest Chief, N. Sellwood’s
mount, second elect. The favor-
ite didn’t make a placing, but
Forest Chief was second, with
Callide River third. Castillo
was ridden by A. Ward, who had
won on the colt over a mile and
mree furlongs at Canterbury,
indicating that Castillo would
stay the Derby distance in Bris-
bane, though he had been out
of a place in the longer A.J.C.
classic.
Castillo is among those en-
tered for the Queensland Cup to
be run next Saturday. He cost
2400gns. as a yearling and now
is a profitable buy. He is by
Valognes (imp.) from Royal
Court by Golden Sovereign
(imp.), and is bred to stay.
Family lines include English
winner Teresina, who scored up
to two miles and five furlongs
(Goodwood Cup, a real test for
the best stayers). Alibhai, sire
of many American stayers, and
Amigo, a winner of the Swedish
Derby, also figure in the pedi-
gree, so Castillo has a particu-
larly sound international back-
ground.
Warwick Farm is increasing
in popularity, and attendance at
last Saturday’s fixture, 23,000,
was 3000 better than on the
corresponding day last year. Im-
provements noted were a new
stand for trainers, who now are
comfortably housed much closer
to the winning-post than previ-
ously.
In the eight races at War-
wick the only winning favorite
was Suncup, and, though four
of the other winners started
second-favorite, the wins by
Humid (14’s), Stockcamp (14’s)
and Bronze Peak (12’s) put the
bookmakers in happy mood. One
thing worth somebody’s atten-
tion is that patrons would appre-
ciate a quicker trip to the Farm
than that of some trains on
Saturday.
• , • • •'
Two-year-old colt Criollo, in
winning the Hoxton Park Stakes
at Warwick Farm, repaid his
purchase price, a modest*2oogns.,
with interest. He has raced
three times only, and had been
narrowly beaten at his prior
start at Canterbury. By Scorpion
from Creole by Actor (imp.), the
colt belongs to a family of
stayers, his relatives including
Hall Mark, Murray Stream,
Nuffield and Trivalve. To de-
velop into a stayer, however, he
will need to put on a lot more
condition later, as he is a lightly-
built youngster. Both Criollo and
Bespoken (second) were ridden
in their final track trials at Rose-
bery by Bill Cook, who elected
to take the race mount on Be-
spoken. He picked the wrong
one, but Bespoken, according to
Cook, was “field-shy.”
A “good thing” beaten by
outsider Stockcamp in the
Second Birrong Graduation
Stakes, Devil’s Wind hasn’t
done much racing, and is winner
of only one event, a Kembla
Novice. Trained by Clem Guy
for paddock bookmaker Jack
Mandel and his wife, the three-
year-old colt is another of the
good progeny of Delville Wood
(imp.). He would have won
easily with a clear passage round
the home-turn. His dam, Al-
mira, was bred by Bill Dawes,
and is by Midstream (imp.)
from a well-known race mare
of other days, Leila Vale by
Heroic from Maltgilla by Malt
King—a good winning thorough-
bred family.
Most punters are doubtful
when an unknown jockey is
given the mount on a well-
fancied race-form horse, which
“And I venture to say, without fear of contradiction”.
happened at Warwick Farm with
Unfaan, who looked the winner
of the Milperra Handicap after
his good third to El Ziet at
Rosehill. Semaphoring of J. J.
Elliott as Unfaan’s rider saw
the former New Zealand gelding
ease from 4 to 1 to 11 to 2 and
start at 5 to 1. However, the
visitor from India, where he had
ridden about 350 winners some
years ago, handled Unfaan in
capable style and won the race
well. Elliott had been riding
work at Randwick, but had
secured his licence from the
A.J.C. only the day before win-
ning on Unfaan. It was the
gelding’s second Sydney win. He
is now to be prepared for the
A.J.C. Summer Cup and the
Queen Elizabeth Stakes.
• • • •
Though Bronze Peak, winner
of the Leumeah Handicap at
the Warwick meeting, wasn’t
backed with confidence by the
public or stable despite Bill
Cook’s appearance in the saddle,
he won a stake of £613, starting
at 12 to 1. Sold as a stallion
at the spring Randwick sales
for 300gns., he’s now owned
by W. Bradley, of Walgett
(N.S.W.), and it was only be-
cause of his eagerness in
paddock-running that he was
returned to racing instead of
going to the stud. A five-vear-
old, he had given his former
trainer Jim Wagner a lot of
trouble because of unsound
forelegs. His Warwick success
was no fluke. In fact, he made
an exhibition of opponents.
Riding honors for the present
season, so far as Sydney jockeys
are concerned, are restricted to
three: G. Moore (28 wins), N.
Sellwood (18) and W. Cook (11).
Most of the other riders are
experiencing a lean time and
punters who have followed any
particular rider in all engage-
ments haven’t done much good.
Though Moore is showing his
followers a slight profit, Sellwood
and Cook are both showing
losses to their thick-and-thin
punters. W. Camer and E. Doon
have profited supporters, but one
of Doon’s winning mounts was
a rank outsider, Insurance at
100 to 1 at Rosehill.
Sold at the Melbourne year-
ling sales last March for 1000
guineas, Queen’s Vista belongs to
the same family as Young Idea
and is by Palm Vista (imp.) from
Silent Duchess. Palm Vista,
whose oldest progeny are two
years, was a brilliant sprinter in
England, his best win the New-
market July Cup, 6 furlongs, in
which he beat top-ranking Eng-
lish and French sprinters. Palm
Vista is by Sir Cosmo (whose
progeny have won about 400
races), from Datuva by Epinard.
The new sire is located at North-
wood Park stud, Seymour (Vic.).
Queen Vista is a dual Fleming-
ton winner.
The £3OOO Eclipse Stakes, last
of the impdrtant handicaps in
the Melbourne spring round,
will be decided at Caulfield this
coming Saturday. Owner of
the fourth horse will receive a
£lOO stake. Acceptances are
due tomorrow (Thursday),
“M.W.H.”: Mention on this
page (B. 21/10/’53) of the mare
Otetanui as dam of My Hero,
Bruce and Golden Tan was a
bit astray on the tan-track, so
to speak. The one last-named
should have been Royal Tan—
a wonderful stayer, incidentally,
he having won in N.Z. the
Wellington Cup over two miles
and a number of other distance
races. He was always in the
money, and even as an eight-
year-old had to be reckoned
with.
♦ *
Lindsay Hassett’s first game
for Victoria (he was just over
20 then) was in the last Shield
match of 1933-34, against S.A.
He made 4 and 9. Three other
colts, Plant (Vic.) and Williams
and Holton (S.A.), were also
making their Shield debut, and
Wisden, lumping the four to-
gether, said they “atoned for
their lack of batting and bowling
success by some really smart
fielding.” Hassett was the only
one of the quartet to make a
real mark on Australian cricket.
However, Hassett didn’t get
a game for the State the fol-
lowing year. Though Woodfull
and Ponsford, playing the pre-
vious year, had just retired, Vic-
toria had Rigg, O’Brien, Dar-
ling, Bromley, lan Lee and
Scaife, a high-scoring Shield
batting array (in one Vic.-v.-
N.S.W. match in 1934-35 the
four first-named each made a
century); there was no room
for the youngster.
In 1935-36, when Darling and
O’Brien were away with Rich-
ardson’s team in S’Africa,
Hassett came back in the first
Vic.-N.S.W. game, failed again,
was dropped again, was restored
after missing one game, made
21 and 51, 49, and 73 and 2
in the remaining matches, and
has never since been dropped,
except for injury, from any first-
class game for which he was
available.
Hassett is an all-round sports-
man. It is said that if he had
concentrated on Australian Rules
football he would have made
just as great an impression as
he made on cricket. As a rover
at college he had no equal, and
was sought on leaving school by
various V.F.L. clubs. Also, he
is a scratch golfer, and could
have been as good at tennis.
“K.R.”: Many Test cricketers,
past and present, have been
adept at other games, or could
have been had they not concen-
trated on cricket. Of the pre-
sent Test team those who have
shown prowess at one of the
various brands of football have
been Lindwall, Miller, Morris,
Langley and Ron Archer (who
would have been a candidate for
the recent Australian R.U. team
in S’Africa had he not gone to
England). Bradman, of course,
is a golfer of quality and a
squash champion, and it is
claimed that he could have been
a Davis Cup player had he pre-
ferred a racquet to a bat.
* * *
The first official world’s box-
ing championship staged in Aus-
tralia since Jack Johnson scored
a 14-round technical-knockout
win over Tommy Burns at Syd-
ney Stadium on December 26,
1908, to win his heavyweight
title, was staged on Moore Park
Sports Ground last Friday night,
when Jimmy Carruthers success-
fully defended his world bantam
title by outpointing American
Pappy Gault over 15 furious
rounds.
Promoted by the Police and
Citizens Boys Clubs, the bout
attracted approximately 35,000
cash-customers, and they cer-
tainly got their money’s worth.
Inches advantage in height and
reach enabled Jimmy to win the
first few rounds easily; Gault
didn’t seem capable of coping
with his speed. Though claimed
to have already conquered nine
southpaws, the American didn’t
follow the theory of leading
rights at unorthodox opponents,
supposed to be fhe best way to
beat them, and he couldn’t get
a solid one home on the cham-
pion’s head or body. It looked
odd to see Gault, who was get-
ting hit with plenty, showing no
marks at all on his face, while
Carruthers, who seemed to miss
everything, was covered in blood
from a gash on each eyebrow.
There was no doubt about the
decision, all three judges (Frank)
Packer, Jack English and Ron!
Walden) deciding that Car-
ruthers had won by a wide mar-
gin of points.
Incidentally, the Burns-
Johnson championship scrap
attracted an approximate crowd
of 20,000, who paid £26,000 into
the ticket-offices ; gate for the
Carruthers-Gault clash would be
round about £42,000.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES
(IN ADVANCE)
♦
"THE BULLETIN"
£l/16/- for 12 months
18/6 for 6
9/6 for 3 ..
THE "WOMAN'S MIRROR"
£l/6/- for 12 months
13/- for 6 „
7/- for 3 „
These prices include postage, and apply
whether the subscription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” Office or to any newsagent
in Australia.
♦
DO NOT PAY MORE
He holds the belt
Sir Henry:
Champion Borrower
By M. H. ELLIS
ON July 25, 1839, a full-
rigged ship, “one of the
old build, with square
stern, high poop and
bluff bows,” was worked up to
Neutral Bay in Port Jackson
and let down her anchor.
The Strathfieldsaye, Captain
Spence, was 109 days out from
Plymouth. But, although her
crowd of immigrants were eager
to see the shore, they were not
released for some days. There
was much discontent about it,
and none of the passengers was
more obviously put out than a
dark-eyed young ivory-carver of
24, a great flashing, hatchet-
jawed and surly fellow who
leaned over the ship’s side im-
bued with vague hope, fitful
despondency and youthful im-
patience, “looking out upon the
monotonous, sullen and almost
unbroken woods which then
thickly clothed the north shore
of the harbor.”
He knew no single human
creature in the strange land. He
had no letter of introduction.
He had a young wife who had
given birth to a child after they
were off the Australian coast.
The hungry ’forties were just
round the corner. The future
was not very bright for young
Henry Parkes.
He accepted work as a farm-
laborer on Sir John Jamison’s
opulent Regentville Estate out
on the Nepean. The pay was
30s. a week, plus a ration and
a half, “largely made up of
rice.” The work was washing
sheep in the river, and helping
with the reaping. Six months
later he was working in Sydney
in an ironmongery. But he soon
drifted into political company,
in the year after the first
Socialist party was formed in
Sydney, though it was seven more
years before he himself began
publicly to take a hand in
politics.
When he did he threw him-
self boldly into the fray. Ten
years after he had arrived
penniless he was the colony’s
leading rabble-rouser, a member
of the Legislative Council, the
founder of a new newspaper,
the “Empire,” its editor and
manager. Years later he wrote:
Looking back upon my entrance
upon the stage of Parliamentary life,
I think it must be admitted I was
not idle Sitting up all night was
a recreation to me. I did not know
what weariness could mean. I would
leave the Council when it adjourned
and go to the "Empire” office, where
I would remain until daylight. Day
and night I was at work... . I must
have been made of the stuff of
martyrs... .My personal influence
was spreading and strengthening
among the people. I had committed
no serious fault; I had the appear-
ance of a young man though I was
thirty-nine years of age.
In the election of 1855, which
preceded the granting of respon-
sible government for New South
Wales, he was elected second
among five candidates for the
Sydney in which he had landed
friendless and penniless sixteen
years before. Charles Cowper
topped the poll over him by only
a few votes. He polled better
than Robert Campbell, after-
wards Attorney-General, and
such well-known and prosper-
ous citizens as J. R. Wilshire
and J. H. Plunkett.
Three years afterwards events
revealed him as the possessor
of a peculiar talent which de-
layed considerably his rise to
office and at intervals seriously
interrupted the even course of
his career to greatness. He be-
gan to prove himself, in fact,
one of the most capable cajolers
of creditors known to Austra-
lian history, a facet of his story
a smug mid-Victorian
{Political world in the main
agreed to ignore, there being a
sort of implication that anybody
rußied by the operations of a
statesman and who complained
was no patriot and that, any-
how, it served him right.
It was only towards the end
of ffye ’eighties that complaints
realty became loud, and even
then fhe ufterers of them were
confined to a very few papers,
which nobody noticed much.
One of them, The Bulletin,
joked about the dear Queen and
had pink covers. Who cared for
a journal like that?
Young Parkes, aged 35, had
entered on the production of
the “Empire” in December,
1850, for the first four weeks as
a weekly, then as a daily which
increased in size as the editor’s
enthusiasm grew. It collected a
vigorous stalh including James
Martin, Daniel Deniehy, Sir
Thomas Mitchell and Angus
Mackay (a man who afterwards,
as head of the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph,” raised J. F. Archi-
bald’s wrath by failing to send
him to the lair of the Kelly
Gang to interview them).
As the author of the high-
flown sheet put it, the “Empire”
had “an uphill struggle, but
pushed on.” The discovery of
gold, first reported by Har-
graves in the “Empire” office,
caused wages to rise. The edi-
tor’s own ringing advocacy of
the rights of the working-man
recoiled on his head when the
compositors one Saturday even-
ing met and decided to form a
chapel and passed a resolution
to the effect that their em-
ployer’s refusal to meet a
demand for higher payment
for certain kinds of work
amounted to dismissal, which
they accepted.
There were argument, offers
and counter-offers. All of no
avail. The wicked tradesmen
refused to bring out the paper
on Monday morning.
The Great Democrat was very
wroth. He applied for warrants
for the whole luckless 17,
charged them with conspiracy;
and presently they were com-
mitted for trial, and in due
course all but four, who were
sentenced to the rising of the
court, were convicted and sent
to jail for from a week to six
weeks. And then, despite the fact
that every wall in Sydney bore
posters attacking the Demo-
crat’s “infamous conduct in\
imprisoning the printers,” he
was elected for Sydney by
nearly two to one, the Attorney-
General, Mr. Plunkett, having
said, when he prosecuted at the
trial of the wicked compositors,
that the public was indebted to
Mr. Parkes,
That gentleman now saw his
duty clearly, and, leaving the
plotters who had held him up
to languish in their cells, he
sent off, as a good Australian
bitterly opposed to the importa-
tion of coolie labor, to Madras,
“to engage 25 to 30 Eurasian
compositors for the ‘Empire,’ ’
feeling righteously secure that
“the working-men of the colony
could easily discriminate be-
tween my case and the whole-
sale importation of Indian
coolies or South Sea Islanders,
at a nominal rate of wages, with
the avowed object of escaping
from the burden of free labor.”
He also sent to England for
men. When, two years or so
later, the “Empire” died he had
the satisfaction of feeling that
the “journal’s existence through
seven trying years from 1849 to
1857 had its share of influence
in bringing about the gratifying
condition in political life ‘that
the shortcoming’s of her [Aus-
tralia’s] public men —any at-
tempt to deceive, however
adroit, any backsliding or tergi-
versation, however carefully
cloaked —are soon detected and
laid bare by the vigilance of the
Press.’ ”
Sir Henry’s somewhat elusive
autobiography, a thing of fits
and starts at this stage, fails
to mention the circumstances
which followed the demise of
the great journal, and so have
most historians. But it is plain
fact that in 1858 the reformer
went bankrupt for a total of
£53,828 3s. Id., which seems
not a bad effort for one who
had landed penniless just 20
years previously. ,
Out of the total amount,
about £30,000 was secured —if
such a term applied—by bills of
sale over the plant, copyright
and goodwill of the “Empire”
to Daniel Cooper and J. R.
Wilshire, Park e s ’ s fellow-
member for Sydney. Sup-
posedly, £9OOO was due to the
bankrupt, but how much even
the secured creditors received
was never revealed. It could not
have been much.
As for the rest, there seemed
to be nothing for them, and
there were about 180 of them
all told. Even the Bankruptcy
Court seems to have been
slightly breathless at the ver-
satility with which the Great
Democrat had been able to
acquire, and fail to repay, sub-
stantial sums and to obtain
credit.
There were 104 unfortunate
apprentices and workers to
whom he owed from a few
shillings to £260, which repre-
sented one year’s pay for a
compositor, apart from a few
salary-earners to whom he owed
a little more. He owed the
E., S. and A. Bank £3OOO, the
Union Bank £3067. He owed
£2ll to his grocer, £39 11s. Od.
to his doctor, £159 for his house
resit and £l5 17s. 6d. to his
children’s tutor. He owed for
his coal, for his boots, for the
binding of his books of poems.
He owed his reptile contempor-
ary, the “S. M. Herald,” £43
for advertising. The Gas Com-
pany was weeping for £427 it
might never see again; his
solicitor was up for £323. His
fellow-politicians—the ancestor
of “Good Old Piddo,” Richard
Jones, Campbell, the Colonial
Treasurer—and a band of squat-
ters, a race he despised, had
provided him with thousands.
But it seemed that Charles
Cowper—for ever-more known
to him as “Slippery Charlie” —
had stayed buttoned-up, as had
W. B. Dailey.
Mr. Parkes found it incum-
bent upon himself to resign his
Assembly seat—he had trans-
ferred from Sydney to Cumber-
land. But he was not to remain
in the wilderness long. Ten
months afterwards he won a re-
sounding victory in East Sydney,
sat for it until the dissolution at
the end of the following year,
won it again and presently was
approached by young Mr. W. B.
Dailey with the proposition that
he should join him as joint
Immigration Commissioner in
England at a salary of £lOOO a
year and allowances.
In the meantime, the wicked
“Slippery Charlie” Cowper had
been confounded by a virtuous
democracy, and John Robertson
(a creditor of the new emissary
for £410) had succeeded as
Prime Minister of New South
Wales. When, “after some con-
sideration and several consulta-
tions” (with Mr, Dailey) Mr.
Parkes “decided to go on this
errand,” Mr. Robertson in his
formal offer to him found that
“it is unnecessary for me to
describe for you the nature of
the duties of the office, as the
proposal sanctioned by Parlia-
ment originated upon your own
motion.”
In no time after appointment
in May, 1861, the new commis-
sioners were in the steamship
Great Britain bound for Lon-
don. They commenced their
labors without loss of time.
Dailey took the Home Counties
and Ireland. Parkes went off
through the West and North.
He held 60 meetings and de-
clared that “if I could have
given free passages I might have
sent out to the colony 10,000
immigrants.” He made friends
with Carlyle, to whom he
sent a book of his poems,
with Bright, with Florence
Nightingale, with Cobden and
with Woolner, the sculptor, to
whom he afterwards gave a
commission for the statue of
Captain Cook for erection in
Sydney after their friendly rela-
tions had grown “warmer” with,
of course, the usual result.
And he was brought into com-
munication with many men of
the middle-class and was sur-
prised “by the sneering allusions
to reform and reformers and
the expressions of thinly-
disguised sympathy with the
aristocracy which he heard at
their social gatherings.” But
when Prince Albert died he
found it “beautiful to see how
the poor lose sight of their own
privations and sufferings in the
gloom of a mighty sorrow.” He
was to have a more personal
demonstration later.
Eventually, in October, 1862,
the wanderer returned to Syd-
ney, leaving behind regretful
friends though nobody, not
even themselves, knew how
regretful they at length were to
be. The cities he had visited
had included Birmingham,
Leicester, Nottingham, Derby,
Leeds, Manchester, Glasgow
and Greenock.
Alas, the wicked “Slippery
Charlie” was once more in
office, and, though he nomin-
ated against hi s Attorney-
General, J. B. Darvall, in East
Maitland, the returned patriot
lost and was defeated again in
Braidwood, but was elected for
Kiama the following year and in
January, 1866, became Colonial-
Secretary.
There is another hiatus in his
autobiography around the years
preceding 1870, when he was
replaced in office by Mr. J. B.
Docker. In that year he was
“overtaken by commercial diffi-
culties which rendered it neces-
sary for me to resign my seat
in the Legislative Assembly.”
He declined to offer himself
again as a candidate “from a
keen feeling of humiliation
under my misfortunes.”
He had, in fact, become bank-
rupt again. This time there were
241 creditors for a total of
£35,036 2s. 2d., of which
£25,501 15s. Bd. was unsecured.
It was alleged that the estimated
amount of assets available for
the unfortunate unsecured
creditors actually was only
£337 18s. 6d., and even the
secured gentry had not much
reason to be happy, for it ap-
peared that property which even
the hopeful bankrupt valued at
only £11,147 17s. Bd. was mort-
gaged for a total of £17,284 18s.
In actual fact, only about one-
seventh of the whole amount
owing was really secured to any-
body.
A very great majority of the
creditors turned out to be Eng-
lish tradesmen, some of them in
a small way, who had been
waiting in vain for their money
for years, but they were in good
company. Again, a shoal of
well-known citizens of Sydney
and the country, many of the
classes the Great Patriot affected
to despise, had been touched
for a cool hundred or so —
Sir William Macarthur, Peter
Nichol Russell, T. F. Mate,
Ogiivie of Yugilbar, Fred Tooth
and a dozen more. The banks
were in deep mourning—the
Wales for nearly £lO,OOO, the
City Bank for £2OOO, the Orien-
tal for a few pounds. And this
time there were dastards abroad
who were ready to condemn.
Even Dailey,' the statesman’s
former friend, rose in his place
in Parliament. As reported by
the Press later, he said somewhat
unkindly:
You have all seen his last schedule.
Was ever anything like it in the his-
tory of public credulity? From
lordly squatter and humble mechanic
—from servant and master —from
Government officers—from bankers
and poor annuitants—from members
of the Legislative Assembly—from
those enjoying and those expecting
place and preferment were contri-
butions to the marvellous list fur-
nished. All of us—at least those
whose names were not on it—
laughed at that schedule. I never
wish to say an unkind word of any
living creature, but there are char-
acters so repulsive as to make silen’ce
on the part of an honest man a
crime....lf he lives long enough he
will rule over a nation, not of ad-
mirers but of creditors. Is it safe
to have a man of such fatal
pecuniary fascination in a post so
eminent, with powers so large,
adding to his natural talents for the
procurement of other people’s money
the irresistible attractions qf place
and distinction ?
Apparently New South Wales
was ready to answer “Yes.”
Such oratory was merely to be
discussed by democrats as the
vaporings of a disgruntled
Opposition. Rising indignant,
the electors of Kiama nomin-
ated the great man against his
will after he had been in the
wilderness only a month or so,
and, “though I was opposed by
a resident landholder of large
(Continued on page 34)


FLY BRITISH —to all Six Continents
Speedbird Services
link Australia with—
Indonesia, Malaya, Burma,
Thailand, Hong Kong, Japan,
Ceylon, India, Pakistan,
Middle East, Africa, Europe,
Great Britain, U.S.A.,
Canada, Central and South
America, Bermuda.
Consult your Travel Agent for
free advice.
V
*
i \
ACROSS THE WORLD
8.0.A.C. takes good care of every passenger, but especially
good care of babies travelling with parents and children travelling
Special foods, drinks and all those comforts these
young travellers need are supplied by attentive,
well-trained stewardesses. Concession rates
apply for infants and school children—
and students to the age of 26.
8.0.A.C. links 51 countries on all
6 continents. Stop-overs at no
extra fare. No tips; no extras.
•5*
i *
K
8.0.A.C. LEADS WITH THE COMET I
FOR POST HASTE WITHOUT WASTE-USE OVERSEAS AIR MAIL
Reservations and information from all Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airzoays Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia)
/BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL' AND S.A.A.
. i "■ "" Ml/AU
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TRADE WITH THE ENEMY
At last truth is beginning to
catch up with fiction in regard
to what has been one of the
most potent and dangerous
causes of friction between the
U.S. and its allies —the evil-
sounding charge of “trading
with the enemy.”
Britain, in particular, has
been thus charged in America ;
singled out, in fact, as the worst
offender of all. The enemy
chiefly linked with Britain in
the accusations has, of course,
been Communist China. In the
thick of the Korean war (it was
alleged) Britain had, through
Hong Kong, continued a big
trade with Peking.
One report, not only
trumpeted from the housetops
by such palpable humbug dema-
gogues as Senator McCarthy but
taken seriously by reputable
commentators like Arthur Krock
of “New York Times,” and by
the U.S. Congress, listed fan-
tastic numbers of ships of dis-
guised British ownership en-
gaged in this trade even when
things were going badly for our
side in Korea.
The general picture conjured
up has been one of J, Bull and
the rest nefariously going on
trading with Peking, Moscow
and the East European satellites,
what time Uncle Sam manfully
refrained, while bearing the
brunt of the “cold war” and
“hot war” as well.
The effect of these charges in
poisoning Western relations
couldn’t have been greater if the
whole thing had been true and
had been published abroad by
Moscow. Much of the present
widespread anti-Americanism, in
Britain especially, has sprung
from the mutual recriminations
on this score.
But now two independent re-
ports, published in America,
expose the thing as very largely
a myth. Also, they give some
surprising incidental informa-
tion —on, for instance, America’s
importing from Communist
China, and on why West-East
trade is not a lot greater than
it in fact is.
One of the reports has been
made by sometime Presidential
aspirant Harold Stassen, now
administrator under the Battle
Act, which prohibits U.S. aid to
any nation trading with Com-
munist countries in goods re-
garded as “strategic.” Much of
the Stassen report (as noted by
“Manchester Guardian”) is given
to the exploding of two fal-
lacious notions in particular—
the idea in Western Europe that
the Battle Act has prevented a
vast increase in East-West trade,
and the idea in the U.S. that the
Europeans (led by the British)
are indulging in an immense and
disgraceful amount of such
trading.
“Of the Battle Act’s effect on
East-West trade,” comments the
“Guardian,” “the report rightly
points out that the Soviet con-
trol of satellite economies has
given them little chance to trade.
The emphasis has been on self-
sufficiency within the Soviet
bloc. Of the European ‘trad-
ing with the enemy’ the report
says, very obviously, that East-
West trade is not necessarily
harmful to the West. It depends
on what is shipped, where and
when it is shipped and what is
received in return.
“The report goes into some
detail on that most controversial
of questions, trade with Com-
munist China in ‘non-strategic’
goods. It points out that we
gain many advantages by the
purchase of grains, vegetable-
oils, iron-ore and hog-bristles
from China. It mentions, also,
that the United States itself
stands fourth on the list of im-
porters from Communist China
—a point which should cause
some shocks on Capitol Hill in
Washington. Britain is below
the United States in what it buys
from China but above it in what
it sells to China. (Its one offend-
ing item of strategic trade was
worth the enormous sum of $32,
or about £12.)”
The other report is even more
revealing. Made by the United
Nations Economic Commission
for Europe, it shows that there
is, actually, extraordinary little
West-East trade, and, moreover,
that there is not much oppor-
tunity for more. As summarised
in New York “Herald Tribune,”
the facts the report records are:
Trade between East and West
last year was barely more than
one-quarter that which prevailed
before World War 11.
For most Western European
nations, trade with the Euro-
pean-Russian bloc made up less
than 5 per cent, of their total.
For the Nato nations as a
whole (which leaves out West
Germany and Austria) exports
to the Soviet bloc last year were
only 1.2 per cent, of all their
exports and totalled less than
half a billion dollars. That com-
pares with 4.4 per cent, and
$1,269,700,000 as recently as
1947.
As for Red China, exports
from the free world as a whole
to China have been running this
year at a rate of $375,000,000
annually, or less than 1 per cent,
of total exports.
And, finally, the only places
in the’entire free world which
shipped as much as 10 per cent.
London “Daily Express ”
“Why, Ivan, I can remember way back
in 1953 when the pile was only so high!”
of their exports last year to Com-
munist countries, including Red
China, were Austria, Egypt,
Finland, Iran, Pakistan and
Hong Kong.
As to why this trade —once
hailed as an important factor in
European recovery and accepted
as an important aid to the ob-
jectives of the Marshall Plan—
has remained so small, the
U.N.O. report states that the fact
is the Communist nations, with
the exception of Russia, can’t
pay for the goods. Country after
country in free Europe has huge
credit balances with the Euro-
pean satellites, and had to cut
back exports.
Also, the Communist nations
charge too much. Even though
it may cost hard currencies,
some imports are better bought
in the West because the price is
so much cheaper.
As well, Communist deliveries
are often hopelessly behind
schedule, and the goods below
quality. Businessmen find deal-
ing with State-controlled trading
agencies harassing in a wide
variety of ways.
But probably the main reason,
emphasised by the report, is that
the Russians have purposely
tried to develop a self-contained
economic system in their sphere
of power. That has meant less
and less surplus goods for export
to the free countries —which is
the only way they can pay for
imports from the free countries.
In a word, the Communist
nations haven’t much for sale.
Much ado, in short, appears
to have been made about close
to nothing.
Child Migrants
At the request of the British
Home Office, child-welfare ex-
pert John Moss, when privately
visiting Australia, quietly
looked into the prospects of
child immigration here.
The core of his finding is that
many in children’s homes in
Britain would have a far better
chance in this country if care-
fully selected and of a suitable
age.
In a detailed report, he agrees
with the Australian view on the
right age for migration that
about five is a suitable minimum.
There is general agreement
among all in Australia com-
petent to express an opinion that
no child should be over 12 years
on arrival, and he endorses this
view.
“I was told by the headmaster
of a school to which many
migrant Children have gone,” he
writes, “that 90 per cent, of them
are backward for their age, on
Australian technical standards.
A headmaster in Victoria told
me that they are usually back-
ward in arithmetic. Another, in
New South Wales, said that they
were backward hot only in
arithmetic but also in English.
Educational backwardness is,
however, not so serious in the
case of younger children.”
The visiting expert (London
“Times” reports) was impressed
by the thoroughness with which
the interests of child migrants
are safeguarded, and by the
standards of care he found in
operation.
Local authorities (i.e., in
Britain) have, he comments,
taken very little interest in the
scheme. They must, naturally,
be satisfied that any action they
take about children in their care
is in the interest of the children.
In some of these quarters there
seems to be a feeling that it is
wrong to send a child, for whom
a local authority is
responsible, some
10,000 or 12,000 miles
away. But the expert
is sure that if mem-
bers and officers of
children’s committees
had had the same
opportunities as he
and his wife had of
seeing the conditions
under which children
are being cared for,
the arrangements for
their education and
further education,
their placing-out and
after-care, they would have no
hesitation in helping to fill the
existing vacancies in approved
establishments, and would adopt
a general policy of sending a
regular, but small, flow of suit-
able children.
A Frenchman Debunks
The “fallacy of a European
Army,” as viewed by a leading
French soldier, Gen. de Monsa-
hert, in the course of a hearty
professional debunking in Lon-
don “Daily Telegraph”:
“The provisions against Ger-
man forces quitting the Euro-
pean Defence Community have
made the whole plan technically
unworkable. Every soldier knows
that it cannot be applied in the
letter and will have to be
continually and perpetually
amended. Marshal Juin says
that it is a new experiment. It
is terribly dangerous to try out a
new experiment for the first
time on the field of battle, and
when your enemy is united in
ideals, language and command.
“The European Army is an
illusion. Its peace-time frame-
work would break into pieces at
the first alarm of war, having in
the meantime ruined the moral
resources of the peoples and the
resilience of their Governments.
“A European Army cannot be
conceived without mobilisation
of each one of the contributing
countries. But mobilisation,
which means putting a country
on a war footing and affecting
every spiritual feeling and
material resource of a country,
must, as Marshal Juin insisted,
remain a national concern.
Everything must be subordinated
to the maintenance of the
struggle and the feeding of the
people.
“This is a responsibility which
cannot be shared with others.
Could you conceive in Britain
of a high supra-national
authority dictating the form and
the functions of the Home
Guard? The National Defence
of the nation ‘France’ cannot
take second-place to the defence
of a nation called ‘Europe,’ be-
cause there is not yet any such
thing either spiritually or physi-
cally. ,
“The E.D.C. treaty is inspired


IMMEDIATE DELIVERY)
£6OOO REASONS WHY AN
CiSCI'sIMPLEX WINDMILL
mi
m n
m
hi
•s
m
ve
/AW
m
m i
891
M
" Jesr.
buys
1. Ball Bearing.
2. Totally Enclosed.
3. Self Oiling.
4. No Running Cost.
5. Supplied with 4 Post
Steel Towers.
J. R. REID & SONS PTY. LTD.
401-3 Kent Street, Sydney.
4, &*****
"W,
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
WSI^r B ,o °*
jx the proved
.XCLUS1VE ROLLS
|
AX the budget
PBlCE 1
An Ideal
Xmas Gift
Here’s the NEW Rolls
Razor “ VISCOUNT” an
entirely redesigned version of its
world famous predecessor. In its slim streamlined case, the “ VISCOUNT '
incorporates all the tried and trusted Rolls Razor features, such as hollow-
ground, finely-tempered blade which gives years and years of perfect
shaving and is honed and stropped in its case.
ROLLS RAZOR
MAKERS OF THE WORLD FAMOUS ONE BLADE SAFETY
.. i . WM II
by an out-of-date strategic con-
ception. The idea is that there
will be a covering force capable
of fighting a ‘battle of the
frontiers’ as in 1914, and thus
allowing the gradual collection
further back of large forces able
to maintain the war. This con-
ception forgets that operations
can now be undertaken at
extremely long distances. It
fails to take account of the
psychological and ideological
character of future wars.”
Sir Winston's Prize
In its comment on the award
of the Nobel Prize for Litera-
ture to Sir Winston Churchill,
London “Times” noted one very
interesting aspect in particular—
that the award-winning literary
output included his oratory;
“Sir Winston Churchill can
be proud of many deeds and de-
cisions that have shaped the fate
of whole nations in peace and
war. Yet there is the artist in
him, and it was the artist who
said that he was ‘particularly
proud’ because the Nobel Prize
awarded to him was a ‘literary
distinction’—and one, as he said,
‘gained among all the other
writers of the world.’ He
modestly said that he could not
compete with two previous
British recipients of the award,
Rudyard Kipling and Bernard
Shaw. Comparisons indeed fall
to the ground. Sir Winston
Churchill’s literary work is like
everything else he has done—•
personal, distinctive, inimitable,
“The terms of the award are
surely unusual. The prize is
given, as might have been ex-
pected, first of all for the Prime
Minister’s historical and
graphical work, and presumably
chiefly for his life of Marl-
borough. But it is also given
for ‘his brilliant oratory in which
he has stood forward as the de-
fender of the eternal human
values.’ Words are traditionally
fleeting, and in earlier times
they might have been lost en-
tirely or perpetuated only in
paraphrase. But the greatest of
his are preserved for all time.
His countrymen can share in his
pride now when his war-time
speeches, which cheered them
in the darkest years and are still
a part of their own being, are
given one of literature’s brightest
crowns.”
Egyptian Settlement
London “Time and Tide,”
expressing the “considerable
measure of uneasiness” about
the final outcome of the negotia-
tions for a settlement with
Egypt:
“The Canal Zone is Britain’s,
the Commonwealth’s and the
Western Powers’ biggest and
most efficient defence-base out-
side Britain and the United
States ; its strategic importance
is incalculable.
“To hand it over to Egypt on
terms that do not permit of its
immediate and full use in time
of emergency—and that emerg-
ency to be defined by Britain
rather than Egypt—would be
disastrous. Uneasiness is no
mere expression of ‘reactionary
imperialism’; it is a vital con-
cern about a vital matter for the
future of the Atlantic Treaty
Powers and the Commonwealth
as a whole.
“The terms of a settlement
with Egypt are not a matter
which concerns Great Britain
and Egypt alone, or even the
United States and Egypt solely.
We have, on the northern littoral
of the Mediterranean, staunch
allies in Greece and Turkey, both
of them, in the event of war,
liable to instant attack. No
agreement with Egypt which
would prevent us from giving
the most immediate help to these
friends from the Canal base can
be more than a hindrance to
ourselves and a betrayal of our
allies.”
Dragnet Digest
French Failure. —Reported by
a New York “Herald Tribune”
correspondent: “The scaled-
down post-1950 goal called for
a French Army of at least 28
standing divisions by 1953-54.
The French actually have in
Europe 14 divisions, of which at
least six remain wholly or partly
on paper.”
McCarthy. —Caustic summing-
up by “New York Times”;
“There are many millions of
people in this country [U.S.A.]
who hate Communism just as
much as Mr. McCarthy does —
probably close to the total adult
population of the country. They
don’t assume that hating Com-
munism gives them a right to
cheat, misrepresent, bully their
neighbors and ignore the laws
of the land. Sooner or later Mr.
McCarthy will have to accept
those limitations, too.”
Trieste. —“The First World
War,” comments London “Time
and Tide,” “gave us the Polish
Corridor. The second one has
left us with the Problem of
Trieste. At the moment it ap-
pears likely to remain with us
until some major catastrophe
sweeps it aside again. It has all
the elements of a Permanent
Problem. Both the parties
directly concerned can make
out a good case for their claims,
but the wisest and most objec-
tive of experts cannot offer an
acceptable solution on ethnic,
historical or political grounds.”
Defence and Business. —As
linked by “U.S. News and World
Report”: “With Russia in pos-
session of the H-bomb, you can
be quite sure that there will be
no sudden drop in the amount
of money to be spent by the
United States Government for
national defence. Any idea that
the end of war in Korea will
bring drastic cuts in the military
establishment or in other types
of arms-spending can be for-
gotten. This fact is of the
highest importance in measuring
the business outlook.”
Peace Effects. —Still generally
optimistic, those trying to weigh
the possible effects of peace are
nevertheless haunted by fears of
an American business recession,
“Washington,” comments “Man-
Chester Guardian’s” financial
editor, “has all the weapons
St. Louis ( U.S.A. ) “Post-Dispatch”
TENSION. TENSION, TENSION!
handy for maintaining pros-
perity, and the business mood is
confident, but there may yet be
an irresistible public outcry for
retrenchment. That could turn
the trend and start a dollar de-
flation under which the rest of
the free world would suffer great
hardship.”
U.S. Atom-bombs. —Quoting
the Congressional evidence of
top American experts, “New
York Times” interprets them as
saying that the U.S. now has so
many atom-bombs that it needs
30 million dollars’-worth of new
storage-space, and that “some
of the facilities” in the new
hydrogen - bomb plants are
already operating: “What this
means is, of course, that we
[U.S.A.] have the facilities for
reducing a good many cities to a
condition worse than that of
Nagasaki and Hiroshima in
1945, and that we are moving
toward an H-bomb that may
make the earlier bombs seem
like fire-crackers,”
Pork, at a Price. —In England
(London “Times” report) 103
Landrace pigs imported from
Sweden sold at an average of
£914 Bs. 4d., breaking the record
of 700 guineas paid there for a
Large White grunter before the
First World War. One group of
four of the Swedish imports
topped 5000 guineas.
Big-scale Smuggling. Lon-
don “News Chronicle” corres-
pondent’s note on China smug-
gling: “In the old days, opium
was clamped on to the sides o;
incoming ships, or dropped
overboard in sealed kegs at
tached to lines and corks to be
collected by motor-boats or
fishing-smacks; now, bits o:
heavy machinery are sealed in-
side rubber balloons, and towec
ashore at night by frogmen.”
Contrast. London “Times’
letter-writer: “Though Spain
has a poor soil and has so far
received no foreign subsidy, its
economic conditions have never-
theless improved since the end
of the war. Though Yugoslavia
has a rich soil and has received
generous subsidies from Great
Britain and the United States,
its economic conditions have
notably deteriorated during the
same period.”
France Second. —An always
bitter critic of the European
Defence Community, Maurice
Duverger, in Paris “Le Monde”;
“Political strength, industrial
expansion, American alliance:
these three factors will assure
Germany of a dominating posi-
tion in six-country Europe.
France can only hope for the
place of a brilliant second, the
very position Pierre Laval
dreamed of in Hitlerite Europe.”
U.S. in Spain. Chief gains
for the U.S. particularly and
the West generally from the
U.S. agreement with Spain, as-
sessed by London “Economist”:
“The acquisition of naval bases,
particularly at Cartagena and
Cadiz, will improve enormously
the facilities available to the
U.S. Sixth Fleet and will con-
firm the United States’ standing
as a major Mediterranean naval
Power; while the air-bases,
near Madrid, Barcelona and
Seville, will allow 847 bombers
to be stationed within range of
the Urals, but deep enough
within the Western defence sys-
tem to be relatively sheltered
from attack.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Local-government Elections
The failure of the local-government
system in N. S. Wales (B. 30/9/’53) is
due to two main causes: (a) the intrusion
of party politics, and ( b ) the assumption
of responsibility for provision of ameni-
ties, services and utilities far beyond the
financial ability of the system to bear.
In too many councils the standard of
behavior at meetings would shame a
schoolboys’ football club. Personal abuse
and recrimination pass for debate, and
resolutions passed are often the subject
of rescission motions at subsequent meet-
ings. Rates in these councils are high,
and expenditure of ratepayers’ money is
as likely to be authorised for a dog-track
as for a park for the kids to play in.
Few representatives on such councils
are businessmen or men of vision. The
many petty-minded among them use the
council as a stepping-stone to some higher
political position. With such material the
local-government system has no hope of
coping with the ever-increasing difficulties
that face it.
The system of financing the administra-
tion of municipalities and shires and
roads, parks, beaches, swimming-baths,
drainage-systems, etc., from rates levied
on local properties is outmoded. Local-
government has sufficient power—quite
sufficient —to enable it to operate
properly. It lacks money—and the
answer to that is not higher rates but
the allocation of funds by central govern-
ment to finance all development and
maintenance work of a national character,
leaving the local ratepayers to meet the
cost of essentially local development.
Finally, political candidates should be
banned from local-government elections.
Aldermen should be answerable to the
local ratepayers only. Instead of aspiring
politicians, councils need representatives
of ratepayers’ and progress associations,
parents and citizens’ associations and
independents with time on their hands
and no political allegiance.— Cave
(N.S.W.).
Egg Boards
Not all egg-producers are as well
satisfied with Egg Boards as “Rann”
(B. 28/10/’53) suggests. One, a Tas-
manian, whose wrongs were recently
ventilated before Parliament, was for a
time allowed to sell part of his produce
outside the Tasmanian Egg Board (to
save them expense in handling).
He was then suddenly ordered to sell
all his eggs through the board again,
though this added up to Is. 6d. a dozen to
the cost to the consumer. The all-but-
bankrupt board then suspended payment
for a time, and this unlucky man got
little or nothing for the eggs it had com-
mandeered over the previous three
months.
In order to keep going at all he was
forced to sell eggs, at wholesale prices,
direct to consumers. This “crime” cost
him £64 in fines and costs. He hasn’t
paid them yet, and Breheny, M.H.A.,
told the Tasmanian Parliament he would
not hesitate to advise the defendant to
go to jail “rather than pay so unjust and
excessive a penalty.”—M.L.M. (Tas.).
Air Defence
The present Federal Government has
done a good job in building up Aus-
tralia’s defences, but one flaw in its policy
is the administration of the Navy and
Air Departments under one Minister.
One of the lessons of the last war was
the necessity for air supremacy. Lack
of it meant disaster for us in France,
Greece, Crete, Malaya and the Philip-
pines. In the course of the Lees-Knowles
lectures on Military Science at Cambridge
University in 1947, Air-Chief-Marshal
Lord Tedder declared: “I am utterly
convinced that the outstanding and vital
lesson of this last war is that air-power
is the dominant factor in this modern
world and that, though the methods of
exercising it may change, it will remain
the dominant factor so long as power
determines the fate of nations.”
Australia, particularly because of its
geographic position and enormous coast-
line, must accept that lesson. It cannot
charge one Minister with the joint admini-
stration of the R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F.
No matter how objective he may be, he
must give divided attention to the two
departments.
Economically, it is hard to justify the
joint administration of the Navy and Air
Departments. Budget estimates this year
are £45,770,000 and £56,363,000 for the
R.A.N. and R.A.A.F. respectively. No
other nation in the free world with
defence estimates anywhere approaching
these figures has a joint administration.
Moreover, the combined Navy and Air
Force estimates are approximately one-
tenth of the estimated revenue. Service
departments are notorious for waste and
on© Minister to each department would
ensure a closer watch on expenditure.—
D. J.K. (Q.).
Defence Bases
Northern bases which cannot be de-
fended are likely to be captured and
turned against us. Obviously, Darwin,
which in an emergency can be supported
by land, should be the pivot, with the
west flank at Cocos and the east at
Manus. Both the latter must fall to an
enemy possessing superior air-sea power,
but at considerable cost.
With Manus out, any bases along the
north coast of New Guinea become vul-
nerable, but behind the Owen Stanleys
Moresby would be a powerful outpost,
to attack which enemy naval forces must
come within easy range of aircraft based
on the mainland. All the worth-while
war-time airfields in the Darwin-New
Guinea and North Queensland areas
have been held and could be brought
into use at short notice by the power-
ful R.A.A.F. Airfield Construction
Squadrons.
Permanent manning of remote bases
has many snags, A great disadvantage
in Service life is the posting, which means
the break-up of the home when the
family cannot be taken along. The cost
of numerous married quarters in re-
mote areas would be enormous; pre-
sence of families adds to logistical prob-
lems ; and, in any case, areas have few
attractions even if families can accom-
pany troops.
The answer is to maintain, and develop
as necessary, selected bases, with a “care-
taker” staff for immediate occupation.
Units could be kept at southern stations
at much less cost in money and resigna-
tions, while visits to advanced bases for
short periods would take care of train-
ing and familiarisation. —Cut (Vic.),
Great Soldiers
In Wavell’s Soldiers and Soldiering
Marlborough and Belisarius are ranked,
in that order, as “the two most gifted
and able soldiers in recorded history.”
After them are ranked Wellington and
Frederick the Great, then Lee, Napoleon,
Hannibal and Scipio Africanus. Julius
Caesar is dismissed as a “Sepoy general,”
and Alexander the Great as untested in
adversity. Foch and Ludendorff don’t
rate the first rank.
Wellington considered Hannibal the
world’s greatest soldier. Liddell Hart
"I’m worried , Doctor, He dislikes serious study and detests school."
favored Hannibal’s rival, Scipio Afri-
canus. Napoleon and Foch were said
to give first place to Turenne. Wavell is
the only authority I have met who ele-
vated Belisarius to the top.
Anyway, what about Gonsalvo de Cor-
doba (The Great Captain), Parma,
Gustavus Adolphus, Charles XII of
Sweden, Prince Eugene, Berwick, Conde,
Montecuccoli, Daun, the Archduke
Charles and von Moltke? — Terry the
Tory (N.S.W.).
The N.S.W. Public Service
When George Reid went from the
public service to Parliament and then
Premier, he made plans for a thorough
overhaul of the service. A Commission of
Inquiry was set up and, in time, made its
report. The procedure recommended, and
subsequently embodied in the Public
Service Act of 1895, was simple. A
Public Service Board of three members
“I wish to apply for a patent ”
was empowered to look over the service,
weed out the unwanted and generally
straighten the thing up.
The change m management and
methods produced marked results. Young
men of ability were eager to answer the
call for public servants of the new type.
Ability and industry were to be rewarded.
Among those who welcomed the new
order was genial John D’Arcy. He saw
a new era in which quality would be
assured. Public welfare, as far as
Government departments could further it,
would be the constant care of officers of
proved ability. The public service was to
be a profession with professional
standards. It was D’Arcy’s ambition that,
as in other professions, a body of its own
members be formed to foster its interests
and maintain its standards. So the Public
Service Association was formed.
But over the years this association
began to assume a role far removed
from that conceived by its founders. Its
care for the welfare of its members gradu-
ally concentrated upon securing higher
rates of pay and other material benefits.
It began to follow the pattern of trade-
unions, not only in its partisan spirit but
also in its methods. It became more and
more a pressure-group, concerned with
the material welfare of its members
(advocating compulsory unionism) and
largely oblivious of the contributions in-
dividuals could make in service to
the public. Overtures were made to bring
the association more closely into line
with the trade-union movement in efforts
to acquire control through Birliament.
The co-operation of the R.S. Association
with the Labor party and the trade-unions
produced results. Chairmanship of the
association was a helpful prelude to
entrance into Parliament, leading to a
seat in Cabinet,
The association developed its own
policies in regard to administration.
When the association was opposed to the
P.S. Board, Labor Governments looked
more favorably—perhaps anxiously— to
the association, which represented votes,
while the board at best represented
principles and ideals.
In various ways the association chal-
lenged the board, and with the help of
Labor Governments won the day. Among
these victories may be mentioned: (1)
Promotion by seniority.—The idea of
choosing the best man for the job (in
earlier days insisted on by the board)
was branded as “favoritism.” So it
has come about that no pubhc servant
can be passed over unless the board can
prove to a tribunal (which, incidentally,
has no responsibility for securing effi-
ciency) that the one passed over was not
efficient. As a former chairman of the
board once said, “Many men would be
efficient at some standards.”
(2) Recruitment from below. —Any
attempt to get a job in the service done
more efficiently by introducing from out-
side better-qualified officers for the higher
positions is anathema to the association.
Thus it-has come about that all the senioi
positions are held by men bred in the
service and, too often, moulded by its
traditions. The association, which was
conceived as the custodian of standards
and prestige, has become the mouthpiece
of mediocrity and champion of the also-
rans.
As in 1895 so today some of the severest
critics of the service are men already in
it, but should they attempt to be drastic
they can now be battened down. And
there is no competition to disturb serenity
by greater efficiency or better methods.
The Transport Department is not the only
one to be protected by the “Labor”
party.
As long as Governments are run by
politicians whose place depends on trade-
unions, the mediocrities, no-hopers and
time-servers in the public service can sleep
in peace.— Old Salt (N.S.W.).
' %
Poetry in Schools
Many teachers of English honestly
believe that, both in quality and quantity,
Australian poems suitable for school
study are inferior to English poems and
naturally give preference to the latter so
long as the choice is left to them.
I’m sure “Wackford” (B. 21/10/’53)
would agree that no teacher should be
forced to teach verse which is not poetry
for him.
Also, he knows that drawing and
painting, poetry and music, as arts, are
not teachable beyond a certain stage, in
any effective sense, to more than 5 per
cent, of high-school children anywhere.
The theoretical technique of the arts—
e.g., the structure of the sonnet-can be
taught as easily as trigonometry. But
beyond that, what? If the spark is not
there, what can the teacher do, even if.
in addition to teaching-skill and enthusi-
asm, he is poetically constructive and
sensitive?
Finally, we may be false to the Muses
once we attempt to enclose them in
national paddocks. The generation which
produced Spenser, Marlowe, Shakspeare
and Ben Jonson was nurtured not so
much on English poetry of the early
16th century as on that of Frenchmen,
Italians, Romans and Greeks, all of
them foreigners, and some of them dead
for 2000 years— Uidhist (W.A.).


Water for the West
The settled coastal fringe of West
Australia, where the annual rainfall is
substantial, has a dry period of four to
five months and none of the many little
rivers there can be depended on to run
right through the year.
Mundaring reservoir, planned origin-
ally to supply goldfields’ needs only, has
to meet increasing demands, including
those of the larger towns of the Great
Southern, where the porous soil is
unsuitable for reservoirs.
When Westralia seemed wide open for
invasion after the fall of Singapore the
military powers planned the complete
evacuation of the civil population of the
metropolitan area. It was fortunate that
the need did not arise; adequate water
for about 250,000 people shifted sud-
denly 50 or 100 miles inland simply
would not have been there.
The sub-artesian store around Perth,
to be tapped at depths of from 1500 ft. to
1800 ft., is potable ; but the abundance
of underground water in the Murchison,
reached by quite shallow wells, is good
only for stock. This applies also to the
deep artesian stream in the north.
It might be possible to duplicate the
Mundaring reservoir; but this is doubt-
ful. The permanent streams of the
Darling Ranges are small affairs. Westra-
lia is a huge area and the so-called rivers
of the north-west are really rainy-season
scours. Sometimes there is drought for
seven years in the north, when the rivers
are nothing but wide beds of sand. The
town-planning authority who predicted
a population of 40,000,000 for the West
suffered a rush of noughts to the head.
—G. Elburg (W.A.).
The Rape Goes On
In the rich river-flats areas of the
N.S.W. northern rivers many farmers
now retire to some near-by seaside town,
while a sharefarmer works the property.
Those who understand and appreciate
the hard, work and privations of the
early settlers will not begrudge them this,
but it is doing the land no good.
In the first place, primitive methods
and financial difficulty caused the farmer
to abuse the soil. With the sharefarmer
the same farm has to support two
families, neither particularly interested in
the future of the property. The owner is
old, living away, and wants only divi-
dends without any investment for long-
term improvements; the sharefarmer
wants to make 1 as much as possible
quickly, so that he can pay a deposit on
a farm of his own.
Between them, the rape of the soil
continues; dilapidated shacks take the
place of farmhouses, orchards and gar-
dens languish and nothing is done for
the future.
Here and there an owner-operated
farm, with its house and buildings
painted, fences substantial and well kept,
and its pastures well tended, stands out
in all its rural beauty to gladden the
eye of the traveller. But there are too
few of them. — Mero (N.S.W.).
Why Pick France?
France is neither better nor worse
than its neighbors in the matter of sexual
morality, though she has long been a
target for mudslinging on that particu-
lar subject.
In reality the/French generally are
a fundamentally decent race, who prize
and protect virtue. Otherwise France
would never have survived.
My objection to the psychiatrist’s
reference to France (B. 21/10/’53) is
based on the fact that it is unjust and
unfair to single her out as an example
of what is common to the great major-
ity of countries at the present time.
Who so “sex-minded” as that mighty
young Colossus, the U.S.A.?
Even cautious, prudent, respectable
Britain has its spots of bother in the
sexual line, and Australia is no garden
of lilies.— Vive la France (W.A.).
“Chalk and Water”
The taste of Sydney bulk-milk more
resembled “a dilution of crushed chalk
and water than milk”; bulk-milk was
“a bad joke to anyone who had ever
tasted milk direct from a Jersey cow.”
That’s what R. L. Booth thinks. With
his brother, Booth runs a 500-acre pro-
perty, Jersey Farms, near Dapto, on the
N.S.W. South Coast.
Booth said one of the reasons for the
present low quality of bulk-milk was
probably the decline of small, indepen-
dent producers and distributors. All
milk sold to the Sydney public was stated
to have a minimum fat-content of
3.2 per cent. Ideal butterfat-level recom-
mended by American health authorities
was about 3.8 per cent. Milk from Jersey
cattle in the N.S.W. milk zone averaged
4.6 to 4.8 per cent., but Jersey suppliers
were paid only on a gallonage basis, with
no premium for quality.
It is impossible for any householder
to buy whole Jersey milk, even if he is
prepared to pay extra for it. Jersey
milk, even when the butterfat is reduced
to 3.8 per cent., contains 25 per cent,
more protein, 20 per cent, more calcium,
9 per cent, more phosphorus, 7 per cent,
more sugar, and 10 per cent, more food-
value than ordinary milk of the same fat-
content.
In some States of America consumers
have the choice of the standardised
3.8 per cent, milk, or of buying whole
Jersey milk at a slightly higher price.
Booth said the milk-reception depot at
Dapto refused to take at least four
deliveries of his farm’s milk each
14-delivery week. The unaccepted milk
had to be separated on the property, the
butterfat sent to a creamery, and the
skim fed to calves. Maybe this should
interest Mr. Ferguson.—J. F. (N.S.W.).
America’s Position
I firmly believe that the free world’s
confidence in America began to wane
when it was seen that this strong and
successful nation could become hysteri-
cal and panic-stricken almost overnight
about Communism, and when it was seen
that essehtially Communist methods were
being used to combat that Communism.
I also believe just as firmly that when
America settles down to a sane apprecia-
tion of this situation, as she will, the
prestige she has lost will be regained.
Meantime, there is a lot to be said for
the point of view propounded by the
recently-defunct English “World Re-
“Would y' ask Nobby down in Ward Six if this is the last skein ?”
view”: “Two plain undeniable facts
about Western Europe today are, firstly,
that the main reasons why the Russians
have not taken over (either directly or
through agents) the whole area is the
Americans’ possession of the atom-bomb
and the Americans’ determination to fight
for Europe and, secondly, that the main
factor in European recovery has been
the willingness of American taxpayers to
give away large sums of money.”
The choice today for the Western
world is much the same as it was at the
end of the Second World War ; between
America and all she represents or Com-
munism and all it represents.
Every time the malicious, the envious,
the unthinking, or the plain stupid talk
about “dollar imperialism” or “coca-
colonisation” they are choosing, willy-
nilly, Communism. If ever they get it,
it will be the last choice they will
ever be able to make.— Wollundry
(N.S.W.).
.
Climate and People _
The climate of a particular region may
vary substantially at different periods,
Thus Norway, in the Viking Age, had
a climate a good deal milder than in
recent centuries. Cereals could be grown
further north.
An era of greater cold set in through-
out Northern Europe in the 14th century,
“George an' me was determined t' be different."
lasting down to the 19th century. This
is known to Norwegians as “the four
centuries of darkness.” The country lost
the vigor of the Viking days. It also lost
its national identity, and was regarded
as a semi-barbarous outpost of Europe.
The Black Death, which was very severe
in Norway, and other factors played their
parts in creating that situation, but the
increased severity of climate was an
economic handicap. It made Norway de-
pendent on grain imports from the Baltic
countries, and thus assisted the long
domination of Norwegian trade by the
Hanseatic League.
This past 200 years it seems there is
a change. Certain glaciers in Norway
have receded and are considered likely to
disappear before the end of the century.
It is becoming possible for agriculture to
extend further north.
Tacitus noted in his Agricala that the
vine would not flourish in Britain. He
wrote about a.d. 97. The 3rd century a.d.
ushered in an era of milder weather.
From the later Roman period there are
records of legislation relating to viti-
culture in Britain. It continued to flourish
through the Anglo-Saxon and Norman
periods. The Normans named the Isle
of Ely the “Isle of Vines.”
As late as the 13th century, William
of Malmesbury described the Vale of
Gloucester as a notable grape-growing
area. The vine flourished as far north as
southern Scotland, and the fig in southern
England in those centuries. Since the
14th century there has been no wine
grown in England.
Dr. Ellsworth Huntingdon considers
that the “Golden Age of Ireland” (4th to
9th centuries) was helped greatly by the
climate being warmer and drier than in
more recent times. He quotes Mac-
alister’s belief that “climate offers the
best clue to the ups-and-downs of Irish
history,” and Markham’s observation that
the drier and more bracing climate of
eastern England makes for greater mental
alertness than that of Ireland.
Incidentally, Havelock Ellis noted in his
Study of British Genius that no English
county has produced so many celebrities
as Norfolk. Huntingdon also argues that
the decline of ancient civilisations in
North Africa and Central Asia owed a
good deal to climatic changes.
He does not, of course, contend that
other factors are not also of importance
in determining the rise and fall of a
civilisation. On the contrary, the effect
of religious beliefs, social and economic
conditions, the presence or absence of
virile ruling classes, fairly closely related
in blood, are all potent. But he has
presented quite impressive evidence to
show that climate does play a role. —
Morris the Tinker (N.S.W.).
New States
Basic reason for new States is to give
undeveloped rural areas a fairer share
of tax-revenue and public loans by
separating them from the dominance of
the capital cities.
The Sydney Government has averaged
£55 million loan money for four years:
half of it has gone into electricity projects
and the transport services in the Sydney,
Newcastle and Wollongong areas. Far
too little has been allocated to rural de-
velopment.
If three new States were created in
N. S. Wales —New England, Macquarie
and Riverina —each would be entitled to
a quarter of the existing State’s loan
money. Each would get about
£13,750,000 a year, approximately five
times as much as the Sydney-dominated
Government now allows them for de-
velopment.
Establishing regional councils with
wider powers for local-government, as
“R.E.F.” advocates (B, 21 /10/’53), would
still leave Sydney in control of the public
purse. Rural areas cannot be developed
without money and their only chance of
getting it is to form sovereign States and
dominate the Loan Council.
“R.E.F.” fears that a new State would
create a new bureaucracy, but if no more
tax-revenue is raised there would be no
appreciable increase in the number of
public servants. New States would mean
shifting thousands from Sydney to the
new bush Capitals. Electors would serve
two Governments, just as they are doing
now.—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Price-control
In abandoning price-control Tasmania
set a lead that should be followed. The
longer controls remain, the clearer it
will become that they have tended to
keep prices high, and caused a general
lowering of standards of quality in the
controlled commodities or services.
It is doubtful whether price-control is
being administered fairly in N. S. Wales.
Ice-cream, for instance, was recently
decontrolled, but the price of soft-drinks
is still fixed. Reason for the distinction
would be interesting, especially as one
soft-drink firm was recently offering a
free bottle with every two bottles bought.
When controls are removed there is
an almost certain fall in price, while
competition brings improvement in
quality.
Bread and petrol are two controlled
products'which illustrate deterioration of
quality under price-fixing. Sydney’s
bread is admitted by all except those who
bake it as being uniformly poor. Motor-
ists are becoming restless about petrol-
quality, and are demanding the introduc-
tion of the high-octane spirit sold in
other parts of the world.
It is safa to say that bread- and petrol-
quality will remain the same for as long
as they are governed by price-fixing
authorities.— -Dick Turpin (N.S,W»).
Australian Poems
Extract from a letter from one Aus-
tralian to another: “Often I try to buy
a good, well-bound copy of Australian
poems. I have never yet found a copy
I could send overseas. Told that Angus
and Robertson have the sole Australian
publishing rights of Australian poets I
approached them and was informed,
‘We have no demand for expensive
copies,’
“We have the most beautifully-
expressed word-pictures of our loved
Australia, her sons and her daughters
all bound in drab cardboard copies.
The Oxford Press in Melbourne put out
excellent copies of overseas poets, etc.
Why is not something done for our
own? It is a very sore point with me.”
It ought to be a sore point with more
of us. It may have been true in the past
that there was no inquiry for the better-
class job, but today thousands of
migrants are pouring into the country
and in both Europe and America there
is a growing interest in Australia
and the Australian way of life. —
G. V. K. (Vic.).


Sf*&.
5 m
wWM
Always ready
for cooking
Always gallons
of Hot water
Always greater
convenience
A/ffittfe
OHB
U)W
COST'
JulU
m
DOMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND WATER HEATER
with true thermostat control
• HEAVY CASTING within the range stores the heat and
thorough insulation prevents heat loss.
• TWO LARGE COOKING OVENS and TWO BIGGER HOTPLATES
allow you to do all your cooking at the one time.
• CONTINUOUS BURNING means that the "520” is always
ready when you decide to cook.
• BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL—including coal, coke,
anthracite, briquettes, etc.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Car-
michael 520 is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
Write for free illustrated literature to Carmichael's,
Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W.
CONSTANT HOT WATER
★ in the kitchen
★ In the bathroom
if In the laundry
The Carmichael 520
will supply enough hoi
wafer for all your
household needs.
Naturally it cooks perfectly
. . its a
y Tnhm!rhnpl
Makers of fine fuel stoves since 1892 ... A Unit of Email Limited
i
m
m
ghty
mi
Only
mill such as this
can achieve the
dense, smooth
surface perfection
of Comrol
“Superfin” Sheets
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limited General Sales Agents.
33 Macquarie Plate, Sydney, and
at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Fremantle, Wellington, N.Z.
itiHinrs
PTY.
DIVISION o f
WORKS
CR7-53
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Feeding Sheep
“Springvale”; Extensive re-
search has shown that one of the
best and cheapest supplementary
fodders is grass-hay and ensil-
age. Conservation of surplus
grass should be standard practice
wherever possible.
The grass should be cut green,
preferably when the pollen be-
gins to show from the flowers.
Speed is important. Immediately
after raking into windrows, cock
the grass before the sun bleaches-
out the chlorophyll; stack or
bale as soon as it is dry enough
not to generate heat.
Roughage can be supplied in
the form of grain, hay or chaff,
and it means a great saving in
transport, cartage, chaffing and
milling costs, commissions, etc.,
if these crops are home-grown.
The carrying-capacity of a
sheepfarm should be determined
more by the number of sheep it
will maintain during periods of
poor pasturage than by the
number it will carry in peak
seasons. Conservation of grass,
growing of grain-crops and
planned supplementary feeding
cut down the risk of malnutri-
tion and total loss.
Dingo-killer?
“Ney”: Saw a picture of
United Nations’ efforts to keep
rabies down. Part dealt with
south - western U.S.A. and
Mexico, where, apparently, the
disease gets among coyotes, wild-
cats and so forth, thence to
domestic animals.
Among other things, they use
a cyanide-cartridge. A steel tube
is driven in the ground, a dose of
cyanide put in. Under the
cyanide is a small explosive
charge so arranged that when
the coyote, attracted by the
special lure placed there, sniffs
at the top of the tube the charge
explodes and forces cyanide up
the coyote’s nose. We haven’t
any rabies here, but we have
dingoes. That cyanide-cartridge
may be worth trying on them.
Water for Stock
“Farmer Bill”: Where the
rainfall averages less than 17in.
a year farms of any size should
carry a drought reserve of at
least 5000 cubic feet of water.
Over drought periods sheep con-
sume, on the average, Hgal. of
water a head a day, or 456ga1. a
head a year.
Each cubic yard of water
being the equivalent of 169ga1.,
2| cubic yards of water should
be allowed per sheep per year;
cattle and horses require 24 to
30 cubic yards.
Tanks with wide water-sur-
faces may lose up to 6ft. of
water a year from evaporation;
the lesser the surface area the
lesser the evaporation loss.
Where there is a definite fall
in the land the tank should be
long and narrow and cut across
the fall; if made parallel with
the fall water will flow out at the
lower end. On flat country, levels
should be taken to discover
whether the water will flow into
the tank. Areas sloping away
from stockyards or pig-sties
should be avoided.
Holding-capacity of the soil
should be tested by sinking trial
shafts and filling the holes with
water.
Provision of at least one silt-
tank ensures the water reaching
the main tank in a clean condi-
tion, This requires a drain run-
ning from the silt-tank into one
corner of the main tank. Shal-
low drains sft. across make for
a slower flow than deep ones.
Again, the drain that slopes
gently serves a larger catchment-
area than the steeper one.
Early Mating
“Oxo”: A. H. Clay, of
Queensland Department of Agri-
culture, who was an official dele-
gate to veterinary congresses in
Stockholm (Sweden) and Aber-
deen (Scotland), found a tend-
ency overseas to mate heifers
when somewhat younger than
was considered desirable in Aus-
tralia ; any disadvantages being
offset by generous feeding during
final stages of pregnancy.
By breeding early, he said, less
trouble with temporary sterility
of young animals was experi-
enced. In many places the
emphasis on providing only
a moderate plane of nutrition for
animals in the early-growing
stages was surprising. This
applied especially to dairy-
cattle, it being claimed that a
high plane of nutrition too early
in life had been shown to influ-
ence types markedly towards
characteristics of the beef breeds.
Higher nutrition was therefore
reserved for the later-growing
stages.
Scours in Calves
“Big Billy”: To guard against
calf-scours feed colostrum for
the, first few days and then milk
from recently-calved cows.
Avoid overfeeding, especially in
the first fortnight, and ration
according to the size and
strength of the calves, and in
separate buckets. Keep feeding-
utensils clean, and the surround-
ings clean and tidy.
Add water to the milk at a
pint per gallon for each 0.5 per
cent, in excess of 3.5 p.c. of
butterfat. Feed twice daily at
regular intervals. Make changes
gradually. Put calves under a
rotational-grazing system as
soon as possible.
Should the calves develop
scours in spite of these precau-
tions dose with cafstor-oil, loz.
the first week, Ijoz. the second
week and 2oz. the third week.
“It flatters him!”
Allow only water for the next 24
hours, then half-milk and half-
water until recovery is com-
plete.
“F.C.”: Young poddy calves
must have their water-drinking
controlled or there’ll be trouble.
Like most young things, poddies
are always hungry and, if let,
will fill up on water before feed-
ing. Then they may refuse skim-
milk or may take a full feed on
top of the water, which could
cause indigestion or scours and
lead to death.
If poddies get at contaminated
water they’re as likely to drink
it as not, and the rearer can look
for more trouble. In short, see
they get only enough water to
stay their thirst, and make sure
the water is clean.
Thinning Peaches
“Big Billy”: When thinning
the peach crop for higher yields
pick the trees of vigor, carrying
heavy sets of small-sized fruits,
and do it early in November.
Thin the lighter-bearing trees in
December. Begin normal thin-
ning as early as possible after
the November drop and aim to
complete all thinning before
Christmas. Early thinning means
higher yields.
To estimate carrying-capacity
use the formula of 40 peaches
for each inch of the circum-
ference of the trunk. Make
counts from time to time to
check the extent of the thinning.
As average trees carry from
600 to 900 peaches, counting
those on average-sized limbs—
one or two per tree —is a quick
method.
When thinning, leave that por-
tion of the orchard with the
lighter yields or larger fruit to
the last, especially if it is not
possible to complete thinning in
December.
Remove more fruit from
young trees than from mature
trees. Fruit-size varies from sea-
son to season and tree to tree.
Trees with large, average-sized
peaches may carry a higher
loading. Leave two to five fruits
on laterals of average length.
Can Hormones Kill?
“Heresone”: Three mares
which had been in a paddock
sprayed with hormone weedicide
died. Three vets., one Govern-
ment and two private, examined
one of them and, though they
admitted they were baffled, all
agreed that suspicion pointed to
the weedicide. Symptoms were
bleeding into the lungs, enlarge-
ment of the heart, enlargement
and discoloration of liver and
spleen. The mares didn’t sicken
till about a fortnight after the
spraying, and then took about
three days to die. They did not
seem to be in acute pain, but
were listless, would not feed,
kept sipping water.
Hormone weedicides are
claimed to be non-poisonous,
but there are two possibilities:
(1) Treated plants are reported
to develop abnormal amounts of
sugar while dying. Thus poison-
ous plants, not usually eaten,
Is Yours on the Wall?
The Bulletin Wool Type Card
is not a course in wool- or
sheep-classing. If it were it
would cost a lot more than it
does. Its purpose is to give
sheepowners, students, soldier-
settlers and others who handle
wool and sheep a practical
guide on the identification and
selection of fleeces, all the
way from very fine Merino
(74’s) down to Lincoln-type
(40’s). And with this selec-
tion of samples is a quick in-
dicator for breeding this or
that type of fleece by cross-
ing. A continuous stream of
orders proves its value at
7s. 6d. Send now to have the
card for spring and summer
drafting.


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME. ,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE
HYGEIA dissolvenator
Approved by N.B.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS. . NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIERS. . .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
mu
m
V.,
m
fd
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
~ DISTRIBUTORS: ~*
N.S.W. : Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Q'LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
YIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
Qo
There 12 an
easier
way
S-
Irrigate with
AMES
ABC-coupled
Sprinkler Pipe
Have gentle rain in a matter of minutes with an AMES
PORTABLE SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
The A B C-coupled aluminium pipe saves hours of time
and labour. Push—click, it’s instantly coupled from
the carrying position, then automatically locked and
sealed by water pressure. An easy, twisting pull and
it’s apart. No troublesome locks or gadgets.
LESS WORK. LESS WATER, LARGER CROPS
with AMES IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.,
JO-14 YOUNG STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 509. Phone; BU 5095
p Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
GD.26
may become palatable, though
the symptoms were not those of
weed-poisoning.
(2) There was a fair amount
of clover in the pasture at the
time. Clover-hay, attacked by
certain moulds, produces dicu-
marol, a poison now used for
rats.
The symptoms were not un-
like those of dicumarol poison-
ing. The action of the weedi-
cide on clover may produce
dicumarol.
As these sprays are so widely
used, it is important that the
matter be carefully investigated
to find out whether they are
really to blame, and, if so, under
what circumstances the danger
arises.
Vegetable Seed
“Breck”: Bacteria- and fungi-
trouble can be forestalled by
dusting vegetable - seed with
fungicidal-dust or steeping it in
a fungicidal-solution. While
dusting is not 100 p.c. safe-
guard, it wards off soil parasites
and tendencies to damp-off.
For most seed one level tea-
spoon of copper-dust or half-
level teaspoon of organic-
mercury dust per pound of seed
is sufficient. Place the seed in a
lidded container, add the dust
and shake vigorously for five
minutes.
Seeds of pumpkin, squash,
melon, cucumber and carrot
respond best to dusting. For
red- and silver-beet increase the
dosage to four level teaspoons of
copper dust or one teaspoon of
organic-mercury dust per pound
of seed. Peas, apart from those
given nodule-producing bac-
teria, can take 2oz. of copper-
dust or loz, of organic-mercury
dust to the bushel.
Hot-water treatment is neces-
sary for seed of cabbage, broc-
coli, Brussels-sprouts, cauli-
flower and turnips. Tie |lb. of
the seed loosely in a cheese-
cloth bag and hang it in a kero-
sene-can of water heated to
122 deg. F. To maintain even
heat place the can over a low
fire or in a box thickly-lined with
straw. Give the cabbage-seed
25min. and other varieties 18min.
immersion.
For celery-seed increase the
water temperature to 135 deg. F.
and cut soakage-time to lOmin.
Dry all seed quickly in the
shade.
Tomato-seed gets full protec-
tion from either copper or
organic-mercury dust.
All these chemicals are
poisonous to children and ani-
mals.
Oxalate Poison
“Rhubarb”: Acute poisoning
can be caused, especially in
hungry or travelling stock, by
plants of high oxalate content.
Queensland Department of Agri-
culture has examined a large
number of herbage plants in that
State and has found that pig-
weed, soft roly-poly, red-burr,
N.Z. spinach, soursob and some
saltbushes contain relatively
large quantities of oxalic-acid.
The oxalate content of grasses
is generally much less than that
of herbage plants, but giant-
panic, one of the most promising
drought-resistant grasses, was
found to contain more than 4
p.c.
Plants at an immature stage
of growth as a rule contain
most oxalate; environmental
factors, such as soil and rain-
fall, have an influence on the
content.
Bees and Lucerne
“Medicago”; Though lucerne-
growers know how important
bees are in pollinating lucerne-
blossoms to increase the set and
yield of seed, not much is done
about it.
A few growers place hives
somewhere near the crop, which
is about as good as trying to
fertilise a whole crop by top-
dressing its boundary.
Bees have only a short range
of blossom-visiting when in
lucerne. Knowing this, lucerne-
seed growers in America hire
colonies of bees specially for
pollinating. They are placed
right .in the field at regular inter-
vals at the rate of about 10 or
more to the acre.
Local Abattoir
“Agric”; Tired of killing-
delays and bottlenecks at Bris-
bane abattoir, graziers have
established their own meatworks
at Kilcoy, with a weekly capacity
of 200 head of cattle, or the
equivalent of sheep and pigs. The
abattoir is modern in design and
electrically equipped. Evans,
Deakin, of Brisbane, who sup-
plied the refrigeration-plant,
claim it is the largest low-pres-
sure plant in the State. The
works are on a hill, which makes
disposal of blood and offal easy.
At present the offal is being
boiled-down, it having not yet
been decided whether to estab-
lish a piggery or fertiliser-
works. The abattoir conforms
to requirements on which the
Commonwealth Government’s
grant of an export-licence is
based.
The Brisbane abattoir has the
monopoly for slaughtering live-
stock for the Brisbane metropoli-
tan meat-trade, and for a time
the output of the Kilcoy works
will be sold outside the metro-
politan area. As operations in-
crease it is proposed to apply
for an export-licence to ensure
a ready market for maximum
output.
Chairman of directors D. P.
Kennedy said the firm does not
intend to expand in order to take
cattle from outside the Kilcoy
district, but it is thought that the
works will stimulate interest in
the establishment of many simi-
lar district abattoirs.
Hints for the Farm
“W. Court”: Just as mouldy
hay or fodder is a menace to
stock, mouldy feed is a menace
to poultry. Watch, too, for
fungus growths on straw in the
pens during humid weather. A
neighbor was constantly losing
ducklings until a post-mortem
revealed “fungus infection of
the lungs.” Source of the fungus
was a heap of sugarmill mud
used as manure for the garden.
The birds, though well fed, were
eating the small grey toadstools
that grew on the hot, decaying
mud.
“Nitro”: Although agricul-
tural textbooks say that, because
leguminous plants obtain their
nitrogen from the air through
nodule-forming organisms pre-
sent on their roots, they do not
need any application of nitro-
genous fertiliser, it has been
demonstrated in field-tests in
several countries that clovers
undoubtedly benefit from such
fertiliser during their early
growth, before the organisms
take up the running.
“Wilco”; Coccidiosis has
appeared in very young calves
lately, according to officials of
the Queensland Agricultural
Department. Some of the calves
were only a fortnight old.
Sulphamethazine should be ad-
ministered as soon as the severe
blood-scours begin or the ani-
mals will die within a few days.
“Rooster”: If sheep are badly
infested with lice, redip them
within 14 days of the first dip.
That’s to destroy lice which have
hatched out of the eggs after
dipping. If too long a time
elapses between dippings the
female lice will have become
sufficiently mature to have laid
eggs and thus make yet another
dipping necessary.
“Forage”; There is a certain
range of moisture-content within
which the best hay is made.
Overdry hay is of poor quality,
while excessive moisture invites
heating and moulding in the
stack, if not spontaneous-com-
bustion and loss of hay and
shed. The range of moisture for
the best hay lies between 12 and
25 per cent. Quality falls sharply
below 12 per cent, and danger of
heating begins above 25 per cent.
The danger-point comes with a
temperature of 160 deg. F.
“A.F.”: Brown-snail can be
damaging to orange-trees and
occasionally to lemons. During
showery weather, when the snails
are active, they may be con-
trolled by a spray made of
white-oil (Igal. to 40gal. of
water) plus 11b. of lime, 11b. of
bluestone and 7 fl. oz. of nico-
tine-sulphate. This gives a spray
with strong contact killing
properties and protects from
other leaf-biting pests as well.
“Sundowner”: To beat ropi-
ness in cream, sterilise all
utensils by immersion in actively-
boiling water for 10 minutes.
All bail fittings should be
cleaned, together with floors and
leg-ropes, and sterilised with a
sodium - hypochlorite solution
using a concentration of at least
300 p.p.m. (six tablespoonfuls of
121- per cent of the sodium in
2gal. of water). Sprinkling of
dry lime on floors is advisable.
As ropinesss is caused by an
organism which thrives in stag-
nant water, see there s none of
this.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Recent rains accord with the shorter Crohamhurst
Cycle, and there should be more to follow at intervals,
though probably not as heavy. The cycle forecasts some
heavy rain in south-east Queensland and on the N.S.W.
North Coast. In the fair north the opening rains of the
wet season should soon begin. Victoria should have a much
finer December. In West Australia there may be a late
rain in December in agricultural areas, with heavier falls
in the far north.


centi
ID
c
Wm
*»Vv/.
•XAVIATIDWi: J/SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Lid.)
I/S3
J
on performance
There is more much more
—to supplying aircraft 'than
transferring fuel from fueller to
aircraft tank. The green and
yellow fuellers of the Anglo-
Iranian’s BP Aviation Service
are well known to you.
Much goes on in the Com-
pany’s laboratories unseen
by the consumer but of
great importance to him.
What of tomorrow’s fuels?
Even now they are being
developed,
and this!
shows a full-scale combustion
test being conducted on avia-
tion turbine fuel. New fuels
result from endless experiments
and exhaustive tests with the
engines in which they will be
used. This is but one example
of the concentration behind the
scenes to give you better per-
formance.
Personal and Missing Friends
HESKETH, Myrtle Annie Edith.—WlLL
any person knowing of the present where*
abouts of the abovenamed, last heard ot
78 Walcott Street, Mt. Lawley, W.A., now
believed to be in Eastern States, please
contact the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, A.N-A.
House, 44 St. George’s Terrace, Perto,
W.A., Administrator of Estate DARDfin
JOSEPH OSWALD, Deceased?
local influence [he wrote], I was
elected by a large majority.”
And though he could not shut
his eyes to the truth that “it is
not desirable that persons in my
situation should be elected to
the Legislature,” he felt, “with
becoming gratitude,” that they
had conferred a great honor on
him, and therefore he did not
think he “would be justified in
causing you the trouble and
annoyance of another election
by declining to accept the duties
and responsibilities of your
representation.”
He was duly sworn-in, and
his first speech was devoted to
condemning the “strange ap-
pointment” by a dishonest Gov-
ernment then in power of its
leader —the enemy “Slippery
Charlie” —as Agent-General.
The Government of the. day,
however, launched such a volley
of condemnation against the
purist that, “incredible as it may
appear to strangers, and quixotic
as it appears to myself at this
distance of time, I thereupon
resigned the seat to which I had
just been handsomely elected.”
The fact was that not even
an iron man could have stayed
in the Assembly under the bar-
rage of criticism. It looked
rather like the end of the road
for a politician of 56 whose
beard, now one of his most
notable features, was beginning
to wear streaks of grey:
The prospect for me was gloomy
enough. I had stripped myself of
the conventional Importance that at-
taches to a seat in Parliament. I ,
was penniless; I was deserted by
many who had profited by my
frieudship in former days. But
throughout my Ufe my heart has
always been most buoyant and
strenuous in the face of difficulty,
and it did not fail me then.
A “gentleman, an old resi-
dent of Sydney, who had made
some money on the diamond-
fields of South Africa, had
lately returned to Australia;
and he took it into his head to
start a daily newspaper.” He
offered the deserted and penni-
less Parkes “means of sub-
sistence and a medium for the
expression of my opinions.” In
parallel with a job as paid
lobbyist for another gentleman
who wanted to start a Pacific
mail-service, he carried on this
good work and waded in with
a will to the task of persuading
the electors that “a small band
of superior men in whose politi-
cal character and administrative
capacity, as a whole, the Legis-
lature has confidence” should
govern New South Wales.
The electorate apparently
agreed. Just 13 months after he
had retired ignominiously from
the House, ruined, the doting
rural seat of Mudgee returned
him to Parliament. The wicked
Martin Ministry, “in the midst
of defeat and condemnation,
continued to hold on to the
spoils of office,” from which
the returned constitutionalist
soon prised them free after
moving a vote of no confidence
and forcing a dissolution.
Eighteen months after his
bankruptcy he was Premier and
Colonial-Secretary; within two ,
years he was a K.C.M.G. Better
still. Ministers and members
galore lent him money to sup-
plement his salary in and out
of office.
Then succeeded a historic
period in which the fight for
constitutionalism, democracy,
honest government and eventu-
ally Federation waxed ever
fiercer under his leadership, with
Ministries coming and going and
blows ever harder. His trium-
phant tour to the United King-
dom and the United States, his
smashing oratory, particularly
that directed at the luckless
Dibbs and Jennings Ministry on
August 16, 1886, seemed to have
sealed his fame not only as a
statesman but as a public
financier.
The wretched George Dibbs
he charged with “an almost
unpardonable offence in con-
cealing for so many months the
great difference between revenue
and expenditure” a “great
political crime.” Sir Henry
bludgeoned him in a speech in
which he shouted of the rights
of the workers to share in the
fruits of civilisation, of the
bright light of general freedom
and of the need of attachment
to principle and to the substan-
tial securities of justice. As he
closed his oration by reciting
“Barbara Fritchie,” it was obvi-
ous that the wicked had once
again been confounded.
Now, again, he was Prime
Minister and Colonial Secretary,
in January, 1887, and by the
end of September was settled-in
nicely. Phil May was celebrat-
ing in The Bulletin the fact
that the Premier and his
Attorney-General, Bernard Ring-
rose Wise— The Bulletin al-
ways spelt it “Ringnose” and
pictured him accordingly—were
introducing a bill dealing with
bankruptcy “by which people
are to be made to pay their
debts even to the jail door.”
Whether or not some creditor
smelled a rat, the pressure was
soon on the statesman, and on
October 12 of that Royal Jubilee
year he was, in The Bulletin’s
words, “up the spout for the
severalth time,” and assigned his
estate.
The cause to which this recur-
rence of disaster was attributed
was that his activities as a
patriot had debarred him from
giving time to his own concerns.
But it soon became apparent
that he had certainly had time
to speculate on a large scale in
land and borrow or get credit on
or without security to the tune
of £58,959. An estimate that his
assets were actually valued at
£65,000 proved how sanguine
was his disposition and that of
his advisers.
It was charged against him
that he had borrowed £9OOO
from an insurance company on
a property for which he had
paid £953 15s. At the same
time he owed the City Bank
£6371 18s. 3d., the Bank of
New South Wales a few thou-
sands, the E., S. and A. Bank a
few thousands more.
The “Sunday Times” accused
him of owing £27,700-odd on
property at Faulconbridge which
was “a selection costing no
more than the poorest man in
the country must pay for tak-
ing up public land.” He no
longer itemised small creditors
in his lists. They must be con-
tent to appear in blocks under
the heading “sundry London
creditors,” “sundry small ac-
counts,” Among the larger
ones were discovered those of
his P.M.G. and a number of
other Ministers, plus four or
five recently-elevated Legislative
Councillors whose qualifications
for gold-passes public opinion
had been at a loss to explain.
As The Bulletin and other
viperous critics pointed out, the
seat of the Great Man —“The
Great Hi-Ham” always to
Archibald and Traill —had be-
come technically vacant the
moment he assigned his estate,
but Parliament turned a blind
eye and allowed its Premier to
continue in office while he con-
ducted in his electorate of St.
Leonards with record speed a
campaign to secure a vote of
confidence in himself. Remarks
about “corruption in its worst
form —that of carrying on an
infamous traffic in the highest
offices in the State,” and chal-
lenges to prosecute for libel
brought from the Attorney-
General a statement that he did
not read the paper which had
been most outspoken and that
he “did not propose to bring
obscure country and other edi-
tors into prominence by setting
in motion against them the cum-
brous machinery of the law.”
Meanwhile, the victim of the
libel was at his oratorical best.
With tears glistening on his
silvery beard he intoned; “As
for me it matters little, I am
poor, I am old. I stand as it
were in the light of the grave”—
a fact which did not pre-
vent him from starting in his
seventies to produce a new
family by a second wife.
As little as possible was said
about the fact that in the past
years he had been paid about
£20,000 in salary by the State,
and the mean suggestion—con-
tained in a dastardly pink-
covered print, along with car-
toons by Phil May in insulting
profusion—that it was a point
of honesty to pay one’s debts,
brought forth emanations (vide
The Bulletin) of “lofty con-
tempt for the dull commonplace
virtue of solvency—the brand of
an ignoble soul, the sordid senti-
ment which leads stupid citizens
to pay their debts in full.” He
was quoted as saying in scorn of
the “contemptible suggestion”:
Are there not procurers of inno-
cent women for the lowest purposes
who pay 20s. in the £? Are there
not men who are guUty of the vilest
crimes under Heaven who pay 20s
in the £?
His defence so far struck
home that it was decided to
raise a public fund so the
wretched statesman should not
in future have to languish on
earnings of £2OOO a year, though
nobody seemed to worry what
his mourning creditors lan-
guished on. A meeting was held
in the Town Hall and in next
to no time well over £BOOO was
raised.
Some of those who subscribed
were his politically-elevated
creditors, and it was thought
that Government employees
would be particularly anxious
to contribute to the support of
their Prime Minister out of their
own pockets.
Headmasters of schools and
heads of departments received
circulars urging firmly on them
the necessity of organising a
fund in their districts. The
Bulletin, having enshrined the
beneficiary of this public charity
in a Phil May conception of a
stained-glass window, inhumanly
insisted on giving instances of
the unanimous mass urge to
subscribe by such persons as
“304 poor half-starved wretches
on the relief-works at National
Park,” who were docked Is. 6d.
each, and the “380 semi-desti-
tute relief-workers at Narra-
been,” who weighed in with 2s.
each, “in order that a sumptu-
ous politician who says he wants
to die may five and buy bric-a-
brac and speculate in land.” A
base insinuation was made that
“the reasonable assumption is
that the man who doesn’t help
Parkes gets sacked at the first
reasonable excuse.”
Alas, though the Old Man
had nearly two years more of
intermittent office before Dibbs
finally extinguished him as a
Minister in October, 1891, and
though the Fund paid him inter-
est of about £7O a quarter, he
complained in October, 1893, be-
cause the trustees could not ad-
vance him £3OO from the capital
of the “Parkes Fund as it is
called” to ward off “the danger
of having my personal effects sold
under process of law to satisfy
the claims of tradesmen who
have supplied me with the means
of subsistence during the last six
months.”
It was calculated by an
enemy in 1887 that his three
bankruptcies had involved 499
creditors and £147,823 17s. 2d.,
very little of which was re-
covered in the long run.
With writs threatened on
every side, with his reputation
as a great statesman growing
every day, he was still borrow-
ing to keep his head above
water to the end of his days.
Few to the last could resist
that “mien of vast inexpressible
weariness, those mellow treble
cadences, that amiable, per-
suasive and friendly disposition,
that resolute masterfulness and
imperious command alternating
with distinguished humility”
which Alfred Deakin attributed
to him.
In spite even of the fact that
the bravest ran at the sight of
his cheques, he goes down to
history in the opinion of Deakin
(the greatest and most honest of
his contemporaries, who himself
would sooner have died than
not pay 20s, in the £) as “a
full-blooded, large-brained Ti-
tan” whose “resources of char-
acter and intellect enabled him
in his later years to overshadow
all his contemporaries,”
Even in the art of obtaining
credit, in which he held the
Australian political belt for all
time.


On Sale at All Booksellers
THE DEVIL RIDES OUTSIDE
The story of a man, torn asunder by God and the Devil; by the longings of
the soul and the demands of the flesh.
By John Howard Griffin 18s. 9d.
ANNA FITZALAN
A tale of a remarkable woman—her family, her loves, her life—by one of
the most successful authors of the day.
* By Marguerite Steen 15s. 6d.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
THE DOCTOR TELLS YOU HOW...
Dr. Walter C. Alvarez has compiled this series of eoneise and informative books,
issued by the Mayo Foundation Clinic, to help people with Ion;; standing
aliments—arid those who have to live with them . . .
• HOW TO LIVE WITH YOUR ARTHRITIS. • HOW TO LIVE WITH YOUR ALLERGY
• HOW TO CARE EOR YOUR HEART PROBLEM. • HOW TO LIVE WITH YOUR ULCER
« HOW TO LIVE WITH YOUR MIGRAINE HEADACHE
® HOW TO LIVE WITH YOUR BLOOD PRESSURE—each 10/9 (post 5d.)
• HOW TO LIVE WITH. YOUR NERVES, 6/6 (post 5d.)
Write, phone or call in for these books now. And don’t forget the books on your
Christmas list—we have hundreds of wonderful gift books to choose from.
Write for our free Christmas catalogue if you’re a country reader.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :; 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
lines formed of the alphabet in lower-case
type; but one lacks the knowledge. As
an admirer and perhaps slavish follower
<4 the ideas of Eric Gill, one might hesi-
tantly and timidly deprecate the use of
swash capitals and uncial-derived letter-
ings (Civilite) for title and section-heads
with a formal Roman body-type—you
never see the Clarendon Press doing things
like that, but it is common enough in
Australia. Even if we do not go as far
with Gill as to use one size of the same
type throughout the book (the rule he
lays down for the hand-setter) we should
in decency have a title in the same type
as the body-type.
Or, at any rate, in standard books.
With books illustrative of printing tech-
nique, like this, one does not press the
point; if we do not learn from print that
other people have opinions, we learn
nothing. Nor has one any quarrel with
the two-page title-page (though three
seems to be stretching things a bit far);
but a two-page title-page pasted-in —that
is a crime for which, one hopes, no blame
attaches to Mr. Fryer.
It is only fair to add that an expert
from The Bulletin’s composing-room,
where they claim knowledge of printing,
has more or less insisted upon retaining
Mr. Fryer’s book ; a rare tribute.
THE BROLGAS
Because I came at dawn and stood
outside those ruins on the plain,
where, spilt among the stones like blood,
the desert-pea spread out its stain,
and saw, out of the pale dark sky
where solitary stars were dying,
t K ose ,,^ ve onc °niing brolgas fly
with quoak” and “quoak-quoak” of their
crying,
to pass, with outstretched necks and
fringed
beating wings, above my head
towards the fire of day that tinged
eroded ranges parrot-red,
I stood immortal there. 1 burned
in ageless youth and, from its mood,
renounced the world again and spurned
all but that fierce proud solitude.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
"Australian Round-up"
In Australian Round-up, reviewed on
the Red Page by “D.S.,” R. P. Whit-
worth’s old-time “Trooper’s Story” does
not actually create an entirely impossible
final scene.
We may smirk nowadays at the idea
of a policeman rushing to a train as it
[ pulls out with his quarry somewhere in-
[ side, and clinging to a door with his boots
planted on the footboard.
But the trains of the 1870’s, like our
grandfathers of the pen, were in a class
of their own.
Giving Grandfather Whitworth credit
for sticking closely enough to truth to
persuade his readers to continue reading
his popular yarns, I set about looking for
evidence some years ago that might sup-
port his setting.
It turned up in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” of January 1, 1877, where a
correspondent styled “Brake” let himself
go in a controversy on railway travel.
“Brake’s” remarks provide a com-
mentary on both “The Trooper’s Story”
(which belongs to 1872) and “D.S.’s” re-
action to it. Writing on “The Recent Fire
in a Railway Carriage,” he said: —
The accident that delayed the evening
down-train on the southern line on the
22nd instant has been made the subject of
some comment. It has been claimed as
showing the necessity for some means of
communication between passengers and
guards, and also the folly of locking -the
carriage-doors. Upon the former point
there can be no doubt as to the soundness
of the conclusions drawn; upon the latter,
as a passenger in the train in question, I
venture to support that there are considera-
tions on the other side.
The carriages were all crowded. From
the time when the alarm was given to the
time when the train was stopped, several
minutes elapsed, although scores of pas-
sengers, with their heads out of windows,
were frantically shouting to the driver or
guard. A longer time might have passed
if, as I understand, a curve in the line had
not enabled the parties in charge at one
end of the train or the other to see what
was going on, in the middle. During the
interval the excitement in some cases was
intense. Had the doors been unlocked,
numbers of people would certainly have
thrown themselves out headlong whilst the
train was still in motion; and, instead of
having to report that the seats of a second-
class carriage were charred, there would
have been a lamentable account of lost
life and broken limbs for the railway
authorities to render.
Let us have communication under some
safe system between guards and passengers;
but until that is provided it would be well
to think twice before leaving the doors
unlocked, and so creating an additional
source of danger at any time of panic.
Under the present system two or three
careless smokers might set fire to their
luggage and, not having the presence of
mind enough to throw it out of the win-
dow, might be in imminent danger; but
with the doors unlocked, women and chil-
dren and excitable men would rush in num-
bers into almost equal peril if the fact
became known, and the train could not be
stopped immediately.
If passengers in danger of being roasted
alive couldn’t jump out, some sort of
case might be made out for Trooper
Johnson’s inability to clamber in.
Seeing that travelling inside was so
hazardous, his precarious “standee” ride
must have appeared at the time not only
hair-raising but positively bloodcurdling
—much like riding on the rim of a flying-
saucer.
Incidentally, it is to be hoped that the
word “rattling” in “rattling good stories”
(the meaning of which “D.S.” declares
he never could determine) might be found
to fit fairly well here when its history is
explained. In my schooldays it meant
“first-rate,” “tiptop”; hence R. M.
Ballantyne’s popular Fourth-Form hero
Martin Rattler, a “rattler” being a jolly
good specimen of his (or its) kind ; hence
also, possibly, the heading of “D.S.’s”
review. Nowadays, to be sure of being
understood —alas for the decay of
language—one might substitute an over-
worked adjective for the word in “.rattling
good stories.”
The term was first used by Dryden
in the seventeenth century, and has been
favored since by Sterne, Thackeray,
Lytton, Melville and many others. —
Colin Roderick.
Western Australia
Western Australia is, of course, the
loveliest of all the States, and Gavin
Casey’s praise of it in The Bulletin a
few weeks ago persuaded at least one
exile to take himself back there immedi-
ately. So Frank Hurley’s persuasive and
finely produced photographic record
Western Australia (Angus and Robert
son), taking in as it does from Wynd
ham to Albany, from Cottesloe to Kal
goorlie, from trout to whales and from
gold to wine, should swell the ranks o
the present known westward procession
of one.
That is not to say that one succumbs
entirely to the enticements held out by
Captain Hurley. His photographs ol
fishing and whaling, for instance, do not
reach out half as strongly as the memories
of standing on a narrow foothold on that
great, slippery bastion of rock, Sugarloaf
just around the tip of Cape Naturaliste
and throwing out a fine line to a sea
chopped by an autumn wind and teeming
with herring, while great combers rush-
ing to the beach arch themselves in the
moment before destruction so that the
sunlight strikes like green flame through
and under their foaming crests; or as
the recollections of sitting at night on the
old jetty at Onslow a thousand miles to
the north and waiting for a 20-pound
kingfish, albacore or skipjack (trevally)
while the tide drums like a submerged
giant against the heavy cord line.
Similarly, when Captain Hurley reminds
one with generous and brilliant color
photographs of such lovely Westralian
wildflowers as the blue leschenaultia, the
red and green kangaroo-paws and the
purple Rottnest daisy ; of the wildflowers
of Perth, of the Porongorups and of the
sand plains; and of the Christmas-tree
which bursts each year into a blaze of
orange fire; one most ungratefully re-
members the beautiful Qualup-bell, or
the lilies that run wild under the willows
around Busselton in the south, or the
desert-pea in the north, so unexpected
and of such unbelievably liquid crimson
against the dead brown earth that one
thinks of blood on the breast of a hawk.
Likewise, looking at the expansive
photographs of Kalgoorlie and the Golden
Mile, one thinks —still ungratefully— not
of that great goldfield and the 1000 tons
of gold it has produced, but of prospectors
and small mines and little stamping-
batteries ; of places with names like
Yalgoo, Mount Magnet, Meekatharra and
even Youanmi —where Snowy Rowles
once suggested to author Arthur Upheld
a method of disposing of a body for the
purpose of fiction; how Upheld used
the suggestion in Sands of Windee; and
how the police found that Rowles had used
the same method in reality and so hanged
him. And they used to say that, some-
where beneath the water that half-filled
the mainshaft of Youanmi, there might
be explanations of other mysterious dis-
appearances.
Still, all that is most, most ungrateful,
even if it does go to show how, to an
exile. Captain Hurley’s photographs will
bring the memories springing. The book
is really a very fine pictorial tour of the
State and, except that the blues of the
shallow waters around Cape Leeuwin and
Rottnest Island are too vivid, while the
Golden Mile looks unbelievably bright
and clean, it is also a very faithful one.
And, even if some of Captain Hurley’s
photographs remind this exile of things
better than those photographed, his fascin-
ating pictures of spinifex country could
recall nothing else ; while his magnificent
record of the lonely Leopold Range, of
the hot brilliant colors of Wittenoom
Gorge in the Hammersley Range, and of
the harsh outlines of the iron ore deposits
on Cockatoo Island in Yampi Sound
further remind one that there are places
yet to see and that some day, some
day . . . —O. F.
Poison in the Shade : Eric Benfield
(Heinemann). The practice of gaining
easy laughs at the expense of mentally-
deranged persons is in poor taste. With
that reservation this novel concerning an
outbreak of poisoning with deadly night-
shade in a mental hospital, is entertain-
ing and even peculiarly logical on a
superficial level. The humor is mainly of
situation, such as the spectacle of four
neurotics who, suffering from hallucina-
tions due to poisoning, are thought at
first by the staff to be victims of exhibi-
tionist mass-hysteria. Fortunately
modern medicine overcomes the conse-
quences of all the cases of poisoning
without fatalities, and no actual tragedy
results during the time that a reincarnated
Lucrezia Borgia successfully plants her
pots of nightshade-jam.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 252
Across
I—Bandaged leg muscle with some
stock spring in the condition of
some books. (4-5)
s—Optic variation is subject to
picking without majesty. (5)
7 Misses a catch, but they keep the
hands warm. (5)
8— Proclaims a girl with weight. (9)
} I—Peak party. (3)
—Ugly preference for patients?
(3-8)
—Elf means this to the German
and the Spanish on the level
. cricketing force. (6)
1 4—Rely on this and it is sincerely
so because evil takes this French.
w (5)
A—lt need not take Sherlock
Holmes to find this in the seed
case. (3) . .
o—lt backs up painting comfort
with the figure. (5)
9 Exist with a study light of warn-
, ing firm in a vegetable. (6)
■1— I never alter, and I alter the
description of those who vener-
, ate. (11)
;3—Baba. (3)
—lmplement oath in a children’s
comic imitated a rooster ship’s
complement belonging to an
w Irish city. (9)
( *'-State horse goes to an NJS.W.
town joker and Georgia. (5)
26 — Sin about a State by whose
emblem I am swallowed like a
country lover. (5)
27 — A small advance experience lost
in the tea forest. (9)
Down
1— —South American bellbird put up
a tent over a Roman addict of
fires and fiddling. (9)
2 A Mae West cane filled with lead
for one who keeps a biography
in its original condition. (4-9)
3 Thick, spreading, and shaggy
state has aspiration in business,
though radiance interrupts the
kiss. (9)
4 Incompetent. (6)
5 N.Z. lake thanks up over noth-
ing with pa out, too. (5)
6 Boxed like a champion if dead.
(5)
9 —American State like one of ours
in an African region any ass con-
fuses. (6)
10—Places for swapping soap-operas
when the footsore spouse, now
divorced, puts on fresh clothes
in grain markets. (4, 9)
15— Sewer jokes might be expected
from such swift, penetrating
humor which is to require the
Wallace who wrote “Ben Hur”
with it. (6, 3)
16— Frank fed one who stands for
a seat in a Shaw play with Latin
and inversion. (9)
17 —Shavings, are evidence of his
activity scheme returning. (6)
20— He has a look at the display
pitcher after six. (6) »
21 — Elements of humanity decided at
Randwick. (5)
22 Gum is to do the wicked deed
all over again. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 251


\r*>
m
■
BA
-
*
-*! % . tf&pr < - i, f I f.7H <
f. • ■•* . - ,! H v . !■ •! ••.■!.' l! •’ ,;
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENT
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR.
RADIO, LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
NSW.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Ooulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & W
200 Latrobe
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE*
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON,
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MAG 188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: B6565, B4448
