

THE HOUSE
E
> F
SEP P E L
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
BRIGHT HOLIDAY READING
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3854
Wednesday, December 23, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
BELFAST’S CASTLES HAVE NOT ALWAYS APPEARED SO SERENE AS THE MODERN MANSION
BELFAST, capital of Northern Ireland, is one of the most beautifully-
situated cities in the world. It lies at the head of a splendid inlet
between the hills of Antrim and Down and its natural beauty remains
virtually untouched by the demands of modern progress and industry.
The story of Belfast goes far back into the past when the early
inhabitants were first attracted to the site by the discovery there of flint
for weapons and tools, and an abundant supply of sea-food and wildfowl.
But the city’s recorded history began with John de Courcy’s invasion of
Ulster in 1177, when he established a castle, around which grew a town.
Both the castle and this original town were destroyed in 1315 by Edward
Bruce.
The subsequent history of Belfast Castle is a long chronicle of conflicts,
for it changed hands many times and was destroyed and rebuilt on various
occasions. In Elizabethan times the value of Belfast was clearly recognised,
and it was granted to the Earl of Essex in 1573. The following year the
castle was the scene of treachery when Essex invited Sir Brian O’Neill and
many of his followers to a banquet and then murdered his guests. Nine
years later the city was recommended to Queen Elizabeth I as a place suit-
able for shipbuilding, and today this industry, which had such early begin-
nings, is renowned throughout the world.
In 1603 the city came into the possession of Sir Arthur Chichester, who
was the real founder of modern Belfast. The castle was rebuilt and
strengthened, but in 1708 this fortress was burnt down.
The Belfast Castle of today, shown in the accompanying illustration, is
situated on the side of Cave Hill, which rises on the western outskirts of the
city. This great mansion in the “Scottish baronial” style was built about
1870 by the third Marquess of Donegall, and it is now the property of the
Belfast Corporation.


The Red Page
THE NEW IDRIESS
There are times when, if one did not
know that no author can be altogether
exempt from the pains of his craft, one
would be tempted to envy Mr. Ion
Idriess. With apparently the greatest ease
he writes a book each year—the total now
stands at 31 —nicely timed for publica-
tion at Christmas, and he is of such
prominence in his field that occasionally
he doesn’t have to write his book at all;
in Horrie the Wog Dog he had a collabo-
rator, and in his latest.
A first essential is that somehow, m
modern English prose, the author must
convince us that his aborigines are talk-
ing the way we feel —without knowing
anything about it —they would have
talked. It is a problem that has been
very satisfactorily solved, for modern
aborigines, by George Landen Dann in his
play Fountains Beyond and more recently,
for the ancient aborigines, by Roland E.
Robinson in his Legend and Dreaming ;
but Mr. Idriess, for a start at any rate,
fails with it.
Whether he is being stilted, as when
th£ old aboriginal mother says to her son
“So when you use your eyes the right
way you can still faintly see the im-
pression of our possum’s ambling body on
the grass,” or whether he dives perilously
into modern slang and has his ancient
tribesmen talking about “clouting her
one,” he is equally unconvincing. His
humor, when old Bungadoon and Boobuk
are discussing their wives over the camp-
fire, is about as nimble as an elephant;
and one is treated to a lot of rather
tedious native lore which would be all
very well in an ethnological textbook but
which is out-of-place in a book which is
essentially a narrative . . . not that there
isn’t some interest in the picture of the
elders of the tribes as wicked capitalists
—a role in which the aborigine is rarely
portrayed —or in the account of the giant
at the initiation-ceremonies: —
Red Kangaroo was gazing down at the
giant figure of a man lying flat out in the
very centre of the Bora Ground. The
figure had been modelled out of sticks,
bark and bushes, then carefully covered
with earth. As the earth settled down
more had been added until the giant
figure stood out in relief well above the
perfectly levelled ground. The figure was
25 feet long, the outstretched arms 12
feet from hand to hand, the body four
feet broad... .Stretching out towards the
figure in the centre was a huge, leaning
tree deeply cut by tomahawk emu-
tracks. During one part of the ceremonies
the initiates must lie under this tree in the
posture of the giant figure while the old
Emu Man with the stuffed emu walks
along the tree over them, as if the emu
were sedately stepping upon and over
their line of bodies.
Interesting or tedious, however, the
aboriginal lore and the awkward recon-
struction of tribal life soon give way to
a really excellent yarn that redeems the
whole book —it is worth waiting for. This
is the story of Red Kangaroo’s winning
himself a wife —or, rather, two wives. He
goes alone deep into enemy territory,
comes upon two pretty maidens hunting
in a swamp for duck-eggs, leaps at them
and neatly lays them flat with his club,
then proceeds to tame them by gently
strangling them from time to time in a
cave until they are prepared to trot obedi-
ently before him, carrying his food on
the long and dangerous trek back to his
own territory.
Perhaps it is a universal human fantasy,
this virile, stone-age method of wooing;
at any rate it is nearer to our own ex-
perience than religious ceremonies with
!;iant dolls and stuffed emus ; and, free
rom the necessity to convey information,
having a straightforward story of action
set the bush he knows so well, Mr.
Idriess tells it with gusto and complete
conviction; —■
He waited only a moment longer as the
girls bent low in the reeds, now separated
from one another, each calling to the other
as she began putting the eggs one by one
into her dilly-bag. Gripping his nulla, he
stepped towards the nearer girl and gazed
down at the lithe form reaching into the
nest for the eggs. Lifting his club, he
brought it smartly down with just the
right force upon that thick mop of hair.
She flopped down with her face in the
nest, the cracked yellow of an egg welling
from under her mouth.... At the cave he
found that both girls, fully conscious, had
rolled out of the cave-mouth and even
tried to wriggle into the vine-entangled
scrub. Nareen stared up in defiant fear,
but the other glared up with flashing
eyes. He grinned, put his foot straight
across her forehead, nose and chin....
When she was choking for breath he
removed his foot, grinned down at her,
then casually gave Nareen a kick in the
ribs.
This is the best of the book; but the
reader who has got so far with so redoubt-
able a he-man will have a stock of admira-
tion sufficient to carry him through the
subsequent adventures of conflict with
the elders and tribal warfare . ; . in which
Red Kangaroo won great renown both
for his general prowess and as the in-
ventor of a secret-weapon —a way of
donging your opponent under the chin
with the sharpened top of your shield. In
short, Mr. Idriess has once more written
his Christmas bestseller and at the same
time has continued his invaluable services
to the nation as an interpreter of the
bush and the aborigines—not so much by
his bits of tribal lore as by that com-
pletely unsentimental and yet oddly
appealing dramatisation of primitive love-
making.
The story is, more or less, a true one.
It was brought to Mr. Idriess, in the form
of MSS. notes, by Mr. Russell McDonagb,
of Gunnedah, who acquired the document
from the late Mr. Stan Ewing, son of a
police-sergeant who wrote it word-for-
word as it was told to him by one Bun-
garee, “king” of the Namoi River blacks
and last of his tribe.
Bungaree was present when an enthusi-
astic collector of aboriginal skulls dug
up the bones of the supposed Red
Kangaroo and sent them, along with the
sacred carved tree under which they
reposed, to the Australian Museum in
Sydney; on which occasion the old king
“let ouf a pitiful, wailing cry and ran,
waving his hands about his head.” Really
there are times when one feels we owe
the aborigines an apology: we would
not thank any conqueror of our own
tribe for doing the same sort of thing in
Westminster Abbey.
The Red Chief
(Angus and Robertson), a collector of
Australian lore simply “forced” his notes
upon him —the “notes” apparently
amounting to a complete MSS. which Mr.
Idriess has touched-up.
To one who has usually enjoyed the
Idriess books, The Red Chief opens alarm-
ingly. It is the story of one Red Kan-
garoo, chief of the Namoi, River tribe,
who roamed the bush near Gunnedah,
N. S. Wales, some centuries ago, possibly
in 1745 when Bonnie Prince Charlie was
roaming the wildernesses of Scotland.
Therefore it is a reconstruction of abo-
riginal life; and since it is done in semi-
fictional form, like a novel, Mr. Idriess
has the task of making his ancient abo-
rigines lifelike —a difficult thing to do
since they nearly always come out of the
fog of time into fiction sentimentalised,
too statuesque or, more rarely, too
modern.
THE FORERUNNERS
Those who make discoveries and return
to tell of them are those who add to know-
ledge.
"But those lost ones from whom we cannot
learn
must also be declared, who sailed with
courage
forth from the known into the unknown,
saying
“This vessel may or may not fetch me
landfall
across the ocean. So, farewell.” Who,
disobeying
an instinct strong in all but the smallest
handful,
caulk and provision craft for a one-way
cruise.
The famous never cut the thin cord free
links them to what they only risk to lose:
all contact with familiarity.
And as the unknown shrieks before the
known
and feet tread sands untrodden, on the
shore
a skull, a scattered heap of weathered
bone
of someone who had landed here before.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
Was Harris a Convict?
Readers of that excellent book Settlers
and Convicts, which the Melbourne Uni-
versity Press reprinted earlier this year,
or of the Red Page review of it, may
recall that the real identity of the
“Alexander Harris” who wrote it remained
a mystery. Professor C. M. H. Clark,
who edited the reprint, had been unable
to find authentic records of an Alexander
Harris in the Goulburn-Crookwell-Taralga
districts, and he summed-up:
When I tried to find out who this
Alexander Harris was, or whether there was
an Alexander Harris in the areas described
in Settlers and Convicts, I became more
and more convinced that Harris was a
pen-name and that the author had mixed
up fact and fiction, partly to conceal his
identity and partly because the storyteller
in him was always tempting him to
embroider his narrative.
It seems possible that a contributor to
“Bohemia,” the little magazine of the
Bread and Cheese Club in Melbourne, has
unearthed the mysterious author; who,
if his theory is correct, was genuinely
named Alexander Harris, but was a con-
vict. The contributor, James Whittaker,
wrote to “Bohemia” from London:
As it is, I spend most of Saturday either
in the British Museum, or the Public
Record Office, doing research work. Right
now I’m on the trail of something that
may interest your Prof. C. M. H. Clark at
Canberra University College. I saw a let-
ter from him in “The Times Literary
Supplement” asking for any news about
that Alexander Harris who wrote Convicts
and Settlers [,s/c] , The Emigrant Family,
A Guide to Port Stephens, etc., all between
1847 and, 1852. He said they had no
information about him at all.
I started off as a labor of love in the
8.M., where I read three of Harris’s books,
and came to the conclusion he had been a
convict, a transported person! (I may be
quite wrong.) Then I got to work in the
Public Record Office, and, despite Harris’s
claim that he was a free settler and went
out to N.S.W. under his own honest
steam, could find no trace of him as a
settler in our Home Office records.
I tried one or two other relevant lines—
for I am very tenacious in these things—
and lo and behold; there was a convict,
one Alexander Harris, who arrived in
N.S.W. in 1818. He was then 21. Now he
states very clearly in one book that he
was 21 when he arrived in the Antipodes!
I then got on to the convict-ship records,
and there he was, went out on the Totten-
ham in January, 1818.
Then I traced back his record a little
more. One Alexander Harris, alias Har-
- rows, alias Harras was sentenced to seven
years’ transportation at the Aberdeen
Court of Judiciary in April, 1817. Now I
am trying to track down his crime, birth-
place, etc., etc, I am pretty sure this is
the same man.
Other records show that this Alexander
Harris was listed as a freed convict living
with a Sarah Harris (? his wife) in N.S.W,
in 1828. His books are all about condi-
tions in N.S.W. in the late 1820’s! One is
particularly dedicated to some Royal Naval
captain—with a very Scottish name I can’t
recall—who was either a prison governor,
or held some high position involving the
enforcement of the penal code. This fact,
plus another book of his, Testimony of the
Truth (how an atheist found God), plus
his .determination to remain as Anon (all
the first editions of his works are by
Anon), plus the period of which he writes,
plus the fact that there was an Alexander
Harris in N.S.W. at that time, are just
about too good to be true! But there
they are. The tone of his works, the
dedication, his close knowledge of the
convicts, his dates, etc., make it reason-
ably certain that my Alexander Harris is
the wanted man. I hope I am right.
By the way—what does “Kent Street”
signify when applied to N.S.W. in 1828?
The Home Office record of convicts (free
and bond) settled in N.S.W. at that date,
lists A.H. as at “Kent Street” and nothing
more. Was this (later) part of Sydney, or
where?
Whether or not Mr. Whittaker’s
Alexander Harris is the Alexander Harris
who wrote Settlers and Convicts there is
certainly much in the book to suggest
that the author may well have been a
convict and not, as he claimed to be, an
“emigrant mechanic.” He wrote of the
seamy-side of Sydney life and of cattle-
duffing and brushes with the police with
rather suspicious intimacy.
Outposfs Old and New
Two new books by Australians arrive
at the same time, both about besieged
British colonials, but a century apart ;
The Valley of Swans by A. J. Mas-
man (Dymocks), and Blood on the Leaves
by Nourma Handford (Dymocks).
In The Valley of Swans the colonials
are an Irish family of squatters and their
retainers, who push out to a green valley
in the Australian outback in the middle
of last century, and are practically wiped
out by aborigines; in Blood on the
Leaves they are British planters in the
Malaya of the last few years, at war
with Communist bandits.
They are both good stories. Both Mr.
Masman and Miss Handford seem re-
solved to dispel the illusion that only
bandits, aborigines and simple virtues en-
circle the lines of settlers on Empire
frontiers. Their heroes and heroines
make hay before the sun that never
sets sets.
ww
ŵ
CRAB
Shellfish and octopus, and all the insane
Thinking of the undersea, to us is lost.
At' most is food, in our higher plane.
But, what of this submarine ghost—
Life, without its meddling monkey? Can
The crab regenerate into prototype mer-
man?
Sea, of nightmare pressure and mask—-
Green faces in the gloom—what is your
task
In creation; or, is it over? Has space
Such a tragedy of planets trapped? Was
Eden thus? Oh, pressures which the lace
Sponge of the brain survives. What has
The life of the sea of my ignorance.
But such creatures: much of this wild-
shaped chance!
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
Reviewed Briefly
Puppet's Progress : Jan Bussell (Faber).
An amusing and high-spirited account of
a very active troupe of marionettes, the
“Hogarth puppets,” born in a Hammer-
smith mews 22 years ago, who led their
master and mistress by caravan and tent
all around England to the commercial
theatre and finally films and television.
The Hogarths visited Australia and found
Australian standards in puppetry “dis-
appointing. ”
* * • •
Tales to Be Told in the Dark: Basil
Davenport (Faber). Mr. Davenport re-
arranges stories by well-known writers
into a forth suitable for reading aloud,
so that the lucky listeners may have their
spines chilled as efficiently as possible.
Some of the authors drawn-upon are W. F.
Harvey, Stephen Hall, Lord Dunsany,
James Thurber, “Saki,” Arthur Machen
and Lafcadio Hearn.
* * * *
This Way for a Shroud : James Hadley
Chase (Robert Hale). Never exactly
subtle, the author of No Orchids for
Miss Blandish used to be various and
exotic ; but in this book about the brutal
murder of a screen-star by the gangster
head of a crime syndicate, and the
struggle for leadership of the syndicate,
murder achieves the vulgarity of popular
fashion. From this might be excepted the
young killer who, catching his victim on
the way to the beach, has to tag along
as one of the party, the beautiful victim
on his knee in a rattletrap car; and
Ferrari, the gangster-executioner, who
always gets his man, a study in ingenuity
that brings back memories of Edgar
Wallace and his resourceful “Just Men.”
But virtue does not triumph, and the
worse we are, and the worse our experi-
ence, the more we like to see virtue
triumph in books. Otherwise we may
die feeling that an experience has been
denied us.
The House of Gain Eric Linklater
(Cape). While this is almost certainly
Linklater’s least-good novel, he still has
more to offer in it of readable enter-
tainment than the majority of his con-
temporaries in the field. The theme is
concerned with fraud: literary, artistic
and monetary. The plot is brisk, well-
constructed and would be completely
unbelievable except for the author’s
mastery of the vanishing art of telling
a story in novel-length. A well-known
author, Stephen Coryat narrates his
account of . how, in a lonely Scottish
mansion, he met Hazeldon Crome, once
a promising novelist of the Naughty
’Nineties. Coryat is weakly willing to
be overcome by Crome’s charm to such
an extent that he allows himself to dis-
regard the old gentleman’s self-confessed
blackguardism until, by a fluke, his
machinations impinge on Coryat’s own
aunt —to be precise, his Aunt Fanny.
And in attempting to prevent the em-
bezzlement of Aunt Fanny’s money he
becomes involved with Crome’s unspeak-
able nephew. Very properly the denoue-
ment is tragedy and murder most foul.


Anthony Horderns’ Presents...
a
%
m
■
mm m
■■■
r '
m
,
; ; rir
il ;
r\,.f
m>t/n
ms
Bni
H
Q iV
-/r jsVH
& ■ ■ ;
P :
the latest range of shooting equipment
including the new Sako 7x33 m.m.
“Try Anthony Horderns’.” Those words have become famous as far as guns and ammunition are
concerned, the store where you can buy “Everything from a fox decoy whistle to a high
powered rifle.” All those necessary accessories are available, too, including an excellent repair
service that will give you the utmost satisfaction.
The Clothes
Fur felt hat which may be adapted to your own style,
with a 3in. brim and available in fawn, grey, brown.
Price 40/-.
Casben jacket, this jacket tailored by Casben is wind-
and shower-proof, zipp front, roomy pockets and
action back for freedom, sizes s.m., m.» o.s. £6/19/-.
Var twist trousers. These famous trousers are ideal
for outdoor wear, excellent appearance, strongly
made throughout in shades of fawn, grey, blue/grey.
Sizes 3 to 8, also i and £ sizes. £5/12/6.
Hunting boots in tan hide, lace up style, buckle and
strap fastening, sewn and standard screwed soles, steel
heel plate, 15 inches high. Price 77/6.
:
mmmm
: . .
• .. .
mm
r-'-v.
*
W:
- -
Sako 7x33 m.m.
This rifle from Finland is de-
signed for lightness, extra strength
and supreme accuracy. Integral sight
base built into the action. Mounts to fit
sight bases allowed for windage. Open rear
sight, walnut stock with cheek piece. Price £52/10/-
Twelve-gauge Belgium D.8.8.L. hammer gun, engraved
top lever action, blue steel barrels, cross bolt, engine
turned rib, left full right modified choke, rebounding
locks, Deeley fore-end, walnut stock, half-pistol grip,
nitro proved. Price £47/9/6
Raick Freres 12-gauge single barrel gun, top lever auto-
matic ejector full choke. Weight, 61b. Thirty-inch barrel.
Price £2B/12/6.
Slazengers .22 single shot Lithgow. Bolt action. This
rifle is very reliable and accurate at all times, and it’s
moderately priced at £9/19/6.
Diana rifled bore air gun. A well known reliably con-
structed, robust air gun. Break down type, smooth
trigger mechanism, double pull, adjustable rear sight.
Smartly blued metal priced at £9/10/-.
Slazengers .22 repeating rifle. Lithgow brand, bolt action
type, with box magazine. This rifle was designed specially
for .22 long rifle ammunition. Priced at only £l7/19/6.
M "TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
Anthony Horderns*
w
GUN DEPARTMENT, Lower Ground Floor
MEN’S WEAR, Ground Floor, George St.
Phone: M 2401, Mail Box 2712


If has been proved sound
Alcoholics Anonymous
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
H RE and in America a lot
nas been written about the work
oi Alcoholics Anonymous; and
firmhi nl n f W the name , has become P rett y
people * Very ew
by “cranks” ’or “wowsers ” A ‘ A ' 18 mn
In AnSLi J° wsers - u c
nrmnt ! n ia there are a number of
f PS ’ WOrkmg . qUletly and un '
insofS IZ Va / I ° US f°u d cause ! , (as > for
svstem’i • °[ tke me I nta hospital
less Irvine ifir f! rnt that , Its l [ se ‘
fir f 1 * P ob ticians unless they
Thric „ * news P a Pfrs interested,
Annnvmn for and with Alcoholics
pubS' ZZ ll \Z d]mit t that ’ fr °m the
fai A a has bad a
' ‘ has bad a Sood Press. ’
Maybe, because it is non-sectarian and
non-political, and doesn’t seek to reform
anything except individuals (who, for their
part, must be willing to reform), it stands
Mflvhf th C£ than !u° St in u that re spect.
Maybe there is something about alcohol,
even abstinence from it, that, like sex
and violence, has a tried “news value.”
Maybe even the most rugged newspaper-
proprietors have hearts of gold . . .
Anyway, the story itself is interesting.
The movement was started in the United
States, in 1934, by Bill Wilson, a business-
man who came close to financial and
social ruin because of his inability to
control his drinking. He went to
leading psychiatrists, and they were un-
able to help him. But one of them told
him that the only cases of recovery he
had known were in people who had under-
gone a “spiritual experience.” He joined
the Oxford Group and remained sober
for six months. Then, up to his neck in
business worries, and fighting the tempta-
tion to forget them in alcohol, he began
to look after a friend, a doctor, who was
embarked on a severe spree.
“Thus,” Dr. S. J. Minogue said, in
an address to the Australasian Association
of Psychiatrists, “almost accidentally, h
was discovered that the best way for an
inebriate to keep sober is to help other
inebriates. In helping others he forgets
his own desire to drink.” (This quotation
and others here given are from the
“Medical Journal of Australia,” May 8,
1948, August 16, 1952, and from the
“Bulletin of the Post-Graduate Committee
in Medicine,” University of Sydney,
September, 1950.)
Wilson and his friend decided to help
other inebriates. Progress was slow. At
the end of one year they had five
members ; after two years, 15 ; after three,
40; after four, 150. In 1939, when the
membership was 400, they published their
book. Alcoholics Anonymous. “The
book,” Minogue comments, “gives, prob-
ably for the first time, a true picture of
the mind of an alcoholic, not the picture
he presents to doctors.”
The movement spread from the United
States to Canada, and then to Hawaii.
The first non-American branch was
opened in Sydney, in October, 1944,
mainly through the efforts of a medical
man, at the time the superintendent of
a State Mental Hospital. The experiment,
in so far as it concerned his patients,
was viewed with grave suspicion by
higher-ups in the department, who did
their best to kill it.
Elsewhere, too, the movement aroused
suspicion, hostility, and thick-witted
humor. There were internal trials.
Members, meeting to discuss their prob-
lems, showed an early tendency to get
on the booze together; to collectivise, as
it were, their worries at the nearest pub.
New members would successfully tempt
older ones; the most promising cases
would dramatically backslide. On the
other hand, some of the most unpromising
cases came good.
Looking at it from the clinical side.
Dr. Minogue said (address to Australasian
Association of Psychiatrists, 1947):
“Eventually I was forced to realise that my
enthusiasm had overcome my common-
sense and that my previous experience of
inebriates was of very little help to me.
I then came to the conclusion that if I
was to know the mind of the inebriate
(and know it I must if I am to treat him
successfully) I would have to abandon my
previous concepts and set out to learn
the subject anew It is only now, after
three years of intensive experience, that
I feel I have developed clinical acumen
in the disease and feel confident in my
prognoses,”
A sobering thought, that, for those
homespun physicians among us (and we
all seem to fit the role at some time) who
feel competent to friends to pull
themselves together and lay off the grog
—just like that—or imagine old So-and-so
can be cured of his odd habit of drinking
kerosene out of the hurricane-lamp at
the tail-end of a binge by emptying the
lamp first. The trouble is, we all think
we know a lot about alcoholics. But,
dipping into the medical literature on the
subject, some of these easy opinions seem
to need revision.
What, for instance, is a “hard drinker”?
Or a “dipsomaniac”? According to the
same authority (“Bulletin of the Post-
Graduate Committee in Medicine,” Uni-
versity of Sydney, 1950), about 5 per cent,
of all drinkers become clinical subjects.
The borderline between normal and
abnormal drinking is indefinite, owing to
varying tolerance of alcohol from person
to person, of an individual at different
ages, and at different levels of health,
and because of a general floating of one
category into another. However, if it’s
any comfort, “occasional ‘days out’ are of
little clinical importance.”
The main causes of abnormal drink-
ing are habit, the need to ease psycho-
logical difficulties, the need to ease pain,
the need to cure insomnia ; or it may be
a complication of mental disease.
When, for a time, I worked with the
Legal Service Bureau (a branch of the
Commonwealth Attorney-General’s De-
partment) in connection with claims by
ex-servicemen and -women on the Repat-
riation Department, it seemed to me that
some men who had suffered unusual
stress in war or who suffered considerable
pain from war-time injuries must have
drifted into alcoholism because of these
factors. Alcohol is, after all, an anal-
gesic.
The Repatriation Department has, as a
matter of fact, accepted alcoholism as a
war-caused disability—but not often.
Some caution by the department is under-
standable. But —I am sure —the whole
thing goes deeper than that. Sensible
precautions aside, there is a sort of puri-
tanical disapproval of the disease, as
such, an inflexibility of the official mind,
which denies men who could benefit from
treatment the right to such treatment as
Repatriation patients.
Alcoholics are notoriously difficult
patients to treat, and increasing numbers
of them are advised by doctors to
get in touch with Alcoholics Anonymous
The movement does not guarantee success
Alcoholism, in some cases, may be
symptom of bodily or mental causes
which are best treated on a medical level
Again, in the more usual cases, a grea
deal rests with the patient himself. I
seems to be an axiom that a man mus
first reach “rock-bottom” —not necessarily
physically, but psychologically—before
much can be done to help him. To quote
an instance:
A time came, generally at the end of a
bout, but rarely before the age of thirty-
five years, when he was forced to face
stark reality for the first time. Faced
with financial or domestic disaster, all his
excuses for drinking were now useless.
If he kept on drinking, ruination and death
were inevitable. He had tried repeatedly
in the past to reform, but had failed. He
could not do so now without help, but
where could he get it? He had repeatedly
consulted doctors and clergymen in the
past, but all he had received from them
was the advice to be a man, realise his
responsibilities, and give up drinking.
Psychiatrists had given him expensive
treatments and at the end of them had told
him not to drink Had he not repeatedly
twitted psychiatrists and clergymen with
the fact that, whilst they had treated
numerous alcoholics, their s successes had
been so few and far between? He no
longer wanted to be “talked down to.”
Alcoholics Anonymous provides the
emotional solidarity, with no “talking-
down” ; but even then the way is far
from easy. It is considered essential that
the new member undergo some sort of
self-criticism; a private stocktaking. That
he should, for instance, pay his debts,
or make some effort to do so. That he
should change. “In fact, unless he
shows this personality-change, and
advances in objectivity and maturity, he
will not remain sober.” It is also con-
sidered necessary (for his own sake) that
he remain active in helping other inebri-
ates.
The basis of the movement is, in a
broad sense, religious. That is, it is con-
sidered necessary for the recruit, if he is
a member of an orthodox religion, to
return to the practice of that religion:
to be a good Presbyterian, Roman
Catholic, Anglican, Jew, as the case may
be. Or “to believe in his own concept
of a higher power.”
An interesting point is the fact that, in
Sydney, one branch of Alcoholics Anony-
mous meets in a hotel, the licensee’s
position being that, although he makes his
living by selling liquor, he has no wish to
contribute to anyone’s ruin. There can,
in this case, be no question of laying-up
goodwill for the future, in a commercial
sense. The ex-inebriate must leave the
stuff alone. He can’t dabble.
Only about 10 per cent, of people who
go to Alcoholics Anonymous for help
give up drinking at once. The majority
remain sober for weeks or months and
then relapse. The most dangerous periods
are: after three days’ abstinence, when
the urge for drink is strong; after thiee
weeks, when the “dry horrors” set in.
For these, and other reasons, medical
and moral treatment (in some stages)
often go hand-in-hand. Alcoholics
Anonymous do not accept financial assist-
ance. But leaders of the movement in
Australia feel that the time has come
for provision for the treatment of alco-
holics in general hospitals. Now (except
for a very small minority treated in Re-
patriation hospitals) the only alternatives
are admission to one of a few private
hospitals which specialise in such cases,
or admission to a State institution via
the Reception House.
The great public hospitals have their
own very considerable problems. Still,
they remain the centres of medical activity,
on a practical level, and, in many ways,
in the field of research. Despite their
difficulties, their reputations are deservedly
high. For many reasons, medical and
psychological, treatment of alcoholics in
these hospitals would be desirable. Some
of the men who pioneered the movement
in Australia are anxious to interest leaders
of the various churches in the work of
Alcoholics Anonymous. They feel that
the misery caused by uncontrolled
alcoholism, the proved success of their
movement in combating it, and the
very strong spiritual basis of the
movement itself, should all be likely to
arouse sympathy in these quarters.
Churches, too, control (with Government
assistance) a number of general hospitals,
and it is believed that if church leaders
examined the work already done, an im-
portant step would have been made.
Ideological Love
WRITERS, poets and play-
wrights in East Germany
have, it seems, been set a
severe cultural problem in the
love-scenes they portray, having
been ordered to reconcile the
public need for an “inner experience”
with the State’s demand to extol the
Communist way of life.
Take the case of the famous author
Hans Undfeet. He has had his hero,
Sigismund Grossegutz, a collecti-
vised process-worker, meet the
heroine, Magda, a forewoman in a
spark-plug factory, at a party rally..
Their hands accidentally touch. It
is like an electric shock to Sigis-
mund ; his heart misses several beats
and he feels a drumming in his ears.
Nobody suddenly struck by love in
Western Germany could possibly en-
joy this feeling, for only those whose
blood is compounded in a Com-
munist State could have it so virile
that it could be pumped at such
speed through a lover’s head.
Their next meeting had been at a
lecture on production-norms, and in
such an atmosphere of pure and
holy romance what else could love
do but burgeon?
We come upon the love-scene
proper when their eyes meet in the
shy exultation of love as they sit on
a park bench during their 20-minute
lunch-break; an N.K.V.D. agent is
behind a near-by bush taking notes
in case the love-making takes a sub-
versive turn.
“Darling!” whispered Sigismund
passionately. He took her hand and
pressed a burning kiss upon it.
“My lips are yours, Sigismund,”
breathed Magda softly.
“Ah, no —it gives me far greater
ideological pride and satisfaction to
kiss your hand,” replied her lover.
“For was not this the same hand
that set an all-time record for any
factory in the People’s Democracies
by fitting, in one working-shift of 15
hours, no fewer than 1173 porcelain
tops to spark-plugs, which work was
honored by having those same plugs
selected for use in the new armored
division of super-Malenkov tanks,
made to defend our peace-loving
Socialist Fatherland against the
brutal menace of the encircling
Imperialist warmongers?”
“Tell me more about love, sweet-
heart,” she said, nestling against the
medal he had got for denouncing his
mother to the secret police because
she had criticised a pair of shoes
she’d bought for as low as £35 at a
State shop.
“Darling!” he murmured huskily.
“Your eyes are almost as bright as
the prospect our production-unit has
of becoming the first Stakhanovite
factory of the year to break produc-
tion-records by more than 50 per
cent. And this will be achieved be-
cause all the happy workers realise
that we cannot build a lasting
People s Democracy unless every-
body gives his or her best service to
the State whilst asking as little as
possible in return.
“Your lips,” he went on eagerly,
are as soft as the brains of those
plutocrats of the Western world who
stupidly think the capitalistic system
can prevail against the ever-growing
might of the Communist economy,
which is demonstrated in the statistics
just released—a rise of fifty-two-
point-five per cent, in the output of
pig-iron, seventy-three per cent, in
petroleum products and a sensational
rise of one hundred and eighteen
per cent, in kilowatt-hours of electri-
cal energy! «
“Your eyebrows; darling,” he
breathed with fierce passion, “have
the same beautiful upward-sweeping
curve as our factory output-chart
showed last year, and which has
since been framed immediately be-
neath the giant portrait of our be-
loved leader Georgi Malenkov,
whom the craven Western leaders
fear because of his sterling fight for
peace and his iron determination to
defy the evil forces of reaction! ”
“Oh, when you speak to me of
love like that, Sigismimd,” sighed
Magda dreamily, “I am out of this
world! ”
“When I lay my head on your,
breast, sweetheart,” went on her lover
in thrilling tones, “I hear your little
heart beating with a sound almost as
rhythmical as that given out by the
beautiful Soviet-made machine with
which I turn out my daily quota of
egg-beater parts—for don’t forget
that it is only by the increased pro-
duction of consumer-goods that our
standard of living, already immea-
surably higher than that of the
wretched slaves of the capitalistic
octopuses in New York and London,
who are driven daily to their work-
benches under the cruel whips of
their masters, can be made higher
still, when our workers may even
eventually enjoy such amenities as
ice-chests, flat-irons and safety-
razors ! ”
Magda stirred in his arms. “I
once saw a Western-made picture in
which Robert Taylor tried to make
love to Joan Crawford,” she said,
“but he didn’t know how to do it.
Not once did he mention a factory-
bench, a production-quotient or a
percentage-basis. It must be awful
to be a girl in the plutocratic States.
Now, kiss me, sweetheart!”
Sigismund crushed her to him, and
their lips met in a long lingering
kiss in which time was utterly for-
gotten . . .
That last phrase was Hans’s down-
fall as a Communist novelist. The
charges were high treason, spying for
the Imperialist Powers and inciting
patriotic lovers to forget to, get back
to their work-benches by starting-
time.
BO.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 23, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3854
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite GJP.O.), Wellington.
THIS CHRISTMAS
Australia has approached this Christmas with
mixed feelings. From Sydney northwards jacarandas,
flame-trees, silky-oaks, oleanders and bougainvilleas
have never put forward a more brilliant showing; but
it is a dry season, and inland drought and grasshoppers
have already appeared. In Victoria and South Aus-
tralia there has been better rainfall. A Christmas of
contrasts it is in many ways.
More atom-bombs have been exploded since the
last “festivity” than in any year before. There have
been more than the average number of shindies in
Europe, in Persia and in the Australian Parliaments.
The wool-cheque is well up again. Costs are a little
steadier. Oil has been found in W.A.; Dr. Evatt has
been heard singing “Cockles and Mussels” and the
“Old Hundredth” along the roads of Gwydir, though
it did his party no good in the by-election. And Mr.
Cahill, usually so unctuous and free of tongue, has
been reduced by the failure of his Press Gag Act
before the courts to a condition in which he is
permanently “not available for comment.”
Moscow is chanting for peace and arming for
war. The Korean armistice negotiations have been
suspended after nasty interchanges of personalities.
The United Kingdom, the very home of Christmas
according to the modern tradition, has been threatened
with a railway strike which might leave it hungry by
Christmas Day. But these are only minor variations
in human behavior and natural event, since it is a
painful fact that the world insists on going round even
at Christoastide.
Christmas as known to the nineteenth century in
Australia differed little from the Christmas of the
eighteenth century. There were wassail and song,
picnics in the shade, church in Sunday-best, bells and
modest present-giving. Today the sound of the bells
is drowned in the roar of the radio, the carol-singing
in the howl of the boogie-woogie artists and the shriek
of the hurtling traffic. The modest individual giving
prayer-books, copies of the works of Dickens, pen-
wipers and gloves has been absorbed in something like
a large military operation in which the organised might
of a nation with overflowing pockets is led by the
commanders of the advertising agencies in a mass
assault first on the note-issue and then the roaring
torrent well ammunitioned with the most evenly-
distributed issue of wealth ever handed to a nation
on the reeling sales-staffs, of the big stores.
Christmas-cards today cost as much as Christmas-
presents used to. And, like everything else, even they
are becoming organised and regimented. Instead of
being merely the very personal tokens of affection
exchanged coyly between individuals, they have
become vehicles for advertising associations, move-
ments, political groups, clubs, societies and butchers-
shops, just as the cocktail-party —deadly dull, foot-
punishing and innard-inflaming—is replacing the carol-
party and Christmas-dinner as the gastronomic mani-
festation of what is still believed to be a period of
goodwill and good cheer.
Christmastide, in fact, is, generally speaking, be-
coming in Australia an excuse in regimented buying
of unneeded goods, a spending-jag which eats into
savings at a time when most people should be tying
another knot in the top of the old sock in which the
spare cash is kept against the day of drought and
need —both of which seem to be advancing on the
Commonwealth behind an advance-guard of grass-
hoppers and dust-storms.
Our rude forefathers who developed its early
manifestations might find something to praise in the
modern method of celebration. They might find the
beer better than it was, the gradual disappearance of
plum-pudding an incentive to continue the Christmas
tradition. It might even have appealed to their lusty
sense of humor if someone had presented Queen
Victoria with a Bikini wrapped in plastic imprinted
with pictures of holly and pink angels. Liberal minds
might regard such matters as mere modernisations of
older things in keeping with the spirit of the times.
But there is one feature of Christmas life which has
been introduced into N. S. Wales in 1953 calculated to
make even the most ardent celebrants of Noel mutter
that Christmastide has surely had its day.
What reveller can now feel his pulse warm to the
rosy smile of Old Santa as he sits, children at knee, in
his store? May not the old gentleman hide under his
robe the heart of a criminal who has not obeyed the
IT'S A WISE CHILD THAT KNOWS ITS OWN FATHER CHRISTMAS
compulsory-union law by failing to join the A.W.U.?
And that beatified garland of white-robed lovelies
who “usher in the days before Christmas with their
beautiful carol-singing” in an “Elizabeth-street store”
—may not one of these suddenly light out with a
scream as some Simon Legree of the Shop Assistants’
Union takes after her with a demand for her union-
card and a threat of dire penalties for failing to enrol?
Cold fear must assail the mind of the observer of 1953
trends that not many Christmases may lie ahead before
even the right to revel will be placed on a conscriptive
basis.
Something Ticking
There is a growing tendency among “Labor” poli-
ticians to speak of old-age pensioners and persons on
the basic wage as though they were the only section
of the community worth a second’s thought. It may,
of course, be a kind of party modesty, since those two •
classifications are probably the only two not included
in the ranks of present-day “Labor” Parliamentarians.
Publicans, parsons, barristers, barmen, company-
directors, dentists and billiard-markers are all there—
and a host more besides —but never a pensioner and,
assuredly, never a man on the basic wage.
This apotheosis of the pensioner and near-
worship of the basic-wage man reaches the stage where
every pensioner is a noble old pioneer who has worked
himself to a shadow to make the country what it Is, and
all basic-wage earners are high-souled, hard-working
patriots who yearn to make it better, but are pre-
vented from doing so by intangible forces such as
vested interests, the economic system, big monopolies
or an anti-working-class Government, or by more
personal villains such as Bob Menzies or Artie Fadden.
This is, of course, nonsense. Pensioners as a
whole are not much better or much worse than any t
other group in the community, of which they are,
indeed, a cross-section. They include people who have
been good, bad and indifferent citizens, and the mere
attainment of the age of 65 or the filling-in of an
application-for-pension form does not transform a bad
citizen into a good one.
The other favored figure, the basic-wage man, is
not so easy to find as the pensioner, but he must exist,
as he is always being lauded to the skies by “Labor”|
politicians as being worthy of emulation. Obviously
he is an unskilled worker or he would be entitled to a
margin.
An interesting subject for an extensive social
survey would be the degree of correlation between
“Labor” philosophy and its acceptance by the various
classes in the community. Not much has been done
in this line, but such material as is available shows
the highest correlation with unskilled labor, lessening
through semi-skilled and skilled trades and lowest of
all in the professions. This is capable of at least two
interpretations: (1) That education enables the fallacies
of Socialist “philosophy” to be more readily recog-
nised, or (2) that the “philosophy” is in reality a faith
which is accepted instinctively by those of little learn-
ing. The second alternative would probably be
accepted proudly by the Wards and Dan Curtins of
the party, but it is not likely to be any more popular
than the first with the intellectuals of the A.L.P.
This blind acceptance of “Labor” by the least-
informed section of the electors is of tremendous value
to the party, as is shown by its big electoral majorities
in thickly-populated industrial areas, and it explains
much of the playing to the gallery by “Labor” poli-
ticians. But it isn’t the whole story. No doubt most
of those who jump on the pensioners-and-basic-wage
bandwagon have their tongues in their cheeks, but not
all. There are some who sing the same doleful song
as their hard-headed colleagues, but really mean it.
They are, in a sense, a hangover from the past; at any
rate they are still living in it.
Those who believe the only problem that faces
the world is how to improve the lot of the “under-
privileged” forget that it is a far cry from the days
when society saw nothing extraordinary in the remark
of an eminent divine that “the poor should be suffi-
ciently educated as not to be disgusting,” and it was
serenely accepted that Providence had placed the rich
man in his castle and the poor man at his gate, and
that it was right and proper that each should stay put.
Nowadays there are no “poor,” but the Socialists,
with their talk of the “underprivileged,” are just as
patronising and far less realistic, “Underprivileged”
is a very elastic term —many commonly so classified
would be overprivileged if they were given accommo-
dation in Long Bay jail. But to many Socialists the
“underprivileged” can do no wrong and the slum-
dweller is the salt of the earth.
That sort of inverted snobbery and perverted
reasoning is popular fare in the Sydney Domain, but
it is dangerous nonsense when seriously promulgated
in the national Parliament. Latest to proclaim it in
Canberra is Clyde Cameron, M.H.R. for Hindmarsh
(S.A.), who, in the course of the debate on the Address-
in-Reply, expressed disappointment “that the Govern-
ment has studiously avoided any possibility that the
Queen will meet the people who make this country
tick.” He went on to make it clear that as far as his
own State was concerned he was referring to the people
who lived in “the slum conditions of Hindmarsh,
Brompton and parts of West Adelaide.”
If Mr. Cameron is right and it is the people of the
alleged slums who make the country tick, then either
it will very soon stop ticking altogether or the whole
“Labor” approach to the “underprivileged” is topsy-
turvy and what is needed is more slums, not fewer. The
.latter proposition is, of course, absurd. No one dis-
putes the need for improved housing, although what
some people call slums in sunlit Australia would pass
for comfortable housing in many parts of the Old
World.
What Mr. Cameron and his colleagues won’t see
is that while they advocate slum-clearance and better
housing their whole policy has the effect of postponing
the realisation of that objective. Slum-clearance, like
most other social reforms, can only be paid for out of
available resources, and the more the national
dividend is drawn upon for current-consumption
items —higher wages, increased amenities, higher
pensions, medical benefits and so on —the less is left
for capital expenditure on long-term improvements in
living standards. “Labor” policy is consistently one
of grab-what-you-can-for-today; tomorrow and next
year are someone else’s problem. It isn’t stated that
■vyay, or even comprehended that way, but that is what
jt amounts to.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Lessons of Gwydir
The results of the Gwydir poll —in a
mixed area of northern N.S.W. the size
of England and Wales —has been
eminently satisfactory to the coalition
Government, if not to one of its party
organisations. At the time of writing it
seemed certain that there had been a
swing to the Government since the 1951
election, and a substantial one since the
Senate poll last year, which would in-
crease the majority of the leading Govern-
ment candidate considerably. Mr. Treloar
won by 2313 in 1951; Mr. Allan looks
like winning by a third more.
The winning candidate is a first-class
man, and he will be an acquisition to
the Government. He will, of course,
have to fight again next May, but the
contest should not be so exacting.
The election was an important curtain-
raiser to the general election, the more
so because it provided a sampling of
several types of electors. All prominent
party-men, from the Prime Minister down-
wards, took part. Dr. Evatt was there
most of the campaign, singing to keep
his courage up. Mr. Arthur Calwell also
was there, and so was J. J. Dedman ;
but, despite the fact that the “Labor”
candidate was chosen as a man who would
command a strong personal vote apart
from politics, the many “Labor” voices
could not stop the drift.
The most significant feature of
“Labor’s” campaign was the valedictory
uttered by its leader, whose commentary
on the preliminary results was directed
to dissociating himself and the Federal
caucus from the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment. He uttered an inferential con-
demnation of Mr. Cahill and all his
works which cannot be passed over
lightly. Forgetting the enthusiastic sup-
port accorded the State Government by
Federal “Labor” members at the last State
election, he accused the coalition of prac-
tising “a trick” in introducing into their
campaigning “purely local issues of
N. S. Wales State politics,” which he
admits were “important, including the
question of compulsory unionism and
measures relating to disclosure of allega-
tions imputing criminal conduct in civic
administration issues, however, having
nothing whatever to do with Federal
legislation or administration and entirely
false and deceptive as introduced in the
Gwydir by-election.... a trick but for
which Mr. Quinn would have won the
contest.”
After all, the A.L.P. Executive which
runs N. S. Wales politics also runs Dr.
Evatt and the N. S. Wales Federal poli-
ticians. And apart from the fact that
compulsory unionism is a plank of the
Federal platform, and that that platform
also concerns itself with the use of muni-
cipal bodies as one of its primary methods
of obtaining its ends. Dr. Evatt’s own
personal support of Mr. Cahill’s actions
has made anything that happens in
Macquarie-street very much a Federal
issue, as he will find next year. Anyway,
Dr. Evatt’s condidate, Mr. Quinn, does
not agree with him that hostility to
compulsory unionism caused the heavy
Government vote. There are this and
other divergences in “Labor” views which
show all too plainly how thorough is the
demoralisation of Dr. Evatt’s following.
“Labor,” also, is not the only party
which should have had a lesson from
the Gwydir result. The N. S. Wales
Liberal organisation, acting in direct con-
flict with its leader, the Prime Minister,
has had revealed to it how false was its
view that Gwydir electors were thirsting
to oust the Country-party man and re-
place him with a Liberal. Mr. Howard’s
effort was somewhat better than that of
the last Liberal to stand (he lost his
deposit). But by the Monday after polling
he had succeeded in getting only 10
per cent, of the primaries cast, and the
swing in the last 6000 votes to come
promised to be heavily against him.
This resiilt should serve warning
on the Lyle Moores and the Bill
Spooners that the status quo provides
the best chance for the general election;
and the Federal Parliamentary leaders
should come out firmly and definitely
against any further attempt to disrupt
the close and friendly Liberal-C.P. liaison
at Canberra, whether by N. S, Wales
Liberals or Victorian C.P.s.
The general election is not yet won.
Even some Ministerial seats, through the
drift of new population into them from
industrial areas, are not safe.
Conscription Is Here
After a fortnight of unexplained delay
between the passing of Mr. Abie Landa’s
compulsory-unionism legislation and
Royal assent by the Governor, the Dog-
collar Act has become law and the hunt
is on for victims. Some unions are so
greedy for their levies and for the voting-
power which counts so much in the
A.L.P. Annual Conference that they can
scarcely be restrained from violent action.
But Mr. Cahill has obviously learned by
this time how unpopular the measure is,
and was at pains to say that there would
be “no harassing” of the new prisoners
of unionism, Mr. Landa giving an assur-
ance which sounded strangely in the
mouth of the author of his arrogant first-
reading speech on the bill that it would be
administered “with the utmost tolerance
and broadmindedness.”
Meantime F. J. R. Gibson, secretary
of the Employers’ Federation of N. S.
Wales, has advised that “there is no need
for panic.” Every employee who has no
desire to be unionised should consider
carefully his or her position, and if that
is done the slave-unions should be dis-
appointed in the accretions to their mem-
berships through the coercion decreed
in the Act. Those exempt include persons
whose conditions are prescribed by a
Federal award; those in industries not
covered by a State award or agreement ;
persons occupying managerial positions ;
juniors under 18 years old; conscien-
tious-objectors and returned servicemen
and servicewomen.
Conscientious-objection is somewhat
nebulous in scope, but it surely should go
much further than a religious objection,
and it should be tested at once whether
it is sufficient ground for it that the rele-
vant union to which the conscript-elect
is called on to belong is a member or a
subscriber to an organisation opposed to
the objector’s political beliefs or ethical
principles. Of course, if such grounds
hold good it will not help the poor wretch
much—even if he is exempt because he
objects to joining an organisation which
is a section of the A.L.P. the State will
penalise him. He may, in fact, be fined
by the Government for being a Liberal —
or a Seventh Day Adventist. That is one
of the most outrageous factors in the
whole business —it destroys political free-
dom completely.
Returned service-personnel are only
exempt because the Government has no
option in the matter. The exemption
in the Act is so loosely worded that it
looks as if it were cunningly drafted to
make returned servicemen and -women
believe that, while it did not affect their
employment, they still would be bound to
join. In plain fact this is a matter in
which Commonwealth law seems to over-
ride State law and the Re-establishment
and Employment Act of 1945 protects re-
turned soldiers of both sexes.
Those exempted are war-time members
of the A.I.F. or permanent forces,
members during the war of the citizen
forces enlisted or called-up for service, or
directly in connection with the war,
members —engaged in full-time war-
service—of the R.A. Nursing Service,
W.R.A.N.S, A.A.N.S., Women’s Army
Service, A.A.M.W.S., R.A.A.F. Nursing
Service, W.A.A.A.F.s, V.A.D.S on paid
duty with any part of war-time defence
forces, and all those serving with forces
of other parts of the British Dominions
and colonies who Were bom in the
Commonwealth or domiciled in Australia
immediately before the war.
All these seem to be entitled to prefer-
ence in employment, whether they belong
to unions or not, and the N. S. Wales
Government has shown no disposition
to dispute the proposition that they are
exempt from the provisions of the com-
pulsory-unionism legislation. Perhaps, in
view of the general unpopularity of the
new industrial conscription, the Govern-
ment is not anxious to dispute it.
High Court and Basic Wage
The verdict of the High Court upholding
the Arbitration Court’s power to suspend,
of its own volition, quarterly adjustments
will be received with relief by all those
who want to see economic stability
achieved. The appellant unions had
claimed that the Arbitration Court had
no authority to make such an order unless
a party had made an application or a dis-
pute existed; in the case of the 70
unions affected by the court’s order of
September 12 no application had been
made and no dispute existed.
Of the unions’ contention the Chief
Justice, Sir Owen Dixon, said that reasons
for revising the terms of an award might
be found in changing circumstances, and
that the longer an award was in force
the greater was the likelihood of cir-
cumstances changing to make a variation
necessary or expedient. It was well
established that the court had power to
continue the operation of an award after
the expiry of its fixed term:
From that conclusion it follows almost
as a corollary that the Arbitration Court
must be empowered to vary the terms of
an award in order to give it a reasonable
application to altered conditions.
His Honor said it would be absurd to sup-
pose that the court should proceed blindly
in its work and ignore the industrial
and economic consequences of what it
was invited to do. The other judges con-
curred with the Chief Justice.
The “wage-freeze” of September there-
fore remains, so far as Federal awards
are concerned. With State awards there
is a degree of confusion. “Labor” Gov-
ernments in Queensland, Victoria and
Westralia, forgetting their recent howls
of galloping inflation, have yielded to the
demands of their industrial rulers and
applied c.-0.-l. variations to awards
under their jurisdiction. In N. S. Wales
the Cahills have been holding their hand
waiting upon the High Court’s decision.
With Parliament now in recess, they are
not likely to take any action.
The position then is that as far as the
bulk of awards are concerned there will
be no more automatic rises. Considering
the howls raised last September, the High
Court decision seems to have been re-
ceived by the “Labor” movement
almost without a murmur. Prob-
ably all hands are prepared to wait until
the next index-figures are announced—
which won’t be long after the holidays.
Big Vote for New State
Though the Sydney daily papers ignored
the result of the vote on a new State in
north and north-west N.S.W. on Decem-
ber 5, Premier Cahill will be told about
it, and the temper of the people in the
area is such that he will not be allowed
to forget it.
When it became known that the New
England New-State Movement meant to
ask councils in the area to take a vote on
a new State in conjunction with the
recent local-government elections, the
Sydney Government, through its Local
Government Department, said they
couldn’t do it. Three years previously
the same department told Glen Innes
council it could do it. This made some
councils doubtful. In the end 16 councils
decided to take a vote; four others
allowed the N.E.N.S.M. to take a vote in
their areas.
The 20 shires and municipalities which
took a vote must be regarded as repre-
sentative, since they range from Boomi
in the far north-west to Copmanhurst in
the north, down to Bellingen and out to
Narrabri. Those who voted on the ques-
tion in the 20 areas totalled 32,493, and
24,991 of them voted for a new State,
6137 against and 1365 informal. The
vote for yes was 76.9 p.c. of the total.
The Sydney Government may choose
to sneer at the 32,493 votes, but it can’t
escape the fact that they came from but
20 l.g. areas, that the vote was entirely
voluntary, and that in every one of the
areas the New-State majority was over-
whelming. If the Sydney Government
doubts this as an expression of the desire
of northern IjI.S.W. for a new State it
has only to take a referendum of the whole
area —if it is game to do so.
For people in areas like North Queens-
land and Riverina this vote is of tremen-
dous significance. In N.Q. particularly
there is a strong desire to separate from
Brisbane, as there is in New England to
separate from Sydney. In Riverina there
is a simmering of the same desire. But
for all N.S.W. and Queensland, for all
Australia, the New England vote sug-
gests plainly that a numerous group of
Australians is ready and eager for self-
government.
The duty of both the N.S.W. and
Federal Governments is clear. First, to
hold a proper referendum in New Eng-
land to confirm this sample vote and, if it
is confirmed, to set going the machinery
to establish a new State. What has been
granted to Indians, Pakistanians,
Ceylonese cannot be denied to Aus-
tralians. And the fact that no racial or
religious aspects come into it only makes
the New Englanders’ claims the more
powerful.
Sheahan Thwarted
The finding of Mr. Justice Owen in the
application by a police-inspector for an
order to compel the “S. M. Herald’s
proprietary to disclose its sources of
information about graft in the City
Council is a blow to the Cahill Govern-
ment and “Labor” in general, and a poor
advertisement for the legislative preten-
sions of Mr. Sheahan, the N. S. Wales
Attorney-General, Mr. Evatt, Q.C., and
Messrs. Abie Landa and Downing.
, The one thought of these jurists
appears to have been that dictator-
ships are all-powerful, and that what
Stalin or Lenin could essay to do would
be within the compass of their ability.
At the test, however, Barwick, Q.C.,
made mincemeat of their argument, and
Owen, J., brought it home to them that
the normal principles of British law still
rule in this country, however little they
may like it. The Government had arro-
gantly believed, apparently, that a
peremptory demand to a judge would
result in his meekly issuing an order to a
newspaper without going through the
mere formality of allowing the victim
journal to protest. But Mr. Justice
Owen decided that the matter called for
a hearing in public. And experience
showed how different the hope was from
the reality.
The judge found that it was clear on
the plain words of the Act that no order
could be made against a corporate body,
except possibly a corporation sole, to
disclose information as opposed to docu-
ments. In the meaning of the word in
the Act “person” meant a “natural per-
son.” By a careless slip in the use of
the word “his” without adding “or its”
it placed itself in difficulty; but, in any
case, as Mr. Justice Owen remarked,
while a corporate body may hold docu-
ments it can “no more have non-docu-
mentary information in its mind than it
can drive a motor-car,” because it has
no mind of its own as an entity. Its ser-
vants may individually know, but even
their employer company cannot make
them tell, though it may be able to
punish them for not telling. So the case
fell down, and costs were given against
the Crown.
There will, of course, be no question
of making those responsible for the Act
personally liable for them. Ministers
may squander money at will, subject to
formalities. But it will be surprising if
they do not pay otherwise, since one
thing the electors are not apt to forgive
is failure.
Meanwhile, it is being shown almost
every other day in Sydney or in suburban
councils that there was substance
behind some of the abounding
charges levelled against “Labor”-con-
trolled councils in and round Sydney.
Mr. Sheahan has now felt bound to
institute prosecutions in certain cases,
which will be proved or disproved, but
the whole question still calls for a sus-
pension of City Council government and
the institution of a searching royal com-
mission inquiry. Everything the A.L.P.
touches, from milk and eggs to public-
marketing of produce and municipal
administration and liquor, smells in one
way or another. No minor clean-up will
improve the position.
A few years ago any party which
adopted the ostrich attitude of the Cahills
and the uncritical attitude of the Federal
“Labor” leaders on wholesale charges
of graft and corruption and tried to
smother inquiry by every means in its
power would have lasted about ten
minutes.
Where Are the Next Leaders?
“In the ACT”: It is a political truism
that the occasion produces the man, but
there is no indication that this is true
among the Western nations at the
moment, or that the tussle in the Kremlin
has produced someone able to give some
hope to Russia and the rest of the globe.
There is no doubt of the weaknesses
in potential leadership in the West.
Churchill is carrying the “burden of his
age” partly because he is determined to
vindicate himself against the war-
mongering charge, but partly because
there is some apprehension about Eden’s
physical stamina and requisite sustained
toughness. Neither Butler nor Mac-
millan seems to appeal to the mass (and
leaders have to win elections in the West
before they can be leaders), and few
younger men are showing out of the ruck.
On the Socialist side the position is
worse, with Attlee and Morrison feeble
on one side and “Nye” Sevan noisy and
meaningless on the other.
It’s no use taking France seriously at
the moment, in spite of her insistence
that she is one of the “Big” band.
Adenauer is able but aged in Western
Germany, Italy is rent with faction and
Tito is a typical dictator on a small
dunghill. .
When we look across the Atlantic the
situation is even more disturbing. Our
friends in Washington proclaim that they
are ready to carry the burden of world
leadership, but there is no doubt that
“Ike’s” friends are worried. As a soldier
(Continued on page 7)


his great asset was his ability to get a
hard-'working team to work harmoni-
ously, but even that seems to have failed.
His advisers are trying to pull him all
ways—for farm-price supports and for
freer world trade, for resistance to the
narrowly-split Congress and for agree-
ment with it, for political support for
the Republicans and for the wider view
that he represents all the nation. He is
under fire from all directions, and is said
to be thoroughly weary of a job which
still has three years to run.
“Ike’s” offsider, young Dick Nixon,
may be a good family-man, and he’ll
have plenty of rapid impressions when
his present trip is over, but even his best
friends will tell him he is not in world-
class. Stevenson, the hope of the Demo-
crats, is looming larger on the horizon,
but he is a man who might well find the
lonely burden of the top job almost
unbearable.
When we come to the smaller nations
there is not much in view. Howe is
thought to be the coming man in Canada,
but the South Americans seem to have
nothing beyond the posturing Perdn to
offer. Malan is tough in South Africa,
but it is a toughness that is teeing-up
plenty of trouble, in Africa and else-
where. Nehru is more and more disap-
pointing in India, with no strong succes-
sor in sight; Pakistan is still in leader-
ship trouble ; and the decay in Indonesia
is so bad that even the “Big Three” are
going to cast a glance in its neglected
direction.
In Australia Bob Menzies has got his
second-wind, but there is not too much
enthusiasm in the lobbies and the elec-
torates about Harold Holt as the second-
string. Eric Harirson seems likely to get a
Royal Tour knighthood, Mcßride is out
of the running, and the field is then thin
until we come to the 1949 runners still
short of a run. The “Lab.” boys, of
course, are in far worse case, with even
Allan Fraser and Freddy Daly being
touted as possible supplanters to the
“Doc.” if and when the courage and
numbers are forthcoming to dismiss him
and Calwell.
There is urgent and world-wide need
for young, strong and able national
leaders. The jobs are harder than ever
before, the demands offer almost unbear-
able strain and anxiety, and the penalty
of failure could be world disaster. Ihe
men must be found, and they must pro-
vide inspiration and strength. Who and
where are they?
POLITICAL POINTS
“Oh, Mr. Cahill, oh, Mr. Cahill,
Have you heard what this Judge Owens
put around?
He says companies contain
Documents, but not a brain —
Can you tell me if that point of view is
sound ?”
“Oh, Mr. Sheahan, oh, Mr. Sheahan,
I suppose that’s what the finding may
have been ;
I also take the view
It may well apply to you’’
“Positively, Mr. Cahill?’’
“Absolutely, Mr. Sheahan!”
• ©
Christmas last year found the Federal
Government licking its wounds after a
series of by-election disappointments: a
reduced majority in Lyne ; Flinders lost;
“Labor’s” majority increased in Werriwa,
and the official candidate in Bradfield
hard-pressed by a team of Independents.
This Christmas sees it assured of a re-
sounding victory in Gwydir, accepted by
both sides as a real test for next year’s
general election.
• •
On Sunday night the combined vote
of the three Government candidates ex-
ceeded the “Labor” vote by 2104, com-
pared with a lead of 1084 at the same
stage of the counting in 1951. Mr. Tre-
loar, the late member, won by 2313 on
that occasion so it seems that by the time
the first count is over the Government
lead should be at least 3000. With an ad-
vantage of those dimensions there will be
no need to worry about drift of prefer-
ences.
• •
Individual figures on Sunday night
were:
Allan (C.P.) 8,283
Howard (Lib.) 3,055
Kirkby (C.P ) 4,630
Quinn (Lab.) 13,864
Preferences should make A. I. Allan the
new member, confirming Gwydir for tne
Government, and, rather conclusively,
for the Country party.
• •
The Evatt explanation of the decreased
“Labor” vote in Gwydir is that com-
pulsory unionism and the Press Gag Act
were introduced as “false and deceptive
issues, and that, “but for that trick,
Mr. Quinn would have won the contest
by an absolute majority.
Mr. Quinn himself doesn’t agree: “I
can’t say what I think caused the heavy
Government vote. It was not hostility
to compulsory unionism, although it got
great attention in the Press.”
• •
Several professional organisations in
Sydney are seeking registration with the
N. S. Wales Industrial Commission to
forestall attempts by the Clerks’ Union to
body-snatch their members. Cantor, J.,
has promised the Chartered Accountants
Clerks’ Association and the Accountants
and Secretaries Professional Officers’
Association an early hearing; the
Solicitors’ Industrial Association has also
made application.
• •
No one seems quite clear about the
position of ex-servicemen under com-
pulsory unionism. On the face of it the
Federal law giving them preference—
along with unionists —should prevail, and
when the Air Force Association asked
Premier Cahill about it he replied through
McGrath, Minister without Portfolio,
that Landa had indicated that “no-
thing in the legislation could interfere
with the rights of ex-servicemen under
the Commonwealth Act.” That sounds
all right, though it’s a roundabout way
of answering a question. Still, there’s
more than a suspicion that it isn’t in-
tended to be as easy as all that.
• •
The Cahills may not have it all their
own way with the Dog-Collar Act. There
was a strong rumor current in Sydney
over the weekend that, because of the
obligations imposed on employers, it
might be tested in the High Court as an
infringement of Section 92.
India’s Prime Minister Nehru has told
his people that nationalisation of their
country’s key industries is inevitable and
that his Government aims to convert
India to a Welfare State because con-
ditions are “ideally suited to it.” That’s
what Socialists in Britain and Australia
thought; Nehru should study what fol-
lowed their attempts at it.
• •
Put it to the credit of the Gair Govern-
ment that it is stoutly resisting attempts
to prolong the Queensland Potato Board,
due for the axe on March 31.
• •
Playford has increased the size of his
Cabinet from six to eight, taking advant-
age of an Act passed a few months ago.
It’s the first change since 1908 and brings
the team to exactly half the strength of
the New South Wales Cabinet. Numeri-
cal strength, that is.
Only the new Minister for Education,
former Government Whip Baden Pattin-
son, will carry a single portfolio; all
PEACE ON EARTH
“God rest ye merry gentlemen,
Let nothing you dismay....”
others will administer two or three depart-
ments. The other new Minister, N. L.
Jude, inherits Local Government and
Railways from Mr. Mclntosh and becomes
first Minister for Roads. Attorney-
General Rudall takes over Industry and
Employment from the Premier and passes
Education on to Pattinson. Other port-
folios are unchanged.
• •
On Friday it was announced that the
Sydney University student who had been
lost in Yarrangobilly Caves for three days
had been discovered safe and sound. On
the same day Doc. Evatt, who had been
wandering around the wilds of Gwydir
for three weeks, was also reported back
in his usual haunts, slightly hoarse and
rather short of breath.
Price-control ends in Westralia on
December 31. Hawke got the customary
bill for a 12-month extension through the
Assembly, but the Legislative Council
turned it down by 15 votes to 11.
• •
As a sequel to his walk-out in the
course of the debate on an amendment
to the Land Settlement Bill, Lands Mini-
ster Holt resigned from the Victorian
Cabinet last week. In a Press statement
he said he was resigning because he
found himself out of step with his col-
leagues on a matter of principle and “in
such circumstances it is the constitu-
tional practice of a Minister to tender
his resignation.” So it is, and Holt is
to be congratulated for having the
courage of his convictions. One N. S.
Wales Minister seems to be out of step
as often as a raw recruit on his first
route-march, but he still sticks to his
Cabinet post.
Although Holt has left the Cabinet he
remains a member of the A.L.P. Cau-
cus was to decide on his successor
yesterday. Most-favored contender was
J, H. Sihith, Minister without Portfolio
and recently Assistant Minister for
Lands.
• •
A widely-representative South Aus-
tralian committee is already half-way to
collecting that State’s £5OOO as its share
to help pay for an appeal to the Privy
Council against the N.S.W. Transport Act
as applied to inter-State road transport.
The argument, it seems, will be based on
the claim that the High Court, in the
various transport cases, was wrong in
holding that the State Transport Acts
when applied to inter-State transport did
not breach the free-trade section of the
Commonwealth Constitution. As the
S.A, committee points out, the issue is
not confined to road-transport interests
alone; it touches everybody.
• •
Note well that now that compulsory
unionism has become law in N. S. Wales
all pretence about it has been dropped.
When it was before Parliament the Cahills
insisted on calling it “absolute prefer-
ence,” but now both Abie Landa, its
sponsoring Minister, and Doc. Evatt have
publicly given it its proper name.
• •
For the 11th month in succession un-
employment benefits showed a drop at the
end of November —11,385 were receiving
payment, compared with 13,925 a month
earlier. Dr. Evatt and several of his fol-
lowers paid a handsome tribute to the
Menzies-Fadden Government for the im-
provement. At least, they would have
done so had they been consistent; a year
ago they were vociferously blaming the
Government because the figures were
rising,
• •
From Molongloside:
King O’Malley beat W. M. Hughes’s pro-
phecy of 1916—that he was about to die of
rage and burst-arteries over the conscription
issue—by 37 years. King and Billy had always
been rivals on the issue of universal service
and, indeed, on almost every other issue.
O’Malley differed from all the early Labor
stalwarts of Federation in that he was almost
the only one who had not come up the hard
way through unionism. An Independent when
he deserted the South Australian Parliament to
represent Tasmania in 1901 and then its Darwin
seat in the Reps. (1903), he pushed himself into
the Labor fold by virtue of Lis special know-
ledge of social measures which were very much
in the Labor air—as Billy said, “Like a hurri-
cane of wet whiskers squeezing in through a
half-open door.” He belonged rather to the
adventurer type of the Labor M.P. common
in 1930-53 than to the horny-handed agitator
group of 1901-16.
O’Malley was undoubtedly the political
father of the Commonwealth Bank, of the
Commonwealth Note Issue and of Canberra
as the capital—he wanted to call it Myola,
but Frank Anstey squashed that with a suc-
cinct: “Why not call it Tomcat Town at
once?” His methods, his ideas, his language
and his dress all smacked more of the United
States House of Reps, than of that of Aus-
tralia, and his early background history was,
on his own versions, picturesque but subject
to delightful variations. To the end few ot
bis colleagues could decide whether he was
charlatan or otherwise, but the plain fact was
that he held his position in the party by vir-
tue of sheer personality and salesmanship until
conscription brought him down. The begin-
ning of the trend which finished his career
began at the Brisbane Labor Conference of
1908, at which he crossed swords with Hughes
and Chris Watson, accusing Labor of having
“gone mad on militarism” and of wanting to
“give gilt-spurred roosters power to blow a
bugle and snatch farmers’ sons, business-
men’s sons and Labor-men’s sons and send
them to the front.” Though he joined Hughes
in 1914 in proposing an election armistice with
the Liberals during the war, he was with the
Tudor party on the anti-conscription side in
1915-16 and resigned his portfolio when the
split came in November, 1916. He was beaten
in Darwin on May 5, 1917.
The last time the writer saw him, three or
four years ago, it was difficult to recognise
in the feeble old near-centenarian the erst-
while delight of Bulletin caricaturists, owner
of the finest hirsute equipment in the Federal
Parliament of pre-World War I years the
whirlwind Minister for Home Affairs who
packed so much history into his mere four
years of office and whose waving locks, flash-
ing eye, precariously balanced gold pince-nez,
stiffly-starched shirt and flaming and ample silk
tie (red) with its enormous pin seemed so
exotic among the horny-handed and slow-
spoken Tudors, Fishers, Spences and their
kind. In his energetic prime it was diffi-
cult indeed to believe his oft-told tale that he
had been expelled in his thirties from the
opulent fields of New York to a warmer clime
because he was “just fading away, brother, just
fading away.”


Society
"A ND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
/'-'HILDREN often enough suffer for the
good fortune of their parents as well
as for their misdeeds, but I find it hard to
believe that a speculator who cleaned-up
a packet on Exmouth Gulf oil-scrip has
had his baby girl baptised “Oileen.” —
“P.T.”
❖ ❖ <♦
“Sack”: It’s nothing to do with the
Sydney City Council, but a local matron
is preparing to go on oath over it. She
took her small daughter for the annual
conference with Santa and on the way
out of the store the little girl asked:
“Why did Santa look in your bag,
Mummy?” The mother explained that
Santa may have been looking to see if
she had any letters for him, or some-
thing like that. But when she found her
purse missing the shocked lady began
to wonder. Questioned, the little girl
said that Santa had taken the purse out
of the bag. With £l5 at stake the mother
hurried back to the store and told her
tale to the manager. He was incredulous,
but called Santa to his office. Santa re-
fused to be searched, but the manager
insisted. Result: the missing purse and
five others were found in his robes.
♦jf
“Yakipan”: Out at our place last week-
end we were given a glimpse of what
life must have been like many years ago,
when living was more civilised and
gracious and one had time in which to
think. Peace and quietness reigned
throughout and I was able to return to
, the treadmill on Monday really re-
freshed in mind and body. Our radio
was out of order.
“Mero”: While passing a depart-
mental switchboard in Port Moresby I
saw the native operator frantically
plugging-in to various channels and
excitedly gabbling into his head-set:
“Hello, hello, hello. Who does some-
body want?” I hope he found out.
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.K.D.”: At major criminal trials
women spectators seem to outnumber
the men by twenty to one, and the more
sordid the trial the more they roll up.
The public gallery of the court is a
depressing sight during a big trial, with
the women leaning forward eagerly so
as not to miss a word of the evidence.
A murder trial with a suggestion of sex
is by far the most popular entertainment
with the womenfolk, but a trial deal-
ing with abortion runs it a close second.
Rape trials and similar cases are always
sure of a good female following, while
a simple murder trial without what the
dailies call “a sex angle” seems to be
regarded as a tame entertainment. I’ve
heard judges express the view that in
certain cases the public gallery should
be closed. They feel, also, that a pre-
dominantly female audience distresses
the witnesses, especially young girls.
But in most States the law leaves a
judge powerless to clear the gallery
except in cases of misconduct, such as
demonstrations or undue noise.
“Pat”: Trailing through a children’s
Christmas show dealing with the life of
the first Elizabeth, I was startled to hear
an explanatory voice holding the cavern-
ous gloom. Other parents seemed con-
tent to stand their offspring before each
display for a second’s silent observation,
then move them on. But one child, less
docile than the rest, demanded the whys
and wherefores of Sir Walter Raleigh’s
spreading the red-velvet cloak before the
Queen. “Oh,” explained Mum, “just
some man wanting to sell her some
material. Come along.”
❖ ❖ *
“Narumee”: Afraid “Alma” was being
razzed on her visit to Cornwall (B.
2/12/’53). Cousin Jacks are deeply
scornful of tourists. “Do make me
dumbleheaded how they will ask the
road,” villagers used to tell us, “with
their cars full of maps, and signposts at
every corner. Seems like they be bigger
fools than we!” For instance, Cornish-
men call the fishing village of Mousehole
“Meowsull,” but they are perfectly well
aware what “foreigners” mean when they
ask “How far to Mouse-hole?” Yet
they put on the head-scratching act, and
murmur “Don’t rackon it be hereabouts.”
Cousin Jack enjoys putting one over
city folk.
-ijt
“Ceg”: Noticed that Unk White (B.
18/ 11/’53) had his souvenir - hunter
flourishing a large cigar with the band
still in situ. Men have been black-
“Stay back after school, Salome !”
balled from London clubs for smoking
a weed with the band on it. Once it
was quite correct to leave the band on
a cigar, but when Edward VII started
importing his own special brand from
Havana, they came minus any band.
Thereupon the bloods of London com-
menced removing the bands from theirs.
The makers persisted in the practice of
putting them on, and so it goes on. Ask
any smoker removing the band why he
"Look, mistletoe—what about it, Constable?”
does it, and ten to one he won’t know.
Something like sheep. Nature keeps
on providing lambs with tails and the
grazier promptly cuts them off.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: There is an agitation to
shift the Flinders statue from the lawn
at the side of St. Paul’s Cathedral in
Swanston-street round the comer to
Flinders-street, which was named after
the great navigator. The sculpture de-
picts Flinders standing in the bow of
what looks like a Roman trireme in a
conventionally heroic posture while
naked seamen shove his vessel up the
beach. If Flinders had ever adopted
this posture in the little dinghy when he
was making his voyage from Sydney
Harbor to Port Phillip, Bass would have
told him to sit down or they’d never
get further than Cronulla. The captain
at least gets some consolation from his
present position—he gets a good view
of Young and Jackson’s. If he’s shifted
round the comer he’ll be staring at the
worst end of Flinders-street Station.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: According to a British
psychologist, television is likely to bring
the courting habits of young lovers
back to the drawing-room sofa, from
which they moved a generation ago
to the back-seats of picture-theatres. He
could be right, but, in this electrified age,
not even television can revive the
popularity of the suburban gas-box.
When the century , was young most
suburban houses, especially those aligned
in terraces, had their gas-meters at the
end of the veranda furthest from the
front-door. The box containing the
meter formed part of a veranda-seat, by
common usage reserved for the daughter
of the house and the bloke who “saw her
home.”
“Tonsi”: Roped-in suddenly as man-
ager by a group interested in showing
French films, I went on duty the first
night without having seen a preview of
the main feature, “Three Waltzes.”
Everything was going along nicely and
I was out in the foyer when I heard
the strains of the National Anthem.
Dutifully, I turned up the house-lights,
only to have the theatre-door opened
hurriedly by an usher, with a “For hell’s
sake put them out. There’s two more
reels to go.” Later, someone explained
to me that “God Save” was part of the
sound-track half-way through the film.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Benbow”: Comments on the naval
five-oared whaler or whaleboat (B.
9/12/’53) indicate that this craft
originated with the real whaling-boat
used in the sperm-whale fishery. It
pulled four oarsmen and a harpooner,
who was also called the boatsteerer. He
pulled the bow-oar until on the whale,
when his duty was to get two harpoons,
known as the first and second irons, into
it. He then changed places with his
officer, one of the mates, who com-
manded the enterprise and steered the
boat until the whale was harpooned, when
it became his job to kill the whale with
a lance. It was at this point that the har-
pooner became the boatsteerer. Obvi-
ously the fifth oar was provided to give a
little more power, and was plied by the
man who was not a regular oarsman.
Louis Becke called one of his books
Rodman the Boatsteerer.
“Bull Oak”: To my youthful eyes
H.M.A.S. Protector (B. 28/10/’53) was
quite imposing in Port Adelaide waters,
though I cannot remember ever seeing
her under way. Another memory is of
the Cerberus, anchored in Corio Bay,
Geelong (Vic.). She didn’t move much
either, but did a job boosting local
morale —and morals. On practice nights
her searchlight, prying among the banks
and dells of the waterside park, was an
embarrassing discourager of too-passion-
ate necking by recumbent Jacks and
Janes. The roving beam once high-
lighted two schoolboys crouched in a low
tree and prompted a couple of indignant
swains to chase them on suspicion of
spying—which, of course, we were not
doing.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Mem”: Brighter English! Mail-
order catalogue advertises ladies’ dresses
as being “bargainised” at so much each.
* ❖
“K.M.”: On a trip to Melbourne
from Sydney a middle-aged business-
man, after celebrating a successful deal,
found himself hopelessly late for dinner
at the hotel where his wife awaited him.
Noting his apprehension and unsteady
gait, a friend suggested taking a gift of
flowers to ease matters, and duly
deposited him in the lobby of the hotel,
■clutching a box of expensive orchids.
Next morning the friend asked, “How
did you go?” He received a beaming
smile, and, “Why, didn’t someone tell me
about orchids before?”
* » ❖
“Rooster”: Browsing through the
volume of World War II history deal-
ing with medical services, I came across
a photograph of the wharf at Tobruk.
It showed a lighter being loaded with
stretcher-cases for transfer to the “ferry”
destroyer. Standing up in the barge was
a medical-orderly, looking down on a
wounded Digger, one hand in breast-
pocket feeling for matches, the other
just drawing away from placing a cigar-
ette between the lips of the patient.
How do I know all this? Because I was
the orderly. I can even remember what
I Was saying at the time, “Half y’r luck,
Dig. You’re on your way out; we look
like stopping here for months.” We did.
Eight months!
MOTHER KNOWS BEST
“Union officials believe unions will not
prosecute immediately people who do not join
them within 28 days of compulsory-unionism
becoming law.”
The unions will not prosecute
Non-unionists immediately ;
The thought of putting in the boot
At the year-end festivity
Would seem to them a serious
crime —
They'll keep it for some other time.
Ah, no ; the unions' S.S. troops
Will never bash you on the scone
Or try to make you jump through hoops
From the word “go”—but later on :
A long delay, they think, may even
Heal the wound before it’s given.
A Government’s disgusting law
To levy funds for its supporters
May stick a little in the craw
Of dutious unionist-extorters ;
And if they sock you in the eye
They’ll do it with a tender sigh.
For the new kept-Gestapo party
Of Lazaruses fresh to fable
Growing prosperous and hearty
On crumbs wrenched from the poor-
man’s table
Are only cruel to be kind
To someone whom they have in
mind.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T’M told that proper treatment will
-*■ cure almost anything, but I can’t
help feeling that medical science is going
to have rather an uphill task curing my
friend Longwave’s insomnia. It appears
that he walks in his sleep, and his som-
nambulistic wanderings invariably lead
him to the medicine-chest from which
he doses himself with benzedrine and
returns to bed and another sleepless
night.—“Jasby.” . / ;
“Sister Ellell”: About to syringe a
young lad’s ears, I thought I had better
explain that it wouldn’t hurt; it would
just be a “queer feeling.” “In fact,” I
added, “it will be like Niagara in your
ear.” “Dunno Niagara,” he averred.
“Haven’t you ever heard about it?” I
asked. He looked vague, and then light
dawned —“Waterfall?” he ventured. I
proceeded with the treatment and after
a while I asked, “Well, is it like
Niagara?” “Dunno,” he said. “I’ve
never seen it!”
♦♦♦
“Spoke”: The silver-birch is a lovely
tree, and one can imagine how beautiful
a street lined with silver-birches in a city
would look in the autumn when the
leaves turn ; even better in the winter
when the leaves fall and the shops and
buildings can be seen through the deli-
cate tracery bn the leafless
and again in the spring when the tree
passes through all the stages of rejuvena-
tion from bud to young leaf and blos-
som. But there ain’t going to be no silver-
birches in Bourke-street, Melbourne. The
proposal has been knocked on the head
by the experts —the roots might get into
the drains, though the roots of the desert-
ashes don’t seem to get into the drains
in Collins-street, which is beloved for its
umbrageous beauty. Moreover, the
trunks would overcrowd the Bourke-street
pavements, though they don’t overcrowd
the Collins-street pavements, which are
no wider—in fact, they provide oases for
rest and shelter. However, the experts
have spoken, and who am I to complain?
❖ ❖
“Melbn”: A few years ago Churchill-
tanks were the favorite Christmas toys ;
now it’s space-men. I asked a couple
of kids the funny little figures were.
“Them,” they said. “They’re space-
men.” “What, from Mars?” I asked.
“No,” said one. “From Myer’s.”
“Arthur R.”: Across the letter “B”
printed in the white stick-fast favored by
the Commos in their fence-defacing cam-
paign against the Prime Minister was
pencilled a neat little item: “I love you,
Bob. Really I do.” But it wasn’t the
P.M. to whom the girl was publicly
expressing her devotion. Later that after-
noon, in a boyish scrawl underneath were
the words. “Goodo, Eva, darling! See
you tonight—Bob.”
❖ ***
“Ah Lee”: Teamwork in the Navy!
The fo’c’sle division was marching aft
to take up its position for Sunday
Divisions. Its divisional-officer, a lieuten-
ant with a voice like an R.S.M. and
proud of it, got the division in place,
facing inboard and stood them at ease.
Preparatory to making his inspection
before reporting to the commander he
yelled, “’Shun!” whereupon his den-
tures described a parabola through the
air, to be neatly fielded by a young A.B.
in the rear rank. Lieutenant Jones car-
ried on with his inspection, and as he
passed the nimble-fingered A.B his
dentures were slipped into his han
without the flicker of an eyelid.
“Desk-bound Airman”: Nice people
at Goulburn (B. 11/11/’53)7 In the
winter of 1944 we had orders to break-
up our dive-bomber squadron in Dutch
New Guinea and fly the planes to
Laverton (Vic.). A pleasant journey down
the east coast ended when the weather
closed in just after leaving Sydney and
the eight or nine Vultee Vengeances put
down on the small aerodrome at Goul-
burn. The weather was
so foul that we stayed
for a week. We were
overwhelmed with hos-
pitality and kindness.
We were put up at
several hotels and on our
last night went to a
right-royal party. Some
of us, arriving home
late, found the hotel
door locked and called
for help from a police-
man. He took us to the
back door, put his 15
stone against it and
forced it open. We
thanked him and made
our way through the
kitchen to the first floor
to go to bed, but
couldn’t find the room.
We poked about for a while and then
found we had busted into the wrong
hotel. We sneaked out very quietly and
left Goulburn the next day. I’ll always
have a soft spot for Goulburn.
“Doric”: “Villefair’s” matron (B.
25/11 / ’53) who was undecided how to
take a youth’s wolf-call reminds me. A
lady, going away for a holiday alone, said
to her bosom-friend, “If lohn [her hus-
band] asks you to go to the theatre, I
do hope you will accept.” The friend
was not at all pleased. “I hate to think
that I’ve reached the age when I can be
trusted,” she confided to me.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Cine Ma”: “Kombali” (B. 2/12/’53)
says that films can and do make crooks
and cites in proof the fact that scores
of homes and shops had their locks
forced in precisely the same way as a
crook did it in a movie and that most of
the burglars proved to be first offenders.
The assumption here is that the urge to
steal was implanted by looking at the
film. “Kombali” might just as
reasonably assert that the urge to work
is implanted in the hundreds of citizens
who spend their day watching the exca-
vators at work digging foundations for
a city building. There are the poten-
tialities for almost everything in every
“Sh-sh-shh !"
human being—some become artists, some
become murderers; some don’t develop
any of the potentialities and stay ordinary
individuals.
“Flat 2”: Lip-curling is not the only
lost art practised by characters in Vic-
torian novels (B. 2/12/’53). In a romance
of the 1860’s entitled Fatherless Fanny
I came across the following: “They saw
his wildly staring eyes as he cast them
around the room.” “Lord Somerton’s eye
reproved him so that he merely bowed
and left the room.” “He waved his hand
with an air of dignity that immediately
awed the rude object of his resentment.”
“With a dignity truly irresistible he
waved his hand.” “The bishop com-
manded silence with a wave of his hand.”
The only rude object of my resentment
I have tried to awe with a wave of my
hand—my daughter—merely hopped out
of the way and continued to be rude.
♦> *
“Chink”; Publicity given recently to
fruit-barrows reminds me of my old
friend Hock Coy, whose Oriental habit
it was to park his handcart outside and
himself inside a wine joint at the top end
of the town. Subsequently, after a reso-
lute session with pinkie, he would resume
his place in the shafts and eddy down
Main-street in the direction of his camp.
On one such occasion a jesting cop
threatened Coy with arrest for being
“drunk while in charge of a vehicle.” Was
the old Chinaman upset? Not a bit.
“Pleecyman,” he said, “you catchem
dliver —me horsey” ; and, getting a firmer
grip of the shafts, he zigzagged on his
homeward way.
£<■ »
“Spasebo”: Writers, poets and play-
wrights in Communist-controlled East
Germany are said to be worried about
their love-scenes, having
discovered that Com-
munist rules ordain that
kisses must lead to volun-
tary increases in produc-
tion (of what, not stated),
expressions of affection
must spur lovers to
patriotic deeds and the shy
exaltation of love must
alternate with gratitude to
the Communist Govern-
ment for price-cuts to con-
sumers. I can’t see much
wrong with this; it’s only
saying that love should act
as an inspiration, and the
only important thing is the
direction of the inspira-
tion. In a capitalist society
love inspires the young
man to work to get the
little woman a refrigerator
or a vacuum-cleaner. In a
collectivist; society love
should naturally start
thoughts of factories and
bulldozers for the good of
the many, not of the indi-
vidual damsel. I fully ad-
mit that it would be diffi-
cult to work this motive
into a play like “Hamlet”
or “Othello” without mak-
ing it look silly, but it
could be worked into the
average Hollywood sex-
film and nobody would
notice any difference.
“Baker”; My surname is one that
simply shrieks for the nickname of
“Doughie,” my Christian-name a horror
I’ve tried to live down. But, strangely,
only one person ever gave me the
obvious handle. He first tried it at
school, but it failed to get popular sup-
port. Other nicknames fell upon me,
some to last while they were topical and
one to stick right up to date ; to Chicker,
however, I was always “Doughie.”
Through the compulsory-cadet scheme
right up to the final camp with the
Militia he tried valiantly to get a
seconder, but years later, when a voice
hailed from the crowd at the show, I knew
instantly who, alone, would call me
“Doughie.” Then, last polling-day, I
recognised the clerk poring over the roll
He looked up. I grinned. “Remember
Dou” 1 began. “Well! ” he exclaimed.
“How are you, Harold?” Grrr!
❖ ❖
“Columba”: Lord Frederic Hamilton’s
account of the broad Scotch coming from
a Russian priest (B. 11/11/ ’53) recalls
the convulsions of my Masonic male
when he remembers the candidate, a
Greek cafe-proprietor, nervously repeat-
ing some ritual after the Master, whose
Glaswegian tongue is almost unintellig
ible,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Yair”: A bit puzzling was the order
of the woman in the park, as she doled
out fruit to her youngsters: “There’s a
banana; sit down quietly and eat it.”
A little later: “There’s a peach ; get onto
your feet and eat it quickly.” Gradually
I worked it out; Bananas have no juice,
so the kids were encouraged to relax and
chew well; peaches had to be eaten from
a vertical position, with body inclined
well forward and no undue time spent
in dribbling.
* ♦> ❖
“Wandana”: An old acquaintance
from up Thursday Island way came to
Tasmania a little time back H.M.A.S.
Fantome, built at Inverness (Scotland)
over half a century ago. When I knew
her she looked very smart; she was
engaged on survey-duty in Torres Strait
waters in between the two wars. An
iron ship, Fantome was given a sheath-
ing of wood from the waterline down to
protect her from mishaps among the
coral reefs. Now dropped down a little
in the social scale, she carts limestone
from Beauty Point to Bell Bay, on the
Tamar, where the aluminium works are,
Fantome held quite a soft spot in the
hearts of T.I. folk; her appearance in
the harbor was generally the signal for
social activities to be set moving.
* * *
“Eve”: Passing a kiosk in a Sydney
arcade, one character jabbed a thumb at
a card displaying name-disks. Wording
of the placard is: “Why lose your dog?”
Said this fellow, loudly and disgustedly,
“If they could only see our thieving,
howling, bitch-chasing nuisance, they’d
soon stop asking that damn-fool ques-
tion!” Point is, how can we?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mackville”: Years ago the Sydney
Water Board brought a water-main
partly down our street; recently it started
from the other end and ran a main up.
It wasn’t until the ends drew level that
somebody realised that the mains were
on opposite sides of the road. Anyone
wondering how such a thing could hap-
pen should take a peek at the frieze in-
side the Water Board building. There,
in bas-relief, are lifesize figures depicting
the works carried out by employees of
the board. Reading from left to right, a
man is (a) swinging a pick ; ( b ) boodling
the muck out with a shovel; (c) cutting
rock with a pneumatic jack-pick. Then
comes the bloke planning it all on a
drawing-board. And finally the surveyor
setting the job out with a theodolite.
REASSEMBLED RHYMES
Sprinkle, sprinkle, little shower!
Here I’ll stay for half an hour,
Never heeding howls of wrath.
Like a statue in the bath.
Daphne was a parlormaid, Daphne was
a freak; . t
Daphne came to our house and didn t
stay a week.
She was the perfect parlormaid; she
never can recur.
Alas! we knew that none of us was good
enough for her.
Cluck, cluck, roast fowl, have you any
wings ?
Yes sir, yes sir, plump and tender things ;
One for the daughter, and one for the
wife.
But none for the gentleman that wields
the carving-knife!
n.s.w.
RUTH BEDFORD.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Now in New Zealand, all set to shift
across-Tasman, Douglas Fleming has the
job of organising the whole 8.8. C. cover-
age of the Royal tour. This little chore
will take in itineraries, travel-booking,
accommodation and local transport for
the 8.8. C. reporting-team. But Flem-
ing’s biggest task will be communications
—he is responsible for channelling to
London, thence the world, by the best
and quickest means available, all reports
in cable and in voice from the 8.8.C.’s
announcers. He, however, knows a
wrinkle or two of that game, having
planned the coverage of the Royal tour
of Canada in 1951, and, more recently,
the Queen Mother’s visit to Southern
Rhodesia. An Army man, he started
War II in the London Scottish Regi-
men! and finished it a major in the Royal
Engineers. For the past two years he’s
been with the 8.8.C.’s Outside Broad-
casts department. He’ll get to know the
meaning of one of the qualifying words
in that title before he’s through with
Australia’s outside spaces,
• •
Retiring to his golf, Horace Herbert
(of the nutcracker phiz pictured here-
with) has been with Union Trustees for
more than 30 years. Queensland manager
since 1938, he built up solid connections
from Townsville to Toowoomba and west
to Charleville. New Zealand produced
him (1887), Sydney University sent him
TRUSTEER TO GOLF
on with first-class honors in economics.
He was first with the Bank of N.S.W.,
later financial-manager of David Jones,
and at 34 became assistant-manager in
Queensland of his present concern.
Director of a string of companies, out of
office he has presided, at different times,
over the Queensland Taxpayers’ Associa-
tion, the R.A.C.Q. and the Brisbane Club.
C. A. Bradfield, now managing in Mel-
bourne, shifts to Brisbane.
' • •
From A.B. to g.-m.—John Faulkner,
now managerial skipper of Hermon
Slade’s, the nylon, resin, plastics and
chemical manufacturers, of Homebush,
Sydney. Aboard cruiser Canberra early
in War 11, Faulkner, then an anti-aircraft
gunner, was accidentally dropped in a
lifeboat from near the upper-deck. Ob-
ject of the drill was a man gone over-
board at night in the Indian Ocean.
Faulkner’s back was hurt, and he ended
up in Randwick Hospital. There Hermon
Slade paid a visit to a naval-rating friend,
complete with half a dozen of the best.
Friend did not drink, but Faulkner, in
the next bed, ensured the gift was not
wasted. From that chance encounter
grew a mutual respect and friendship,
culminating in the ex-A.B.’s present post.
Faulkner was a young advertising-man
with Melbourne “Argus” before he
donned bell-bottoms.
• •
Author Russell Braddon, who left
Australia in 1950 with the telepathic
Piddingtons, one of whom he met in
Changi jail, is back in Melbourne, hav-
ing made himself into a successful writer
in London, where over a million copies
of books by top-rank Australian authors
were sold last year. Braddon’s own
latest book, coming out in April, is Those
in Peril, about a naval deserter. Braddon
contributed the article on Australian
slanguage to the anthology Sunburnt
Country, which the Society of Australian
Writers in London presented to the
Queen. The book has almost sold out
its first edition of 20,000.
Another armless artist has been dis-
covered by the Melbourne “Herald”
open-air art-show—Athol Thompson, a
State Prices Branch clerk whose arms
were amputated above the elbows after
he had survived a 5000-volt shock when
a boy of eight. He got no compensation
—he was trespassing on a neighbor’s
roof when the accident happened—but
he made his own. With the aid of gad-
gets he himself invented he manages to
mow his lawn, paint his house and dig
his garden. In his office he dials a phone-
number with a pencil held between his
teeth, throws the receiver onto his
shoulder also with his teeth, and with a
dexterous muscular movement conveys it
to his ear. He took to painting a few
years ago and has exhibited water-
colors.
• •
“Derwent”: There was a peculiar
turn of fortune’s wheel in the granting
to Arthur Drysdale of the licence for
the new Tatt.’s (B. 16/12/’53). When the
original Tatt.’s moved to Tasmania,
George Adams put up a scheme to in
demnify the Bank of Van Diemen’s Land
from its liabilities, and as a major prize
offered Hadley’s old-established Hobart
Hotel, which was one of the bank’s
assets. The present owner of Hadley’s
is Arthur Drysdale, and the negotiations
for the Tatt.’s licence were conducted in
the same building which Adams offered
as the big prize.
• •
Builder succeeds builder as Lud Mayor
of Perth. The new incumbent, former
Councillor James Murray, in the City
Council since 1946, was acting-L.M.
when his predecessor was laid-up for
six weeks last year with a broken arm,
and has been a member of several com-
mittees, among them the building com-
mittee, chairman. One-time president of
the Westralian Builders’ Guild, Murray
has represented that body on the State
Builders’ Registration Board since 1937.
He’ll now concentrate on Perth’s build-
ing problems and provision of more
recreational areas. The retiring L.M.,
knight and master-builder Joe Totter-
dell, was returning-officer.
• o
Presented hereunder by Binder (very faith-
fully), Laurence Gilliam, the 8.8. C. producer
of that “Queen’s Journey” broadcast (B.
9/12/’53). A Cambridge man, with a pipe,
browny wavy hair and eyes that widen and
narrow alternately with the backing of an
obviously alert intelligence, Gilliam produced
the second of all the 8.8. C. score of Christmas
Day broadcasts; his latest, this week, is the
biggest thing he —or anyone else in radio —has
so far attempted.
Gilliam started in radio as a journalist on
the “Radio Times,” which was launched
because the British Press would not give the
8.8. C. free advertising of its programmes.
Now the corporation’s paper, with some eight
million readers, has one of the biggest circula-
tions of any weekly in the world.
In War II Gilliam was given charge of
the 8.8. C. war-reporting unit controlling
the correspondents who might send in their
material from a battleship bombarding the
Philippines or from a dugout before Monte
Cassino. A few hours after the landing on
Normandy Gilliam had a transmitter set up on
the beach, with men like Chester Wilmot (his
Christmas Day narrator) rushing up in a jeep
producer Prom London
and delivering to armchairs in England hot
news of a battle still in progress a few miles
inland.
A man used to snapping-up opportunities
and getting them onto tape, Gilliam on the
way to Australia recorded Kikuyu tribesmen
in a war-dance, and another sort of dance in
Melbourne —bookies calling the odds at
Flemington on Cup Day. Being, as he is, in
charge of all 8.8. C. features, he’ll work these
related sounds into a programme when, after
the coming epic, he returns to London.
Due to fly from Sydney to Melbourne
on Christmas Day, representing N.S.W.
as umpire at the Davis Cup volleying on
the last days of this month, William
Tasker, seen here in characteristic pose.
Born at Seymour (Vic.) at the turn of
the century. Bill, having lofty views on
tennis, gave his racquet away early in
the game and mounted the rostrum.
UMPIRE TO MELBOURNE
From up there for the past 30-odd years,
he has watched the game develop to its
present proportions of popularity. Vice-
president of the N.S.W. Umpires’ Asso-
ciation for 20 years, he has umpired
matches in England, Germany, Belgium
and the U.S. (Forrest Hills), as well as the
Seixas (U.S.)-Gardini (Italy) battle last
year. He reckons the greatest tennis he’s
seen in all that time was when Sedgman
took on Seixas in Sydney in 1951
umpired by Bill. When not engaged in
the onerous (and honorary) duties of
calling the tune, Bill earns his crust among
the volts at Bunnerong. He likes Lewis
Hoad for Wimbledon next year.
• •
The Victorian Assembly followed a
precedent that hadn’t been called on since
1915 when it summoned Sir Charles Lowe
to the bar of the House to receive an
address of appreciation for services
rendered as Administrator and Acting
Chief-Justice during the absence of Sir
Dallas Brooks. Justice Cussen followed
the mace and the Sergeant-at-arms on
the previous occasion, to be thanked for
consolidating the State’s statute laws.
• •
“Uramao”: One of the vacancies in
the New Zealand Supreme Court caused
by the deaths of Chief Justice Humphrey
O’Leary and Judge Northcroft will be
filled by a youngster as judges usually
go. G. I. McGregor, Crown Prosecutor
at Palmerston North, is a 54-year-old
Bachelor of Arts and Master of Laws.
Born at Akaroa, polished at Otago Uni-
versity, he was admitted to the Bar in
1921 and has practised at Palmerston
North ever since.
• e
A shuffle in the vice-regal household
puts Lieut.-Colonel I. J. Hooker (Comp-
troller to the G.-G.) into the secretaryship
of the Joint War Production Committee ;
Lieut.-Commander J. Griffin (A.D.C. to
the G.-G.), Comptroller. Recently of
Northern Territory Command, Hooker
was a militia captain when the late
shindy began, hopped into the A.1.F.,
shipped in command of a sig. outfit (the
first active-service unit to leave Brisbane
for foreign parts in that stoush), and was
left in Crete when that spot was aban-
doned. A few weeks afterwards he
bobbed up in Alexandria. Griffin has a
remarkably comprehensive services
record. He began War II in the A.1.F.,
but in 1943 shifted to the R.A.A.F., and
was with a night-fighter squadron in
England at the finish. Adelaide and
Sydney Universities had him for the next
three years, studying aeronautical engin-
eering, after which the sea called. Again
versatility was the keynote—in destroyer
Warramunga off Korea; then a change
to naval aviation, in which science, after
U.K. course, he rose to be senior-
observer with an R.A.N. carrier-
squadron.
• •
Taken over Eastern Command from
Royal-tour director Berryman, Lieut.-
General Eric Woodward started as a
Lighthorseman, exchanged saddle for
R.A.A.F. cockpit, wearing pilot’s wings—
the only Australian general entitled to
wear ’em. In War II he held down
several important administrative posts,
ranging from the Middle East to the
Pacific. He was with Berryman at Bardia
and Tobruk, and was with him again at
the end, at Morotai.
Few men know more of the Victorian
State Electricity Commission than H. S.
Kilfoyle, who retired the other day after
more than 30 years with the commission.
Its first accountant, and chief-accountant
since 1930, he’s seen the outfit’s coffers
swell till they now represent a capital
investment of over £l5O million, with an
annual revenue of some £2O million.
One-time president of the Australian
Institute of Cost Accountants, Kilfoyle
worked hard as a councillor
of the institute.
• •
“A. Chemess”: For over sixty years
I have read The Bulletin and have en-
joyed the work of many famous and
eminent artists whose cartoons and joke-
blocks have appeared in its pages—from
Phil May, Livingston Hopkins, Alf Vin-
cent, Will Dyson, David Low and many
others up to the present day. There is
one to whom “I dips me lid” and whom
I consider to be the greatest of them all.
For sound draughtsmanship (particularly
of animals), composition, topicality,
humor and portraiture, consistently main-
tained at a high level over many years,
I hand the palm to Ted Scorfield ; and
lang may his lum reek!
• •
Arthur Irwin (Hindered herewith)
started as a rodman in a construction-
team on the Canadian Northern Rail-
way. Today he propels his solid and
well-dressed frame under the title of
Canadian High Commissioner to Aus-
tralia. The sometime railwayman has
travelled far, both geographically and
professionally, in the time between those
appointments. Travel began when he
shipped off to France, artilleryman in
War I; he was back that way towards
the end of War 11, in the somewhat more
exalted capacity of delegate to the Brit-
ish Commonwealth Conference in Lon-
don ; and again, in 1948, in Geneva, his
country’s representative to the U.N.
Conference on Freedom of Information.
On this subject he’d like to see a much
greater exchange of information and
ideas between Canada and Australia,
COMMISSIONER FROM CANADA
and means to do something about it.
There speaks the experienced newspaper-
man, which, present title notwithstanding,
Irwin will always be, in spirit anyway.
He’s had a tidy share of the practical
side of the inky game —reporter on the
Toronto “Mail,” later editorial-writer on
that city’s “Globe,” and, between 1945-
50, editor of “Maclean’s Magazine.”
His wife is a noted Canadian poetess,
better known as P. K. Page.
• •
Into the Silence;
At 79, in Adelaide, Dudley Hayward, chair-
man of directors of John Martin and Co.
(one of the city’s big general stores), and
known as the G.O.M. of the Australian retail-
trade. In his more than half-century of direct-
ing it Martin’s grew till, when rebuilt in the
’thirties, it became one of the largest stores
of its kind in Australia. Both sons are joint
managing-directors of the company.
In Sydney, at 65, Arnold Hugh Garnsey,
City Engineer. With the City Council for just
on 50 years, he came up through the custom-
ary draftsman and surveying posts to, in 1929,
his top appointment. He drew up the plan
for the City of Sydney after appointment as
Town Planner in 1947, as well as remodelling-
and housing-schemes for Woolloomooloo, Pad-
dington and Surry Hills. Last year Adelaide
called on him for help in roadway develop-
ment. Solid war service included lieutenantcy
in the 2nd Pioneer Battalion in War I, and in
War II colonelcy with the Royal Australian
Engineers in New Guinea.
At Gisborne (N.Z.), at 57, Hamuera
Ngarimu, a leader of the Ngatiporou tribe, and
father of Lieut. Ngarimu, who won the Victoria
Cross in World War 11. A product of Te
Aute College, Hamuera was prominent in
Maori affairs, especially in connection with
agriculture. He was one of the first Maori
students at Hawkesbury College, N.S.W.


YOU CANT WIN!


ABORIGINALITIES
A MYSTERY baffling pigeon-men is
the disappearance of thousands of
homing-birds over the last few months in
races between the mainland and Tas-
mania. Of 85 released at Mentone for
the Melbourne-to-Launceston race on
December 6 only one completed the
journey; all the others disappeared. Be-
fore that, too, there were other unac-
countable failures to return to the loft,
Radioactive particles in the air have
been suggested as a cause, but that has
not been verified. Possibly the birds
were unable to combat the strong winds
and were carried east with no hope of
survival. One fancier considers that,
sensing disaster, the pigeons did not
attempt to make the sea-crossing over
Bass Strait and lost themselves inland.
There is still a lot to learn about the
habits and instincts of homers, how-
ever, and, though there is little chance
of the missing birds turning up in num-
bers after such a delay, odd ones may
still be discovered here and there—
“O’Johimo.”
* * * *
“Seahawk”: Dredges removing river-
silt often bring up some curious objects,
Fish and crabs sometimes survive the
passage through the powerful centrifugal-
pumps and are precipitated into the
“ I'd prefer you to put those screws in with a smaller hammer"
hoppers, to be snared by a deckhand with
a net. Since the war various parts of
the Brisbane River have yielded a mixed
harvest, including unexploded shells,
aeroplane parts, U.S. Naval cutlery and
an infinite variety of ironware. One odd
catch was the baby crocodile lately
dredged up at one of the wharves. It
was dead and badly battered, but other-
wise complete, and measured between
3ft, and 4ft. Since Brisbane is well to
the south of the saurians’ limits, the only
explanation appears to be the fact that a
ship carrying zoological specimens had
berthed at the wharf some days previ-
ously. Possibly the croc, had died and
been dumped overboard.
* * * *
In S.A., and probably in
other parts of Australia, are tracts of
soil called “Bay of Biscay.” It’s soil
excellent for growing things, but very
treacherous to build on. Any clues as
to the origin of the name? Could it stem
from the unstable and treacherous habits
of its namesake?
* * *
“Riverine”; The rural
auction-sales of today would be
pretty tame affairs to the “clear-
ing sales” of 1915, “on
account of Mr. J. Stumpjump,
who has joined the A.1.F.”
There were crowds then,
brought not only by the hope
of a bargain but by the feeling
that it would be slightly un-
patriotic, or possibly treason-
ous, to stay away. Luncheon,
the bills announced, would be
provided by the local Red Cross
—huge clothes-baskets of hefty
sandwiches, great cartwheels of
cakes and kerosene-tins of tea
from a copper that never went
off the boil. “Refreshments also
provided” meant kegs behind a
trestle-table in a corner of the
barn. They paid dividends at
the end of a long, hot afternoon,
when the perspiring auctioneer
came to the “sundries” —those
odd boxes and tins of nails,
bolts, screws, rusty machinery-
parts and so forth that are
always around a farm. That’s
when the bidding got really
keen, and many a buyer next
day found himself wondering
just how he was going to
explain to Mum that he’d paid 25-bob for
an assortment of junk no different from
the dozen or so boxes of similar rub-
bish already in his own barn.
* ♦ * *
“8.A.K.”: Firing a shot into the
ground to make bunnies “freeze” in their
squats (B. 2/12/’53) may be effective
where they’ve seldom been disturbed by
man or dog, but old Bucktooth can catch
on very quickly. Most scrub-bred
bunnies rely on their natural camouflage
to a large extent, but, aware that they’re
spotted, they’ll often make a break for
it. A colony we once came upon stayed-
put with a well-trained beagle fairly
howling in their ears; in fact, they some-
times refused to budge when the hound
thrashed the bush with a front paw.
Next time we went there we noticed the
change. Any sitters we encountered
were ones we found ourselves, and the
moment a dog showed up, or sound of
a shot came from a distant member of
the party, bunny was hoofing it for
home. But the most tantalising bunnies
I ever cursed were in Burragorang
Yalley (N.S.W.). We?d had no meat for
a week , the hills were swarming with
rabbits, but our rifle wasn’t within yards
of accuracy beyond 20 paces. Stalking
that underground-mutton was like trying
to catch a cunning pony with a bridle in
your hand—the distance between grew
neither less nor greater. And if there
was one thing that wouldn t make them
sit up it was the sound of a shot.
*,• • • •
“Sur Cingle”: When I open fire on a
patch of rabbits over here in S.A. the
bunnies stampede so effectively that
they’ve been mistaken for a duststorm
blowing down from the Centre. Rabbits
hare across the flats, fling themselves
despairingly over cliffs, scramble up
gum-trees and dive madly into the
deepest creeks. There must be a reason.
Probably our rabbits have learned that
when a bloke in these parts picks up a
gun he means business.
“I said smell—not inhale!"
“Elies”: Is the gambling Papuan as
sensitive as “Mero” (B. 18/11/’53) be-
lieves? Stationed 30 miles from Port
Moresby, I was entertaining a patrol-
officer from that centre, when he pro-
duced a wrist-watch on which my name
and Army number were engraved. It
was one I had lent to a neighbor some
months before when his own was being
repaired in Sydney. The p.-o. had found
it on the wrist of one of the boys of the
Port Moresby “labor-line,” and as it
was obviously not of the trade-store
variety, he had investigated further. The
boy was the last of a line of gamblers
through whose hands it had passed since
my neighbor’s cook had pinched it. The
line had contained several police-boys,
too.
* ♦ # *
“H.C.8.”: I wonder if
any of the New Guinea
Edward VIII pennies are
still in circulation. It is 15
years since I saw my first —•
and only—one. As I recall
it, the coin had a hole
through the centre, was in-
scribed E.R.1., dated 1936,
and, as though prophesying
the future, also bore the
initials of King George VI.
Throughout the Empire a
number of coins were struck
during the short reign of
Edward VIII, but the New
Guinea penny was the only
one that came into circula-
tion ; it’s now probably a
valued collector’s - piece.
Apropos, a philatelist friend
of mine is extremely proud
of a particular page in his
stamp-album; in the place
of honor, side by side, are
two penny-stamps ; one bears
the profile of Edward VIII,
the other pictures the late
George VI. Clearly post-
marked across both is “The
Brothers.” Back in ’37 the
enthusiast had conceived the idea of
placing the two stamps on an envelope
and forwarding to the postmaster at the
N.S.W. town called The Brothers, with
the request for the service which the
P.M.G. extends to philatelists.
"Tim Burr”; Bulk for bulk, our moun*
tain-ash and karri are the fastest-growing
of all forest giants. The absorption of
soil-water by these big eucalypts when
they really get growing is enormous, and
may reach several tons daily by trees of
over 100 ft. About 90 p.c. of this daily
intake is concurrently transpired as water-
vapor through the leaves, hence the value
of timber-forests as rain-producers. The
soil-water, which contains some 16 or
80 chemica l elements in weak solution,
is conve Y ed to the tree-top by root-pres-
sure ’ capillary-attraction and suction
throu 8 h appropriate cells in the heart-
wood > or xylem. In the leaves the chemi-
c.als combine with carbon-dioxide in solu-
tion ( the latter being absorbed as a gas
from the atmosphere) and form the basis
°/ the tree ’ s food * The solution, as
“ sa P>” then passes down rihe tree to the
roots by way of the sap-wood, or phloem,
and en route is distributed through the
various living tissues, including the very
important cambium, or construction-cells,
which are responsible for the production
of all the tree’s main or secondary struc-
ture. About 500 parts of water pass
through the tree for one part of structural
matter produced.
♦ * * ♦
Sheep and Shearers
PROFESSOR PAUL LINK, of Argen-
tina, asks (B. 25/ll/’53) for sheep-
yarns from this country, and I can’t
help wondering what he will get.
Will he learn of jumbucks you can’t
kill with an axe, or hardy Merinos that
live for six months on nothing but salt
and water? Or will he hear of common
blighters like mine that eat every day
and die on the flimsiest pretext?
Will someone send him a shining picture
of the galloping sheepman who spurns
the use of a dog, or will he get an eyeful
of a jaded figure in khaki-drill trailing
in a dust-cloud? Should I be drawn,
would he want to know the words that
start my mong into action, or the blister-
ing stream that occasionally stops him
doing the wrong thing?
Would he want to know about foot-
rot, fluke, flies, worms, ticks and shearers?
And have it explained that, though the
C.S.I.R.O. has provided lengthy and con-
tinuous prevention-or-cure formulae for
most diseases, for shearers there is as
yet no known treatment?
A shearer, the professor should be in-
formed, is a two-legged problem, who —
except for frequent intervals for filling-
up his form —spends the day growling at
sheep for £7 6s, a hundred.
At shearing-time, sheep are always too
heavy, too full, too fat, too .hollow, too
big, too small, too wrinkled, too sticky
on the points or have “too many flamin’
legs.” This season, after several tries
with good and better lines of jumbucks,
I thought I’d surely found the answer
when I brought in a draft of smallish,
plain-bodied, easy-cutting Corriedale
lambs. But still the grumbling continued.
“What’s the matter with ’em?” I chal-
lenged the ringer desperately.
“Them!” he snorted. “Hell, I tell y’
there ain’t enough of ’em, that’s what;
the blasted things 1”
Betcha.
THE WINDMILL
Is it always noon where the windmill whirls?
Ever a rainless spring?
Out of the distance a duststorm swirls
And the trees stand suffering,
Drooping in grey disheartened ranks.
I know that, for my part,
It is always noon when the windmill clanks
Meridian of the heart.
Round and around, round and around,
Goes the gaunt windmill,
Its galloping shadow sweeping the ground
Though the sun is standing still.
No, the skies stand still but the sun moves on,
And now he is out of sight:
The lights may switch on in Babylon,
Here it is desert night.
Oh the kon-klang-klink and the dell-dang-dong
And the eerie accompaniment,
The desolate cry in the windmill’s song
To a northerly, almost spent.
An evil wind. It is just as well
I can quarry my faith from doubt:
It is not drought, just a long dry spell,
It must not be a drought.
Is it always noon when the windmill goes
Silent, ceases to sway?
(The lower paddock is loud with crows,
Were not there yesterday.)
Remember how feed grew out of hand,
The cocksfoot and the clover,
With flocks of the land on the fat of the land
When the last dry spell was over?
Round and around, round and around
The high arms hurry again.
Black cloud-shadows are blotching the ground.
Surely I smell the rain.
Lord, break the silence with thunder-rolls,
Let mercy loose in a spate
On suffering acres and anguished souls
Before it be too late.
VIC *
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


TT must be all-out 35 years since I first
saw those lines from “What I Live
For,” the authorship of which was estab-
lished in the Service Department (B.
18/11/’53). They used to hurl a chal-
lenge at the world from the front page of
our little local rag; “For the cause that
lacks assistance. For the wrongs that
need resistance. For the future in the
distance. And the good that we can do
—that’s Biz.” “The Biz” was a free
advertising-sheet born in Fairfield
(N.S.W.) and covering the adjacent dis-
tricts —an area that had previously been
served by the “Cumberland Argus and
Fruitgrowers’ Advocate.” The lofty
ideals flaunted by “The Biz” did not im-
press the “Argus”—with the lordly con-
tempt of a priced newspaper it referred
to a “certain little free dodger,” and
brought the little-’un in with all the bel-
ligerence of a bantam-rooster. The
original editors of both publications have
long since gone to their reward, so it is
with no partisan spirit I note that “The
Biz” is now a large-sheeted newspaper
costing tuppence a time, while the
“Argus” has become a free advertising-
sheet approximately the size of* the
original little spitfire.—“Fairf.”
* * * *
“Narrin”: It’s not so much “the pe-
culiar disposition of the kidney and
genital ducts” that forces Mum ’roo to
transfer Joey to the pouch at a very
premature age (B. 25 /11 / ’53). The mar-
supials are essentially animals that made
a grab for a higher rung of the evolu-
tionary ladder and missed. The reptiles
had perfected the lower rung: an egg
which, unlike those of the fish or the
amphibian, could stay alive out of water,
and which contained ample yolk for the
development of the embryo. The more
conservative of the early mammals, now
represented only by the platypus and
Tachyglossus, stuck to the egg with its
well-filled tucker-bag. The radicals, how-
ever, went in for the modern mammalian
egg, with its minimum of yolk. The
“And pity help the mug who buys it!”
marsupials, the first of these revolution-
aries, failed to develop a placental con-
nection between mother and embryo.
Therefore Joey ’roo just has to be born
as soon as his tiny tucker-supply runs
out. As this occurs at such a premature
stage, Joey needs such devices as the
pouch and the automatic food-pump to
keep him alive.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Like “Salmon Gums” (B.
18/11 /’53), I’ve seen ibis-rookeries estab-
lished in trees, but I don’t think that is
the habitual home of the nestlings. More
frequently the ibis nests on a substantial
platform of reeds built a little above
water-level. Such ibis-nests as I have
observed in trees have been flimsy struc-
tures, and losses, both of eggs and young,
were high. Since the ibis, by its vast
numbers, has proved itself highly success-
ful in the struggle for survival, I’m con-
vinced that this wasteful tree-nesting is
due to some atavistic aberration in an
otherwise sensible bird.
* * * *
“G’Roper”: Contemplating the
meteorites in Perth Museum, it struck me
that maybe those storied swords of
antiquity allegedly capable of shearing
through iron armor were forged from
meteoritic metal. Perth has some won-
derful masses, all gathered from W.A.’s
wide plains. The largest is the Gundar-
ing meteorite, 2481 b. of beautiful nickel-
iron, highly malleable on one facet, which
has been sawn through to expose the
quality of the metal. Some lumps even
contain the carbon essential for the con-
verting of it into high-class steel. The
Milly Milly, found on a Murchison sheep-
station of that name, contains 8 p.c.
nickel, 91.2 p.c. iron and the rest carbon
in combined form, totalling 58ilb.
Another fine piece of nickel-iron came
from Mt. Doolan, nor’-west of Cool-
gardie. From the upper Gascoyne dis-
trict came the Kumerina meteorite, 1181 b.
of ferro-nickel. Actually, sufficient inter-
spacial iron has hailed down on Westralia
to have armed Caesar’s legions. A 60001 b.
lump will shortly be brought in, and it’s
believed a 100-ton mass may be un-
covered in a vast crater discovered
recently in the north.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Years ago two brothers
named Wellstead had a few thousand
acres of good country with a frontage to
Bremmer Bay, roughly halfway between
Albany and Hopetoun, on W.A.’s south
coast. They ran sheep, cattle and horses,
grew a few spuds, hunted where and
what they liked and lived like lords—•
bush lords. The place teemed with wild
life, and they had an armory that wouldn’t
have disgraced an English hunting-lodge.
And could they shoot! For long-dis-
tance shots they’d take careful aim say,
a second or two —but for snapshots,
whether rifle or gun, the act of firing was
instantaneous. Being young at the time,
I asked, like “Bellfield” (B. 25/11/ 53),
how they aimed so quickly, and was told,
of course, that they didn’t. They simply
fired at the object. To my next question
I got the exasperated reply: “Well, how
the blazes could a man miss?” Since
then I’ve learnt a lot, and I can assure
“B.” that snapshooters not only don’t
aim, they don’t close either eye. I’d
say that accuracy depended on the same
faculty that gave the abo. spearman his
unerring aim, but I can’t say what it is.
This I know. I’ve seen a lot of good
riflemen who could put a buffet where
they wanted it, snapshooting from the
shoulder. But I’ve never met one who
was worth a damn firing from the hip.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: All fox-terriers are killers,
of course, but Nellie, bestowed on us
when we arrived in the rural district,
had a positive bloodlust. She knocked-
off our Orpington rooster the first day,
followed it with two pullets, then secured
her reprieve by killing a brown snake,
From then on backyard poultry-farmers
came with demands for compensation,
But for a maternal apprehension that
more snakes might appear, Nellie would
have ceased to be one of the family,
"Would you mind if I joined yur?”
Dad took his troubles to the social club
and forum of his day —the Saturday-
night barber’s-shop. “She’ll kill any-
thing.” he declared. The district’s Ancient
lowered the local rag. “Not anything,
he corrected. “Any living thing up to
twice her size,” Dad insisted. Tell you
what,” offered the old-’un sportingly,
“I’ll bet you a pipe I can bring a creature
smaller than her head and she won’t be
able to kill it.” The bet was made.
Nellie went with Dad the following
Saturday night. The Ancient produced
his entrant —not the small porcupine
Dad had expected, but an ordinary green
frog. Nellie attacked, was countered
with an ejaculation of slime which made
her so violently ill she lost all interest.
The old bloke was just selecting his
cherrywood when a marrow-freezing cry
came through the window out of which
the frog had been liberated. It was the
death-cry of the erstwhile victor—the
barber’s cat murdered him with no
trouble at all!
* ♦ * *
“Solitude”: We’d run out of meat, and
Seventyfiver produced a battered tin of
bully. “Found it at them forestry blokes’
camp,” he informed me. “They must’ve
left it behind las’ year. Be awright,
wouldn’t it?” The bully was nearly
finished when he sniffed his plate sus-
piciously and repeated the query.
“Dunno,” I returned; “anyway, we’ve
eaten it now.” “Yair, an’ I’ve et a lot
more’n you,” he frowned. “Tin o’ poison
meat’d just about kill a bloke, wouldn’t
it?” “Not you!” “Well, we’re a long
way from a vet. or anythin’, Sol, if we
did get crook.” I ignored the subject,
and in silence we washed our things,
smoked a while and turned in. It was
almost midnight when the alarm-clock
shattered our sleep, and I rolled over with
a grunt as Seventyfiver grabbed it. About
two hours later it went off again. “You
awright, Sol?” “Was,” I growled.
“Can’t you stop the damn’ thing?” He
fiddled with it, and again there was
sleep, till once more the din crashed
forth. “ ’Struth! ” I bawled, sitting up
ready for battle. “What’s the matter with
it?” “Aw, it’s that meat, Sol,” explained
the old coot soothingly. “Be awright
now, I reckon. Y’ see, I thought it’d be
a lot safer f’r a bloke t’ be woke up every
coupla hours, so he c’n make sure he’s
all right.”
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: “Ever noticed,” Mat
asked lazily, as we held up each side of
a veranda-post in Horsham. “Wimmen
ain’t satisfied just with a hat? No, they
have t’ have it decorated with sprays o’
flowers, or bunches o’ fruit, or bird’s-
feathers, or they do it with ribbons or
beads or somethin’. And the older they
are the more they go in f’r cadies all
covered up like a fruit-barrer down in
the city. They tell me a woman’ll just
about turn green if she sights another
woman with the same kind of lid. Y and
wonder howinell these hat-makers could
work it out so every flamin’ hat’s differ-
ent.” He fell silent, eyeing the female
headgear that went back and forth.
“Wonder where it started,” he went on.
“Must’ve had a beginning somewhere.”
“Aw, I dunno,” I offered ; “could have
been’ that St. Paul, y’ know. A bloke
was tellin’ me once this St. Paul ordered
the wimmen to wear hats t’ church.
Seems they never did till he came along.
Could be it started that way.” Mat
pondered this, then, “H’m. Well, if he
did and he had a missus an’ daughters i
bet he whipped the cat after. What about
a drink?”
* * * *
In Hume's Wake
ABOUT 130 years ago Hume crossed
the Divide in N.S.W., and drove on
through virgin country to the ’Bidgee and
beyond along a route not far removed
from that of the highway that now bears
his name. Today, the whole world is
represented in the gardens of the towns
along his track.
Oaks from two continents; poplars,
planes and elms dressed for summer,
delicate tracery of silver birches contrast-
ing with the deep, still green of Canadian
hemlocks, while copper beeches add a
soft glow with Japanese cherries, mag-
nolias and maples providing the high-
lights.
Hedges and smooth lawns enhance the
old-world effect, apple- and pear-trees in
blossom retain it, and you begin to
wonder if the doughty explorer would
recognise any of the country he opened
up. But clear of the townships the natives
take command again. As if to compen-
sate for its comparative lack of symmetry,
the bush rings with voices all its own.
When we pulled off the road a few miles
out of Mittagong we boiled the billy in a
setting out of which Hume could have
stepped. Coachies cracked in the under-
growth, a thrush piped to a nesting mate,
three kinds of honeyeaters chattered and
scolded in the top branches, rufous
whistlers flooded the clearing with song, a
pair of crimson rosellas flashed by—a
blood-red smear across the grey-green
page—while Bluey the Wren fussed about
the bracken and advised fowl 10 times his
weight to keep to their own side of his
boundary. Three native creepers—
clematis, sarsaparilla and red bean-
twined around the tea-tree, tiny wild
violets snuggled in the shade, and in the
damp patches red bottle-brushes held their
own against anything introduced; but
these were only the setting. The bird
voices gave the Australian stamp, as clear,
fresh and dominant as the tang of burn-
ing gumleaves.
Hume, a first-rate bushman, would still
recognise old friends.
Wippegong.
DAWN
Kneedeep in pollen, bees
Breathe their low songs of love.
From the brigalow a dove
Adds its mild threnodies.
The cloud on the plateau lifts
To prove that, after all,
It was no dreary pall
But a silver cope that drifts
In the honeyed breeze; and call
After call floats over blue
Lilies like stars dropped through,
Crowding the long lagoon.
With sound the dawn is rife
While sun bestrides the world,
His gonfalons unfurled
Proclaiming love and life.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


The Past and the Future
m
m
—Hiimnnrn SIS
■
m
-es
It was in Australia in 1858
that Sir Robert R. Torrens, of
South Australia, first thought
of “Torrens Title,” the ac-
cepted system of land registra-
tion in many countries to-day.
/j USTRALIANS have played
_—'Ar a prominent part in invent-
ing- and perfecting many of the
things which have proved so im-
portant in the development of our
nation.
This bank, too, was founded, in the
early days, to assist the progress of
the Colony. To-day, still owned and
controlled by Australians, we offer a
modem and efficient banking service
to those who seek it and to those
who wish to take part in the further
development of our country.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1334
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
trnfof,
$KOi
Tk
DEPENDABLE
CUfOkdbt
i
{(Jfimait;
AND MEDIUM
STRENGTH
X967D-3.53
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Oil Shares Much Too High
In The Bulletin issues of
November 4 and 11 it was
pointed out that a rise or fall
of a shilling a share in Ampol
Exploration signified a rise or
fall of a million pounds in the
valuation of West Australian
Petroleum oil prospects. At the
peak price of £7 10s. per Ex-
ploration share that meant a
valuation of the field of £l5O
million. The latest sharemarket
figure is approximately £lOO
million.
From an investment point of
view, £lOO million is a fan-
tastically high present valuation.
Not only is the extent of W.A.’s
commercial oil resources still
almost completely unknown;
nearly everything else about W.A.
Petroleum’s project is also un-
known by the investing—or
speculating—public. The specific
terms by which W.A. Petroleum
holds its oil-prospecting licences
from the W.A. Government are
mostly unknown. The basis on
which crude-oil will be disposed
of is not known. Who is to do
the refining is not known.
Whether W-A. Petroleum is free
to go into the business itself,
whether it could get the funds
to do it, or whether it will
be restricted in this direction,
either by agreement already
made with California Texas or
through the dominant interest of
that co. on the W.A. Petroleum
board, is unknown.
Royalties are payable to the
W.A. Government; but on what
precise basis the drilling co. may
change over from an exploration
co. to an exploitation co. is still
a mystery to the general public.
Mr. Walkley, of Ampol Pet-
roleum, has said that that com-
pany is entitled to receive a
maximum of million royal-
ties in respect of oil produced by
W.A. Petroleum. That was part
of the agreement with California
Texas, additional to the one-
fifth share in W.A. Petroleum,
which subsequently resolved it-
self into 2,800,000 free shares in
Ampol Exploration. But the
basis on which this royalty is
payable is not known. The
prospectus of the Exploration co,
merely said that it was “calcu-
lated on the sales (if any) of all
crude-oil, natural gasoline and
other recovered hydrocarbons.”
The venture agreement dated
June 12, 1952, between Ampol
Petroleum, Ltd., California
Texas Corporation and W.A.
Petroleum Pty., Ltd., was avail-
able for inspection during the
currency of Ampol Exploration’s
public share-issue, at Ampol’s
office. But very few people are
likely to have read it.
Obviously the person paying
several pounds a share for either
Ampol Exploration or Ampol
Petroleum scrip has only a very
vague idea about the whole thing,
or else he is counting on being
able to find a buyer later on who
is a bigger fool than himself.
On known factors, favorable
and unfavorable, the present
value of the W.A. oil-strike is
only a fraction of recent market,
estimations. And it is likely to
take years before any return to
shareholders is forthcoming.
Whatever the ultimate value of
the oilfield, and the value of the
shares of the co. controlling it,
the time factor in the earning of
profits wifi, prove important in
the market-valuation of shares
in those cos. Ampol shares, if
held as an investment, are not
a short-term proposition.
Oil Hysteria
From L. Owen: The strike of
oil in West Australian Petro-
leum’s Rough Range test is by
far the best news that the Com-
monwealth has ever received in
the long search for oil on the
mainland. But any attempt to
paint the lily by exaggerating its
importance is to be deplored.
According to official advices,
an average yield of 23 barrels
per horn- was obtained through
a iin. choke from a thin sand-
stone penetrated at a depth of
between 3605 ft. and 3620 ft. The
quantity of oil produced was
thus 575 barrels, or about 75
tons, possibly worth £B5O on site,
and it is obvious that there was
no considerable pressure behind
it, so that the size of the choke
is unimportant. The actual
quantity produced is likewise of
minor interest, but,’ very valu-
ably, it does confirm the assump-
tion—never, to my knowledge,
queried by any responsible
petroleum expert—that, at some
time or other in the long geo-
logical history of Western Aus-
tralia, conditions favorable to
the genesis of petroleum have
existed.
Dr. Raggatt’s statement that
the sand in which the oil was
found is known to occur over a
large area lessens the value of
the strike as, in such a case, a
much larger initial production
would have been expected. As
it is, it suggests lenticularity.
Moreover, the nature of the oil —■
a very waxy paraffin-base crude
—in such an environment and
presumably in strata belonging
to the Upper Permian, indicates
that the oil has migrated a long
way from its source and has
suffered selective micro-filtration
in the process. Such oil, within
my own experience, has often
given spectacular initial produc-
tion, which was short-lived and
uneconomic to the companies in-
volved.
I wish in no manner to be-
little the importance of the strike
at Rough Range, and my opinion
has always been that the Western
Australian geosyncline held the
best—if not the only—hopes of
commercial oil on the continent,
but, in the interests of Australia,
the significance of this truly great
event should not be clouded by
hysteria.
Worsted Industries
Worsted Industries, Ltd., has
been operating at a loss almost
ever since it was floated into a
public co. at the height of the
boom in July, 1951. In inde-
pendent valuations net asset
backing for the ss. shares was
then 11s. 7d.; on book-values
6s. 6d. The public was asked
7s. 6d. for the shares offered.
(The 2s. 6d. premium went to
reserves.) On the proposed new
capital average net earnings for
the preceding three years were
12.9 p.c. But 1951-52 was the
year of slump in the textile trade,
and a loss of £29,817 was shown
by the trading subsidiary. For
the term (to June 30 last) a re-
duced loss of £8543 was shown.
The mill was shut down for most
of the first half of the year, and
was not able to reach full pro-
duction in the second half be-
cause the old staff had dispersed.
The spinning-mill showed a
small profit for the term.
The management has since
been changed, and plant is being
improved. Hopes are held “that
the co.’s profit-earning capacity
will steadily advance,” but the
board refuses to attempt to fore-
cast the current year’s results.
Trade is now improving, though,
and “every possible economy has
been made and firm steps have
been taken to restore the co. to
a sound footing.” Most of the
stocks held at June 30 (then
valued at £45,753) have been
“satisfactorily liquidated.”
During last term the bank
overdraft was reduced from
£32,854 to £27,613. Total lia-
bilities were brought down from
£52,493 to £44,453 in the same
period. The figure has been re-
duced further since the close of
accounts.
The co. had £27,928 in fixed
assets last balance-day, and
£66,936 in stocks, debtors, etc.
Paid capital is £60,000 in ss.
shares. Deducting accumulated
losses (3s. 2d. a share has been
lost over the past two years),
shareholders’ net funds are now
£51,820, equal to 4s. 4d. per ss.
share. Last sale of the scrip was
at 35., some months ago. The
market is still around that figure,
though the shares are closely
held. If trading results improve
during the current year the
finances appear steady enough to
warrant more interest in the
scrip. But profits are needed.
The operating co., Man-
chester Weaving, was formed in
1927 to acquire the weaving
business established at Liver-
pool (N.S.W.), a year earlier by
Albert Topen and Cyril Ives.
A spinning-mill was added in
1935. During the war the busi-
ness was yery active and profit-
able, and continued so until
1950-51.
Uranium Mines
Following reports that, in con-
junction with Norseman Gold
Mines, the co. had pegged uran-
ium leases of “considerable im-
portance” near Lake Dundas
(W.A.), the 25.-paid shares in
Uranium Mines, N.L., have
rapidly run up to over 20s. The
co. also has options over leases
on the Edith River and Ferguson
River (N.T.). In respect of the
former, it was stated in the pros-
pectus that there were radio-
active outcrops over an area of
about 40 square miles, though
surface reactions were weak.
H. J. C. Conolly, consulting
engineer, said that “it seems rea-
sonable that somewhere there is
a patch of good ore, and a patch
of good uranium-ore can yield
a surprising profit.”
The prospectus dealt with the
speculative enterprise in the same
cautious tones. But the share-
market chose to rush in in-
cautiously and pay a high pre- :
mium almost immediately for
the scrip in this prospecting con-
cern.
So far, there is no public
proof of any large deposit
of commercially payable
uranium-ore existing in the Com-
monwealth. Even the Rum
Jungle (N.T.) proposition is still
in the development stage. There
has been far too much loose
talk at high Government level
about uranium having been
found in different parts of the
Commonwealth, with the result
that a section of the public has
come to regard Australia as the
world’s principal repository of
the element.
Though the Lake Dundas find
—pegged along 4j miles —may
turn out favorably, uranium in
Australia is still largely an un-
known quantity from the min-
ing and commercial points of
view. Because of defence needs
it may pay Governments to mine
uranium at a loss. But anything
over and above defence require-
ments has to be a commercial
proposition.
Uranium Mines, N.L., has an
issue of a million ss. shares paid
to 2s. each, and at £1 each on
the sharemarket the capitalisa-
tion of the enterprise becomes a
million pounds.
Oil Search, Ltd.
The new issue by Oil Search,
Ltd., is to be 2,500,000 ss. shares,
two for five, as par. Present
total of shares issued is 5,821,390
of ss, each, and the new allot-
ment will take the aggregate up
to 8,300,000-odd. The ss. shares,
cum rights, have gone to over
£1 each. Oil Search has a 10 p.c.
interest in Australasian Petrol-
eum and Island Exploration. Al-
though no oil-strike has yet been
reported from Omati, the market
already values prospects at over
£6O million.
* * ♦ *
Freney 6s. shares, ex rights,
have soared to around 30s. The
issue is now 1,500,000 shares.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD CHARLES OVBNDEN Me
ctalSe Elizabeth ovbnden to.
fieiAo Petition for Divorce in suit No.
4248 0/1953 on the ground of desertion
■, 1 «. ■ no 4 paiißP or excuse for tiiree
sss£.-ra
Sts st&. TizJf
charge rtomN. V. MENLoVe” Solicitor.
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
DQUGHAN, Registrar. _
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
1 SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
™ THOMA| K r,SB
NOTICE that LUCY SEMMENS to. «lri
Sn P lhe t ‘g?otod. i(°ferertlo« without just
for ttee jeu» »d «p f
wards and is asking for the exercise 01
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
m (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
xi nrance i n the Divorce
enter an appearance Street Svd-
Resristrv Supreme Cdurt King street oya
nev b/ the 26th February 1954 and
ue a pony of the Petition without
obtain a ®OP y . BLISTER JOHNSON
f a M ge nnNA?D Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
It “ t D( /wcastlc or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO ’, Solicitors, 2 York Street, Sydney.
-J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
BRADFORD COTTON MILLS
LIMITED
, Head Office:
“Bradmill House,” Cnr. Missenden and Parramatta Roads, Camperdown.
Speech of Mr. R. J. Webster (in the Chair; to Shareholders at the 26th Annual General
Meeting of Bradford Cotton Mills Limited, held on the 25th November, 1953, at
11 o’clock in the forenoon.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is with the deepest regret that I
have to record the very sad loss of two
o.f our Directors and of our Auditor since
the last Annual General Meeting. The
late Sir Walter Massy-Qreene, K.C.M.G.,
who had been Chairman of the Company
since 1939, died on the 16th November,
1952. The late Sir Walter Massy-Greene
was known to me over a period of 30
years, during which time he played a
very important part in the political,
financial and industrial life of Australia.
After his death a member of the Board,
Sir G. Dalziel Kelly, Kt„ became Chair-
man. Sir Dalziel Kelly was a distin-
guished Australian who had been knighted
for his services to the community. Un-
fortunately, he collapsed and died very
suddenly on the 18th February, 1953.
In July this year, Mr. H. J. Trist, whose
Firm had been the Company’s Auditors
since the date of Its incorporation, died
after a long illness.
I am sure you will agree with the
action of your Board in recording appre-
ciation of the services carried out by
these gentlemen for the Company and of
conveying to their respective families the
Company’s deepest sympathy with them
in their sad loss.
Printed copies of the Financial State-
ment and Report of the Directors relat-
ing thereto have already been posted
direct to all Shareholders and I, there-
fore, propose, with your permission, to
take them as read.
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
Taking into consideration the adverse
trading conditions experienced in the
early part of the year under review, the
results for the year ended 30th June,
1953, have been very satisfactory indeed.
Before making provision for taxation
the net profit of the Company, as shown
by the Consolidated Accounts for the year
ended 30th June, 1953, was £506,033
an increase of £10,106 over the figures
for the previous year and the highest on
record.
The net profit remaining after provision
for Taxation, is £365,364 compared with
£375,926 last year. The lower profit
after tax, in comparison with the previous
year, is explained by the fact that the
provision for taxation this year is approxi-
mately £20,669 greater than the pro-
vision for last year.
The value of the plant, furniture and
fittings, etc., at 30th June last, was
£4,202,000 against which there is a
Depreciation Reserve of £1,461,000. The
value of the freehold land and buildings
which house the plant, appears in the
Balance Sheet at £1,737,000. Reserves
and Accumulated Profits total £1,823,
000.
Stocks, stores and spare parts on hand
are shown at £2,448,000 compared with
£2,724,000 for the previous year and
£3,546,603 for the year ended 30th June,
1961. Shareholders will be interested to
know that at the 31st October, stocks,
stores and spare parts on hand were esti-
mated at £2,048,000 —a reduction of
£400,000 compared with the figure at
the 30th June last. There are no surplus
stocks, but the value of stocks on hand,
of course, will continue to fluctuate.
Stock figures are substantially affected by
the periodical purchases of Raw Cotton.
Bank Overdraft at £989,000, shows a
notable reduction of £244,000 on the
position as at 30th June, 1952. The figure
at June, 1951 was £1,519,207. Bank
Overdraft at 31st October was £848,000,
a reduction of £141,000 as compared
with the Overdraft at 30th June last.
The balance in the aggregate Profit
and Loss Account, after providing for
final dividend, is shown as £325,792 as
compared with £231,963 at 30th June,
1952.
These improvements have been effected
simultaneously with a very marked in-
crease in sales, both in value and number
of units and are, therefore, particularly
pleasing.
TRADING CONDITIONS
In the early months of the financial
year under review, the Company still
suffered competition resulting from the
accumulation of excess stocks of imported
cotton yams and cotton piece goods which
followed the lifting of the duties on these
commodities, or their admission under By-
law concession during 1952. This matter
was referred to in my previous report.
Certain commodities of which we pro-
duce substantial quantities—Woven Cotton
Duck, Tyre Cord Yam and Tyre Cord
Fabric —have no protection at all against
competition from the United Kingdom and
only a Preferential Duty against foreign
competition. The higher rate of wages
which we have to pay operators, the 40-
hour week and the costly concessions
which have to be made, all handicap us
in competition with our Overseas com-
petitors. For, many years, in spite of the
fact that we had no Protective Duty, we
were selling these commodities cheaper
than they could be imported from Over-
seas, but the recent recession in demand
for textiles Overseas resulted in our
meeting heavy competition. Fortunately,
we were able to maintain the mills in
production, though at reduced hours of
work. No plants have gone completely
out of production. The Canvas and Duck
Mill at Rutherford had to go on to less
than one shift, whereas it previously
worked two shifts—and in some sections
three shifts.
The same state of affairs prevailed in
regard to the Melbourne Canvas and Duck
Weaving Plant. In the Tyre Cord Mills
there was a substantial reduction in total
output. Our Melbourne Mill had to com-
pletely abandon production of Tyre Cord
and Tyre Cord fabrics. Fortunately, with
a little ingenuity, we were able to switch
it over to other forms of production from
which satisfactory profits were received.
The Tyre Cord Mill at Bendigo, which
had been working two full shifts, and in
sections three shifts, had, during the
greater part of this year, only part of its
Plant producing Tyre Cord and fabric on
one shift; the balance of the Plant was
used for producing other yarns —also only
working one shift. This Mill, however,
is now back on to three-shift working,
producing Tyre Cord and Tyre Cord
Fabric.
Two Tariff Board Inquiries have already
been held into the necessity for duties
on Cotton Duck and Cotton Tyre Cord
and fabrics; the first inquiry took place
as far back as 1939. Assistance was
withheld then, because of the fact that
the war was in progress and it was not
considered there would be any difficulty
in disposing of the production of these
Plants.
The next Inquiry was held in 1949. At
this particular time we were selling the
products of our Mill at substantially
lower prices than those at which they
could be imported, duty free, from Over-
seas. We were again unsuccessful in get-
ting a duty.
What we had foreseen finally came to
pass. As soon as our Overseas competitors
had surplus supplies of Tyre Cord and
Cotton Duck, they shipped them to this
market at prices far below the cost at
which we could produce—with the result
to which I have already referred.
A further inquiry into the necessity for
duties on both Tyre Cord and Cotton
Duck has just been completed by the
Tariff Board, and it is expected that the
unanswerable case presented on this occa-
sion will result in the Australian Industry
receiving adequate protection.
PLANTS OPERATED BY THE
COMPANY AND PRODUCTS
MADE BY THE COMPANY
Your Company has now 14 Mills operat-
ing as separate units. Of these, seven
are located in Victoria and seven in New
South Wales. These Mills, collectively,
are engaged in the spinning of Raw Cotton
and its conversion into cloth which is
subsequently dyed, or otherwise processed.
During the period whilst heavy stocks
flooded the market, the Company success-
fully switched over two of its Cotton
Spinning Mills to the production of Spun
Rayon Yarns, although, here again this
commodity has no Tariff protection.
Spun Rayon Yarn is a high-class tech-
nical product, the satisfactory production
of which could only be attempted by
first-class Spinning Mills managed by
skilled technicians and operated by well
trained workers. I am sure you will be
pleased to know that the quality of the
Spun Rayon Yarn produced by your Com-
pany has proved equal to the best of im-
ported yarns from the United Kingdom
and Continental countries.
Substantial quantities of this type of
yarn are still being produced by your
Companies whilst, at the same time, they
have been able to meet the steadily in-
creasing demand for cotton yarns. Our
Mills have been able to do this by re-
turning to shift work.
NEW PLANTS
During the year, considerable progress
was made with the bringing into full
production of new Plants comprising a
complete Bleaching and Mercerizing Unit
at Rutherford, New South Wales, and a
modern Weaving Mill at Kotara estab-
lished in the period under review.
OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS
During the year, the Company pur-
chased a modern Yam Dyeing Plant which
is now in the course of installation at
Rutherford; it should be in production
during the current year. This new Plant
will take the place of the existing Dyeing
Plant which was purchased by your Com-
pany in 1932.
BURLINGTON MILLS (AUS-
TRALIA) LIMITED
In March this year, your .Company was
given the opportunity of acquiring the
shareholding interests of Burlington Mills
Corporation of the United States of
America in Burlington Mills (Australia)
Limited.
This opportunity arose because of the
policy adopted by the United States Com-
pany of divesting itself of its Overseas
interests by selling minority shareholdings
it held in Companies outside the United
States.
The shareholding interest of the Ameri-
can Company in Burlington Mills (Aus-
tralia) Limited comprised 233,000 Ordi-
nary Shares. Your Company was able
to acquire these shares by an issue of
116,500 Ordinary Shares in Bradford
Cotton Mills Limited. The cost of the
Ordinary Shares in Burlington Mills (Aus-
tralia) Limited to your Company, in terms
of its own Capital, was only 10/-d. per
The Ordinary Shareholding of 233,000
£1 shares in Burlington Mills (Australia)
Limited, gives your Company a 33% hold-
ing of the Ordinary Issued Capital of this
Company—since its total Ordinary Capital
is 700,000 shares.
Burlington Mills (Australia) Limited is
one of your Company’s biggest customers,
being a substantial buyer of both Staple
Fibre Yarns and Cotton Yarns. Burling-
ton Mills Corporation of the United States
has renewed, its agreement with Burling-
ton Mills (Australia) Limited whereby
it gives to the latter Company technical
advice and assistance under a Service
Agreement.
The Australian Company recently an-
nounced its intention of paying a divi-
dend of 6% on Ordinary Shares in the
Capital of that Company in respect of the
year ended 30th June, 1953. The return
on the investment by Bradford Cotton
Mills this calendar year will be 12%.
PRODUCTIVITY
A lot has been said during the year
in a critical way, by Members of Par-
liament and commercial interests gener-
ally with no very close association
with manufacturing in a big way,
about the necessity for increased produc-
tion, fhe necessity for incentives and lack
of willingness to work on the part of the
Australian people. Though there are, no
doubt, grounds for criticism of this kind,
there is no appreciation of the extent to
which management in Australia has
already tackled these tasks.
There do exist some Manufacturing
Companies which have failed to advance
with the times and which attribute their
want of success to dozens of other reasons
rather than to this fact, but this con-
dition of affairs exists in other countries
and also amongst all other sections of
our own community.
So far as Bradford Cotton Mills is
concerned —and you can accept my assur-
ance that it applies in the case of hun-
dreds of other Companies—every effort
is made to keep abreast of modern de-
velopments so far as they relate to man-
agement and technical production.
We regularly send key employees Over-
seas to study modern methods in the
best of the Mills in the United States,
United Kingdom and on the Continent.
We have, over the years, adopted im-
proved methods of selection and induction
for employees, instituted continuous train-
ing schemes in all of our Mills and given
encouragement to our technical men to
study by making time available to them
and by giving financial assistance, de-
veloped supervisory training, made a
special study of industrial relations,
carried out extensive Methods Improve-
ment Studies and installed incentive sys-
tems of payment.
We have had our Mills under con-
tinuous survey for many years by Methods
'Engineers and Management Consultants.
Production figures and costs from any
of our Mills show that great improvements
have been made over the years in regard
to production and management and the
quality of our products.
It may be of interest to Shareholders
to note that, in the two cases recently
heard by the Tariff Board, sworn evidence
was given to show, in the case of Tyre
Cord, that our output per man-hour in
all Departments of the Mill, had increased
more than 93% in the course of a few
years, and that the cost per pound in
direct labour over that period had shown
a decrease of 19% in spite of the fact that
the wages per man-hour had increased
56%—31% of which is represented by an
incentive payment.
In the case of the Sydney Spinning Mill
producing cotton yarn for the weaving
of Cotton Duck, production per man-
hour rose by 72.9% between 1949 and
1953. Although the minimum wage in-
creased 88% and the price of raw cotton
increased by 64%, the actual cost of the
yarn only increased by 56% due to the
increased productivity already mentioned.
G.A.T.T.
As was pointed out in the Chairman’s
address last year, it is considered that
Australia should withdraw entirely from
the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade. From an Australian point of view
the case for complete withdrawal is un-
answerable.
GENERAL
Since 30th June last, trading conditions
have been very favourable and we feel
optimistic about the trading results for
the current year.
The Commonwealth Government in its
last budget gave some welcome relief
from high rates of Company Taxes which
have applied in previous years; this
should encourage and benefit all Industry.
However, other favourable features of
the budget did not benefit your Com-
pany directly to any great extent. The
advantage to your Company in the in-
crease of the Statutory exemption for
Payroll Tax will be negligible. Pay Roll
Tax paid by your Company during the
year under review amounted to £34,000.
It is a matter for regret that the Com-
monwealth Government did not take the
opportunity of abolishing this Tax alto-
gether.
Most of the products manufactured by
your Company are “an aid to manufac-
ture.” and, of course, arc exempt from
Sales Tax. However, Sales Tax reduc-
tions should be reflected in costs of other
supplies which your Company is required
to buy for general purposes, but the
direct savings in this direction are rela-
tively not very considerable.
STAFF
Although during the year under review
we have been consolidating rather than
expanding, the Company has had more
than its share of problems; that they
have been overcome successfully has been
due largely to the executive staff and
employees, generally, to whom I desire
to convey my appreciation.
BRADFORD COTTON MILLS LIMITED.
R. J. WEBSTER,
Managing Director.
Sydney, 25th November, 1958.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The “token,” or 24-hour,
strike of the engineering workers
seems to have achieved its main
object. Its cost to the nation
in terms of production is esti-
mated at £lO million. Confu-
sion has spread and bitterness
increased, not least because the
workers have lost £4 million in
wages, are no nearer settlement
of their claim for a flat 15 p.c.
increase, and are divided among
themselves.
The next move—a ban on
overtime and piecework-—is due
for consideration by the execu-
tives of the 38 unions affiliated
to the Confederation of Ship-
building and Engineering
Unions. For good and suffi-
cient reasons, this ban is not
expected until after Christmas
shopping is done and the festivi-
ties are over.
Meanwhile the main conclu-
sion is inescapable: the com-
paratively few Communists,
mainly in the Amalgamated
Engineering and the Electrical
Trades Unions, have shown that
their influence over more than
1,000,000 workers is firm and
dangerous. These and other craft
unions came out in almost full
strength. The significance of
this is that the agitators have
found the skilled workers easy
prey. Discontent over the
dwindling “differentials” be-
tween skilled and unskilled labor
is probably the major grievance,
for support from the two big
general workers’ unions was per-
functory and wavering.
Moreover, negotiation is not
simplified by the nature of the
industry. For union purposes,
large concerns of international
repute are lumped together with
one-man firms ; and the flat in-
crease applies equally to the
weekly wage of £7 as to the £l5,
or whether the business is
flourishing or merely ticking-
over.
Apart from the constant, and
now-increasing, threat to export
prices there are two important
conclusions. One is that the
responsible union-leaders, al-
though sensible that it is the
worker himself who must suffer
in the end, are unable to con-
vince him of this hard truth
against the more plausible in-
citements of the extremist. The
other is the timing of the Gov-
ernment in its enforced and
tricky function as mediator.
One purpose of the token strike
was to panic the Minister of
Labor into intervention, which
the promoters like because it
brings to the affair a sense of
acknowledgment, urgency and
even respectability. Often, too,
it means a compromise.
But the Minister of Labor, so
far from panicking, was not dis-
posed to be drawn into a trap.
When the time is right he will,
no doubt, bring to bear the same
tact, fairness and shrewd under-
standing as on other, no less
critical, occasions during the
past two years.
Political Patches
About the only point of com-
mon agreement over commercial
television during the lordly
squabble was that some alterna-
tive to the 8.8. C. is desirable so
long as its form is acceptable.
It seems rather odd, and also
rather British, that the House
of Lords should let its hair down
over protecting other people
from what they neither want nor
don’t want—the average TV-
owner has no strong views
about it.
Certainly, the behavior —or
misbehavior of the Upper
Chamber was more in keeping
with that of its plebeian junior
on some class-conscious occa-
sion. It is something new to
see noble lords at each other’s
throats with such passion. But
it was young blood, 45-year-old
Lord Hailsham, who set the
dissonant key. Standing-in for
Lord Halifax, who was ill, he
alienated many sympathisers by
his piercing aggressiveness.
* * * *
“The worst Colonial-Secre-
tary of the century” . . . “No. 1
Political Prisoner” is how “The
Daily Herald” refers to Mr.
Oliver Lyttleton. This typifies
the venomous dislike of the
Opposition for Mr. Lyttleton’s
high-Tory exterior. The Kabaka
of Uganda affair became an
opportunity for attaching the
whole responsibility upon him
personally. On the face of it,
Lyttleton’s unaccommodating
demeanor is hardly a good shop-
window for a much-troubled de-
partment. Yet it quite belies
him as administrator. And he
very neatly turned the tables on
his traducers.
* * * *
Mr. John Eden, nephew of
the Foreign Secretary, just failed
to win the North Paddington by-
election for the Tories. He
turned the campaign into a com-
mando course such as few but
the hardy and tough could hope
to survive. And he reduced the
Labor majority by one-half to
2000.
His Labor opponent, Mr.
Parkin, chose the quieter way,
relying upon an able and per-
sistent army of canvassers. They
made full use of the Govern-
ment’s proposed measures for
rent-reform. Although these
put not one penny into the land-
lord’s pocket and bristle with
protections for the tenant, the
Labor organisation prepared
figures showing the rent-
increases, street by street.
Not-so-simple Gal
Would any modern dramatist
have the sauce to try to cover
up an unsatisfactory ending by
writing a long postscript to his
play? At best it seems a ques-
tionable device, rather like
cheating at patience, which
leads to an altogether false sense
of attainment. Yet if that play
should catch on, become a
masterpiece of sorts and find its
way into the classical repertory,
the author’s afterthoughts must
needs influence the successive
revivals.
This has happened to “Pyg-
malion.” Shaw could not re-
solve Eliza Doolittle in five
short acts, so he added a post-
cript. And others (notably Pas-
cal and Wendy Hiller in the film)
have gained by a fuller under-
standing of the part, which has
a good deal more to it than the
extremes of guttersnipe cockney
and the Chelsea of the Pre-
Raphaelites. Eliza is, in short,
the eternal feminine whose
prime discovery is not so much
the deportment of a duchess as
the incommensurable pride of
domesticity—of being, quite
simply, a. woman about the
house.
By these standards John
Clements’s revival (St. James’s
Theatre), although very funny
and pleasant to look at, seems
ra ther natchv Kay Hammond’s
Fliya is nericv and Gorblimey in
a carroty sort of way and the
sce P nes in Coyent Garden and
Wimpole-street are a howl. But
once Eliza becomes “proper”
she is no longer real She doesn’t
“belong.”
Clements’s Higgins also lacks
much-needed overtones. He
never ceases to be an insuffer-
able boor and bully. Any gal
with a half of Eliza’s spirit
would have thrown the coal-
scuttle at him, let alone his
slippers. Nicholas Hannen gives
a choice period texture to that
dullest chump since Dr. Watson,
Colonel Pickering; and Charles
Victor is conspicuously ripe and
subtle as an Alfred Doolittle
who fits equally well into both
low and high society.
The play is cut drastically,
sometimes inexplicably, and the
ending changed in favor of a
stay-by-the-fire-Eliza.


How uiik'li M time will your
Executor have lor your affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet;
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. Faviell.
F_, B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager : F. R. Garland .
Secretary ; P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Steward
ft nnanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PT.80.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd. 4
jgEHIND the investment possibilities
of the ord. scrip in this 28-year-old
group A of cotton-spinners, -weavers,
-bleachers and -dyers, underwear-manu-
facturers and textile-printers, which has
always given a good account of itself,
lies the rapid growth of the undertaking
over the last three years. As new units of
equipment come into production, and as
recently-acquired interests are reorgan-
ised and integrated into the organisation,
some improvement in the already very
satisfactory level of earnings might be
anticipated, though new capital and assets
cannot be expected to earn at the same
rate as the old, for some time at any
rate.
Issued capital shot up from £750,000
in 1950 to £2,534,571 in 300,000 £1 6 p.c.
prefs. and 8,938,285 ords. of ss. each at
'June 30 last—-there was then £255,690
still to come in. Of the £1,784,571 in-
crease, £464,117 represented f.-p, shares
issued in exchange for businesses and/or
assets acquired and £1,320,454 cash-
issues to help finance all-round growth.
The lot brought with it share-premiums
totalling £361,155. Last term no less than
4,938,285 new ss. ords. (=£1,334,571)
were put out, of which shareholders took
2,000,000 at par, Bradford Dyers’ Asso-
ciation (U.K.) 1,800,000 at par, 200,000
paids were exchanged for all the issued
capital in Associated Textile Printers
Pty. (Melbourne), and 938,285 paids
were issued at a premium of 3s. 9d. each
for the freehold, plant and stocks of
Hollins Mill of Australia, Ltd. The
last-mentioned co. is a British-controlled
spinning and weaving concern which had
set up at Villawood, near Sydney, in
1946; its paid capital is £450,000, of
which trading losses had gobbled
£440,200 at June 30, 1953.
The financial and technical link-up
with Bradford Dyers’ Association, big-
gest commission dyers in the U.K., with
interests in the U.S., Canada and Egypt
as well, has been the major development.
It provides for the exchange of technical
know-how in dyeing and finishing of
cotton and linen yarns and piece-goods,
and for use in Australia of B.D.A.’s
patented shrink-process and of the trade-
mark “Rigmel.” It also forms the back-
ground of much of the recent and cur-
rent expansion of the Australian co., in-
cluding plant extension, production of
new fabrics, and construction of a big
new dye-house presently to go-up bn
a 40-acre block at West Footscray (Vic.),
and which is to be taken over by a new
subsidiary, Davies Coop (8.D.A.) Pty.
Last term output was well-maintained
in the underwear section, but eased
in the flax, cotton-canvas and duck-mills,
due to a drop in demand following heavy
imports. The Adelaide spinning-mill
closed down in April, 1953, but recently
started up again, and production at the
Sydney mill was severely curtailed. The
three principal subsidiaries together paid
£ll,OOO less in dividends, totalling
£125,000 —the South Australian co. (paid
capital £150,000) distributed £50,000
(down £1500), the N. S. Wales co, (paid
capital £200,000) paid £50,000 (down
£26,500) and the flax-milling co, (paid
capital £100,000) sent along £25,000 (up
£17,000) —the parent claimed £23,120 less
profit (£67,675) from its own trading, and
the Textile Printers’ business and Hollins’
assets are not yet net contributors to
the pool. Still, in the aggregate the off-
shoots apparently earned more than they
distributed and the board was able to write
net earnings of the entire group £3429
stronger at £250,577, as the following
table shows:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Dividends A
June, Profit. 6 px>. Ordinary serves, serves.*
Wi8J05,2!5 12,000 8 = 42.070 51,205 38^169
1949 nnn di ® appears - £20,812. . 367,357
1950"176 4fiS io nm? ,2 = 42,254 112 > 490 479,847
1950.. 12.000 10 = 53,855 110.610 590,457
Share premiums, £137.500 .. 727,957
Unexplained addition, £3873 rii sso
1061 5N 10,308 15 -' 000 1 24=103,887 91,416 823,246
Share premiums, £47,727 .. .. 870 973
outside interests. £7652 87s’62 r >
1 952.. 18,000 111,896 990^521
“™ e premiums, £175.928 .. ..1 166 449
Added on acquisition of subsidiary, ’ ’
£8327 ~ ~ # 174 776
mtJliW 168 appear, £2!,882 .’. 1’.152’.594
77,270 1,230.164
Alter deducting intangibles, now £21,882.
It was a heartening achievement all things
considered. There was a slip of about
million in aggregate turnover (amount
not stated), the effects of which were off-
set by lower and steadier prices for raw
cotton and smaller (unstated) provision
for taxation at pre-Budget rates. The
allowance, the chairman says, was
approximately £50,000 in excess of actual
requirements; so the profit was better
than stated. The £250,577 claimed
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 18.7 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with 24.7, 23.5, 30.5, 29.3 and
17.7 p.c. The div. was maintained at
of which 24- p.c. is called bonus.
There were big movements in balance-
sheet figures, which mainly reflect the
large influx of capital already referred
to, as well as a stronger financial posi-
tion ;
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
r> .. ~ , J 961. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,109,025 £1,291,750 £2,278,881
Outside interests.. 30,633
Mortgage .. .. 25.000
Overdraft .. 666,830 1,148,212 424,112
Creditors . . .. 1,329,021 £24,916 548,031
Tax provision .. 218.782 246,565 290,879
Final div. ~ 71,332 82,131 109,094
Freeholds .. .. 414.655 441.767 646,049
Plant, etc. .. 281,666 267,757 576,602
Stocks ~ 2,360,781 2,434,432 2,538,704
Book debts, etc. .. 1.191.395 1,239,665 971.122
Cash • • • • 372 474 173,684
The year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£2,286,394) was
£713,647.
All the co.’s mills are expected to be
in full production by the beginning of
1954, and the Tariff Board is now in-
vestigating the question of increased
protection to local cotton-spinners and
-weavers. In the knitting-dyehouse
section, during the three years to the
close of accounts in 1951 the co. absorbed
a rise of 64.7 p.c. in award wage-rates
and reduced the labor cost per 10001 b. of
fabric produced by 33 p.c., thanks to
increased technical and other efficiency
and introduction of incentives. The
£450,000 of capital taken up by B.D.A.
last term doesn’t rank for dividend until
Jan., 1955; meanwhile additional assets
should begin to contribute to the pool.
It all looks encouraging for maintenance
of the 12£ p.c, distribution.
At 9s. sd. (Bs, 6d. a year ago) the f.-p.
ss. ords. return 6.6 p.c. on a 12i p.c.
distribution, or 5.2 p.c. should the rate
drop to 10 p.c. The £1 6 p.c. prefs. at
225. 6d. yield 5.3 p.c. Including un-
called capital, net tangible cover is
£l2 10s. lid. prefs. and 7s. 9d. ords.
Australian Provincial Assurance
TpIRMLY established, the 41-year-old
1 A.P.A., which writes ordinary and
accident business throughout Australia
and New Zealand, continues to make
steady progress along sound lines, paying
regular bonuses to policyholders and
dividends to shareholders. The emphasis
is on quality rather than quantity of
business. The whole of the profits in the
ordinary department now go to policy-
holders ; earnings on shareholders’
account are confined to the surplus on
accident business and to returns from
shareholders’ own funds (capital and re-
serves in the general section), which is
as it should be.
The following table, which combines
the figures of the two departments, gives
an overall picture of the progress of the
business;
0 . To Re- Re-
oept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1949 1b., 552,979 187,050 124,780 241,149 3,447,989
Add exchange reserve, £9004 ~ 3,456,993
Added tax reserve, £10,750 .. .. 3,467,743
1950 - • 610,481 197,616 141,006 271,859 3,739,602
Add exchange fluctuation res., £9043.. 3,748,645
Less taxation reserves, £5500 .. 3,743,145
1951.. 678,987 209,273 167,885 301,779 4,044,924
Less taxation reserve, £10,250 .. 4,034,674
Add exchange fluctuations, £8954 .. 4,043,628
To staff fund, £539 4,043,089
1952. . 727,098 226,370 191,213 309,510 4,352,599
Less taxation reserve, £4OOO .. 4,348,599
Add exchange fluctuations, £7020 .. 4,355,619
To staff fund, £BO7 4,854,812
1953.. 837,004 250,704 207,396 378,904 4,733,716
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1948-
50, £18,000; 1950-52, £21,600 ; 1953, £27,000.
Income and reserves have both about
doubled over the last nine years. Over
the same period, dividends to shareholders
slowly climbed from a modest p.c.
to a moderate 6 p.c. in 1952, and to
p.c. last term, the declared aim being to
put policyholders’ interests in the fore-
ground.
About three-quarters of the life busi-
ness is written in Australia. Total amount
put on the books last term was £1,644,775
(down £109,907), and the average per
&°io7^ s ( U P £5O). Net premiums
(£524,497, up £37,659) and interest, rents,
etc. (£l/2,918, up £49,311) together
turned in £697,415 (up £86,970). After
paying all legitimate claims (£207,216)
and exes. (£137,746), a surplus of £352,453
(up £69,300) remained. This was added
to the statutory life fund, raising it to
£4,304,821, which exceeded actuarial
liabilities under policies by £89,322, of
which £78,029 was distributed as bonuses
among policyholders at the same rates
as for the previous year. The remaining
£11,293 was carried forward.
The mortality experience was only
43 p.c. of expectation. Commissions and
management costs took 25 p.c. of net
premiums as against 27 p.c. in the pre-
vious term. And the net effective rate
of interest earned on the statutory fund
was 10s. lid. stronger at £3 14s. 4d. p.c.
So there was a satisfactory margin of
nearly 1 p.c. over the rate assumed
(2| p.c.) in valuing policy liabilities.
In the accident and general section the
surplus (after allowing for unexpired
risks, etc.) was £43,766 (up £822), thanks
partly to a growth of £17,196 in net
premiums (£102,194). The £43,766 was
equal to 12.1 p.c. on capital, thus leaving
a comfortable margin over the increased
rate of dividend. Buyers recently offered
245. 6d. for the f.-p. £1 shares without
attracting sellers.
The year’s improvement in the net
tangible position (both departments com-
bined) was £381,117:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £ £
Public sec. 1,725,965 1,847,003 2,026,828 2,524,120
Mortgages.. 404,262. 439,306 474,057 477,128
Loans on
policies, etc. 72,738 78,390 87,547 100,013
Book debts,
cash, etc. 154,897 178,022 174,422 174,938
Equipment . 8,882 16,525 17,481 10,387
Properties.. 697,786 665,477 647,504 526,006
Shares, etc. 1,218,702 1,366,556 1,476,227 1,545,333
Total . . 4,278,232 4,591,279 4,904,066 5,357,875
Creditors .. 160,630 186,355 191,467 264,159
Net tangibles 4,117,602 4,404,924 4,712,599 5,093,716
Assur. fund* 3,424,783 3,698,741 3,986,368 4,345,699
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 860,000
•Includes reserves for unexpired risks: 1950,
£23,682; 1951, £29,526; 1952, £34,000;
1953, £40,878.
Assets are claimed to be well worth
their book-value. Features which catch
the eye are last term’s reduction of
£121,498 in properties and growth of
£497,292 in public securities, which
augurs well for the net return from in-
vestments. After allowing for deprecia-
tion, the net return from some of the
co.’s freeholds was practically nil last
term. It is a sad commentary on the
outlook for new office and residential
accommodation.
Burlington Mills (Australasia), Ltd.
TT was in 1944 that this manufacturer
of rayon piece-goods, furnishings and
tapestries made a promising start in a
hungry and sheltered market. It kicked
off with £350,000 of share-capital, half
of which was taken by Burlington Corp.
(U.S.) for plant. The figure was doubled
by a par issue in 1946, and £500,000 of
cheap (4| p.c.) pref, money was gathered
two years later. Paid capital thus became
£1,202,755 —the £2755 is employees’
shares.
The ords. got a maiden 5 p.c. in 1945,
followed by 7\ p.c. and three lots of
8 p.c. to 1949. During the next four
years the coj has been twice in and out of
the ditch, as the following table shows:
r-' Dividends——,, Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
30, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
• • 101,751 8 31,500 89,069
Share-issue expenses, £21,186 .. 67,883
Goodwill purchased, £6OOO .. .. 61 883
1948 .. 98,314 8 53,361 106,’836
1949 ~ 92,012 4J 8 84,693 114,155
Loss.
1950 ~ 6,162 4J Nil 23,750 84,243
Profit,
1931 v 142,510 4J 8 79,918 146,835
Repairs and tax provisions written
back, £26,253 173,088
From staff funds. £5OOO .. .. 178,088
Loss.
1952 ~ 71,109 4f Nil 23,750 83,229
Profit,
1953 .. 107,541 4f 6 65,915 124,855
Competition from U.K. and Continental
manufacturers, who were able to sell
rayon-yarn at higher prices in their ex-
port than in their home markets, and
withdrawal of the subsidy on locally-
consumed yarn, were the troubles in
1950. Then the duty on imported rayon-
fabrics was hoisted to Is. 6d. a square
yard (an increase of Is. and a satis-
factory profit was earned in 1951. But
a fresh crop of difficulties brought a loss
of £71,109 in 1952, when the new tariff
was side-stepped by admission of goods
under Customs by-law, and rayon-
materials flooded the market, thus driv-
ing the co.’s furnishing mill (the section
of the business hardest hit) almost com-
pletely out of production.
It was not until half-way through the
12 months covered by the latest accounts,
when importers had worked down
accumulated stocks of overseas goods,
that the co. began to reap the full benefit
of the tariff —admissions under by-law
ceased—and of import restrictions. Most
of the £107,541 of profit claimed for the
year was earned during the second half
of the period. The figure was written
after allowing £81,855 for depreciation;
no tax was payable because of the pre-
vious year’s loss. The £107,541 covered
pref. requirements and 13.1 p.c. on ord.
capital, and a 6 p.c. div. was paid. The
£41,626 that remained lifted reserves to
£124,855.
The financial position improved, the
growth in the more-or-less liquid sur-
plus (£317,619) being £109,671:
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Ordinary .. .. £702,755 £702,755 £702.755
Preference .. .. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Overdraft .. .. 723,034 1,247,733 1,132,263
Creditors ~ .. 141,578 134.254 220,527
Tax provision .. 126,470 115,717 105.717
Staff fund .. .. 5,000
Final div 68,000 11,875 54,040
Leasehold, etc. .. .. 83,908 83,378 83,681
Plant 824,470 802,537 749,695
Plant construction . . 6,787 2,969 1,414
Parts and stores .. 129,481 189,152 175,20 X
Stocks 944,772 1,821,1571,224,356
Debtors 393,665 365,738 575,178
Investments .. .. 30,001 30,001 30,001
Cash 631 631 631
To carry an extra £209,440 of book-
debts and clip £115,470 off the overdraft,
stocks were reduced by £96,801 and the
amount coming to sundry creditors in-
creased by £86,273 ; surplus earnings and
provisions provided the balance.
Investments are mainly a 49 p.c.
interest in Burlington Ribbons (Aust.)
Pty., which earned a profit of £13,410,
hut didn’t pay a div., money being
wanted for expansion of the business, in
which Burlington Corp. (U.S.) holds the


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
61 x 3g and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
ẅ
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson S O'Sullivan JJJ;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304*306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
BRANDAUERS
PENS
K
m
Every point
guaranteed
do not experl-
men t with
imitations.
C. Brandauer&Co.Ltd
Birmingham, England
Legal Notice
TO HAROLD ALFRED GRACIE-WATSON
formerly of 4 Bank Place, Melbourne. —
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you and LESLIE
LAWTORN SMITH in the Supreme Court
of Victoria —1952 No. 1177 —by ALBERT
GORDON NAISMITH of Gunbower in the
State of Victoria in which the Plaintiff’s
claim is for declarations and for specific
performance of a contract of sale dated
the 20th day of April 1932 and for other
relief including a he is
entitled to be paid the moneys payable
by the Commonwealth of Australia as
compensation for the acquisition of Lots
two —five on Plan of Subdivision No.
13629 of land in Keilor Road Essendon
AND it has been ordered that the service
of the Writ on you be effected by this
advertisement If you desire to defend
the action you must on or before the 23rd
day of January 1954 enter an appearance
at the Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts
William Street Melbourne In default of
such appearance judgment may be entered
against you.—COLIN KEON-COHEN, of
472 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Solicitor
for the Plaintiff.
Missing Friends
CHARLES JONES
DESCENDANTS of the abovenamed (a
son of ISAAC A. JONES and ELLEN
JONES, of Glastonbury, Somerset, Eng-
land), who was bom about 1860, and
married a MISS COLLINS, are invited
to communicate with the undersigned.
—F. J. CHURCH & CO., Solicitors. 133
Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO ALFRED CLAUDE MORGAN formerly
of Evelina Road Toorak in the State of
Victoria Leather-worker but now of parts
unknown—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife RITA PEARL MORGAN has com-
menced proceedings for Divorce against
you on the ground of desertion during
three years and upwards UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at
Melbourne on or before the Twenty-third
day of January 1954 and file an answer in
the said Office on or before the First day
of February 1954 the suit may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs.—P. J. RIDGEWAY AND
PEARCE, 879 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
w
w
ŵ
other 51 p.c. share-interest.
During the year the American
co. sold its holding of 233,000 £1
ords. in Burlington Mills (Aust.)
to Bradford Cotton in exchange
for 116,500 of the latter co.’s
f.-p. £1 shares, which were then
offered to the public at 335. 7d.
each. Thus Bradford now
holds approximately a one-third
interest in Burlington Mills
(Aust.) Ltd. The deal has not
affected technical arrangements
with the American co.
Since the close of accounts,
sales have remained “at a rea-
sonably high level,” and further
expansion of production is an-
ticipated, provided the tariff is
enforced. Plant, especially in the
preparatory and weaving sec-
tions, is claimed to be modern
and in good order ; and facilities
for importation of special yarns
of dollar origin would greatly
help the industry, the chairman
says.
The sharemarket sees clearer
skies ahead for the co. and prices
the f.-p. £1 ords. at 20s. sd. (19s.
a year ago) to return 5.9 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The
p.c. prefs. at 14s. 6d. yield 6.5
p.c. Net tangible cover is
375. lid. prefs. and 245. lid.
ords.
Goliath Portland Cement
117ITH a virtual monopoly of
’ * the trade in its home State,
the co.’s cement plant at Railton
(Tas.) is an efficient unit along-
side good shale, clay and lime-
stone deposits. An asbestos-
cement sheeting factory, put up
alongside the cement works, came
into production in Oct., 1947,
and continues to give a satis-
factory account of itself. Nearly
90 p.c. of the cement and prac-
tically the whole of the sheeting
are sold on the Tasmanian
market, and the balance on the
mainland.
Last term the output of cement
increased by 14 p.c., reaching
114,000 tons, and there was a
welcome lift in the selling-price
in Sept., 1952. Largest single
customer for the stuff is the
Hydro - electric Commission,
whose programme of expansion
will ensure a strong demand for
some years to come. Demand
for the sheeting eased, due to
conditions in the building trade,
which have improved since the
close of accounts.
Despite the steady upward
pressure of costs, and after
allowing the usual £lO,OOO for
depreciation, £54,174 (down
£11,243) for taxation and send-
ing £35,000 (up £5000) to plant
renewal reserve (now £160,000),
the board was able to show
£25,661 more profit at £70,932:
r Dividends ,
Net Pref.
Sept.. Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves.
’49.. 36,767 10,016 11.1 = 28,782 84,140
Add plant res., etc., £25,133. .
>50..39,563 10.016 11.1 = 28,782 110,038
Revaluation freeholds, £202,79 1 312,835
Reserves capitalised, £127,917.. 184,918
Add plant res., etc., £20,023.. 204,941
’51.. 31,174 10,016 6.6= 25,583 200,516
Add plant reserve, £30,000 . . 230,516
’52.. 45,271 10,016 7.5 =28,782 236,990
Add plant res., etc., £35,014 272,004
’53.. 70,932 10,016 8.8 = 38,370 294,550
To staff fund, £2OOQ» .. . - 292,550
The £70,932 of profit claimed,
which is a conservative figure,
was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 13.1 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 9.2 p.c. and
5.4 p.c. for the two preceding
years. So the lift in the div.
from 7.5 p.c. to 8.3 p.c. was a
comfortable matter. Too much
notice need not be taken of the
drop in the rate from 11 p.c. in
1950 to 6.6 p.c. in 1951, because
it followed a 50 p.c. bonus scrip-
issue.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ &
Paid capital .. 526,843 526,843 622,780
creditors* ■ . 61,949 122,328 85,602
Tax provision.. 52,103 65,000 60,000
Final div. .. 12,791 19,188 28,993
Freehold leases,
plant, etc. .. 431,203 465,548 481,119
Stocks .. . . 194,969 247,497 280,565
Book debts .. 87,169 111,957 138,730
Cash, etc. .. 120.120 73,841 73.842
Shares in other
cos., etc. .. 25,750 76.514 115.669
* Includes bank overdraft.
Those on the register in Dec.,
1952, welcomed an offer of
191,875 new 10s. ords. at par,
one for four. The £95,937 of
fresh share-capital then gathered,
together with surplus earnings,
etc., was used to finance all-
round expansion of fixed assets
(up £15,571), stocks (up
£33,068), book-debts (up
£26,773) and , shareholdings,
etc. (up £39,155) and to lighten
the trade debt (down £36,726).
Shareholdings, etc., include
25,000 f.-p. £1 shares in North
Australian Cement, Ltd. (Towns-
ville), scheduled to come into
production about mid-1954.
Most of the growth in the item
was in respect of the co.’s half-
interest (£73,669, up £35,405)
with Humes, Ltd., in an asbestos-
mine in Southern Rhodesia.
Owing to the drop in world
demand for, and therefore the
price of, asbestos fibre, this
venture has been a financial dis-
appointment to date.
At 14s. (12s. 6d. ex rights a
year ago) the f.-p. 10s. ords. re-
turn a satisfactory 5.9 p.c. on an
8.3 p.c. div. basis. The £1 7 p.c.
prefs. at 245. yield 5.8 p.c. In-
cluding the plant renewal .reserve
net tangible cover is £6 7s, lid.
and 16s. Id. ords.
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
THIS big Queensland gold-
copper producer is an open-
cut proposition, which presents
some intricate and expensive
engineering problems connected
with the removal of overburden.
The main treatment-plants com-
prise two sulphide-mills with a
combined capacity of 85,000
tons ore per month, and the con-
centrates are treated in the co. s
own roasting-, smelting- and
converting-units.
Recently ore-reserves were
more than doubled by diamond-
drill disclosures in the adjoin-
ing Sugarloaf area, and the
value of the ore has been en-
hanced by reason of its pyritic
content. So the book-value of
the mine was written-up by
£1,050,000, and that amount
was capitalised by a three-for-
one bonus share-issue to those
on the ord. register in June,
1952. In December, 1952,
1,400,000 new 10s. 7 p.c. prefs.,
redeemable over the 10 years
to 1953, were issued at par.
The money was wanted to
finance advance removal of
overburden and production of
pyrites. Issued capital has been
thus lifted to £2,400,000 (there
was £18,602 of it come in at
June 30 last) in 300,000 £1 7 p.c.
prefs. (redeemable on or after
June 24, 1954), 1,400,000 10s.
7 p.c. prefs. (redeemable as al-
ready stated) and 2,800,000 10s.
ords.
Last term income increased
by £205,020, thanks to a slightly
better outturn of copper (due to
higher-grade ore), better aver-
age price for the red-metal,
larger premium (£57,974) from
sales of gold and marketing
of more pyrites:
Ord.
June, Income. Exes.f Surplus. Div.*
£ £ £ £
80 p.c.
1950.1,784,472 1,183.025 601,447 280,000
1951.1,699,945 1,329,238 370,707 280,000
20 p.c.
195212.453,023 2,067.445 385,578 280,000
1953.2,658,043 2,210,017 448,026 280,000
* Prefs. also receive 7 p.c. p.a. t Includes
depreciation.
Exes, gobbled £142,572 of the
gross gain, leaving the surplus,
or profit, £62,448 stronger at
£448,026, which was enough to
pay a full year’s div. on issued
pref. capital as. it now stands
and show 27 p.c. on the
£1,400,000 of ord. capital. The
ord. div. was kept at 20 p.c., or
2s. per share, and looks like re-
maining there for the present,
subject to what happens in con-
nection with the price of copper.
Exes, included £lOO,OOO (un-
changed) for depreciation, a non-
recurring £41,261 commission,
etc., on the new pref. share-
issue, and £360,666 of £547,532
spent on removal of a much
bigger tonnage of overburden—
the other £186,866 was capital-
ised, being charged to advance
overburden removal account.
This account, likely to grow
larger yet, is to be ultimately
wiped out as the ratio of over-
burden to ore falls below the
average for the whole deposit
(1.8 to 1).
Mining and assay figures com-
pare as follows:
Sulphide
Waste Ore r~ Assay
June, Discarded, Treated, Gold, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Dwt. p.c.
1950.. 1,155.074 849,500 2.81 0.58
1951.. 1,402,131 864,900 2.33 0.62
1952.. 1,618,842 892,250 2.19 0.70
1953.. 2,521,004 834,200 2.45 0.92
The ratio of overburden re-
moved to the 910,356 tons
(down 27,106 tons) of ore mined
was 2.8 to 1 last term as against
1.7 to 1 for the previous year.
It is to gain access to ore in
the Sugarloaf extension that
overburden removal is being
stepped-up.
From mill concentrates, etc.,
the smelter produced these
results:
t Metal Content •,
Blister, Copper, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Tons. Oz. Oz.
1950 .. 3614 3570 69,045 14,600
1951 .. 4168 4119 65,135 17,410
1952 .. 5651 5584 72,925 24,250
1953 . . 6237 6154 61,640 24,220
The reduction in gold output
was due to the higher copper-
gold ratio at the deeper levels.
The co.’s Gladstone stockpile of
pyrites has been taken over by
the British Phosphate Commis-
sion on behalf of inter-State
fertiliser manufacturers. Sale of
pyrites totalled 55,441 tons (up
20,046 tons), and is expected to
grow substantially.
Mining and ore-treatment
costs were 3s. 3.6 d. heavier at
345. 9.3 d. per ton. Smelter
costs were £62 2s. 4d. (up £11)
per ton of copper produced.
For the current term costs are
expected to be “reasonably
stable.”
Estimated reserves of treat-
able material at June 28, 1953,
were put at 17,500,000 tons,
assaying 2.6Bdwt. gold, 1.03 p.c.
copper and approximately 15
p.c. sulphur.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £1,547,905,
of which £700,497 was repre-
sented by stores and £lBO,OOO
was earmarked for redemption
of £300,000 of 7 p.c. pref.
capital a year or so hence.
Current liabilities amounted to
£178,934.
A doubtful factor at the
moment is the future of the
copper market. Prices realised
by the co. advanced from £230
per ton in 1951 to £350 in
Aug., 1952, then dropped to
£330 in April last, and have re-
mained steady since. The share-
market prices the £1 prefs. at
21s. 6d., the 10s. prefs. at
13s. 3d. and the 10s. ords. at
21s. 9d. (235. 6d. a year ago).
Westralia’s gold-production
for 1953 is likely to exceed
812,0000 z., best figure for the
last decade. Mint receipts for
the 11 months to end November
were 749,3020 z. (up 82,2390 z.)
fine gold. The current month’s
output is expected to at least
equal that of December, 1952,
which was 63,3030 z. fine metal.
Great Western Consolidated,
Hill 50, Central Norseman and
most of the Golden Mile cos.
all contributed to the increased
figure for 1953. There is still a
small incentive for producers to
sell the yellow metal on the open,
markets rather than through
official channels, but the gap is
narrowing. This means that
costs will press heavily upon net
earnings of marginal-grade
mines during 1954.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The town is reaching a peak of seasonal
gaiety, flavored by preparations for the
Everest-like excitement of the Queen’s
visit. Christmas-trees are on shop
awnings, and every now and then one
sees banners or standards being tried
out for the Royal tour. Illawarra
flame-trees, jacarandas and flowering-
gums on the North Shore are so bril-
liantly beautiful that it is a pity
thgy couldn’t have postponed blooming
until February. City crowds are very
well-dressed, mainly because many are
on their way to some party or other,
and the shantungs, the little flowered hats
and the strip-toe sandals are on display.
All, as Mr. Boswell might have said, con-
spires to make a pretty picture, indeed,
* * ☆
Christmas-party of the Australian-
American Association sported two Christ-
mas-trees, one 9ft. high and laden with
glittering “snow,” with banks of cotton-
wool-snow at its base, snowballs and
colored lights. Mrs. Florence Taylor,
hostess, wore black appliqued with cream
lace and a beautiful cross of amethysts
surrounded by diamonds which was sent
to her from Ireland. Guests-of-honor
were Mr. and Mrs. Emilio Hofmannsthal,
of New York, and among the 85 members
present were Mrs. Ted Scorfield,
a ballerina of grey chiffon and nylon net,
Mrs. L. Janes, in white embossed satin,
and Miss Arline Lower, who arranged the
musical programme and spoke on “Christ-
mas customs in Poland and Latvia.”
Miss Lower said that in Poland Christ-
mas festivities lasted from Christmas Eve
till Epiphany (January 6), beginning
with the breaking of the Advent fast by
a fish-supper of nine courses on Christ-
mas Eve. Everywhere in streets and on
railway-stations Christmas-trees were set,
and people went from house to house
showing puppet-plays for children. On
Christmas Day the tree was hung from
the ceiling, point downwards, the room
was decorated with cut-out friezes, straw
was strewn on the floor (a custom dating
back to pagan times), and always an
extra place was laid for a guest, for the
Polish believe that “when a guest is in
the house, God is in the house.”
# # V
Lady Slim, patron of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra, attended the Christmas-
party given to the orchestra by the A.B.C.
executive committee. The A.B.C. studio
at King’s Cross was beautifully decorated
with flowers, great bowls of red and white
gladioli and blue delphiniums dominating
the scheme. Mrs. Hope Gibson, assisted
by Mrs. A. H. Chartres, received, and
there were speeches (all of reasonable
length) from the chairman. Minister for
Education R. J. Heffron, Lord Mayor
Hills, and the Deputy-leader of the
Orchestra, Joseph Post.
☆ ☆ *
Isn’t it mortifying! The sentence,
“Women are the worst offenders,” is
repeated so often in the “Letters to the
Editor” columns that it’s become a
cliche.
# n &
Death of Dora Wilcox at the grand
age of 80 haf deprived Sydney literary
world of one of its oldest and most
lovable members. A New Zealander,
Dora Wilcox, whose maternal grand-
parents arrived in Canterbury by one of
the “first four ships,” began to write verse
for The Bulletin when only a girl and
was a contributor of poetry to its pages
for almost half a century. Three books
of her verse were published, and in 1927
she won the “S. M. Herald” Canberra
Ode competition. As a playwright she
is represented in Best Australian One-Act
Plays.
During World War I Dora Wilcox
served with the V.A.D.s in English war-
hospitals. She married twice, her first
husband was Professor Jean Hamelius, of
Liege University, Belgium; her second
William Moore, art critic and art historian.
Her lovely old home, Gallagher’s Farm,
in the Galston orchard country, was a
rendezvous for artists and writers. Until
a few months ago she was a constant
attendant at literary and social gather-
ings, and friends remember her kindliness,
the charm of her conversation and her
keen, enthusiastic mind.
v # V
Many of those present at the A.B.C.’s
party to the Symphony Orchestra went on
to the annual meeting and Christmas-
party of the Garden Club in the Com-
monwealth Bank’s spacious recreation
hall. Here, as always, the flower decora-
tions were outstanding, with Lady Plow-
man’s wintry scene decorated with spun
glass perhaps the most attractive. The
president, Mrs. Arthur Davis, wore black
with a cream lace fichu and welcomed
about 300 guests. She mentioned in her
report that the Garden Club has become
so successful in its three years of exist-
ence that the committee had considered
closing the membership, but had com-
promised by appointing another secretary.
She also mentioned the club’s most
ambitious project to date, the planned
Memorial Drive to Canberra, which the
chairman of the meeting, General F. H.
Berryman, discussed more fully later.
Robin Corner, younger daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. L. S. Corner, of Vaucluse, was
a charming hostess at one of the recent
teenage parties to celebrate the Christmas
season. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
It was a great day (or rather night) for
Manly when, last Friday, the Whitehall
Coronation Centrepiece was formally
presented to the people of the Village
by U.K. High Commissioner Sir
Stephen Holmes. Sir Stephen was offi-
cially welcomed at Manly’s handsome
council chambers by Mr. W. C. Went-
worth, M.P., at 7 p.m., and after a civic
reception to his Excellency ceremonies
began at the Corso, where the Centrepiece
stretches up 240 ft. and presents two faces
of heraldic figures in gleaming duralium
to the ocean and the harbor. The Centre-
piece has taken about one month to erect
and it is estimated that the final cost
will be about £5OOO.
About 5000 people on the Corso and
the beach joined in community-singing
after the Mayoress of Manly had switched
on the lights to illuminate the Centre-
piece and they had heard speeches from
the Mayor, Alderman A. Hanson Nor-
man, Sir Stephen Holmes, Mr. E, D.
Darby, M.L.A., Sir James Bisset and
Alderman R. W. Baker. Then there was
more community singing, and watches
were presented to the dux of each school
in the district. All this was most smoothly
and expeditiously carried through, and
the ceremonies concluded with a party at
the Hotel New Brighton, where a bouquet
was presented to Lady Holmes by Mrs.
C. Hay.
* ☆ ☆
The price of Christmas-cards is rather
a worry these days. Overheard a woman
saying the other day “Oh, I didn’t think
of paying that much. It’s only for a
friend.”
☆ * *
Huge white Christmas-bells decorated
the Pickwick for the Christmas-party of
the senior committee of the Food for
Babies Fund, and the 200 guests decorated
it further with their elegant dressing.
President Mrs. Ken Pointing wore a black
grosgrain dress with a fringed hem and
a matching stole, faintly Indian in idea.
Mrs. Wallace Browne’s white satin hat
with its shimmering embroidery teamed
up on a romantic line with her pale-pink
satin dress, and Mrs. Neville Lynch’s
delicately-tinted lilac dress with its silver
threads and hat with iridescent shells was
in the Christmas mood.
Younger-set members present were
Beverley Black, Shirley Robinson and
Judy Marriott. The guessing competi-
tion, which had a first-prize of 100 bottles
of beer (no less) and an eighth-prize of
a dozen bottles of Scotch, while not quite
orthodox food for babies, added con-
siderably to the fund, for which the com-
mittee has been working all through the
year.
V- V v
MELBOURNE
To all readers of this Letter, Christmas
greetings and wishes for peace and happi-
ness throughout 1954.
* * ☆
The Housewives’ Association put on a
very good show for their break-up party
in the clubrooms, the guest-of-honor
being the Governor’s lady, who presented
to Mr. Jenner, representing the Austin
Hospital, a cheque for £250, from the
association. Lady Brooks, wearing a
black-etched white silk frock and a black
straw picture-hat, was welcomed by the
association’s president, Mrs. Gladys Hain,
who added a jacket of canary-yellow
linen to her black frock and small white
straw hat. Marion McPherson, wearing
a suit of navy linen and a white straw
cloche, accompanied Lady Brooks, Lady
Hay, in a black ensemble, presented life-
governorship certificates of the hospital
to representatives of five branches. Secre-
tary Rachel Robinson, who leaves shortly
for a New Zealand holiday, "was also
present,
☆ ☆ ☆
Captain and Mrs. Charles Burge, of
Brighton, entertained about 60 friends at
a cocktail-party to enable them to say
goodbye to Mrs, Burge, who leaves on
January 4 for England. Guests also
'had an opportunity of saying goodbye
to Mrs. Burge’s cousin. Miss Hoogen-
dorn, who is returning to her home in
Holland. Among the guests were Major-
General and Mrs. A. C, Shortt, Commo-
dore and Mrs. J. Morrow, Mrs. Rupert
Greene, Mrs. Roscoe Wilson, Colonel J.
Middleton, U.S. Army Attache, and Mrs.
Middleton, Colonel J, L. Sullivan, U.S.
Air Force and Mrs. Sullivan.
* ☆ ☆
Wedding-bells will ring for Bunty, only
daughter of Sir Leslie and Lady Mc-
Connan, and Hamilton Moreton, on Feb-
ruary 19. Wedding will be held at Toorak
Presbyterian Church, and will be followed
by a reception in the home of the bride’s
parents at Toorak. Bunty’s bridesmaids
will be Cecily Crozier, Jean Officer and
Ann Raymond. Bunty returned last
week from Sydney, where she has been
working, and is now busy with Lady
McConnan making preparations for her
marriage.
Mrs. lan Potter, who has just returned
from a holiday in England and Europe,
was a leading light in amateur theatricals
before her marriage; best known, per-
haps, for her portrayal of Lady Precious
Stream. She attends all first-nights, and
is a celebrated dresser. Her lovely home
is in South Yana. She has a small
daughter.
Two gaily-decorated Christmas-trees,
holly and tall red candles were used as
decorations by the Victoria League Young
Contingent for their party in the Collins-
street clubrooms. Mrs. Alec Cook, the
president, wearing a pretty pink nylon
frock, hand-painted in white flowers, and
a small pink flower-hat, was assisted by
vice-president Bill le Livre in receiving
the 80 guests. Mrs. H. F. Maudsley,
senior vice-president of the State’s Vic-
toria League, was a guest-of-honor;
so was Heather Turner-Laing, niece of
Lady Brooks, who is staying at Govern-
ment House on a holiday from England.
She was accompanied by Marion Mc-
; Pherson, secretary to Lady Brooks.
Included in the guest-list were the Aus-
tralian Davis Cup tennis squad and Mrs.
Harry Hopman. Marjorie Tatnall was
attractive in a grey-and-white coin-spotted
cotton frock and black picture-hat.
Adrienne Maxwell’s navy chiffon frock
had white organdie cuffs and collar,
Diana Dawborn wore a lemon cotton
frock patterned with grey flowers, and
Judith Scott-Williams teamed a white
nylon blouse with a very full black skirt.
High above the noise and clatter of
Collins-street in what must be the loveliest
penthouse in the city, Mr. and Mrs. L. J.
Dooling entertained 100 friends at a
Christmas-party, At the back of the pent-
house lights gleamed softly on a mossy
lawn, in which grew trees and banks of
hydrangeas, and in which a fountain
splashed. Inside there was a Christmas-
tree, and during the evening strolling
players provided music for carols sung
by the guests. Mrs. Dooling greeted her
guests wearing a ballerina frock of navy-
and-white cotton woven with a small white
flower-petal design.
Among the guests were Lady Connelly,
Sir John and Lady Teasdale, Professor
Paton, Professor Donovan and Mrs.
Donovan, the Frank Rowes, Mr. and Mrs.
A. H. Gaze, Mrs. John Inkster, Mrs.
W. K. Burnside, Mrs. Angus Jones, Mrs.
Given Parsons, wife of the U.S. Consul,
Mrs. Harry Lyell, Mrs. Guy Livingstone,
Mrs. Jack Waters and Grace Hunter.
* * ☆
Engagement has been announced of
Celia, eldest daughter of Mr. W. J.
Grassick, of Toorak, and the late Mrs.
Grassick, to Robert, eldest son of Mr.
and Mrs. T. H. Tindler, of Amsterdam,
Holland, Celia, who was educated at
Merton Hall, has been studying sculpture
at the Melbourne Technical School.
Robert, who arrived from Holland last
year, is an industrial chemist. The ring
is a ruby surrounded with diamonds and
centred in a baroque-gold setting.
☆ * *
The board of directors of the National
Theatre are making sure that the Queen
will see a beautifully-dressed “Tales of
Hoffman” when she attends a Command
Performance at the Princess Theatre in
March. The 19 costumes have been de-
signed by artist Louis Kahan and will
be made by the Collins-street fashion-
house of Le Louvre. Guests invited to Le
Louvre by Lillian Wightman for a late-
afternoon party had an opportunity of
seeing the sketches for the costumes.
Among guests were Gertrude Johnson,
director of the National Theatre, Mrs.
Bernard Evans, Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon,
Mr. Basil and Dr. Deborah Murphy,
Mrs. Douglas Cox and Mrs. Gladys Hain.
It was announced that Thomas Harrison
will design and make the hats worn in
the opera.
* * *
It was a rare experience for an audi-
ence in the Assembly Hall when John
Casson, against a background of glowing
hydrangeas, read a selection of Christmas
literature. His magical voice transported
his listeners over the years, from the
15th-century to this century’s O. Henry
and James Bridie. John, who is the son
of Sir Lewis Casson and Dame Sybil
Thorndike, has been with the Firm for
the past two years, but now ends that
association and in future will freelance as
actor and producer. Mrs. Casson, wear-
ing green-printed chiffons, greeted Lady
Brooks, whose graceful gown was of
hydrangea-blue chiffon. Lady Brooks was
accompanied by her niece, Heather
Turner-Laing, and Capt. T. Kirwin-
Taylor. In the audience were Mrs.
Robert Hamilton, Mrs. Douglas Stephens,
Sir Russell and Lady Grimwade, Mrs.
Humphrey Clegg and her daughter, Mrs.
W. Beresford Marks, Lady Murdoch,
Major Edric Henty and his two small
daughters.
* * ☆
Guests at the Christmas-party given
by the Little Theatre Players’ Club were
received by president Henry Allan and
vice-president Patricia White, whose frock
of black faille featured gold coin-spots.
The guests included Mary Mackenzie,
whose unusual bouffant skirt was
topped with a black cotton jumper;
Myrtle Woods, wearing a san-beige crepe
tailored frock; Peggy Marks, whose choice
was a silk frock in a colorful print;
Julia Ross, in a frock of beetle’s-wing
silk ; Mrs. Juddie James, attractive in a
frock of white floral-printed seersucker ;
Girlie Redden, who wore rose-pink-and-
blue Bayadere printed silks ; and Mrs.
Brett Randall, in a frock which combined
light- and dark-grey cotton.


The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
mining NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
v v all States.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JACK GREEN late of Murwillumbah
in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that DORIS JEAN GREEN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3833 ot
1953 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
i pwards and is asking for the exercise ot
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 12th day of March 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN BARMETT GREAVES.
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Dlvorce.
TO FREDERICK JAMES LEE formerly
of Bathurst—TAKE NOTICE that EDITH
MARY LEE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4422 of 1950 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by First of March 1954
and 'obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER AND
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South Wales—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARIE JOYCE TENNYSON late of
36 Fotheringham Street Marrickville. —
TAKE NOTICE that ALLAN GEORGE
TENNYSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2159 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 26th Feb-
ruary 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from P. G. &
P L TRUMAN, Solicitors, of 10 Martin
Place, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT PATRICK JAMES CRONIN
late of 25 Dillwin Road Sketty Swansea
Glamorganshire South Wales England.
TAKE NOTICE that CATHERINE
PHYLLIS CRONIN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1957 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Su-
preme Court King Street Sydney by the
twenty-sixth day of February 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. J. J. LYONS and
BARNETT, Solicitors, of Peel Street, Tam-
worth, New South Wales, or their City
Agent, MR. M. J. McGRATH, of 56
Hunter Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
S£#SAT/omi
BATTERY IMPROVEMENT
f# 3
Willatd
SAFETY-
FILL
mm
NO
INCREASE
IN COST!
First Id Australia! The genuine Willard Safety-Fill feature
is the simplest, most accurate principle developed to
prevent overfilling and the resulting acid spray which
can cause dangerous corrosion!
WRITE FOR FREE FOLDER. Send now for your copy of
the “Safety-Fill” folder that tells about the exclusive
Willard Safety-Fill battery—WßlTE NOW!
illard
WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY CO. of AUST. PTY. LTD.
ISO CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Thea Rowe
When American singer Burl
Ives turned up in these parts a
while ago there was some mild
commotion because a folk-singer
of some repute had come among
us. Mr. Ives was undoubtedly
very good in his way, but it is
worth noting that there is an in-
finitely better exponent of the
art already in Australia in Thea
Rowe, who has been singing
folk-songs to small and fortunate
audiences around Australia for
some years.
The Bulletin hunted her
down at the Cammeray Music
Group’s headquarters last week
and was once more amazed both
by what she can do and the
perfection with which she does
it. Offstage she is a small, lively
brunette; onstage, with a bare
minimum of stage and props to
help her, she is a hundred people
and can take her audience from
tears to laughter as swiftly as she
can change her personality. When
she sang of the Irish potato-
famine she filled her audience
with the incredible hopelessness
of the time when three million
people died of starvation; when
she sang a song of sixpence the
king, queen, maid and black-
bird were, somehow, on the
stage ; and when she sang her
“counting song” the stage, by
some miracle, became a wonder-
ful confusion of twelve lords
a-leaping, eleven ladies dancing,
ten maids a-milking and sundry
hens, turtle-doves and even “a
partridge in a pear-tree.”
Her repertoire is almost a
catalogue and it is difficult to
place any particular item above
another, but one came away re-
membering particularly the
lovely, lonely air of “The Oak
and the Ash”; the delightful
story of “Bonny Mally Lee”;
the subtlety of expression in
“Kate Carney” ; the impressive
beat of “Roy’s Wife of Ulla
Balloch”; the Cornish “Twist
Ye, Twine Ye,” about a wrecker
cursed to make a rope from the
sands of the sea, and in which
the singer somehow contrives to
be, in turn, the green sea break-
ing, the spirit cursing and the
man straining and hauling at his
task; and the delightful little
reminder in
“and worms will coom and eat thee
oop,
and docks will coom and eat oop
worms,
and we’ll eat oop docks,
,and we’ll have piece of thee.”
♦♦♦ <♦ <*
‘The Happiest Days of Your
Life”
John Dighton’s comedy, put
on by the Kuringai Theatre
Guild, is a cheerful bit of non-
sense about the times in Britain
when schoolchildren were being
evacuated and devacuated all
over the countryside, and when
some institutes of learning were
nearly bursting at the seams be-
cause they had to accommodate
other schoolfuls of children as
well as their own. By an error
of filing in the Department of
Devacuation or something the
girls and mistresses of St.
Swithin’s are bundled into
Hilary Hall school for boys, and
no amount of pleading or abuse
can convince the department
that it has made a mistake.
To complicate matters further
Hilary Hall is visited by one set
of parents very anxious that
their daughter should be brought
up a little lady, and by another
set equally concerned that their
son should not be subjected to
softening feminine influences.
What with the headmistress of
St. Swithin’s trying to conceal
or explain away the boys of
Hilary Hall and the headmaster
of Hilary Hall trying to do like-
wise with the girls of St.
Swithin’s, the situation generates
quite a bit of laughter —a couple
of youngsters The Bulletin
took along rocked with mirth in
their seats for most of the even-
ing, particularly at such ex-
amples of juvenile sadism as
when the boys of Hilary Hall
pour treacle into the tool-bags
of the St. Swithin’s girls’
bicycles.
The Kuringai Guild’s produc-
tion (by Jock Brown) was quite
a good one, and it was well
played, particularly by May
Walker as Miss Evelyn White-
church, the headmistress of St.
Swithin’s; Beth Davies and
Norma Barker as mistresses of
the same institution; Peter Bar-
clay as the head of Hilary Hall;
and Alex Ground and Brian Gill
as two of his masters. John
Ridley and Judith Barclay made
a couple of pleasantly poisonous
children.
£*
“King David”
Seldom has anything been
heard in Melbourne more vivid
and exciting than Honegger’s
“King David,” put on by the
Royal Philharmonics at the
Town Hall under Professor
Heinze’s baton. The excitement
seemed to spread to the profes-
sor, who gave his orchestral
team its head on one or two
occasions so that the singers
seemed like passengers on a
bblting stagecoach.
The more sober part of the
proceedings was in the hands of
Kenneth Lawrence, who nar-
rated the story of Saul, Samuel,
Goliath and King David, while
choristers, soloists and orches-
trions waited to spring it upon
him with savage bursts of
lamentation, triumph and recri-
mination, while the incantation
of the Witch of Endor was posi-
tively hair-raising. •
Ronald Dowd, the Sydney
tenor, was as easy in his words
as in his singing, and Glenda
Raymond was as facile with her
soprano.
♦♦♦ ❖
“C B.”: A thing that interests
me about this electronic music
(B. 9 1 12/’53) is why Sir Bernard
Heinze is so keen about it. If
his prognosis of the music of
the future is correct it eliminates
Sir Bernard. I hope it isn t—-
I would hate to see him vanish
from the concert platform along
with his wonderful musicians, to
be replaced by a squawky gadget.
Artbursts
Melb. “Herald” Art Show
The culmination of the year’s
art in Melbourne really Came
with the “Herald” open-air art
show in the Treasury Gardens.
In a way, it was a newspaper
stunt, but it had its good points.
There was no selection com-
mittee to start with, so old ladies
could send along their cats,
spinsters their bad copies of
12th-century madonnas, retired
sea captains their memories of
windjammers they had served on,
and unappreciated geniuses of
the nursery their copies of Walt
Disney. They were all hung up
higgledy-piggledy on the mile
or so of rabbit-proof wire-
netting under the foliage of the
elms and poplars, cheek-by-jowl
with the work of accomplished
painters. So, if the work of some
as yet unrecognised genius
slipped into the exhibition the
Muse of art can thank the
“Herald’s” democratic gesture.
Moreover, no fees or rents or
commissions on sales were
charged against the artist, so he
had a freer go than he gets
from the galleries in the city.
The public, also having a free
go, rolled up in its tens of thous-
ands and wore the grass off the
lawns tramping round the wire-
netting. Most of them had obvi-
ously never been to an art show
or seen a modern painting, and
their naive surprise and the
freshness of their comments
would have interested a gallery-
director.
The sculptors have gone
rather more haywire than the
painters, and the abstractionists
have gone further with “Sculp-
ture That Moves.” In the first
place, a contraption of tin and
wire isn’t sculpture, and in the
second, it doesn’t move, but is
moved —when the wind is blow-
ing. Frith has a display of his
busts of contemporary states-
men he doesn’t make a
merit of mere distortion, and
some of his caricatures are
extraordinarily appealing. The
flat feet, pinheads and elongated
features of the serious sculptors
aren’t even funny.
Some of the best-known
painters aren’t on exhibition,
but quite a lot are. Viewed as
an ensemble, the “Herald show
is charming, with the lovely
Treasury building and the white
State offices as a background for
the grass and the canopy of
green leaves, the caf<£ chairs and
tables, the striped tents of the
administrators and the moving
crowds of people excited by
being brought info the vicinity
of the mysterious Muses. A
symphony orchestra would have
added to the impressiveness of
the attempt to let the man-in-
the-street in on what the artists
of Australia have been doing.
* ❖ ♦
The annual display of the
work of the students at the
National Gallery school in Mel-
bourne is up for inspection. Witn
the multiplicity of teachers in-
troduced by the Rehab, system
there, is a multiplicity of accents,
and everybody seems to be
speaking with somebody elses
accent, if he isn’t talking in a
mixture of half a dozen. Some
of the unfortunate students have
become apparently so bewildered
that they have given up tiying
to learn the language and have
gone off on the expressionist
bandwagon, which has about
as much to do with art as jabber-
ing has to do with rational
speech.
Talkies
“Titanic”
“Feng-Shui”: I went to see
the “Titanic” film at Melbourne
Regent with a certain personal
interest. I can vividly remember,
as a cable-operator in the Far
East, receiving the great splurges
of self-congratulation that were
poured out when the luxury ship
took the water, the frenzied
cheers when she set out with a
shipload of distinguished and
socially-distinguished people to
win the Blue Ribbon of the
Atlantic and, not so many hours
later, the awful contrast when
the curt message passed through
saying that she had sunk, prob-
ably with all hands, after hitting
an iceberg.
There soon followed mes-
sage after message unfolding the
whole grim story, a lot of which
makes no appearance in the
picture—the frightful chaos, the
panicking at the finish, the rush-
ing of the boats by men who
never imagined they would rush
the boats in a crisis, the throw-
ing-out of the women and
children, and the officers trying
to prevent a complete disaster
by shooting the mob down.
All that threw a vivid light
on acts of heroism like that
of W. T. Stead, the journalist,
who, when offered seats for him-
self and his wife, refused to take
them and went into the saloon
and quietly waited, while his
wife waited with him. There is
no reference in the picture
to the fact that the captain
took the northern course, de-
spite iceberg warnings, because
it was the shortest and he knew
that his company wanted a
record. It was that, among
other things, that drew the fiery
protest from Joseph Conrad, the
old windjammer captain, at such
a sacrifice of his beloved sailors
to commercial competition.
Leaving all that out completely
denatures the story and makes it
just another innocuous epic of
British courage, a proper school-
history-book example. It was
an epic of British courage but
the thing that made it so was
the individual examples of crew,
officers and private people like
Stead, not the mistakes of the
others.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Mogambo”
Despite a spot of forcing in
some of the romantic episodes,
this jungle film, set in Kenya
and Tanganyika, is one of the
best yet turned out.
Its strength is the authenticity
of the scenes in the trapping of
wild animals, in the magnificent
views of the Central African
plains and sluggish rivers and
deep jungle-country. The fascin-
ating scene of a colony of
enormous gorillas is one of the
best studies yet seen of wild
animals in their natural habitat.
The story centres around a
wild-animal trapper, leader of
an expedition looking for rare
specimens. When an ex-show-
girl casts up at his headquarters
he makes the most of the amatory
opportunities offering, which
appear to be considerable. Then
arrive a young English scientist
(Donaldson Sinden) and his
beautiful wife (Grace Kelly), and
to the latter the trapper transfers
his interest, after which ex-show-
girl stands on the sidelines mak-
ing sardonic cracks at her lover
and successor.
Clark Gable mixes muscle and
the tender feelings with custo-
mary facility and Ava Gardner
keeps her cynicism within bounds
during a performance of some
merit. (At Sydney St. James.)


Winqs off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
M°> rea 1 1Y” Swan
I chuckled, a surpris-
I J ingly deep ripple of
sound from his slight
frame. “We’ve had the catapult
repaired—and Jelly-belly was
most anxious that you should
be the first to test it. Ah,
well, we can’t all be Poppa’s
favorites . .
Sherwood looked back over
his shoulder as they started down
the hatch.
“And so?”
“And so I’m the mug. I sug-
gested he might like to try it
himself. Keep his hand in, sort
of. He looked —funny—then.
Interesting. Anyway, I’ll be see-
ing you after the test. Presum-
ably you may have visitors?”
Sherwood waved his good arm
as he disappeared into the dark
of between-decks.
Swan halted the surgeon as he
made after the stretcher.
“How is he really. Doc.?”
The surgeon hesitated. “Hell,”
went on Swan, “if you could
only see that bloody professional
look on your dial! You’re
wasted here, you damned old
sawbones. A maternity hospital
would suit you better —like
bacon on eggs.”
The surgeon bridled. “All you
heroes are the same—till you
get scratched.” He looked into
Swan’s face, split athwartships
like a watermelon. That impish
grin got right inside you. Which
was why Swan’s pilots would
follow him —and often did —
through hell and high water. The
surgeon’s face relaxed in a recip-
rocating smile.
“Nothing much wrong with
him. With his constitution I’d
say about three weeks will see
him flying. That’s if his friends
can be persuaded to mind their
own damned business and let me
attend to mine.”
Swan saluted. “Thank you,
kind sir. I am sure he copld be
in no better hands. Apart from
the fact that yours are the only
ones he could be in.”
The surgeon grunted and ran
down the ladder. The Fury
pilot, his face relieved and smil-
ing, stepped out again into the
violence of sunshine on the
flight-deck.
A stripling in overalls came
up to him from the direction of
a chocked Fury, whose thousands
of horses were idling in a muted
purr of disciplined sound. The
youngster was Sherwood’s Num-
ber Three, his deputy, a position
in combat important out of all
proportion to its holder’s age.
He saluted, his freshly-fair
young face smiling respectfully.
“She's tested and correct.
Ready when you are.”
“Right, Ventner,” Swan
answered briskly. “Let’s have
a look at the catapult.”
Trousers flapping, they walked
down the spreading acreage of
the flight-deck towards the cata-
pult counter-sunk in the port
side of the deck up near the bow.
A group of stokers under an
engineer-officer were busy round
a group of levers on the catwalk
adjacent to the catapult.
Swan was almost past the
bridge when a voice called.
“Lieutenant - Comm ander
Swan.” The voice was harsh,
humorless. The pilot looked up,
staring into the scar-marked
face. He waited, silent.
“Lieutenant - Comm ander
Swan.”
There was no doubt of the
acid in the voice this second
time. Swan recognised it. He
answered:
“Yes, sir?”
Baumer leant his thick arms
on the windbreak. His voice was
sarcastic.
“I am glad you can hear me.
Are you ready to start the
test?”
Remembering Ventner beside
him, Swan answered civilly.
“The aircraft is ready, sir.
I’m checking with the catapult!
crew.”
Baumer’s voice dripped ice.
“You can assume that when I
query your readiness for the
test I have already checked all
other aspects of it. Man your
aircraft.”
The red face with its livid
flash drew back from the wind-
break, Swan turned, his own
face scarlet, and made for his
ship. The youngster strode
rapidly beside him. He looked at
his senior’s set jaws.
“Bit of a snaky blighter,
isn’t”
Swan turned at once.
“Pipe down! Any comments
you have on your senior officers
be good enough to confine to
your mess.”
“Yes, sir,” the youngster
gulped.
They strode on in silence.
Swan halted beside the
cocked-up nose of his Fury and
watched the helicopter as she
clawed vertically from the deck
in a whirling rush of her huge
arms. He saw the face of Hap
grinning down at him. Hap
raised his right hand, thumb up
in the “okay” gesture. Swan
waved back, grinning himself
now. Whatever Hap thought of
the Royal Navy, and, by con-
trast, of his own, he was a very
handy boy to have around
during flying-off operations—as
Hap had proved on numerous
occasions. And, more important,
he was a damned good mess-
mate.
Swan climbed into his air-
craft, settling his head back
against the thick leather pad as
he tightened his helmet-strap.
Then he peered out of the side
and raised his hand, thumb up.
Watching for the signal, the
leading-airman who had bridled
at Hap’s comments stood
directly in front of the Fury. He
was clad in overalls and sand-
shoes, with a bright-yellow vest
laced across his back and chest
and a cap of the same vividness
on his head. He turned and
looked towards the bow, to
where three other directors,
similarly clad, waited in line
right up to the catapult. Turn-
ing back to the chocked Fury,
the director waved his arm round
his head. In instant obedience
the aircraft’s idling growl
swelled to a pounding bellow of
sound. She shuddered against
the chocks.
The director snapped his
hands sideways, definitely. Two
chockmen, flat on their bellies
against the slip-stream, pulled
the chocks from her wheels,
then wriggled back out of
danger. The director, fingers
outstretched, made little motions
towards his chest, at the same
time walking backward, towards
the bow. The Fury followed as
though drawn by invisible wires.
Up to the second director,
and the first, in a beautifully
definite gesture, one arm out-
stretched forrard, the other
snapped across his chest, handed
his charge on. The procedure
was repeated till, finally. Swan
brought his ship up to the last
director, waiting a little abaft
the catapult-rails, level with the
two yellow guiding-lines which
would lead the aircraft into posi-
tion.
The last director, backing
slowly, watching the lines, sud-
denly held up his hands, fingers
clenched. The Fury halted. A
tail-wheel man ran forward.
fitted his trolley to her tail and
so guided her exactly up the
yellow lines as she moved for-
ward again. In a trice the cata-
pult-sling was hooked on. The
fighter stood there, quivering,
waiting, ready.
Now the flight-deck-officer
took over. His back to the lift-
ing bow and the thirty-five knot
wind which the speed of Hawk’s
passage was pouring back down
the flight-deck, he stared in con-
centration at the flying-control
position at the side of the
bridge; saw Baumer place the
green, affirmative, flag in its
socket. The square of bunting
whipped in the wind its permis-
sion to go ahead.
The flight-deck-officer lifted
his own green flag, now staring
at Swan. As the flag waved
Swan worked his throttle. The
imprisoned Fury strove and
shuddered on the bogie, little
blue flames spurting down the
lines of exhausts, an ear-belting
roar cascading down the flight-
deck. The flight-deck-officer
whipped his hand down.
Swan braced himself, head
pressed back hard against the
headrest. A stoker on the cat-
walk beside the aircraft’s throb-
bing wings shoved a lever. The
next instant Swan felt an unholy
belt in his back. The Fury shot
forward, a grey streak.
In his mind Swan was already
conditioned to take her off the
curved-down end of the deck.
Suddenly he felt a jerk, almost
as shocking as the first impulse.
“God,” he thought, “the cata-
pult ...” The thought was no
sooner formed than he felt again
the surge of power. This time it
continued right to the end of the
run. The Fury flung itself off
the bow, dipped a little towards
the sea, then clawed skyward in
a thunder of power. Swan licked
his lips. The catapult, he rea-
lised, had, momentarily, halted
in full flight.
He took her down, round the
stern and up past the bridge,
flying at three hundred feet, so
that the ship could see his
arrester-hook was properly
down. Then he flew round
again and lined her up for the
landing.
In the cool white sickbay,
comfortable in a bed slung from
the deckhead, newly bandaged
and dealt with, Sherwood could
hear plainly the roar of his
friend’s passing. He reached
over and picked up a phone,
calling the bridge.
The bosun’s-mate answered.
“Ask the navigator to speak
to me, please,” said Sherwood.
He waited, listening for the
thump that would tell him Swan
was safely down. A voice came
through, thin with distance.
“Pilot speaking, Dick. What
can we do for you?”
“Oh, Pilot. How’s the cata-
pult shaping?”
“Seems to be okay. Though
there was a bit of a hiatus half-
way through the run. Swan’s
coming in now.”
“Is he going up again?”
“I expect so, yes.”
“H’m.”
The navigator’s voice was
slightly concerned.
“Why, Dick—shouldn’t he?”
Sherwood laughed. “Of
course. Baumer’s up there?
Then he knows what he’s up to.
See you later.”
He put the phone up. The
grin eased from his lips. Did
Baumer know what he was up
to? Sherwood had, once, ex-
perienced a catapult hang-up
The memory would remain with
him so long as he lived. He
pulled at his hook of a nose,
then looked up as a pounding
thump echoed from the deck-
head. It was followed by the
high-speed slithering of an
arrester-wire along the deck.
Swan was down.
When he made the instrument-
packed bridge, Swan saw Baumer
talking, smoothly confidential,
to the captain. He saw, also, that
the captain, a giant of a man
with bunches of hair on either
cheekbone, was not looking at
his scarred companion, but
staring out ahead through the
bridge windows. Though he
was not sure —the captain was
too much of a captain to show
it —Swan thought he sensed dis-
taste in the senior officer’s atti-
tude. At any rate, the pilot
could* not help noticing the
eagerness—almost relief —with
which the captain turned when
he heard Swan’s step behind him.
“Ah, Swan.” The voice was
deep, cultured, a voice to be
expected of a man his size and
casual assurance in his position.
“How did you find the cata-
pult? It did check halfway?”
Swan sensed Baumer’s eyes on
him as he answered. The scar
was particularly bright against
the full, red face.
“Yes, sir, she did stagger a
bit.” Some perverse hope of
doing hurt to the third listener
compelled him to go on. “I’d
like to try it again, sir,”
The captain nodded. “Very
well.”
That was all. There was no
mention of the concern in the
captain’s mind. It was there, of
course ; just as was the apprecia-
tion that he had to have his
catapult operating again in
quick-time. And there was only
one way to ensure that it would
be.
On the way down the dark
steel tower of the bridge struc-
ture to the flight-deck Swan
thought of the feeling which had
prompted him to try to hurt
Baumer. Why? How did he
hope to hurt him by offering
once to again risk iris life on a
possibly faulty catapult which
would fling him at over 70 knots
from a standing start? Because
he felt that Baumer himself
would not have done it? He
grinned openly at the thought,
and dismissed it as ridiculous.
Baumer had not won D.S.O. and
Bar through his good 100k5...
Adjusting his helmet-strap, his
small frame dwarfed by the wall
of the bridge, Swan walked
briskly aft over the deck scored
with wheel-marks towards his
fighter. Past the fire-party, look-
ing like men from Mars in their
heavy fearnought suits and
helmets, and the aircraft-handlers
waiting on the sponsons below
the edge of the deck. He glanced
up at the helicopter, hovering
off the port bow, and climbed
into his aircraft. In a few
seconds he was fast on the cata-
pult.
The drumming roar of her
revving-up reached Sherwood in
a dull beat of sound. It reached
Hap above the noise of his own
engine, chewing nonchalantly
half a thousand feet up,
“Come on, boy,” Hap mut-
tered. “1 wants me dinner. If
SYNOPSIS
Shot down over Korea, Lieut.-
Commander Richard Sherwood,
commanding-officer of the Fire-
fly strike-aircraft aboard British
carrier Hawk, ditches in the sea.
A North Korean shore-battery
opens fire on his dinghy, and has
found the range when two tor-
pedoes from a British submarine
blow the battery sky-high.
Rescued, Sherwood is returned
by the submarine to his carrier,
fighter-squadron, anxiously
with different feelings, Com-
mander Swan, C.O. of the Fury
figheter-squadron, anxiously
awaits his return. Also waiting,
dith different feelings. Com-
mander (Air) Reginald Baumer,
Sherwood’s immediate superior.


you goddam Limeys had built
a workable”
He tensed. His jaws stilled,
glaring down through the per-
spex. Then he sent the heli-
copter dropping swiftly, dropping
towards where the Fury was
skimming along a few feet above
the water. Hap saw its belly
touch, tearing a white gash in
the sea. Then she was in,
hurling a great wall of water
fan-wise before her nose.
In the flooding cockpit Swan
struggled to clear his parachute-
harness and safety straps, desper-
ately turning and punching the
release mechanism. Then he
jerked his R/T lead loose. The
eftort had occupied his mind to
the exclusion of all other con-
siderations. Then he remem-
bered where he was. He craned
round, to stare in fascinated
horror at the huge knife-edge
of steel bearing down upon him.
A bow-waved stem topped by
the vast spread of the rounded-
down flight-deck and backed by
15,000 tons of driving steel.
The next few seconds were a
welter of violence. The ship’s
bow struck the fighter amidships,
forcing it for an instant against
the resistance of the water before
carving through its puny metal
like a power-saw through pine.
Then the bow-wave caught the
cockpit and tossed it aside.
Through his streaming goggles
Swan saw the ship’s side slide
swiftly past. He struggled out
of his seat, smothering under the
cascades of water; and felt a
stinging slap against his face.
Instinctively he grabbed with one
hand. A swift second later
realisation brought his other
hand up, to clutch the belt on
the end of the helicopter’s wire
with grim desperation.
Hap took her,up swiftly and
smoothly, his catch, streaming
water, dangling on the end of
the winch-wire. Ten seconds
later Swan was deposited gently
on the flight-deck.
Hap was chewing again now,
grinning as he wound in the
wire. It was a quiet grin, quietly
complacent—not at its wearer’s
professional competence (which
was so thorough that it was
automatic), but at the fact that
the aircraft which had rescued
this particular Englishman from
an interview with Davy Jones
bore the white, blue-encircled
star of the United States Navy.
Hap settled her smoothly on
the deck, the broad undercarriage
spreading as it took the weight.
He climbed out and strolled
casually across to where Swan
was alternately spitting water
and spitting assurances to the
surgeon that he was all right.
Hap glanced up, and saw the
captain leaning through the
bridge windows. He noticed,
also, the beefy figure of Com-
mander Baumer come running
from the bridge on to the flight-
deck.
Hap bent down to Swan.
“How goes it, pal?”
Swan grinned up at him.
“Okay—pal. Thanks very much
to you. If you reckon my life’s
worth a drink, I’ll be glad to
oblige.”
“You’ve got somethin’ there,
kiddo. Let’s go.”
The surgeon rose in protest,
“You go to blazes, you
grinning ape,” he said unprofes-
sionally, “Swan’s going, all right
—into the sickbay.”
“Now take it easy, doc.,” Hap
answered, raising his hands. “I
only reckoned”...
What Hap reckoned was pre-
vented from becoming common
knowledge by the pompous
arrival of Baumer. He brushed
past the American and straddled
his thick legs beside Swan, who
looked up at him with a glint
of impish humor in his eyes.
The others had drawn back —
Baumer having taken some pains
to let all and sundry know of
his standing in the ship,
“Well, Swari?”
Hap’s jaws ceased their champ-
ing at the tone. His lips were a
thin line. Discipline at any time
found no favorite with this lone
ranger. Embodied in the beefy,
red-faced shape of Commander
Baumer, it positively repelled
him.
“Quite well, thank you—sir,”
Swan answered. There was the
slightest pause before the “sir.”
“Though I can’t say the same
for that bloody swine of a
catapult. There’s a stuck valve
somewhere.” Swan got un-
steadily to his feet. He looked
into Baumer’s face. “And, so
far as I’m concerned, some other
laddies can find out when it’s
unstuck.”
The scar was vividly white
against the sun-reddened skin,
Baumer’s tongue showed twice
through his lips before he spoke.
His voice was thick with the
control he put upon it. And
sarcastic.
“I have no doubt I shall find
pi en ty of ‘laddies’ to test it. If
you f ee l—incapable—of flying,
you > d h est report to the sick-
I r
£h ough few of the bystanders
. d ° h words _ t hey were
hissed more than spo ken-their
tone brought a fire of anger into
Swan , s face> He answered
ietly so that only Hap and
the surgeo n heard the venom in
bis voice.
suggestj sir> that t o satisfy
yourself of t h e catapult’s effi-
de you try it yoU rself.”
’ hi Baumer was so
in what he saw in his
face that he forgot to marvel at
"In the flooding cockpit Swan struggled to clear his parachute-harness and safety-straps..,as
the huge knife-edge of steel bore down on him."
the temerity of the fighter-leader,
Even if he had, he would have
explained it by the memory that
fighter - leaders are somewhat
prone to temerity. But the look
on Baumer’s face drove out all
other considerations from Hap’s
mind. Baumer was breathing in
short, sharp heavmgs, his bps
parted. For an instant his eyes
were quite wide, staring. Then
he recovered himself. He turned
to a director a few yards away,
hesitated as though he were
weighing something—weighing it
against his anger—then called
harshly :
“Belmore. Get my flying-gear
from my cabin!”
The leading-airman ran off.
Baumer wheeled abruptly and
strode aft towards the bank of
Fireflies ranged near the after-
lift. Hap took Swan’s arm,
leading him towards the door in
the bridge structure. He grinned
down into the smaller man’s
face, dry now under the fierce
sun.
“Now what have you done,
Lofty? Our Jelly-belly might
go and get himself all smashed
up.”
Swan looked up into the
other’s face, unsmiling.
“You saw it, Hap?” he asked,
thoughtfully. “That look on his
face. What d’ you make of it?”
Hap folded a fresh slice of gum
into his jaws.
“I make plenty of it. But I’m
not sayin’ what —yet.” He turned
at the bridge, stepping back in-
side the doorway. “Here—let’s
watch this.”
They watched as the directors
brought the Firefly—heavier
than the Fury—up to the yellow
guiding lines. They saw Baumer
leave his aircraft, and walk over
to the catapult engineer. The
engineer was nodding his head.
definitely. Then Baumer walked
back to the aircraft, and climbed
m. _. . ,
With the Firefly bogied, and
before she revved-up, Hap spoke,
“Take a good look, Swannie
Maybe its the last well see of
Jelly-beuy. s
Pipe down. Hap, Swan an-
swered shortly. If he brings
this off—l take back a lot.
A lot of jest what, Swannie.
Hap queried gen ly,
Swan did not answer. Hap,
suddenly remembering, ran to
his helicopter. The Ftay CO.
stared fixedly at the Firefly, now
f“ddemg under the thrust of
her spinning screw The next
second she was transformed
from an earthbound thing into
soaring grace of motion, etched
grey against the blue sea, then
sharper against the bluer sky.
Swan watched as Baumer
brought her round, so low that
from where he was, her port
wing-tip, canted oyer in the
bank, seemed to be fingering the
sea. The Firefly came m, close
astern, seeming to hang on her
propeller. Actually she was do-
ing better than 90 knots. Swan s
lips twisted m a wry little smile
as he saw that Baumer _ had
J,
* he ia ? al landing. Ihey waited
for him to stop and get out.
hmd'S
* reed by , hignt-decK nano, lying
f at °" Sd forward
] JSS-Sw
ri ghf up to the gu dmg ines^
' Swan nodded his head slowly.
“That’s the boy, he mur-
mured. Going to take her up
again, eh? Just to show us.
Baumer did. A faultless take-
off, with the heavy craft brought
to a thumping, slithering stop
80ft. from the pomt of touch-
down. Faultless,
Baumer waited in the cockpit
a moment, his head resting back
against the leather pad, before
he climbed heavily out, and
strode towards the doorway. He
brushed past Swan without
speaking. As if. Swan smiled
inwardly, words were needed.
On the bridge Baumer came
up to the captain and rested his
arms familiarly on a voice-pipe
cover. ,
Catapult tested and found
correct, sir,” he reported briefly.
The captain was equally brief.
“Thank you, Baumer. Though
I don’t think it was necessary
for you to test it yourself.” He
put his glasses up. “We fly-off
at dawn.”
Baumer’s smile dwindled. He
answered “Aye, aye, sir,” and
turned.
Sherwood had finished relat-
ing his experiences to Swan
(now, also, tested and found
correct), when Baumer pulled the
sickbay curtain aside and stepped
in.
Swan stood up, making to go.
“Don’t worry, Swan,” Baumer
stayed him. There was a faint
bitterness in his tone. “I won’t
be long. Well, Sherwood, what
happened?”
Sherwood recounted briefly the
events which led to his submarin-
ing. It was a flat report, un-
enlivened by the novelty of the
trip in the submarine he had
conveyed to Swan. Baumer
stood listening, now and then
asking a question. When Sher-
wood finished the other nodded
and turned to go. He halted at
the door.
“How’s the shoulder?”
“Not too bad at all. Doc.
thinks about three weeks. You’ll
have my Number Three, Ventner,
take over the squadron?”
“Yes. Don’t worry about that.
Well —have a good rest.”
Then Baumer was out the
door, the curtain swinging be-
hind him.
“Well, I’m damned,” mar-
velled Swan, scratching the
smooth anchorage of his pixie
peak. “The coot was —for him
—almost normal.”
“Ye-es.” Sherwood spoke
slowly. “Funny bird. I was
ready for a lesson in sarcasm.”
He looked at Swan. “Y’ know,
I’ve been thinking lately”...
His voice trailed off. Swan
made no comment. Neither man
was the sort to voice opinions,
particularly on the subject each
knew the other had in mind,
without the surety of facts to
back them.
Sherwood crooked his finger at
the packet of cigarettes on the
enamelled table.
“Burn, Swannie,” he invited.
“Now, what’s this do that’s on
tomorrow?”
Swan lit the cigarette for him
before replying.
“Pretty big show, apparently.
Full flights of Furies and Fire-
flies are to be ranged by dawn.
Usual things—bombs, rockets,
napalm. Cracking your neck to
be in it, eh?”
Sherwood rubbed his shelf of
a chin, grinning.
“Like my submarine friend,
you’ve been reading novels. On
the contrary —having almost
cracked my one and only neck
already—l’m perfectly content
to have you and Ventner uphold
the glorious traditions of our
glorious Navy.”
Swan laughed, the same deep
rumble. It never failed to sur-
prise his friend, coming from
the slight, whipcord frame. As
though Swan was a ventrilo-
quist’s dummy, vehicle for his
large master-lungs.
The Fury man stood up.
“Don’t think I think you’re
kidding! Well, I need some-
thing to repair my shattered
nerves. See you later.”
Sherwood called as the other
was about to step through the
door. “Swannie, you might send
Ventner down, would you?”
“Surely. In addition to the
other distilled drops of wisdom
you intend dropping in his ugly
ear, you might also mention that
Fireflies can bomb accurately
enough from 300 ft. —there’s no
need to delete the last nought.
I’ve pulled him out of enough
strife already.”
Swan waved a cheerful hand
and was gone.
CHAPTER 111
FOR the next three weeks
Hawk sent her brood
scavenging over Korea, their
targets ranging from troops and
gun-emplacements to railway-
lines, bridges, tunnels and trains.
Each day, almost, the pattern
was the same. Formed-up, the
Firefly squadron headed for the
successive line of ridges, like
{Continued on next page )


brown solidified waves rising
from the sea to starb’d. Quickly
the railway-line was picked up,
a tenuous thread leading them to
the target—a black hole in a
hillside into which the line ran,
to appear the other side.
Safety-catches flicked off
bomb-release buttons on control-
columns ; a quiet order from a
mouth-matching microphone;
sleek noses and heavy bellies
tilted downwards; the snarling
whine of diving aircraft; and,
in swift succession, black blobs
detaching from oil-streaked
bellies and hurtling ground-
wards. Aimed shallowly, so that
they would skip inside. A streak
of black disappeared into the
waiting mouth ; a roar; a gout
of black smoke vomited from
the tunnel’s other end. Then
a string of blasts, giant drumming
roars. An ulcerated mound of
rubble where the neatly-rounded
tunnel-mouth had stood.
Other times, troops. Fire-
flies roaring in, laying their eggs
among the trees at the base of
black, spouting pillars. On
target, but not so good. “Sug-
gest frying,” calls the spunky
little Auster spotting-aircraft.
Three Furies come up, kick over
on one wing. They straighten
out, low, colorless streaks. Three
pointed cylinders drop—and,
striking, erupt in roaring sweeps
of flame. Napalm. Pouring its
molten death into fox-holes,
trenches, making of the pine-
trees a flaming death-trap. The
watching Fireflies bank respect-
fully and draw off.
Back to Hawk, job well done.
Arrester-wires catch, stretch and
jerk each aircraft to a spine-
jolting stop. The mechanics,
armorers, fuelling-hands are
waiting. As is the de-briefing
officer, for his pilot’s reports.
And Sherwood, professionally
eager to know the tally of enemy
men and supplies destroyed;
personally anxious to know what
pilots and aircraft have stayed,
irrevocably, behind.
Sherwood was sitting, dressed,
in the sick-bay, after a final
check by the surgeon, when
Baumer came in, Sherwood
watched him as he pulled the
curtain to again. Baumer’s face
was worried. He had lost five
aircraft in three weeks, and two
pilots. Compared to the air-to-
air combat of the Americans,
little to worry about; consider-
ing Hawk’s almost completely
air-to-ground fighting, it was a
worrying loss. And, as Baumer
had a few minutes earlier had to
admit to the captain, the losses
were coincidental with Sher-
wood’s incapacitation.
Sherwood got up as Baumer
came down the narrow sick-bay.
“Good-morning, sir,” he
greeted him civilly.
“Morning, Sherwood. Doc.
tells me you’re fit to fly.”
To Swan Sherwood would
have replied; “Ready and raring
to go.” And would have ex-
pected a rude reply. To Baumer
he nodded.
“Good,” the Commander Air
went on. “There’s an important
mission on this afternoon —we
fly-off at 1500. Can you take
it?”
For one moment Sherwood
was tempted to reply in the nega-
tive —just to watch the civility
in Baumer’s face change. He
replied, briefly.
“Yes, sir.”
“Right. Come along to the
briefing-room. I’ll wise you up
to the present position on the
western sector.”
You stupid newt, thought
Sherwood as he followed Baumer
through the door. It wouldn’t
occur to you that I might have
taken some trouble to keep my-
self abreast of what’s been do-
ing. Or has it? Probably. But
you must get the dig in, eh?
By the time they had climbed
down to the black-walled brief-
ing-room Sherwood had doused
his dislike of the beefy man
ahead of him. The moment they
stepped into the briefing-room
the operation had begun ; and
in carrier operations there was
room for only one thought in
your mind. The handling of
your aircraft.
The room, completely en-
closed, was stuffy, odoriferous
with the sweat of the overalled
pilots who, almost every day for
the past six months, had listened
with perspiring faces to their
flight-leaders and operations-
officers outlining the day’s
missions. Baumer stepped up to
a blackboard, filled-in its left
upper comer with meteorological
data, and took up a pointer.
Sherwood slid onto the worn
upholstery of the front row of
benches.
Baumer pointed to a river on
the map chalked in the centre of
the blackboard. His voice now
was concise, neutral.
Whatever there was between
commander and squadron-
commander was subdued under
the completely impersonal
dictates of their training in pre-
paring for the comipg operation.
“An Australian unit of the
Commonwealth Division is holed
up here, north of the river.”
The pointer rested on the board.
“Ahead and slightly to the right,
in a thick grove of trees —Gooks.
Well supplied. The Australians
must advance to straighten the
line before dark. You know
what Gooks can do after lights-
out. I’m sending eight Fire-
flies —usual cargoes; with
napalm—and a flight of Furies.
You’ll meet an Auster round
there somewhere. It’s his report
I’m acting on.”
Sherwood grinned inwardly at
Baumer’s use of the first-person
“I.” In other ships it was in-
variably “we are sending, we
are acting.” But, of course,
other ships, other cap-tallies.
Baumer lowered his pointer and
looked at Sherwood. “Any
questions?”
Sherwood crossed his long
legs. “Yes. Identification of
the Australian position?”
“The Auster will put you on-
course. If he doesn’t —or can’t
—they’re holed up behind a hefty
shelf of rock. About 200 yards
this side of a small valley which
leads up to the Gooks’ grove of
trees. Soon as they poke their
noses out from the rock the valley
becomes full of metal—made in
Russia. All right?”
Sherwood stood up, pulling at
his beak of a nose.
“What have they got in the
way of ack-ack?”
“Nothing big, so far as I
know. But—as you probably
remember”—Baumer’s full lips
curled—“they’re well-rigged with
machine-guns.”
Sherwood ignored the sarcasm.
He took another look at the met.
data, and turned to go. He
halted. “What time’s the main
briefing?”
‘ ‘F our teen-f ortyfive. ”
Sherwood was almost out the
door when Baumer’s voice, the
non-briefing voice, reached him.
“By the way” Sherwood
turned, and saw the curl of the
lips, the supercilious lift of the
thin eyebrows. “Yes,” he
waited.
“It will be catapult take-off.”
Sherwood stiffened, his arms at
his side, the fingers of both hands
stiff, outstretched, slowly rubbing
up and down his thighs. For a
full five seconds he looked into
Baumer’s twisted face, a probing
stare. His jutting lower lip
almost reached the downward
sweep of his great nose. Then
he relaxed, and put one hand in
his pocket.
“Naturally,” he replied evenly.
And stepped out the door.
Baumer stared a moment after
him. His face was convulsed
with feeling; suffused red, so
that the long scar stood out like
a slash of white paint. “Damn
you!” he said. “Damn you!
Damn you to hell! ”
Then Baumer did a strange
thing. He groaned, almost
sobbed, and clutched his twitch-
ing face in one great fist, the
fingers biting and making little
runnels of white against the red
skin. His face haggard with
some powerful emotion, he
walked like a blind man, to the
door,
.....
Impervious to the clash of
character between two of her
brood in her vast innards, the
great ship thrust on for the
flying-off position. Sherwood
passed the Aircraft Direction
Room (A.D.R.), glancing a
moment into its queerly-glowing
darkness. Here—to flying what
the bridge was to ship-handling
—the only light came from a
half - dozen greenly - glowing
radar-screens, their traces swing-
mg round the dials like minia-
ture searchlights. Those traces
represented radar-beams and
everything they laid their elec-
tronic fingers on was echoingly
revealed on the green scopes as
softly-glowing splotches of light,
Several small ovals of light well
cl f ar ° L f th e Korean land-echoes
tcdd these men in their light-
f ss ’ bulkheaded room that up
here two Furies were orbiting
£ ound their mother-hawk in a
ast ’, ? r ? ectlv< : , circle - T he
°mbat Air Patrol Any other
ovals wmch appeared would like-
WlSe tell 1116111 t lat Hawk had
c °u^P an y enemy company.
Tha * sisterly dark room
f eve , r failed to , intrigue the Stnk e
Leader . even though he knew its
<: ) P eratlonal procedure exactly,
He knew now that lt was tde
“ Ninety-seven, doctor, 'n' still got all his facilities"
Direction Officer sitting behind
his telephone-banked desk in this
glowing room who had watched
the rapidly-travelling blip of
light which, in actuality, had
been Sherwood’s Firefly crash-
ing seawards ; and had organised
a W/T message to the submarine,
in addition to Sherwood’s own.
These genii with headphones
on, twiddling their dials, would
keep their electronic fingers—
fingers travelling at 186,000 miles
per second —laid securely on
Hawk’s hawks going to and from
the coming operation. Fog,
rain and the darkness of night
regardless, the Direction Officer
could guide them back home
with omniscient exactitude. With
his visual sight limited to some
thirty feet in all directions.
Sherwood passed along the
passage-way bounding one side
of the big ’tween-deck hanger,
from which came the throaty
growl of an engine on test.
Emerging on the holystoned
wood of the quarter-deck, he
was about to turn towards the
senior officers’ cabins when he
noticed a slight figure sitting on
a bollard, staring aft over
Hawk’s boiling wake. Sherwood
was about to pass on when he
saw the misery in the young-
ster’s face. It was Ventner, his
Number Three.
The Strike Leader, acting on
impulse, crossed quietly over the
deck. Ventner heard him com-
ing, and looked up. A flush of
shame, or embarrassment, suf-
fused his face. Sherwood hesi-
tated. Then the thought that
Ventner’s problem, whatever it
was, was his squadron-com-
mander’s —at least, over Korea
—and the recollection that he
had noticed the youngster’s pre-
occupation on several occasions
before prompted him to speak,
“What’s up, Ventner?”
Sherwood’s voice was kindly.
The youngster looked into the
strong hawk-face, a hint of a
smile round the lips above the
jutting jaw, the eyes quizzical.
His hand started towards the
letter Sherwood could see poking
from the pocket of his white
shirt. Then some other feeling
flooded the lad’s face. He looked
down at the deck ; then, sud-
denly with resolution, up again
into his senior’s face.
“Nothing,” he answered
quietly. “Nothing I can’t
handle.”
j n tbe £ ew conc j s the two
stared at eacb other Sherwood
remembered that Ventner in
experience, in his own problems
and> above all in his j ob _ W as
a m an. Not a youth who in
normal circumstances, would be
starting a university course. So
long as Ventner flew his air-
craft efficiently—and he did that
well enough—his commanding-
officer had only one right in
regard to his junior’s other prob-
lems, whatever they were; and
that was to mind his own busi-
ness.
Sherwood nodded. “All
right,” he said, briefly, and
walked to the quarter-deck
doorway. When he had dis-
appeared, Ventner rose and
slipped quietly forward along
the upper-deck.
Sherwood, passing Swan’s
cabin, looked in and saw the
pint-sized fighter-pilot busily at
work cleaning his .38 Smith and
Wesson revolver. Sherwood
stepped in, grinning.
“Well, Buffalo Bill. Aimin’
to use that six-shooter, as our
Yank would say?”
Swan tapped his palm with
the shiny, blued muzzle. His
lower lip protruded, slowly
rubbing against the upper. He
looked slowly around the cabin,
its white walls enlivened with the
eternally smiling, and eternally
ephemeral promise glowing from
a score of magazine photographs
of nearly nude beach-girls.
“You know what I was think-
ing, Dick? God, I’d like to set
eyes on a woman!”
Sherwood laughed, a sudden
explosion, to hide his surprise
at the abrupt announcement.
“It’s not much use telling me,
Swannie.”
Swan went on, meditatively.
“How long since we hit Bris-
bane? Nigh on three months.
Even then I didn’t do much good
for myself. Except” The
little man wet his lips. “Except
once.”
Sherwood picked up the pistol
Swan had laid on the deck, and
idly spun the greased cylinders.
“What more do you want?
First I knew you owned to
Mormon tendencies.”
Swan looked up at the other’s
whipcord length, noting the
ruggedly handsome hawk-face.
There was a trace of envy in
his laugh.
“Listen to who’s talkin
Once is enough, he says!
God —that Yank hit it exact
when he called you ‘lover-bo
Listen, mess-mate. How abo
letting me in on just one litt.
bit of fluff next time in Brisban
eh? Just one,”
Sherwood grinned, uncomfo
ably.
“That blasted Yank! We'
supposed to show the flag, aren
we? Man does his duty”
Swan’s grin was wide and ev
“First time I’ve heard it calle
the flag! Ah well,” He too
the pistol and deftly filled the s
cylinders, twirling the bulle
filled cavities. “All. I ask is th
you remember your litt
Swannie. I’m not too proud
tackle left-overs.”
Sherwood lightly tapped th
almost bald pate.
“You’d better forget Brisbane
my lad. There’s something els
calling for tackling shortly
Remember? And while I’m
tackling it I’d prefer to have m
fighter protection concentratin
on me, instead of a pair of leg
in Brisbane.”
Swan jumped up.
“You’re flying?”
“Flying—and well-briefed—
personally—by Jelly-belly him
self!”
“Good show. Good show,
Swan grinned, his desire appa
rently forgotten in the news that
once again, he’d have his trienc
in command of the mission.
Sherwood was almost out the
door when he remembered some
thing. He stepped back in to
the cabin, drawing the curtain
Swan, noticing the move, waited
“Swannie, have you noticed
anything about young Ventner
lately? I just caught him, un-
guarded, on the quarter-deck. I:
ever I saw misery in a man’s
face”....
Swan looked at his friend anc
went to speak.
“Weil, have you?”
Instead of answering, Swan
asked a question himself, a bit
hesitantly.
“He’s told you nothing—him-
self?”
“Oh, yes, the secrets of his
life. That’s why I’m wasting
time asking you, you useless
galoot.”
Swan deliberately slid his
pistol into its holster. Then he
looked into his friend’s waiting
face.
“Yes, Dick, he has told me a
thing or two. Possibly strange
to you that he came to me.
Pride, I suppose.”
“Pride? What the hell’s that
got to do with it —seeing he
told you?” •
Swan smoothed the pixie tuft
on top of his head; 'it immedi-
ately sprang up again.
“If you laugh when I tell you
this, I’ll bloody well clout you,
big as you are,” he said quietly.
Sherwood ejaculated. “For
Pete’s sake! What the hell” ...
“To that kid,” Swan replied
evenly, “you’re a bloody hero.”
He raised his, hands in mock
defence at the look on Sher-
wood’s face. “I know —don’t
ask me why, either. But that’s
how it stands. Oh, he didn’t
tell me as much. But it’s obvious
to anybody not a quarter as
blind as you. You know how
he loves flying. Even a purblind
galoot like you knows he’s tops
at the game. Natural born.
Sharp as a tack. Probably one
reason why he’s your deputy.”
Sherwood sat down on the
single chrome-plated chair the
small cabin boasted. He rubbed
his nose.
“All right. That’s all granted.
But I fail to see the connection
of all this with that look I
surprised on his dial.”
“That’s natural enough. But
today, in the mail Hap brought,
Ventner got a letter from his
wife.”
Sherwood’s head jerked up in
surprise.
“Wife?”
“Yes, wife. You know —bed-
warmer. Some of the blokes
have ’em, y’ know. Young
Ventner collected his in Brisbane.
I didn’t know that, either. Not
till he told me about a fort-
night ago. Anyway, this is the
guts of the matter. She’s young,


Divorce Notices
(■ *
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES EDWARD McDONOUGH late
of Wallacia Avenue Mosmans Park Queens-
land.—TAKE NOTICE that VETA
LILIAN McDONOUGH has filed a Petition
No. 8224 of 1952 for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the 12th day of February 1954 and
a copy of the Petition filed herein may be
obtained free of charge from DEGOTARDI
& PAYK, Solicitors, 263 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK LAWLOR late of Newcastle. —
TAKE NOTICE that DORIS MAY
LAWLOR has filed a Petition in Divorce
No. 3250 of 1953 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Seventeenth of
February One thousand nine hundred and
fifty-four and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from GEORGE A.
RAVES & POOLE, Solicitors, of 118 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Krilium
" TRADE MARK
LOANAKER
NEW
FORHULATIO
Now Available for
Agricultural ft Horticultural uses
MEN ON THE LAND
MARKET GARDENERS
COMMERCIAL FLOWER GROWERS
NURSERYMEN & HOT HOUSE GROWERS
LANDSCAPE GARDENERS
TOBACCO GROWERS
>
V
pc
rs
MAKES HARD PACED
CUTEY SMS ... LOOSE AMD LOAMY
mwmm
After thorough testing under Australian conditions the new Krilium Loaqiaker, specially
formulated for agricultural and horticultural uses, is now available. All types of crops have
been shown to benefit by Krilium soil conditioner treatment, which makes hard packed
and clayey soils loose and loamy.
This unique and immediate action of Krilium lasts for years and means more money to
commercial growers because it allows much quicker, healthier growth, less failures and
substantially higher yields.
Krilium Loamaker is available through your local store-
keeper in 10 lb. or 25 lb. tins and 112 lb. kegs.
Product of MONSANTO CHEMICALS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Monsanto
Chemicals Piasucs
pretty —and damned lonely.
Understandable. And she’s been
at him every mail for the past
six weeks to chuck the Service
and settle in Brisbane. Under-
standable again. Seems her old
inan owns a healthy retail-
store in Brisbane —the Valley,
they call it, I think. Also under-
standable is Ventner’s dislike —
hatred I’d call it—of packing-up
flying Fireflies for packing-up
groceries or whatever her old
man sells. But, of course, there’s
the little complication that he
loves his new Missus. You
wouldn’t know much about this
—but when a lad really loves a
lassie, he usually likes to do what
she wants. Particularly when
what she wants is to have her
lawfully wedded husband with
his shoes under the bed. Savvy?”
“Yes, I savvy,” Sherwood said
slowly. “So that’s why he didn’t
want to tell me. Poor little .
Listen, Roger, we’ve got to do
something about this. You or
I could handle it. But Ventner’s
only a kid. Flying Fireflies—
deck-landings; he needs all his
wits. Apart from the fact that
with him flying Number Three,
I need all his wits.”
Swan leant on the desk, facing
Sherwood.
“Agreed. Agreed also that
you taught him all he knows
about flying. But I’m damned
if I can see how you’re going to
help him in this. The issue is
clear enough. Either he flies, or
he resigns. Not so clear is how
the kid is going to make the
decision.”
Sherwood stood up.
“You’re right, Swannie. The
decision must be Ventner’s. 1
could see him, and come the
line of what he owes to the
squadron. Which would make
him more jittery. All I can do is
to watch him.”
“What about writing to his
wife?”
Sherwood shook his head.
“Her back is up already. That
would heckle it further. No,
Swannie, it’s up to the kid —until
the time, if ever, it affects his
flying. Then, I can act. See you
in the briefing-room.”
The rangy figure stepped out
over the door-coaming.
An hour later thirty-odd pilots,
overalled, with helmets and Mae
Wests in their hands, filed into
the briefing-room. Crossed-
legged in the front seat, Sherwood
watched their faces, noting the
laughing backchat. Youth, he
thought. Too young to appreci-
ate danger. Too young for re-
sponsibilities. Except young
Ventner, Sherwood searched for
him, casually. He noted, with
relief, that Ventner was grinning
at some sally of a large-headed
Fury pilot nicknamed, with naval
appropriateness, “Boof-head,”
Sherwood turned to the black-
board ; Baumer, standing be-
fore it, impatiently tapping his
leg with the pointer. Ventner,
it seemed, had, in the excitement
of this important mission, re-
placed wife with Firefly.
Sherwood and Swan listened
intently to the operations-officer,
now and then making a note on
the pad strapped to a knee. It
was obvious that the Australians
were in trouble. It was also
obvious that their rescuing would
call for pin-point bombing and
strafing—the valley between
both forces was a mere 200 yards
across Just as patent, though
neither flier thought of it, con-
sciously, was the unpleasantness
which would attend their being
shot down anywhere in the
vicinity ...
The briefing concluded,
Baumer looked at Sherwood,
The Fireflier nodded, and rose,
“Have got,” he assured
Baumer, and turned to the room.
“Right men Man your air-
cra ft ”’ '
Benches scraped as the fliers
rose, to troop, silent now, out the
door Sherwood waited for the
room to empty, then made to
follow
“Sherwood.”
“Yes?” He turned and faced
Baumer. The same red, cynical
face. Baumer’s voice was
smoothly suggestive
“Try and bring ’’em all back
alive, will you? We’ll leave the
heroics for another time. 1
need every one of those air-
craft.”
Sherwood was about to reply,
bitingly, to that sneer on heroics.
He felt Swan dig him in the
back. He answered evenly,
looking up under his eyes at the
other. “No heroics, sir. Bring
’em all back alive. Aye, aye.
sir.”
Sherwood felt a grim pleasure
at sight of the muscles knotting
along Baumer’s jaws. He
held his eyes a moment longer,
then deliberately turned and
walked from the room.
“Nice work, Richard,” Swan
grinned as they walked along
the narrow passage. Sherwood
made an impatient gesture with
his open hand.
“Oh, forget the swine. He’s
got something biting him—what
it is I’m damned sure it’s not go-
ing to bite me. But,” he added
grimly, “he’d better not cross
my bows. I’ve just about had
a gutful.” .
“You and me both, as friend
Hap would say,” grinned Swan,
“Talking about that Yank—he s
been airborne for some time,
If we want dinner in peace, we d
better get likewise. Pronto!
When they reached the flight-
deck, dazzling after the ’tween-
deck dimness, Hawk was twist-
ing, feeling with her broad,
square nose for the wind. She
found it, dead ahead, and thrust
her 15,000 tons at 25 knots across
the ridged sea, a spurting bow-
wave on either stem curving out-
wards in graceful symmetry
before it toppled amidships and
slid aft in lacy patterns of white
to meet the boiling wake.
The wind of her passage,
added to a natural 10-knot wind.
poured back down the spreading
flight-deck, 35 knots of helpful
hft It swirled round the Furies
and Fireflies ranged on the after-
deck, the aircraft, used to winds
of 400 knots, indifferent to this
comparative zephyr,
Sherwood and Swan walked
together to the nearest Fury—
the fighters would take-off first
~ a nd halted beside the bulging
fuselage, clumsy in their fiymg-
gear. . ,
Stick close, Swannie, Sher-
wood grinned, as the little man
swung himself up. The fighter
pilot looked down from the wing,
Just as close as I intend to that
bit of fluff in Brisbane. Re-
member—l m on a promise,
“I feel sorry for that girl
already,” Sherwood laughed.
She wont! Swan called after
him. Then, in his cockpit, the
grin faded. He was at once the
Escort Leader.
{To be continued next week)


Cousin Rurezl's Slippez
by Beluclzcl
Hazzis
COUSIN Rupert had a re-
markable dog named
Slipper. He was black
and white and brindle, the
color being so distributed in
round, elliptical and miscel-
laneous patches that it was hard
to say whether it made black-
and-white or white-and-black.
He had the bullet head and
heavy jowls of a cattle-dog;
the big, floppy ears of a cocker-
spaniel ; the soft mournful eyes
of a St. Bernard ; the heavy neck
of a bull-terrier ; the body of a
retriever; the legs of a dachs-
hund and the feet of a kanga-
roo pup. He barked eerie cooees
when excited or on the chase
and pitiful whimpers when
happy or seeking friendship.
In most respects he was about
the size of a half-grown pig, and
his hair was of medium length
with crimps rather than curls in
it. His running style incor-
porated the actions of a lap-dog
and a great Dane. At some time
most of his fat tail had been
roughly hacked off; and I
believe it was this fact more than
anything else which convinced
Cousin Rupert that he was a
thoroughbred ; and, indeed, he
looked like one to me. There-
fore, it was not surprising that
he acted so nobly the day Cousin
Rupert’s face went black.
Rupert and I went hunting
that day. Cousin Rupert loaded
himself with a pocketful of shot
and an airgun which acted with
potato behind the shot; I put
an old honed-down, red-handled
table-knife and a potato in my
pocket; we tucked our shang-
hais in our belts; and, with the
aristocratic Slipper mooching
along at our heels and my dog
Ned, a lively black-and-tan
sheep-pup which everybody
knew was a mongrel, alertly
ranging ahead of us, we set off
for the hunting-grounds, a great,
red-soil, pebbly, scantily-grassed
system of paddocks a mile out,
where birds nested readily in
the few trees and rabbits could
often be caught napping far
from their burrows in the deep,
rugged, red-clay watercourse.
The spring morning was
golden with sunlight which lent
even the bare, eroded patches
of the paddocks an air of fer-
tility and charm, and the lush
green patches dotted with butter-
cups and soldiers’ - buttons
seemed to spring under our
tread.
After having a long, refreshing
drink from a soupy, scum-edged
dam, we began a slow, sTient
traverse of the creek-bank, the
dogs cowed to silence at our
heels, while we studied every
nook and cranny in the gully
below us. A rabbit could oflm
be found drowsing in a hole in
the bed or in a crevice of the
bank, always in a spot screened
from observation from the side,
but wide open to discovery from
above.
We soon came upon such a
bunny—in the middle of a
tussock of dry grass just below
us, twitching its ears as it glanced
from side to side to determine
the origin of the sounds we
made, but not thinking to look
up towards us.
Cousin Rupert raised his gun
and carefully sighted, while I
poised a large stone over the
victim’s head and Slipper and
Ned stood eagerly sniffing be-
hind us. As I dropped the stone.
Cousin Rupert fired, but the
rabbit, sensing its danger,
ducked from under both missiles,
teetered for a moment on a
ledge, and then made off
rapidly up the gully, Ned im-
mediately climbing down to
give direct chase. Slipper, lift-
ing his head in a terrifying war-
whoop, which sounded like his
death-cry, began to lumber along
the bank on a track parallel with
the chase.
The nimble Ned and his
quarry quickly disappeared from
view, and even Slipper, after a
wild scramble down the bank,
went gradually out of sight,
leaving only his excited yelping
to mark his progress. Rupert
and I proceeded with our search,
and Ned soon came panting and
tonguing back, apparently hid-
ing his disappointment behind
his eagerness, but Slipper did
not appear and could still be
heard to yelp occasionally in the
distance as he stumbled excitedly
up and down the scent of every
creature which had passed
across the paddock since the
last rains,
SUDDENLY our attention was
attracted by the sounds of a
horse being urged into a canter
from the clump of trees close
behind us, and with one accord
Rupert and I slithered down the
gully and scrambled up the other
bank in time to see old Guzzle-
guts rein in his horse on the
spot we had just left. Slipper,
as if also sensing danger, ceased
yelping altogether.
Guzzle-guts dismounted and
made to cross the gully on foot,
but knowing his bluff we stood
our ground. He was not too
agile on his feet, so that the
crossing might even be beyond
his powers, but in addition he
was too experienced to leave his
horse for Rupert to dash across
and scare away. Simultaneously
we realised that we were too
near one of the cattle-crossings,
so we began to'edge away from
“Abdul carries his liquor Well.”
it, stepping very close to the
gully brink, for the gully was
now our only real protection.
Old Guzzle-guts mounted,
angrily waved his hat at us,
cracked his stockwhip at Ned
and gave voice to a hoarse
cooee. He wheeled suddenly,
dashed to the cattle-crossing and
urged his mount along it, while
we slid into the gully and clawed
our way up to where we had
first encountered him ; but we
had no sooner turned round
than we went scurrying back to
the other side, because Guzzle-
guts was furiously doubling
back.
This time he made to inter-
cept us in the creek bottom, but
his horse, sensing danger in the
going there, jibbed after two
uncertain paces; whereupon its
rider pulled it round and heeled
it up the bank upon which we
stood panting, sending us hurry-
ing again to the other side.
Then old Guzzle-guts dis-
mounted ; and, since we had by
now worked our way down near
to the next crossing towards the
distant fence, as if at a signal
Rupert and I picked up our
heels and ran as fast as we could
past the crossing and fifty yards
beyond, with Ned in great glee
circling us.
Old Guzzle-guts mounted as
fast as he could and cantered
along the opposite bank until he
drew level with us. Winded and
watchful we stood facing him as
he guided his horse to the very
edge of the gully and shook
his hairy arm at us.
“You an’ yer blardy dorgs,”
he said, “killin’ me blardy
sheep,” and he dramatically
pointed to the remains of a
beast which must have been
drowned and cast high and dry
by a flood a century before.
“Yez best come over ’ere quietly,
or I’ll git me whip to yez. Come
on ; over, now.”
We did not even acknowledge
his invitation, for we knew that
silence kept us wary and helped
us regain our breath. Guzzle-
guts was only talking to create
a diversion, anyway, and we
knew he would continue to talk
until he performed his favorite
manoeuvre at the sulky-track
two crossings down, where he
could safely gallop his horse
across and where he had often
nearly caught us. Beyond the
sulky-track there was only one
further crossing before the fence
beyond which was “bar.”
“Yez blardy well frighten me
’orses an’ cattle and yer blardy
dorgs scratch up me grass,” he
said, spitting profusely into the
gully and politely wiping his
straggling ginger moustache
with the back of his hand. “Yez
make ’oles in me nettin’ and
break limbs offen me trees. I’ll
blardy well give y’ in charge.”
“Go!” said Cousin Rupert,
and I clamped my teeth shut and
followed him and Ned as fast
as I could towards the next
crossing and past it, and propped
to a halt behind Rupert with
the clop of cantering hoofs on
the opposite bank thudding in
my ears. As Rupert and I began
to edge towards the sulky-
crossing and old Guts to pace
abreast of us along the opposite
bank, I noticed near the gully-
bottom and halfway to the
crossing a movement of white
in a flash of sunshine, which
direct inspection showed to be
Slipper, short neck and stumpy
tail significantly stretched out,
obviously and painstakingly
stalking something in a clump
of thistles on a ledge. I knew
it was a lizard or an earwig, but
for some reason I kept half an
eye on the dog.
“Yez silt-up me blardy dams,”
said old Guzzle-guts, the erst-
while fierceness of his voice now
being replaced by something of
eagerness and cunning. “Yez
break in the sides o’ me blardy
cept us in the creek-bottom, but
I will.”
AS we approached Slipper, the
dog gradually assumed a
rigid immobility, and just as we
came level with him he jumped
into the air and landed heavily
on a ledge below him, alighting
with sickening force on the back
of a hare squatting deep and
happy in a siesta.
Rupert, who had not seen his
thoroughbred creeping into posi-
tion, became suddenly electri-
fied by the spectacle of Slipper
worrying to death a huge hare
which must have been killed
instantly by the terrible impact
of the dog’s body striking it.
Rupert rushed to the edge and
excitedly leant over ; the thinly-
overhanging bank collapsed
under his weight; and he began
to slither feet-first towards his
dog and its sorry prey; but an
exposed root intervened an
toppled him upside-down.
More concerned about his a
gun than his neck, he landed
a ledge flat on his head anc
then tumbled to the bottom
where Slipper, so wrapt up in
kill as to be quite unheedful o:
the portent of a cascade of dir
and clay-clods falling on him
took Rupert’s full weight upo
his forequarters and prompt
let go the hare so that he cou
yelp agonizedly.
Seeing Guzzle-guts urging h
horse to the sulky-crossing, .
plunged into the gully
Rupert’s wake with Ned at m
heels. Slipper was distressec
Rupert groggy and the har
dead as I sat amid the confusio
looking up for old Guzzle-gut
appearance ; but he did not show
himself and I could not hea
his horse.
“He caught a hare!” criec
Rupert hoarsely and dazedly
“He caught a hare all on hi
own! ”
Either from pride in hi
achievement or from injury in
flicted by Rupert’s fall, Slippe
was whimpering pitifully, an
Rupert was groggily doting on
the saliva-bedraggled hare as
crept up the bank to reconnoitre
I had no idea on what side o
the creek old Guts would b
lurking now, and if I did no
quickly discover we would be
a trap, unable with impunity to
climb either bank or proceec
along the bottom to one of the
crossings, for old Guts, wher
ever he was, would be waitin
eagerly to make a triumphan
sally. I poked my head over the
bank and looked all round on
both sides of the creek, but for
a minute I could see no sign of
our persecutor, until suddenly
the fly-hunting quiver of a hind
quarter from behind a near-by
tree on my side of the creek
caught my eye.
“He’s here!” I yelled to
Rupert. “Get up the other
side! ” And at the sound of my
voice Guts pulled his mount’s
head from behind the tree and
came loping towards me.
I was about to follow Ruperi
when the queer behavior oi
Slipper attracted my attention
and held me spellbound. Slipper
had struggled with me up the
bank and had stood whimpering
beside me while I made my
observation ; but now, at sight
of the charging horse, his tail
went back, his ears out, his
crimpy hair up and he let out a
bellow which made me start;
then he went determinedly
lolloping straight at the horse,
with Ned frisking playfully at
his heels.
He had tasted his first hot
blood; he had made his first
catch and his first kill; his ego
was up—the thoroughbred blood
coursing through his veins ; he
was out to make short work of
the animal which old Guts was
urging towards us.
Guts reined in as he saw
Slipper coming, slewed and
threw his stockwhip in a wide
arc about his head. Out curled
the vicious thong, catching the
dog murderously about the
flanks, throwing him over and
over and drawing from him
an agonised wail. Then
Guts had two cuts at Ned,
who was too quick for
them; and in the interim,
Slipper was up, barged straight
in for the kill, opened his huge
cattle-dog jaws and heeled the
horse so thoroughly and so
savagely that it kicked violently,
pig-rooted wildly, and made off
madly up the creek with old
Guts leaning grimly back on the
reins trying to control it.
Slipper had done an expert
job of heeling, but unfortunately
he had forgotten to duck after-
wards so that the horse caught
him in the chest and sent him
flying through the air to land
like a pile-driver almost within
my reach.
“Get going!” I yelled to
Rupert. “Get to the fence! ” and
I made off myself with Ned at
my heels, while Rupert, lugging
his gun and the precious hare,
followed suit along the opposite
bank. Ned beat us to the
{Continued on page 30)


SUBSCRIPTION RATES
(IN ADVANCE)
♦
"THE BULLETIN"
£l/16/- for 12 months
18/6 for 6
9/6 for 3 „
THE "WOMAN'S MIRROR"
£l/6/- for 12 months
13/- for 6 „
7/- for 3
These prices include postage, and apply
whether the subscription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” Office or to any newsagent
in Australia.
DO NOT PAY MORE
P. G. Taylor's Greatest Flight
Sky-Road to
Valparaiso
By M. H. ELLIS
ONE of the least evident
phenomena of today’s
flying-world is Captain
P. G. Taylor. There is
some sort of consciousness that
he is always present, but there
is a vagueness in public appre-
hension of his deeds, which is
entirely due to his own personal-
ity and habits.
He is a very modest man.
He cares not a button for
public adulation. The doing
of the job is his first and only
consideration. And he picks it,
not for its glamor or the honor
and glory attached to all “first”
feats, but for its utility. Then
he treats it as a business
proposition and an industrial
operation, plans it minutely, dis-
ciplines its participants with a
gentle firmness which is not
always apparent to themselves,
puts a nice finish on it when it
is completed, and sees to it that
its effect is not spoiled by boast-
ing among his own crew or ful-
some adulation by the Press.
Sometimes, if he feels that a
record is worth while, he writes
a book himself to describe it in
sober terms, and what he sets
down always has the virtue of
complete reliability, balance and
explicitness, which makes it a
valuable record apart from the
fact that it always proves ex-
ceptionally readable and is
marked by imagination and a
strong sense of poetry.
It is a far cry from the Taylor
I first encountered in the mid-
’twenties obliging some friend
or company by giving curious
passengers short flights in some-
thing with two seats the
passenger’s-seat like an electric-
chair —and the Taylor of today,
holder of the George Cross, the
winning of which, by crawling
out on a wing of Kingsford
Smith’s aircraft to feed it with
oil and save it from crashing in
mid-ocean, he appeared to re-
gard as a necessary detail of
mechanical routine.
If any man can claim to be
called Admiral of the Southern
Heavens Taylor can, without
risking much chance of opposi-
tion. His earlier flights are
the greater because they were
made not to Australia out of
the countries with great,
developed flying-resources, but
out of Australia, whose re-
sources in his earlier years were
distinctly limited.
The crossing with Kingsford
Smith of the Pacific from Syd-
ney to San Francisco in 1934 in
a single-engined Altair, which
precariously took the air after
a short run along a Sydney
harborside park, and in which
he was navigator, is (as Sir
Thomas White has remarked)
“held by many to be still the
greatest and most hazardous
flight yet made.”
Taylor’s pioneer flight across
the Indian Ocean in 1939 was in
itself an adventure which ranked
with the great deeds of history
on sea and in air, especially in
view of the limitation of base
resources and the long dis-
tances to be covered at that
time in single hops. The in-
formation he gained was of
inestimable value to the Allies
in the war, the end of which
saw regular routes established
over Indian Ocean waters which
had never seen a wing up to
1939.
During the war he flew heavy
loads of fuel and aluminium
from Bermuda to Europe with
the regularity of a suburban
bus-service. In 1944 he pioneered
the mid-Pacific route, out and
in, from Australia to North
America. He flew the first
machine, his Frigate Bird I,
from Mexico to Sydney that
year.
The last effort to date in
Taylor history, however, will
probably rank in importance
with all the rest of his flights put
together when time assesses it.
And it is of this he tells in his
just-published book Frisate
Bird. The flight
was not as long
as the 1944
flights, but it
was more
hazardous and
strange, and it
advertised singu-
larly both the
proximity of the
South American
contin e n t to
Australia and
o ur isolation
from the great
Latin civilisa-
tions there.
The route
chosen was
from Sydney
via Grafton
(N.S.W.), Nou-
mea, Suva,
Samoa, Ait u -
tak i, Tahiti,
Mangareva,
Easter Island to
Valparaiso. The
point at which
the aircraft was
aimed was dic-
tated by the
commander’s vision as set out
in his letter to the Minister for
Air;
I believe that there is to be a
general drift of world population
from the congested lands and com-
plicated life of the Old World in the
Northern Hemisphere to the virtually
empty and fresh southern continents.
Direct air-transport and -com-
munications between Australia, S.
Africa and S. America will be an
important Influence in human re-
lations and the trade between the
continents of S. America, Australia
and S. Africa. AustraUa will be in
a similar position on a round-the-
world airway of the Southern Hemi-
sphere to that of N, America on the
northern routes of today.
This flight was to complete
the surveys necessary to link-up
the last of the round-the-world
connections above oceans.
It was an encouraging and
unusual feature of the scheme
that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment gave wholehearted sup-
port. Instead of the usual pre-
liminaries of raising funds by
every means short of burglary.
Captain Taylor found himself
with a veteran airman Minister
on his side (Group-Captain
Tommy White), and a sym-
pathetic Prime Minister asking
him to take his pick of Air
Force Catalinas.
From among these Taylor
chose A 24-385, and renamed
her Frigate Bird II from a
thought germinated by the
people of Cocos, who, during
the 1939 flight across the Indian
Ocean, had sent a message to
the old Guba saying that “they
would always see in the frigate-
birds which fly high over their
island the spirit of the Catalina
in which we came.”
The tale of the new voyage
was salted with a strange legend
about the bird ; for it is told
in Easter Island that thither
the frigate-bird flies and lays
one egg and dies. Thus it was
believed in the more • super-
stitious sectors of the south
Pacific that from Easter Island
the expeditionanes would never
return. And substance was
given to the prophecy by th
fact that only two months
earlier an aircraft called th
Manutara, which is also the
frigate-bird, had flown _ from
Chile and had fallen into the
sea with a broken wing as she
took off on her return voyage,
In general terms i the only
differences between this pioneer
P. G. TAYLOR, as modelled by Frith
flight and other earlier ones
across the Pacific lay in the
strangeness of the atmosphere
and the long stretch between
Mangareva and Chile, 3400
miles with no intermediate
fuelling-stage save Easter Island.
Round this island centred
most of the main difficulties in
the way of accomplishing the
journey. A flying-boat is made
to take-off from comparatively
smooth waters. But at Easter
Island it would be necessary to
take-off from the open sea, an
undertaking, if the ocean were
not behaving, comparable with
lifting a heavy land-aircraft
from a rough and undulating
surface.
There seemed no way of
organising against the real
hazards of this task of lifting a
heavily-laden aircraft quickly
out of a wave-tossed sea until
Captain Taylor discovered that
rockets for jet-assisted take-off
(Jato) were obtainable in Aus-
tralia. Thus the first thrill of
the journey was their test-flight
to experiment with this new
method. The commander did
not know how his craft might
behave when he and his co-
pilot, Harry Purvis, an ex-
perienced land-plane skipper
without experience at all of
Catalinas, went forth on this
essay in potential suicide, the
description of which gives the
uninitiated reader some brief
glimpse of the split-second and
hair-raising darts into the un-
known which airmen make
almost as a matter of routine.
Captain Taylor had flown
heavily - overloaded Catalinas
out of Bermuda for the 3000?
mile winter crossing of the
Atlantic many times during the
war and quite routine was
that initial period when you pour
on the power and the aircraft is sub-
merged like a submarine, under a
torrent of flying sea, till she decides
to get up and go, and your eyes go
back off the gyro to watch the
horizon for direction and trim.
Sound of engines and propellers
changes from discordant, snarling
chaos to steady, rising harmony that
joins with the aircraft and controls
in your hands, and your feet to
the rubber pedals, to become a sing-
ing, tightening rhythm; faster;
lighter: always faster! till you know
she is ready to go, and takes that
sUght but definite backward pressure
on the control column that releases
her from the sea, for flight, that
change from immediate stress of
earth to the boundless freedom that
is there in the steady, purposeful
gait of a Catalina across the ocean.
But how this would all work
out with jet-assisted take-off
“neither of us knew.” With “an
effort of sickly humor,” Taylor
remarked to Purvis: “This is it,
Harry. Pour on the coal.” The
“coal” having been poured on,
the float-retracting signal having
been snicked up, the engines
having reached full take-off
power, the first rocket-button
was pressed. And “from the
sudden, familiar, steady rising
acceleration of the flying-boat,
she suddenly became a fighter ;
pulled us into the backs of our
seats and really went for the
air.” It might be said that it
was at this moment that the
certainty of success was born.
With Captain Purvis and him-
self, L. (“Blue”) L’Huillier
(engineer), A. Allison (radio-
engineer and bowman) and Jack
Percival (executive-officer and
official correspondent), the small-
est crew with which it was pos-
sible to manage the aircraft on
so long a flight, they set off
from Sydney for the Clarence
River (268 miles) on the first
hop on March 13, 1951, and
thence steered via the several
stages towards Tahiti, where
their agent, Miss Joyce Ken-
nington, was making the neces-
sary arrangements for a vessel
to stand-by with fuel at lonely
Mangareva.
They passed through a mov-
ing picture “of nights with stars
in the sextant, the strange close-
ness of the Cat. booming and
crackling down through deep
cloud; arrivals at silent islands
in the dawn without radio-aid
to navigation, seas and coral-
studded lagoons without moor-
ings and nothing insensitive”
(for planes themselves seem to
live alive right to their skins),
save perhaps the “inert mail-
bags” stowed inside the shell
“just going to South America.”
It had a touch characteristic
of the air-age that his two chil-
dren came to see them off —chil-
dren of a new order, who were
accustomed to these partings;
who had been left often before
in a ski-shack up in the Lauren-
tian mountains of Canada,
“putting on a pretty good act
for me this time, of excitement
and cheerful interest,” as the
launch set out for the aircraft.
Soon Frigate Bird was soaring
out over the ocean with the
6000 ft. tops of the cumulus
clouds passing steadily under-
neath them and all the minutiae
of life in the sky, with its
sedulous routine and pin-point
watchfulness on detail, running
smoothly as they made for
Noumea.
All the rest of the narrative,
however, seems incidental in the
tale to that of the fight with
Easter Island sea, with its bro-
ken water, its roaring surfs and
cliffs echoing to the cries of the
sea-birds.
This part of the adventure
might be read three thousand
years hence much as the world
of the twentieth century reads of
Scylla and Charybdis, of Poly-
phemus and Circe, of the ad-
ventures of Ulysses amid the
perils of the wine-dark Mediter-
ranean Sea and its legendary
terrors. The reader thrills to the
events of the landing as if
his own fingers were on the
controls;
A big: swell swept round the
southern corner of the island and
rolled on in endless, lazy movements
up to the south-east coast. Out
under the port wingr it burst against
the rocks at a point that, with the
sweep of the coast to southward,
formed a half-moon bight in the
island that was sheltered and rela-
tively calm. The swell was breaking
at the base of the cliffs, but the sur-
face as we saw it from a thousand
feet appeared to be smooth, with
the westerly intercepted by the
Island, released again and hurrying
over the surface in furtive puffs for
escape to the sea. The wind gener-
ally was coming out from the cliffs
and running along the swells. I
could see one narrow stretch of sea
where the bursts of wind were fairly
regular, coming from the lowest
region of the cliffs. It was all
fairly clear now. If the surface
looked possible from a low inspec-
tion, I must bring her in upwind
along the sweU, and touch down as
far as possible, to stop before the
cliffs.
He ‘Tan her down the long
swells, out from the land ; drew
her up in a climbing-turn and
let her fall away again to come
in sweeping low to the sea,”
where, at 20ft., “the long swells
were big, and they warned of
the relentless power of the
ocean.” The crew “smelt the
tang of kelp and the air of
another element: of rocks and
cliffs and sea that seemed to
forbid the aircraft to enter a
region to which she did not
belong.” So to a long straight
approach, until she settled on a
sizzling crest and rode down the
slope into a trough and to
within 150yds. of the looming
cliffs, to anchor above 30ft. of
water and the only sand-patch
in sight.
About all that story there is
something mystical and ancient:
in the brown man who came
swimming out to them “a
glistening amphibious being,”
carrying the gift of a wooden
sword “beautifully carved in the
shape of a broad scimitar....
the top of the handgrip the head
of a sea-bird with a hooked
beak meeting the blade in the
head of some savage man with
a hooked nose and a malevolent
grin,” which exposed tightly-
clenched teeth; on the blade
carved the body of a shark with
wings and the head of the
hunting-bird the manutara,
frigate-bird.
The other visitors who came
glistening and naked aboard,
looking like ancient inhabitants
(Continued on page 31)


SPORTING NOTIONS
Highlights of racing at Rand-
wick this coming Saturday will
be the AJ.C. Summer Cup (1|
mile) and the December Stakes
(5 furlongs) for the crack two-
year-olds, in which the clash be-
tween Indian Empire and Pipes
of Pan should provide keen in-
terest, with prospects favoring
the former.
- • • ,#j
Racing last Saturday at Rand-
wick indicated that Double
Blank and Unfaan may make it
interesting for the warm favor-
ite, Lord Forrest, in the Summer
Cup. Regal Glitter looked a
trifle on the big side when a
close fifth to Britavah on Satur-
day ; he should show improve-
ment and is a stayer. Britavah
has struck a winning-patch and
is a lightweight prospect on 7.2.
Lord Forrest is selected to win
the Summer Cup from Double
Blank and Unfaan.
After many hours of worry
over whether Raconteur would
see the post in the AJ.C. Villiers
Stakes, Randwick trainer Fil
Allotta had the satisfaction of
seeing the hot favorite win the
mile in 1.350n1y one second
outside the Australian record
held by Silver Phantom. Racon-
teur, the best horse to come from
Western Australia to Sydney in
many years, outclassed rivals
and won by a length and a
quarter from French Echo, with
Ocean Bound a head away third.
French Echo was the only
runner to make much of an
effort against the visiting cham-
pion, who has won many races
from five furlongs to two miles.
Raconteur’s successes include
the W.A. Derby and Perth
Cup (two miles). Doubles book-
makers seem to be hemmed in on
all sides unless a “roughie”
comes to light in the Summer
Cup. That doesn’t appear likely
at the moment.
• • • .*i
Raconteur may be set for the
Queen Elizabeth Stakes (lj
mile), but that won’t be as easy.
Raced by Mrs. G. W. Gwynne,
Raconteur is a strikingly hand-
some chestnut four-year-old by
Remarc from Jolly Imp by
Olympian from Jolly Girl by
Jolly Beggar (who won the
Perth Cup in 1910 and various
other races). Remarc’s wins in-
cluded the 1940 Williamstown
Cup.
Two-year-old filly Brush gave
a pointer to an early win when
she came from the middle of
the field and finished third to
Radiant Queen at Rosehill on
December 5, and at her next
outing at Randwick on Saturday
she easily won the Summer
Nursery, starting equal second-
favorite. Raced by Mrs. John
Larkin, daughter of the filly’s
trainer, Ted Hush, Brush is a
smart type Brueghel (It.)
youngster from Vixen Call, a
mare by Charles Fox from
Whistle (sister to Trivalve) by
Cyklon (imp.) from Trey by
The Welkin (imp.). Trivalve, a
dyed-in-the-wool stayer, won
both Derbies, the V.R.C. St.
Leger and the Melbourne Cup.
Brilliant two-year-olds don’t
always retain the form through
their three-year-old career —
Ocean Bound was a case in point
—but Love To All, who gave
excellent early promise last sea-
son, returned to the winning-list
in dashing style at Randwick
when she ran away from oppon-
ents in the Mersey Handicap for
three-year-old fillies ; she carried
topweight, 9.2. It was her
second start after a spell of
several months, but she was
confidently supported to second-
favoritism. First Row, with N.
Sellwood in the saddle, started a
warm favorite, but, after hav-
ing had every chance, was con-
vincingly beaten.
Sydney jockeys N. Sellwood,
G. Moore and W. Cook often
ride two or more winners in an
afternoon’s racing, but the ex-
perience hadn’t for a long time
come the way of Jack O’Sulli-
van till he landed both events
for two-year-olds (Brush and
Magic Chant) at Randwick. As
a younger horseman, of course,
he had a fine record of success,
and often landed doubles. He
rode with all former vigor and
skill in landing Magic Chant the
narrowest of winners. The colt
won the December Juvenile, dis-
playing gameness. O’Sullivan
had also scored on the colt at
Randwick last month at long
odds, and it was a little surpris-
ing to find him at 10 and 12 to 1
for his latest success. When
O’Sullivan won the 1933 Mel-
bourne Cup on Hall Mark, as
an apprentice, he could go to
scale round the 7st.-mark,
Carioca won the A.J.C.
Summer double last year—the
Villiers at 10 to 9 on, and the
Summer Cup at 5 to 2, in both
of which he was ridden by Bill
Cook. Carioca ran the Cup
“One or two lumps ?”
distance in the fast time of
2.43 j for the 13 furlongs, but
faster Cups have been run, in-
cluding Dalston’s (1930) in 2.43,
Young Crusader’s (1937) in 2.42}
(Cup record-time), and Mala-
gigi’s (1940) in 2.43}. The Box-
ing Day staying contest has
favored horses carrying light
weights, an indication that, as
a rule, few top-class stayers are
on the scene round Christmas-
time. Snowstream, however,
won with 9.1 in 1949, Persist
with 8.12 in 1951, and Carioca
last year with 8.10. Ted Bartle
was successful on Dalston,
Young Crusader and Malagigi.
Tetratema, a‘noted speedster
of the English turf several years
ago, and winner of, among
other races, the Two Thousand
Guineas and £21,778 in stakes,
is included in the pedigree of
the sensationally-backed Acra-
mitis, winner of the Maroondah
Handicap at Flemington last
Saturday. The chestnut colt is
a son of Dhoti (imp.) from an
unraced mare, Toompine, by
Neptune (imp.) from Belle
Martian by Beau Pere (imp.).
Back on the dam’s side is
Maundy Thursday, a sister to
Scotch Gift, dam of Tetratema.
Mrs, Mary Heather, of Mary-
lands stud, Hallam (Vic.), bred
Acramitis, who was having his
first race-start. He covered the
five furlongs in the smart time
of 59| secs, and was being
eased-up at the finish.
Kelso is a name long associ-
ated with Australian racing,
particularly on the training side
of the sport at Randwick and
other Sydney tracks. Present
mentor. Bill, has been a promin-
ent Turf figure for a good many
years. At the Randwick appren-
tices’ school prize-giving night
Bill told of a steeplechaser
named Bushman, trained by his
grandfather. Bushman was one
of those hardy early types. He
took part in a stage-act for a
period during his jumping
career. At a Sydney theatre he
jumped a hurdle six nights a
week and at two matinees. One
Saturday afternoon, after Bush-
man had won a three-miles
steeplechase at Randwick, he
was taken straight to the theatre
for his stage-act. “There wasn’t
even time to dry him off,” said
Bill.
New Zealand’s 28th National
Sale of thoroughbred yearlings
will be held at Wellington on
January 18 and 21, when 364
lots will be submitted. This
year Australian buyers will be
in a position to operate freely
and it is certain many Dominion-
bred youngsters will find their
way to this country in the new
year, Australian buyers will be
in Wellington for the leading
N.Z. race-club’s Royal race-
meeting, which will be held at
Trentham on January 14, 16
and 22, coinciding with the year-
ling sales. Lots to be offered
on the opening day include a
brother to Nickola, a brother to
Golden Spa (£10,170 in stakes),
a half-brother to Calibrate
(£15,905), a half-sister to Earl-
dom (£11,000), and a half-
brother to Swanee (£17,030).
Tasmanian Turf executives, in
forwarding programmes for the
Launceston and Hobart Cup
carnivals early in the New Year,
stress the point that intending
visitors should book accommo-
dation as soon as possible, as
record attendances are expected.
The Tasmanian R.C. will distri-
bute £5125 over its three days,
January 16, 20 and 23, when the
Hobart Cup (1| mile) of £l4OO
and a £l5O trophy, will be the
chief attraction. Tasmanian T.C.
will hold the Launceston Cup
fixture at Mowbray track on
February 6, 10 and 13, when
£4435 will be allotted with the
feature-event the Launceston
Cup, of £ll5O and a £l5O trophy.
The Tasmanian Derby also will
be programmed at that meeting.
Mid-week barrier-trials on
Sydney racecourses are reaching
farcical proportions and obvi-
ously are cutting into provincial
racing. In a few weeks’ time
the S.T.C. will be staging a once-
a-month mid-week fixture at
Canterbury and Rosehill, and
those meetings will also make it
tough for the down-the-line
executives. Last week at Moore-
field track 20 barrier-trials were
decided. The day before at
Gosford the Encourage Handi-
cap was abandoned because
there were no starters. All this
doesn’t make Turf sense. Owners
of horses competing in the mid-
week barrier trials, in which
many of the starters are not
out to win, have at least one
doubtful privilege—that of pay-
ing £4 15s. for each runner.
This is made up of £2 10s.
(float), £1 (shoeing), £1 (jockey)
and ss. (entry). As 200 horses
competed at the Moorefield
trials, cost involved upwards of
£lOOO.
Hedy, a mare bred in 1942 by
A Frauenfelder, is dam of
Newcastle Juvenile winner
Coronado, who is raced by D.
V, Ritchie and is a son of Crags-
man, a speedy galloper when
racing at Sydney meetings. Hedy
is a daughter of Dark Lover
(Fr.) from Handsome by Mid
Kent (imp.) from Golden Sands
(imp.) by Santry, Another in-
teresting winner at the New-
castle meeting was So Swank,
who carries the colors of Sydney
owner Miss Kathleen O’Riordan.
So Swank gave early promise
when she won a two-year-old
Maiden at Hawkesbury last sea-
son. She hasn’t done much
racing, and was well placed in
the Newcastle Novice sprint.
She is a Channel Swell (imp.)-
Air Bubbles filly. She comes
from the family which produced
Hall Mark, Trivalve and
Nuffield.
Former Brisbane winner
Venidis and ex-Perth winner
Morn Patrol finished first and
second respectively in the New-
castle Flying Handicap last
Saturday. Both had proved a
disappointment when raced in
Sydney and had cost backers a
lot of money. Venidis, how-
ever, won the seven-furlongs
event so convincingly that she
might quickly return to better
things in the Sydney area. She
equalled the course record,
Imin. 23fsecs.
•- •- i«
/
Sydney jockeys competing in
mid-week barrier-trials are on a
good wicket. Any who had a
mount in each of the 20 staged
at Moorefield last week earned
£2O within three hours —quite a
handsome return for so little
effort. Some of these horsemen
are in the higher-taxation group,
which is no surprise.
♦ * ♦
As expected, the U.S. tennisers
beat the Belgians at Brisbane:
4-1. Despite the wide margin,
the Americans had some anxious
moments early, especially after
the Belgian second-string
Brichant had beaten Seixas, to
make it then 1-all.
Trabert and Talbert made-up
the U.S. doubles pair. Faced
with Seixas’s poor form against
Brichant, U.S. skipper Talbert,
once one of America’s greatest
doubles-players, put himself in.
Talbert had not paired with
Trabert in either the N.S.W. or
Vic. championship; but he may
well be faced with the same
decision, whether to play himself
or Seixas in the doubles, in next
week’s challenge round.
The Belgians had been given
a chance of winning the doubles,
as they had this year beaten the
capable Australian pair Rose and
Hartwig in the Queen’s Club
(England) final. The Americans,
however, won comfortably in
four sets, and by doing so prac-
tically settled the issue. Trabert,
clearly superior to both his
opponents, could be counted on
for two wins and, in fact, won
his two games easily, both in
straight sets.
• •; • •
The U.S. now goes into the
challenge round, played at Koo-
yong, Dec. 28, 29, 30. The two
teams are: Rosewall, Hoad,
Rose and Hartwig (Australia);
Trabert, Seixas, Richardson and
Talbert (U.S.A.). They’re evenly
matched, and it could go either
way.
“Double-fault”: Ken Rose-
wall has lately been awarded
the Hubert Parry Memorial
Medal for 1953. A Canadian
award, it is to be given annually
to a British Commonwealth
sportsman “who has made out-
standing achievements in his par-
ticular sport.” Sir Hubert Parry,
composer, author and keen
sportsman, every year made an
award to a prominent sports-
man of his day. The presenta-
tion to Rosewall is the first
award of the memorial medal.
♦ * *
Jack Iverson is to join the
British Commonwealth team in
India, He’ll get there before the
third Test (beginning Dec. 31),
and is expected to play in it. Bill
Johnston, earlier invited to go,
was refused permission by the
Board of Control. At the be-
ginning of the season Iverson
said he would not bid for a place
in the Vic. Shield team, and was
“finished with big cricket,” but
success in India could well mean
his return to Shield play. f
Big Jake, as they call him,
Iverson, now 38, is the most un-
usual, most controversial and
probably the best spin-bowler
produced in Australia since the
war. His reputation rests to a
great extent on what he did in
one Test series, that against Eng-
land in 1950-51 (21 wickets, av.
15). Since then he’s played little
of any grade of cricket. He was
out through injury when the
West Indies were here, and last
season, after a couple of State
games, he dropped himself from
the Vic. team because he was
disappointed with his form; then,
his ankle injury recurring, he
gave up pennant-cricket. His
cricket career seemed to be over.
But, back with Melbourne club
this year, he’s been right in
touch; his 26 wickets costing just
under seven each has represented
most wickets and best average
in district-cricket.
There are three cricket tours
on at present —the Common-
wealth side in India, N.Z. in
South Africa, and England in
the West Indies. In South
Africa in the first Test, just
played, the locals won hand-
somely (S’Africa 9-43 closed ;
N.Z. 230 and 149). One on each
side made a hundred —Roy Mc-
Lean, hero of the fifth Test here
last season, and N.Z. skipper
Rabone (first innings). McLean
had previously hit a century for
Natal against N.Z.
The Test result was not alto-
gether unexpected, considering
South Africa’s recent good show-
ing in Australia (nine of the
first-Test team against N.Z., plus
the 12th man, had been here).
When choosing the side for Aus-
tralia, the South African selec-
tors had plumped for young
talent, often practically untried,
with a view to building for the
future; the experiment suc-
ceeded. The N.Z. selectors have
followed suit. Their side is simi-
larly based on youth; it has
only four of the men who toured
England in 1949.
“Zorok”: The brothers Basil
and Bert Rigg, of East Perth
club (W.A.), have been playing
together in first-grade for 12
years, but it was not till a recent
Saturday that they made their
first century partnership (151 for
the fourth wicket). Basil made
104, Bert 85. Basil, who has
repped for W.A., followed it
up by taking 6-90, East Perth
winning,
“Tom”: The first day’s play in
a Sydney first-grade game at
Lidcombe Oval between -Wests
and Cumberland was notable for
a scoring tally which, if not
unique in cricket, was certainly
very unusual. All Wests’ runs
during the afternoon were
scored by one player, Ray Bow-
den. When poor light and rain
stopped play Wests were four
down for 38, the scoreboard
reading: Brown, 0 ; Sismey, 0 ;
Washington, 0 ; Nolan, 0; David-
son, 0 (not out); sundries, 0;
Bowden, 38 (not out).


One of the "salt of the earth"
An Australian Pioneer
BY BETHIA FOOTT
1--NHEN the deeds and
\A / act^ons which become a
y y man are ended by death
and the memory of him
dies with his friends, he is in
danger of becoming a nameless
shadow, having existed only to
be forgotten. But in my family
the ghosts of the past speak with
a blaring of trumpets and a
crashing of cymbals, because not
one of us has ever thrown away
a letter, burned a diary or tired
of repeating an anecdote.
In this way the dead are as
familiar and as vociferous as the
living. When we wish to profit
by the experience of others we
draw on all the members of our
family, past as well as current,
to help us with our problems.
If we want a cough-mixture,
do we go to a chemist? Cer-
tainly not. In the red-leather
lining of Great-great-grand-
mother Windsor’s medicine-chest
is her book, dated 1835, contain-
ing excellent remedies for every
known complaint.
Are we curious about what
happened to Bonnie Prince
Charlie in the Forty-five? A
letter to Cousin Lily will bring
us an answer as soon as she has
reread the letter Patrick Drum-
mond wrote about it at the
time, and which his descendant
now keeps in a brass-studded
box in the hall cupboard of her
house in Melbourne,
And if we want to know what
materials and colors were
fashionable that year we have
only to go to the second right-
hand drawer of the Chinese
cabinet—the one Grandfather
Anderson “saved” during the
Boxer Rebellion—to find the
piece of yellow silk, as strong
and clear as the day it was
bought, which was cut from a
pannier of the dress Great-great-
great - grandmother Christina
Hamilton, of Barncleuth, wore
the day she watched Prince
Charlie ride across the bottom
of their garden.
Naturally, without the co-
operation of our ancestors it
would be impossible for us to
keep their memory green. We
owe our knowledge of them to
their universal love of writing
letters, keeping diaries, copying
music, compiling commonplace
books, collecting receipts and
having their likenesses taken —a
proceeding they all appear to
have very much enjoyed.
The consequence is that every
living member of our family
has a share of papers and pic-
tures. Scattered among our
various houses we have prides of
portraits, miniatures, water-
colors and pencil-sketches;
gaggles of silhouettes, daguerreo-
types, tintypes and carte-de-
visite photographs of every
known and unknown ancestor,
together with a marble plaque of
my mother’s cousin Robert
Browning in a frame like a port-
hole, and a cameo carved in
wax ’of a remarkably plain old
lady in a mob-cap, which Cou-
sin Lily’s father’s Cousin Effie
remembered her grandmother to
have said was an excellent like-
ness of somebody—but I forget
who she was.
On wet days it is fun to sit
on the floor in front of the book-
case in the dining-room at Ball
Green, my mother’s house near
Sydney, and, having chosen a
diary at random, to reconstruct
the life and likeness of its
author.
Last week I drew Great-
grandfather Neilley.
His picture, done in the ’fifties,
is on the dining-room mantel-
piece, so I had only to turn my
head to look at him. He was a
large, curly-haired, untidy man
with a twinkle in his eye and
wearing an open coat and black-
satin waistcoat, a soft, pleated
shirt, with a low, black-satin
stock and wearing his Waterloo
and Peninsular medals, pinned
on crooked.
Opposite him, on the other
end of the mantelpiece, is Great-
grandmother, in a companion-
picture. She seems to be en-
tirely covered in jet, wore her
hair parted in the middle and
had on what I imagine was a
most bewitching cap, made up
of colored flowers, with velvet
streamers hanging each side of
her face.
According to his own account,
Great-grandfather was born at
Carrick Fergus, County Antrim,
Ireland, in 1791, and joined the
famous “Fighting Fortieth”
Regiment as an ensign in 1808.
A few years later he joined the
Ist Battalion in Portugal, then
on their way to the hill country
by the northern fortress of
Ciudad Rodrigo. Here, while
they were waiting for the orders
of their great Commander-in-
Chief, they made the air ring
with their shouts as they hunted,
boxed, played football, staged
donkey-races and frolicked and
danced with the local beauties
who stormed and surrounded
their camps to such a degree that
it was said —though not by
Great-grandfather there was
always a flight of purchaseable
females at command.
Looking at his picture again, I
remember that Cousin Hastings
Fowler told my mother there
was an amused air of reserve
about him when certain subjects
were mentioned. Lively sen-
horitas, apparently, brought back
memories. Whether this was
because Captain Dan McKin-
non, of the Coldstream Guards,
dressed up as one once, and
would never have been dis-
covered if, at a tea-party at
which the Duke was present, he
had not succumbed to an
irresistible urge to turn a somer-
sault, revealing beneath his
generous skirts the boots and
trousers of a British officer ; or
whether he was smiling at the
memory of Johnnie Kincaid, of
the Rifle Brigade, who said he
had never yet asked a Spanish
beauty to elope with him that
she did not instantly consent;
or whether it was because he had
his own memories, we shall never
know. But I do know that in
later life he often sighed for the
gaiety, as well as the courage,
men shared in those days.
+ +
From Badajoz the regiment
returned to Portugal and ad-
vanced into Spain in time to be
present at the Battle of Sala-
manca in July, 1812. From there
they went to Madrid and Es-
curial, and then, suffering (as he
says in his diary) great fatigue
and privation, retreated once
more into Portugal.
After this his battles came
thick and fast. He was present
at Vittoria. At Pamplona (the
first of the Battles of the Pyre-
nees) the surviving 400 men of
the Fortieth, who had suffered
terrible casualties the day be-
fore, charged and dismissed
2000 Frenchmen with their
bayonets. This feat was regarded
by Lord Wellington’s staff as
being so magnificent that every
man waved his hat and cheered
the remnants of that victorious
regiment.
From there, exhausted but re-
lentless, they marched to the
battles of Nivelle, Nice, Orthes
and Toulouse, until the war was
ended, when they left Bordeaux
in the Sultan to return to Eng-
land.
This was in 1814. In the
same year they set off for the
war in America. They were
shipwrecked in Bantry Bay, and
had to return to Cork, but
finally got away, and sailed for
New Orleans, touching at Barba-
dos and Jamaica. In our family
it is said that the British force
was commanded by Ned Paken-
ham, Lord Wellington’s brother-
in-law. We have no books deal-
ing with the American campaign,
so this may not be true. But as
I prefer to believe the voice of
the family, as far as I am con-
cerned, Ned Pakenham was
there.
in March, 1815, they sailed
back to England, by way of
Havana, in the island of Cuba.
They arrived in Portsmouth in
May, and proceeded at once to
Ostend to join the Army in its
march to the field of Waterloo.
Great-grandfather was proud
to be there. For him, this last
terrible battle, when the rem-
nants of the Duke’s Peninsular
veterans met their great enemy
Napoleon in person, was the cul-
mination of many long years of
fighting, of discomfort and priva-
tion, of uncertain pay and cer-
tain separation from their fami-
lies. It was the most dangerous
of their many engagements, and
their victory was the consumma-
tion of all that they had prac-
tised, until they had, as soldiers,
become perfect.
Great-grandfather ignored the
horror and the danger of the
situation. His regiment was
drawn-up in square-formation
by the La Haye Sainte cross-
roads, not far from the white-
washed farmhouse of Mont St.
Jean and towards the inn called
La Belle Alliance.
The regiment on their left —
the Twenty-seventh—lost 450
men, fallen in their square. The
Fortieth themselves very quickly
lost two ensigns, 14 sergeants and
several officers, and must have
looked as the heroes do in Lady
Butler’s famous picture in the
Melbourne Art Gallery, which
depicts the Gloucester Regiment
in square-formation at the same
battle. But instead of wishing
himself safely in Brussels,
Great-grandfather thanked God
—he says in his diary—for the
honor of participating in that
memorable and glorious action.
There was no rest for the regi-
ment when the battle was over,
for they followed the retreating
army to Paris, and camped at
Neuilly Park from July until the
following September, when they
moved to St. Germains, and
then to Cambrai. Here, at
Havrincourt Park, in 1816,
Great-grandfather received his
Waterloo medal. Exactly a
hundred years later his grand-
son, my father, Brigadier-
General A. X Anderson,
C.M.G., received the Legion
d’Honneur and the Mons Star
at Havrincourt Park in 1916.
There is a legend in the family
that Neuilly Park was called
after Great-grandfather’s uncle,
who ran away from Ireland as
a boy. He joined the French
Navy, becoming Admiral Marie-
Joseph Neilley, and at one time
had the famous Fighting Temer-
aire as his flagship.
After returning to England the
regiment was sent to Ireland.
The Fortieth, full of honors,
straight from the victory of the
century, was given a tremendous
reception. The neighborhood
welcomed them with open arms,
and what had been a quiet dis-
trict was transformed by a round
of water-picnics on the Shannon,
garden-parties and balls at all
the surrounding mansions.
One of these mansions,
Benown Castle, belonged to
Matthew Higgins, a man who
spent much time in London. His
son was the “Jacob Omnium”
of the “Times” and a friend of
Thackeray. He married Emily-
Blanche, daughter of Sir Henry
Tichborne, Eighth Baronet,
whose name and case were
famous in Australia at a later
date.
Not far from Benown,
Matthew Higgins’s sister, Mrs.
Naghten, lived at Rostella with
her husband and their two
nieces, who, as they had both
been orphaned, had been
adopted by their childless aunt.
The two girls were cousins, and
both regarded their uncle and
Aunt Naghten as their own
parents. They were great favor-
ites, too, with their Uncle Matt.
In 1823 Jeanette Maria Hig-
gins and Mary Higgins were
both 19, and as pretty as a pair
of pictures. At their request,
Uncle Matt joined the neighbor-
hood in helping to entertain the
officers of the Fortieth, and
neither she nor anyone else was
surprised when Lieutenant
William Neilley asked Mr.
Naghten’s permission to marry
Jeanette. Mrs. Naghten may not
have been overpleased to see
her niece married to an im-
poverished young soldier, but
Jeanette’s two brothers, John
and Matthew, who were both
officers in the Seventh Fusiliers,
were delighted; the young
people were very much in love ;
and so Mr. Neilley got his way,
and they were married at Ath-
lone by the Rev. J. Moffatt on
February 4, 1823.
+ +
Great-grandmother never went
back to Ireland, but, strangely
enough, that little district was
to have another link with the
part of the world in which she
later settled. Her cousin Mary
married a Dr. Fitzgerald, in
Dublin. Their son, a surgeon,
Sir Thomas Fitzgerald, settled in
Melbourne and called his house
Rostella after his mother’s home.
The house still stands in Lons-
dale-street, and is now one of
the offices of the Taxation De-
partment —but the name Rostella
is still painted on one of the
stone pillars of the gateway.
I have heard that Great-grand-
mother was a tiny little creature
with tight black ringlets and a
way of throwing her head back
when she laughed that made
everyone want to join her in her
merriment. She was very musi-
cal and much in demand at
dances, where she played (as I
know from looking at her music-
book) the “Snuff-box Waltz” and
lots of tunes for the quadrille,
including figures for La Panta-
lon, La Poule, L’Ete and
Chassez Croisez Quatre Trenise
—whatever they may be. She
also copied out the National
Anthem (“God Save Great
George Our King”), lots of
catches and an interminable
song which deals with a lover
saying goodnight to his young
woman, starting with “Past
twelve —goodnight, my dearest”
and ending with “Past three.....
but no goodnight.”
Her scrapbook includes all the
poems I should expect her to in-
clude, together with an eight-
page description of Lord Byron
which dwells on the sweetness of
his nature rather than on the
stability of his character. Several
of the poems she copied have
notes attached to them which are
interesting. She says, for
instance, that the “Burial of Sir
John Moore” was written “By
an Eyewitness” (though I never
heard that Charles Wolfe ever
left his native Ireland), and adds
that Marshall Soult admired the
general so much that he had a
memorial erected to his memory.
On June 14, 1824, Great-
grandfather, accompanied by his
wife, with her new scrapbook,
the half-dozen set of table-silver
which we now use every day, a
silver teapot the size of Cinder-
ella’s coach, a blue Minton tea-
set with a slop-basin as large as
a baby’s bath, the Waterford
decanters and her music, .set sail
in the Princess Charlotte for
Australia,
Great-grandfather was accom-
panying his regiment in their
new task of furnishing the guard
of a convoy of 12 convict ships
bound for Tasmania. They had
a pleasant voyage, and at Rio de
Janeiro dropped anchor to refit
their little fleet. One day Great-
grandfather, his bride and his
brother-in-law. Captain Moore,
packed their lunch in a dinghy
and went off for a day’s fishing.
When they returned in the even-
ing they were horrified to find
the harbor was empty and the
fleet had sailed. However, for-
tunately the captain of their ship
had discovered they were not on
board and sent a cutter back to
pick them Up. I have so often
longed to ask them how such a
thing could happen. Did they
not know they would be leaving
that day? But Great-grandfather
gives no explanation. Nor does
he ever mention his brother-in-
law again, so who he was or
what became of him we shall
never know.
The fleet arrived in Van
Diemen’s Land on November 9,
1824, and the Neilleys, leaving
the convoy in Hobart, game up
to Sydney. Two yea'rs later
they returned to Hobart in the
Laine, sloop-of-war, com-
manded by Captain Kingscomb.
There they remained until the
Fortieth was ordered to India.
Great-grandfather had now
been a serving soldier for 20
years. He had no money, so it
was impossible for him to think
of buying his promotion, and in
those days that was almost the
only way of obtaining prefer-
ment. He had been on the move
from one country to another,
until he was tired of it, and be-
gan to long to stay in one place.
He therefore very regretfully—
for in spite of this he loved his
regiment and hated to say good-
bye to it—asked for leave to
remain in Hobart, Permission
was granted, and —wonder of
wonders! —for his services as
lieutenant and adjutant of the
Fortieth he was, in November,
1828, gazetted as captain and
appointed Army Ordnance
Storekeeper until he joined the
63rd Regiment in 1831.
The Neilleys lived in the
married quarters of the Hobart
Barracks with their two small
daughters, Sarah and Caroline.
Sarah, who was four, was an
intelligent little girl with her
mother’s quick ear for a song.
One day, when she had been
missing for several hours, her
nurse noticed an enormous
crowd outside one of the taverns
all singing lustily and apparently
taking their time from someone
within the overflowing tap-
room. Fluttering about on the
outskirts she was at length able
to catch a glimpse of her young
charge, walking up and down
the counter twirling her sun-
shade and singing:
Come! Arouse me, arouse me,
my brave Swiss boy.
And away to the mountains
with me.
In 1834 the 63rd Regiment
was also ordered to India, so
Great-grandfather retired from
the Army and decided to settle
in Tasmania. At dinner one
night at Government House he
talked of his plans to Governor
Arthur, who was anxious to get
as many people to live on the
land as possible.
“Would Captain Neilley con-
sider settling on the land pro-
vided the necessary grants were
forthcoming?”
“Would he? Would he not!"
(i Continued on page 30)


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
kuv m
SANDERS
FILES
Correspondence. Invoices.
•totements. etc., filed in the
<.v
Sander*"' can be securely
(bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
omy Che, period
price* and fur-
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Ageum— _ .
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Pardon & Sons Ltd-
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co, (Aurt.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ON THE "GERM-WAR"
'THOUGH (as already noted
here) the Communist
charges against the U.S.
of resorting to “germ-war-
fare” in Korea have had
considerable cabled and other
publicity, curiously little of the
factual exposure of the charges
as a cruel hoax has been pub-
lished in Australia.
Hence these further extracts
from the mass of overseas-
published comments and infor-
mation.
* * #
Washington “Star”: “Dr.
Charles W. Mayo, the renowned
Minnesota surgeon who is serv-
ing as United States delegate to
the United Nations, has used
words as a scalpel—grimly
factual words —to lay bare the
malignancy and malevolence of
the monstrous efforts to make
the world believe that our coun-
try [U.S.A.] waged germ-warfare
against Red China and North
Korea.
“The testimony sworn to by
the airmen involved [which Dr.
Mayo read to the General
Assembly] leaves no room for
doubt that Soviet personnel, sent
from Russia, participated directly
in the torturing process. The
Kremlin denies all this, but the
Kremlin, together with its pup-
pets in Peiping and Pyongyang,
has blocked every move by the
overwhelming majority of the
U.N. to stage an impartial in-
quiring into our [America’s]
alleged germ-warfare.”
* * *
Philadelphia “Inquirer” : “By
now we know there were ‘con-
fessions’ by Americans to helping
plot germ-warfare. Before we
hasten to condemn the signers
of these ‘confessions’ for weak-
ness, however, we would do well
to reflect, as Dr. Mayo did, on
the evil combination of physical
and mental tortures used by the
Communists in their ceaseless
effort to destroy the prisoners’
wills.
“The Russians knew what they
were doing when they ordered
these barbarous measures,—or
thought they did. The Soviet
biologist, Pavlov, had conducted
experiments which indicated that
rats or dogs could be ‘condi-
tioned’ to do what humans
wanted them to. And, in the
Communist view, man can be
brought down to the level of
animals, and treated like animals.
“After months of such treat-
ment, it is hardly surprising that
some men succumbed.”
* * * at
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“Dr, Mayo explained [to U.N.O.]
just how some 107 captured
American flying-officers were
systematically conditioned by
starvation, mistreatment, threat
and mental torture into a state
in which they could be led to
sign false substantiations of a
tremendous and calculated cam-
paign of lies carefully organised
and directed by Moscow.
“Seldom has there been as
coldly documented a disclosure
as this, not only of the utter
mendacity, but even more of
the primitive stupidity and simple
superstition of a great nation
and a supposedly world-shaking
political system. Soviet experts
presided over the labors of the
Chinese Communist interroga-
tion and tortures. Many prac-
titioners of power politics before
now have skilfully used the
gigantic lie to further their ends,
but it has usually been only the
painted savage who has gone to
such lengths to assure himself
of its correctness by torturing
confessions out of his victims.
“According to Dr. Mayo’s
tabulation, 107 American officers
were subjected to the process ;
only 36 collapsed under the
physical and mental pressure to
sign the false confessions; 40
held out to the end, even against
staged executions, and 31 others
are dead or missing—possibly
sacrificed by their own heroism.
It is impossible to condemn those
who cracked; it is impossible,
also, not to feel a thrill of proud
wonder that so many held out.
In so doing, they made it pos-
sible to write down the full and
damning record of this piece of
Communist falsehood and brutal
stupidity.
“Thanks to the fortitude of
the men who did not crack, the
great ‘germ-warfare’ lie will go
down imperishably in history as
one of the blackest failures of
an ignorant and barbaric
system.’’
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“Among the men who refused
to yield was one man who was
sentenced to death 12 times, and
another who, after being made
to dig his own grave, was taken
before a firing-squad and heard
the pistols click on empty
chambers.
“Perhaps the Communists
were surprised. For they found
themselves proving by accident
—and just as conclusively as
Pavlov had proved his points—
that there is in men something
which even torture cannot con-
dition.
“Here in the free world we
call it the human spirit.”
* * ♦
“New York Times ”; “The
Communists have learned to
combine old-fashioned brutality
with modern scientific techniques
to reduce their victims to the
level of the perfect ‘Soviet man.’
In this stage minds are so dis-
integrated and reflexes so condi-
tioned that victims lose their
integrity as human beings and
become performing robots and
seemingly willing accomplices in
Communist designs.
“After months of filth, starva-
tion and physical torture the
victims are offered the alterna-
tive of food or death—the latter
sometimes to the point of being
stood up repeatedly before fake
firing-squads. Only the most
rugged individuals survive intact.
“The method used on the
American flyers is one invention
for which Soviet Russians can
claim full credit. They use it
on their own people, including
Communist chieftains who fall
from grace, and they are now
exporting this product of their
culture to their satellites. But,
as in everything else, the Soviet
Russians retain the last word.
They have not only trained the
Chinese and North KorSan tor-
turers ; they supervised the appli-
cation of their method in Korea
and joined in the ‘interrogation’
of the victims. They continued
doing so till long after the
Armistice was signed and, in
some cases, up to the very day
of repatriation.
“How after this revelation the
Soviets can still be regarded by
some United Nations members
as being ‘neutral’ in Korea passes
understanding.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The ends which this campaign
was designed to serve are clear
enough. The first was domestic:
to explain away epidemics which
were undoubtedly raging in
North Korea and China at the
time, and to divert the conse-
quent wrath from the incom-
petent civil authorities to the
‘American aggressors.’
“The other end was to make
the name of America stink
throughout the world. What is
astonishing is the apparent un-
concern with which the Com-
munists see the whole mechanism
of their great lie exposed to
view. It is apparent that the
Communists share to the full
Hitler’s cynical estimate of
human credulity. Tie lie must
be of a sensational nature, thus
awakening an interest which no
—New York “Herald Tribune’’
THE RACE TO THE CROSSING
denials can set at rest; it must
be constantly repeated; the sup-
porting evidence need not be
consistent or plausible, but it
must be bulky and of imposing
appearance. In the end, how-
ever, the lie can be abandoned,
like some decomposing corpse
on the ideological battlefield. It
has served its turn; another will
take its place.”
* * * ***
"Yorkshire Post” (sending the
Dean of Canterbury, with its
compliments, copies of the
reports made to U.N.O. by Dr.
Mayo and British representative
Selwyn Lloyd ); “It is important
that the Dean shall have an
opportunity to study the evidence
given before the Political Com-
mittee [of U.N.O.] by the dis-
tinguished American surgeon, Dr.
Charles Mayo. Our motive will
be dear to anyone who re-
members the terrible accusations
persistently made against the
United Nations forces by the
Dean on his return from a visit
to Peking last year. Proclaiming
to the world that United Nations
airmen had dropped germ-bombs
in North-East China, Dr. Hew-
lett Johnson claimed that the
facts about germ-warfare were
conclusive and irrefutable, and
said that U.N. forces had com-
mitted ‘the most dastardly deed
the world has ever seen.’
“We asked at the time why,
if they possessed irrefutable evi-
dence of such a crime, the Com-
munists had repeatedly refused to
allow experts of the Red Cross
to investigate the position and
discover the truth. The answer
to this question emerges clearly
from the facts that have now
been placed before the Political
Committee. That answer is that
the Communists preferred to sub-
mit their evidence to gullible
people of Communist sympathies
like the Dean, instead of to in-
dependent and wideawake ex-
perts whose investigations would
have been much more searching
and who might well have asked
to interview American prisoners-
of-war from whom written con-
fessions had been extracted. For,
as Mr. Selwyn Lloyd put it in
his speech, the prisoners’ con-
fessions, which made such a deep
impression on Dr. Hewlett
Johnson, were ‘a tissue of lies
extracted by all the refinements
of totalitarian torture.’ ”
The Peaceful Atom
“The two most significant
facts in Washington today,” as
reported by a New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
there:
(1) Because the balance of
defensive military strength is
visibly shifting to the West, there
is increasing evidence that the
character of the Communist
challenge to the free world is
being carefully and subtly
shifted. Unless this develop-
ment is recognised in time and
acted upon there is danger that
the West may win the battle of
military security, and yet lose
the cold war.
(2) It is providential that
there is now within reach a new
weapon, beneficent and peace-
ful, capable of contributing in-
calculably to meeting Commun-
ism’s new challenge to the free
nations, That weapon is nuclear
power—industrially usable, eco-
nomically efficient nuclear power
which, with some vision, can
be harnessed to underdeveloped
nations where poverty is Com-
munism’s still undefeated ally.
On these facts the corres-
pondent comments:
“In his epochal announce-
ment that the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission is construct-
ing a full-scale power-reactor
capable of producing a mini-
mum of 60,000 kilowatts of
electrical energy. Commissioner
Thomas E. Murray did not hesi-
tate to say that while the split-
ting atom, packaged in weapons,
has been our main shield against
tyranny, ‘now, in addition, it is
to become a God-given instru-
ment to do the constructive work
of mankind.’
“It comes none too soon to
help the whole free world match
and overmatch the prospective
efforts of the Kremlin to make
Communism’s perhaps final eco-
nomic challenge to the West.
“The time may not be far
distant—and it is not too soon
to begin to plan—when indus-
trially usable, economically
efficient nuclear power will be
cheap power. Prudently and
constructively shared with our
[America’s] allies and under-
developed nations, it can be our
best investment for peace and
security—exclusively an instru-
ment of peace and for peace.”
Air-power First
Assessment by the Supreme
Allied Commander in Europe,
General Gruenther:
“Our concept for the defence
if Europe is based on the exist-
ence of highly-trained covering
forces, backed by reserve land
units which could be brought
into action immediately after the
outbreak of hostilities.
“That shield, supported by
hard-hitting air forces, would
give us the necessary cushion of
time in order to mobilise our
reserves. Meanwhile, our long-
range air forces would conduct
powerful attacks deep into
enemy territory against indus-
trial and other vital targets.
“Air power is the dominant
factor in war today. It cannot
win a war alone, but without it
no war can be won. Our goal
is to create air-strength capable
of responding on a moment’s
notice to the onslaught of an
aggressor. Since we cannot pre-
dict when an attack might be
launched, air forces must be
operationally ready at all times.
We cannot depend upon the
mobilisation of reserve air units
if we are to have an effective
defence-force.”
The R.N. Changes
In a review of the latest Jane's
Fighting Ships, London “Times”
emphasises that the largest war-
ship now on the stocks in a
British yard is a frigate—smaller
than a destroyer. Which seems
to indicate that the battleship
has had it.
On the other hand, the future
for carriers and cruisers seems
comparatively bright, though
even in these classes of ships
Jane’s points out that, unless
more of them are ordered at
once, by 1960 the Royal Navy
will have only two fleet-carriers
and eight cruisers under 18
years of age.
Also, the general-purpose
craft is finished. Each ship
must now be built to fulfil a
specific purpose, whether it be
long-range convoying or anti-
submarine duties. Which ties
up with Australia’s newly-refitted
destroyer - frigate Quadrant.
This ship, once a comparatively
heavily - gunned fleet - destroyer
fitted with depth-charge-throwing
gear, is now almost exclusively
mounted with anti-submarine
armament —and, it might be
added, plenty of that.
A comparison between the
British and Russian Navies shows
that the R.N. is the stronger of
the two, although the Russians
have more ships in commission
at present. What is not men-
tioned is the fighting experience
and tradition inherent in both
the building of the British ships
and in the men who man them.
The Japs are coming along—
two five-year construction-pro-
grammes suggest the building of
10,000-ton carriers, cruisers and
large A/S destroyers. This is
in addition to some 18 frigates
and 54 gunboats already in com-
mission.
The Italian Navy has followed
the British with its new des-
troyers—they are, like Australia’s
new Tobruk and Anzac, really
young cruisers.
In regard to ship-borne guided-
missiles, Jane’s thinks that
these, if used in any numbers,
would of necessity be launched
from big ships—cruisers up-
wards.
This assumption is probably
correct. Associated radar and


w
is picture time.
;sJ
mm
m
m
mm
m
mmi
MM:
m
mm-mm-
ivW£&;&>y.
Everyone likes good
animal pictures. Pets pro-
vide endless, quaint and
interesting poses that make
for “super” pictures, so
keep your camera handy
and loaded with Kodak
Film . . . Verichrome or
Super-XX.
Kodak Film is dependable
because it’s made in Aus-
tralia to suit Australian
conditions; it’s the film
that gets the picture.
§sS=>
m
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) Pty. Ltd. XNH5.53
electronic equipment would re-
quire a large ship’s space and
facilities for effective operation,
not to mention space for stow-
age of the weapons.
Soviet Policy Shifts
What have been held up as
Soviet “peace moves” are
analysed by Philip E. Moseley,
director of the Russian Insti-
tute, Columbia University
(U.S.A.), in the course of an ex-
tensive examination in “Foreign
Affairs” of Soviet policy in
general under Malenkov.
Since Stalin’s death, he con-
siders, the new leadership in
the Kremlin has made serious
efforts to break out of the East-
West stalemate. In so doing, it
has chosen the terrain and the
weapons for wreaking maximum
damage against the vulnerable
joints of the alliances which the
West has built up against Soviet
acts and threats of violence.
The result is that, as in the fable,
the Soviet sun has suddenly
taken to shining warmly ; and
the free-world wayfarer, having
forgotten the north wind, is
ready to throw away his cloak
and bask in its rays;
“Some of the first steps in
carrying out the new Soviet fine
were little more than gestures.
The decision to allow several
Russian wives, married to
American citizens, to leave
Russia with their husbands
makes no change, of course, in
the unique Soviet law which,
passed since their marriages,
forbids Soviet citizens to marry
foreigners. Except in the Krem-
lin, no one would consider this
an act of grace.
“The Soviet ‘recommendation’
to the Chinese Communist and
North Korean Governments to
exchange seriously-ill and dis-
abled prisoners-of-war could be
regarded as an act of great
generosity only by people who
have unconsciously accepted the
Soviet assumption that not only
its own people but captured
prisoners are the property of the
captor, who has both the right
and the duty to enslave them to
his ideology. Moscow’s inter-
cession to secure the release of
United Nations civilians illegally
detained in Korea for almost
three years would have been a
routine action on the part of any
Western Power.
“Yet each of these ‘gracious
acts’ held the headlines for
many days, and, cumulatively,
they have led many people to
believe, as one analyst wrote
recently, that the new Soviet
leadership is ‘digging a tunnel
of friendship to the West,’ and
that the main obstacle to peace
is that the West may not begin
‘digging from its end.’
“Some of the new Soviet
gestures have simply meant the
scrapping of a profitless
obstinacy.”
After detailing sundry ex-
amples to the point, the writer
adds:
“The most striking shift in
Soviet policy has been the con-
clusion of the Korean truce, the
liquidation of one of Stalin’s
most glaring mistakes. From the
moment the United Nations, and
particularly the United States,
struck back against the Soviet-
inspired and -supported aggres-
sion of the North Korean regime,
it has, on balance, been to
Soviet advantage to end the con-
flict sooner rather than later,
and the dragging-out of the
negotiations for more than two
years after Malik’s offer, in
June, 1951, of a truce, com-
pounded the original error of
judgment. During this long and
bloody struggle the Soviet bloc
was forced to abandon its
original goal: the immediate
annexation of South Korea and
the elimination of Western influ-
ence from a key-area on the
Asiatic mainland.”
On the other hand, resistance
to the Soviet-instigated aggres-
sion greatly improved the cap-
acity of the United Nations to
take collective action, and
stimulated rapid expansion of
the war potential of the United
States, a substantial strengthen-
ing of the Nato forces in Europe
and a firmer attachment of
Japan to the free world. Also
it focused the attention of .the
free world more clearly on the
international implications of
the struggle in Indo-China,
and it brought about more
effective enforcement of con-
—St. Louis ( U.S.A. ) " Globe-Democrat ”
A PILE OF STONES MAKES NOT A TEMPLE
trols over export of strategic
goods to the Soviet bloc.
Summing-up on the evidence
of present indications, the writer
concludes that the Soviet system
is going to continue as a
tightly-operated party-dictator-
ship, though less personalised in
a deified dictator. “Its new
leadership, which prefers to cail
itself ‘collective’ for sound
Soviet reasons, displays striking
qualities of realism and flexi-
bility. If this is so, then the
challenge and the dangers which
Soviet power and purposes pre-
sent to the strength, cohesion
and survival of the free world
are definitely not on the wane,
but are increasing. These
dangers can be increased still
more only if responsible opinion
within the free world indulges
in day-dreams of the ‘inevitable-
self-destruction of the Soviet
dictatorship.”
Korean Truce Fraud
Leading American foreign-
affairs writer Joseph Alsop, re-
porting in New York “Herald
Tribune” from Hong Kong:
“The Korean truce has been
worse than a fraud. This re-
porter, who thought the truce
was justified though painful
when he came out he?e [to the
Far East], is now convinced,
along with almost every sensible
man in the Far East, that the
truce was the worst error of
American policy in many years.
“The truce has given the
Communists a let-up when the
strain of the war had brought
them almost to the breaking-
point. Before long it will set
free in Asia the powerful Com-
munist forces now in Korea
which no other Asian country
can match. Later it will give
them the happy opportunity of
building immeasurably more
powerful forces for which there
is no counterweight whatever
anywhere in the Far East. Far
from preparing such a counter-
weight, meanwhile, we [U.S.A.]
are slowing down our defence-
effort in the sacred name of
economy.
“The failure to inform the
country of this vast shift in the
Asian power-balance that now
lies visibly ahead is, of course,
the biggest fraud of all. Gigantic
upheavals in the power-balance
simply do not happen without
bringing in their train equally
gigantic consequences.”
Various voices
,_, . - .
Bishop of Oxford. Dr. Kirk.
“The Welfare State is y
producing a type of ci i
desires to have as much done
for him as possible even at
cost of a high degree of
regimentation.”
C. D. Jackson {special assist-
ant to Eisenhower): “Europe —•
all of Europe—old friends and
old foes—must think European
—must think of itself as a great,
and rich, and dynamic, and
important part of the world —a
part of the world whose human
and material and cultural re-
sources, properly meshed, can
bring to the whole area security
and well-being and individual
freedom beyond anything it has
ever known.”
Lord De La War {Britain’s
Postmaster - General): “Some-
thing like one million television-
sets were bought last year [in
Great Britain] at an average
cost of £70 —that is £7O million
for a country trying to fight its
way back to prosperity.”
Jack Tanner, chairman of
Britain’s Trades Union Con-
gress: “Today our [Britain’s]
standard of living and very
existence depend on our ability
to produce the right goods at
the right prices to sell in the
right places at the right time.”
Chiang Kai-shek (quoted by a
New York “Herald Tribune”
correspondent): “If the United
States remains on the defensive
in Asia for another two years
it will be needless to talk about
Free China being in danger ;
for the United States and the
whole free world will then be in
deadly danger.”
Secretary of the U.S. Air
Force, Talbot (visiting Spain ) ;
“America needs more bases and
this is a fine place to put them.
We intend to strengthen Spain’s
defences as fast as we can do it.”
British High Commissioner in
Germany. Sir Frederick Hoyer
Millar (speaking in Berlin ) :
“The British Government, with
two allies, has a vital’and lasting
interest in the security and wel-
fare of Berlin as essential ele-
ments in the peace of the free
world. We are determined to
stand by you as long as our re-
sponsibilities demand it, and, as
has already been made abun-
dantly clear, we are resolved to
treat an attack against Berlin
as an attack on our forces and
ourselves.”
Professor A. J. Toynbee,
Director of Studies in the Royal
Institute of International Affairs :
“By forcing on mankind more
and more lethal weapons and at
the same time making the whole
world more and more inter-
dependent economically, tech-
nology has brought mankind to
such a degree of distress that we
are ripe for deifying any new
Caesar who might succeed in
giving the world unity and
peace.”
Korean President Rhee : “For
those of us who are fighting the
Communists with all our re-
sources the hostility of the
Japanese is a great threat, and
that threat is of grave concern
not only to Korea but also to
the United States. If the United
States builds up Japan as a
great Power, both economically
and militarily, I fear the youth
of the free nations today will
pay dearly for that mistaken
policy. One must not trust the
Japanese Government too far.
Throughout Korean history we
have consistently tried to five
in peace with the Japanese, and
they have just as consistently
launched aggressive attacks upon
us.”
Leading Republican Senator
Knowland, back in the U.S.
from the Far East: “Most rea-
listic Japanese believe that they
would be in mortal peril if they
should develop all their trade,
or substantially all of it, with
Communist China, because they
know that at some time when it
would suit the men in Peiping
or the Kremlin, they could cut
Japan off overnight and bring
about. a tremendous economic
dislocation with its political and
economic repercussions, and
that the Communists would do
that for the purpose of ulti-
mately destroying the Govern-
ment of Japan.”
Britain’s Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, R. A. Butler: “We
[Conservative Government] are
getting away from the idea of
the State as a universal grand-
mother who always knows what
is good for us. We are getting
away from the unamiable philo-
sophy of that character in
Disraeli’s novel who said:
‘Members of this family may
think as they like, but they must
act as I please.’ ”


tightly - strained, barbed - wire
topped rabbit-proof fence and
neatly leapt the netting, and I
turned round at the fence to
help old Slipper over, but dis-
covered that he was not coming,
that he was lying white and stilll
where he had fallen.
“He heeled a horse!” cried
Rupert triumphantly. “He
caught a hare!”
“Get over quick!” I said, for
in the same glance I saw that
Rupert might stay here indefin-
itely to enthuse and that old
Guts had turned his horse and
was racing hard towards us.
'TAKING hold of the hare, I
gave Rupert a vicious leg-up
which put him firmly on to the
top strand of barb-wire so that
he had to rip half down one
leg of his trousers to get off
quickly. Then I handed him
the hare. In too much of a hurry
to stand on ceremony, I held
the hare by the neck and round
the middle, giving it upside-
down to Rupert, who, as he
reached up for it, was showered
in the face by liquids from its
insides.
Then, at the terrifying sounds
behind me—a blood - curdling
cooee and a thunderous whip-
crack —I went sprawling over
the fence and stumbled ten
yards before I fell down ex-
hausted listening to Rupert vol-
ubly spitting and squawking
and old Guts crying out
hoarsely:
“It’s killin’ me ’orses y’are
now. I’ll fix yez if yez poke ya
noses in agen. I’ll bring me gun
next time. And I’ve got yer
blardy dog. He won’t chase me
cows no more.”
With that, Guts rode back up
the creek, picked Slipper up and
came gloatingly to the fence,
carrying the big limp body by
the hind legs.
“Dead!” said old Guts. “He
won’t kill no more o’ me sheep,”
and he threw the body contemp-
tuously to the ground, where it
sprawled, grotesque and still,
just inside the fence.
I thought that Cousin Rupert
would jump the fence and bring
down horse and rider with his
very fury. I thought he would
shoot Guts with his harmless
old airgun, or fire at him with
his shanghai, or stab him with
the skinning-knife. But while
he called Guts everything and
threatened him with everything,
old Guts just sat grftining and
saying occasionally:
“It’ll just blardy well larn
ya.”
Then Rupert began to vomit
violently, and I got him to sit
under a tree. He looked bad
and I knew he felt bad. He
was grey in the face and bathed
in sweat and intermittently
vomiting. For a long time he
sat silent, staring at his dog.
He wanted to get Slipper, but
old Guts waited about threat-
ening to whip us if we went
near the fence. At last I pre-
vailed upon Rupert to go home,
and somehow I managed to get
him there and bed him down on
a settee on the back veranda.
But he got so bad that I went
and told Aunt Anastasia.
“Did you fall, Rupy?” was
her first query, because falls
were his chief hazard and her
main phobia,
“No, Mother,” said Rupert as
he would have done if he had
just toppled from the Eiffel
Tower. The denial seemed to
exhaust Rupert almost to a state
of insensibility, and Aunt Anas-
tasia parried him in and put
him to bed before subjecting me
to an intense interrogation.
I assured her that he had kept
his hat on, that he hadn’t been
bitten by a snake; then I told
her he had drunk out of a dam
and that I had emptied the con-
tents of the hare’s bladder into
his face. After examining the
hare, she seemed to think it
could carry any dread disease
and sent for the doctor, who
immediately sent poor Rupert
to hospital.
Nobody seemed to miss
Slipper and nobody seemed to
mind when the big dog from
next door stole in while the
ambulance-men were carrying
Rupert out, grabbed the hare
and subsequently destroyed
every hair and bone of the evi-
dence of Slipper’s heroism.
T KNEW what was wrong with
Cousin Rupert, but nobody
else did. Aunt Anastasia feared
some terrible complaint, be-
cause poor Rupert’s face turned
black, starting at the eyes and
spreading to his cheeks, his nose,
his mouth, his chin, his ears and
even to the back of his neck.
All next day he lay insen-
sible hovering between life and
death, while all the school
prayed for his recovery. Next
night he went even blacker and
hovered even closer to death;
and the following morning, from
what I heard Aunt Anastasia
say, I gathered that unless some-
body quickly discovered what
ailed him he would die.
Then, just after lunch, as I
sat with Aunt Anastasia while
she tearfully washed a few
clothes, there crawled into the
laundry the dirtiest, bloodiest
dog imaginable, a dog that
moved as if every bone in his
body was broken. It was
Slipper, and he was actually
alive!
“What’s wrong with him?”
asked my startled Aunt.
“Where’s he been?”
In my surprise I was about to
say that a horse had kicked him,
but I checked myself in time,
for that would be giving away
our episode with old Guzzle-
guts.
“Rupert fell on him,” I said.
“Rupert fell on him?” cried
Aunt Anastasia. “Rupert fell!”
She was out the door before
I realised what had occurred to
her, and by the time I reached
the street-corner she was disap-
pearing into the hospital.
That evening Rupert began to
turn white again. Aunt Anas-
tasia told me this was because
the doctor X-rayed again and
found a depressed fracture of
the skull which he had missed
before. But I still reckon that
somehow in his coma Rupert
had learned that Slipper was
still alive and had decided to
stay alive too.
Two grants of land were
, therefore made over to him. One,
of 407 acres, on the east bank
of the Tamar River, where he
decided to build his house, and
the other, close by, of 2153
acres, which he called Benown
in memory of Benown Castle.
So it came about that Great-
grandfather, with no money and
no prospects, became a land-
owner. On the narrowest neck
of the river, overlooking the
Gaunts’ land on the opposite
bank, he built his house with
convict labor of bricks made
on the estate. He built a two-
storied house, with a big barn
beside it and called the place
Rostella in memory of his wife’s
girlhood home and of the
Naghtens.
Great - grandmother, though
she missed her relations, was a
happy woman. She was as gay
as a lark, with her growing
nursery of two sons and six
daughters; with Kitty, her
nurse, and her other servants to
care for. And as for her hus-
band, he beamed with pride as
he saw his horses in their stables,
his cows in their paddocks, his
pigs in their pens, his fowls in
their yards. His own convict
servants (whose names I know
but shall not mention, for their
grand-descendants are foolishly
ashamed of their humbler be-
ginnings) tilled the land to grow
their own crops and vegetables,
and in all Van Diemen’s Land
there was not a man he envied
or an estate he thought finer,
more perfect, or more delicious
than his own.
There was so much to do!
There was so much to see, so
much to learn. Rostella was a
self-supporting little community,
buzzing with gay voices from
morning until night. Each had
his own task, and there were
tasks for all. Outside there
were horses to groom, harness
to shine and stables to clean.
There was the dairy to run, cows
to milk, butter to churn, cream
to set and pans to scald. There
were pigs to feed, eggs to col-
lect, vegetables to dig and fields
to plough. There were beds to
plant, lawns to mow and gar-
dens to weed. There were hives
to rob. There were rifles to
clean, boats to caulk and paint,
oars to varnish, rowlocks to oil.
Inside there were curtains to
make and clothes to sew. There
were sheets to hem, candles to
mould, beeswax to melt, floors
to polish. There were hams to
cure fruits to bottle, jams to
make, jellies to strain, soap to
set and cut up. Out came the
fat teapot, the Waterford glass,
the silver, the china, and scarcely
a day passed without a visit from
a neighbor, who might arrive by
boat, or by horse, or—if it was
a visit from old Mrs. Gaunt—in
3 k U f„ b uf, k nvellow itSWheelS
P ‘ln fhe country so gay a family
was an acquisition, and this
family loved to entertain. When
his Excellency the Governor
visited the north he dined one
night with the Neilleys, and was
much impressed by the dinner
which they turned on in his
honor. The Naghtens dared the
six-months’ voyage in order to
come and stay with their niece
in this antipodean Rosteila.
They came loaded with presents,
including two miniatures of
another relation. Aunt Smiley
and her husband, he in a blue
coat and she in an extravagantly
goffered, beaded and em-
broidered bonnet, under which
her face looks out with kind
bro,wn eyes- and cheeks like
russet apples.
One Christmas Rosteila re-
ceived a not-so-welcome visitor.
On Christmas Eve a bushranger
plundered the larder of its wait-
ing turkey and plum-pudding,
together with a bottle of brandy,
and made his escape on the best
horse in the stable. But with
the return of the horse next day,
a note of thanks pinned to the
saddlecloth, he was voted a very
civil kind of a fellow, and fresh
food was prepared with mueh
laughter.
As the six daughters of the
house grew up the Neilleys
entertained more and more.
They gave large, homely dances
in the barn, Great-grandmother
thumping away at the piano,
while Great-grandfather scraped
away on his fiddle. Young men,
miraculously, turned up from
every corner of the globe, being
introduced by the officers
quartered in Launceston, or
coming to call with the neigh-
bors, or being invited by the
two sons of the house.
It really was astonishing, in
such a tiny corner of the world,
to see the way those girls got
off! Many a mother must have
shaken her head to think of poor
Mrs. Neilley with six daughters
on her hands. But as each dam-
sel reached a marriageable age,
then, sure enough, an eligible
bachelor appeared, hovered
around and went off with his
prize.
Sarah was the first to go. One
day as she rowed down the river,
her younger brother acting as
cox, a rifle precariously balanced
before her, she was seen and
admired by Benjamin Fowler,
that instant arrived in the har-
bor from England. He inquired
who she was and was taken to
call. A few weeks later, when
he returned home, Sarah, as
Mrs. Ben Fowler, went with
him.
Great-uncle Ben was the part-
owner of the T. B. Walker line
of ships, the Arrow, the Henry
Reid, the Westbury and the
Berean, which traded from Scar-
borough to Launceston, and he
only came out on that one voy-
age to gain first-hand knowledge
of the places to which his ships
sailed. He was a very handsome
man, I keep his picture on my
mantelpiece, and when I seem to
mtelS 1 CaD SCarCdy
The nex/one to go was Caro-
line. She married the Rev.
Henry Plow-Kane, who was the
first headmaster of the Laun-
ceston Church of England
Grammar School, one of the
oldest schools in Australia. They
were married at Rostella by the
Rev. George Ferreday, of
George Town. Many years
later, when Great-uncle Plow-
Kane had retired, he and his
wife and daughter went back to
live at Rostella. In order to
keep himself occupied in the
employment which he loved, he
started once more to teach,
using the old barn as his school-
room. Among the boys he
taught there were Tom Archer,
of Woolmers, Percy Gaunt and
the Mills, of Windemere.
The third daughter, Adelaide,
was married at St. John’s Church
in Launceston to Thomas Dry-
burgh, Collector of Customs in
Launceston and Melbourne, He
was an invalid, so for a time
they, too, lived at Rostella until
he died and was buried at
Windemere. Later, when stay,
ing with my grandmother and
her husband in Scotland, she
married James Brougham Drum-
mond, Clerk of the Legislative
Council in Melbourne.
Poor little Emma, the fourth
girl, died of scarlet fever, and
she, too, was buried at Winde-
mere.
Then came the two sons, Wil-
liam Robert Samuel, who
married Margaret Robinson in
Geelong, and the adored Henry,
of Lauriston and Dilston. He
was a J.P. and engaged to young
Rose Barnard ; but he died of
pneumonia and also lies at
Windemere.
The two remaining girls were
married by two friends. My
grandfather, William Mather
Anderson, was the chief-inspec-
tor of the old Oriental Bank in
its early and prosperous days.
While he was on a world tour
of inspection his old friend
George Hamilton Traill, who
had managed the Mauritius and
Bombay branches and was now
in charge of the Melbourne one,
suggested they should have a
holiday together in Tasmania.
When they arrived in Launces-
ton they were inevitably taken
out to call at Rostella. And the
consequence was, as they say,
that Mary Anne became Mrs.
Anderson and went to live in
England. Jessie, the baby, be-
came Mrs, Traill.
Besides the wide interests of
his family. Great-grandfather
had many other irons in the fire.
He never lost his connection
with the Army, and it is pleas-
ant to know that his old regi-
ment never forgot him, either.
Years later, when the Fortieth
was back from India and
stationed in Melbourne, they
gave him a dinner. He went over
to Jolimont for it to be pre-
sented by them with the Sword
of Honor.
His Peninsular medal, with
nine clasps, was sent out to him
from England. I remember my
father being so amused, yet
touched, when he discovered that
the old man had written to say
thank-you for it and left a copy
of his letter. He wrote, he said,
“to express with deep feelings
of gratitude my sense of the
great honor conferred on me by
her most gracious Majesty in
thus rewarding the past services
of an humble and devoted sub-
ject who will always feel bound
to sacrifice even life (if neces-
sary) in support of her crown
and dignity.” This he addressed
to Lord Fitzroy Somerset, at
the Horse Guards, London.
Great-grandfather died in
1864. He was buried at Winde-
mere Church, which he had
helped to build, and whose first
churchwarden he was. His
coffin was carried by four old
servants, two of whom had been
with him for 28 years and two
for 25, and who felt, as they
laid him in his last resting-place,
that they had lost, as well as
their master, their comrade and
their friend.
William Neilley was not a
great man. He never sought
notoriety, he never gathered
wealth. But he was a good man,
a brave one, and a man who
shared that simplicity of pur-
pose which places him beside
those other early pioneers of
Australia, among the salt of the
earth.
I BELIEVE TREES HOLD
I believe trees hold unattainable perfection
In their arms and give to man
Only the silhouette of it. I meet
The solemnity of trees in your fine silence
And all my love and yours cannot by meeting
Draw the dark intrinsic beauty out.
Like the trees, you only give the shallow hover
Of unquenching shadows.
The fault’s not love’s or the trees’ that each
holds close
What is desired most,
But man’s, who must go on imagining
Perfection’s tremor and seek the image, finding
If not the ultimate, God’s will in this
And life’s continuing.
And —if we think—trees, too, may be attaining
Towards something out of season, sense and
reach,
Till one almighty love draws all things in.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
LUTE-PLAYER
Everything is there, it tells, this piece of stone:
This is a young girl playing on a lute;
The stringed thoughts trembling in the growing mind.
Smooth forehead with its hair like downward weed
Flowing in the currents of the air;
Head bent, eyes closed, half-opened lips,
A listening attitude, listening to what sound?
A note of life responding to the touch.
A neck that holds the head as pillars do
A temple full of prayer.
The rounded breast, the falling sleeve, the hand
That might at any moment move and pluck
A note of purity that vibrates all around
The leaning head—that waits there, for what sound?
N.S.W.
Pixie O’Harris.


ENTERPRISE
MERITS
YOUR
SUPPORT
Oil has been discovered in our country* Once
again, Ampol has shown that Australia is
served best by t)ln Australian oil company*
As such it is deserving of the unqualified
support of every Australian every Australian
business and every Australian industry*
BUY AMPUL PETROLEUM PROOUCTS
g ypt Atlantis, were apiece
recl^sor The
ItaTS the descrip-
- s thi landing, which
Cm to* *om a in
which their security seemed to
.. . their shin and the menace
heetline cliffs to “warm
and^HaMle^Here. mthe ****** £ sunny
c )othes around us, and contact
with the earth at our feet.”
The timelessness of ancient
legend seems to intrude again
into t h e picture of the cumulus
wit h ■. • k creamy tops seen
doming up swiftly from beyond
the pastoral peace of the island,
where the sheep grazed quietly
j n tke sun-warmed, dreamy air.
j. c j OU( j s came no t on stormy
, solidlv and menacingly
KShStama
£Za Sy
showers passing over the sur-
f ace of the sea as the fuel-boat
exercised a delicate
care tQ avo puncturing the
thin skin of the Catalina, which
loaded with nearly
mo rons to give ther£
26-hours’ endurance in covering
the 2000 miles of open ocean
u e f ore them
b t he sto”'of the first rise off
ocean ifl plun gi ngj heaving
with its initial failures,
. • ’, j amid the rollers
Sar a dark aTd bcSfng caul-
, of a bom bora, is one of
the most exciting tales ever
g S of the
Pacific air. Its suspense and
vigilances made the period in
which they had left Sydney
twelve days before seem to
belong to “some -past age.”
There was one point, as
they were being congratulated
by radio on their splendid
flight, when they were near to
“blank and hopeless despair”
and “considering the advisabil-
ity of abandoning the aircraft.”
Sea was coming into the Frigate
Bird, two of their anchors were
gone, and they were held safe
from the bombora and the
swells and the imminent cliffs
only by a single length of faith-
ful manila hawser.
The bombora had become a
“savage, sinister thing,” with the
seas rushing over it and burying
the starboard float, as they sat
there doing their best to keep
the ocean from swamping them.
They were for a time “balanced
on a knife-edge of anticipation,”
which ended with the approach
of a freak wave which lifted the
craft “and threw her back like
a bird on the wind,” the foam
passing over the cabin, the
anchors finally torn from the
bottom.
They crept out past the bom-
bora with hastily-started en-
gines, escaping disaster on the
cliffs by a hairbreadth and fight-
ing against a wind blowing
directly toward the land. They
were forced to take the risk of
fire from fumes in jettisoning
500 gallons of 100-octane petrol
to lighten the vessel and take her
into quieter waters, where they
could refuel.
It seems a miracle rather than
a human triumph that they
eventually rose to sail out over
Robinson Crusoe’s Island of
Juan Fernandez to victory at
Valparaiso.
This book is a classic of its
kind. It has a spontaneity which
seems to be born of some
illumination of spirit within the
writer. Its English is good and
simple, its tone modest and
more concerned with external
phenomena than with the
mechanics of effort and the
scale of performance. The
writer of it seems utterly uncon-
scious of the greatness of his
feat. It is a healthy, adequate
book which could scarcely be
surpassed for the purpose for
which it is written.
It might be more valuable as
standard reading for schoolboys,
as an incentive to things that
matter to men and to the race,
than the garbled courses of
social studies which are now
served up, and which do so
much to produce false standards
in youngsters at an age when
their blood should be pulsing
with the urge to physical effort
and their spirits should be reach-
ing out for the things which
inspire the adventurer.
Wants
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
To buy copy of Barrack Room
Ballads by Rudyard Kipling. —5664.
To buy copies of Colonial Archi-
tecture in N.S.W. and Tasmania by
W. Hardy Wilson and The Life and
Times of Captain John Piper by
M. Barnard Eldershaw. —5665.
English family; husband, wife and
two small children, recent arrivals
from Devon, want furnished cottage
or flat in Sydney suburb not too far
from city. References. —5666.
Name and address of agent for
mate or Paraguay tea. —5660.
Copy of book or magazine giving
directions (with diagrams) for mak-
ing a box-kite. —5657.
Name and address of makers of
an, apparatus, which works on the
suction principle somewhat- like a
vacuum-cleaner, used for cleaning
water-tanks. —5658.
To buy Volume 34 (1904) of the
“Pall Mall” magazine.—5659.
Does Anybody Know?
The history of an old residence
called Truganini, Rydalmere (N.S.W.).
-5661.
Biographical details concerning
E. M. Weetwood, author of The
Lure of the Land, published by
Lothian, Melbourne, about 40 years
ago.—5662.
Some information on racehorse
Limerick, which raced in the 1920’s ?
Limerick, a brown gelding by
Limond (imp.)-Medley, was bred by
his owner, A. H. Knight, at Race-
course Hill, Canterbury (N.Z.). He
started his racing career by winning
the two-year-old Champagne Stakes
at Dunedin in 1925. In New Zealand
he went on to win the Sires’ Produce
Stakes and the Challenge Stakes.
Crossing the Tasman to Sydney in
1926, Limerick impressed by winning
the Carlingford Mile at Rosehill,
and a week later he won the Chelms-
ford Stakes, in which Windbag and
Pantheon finished behind him. He
later returned to New Zealand after
failing in the . two Derbies and the
Melbourne Cup in 1926. In 1927,
after a spell,.he was brought back to
Sydney to win the Chipping Norton
Plate and finished second in the
Sydney Cup that year. In 1928 he
won the King’s Cup (l|m.) with
9.5. That is said to be his greatest
win. He also won the A.J.C.
St. Leger, the'Craven Plate, Cumber-
land Plate and the Spring Stakes
(first one year and dead-heat for
first the next). All told he won
£38,729 in prizemoney for 28£ wins,
12 seconds and two thirds. In
most of his races he was ridden by
M. McCarten. He was trained by
F. D. Jones.
* * * *
(i) Was it Sir Thomas More
who said, when a friend remarked'
on his friendship with the King
(Henry VIII), ‘‘Yes, but I know that
if it would gain him a province in
France he would not hesitate to take
it”? (2) And did the prophecy come
true ?
(1) Yes, more or less. More’s
actual statement is believed to have
been, “If my head could win him a
castle in France, it should not fail
to go.” Some time in 1525,
when More was Under-Treasurer,
Henry VIII was an unexpected guest
at dinner at Chelsea, where More
lived, and after dinner walked for
an hour in the garden with his arm
round More’s neck. More’s son-in-
law, William Roper, who wrote a
biography of him (according to R. W.
Chambers, in Thomas More, “prob-
ably the most perfect little biography
in the English language”), said of
this scene: —
As soon as his Grace was gone, I, re-
joicing thereat, told Sir Thomas More how
happy he was, whom the King had so
familiarly entertained.... “I thank our
Lord, son,” quoth he, “I find his Grace
my very good lord indeed, and I believe
he doth as singularly favor me as any
subject within this realm. Howbeit, son
Roper, I may tell thee I have no cause
to be proud thereof, for if my head could
win him a castle in France (for then
was there war between us) it should not
fail to go.”
Chambers’s comment on this extract
was “More, one cannot but think,
must have been deeply moved to
have allowed himself to speak so
plainly even to his trusted Roper.
(2) Not strictly; it was not in con-
nection with war in France that he
was executed. In 1534 More and
Bishop Fisher of Rochester were
among several charged with mispri-
sion of treason —with having known
of treason (of Elizabeth Barton, the
Holy Maid of Kent”) and having
failed to denounce it. The Act
of Supremacy (making the King
supreme head of the Church of
England) was passed in the same
year; More, imprisoned in the
Tower, refused to take the oath, and
was then indicted for high treason,
found guilty and executed (July 6,
1535). At the block he protested
that he died for his religious
opinions. (He was canonised m
1935.)
* si: * *
What started the Indian Mutiny?
The cause of the Indian Mutiny
(1857-58) was the issuing to native
troops of cartridges greased with
animal-fat. This was contrary to the
Hindu and Mohammedan faiths, and
it was to cause a turning-point in the
history of India. Besides the animal-
fat incident a rebellious feeling had,
for a long tinje, been secretly
developing in India. In May, 1857,
at Meerut, the Sepoys (native troops
in the service of Britain) not only
refused to obey the English officers
in charge but overthrew them and
put them to death. In the next few
months the rebels took Delhi and
Lucknow, massacring thousands or
men, women and children. The
mutiny was suppressed in 1858 by the
gallant efforts of the British Army.
Officers in charge of the suppression
were Generals Sir Colin Campbell,
John Lawrence and Henry Havelock.
Great heroism was shown by the
British troops and white civilians.
The end of the mutiny signified the
transference of power from the East
India Company to the Crown.
* * * *
Number of ships using the port
of Fremantle, and volume of imports
and exports handled there, for each
of the last four years ?
1949-50, 1037 vessels (av. gross
tonnage 8635); imports, 1,568,008
tons; exports, 1,051,080 tons.
1950-51, 1074 (8725); 1,776,098;
1,321,276. 1951-52; 1027 (8873),
1,912,103; 1,217,962. 1952-53, 966
(8920), 1,607,447; 1,242,044.
Brief Answers
Warrego; Regret unable to use
your first-hand information re the
Kenniffs. Appreciate the trouble you
went to in gathering the facts, but
we don’t think it is really of
sufficient importance for the “Other
Fellow’s Mind” page, the only page
on which we could have placed it.
G.B.: “Magniloquent” means
“pompous in style or speech” or
“boastful”; it is usually used depre-
catingly.... J.G.McK.: A sharpie is
a long, sharp, flat-bottomed boat,
with one or, commonly, two masts
each carrying a triangular sail. Aus-
tralian national sharpie champion-
ships are to be held in Sydney next
year R.M.: Write W. Ramsay
(Surgical) Ltd., 340 Swanston-street,
Melbourne, Vic W.McR.: Write
Australian Museum, College-street,
Sydney, for copy of “N. S. Wales
Aboriginal Place Names and
Euphonious Words, with Their
Meanings,” by F. D. McCarthy;
price Is. 3d. posted... .K.D.: Write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Mines,
Sydney, for pamphlet “Samples of
Ores and Minerals for Free Assay.”
A.F.S.: Black oats have a feed-
value comparable to ordinary oats,
but, owing to the high fibre content,
are considered inferior to wheat. It
would not be necessary to rid the
feed of hairs A.8.C.: Grain sor-
ghum has been grown most success-
fully under irrigation in N.S.W. for
a number of years and in trials at
the Yanco Experiment Farm. The two
best varieties, Caprock and Plains-
man, have averaged 92.9 and 90.8
bushels per acre respectively for the
last five years. Yields of 111.8 and
113 bushels per .acre were obtained
with Caprock during that period.
In these trials the sorghum was sown
in rows 28in. apart, using 81b. of
seed per acre. The crops were
irrigated between the rows. Some
considerable areas have been sown
with grain sorghum in inland irriga-
tion districts under both furrow and
flood irrigation. The yields have not
been as high as those recorded m
trials, but have approximated 50
bushels to the acre, which is very
satisfactory. In addition to the two
varieties named other varieties which
have given good results are Wheat-
land and Martin A.H.McA.;
Write Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh - street, Sydney
C. 5.8.: The trustees of the Steele
Rudd Memorial Fund are R. S.
Byrnes, 10 Power-street, Norman
Park, Brisbane; and N. K. Harvey,
6 Gladstone-road,. South Brisbane.
J.B.; Write W. H. Paling and
Cos., Ltd., 338 George-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENT
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.E.S.: “The Dying Drunkard”
was buried in the basket J.W.P.:
Hard to tell who was the more
incredible character —Bill or Jim....
J.E.: We passed by “Flowers by the
[Contribution* should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
Wayside”...-A.A.D.; “Going! Go-
ins! Gone!” didn’t impress even
the office cat... .C.R.McD.: “ ’Neath
Sunny Skies” is a neat but conven-
tional offering.... J.K.: “Whisper-
ings of Hope” are just whisperings.
R F H.: An echo of Edgar
Allan Poe R.D.M.: Mary Han-
nay Foott said it before y0u....
F X.S.: That henpecked husband
should never have left home
APO • Not in the market for
translations from European papers.
HB • Well for one thing, you
won’t he' “chewin’ the rag” in our
pages TVJ • We handed over
“The' Wild Colonial Girl” to the
Religious Editor and instructed him
to reform the minx S.H.A.: Not
interested in “The Musings of a
Manx Cat”. .. .8.J.: Nothing extra-
ordinary about your droving expen-
ences... .T.C.R.: “Rhymes and
Recitations by an Old Digger” are
about 35 years too late K.N.:
All missed the mark... .H.A.: “The
Motor Launch” ran aground
T.C.: It might have been better if
you had waited until you had cooled
down M.F.W.: Not wanting your
gentle anarchist .. . .R. 8.: Where-
abouts m Australia do country bank-
managers go to their offices in top
hats? H.W.: Ginger a little too
wild for our sedate pages ....
R.8.C.; A feeble yam M.M..
The table-talk type of story has long
gone out of fashion E.S.M.: We
will try to do without that smal -
town philosopher. ..P.T.: Send it
to a Band of Hope journal....
F.McG.: Yes, no doubt the se -
is clean wholesome, but
it is much too callow fo us.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick*
ŵ
Os
OM-
•v*\
to**
BOt*t
*.'•
fko'p’
65V.
s Dlc-’&a£-0&
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE! fikP.O. lon ISO.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • 6.P.0!
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Boi 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O Box 588. PERTH,
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
TOlbs.
Sturdy battery ■ charging al *d
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt,
[deal Unit for Lighting Shearers
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
LA 3597.
m***
Bordan at Cowra
The MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Ben C.”; From a 1000-acre
crop of Bordan wheat, which
won the N.S.W. Central Slopes
R.A.S. championship, the
owners expect about £22,750
gross. They are Ray Denzell,
sharefarmer, and F. C. Row-
lands and Sons, Werribee,
Cowra. Second place went to
A. E. Barber and Sons, Baldry
(Bordan), and third to J. M.
McEvoy, Ulamambri (Bencub-
bin).
J. A. O’Reilly, agronomist,
who. judged 14 crops in the
championship, said the com-
petition 50 acres of the Row-
lands-Denzell crop would prob-
ably yield 60 bushels an acre.
Estimated yield for the 1000
acres was 45 bushels an acre.
Total area of all crops judged
in the championship was 5665
acres, with an expected average
of 44 bushels, worth approxi-
mately £373,890 gross.
This high yield, despite little
rain during the growing period,
came from farming practices
which built up subsoil moisture,
conservation of moisture by
weed-control and built-up soil-
fertility and suitability of Bor-
dan, Bencubbin and Ford
varieties.
O’Reilly was struck by
development in bulk-handling
on the central slopes. He be-
lieves this will give greater
stimulus to wheat-production
than the advent of tractors and
pneumatic tyres. Some farmers
were harvesting and delivering
their entire crop in bulk. Others
had built-on-the-farm bulk-
harvesting and storage-plants.
This could eliminate one of the
strongest factors preventing ex-
pansion— fear of loss through
lack of storage-space and spoil-
age by weather, rodents and
insect pests.
The judge said Bordan was a
higher yielder than Ford and
filled a greater number of
grains per spikelet. Dunlop,
the variety used by L. H. and
E, L. Westcott and N. Morley,
of Aiectown, near Parkes, had
long attractive ears that set
multiple grains.
Bencubbin was unchallenge-
able in its suitability for most
of the State’s wheatgrowing
areas. The drought-resistance
and general suitability of this
variety came from* the Nabawa
and Gluyas in its make-up. If
a variety is produced to replace
Bencubbin, it will have Nabawa
in its breeding. Other interest-
ing varieties with Nabawa as a
parent were Bungulla, Glenwari,
Warigo, Scimitar, Javelin,
Koala, Panther and Sabre.
Bordan is a high-yielder play-
ing as important a part in the
eastern section of the region as
Ford did in the north-west.
While Ford was superior in rust-
resistance, Bordan could toler-
ate any rust-infestation that
occurred in cooler parts of the
State, Bordan was bred from a
cross between Bearded Rieti,
Ford and Dan.
Dunlop was produced from a
cross Geeralying and
Bogan, and its multiple grain
characteristic was probably
taken from the prolific Geeral-
ying (Bogan was the result of a
cross between Canberra and
Bunge). The grain of Dunlop
was attractive, and as Geeral-
ying had a higher tolerance of
flag-smut, Dunlop could be
resistant to this disease.
Plant-breeders are constantly
searching for varieties of better
yield and milling quality. Some
comparatively new varieties are
Saga, Festival, Spica, Panther
and Sabre, besides the better-
known Kendee, Warigo, Glen-
wari, Celebration and Gabo.
Perennial Beans
“C.A.A.”: December is the
best time to plant perennial
climbing-beans, as then the
main flowering and podding will
occur when the weather is
milder and more humid.
Best support is a single stake
or string for each plant, as
stems then form a thick foliage
which affords some protection
to the setting flowers, and when
podding occurs the beans are
easier to see and pick.
Space plants and supports at
least lOin. to 12in. apart.
Although pinching - back is
sometimes advocated, best and
largest pods will be found on
beans which have been allowed
to climb to their full height of
about Bft.
When cutting off the previous
season’s stems in early winter
cut at least 6in. above the
crown. If necessary, roots can
be lifted during the winter and
transplanted to anew area,
though this is not essential.
Make new sowings after the
third crop.
Chief pest to watch is red-
spider. Simplest control is by
routine sprays of lime-sulphur
or one of the colloidal-sulphur
preparations, applied every
three weeks. The backs of the
leaves must be covered by the
spray, as these insects don’t
operate on the upper surface.
Orchard-heating
“Tito”: Oil-burning is fairly
effective for orchard-heating as
a protection against frost, but
it is not yet as cheap in Austra-
lia as in oil-producing countries.
In some parts they’ve taken
to burning baled-straw. It is
estimated that a ton of air-
dried straw gives out as many
thermal units as 80 gallons of
oil.
The time taken by straw to
burn depends upon the tight-
ness of baling and its moisture
content. A normal bale of
straw will burn for about five
hours.
Swarm-control
“H.C.”; Preventing bees from
swarming helps conserve the
strength of the hive and ensures
the greatest number of bees
being available for the main
honey-flows, says T. P. J. Wil-
liams, N.Z. bee expert.
Swarming being a natural in-
stinct, the apiarist must be alert
to check conditions likely to de-
velop swarming-fever. The thing
over which he has no control is
the weather. A mild spring may
encourage the bees to build up
strength rapidly and crowd the
hive before the honey-flow be-
gins, or a sudden change in
weather may keep them in the
hive and crowd the brood-
chamber. Causes such as aged
queens, congestion, ventilation
and abundant drones can be
dealt with.
Most beekeepers replace the
queen after the second season ;
others requeen each year.
Colonies headed by young
queens are less likely to swarm
than those with old queens
which cannot keep up the egg-
laying.
Williams recommends re-
queening of the hive with a good
Italian strain. When the bee-
keeper breeds his own queens
they should come from colonies
showing least desire to swarm.
Ample comb-room for brood-
rearing makes for contentment.
To keep the brood-nest free
readjust the frames. Move the
combs of honey to the outside
of the hive, the capped brood
to the centre of the bottom box
and place any empty combs in
the top box beside those occu-
pied with brood. This helps the
queen expand her brood-area.
To avoid large numbers of
drones being reared remove the
combs containing the most
drone-cells and cut off the tops
of the drone-brood-cells.
Clustering of bees at the hive
entrance indicates poor ventila-
tion. Give the colony a full-
sized entrance and wedge-up the
front of the hive about 2in.
“Th' wife thinks I play bowls on Saturday afternoons."
from the bottom board to let in
more air.
Once swarming-fever develops
examine the brood-chamber
every eight days and cut out any
queen-cells being built up. When
the colony persists in building
queen-cells remove two or three
frames of brood and replace
them with empty worker-combs.
If the hive does swarm examine
the brood-nest and destroy all
queens but one. Leave the hive
alone for three weeks. A young
queen may then be found laying.
But if the hive is queenless re-
queen it immediately or give it
a frame of unsealed brood with
which to raise a new queen.
A Rich Season
“R. Ney”: The curtain fell
this month on the first half of
the second-richest wool season
in Australian history. Total
realisations are expected to ex-
ceed the figure for the first half
of last season by approximately
£2O million. Only in the corres-
ponding period of the boom
1950-51 season was the wool
cheque bigger.
The half-season produced the
longest level graph-line of prices
ever plotted in auction records.
With the exception of a sharp
rise and fall of 10 per cent, in
May, the line has not fluctuated
more than 5 per cent, up or
down since October, 1951. This
extraordinarily steady price-
course has been due to the ab-
sence of speculative influences
in the market, primarily because
the high price of wool made it
too risky for the mills to engage
in stockpiling.
With average values stabilised
at about 87.77 d. (about 2£d. per
pound above the average for
last season in N.S.W.), the pre-
sent level is as high as the trade
would wish to see, yet there are
factors in the offing that could
send prices up before the full
season ends.
World production for the sea-
son is estimated at 2550 million
clean pounds, which, with 114
million pounds brought forward
from last season, makes 2664
million pounds available for
world trade, compared with a
total of 2779 million clean
pounds produced and brought
forward last season. The annual
rate of world consumption at
present is between 2650 and
2700 million pounds, and there
is a growing belief that the pro-
duction for this season may have
been overestimated, as the clips
in N.S.W. and Victoria are not
measuring up to expectation.
Chance for Jerseys
“Dapto”: Japan is in the mar-
ket for registered Jersey stock.
The Ministry of Forestry and
Agriculture, Tokyo, is buying
Jerseys for distribution to
Japanese farmers on small hold-
ings of about three acres. The
farmers get the cows free and
later return a suitable calf to
the Government to cancel the
debt.
Prime requirement of Japan
is pedigree animals of highest
quality, on which it can base a
long-term Jersey-breeding pro-
gramme. Most suitable animals
for sale to Japan will be heifers
maturing around February and
March next year, and in the
same period of 1955. All heifers
must be tested and certified free
of contagious abortion.
Millet for Fodder
“Farmer Bill”: For quick
growth millet can outstrip any
other crop. Feeding-value is
high; milk-producing qualities
are equal to lucerne. At no sea-
son is there any danger of
prussic-acid poisoning.
On loamy soil millet gives
good grazing within six weeks
of planting. The first grazing
should be made before the crop
is any height; left to grow too
tall, recovery is poor. Keep the
crop down to a height of from
6in. to Sin. by grazing often and
stocking heavily.
When not needed for green-
feed, millet can be utilised for
good-quality hay, provided it is
cut when the seed-heads have
formed, but before the seeds de-
velop. Cut too green it will
cause slight scouring in stock ;
cut when it is maturing there is
a loss of digestible nutrients.
Combined With maize or sorg-
hum it makes splendid silage.
Dairyfarmers who make light
sowings of cowpeas with millet
state that the protein-content of
the fodder is increased, stock-
food is better balanced and
cream-returns improved.
Millet-crops can be sown any
time up to late February. Suc-
cessive sowings of small areas
keep stock provided with fodder.
When the seed is broadcast and
harrowed-in 101 b. to 121 b. per
acre is enough. For hay, sow
151 b. per acre to induce finer
stem-growth. Seeded above this
amount, growth is dense and
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The cyclical pattern is being now very much dis-
turbed by the absence of sunspots. A local storm in part of
south-east Queensland was part of the cyclical series, but
it was limited in extent by this same sunspot weakness.
Other storms are due that may restore cyclical conditions,
especially if a sudden sunspot should appear, but sunspots
cannot be predicted.
However, as the sunspot minimum is undoubtedly here
an improvement may be expected. Two rather unfavorable
conditions are the Vertex position of Jupiter, which suggests
drought in the few examples we are aware of. Under the
main cycle we are repeating the seasons of the early
’eighties, which were very erratic.


The B.W.T.C.
In these days of initials—
U.N.0., D.D.T., N.A.T.0.,
A. A.N.Z.U.S., and so
forth—a person hardly knows
which is which. Now “Where’s
the 8.W.T.C.?” is being heard
wherever men are handling
sheep and wool. It means the
Bulletin Wool Type Card, and,
though the publishers didn’t
expect the title to be reduced
to initials, it shows how
popular the card has become,
and how quickly its worth was
recognised.
Priced at 7s. 6d., the
B. gives a quick, clear
and handy guide in the selec-
tion and classification of wool
types, from the coarsest cross-
bred to the finest Merino,
with actual samples of the
various types and concise defi-
nitions of their purpose and
the results that may be ex-
pected from cross-breeding.
The cards are strongly
mounted for shed and yard
use, and their value is s'o
widely recognised that orders
come in by every mail. Order
early, because the supply is
becoming limited.
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY*, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
ẁ
HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
ẃ
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage i»
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established $2 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
■■■ DISTRIBUTORS: ——
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.). Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissol-
I venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
TRUE stories of
deceptions that
shocked the world [
Wf.
W M
o
B
6^
r^TT
* w
Former crime reporter Ron
Ingleby reveals the breath-
taking audacity of some of
the arch counterfeiters of
history. Don’t miss each
complete weekly story pre-
sented with the good wishes
of the manufacturers of
Ranch Tobacco.
Jhe MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
weakly and plants wilt during
dry spells.
Japanese-millet is best for
grazing, is shorter in growth, a
rapid grower and heavy stooler.
Second-best is White Panicum,
which quickly reaches 4ft. to
6ft. in height and has the flat
stems that make good hay.
Giant Panicum will not stand
up against adverse weather con-
ditions. Given a fair season,
millet will produce 10 to 12 tons
of greenstuff per acre.
Slippery Concrete
“Old Nick”: Slippery con-
crete in the milking-shed can
cause falls that may injure a
cow’s back, hock or udder. Even
when falls don’t happen, un-
sure footing makes cattle nerv-
ous and bad-tempered. To
roughen the surface use an over-
coating of commercial hydro-
chloric-acid at full strength.
Scrub the floor clean of grease
and dust. To protect portions
of the concrete, particularly
drains, build up stiff clay ridges
several inches thick to prevent
the acid penetrating.
This is a two-or-
three-man job. Mack-
intoshes are needed,
and light wood-blocks
should be placed on
the floor for the
workers to stand on
and so avoid damage
to boots; sweep these
blocks aside as each
section is finished. One
man pours out the acid
and others sweep it
evenly over the surface
with old brooms.
After a 15min. appli-
cation, remove the
clay ridges, leaving
only those around the drains,
and flush the floor well with
water. The ridges around the
drains can then be taken away
and a second flushing of a strong
solution of soda and water
poured over the floor.
Mallee Oats
“Mr.”: Oat varieties recom-
mended for the Vic. Mallee are:
For hay and ungrazed, Mulga
(early). Dawn (mid-season),
Algeribee (late) ; for grain un-
grazed, Orient (early) and Algeri-
bee; for grain after an early
grazing, Orient; for complete
grazing, Dawn, Orient or Fulg-
hum ; for early greenfeed,
Mulga, Dawn; for late green-
feed, Algeribee.
Mulga is one of the best and
most reliable of the early-matur-
ing oats for hay but recovers
poorly after grazing. Dawn has
given the most consistent yields
of any oat tested. It has a
large, brown grain and, for
grazing, gives a large bulk of
greenfeed in winter and spring.
Algeribee yields a little more
greenstuff at spring grazings than
its parent, Algerian, and is
slightly earlier. Orient gives a
high grain yield but is too short
in the straw for hay. Fulghum
gives a succession of grazings
throughout the year. It’s a little
earlier than Dawn, but because
of its weak straw is not grown
for hay or grain.
Belar has given good results
in the southern Mallee, but at
Walpeup research-station has
not been outstanding. Algerian,
the most widely-grown oat in
the Mallee, provides good graz-
ing late in the year except in a
poor spring.
Drought-feeding
“My”: Experimenting over a
long, dry period at its Mallee
research-station at Walpeup,
Vic. Department of Agriculture
“I thought he Was a plurry flirt.”
found that marketable fat lambs
could be grown on grain fed in
paddocks where there was some
roughage, but, where there was
no roughage, grain fed alone was
no good.
The experiments showed that
no advantage was to be gained
by crushing the grain, the whole
cereal proving better when feed-
ing was done in the paddock,
probably because some of the
crushed grain would almost cer-
tainly be lost underfoot. Ewes,
it was found, need to be fed
adequately in the autumn to
enable them to get through the
Mallee winter.
Ladino-clover
“Repens”: Ladino-clover, a
giant form of white-clover, intro-
duced from Italy a few years
ago, is now included in millions
of acres of improved pastures
throughout America.
So far, it does not promise to
be a superior strain of white
clover either in Australia or
New Zealand.
Many improved pasture-plants
are the result of good adaptation
by survival of the fittest, follow-
ing growth under competition
for long periods in a particular
environment. Strains or vari-
eties of sub.-clover are good
examples of this development in
Australia, as is also the Late
Irrigation strain of white-clover
of Victoria, which is superior to
Ladino under the hot, irrigated
conditions of southern Australia.
New Zealand plant-breeders
are not content to wait until such
superior strains establish them-
selves after long years. They go
out to get them by artificial selec-
tion.
Insoluble Grit
“Hortus”: American turkey
expert Russell Kay proved that
by giving poults insoluble grit he
cut down the feed bill, and in-
creased feed - efficiency and
profits.
At 24 weeks old the birds re-
ceiving LG. averaged .381 b. more
than those which didn’t get it.
Over the period the former ate
an average of 4.81 b. of I.G. and
5.61 b. less feed per bird. The type
of feed eaten is interesting. The
I.G. birds ate 31b. more oats
than the no-grit poults, whereas
the latter ate 8.61 b. more mash
than the former. So there was a
considerable saving in feed costs.
The LG. birds developed far
more quickly and put on good
weight.
Poultryfarmers in N.S.W. are
finding that some I.G. added to
the shellgrit is having a good
effect on egg-production. It
makes the fowls digest their food
better, which invites better yolk-
formation. Crushed granite is
being used. The tiny round
pieces of stone on top of an ant’s
nest make a good grit.
Using Tar
“L.C.”: Tar must be hot to
do an effective job. Place a
piece of iron in the bottom of
a large container, stand the tar-
bucket on it and boil the water
in the outer vessel till the tar is
the right temperature, which is
when faint blue smoke comes
from it.
When ten parts of tar are
mixed with, one part of lime,
setting is speeded-up. Dry sand
splashed on the mixture before
it sets helps to preserve the sur-
face from weather.
Apply the coats evenly—
two or three thin ones are better
than one thick one.
Water from newly-tarred roofs
is poisonous to poultry.
Hints For the Farm
“Billjim”: In December plant
gherkins and pickling-cucum-
bers. Plant three or four seeds
to a hill with a spacing of 3ft.
each way between hills, on beds
which have had plenty of com-
post or rotted manure worked
in. Spread loz. of complete
fertiliser in a ring round each
hill in the form of a drill 2in.
deep and about 4in. away from
seeds.
“Big Billy”: Seven to 10 days
off-shears is an ideal dipping-
time for sheep. Wounds have
healed and there should be
sufficient new wool-growth to
ensure that the sheep is satur-
ated, Dip all sheep at the same
time. No dip will effect 100 p.c.
kill of lice or ticks, so make sure
and dip again 18-21 days later.
“A.F.”: Much damage is
done to peas, beans, potatoes,
etc., by allowing artificial fer-
tilisers to touch seed. Avoid this
by distributing fertiliser in
narrow bands 2in. from each
side of the row before planting,
at a depth of between 2in. and
Sin. below the seed. Side-
dressings can be applied later
during growth. The presence
of organic manures cuts by one-
half the artificials normally
required.
“L.C.”: Sheep on rations need
lime. Clover and lucerne, hay and
silage contain enough lime, but
sheep on grain alone should get
1 p.c. ground limestone added
to the cereals. Don’t mix lime
with whole-grain fed in troughs.
Make a lick of it by adding an
equal quantity of salt. Addition
of a small amount of molasses
makes it more palatable.
“C.A.A.”: The crown-pack
method of packing apples re-
duces to a minimum the risk of
damaging fruits while lidding
the cases. During filling the
pack is developed on curved
.rather than orthodox lines, so
that at completion the fruit is
from 2in. to 2£in. above the
box at the centre and not more
than lin. above at either end.
With citrus it is necessary to
pack well above the top of the
box to allow for shrinkage during
transit and to ensure that cases
are full at their destination.
“Breck”: When temperatures
and humidity are high, onions
with open necks and breaks in
the parchment-skin begin to
shoot. Leave them in the open
ground till the neck dies down
and closes and cure them off
under a shelter to expel moisture.
Then store them in a cool place.
The two best varieties for storing
are long-keeping Brown Span-
ish and Victorian late brown.
“M.”; For scaly-leg on poultry
dip the feet and shanks in crude
oil, making sure no oil gets on
the feathers. Dip in the morning
to allow the oil to evaporate
before roosting-time. In per-
sistent cases repeat the treatment
in a month. Another method is
to wash the legs in soap and
water, remove loose scales with a
brush, then apply an ointment of
nine parts of lard to one of
sulphur. Paint the perches with
crude oil as a preventive.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Church v. Compulsory Unionism
It is significant that Church leaders and
ecclesiastical agencies were as one in
condemning the introduction of com-
pulsory unionism in N. S. Wales as
totalitarian and morally rotten. Here are
some of their views:
Church of England: In the “Anglican”
of November 20, 1953, a leading article
described the N. S. Wales Government as
“a gaggle of seedy provincial politicians
whose term of office has far outrun their
available integrity,” and declared that,
under the law, the people of N. S. Wales
will “have a choice of acting unconscion-
ably or of remaining second-class citi-
zens.” The Primate of Australia, Arch-
bishop Mowll, in a pastoral letter to all
Anglicans, warned that “....totalitarian
influences induced by fear and false
faiths are found among us and could
easily make our people and our neigh-
bors finally subject to a totalitarian
regime.”
Roman Catholic Church: “The men
who formed the first trade-unions in this
State almost a century ago did so because
they were fighting for industrial freedom.
They were fighting for recognition of
their right to freedom of opinion and
expression as well as for their industrial
betterment. Now those freedoms are
in jeopardy.” (“Catholic Weekly,”
19/11/’53.)
Methodist Church : The Rev. W. C.
Francis, president of the Methodist Con-
ference of N. S. Wales, declared on
October 28, 1953, that “compulsory
unionism is not in keeping with demo-
cratic principles.”
Presbyterian Church: The Rev.
Gordon Powell, of St. Stephen’s, said “I
call on Protestant to realise this
threat to nis liberty and the liberty of
others in this land and beyond.”
Congregational Church : A motion on
compulsory unionism carried at the
Assembly of the Congregational Union
on P. c *°k er 28, 1953, described it as
“political coercion of the worst kind,”
Premier Cahill, in ignoring the views
of the Church on compulsory unionism,
bus followed the road of all modern
tyrants. He appears to be having some
temporary success, but greater dema-
gogues than he have tried to ignore or
browbeat the Church and failed in the
end.
The notion that the Church has no
place in politics is nonsense. Why
shouldn’t it decide whether or not legis-
lation trespasses on individual freedom?
For the Church to turn its back on poli-
tics would be to repudiate its historic
role.
The Church may not vent its full force
against “Labor” over compulsory union-
ism, but there are signs that Socialism
will soon be unrelentingly attacked by
the Church as a vicious, materialist
philosophy not to be tolerated by a
It'll be a pushover for the Archibald, dear—but I bet you feel silly
when you collect the money."
society with pretensions to the Christian
faith.—D. J. K. (Q.).
The Dead Heart
Newspaper reports of experiments at
Woomera rocket-range describe the place
as “barren mulga and saltbush plain 600
miles n.-e. of Adelaide, the nearest city.”
Country that grows mulga and saltbush,
however, is not barren —it can, in correct
stages, be brought into production and
some degree of prosperity.
Trace-minerals have made it possible
to convert apparently useless country to
pastoral, and even agricultural, holdings.
"Y' can get a better view of th' landscape from up here, Joe."
C ° pp er, ma P ganese > boron, zinc and
trace - elera fts a « useful not only
J a ° ne j' ear and one cr ° p but for many
J TrTf ° nCe tree grow . th
ls established, good farming can make
it permanent
Australia has no rainless area. The
great s P lash o£ red across a “nsider-
able part of our continent, as depicted
in the Oxford Advanced Atlas, is very
misleading, indicating, as it does, “no
rain.” That red blot should be yellow,
which stands for “under ten inches of
rain,” a very different proposition and
one simply asking for attention,
No one really knows, even approxi-
mately, what is the annual rainfall over
a large part of Australia. We do know
that it is light and variable, and we also
know that both these disadvantages can
be overcome. The process is slow but
progressive, even when irrigation is im-
possible—although it is possible in a
good deal of this country. In 1914 W. H.
Teitkins, one of the last of the true ex-
plorers in Australia, read a paper before
the Historical Association for the
Advancement of Science in which he
stated that an area (covering that now
under discussion) four .times the size
of Victoria could be transformed by con-
struction of reservoirs. Most men with
even a nodding acquaintance of inland
Australia will support him.
Another aspect. All dry regions have
a tendency to develop drought-resisting
vegetation of their own, and though it
would take time, the process might be
speeded-up,
African deserts, particularly in the
south, appear to specialise in root-
systems. To a limited extent so does
Australia, as with the special variety (or
sport) of coolibah-tree, growing only in
hot, dry country. Its roots hold water
in sufficient quantity to allay thirst, as do
the bulb-like roots of a slender water-
grass, found by the initiated around
certain waterholes.
Our real drought-resisters are the
eucalypts, with their thin grey leaves
turned edge-on to the sun; the large
family of salt-weeds and saltbushes; and
the almost leafless bushes such as Lignum
(only to be established in wet years, but
thereafter extremely resistant to drought
; and duststorms), wild-currant bushes
(black and red), needlewood and others.
The main requirement to redeem our
hot, dry districts is shelter. Over and
again it has been proved that the loss
of trees along the banks of a creek turns
the stream into a dry gully. Ringbarking
trees around isolated waterholes turns
them into treacherous claypans. When
the trees return so does the water.
Shelter we must have, even if it must
be artificially supplied in the first place.
Shrubs and grasses can then take hold
of the hot, bare soil. Whether these be
good fodder or noxious weeds is not im-
portant. Once the growth is established
good fodder can follow, and when the
land is made fit to carry livestock in-
telligent management can ensure con-
tinuous and remunerative improvement.
—W- M. Fleming (N.S.W.).
Eggs
The sub-editor who trimmed my re-
marks on eggs (B. 25/11/ ’53) made it
look as though I thought that abolition
of the Egg Board would affect the price
of wheat.
Just in case anyone wants to have a
lash at me on that point, I don’t think so
at all.— Tukang Kebun (N.S.W-).
Seeing Australia
You can’t get to know the country by
rushing from Sydney to Perth and back
during a fortnight’s holiday. To know
a place you need to work there for at
least a few weeks to get the feel of things.
It can be done. We did it, and we’re
neither tough nor even adventurous. And
our most valuable experiences were not
the long boat-trip to Darwin, the run
down the Centre, the train-ride across
the Nullarbor or the flight from Bris-
bane to Hobart, but the hot weeks of
grape-picking on the Murray, months of
hard toil on hospital domestic work,
harvesting and bag-sewing, and finger-
blistering biscuit-packing.
Money? Accommodation? South
Australian grape-growers will pay your
return-fare from Adelaide, give you a
weekly wage or piece-work and board
you very reasonably. You can pick fruit
or hops in Tasmania and batch in a
comfortable, electrically-lit hut and get
free wood, milk and sometimes a few
vegetables.
It’s possible, of course, that most teen- 1
agers don’t want to do those things, but
prefer to swim, sunbathe, play tennis or
drive cars. Good luck to them; it’s their
life! But don’t pity them because they
can t see Australia. They can if they
want to.— Taswegian (Tas.).
Jorgen Jorgensen
Jorgen Jorgensen’s work as a constable
in the Field Police in Van Diemen’s
Land did not bring anybody “to the
gallows (B. 11/11/ ’53). His job was to
break up a gang of sheep-stealers who
had plagued the settlers for years, and
he did it. About 60 were arrested, but
all were dealt with by the local magi-
strates, except six who were sent for
trial at Hobart in May, 1829. Of these,
four were acquitted, and the other two
sentenced to seven years. None
was hanged.
That was only a minor inci-
dent in the Dane’s remarkable
career. He was not a mere
“adventurer,” as Marcus
Clarke, J. F. Hogan and many
others have depicted him, but
a literary man of considerable
talent, the author of seven
published books, and a prolific journalist.
He never took the title of “King” in
Iceland. His style there, during his nine-
weeks’ rule in 1809, was “Protector,” on
the model of Oliver Cromwell. He de-
clared Iceland’s < independence from
Denmark 135 years before U.N.O.
recognised that independence, and so has
the merit of having been a precursor.
In Australia he took part in the dis-
covery of King Island, Port Phillip and
Port Curtis, and in the foundation of
settlement at Port Phillip, Hobart and
Newcastle. He struck the first whale in
the Derwent, was one of the first to climb
Mount Wellington, and later discovered
Lake St. Clair and Mount Bischoff. He
was the author of the first work on
economics published in Australia, under
the title of The Funded System, printed
as a book at Hobart in 1831, and he
compiled the first and only printed dic-
tionary of the Tasmanian aboriginal
language, a pioneer contribution to
anthropology all the more valuable be-
cause he had the prescience to know that
' the Tasmanians were doomed to extinc-
; tion.
Jorgensen was a free man (pardoned
in 1830) when he married Norah Cor-
bett in 1831. As a man of honor, he did
the right thing by her, at a time when
concubinage was general. She was a con-
vict, sent out “for life” for stealing
17s. 6d. By marrying her he obtained a
pardon for her. It was an act of
quixotic folly, as she was illiterate and
a dipsomaniac. She “lugged him down-
hill,” as he later ruefully admitted.
When she died of drink in July, 1840,
the Coroner certified the cause of death
as “a visitation of God.”
Jorgensen himself died six months
later, not “in a ditch,” as the adverse
legend asserts, but in the Hobart Town
Colonial Hospital, aged 60 years and
nine months. Marcus Clarke has said
that his life-story would fill “three vol-
umes octavo.” He deserves a better
posthumous reputation than the sen-
sational writers have given him. —P. R! S.
(Vic.).
Pulp
Stoddart, a Gippsland “Labor” M.L.A.
in Victoria, showed his fellow-politicians
an illustrated magazine and said, “A stop
must be put to this filth in the interests
of our children.” If it’s the kind of maga-
zine everybody will suppose it to be,
Stoddart can bet that for every child
who buys a copy at least a thousand
adults will buy one.—C, S. (Vic..).
One for the Railways
N. S. Wales Railways gets very few
bouquets, but it can claim an educational
service for employees and their depend-
ants that is unsurpassed by any similar
organisation.
Through the Railways Institute there
are available over 50 courses. Besides
departmental subjects, there are classes
in diesel-engines, electricity and mag-
netism, explosives, English, mathematics,
Morse-telepathy, photography, physical
culture (both sexes), public-speaking,
radio, shorthand, showcard- and ticket-
writing, typewriting, orchestra, brass-
band and boxing. It doesn’t matter
where you live —correspondence lessons
are available at no extra charge. In
fact, the only cost involved is threepence
a week, plus a nominal fee to cover
textbooks and materials.
And for good measure the weekly trey-
bit covers the use of an excellent
lending-library.— Ann (N.S.W.).


Cool gar die Water-scheme
No one denies John Maher the credit
of being the first to outline a workable
scheme to supply the Westralian gold-
fields with fresh water, as W. Gharnley
suggests (B. 4/11 / ? 53). What I and others
deplore is the refusal to recognise the part
played by Nat Harper in giving practical
effect to such a proposal.
Gharnley says that Forrest was much
too astute a politician to stem Harper’s
eloquence by blurting out (at the
Kanowna banquet) that such a scheme
was already under way. Forrest, as an
astute politician, would have been glad
to have been able to tell the badgering
deputations in Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie
that a scheme to relieve the acute water
position was under way-had that been
a fact. Instead, he declared, as those
present at the banquet have testified, that
he had no idea how an adequate supply
of fresh water could be given to the
gold 1!,
Like many Westralians, Forrest was
sceptical of the possibility of a lifting-
and-pumping proposition greater than
anything of its kind in the world. Quite
likely Maher’s proposal had been brought
to his notice; obviously he had little
faith in it.
He spoke of the prospects of deep
boring during this tour of the goldfields
towns (a year after Maher had put for-
ward his proposal), and he abandoned
the idea only after an adverse report
from S.A. Government Geologist H. Y.
L. Brown.
Finding the pumping-scheme advocated
by a mining man who had had practical
experience of lifting-and-pumping water,
Forrest sat up and took notice. It cannot
be denied that he discussed the scheme
and questioned Harper until the early
hours after the banquet, nor that he got
estimates of water-supplies and the cost of
the scheme from Harper when convinced
that it was feasible.
Nat Harper has letters and telegrams
from Forrest dealing with the project;
and there is also the testimony of dis-
interested persons that Forrest acknow-
ledged his indebtedness to Harper. There
is also on official record C. Y.
O'Connor’s disavowal of the authorship
of the scheme.
Forrest was all-powerful in his
Ministry. True, there was strong oppo-
sition in Parliament to this water-supply
project, and it was largely on the data
given to him by Harper that the Premier
(“not being an engineer himself”) forced
the necessary legislation through Par-
liament. — G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
Multiple Voting
Politicians appeal more to the cupidity
than to the intelligence of electors, and,
since cupidity is more common than
intelligence, therein lies the danger.
Nevil Shute, in a recent novel,
visualises Australia a quarter of a cen-
tury hence as having led the democratic
world with a new system of multiple vot-
ing at vState and Federal elections. Under
the system every man and woman is en-
titled to one vote on reaching 21, and
certain classes of electors are granted
additional votes. An educational vote is
granted to holders of university degrees
and to commissioned officers of the Army,
Navy and Air Force. Any Australian
who has earned his or her living abroad
for two or more years is considered
worthy of an additional vote because the
experience should have broadened his
mind. A family vote is given to both
husband and wife who have reared two
or more children without a divorce, but
they lose it if divorced later.
A personal-exertion vote is given to
any man or woman whose income from
personal exertion for the previous year
has exceeded a certain figure. An addi-
tional vote is awarded to certain leading
members of all religious denominations,
and an extra vote may be awarded by the
Queen to any person who, because of
outstanding ability or service to his coun-
try, may be considered worthy.
I don’t know about mixing religion
and politics, and the Royal choice, being
made on the advice of Cabinet Ministers,
could be politically biased, but the
other four are worth consideration. Edu-
cation, ability, experience and responsi-
bility do not necessarily bind an elector
to any party, but a system which would
give intelligent electors more voting-
power than the irresponsible youth or
the moron of any age should do some-
thing towards improving the standard of
our Parliaments.— Delta (N.S.W.).
Trade with Russia and China
For some time before publication of
“Trade With The Enemy” in Uncabied
Additions (B. 18/11/’53), I had been
digging out details of Australian com-
merce with Soviet Russia and with China.
The totals are not very large, but the
particulars are informative, although not
wholly satisfactory because the Com-
‘Turn off that highbrow stuff and get on to Parliament"
monwealth Statistician has only just
begun to separate for statistical purposes
the Formosan people from Red-run
China.
Total exports to the U.S.S.R. in the
seven years ended last June were valued
in round figures at £A37 million, and
imports at £A3 million. Exports to China
were worth £AI2 million and imports
£AI4 million.
Figures for a single year give a clearer
picture. In 1952-53 all imports into
Australia were valued at £ASI4 million,
but the Russian total was only £A732,000.
China sent us £A 1,406,000-worth of
goods, or about twice as much as
Russia.
On the export side, the Australian
total in the same year to all parts of the
world was valued at £AB7I million. Of
that, Russia took £A 1,642,000 and China
£A681,000.
The Korean War, with its ban on the
export of strategic materials by U.N.
nations, has been responsible for some
of the recent fluctuations, especially in
trade with Russia, which retaliated by
ceasing for a time to buy our wool.
What are we buying from and selling
to the Communist world?
Russia is mainly interested in our wool.
Out of their purchases here last year,
£A1,630,000 went for wool. The only
other important item on the list was
£A 11,464 for seeds.
Our purchases from the U.S.S.R, last
year consisted of about £A598,000-worth
of tinned-fish, £A36,000-worth of hides
and skins, and £A87,000-worth of “all
other articles.”
Our exports to China (or the two
“Chinas”) in 1952-53 did not include
flour, although we sent £A312,000-worth
in 1949-50, and only £A7B7-worth of
wheat compared with £A78,000 in 1949-
50 and none at all in 1951-52.
We sold China wool worth £A634,000
in the financial year to the end of last
June, as well as £A27,000-worth of drugs
and chemicals, and £AIB,OOO-worth of
“all other articles.”
Australian imports from China cover
a much wider range. In 1952-53 they
included items from sporting goods and
jewellery (£A772) and fireworks (£A1267)
to bristles and horsehair (£A328,087) and
tung-oil (£A261,709).
Other major items in the long list were
edible nuts (£A232,900), hats and capes
(£A 127,057), tea (£A81,612), other oils
(£A43,623), and “other animal sub-
stances” (£A37,552). These were followed
by apparel (£A22,926), raw and manu-
factured wicker (£A19,502), and undressed
feathers (£A17,358).
None of this trade should cause any
alarm in even the most rabid circles in
the United States or elsewhere. And we
probably do need bristles, horsehair and
undressed feathers. —C. M. (A.C.T.).
New States
There is no analogy between the pro-
posed New States in Australia and the
splitting-up of Europe after World War
I (B. 9/12/’53). Over 90 per cent, of
our population springs from one race,
while Europe had a dozen or more em-
bittered by centuries of strife.
A" much more relevant example is the
U.S.A., with an area only a shade more
than Australia and divided into 48
States. Although Americans are a mix-
ture of nearly all the races on earth
there are no border incidents.
“Shellback” says that what Australia
lacks is not New States but better trans«
port, communications and more ports.
Haven’t the country people tried for 50
years to obtain such improvements?
“S.” deplores the too-general practice of
bringing everything into Sydney, but he
fails to see that this gross centralisation
has occurred through Sydney dominating
the rest of N. S. Wales.
The Ma State will never be adequately
developed while Sydney rules the roost,
and the only way to break that domina-
tion is by the creation of New States.—
K. Me. (N.S.W.).
The Socialists
While Alfred Deakin was carrying
the dual role of political leader
(including much of his Prime Minister-
ship) and of Australian corres-
pondent (anonymous) of the “Morning
Post” he wrote a series of letters to the
“Post’s” editor, Fabian Ware, which
gives some useful sidelights on the politi-
cal history of that day. He kept his
secret, and was sufficiently objective to
criticise himself at times in his own
articles. But one of the letters, written
in 1913, when, with frayed nerves, he was
out of the storm, showed an insight which
Australia could have used many years
later. The letters, which have now
reached the National Library in Can-
berra, include this extract:
Australia has been governed for the
last three years by a workman’s party
in possession of absolute power under our
Constitution since they have ruled by
means of their majorities in both Cham-
bers. The results have been a packing of
the Public Service wherever possible, a
restriction as far as practicable of all
appointments to their friends and well-
wishers, lavish expenditure upon public
works carried on without proper super-
vision at great public cost, class taxation
and a second protracted campaign on
behalf of Constitutional amendments
which, if approved by the electors, will
enable the government of the whole of this
continent to be centralised at Canberra,
in the hands of men, capable or incapable,
pledged to the ‘nationalisation of all the
means of production, distribution and
exchange.’ Not only are these tasks quite
beyond them, since inefficiency and in-
capacity are no longer barriers to political
appointments provided that those preferred
are content to do the bidding of Ministers
often equally incapable and self-seeking,
but their whole gospel is governed by a
policy of increasingly higher payments for
less and less work done in any and every
business controlled or taken over by the
Government.
That was Deakin’s summing-up of the
Socialists 40 years ago. They haven’t
changed much, —M. G, (A.C.T.).
“Modem Music”
To untrained ears modern instrumental
and classical music may sound ugly
(B. 25/11 / ’53). Train those ears, how-
ever, and the apparent ugliness fades
and is replaced by something which, if
not beautiful in the popular romantic
sense, makes the listener think.
For many years composers have been
sneered at by critics who “know what
we like.” Anything new must be sus-
pect and, if not immediately acceptable,
is castigated unmercifully. Fortunately,
critics worthy of the name do not work
along such lines or else there would be
little of interest in the modern world of
art generally.
Nineteenth-century audiences often
loudly condemned as modern, unintelli-
gible and dull compositions of the
masters which today are universally
played and accepted by young and old.
Beethoven, Brahms and Schumann, now
classed among the immortals, all came
in for their share of ignorant criticism.
—Karrimba (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 257
Across
I—Thus are the supporters of
obtaining prompter trouble here.
(10)
6 —School letter is sent back. (4)
10— Supplying food makes Baba
crazy. (9)
11— Love the comrade’s items of
adornment. (5)
12— It’s in the middle of Winton.
(4)
13 — Gardener’s enemies with a
fastener aboard ship. (6)
16- —Flora includes this gun Marie
misplaced. (8)
17— Chaldean is pressing. (6)
19 — A queen, perhaps, had a meal
and complained grumpily. (6)
20 — The melon my sweetie married
on the way back. (8)
23 — No British war leader turned a
quetzel. (6)
24 Obstruct the works with the
handiwork of a saboteur. (4)
27 — Joker beats this polite fellow in
the arbor. (5)
28 — Unhealthy and healthy in an
N.S.W. town. (9)
29 Gory disorders during a bac-
• chanale. (4)
30 —Missions send me hack to fish
a long time, with Mrs. Andre
Gide needing some relief by
, wise guys. (10)
Down
1 — A finger is broken in fright. (7)
2 Check seabird Edward incarcer-
ated once again. (10)
3 Has a look at the east assent.
(4)
4 Giant and I accompany you
before fifty score a metal. (8)
5 Melba applies the half-nelson
what was never mentioned by
George Washington. (6)
7 This bird is in late. (4)
8 — A turn for an aroma rising up.
(7)
9 Translator asserts that Con-
stantine is more faithful. (9)
14 — Contract in false-teeth. (9)
15 — He has an idea without a pound
unit of work in an Australian
military hospital place of learn-
ing. (10)
18— River near Sydney offers alterna-
tive on alternative in the heart
of Western Australia. (8)
19 — It frightens the pest with an
Australian duck. (7)
21 —Agitates the Governor-General
in Wales. (7)
22—Perhaps a corporal has no
corporal figure. (3-3)
25 Bluey. (4)
26 Seek another way as this
lengthens. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 256


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd..
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide ; Stockowners? Shearing
Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
m.v. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire pasre Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-'VIRTUE 'LIMITED
December
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
IS DAIRY-INDUSTRY IN JEOPARDY?
From the standpoint of Australia’s export Income, the Dairying Industry
ranks third in importance amongst the Nation’s rural industries.
Dairy products provide some of
the most important ingredients of
a healthy diet for Australians.
Derivatives of milk are being in-
creasingly used by secondary in-
dustry in the manufacture of
plastics, while the industry itself
supports a large slice of the rural
population.
Yet the future of this major
national asset threatens to be
jeopardised by the continued rise
in costs. .. ,a problem which has
also tb be met in most other Aus-
tralian industries. However, ex-
perts are agreed that an all-out
effort by Dairymen to ensure effi-
ciency and increase the yields of
their herds by the utilisation of the
growing mass of information from
modern scientific research and de-
velopment now available, must
help stabilise prices-—and perhaps
even reverse the present upward
trend.
estimated at I/- per lb. for butter
and per lb. for cheese.”
“That the present high costs,”
the Report continues, “are re-
sponsible for these disquieting
features there is no doubt.”
Sober, unexaggerated com-
ments like the above are being
taken to heart by members of
the industry. The proper care
and nurturing of the industry’s
priceless assets, the soil, and
fodder, is a science which must
show the way to lower costs.
Photo shows herd being “strip grazed” by use of a portable electric fence.
This grazing technique is getting increasingly popular in Australia. Results
from a leading N.S.W. Agricultural Institution show that “the amount of feed
capable of being saved by utilizing (strip-grazing) is in the vicinity of 50 p.c.”
When a dairyman uses this technique, and allows his cows more grazing tune
by employing an M.V. Milking Machine, he’ll soon have many more pounds
in his pocket!
NEWS ITEM ...
MILK WILL BE IN
TECHNICOLOR!
From America comes the
news that scientists have dis-
covered that exposure t 6
strong light has a detrimental
effect on milk, which has
been treated to disperse the
butterfat content. Milk may
soon be delivered in bottles
made in hues of red, brown
and green, as the coloured
glass will limit the effect of
light on the milk contained
in such bottles.
Judge's View
After hearing a mass of the
most expert testimony on Aus-
tralia’s industrial and agricultural
activity, the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court’s judgment on the
Dairying Industry:—
“A slight tendency towards
lower consumption of daily pro-
ducts per head of Australian popu-
lation is apparent, whilst on those
exports not included (in the
present Commonwealth five-year
Guarantee, current until June,
1957) current losses have been
MILK BOARD
CHAIRMAN IN
WARNING...
In a recent statement, the Chair-
man of the N.S.W. Milk Board,
Mr. J. Ferguson, had this to say;
“Production costs have continued
to spiral. There have been basic-
wage increases totalling 8/- a
week” (since the ruling price paid
to dairymen was fixed at 4/2d.
per gallon). “Additionally,” he
continues, “a new State award for
Dairying employees reduced hours
of work from 56 hours weekly to
48.”
The pressure of costs on price-
levels has been continuous, and
it will become evident that any
further increases in consumer
prices will strengthen the trend of
buyer resistance to higher prices
already shown by the decrease in
per capita consumption of milk.
The Moffat-Virtue Simplified Milking Machine. This typical layout shows the
compact, space-saving features and the simple design of the plant...it's no
exaggeration that even a child could operate it.
SIMPLIFIED MOFFAT-VIRTUE PLANT
CUTS LABOR COST, BOOSTS OUTPUT...
It’s obvious that the more time
spent at pasture, the greater the
yield from cows is likely to be. In
that way a modern milking
machine which can reduce milk-
ing-time, saves money in labor-
time and increases the herd’s feed-
ing-time.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., in produc-
ing their famous milking plant
aimed at gaining maximum effi-
ciency, while at the same time a
simplicity of design which would
mean faster assembly and dis-
mantling and washing-up, together
with a minimum of maintenance
costs.
The success with which these
desirable features have been com-
bined makes the M.V. Milking
Machine the finest plant available
today. Because it is manufactured
entirely in Moffat-Virtue’s Rose-
bery, N.S.W., factory, and sold
direct to the Dairyman, the pur-
chase price is surprisingly low.
For a small deposit and the very
easiest of terms, anyone can have
the plant installed immediately,
and begin saving money that will
soon amount to more than the cost
of the plant.
SAVE THE COST OF THE
PLANT IN LESS THAN A SEASON
ft is estimated that, without even
taking into account the extra milk
yields obtainable with a M.V.
Milker, the cost of a 2-unit plant
with a herd of say, 30 cows, can
be more than paid for in labor-
cost saved within six months, in-
cluding operating cost of the
machine over that period!. It
means that no Dairyman can
afford to be without a modern
milking machine.
Precision Engineered and fac-
tory tested, the completely
DIFFERENT and revolutionary
design of the plant has eliminated
all useless gadgets. The M.V.
Milker, with its “Rotary Pulsator”
Control Assembly (one moving
part operates the whole milk g
process) means: * Smaller initial
outlay * Lower fuel lubrication
and replacement costs * Hygienic
features assure “Choicest
Cream.”
Any one of the Distributors
listed at the foot of this page will
be pleased to give you complete
information and advice on the
Moffat-Virtue Milking Machine
and explain all the advantages
that only the revolutionary de-
sign of the MOFFAT-VIRT T E
Milking Machine can offer.
