

>1
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange im-
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons
Ltd. will supply details of this service. Orders for de-
livery in Great Britain before Christmas must be placed
before 16th November.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE; Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64. G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST.. LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
THE BASIC-WAGE “FREEZE”
The Bulletin,” Vol. 74-No. 3847
Wednesday, November 4, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
SIR HENRY PARKES WAS BORN IN THE SHADOW OF STONELEIGH ABBEY
THE immense and beautiful mansion of Stoneleigh Abbey, standing in
its spacious parkland beside the River Avon in Warwickshire, was built
in the regal eighteenth-century style before income tax had been invented.
The property belongs to Lord Leigh, who lives in part of the mansion which
stands upon the site formerly occupied by a twelfth-century Cistercian
Abbey Church. Apart from the gatehouse, no external traces of the Abbey
now remain, but portions of the monastical buildings are incorporated in the
vaulted undercroft beneath one wing of the house.
Stoneleigh Abbey was the first of many monasteries destroyed by
Henry VIII, and it remained a ruin until purchased in 1561 by a rich mer-
chant, Thomas Leigh, who built on the site of the monastery a spacious
Elizabethan house. Thomas Leigh became Lord Mayor of London, and it
was he who welcomed Queen Elizabeth. I to the City of London in 1558,
for which service he was knighted.
In 1714 Lord Leigh replaced the west wing with the massive and beauti-
fully proportioned Italianate west block which is one of the most graceful
and famous of Stoneleigh’s many noble features. It is in this west block
that are situated the superbly furnished and decorated state rooms which
are open to the public.
One of the most magnificent of these rooms is the white and gold
Saloon conceived on the grandest scale and expressed in plaster work by
Cipriani. It was the scene of a banquet given for Queen Victoria and tne
Prince Consort on the occasion of their visit to Stoneleigh in 1858. On me
first floor is a suite of rooms, complete even to a pincushion, tised by
Queen Victoria, and in Prince Albert’s Bedroom is the ornate Hapsburg
Bed which once belonged to Napoleon's second wife, the Empiess Mane
Louise. Other magnificent apartments are the Velvet Drawing Room,
upholstered in the original crimson velvet of 1724; the Gilt Hall containing a
remarkable Elizabethan armorial window; and the spacious library in wliicn
is exhibited, among many other treasures, a locket containing a lock ot
Prince Charlie’s hair. Bonnie Prince Charlie, under _ the assumed name ol
Mr. Fox, took refuge at Stoneleigh Abbey and is said to have been
smuggled away in a wine barrel.
Stoneleigh was the birthplace of Sir Henry Parkes (1815-96), known as
the “Father of the Australian Commonwealth.”


WRITE STORIES
, have the urge to write and the
omSi® express jour thoughts on paper,
STORI S can train you to write Short
™kf’pi r iC v S ’ Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Otters*— 686 extracts from Stott-Stndents
iO £7o°® rn (L?s f ll “ my Writing total almost
“During the past six months my acceo-
(< lances have returned me over £200.”
I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
1 } iacl , three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.B C ” y U
" 'SK.S? SS,T° s d S
ply formy'couS 16 al ° De Wlll almost
” y Mlrr ° r ’
SUM
m
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlerearfi St
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.'
cut AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS .
(S.B. 1053)
AGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 6/-.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
The Red Page
ANTARCTIC EXPLORERS
I A story of the exploration of the
Antarctic that leaves out the last expedi-
tion and death of Scott’s party may seem
like “Hamlet” without the Prince; but in
Seventh Continent, Saga of Australasian
Exploration in Antarctica, 1895-1950
(Allen and Unwin), Arthur Scholes is con-
cerned with showing what Australians
have done to deserve their huge slice of
Antarctic territory, which, with New
Zealand’s Ross Dependency, covers like
an opened fan almost half the bottom of
the world.
A British Government Order in Council,
February 7, 1933, placed under the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth all islands and
territories between 160 degrees and 45
degrees, and south of latitude 60 degrees
south. This excepts a narrow slice, Adelie
Land, from 136 degrees 30min. E. to
142 degrees 20min. E., claimed by the
French because of D’Urville’s discovery
)f it.
New Zealand’s Ross Dependency, deter-
nined in 1923, borders the Australian
erritory, from 160 degrees E. to 150
legrees W.
But even leaving the Scott climax out,
4r. Scholes makes a most interesting book
>f it, although his main characters are
till either not Australian, or only Aus-
ralian by adoption: Ross, discoverer of
be Ross Sea and Ross Ice Barrier, was
n officer of the British Navy; Shackle-
an and Sir Edgeworth David were born
i Britain ; Mawson was born in England
nd came to Australia as a boy ; Borch-
revinck was a former student of Oslo
Iniversity working as a schoolteacher in
mstralia; Bernacchi, the Tasmanian
dentist, seems to have been a born Aus-
alian he was a pupil of Hutchings
:hool; Wilkins is a genuine South Aus-
alian; but he with the most British
itronymic of all. Bull, was not John,
it Henrik Johan, a Norwegian business-
an long resident in Australia.
It is in such chapters as those on Bui
at Mr. Scholes is most interesting; a
e age of 50, Bull was seized with th
sire to explore Antarctica ; he though
at a whaling and sealing industry wouk
of great benefit to Australia. But hi
vertisements and appeals in Melbourn
r men and money were little hearc
lidst the crash of business-houses durinj
2 1890’s, and it was the 84-yea r-olc
>mmander Svend Foyn, “doyen of Nor
gian whaling,” who provided Bull with
5 old steam-sealer Antarctic.
From his first expedition, Bull brought
2k to Melbourne a huge cargo of sea-
phant skins, worth nominally £3000;
in P°°r hides, they brought only
>O. But in Melbourne, Bull was joined
Borchgrevinck, as a kind of rouse-
)ut naturalist-explorer; and, sailing
nn late in 1894, they progressed
ough the waters where there are five-
e icebergs, into the ice-pack and, after
:tmg in ice that alternately opened
I closed round the ship until it seemed
t they would never get out of it, they
mto open water, and on January 24,
5, Bull went ashore at Cape Adare,
3 first to set foot on the real Antarctic
nland,” having rowed an hour through
se ice with the master, second-mate
Borchgrevinck ; landing on “a pebbly
ch of easy access.”
'n the return of this expedition, Borch-
unck financed by the English money
Sir George Newnes, the publisher,
sailed in a ship specially built for him in
Norway, called the Southern Cross, to
unfurl a Union Jack presented by the
Duke of York on Cape Adare, March 2,
Hereby I have the honour of hoisting
the first flag on the great Antarctic con-
tinent. It is the Union Jack of Great
Britain.
That night the Southern Cross sailed
to winter in New Zealand, leaving Borch-
grevinck and his party of nine men and
70 dogs, the first to spend the winter in
the Antarctic. Theirs is a story of un-
expected 90-mile-an-hour winds; of dogs
freezing fast to the ice ; of eating penguin-
eggs ; long treks from camp to camp by
exhausted men; of a Finn who fell into
a crevasse and, wedged half-way down the
glacier, cut himself toeholes in the wall
with his clasp-knife and climbed out; of
the death of Hanson, the chief zoologist,
and his burial under dynamited ice-crust,
the first Antarctic pioneer to give his
life in the cause of science.”
With the return of the Southern Cross,
the expedition pushed further south, and
landed at the foot of Mount Terror on
a beach which “did not exceed 10ft
in width,” “formed by debris from an
overhanging rock about 500 ft. above.”
Shortly after landing, Lieutenant Col-
beck went back with two sailors in the
boat to fetch a camera, while Captain
Jensen and the leader (Borchgrevinck)
busied themselves collecting. Suddenly
there was a tremendous roar overhead.
Their first thought was that the over-
hanging rock was about to engulf them,
but in fact the glacier to the west of the
„ . ® ‘ sea fh was giving birth to an iceberg.
With a deafening roar a huge body of ice
plunged into the sea and 3 white cloud
or water and snow hid everything from
V 16 m \ 4 raging, rushing wave rose like a
wall before this million-ton berg. It seemed
to grow rapidly as it raced towards the
low ledge Instinctively both men rushed
to the highest part of the beach and stood
close to the perpendicular mountain wall,
the wave, which must have reached a
height of from fifteen to twenty feet, struck
Borchgrevinck first; lumps of ice dashed
against his back but he clung to the rock
until he felt the blood drain from beneath
ms nails He'had barely time to call to
Captain Jensen to cling to the rock, when
1C ? water closed over his head. When
it had passed, both men were still to-
gether. .., Had it not been for a project-
ing ice-slope, which seemed to break the
wave in advance, the men would undoubt-
edly have been smashed against the
rock. ...Both Captain Jensen and Borch-
grevinck escaped with a good deal of
bruising, chilled by the icy bath; a splendid
collection of rocks and vegetation soon
made them forget the incident.
As with most first-editions of books,
this Southern Cross expedition was nearest
perfection. Mr. Scholes says it “stands
unchallenged. Its record stands up weli
against that of any of the major expedi-
tions which received greater financial sup-
port and publicity.” It made the first
complete series of meteorological observa-
tions ; gave the truest position at that
time of the South Magnetic Pole; re-
ported for the first time the fierce cyclones
that blow over the Continent; found new
species in Antarctic biology, including
insects and shallow-water fauna ; studied
the habits of penguins and seals ; took
the first photographs of Antarctic ice-
formations, land and fauna; surveyed
and mapped the coastline from Cape
Adare to Mount Terror; and proved that
explorers could winter there.
But, says Mr. Scholes, Borchgrevinck’s
expedition had “cut into” plans being
formed by Sir Clements Markham, presi-
dent of the Royal Geographical Society,
and it was not until shortly before his
death in Oslo, thirty years later, that
Borchgrevinck received the Patron’s Gold
Medal of the Society.
The history of Antarctic exploration
is an endless chain; Borchgrevinck
goes with Bull; Bernacchi, physicist,
astronomer and photographer, goes with
BorcHferevinck ; he returns with Scott in
the Discovery, and in that expedition
meets Shackleton, making his first
Antarctic voyage; Shackleton returns,
and with the guarantee of the Australian
and New Zealand Governments, arranges
to have his ship Nimrod towed to the
pack-ice ; in this expedition go Mawson
and David
If there is anything here to rival the
missing Scott story in this book, it is the
story of Mawson’s dreadful adventure in
King George’s Land. Mawson and David
had been first to reach the South Mag-
netic Pole, in Shackleton’s expedition
January 16, 1909 ; but it was on Mawson’s
own expedition in 1912, when he was
travelling 311 miles from his base with
two dog-team leaders, that one of them,
with his team and sledge, fell through an
“unfathomable crevasse.” All Mawson
could see was a moaning dog on a ledge
150 ft. down. Nine hours later he read
the burial service. The party of two
went on. A fortnight later they were
still a hundred miles from their hut.
Then the second dog-team leader fell
ill, and within four days was dead.
Mawson’s continuation of the journey,
cooking the last of his last dog, dragging
the sledge by a rope over his shoulder,
his feet bound with strips of clothing,
plunging into a crevasse in which he hung
by the end of the sledge-rope, and twice
hauling himself, knot by knot, up to the
rim before he was able to pull himself,
feet-first, over the top, is one of the
world’s great stories of human endurance.
Mr. Scholes also chronicles the experi-
ences of Worsley and our ever-living
photographer. Captain Frank Hurley ; of
Wilkins’s seaplane flights and the Ells-
worth Wyatt Earp expeditidns, etc.
Among the last chapters, that entitled
“Oases Discovered” says something of
the German (Nazi) expedition of 1938,
which discovered “vast ice-free regions”
m Queen Maud Land, which have
“caused more speculation among scientists
than any other geographic discovery in
this half-century”;
Undoubtedly the German planes were
looking for sites for secret weather-stations
to give information to their aircraft and
sea-raiders. They dropped Nazi flags over
ai s anc * (the oases) to claim it for Hitler.
After the Allied victory the British Admir-
alty sent a special agent to Germany; he
unearthed the files, reports and photo-
graphs of the expedition. The report
showed the warm area covered 30,000
miles, larger than Tasmania.
The book is illustrated with photo-
graphs, has a pull-out map, an index,
a chronological list of accomplishments,
and a bibliography.
Scottish Lovers.
The Saltire Society, formed in 1936
to encourage Scottish art, literature and
music, is putting out a succession of
pleasant little books, blue-covered with
silver lettering, of selections from Scottish
poets. The trouble with Scottish poetry is
that selections are not so hard to come
by in second-hand shops the three-
volume “Abbotsford” series, for instance,
is a beautifully-printed and edited set
of selections while both the antique
language, since Scottish poetry practically
died with Burns, and the difficult dialect
restrict its readers: thus the Saltire
Society puts out yet another set of
selections from Robert Henryson—a com-
plete Henryson at a reasonable price, that
would be another matter.
Some selections, even, are not very
well made: for instance, when Ezra
Pound praised Douglas’s translations of
Virgil, and lamented that he was prac-
tically unobtainable, one found that prac-
tically all that was available of his work
were those interminable prologues full of
birds and flowers with which so many
medieval and Renaissance poets with
plenty of time on their hands challenged
the modern reader to read further ; but
this fault is not to be found in David
Murison’s selections from Henryson ; he
jumps straight into his subject;
Isope myn auctor makis mencioun
Off twa myss and thai war sisteris
deire...
With this fable of “The Uplandis
Mouss and the Borrowstgun Mouss” told
with a sure feeling for every gesture and
inflection of the middle-class Scotswoman
are printed jEsop’s “Tail! of Schir
Chantecleir and the Foxe,” some selec-
tions from “The Testament of Cresseid ”
a few stanzas from “The Tale of Orpheus
and Erudice His Quene,” and a charming
pastoral, Robene and Mlakyne,” in which
the girl offered Robin all, and was re-
pulsed. Robin, left to think the matter
over, changed his mind: —
“Makyne, the nicht is soft and dry,
• The wedder is warme and fair,
And the green woid richt neir us by
To walk attour all quhair...”
But Makyne told him that was then :
“Robyne, that warld is all away
And quyt brocht till ane end... ”
Alexander Scott did not make the
mistake Henryson made, of writing mas
terpieces second only to Chaucer’s, and
almost unprintable as modern commer-
cial propositions because of their dialect
and length ; Alexander Scott left only 36
poems, all short lyrics; and thus this
Saltire volume of his works, edited by
Alexander Scott, is that rare thing a
complete edition of a Scottish poet, and
a first edition into the bargain.
Alexander Scott, says his editor and
namesake, is the finest Scottish love-poet
before Burns; and it is true enough that
he is mainly a love-poet; but, then, many
of the old Scots poets wrote well of this
interesting emotion, and two lines from
a sorinet by Montgomerie:
So suete a kis yistrene fra thee I reft
In tfoumg doun thy body on the bed...
outweigh anything that Scott has to say
on the matter: to write with that simple
and startling force was not given him. But
say exactly what he meant, and
if “Ane Ballat made to the Derision and
Scorn of Wanton Women” has been
considered unprintable before its appear-
ance in this book it was not because of its
length.
His editor finds it hard to reconcile
the scorn of this poem with the fervors
of the well-known “Opressit Hairt, En-
dure’’ ; but it evinces such a mastery of
practical lovemaking as could only be
gained by the endurance of willing co-
operation and profound research.
They don’t know when he was born
or when he died, but about 1530-1584;
his versification shows that he was a
close student of Wyatt; and, as with
Wyatt, working in a variety of stanzas
and metres, he sometimes hooks an idea
to a metre in a delirium of movement,
and other times leaves a set of empty
rhymes. Where he is like Wyatt, he
never quite reaches the delicate power of
such things as “Is it possible,” etc., and
for this reason one would say his finest
accomplishment is the unquotable cata-
logue of women’s delectable frailties. But
then there is the little song in praise of
May, green and as full of observed life
as an old tapestry:
In May goes gallants bring in simmer,
And trimly occupies their tymmer
With “Hunts Up!” every morning
played;
In May goes gentle wemen gymmer
In gardens green their grooms to glaid...
Butter, new cheese, and beer in May,
Condamis, cockles, and curds ahd whey,
Lapstaris, limpets, mussels in shells,
Green leeks and all sic, men may say,
Suppose some of them sourly smells.,.
In May great men within their bounds
Some halkis the waters, some with hounds
The hares out-through the forest catches:
Syne efter them their ladies founds
To scent the rinning of the rachis...
In May goes maidens to Lareit,
And has their minions on the street
To. horse them when the gait is ructr
Some at Inchbuckling Brae they meet
Some in the midst of Mussilburoh..’.
Other volumes in the series are “The
Gude and Joeilie Ballatis” and selections
of poems by Hogg, Ramsay, Sir Walter
Scott, Fergusson, Lyndsay and Dunbar.
Pelican Psychiatry
A Pelican book by David Staffo
Clark, Psychiatry Today, is, as the tit
I implies, about psychiatry ; a subject wit]
which literature, in this reader’s opinio
is only incidentally concerned, but o
which, in relation to genius, Staffo
Clark has nevertheless some penetrati
things to say.
After glancing at the school of thoug
that attempts to classify genius in term
of abnormal psychology, and listi
names which could (but very debatably
many instances) to some degree fa
within that classification—
Beddoes, Blake, Boswell, Bunyan, Burns
Byron, Cbatterton, Clare, Coleridge, Collins
Cowper, Crabbe, De Quincey, Dickens
Donne, Gray, Johnson, Lamb, Rossetti
Ruskin, Shelley, Smart, Swift, Swinburne
Tennyson. Francis Thompson, Baudelaire
Dostoievsky, Flaubert, Goethe, Gogol,
Holderhn, Nietzsche, Poe, Rimbaud, Rous-
seau, Strindberg, Swedenborg, Verlaine . .
he goes on to criticise “the grossly ove
simplified view that all art is nothing b
the artist’s attempt at a sort of pubi
solution of his own conflicts; that th
sources of creative work exist entirely
the psychopathology of the individua
just as his values are presumed to hav
no more sure foundation than the trend
and customs of his environment.”
As an example of that point of view
he quotes Geoffrey Grigson’s preface t
the anthology New Verse in 1939: —
.... It prevents them from that poetic
inflation, which follows when a poet mis-
takes the product of the conflicts in him-
self for the gift inspired in him, mys-
teriously, by some outside agent It is a
very good thing for writers to be sub-
jecting themselves in this way to a discipline
of objects and events. They deal once
more with an explicable, if not with a
calculable and an orderly universe I
think it is possible to trace in the poems
as they come out in New Verse this
gradual emergence of a criterion, formed
by an amalgam of science (in scraps),
Freudian theory (in scraps), Marxist thought
(in scraps), the political and economic situa-
tion in the world, the practice and precept
and perspicacity of Mr. Auden (and Mr.
MacNeice and Mr. Spender) and the load
of reaction and attraction which the time
I belong to has inherited.
And whatever may be the quality of our
best poems now in the highest kind of
poetry, X am sure of one thing: we know
with more exactitude, with more health, and
less pretentiousness and priggishness how
poems come about and how poets should
be related to people.
Stafford-Clark comments; —
There are few of us who might care to
be quoted, particularly out of context, from
what we said or wrote at that time. If I
reproduce those words with all their sugges-
tion of complacent smugness, hiding under
the pretence of humility which materialism
{“Red Page continued on page 35)


im
W:,
,
v ':;' :
II
mg
m
: .
m
m
m
■ ■■■■■■
<:•.> ...
i
■i
w
*i
mm
m
m
m
m
•: »UIIHWIM||, I..J........
>/i
/V
s
. : V
P mm
mm
m*
.
w-*... !y. • •
Settee by Day
Bed by Night
For the first time in Australia chenille tailored
divan covers that are a drop-over style which completely
covers both ends and both sides of your divan.
They are tailored with three-inch box pleats all round the
skirt and are available with plain top
as illustrated or patterned top in baby chenille. To
fit standard 3ft. divan. The plain top 3ft.
size, £B/12/6. Pillow cover to match, £l/12/6.
The patterned top 3ft. size, £B/19/6.
’re the first to have them!
Tailored chenille divan covers!
/
a sensationally new idea in furnishing's.
These entirely new chenille divan covers come in a full colour range of
off white, beige, green, pastel green, blue, pastel blue, gold,
pink, rose, mauve, aqua and grey. They are also available in the
contemporary colours of lime green, yellow, rust, red and dark blue.
A
ADVERTISING
TRUTH
Horderns
nthony
m
Plain cream marquisette cross over curtains. In two ever popular styles.
Sizes 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 6in. 6ft.
2 swag . . • • 30/- 32/6 45/-
Dutch set style . . 32/6 35/ 47/6
HBB
<■ <•
MM
w
W WM:
5 mmmmm
IB
mm
m
w
m
m
fflß
sgsP
t
W
llillH
Chenille cot covers, also for the first time in Australia, made so that you can
well in. Note the 9in, extra piece added to the sides and the foot to fit any size
Available in white, with pink, blue, lemon, green trim or pastel grounds with white
and there priced at only 59/6.
mt
n
i : ■■
m
m
HP
iff
Cream voile crossovers, easy to wash and iron/ Full range, sizes and style
Si zes " 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 6in. 6ft.
o 69/6 79/6 99/6
2 swag .. .» •• 0, / u '
swag
3 swag
95/-
99/6
139/9
■
I
ff
Jl
All over lace cross over curtains, in a good quality medium weight lace.
Sizes 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 6in. 6ft.
2 swag .. .. .. .. 65/ 99/6
3 —10- 135/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FURNISHING DEPT., THIRD FLOOR. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. PHONE M 2401.


South Australia's Little England
Surrey in the South
By JOHN GARDNER
OU can motor a few miles into the
1 j hills from Adelaide and find amid
y English trees and Australian gums
t villages and townships a century or
so old. Nowhere else in Australia, per-
haps, will you find a sort of dormitory
county so removed in tradition and
appearance from the capital city below
that it might belong to another country
and era.
It is a kind of Surrey in the south,
where there are still local legends and
traditions, self-contained communities
linked with the city by bus in which the
youngsters travel daily to work or school.
Few of the townships were planned. They
grew around a pub or railhead or from the
subdivision of a bit of farmland.
Some were born of impatience. Out-
of-town surveying was slow in the infant
colony of more than a century ago.
Settlers pushed out and started their own
towns. Some have grown around a con-
veniently-placed crossroads, hotel, store
or church. Others emerged from shrewd
subdivisions of broad acres alongside new
railways.
Few of these towns, perhaps, have the
uniform grace and beauty of Gawler at
the northern end of the ranges, the begin-
ning or the end of a fine drive through a
string of hills towns ending near the sea
near Holdfast Bay.
The nearer hills townships offer some
colorful examples of forward-thinking
settlement by early colonists. Mitcham,
Belair, Coromandel Valley and Black-
wood, all within about 12 miles of
Adelaide by road, are townships that
come to mind.
Old Mitcham, or “the township of
Mitcham on the Brownhill Creek,” was
a planned private town. The decision to
establish a village was made by the
manager of the South Australian Com-
pany (David McLaren) in 1839. A year
later William Giles, his successor as
manager, advertised acre blocks, and
within a few years these were all sold.
The plan lodged with the Government
later shows a neat settlement around a
village-green. The green and old stone-
houses, a charming stone-bridge over a
chuckling stream, and some market-
gardens survive today in the face of
encroaching progress.
When they surveyed these acre blocks
there was movement in the hills above.
Some runaway sailors had settled in a
fertile valley a few miles to the south-east.
On the top of the ranges above Mitcham
village surveys were being made. The
Government fenced 1000 acres of land
and called it the Government Farm;
police and survey horses were depastured
there. Also, Tasmanian tiersmen and
their timber-hauling bullock-teams were
seen more frequently above the then
young village of Mitcham, peopled by a
few sheep-raisers and gardeners.
A young foreigner named Gustav
Adolph Ludewig brought his French-
born wife ; they built themselves a roomy
cottage among the peppermint-gums,
opened a tiny store and an agency for
her Majesty’s mails. The village of Belair
liad started.
You may take Belair as typical of one
of the string of smaller “private” towns
in these Australian hills which are a sort
of separate county. The story of Belair
might be the story of the next township.
Ludewig’s wife died and he married her
sister. She died and they were buried in
the grounds. Today a clergyman searches
for the unmarked plots.
Another young foreigner, Gottfried
Koll, came up the steep, winding, white
road from Brownhill Creek, paused at
the top of the range, and there, with an
eye to business, set up an inn. Appro-
priately, he named it the Traveller’s Rest.
But the travellers did not rest there enough
after 1866 when the Government built
another road from the city through
Belair, diverting many of the drays and
horsemen of the day. Herr Koll faded
from the scene, but the stables of the
Traveller’s Rest still stand, used by a
young Australian as a garage at his home.
So, between the site of the Traveller’s
Rest and Ludewig’s cottage-store a few
hundred yards away a small community
had settled. There, around a triangle of
land enclosing a couple of stone homes.
families were settling; a church and
store nestled near by. Sounds came fro
the rolling hills as pioneers felled t
scrub and planted wheat and vines anc
apples. A railway was pushed throug
navvy camps were put up and a troope
set-up business in a former shop.
Today, Belair clings to its old hom
and buildings as the new residents abso
district tradition. The Ludewig cotta
has been restored by the Church of En
land, which, incidentally, is the ne
owner of a great pile of old masonry
built as an inebriates’ home in tl
’seventies and now renovated into a fin
retreat and mission-house.
You can climb in and out of thes
villages up to about 2300 ft., at time
glimpsing below the capital on the plain
near Holdfast Bay, where Governo
Hindmarsh landed in 1836 to proclaim
colony destined now, perhaps, to lie th
scientific centre of the British Empire.
Red-coated huntsmen meet at differen
hills villages during the winter, huntin
over post-and-rail, stream and cappec
wire-fences. The scene outside th
turreted stone Flagstaff Inn at the foot o
Tapley’s Hill, along the southern end o:
the Mt, Lofty Ranges, is like somethin
from an English county. Or you migh
find them another Saturday right over a
pretty little Sanderston assembling for
10-miler.
Old in the English tradition is Gum
eiacha, a township of 500 people where
there are acres of fat apples, great round
of cheese, potatoes, cattle, sheep, pig
and poultry. The great-grandfather o
South Australia’s Premier Tom Playford
was one of the first into Gumeracha
right in the van of the pioneers. He hac
fought Napoleon and settled in S.A. as
young Baptist parson. The church in
which he conducted opening services in
1846 still stands. This is the Premier’s
electorate.
The windjammer Coromandel, with
stores, banknotes and £lO,OOO in specie
anchored in Holdfast Bay on January 12
1837, only 15 days after the proclamation
of the colony of South Australia. Sailors
weary of the sea ran away and camped
in the valley they named after their ship.
Bullock-shoes were still being found in
the valley recently, relics of the bullock-
wagons early pioneers used. You can
still see the wagon-tracks and -scars.
At Kangarilla, about three miles from
Clarendon, there’s an Eyre’s Flat, after
E J. Eyre, pioneer colonist, explorer and
one-time Governor of Jamaica. Near by
is Dashwood’s Gully, a sort of cleft in
the hills. At the southern opening of the
gully is a garden laid' out by Captain
Dashwood of the Royal Navy, who settled
in the colony 112 years ago.
Still in the district at the southern end
of the ranges is Clarendon, named after
the Earl of Clarendon in the early
’eighties. Snuggling among hills and
great old gums alongside the River
Onkaparinga, Clarendon is one of the
southern beauty-spots where you can have
a drink in an ancient taproom, worship
in ivy-covered churches, and buy hot
bread and pies from the bakery in the
village street.
So here in these days of atom- and
hydrogen-bombs, great expanding indus-
tries, cars and planes and talk of great
promise for the future lies a little Eng-
land, founded by Englishmen a century
or so ago. %
You can ride or walk in at one end of the
ranges and come out at the other treading
on to the flat and fertile plains feeling that
you have touched a noble pioneer past.
You have shaken hands with pioneers
and gone through a leafy self-contained
piece of old Australia perhaps without
equal on the continent.
Unsolicited Testimonials
r ' aJ 1 e^l ? an ’
EUku Motors, Ltd.
1 take great pleasure in paying
tribute to the excellent post-purchase
service that you put at the disposal
° ™7u Ur c u st °mers.
When, for instance, the wheel of
the used car I bought from you came
away in my hands from the steering-
column just as I was leaving your
place in it, and the car crashed into a
wail » rendering me unconscious,
your staff were kind enough not only
to render first-aid but to secure the
wheel back in its place with tie-wire,
all tor the very modest charge of
IUS -, .
Als °’ when I reported that the
sump had fallen off on my first trip,
you magnanimously promised that if
you noticed an advt. in the Lost and
Found column referring to its being
tound you would inform me without
de s;. r
In the face of such trading integrity
and business courtesy I could surely
do nothing less than tell all my
friends -and relatives of my happy
experiences.
Yours faithfully.
O. Sucker.
rpu o . n
ihe Spoopju Hair Restorer Co.
ff r .
I reel that I should let you know
or the wonderful results I had from
the one bottle of Spoopju I bought,
d I soaked a paint-
brush which I had overlooked clean-
a^er * year s painting, and
wmch was as hard as goats’ knees,
Within an hour it was again soft
and pliable , that, I take it, was due
to the action of the caustic-soda,
which is apparently the basic ingredi-
ent of your hair-restorer.
I also found it invaluable for tak-
mg ink-stains out of cloth —or, more
strictly speaking, of taking the cloth
P u * the ink-stains—adding a more
lethal quality to Paris-green for the
destruction of garden-pests, as a
weed-killer and silver- and brass-
cleaner, and for removing old paint
off bricks.
1 was going to use it as a hair-
restorer, but when I dipped an old
toothbrush in it to apply to my scalp
I noticed that the bristles immedi-
ately dissolved.
Yours delightedly.
J. Thinontop.
The Manager,
Botch Tailoring Co.
Dear Sir,
Would you mind passing on to
your cutter my heartiest congratu-
lations for the manner in which he
was able to cut out my suit? To
have achieved the results he did, with
his only implements a knife and fork,
speaks volumes for his genius.
I find that, with only the addition
of sleeves, the vest will make an excel-
lent overcoat for my big brother,
Except for the fact that I am com-
pelled to bend down to reach the left
outer-pocket of the coat, that the
shoulder-pads give the appearance of
lending reinforcement to the elbows,
that it was only necessary to shift
the button to the middle of the back
to render the coat so close-fitting
that it wouldn’t blow clean off me in
a wind, and that the hip-pocket of
the trousers comes exactly opposite
the back of my right knee, the suit is
a perfect fit.
I certainly would be proud to be
seen in any coal-pit with it on.
Accept my thanks for having rein-
forced the trouser-cuffs. This will the
better enable them to stand up to the
constant walking on which will be
their inevitable lot.
Very gratefully yours,
Solomon McMurphy.
Mr. Dick E. Burrd,
Photographer,
Dear Sir,
I take great pleasure in thanking
you for the enlarged photo, you took
of my wife,
No other portrait-photographer in
the city, I feel sure, could have suc-
ceeded in transforming her linea-
ments into so striking a likeness of
the gargoyles on the cathedral as you
have done. Yours is indeed the magic
touch with bulb and lens,
We have hung it in a place of
honor, up in the fig-tree, and you will
be proud to know that it has been
an unparalleled success in scaring
the bulbuls off the fruit,
Yours faithfullv
Rastus Boobe.
Messrs. Muckitup and Slummit.
Dear Sirs,
Since I had my mower resharpened
and reset by you I really find it diffi-
cult to believe that I am pushing it.
So effortless is the action now that I
simply walk behind it; and so noise-
less is it that it gives the impression
that the grass is not even being cut.
Perhaps that is because it isn't
being cut, and this is possibly due to
the fact that you have either
sharpened the cutting-blade away so
much that it cannot engage the
revolving-blades, or the revolving-
blades have been set so high they now
miss the cutting-blade by an inch or
two.
May I also congratulate you in
having on your staff one of the
world’s strong-men? I refer to the
one who seemingly used all his
gigantic strength to tighten down
the adjusting screws so that they
might never be shifted again, as my
aching muscles may bear witness.
It is indeed a pleasure to push a
mower that runs so sweetly. Cer-
tainly the grass grows unchecked, but
surely such a trifle must not be
allowed to mar the smooth course
of our business relations.
Yours in gratitude,
E. Mohruo.
To the Proprietor,
Byblow Pet Shop.
Dear Sir,
I write to let you know that the
pup we bought from you—you
assured us it was a pedigreed Corgi
—has brought great cheerfulness into
our lives since he has grown up.
This could scarcely be otherwise,
for it is quite impossible to look at
him without laughing. His very short
legs, sturdy chest and long body pro-
claim that at least one ancestor was a
dachshund. His hindquarters and
shaggy hair are unmistakably Aire-
dale, whilst his pudding head and
pink eyes give evidence that one of
the principals in the immediate
mesalliance was a bull-terrier,
You will also be delighted to know
that I have made eight guineas so far
from a short newsreel and Press
photos of him. They consider him
one of the most unusual freaks yet
seen.
Yours faithfully,
F. Snirk.
per BO.
THE BELT OF PARKS
JS. REES, of Adelaide, has published
a httle booklet giving some facts
■ a ol !f . . park-land, half
the capit™ ofs/ SUrrounds
Of tb«- nrioinsii , ,
lie as a recreation-area ; 445 games-clubs
and athletic-clubs have permits to play
on these parks, the list headed by 212
tennis-clubs, then 91 cricket-pitches, 59
football-grounds and, lowest on the list,
two golf-courses and one archery-ground,
From time to time objections have been
raised to Victoria Park Ra’cecourse being
on the parklands, but Rees points out
that John Arrowsmith’s plan of Adel-
aide, published in London in 1839 from
Light’s surveys, shows that the race-
course site was selected and set aside for
that purpose by Light himself.
Adelaide (the booklet also shows)
nearly lost the parklands in 1839, three
years after the founding of the Province.
Some bush-lawyers discovered that the
areas reserved for parks could be classed
legally as “wastelands of the Crown,”
a " d could therefore be bought. Their
scheme reached the ears of Governor
-ed -art* by buying
tbe wbole of the P arklands f ° r le >
W payment his personal promissory-
not® f or £2300, representing the ruling
W *f® lands price of £1 an acre
Wh™ the la nd-buyers turned-up a few
hours later to put over their stunt, the
Clerk of the Land Court was able to say
quite truthfully that the parks had all
been sold. Needless to say, the promissory-
note was never presented for payment —
but the sale went on record for all time.
So Adelaide can thank Gawler (the
Governor) for a belt of parks which is
envied not only by every other capital
city in Australia, but numerous other
cities all over the world,
H.A.L.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 4, 1953
V01.74—N0. 3847
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia (or the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne ,
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington ,
TIME FOR ADJUSTMENT
Whatever else critics of the Federal Arbitration
Court’s judgment on quarterly adjustments may say,
they cannot accuse the judges of being evasive or
ambiguous in giving the reasons for their decision.
There has been much confused thinking and talking on
the subject of the basic wage and the cost-of-living
index figures to which, for a considerable period, it has
been tied through the automatic working of quarterly
adjustments. This position has now been made
perfectly clear by the court’s definite pronouncement
that although the basic wage was at one time intended
to represent a sum to cover the minimum needs of a
family, that conception had long been abandoned, and
the present basis was the capacity of industry to pay.
In its 1947 judgment on the 40-hour week the
court gave much thought to the “capacity of industry
to absorb” the extra cost, and in 1950, when the basic
wage was increased by £l, although there were varia-
tions of opinion on the Bench as to which “loadings”
should be considered part of the minimum wage, there
was complete agreement that it did not represent a
“needs” base alone.
Despite all this, many trade-union leaders, and
even State Premiers, have been making statements
which showed that they still regarded the basic wage
as a bare-subsistence-wage; all moves to reverse or
bypass the court’s decision on quarterly adjustments
seem to be based on this.
In clarification of these doubts the judgment
comments that the combined result of earlier decisions
has been
to afford a standard of expenditure out of the basic-
wage element of wages considerably higher than that
afforded by the former “needs”-wage or the equivalent
of the “Harvester” standard. The purchasing-power
of the present basic wage is over 36 per cent, higher
than that of the 1934 decision.
Of the cost-of-living index, the court says that the
“C” series of the retail-price index numbers is based
on the prices (statistically weighted) “of a representative
selection of the commodities and services upon which
the average wage-earner generally spends his money.”
There has never been any justification for regarding
it as “a typical, or appropriate dietary.” Accordingly,
complaints against the omission from or inclusion of
particular items in the composition of the series are
based on a misconception. The index is merely a
measure of the changing value of money “and in
particular of the money spent by the basic-wage
earner.”
As to the application of the index to the wage,
The further the court has withdrawn from re-
lating the basic wage to the fulfilment of any par-
ticular standard of needs, the less has become the
justification for keeping the nominal wage “automati-
cally” adjusted during the currency of an award.
It has now become quite clear that the basic wage
determined in 1950, in so far as it included very con-
siderable additions attributable entirely to economic
considerations, was based upon economic capacity and
not upon the ethical concept of rights.
Arguing that quarterly adjustments have main-
tained the “real value” not only of the so-called
“needs” portion of the basic wage, but also of the
various loadings, the court
finds it impossible to justify the continuance of an
“automatic”-adjustment system whose purpose is to
maintain the purchasing-power of a particular wage
(assessed with regard to the capacity of industry to
pay such a wage in 1950).
In explaining why it feels that the present is an
appropriate time for abandoning the system, the court
says that the evidence presented to it suggested “an
immediate future period of relatively steady price-
levels, compared with the rapidly-rising levels of recent
years,” It feels that the automatic adjustments have
“undoubtedly” been an accelerating factor in the rapid
increase in prices during 1951 and 1952, and it considers
that “the frequency and unpredictability of price-
and wage-changes” have been making business and
financial planning very difficult.
Taking all factors into consideration, the court
expressed the view that “no real difficulty should be
experienced by wage-earners as an immediate result
of the abandonment.”
Although the court was not aware of it at the
time the judgment was prepared, this expectation has
been given greater point by the tax-reductions m the
Federal Budget. From this week onwards all pay-
envelopes will be slightly heavier by reason of smaller
deductions for income-tax; in most cases the gam
will be at least as great as the quarterly adjustment
would have been. Moreover, it will be a real gam,
and won’t contribute towards a further rise in prices
SALOME
as the illusory “gains” of the quarterly adjustments
have done. On the contrary it is an earnest to the
individual wage-earner of the possible fall in living-
costs which may reasonably be expected as a result
of the relaxation of tax-pressure on industry.
With judicial caution the court expresses the
opinion that the Australian economy generally is in a
state of relative stability and that provided export-
prices are maintained, our already-high level of costs
does not rise higher and we are able to stabilise
internal prices “future prospects are not unsatisfac-
tory.”
Nevertheless it feels it necessary to stress the
need for greater production, more efficient manage-
ment and a better productive effort on the part of
labor. In other words the court realises, as all sections
of the community must realise if this country is To
make any progress, that a better standard of living
can only be achieved by hard work. Politicians who
try to fool themselves and the wage-earners by preach-
ing that there is an easier road to prosperity are
betraying those they profess to help.
Menzies the Optimist
Mr. Menzies told a Liberal-party conference in Can
berra that he was going into the election-campaign of
1954 with “a high heart, a clear conscience and a
determination to see that the finances of this country
do not fall into the hands of people who have not two
ideas of financial policy to put together.”
If fie didn’t approach the contest with optimism
he wouldn’t be human. He and his Ministry have
fought for three years against a vituperative, though
wildly inconsistent, campaign attacking their honesty,
their capacity to govern and even their sanity. There
has never been anything worse in panicmongering than
the efforts of Mr. Calwell and Dr. Evatt to stampede
the electorate in the period since the last poll. But
circumstances have exposed them and their party for
the out-and-out frauds they are.
The “Labor” party’s predictions of disaster have
been confounded. Inflation has been checked to die
point at which in the opinion of the full Arbitration
Court “prices in the immediate future should be
steady as compared with the rapidly-rising prices over
the past three years and which were increasing until
about six months ago.” Favorable seasons and high
income from exports “have enabled the economy to
adjust itself to the new cost-levels, and in this way
a measure of stability has been achieved.” The court
held that the prospects for the future were “not
unsatisfactory,” and the final devastating blow to
“Labor” was the fact that the judges were persuaded
to this view largely by the advocacy of the unions’
own counsel, Mr. Eggleston, who put the case very
strongly.
The results are plain for anybody to see. The
unemployment which was supposed to be ballooning
under the influence of the Menzies policy has almost
ceased to exist even in the microscopic form in which
it appeared during the period of readjustment. Indus-
trial peace reigns except where Communist unions
still hold sway. All the efforts of Federal “Labor”
leaders to stir up industrial unrest have failed.
“Labor” is floundering as it wrestles with its
problems —for instance, how a Federal party that
has socialisation on its programme as its only objec-
tive can discard it now that socialisation has become
unpopular in such Socialist circles as within the British
Labor party. It must find a rational solution of how
a Federal “Labor” party can have compulsory arbi-
tration in its platform, and can discard it at the same
time as something constitutionally impossible in the
Federal sphere, yet somehow constitutionally possible
in the States. It must discover how to create a depres-
sion-complex in a country in which taxation has just
been cut, in which the national income and personal
savings have increased, and in which the most success-
ful public loan for several years has just been floated.
It will have the tough job of reconciling its
alleged support of arbitration with the Gahill Govern-
ment’s defiance of the Arbitration Court’s findings as
soon as they go against the industrial unions, demand-
ing that arbitration must always favor the worker. It
will be forced to carry on its sham campaign against
the integrity of the existing Federal Government while
some of its own sections and departments reek with
the odor of Doyleism and Vitnellism and with the
indiscretions of Arthur; also the taint of failure to
deal with the awful conditions of the Sydney liquor
trade. And whenever it speaks of “Labor” efficiency
the ghosts of the N.S.W. transport losses and of every
other enterprise in which “Labor” has had a hand,
right down the line to Metropolitan Cement’s bank-
account, will rise up and shriek at them in derision.
As for its so-called programme for the resuscitation
of the country after the period of catastrophic “capi-
talist” government to which we have allegedly been
subjected, it will be hard put to it to find some new
form of social-service to swell the £184,000,000 p.a.
which is to be spent on pensions, funeral benefits,
maternity allowances, medical and hospital benefits,
nutrition, free milk for children and a hundred other
handouts in 1953-54, and it yet has to explain how,
without building up taxation to the skies, it will be
able to keep Dr. Evatt’s boast that within a year of
taking office he will find a means of throwing over the
pensioners’ means-test. It will also have to explain
why “Labor” thinks it can cut the cost of living by
price-fixing if returned to power when the fact, one
awful example—one among many—is staring the N. S.
Wales housewives in the face that when some private
grocers in Sydney found that they could import fresh
eggs from Victoria and sell them sixpence a dozen
cheaper than the Egg Board’s locals the Egg Board
fought this bit of price-cutting for the benefit of the
consumers tooth and nail.
“Labor” has a losing race ahead of it unless the
electorate is blind to commonsense and decency. As
the Arbitration Court remarked in its judgment on the
wage case, “there is much room for greater productive
effort on the part of all sections of the community, and
unless this effort is brought about production-costs will
continue to be a menace to those secondary industries
whose products compete in Australia with imported
manufactures” —and also outside Australia. For this
menace Australian “Labor” leadership is almost
entirely to blame. It fought for the 40-hour week under
an undertaking that improved efficiency arising from
a better-rested working-force would make up and prob-
ably increase the output of the lost four hours. But
in this matter it has acted in the worst of bad faith.
It has done everything to prove to the worker
that he is entitled to loaf and that the employer is an
enemy to be thwarted and destroyed in the interests
of Socialism.
At last Saturday’s N.S.W. by-elections in Kahibah
and Waverley there was a swing against the Cahill
Government, but by no means big enough to warrant
Liberal jubilation. In Kahibah, formerly a safe seat
for the foolish Mr. Arthur, the official “Labor” man
(Arthur, sent.) was defeated by an Independent Labor
man. In Waverley the “Labor” majority was reduced
by over 3500, but the Liberal poll was little, if any,
greater.
If Mr. Menzies cannot win at the 1954 poll there
must be something mortally wrong either with his
organisation or with the morals —and commonsense
—of the majority of Australians.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Atomic Implications
The second atom-bomb blast of the 19?
series of tests in Australia went off with
out attracting much more attention tha
the letting-off of a few hungers on Gu
Fawkes Bay. The British Supply Minis
ter, Mr Duncan Sandys, caused no extr
excitement by his statement that “durin
the past few weeks our scientists hav
carried out various other trials involvin
a number of minor explosions.” Botl
the facts and the public reaction prove
that atomic science has entered the era
of routine.
It has also entered the era of danger
As fission is obtained in the atomic bomb
ing by bringing together two portions o;
uranium product which automatically
explode when they reach a certain mass
so the world atomic war is likely to
explode when atomic armament attains
a certain mass on each side. There
seems to be no tendency in Western
circles to issue the warning that arma-
ment for aggression and responsive arma-
ment for defence by the countries
threatened must inevitably soon reach
point at which even a change of heart on
the part of aggressors cannot bring about
disarmament. The point has been
reached where fission to produce war
could take place almost any moment,
and the temptation to aggressors must be
reinforced by the knowledge that Hitler’s
sudden blow against the Low Countries,
his overnight attack on Russia in 1941
and Japan’s strike at Pearl Harbor haven’t
taught the people of Western nations
very much.
Those who, like Wentworth, M.P. (a
man often ahead of his time in his think-
ing), believe that the point of world
explosion may be imminent are brushed
aside in the contemplation of such vital
matters as the prospects of Carioca for
the next race. But the fact remains that
there are on the Russian horizon today
signs and portents as revealing as the
sailing of the Japanese fleets towards
Malaya in 1941 and the passages which
were extracted from the broken Japanese
codes between July and December, 1941.
Yet they are publicly ignored by authority
while it wrangles in U.N.6. about
Korean peace.
The time is not far distant when Gov-
ernments of the West will be bound to tell
their peoples whether they believe war
is inevitable or not, or else advance the
negotiation for disarmament in a practical
way.
The concealment of such knowledge,
for military or diplomatic purposes, will
scarcely be permissible for long in the
present circumstances. Any Pearl Har-
bor of World War 111 will be on a scale
of Hiroshima magnified many times.
And the source of it, if the blow should
be struck at Australia as the world’s
most isolated and least defended atomic
base, can emanate from Communist-held
territory in China only eight hours by
air from Sydney.
Kahibah and Waverley
The results of the two N.S.W. by-elections
—■in Kahibah and Waverley—emphasise
die necessity for the Liberal party to get
its election machine into better shape.
One would have imagined that irk an
atmosphere in which “Labor” stays in
office in the State only by flouting every
tenet of responsible government, and in
which the smell that rises from Parliament
House cannot be confined, any “Labor”
candidate would have a rough handling
at an election.
In Kahibah the former member, a
Cabinet Minister, after having been ex-
posed in his associations with one of the
most impudent criminals unearthed in
N. S. Wales for years, was allowed to
resign from Parliament and to take with
him his ill-earned pension and his right
to use Government transport and the
club and privileges of Parliament House
free for life. It was about as cynical a
performance as has ever been made in
N. S. Wales, never famous for a high
standard of political ethics.
Then, when it came to filling the
vacancy, the A.L.P. and the Government,
impelled by some force not obvious on
the surface, accepted nomination of the
father of their unhappily retired col-
league, a man of 71 years who had the
open support not only of his unblushing
son, but of the Premier and members of
the Ministry, who seemed to be dragged
by some magnetic force to exhibit them-
selves on his platforms in Kahibah.
Yet over 4000 voters were found to
support official “Labor” in Kahibah, and
nearly 6000 votes went to T. Armstrong
(Ind. Labor), enough to win the election
with the help of the preferences of Aider-
man H. D. Quinlan (Lib.), a former Lord
Mayor of Newcastle and as fine a candi-
date as any electorate could hope for.
Thus all the shocking revelations which
have been made about “Labor” since the
general election—its associations with the
Vitnells and the Doyles, its transport
aebacle, its threat of compulsory unionism
and its running-away from an investiga-
tion of the Sydney City Council —have
brought no landslide against “Labor.”
That fact has to be faced.
And it is a disheartening fact, apart
from Kahibah’s result, that a capable,
educated candidate with a sound military
record who was put up by the Liberals
in Waverley against a political handy-man
actually polled (up to Monday) fewer
votes than he did at the general election,
even though the “Labor” majority fell by
over 3500. Obviously there was in
Waverley a body of “Labor” voters
which was prepared to risk prosecution
rather than support Cahill.
A Memory of Wren
“D. Empson”; In 1897, when barely 15,
I was permitted to lose an occasional
dearly-earned shilling to John Wren in
the Collingwood (Vic.) backyard where
he laid the foundation of an immense
fortune with a “bob tote” —this hideous
fortified establishment (fortified against
interference by the law), according to
the “Lone Hand” of 1907, being the centre
of “a stronghold of criminality.” In those
bitter ’nineties hundreds of other urchins,
more or less ragged, were accorded the
same privilege. Not all of us, as a conse-
quence, became loafers or criminals,
though I dare say many did; but if
every one of us had taken to crime, and
Wren knew it, he wouldn’t have cared
a jot.
I formed this opinion of him when 1
grew old enough to do some independent
thinking, and had it confirmed in a queer
way long afterwards, when I was helping
to run a Sunday paper in Perth. Some
pointed objections to Wren’s being allowed
to establish himself as a racecourse pro-
prietor in that city, as well as in Mel-
bourne and (I think) Brisbane, brought
him to the newspaper office with a
plausible remonstrance. It delighted me
to hold forth on my juvenile experiences
in his joint, and to tell him what I thought
of his having encouraged boys to bet and
pocketed their bits of coins. He didn’t
turn a hair.
Wren prided himself on having been
“Labor” all his days. The party has had
no more demoralising patron or influence.
Its Wren taint, strongly objected to as it
was by steadygoing Victorians, was a lead-
ing factor in keeping it out of office
for many years in the successful gambler’s
native State, and throughout Australia
it has had effects on “Labor” thinking
and practice which are enough to make
the Watsons and Fishers turn in their
graves. So we find a party still pledged
to public ownership busying itself, in its
State lotteries, with the production of a
breed of successful gamblers. And to
no slight extent because racing was
Wren’s business and principal recreation,
“Labor” has become racing-mad. It still
talks of “nationalising” this and that, but
never at any time has it proposed to
“nationalise” any of Wren’s ventures;
and if any member of it ever objected to
its subservience to Wren, his objection is
not on record.
In latter years Wren extended his opera-
tions to journalism, and obsequiousness
seems to have been part of his reward
even in that quarter. Witness the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph’s” biography of the
“Business Magnate” who “joined the
A.1.F.” (reckoned a good joke in 1915-16)
and “built round him a fabulous empire
of wealth and power.” The evil fount
and origin of the “empire” it didn’t once
mention.
Obscene Publications
It looks as if people will at last be able,
in the plainest and rudest terms, to tell
the politicians exactly what they think of
them under the new definition of “obscene
publications” proposed in N. S. Wales ;
for bona fide political, as well as pharma-
ceutical, medical, literary and artistic
works, according to the Sydney “Herald”
report, are to have a free go in
“obscenity.”
Whatever is the meaning of this extra-
ordinary increase in the liberty of the
subject, writers and artists should be well
pleased to be specifically exempt. If the
new definition goes through it looks as
if a We Were the Rats case, for example,
could now be fought on the question of
whether or not it is a work of literature
(as Mr. Glassop’s novel undoubtedly was),
not merely on whether or not it shocks a
sergeant of the Vice Squad.
Policemen, too, will be relieved from
the necessity of being personally shocked
on these occasions—a feat in which it has
always been difficult to believe. The
definition provides that an obscene publi-
cation is one which includes “any matter
tending to deprave or corrupt persons
whose minds are open to immoral influ-
ences, or emphasising matters of sex,
crimes of violence, horror, or gross
cruelty.”
Of course just about anything, even the
telephone-directory, could be prosecuted
under that definition. The daily news-
papers, pondering whether mere publica-
tion, with the proper sensational headlines,
constitutes “emphasis” may cock a wary
eye at it. But the legislation really seems
aimed at the flood of imported sex and
horror muck, frequently disguised as
“comics,” that decorates many Sydney
bookstalls; and a clean-up of that lot,
always exempting bona fide obscene poli-
tical comics, won’t do any harm.
Why Grasshoppers Grow
If the Federal Government gave Mr.
Cahill, the hhSiW. Premier, a million
pounds, the R.A.A.F. and its planes, and
the Army and Navy—as has been sug-
gested or demanded by Mr. Cahill and
sundry other people—it wouldn’t stop
the current grasshopper plague. Because
once the ’hoppers take to the wing it is
too late.
Grasshoppers of one kind and another
are always with us. The one which
causes trouble is the Australian plague-
locust. Jt, too, is always with us, and now
and then breaks out in plague proportions
and devastates the pastures. This season’s
plague, which swept from the Queens-
land border right down central inland
N.S.W. into Victoria, was treated by Press
and politicians as something new and un-
expected.
It wasn’t. Grasshopper plagues never
are. There is always plenty of evidence
a year or two ahead that a plague is
building up. This evidence is clear
enough, as any countryman knows, and
that is the time to tackle the ’hoppers.
To wait until they swarm and fly is as
useless as trying to stop a flood after the
dam bursts.
Some years ago somebody suggested
that ’hopper egg-beds should be located
and destroyed before the eggs hatched.
But he didn’t say how to locate them.
All the same, he went pretty close to the
answer—which is to attack them as soon
as they are hatched, and to attack as
urgently as we attack an outbreak of
pleuro or a bushfire. Especially before
the plague year comes along.
Pastures-protection boards (or, where
they don’t exist, some other local author-
ity) should be empowered to impose an
annual rate for ’hopper-destruction. When
a board thus established a fund estimated
to be sufficient, the rate could be sus-
pended. Every person, landholder or
not, should be taught to report at once
any unusual mass of young ’hoppers.
The board could then have C.5.1.R.0.
or Agricultural Department experts set
out at once for the suspected area, and
use its fund to supply the necessary men
and materials to localise and destroy the
’hoppers. There’d be plenty of volunteers
for the work, and if they got £lO a day
it would be cheap.
The whole Australian economy is based
on grass. It is our biggest crop. A big
grasshopper plague eats out millions of
acres, sometimes in autumn, sometimes in
spring, just when the grass is most needed.
Everybody knows how rabbits multiply
Not so many know that each single
female plague-locust can give a rabbit five
years start and overhaul it in one laying
effort. Myxomatosis has beaten rabbits
—so much so that what could have been
two drought winters in N.S.W. if rabbits
had been present with the dry weather
saw the plains well-grassed—but the
’hopper, though much easier to deal with
than the pre-myxo. rabbit plagues, con-
tinues.
And so it will be while Premiers and
Prime Ministers, and everybody else
for that matter, do nothing until the
plague year arrives and ’hoppers go on
the wing, and then begin calling each
other names and making vague threats.
More "Peace" in Korea
Proceedings on the Korean Peace Front
are calculated to produce despair among
those who had hopes that the new
Government of Russia might be ready to
enter into serious negotiations for world
peace.
The snags, as always, are in the prisoner-
of-war issue and the. clumsiness of United
States timing in diplomacy. Last week
European great Powers were tactfully
leading up to ground on which a con-
ference with the Kremlin authorities
might be held. On October 27 Russia
announced through its U.N.O. delegate
Vishinsky that it would agree to a high-
level conference suggested by Winston
Churchill on May 11, but would not agree
to the United States proposal that there
must be some preliminary proof of
Russia’s good intentions. Vishinsky said
that Russia would permit U.N. inspection-
teams inside Russia and would abide
by strict international controls of atomic-
and hydrogen-bomb weapons, but that
unconditional prohibition of these
weapons must precede controls, a pro-
ceeding which the Western Allies feel it
unsafe to agree to, since every major
agreement made by Russia since 1945 has
been cynically broken.
Whether the Russian statement has any-
thing behind it or whether it is merely
another red herring designed to draw
attention momentarily away from the
Korean situation only the next few weeks
can tell.
in Korea the peace conference which
was to open on October 28 has been post-
poned partly because the Communists
have turned the preparations into a propa-
ganda amplifier by demanding that such
neutrals as suit their book be admitted
to the peace-table, though they have had
no part in the war, and partly because
the North Korean prisoners-of-war have
AMPOL'S W.A. OIL
CHANCES—pages 15-17
declared that they will forcibly resist an
attempt to bring them under the pressur
or influence of Communist officers.
“Neutral” democrats from Czecho
Slovakia and Poland insist that th
prisoners should be compelled to com
before the Communists even if the leader
have to be shot by Indian guards t
assure it!
The Chinese p.-o.w. in Allied hands
have made the situation even worse b
refusing to return to their homeland whic
they supposedly left as volunteers to figl
against American aggression. And sti
another complication arises from th
timing of the sudden accusations o
torture and massacre of prisoners (no
doubt true), launched by the United State
Government against the Communists,
matter in which it has not taken U.N.O
into its confidence, so that up to the tim
this was written the Australian Govern
ment has failed to obtain information
about the Australians who were sup-
posedly included in the massacre.
It seems that Korea is likely to con
tinue a seat of war for a long time to
come. The longer peace is delayed the
better it suits Communist plans. Betweer
the peace-table and U.N.O. the Kremlii
has two propaganda points maintained for
it by its enemies. But the alternative to
peace in Korea must be obvious to all.
Hasty Pudding
With only a month to go before polling-
day in the triennial local-government
elections, N. S. Wales “Labor” Govern-
ment has forced upon the municipalities
and shire-councils sweeping changes
which are unsought and unwanted by the
vast majority of those engaged in the
conduct of municipal affairs. In Sydney
City Council all wards have been
abolished; the number of aldermen has
been reduced from 30 to 20 ; the electors
will vote as one electorate under propor-
tional-representation; the Lord Mayor
will be elected by popular vote on the
same day as the aldermen—not from
among the 20 aldermen. The ward sys-
tem will be retained elsewhere in the
State, but proportional-representation
will be used wherever three or more per-
sons are to be elected.
Speaking at the annual conference of
the Local Government Association last
week, Premier Cahill said these changes
were “necessary” if local government was
to keep pace with the times; he felt that
the change to proportional-representa-
tion would contribute to the prestige of
local government and help prevent the
good name of the association from being
lowered.
The delegates might well have
replied that it is rather hard to keep pace
with such moves as an alteration
of a voting system on the eve
of polling-day—in some cases nomina-
tions had already closed. They might
also have mentioned that in the field of
prestige and good names it was rather a
coincidence that p.r. would assist “Labor”
candidates in country areas (Lands
Minister Renshaw is the authority for
the statement), yet prestige and good
name seemed to be at lowest ebb in
some of the councils already “Labor”-
dominated under the old voting system.
Leichhardt Council has been suspended,
{Continued on next, pogej


Relief from COUT,
RHEUMATISM
and ether conditions which cause pain, swelling
and inflammation of the joints and limbs
Don’t be mistaken. Scientific research shows that pain, swelling or inflammation of
the joints and limbs, particularly the hands, elbows, knees and feet, are usually
the result of a ‘Gouty’ condition, and the only way to find relief is to correctly
treat the cause of this complaint. COLCHISONE is the only treatment of its kind
available in Australia; the only treatment containing Oolchicum, Guiacol and Apium
in a balanced formula, prepared specifically for that purpose. COLCHISONE
brings almost immediate relief from pain, reduces swelling and inflammation
and brings back complete freedom of movement. Get COLCHISONE
TODAY. There is NO substitute.
COLCHISONE
The pale blue GOUT & RHEUMATIC PILLS
FROM ALL CHEMISTS
p . # 17/6 Small Size
r,ce * 30/- Large Economy
If your chemist cannot supply, write to RICKARD MEDICAL.
PRODUCTS PTY. LTD., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
f
and there has been a persistent demand
for a royal commission on the Sydney
City Council.
There’s a glorious inconsistency in the
fact that Sydney’s Lord Mayor is now
to be chosen by popular vote, while all
other municipal heads in the State will
still be selected in the old-fashioned way
by their fellow-aldermen or -councillors.
Is it just a coincidence that two top-
rank “Labor” aldermen were hot rivals
for the Lord Mayor’s robes in Royal-
visit year?
Then there’s the ward system —hence-
forth out of date in Sydney but perfectly
up with the times everywhere else in New
South Wales. Its abolition in Sydney
has, of course, nothing to do with the fact
that most of the allegations of impro-
priety which have been made against
Sydney Council have centred around
wards which are “Labor” strongholds.
That’s just pure coincidence, as is the
State A.L.P. executive’s decision to cancel
the preselection-ballots which were to
have been held next Saturday and to
choose “Labor’s” City Council team
itself.
In the course of the debate on the
legislation to give effect to these changes.
Country-party leader Bruxner recalled
that he had been a member of a Govern-
ment “that removed a former Sydney
City Council from office and replaced it
by a commission, which was designed to
clean up the mess that existed.” Bruxner
suggested that the cleaning-up process
now needed beginning afresh.
It is clear from the hasty introduction
of this legislation and from the anomalies
and contradictions of its composition
that “Labor” partly agrees with Bruxner
and is either trying to clean-up under
cover of change or to change in order to
avoid the necessity of a clean-up.
POLITICAL POINTS
Anyone who doubts the ability of
“Labor” and capital to get on well
together should study the list of
mourners at millionaire John Wren’s
funeral.
• •
Campaigning in Kahibah a month ago,
Cahill pleaded with the followers of
“Labor” to remember that “the move-
ment is greater than the individual.”
From Saturday’s vote it seems that a
majority of those appealed to felt that
the portion of the movement led by
Cahill was not a bit greater than the indi-
vidual—they gave the two Independent
Labor candidates 2800 more votes than
were cast for Cahill’s Mr. Arthur, father
of the ex-Minister for Mines.
As a result, the new member for New-
castle, as forecast here last week, will be
T. Armstrong, former Lord Mayor of
Newcastle. On Monday the progress
count in the primary votes showed: Arm-
strong (Ind. Lab.), 5717 ; Quinlan (Lib.),
5129; Arthur (“Labor”), 4064;
Alexander (Ind. Lab.), 1110; Olive
(Com.), 445.
• •
In Waverley, “Labor” retained Clarrie
Martin’s seat, but with a much-reduced
majority. Last February the margin was
7750; this time the final figure will be
below 4000. Monday’s score; W. J.
Ferguson (“Labor”), 11,128 ; B. C. Doig
(Lib.), 6592; E. Maher (Com.), 529.
•' •
The Doyle-Arthur affair naturally had
a more direct bearing on Kahibah than
on Waverley, but the Government can-
. not take much more comfort from its
Iwin in the metropolitan seat than from
the defeat of its endorsed candidate on
the coalfield. The general laxity revealed
by the Doyle case, the unwholesome
atmosphere surrounding Cahill’s City
Council “reforms,” the flouting of Arbi-
tration Court judgments and the “Dog-
collar Act” with its compulsory unionism
were all factors influencing the drop in
“Labor’s” vote in Waverley.
• •
There are limits to what a politician can
stand. In the Victorian Assembly a
“Labor” member made reference to what
he styled “one of, those insensate, maniacal
attacks which we are now beginning to
expect from the honorable member for
Benambra, a graduate of Oxford and
Harvard” The honorable member for
Benambra (Mr. Mitchell) was on his feet
in a moment, demanding “a withdrawal
of the insult.” He was not a graduate of
Oxford, he pointed out. Cambridge was
his University.
• •
Thieves broke into the home of D. J.
Muir, Queensland Agent-General in
London, and got away with money and
jewellery. Had they come out to Queens-
land and broken into politics they could
have got away with anything.
• •
Having decided that £60,000 will cover
the cost of fighting grasshoppers on the
official level, the N. S. Wales Government
has come to light with half that amount
and is hammering at every door in Can-
berra trying to get Menzies to put up the
other half. Yet in the matter of the
quarterly adjustments the same Govern-
ment was prepared to go blithely ahead
and commit itself (or the taxpayers) to an
outlay of several hundred thousand
pounds which in the considered judgment
of the Arbitration Court was unnecessary
and uneconomic.
• •
It used to be said that John Dedman,
of pink-icing fame, killed Father Christ-
mas ; John Cain claims to have resurrected
the old gentleman. His actual words:
There has never been a Santa Clans in
this State for the children and mental
institutions. But this time they will have
one.
We can now expect tickets for the Vic-
torian Tatt.’s to be embellished with a
picture of Rudolph the Red-nosed Rein-
deer.
• •
Although Victorian housewives will
pay only 9d. a pint for milk during the
summer months their sisters in N. S.
Wales will continue to fork out ll£d.
Jackie Ferguson’s appointment as chair-
man of the Milk Board may have been
a very good thing for him, but all the
consumers seem to have got out of it
was a few fancy tops on their bottles at
Coronation-time.
A lot is being said by the butter
pressure-group about the so-called “threat
of margarine” to the butter industry,
which is trying to keep margarine out of
Australian homes. Among the silliest is
the one that coconut-oil (the base of
margarine) should not be allowed in from
Papua and New Guinea because of the
“threat to the livelihood of Australian
primary producers.” Aren’t plantation-
owners in Papua and N.G. Australian
primary producers?
• •
Without waiting for the impending
reshuffle of Federal electorates in Vic-
oria, made necessary by the uneven
growth of population, Cain is going
ahead with the two-for-one plan on the
basis of the present electorates. The
Electoral Commissioners have drawn up
their report and, unless varied by Parlia-
ment, it will come into force at the next
general election. That’s not due for two
years; what happens if the Federal
boundaries are redrawn before then
hasn’t been stated.
Under the new plan there will be 66
seats instead of 65; of these 36 are
metropolitan seats (including 3 on the
fringe) and 30 country. The discrepan-
cies in population of the Federal divi-
sions are reflected in the new State
electorates, so that rapidly-growing La
Trobe produces Scoresby with 31,234
electors and Dandenong with 30,239
while shrinking Hoddle yields Colling-
wood with only 16,836 and Carlton 19,222.
Most of the old seat-names have been
retained, particularly in the city, but
there are quite a number of new or
revived ones. Opposition-leader Bolte’s
Hampden has disappeared; so have
McDonald’s Shepparton and Hollway’s
newly-won Glen Iris.
• •
Cosgrove’s Government has unexpec-
tedly received a new lease of life. Inde-
pendent Wedd resigned in order to bring
about an election, it being thought that
on the recount of his preferences at the
1950 election as provided for under pro-
portional-representation a Liberal would
be elected, thus creating a deadlock. How-
ever, instead of going to a Liberal, the
seat went to another Independent, L. V.
McPartlan, who has said he will give
qualified support to “Labor.” So it
seems the election’s off.
THE SWINGING VOTE
Wedd is now an ex-M.L.A. without
having achieved the purpose for which
he resigned. As a private citizen he may
now reflect that if you want to do some-
thing it is better to go straight to it
instead of resorting to conscience-saving
formulas. If he really wanted to make
Cosgrove go to the people, the proper
thing to do was to help vote him out
of office, not leave it to someone else
to do so.
• •
How direct action can help to defeat
its own objects. * The Coal Industry
Tribunal, Mr. Gallagher, in hearing an
application for suspension of quarterly
adjustments in mining awards, said that
when some members of the Miners’ Fede-
ration heard of the application they went
on strike for the day;
Surely that is the strongest evidence
possible that they do not need an extra 3s.
a week. They were prepared to throw away
£3 to £6 a day by strike action.
Granting the application, he told the
miners they could improve their standards
considerably if they worked their full
award hours five days a week.
Queensland’s sugar-farms are expected
to yield just short of nine million tons of
cane this season. It’s a record crop,
and the Bureau of Sugar Experiments
says the sugar-content of the cane is much
higher than usual.
• •
Long-service leave for employees under
State awards became law m Victoria last
week, but it won’t apply until January 1,
1955, the Government having accepted
a Legislative Council amendment to this
effect moved by the Hollway Liberals.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
"COR a binge exotic and monumental
I doubt if there can be any-
where else in Australia to offer such possi-
bilities as Cooma (N.S.W.), centre of the
Snowy River scheme. There is, for in-
stance, Marsala All’ Uovo, a concoction
of egg and wine which, when I tasted it
long ago in New Zealand (of all places),
was like the opening of the gates of
heaven; there is Chateau Yquem, that
pure green-gold dew which I drank in
Sydney before the war when one could
afford to buy the glory of France. But
those are only two of the shining tempta-
tions lining the bar of the Alpine Hotel,
whose New Australian proprietor caters
for his New Australian customers with
slivovitz, kummel and vodka from
Czechoslovakia, with something called
Koningstufl Bernkasteller from Germany,
with chianti as well as marsala from Italy,
with Danish akquavit (an admirably fiery
potion for the snow-country), with Bols
and schnapps, of course, from Holland,
with Greek ouzo and Barbaresso’s three-
star Dionysus brandy from Piraeus . . .
I could go on, right round the United
Nations ; but words, I am afraid, eshcape
me. — “Mac Hoots.”
❖ *
“X.S.”: Forensic wit is usually at the
expense of some unfortunate prisoner or
witness, but not so this example. Judge
X, a very serious-minded Solon who is
regarded by his colleagues on the Bench
as being weak on legal learning, said
to convivially-minded Judge Y at a party:
“I’ve heard reports of very unjudicial
behavior on your part when off the
Bench.” The other came back, “And
I’ve heard reports of very unjudicial be-
havior on your part when on the Bench.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bombardier”: Our chaplain was flat-
tered when a distinguished brigadier came
along to read the lesson at church-parade,
but he seemed a little dismayed when the
old warrior quoted the reference not as
“chapter and verse,” but as “paragraph
and section.” My mate next to me
“Becks”: Apropos this business of
reproducing Stone Age animals by breed-
ing from stock showing traces of
primitive characteristics, “Peelis” (B.
28/10/’53) suggests that perhaps someone
may think of applying the same prin-
ciple to man. My Aunt Agatha, who
regards breeding as a primitive charac-
teristic anyway, asks isn’t that what we’re
doing already?
♦♦♦ ❖
“Uco”; Castlemaine (Vic.) may dis-
pute with Castlemaine (Ireland) the
honor of being the birthplace of the Wild
Colonial Boy, but there can be no argu-
ment that it was the Victorian town
which, when the Duke and Duchess of
York visited Australia in 1927, laid
down a red carpet for its mayor and
allowed royalty to walk in the dust. The
mayor’s name was Ireland, but that is
pure coincidence. Melbourne “Herald”
has resurrected the story and photo-
graphic evidence to prove it. The narrow
carpet was only wide enough for one,
so down it strode the mayor, the Duke
and Duchess on his left and right being
edged off on to the common sod. But
Castlemaine has vowed it won’t happen
again. Next year’s carpet is to be wide
enough to accommodate everyone.
❖ ❖ *t*
‘Tom”; Was it really a Tasmanian
editor who began an editorial “We warn
the Tsar of Russia” (B. 30/9/’53), or
has another injustice been done to Quid
Oireland? In Charles Graves’s Ireland
Revisited the editor of a now-defunct
Irish newspaper, the Skibbereen “Eagle,”
is credited with authorship of the famous
warning. Skibbereen is a small town in
County Cork.
♦♦♦
“Sam”: So the barbers think higher
prices for haircuts will offset unemploy-
ment (B. 21/10/’53)? A different policy
was followed by a firm of paint manu-
facturers when business fell off last year.
Far from seeking price-rises and putting
men off, the management decided to reduce
prices, engage several more travellers, and
start an intensive selling-drive. The lost
business has been more than recovered.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Yakipan”: Tell “Contact” (B.
7/10/’53) that, although the hara in
harakiri means “stomach,” the second
part of the word comes from the verb
kiru, “to cut.” Actually, the more polite
“You gave a splendid sarmon, brother—where 'd'ee gittun?”
term is seppuku. It means the same thing,
but hara is a trifle vulgar, somewhat
like belly, although when used normally
it becomes honorable and therefore
carries the prefix “O” ; O hara —“honor-
able stomach.” Kamikaze, “divine wind,”
was the typhoon that sprang up so for-
tuitously to sink the invasion-ships of
Kublai Khan as they were about to land
on the coast of Kyushu. A shrine was
erected on a sandy promontory projecting
from Fukuoka, the capital of Kyushu, on
which some of the survivors of the ill-
fated fleet landed, only to be massacred
by the waiting Japanese. Years ago I
lived within walking distance of this
shrine, which was still visited by pilgrims,
who gave thanks for the deliverance of
Japan from the invader.
“Craiser”; The exuberance of critics!
A Melbourne art critic who finds at least
one genius a week visited a show of
European poster “art” at Tye’s Gallery
and was struck all of a heap by a poster
advertising in French a celebrated moth-
ball preparation and depicting a moth-
eaten glove with a pink finger sticking
KtNUf
"I don't care HOW it is pronounced — We'll have some of it."
through it. After expatiating on the extra-
ordinary beauty of the composition and
the magnificence of the color, he con-
cluded “only a French artist could have
done it.” This drew from the Swiss
consul a tart rejoinder that the poster was
designed by a Swiss commercial-artist.
Still, nobody could blame the critic. If
the thing had had Picasso’s name written
on it the National Gallery would prob-
ably have bought it for 1000 guineas.
♦♦♦
“Doric”: It isn’t a recurring dream
and I’m quite sober when I see it, but it
has me completely mystified—a bus
periodically traversing Sydney, with a
destination marked “Lord Howe Island.”
❖ ♦> *
“Kelms”: Sorry, “Peter R.,” but the
contestants in that 1908 round-the-world
reliability trial didn’t cross the frozen
Bering Straits from Alaska to Siberia,
for the very good reason that the Straits
don’t freeze. Some of the leading cars
reached Alaska, and the laugh the locals
raised when they heard of the proposed
crossing was heard way back in New
York. Then the organisers redirected the
drivers tos a Pacific-coast port, whence
they were shipped across to Asia ; they
then pressed on to Russia and so to Paris.
The competitors faced considerable
danger from cold and wolves while cross-
ing the Siberian steppes, and they fre-
quently lost their way: But there was
friendliness in Russia then, and they never
lacked willing helpers. Things have since
changed, but at least one fact remains.
The Bering Straits still don’t freeze.
“Benbow”: Last word in cargo-ships,
the motor-vessel Windsor has arrived at
Townsville to lift 9000 tons of raw sugar
for the United Kingdom. A true tramp,
she has no regular schedule, but takes
whatever cargo is offering, for any port
in the world. Less than a year old, she
has been from England to Baltimore, on
to Japan and to India, and this will be
her first cargo for home. Owned by the
tramping firm of Watts, Watts, Ltd., the
Windsor has a single cabin for every
man in her crew, provides writing- and
recreation-rooms on a better scale than
most passenger-ships, with a crew’s cafe-
teria and all-electric galley. Her captain,
chief-officer and chief-engineer have each
a suite consisting of day-room, bedroom
and bathroom.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fobs”;- What’s all this impious non-
sense about some naval officers liking
publicity (B. 28/10/’53)? A week or so
back, in a wardroom off Woolloomooloo,
I ventured to make a similar suggestion.
“Good Heavens, no!” a junior-officer
said, removing his glass from his lips.
Another, more junior, was so moved he
almost choked. Which probably explain
the expression of horror frozen on the
faces of R.A.N. officers and their ladie
when caught for the society pages ol
the Sunday newspapers by the machina
tions of some (presumably) invisible
photographer. There’s just one thing
worries .me, though. Why on earth does
the Navy maintain a public relations
officer? Is it, perhaps, to keep news on
of the papers?
* ❖ *
“Bamekaw”: On my way to and from
work a poster issued by a temperance
organisation fronts me in the bus. It
shows a weak-chinned fellow going
cross-eyed trying to fix one orb on
foaming glass, and the other on the kid’s
money-box. A contorted grin on his
dial is supposed to show the mental con-
flict within. Now, it is a curious fact
that on pay-night, after a couple with
the boys, I gaze on the poster and think
what a fine warm-hearted cove he seems,
a good fellow to meet over a convivial
glass. But in the cold sober fight of the
next morning, when I travel to work with
the day stretching drearily ahead of me,
I think that I have never seen a more
repulsive specimen. His leer appears
positively diabolic.
❖ ❖
“O’Johnno”: Judging by the two new
3id. stamps put out to commemorate
“Tasmania’s Sesquicentenary” the P.M.G.
is now blending a bit of psychology with
a touch of Scotch canniness,. The stamps
carry the features of the first two
Governors who ruled simultanequsly in
Van Diemen’s Land —Lieut.-Col. David
Collins in the south and Lieut;-Col.
William Paterson in the north. To use
them as a couplet, many people are now
putting them on airmail letters instead of
the 6 id. stamp, which gives them added
interest to collectors and, incidentally,
means another halfpenny per letter added
to the revenue.
MUSIC WHILE THEY “LABOR”
“N. S. Wales Government proposes bring-
ing in a bill to compel 400,000 non-unionists
to join unions.”
In days of yore we went to war
As “Labor” sympathisers.
Then wormed our way to weekly pay
As union-organisers;
The funds were good as things then stood
To keep a man in rations.
But we need more bobs to make more
fobs
For our children and relations.
By stroke of pen, the “Labor” men
In Parliament’s communion
Can force you all to have recourse
To some or other union;
Four hundred thousand must kowtow' —
No doubt, to their advantage,
Their subs, impressed for the party chest
While we get our percentage.
It’s not as if, in many a tiff
And many bitter squabbles,
We’ve ever relaxed our savage attacks
On Hitler, Muss, and Goebbels ;
And if youtre wise, you’ll recognise
Our kindly efforts to serve you.
And join, join, join, and pay your coin —
Or we’ll be forced to starve you.
We hated the boss and caused him loss;
But don’t be broken-hearted;
We’r e very refined now our pockets are
lined —
Those days are long departed.
When we shook our fists at capitalists
We were only party-heelers,
But with fortunes made in the carcass-
trade
We’re all of us, now, big dealers.
As we deal with the lives of workers and
wives
Over our beers and toddies,
No cash can be earned or wheel be turned
Till we deliver the bodies ;
So let’s have a spree for the Land of the
Free,
And let your voice be raucous.
With a cheer and a snarl for honest Joe
Cahill
And his highly-collective caucus.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T>EST news to date with regard to
** the Royal visit is that the Collins-
street Committee for Royal Visit Decora-
tions has run short of money. Five-bob
a foot was levied on owners of build-
ings on that noble thoroughfare, but it
wasn’t enough, so the committee set out
to collect another £1 a head from tenants.
They expected £4OOO ; they got £ll3.
This sounds most unpatriotic, but the non-
payers probably remembered the ridicu-
lous lolly-sticks a previous committee put
up for a former visit and had no con-
fidence that the present committee would
do any better. The best thing to do with
Collins-street would be to leave it alone
so that her Majesty can see it. — “Melbn.”
“Soc.”: Current bill at the Orpheum,
North Sydney, “Brandy For the Parson,”
“Encore.” And now, brother, one for
the straight and narrow!
❖ ♦♦♦
“Bethune”: Whether it was a by-pro-
duct of the new management or a spill-
over from the old I know not, but Sydney
“Sun’s” headline on the Harpestad triple-
murder inquest struck me as being in par-
ticularly bad taste; I thought for a
“Even when he's off duty he's still drumming his fingers.”
moment I had been handed the wrong
paper when I read “Child’s Skullbone in
Murder Inquest.” The “Daily Mirror”
staggered under the blow, but the fol-
lowing day it won back the crown, its
poster reaching a new low with "Uni-
versity War Hero Guilty of Perversion.
♦> ❖ ♦♦♦
“Bo”: Each morning, at the same
station, I look steadily at her from my
usual train-window-seat. She invariably
returns my gaze —in fact, her eyes
follow mine as we brake slowly to the
stop. She has an expression which haunts,
baffles and fascinates me. It is at once
haughty, cold, even at times, I fancy,
slightly sneering; yet underneath it is
somehow the subtle suggestion that in
skilled masculine hands she might become
warm and vital. Her clothes are certainly
not u let mode, but she carries them with
quite an air. Yet what a blessed relief it is
to look at her there, posing on the poster
holding a tray from which some 18th-
century gallant has just taken a glass of
innocuous beverage, after the dozens of
damsels who gaze at me elsewhere along
the way, all wearing the same wide grin
and very little else as they advertise their
potions, pills and palliatives.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Muskeen”: Among those present at
a recent gruesome murder trial at Gee-
long (Vic.) were, according to the Press,
a number of “fashionably-dressed”
women. Now, what is remarkable about
that? Virtually every woman in Aus-
tralia, unless she is a lubra in Arnhem
Land or attending a fancy-dress ball, is
attired according to the prevailing fashion.
Had the gallery included a selection of
females wearing farthingales, wimples,
crinolines and Mother Hubbards, the fact
might have been worthy of comment.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Macann”: Whether or not “going to
go” is current American usage, the user
quoted by “P.0.M.C.” (B. 28 /10/ ’53)
was most likely not Eisenhower. By a
curious, well-established and quite attrac-
tive practice over there a President’s state-
ments to reporters at a Press conference
are never directly quoted unless the Presi-
dent expressly agrees to this or requests
it. Hence what “P.0.M.C.” quoted would
be a particular reporter’s paraphrase, not
Ike’s own words. Though it’s beside the
point, Ike is, as a matter of fact, a very
capable user of a strong, clear brand of
English, with a good weight of Anglo-
Saxon in it. Someone may know where
the “no-direct-quote” tradition stems
from; it has always struck me as a nice
touch of respect.
*2*
“Airs-crew”: My friend Eleanor would
certainly disagree with “Mullum’s” claim
(B. 7/10/’53) that airsickness does not
persist after landing. She boarded a
Dragon Rapide at Renmark in January,
’44, feeling perfectly well. A buffeting
flight to Adelaide changed her color to
correspond with the green summer frock
she wore. The airways bus drove her
home, and she spent the next four days
in bed. When she went back to work
it was a fortnight before she used the
office lift.
“B ” ; “Fino’s” mention of the one-
time illegality of Tatt.’s (B. 7/10/’53),
recalls an exasperated query one fre-
quently heard posed by the stamp-sellers
at Hobart’s G.P.O. “Why can’t you
Tatt.’s agents buy your stamps when we’re
not so busy?” Although mail addressed
to the big lottery would be refused,
postage-stamps were sold to Tatt’s reps,
regardless of any ethical aspect of the deal.
When Joe Lyons became P.M. the hole-
and-corner business ceased. Tatt.’s was
“officially” recognised, and from that time
recognised as —what it always had been —
a big source of postal revenue.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Tukang Kebun”: Words changing
their meaning? “Swelpme’s” par. (B.
7 /10/’53) reminded me that even stranger
things can happen to words, when several
languages are involved. Pushing a hand-
skip on Changi ’drome, I was greeted at
each derailment by a scream of “gostarn-
deno!” from the Nip in charge. This, I
assumed, was Japanese for reverse. Later
a rubber planter told me that “gostarn”
was a bazaar Malay word, derived from
the nautical English “go astern.” The
“deno” was apparently a form of Jap
imperative, apart from which the Japanese
was using a word of English origin to
English-speaking Australians without be-
ing understood.
* *l*
“Bass”: Dunno what becomes of
broken bottles ffe. 7/10/’53), but some
Westralian seaside authorities are sug-
gesting that their owners should be held
responsible for the damage they cause.
“I always get these dreams in ih' spring."
Ownership of bottles could be established
in most cases —it’s stamped or embossed
on them. If bottles aren’t sold with the
contents, but remain the property of the
contents’ vendors, then those vendors
have a responsibility to see that their
property isn’t left lying around. Legisla-
tion defining this responsibility could lead
to a lot of litigation, and it wouldn’t be
without precedent in the West. A marine-
dealer once sued some bottle-manufac-
turers or merchants who, he considered,
were restricting him in the legitimate
prosecution of his business. He lost the
case, appealed to the Privy Council, lost
there, too, and was left with a stack of
bottles he couldn’t dispose of. He solved
the problem by starting a brewery, and
died a rich man.
& &
“X.S.”: One would have expected
this way of asking for a beer to have
had its origin on the Melbourne water-
front. It may have, too; but I heard it
from the lips of a middle-aged matron in
a posh lounge in the city: “A big
wharfie —without a collar.”
❖ ♦>
“Cauboy”: Melbourne National
Theatre has prepared its schedule for its
1954 festival, which coincides with the
Royal visit. Drama will consist of
Shaw’s “Caesar and Cleopatra,” opera
will be “Tales of Hoffman,” “Hansel and
Gretel,” Menotti’s “Amhil” and “The
Consul,” “Madame Butterfly,” “Traviata”
and Australasian premieres of “Night
Visitors” and “Albert Herring”—also an
Offenbach operetta. If any of this pro-
gramme is designed to catch the Royal
eye it is to be hoped that it won’t be
presented in snippets as was proposed for
the visit which didn’t come off. Best
guarantee that the show will be worthy is
that Stefan Haag will be principal pro-
ducer. This young man, who originally
came to Melbourne with the Viennese
Boys’ Choir, has shown remarkable talent
as an actor and producer. Melbourne
soprano Marie Collier is a guarantee that
there will be some good singing.
* ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Women and machinery
(B. 14/10/’53)? My young nephew had
his adoration of his mother strained almost
to breaking-point the other day when
he learned that that good-woman actually
believed the engine-driver steered the
train!
♦5 * ❖
“An Chuidh”: More about the Mac-
Crimmons! Anyone in Skye will tell
you they gained their knowledge of music
from the fairies. It is said that Charles II
visited Skye and was welcomed by a pipe
band. All bowed at the appearance of
his Nibs except one man, and Charles
was told that yonder was MacCrimmon,
King of Pipers, who bowed to no man.
The King then permitted MacCrimmon
to kiss his hand, which inspired one of
the most beautiful pibrochs—“ The Kiss
of the King’s Hand.” Of about 300
pibrochs in existence most were com-
posed by the MacCrimmons, and upon
the extinction of their line the art of the
Piobaireachd was lost, but now with the
cultural renaissance of Scotland there is
a new College of Pipers in Glasgow and
new pibrochs are being composed. In
Skye they still maintain that it takes seven
generations to make a piper, and proudly
add, “The MacCrimmons were pipers for
ten generations.”
* * ❖
“Charley Mac”: Even Guy Fawkes
has been brought up to date. Last year
at a big bonfire up our way the organisers
featured a talking Guy that made appro-
priate comments as it burned. This year
they are going one better —a two-headed
talking Guy.
. *l* ❖ ❖
“L.R.M.”; In several years of teaching
young New Australians I have had very
little disciplinary trouble, so I was more
than a little surprised when young
Johannes, in hot pursuit of Tommy Smith,
momentarily broke stride to haul from his
sock a vicious-looking bowie-knife. My
surprise became alarm when his right
hand flew back past his ear with weapon
poised for throwing. Even then I could
scarcely believe my eyes as it whistled
through the air to strike Tommy fair be-
tween the shoulder-blades. Not Tommy,
but the knife, fell to the ground, and only
then did I realise that it was of soft
rubber. You can buy them in kids’ cow-
boy outfits,
“Sack”: Foul play cut short my career
as a roller-skater (B. 14/10/’53). Two
younger brothers were practising up and
down the sleep-out veranda, and I
allowed them to talk me into seeing
“how you go.” With unwonted servility
they fixed the skates on my feet and stood
back as I strove to rise. At the moment
I reached a teetering perpendicular a
broom, propelled by two charging youths,
took me in the middle of the back and
launched me like a rocket. Until that
day I would have scoffed at the submis-
sion that a man could run pp a wall and
shoot halfway across a ceiling. Unfor-
tunately my impetus ran out before I’d
completed the round trip, and gravity
took over again.
* * *
“Bloodnut”: The term “blue” as
applied to redheads (B. 7/10/’53) often
perplexes newcomers to this country. A
Scots friend of mine asked, “Why the
‘blue’?” and was told, “Because your
hair’s red.” The logic of this must have
exercised Jock’s reasoning-powers, for
later, when called upon to furnish his
description when filling-in a form, he
wrote “blue” for the color of his hair,
and opposite “Eyes” he put “red.” Fol-
lowing this line of thought I observed
him fingering the orange stem of a flower
and gazing out of the window at the
vivid green of the setting sun.
PARADOXES
The paterfamilias whose suit,
Of an age that is hard to compute.
With pronounced mirror-finish
And getting quite ihinnish
Oft suffers a spasm acute
As he ponders his male offspring who
Is resplendent in clobber all new;
Whose wardrobe extensive
Looks rather expensive —
All done on a third of his screw !
At soaking up suds Joe McGreer
Will never acknowledge a peer.
It takes him, he reckons.
No more than four seconds
To drain off a schooner of beer.
Yet, though you may think what a wiz •
Is that wide-open gullet of his,
Small pills have him thwarted.
In fact, much distorted
Becomes, when he tries ’em, his phiz.
Strong sobbing may well rack the frame
Of a he-man on hearing some dame.
In a celluloid opus
Intended to dope us,
In harrowing accents declaim.
Yet it’s much more than likely your guess
Will be right that he’d show no distress
If the woman he married
Was sad-eyed and harried —
He probably couldn’t care less.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Fly Faster by TAA pressurised CONVAIR-LINER
TO MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE (and on to Perth by DC4)
PERSONAL ITEMS
The British Ministry of Supply has
handed a hefty job to Enzedder Hector
D. McGregor, making him head of
guided weapons for all services. Lately
in command of No. 7 Group in Germany,
McGregor will be promoted from Air-
Commodore to Air-Vice-Marshal, and
will be responsible for the organising of
trials —firing from ships, from aircraft
and the ground—and will be in close touch
with what’s going on at Woomera.
• •
Into a two-dog townlet 100 miles west of
Port Augusta the other day walked wearily a
6ft. 3in., barrel-shouldered, bull-necked travel-
ler, dirty, unshaven and thirsty. He entered
the pub and called for a schooner. The publi-
can eyed him warily and with distaste; shoved
the beer across and growled, “There y’are.
Now drink it down an’ git outa here.” The
traveller drank, looked at the unfriendly dis-
penser, and answered: “What’s up with you?
I’ve got money to pay for it.” “Now look,”
snarled the genial host, “I don’t want no
trouble —drink it down an’ clear out. Don’t
want none of your kind bummin’ round here,
mate. Gwan, drink and git.”
Then the traveller drew himself up with a
deep breath and roared: “What, man,”
boomed the voice, which could have been
that of a British regimental sergeant-major—
and was —“would you turn out into the street
a man who, a few months back, was walking
beside the State Coach of the Queen of Eng-
land?” And so the publican met Harry
Edwards, Yeoman of the Guard, the Queen’s
personal bodyguard, first of his kind to visit
these parts, who had hitch-hiked from Perth
just looking the country over —21 days on the
GUARD OF THE QUEEN
road, in bed one night (at the suddenly hos-
pitable pub), the others spent under the ground-
sheet he’d carried in two wars.
The Yeomen of the Guard always number
100, are always commanded by a peer of the
realm (who holds office only so long as the
Government), and each member must be at
least 6ft., have been a w.-o. on discharge, been
decorated for bravery in the field, and served
21 years in the Army or Air Force —the Navy
is not entitled. Yeoman Edwards (North-
west Frontier, Gallipoli, France) also escorted
the State Coach of George VI, and attended
the lying-in-state of Queen Alexandra,
George V, George VI and Queen Mary. He’s
here to tell Australians the history of his
famous Guards, and arrived under no specific
auspices, unless they be the auspices of his
life-savings.
• •
Old Digger and Curator of the Perth
Museum, Ludwig Glauert is just back
from a busman’s holiday in London,
where he had been helping the South
Kensington Museum to identify specimens
of lizards and insects, collected by
Surgeon-Commander Wedd, of H.M.S.
Campania, from the Monte Bellos before
last year’s atomic business. The London
job finished, Glauert went to Germany
to have a look at snakes and lizards
sent to the Frankfurt Museum from the
Hermannsburg Mission in Centralia. A
slim and active 74, Glauert is a B.A. of
Sheffield University, joined the staff of
the Perth Museum in 1910, and, with the
exception of a couple of years overseas
with the First A.1.F., has been there
ever since. He was president of the
Westralian Royal Society in 1933 and
again in 1947.
A portent of the Cup was the arrival in
Melbourne of Pat Costello, the 67-year-
old Bananalander who employed the pros-
pector who found that fabulous El
Dorado, the Emperor, Dolphin and
Loloma goldmines in Fiji in 1932, of
which John Wren was one of the first
directors. The rich find had E. J. Theo-
dore as another interested spectator.
Costello likes to be known as the Playboy
of the Pacific, his intended play including
attending the Cup and also making notes
of the habits, customs and characteristics
of his fellow-Australians, which he
broadcasts over the air in breezy language
when he gets back to Fiji. Fie
has lived in Suva and on an island he
owns for 45 years.
• •
“Ek Bum’s” obituary - notice of a
wronged commander;
Air-Chief-Marshal Henry Robert (Moore)
Brooke-Popham—his birth-name was Brooke,
but the second barrel was assumed by the
family to mark its connection with a dis-
tinguished 18th-century naval officer —was
one of the most misused men of World War 11,
held up in the Australian daily Press in particu-
lar as a disastrous muddler, and as one of
those “Colonel Blimps” who sent the men of
the Eighth Division into captivity through
hopeless inefficiency. In plain fact he was an
exceedingly efficient technical soldier, originally
an officer of the Oxs and Bucks. Prior to War I
he joined the Royal Engineer Battalion of
the R.A.F., was flying by 1912 and came out
of War I Lieutenant-Colonel, R.F.C., with a
C. 8., C.M.G., D.S.O. and A.F.C. At 41 he
was Director of Research at the Air Ministry
and later became C.-in-C. of Britain’s Air
Defence in the middle ’thirties. It was during
his regime as Inspector-General of the R.A.F.
that the plans were made which put the
embryo Spitfire, Hurricane and Lancaster (or
its forerunner) on the drawing-boards so that
they were ready for the 1940 blitz. He had
actually retired in 1937 to take up the Governor-
ship of Kenya, and had held that post for over
two years, when he was pulled back into the
R.A.F. at 61 years old. A year later he took
over the Command-in-Chief in the Far East
at a time when it was considered that there
was little danger of the Pacific war. His
resources were in line with the assumption that
the area was non-belligerent. Brooke-Popham
was hampered throughout his proceedings by
strict instructions that war with Japan was
to be avoided at all costs. Even when large
Japanese convoys were discovered heading for
Malaya two days before Pearl Harbor he
was debarred from even threatening them.
Whereas his air conference at Singapore in
October, 1940, called for 582 aircraft to defend
the Far East, there were at Singapore when
war broke out in the East 24 Blenheims, four
Catalinas, two Hudsons and two Vildebeestes
and 12 R.A.A.F, Wirraways. Brooke-Popham
did his best and carried the baby during the
vituperative attacks on himself with the silent
dignity of the old-fashioned soldier. His
report, which vindicated him, issued at the
end of 1947, was a model of understatement.
He reverted to the Retired List in 1942 and
gave much of his time in later years to the
service of N.A.A.F.I.
• •
Creswick (Vic.), that hive of distin-
guished people, has a notable who seldom
gets a mention —Michael J. Carmody,
the hero who, at 5.30 a.m. on
December 12, 1882, when the Australasian
Mine was flooded, could, if he had liked,
have jumped into an upgomg cage with-
out getting his feet wet, but preferred
to run along the drive warning his com-
panions. As it was, 22 of them died;
Camody survived and is still to be seen
digging in the garden at Nazareth House,
Ballarat. He was 91 the other day.
• •
“P.0.M.C.”: I met my godfather, Pat
Hamilton Osborne (B. 21/10/’53), rarely,
but I remember our last meeting vividly.
In a signed letter which “S. M. Herald”
featured on its sporting page I had ques-
tioned the A.J.C.’s handling of the Oro-
Salamandei incident at Randwick some
years ago. Salamander, racing in the
Osborne livery, had got the race on protest
in circumstances which inspired argument
in racing circles for weeks afterwards.
Later, meeting P.H.O. in the A.J.C. office,
he roundly ticked me off, not for question-
ing any ruling of the club, but because,
unbeknown to me, my letter had been
generally taken as having been written
by an uncle, a member, who had been
broadly chaffed about it despite his denials
and presumably to Pat’s official em-
barrassment.
New Bishop of Melanesia Alfred
Thomas Hill (succeeding the Rt. Rev.
S. G. Caulton) went into the pulpit from
the bridge—Merchant Navy, commander
of a passenger-liner. Once ashore, he
put in five years with an East London
mission, followed by a term at Rotorua
(N.Z.) as assistant to Archdeacon
Hodgson. In 1938 he became headmaster
of the Boys’ High School at Pawa, in
the Solomons, from which job he goes
to the Melanesian post.
• •
“Spoke”: Dr. Lillian M. Gilbreth, the
distinguished American savant with 12
children who is now in Australia, was
the subject of that amusing picture
“Cheaper by the Dozen,” recently shown
here. Not the least amusing part about
it was that the film was written by one
of her children. It is said that mother
wasn’t particularly pleased about it.
• •
A graduate of Otago University,
formerly psychiatrist at Otago Hospital
(N.Z.), Dr. W K. Sinclair becomes chief
psychiatrist at the Anderson Hospital at
Houston, Texas (U.S.). With the job
goes the Professorship of Psychiatry at
the post-graduate school of medicine at
Texas University. While at the Royal
Cancer Hospital, London, Sinclair, now
29, built up a radio-isotope department
which gained international repute.
• •
C. Llewellyn Griffiths —“Griff” to all who
knew him —captured by Prior at the desk he
occupied for 25 years, and which he has just
vacated, had been writing for The Bulletin
from 1906 before S. H, Prior invited him to join
the “Australian Woman’s Mirror” in 1928.
Later Griff became its editor and recently
handed over to John Brennan. Both he and
Brennan wear beards, which puzzle, and some-
times startle, female visitors to the “Mirror.”
Griff was born 73 years ago at Kidderminster,
England, where they make carpets, and is of
Welsh descent on his mother’s side. Her family
is recorded in the Domesday Book and still
holds yeoman tenure in its 1087 Cotswold
terrain.
When he attained his majority Griff came
to Australia and did all sorts of bush work
in Victoria and N.S.W. After editing the
Kyneton “Independent” (Vic.), he went into a
business under his own management, but was
back on the Inky Way in 1914. He edited vari-
ous Melbourne suburban weeklies in the days
before the average suburban paper became a
throw-away advertising sheet, was associate-
editor of Melbourne “Punch,” and editor of
the Bundaberg “News-Mail.” All this time
he freelanced extensively ; at one time Griff
was writing for 30 papers.
No one ever saw him flustered or in a hurry
and he could work round the clock without
showing any sign of fatigue. He could squeeze
his small handwriting between the lines of the
most crammed manuscript, and he took a
delight in turning hopelessly dull contributions
into bright features. His memory was encyclo-
pedic. When it failed him he fell back on a
compendious index of his own devising which
consisted of millions (or so it seemed) minute
GRIFF OF THE “ MIRROR”
scraps of paper that filled the pigeonholes and
drawers of two roll-top desks. None of his
colleagues ever mastered its mysteries. He was
always “at home” to his contributors and was
literary godfather to many who later became
big names in journalism.
He has a strange mixture of outside activities.
He is an expert swimmer and a rifle- and
revolver-shot; interested in the theatre, histori-
cal study, comparative religions and Masonic
research. A non-Bohemian, he is idolised by
Sydney’s Bohemians, and can wear an inscribed
artist’s smock as a token of their affection.
Engineer in peace and war, John
Edward Parker takes on the dual post of
Assistant Director of Public Works and
chairman of Westralia’s Irrigation Com-
mission. A distinguished engineering
graduate of the Westralian University, at
present he’s principal construction-
engineer of the Perth Metropolitan Water
Supply. In the late scrap he commanded
a unit of the R.A. Engineers in New
Guinea and Borneo. President this year
of the Westralian Golf Association.
JOHN WREN,
when Low knew him
Harold Bartlett, principal agronomist
of the N.S.W. Agricultural Department,
goes partly out to grass after 35 years
with the department—Pitt, Son and
Badgery have got hold of him as agri-
cultural consultant. In War 11, State
controller, he had the say as to what
agricultural machinery went where.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 55, Kevin Leonard Ward
Q.C., president of the Law Society of South
Australia. In 1936 he appeared before the
Privy Council in the dried-fruits case; at 37
he was the youngest South Australian lawyer
to have pleaded in that chamber. Outside
interests took in chairmanship of directors ot
radio-station SDN and presidency of the State
Orchestral Association, Two of his six sons
are lawyers.
In Fremantle, at 53, Arie Hakkers, a Dutch-
man who had been in dredging work for 35
years. He came to Westralia last January to
supervise dredging for the Kwinana project
at Cockburn Sound.
In Kalgoorlie, Mrs. Elizabeth Jordan, one
of the earliest residents there, she having
arrived in the first train to run to the
Eastern Goldfields in 1896. Thirty years ago,
as one of the State’s first women J.P.S, she
became a foundation member of the Women
Justices’ Association, and often sat on the
bench of the Children’s Court.
In Melbourne, at 45, William Alfred Frank
Clarke, son of Sir Frank Clarke. A company-
director, he was vice-president of the South
Yarra branch of the Liberal party.
In Perth, at 56, Geoffrey Francis Keating,
one of the most colorful personalities of the
Perth Trades Hall, and one of the senior union
secretaries of Westralia. Born in County Cork,
he landed in Westralia on St. Patrick’s Day,
1918, joined the Government Railways almost
immediately, but soon left to become general
secretary of the W.A. Railway Employees’
Union. A rugged man of even temper, he was
a noted moderate who kept his union on the
rails in times of strife. Besides being a mem-
ber of the A.L.P. Disputes Committee for
years, he sat on the State Executive of . the
party. Three weeks before his final illness, he
returned from Tokyo, where he had attended
the Asian regional conference of the Inter-
national Labor Office.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Elsie Belle Champion,
who with her husband, H. H. Champion, was
prominent in literary and socialistic circles m
the ’nineties. They were friends of Bernard
Shaw, Galsworthy and Edward Carpenter, the
British reformer and poet, and pioneered from
the Booklovers’ Library in Collins-street the
sale of plays in book-form. In 1938 Mrs.
Champion joined the staff of Robertson and
Mullens.


CONTEMPORARY


ABORIGINALITIES
A PERTH daily, resurrecting the case
of the Supersonic Fly, has related
how a certain botfly can attain a speed
of 880 m.p.h. It can’t. No living thing
can conserve enough energy for speeds
of that nature, and it’s hard to know
how this yarn first started. It certainly
wasn’t by timing, because a Dr, Lang-
muir, who made a model of the fly, found
that when he moved it at measurable
speeds it became invisible at 64 m.p.h.
At speeds approaching that it would be
just a blur and would give the impression
of extreme speed. But there’s a way of
deciding what’s possible and what isn’t
in these matters. Speed requires energy,
and energy needs fuel. To move at
supersonic speed the fly would need to
consume one-and-a-half times its weight
of food per second in flight. That’s im-
possible. A reasonable estimate for the
botfly is about 40 m.p.h., much slower
than the dragonfly, which is without a
peer in the air. But it breathes 118 times
a minute and has breathing-tubes carrying
oxygen to all parts of its body.— “ Bass.”
* * * «
“Yapping Bushman”: My first impres-
sion of the toughness of the Merino (B.
21/10/’53) was in 1927 when trailing
north behind the Toorak maiden ewes
past Dalgonally and Sedan Dip to the
Gulf country. There had been over a
million jumbucks up that route before
us, and for three weeks our mob never
got a bite; yet they marched and camped
like a regiment. In the western N.S.W.
droughts we proved that so long as you
gave a Merino salt and water it took
six months to die. But the amazing thing
to me is the variety of diets these sheep
thrive on. Five to the acre on sub-
“You're aiming the wrong way, mug !”
clover, they fatten on every conceivable
grass and bush, and on spinifex that
wouldn’t feed a donkey. At Rambouillet
Chateau outside Paris last year X saw
the famous stud Merinos there (from
which most of ours are descended) living
year in and year out in a house —stall-
fed in mangers like horses!
“Mackville”: Years ago, before Sydney
Technological Museum was rechristened
“Museum of Applied Arts and Sciences,”
two pieces of interesting information were
neatly painted on a wall in the timbers
section: “The largest living tree in Aus-
tralia measures 26ft. in diameter 6ft.
above the ground. The largest American,
31ft.” Today nobody seems
to know where the Aus-
tralian giant grew, what
variety it was, or whether it
is still standing. The
American, of course, would
have been one of the re-
nowned redwoods, and if it
has succumbed to old age a
lesser compatriot could still
be holding the record.
Where the biggest tree in
Australia stands today
would be an interesting
quest. For the biggest in
N.Z. I’d look among the
kauri in Waipoua State
Forest, North Island, N.Z.
The kauri can grow to an
incredible size in height as
well as girth. Some 30-odd
years ago a surveyor re-
ported his discovery of a
kauri 66ft, in circumference
at the butt and almost as
thick at the first branch
100 ft. above. Experts esti-
mated the tree’s age was
1850 years. It was de-
stroyed by fire. There is
a startling lesson to be
learned in the fact that a
second’s carelessness can be
responsible for the killing of
something that has been
living nearly 2000 years.
♦ * *
“Saaedi”: Two pairs of
wattle-birds in succession
have nested this spring in
the big gum. From the
time hatching started in both
cases everything, regardless
of size or species, was
attacked. When they
handed-out heavy stoush to the curra-
wong and kookaburra I heartily
applauded, for these big fellows are sud-
den death on the babies. Some excuses
might be made for the wattle-birds’
harassing of the cuckoo-shrike, for,
though it might be harmless enough to
the nestlings, it has a sinister shape. But
I thought the fowl went over the odds
in pugnacity when a pair of beautiful
rosella parrots which had landed to sip
the honey from a near-by patch of gre-
villia were rushed squawking off the
premises.
* * * «
“H.C.8,”: At intervals of seven or
eight weeks we visit our N.S.W. south-
coast weekender, gener-
ally arriving around
nine o’clock at night.
Within five minutes a
scratching on the back*
door announces a
caller. He comes in, a
red - speckled Queens-
land heeler, wagging his
tail from the collar
down. Two or three
biscuits and a lump of
meat later he departs,
and we won’t see him
again over the whole
weekend. When he first
began to call we thought
him a stray, but in-
quiries established that
he lives at a dairyfarm
on the other side of the
hill about half a mile
away. He is certainly
well-fed, so his visits
must be purely of a
social nature. But how
he knows when we ar-
rive has caused a lot of
debate in our party.
One theory is that he
sees the light come to
the kitchen - window;
another, that voices
reach him on the still
night air. Myself, I
recall a dog in my youth who never
failed to yap excitedly fully ten minutes
before his master arrived home from
work. The man drove a tipdray, and
though scores of similar drays passed
along the road from the gravel-pits, the
dog never made a mistake. Neither was
his judgment upset when his boss bought
a new horse—he knew the clack of the
dray’s hubs. It’s my belief that our
canine caller knows the sound of our
ancient bus.
* * ♦ *
“Kros”: The reason why bodies, human
and animal, are sometimes completely
preserved in marshy soil is not because
of any particular preserving-agent in silt
and mud (B. 14/10/’53) but because often
the bacteria of decay can’t operate in
such conditions. (This is also why most
“You take the one on the left, Smith."
fossils are found in clayey ground which
is now set hard from its original silt.)
In their Science of Life H. G. Wells and
his son G.P. and Julian Huxley give this
bacteria-absence as the reason why “In-
sects have been caught and sealed and
preserved for countless years in the
fossilised resin we call amber. The bodies
of mammoths can be dug out of frozen
mud-cliffs in Siberia with the skin and
flesh still preserved.” Apropos, I don’t
think it is correct to use the word
“fossilise” for a man buried in a marsh
in 1885-86 whose body was dug up fully
preserved quite a few years later. A
“fossil.” according to Webster's, “is an
impression or trace (which includes foot-
prints or tracks) of an animal or plant
of past geological ages which has been
preserved in the earth’s crust.” The
body of a man who lived just over 50
years ago hardly fits this definition.
“An Chuidh”; Swamps and bogs are
great preservatives. The bogs of Ireland
and Scotland to this day yield well-
preserved articles ranging from ancient
kilts to butter. Garments hundreds of
years old are often found with the colors
as bright as the day they were lost. The
finding of butter is common owing to
the custom of preserving it in the bogs
for a few months —and forgetting or
losing it.
* * * *
“Nor-Co”: “Sackfair” (B. 7/10/’53)
may be assured it will take a lot of time
for paspalum to impoverish the N.S.W.
North Coast dairy-lands. The grass, which
came from Central America, was intro-
duced to Australia by the designer of
Melbourne’s public gardens, Baron von
Mueller, and was just what was wanted
in the humid conditions of the Richmond
River. The first plant was grown by
Edwin Seccombe, of Lismore, in 1891.
Two years earlier his brother John opened
the first North Coast butter-factory seven
miles from Lismore Paspalum was
nurtured carefully, with strips of flannel
operating syphon-fashion to drop water
on the root, for fear it wouldn’t grow!
Farmers from miles around watched a
root tended in Lismore council-chambers.
Today paspalum forms the basis of nearly
all pastures of that coastal belt,
which produces 40 p.c. of the State’s
butter. The pioneer butter-factory be-
came the big organisation now known as
Norco, whose newly-elected chairman of
directors is W. W. Seccombe, a son of
Edwin Seccombe and nephew of the man
who started the first factory. Since the
company started it has paid dairymen
£60,000,000 for cream and £6,000,000 for
pigs. Pasture-improvement is practised,
and new grasses are planted, but Paspalum
dilitatum was the answer to the pioneers’
belief that there was golden butter in
them thar hills.
* * * *
“Nimrod”; Not only the black-cocka-
too has a liking for bindi-eye (B.
30/9/’53). It is a common sight in the
Murchison (W.A.) to see flocks of galahs
feeding on patches of dry double-gee,
and an unforgettable picture they make
as they fly, when disturbed, into the
nearest tree. Soil the color of dried blood
and grey leaves of mulga make a perfect
foreground for these birds as they perch
on a dead limb, their pink breasts and
grey backs in vivid contrast to the back-
ground of the blue sky. What makes the
picture more memorable is the absolute
stillness of everything; not wind enough
to ruffle the tufts of grass, at the end of
summer as thin and withered-looking as
the beards of very old men.
* * ♦ ♦
“Kerba”: Pythons have never been seen
in this N.S.W. district, but at first glance
I thought the thick body writhing in the
long, dead grass belonged to something
of the sort. Staring down from a slight
mound I gradually obtained a partial
picture of what was happening below.
The squirming coils were really the thick
bodies of two whopper blue-tongues. A
pause in the threshing showed that the
lizards were locked together, the hind-
legs of both gripping the other’s body.
Suddenly a scaly head lifted above the
paspalum, the jaws smeared with pale-
looking blood. A rustling in the grass,
and the other lizard slid away, his length
confirming my guess that he would be the
biggest bluey I’d ever seen. Immediately
the other blue-tongue slipped through the
grass after the first one —and revealed
itself as the equal in size. Apparently I’d
blundered on the final rounds of the
heavyweight blue-tongue championship;
and, judging by the deliberate pursuit by
the grey-jawed one, it was going to end
in a knockout.
* ♦ * *
“Sackville”: The pea-pickers are going
over the crop on the hillside again.
They’ve had nearly a week of it. Only
a small patch, but what a crop it has
carried! Most of the pickers have been
knocking out their 14 bushels a day, at
least, and the two ringers tallied 20.
They get eight-bob a bushel. I can’t
recall what the rate was in ’33, but I
remember one disastrous crop which,
after nine hours’ work, rewarded me with
three and fourpence and the grandfather
of all backaches. I for one don’t be-
grudge the champions their transitory
prosperity of eight quid a day. At the
end of the day even the long-experienced
have to use a pocketknife-opening action
when coming to the perpendicular.
* * * *
“Broadway”: In a report on a ship-
ment of horses from Fremantle to Siam
a Perth daily said that they were griffins,
adding that racing griffins were 14.2
to 15.1 hands, clean-boned, and from
three to six years. A griffin, however,
isn’t a particular type or size of horse, in
the way that a pony or a Galloway is ; it’s
a member of a pool of horses used in
what is known as the griffin system. This
system operates in some of the Eastern
countries, from India to China, which
don’t breed horses; and it consists
basically of a pool of unraced horses
from which club-members draw mounts
to carry their colors. The members, often
Europeans, club together to buy the horses
and then ballot for them —a practice
which may be the origin of the expres-
sion “the straight griffin.” It also ex-
plains why the agent who selected the
horses in the draft from Fremantle held
rigidly to his specifications. He had to
get 250 horses as nearly as possible evenly
matched. Don’t know what club is
buying this consignment, but it must be
wealthy. This will be the costliest con-
signment of animals ever to leave W.A
THE TANK
The sky was clear, the day was hot,
Grey sweat was streaked on Jessie’s flank;
Vaporing, Spot’s flaccid tongue
Across has grin of white teeth hung;
We stopped beside the tank.
We stopped beside the iron tank;
Never were three throats as dry,
A trough for Jess, for Spot a tin,
The brackish nectar sizzled in
And lit each dust-dulled eye.
I’d always thought of Jess as horse.
And Spot as separate dog,
But as we sucked a common source
Of life to renew vital force
It seemed from out the fog
Of knowledge loomed a timeless dream
As sheaths of reason shrank;
I tossed a mane, I bent a paw,
We stood, three things by every law,
Yet I, the one mouth, drank.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


'T'HE instinct which speeds a joey to
the , safest place he knows in
danger is certainly strong (B. 7/10/’53).
Finding a little euro asleep under a bush
1 brought it home in the tucker-box.
Now, when dogs or other dangers threaten,
our little girl has only to pat the ground
and it will take a flying leap into her
outstretched “pinny.” Its convolutions
and grunts and growls getting settled are
always a delight.—“A.F.L.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: The old out-
back Chinese gardeners shone in ability
to grow a continuity of all vegetables
under conditions which would appal any-
one else. Twenty-odd years ago on the
rocklike, black-soil downs of western
Queensland one single Chow at the larger
homesteads used to grow, without recourse
to water-piping, machinery or artificial
fertilisers, all the vegetable needs for up
to 40 men on a station and the district
as well. The main fertiliser used was
dead sheep collected in a cart out on the
run. “Them days” you found the cheery
yellow men anywhere outback from Wil-
cannia—where they had the best garden
I ever saw—through to the far north-
west of W.A. Today the only “Chinese”
station gardener I know of is an Aus-
tralian-born ex-public-school boy.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”; I’m open to correction
by the Council, but isn’t “S.G.” (B.
21/10/’53) confusing his spiders? A
burrow in the ground would be the least
likely place to find a funnel-web. This
type prefers openings in weatherboards,
recesses under window-sills, undisturbed
corners in sheds and, sometimes, in empty
tins or old boots and other dry and dusty
places. In fact, the funnel-web is more
frequently encountered semi-indoors
than out in the open. Admittedly vicious
—it would sooner attack than retreat —
the spider I respect as the funnel-web is
black, whereas the trapdoor is brownish
or, perhaps, of a color which blends con-
veniently with his (or is it her?) earthy
surroundings.
i * ♦ * ♦
“Salmon Gums”; The big black spider
which made its home between the lining
and the weatherboards had a funnel-
shaped entrance to its web. During a
recent blowfly plague I amused myself
by tossing each one I swatted just inside
blackie’s front-door. As the fly hit the
web the spider would race out, throw a
coil or two around it, pummel it viciously
with its forelegs and sink the nippers in
where they’d do most good. Then it
would strike a pose like a Hollywooden
gladiator and withdraw. The blowflies
are scarcer now, but the other day a bee
found its way in and blundered into the
web entrance. Blackie rushed out, pre-
pared to snare it, balked, and retreated.
But he’d come too far and the bee struck.
An hour later blackie was dead.
* * * *
“Kelms”; There were some fatuous
statements published about our atom-
bomb explosions, but the bun goes
to the claim that, prior to the detonation,
it was ascertained ho living thing existed
within a 15-mile radius. You couldn’t
give a guarantee on that score about a
15yd. radius. The reporter who sent that
in may have tramped the desert, searching
assiduously, and failed to find any life;
but it’s there all right. One member of
the scientific mission was astounded at
the amount of life he saw, particularly
after the rain, when plants sprang from
seed, flowered, seeded and died, all within
a few weeks. In that time he collected
140 different plants, a few hundred insects,
ten kinds of lizards, a snake and a bird.
And where out there would you get away
from the flies?
* * ♦ ♦
“Jiramon”: “Bass” (B. 30/9/’53)
wall find grass-trees in Queensland grow-
ing faster than his one-inch-in-12-years
theory. Two here in this Boonah
district came up as seedlings in 1921.
In 1943 I measured them; the stems
alone were 22in. high. On reading
“Bass’s” par. I measured again. They
had increased in stem-height by another
25in. These grass-trees are growing on
deep red soil, average rainfall 50in. Yet
other clumps of them haven’t increased
in height for 50 years. Archie Meston
had some of the Boonah grass-trees
felled for use in his aboriginal arch in
Queen-street, Brisbane, for the welcome
to the Duke and Duchess of York 53
years ago.
* * * *
“C.R.D.”: Sniffed the Last Post: Spot,
foundation-member of the Train-spotters’
Club. Croydon (N.S.W.) overhead rail-
way-bridge knew him for years as a
smutty wire-hair who daily signed-on
at 6 a.m, to hound all steam-trains
passing beneath. He’d wait, prick-eared,
to catch the first rail-borne hum of an
approaching train, being never deluded
by electrics or diesels. Crouching with
head between the iron pickets, he’d gulp
and champ at the smoke and steam, then
wait, tail fluttering as the carriages roared
under. Sight and hearing seemed not
affected, and someone, each Sunday, re-
moved his outer layer of grime, but his
innards must have looked like a colliery-
winze at midnight. He signed-off every
day at 9.10 a.m. to flush cats and hoy-
yoy after bikes for the rest of the day.
Requiescat came after a cat-claw caused
the tyke-with-a-mission to cannon off a
plumber’s oil-drum brazier into the path
of a bike.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Fairf”: Along with wattle-gum as a
free bush sweet jvent “puddins,” tiny
buds that grew on thin, wiry stalks
amongst the grass in moist positions. A
pinkish flower was the indication that
the crop was nearly ripe. Since my
childhood addiction to them I have
directed many curses at them, however —
they are the green, embryo seeds of the
lawngrower’s nightmare, onion-grass. A
tastier and more sizeable titbit was the
“ground-berry.” It grew on gravelly
country that would support little else
except scraggy scrub and stunted blood-
wood and wild-apple trees. A small vine
that clung to the ground, it had no leaves
—merely soft green spikes that belied
their sharp appearance. The berry was
yellow-green, as big as a pea and had
one hard seed inside. Another religiously-
chewed fruit came from a weed-like
growth we called, rightly or wrongly, the
egg-plant. It was reputed to be a relative
of the tomato, although the tiny, black
berries it bore neither looked nor tasted
the least bit like the alleged relation.
Come to think of it, I can’t recall that
those berries had any taste at all! We
ate ’em because some other brave —or
brainless —kid claimed to have eaten
them and “They won’t hurt yer.” Mar-
vellous that the mortality amongst rural
schoolkids is so small!
SEAGULLS
Three seagulls overhead:
Three wishes in their stead —
One to he keen,
One to be strong,
One to be bold, to fend alone —
Three wishes in my head
Which are but birds instead.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
First Murray River Voyagers
By IAN MUDIE
DURING eighteen months spent by
me on research under a Comtnon-
-= wealth Literary Fund Fellowship,
which research led to the writing
of my Inland Steamboats (now being
pruned to publishable length), I checked
the facts of the report of the pioneering
voyage published in Albury “Mail” and
quoted in “Who First Sailed the Murray?”
(B. 7/10/ 53).
On his original voyage in the Lady
Augusta in 1853 Captain Francis Cadell
set out for “the village of Albury,” but
turned back from Gannawarra, Captain
William Richard Randell, who had pre-
ceded him on the Murray in the Mary
Ann, not only racing him up to that
point but going as high as Maiden’s Punt
(Moama). On one of the voyages made
in the following year Randell started for
Albury, but turned back, and a month
or so later Cadell got within twenty-two
miles of Albury but went no higher,
considering that he could not spare the
time to make his way through the “forest
of snags” which filled the course of the
river above his highest point.
In January, 1855, the Albury (a
larger vessel than the Lady Augusta, not
a smaller one, as quoted by “M.U.R.”)
arrived from Scotland in parts for Captain
Cadell’s company, and was put together
at Goolwa. On her being completed.
Captain George Bain Johnston (formerly
Johnstone) was , put in charge of her,
and on October 2, towing a single barge,
she completed the 1360-mile voyage to
Albury, “to the great delight of the in-
habitants of, that thriving district.” On
the fifth a banquet was held near the
Explorers’ Tree to honor the steamboat
skipper and his crew. It was hardly a
culinary success, A bullock which had
been spit-roasted turned out to be too
raw for more than a few charred pieces
of it to be eaten, and a tarpaulin-cooked
pudding was finally rolled into doughy
pieces with which the two hundred or so
banqueters pelted each other.
Next day Johnston returned the compli-
ment somewhat more handsomely. He
put three hundred Alburyites and a
German band aboard the Albury and
her barge, and, taking them upstream
some distance, treated them to a picnic,
at which “From the hilarious festivity, and
shouts of pleasant laughter, evidently
something stronger than the crystal waters
of the Murray had been partaken of.”
On the return to the township Johnston
was presented with an address and one
hundred sovereigns, with which latter he
later purchased himself “a valuable gold
chronometer and a piece of plate.”
“M.U.R.,” in suggesting that Cadell
received a cash prize from the South
Australian Government for the ascent of
the Murray to Albury, is, I think, repeat-
ing and amplifying an old error that has
been in existence since the publication of
Just’s Australia in 1859. The two £2OOO
bonuses were offered by the South Aus-
tralian Government for the first two iron
steamers of over forty horsepower and
with a draught of no more than two feet
to travel up the Murray from Goolwa
to the Darling Junction. Neither the
Mary Ann, the first steamboat to reach
the Junction, nor the Lady Augusta,
which was only a week or two behind
her, complied with the conditions, and
so neither was eligible for a bonus.
Cadell, however, had wisely made a
separate contract with tLe South Aus-
tralian Government, which brought him
and his partners an equivalent amount to
what they would have received had they
qualified for one of the bonuses. As
soon as the two pioneering steamers
returned from the voyages of August
and September, 1853 (Randell had made
a previous voyage, in March, going only
as high as Penses Reach), the bonus
offer was withdrawn.
Just, who seems to have been the first
to confuse Cadell’s private contract with
the bonus competition, naturally assumed
that the Lady Augusta complied with the
bonus conditions. He therefore referred
to her as an iron steamer, an error that
is still being repeated in print today. As
a matter of fact, the steamer was con-
structed of New Zealand pine and honey-
suckle. Today the only portion of her
hull that remains above mud and water
seems to be portion of her stemhead,
which is preserved in the Mechanics’
Institute at Echuca. The greater portion
of her hull lies under the point opposite
Echuca wharf, the point having built up
above the spot where —by then being
used as a barge—the hull was abandoned
in about 1871. (Nearly a thousand miles
downstream the hull of her old rival, the
Mary Ann, lies beneath the waters of
the Murray, a little way below the
Mannum punt.)
More misconceptions regarding Captain
Cadell, and pioneering voyages on the
inland: rivers are to be found in the
often-repeated statements that in 1856
he was the first skipper to take a steam-
boat to Gundagai, making the voyage in
the Gundagai, sister-ship to the Albury,
and that both this voyage and the one
he is wrongly said to have made to
Albury in 1855 were accomplished with
the help of the snag-boat Grappler. As
a matter of fact, the first steamboat to
enter the Murrumbidgee did so in 1857,
when Masson took the tiny Mosquito up
to Balranald on what was probably the
only voyage on which she went any
higher than Wellington, at the upper end
of Lake Alexandria.
Randell further pioneered the navi-
gation of the ’Bidgee in August, 1858,
when he reached Lang’s Crossing (Hay)
in the double-hulled Gemini. He was
closely followed by the Lady Augusta
and by the Albury, Cadell and Johnston
completing the run from Goolwa
to Gundagai in the Albury in September,
their voyage being the first time, and
one of the very few times, that paddles
were Heard so high up the ’Bidgee.
As for Cadell and Johnston being
helped on their pioneering voyages by
the Grappler, the truth is that when
Johnston made the initial voyage to
Albury the Grappler had not even been
built, and the unwieldy snagger never
went more than a few miles up the
’Bidgee, if that, and then not until later
than 1858.
However, who reached any particular
spot on the rivers first, or on what date,
is not vitally important. What should be
remembered is that it was only by the
foresight and endeavors of men such
as Randell, Cadell, Johnston and others,
in opening up inland navigation in Aus-
tralia, that life was made tolerable along
the rivers, and that settlement was allowed
to expand, and be consolidated, at a
tempo that has probably never been ex-
ceeded anywhere in the world.


PINFOLDS
★ ★ ★
BRANDY
PIS FOLDS
dfs
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, 0.P.0.), Sydney.
P. 3, P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
THE “WILD CAP'
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... && 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. .. 22/6
IXL - AJO
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
Fauces
soups
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Business Rollery Etc.
Market Slackness
TX7TTH the rights market for
Bank of New South Wales
and British Tobacco new shares
growing in activity, but with the
Commonwealth Loan success-
fully out of the way,, the rest of
the sharemarket remains weak,
on the whole, and good-quality
second-line shares are to be
bought to give higher immediate
yields, often with encouraging
prospects. Even B.H.P. has
drifted back to a 4 p.c. basis,
with Tooth showing 4.3 p.c. and
A.C.I. 4.1 p.c. Among the
second-line stocks, F. J. Walker
yields 5.6 p.c., John Mcllwraith
6 p.c., Bradford Cotton 5.7 p.c.,
Frederic Ash 5.6 p.c., Malcolm
Moore 9.1 p.c., M. B. John
6.6 p.c., Myer 5 p.c., David
Jones 5.4 p.c., Matthews
Thompson 6.2 p.c., R. B. Davies
6.6 p.c., and Email 4.4 p.c.
Among finance concerns, their
ord. shares are being bought
fairly freely to give yields rang-
ing from 4.8 p.c. in the case of
Industrial Acceptance Corpora-
tion and 6.6 p.c. Australian
Guarantee to 7.1 p.c. Mutual
Acceptance and 7.6 p.c. Mercan-
tile Credits. There is an increas-
ing interest in this type of stock
because of the comparatively
high yield offering, even though
prospects of capital apprecia-
tion may not be great and the
protection against inflation may
be nil. In view of the compara-
tive stability of costs and prices
at the present time the interest
in concerns making their profits
from the turning-over of money
is understandable. The older-
established finance concerns
have good div.-records, but for
long-term holding they are not
everybody’s cup of tea. Their
chief attraction is the present
income offering from them.
The most exciting develop-
ment on ’Change in recent
weeks has been the rise in
Ampol Exploration’s shilling-
paid shares to 165., with a later
understandable reaction. (See
page 17.) Ampol Petroleum
owns 2,800,000 fully-paid ss.
vendors’ shares in mis co.,
but he would be a foolish
man who put the prevailing
market-value of the Exploration
Co.’s shares on to the holding
possessed by the Petroleum Co.
In the mining sharemarket a
great deal depends on the sale-
ability of scrip, and the Petro-
leum co.’s holding is not for
market trading. Ampol Petro-
leum’s 2,800,000 shares at the
peak price of 16s. would be
apparently worth £2,240,000
(ignoring the greater paid-up
value), which, in its issued capi-
tal of 8,158,000 ss. shares, repre-
sents over ss, a share. Follow-
ing the extreme rise in the
Exploration Co.’s shares, the
Petroleum Co.’s scrip lifted
Is. Bd. (to 125.). It has main-
tained its dividend at the rate
of 10 p.c., which is earned from
the distribution of imported
petrol.
Bids for ’Wales rights have
sagged from an opening price
of £8 to £7 7s. 6d. (There is a
total of £27 10s. payable on
application and allotment.)
Tobaccos have dropped to
7s. 3d., making the paid-up price
325. 3d., compared with the
prevailing price of 325. 7d., for
the old fully-paids.
Retail stores have generally
been showing surprisingly good
results, representative cases
being David Jones in Sydney
and Myer’s in Melbourne, Tex-
tile cos., too, in many instances,
have done better than was ex-
pected, especially among rayon-
weavers and hosiery-manufac-
turers. Burlington Mills has re-
turned to the div.-list with a 6
p.c. distribution.
A Study in Costs
Imperial Chemical Industries
of Australia and New Zealand is
asking the Tariff Board to fix
a rate of protection of 95 per
cent, for alkali products (soda-
ash, etc.) and lesser rates for
ferric-chloride, zinc-chloride and
copper-oxychloride; but no in-
crease in present price is con-
templated or needed.
The request for 95 per cent,
protection is one of the largest
the board has ever had to inves-
tigate. But a serious drift in
1.C.1. costs, despite improved
efficiencies and duplicated
capacity, has taken place since
1947. That increased capacity
and efficiency has, in fact,
lowered basic costs is shown by
a comparison of labor costs with
the rise in the basic wage over
the same period. At Osborne
(S.A.), for example, where
capacity has been duplicated,
total labor costs per unit of out-
put increased by only 66 per
cent., whereas the basic wage
increased by 120 per pent, over
the same period.
The reasons for the disparity
in basic costs of alkalis made
in Australia and in the United
Kingdom are chiefly, according
to ICIANZ: '
(i) The size of manufacturing unit.
The total installed ammonia-soda
capacity in the United Kingdom
is about twenty times that of
Australia.
(ii) The high cost of salt —English
plants use crude brine prepared
in situ from rock-salt, and their
costs for crude brine are less
than one-tenth of those at
Osborne, where the salt has to
be got by solar evaporation.
(iii) The high cost of limestone—
English plants draw limestone
at about half the Australian cost
from their main quarry, which is
over ten times the size of the
ICIANZ quarry in South Aus-
tralia.
(iv) The long haulage of the product
to the customers —English cost
per ton of product for inland
freights is substantially lower
than the cost of moving alkalis
around the Australian coast:
e.g., inland freight from North-
wich to Liverpool is only 165.,
and Norlhwich to London 50s.
a ton, compared with the
weighted average cost in Austra-
lia of £6 ss. 6d. a ton.
Inter-State freight is now the
largest single factor in present
Australian costs for soda-ash.
Freight charges in Australia have
risen 212 per cent, since 1947.
At the time the plant-duplica-
tion at' Osborne was decided
upon in 1947 ICIANZ was
able to sell its whole Osborne
output competitive with import-
parity prices. Since then selling-
prices of alkalis in Australia have
moved only in accordance with
rising costs and after price-
control approval.
The estimate made in August,
1947, of extensions at Osborne
was £1,700,000. The actual cost
came to £3,422,000 —an increase
of 100 per cent. —due to inflat-
ing costs of labor and materials
during the period of construc-
tion. This excess cost, with its
higher depreciation charges, is
reflected in the increased produc-
tion costs. A higher return on
capital per ton of product to
cover the increase in the capital
investment is also logical.
The present price in Australia
for soda-ash is £35 a ton ; the
landed cost in Australia of this
U.K. product, based upon the
current domestic price in U.K.,
would be £2l 14s. lOd.
Transport Charges
At the annual meeting of H. B.
Smith, Ltd., in Melbourne, chair-
man H. B. Smith said that, as
a result of the Government
restrictions of road-transport,
the high cost of inter-State ship-
ping and rail-freights, the aver-
age cost of transporting wool
inter-State to the co.’s works
was about 525, a bale, against
ss. before the war. The cost of
shipping the scoured product to
Hong Kong, by contrast, was
625., to New Zealand 425., and
to London or Antwerp 795. 6d.
Without question the cost of
transport is one of the major
problems in Australian industry
today. And whilst cheaper and
speedier transport would have
a prompt effect in reducing
internal distribution costs —and
thus have a profound influence
on the cost of production of
many things State Govern-
ments continue to obstruct any
progress towards more efficient
transport by endeavoring to tax
private motor hauliers off the
roads. In N.S.W. the com-
pletely irresponsible attitude of
the State “Labor” Government
is shown by Premier Cahill’s
determination to pay the A.R.U.
an extra 3s. a week in spite of
the Federal Arbitration Court’s
“freezing” of the basic wage—
the “freezing” principle having
also been affirmed by the N.S.W.
Industrial Commission.
“Tatt/s” and Tax
When business and gambling
get mixed up together, the tax-
collector will not be far away,
as New Zealanders have found
since their Government sank its
scruples in October and decided
to collect 6d. tax on every
6s, 6d. “Tatt.’s” ticket sold in the
country.
Before the move, Prime Min-
ister Holland had a heart-to-
heart talk with Premier Cos-
grove, of Tasmania, which
ended with an arrangement for
Tasmania to collect the six-
pence—a simple and cosiess
procedure for N.Z, No estimate
of revenue was given out, but
the tax-haul would run well into
six figures yearly. Anything up
to a couple of million goes out
of N.Z. in a twelvemonth at
the present rate of purchase of
tickets, worth close on £40,000
a week, which could bring
in £150,000 a year for the
Treasury.
Lotteries are outside the law
in N.Z., and the Government
wouldn’t stoop to levying a tax
on “Tatt.’s” until the traffic
grew to a point where the
temptation to have a share in it
was too great. N.Z.’s nearest
approach to a lottery is its
monthly “art-union,” with
tickets at half-a-crown each for
prizes nominally in alluvial
gold. No One has yet seen any
gold, but the prizes are paid out
regularly in the currency of the
country. It’s splitting hairs to
pretend that the art-union, now
an established habit, is anything
but a State lottery.


THE WESTRALIAN SEARCH FOR OIL
By JOHN PAIN
'T'HE drilling to 3900 ft. of a
A major well in the search for
petroleum on Rough Range—
which covers a “structural high”
within the North-west Basin and
which lies south of Exmouth
Gulf in Western Australia—is a
matter of paramount interest to
the whole Commonwealth. That
the testing of what is, probably,
the most attractive potential oil-
structure on the mainland is in
the hands of a highly-qualified
and experienced staff, backed by
an organisation with a world-
wide record for successful
petroleum exploration and ex-
ploitation, is a matter for con-
gratulation for all concerned.
It was not until 1919 or 1922
(the date is uncertain) that
“colors” of oil were first ob-
served in a water-well in W.A.
This well was being sunk near
Christmas Creek, about 200
miles south-east from Derby,
The location was on a hill known
as “Rough Range,” but not to be
confused with that near Ex-
mouth Gulf. More important to
oil prospects, however, was the
discovery, in 1920, by Walter
Okes, of a basalt, impregnated
with viscous, asphaltic oil,
underlying fossiliferous Cam-
brian limestones, near the junc-
txon of the Ord and Negri Rivers
in the East Kimberleys. On the
strength of this find, Okes
drilled a well to a depth of
1196 ft, where basalt, without
any sign of oil, was encountered.
The Christmas Creek area, where
the oil “color” had been ob-
served, was tested by another
driller who sank three shallow
wells, all of which showed slight
traces oi petroleum but gave no
production.
The Freney Kimberley Oil
Co. was the next to drill south
° £ t ? e J F “S rO L R ‘J e / r AnXS ere -.l t
reached a depth of 2000 ft. with
a cable-tool outfit m 1923 and
recovered a few blobs of asphal-
1C material Freney then moved
to the Poole Range, about 100
"fu st, j an 4
drdled further tests the deepest
of which reached 3264 ft The
last well to be drilled by Freney
was at Nernma, where a depth
of 4271 ft. was attained in 1943,
using a Government-owned
rotary-rig. The work was sus-
pended by Commonwealth
order, but unsuccessful attempts
have since been made to deepen
the hole, and the site was for-
mally abandoned by the Bureau
of Mineral Resources this year.
With the exception ot Okes’s
well, south of Wyndham, the oil-
drilling to date in W.A. has
.
£K Sce D V a S Ten™!
countered throughout ayggre-
Ba » S al
°f th aS ’ d ° wev ! r ; covered most
S in im t e 92W Westralian
State. In 1922 a Westralian
Government geologist supervised
which oil “colors” had been re-
ported, and Freney Kimberley
investigated an area of 30 000
square miles in the West
Kimberley district. In 1924
Dr. Arthur Wade examined the
same area f °£ t^ d G ?J^ n^ e on t ’
and, in 1934 and 1936, con-
tinued his examination in more
detail for the Freney co., which,
however, relinquished its ex-
194 °’
over under exploratory permit,
by Caltex, which maintained
geological parties in the field
nntil 1943
In 1947 geological reconnais-
sance was 8 resumed over the
former Caltex permit, and up-
stream from Wyndham along
the (5d by the Bonaparte Gulf
Oil Co. which was under the
joint control of D’Arcy Ex-
nloration Vacuum and Zinc
Corporation. This co. employed
Dr Frank Reeves, with a staff
of Australian Federal and State
geologists. The survey was
equipped with aircraft for ob-
servation and photography, in
addition to ground parties, but
an unfavorable report was issued
in 1949 and the exploratory per-
mit was allowed to lapse.
In 1924, in the North-west
Basin, work was carried out by
F. G. Clapp, who mapped anti-
clinal folding in a thick sedi-
mentary series of Tertiary age
and issued reports on the oil
prospects of the area, favorable
as regards structural conditions,
but unfavorable with reference
to formational characteristics.
Clapp’s work was resumed and
extended in 1934 and 1935 by
Dale Condit for Oil Search, Ltd.
His party included both Ameri-
can and Australian geologists,
and, in general, confirmed Platt’s
opinion as to the structure, but
differed as to the formational
conditions, \yhich he viewed in
a more favorable light. Oil
Search activities were transferred
to Papua in 1938 without
accomplishing any drilling.
No further geological work
was done in the region until
1947, when Ampol (then the
Australian Motorists’ Petrol
Co.) invited F. A. Morgan, of
the Richfield Corporation, to in-
spect the area. Following a
quick examination, mostly from
the air, and a favorable report
on oil prospects, Morgan’s work
was continued by Dr. Mason
Hill and other Richfield geolo-
gists, including E. Craig. Craig’s
reports—his opinions were sup-
ported by statements from the
Bureau of Mineral Resources —
were described by Dr. Wade as
“highly optimistic,” but Rich-
field withdrew from the venture
in 1949.
Early in 1951, however,
Ampol, which had throughout
realised that adequate finance
and the highest technical skill
were essential to any hope of
success, and that these could
be satisfactorily provided only
by a major oil organisation,
approached the California Texas
Corp., which, after investigation
in the field, joined in.
By the end of 1951 Ampol
had acquired exploration rights
over an area of about 325,000
square miles covering the entire
Western Australian coastal areas
and offshore islands from Cape
Leeuwin (Lat. 34 °S. approx.) to
the northernmost point of the
State (Lat, 14°S. approx.) and
east to the Northern Territory
border. With the exception of
about 550 square miles, in the
Desert Basin held by Freney
Kimberley, the exploration rights
cover practically all the W.A.
sedimentary deposits. In this
strip the most important sections
from the oil point of view are
the North-west Basin (covering
around 45,000 square miles) and
the Fitzroy Basin, which is the
northern unit of the Desert
Basin with a total area of
approximately 130,000 square
miles.
The permits covering explora-
tory rights over the whole area
have been transferred to West
Australian Petroleum Pty., Ltd.
(W.A.P.E.T.), in which Ampol
interests hold 20 per cent, and
California Texas 80 per cent, of
the capital.
It would be difficult to
improve on the present
W.A.P.E.T. staff, whose senior
members have had world-wide
experience in the oil game. The
geophysical side is being cared
for by Seismograph Services,
Ltd., of London.
The type of equipment on
site has already proved satis-
factory on difficult locations
in other parts of the world, the
main unit consisting of a diesel-
powered National “130 rig de-
signed for 15,000 ft. and capable
of considerably exceeding that
figure. , , ,
The fact that the search for
oil is in such competent hands
is due, in large measure, to the
faith and persistence (call it
obstinacy if you will) of Ampol’s
managing - director, W. G.
Walkley.
WESTERN MINING CORPORATION
LIMITED
Registered Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne
Extracts from the Address of Mr. G. Lindesay Clark,
Chairman of Directors at the Annual Meeting of the Company,
held on 10th September, 1953
Our late Chairman held the view
that the gold miner should take every
opportunity of emphasising the use
of gold, as, with gold coins no longer
circulating in people’s hands, its real
functions are not generally under-
stood. Particularly is this so since, at
the present time, gold is not being
used to the best effect and, in the re-
sult, a most valuable factor in pro-
moting trade and sound currencies is
being stultified. It had, accordingly,
been his custom, at these Annual
Meetings, to refer to the function of
gold. With what advice I have been
able to get, I propose to follow his
example.
The subject can be introduced, as
well as in any other way, by trying to
answer a question put to me recently
in the following terms: “What is the
use of gold? You cannot make loco-
motives or build ships out of it!”
The answer, I venture to say, is
that if gold is used to the best advan-
tage the making of locomotives and
ships and most other things would
be greatly facilitated. The function
of gold rests in its universal accept-
ability and its suitability as money.
For centuries gold, has been the prin-
cipal medium of international settle-
ment.
A recent article entitled “Imbalance
of International Payments,” written
by Mr. R. F. Harrod, for the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, has been
drawn on freely in these notes. As
part of his survey he describes the
manner in which gold used to oper-
ate in the following terms:
“Under the forces of supply and
demand, gold came to have a cer-
tain value in relation to goods,
which enabled it to function
smoothly as a medium of reserve
and settlement. This value varied
somewhat from time to time under
the influence of new discoveries or
the exhaustion of existing sources.
If gold was becoming more abun-
dant and reserves accumulating, the
authorities felt able to have an easy
credit policy; this would tend to
make prices move upward and the
goods value of an ounce of gold
downward. Conversely, if on the
whole reserves were tight, a defla-
tionary policy would prevail, prices
would tend downward, and the
goods value of an ounce of gold
upward. Thus the goods value of
an ounce of gold, and thereby the
goods value of the world’s mone-
tary gold stock, tended to be ad-
justed upward or downward so as
to enable that monetary stock to do
the work required of it. This work
was to provide sufficient reserves,
by and large, to enable the authori-
ties to feel that they had enough
to cover normal expected fluctua-
tions in their balances. Individual
countries might always get into
trouble, but if the majority of
countries fell short, then the defla-
tionary process got to work and
adjusted the situation.”
Today, the price of gold has got
quite out of relation to that of goods
and the old automatic process des-
cribed above, whereby gold pro-
moted a balance between the various
national economies, has not been
permitted to operate. The conse-
quences on monetary gold stocks and
gold supply are shown in the follow-
ing figures; Professor Cassel had
estimated in the ’twenties, when
doubt arose about the adequacy of
gold supply, that monetary gold
stocks needed to rise at about 3 per
cent, per annum cumulatively to
maintain stable prices. In the period
1924 to 1929 gold stocks rose at the
rate of 2\ per cent, per annum, as
compared with 5.7 per cent., increase
in the volume of world trade while
the aggregate value rose only by 3.9
per cent. That is to say the new gold
supply, in consequence of the restora-
tion of the gold standard at the pre-
-1914-War gold price, had fallen be-
low that necessary to sustain prices
in the expanding economy. In 1924,
monetary gold supply amounted to
32 per cent, of the aggregate value of
annual world trade. In consequence
of the fall in value of goods in the
depression, monetary gold stocks, by
1933, had increased to 100 per cent,
of world trade and gold stocks out-
side the U.S. amounted to 60 per
cent, of the annual value of world
trade. From 1933 to 1938 gold stocks
increased by 6.3 per cent, per annum
cumulatively and the increment ot
gold supply alone was sufficient to
finance an annual increase of 6.3 per
cent, in world trade. By 1951, the
-picture had completely changed
and gold stocks outside the U.S.
amounted to 17 per cent, only of the
total export trade and from 1945 to
1951 the world monetary stocks in-
creased at the rate of 1.1 per cent,
per annum only. Mr. Harrod com-
ments as follows on this change:
“There were three causes of this
great change, of which the first
mentioned was also one cause of
the other two (1) By 1950-51, the
value of the dollar in terms of
goods entering international trade
had fallen to about four-ninths of
its 1937-38 value; but the dollar
price of gold remained the same.
Consequently, the goods value or
an ounce of gold had fallen t
about four-ninths. (2) By 1 -
the v ° ™° t L d - but sold
production outside the United
States and the U.S.S.R. had fallen
from U. 5.5928 million to U. 5.5762
million. (By contrast, between 1936
and 1940 the production of gold
rose by one-third.) (3) An amount
of gold equal to more than half
the gold output in the period
1946-51 ($2,667 million out of
$4,790 million) has gone into pn-
vate hoards.” ,
It has also been estimated that im-
mediately prior to the crisis of 1931
when monetary gpld stocks amounted
to about $l2 billion, of which about
$8 billion was held outside U.S.,
short term international credits
amounted to U.S.SIO billion, lire
recall of a proportion of these short
term credits threw very heavy strains
on the exchanges. To-day, the short
term international credits are esti-
mated to exceed 22 billion dollars,
and international monetary gold
stocks are about 34 billion dollars, of
which some 11 billion dollars are
held outside the U.S.A. In considera-
tion of the effects of the recall of
short term credits the reserves held
outside the United States are of tar
greater significance than the total
monetary reserves. It is therefore
easy to see that the recall of any
large portion of these credits would
again throw a very heavy strain on
the exchanges and the need to guard
against it is obvious.
Over the period during which these
movements took place the gold stan-
dard had been restored in 1925 at the
pre-1914 price of 84/- per ounce,
This price ignored the inflation re-
suiting from the 1914-18 War since
the amount of goods which an ounce
of gold could buy in 1924 had fallen
to 61 per cent, of the 1913 figure.
Whatever might have been the causes
°f the 1929-32 depression, the Note
of Dissent to the report of the Gol
Delegation of the League of Nations
of 1932 showed that, in the event, the
international gold stocks were inade-
quate to meet the pressure on them
at the beginning of the depression.
Following the collapse of 1931 a
gold exchange standard was gcaunj
ally established but was suspended m
1939 and still remains so.
In the ’thirties, the U.S.A. surplus
was met by the importation of gold
to U.S.A. which was much increased
by a great flow of capital from
Europe. In recent years, the surplus
in excess of gold importations has
been met through the generosity of
U.S.A. aid overseas.
T3., t 1,0,1 a, /iniior nf pold
rt Jn in td Srne nronorfion as worid
trade the annual value of newly
EsSSk
°L in V f n s riade is
there° any ’change comparable with
the change in |oid. This might be
put in other words by saying that
had the inflation been recognised by
revaluation of sold many of the
difficulties arising from the current
would dkarmear
imbalance would disappear
The world today is struggling with
serious disequilibria in balance ot
payments of various countries arising
from the inflationary courses of the
last decade. These have resulted in
import and other “beggar my neigh-
hour” policies of various sorts. The
statesmen of most nations wish to get
away from them. They recognise
that stability is essential to expansion
of multilateral trade and better living
standards but they are held up by the
spectre of the unemployment of the
’thirties. Whichever may, in fact, be
the greater evil, deflation is dreadea
far more widely than inflation. It
countries now subject to exchange
and other controls are not freed Irorn
this fear, there is little hope of their
being persuaded to give up those
controls, however hampering to trade,
Here, then, is the dilemma for the
non-dollar countries; they do not
want more inflation but if they are to
stabilise on a gold-dollar standard
at the present dollar price of gold
there would be no alternative to a
further depreciation of their curren-
cies, or a deflation of a magnitude
which makes them shrink from its
consequences.
The history of currencies shows
that a balance between inflation and
deflation has only been achieved by
a gold standard, in some form or
other, which introduces a means of
keeping in balance independent na-
tional economies. As compared with
the old standard a new gold system
has to cope with more rigid wage
structures and more limitations on
central bank action. To command
g enera l assent its impact on the
econ omy needs to be less drastic and
correcdve measures slower in opera-
Pon Relatively greater monetary
go i d s t oc ks will, therefore, be needed
80 that the run against gold from the
country concerned can be sustained
while the economy gradually re-
adjusts itself. An increase in the
price of gold is the only way that the
total value of monetary gold stocks
can be rapidly increased, since the
annual increment from newly mined
gold is far too small. An increase in
gold price of the order of the increase
va i ue Q f wor id trade would, by
tending to remove the current im-
balance in trade and providing
greater monetary gold stocks, give
the stability in which a new form of
gold standard could be introduced.
xhis, in other words, is return to
convertibility, and it is submitted that
a higher gold price is the only practi-
caj way j n w hi c h it can be brought
a sout in the foreseeable future,
Critics of a higher gold price, as, for
eX ample, those quoted in the National
Gity Bank of New York letter of
j anuar y ( 1953, although desiring to
bring about convertibility, claim that
increased gold price would only add
to t h e inflation. It is suggested, on
t he other hand, that unless the U.S.
Government itself chose to follow in-
plenary practices an increased gold
pr j ce j s the means whereby inflation
wou j c j be checked. Convertibility will
not be accepted until some way can
be found of removing the fear of
depression resulting from it and an
increased gold price is the means
whereby this can be done. With in-
creased gold price convertibility could
be accepted with some confidence
that it could be maintained. In such
an economic climate the solution of
the “real” problems, referred to in
the National City Bank letter, would
become more possible of attainment,
Reference may be made here to one
0 £ t he various objections raised
aga j nst increasing gold price. This
| s t h at an j ncrease j n g o ]d price
wou j d avowedly, initially at least,
mean m ore gold flowing into U.S.
and t bence to Fort Knox. If this is
a means Q f introducing a period of
stabilityj ma y not this be a necessary
sta g e t 0 pass through to reach a satis-
factory system of international trade?
jf t he volume of trade from U.S. is
b e maintained on present terms
which show a surplus on U.S. ac-
count, this surplus can only be met
by importation of gold, by gifts, or
by widespread investment of U.S.
dollars overseas. The only alternative
to the above is the deflation of prices
in the U.S. on a scale which many
people would think neither desirable
nor practicable. As affairs now stand,
investment outside U.S. is on far too
small a scale to meet the surplus due
grog.
r/j? £
oversea U.S. investment might de-
velop? Investment overseas seems to
mSf of dealtog w ah
™^f n h s le J„ws g to the
e^,^ rt J le . . ® r p T o„ nd : he
advantage both or the U.o. ana the
rest °f the world. Trade may not
always follow its present course and
asl /. S . irreplaceable resources, min-
erajs and suc jj kke, are depleted, the
|j ow Q f go ] d may j n the future swing
away f ro m U.S. While the United
states gold reserves may be regarded
as ac j e quate for present purposes any
additional reserves which might be
accum ulated would become a wel-
come added store of value should
t h e trend of gold turn away from the
United states. These are great affairs
w hich need to be regarded on a time
sca i e commensurate with their signi-
fjcance- An answer will not be
achieved jf t h e main objective is
c j OU( j ed by subordinate aims. Our
des j re to d o good, to direct trade into
S p ec j a | channels whether for our own
benefit or to aid someone we look
U p on as deserving, any fear of pos-
inflationary effects on the U.S.
economy, or any regard for the plight
t fie gold miner, must be secondary
considerations, however important
th seem. If? instea d of infla-
tj we t hink of its consequences,
political and otherwise, in the whit-
tl} doWn for many of lifetime sav-
• for old age . in the disorganisa-
tion of business and discontent
f o u oW j n g sharply rising prices: or,
instead of deflation we think of the
hardship of unemployment or bank-
ruptcies; or the burden on debtors
repaying loans in money worth per-
haps twice that in which the loan
was contracted; then the value of
gold in human terras becomes clear
and certain.


X
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland,
which of .ha« TRUSTEE SERVICES
Do you know that the Union Trustee Company can act for
you in any of these matters —providing expert and permanent
service by experienced officers, at moderate cost?
As EXECUTOR of your estate.
As EXECUTOR of a will where the executor appointed
declines to act.
As ADMINISTRATOR of an estate where there is no will.
As TRUSTEE in place of a trustee who desires, for health
or other reasons, to relinquish his trust.
As TRUSTEE under a Deed of Settlement.
As ATTORNEY or AGENT for the management of property.
As TRUSTEE for the holders of debentures.
Call and arrange for a confidential discussion of your personal
needs, with an officer of the Company—or write for your
copy of the Booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees;”
will meet your Personal Needs?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 188 S
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
DT U
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
nrHE Yarra Falls organisation is the
_ largest, and one of the most efficient,
in the Australian woollen and worsted
yarn-spinning and -weaving industry. It
consists of the parent co., whose big
mill at Abbotsford (Vic.) is assisted by
a branch factory at Dandenong (Vic.), and
two subsidiaries. Globe Worsted Mills
(which is a concern of comparable size at
Marrickville, N.S.W.), and Byfas Pty.,
which turns out silk, etc., dress-goods,
also at Abbotsford. Recent movements
in group earnings have been: —
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves, t
£, & £, £,
1948.. 295,362 17i p.c. = 175,000 120,862 745,818
To plant-replacement res., £48,532.. 702,281
To staff fund, £16,700 .. .. 685,581
1949.. 258,449 12} p.c. = 125,000 133,449 819,030
To plant-replacement res., £46,000 .. 773,030
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 748,030
19511. . 299,002 12}p.c. =* 125,000 174,002 922,032
To staff fund, £26,000 .. .. 896,032
Deferred tax, £1332 894,700
1951.. 313.251 12} p.c. = 200,000 113,251 1,007,951
To staff fund. £20,000 .. .. 987,951
Profit sale assets, £ll5B ~ .. 989,109
Tax arrears, £B5O .. .. .. 988,259
1952.. 73,012 8 p.c. = 160,000 901,271
Profit sale assets, £2133 .. .. 903,404
Tax overprovided, £65,000 .. .. 968,404
1963.. 240,891 8 p.c. = 160,000 80,8911,049,295
* After eliminating outside interests.
t Excluding replacement reserve, now £481,004.
Behind the impressive leap of £167,879
in the latest profit-figure lie the recovery
in wool prices and a marked revival in
demand during the second half of the
term, as well as the co.’s exceptional
strength, both financial and technical.
The post-war boom —and Yarra Falls’
earnings—reached a peak in 1951, and in
the following year’s readjustment the
textile industry, particularly the woollen
and worsted sections, was hit hard. After
deducting stock-losses caused by the col-
lapse in wool prices, Y.F.’s profit shrank
to £73,012, and the div, was cut from
12\ p.c. to 8 p.c.
Thanks to official controls, which cut
imports of woollen piece-goods from £3.3
million-worth in 1951-52 to £0.3 million
in 1952-53, a run-down in traders’ stocks,
and a return of confidence following
strengthening export income, demand
picked up after October, 1952, and the
group’s output and deliveries for the six
months to June, 1953, “considerably ex-
ceeded” those of the same period in 1952.
But export sales again fell away.
Group turnover was £475,284 better at
£4,830,018, though a change in fashion
meant that some stocks of outmoded
designs had to be marked-down to clear.
The amount charged on raw materials
account (£2,619,209. up £143,540) bene-
fited from the write-down in the previous
year and the subsequent recovery in wool
prices, wage costs (£1,245,061, up £51,232)
showed only a moderate increase, and
other exes, were held at or near the
previous year’s levels.
After charging £36,853 for depreciation
(up £3245), sending £11,449 to plant-
replacement reserve (up £2l), and putting
aside £172,085 at the old rates for the
taxgatherer (up £109,685), the net profit
claimed was £240,891. That was equal
to 12 p.c. on the £2,000,000 of paid-
up capital as against 3.6, 19.6, 29.9 and
25.8 p.c. back to 1949. Steady 8 p.c. div.
absorbed £160,000, and the £80,891 that
remained, plus £65,000 overprovided for
tax in past years and a small capital profit,
lifted reserves, excluding plant-replace-
ment, to £1,049,295.
Balance-sheet figures tell the same
cheerful story of higher output and sales.
There was a big rise of £348,109 in
debtors’ balances, stocks, in at cost or
under, were reduced by £207,172, the
overdraft by £75,604, and £166,233 was
added to the amounts coming to sundry
creditors;
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,981,378 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Outside interests.. 1,218 1,095 1,236
Replacement res. 456.430 469,573 481,004
Overdraft .. 779,773 826.789 751,135
Sundry creditors! 738,734 378,908 545,141
Staff funds .. 97,174 91,801 89,085
Final div. .. 150,000 80,000 80,000
Freeholds .. 496,401 522,461 548,125
Plant, etc. 667,164 664,862 742,141
Stocks .. .. 3,305,198 2,977,541 2,770,369
Debtors .. .. 697,053 431,543 779,652
Shares .. .. 60,122 67,774 55,747
Govt, bonds, etc. 85,336 85,209 100.861
t Including tax provision.
On fixed assets, £102,943 more was spent
than was written off, mainly on account
of the Dandenong factory, which is now
completed. The year’s improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£2,241,268)
was £56,649.
Prospects for a better showing at next
balance are bright: wool prices are more
stable than they have been for years,
retail sales are buoyant, and the mills
have enough orders in hand to keep them
busy for several months. The co. is well
equipped to meet local and overseas com-
petition in the Australian market, but
our dangerously-high cost structure will
probably prevent it from recapturing
much of its lost export business.
The market expresses its high opinion
of the co. by pricing its £1 shares at
415., to return only 3.9 p.c. on the
8 p.c. div., or 4.9 p.c. should the rate be
lifted to 10 p.c. Net assets cover, includ-
ing the replacement reserve, is 355. 4d.
Gadsen-Hughes, Ltd.
■pORMED in November, 1951, this
public co. took over the long-estab-
lished proprietary concerns of J. Gadsen
Pty., Ltd., and Richard Hughes Pty., Ltd.,
both engaged in N. S. Wales in the manu-
facture of metal and tinplate containers.
The vendors of 73,607 £1 ord. shares in
the Gadsen concern and 76,586 £1 ords.
in the Hughes co. between them received
2,200,000 10s. stock-units as consideration.
Net assets were valued, for the purposes
of the float, at £1,244,422, equal to 11s. 3d.
per share. Out of £1,100,000 of ord.
capital, the public was offered 441,666
10s. stock-units at 10s. 3d. per unit.
The prospectus put average annual
profits for the preceding seven years at
£73,647, equal to 6.7 p.c. p.a. on the new
paid-up capital. Though the co. was
floated at the tail-end of the 1951 boom,
its earnings have exceeded prospectus
estimates:
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f- — serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1952.. 106,231 7 p.c. = 77,000 29,231 158,651
Pre-acquisition taxes, £79 .. .. 158,572
Net reductions in reserves. £1052.. 157,620
1953.. 119,007 7 p.c. = 77,404 41,603 199,123
In respect of last year the board
briefly comments: “Operating economies
effected in the two subsidiary companies
have achieved a very satisfactory result,
in spite of a decline in turnover. Results
continue to be satisfactory, and your
directors look forward with confidence to
the year now current.”
Last year’s consolidated net figure
represented 10.7 p.c. on capital, compared
with 9.6 p.c. in the preceding term. Latest
earnings were arrived at after providing
£84,000 (down £42,027) for income-tax
and £81,109 (up £10,627) for depreciation.
Hie dividend was kept at 7 p.c., wholly
payable out of tax-free reserves. At
balance-day the remaining tax-free re-
serves (representing the residue of profits
earned prior to June, 1947) amounted to
£111,987, equal to 10 p.c. on capital—
enough to pay the present div.-rate tax-
free for about another 18 months.
In spite of more difficult trading condi-
tions, the management took a firm hold
of financial affairs and reduced stock-
values by £313,788 (to £595,769); the
result was general lightening of the out-
side debt and a trimming of the ship all
round: —
1952. 1953.
Capital .. .. .. £1,100,000 £1,111,535
Mortgage .. .. .. 97,500 95,000
Overdraft 295,057 79,029
Creditors 320,767 161,688
Tax provision .. . . 164,218 95,810
Final dxv. .. ~ 38,500 38,904
Minority shareholders .. 11,737
Freeholds .. .. 408,463 338,087
Plant, etc. .. 609,440 567.056
Stocks 909,557 595,769
Debtors .. .. .. 264,674 288,342
Cash, etc. .. ~ 4,286 1.885
The drop In freeholds (from £408,463
to £338,037) was mainly the result of a
sale of a property at a loss of £7400.
Against this there was an unexplained
increase in capital-profits reserve of
£6348. The loss on the sale of what looks
like about £70,000-worth of freehold
would suggest that the valuations for the
purpose of flotation were somewhere near
market-values then prevailing; there has
been a drop in real-estate values since
then, and a loss of about 10 p.c. is not
out of the way. Plant is being prudently
written-down.
The business is strongly entrenched,
and on the basis of the new flotation it
should shake down well in time. On the
new capitalisation reserves need building
up. Obviously large profits were earned
and ploughed back in the past (on the
basis of the original capital). For the
present the demand for tinplate con-
tainers should be fairly stable, without
showing a spectacular rise. The demand
for Australian canned foods, internally
and overseas, is not what it was, but new
products are calling for more packaging
every day.
The 10s. stock-units at 13s. yield 5.4 p.c,
on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
John McGrath industries, Ltd.
JOHN McGRATH, LTD., the original
J holding co. in this big motor-vehicle
distributing and engineering group, had
a paid capital of £225,000 at June 30,
1946; then the post-war inflationary
boom sent earnings along with a rush,
and the co. did a little inflating on its
own account. Cash issues totalling
£275,000 and a bonus issue of £250,000
lifted capital to £750,000, and in January,
1951, John McGrath Industries bought
the lot for £1,500,000 in its own scrip—•
in effect, a one-for-one bonus. The last
£500,000 of cash-paid capital was gathered
at par in March, 1952, to help finance the
new Melbourne offshoot. National Forge
Pty. Paid capital now stands at
£2,000,000, and has the support of
£496,423 in net reserves, of which £481,116
is represented by a write-up of freeholds
to 1950 replacement-values.
Here is a list of the principal operating
subsidiaries:
Australian Forge and Engineering Pty.,
Sydney. (Paid capital £350,000.) Austra-
lia’s biggest supplier of ferrous and' non-
ferrous forgings for the manufacture of
motor-vehicles, tractors, internal-combus-
tion engines, earlhmoving-equipment, air-
craft, etc. General Motors-Holden’s is
among this co.’s customers.
Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty.,
Sydney. (Paid capital £250,000). Distri-
butor for International industrial trac-
tors, and of earthmoving-, roadmaking-,
materials-handling, mining- and transporta-
tion-equipment, diesel-, kerosene- and
petrol-engines, cranes, power-shovels, wire-
ropes, etc.
John McGrath Motors (Pty.), Sydney.
(Paid capital £375,000.) Distributor in
N. S. Wales for Rootes Group vehicles—
Humber, Hillman, Commer, etc.
John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty., Bris-
bane. (Paid capital £200,000.) Rootes
Group distributors in Queensland.
National Forge Pty., Melbourne. (Paid
capital £500,000.) Supplier of ferrous and
non-ferrous forgings, primarily to the Vic-
torian automotive and aircraft industries.
This co. also turns out forgings for
Perkins (Aust.) Pty., Sydney and Bris-
bane. (Paid capital £200,000.) Steel and
machinery merchant; distributor of petrol-
and diesel-engines, power-shovels, air-
compressors, machine tools, generating-
sets, Diamond X trucks (N. S. Wales
only), etc.
Perkins Pty., Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart and Perth. (Paid capital £100,000.)
Same as Perkins (Aust.) Pty.
The organisation is extensively inter-
ested, directly and indirectly, in the auto-
motive, earthmoving-equipment, tractor
and aircraft industries, which helps ex-
plain the phenomenal growth of profits up
till 1951, and their abrupt contraction last
term;
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , —Dividends serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
John McGrath and Subsidiaries.
*47.. 25,245 9 p.c. = 28,027 2,218.. 217,250
Share premiums, £78,509 .. .. .. 295,769
’4B .. 47,413 12 p.c. = 88,684 8,729.. 804.488
From depreciation reserves, etc., £44,161 348,649
From share premiums, £8991 ~ .. 357,840
'49... 98,917 15 p.c. = 61,665 37,252.. 394,892
Share premiums, £89,375 434,267
Surplus revaluation assets, £373,365 .. 807,832
Unexplained addition res., £4353 .. 811,985
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. .. 561,985
’5O .. 268,666 8$ p.c. = 52,500 211,166.. 778,151
To tax reserves, £12,778 760,378
John McGrath Industries and Subsidiaries.
Reserves.!
Add net reserve adjustments on
reconstruction, £1,858,765 .. ~ 2,119,138
Reserves capitalised, £750,000 .. .. 1,369,188
’sl*. 851,722 10.1 p.c. *= 165,000 186,722 1,555,880
’52.. 849,014 8 „ ~ 133,333 215,681 1,771,641
Reserves added on purchase of outside
interests, £10,298 1,781,839
Unexplained additions, £8337 .. .. 1,790,170
’53.. 162,642 8 p.c. = 160,000 2,642 1,792,818
*l3 months, f Subject to Intangibles, £1,298,395
at 81/7/’53.
There was a slackening of activity
in the motor trade, in public works
and in outlay on capital goods generally.
The motor-distributing cos.’ earnings
were “greatly reduced,” and National
Forge made a loss of £43,659 in its first
and incomplete trading year. After charg-
ing £115,841 (up £41,925) for deprecia-
tion and something for tax, the board
wrote net earnings £186,372 lighter at
£162,642, equal to 8.1 p.c. on capital as
against 21.7 and 23.4 p.c. in the two pre-
ceding terms. So the bottom of the barrel
had to be scraped to pay an unchanged
8 p.c. div., which took all but £2642 of
the year’s profit.
During the year the co. reduced stocks
by £1,596,347 and book-debts by £339,003,
knocked £695,627 off the overdraft and
£584,936 off the amounts coming to
creditors, etc., and bought out £135,613
of minority interests:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Capital .. .. £1,500,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Outside interests 124,088 141,298 6,686
Overdraft . . 1,636,528 940.901
Creditors, etc.* . . 1,150,600 1,876,265 1,291,329
Inter-co. suspense 550,972 251,799
Final div. .. 90,000 88,833 100,000
Freeholds.. ~ 1,012,485 1,849.975 1,671,856
Plant .. .. 361,799 510,040 844.014
Stocks, etc. .. 1,772,400 8,220,574 1,624,227
Debtors .. .. 479,598 884,702 546.699
Shares .. ~ 2,000 509,250 8,000
Cash ~ 75,376 22,046 82,489
Inter-co. suspense 118,604
Intangibles .. 1,267,862 1,269,177 1,298,896
• Includes provision for taxation.
National Forge’s assets and liabilities
were incorporated in the balance-sheet for
the first time, which partly explains the
fall in shares (£506,250) and increases in
freeholds (£321,380) and in plant
(£333,974). A lot of the fresh expenditure
on fixed assets was also on account of
the new Forge co. At balance-date out-
siders had 18s. 9d. in the business for
every £ belonging to the shareholders.
Since the books were ruled off (most
of the subsidiaries balance at March 31)
car sales have moved up a little, and the
outlook for the engineering and capital-
equipment industries has brightened, too,
though competition is keen. National
Forge Pty. is now operating at a profit,
so an improved result for the current terra
seems a reasonable expectation. Noting
this, the market prices the ss. ords. at
65., to return 6.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is 6s. 3d. each.


FOR OVER
lOO*'
YEARS •
ILIJImL
Xmo^ l
When you give a
Lavina watch,
you, yourself, will U
always have the •
joy of knowing
that someone is
constantly re-
s minded of
you by a
thing of
beauty.
*
L WATCHES
17-Jswelled
Swiss Masterpieces
LW31.61.85
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT FCBUO
SCHOOE situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc..
“THIS
DUPLICATOR
Ha» all the finest features
cf high-priced Imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
■■National" Rotary Dupli
cator wt 11 reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Bmilt •mtirtlj t* AuMraha by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Pietributinp Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Neman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
FEKTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust)
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
literature
details and
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power. Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
end other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone; MX 2208.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANIUJN, uenerai ma
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Fudh ut the
Future
/■
flUS
Some months ago the head of the United Nations
Food and Agricultural Organisation (Mr. Norris E.
Dodd) set out to estimate the population of the world,
and found that it was increasing at the rate of 60,000
a day—about 22 million a year.
Give that a moment’s thought. Every hour that
passes on the face of the clock, 2500 lives are being
added to the number that rely on the materials ot
this earth for food, clothing and shelter.
Looking at it in a conjectural way, it is astonish-
ing. But let us heres, in Australia, view it more
positively, more realistically. How does it affect us
as holders of a food-producing continent?
It does touch us vitally, you know, not only
because of the actual increase in population, but
because the living standards of many countries have
been raised, since the last war, and this is adding
urgency to the demand for food.
Well, it means that the world will need every ton
of food Australia can produce in the years ahead. It
ensures that there can be no slump where markets
for primary production are concerned.
Australians should fix that thought firmly in their
minds, for it is on Confidence —Faith, I call it —that
our hopes of national development are founded.
The facts of the world food situation are so well
known that there is no necessity to labour them here.
The important thing is that Australia should act on
the knowledge.
It is one thing to admit the strength of the slogan
“Produce More Food.” It is quite another thing to
carry it through into action.
Before we can satisfy the demand, we have to
supply the water and the work-power to do the job;
see that the implements for production are delivered
in quantity create the transport facilities to bring the
food wealth out from the land. That is the task, and
we must not delay it.
The hour hands of the clock are turning—when
we work, when we rest, when we sleep. And in the
homes of hungry people across the sea babies are
being born.
Frederic Ash (Newcastle)
CONVERTED into a public
company in March, 1951,
after 96 years as a private con-
cern in the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
builders’- and plumbers’-supply
trade, Frederic Ash, Ltd., has
since paid shareholders 7s. a
share in dividends, and 7s. Bd. a
share has been added to the net
tangible backing of the scrip,
which at last balance amounted
to 365. per £1 share on book-
values. The scrip was placed at
375. 6d. At last week’s price of
445. 6d. the yield offering was
5.6 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis.
As the “Wild Cat” remarked last
year, it is a well-protected
income.
Last term net earnings were 26
p.c. on capital, compared with
25.3, 25.1 and 19.2 p.c. in the
three preceding years. Profits
recently have moved this way:,
To Re- Be-
Jne.,Profit. / serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
’5l. .67,946 15 =84,500 33,446 145,989
Net additions, £5471 .. •• 151,460
’52..68,192 12i = 33,750 34,442 185,902
Reserve reduction, £l5B ..185,744
’53..70,157 12* = 83.7501
Provision long-service [ 28,292 214,036
leave, £Bll5 ..J
Turnover increased 8 p.c. during
the term, notwithstanding “quiet-
ness” in the building trade.
Profit was arrived at after pro-
viding £50,935 for taxation
(compared with £56,000 in the
preceding year), and it appears
to be more than enough under
the new Budget scale. Deprecia-
tion provision was £2404 (against
£2381).
Expansion has been largely
financed by ploughed-back
profits. Premises in Newcastle
have grown over the years, and
in 1910 a branch was estab-
lished in Lismore. Another was
opened at Cessnock in 1924, a
third at Wollongong in 1928.
(This South Coast branch
promises to be a most important
adjunct.) A glass, shop-front
and glazing branch was set up
in Sydney in 1930. The co. has
a large interest (believed to be
a third) in R. S. Exton and Co.
Pty., The Valley, Brisbane, and
a “considerable financial in-
terest” in Vencore Veneers Pty,
(makers of patented coreboards)
and in Harlequin Products Co.,
manufacturers of disinfectants,
polishes, liquid-soaps, etc.
Frederic Ash itself makes sheet-
metal products for the building
trade.
Premises (excepting the Syd-
ney glass-store) are freehold.
Movements in fixed assets last
year were of a minor nature.
The most interesting movement
was in stocks; the board was
able to make a reduction of
£59,173 (to £261,293) in this item
and still show a record profit:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £270,000 £270,000 £270,000
Oreditore, ate, 79,406 210,695 126.925
Tax provis’n 80,000 50,515 54,000
Final div., etc. 27,000 20,250 28,365
Freeholds .. 139,179 144,271 147,660
Plant .. 22,663 23.488 21,251
Investments 69,190 69,190 69,191
Stock . . 224,942 320,466 261,293
Debtors . . 146.397 179,863 147,026
Loan to aubsld. , 46,796
Cash, etc. .. 83 84 110
The “shock” features of 1951-52
have now passed. With the
working-down of stock-values
the co. was able to reduce its
outside indebtedness (£126,925,
of which £51,016 is on over-
draft) by £83,770. Debtors
(£147,026) were brought down
by £32,837 to more normal pro-
portions, and the co. was able
to advance £46,796 to a sub-
sidiary, presumably the Veneer
Co., without straining anything.
The auditor reports that no pro-
vision has been made in the
accounts for profits of the sub-
sidiary company.
The current year has opened
well, and there are prospects of
higher earnings during the term.
Though the co. relies consider-
ably on surplus profits for in-
ternal finance, there are pros-
pects of restoration of the 15
p.c. div. within a reasonable
time. The new savings in
income-tax alone, on last year’s
profit basis, would amount to
over 4 p.c. on capital.
Uranium Mines, N.L.
H. J. C. Conolly, consulting
engineer, in his report on
Uranium Mines’s Edith River
(N.T.) option, says that the
property looks to be a rational
sort of prospect with a moderate
prize. There are radioactive
outcrops over an area of about
40 square miles, though surface
reactions are weak. But “it seems
reasonable that somewhere there
is a patch of good ore, and a
patch of good uranium-ore can
yield a surprising profit.”
Much depends on whether the
uranium has been fed in from
above, or whether there is an
enriched zone of secondary
minerals under the surface.
The co. has a number of N.T.
options, exercisable by February,
1955, and October, 1955. If they
are all taken up full considera-
tion payable is £49,200. Initial
investigations will be concen-
trated at Edith River (alongside
the road and railway, 180 miles
south of Darwin) and Ferguson
River, but “every opportunity
will be taken to obtain addi-
tional options as and when they
become available.”
A million ss. shares are being
offered to the public, payable
2s. on application, balance as
required. If one or more of the
options is exercised F. R. M,
Drummond has the right of
taking up 120,000 shares at par
for cash; if no options are
exercised but other areas are
worked, he may take up 25,000
shares. Mr. Drummond also gets
out-of-pocket expenses up to
£2OOO.
The prospectus is a frank,
matter-of-fact document, and
speaks in moderate language of
the whole speculative enterprise.
On the board are A. H. P.
Moline, F. B. Clapp, K. W.
Craig, F, R. M. Drummond and
H. W. Smith. The issue has
been underwritten by Wallace
H. Smith and Co., Melbourne,
and Charles A. Ord and Minnett
are the Sydney brokers.
Ampol Exploration
On October 27 it was an-
nounced by W.A. Petroleum
Pty., Ltd., that the oilwell which
the co. is drilling at Rough
Range, near Learmonth, on Ex-
mouth Gulf (W.A.), had reached
a depth of 3900 ft. The report
added that the hole is being
reamed to a diameter of 17£in.,
and 13fin. casing will be set
at the level drilled. Pro-
gress was to schedule, the co.
said, and geological formations
were what had been expected.
The drill was spudded-in early in
September.
Following the announcement,
which was quite matter-of-fact,
the ls,-paid ss. Ampol Explora-
tion shares streaked up to 16s.
from 9s. 9d. on the morning of
the 27th. It has certainly been
a case where shareholders have
not had to wait long before
getting a run (on the share-
market) for their money. But
any proof of commercial oil has
yet to be produced.
Ampol Exploration, Ltd.,
holds a one-fifth interest in the
A shares of West Australian
Petroleum Pty. The other four-
fifths are held by the California
Texas Corporation. Up to
January 31, 1953, there had been
an outlay of £1,227,227 by W.A.
Petroleum. Expenditure for the
current calendar year is esti-
mated at £675,000, including
£450,000 for drilling.
With an issued capital of
4,000,000 ss. shares, of which
2,800,000 vendors’ shares (issued
to Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.), are
fully-paid, and the remainder
(the kind currently dealt with on
’Change) paid to a shilling,
Ampol is capitalised in a fashion
by which a rise of a shilling or
two a share puts a huge valua-
tion on the W.A. oil-prospect-
ing venture. Ampol’s four mil-
lion shares represent a one-fifth
interest; W.A. Petroleum’s capi-
tal may, for market purposes, be
treated as being worth approxi-
mately five times that of Ampol.
(There are B shares also in
W.A. Petroleum, but at present
they have no right to participate
in profits.) At last week’s price
of 16s. for Ampol’s shilling
shares its equity in W.A.
Petroleum had a present (and
temporary —there was soon a
market reaction) market-value
of over £3,200,000. On the same
basis the value of the whole
undertaking became about £l6
million. Even if oil were struck
in commercial quantities there is
a limit to the capital-apprecia-
tion which one might expect. At
16s, for a shilling-paid share the
speculator with a calculating
mind, even if he possessed little
knowledge of the oil game,
could be excused for taking his
profit and being completely satis-
fied about it.
The area in which-operations
are being carried out is neverthe-
less an attractive potential oil-
structure by Australian
standards, and the organisation
exploring it is thoroughly ex-
perienced and competent.
Uranium Ore
“P. Mobile”: Apart from the
intrinsic value of the pure sub-
stance sought, the value of any
ore depends not only on the per-
centage of the substance but also
on the cost of concentrating the
ore to the point at which trans-
port is economical. On top of
this is the cost of subsequent
treatment, and this will vary ac-
cording to the amount of con-
centration and the physical and
chemical characteristics of the
concentrate.
It is not surprising, therefore,
that die statements as to the
price received for the ore (B.
28/10/’53) have been vague,
quite apart from “security” con-
siderations.
Radium Hill (S.A.) is in a
much better position than Rum
Jungle (N.T.) to estimate the
commercial value of its de-
posits, as the former took the
trouble to find out whether the
ore was treatable commercially
before seeking Press publicity.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE.
The R.A.A.F. Headquarters Officers’
Mess, under the presidency of Air-Vice-
Marshal V. Hancock, held its annual ball
at the St. Kilda Town Hall, which was
decorated with model aircraft and balloons
in the R.A.A.F.’s colors. With his wife.
Air-Vice-Marshal Hancock received the
large official party. Mrs. Hancock’s slim-
fitting gown of midnight-blue satin was
worn with a strawberry-pink tulle stole.
With Air-Marshal Sir George Jones was
Lady Jones, who wore a gown of wheat-
gold satin. Lady Hardman, wife of Air-
Marshal Sir Donald Hardman, wore mid-
night-blue satins. Air-Vice-Marshal and
Mrs. E. C. Wackett were there, she in
white chiffon which had black leaves on
bodice and skirt. Mrs. Williams, wife
of Air-Marshal R. Williams, added a
matching jacket to her pearl-grey satin
brocade frock.
Seen among the dancers were Mrs. J.
Alexander, whose black chiffons were
patterned in gold-leaf ; Mrs. Ken Cole,
who bared one shoulder in her gown of
black crepe; Judy Lancet, whose gown
was a sheath of gold satin; Mrs. C. T.
Hannah, her jade-green satins embroidered
in green-and-gold sequins; and Mrs.
A. M. Murdoch, who wore pale-blue
nylon tulle.
☆ ☆ ☆
Most of the gowns shown at the parade
of Charlotte Fifth Avenue Gowns at
Scott’s Hotel were wide-skirted.
Fashioned of French-net, satin, brocade,
organza, nylon-net, nylon-organza,
broderie Anglaise, guipure lace and satin,
they were embroidered with rhinestones,
sequins and diamente. Some in pastel
tulles were finished with velvet ribbon,
flowers or lace-motifs. Emphasis was on
muted shades: soft-greys, gold, yellow,
tan and brown, shot-pink with a silver
sheen, old-rose and mauve.
White was especially favored. One
lovely ball-gown of white French-net
had satin handmade flowers and leaves
scattered over bodice, skirt and matching
stole. Another had a bouffant skirt of
white organza and a strapless bodice of
guipure lace, each flower in the lace-
pattern centred with a tiny rhinestone. A
deep-mauve satin gown had an unusual
skirt of self stripes made by alternating
bands of the reverse side of the crepe-
back satin.
☆ ☆ ☆
tt Stars from the “Call Me Madam” and
“Reluctant Heroes” companies were at
the dinner and supper-dance organised
for St. Vincent’s Hospital and held at
Giro’s. The four organisers were Mrs.
M. Stirling, whose gown of ice-blue
slipper-satin had pearl embroideries on
the bodice ; Mrs. Alex. Holzer, who chose
a black nylon ballerina frock ; Mrs. Leiie
Potter, whose choice was strapless floral
nylon; and Mrs. Mary Heeney, whose
grey satin dinner-gown featured a full-
pleated skirt. During the evening Sister
Carmel Holzer, of St. Vincent’s Hospital,
announced her engagement to John Ryan,
of Kew. Mrs. Henri Armatruda, wearing
pale-green French brocades, brought a
party which included Lady Chapell,
whose sheath gown was of white beaded
crepe, Mary Paterson, in a junior-blue
French crepe frock studded with silver
beads, and Mr. and Mrs. Des Alexander.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some very original flower-arrangements
were shown by almost 50 well-known
hostesses at the Toorak home of Mrs,
H. R. Creswick in aid of the Free Kinder-
garten organisation. Mrs. Gregory Blax-
land, of Sydney, arranged a bowl in
which she used lily-of-the-valley, butter-
cups, red and pink roses, gardenias and
sweet-peas. Artist Phyl Waterhouse
arranged pink, white and mauve spring
flowers in a silver bowl, and Mrs. Sam
Wood showed what could be done with
tawny-toned grasses, dried zinnias, carna-
tions, autumn-tinted leaves and little tinted
bells and balls.
Mrs. Harold Holt opened the display
wearing an evening-gown of white poult,
the bodice of which was of white lace
and net sprinkled with diamente. Mrs.
Creswick’s short evening-frock of cham-
pagne Chantilly lace had the bodice
finished with a deep collar of matching
pleated tulle. Mrs. Ronald Marriott,
whose bowl of roses was greatly admired,
was ticket-secretary; her ankle-length
frock was of lilac lace. Seen admiring
the exhibits were Lady Clarke, Mrs. F. H.
Wright, Mrs, Norman Wettenhall, Lady
Murdoch, Mrs. Gladys Myer, her
daughter Mrs. Simon Warrender, Mrs.
H. V. Casson, Mrs. T. Scott Cree, of
Sydney, Mrs. Henry Stebbins and Dr.
Jean Armstrong.
Slim, elegant and fair-haired, Mrs.
Michael Cowan is busy preparing her
wardrobe—her husband, Wing-Com-
mander Cowan, who is an Equerry to the
Queen, and is at present at Buckingham
Palace, will accompany the Queen and
Duke of Edinburgh on their Australian
tour. Mrs. Cowan, who is staying with
her parents on their property near Warr-
nambool, has two children, Christopher,
11, and Carlos, seven. Photo by John
Warlow.
There were three notable pre-Cup
parties. Mr. and Mrs. Lionel Newton
had 100 guests for luncheon at Glen
Rannonch, their Macedon home, the
gardens of which was lovely with rhodo-
dendrons, lily-of-the-valley and azaleas.
At Rock Lodge, the Frankston home
of Mr. and Mrs. Frank O’Collins, many
guests were entertained at a buffet-dinner
given in honor of Mrs. P. L. Coleman,
wife of the Minister for Transport. The
host and hostess were assisted by their
three daughters and two sons-in-law. Dr.
and Mrs. Jim Peters, Mr, and Mrs. Kevin
Coleman and Maev O’Collins.
More than 30 guests were entertained
by Mr. and Mrs. Don Hutchison at a
dinner-party in their East St. Kilda home
to celebrate a wedding anniversary and
the host’s birthday as well as the race-
carnival. Adelaide guests included Mr.
and Mrs. R. Applebee (he and the host
race two horses in partnership), Mr. and
Mrs. C, Western, Mr. and Mrs. C. Teague
and Mr. and Mrs. W; Bassett. Sydney
visitors included Mr. and Mrs. N. Gazzard
and Mr. Fred Paul, Mrs. Hutchison
wore an almond-green faille ballerina
frock.
* ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. lan Miller lent their
Malvern home for the Derby Eve Ball
in aid of the Victorian Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children. Over
400 danced and dined in the big marquee
which, as well as the house, had splendid
floral display, the work of Mesdames
John Quere, Robert Gove and Tom
Fogarty. Dining-space in the marquee
was separated from the dance-floor with
a green brush fence on which were trails
of flowers.
Thirty-three yards of ice-blue organdie
were used in the gown worn by Mrs.
Miller; the halter-necked bodice was
of matching moire-silk. President
of the society, Lady Gullett, wore a, wide-
skirted gown of black lace. Ticket-
secretary Mrs. Paul Grage chose shock-
ing-pink chiffon with diamente shoulder-
straps.
Other lovely gowns noted were Sarah
Hordern’s white organdie, the skirt of
many tiers piped with black ; Mrs. Claudia
Creswick’s sheath of white guipure lace
frothing into white tulle below the knees ;
Elizabeth Latham’s full-skirted white
broderie Anglaise ; Wyn Kellow’s gold
tulle splashed with gold sequins; Mrs.
Eric Rogers’s short evening-gown of pale-
mauve satin ; and English visitor Jacynth
Lindsay’s frock, which had a front of
hyacinth-blue satin, a back of claret-red
satin, with the fichu collar of blue lined
with the red.
Derby Day, though unkind to the race-
goer anxious to get into the new summer
finery, gave a few fashion-pointers; big
loose coats, either in stiff ottoman-silk
or velvet; white hats of varied shapes;
suits of grey, black or navy, and white
piqud or sharkskin pepping up the simple,
dark frock.
Lady Manifold, wife of the V.R.C,
chairman, wore a big, loose coat of black
velvet with a small yellow straw hat
circled with yellow daisies. Mrs. Percy
Northrop’s coat was of pine-green
velvet, which she wore over a white silk
frock printed with deep green and blue
roses. The skirt of Mrs. Ronald Nott’s
white surah frock, coin-spotted in black,
had harem draperies at the side. Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere’s bolero suit of fine
black cloth was cut to show a white
“dickey”; her tiny hat was of black straw.
SYDNEY
Aided by a balmy night and a moonlit
bay, the Summer Committee of the Smith
Family quite caught the atmosphere of
the Riviera for their party at Glen
Ascham. In the stone courtyard
Mrs. Ken Youdale, dressed as an Italian
peasant, sold white gardenias from a
cart drawn by a Shetland pony, and in
the foyer were orange-groves, fishing-
nets and gay beach-umbrellas. Tables
were set under candy-striped canopies on
the patios overlooking the water, and
waiters were dressed as the French artists
of musical-comedy. Highlight of the
night was the show given by the American
puppeteers Walton and O’Rourke, who
came on after their Tivoli performance
to give their “love bug will get you” act.
The president, Mrs. Cedric Symonds,
wore a fairytale dress of drifting pleated
white nylon, the bodice all pointed petals
with a sash of pink satin. Mrs. Sam
Lands’s dress was a dramatic bouffant
ballgown of lilac silk-shantung. Mr.
Bernard Hammerman donated a two-
piece swimsuit of Arabian kidskin (an
exotic touch) which was auctioned, and
there were prizes given for the best ear-
rings. Altogether, for originality and
atmosphere, the party was really out-
standing.
Elwyn <Bowman, daughter of Mrs.
Arthur Bowman, of Archerfield, Single-
ton, has announced her engagement to
James Lomax, son of Mrs. Lomax, of
Richmond , Surrey, England, and of the
late Mr. Walter Lomax. Elwyn’s hobby
is photography, and the films she took
on her recent trip abroad have been much
enjoyed by the many friends to whom she
has shown them. Photo, by Hugh Spencer.
Noticed at the first night of the Metro-
politan’s “The Poltergeist,” by Frank
Harvey, Junior, that the British and Arts
Councils were well, represented by Mr. and
Mrs. E. W. Burbridge, Miss Dorothy
Helmrich and the Countess of Effingham.
Mr. and Mrs. C. T. Lorenz were at the
opening, too. Although this play hasn’t
much intellectual weight, it is excellent
fun, very well acted, and if it could be
sent to country centres it would un-
doubtedly attract good houses. The way
to make Australians theatre-minded is to
give them something they can enjoy, which
“The Poltergeist” certainly does.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was rather a pity there were not
more schoolgirls in the audience for
“Hold High the Lamp,” the pageant of
nursing shown for two nights at the
Town Hall, for it made a very
strong impact and would have brought
crowds of recruits hammering at the doors
of the hospitals to start training. As it
was, the audience mainly consisted of
nurses and their families, so that it was
preaching rather to the converted. How-
ever, “preaching” is scarcely the right
word, for the entertainment-value of the
pageant was as strong as its message.
On a small stage set in a frame on I ie
main stage, 200 nurses from the metr
politan hospitals, Newcastle and Ma
land, with the help of six professiona
actors, depicted scenes from the histo
of nursing. These included fights
tween Saracens (played by St. Jo in
Ambulance cadets) and Crusaders, sin
ous dancers in an Islamic hospital (repr
senting therapeutic treatment), very com
convict women, Sairy Gamp, five charm
ing little Sisters of Charity, Lucy Osbum
who founded the first training school
Australia (in the pageant Pauline O’Bri
wore Miss Osburn’s own dress), and tie
nurses of three wars, finishing with tie
work of the A.I.M. There was al
Florence Nightingale, of course. Tie
pageant was produced by William 0
and directed by Alick McKenzie, an
despite some roughnesses due to the
difficulty of rehearsing people so busv
as nurses, it was a really creditable pr
duction,
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Dale Carnegie, whose husban
wrote How to Win Friends and Influent
People, has now written a boo
herself. It is called How to He
Your Husband Get Ahead, and some c;
her hints may be of value to women
N.S.W., for, as Mrs. Carnegie very sage y
remarks, “Women are women whereve'
they may be, and men of course are men
Her first hint is to help your husban
decide where he is going—not in th
sense of “No, you are not going to pla
golf today; we are going to see Auntie,
but in the sense of setting him goals o;
continuing higher levels, so that, like Sisy
phus, he is for ever striving .and neve
getting to the top. Another; hint
“never nag,” but at the same time yo
have to “get him to be enthusiastic, t
learn all he can about his job, to giv
himself a pep-talk every day, and [im
plicitly] to take you out and to empty th
dustbin.” How this is to be achievec
without nagging is hard to imagine,
good thing, says Mrs. Carnegie, is to sa
“thank-you” to his secretary when sh
does something for you (surely a revo
lutionary idea!) and, if all else fails, t
tell a few little lies.
☆ ☆ *
Pumpkins lit with candles and othe
Halloween novelties decorated th
Ferguson Hall, St. Stephen’s Church
Macquarie-street, last Thursday when
the Canadian Women’s Club held
its Halloween Fete in aid of the
Margaret Reid Orthopaedic Hospital, The
members of this club, which hopes to
endow a cot at the hospital, workec
together for six war years when they
staffed St. Andrew’s Hut and Canteen
mustering every Wednesday a total of 15C
workers.
☆ ☆ ☆
Artist Francis Lymburner is in Paris
at present but his soul goes marching on
at David Jones’s Gallery, where a collec-
tion of pen-drawings, sketches and little
bits and pieces has been arranged by his
admirers. There was quite a fashionable
gathering to hear the exhibition openec
on Friday afternoon and the sketches
began to sell like lightning. Smart dresses
spotted there included young Mrs. David
Lloyd Jones’s cherry outfit worn with a
black-and-white-spotted scarf; Mrs. J.
Broinowski’s chic black with emerald
brilliant eyes to her white daisy-covered
hat; and Miss Margaret Lord’s ultra-
smart little sailor-hat with its striped
band and bow. Mrs. Joyce Snelling,
vivid in red coat and hat, looked in briefly
and confided that she intended to take up
drawing-lessons shortly, a thing she has
longed to do always but has never before
been able to fit into a very busy life.
☆ ☆ ☆
Among the novelties of the season are
the sun-glasses with mirrors for the convex
or outer side, so that the wearer can
see out, but the onlooker cannot see in.
Noted a tail dark girl the other day wear-
ing a pair of these with emerald-green
mirrors set in brown tortoise-shell and
she looked as if she had cat’s eyes—very
striking. Another novelty in sunglasses
—those with real seashells in various
shapes round the rims.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the first functions in aid of
the Queen’s Jubilee Fund will be a pre-
view of the Swedish picture “One Summer
of Happiness” at the Village Theatre,
Watson’s Bay. This is the beginning ot
a highly-concentrated drive for money
for the fund which the deputy-president.
Miss Barbara Knox, and her committee
are planning for the near future.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman),
J. W. DUNLOP. A. H.
ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS.
DICKINS, O. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
■
HARRY
DEARTH
/dm
L
H
Featuring CEORCE FOSTER and a panel of outstanding Women
Presented by Malgic Adrenaline Cream
2GB - SAW • 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
The Macauarie Broadcasting Service
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
No. 803 of 1953.
BETWEEN JOHN BRIAN MITCHELL
Plaintiff and MARGARET MARY MIT-
CHELL Defendant.
TO MARGARET MARY MITCHELL.—
NOTICE is hereby given to MARGARET
MARY MITCHELL whose last known ad-
dress was at 135 Beulah Road Norwood
in the State of South Australia: that a
writ has been issued in the Supreme Court
of South Australia in an action in which
her husband JOHN BRIAN MITCHELL
claims an Order for Divorce on the
ground of her desertion and if Margaret
Mary Mitchell desires to be heard in
opposition to the claim for such order
she must file an appearance in the office
of the Master of the Supreme Court of
South Australia within Thirty (30) days
of the publication of this advertisement
otherwise an order may be made against
her in her absence. —MORAN O’SULLI-
VAN & HELEN DEVANEY, 16 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD DENNIS EVANS C/o
R.A.A.F. Richmond N.S.W. —TAKE
NOTICE that ADA MILLIOENT ELIZA
EVANS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1870 of 1951 on the ground of
adultery with a woman known as
MONICA KELLY at 20a Henley Beach
Road Mile End South Australia If you.
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the 12th January 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. J. C. HARRIS &
CO., Solicitors, of 39 Martin Place, Syd-
ney _j. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Two Contemporaries /
There used to be a fairly clear
distinction between the Contem-
porary Group and the Contem-
porary Society in Sydney: the
Group, which presumably grew
out of the other, was more
mature, offered more in the way
of substantial achievement and
less of mere hopeful ardor.
The distinction may still sub-
sist. Lyndon Dadswell’s draw-
ings for sculpture after Henry
Moore at the current Group may
be more mature than, say, R.
Gumpertz’s doleful and dis-
torted heads after Picasso at the
Society ox than Eric Smith’s
“Descent from the Cross” which
the present explorer quite genu-
inely mistook for a bullfight.
But maturity is hard to detect
when influences are too much
apparent and when craftsman-
ship is searching only for fluidity.
And if Mr. Dadswell is mature,
as he is undoubtedly sincere,
there seems no point whatever
in searching for either technical
or epnotional maturity in Michael
Kmit’s childish comedies, which
are just toys, nor in much else
in the same category at the
Group (which is at Farmer’s).
If the former standard of
mature progress does persist, it
is chiefly in Ena Joyce’s “Trees”
and “View of a City,” both
pretty and lyrical things, loose
in treatment, rather painty.
There are also Grace Cossing-
ton-Smith’s “Bush in Heat”
(much better than her adventure
with religious dwarfs), Gwen
Eichler’s “Castle Hill Land-
scape,” George Duncan’s fam-
iliar “Bowral Landscape,” Enid
Cambridge’s decorative “High
Tide,” a “Fowlyard” with some
feeling in it by Marie Gardiner,
some pleasant small watercolors
by Muriel Med worth and a warm
little still-life by Alison Rehfisch
and —by far the surest achieve-
ment of the lot—the landscapes
by Roland Wakelin, one of
which is in unusually - soft
pastel - colors, like a Rupert
Bunny.
The Contemporary Society
exhibition (at the Education De-
partment) is dominated by a
huge atomic mural about which,
as about the bomb, the less said
the better; explosions are not
art.
There aref the usual matchbox
houses, the usual naiveties and
no-hopers, the usual monsters,
the usual imitations of Nolan,
Herman and various European
styles. But the show is at least
intelligibly hung, not too
crowded, so that one may dis-
cern a pleasant if sombre land-
scape of boats and mountains
by Fred Sulser; and after that
moments of amiability in Elaine
Armstrong’s flower - studies,
which she paints like soft wool-
len balls of color, in Julius Szen-
teleky’s shiny and surprising dis-
covery of Peer Gynt among the
Pyramids with a nude and the
devil, in K. Harrison’s “Yellow
House,” M. Cohen’s “Waratahs,”
R. Moult-Spiers’s “Orchard,”
Ernest Fletcher’s papery roses
and Carl Plate’s tiny “Little Bird
Seized.”
John Brack
Something new in modern art
is showing at the Peter Bray
Gallery in Melbourne: John
Brack’s paintings and drawings.
Whether or no Mr. Brack thinks
of himself as an artist, he is
certainly an admirable cartoon-
ist. When most modern artists
introduce satire into their pic-
tures it wouldn’t even make a
cat laugh. It is difficult not to
laugh at Mr. Brack’s “Men’s
Wear,” depicting a tailor stand-
ing beside a rack of costumes
which look much more human
than the tailor; or at “The
Return of the Prodigal Son,” the
son wolfing his dinner while the
father and mother look on with
expressions of acute despair and
depression; or at “Mr. Whit-
aker’s Small Business,” a pic-
ture of a room with nothing
in it but a table and a chair
and Mr. Whitaker standing at a
half-open door hoping against
hope that something will turn
up; or “Man in a Pub,” which
should be seen by all victims of
the six-o’clock swill; or “The
Jockey and His Wife” and “The
New House”; or at the happy
smile on the woman with the
false teeth in “The Veil.”
Stage and Music
“After My Fashion”
This new play by Diana Mor-
gan put on by the Union Theatre
Repertory Co, at the University
of Melbourne concerns Christian
Starcross, an explorer who died
with his five companions twenty
years before the play opens in
an attempt to cross a desert to
an undiscovered city. He has
become a legend to the British
nation. The wives and families
and fiancees of the members of
the expedition are living in the
reflection of his glory when a
film-company comes along to
put him on the screen.
It is then discovered that the
expedition was a fake, that no
adequate preparation had been
made for it, that the undis-
covered city was an invention,
that the hero was a weak man
so eaten-up with ambition that he
is ready to sacrifice even his best
friend to it, and that in the final
crisis he went mad. What is a
deal more awkward, inasmuch
as the play goes forward in the
drawingroom of his widow.
Lady Starcross, is that the fiancee
of one of the members of the
expedition has been the mistress
of the hero.
A struggle ensues between the
widow and the mistress, both of
whom still claim exclusive pos-
session of the discredited hero,
but a letter suppressed by the
widow leaves no doubt that it
was the mistress he last thought
of. The film-promoters want to
drop the picture; the widow
wants to perpetuate the legend
for the sake of the youth of the
British nation; and the mistress
threatens that if they do so she
will blow the gaff on the whole
proceedings.
The play is brilliantly worked-
out to a somewhat impotent con-
clusion. It was given a vivacious
showing by the Repertory
players directed by John Sum-
ner. June Brunell as the fiancee
was emotionally convincing, Pat-
ricia Kennedy as Lady Starcross
took the assaults on her matri-
monial citadel with an appro-
priate stiffness and Lorna Jones,
Zoe Caldwell and Beth Brown
were excellent as the other
widows. George Fairfax, Norma
Edwards and Alex Scott, as die
film-producers, were a trifle
stagey.
* * ❖
Choral Concert
Arrangers of Sydney choral
concerts seem to have taken a
vow that their music shall be
new or rare; as at the recent
University concert, the concert
of the Collegium and Lindfield
A Cappella choirs at St. Philip’s
Hall put on a programme satis-
fying to see on paper alone:
anthems by Gibbons and Pur-
cell and a Byrd Motet; some
pieces by French clavicinists;
a Byrd Mass; Hindemith’s
“Four Songs by German Poets,
sung in translations made by Sir
Robert Garran, who was in the
audience; some old recorder-
music and a movement from
Hindemith’s recorder-trio; a
Rawsthorne Sonatina; and a
set of madrigals, three by Mor-
ley and one by Weelkes.
The Mass in four parts by
Byrd offers small scope to the
cataloguer of musical surprises ;
it makes a noble background to
the religious rite which, of
course, in a Church of England
hall on a Saturday night, could
not accompany it; there is a
superb descent into Hell in it;
but none of those effects which,
in some of Byrd’s church music,
set the high voices twinkling like
stars. But Byrd’s motet, “1 will
not leave you comfortless,” with
its swift energy easily outshone
the Gibbons and Purcell
anthems.
In his “Four Songs” Hinde-
mith has made gnomic settings
of gnomic verses by von Platen,
Rilke and Claudius on death
and the purpose of life, music
more terse and uncommunicative
than its lyrics. With the first
song, in which von Platen
opines that we make a pattern
with the threads of the spirit
we throw together, a composer
of former days would have
worked up a complicated fugue
or an involved bit of illustrative
counterpoint: not so Hinde-
mith; he mutters it away in a
corner of the graveyard, in
tones which seem to contradict
the purpose of music; nor all
the efforts of the choir or of
Australia’s most distinguished
Parliamentary draftsman could
throw any light on this music.
The choir made its best suc-
cess with the audience in the
concluding set of madrigals,
notably “Fire, Fire, My Heart”
by Morley and “In Pride of
May” by Weelkes. This was
madrigal singing of a vigor and
precision to quicken the heart;
everything smoothed into an
easy-seeming flow under the
conductorship of Mr. Fritz Rice,
and a difficult bit' of cross-
rhythm in the Weelkes taken
with obvious pleasure.
The pianist. Miss Dorothy
White, seemed a little over-
anxious with her French set,
fogging the Couperin decora-
tions and taking Daquin’s “Le
Coucou” so fast as to overrun
it. The Rawsthorne sonatina
turned the conventional allegros,
lentos and allegrettos into
crabbed and difficult exercises in
sounds more remarkable for
being different than for being
pleasing.
The best surprise of the even-
ing was the precise playing of
the Villanelle Recorder Consort;
John Champ, Patricia Quin and
Trevor Jones: their Hindemith
allegretto was a wonderful il-
lustration of this composer’s
rhythmic fertility and melodic
barrenness; and in their several
old pieces, a Morley air and a
Gibbons Fantasia especially,
they gave that final delight
which studied perfection can
add to tiny masterpieces.
Talkies
“The Happy Time” (Sydney
Victory); A delightful, freshly-
treated comedy which deals with
the affairs amorous of several
members of a carefree French-
Canadian family headed by a
joyful, dapper old widower who,
when he (temp.) keels over be-
cause of the life he leads at the
cracking pace he sets, is wryly
told by his doc: “A young man
may be able to burn the candle
at both ends, but all you have
left is the wick!” The dialogue
is mostly on that plane. The
treatment of a 16-year-old boy’s
puberty-problem is delicately
handled, with Charles Boyer (his
great-lover roles apparently be-
hind him for good) as a humor-
ously-minded but understanding
father. The film has one price-
less scene wherein the patriarch’s
three grown sons have a session
with a schoolmaster who has
unjustly belted the son of one of
them.
The character roles are in
good hands —Marcel Dalio as
Grandpere and Kurt Kaznar as
a wine-bibbing son who achieves
his life’s triumph in converting
his daughter’s wowsery intended
to a love of the grape.
“April in Paris” (Sydney
Regent): Doris Day works hard
—almost frantically so at times
—in an endeavor to lend an air
of bubbling gaiety to this innocu-
ous little musical, the main-
spring of which is a bloomer
made by a State Department
official by sending a chorus-girl
instead of a Personage to repre-
sent the arts at an international
function in Paris. On the
voyage she is severely chaper-
oned by various stuffed-shirt
bureaucrats, and when she
kicks over the traces she is
joined by the blundering official,
and that gives Ray Bolger a
chance to do what he can do
very well —throw a nimble hoof.
“Vice Squad” (Sydney
Palace): Edward G, Robinson,
captain of detectives, spends
most of his time in this crime-
thriller-without-a-thrill in walk-
ing in and out of doors, barking
orders, answering phones and
looking harassed. A cop has
been shot by a gang, and bull-
dog Ed. is after him; and when
his letterbox mouth snaps tight
you know Ed. is plumb deter-
mined to get his man.


You're wrong Delaney
By BANT SINGER
What Has Happened So Far
Once more free to move about
in Black Springs, but confined to
the town by police orders,
Delaney is now suspected of
complicity in the death of Her-
man (Fat) Baler as well as the
murder of night-club owner Con
Martini. Delaney has designs on
Kathy, a housemaid. He also
has a compromising love-letter
from a woman named Elaine to
Baler. He makes a date with
Kathy to go to the pictures.
Finding that Elaine is the wife
of a wealthy mill-owner, Richard
Paterson, Delaney demands
£lOO for the letter. She agrees
to meet him, then holds him up
with a small revolver. He dis-
arms her, is stirred by her per-
sonality and lets her go on her
promise to get the money. Walk-
ing to his hotel in the dark he
is confronted by a revolver held
by Martini’s missing partner,
Peters.
CHAPTER VII
50 he cleared out of St.
Kilda after Martini was
shot; maybe only a little
while after I got out.
The police round up every-
body in Martini’s joint, except
me, and they put out the
word for me and Keough
gathers me in. Then Peters goes
missing and they put out the
word for him, because there has
to be a tie-up between him and
Martini, just the same as they
reckon there’s a tie-up between
me and Martini. Keough
locates me and gathers me and
questions me and turns me loose.
He turns me loose, and the next
thing I know is Fat dead in
somebody’s backyard and
Keough mighty curious and me
with a letter worth maybe a
hundred frogskins. So now
Peters comes into it, only
Keough don’t know he’s in Black
Springs. Keough don’t know
Peters has a gun on me and I’m
walking careful towards where
he stands in this dark lane. I
don’t know what Peters wants
of me, or what he’s doing in
Black Springs, or why he’s got
me under his gun, but it looks
like I’ll find out pretty soon,
I walk slow, like he says, and
my back is crawling and my
throat dry. In the commandos
they teach you unarmed combat
against an armed man, but you
got to be close to him. Maybe
Peters will let me close.
Maybe...
“That’ll do. Stop there!”
I’m maybe fifteen feet from
him. I can see him now, in the
dark, but he’s just a tall shape,
no outlines. ,1 can’t see his
hands, but I can tell there’s one
reaching out at me and a gun in
it. So I stop, with my hands on
my hat.
“Keep still, Delaney. No
closer, see!”
“What you want?” *
“As if you didn’t know.”
“I been here three or four
days. I don’t know nothing.
What you want me for?”
“Been watching for you, mate.
Came here special to look you
up. Keep your hands still!”
“Look me up! Why? How
did you know I was here?”
“I read the papers.”
So he reads the papers. There
must of been something in the
papers, back there in the big
city, something about me being
in Black Springs. I hadn’t known
that. I hadn’t seen nothing but
the local paper since I hit the
place.
“Well, what you want? What
you got a gun on me for? I
don’t”
“You make one move, mate,
and you’ll know why I got a
gun. I don’t want no com-
mando stuff like you give me
last time. Where’s that three
thousand?”
“Three thousand!”
“You heard.”
“Three thousand! ”
“Yeah, three thousand. Come
on, come on, mate, talk! The
dough you grabbed out of Marr
tini’s room that night.”
“Before God, Peters, I never
even knew there was three
thousand in his room.”
He gives a little, cold, scornful
sound like dry leaves rustling.
“Like hell you didn’t. Stop
mucking about, mate. Where is
it? I got no time to waste.”
So he thinks I got three thous-
and out of Martini’s room that
night. Keough thinks I lit out of
St. Kilda because I shot Martini.
Peters thinks I lit out because I
copped three thousand. Peters
finds out where I am and here
he is, with a gun on me and
wanting the three thousand. He
could be a damn’ sight worse
than Keough with that notion in
his noggin.
“Where is it, Delaney?”
“I tell you I never even heard
of it,”
“Turn round, mate.”
I turn slow. There’s the blank
wall of a dark shop in front of
me,
“Go to the wall and face it.
Keep your hands up,”
It’s only two steps. I’m face
to the wall, my hands resting on
it, my back flinching and my
mind trying to make me duck
and whirl and go him in the
dark. But before I get to that
there’s a hard thing pressing into
my kidneys and I go cold and
feel sick. Because this could be
it.
“Where is it, mate?”
“I don’t know. Christ, Peters,
do you think I wouldn’t tell you
if I did know? What”
He must have been holding
the gun with his left hand and
something heavy in his right.
Because the sky hit me over one
ear and there was a big, yellow
flash and the next thing I’m
down in the mud of the lane. He
turned me over and looked at
me and I only had to lift my
hands to grab him. Only I
couldn’t lift them, and the pain
made me sick and my head was
whirling. But I could see and
hear him.
“You going to tell me, mate?”
Through the pain I try to tell
him I don’t know. He stands
up and kicks me in the ribs. It
don’t matter much, because the
pain in my head is so bad noth-
ing could be worse. But he
kicks me again, hard, and there’s
a stabbing, tearing sort of pain
in my side and I’m sick. Peters
stoops down. I got pain and
sickness and the world and the
dark all spinning round.
“Where’s the dough?”
I want to speak but the words
won’t come and the pain in my
head is spreading and every
time I breathe something stabs
me. He swipes me across the
mouth with the gun-barrel and
I feel the blood hot and salt
and filling my throat.
“You mug. I’ll make you
tell.”
He hit me with the gun again
and he must of kicked me, be-
cause now I’m all pain and big
purple lights flashing and I’m
fighting to get my head turned
round so I can breathe. Be-
cause the blood is running down
inside my throat. Then the
purple lights go out and a green
streak shoots across my eyes and
then it’s all black and there’s
only the pain everywhere and I
can hear somebody moaning
and grunting. After that I don’t
see or hear anything and there’s
nothing—only the pain.
Next thing I know I’m lying
sideways in the mud in a dark
lane. My head is sore and there’s
a pain in my right side. My
mouth is all swelled and my face
stiff. I’m shivering.
I get up on my knees and
they give way and I fall down
again and the purple flashes
come back. I want to yell for
someone to come and help me,
but my mouth is bunged up and
all I make is a sort of whisper.
So I lay there, waiting for the
purple flashes to stop.
After a while I remember
Peters and look around in the
dark. But there’s nobody. I
get on my knees again and this
time they hold me, so I get my
hands on the wall and that helps
me to my feet. I turn and put
my back against the wall and
wait. The strength is coming
back a little. My head is one
big ache and my face stiff and I
got to hold my right side askew
because of the stabbing.
It’s cold and dark and I’m
shivering all over, and it comes
to me that I stay here I’ll maybe
die. I start feeling my way
along the wall and fall over a
couple of times, and rest, and
take the pain, and climb up and
go on. I come to a corner of
the wall and stumble round it
and now it’s a fence, with
pickets, and I get my hands on
the pickets and grip them and
it helps me to stand up and get
along.
It’s all dark and cold and
lonely. I just got to keep mov-
ing till I can find some place,
because what I want is cold
water for my head and some-
body to look at my side and a
warm bed to lie down on. So I
keep going, and the fence
changes to iron and back to
pickets, and sometimes there
isn’t any fence, and I fall down
many times and get up and
retch and keep going.
After a while I feel a lot better
and look around and can see
things in the dark. There’s
lights along a street and in some
houses across a dark space, and
I hear a dog barking, and some-
where behind the black buildings
near me a car changes gear.
You got to be lucky some-
times, and this is one of my
times to be lucky. Because I
come to a high, corrugated-iron
fence and feel along it, holding
myself, but firmer on my feet,
and my hands find a part of the
fence which opens and I fall
through.
I don’t know it then, but that
high fence runs along the back
of the Enterprise Hotel, and
what I fall through is a little
gate in it, which should have
been locked at that time of night.
It wasn’t because the yardman
had forgotten to do it, which is
lucky for me.
Because I fell through it into
the hotel yard. There’s a flight
of service stairs comes .down
from the upper story and the
bottom step is no more than
ten feet or so from where I fall
through the gate. Two or three
steps up there’s a girl sitting
alone in the dark, with a tweed
coat on against the cold. She’s
been disappointed in a date and
she’s sitting there, thinking about
things, and she sees a drunk
come through the little gate and
fall over. There’s a light from
a bulb over the ground-floor
back entrance, but it’s not
strong. So she sees this drunk
fall in the gate and she knows
that gate ought to be locked. So
she gets up and walks round
the drunk and closes the gate
and locks it. Then she decides
she’s done her duty to the hotel
and if the drunk wants to lie in
the yard it’s all right with her.
So she walks round him again,
watching him, and intends to go
to her room and shut herself in
and do some reading or mend-
ing or something. Because she’s
disappointed over this date and
sore about it and can’t be
bothered with drunks.
So she steps by and then she
sees the drunk is none other than
her date, and she stops short
and gathers herself up and leans
over him and gives him what’s
coming to him from her tongue.
“I hope you catch cold, Mr.
Delaney. I hope it makes you
awful sick. I might have known
what to expect. You’ve made a
little fool of me, but”
All I hear of this is my name.
Some woman saying my name.
My head is buzzing and aching
and mixed up, and when I hear a
woman say my name I get a
notion it’s Lily. It’s Lily and
that means maybe Nugget is
around and I can get some help.
“Where’s Nugget?—Peters—■
the police—he done me over—
Peters”
When I say this I try to sit up,
but can’t and sort of crumple
on to my back. My face comes
into the light and it’s all swollen
and black and blood around my
mouth.
She don’t scream or get into
a panic. She bends down and
looks close at me.
“Oh, how awful. You’re
hurt. What happened? What
can I do?”
“Peters —the police” is
all I can get out Then in a sort
of flash I see it’s Kathy. I try
to grin at her but my face is too
stiff. “Got done over —
Peters”
You’re hurt and been through
it like I was and you’ve been
taking it alone in the dark, and
lost, and sick, and then you
suddenly come on somebody
who is a friend, and will do
something for you, and you lose
all your strength and you’re like
a little boy and you want to
cry and go into a blackout. So
I go into a blackout.
So about the next thing I
knows it’s warm and soft all
round me and my head is ach-
ing a little and my face sore and
a pain in my side. I see a little
lamp with a pink shade on a
chest-of-drawers, and behind the
lamp there’s pearly-grey wall-
paper and a little picture of
trees. I’m on my back in a bed,
with blankets over me and under
the blankets I’m naked. It’s a
little room and near the picture
there’s a window with a blind
down and little short white net
curtains hanging. I never see
this room before and I turn my
head and there’s a wardrobe
and near it a shut door, and
doing something in a basin that
stands on a chair is Kathy.
I stop looking anywhere else
because hep face is half-
shadowed anjfl a look on it. I
never see anything like that be-
fore and it goes right through
me, because it’s sweet and con-
cerned and intent and she’s got
her bottom lip caught in her
teeth.
Her hair is all fluffed out and
her cheeks sort of soft, and
she’s got on a short-sleeved
dark dress with big round white
spots on it and the way she’s
standing the shape of one
breast is clear and the dress
tight on a hip and she’s my little
pigeon all right. I look at her
and don’t say anything because
the pain seems to go away alto-
gether and there’s a glow about
her and it’s like you hear some-
body singing away in the dist-
ance when you’re lonely. You
know how it is, you just want to
get up and go to where the sing-
ing is and be with the song and
the singer.
So I look at Kathy a little
while, and she’s rinsing out some
white cloth in the basin and her
plump arms are moving in the
pink light. It’s a long time since
I been home, away back before
the war, and somehow I look
at Kathy there and it’s like I’m
at home again.
She wrings out the cloth and
turns and sees me looking at her
and stands still. Her teeth let
go of her lip and the lips begin
to make a smile and then stop.
“Hullo, Kathy.”
She looks at me and there’s
no smile on her face. Her face
looks like she’s kind of annoyed
and wants to get mad but some-
thing keeps stopping her. Then
I see the color is deeper on her
cheeks and her lips take a curl
on them, like she’s forced to
look at something she don’t like.
When she speaks her voice is
sharp and low and she kind of
looks right through me.
“Ha,” she says. “Fighting
and lying in the mud. You’re
too silly for words.”
“Don’t you like me, Kathy?’
“No. You’re just terrible.
And be quiet. I’m sure I dont


want everybody to know you’re
in here.”
She comes over to the bed
and takes a cloth off my head
and put the fresh one on. It’s
cold and wet and makes me
wince a little. I see her lips
close to me and they’re tight.
Her bosom is no more than an
inch from my face when she
bends over me and I get sort of
breathless.
She steps back quickly and
looks at me.
“There,” she says. “Now you
be quiet.”
“What place is this?”
“It’s my room, if you want to
know.”
“Who brought me here?”
“Who do you think? I know
you’re no good and I’ll bet you
deserve all you got.” •
“Did you bring me here?”
She nodded and turned away
and got busy at the basin again
and I got to talk to her back,
because she stood with her back
to me.
I look at her back and I don’t
remember anything after her
bending over me when I fell
through the gate in the fence.
So she must have dragged me
or carried me here. I’m near
enough to a hundred and seventy
pounds, stripped. I look at her
back and I can’t believe it, be-
cause it’s plain she’s no more
than a hundred and twenty and
she a girl. What I mean is a
man weighing a hundred and
twenty might do it if he knows
the knack of it and is strong;
but this is a girl. I try to think
back but there’s nothing after I
see her bending over me in the
yard.
“Kathy, I’m a lot of trouble,
but I got to know if you got
me here by yourself.”
She didn’t turn round.
“Oh, it isn’t far. And you
still had some sense left. You
fell down twice and when I got
you to the bed you just lay
there like a log.”
I didn’t say anything. I just
lay there looking at her and
trying to see how she did it.
She said, not doing anything
but standing with her back to
me, “Why were you fighting? Is
it anything to do with the police?
You said something about the
police. I—l don’t want to get
mixed up with anything”
“You got nothing to be
frightened”——
Outside a man’s voice called
out. Kathy reached out and
flipped the light off.
“Sh-h!” Her voice was low
and urgent.
I lay there, listening. There
were more voices outside and
footsteps. There was nothing 1
could do. I was naked in
Kathy’s bed and Kathy stand-
ing still somewhere in the room
in the dark. The voice outside
went on talking and there were
sounds of men going about. A
door slammed somewhere and
a man called out and somewhere
off in the night somebody
answered. Inside the room it
was dark and still. I tried to
hear Kathy but there was noth-
ing, though I could feel her
there in the dark. After a while
the noises outside stopped and
a minute or two went by.
I heard a movement in the
room and then Kathy’s hand
touched my face and felt around
it and rested on my forehead,
under the damp cloth. It was
cool and I wanted it to stay
there. I lay still, hoping it
would stay. I wasn’t feeling so
good now. The pain was back
in my side, catching me when
I breathed, and my head ached
and there was a heat all over
me.
Kathy took her hand away
and whispered, “I’ll go to the
kitchen and see if I can make
you some tea. Would you like
that?”
“Yes. But what are you
whispering about? What did
you put the light out for?”
“Sh-h. Don’t talk loud. What
would people think if they knew
you were in here in my bed at
this hour?”
I saw what she meant. People
in these Black Springs towns like
to get hold of things like that.
They talk and it grows and it
could get a girl a bad name. No
good trying to tell them I was
hurt and she couldn’t get me up
the stairs and had to bring me
here; they’d laugh at that and
wink at each other and talk a
lot more. So I had to be with
Kathy and keep quiet. .
. L .° ok ; I whispered. You
shouldnt of done it-brmg me
here, I mean Why didn t you
** , hel J ? S T
would of helped you get me to
my wn room.
“You was scared,” she whis-
pered back. “You was so scared
you was shaking like a leaf. I
thought you didn’t want—l
thought you wanted to hide or
something. Listen, you be quiet.
I’ll go and see if there’s any
tea.”
Before I could say anything
she opened the door and went
out and closed the door. I
heard the key turn in the lock.
She was quiet about it. I just
saw the dim space where the
door opened and then it was
shut off and she was gone.
So I was locked in this dark
room and my side hurting and
the heat on me so that I sweated
and I had no clothes and
couldn’t get up and go if I
wanted to. I didn’t want to,
because of what Peters done to
me and the heat and being tired,
I was alone there in the dark,
and not feeling good, and
worried. I guess I was in no
condition to think about any-
thing, except a lot of wild
thoughts racing through my
head that didn’t mean a thing
and was all mixed up with
Keough and Elaine and Kathy
and Fat and Martini and my
head aching and Lily and being
in Swissen’s pool-room and the
sweat on me and I must of dozed
and been a little crazy.
Because the next thing I know
Kathy is back and she hasn’t
got any tea. She hasn’t got any
“Go to the wall and face it. Keep your hands up.”
tea and she’s excited and scared
and sitting on the side of the bed
and I can hear her breathing
short and she’s trembling so
much I can feel it.
“Oh,” she gasps, “I wish I’d
never met you. It’s terrible. I
don’t know what to do—the
police—it was the police out
there, looking for you.
They”—
“Looking for me!”
“In the kitchen—it’s all lit up
—the cook is there, and the yard-
man. They told me. It was the
police here, all that noise we
heard. Looking for you. There’s
policemen all round the hotel,
outside, watching for you. They
said”
“But listen, Kathy! Kathy,
listen! What they want me
for?”
a man shot He ~
they-—’
A man shot!
Yes. The police say you
knowhim They say he
‘‘Kathy, listen! Who is he?”
Peters, they said his name
was. A man named Peters.
CHAPTER Vill
|v-ATHY goes on talking, but
IV it don ’ t make sense. Be-
cause p m not listening, I’m
thinking. I’m thinking and it’s
ii ke a mad dr eam, because there’s
no way to get hold of it.
Peters!
$ 0 p e ters shot through from
$ t Kilda and he reads about me
j n ‘ a p aper and he comes to
g] ack Springs and holds me up
and does me over because he
thinks I’ve got three thousand
pounds. I haven’t got it, but he
don’t believe me. So he does
me over and then he goes off
and leaves me when I’m in a
blackout and gets shot. So he
gets shot, doing what? I try to
puzzle this out, keeping it clear
in my thoughts above all the
other thoughts. Peters shot
Where was he to get himself
shot and who shot him?
Then another thought hits me
and I nearly jump out of the
bed. Peters is shot after he
come here and done me over,
Somebody knows about Peters
and me and that three thousand
and they watch Peters and see
him do me over and they reckon
he’s got the three thousand. So
they stick him up and he argues
or maybe goes for his own gun
and gets shot. Somebody shoots
him and goes through him and
there’s no three thousand. So
what? So they reckon I still
got the three thousand and
shooting Peters was a waste but
there’s still me. So maybe
there’s somebody out there,
somebody not scared to shoot
if he has to, thinks I got three
thousand and maybe waiting to
get me. . .
I’m here in this bed m Kathy s
room and Kathy muttering and
half-crying and scared in the
dark, and all round the hotel
outside the police waiting. Be-
cause they think I’m outside
somewhere and they’ll pick me
up when I come in. They don t
know aboqt me and Elaine and
me and Kathy and me being in
here and they’re waiting for me
to come to the hotel. Because
K eough and his boys got me
tied fo Fat and Martini, and
they got me tied to Peters and
Martini, and first they didn’t
know where Peters was, but
now tbey know. Because Peters
t hin / self shot and p m alive
| omewhere in Black springs and
know Peters coipe to Black
Springs for one thing only. To
see me. Way they see it Peters
must Q £ come to Black Springs
and him getting shot and me not
in sight means they got the
whole Martini business on their
doorstep. And Fat’s in it, some-
where. Because Keough’s got a
notion there’s a tie-up between
me and Fat. Keough asked me
if I knew where Peters was and
I said I didn’t. That was the
truth, but now Keough knows
where Peters is, and maybe he
thinks Peters was here all the
time, in smoke, and that maybe
Peters and me come to Black
Springs together.
More I think of that less I
like it, because now there s
someone else. Someone shot
Peters and knows he didn’t have
the dough and reckons I got it.
Someone waiting to get a sight
of me from behind a gun. May-
be best thing I can do is send
for Keough and let him take
me and run me in the cooler,
because I’m in the cooler I m
less likely to get myself shot by
someone who thinks I got three
thousand frogskins. I got a lot
of unfinished business in this
Black Springs, because there s
Elaine Paterson and my hun-
dred frogskins she hasnt paid
me, and there’s Kathy and now
I’m closer to Kathy than ever I
been and I want her real bad.
Well, maybe it’s got to stay
unfinished while Keough keeps
me in the cooler. He keeps me
in the cooler till all this Martini
and Peters and Fat stuff gets
sorted out and maybe the gink
got Peters gets tired of waiting
for me or shows his hand or
something and Keough gets him,
too.
So another thought hits me
hard about then and I feel a
quiver run through me. Be-
cause whats to stop Keough
thinking I shot Peters? A lot of
things could make him think
that, and what alibi have I got?
Because nobody knows where I
am after Elaine leaves m up
that street, and who s gig
r P a * ce her sne saw m
t J ere - *9® J .
b „ ack for
w she doSh’t know where
f been and she donT know a
{ h £ e m /J} ifl d the k ate> all
beaten up, and she drags me to
her room and nurses me and
sees I’m scared and believes I
been in a fight. Alibi? More I
look at it more it looks like the
worst kind of evidence.
So all this runs through my
thoughts in about a minute flat
and it don’t get me anywhere,
It sort of all passes out of my
head and leaves me blank and
tired and worried, and there’s
Kathy still on the bed and shiver-
ing. And I know what I got to
do first,
“Kathy.”
“Yes.”
“Where’s my clothes?”
“Your coat and pants are
here. Your shirt and—and
singlet was bloody and dirt. I
washed them and”
‘Oh, Kathy,
I went to your room to get
pyjamas and clean clean
I here wasnt any. 1
couldn t find any. Haven t you
any other clothes
No, Kathy. 1 lett them ne-
hmd—there 'wasn t ime
I d P n j SjSi;
What to da If anybody comes
m here and
Kathy, you re good. you
mustnt worry. It s all ngn, 1
tell you. I never shot J-
You got-to believe mat. I
shot nobody. Oet
I thought you was nice. 1
tried to help 1 tnoug t
Listen, kid. You 8°
listen. I got to get out o£ b ,
up to my room, wt my s it
and singlet and stuff. Leave the
light off. I got to get dressed
and
Your shirt s wet. Singlet,
too. You can’t wear them.
You’ll catch cold.”
“Listen. I got to wear them.
Till I get to my room. I can
do it. Where are they? Listen,
you got to keep out of it, see?
They find me here, you”-——
“Sh-h!”
I listened. There was noth-
ing I could hear. I tried to see
her in the dark, but it was too
dark.
“What did you hear, Kathy?”
“Nothing. You was talking
(Continued on page 23)


SETTLED OUT OF COURT
by STANDBY
(R.S.PORTEOUS)
THE District Officer moppe
the sweat from his fac
and looked wearily aroun.
\ the small white-paintec
courtroom. His last bout os
fever had left him weak an
hazy. It had dulled not onl
his brain but his vision, so tha
the native constable on the ver
anda appeared only as a brow
blur against the background o
dense green rain-trees lining th
avenue.
As he entered the courtroom
the D.O. had noted Native Con
stable Bario standing rigidly t
attention. He’d noted the clean
brown torso above the khak
lap-lap. Not a wrinkle in tha
lap-lap. The leather belt with it
shining brass buckle sat neatly
in the centre of the broad red
cummerbund. But now those
details escaped him. Probably
Bario had relaxed and was
scratching one bare splayed foo
against the other, as he day
dreamed of pigs jbaked in the
earth.
The two white men immedi-
ately in front of the D. 0., how-
ever, were clea* painfully
clear. He had no objection to
conducting native trials; indeed
he felt that dispersing justice to
the natives was one of the
worth-while jobs of his position.
But sitting in judgment on a fel-
low-countryman always upset
him and made him feel the
inadequacy of his legal training.
Not that this case presented
any great legal difficulties.
Superficially it was straight-
forward enough. The accused
had pleaded guilty to the charge
of assaulting a stranger and the
evidence was theie opposite him
in swollen, purpie eye showing
vividly against the stranger’s
pale skin. A real stinker, as
brilliant a specimen as the D.O.
had ever seen. And yet he was
loath to convict. This case, he
felt, could be amicably settled
out of court if he could only
induce both parties to co-
operate.
Glancing down at the papers
on his table he read that Harold
Percival Martin, described as
schooner-owner and trader, was
charged with unprovoked as-
sault on John Catherwood,
scientist and newcomer to the
Islands. To hide the smile he
was unable to control, the D.O.
again mopped his face. Harold
Percival, eh? Perhaps there was
a simple way of settling this
case. Simple, though perhaps
not strictly legal. ,
Martin, known to him and to
every planter and government
official throughout the Islands as
Rusty Martin, was a boisterous
but thoroughly likeable charac-
ter. His schooner Islander was
the smartest in the South Pacific,
and he made a living by trad-
ing, recruiting native labor and
carrying cargoes to and from
ports most people had never
heard of. His native crew wor-
shipped him —in the D.O.’s eyes,
one very big point in his favor.
From Moresby to Aitape,
from Samarai to Tulagi, white
men looked forward to Martin’s
visits. They drank the drinks he
put in front of them, listened to
his inexhaustible anecdotes half-
drowned by bellowing gusts of
laughter, and forgot for a while
the drabness of their own lives.
A generous, fun-loving buccan-
eer, one who would lend a
friend his last shilling. Certainly
not the type; of man to bash an
inoffensive sjtranger.
The District Officer composed
tils features and cleared his
throat. “The Court is adjourned
for one hour,” he announced.
CJURPRISE showed in the
lined, weatherbeaten face of
the big schooner captain as he
stepped down from the dock,
but as the D.O. had anticipated,
he wasted no time in getting
clear of the courtroom.
The scientist was about to
follow when the D.O. said,
“Just a moment, Mr. Cather-
wood. If you’d care to stroll
over to my place with me I
think I could give you some
very useful information.”
Leaning back in a comfort-
able chair on the D.O.’s ver-
anda the scientist felt the faint
sea-breeze drifting in, decep-
tively cool where it filtered
through his sweat-soaked shirt.
In front of him, through the
rows of shimmering coconut
palms, the ocean looked blue
and inviting.
“The law appears to move
slowly in these islands,” he re-
marked, and in spite of the
peaceful setting there was a
trace of irritation in his voice. '
“I imagine it’s the same every-
where.” The D.O. spoke sooth-
ingly, aware of the discomfort
of that purple eye. “The law
doesn’t like to make mistakes,
and rushing things sometimes
causes mistakes. Take your case,
for instance. Without doubt
you’ve been struck —a hefty wal-
lop. But the charge is ‘unpro-
voked assault,’ and I doubt if
we could make that ‘unpro-
voked’ stick.”
“Not make it stick!” The
outburst \yas indignant. “I was
having a quiet drink with two
casual acquaintances and with-
out warning or provocation that
big gorilla stepped forward and
dropped me. I’d never met the
man in my life. He wasn’t even
in our party.”
“Do you remember what you
said just before you were hit?”
“Something about a sweet
smell. Johnstone, one of the
men I was drinking with, had
suggested I say it. Said it would
start something interesting. I
took it to have some reference
to a bowl of tropical blooms
behind the bar.”
“It hadn’t,” the D.O. said.
“But it certainly started some-
thing interesting. You were the
victim of what passes for humor
in these islands, Mr. Cather-
wood. And, strictly speaking,
Johns tsone is the man who
should have been in the dock
this morning, Unfortunately
there’s no charge we could bring
against him. Perhaps I should
tell you the whole story. I think
you’ll appreciate it, particularly
as you’re interested in natives
and their customs.”
To shut out the glare of sun-
light on the water the D.O.
leaned back and closed his eyes.
“It goes back quite a few
months,” he began. “This Rusty
Martin had been up to the coast
on a recruiting trip, a dud one
as it happened. It’s like that
with recruiting; sometimes you
get the labor and sometimes you
don’t. It all depends on the
mood of the natives. They must
have been in the wrong one that
trip because Rusty started back
with only six recruits. He had
a big stock of trade goods he
hadn’t been able to dispose of
and his decks were
stacked with mangrove-
wood his boys had cut
while he was trying to
induce the natives to
sign on.
“You’d enjoy watching
natives preparing mangrove fire-
wood. They make quite a pic-
nic of it. First they cut the
branches into short lengths. The
wood is green, light and very
easy to cut. To speed the dry-
ing-out of the sap they then
strip the bark. And that’s where
the picnic really starts. Squat-
ting in a circle, each boy takes
a green stick in one hand and
beats the bark off with another.
It sets up a terrific clatter, but
the natives love noise and they
chatter happily above the din.
“The monotony of sound
means nothing to them, for ap-
parently they are prepared to
keep up that clatter, chatter all
day. Occasionally it develops a
rhythm and then a real sing-
sing starts. The removal of bark
then becomes a very secondary
consideration. But even with
numerous sing-sings they man-
aged to load enough firewood
into the Islander to supply her
cooking needs for months,
6 4 r T'o save his diesel fuel
Rusty decided to sail
back. Like his native crew, time
meant nothing to him. He was
crawling along between Witu
and Madang with just enough
breeze to keep his sails filled
when he felt fever coming on.
When a bout of fever hits an
old hand he doesn’t battle
against it. Experience has taught
him that it will only make
things worse. He simply fills
himself up with quinine, and
possibly whisky, and turns in.
“Before Rusty turned in he
put the Islander on the star-
board tack, headed her for the
open sea and handed over to his
boss-boy. The boss-boy was a
big Papuan named Yagura, a
splendid seaman and completely
trustworthy. Shivering under
three blankets, Rusty lost all
interest in navigation. In
Yagura’s capable hands the
Islander was perfectly safe.
“For the rest of the afternoon
and all through the following
night Yagura stayed on deck, as
watchful for his ship as any
master-mariner. The moon rose
over a calm sea and the Islander
crawled on, with just enough
wind to give her steerage-way,
never once deviating from the
course Rusty had put her on.
How was Yagura to know that
his master had meant to alter
course at midnight? How was
he to know that Kagamba Reef
lay dead ahead? He knew the
off-shore dangers as well as he
knew his own village, but Ka-
gamba Reef lay far off the
track a tiny circular reef
enclosing a lagoon a danger
avoided by all shipping. Yagura
had never even heard of it,
“At two-thirty he knew it was
therd, less than half a mile
ahead. Don’t ask me how he
knew. No white man could
have seen it from that distance,
no matter how bright the moon.
Perhaps Yagura’s keen eyes
caught the faint phosphorescent
glow of the swell sliding gently
over coral. Perhaps he only
sensed it with that strange extra
sense so many of these natives
have. In any case he proved
what a true seaman he was by
bringing the Islander into the
wind and emptying her sails
immediately. ‘There is a reef,’
he informed Bika, the helms-
man.
“Bika was the youngest and
latest-joined member of the
crew, but it so happened that
he knew of Kagamba Reef. He
came from near-by Bagabag and
as a boy had visited it in his
father’s canoe. There was a
fine lagoon there with a good
entrance, he informed Yagura.
And the lagoon, besides being
a good, safe anchorage, abound-
ed with ‘lailai.’ He, Bika, could
pilot them in. Had he not
guided his father’s canoe
through the entrance? ‘Lailai’
is the native name for trochus,
a shell used for making but-
tons. Bika was sure that was
what the Master had come for,
and he was excited at the pros-
pect of a few days’ diving.
“Yagura, however, was not so
sure. Never before had his
master interested himself in
shell. And in any case he wasn’t
going to risk a strange reef en-
trance without orders. Caution-
ing Bika not to let the ship get
way oij her, he went below to
rouse ms master.
“Fierce fires were burning in
Rusty’s blood and hammers
were beating in his brain. Only
with difficulty did he manage to
understand that Yagura was
asking him if he should take
the ship inside the reef. He
had no idea where they were
and in his fevered condition he
couldn’t have cared less. Some-
where on the coast, he supposed
vaguely. Yagura wants to take
us in to a safe anchorage.
Well, let him. ‘Yes,’ he said
irritably. ‘Take her in.’
“They took her in. Crept
through the entrance with Ya-
gura at the wheel and Bika
conning him with some uncanny
native instinct that allowed him
to retain a clear picture of a
place he’d only visited once, and
that years ago. Yagura had a
few uncomfortable moments at
the entrance. In spite of the
calm sea he sensed a shallow-
ness that made him glad when
they were inside, safely an-
chored in five fathoms,
“Next morning he started the
boys diving for shell while he
devoted himself to looking after
Rusty. A trained nurse couldn’t
have been more tender or more
anxious for the Welfare of her
patient.
“ ‘All boy catchem plenty
lailai,’ he informed his master”
“Rusty groaned and turned
his face to the bulkhead. He
wasn’t interested in how his
crew were amusing themselves.
Apparently the Islander was
safe and for the moment noth-
ing else mattered.
“That afternoon the breeze
freshened, and by nightfall it
was blowing hard from the
nor’-west. Yagura paid out more
anchor-chain and listened anxi-
ously to the ever-increasing
pounding of surf on the reef.
This was not his idea of a good,
safe anchorage.
6 6TX7HEN Rusty staggered up
W on deck next morning
he made it very clear that he
shared his boss-boy’s opinion.
He took one look at the seas
crashing over the encircling reef
and searched wildly for a pos-
sible exit. And when he saw it,
in spite of his weakened condi-
tion, he roared like an angry
bull.
“The entrance faced nor’-west
and was now a seething mass of
breakers. Obviously it was so
shallow that it could only be
negotiated under ideal condi-
tions. He was trapped!
“‘What the hell?’ he bel-
lowed. ‘Yagura, what name this
place?’
“Yagura came aft and stood
like a splendid bronze image m
front of his master. Neither the
gaily-colored lap-lap nor the
0 Continued on page 34)
PLACE OF NO PRETENCE
Trusting you knew the way
We did not bring a map.
We have struggled this far
safely
But now on the last lap
While, tall and beautiful,
Our goal rises within sight
We do not know whether to turn
Down this spur, left or right.
With quietly smiling lips
You calmly say:
“I seem to have lost the compass
Somewhere along the way.”
So we cannot enter the valley
For there, unable 'to see
The peak, we, misdirected,
Might be lost irrevocably.
“Let us tread the high clear
country
Over the granite ridges.”
But the hills are folded and
chasmed,
No timber grows for bridges
And the rock is not what it seems
But weathered, crumbling and
rotten;
A step could start a slide
And we, buried, forgotten
Be coffined below a mountain—
Oh, friend, we should have told
Someone of this crazed travelling
After fools’ gold.
No one will search for us
For no one could discern
The course of an unguessed
journey ...
And we shall not return.
The single heavy lid
Of night’s unblinking eye
Will close us in its socket
Where we, close-coiled, shall lie
In embryonic fate,
The dishonest and the bidden.
I saw you take the compass!
I looked where it was hidden
And thought it the better choice
That it should point our North
For ever, than that endless pain
Its needle should, quiver forth.
I did not bring a map
Trusting your traveller’s sense.
Uncharted it seems we ve
blundered
To the pole of no pretence.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


•^5
I'M
Ul
m
ty'M
V/jWI
mA
SK
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
CVusabec
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C||3j
too loud ; your voice was getting
louder.”
“Oh. All right. Where’s my
things?”
“Wait there. I’ll get them. Are
you sure you ought to?”
“Good God, kid, I can’t stay
here!”
I heard her moving about and
then she pushed a cold, wet
bundle in my hands. I sat up
and the blankets fell away and I
could feel the cold of the night.
My side hurt and the aehe in my
head came back. I was in too
much of a hurry to worry about
the wet things, just shrunk my-
self up and pulled them on in
the dark. After I got my pants
on I got out and stood up and
nearly fell over with the giddi-
ness, and suddenly Kathy had
an arm behind my back and
held me. She didn’t say any-
thing, just held me till the giddi-
ness went off. Then she felt for
me in the dark and handed me
my socks and I got them on and
the shoes after them and didn’t
bother to tie the laces.
Kathy helped me into the
coat and shoved something into
a pocket and whispered, “Your
tie.”
“Where’s my hat?”
“You didn’t have it when I
found you.”
So my hat was lying in that
lane where Peters done me over.
There was no time to worry
about a hat. So I was ready to
go, shivering in my wet things
and weak and a bit dizzy and
plenty worried.
“Kathy.”
“I’m here.”
“Where’s your hand?”
She didn’t say anything. I
felt a hand touch my right sleeve
and I reached with my left
hand and took it and held it in
both my hands. She still didn’t
say anything, just left it there,
and I could feel it give a sort of
tiny flutter, like a bird.
“Kathy, I didn’t want it like
this. I’m in a mess, but I ain’t
done anything real wrong, I
was coming home to take you to
the movies when he —when I
got done over. Coot that did it
was after money. I got to go.
No good me trying to tell you
how I feel about you, now. But,
Kathy, you’ve been a real friend
to me.”
I kept hold of her hand and
lifted it and pressed it against
my lips. Then I kissed the tips
of her fingers, real gentle, and
then I put her hand down and
let go of it and moved to where
I knew the door was.
“Soon’s I’m gone,” I whis-
pered, “you go to bed and get
some sleep.”
Next thing I feel her two
hands on my chest and she steps
in and puts her head on my
chest. We stand there a little
while and it’s all sweet and
calm and the smell of her hair
and sort of sad and the night
outside. Then she steps back
and I hear her whisper, “Oh,
Mr. Delaney,” and she gave a
kind of sob and I see the door
open.
So I get through it and stand
a moment, till my eyes get used
to the gloom and I see the dim
light from the bulb over the back
entrance and the bottom of the
stairs in the shadow and start
to walk over there.
I get a little stab in my side
every step and the ground sort
of heaves a little and I got to
keep my balance. I get to the
stairs and now I’m in the light
from the bulb and can see my
way. I get a hand to the stair-
rail and rest and look round.
There’s nobody, though I know
Kathy’s over there, with her
door open a little way, watching
me. So I start up the stairs.
There’s maybe ten steps to a
landing, then ten more after that
to the first floor, and after that
maybe thirty feet along a pas-
sage to my room. My head be-
gins whirling when I go up the
steps and the heat breaks out on
me. I can feel the heat prickl-
ing on my body and at the same
time the cold is cutting into me.
I keep my head down to stop
the whirling, and grip the stair-
rail and count the steps. I make
the landing and my feet feel like
bags of sand tied on my legs
and there’s a ringing in my head
and my eyes hot and the purple
flashes come back. So I sit down
on the landing to rest and wait
for the ringing to stop. I want
to lie down there and sleep, but
I know it’s no good. I got to
get to my room.
I sit there and presently it’s
better. Somewhere off in the
dark, beyond the back fence, I
hear a man’s voice and guess
the police are still watching out-
side. Maybe there’s one inside,
too. . Maybe he’s down in the
foyer; maybe he’s upstairs,
watching my room. Well, I got
to chance him being upstairs.
So I get to my feet and hold
the rail and now there’s no heat,
only cold. I can’t see anything
because the floor of the landing
cuts off the light from the bulb
down below, but I know how
the stairs turn from here and I
shuffle across the landing and
put my foot on the first step.
Only it isn’t there and my foot
goes down suddenly and there’s
nothing I can do but go with it.
Something butts my shoulder
and I’m loose and falling against
hard corners and I yell and get
hit in the face and the light-
bulb explodes into a bright,
white light.
I can hear somebody moving
about in quick, busy steps and
then a woman says, “It’s only
magnesia, Morton. Heavens,
anyone would think it’s poison.
No nonsense, now. Drink it!”
My eyes open and I’m in a
white room. There’s four high
beds and the one I’m in is
alongside another. There’s no-
body in that bed, and nobody
in the one across the room from
me. In the one beside it is a
grey-bearded man with a wild
look and big, staring eyes. He
is sitting up, with a heap of pil-
lows behind him, and a nurse
with her hands on her hips
watching him gulp something
white from a glass. He makes
an ugly face and his beard
waggles and he pushes the glass
at the nurse and growls. I shut
my eyes.
So I fell down the stairs in-
stead of climbing them from that
landing and they got me in a hos-
pital. Because I never see this
grey-bearded map before, and
there’s the four beds all the
same kind, high with turned-in
covers and frames for mosquito-
netting and a rail for a sick
person to grip if they want to
pull themselves up. And the
nurse, talking to a man old
enough to be her grandfather
like he was a child, and all
around is the hospital smell. It’s
not as bad as the smell of the
one I was in after that Jap wood-
pecker got me, but it’s a hos-
pital smell all right. So I shut
my eyes, because I got to think
about this and I don’t want no
nurse pushing me around just
then. But all I think is a lot of
stuff that don’t make sense, be-
cause Tm sore and weak and
like something a cat dragged in
and dropped on the mat after
it’s done playing with it So
what I do is sleep a little and
wake a little and sleep some
more and have mad dreams.
Later on the nurse finds me
awake and comes and takes my
temperature and looks at my
bandages. I got plenty. On
my face, and left ankle and
knee, a big one round my waist
which keeps me stiff and a
plaster-cast under it, and
another plaster-cast on my hand
and wrist.
“How are you, Delaney?” she
says.
“How would I be?”
“You seem to have got your-
self in a mess?”
“Yeah.”
She put the thermometer in
a bottle she had and took a card
on the end of the bed and wrote
on it. My side was hurting, and
my ankle and wrist, but it wasn’t
so bad and my head was clear,
I was hungry.
“Nurse?”
“Yes 7”
“Could I have something to
cat?”
“I’ll see I think so Some
soup ?» '
“Soup. Nurse, did I get
shot 7”
She shot ud straight and
looked at me. Wn she picked
up the eard on the end of the
bed and read it.
hand'^navi^lar—
shod Nr S U idr“a7e
~n n thinv vnn «hnt? Wait
on some concussed
on—some concussed areas occi-
pital region-no. Shot?” She
looks at me. What she reads is
double-dutch except I get it that
something s broken, but it means
what I thought was a gun flash
wasn’t anvthina rmlv mo faiiina
r n hiS the stem 8
and Pitting the steps.
“How did I get here?”
“I wouldn’t know, Delaney.
This bed was empty when I
went off duty last night; you re
in it this morning. That’s all I
know.”
“Who told you my name?”
“It’s on the card. The doctor
will be here soon. Ask him
about it.”
She smoothed down the bed-
cover and went out the door.
I look across at the grey-beard
man named Morton. His big,
staring eyes look at me out of
the beard.
“What they done to you, did-
timer?” I ask him.
He gapes at me and then turns
round and pushes all his pillows
down w.th hts face
“Yon all right?” T call
He don’t answer. I hear the
door open and turn to look and
standing with his hand on the
knob, looking at me, is a
~ ’ u °, • hnt
K h “?“' ff ?h?dooJ
his cap s o ®' He ' av s th f do f? r
Sf™ fnd s‘i” i“.t "on t
S lii a
f de th u c door ; , He P ulls a P a Pf r
from his pocket and pretends to
read it. But I know he’s watch-
hpran „ e w u at be
w f nts tQ know aU
right with me> because way I’m
bandag ed and strapped I can’t
and if Keough wants me
watc hed it’s just the way they
do thi n g s. Maybe he thinks I
shot Peters now. Maybe he
thinks I shot Martini, and killed
Fat, and shot Peters. Huh, Del
Delaney, the killer from St.
Kilda, all tied up and dumped
in hospital and Keough’s got a
man right there to grab him if
h® tries to shoot through. I
lie there and look up at the
ceiling and put Keough out of
she didfo^me*
Kathy and what she aid tor me ,
and about Blame and the hun-
-72
ISim xKfa ?ot t
other things to think about, but
S et . up and, done
M'rtb^****'
= ul d ", yuu ,t p
put you in bed and a policeman
at your door your brain gets
tired and you din’t really think.
All you do is lie there and watch
£»? thoughts go round anS
round, never getting anywhere.
The nurse came in with a bowl
1 m WILD
of soup and propped me up and
I had to spoon it into myself
with my left hand, because the
ri § ht was atuck “ P las , ter - }
managed after a while. She took
the bowl away and I lay back
a B am > and the Policeman s boots
was still there showing through
the an B’ e m the °P en door.
(To be continued next week)


INSURANCE —for your protection ■
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bony Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835,
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
on performance
There is more much more
—to supplying aircraft than
transferring fuel from fueller to
aircraft tank. The green and
yellow fuellers of the Anglo-
Iranian’s BP Aviation Service
are well known to you.
Much goes on in the Com-
pany’s laboratories unseen
by the consumer but of
great importance to him.
What of tomorrow’s fuels?
Even now they are being
developed,
and this
illustration _____
shows a full-scale combustion
test being conducted on avia-
tion turbine fuel. New fuels
result from endless experiments
and exhaustive tests with the
engines in which they will be
used. This is but one example
of the concentration behind the
scenes to give you better per-
formance.
XAVIATIDNIffisERVICE.^
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
For Sale
Diesel Generating Set. 20 K.V.A. Turner
complete with Switchboard, etc. Special
Vibration Dampers.
PHOTO LITHOGRAPHIC & ENGRAVING
CO. PTY., LTD.
Chalmers St., Sydney. MX 3368.
Missing Friend
RE PATRICIA IRIS HOWARD HERRICK
(nee PAGET), formerly of New Milton,
England, and of Caulfield North. Would
the abovementioned person, or anyone
knowing her present whereabouts, kindly
communicate with R. J. TALBOT, Soli-
citor, 423 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria?
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Any printed matter giving the his-
tory of Wiseman’s Ferry (N.S.W.),
particularly any descriptions of the
place in its early days.—5615.
Typist, Sydney, wants typing work.
—5616.
Information Sought
CO What is Paget’s Disease? (2)
Its cause? (i) Is there any cure?
Paget’s Disease of the bones was
first described by Sir James Paget
(St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, Lond.).
Although much investigation has been
made into symptoms and cause of the
disease, little knowledge has been
gained as to its exact cause and cure.
Thickening with deformity of the
long bones may extend to any bones
of the body, the new growth being
of softer type with neuralgic pain
accompanying slow progress of the
tissue-change. In the early stages
benefit may be obtained by relieving
the affected members from weight of
the body as in rickets and localised
bone-softening, but progressive de-
formity aggravates the development
in all cases. Medical supervision is
essential.
* # # *
What is Existentialism ?
A mystic philosophy which has had
a vogue in France since the liberation
(1944), especially among the intel-
lectuals of the Latin Quarter. Its
chief apostle is the novelist and
philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, who
has postulated his creed in a series
of plays, books and essays. One of
the basic principles of Existentialism
is that man has freedom of choice
and action; predetermination is de-
nied. No dogmatic solutions of the
eternal questions of ultimate origins
and endings are offered. A man can
choose his faith. An Existentialist,
says Sartre, can be Christian or
atheist. (Existentialism has been
severely criticised by both Catholics
and Communists.) Existentialists in-
sist that their philosophy is not con-
cerned with inquiries into “essential”
qualities and abstractions but concen-
trates on existence in and for itself,
with life as it is actually lived. Every-
man’s Encyclopcedia gives this defini-
tion —“a school of thought based on
a conception of the absolute inanity
of existence, absurdity of the uni-
verse, negation of all creation and of
all morale —or, as Sartre has put it,
‘All human activities are equivalent,
all are destined by principle to
defeat.’ ”
* * • •
Why is Sunday considered to be the
first day of the week, when God
blessed and hallowed the seventh
day?
Sunday, or the Lord’s Day, is in
the Christian world the first day of
the week observed, in memory of
the resurrection of Christ, as the
principal day for public worship.
Sunday is not the seventh day. The
Sabbath is the seventh day, observed
by the Jews and some Christian sects
as a day of rest, from sunset on
Friday to sunset on Saturday. In
Christian lands the Sabbath is
observed on Sunday, but it should
be noted that “Sunday” and “Sab-
bath” are not synonymous terms.
Sunday is the first day of the week;
Sabbath now designates the institu-
tion rather than the day. The first
writer to use the name of Sunday
for the Lord’s Day was Justin
Martyr, but before his lifetime (2nd
century a.d.) the name was used in
the Roman world for the first day of
the week.
* * * *
(1) Period in which Swedish singer
Jenny Lind lived t and when did she
make her first public appearance and
when retire? (2) Did she ever sing
in Australia ? (3) Did she ever make
any phonograph records?
(1) Born 1820, she died 1887. She
made her debut in 1838 as Agathe
in “Der Freischiitz.” She first ap-
peared in London in 1847. In 1849
she retired from the operatic stage,
but continued to sing at concerts
until 1883. (In 1859 she became a
naturalised British subject. (2) No.
(3) No. Most of her singing was
done long before the invention, by
Edison, of the phonograph (1877) or
of the first disk records, by Berliner
(1887, the year of Jenny Lind’s
death). Perfecting of the recording
of music did not come about till this
century.
♦ * * *
Will it be possible for jet-propul-
sion, which derives its thrust from
the explosion of a charge against the
air, to be used in aircraft in inter-
stellar space, where there is no air?
If inter-stellar space-travel does
become possible, it will probably be
accomplished by some considerable
development of the present rocket-
jet. The lack of air beyond the
stratosphere will not in itself prevent
the use of jet-propulsion in such
interplanetary flight. Rockets, for
instance, are jet-propelled engines
which carry their own oxygen (either
in the fuel, or separately in liquid-
form) ; they are therefore completely
independent of atmosphere for their
air-supply for combustion. The dis-
tance such rockets can travel, there-
fore, is limited by the amount of
fuel they can carry and the thrust of
the engine, not by the absence of
atmosphere. Jet-propulsion works on
the principle of taking air into the
engine, compressing it and reducing
its velocity to a speed suitable for
combustion, mixing fuel, burning
and thereby expanding the mixture
and increasing its kinetic energy
before finally ejecting it at high
speed. It should tfe noted that the
propulsion is not the result of the
jet pushing on the surrounding air
but is a reaction to the escaping jet
(viz., Newton’s third law of motion,
“To every action there is an equal
and opposite reaction”). A jet-engine
is 100 p.c. efficient when its speed is
equal to that of the air in the jet;
the difference in these velocities gives
the measure of an engine’s efficiency.
But jet -aircraft, which do not carry
their own oxygen-supply, could not
be used where there is no atmosphere.
* * * *
Symptoms of. and treatment for,
Rubarth’s Disease found in young
dogs ?
The complaint known as Rubarth’s
Disease in young dogs is an acute,
infective hepatitis or liver congestion.
It is of virus origin and contagious
to animals not segregated during
treatment. Characterised by liver
cell damage and haemorrhage affect-
ing other organs, general weakness
with terminal coma are usual symp-
toms. Diagnosis is difficult and in-
volved. Under veterinary supervision,
serum and suitable diet is usual
routine.
* * * *
What is the Abominable Snow-
man ?
It is supposedly a creature which
lives high in the Himalayas. It was
first reported in 1921 by a British
climbing expedition led by Col.
Howard Bury which came across
“footprints resembling those of a hu-
man being” at a height of 21,000 ft.
on Everest. Main evidence for as-
suming the existence of the crea-
ture lies in such tracks, which have
been seen by many famous climbers
since the 1921 discovery. Eric Ship-
ton, during his 1951 Everest expedi-
tion, took several photographs of
snowman-tracks. In 1937 Col. John
Hunt (leader of the successful Everest
climb this year) saw mysterious steps
cut down a slope on Everest, which
had never previously been climbed —•
except by the snowman? Only one
or two climbers have claimed to have
seen the snowman. A Sherpa in
Shipton’s 1951 climb alleged that he
had seen at 25yds. range a “half-
man, half-beast, about sft. 6in. tall,
covered with reddish-brown hair, but
with a hairless face” —hence, per-
haps, an entellus monkey. But in
1930 one H. N. Tombazi had re-
ported that, high in the Himalayas,
he had seen “a figure in outline ex-
actly like a human being walking up-
right.... The figure showed dark
against the snow and wore no cloth-
ing. Within the next minute or so
it disappeared.” A famous British
climber, H. W. Tilman, asserts that
the creature definitely exists and is
most likely a primitive man. (This
year’s expedition, incidentally, was
to look out for it, but, as far as we
know, was unsuccessful in that re-
gard.) The name comes from the
term used by the natives of the
lower Himalayas metch kargmi;
kargmi means “snowman” and
metch, at first translated as “abomin-
able,” actually means “filthy” or
“disgusting.”
* * * *
(7) Some particulars about the
Dunsterforce ? (2) Any books on the
operation ? (3) Any association in
Australia of Dunsterforce men only ?
(1) Led by Major-General L. C.
Dunsterville (1865-1946), the Dunster-
force was a detachment from the
Mesopotamian Expeditionary Force
dispatched with- the object of pre-
venting, if possible, the Turks and
Germans from occupying Baku
(Azerbaijan). It left Baghdad in
Feb., 1918, and reached Enzeli, to
find that Baku was in the hands of
the hostile Bolsheviks, while the
neighborhood was dominated by a
brigand named Mirza Kuchik Khan,
who sympathised with the Central
Powers. The mission then retired to
Hamadan, which became its head-
quarters. Finally it crushed Kuchik
Khan’s power and, the Bolsheviks
at Baku being also overthrown (not
by the Dunsterforce), it occupied
Baku (Aug. 4) for several weeks
against overwhelming Turkish num-
bers before having to evacuate
(Sept. 14). Turkish plans were con-
siderably upset by this stand, one
of the very gallant episodes of the
war. (The Turks did occupy Baku,
but had to leave by the terms of the
armistice.) (2) Dunsterville (inciden-
tally, the original of Kipling’s Stalky)
wrote, among other books, Adven-
tures of Dunsterforce (published
1920). There is also With Horse and
Morse in Mesopotamia, edited by
Keast Burke (published in the
’twenties). (3) No, but there is a
Mesopotamian Units Association
(secretary, Keast Burke).
Brief Answers
R.L.K.: Write Beltane Book Bu-
reau, Box 965, Wellington, New Zea-
land. . rvM.S. : The editor of “The
Illustrated Journal of Australasia” in
1857 was William Sydney Gibbons.
R.K.McL.: Write Medical Bene-
fits Fund of Australia Ltd., M.H.F.C.
House, 7 Hamilton-street, Sydney..*.
J.L.; The book was Hitler, a Study
in Tyranny by Allan. Bullock, ob-
tainable from most booksellers....
T.E.F.; “The Payne Report” con-
sisted of the findings of W. L.
Payne and J. W. Fletcher, who were
appointed by the Commonwealth
Government in March, 1937, as a
board of inquiry to investigate and
report on the administration, develop-
ment and potentialities of the Nort
ern Territory P.McL.: Lett
posted E.T.: (1) Local technica
authority for information. (2) 0
soluble dye for color, but difficu
to disguise odor. Usual to declar
contents in certain lines. (3) Addre
is Diabetic Association of Australi
166 Phillip-street, Sydney, N.S.W
C.B.S.: Write Division of Woo
Technology, the Forestry Commi
sion of N. S. Wales, 96 Elarrington
street, Sydney, for leaflet “Preven
tion and Treatment of Borers anc
Termite Prevention in New Homes.
....R.L.8.: The Lansdowne Bridg
mentioned was built by David Len
nox with convict labor, and opene
by Governor Richard Bourke o
January 6, 1836. The bridge wa
designed by Lennox and work wa
begun on it in 1833. Lennox di
not build the Tasmanian Bridge
which is the oldest bridge in Aus
tralia C.W.W.: The Indian nam
for elephant “goad” is ankush. Th
Word is of Sanskrit origin, and
common in most of the provincia
languages of India J.C.R.: It
believed at present that “atomic
cars are impossible, but ships an
planes, experts say, are certain to b
atom-powered in the near future
T.G.: Write N.S.W. Departmen
of Eduction, Bridge-street, Sydney
.. ..D.8.: In Australia and its ter
ritories the Queen’s Royal style and
title is; “Elizabeth the Second, by
the Grace of God, of the United
Kingdom, Australia and her othe
realms and territories Queen, Hear
of the Commonwealth, Defender o
the Faith.” The Royal style anc
title applying to each British Com
monwealth country was settled a
the conference of Commonwealtl
Prime Ministers in London in Decern
ber, 1952... .N-K.: Of Mice anc
Men and The Grapes of Wrath are
by John Steinbeck, not Hemingway
Hemingway wrote A Farewell
Arms. .. .C.S.F.: “Cybernetics” i
the introduction into industry o
automatic control by the “electronic
brain.” Under cybernetics a com
plete industrial plant would be oper
ated and controlled by an electronic
brain. It is understood that Ameri
can industry is financing investi-
gation into this development....
J.E.H.: The population of Australia
at March 31, 1953, was 8,795,778
comprising 4,454,420 males and
4,341,358 females. This was an in-
crease of 197,170 in the 12 months
previous, the total population at
March 31, 1952, being 8,598,608....
N.F.: On September 25 New Cale-
donia celebrated the 100th anniver-
sary of France’s possession of the
island. Sir John Latham, former
Chief Justice of Australia, attended
the celebrations J.E.S.: The great-
est attendance at a football-match in
Australia was at the Australian Rules
grand-final in Melbourne in 1938
(96,486). In the Melbourne grand-
final this year there were 89,060
present.. ..K.L.: Write Angus and
Robertson, 89 Gastlereagb-street, Syd-
ney... .J.W.C.: (1) The term “Sparks”,
refers, on a ship, to the wireless-
telegraphy operator. In medical
slang it stands for the X-ray depart-
ment. (2) See Eric Partridge’s Slang
To-day and Yesterday .... J.L.H.:
Two women have “smashed the
sound-barrier” Jacqueline Cochran
(U.S.A.) and Mme. Jacqueline
Auriol, daughter-in-law of the French
President Mac Dee: A lamba is
a shawl or mantle woven by the
women of Madagascar, often highly
decorated in design... ;F.R.; Peter
Pinney’s travel-book Dust on My
Shoes was reviewed in The Bulletin,
5/11/’52... .L.S.: Iceland was pro-
claimed a republic on June 17, 1944,
after a plebiscite (May 23, 1944) in
which 90 p.c. of the votes cast were
for severance from Denmark. The
Act of Union of 1918, by which Ice-
land had been united as a, constitu-
tional monarchy to Denrsark, was
then repealed J.A.: (1) The
Hawaiian type of volcanic eruption
is the least explosive of eruptions,
because the quantity of gas in the
eruption, although in large amount,.
is small relative to the volume of
liquid lava. The greatest volcano in
the world, Mauna Loa, in Hawaii,
is of this type ; its location gives the
name to the type. It rises 13,675 ft.
above the level of the Pacific, and
its slopes descend 15,000 ft. to the
ocean floor. (2) The Niagara Falls
were formed, it is believed, at the
end of the Great Ice Age (about
500,000 years ago), when the river
was diverted by glacial action and
made to flow over a plateau of lime-
stone and shale. The fall is believed
to have been originally 300 ft. high,
but by erosion and levelling (due to
water-flow) the fall is now situated
some seven miles from the original
drop, and is reduced to 160 ft.


Pioneering Saga
Howitt Adventurers
By MARY E. WALKER
THE Howitt advance-guard.
Dr. Godfrey Howitt and
his brother Richard, landed
in Melbourne in 1839, the
former buying a block of land
in Collins-street, near Spring-
street, where he practised as a
physician and lived with his
family. He left his mark on Mel-
bourne as one of the founders
of the Melbourne Hospital and
of the Royal Society. Also a
naturalist, he left his butterfly
collection to the National
Museum.
Richard, poet and farmer,
bought a block of land where
Alphington now stands, but,
being better at writing than
farming, in a few years he went
back to England to write Aus-
tralia Felix, one of the first
informative books to be pub-
lished on the Port Phillip settle-
ment.
• In 1852, when fabulous reports
of the diggings were reaching
England—of this new Eldorado,
where horses were shod with
gold, where nuggets lay in the
streets, and fortunes could be
made overnight another
brother, William Howitt,
journalist, historian and Quaker
reformer, decided to see this
Australia Felix and judge for
himself.
With him came his two sons
Alfred and Charlton. Alfred
became the best-known' of the
family. History sets him down
as an explorer, as the discoverer
of gold in Gippsland at the
Crooked River; as police
magistrate and warden of the
goldfields; as an authority on
Gippsland’s geology; as an
anthropologist. He was awarded
the C.M.G. and the Von Mueller
medal for his scientific work;
Cambridge awarded him an
honorary degree of Doctor of
Science. Wherever scientists
forgathered, Alfred Howitt’s
name was held in respect.
So much for his public record.
The man himself can best be
known through his private
correspondence—letters to his
mother, Mary Howitt, the
English poetess. These, kept by
his mother, are now returned to
Australia to be cherished by the
fourth generation.
The Howitts had a whiff of
Australia the day before they
landed. William writes of an
aromatic odor, blown to them
on the land wind “like the scent
of a hayfield, but more spicy.
I said it was the yellow mimosa
which my brother Richard told
me would now be in full
flower.” Australia and the
Howitts had made contact.
Whatever idealised pictures
the mimosa might have called
up, Melbourne at first failed to
confirm; but the private gold
escort interested them: “Six
men riding two by two on great
shaggy horses,” writes Alfred.
“The men wear red flannel
jumpers, cross-belts, pistols in
their holsters and sabres clank-
ing at their sides. Starting off
at a gallop, they are soon swal-
lowed-up in their own dust.”
Again he writes: “Everyone
here talks diggings. The diggers
dress alike in red shirts, cabbage-
tree hats and muddy Wellington
boots, they have picks and
shovels and big rough dogs, and
they wear bushy beards and
moustaches.”
Horse-thieving was rife, so at
Dr. Howitt’s house in Collins-
street Alfred and Charlton, to
protect their horses, slept in the
stable, the groom having de-
camped to the diggings.
Alfred mentions “the whistling
crow” and “Daceh gigantea ”
which were later to become old
friends as the “magpie” and the
“laughing-jackass.” He recorded
their first nostalgic reactions to
what they found a strange, topsy-
turvy land:
“There are wild cherries that
are not wild cherries, an oak that
is not an oak; a currant that is
not a currant. Yet the English
are converting the wilderness
into pieces of England. They
speak of England as ‘Home.’
Here, in the new land, England
is reproducing herself.”
Soon, three of their English
friends arrived: Woolner, the
sculptor, who recorded in
medallion and marble many well-
known Melburnians; Bernhard-
Smith, also a sculptor; and the
artist William La Trobe Bateman,
cousin of Governor La Trobe,
who left valuable sketches to
record his bush journeys. These
three, with the Howitts, formed
a nucleus of culture in the drab
web of early Melbourne life.
In a few months’ time the
Howitts set out for the Ovens
Diggings, having scrapped most
of their English-bought equip-
ment. They drove two good
horses in a strong cart with an
out-rigger. William was the
unquestioned leader of the party.
He has been described as short
and stocky, with piercing eyes
and a fierce fringe of white hair
framing his ruddy face.
Although by birth and upbring-
ing a Quaker, he usually carried
a large stick and sometimes
pistols, and was ready to fight
for any cause which merited his
interest.
The journey to the diggings
followed the usual pattern of
its age and time. Bogs. Break-
downs. Bushrangers. All of
which the Quaker leader over-
came by direct or indirect
action. Near Euroa he was very
ill when a party of seven bush-
rangers and horse-thieves rode
up to the tent.
11l as he was, William rallied
and armed his forces, “deter-
mined if they demanded money,
to go to the tent on pretence of
fetching it, and then to give them
the contents of a revolver in
rotation.”
“We made up our minds,” he
continues, “to treat them as so
many wolves.”
As an anticlimax, one of the
bushrangers asked if they sold
lemonade.
Howitt said “We sell one thing
only, and that pretty dear.”
The men, “quailed by my
manner, rode away.”
Alfred went to Seven Creeks
Station to get help for his sick
father. They had reason to be
everlastingly grateful to Mrs.
Furlonge, of Merino sheep
fame; her nursing undoubtedly
saved Howitt’s life.
Trouble from horse-thieves
continually threatened them;
although the party never lost a
horse, their bulldog, Fincher, was
stolen. After a year’s experi-
ence of horse-thieves, Alfred
writes: “I have long made up
my mind to follow the Colonial
plan of making a skylight in the
first unauthorised person I find
meddling with my horse.”
Slowly and surety Australia
was claiming the Howitts. The
boy Charlton was the first to be
drawn to her. Alfred describes
him “wearing a dirty red shirt
and a battered cabbage-tree hat,
delighting in talking to all and
sundry about Australia, discuss-
ing all subjects from bullock-
teams to pouched mice.”
Alfred made it a practice to
sample the flesh of every native
animal he caught, and found
rrtost “not only palatable,
but excellent eating.” Young
bear roasted he describes as
Being like chicken, and, boiled
down, “the soup is so strong it
glues your lips together.” Por-
cupine he looked on as a
delicacy.
As his knowledge and under-
standing of Australia deepened,
Alfred writes enthusiastically of
this new land, and no longer of
its “monotonous woods” :
“Whatever may be said to the
contrary, Australian flowers
have most delicate perfumes;
after rain, the peppermint-trees
fill the air with spicy fragrance.”
He is no longer an outsider
looking in, but an old hand, the
seasoned bushman, when he
writes;
“As winter draws on we shall
probably go back to Melbourne.
I can assure you that, rough as
the comforts are, I shall be very
sorry when it is over, and I shall
look back to the wild forest and
cool streams with regret. The
only part of Australia I like is
the bush; the towns are odious,
especially Melbourne, where
dust, rain and raging heat con-
tend for supremacy.”
Or again:
“The flies, gnats and
mosquitoes may plague us as
they plagued the Egyptians of
old, but the flowers and birds
may stand against those of
almost any country.” It is his
declaration of faith in Australia.
Picture Alfred, with hobbles
strapped to one side of his belt
and a pistol to the other;
cabbage-tree hat, scarlet jumper,
rough trousers, jackboots and
spurs. “A razor has never
crossed my face since I came to
the colony,” he boasts.
In Melbourne he had pleasant
social interludes: a dance at
Richmond, to which he drove
the ladies through a very wet
night (covered with a tarpaulin
and dressed in all their finery,
they sat on the floor of a cart);
a ball at Government House, to
make his bow to Sir Charles and
Lady Hotham, He records that
“the covered approach to the
hall was lit with tallow-candles
in tin lanthorns; two sentries
guarded the haystack lest some-
one appropriate the vice-regal
hay for plebeian horses.”
He deplores the rather par-
simonious hospitality: “To
drink, we had colonial ‘swipes’
in earthernware jugs, and small
decanters of excruciating wine,
tasting like horrible physic”
The Howitt party travelled
from one field to another. The
Ovens, Spring Creek, Nine-mile
Diggings (which the Howitts dis-
covered), Ballarat, Forest Creek,
the Mclvor, Bendigo—the names
run like a litany of adventure.
They put little in their coffers
except experience, but Alfred
developed a bushmanship that
was to direct and influence the
whole course of his life.
William found Bendigo a
“hell, full of murders and
robberies. They were of daily
occurrence round us, but we
were never attacked” —a safety
he attributes to his habit of
sleeping with firearms to hand,
and surrounded by an arsenal of
pots and pans to give noisy
warning of any unlawful
approach.
After two years in Victoria,
William Howitt and Charlton
boarded the John Banks and set
sail again for England.
Charlton went because he was
judged too young to remain. He
went very reluctantly, for his
heart was in the bush. For
several years he lived in Eng-
land, keeping himself “hardy”
by often walking twenty miles a
day, and always sleeping on the
floor, rolled in his possum-rug.
Still in his early twenties he
sailed to New Zealand, where
the Government employed him
to search for gold about the
streams flowing west from the
N.Z. Alps. His search successful.
they sent him out again to open-
up a bridle-path from the Can-
terbury plains to the new gold-
fields, He did not come back.
Short of provisions owing to
severe floods, he and two of his
men in trying to cross Lake
Brunner in a dug-out canoe all
lost their lives. Charlton’s swag
was washed up, but their bodies
were never found.
Back home in England,
William Howitt, for his part,
still felt the influence of the
Australia he had known, its
space and freedom. Among
other activities, he wrote many
books, four with an Australian
background: A Boy’s Adven-
tures in the Wilds of Australia,
Tallangatta, or the Squatter’s
Home, Early Exploration in
Australia and New Zealand, and
Land, Labor and Gold, or Two
Years in Victoria.
In Australia the healthiness of
the eucalypt forests impressed
him, and he foresaw the use of
these trees in reclaiming swamp-
lands. To Dr. Bodichon
(husband of the founder of
Girton College), he gave bundles
of eucalypt seed, from which
grew a fine forest about Algiers.
Tre Fontaine Abbey, near
Rome, had unhealthy swamps
surrounding it, so Alfred and his
family sent quantities of Gipps-
land eucalypt seed for the
Trappist monks to use in plant-
ing and reclaiming the marshes.
For many years the monks dis-
tilled a liqueur from the
eucalyptus.
Tre Fontaine is the tradi-
tional site of the martyrdom of
St. Paul, so the eucalypts there
make a strange link between
Australia and Biblical times.
After William’s return to
England, Alfred emerged from
behind his father’s forceful per-
sonality j. For a time he worked
his Uncle Godfrey’s farm at
Caulfield ; but the life irked him.
He left it after a year or so, with
four pounds and his horse,
which he said must keep him, so
he went sheep-droving to
Echuca.
Then he spent some time on
the Mornington Peninsula with
the Barkers at Cape Schank,
where he was initiated into the
joys of hard riding after wild
cattle; he was a good rider and
horse-master, and writes: “No
one who has not experienced life
in the bush, or the enjoyments
of a cattle-station, knows what
life really is.”
On the Peninsula, too, he
stayed at Barragunda, where
Bateman was designing the
lovely homestead for Alfred’s
cousin, Mrs. Robert Anderson.
He found time to shoot twelve
dozen birds, preparing and send-
ing their skins home to the
British Museum.
He longed to accumulate
enough money to invest in a
cattle-station, but the riddle of
finance refused to be solved. So,
for the present, he put it behind
him and wept exploring in the
Dandenongs with three strange
companions, all artists: Von
Guerard (later director of the
National Gallery), Chevalier and
La Bruyere. They wore the
oldest of clothes, and hung
themselves round with sketch-
books, knapsacks, rolls of
blankets, tomahawks, guns and
hunting-knives; as they went
they beat time on a tin dish,
Chevalier dancing a pas seul as
the bush swallowed them up.
Rain fell incessantly; they
were forced to strip bark and
build mia-mias for rough shelter.
The watershed between the
Yarra and the Goulburn was
almost impenetrabfe with huge
dead trees, fallen logs and a
matted undergrowth of dog-
wood and scrub, lashed together
with supple-jack and wild vines.
Saturated ground, wet scrub and
shortage of food made explora-
tion decidedly unpleasant.
The artists wilted and cursed
Alfred for a phlegmatic English-
man when he sang as he tramped
and toiled in the bush for a fort-
night. In his letters home, he
makes acknowledgment of the
hold the bush had over him:
“The night, for once, was fine,
one of those Australian nights
when Nature seems to enjoy her
own calmness; the cries of a
few night-birds, the crash of
flying squirrels, the bellowing of
wild bulls answering each other
from their camps, make the still-
ness of night more striking.”
Again he writes:
“I have always found in the
bush, when travelling, let the
country be what it will, that
towards evening a camping-place
is found ; then, with cheerfulness
and a little patience, a home is
made in the wilderness. We soon
have our billy-cans boiling, our
rice cooking, and we spend a
long time making a little food go
a long way.”
Across the ranges, Alfred had
his first view of Gippsland,
when he saw in the distance the
Baw-Baw range. The nearer
scenery, under a full moon,
enchanted him—-the silvery light
shining on the leaves, the dense'
blackness of the shade, and, for
contrast, the red reflections of
the campfire. Daylight brought
disillusionment. The scene was
reversed : the trees were stunted
and hideous, the scrub was wet,
and the marshy creeks held
thousands of leeches.
For a time Alfred managed
Mt. Napier station for Hugh
Glass, who was one of a
syndicate seeking new country in
the Lake Eyre district. There
Alfred was put in charge of the
party seeking these new pastures.
A fierce drought and acute
shortage of water turned the
party back, tortured by thirst, to
their base. Alfred remarks in a
letter:
“Chewing a bullet is a poor
substitute for water. I chewed
one bullet flat.”
This rather unsuccessful
expedition was not so valuable
in itself as in the events to which
it led. From then on Alfred was
Howitt the explorer. The Gov-
ernment kept its finger on him,
and in 1860 sent him to Gipps-
land as leader of a prospecting
party to search for gold.
In all Alfred’s letters home, he
showed he was conscious of the
romance of exploration ; aware
that he was privileged to tread
the forest primeval; touched
with the importance of his
mission.
He prospected the head-waters
of the Mitchell, Dargo, Went-
worth and Crooked Rivers,
exploring and mapping the
valleys and the High Plains
where sedgy springs give birth
to many rivers. On the Crooked
River, he found gold in payable
enough quantity to provoke a
“rush,” and, rather regretfully,
his work done, he went back to
Melbourne.
“I am always better and
happier in the bush,” he writes.
“I suppose it is the wild man in
me, but I feel dreadfully
unsettled after the Crooked
River. I hate bricks and mortar
and towns and too many
people.”
Back there in civilisation,
Alfred found the country stirred
by the loss of the explorers
Burke and Wills, on their way
across Australia. The Govern-
ment determined to send out
three parties in search of them,
choosing Alfred to lead one. He
plunged quickly and thoroughly
into his preparations.
His trip is history. The season
was good; water and feed
abounded; but the natives gave
him cause for continual watch-
fulness. In a short letter home,
he writes: “Not a day passes in
the bush that I do not learn
something.”
His mission accomplished, he
buried the remains of Burke and
{Continued on. page 34)


AN IMPORTANT THING
ABOUT A GOOD WHISKY
IS . . .
FLAVOUR
—and in McCallum’s one
finds the palate-pleasing
flavour of a good Scotch
whisky unhurriedly and
competently brought to
perfection over the years.
&
Jil
mm
the name is
0)
the
v/hisk/
'M
Wholly distilled
and blended in Scotland
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Dvesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A . <?. Parker .
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States .
SPORTING NOTIONS
With stdkemoney in most
capital cities and in New Zea-
land now an all-time high, it
is little woaader the crack gal-
lopers of Australasia are amass-
ing huge totals. Hydrogen
leads, and he should add even
more to his 'present total before
he has finished racing.
His Mackinnon Stakes vic-
tory at Fleaaington last Satur-
day sent Hjhlrogen’s figures to
£55,429. It jtvas his 49th start.
In Australia* Phar Lap had 50
starts for £5^425.
Prince Mdrvi has now won
£19,815, andfhas proved a bar-
gain at the 11050 guineas paid
for him as a .yearling. The Vic-
toria Derby, as anticipated,
proved a match between him and
Cromis, with the Sydney colt
just shading his opponent in a
tight finish. Rest of the three-
year-olds were outclassed. It
said little for #iem when 50-to-l
Townsville finished a distant
third.
There is talk of the dual
Derby winner being taken to
America. Prisce Morvi, how-
ever, would be rated as a four-
year-old in the? U.S. from Janu-
ary 1, so he would be at some
disadvantage against the older
horses. Still, others from this
side of the Pacific have made
a name for themselves in
America, and in his present
form Prince Morvi would
threaten the best of his age in
that country.
Melbourne Cup winners oc-
casionally have been set the task
of adding the C. B. Fisher Plate
to their winnings? and some have
succeeded, but most owners of
the Cup winner &ave been con-
tent to rest' onl their laurels.
Formerly known ms the Canter-
bury Plate, then run at two
miles, the race in one year at
least had no betting—because
Phar Lap was in the line-up.
Thousands at Hemington this
week well remember Phar Lap’s
remarkable sequence in the
spring of 1930. 'lhe great gal-
loper was started four times, and
on each of the four days was
successful. Oni the opening day
he won the Melbourne Stakes
(H mile) at 1 on. On Cup
day he easily Won the big race
(2 miles) at 111 to 8 on, hottest
favorite in Cop history. The
Linlithgow Stdkes (1 mile), at
7 to 1 on, werijt his way on the
third day, andjon the final day
he beat.his onj|f two opponents.
Second *Wind land Lineage, in
the C. B. Fisher Plate (1£ mile).
There being rto betting on the
lastnamed ef ent, punters
watched the “Hed Terror” hav-
ing an exercise gallop.
The C. B. * Fisher Plate (1|
mile), run at |weight-for-age on
the final day |(Saturday) of the
V.R.C.’s sprirfc meeting, seldom
draws a field pf more than half
a dozen, but! some of the best
horses of thar years figure on
the list of its_winners. Hydrogen,
ridden by Qhrby Munro, was
successful last year at 5 to 4 on.
He beat Aldiershot and Davey
Jones in the slow time of 2 mins.
34| secs. Ajax scored at 6 to 1
on. High Caste, in winning the
race on three successive occa-
sions (1939, 1940 and 1941),
equalled the record of a noted
stayer, Alaeva, of the early
1900’s. Other crack performers
figuring in tfie Fisher Plate win-
ning-list include Phar Lap,
Gothic, Amounis, Hall Mark,
Artilleryman, Eurythmic, Ro-
gilla and Kennaquhair.
Sydney-owned fillies hold a
good recoifil in the Oaks Stakes,
highlight ct the third day of the
V.R.C. carnival (tomorrow,
Thursday), This rich mile-and-
a-half contest, worth £3500, dates
back to th(t year of the first Mel-
bourne Qip, 1861. Waterlady
(5 to 1) beat Celerity and favor-
ite Trunnion in last year’s race.
Other Syxjney fillies on the win-
ning-list iin recent years include
Grey Nurse, Nizam’s Ring,
Sweet Chime, Session and Siren.
The racelrecord-time (2.30|) was
made by Session hf 1940. In
the early years winners often
took three minutes and more to
cover the* mile-and-a-half.
The uacertainty of racing was
demonstrated when Victorian-
owned three - year - old filly
Caramba, who previously hadn’t
won a race and hadn’t won
much in*the way of minor place-
money, brilliantly won the
Wakeful Stakes against other
fillies with vastly superior form.
Raced by Mrs. Dalene Godby,
Caramba is a daughter of im-
ported Helios from Spanish Star,
a mare that was reserved for
the stud and that was got by
Gay Lothario (imp.) from
Donna Celesta by Great Star
(imp.). Caramba is a half-sister
to Phoibos, winner of the Caul-
field Guineas, C. B. Fisher
Plate, AJ.C. All-aged Stakes and
other good races.
One of Melbourne’s most
improved gallopers is Rio
Janeiro, this year’s Cantala
Stakes winner. He is a five-year-
old High Peak (imp.) horse from
Jasina, a mare by Cimbrian (a
smart middle-distance Mel-
bourne galloper of a few years
"I still don't think it's the right kind of training for
your table-tennis.”
ago) from Crow Call by Crow-
dennis (imp.).
Brothers Lord Forest (four
years) and Forest Chief (three
years) competed at widely-spaced
capital cities last Saturday.
Lord Forest was narrowly
beaten by My Hero in the
Hotham Handicap at Fleming-
ton, while Forest Chief easily
won the Doomben First Novice
(H mile), starting at even money.
Forest Chief is raced by J. W.
Fletcher, and with a little bit
on his age he could reach top
class in Brisbane. Both horses
are by Delville Wood (imp.)
from High Class by Magpie
(imp.). Their half-brother Bank-
stream won the Sydney Cup.
- • . •
Famous brothers Gaulus and
The Grafter, winners of the Mel-
bourne Cup more than 50 years
ago, figure back in the pedigree
of Doomben two - year - old
winner The Knob, who was
bought at the Randwick yearling
sales in April last for a modest
200gns. The Knob is a son of
Felcrag (imp.) and Widgery
(half-sister to Cape Neddick) by
Parkwood, and traces back to a
noted sire of the early years,
Gozo. Another winner in the
pedigree is Miss Noni, who will
be remembered by patrons of the
former “pony” meetings in
Sydney.
• • • •
Sydney trainer Jack Morgan
has three horses in Brisbane for
the Derby meeting, and he is
hopeful of success in the blue
riband with Star Crown, re-
cently second at Randwick.
Morgan started Lucky Stride
and Prince o’ Scots at the
Doomben meeting last Saturday,
but both were beaten into
second place, Lucky Stride los-
ing the Doomben Stakes Handi-
cap by a neck. Morgan won
last year’s Queensland Derby
with Headstockman.
Prominent Sydney sportsman
Arthur Murrell went close to
winning a double in two cities
last Saturday. His five-year-old
gelding Ocean Bound was suc-
cessful at Randwick, while his
two-year-old Vital Chance fin-
ished second in Brisbane to
O’Sullivan. Ocean Bound was a
9-to-l chance, though many
punters accepted shorter odds.
Vital Chance went to the post
at 10’s. Vital Link, who finished
third to Ocean Bound and who,
like Ocean Bound, is trained at
Randwick by Jack Mitchell, is
raced by Mrs. Murrell in part-
nership with Bill Dunlop, chair-
man of the N.S.W. Trotting
Club. Ocean Bound was a top-
class two-year-old, winning
£12,152, but last Saturday’s win
was his first since March, 1951.
In the absence of most of the
leading Sydney horsemen in
Melbourne for the Cup meeting
the lesser-lights were given their
chance to win money at Rand-
wick, and one of the midget
apprentices, Bill Toohey, profited
by the opportunity twice over,
winning on Craigavon and
Hans. Craigavon, who had con-
sistently failed in the city area
but had won races at Gosford in
recent months, was a 25-to-l
outsider for the main event, the
Collaroy Handicap, but Hans,
though he had not previously
won a Randwick race, was
backed to favoritism. Anyway,
young Toohey is a capable
horseman and could quickly add
to his list of wins.
Golf champion Norman Von
Nida was more than an in-
terested spectator at Randwick
on Saturday. His colors were
carried into fourth place in the
opening event, the Maiden
Stakes for fillies, by Merope, a
shapely daughter of Sabaeaen
(imp.) and Sunbride (imp.).
Merope showed a lot of pace
and should be all the better for
the experience, as it was her first
public outing. She was bred in
New Zealand, her sire a son of
Blue Peter, while her dam is
from a half-sister to a brilliant
English sprint filly, Easter
Bride. Middlebrook, who won
the Randwick event, is a sister
to Shannon.
* * *
A 15ft. putt for a birdie on
the last green gave Pickworth
the Australian pro. golf cham-
pionship at Royal Melbourne.
Against fellow-Victorian pro.
Peter Thomson in the final
Pickworth was behind all the
way, two down and four to play
at the 32nd, square at the 34th
and home on the last. The re-
spective rounds were 141 (Pick-
worth) and 142.
* * *
Let England beware! Nine-
teen-year-old R, Wall, of the Ayr
(N.Q.) Hornets cricket team,
took nine wickets for none in
two innings against Millaroo.
He did the hat-trick twice.
Doug Ring, who probably j
got into the Australian toun
side, and Geff Noblet, who jus
missed out, are both retiri
from first-class cricket. Rin
reason is persistence of a bac
injury, Noblet’s is busine
Both are in their mid-thirties.
Ring took 6-72 in the first Te
against S’Africa last year, b
thereafter lost his best form
Primarily a leg-spinner, his fam
in Tests actually rests more
his batting, which has alwa
had plenty of punch in it. L
most famous innings is probab
that in the fourth Test agains
West Indies, when he and Bi
Johnston put on 38 for the las
wicket and won the game, anc
series, for Australia (Rin
32 n. 0.).
Noblet has been the mainsta
of the S.A. attack since the enc
of the war. He went to S’Afric
(1949-50) and played in the fifl
Test there, and was also chose
twice against West Indies and i
the last Test against S’Africa i
1952-53. According to A. G
Moyes in Australian Bowler
“It was bad luck for the lon
man that he played in the day
of Lindwall, Miller and John
ston. With them in the sid
there was really no room fo
N0b1et..... .It speaks highly fo
the regard in which he was helc
that everyone rejoiced to se
him gain his cap. I believe h
would have been a certain choic
in any other international sid
of the period.”
South Melbourne, last year’
Melbourne premiers, is Lindsay
Hassett’s team, lan Johnson i
another notable in the side
Johnson’s Test efforts were sel
dom startling, but he was usefu]
and kept a place till discardec
after the first Test agains
S’Africa last year. In Mel
bourne’s grade-cricket recently
he had the day’s best figures
8-40, against Prahran, last year’s
runners-up. Surprisingly, con
sidering all the cricket he’s
played, this was the first time
since before the war that John-
son had played at Toorak Park
Prahran’s home-ground.
“J.H.”: In the Woodville-
West Torrens grade-match in
Adelaide recently (won on the
first by West Torrens), Wood-
ville opening-bowler Drennan in
the first innings clean-bowled
two present S.A. captains, Phil
Ridings, cricket skipper, and Bob
Hank, who skippers the State
Aussie Rules side and is a
capable grade batsman. What’s
more, on the following Saturday
Drennan again skittled the pair’s
stumps. He finished the game
with 5-36 and 5-30, and was
tipped as likely to succeed
Noblet in the State team.
“Driftsand”: A clue to the
Australians’ inability to retain
the Ashes lies in their bowling
figures. Since the first team
went to England in 1878 at least
one ball-toiler gathered 100
wickets on each tour. But not
this time. Seven players
managed 50 or more, but none
the coveted century,
•j •
“Col. Blazo II”: Many and
diverse the suggestions for
brightening cricket and attract-
ing the public. Here’s my pick
as the one most likely to do
both —South Melbourne club’s
introduction of a beer-garden so
that members (and their wives)
“can enjoy a drink and file
cricket at the same time.”


KUCHING’S
‘ TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
fs
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL %
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
■SYDNEY,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, |
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Not only the orchard was wild
The Pruning
Demonstration
By OLAF RUHEN
“"7* HERE were defects, I
f • realise now, in the site I
V chose for building my first
house —the only house I
ever built, or owned —but any-
one who had known that sec-
tion as long as I had, or loved
it as much, would have been as
blind to them as I, for it was
a magnificent corner of these
New Zealand hills, anciently un-
disturbed except for the scratch-
ing of a generation of men who
had felled the unimpressive bush
there and planted an orchard.
It was the steepest slope of the
hills, a tilted saucer of porphyry
that some ancient thunderplump
had stripped of its clay. The
clay spread out over the plain
below, where the City of
Dunedin ran out into its ocean-
side suburbs; and the porphyry
had been covered with a foot or
so of hard dry loam intermingled
with clay washings from the
slope above, and a broken vein
of some dark-red haematite.
But the half-acre that was
mine lay curving sensuously to
the sun, and its steep slope col-
lected afl the heat of that short
and sometimes indistinguishable
summer and the briefer, weaker
rays of the bright winter days,
so that tomatoes would grow and
ripen there in July; and there
was always a mistiness like the
blue of the Australian landscape
under the wattles that thrived
there as nowhere else in those
latitudes ; and it was dry under-
foot, and smelled of summer
hay instead of lawn-clippings.
Along my top boundary were
heavy trees, two golden cypress
and a few macrocarpas, nearly
dead beneath their burden of
creeper, but still affording a com-
plete privacy. Beneath them,
covering the interstices of space
about their butts, were hedges
of hawthorn, and laurestinus and
escallonia; and in front of the
hedges and between them grew
huge heavy wattles with trunks
eighteen inches in diameter, and
dwarfed red mays, and red
maples, and pepper-trees and a
camellia that had strayed in
from somewhere, with apricot-
colored flowers. Then there was
a very steep slope, almost verti-
cal ; and beyond that the
orchard started: sixty apples and
seventy pears, and some plums
and damsons and Kentish
cherries without number.
The trees had been planted
further back than anyone could
remember, but the majority were
still healthy. Broom and gorse
and briar roses grew thickly in
a jungle mass ten or twelve feet
high, yet in the densest thickets
most of the fruit-trees kept a
tenacious hold on life and faith-
fully produced woody apples and
pears that never fell to the
ground when they were ripe but
remained impaled on briar thorn
or caught in the forks of broom
twigs above the earth.
Where the St. John’s wort and
the blackberries had supplanted
the broom on the steepest slopes
a few of the apples and some
forty of the pears produced
brave crops. Some of them
cropped so heavily that year
after year their branches had
broken away with the load ; but,
deformed as they were, they
were not disheartened.
When I was a small boy these
fruits were the magnet; the
fruits and the chance of seeing
a hedgehog snuffling along
through the undergrowth. But
when I grew up the fruits were
secondary to the glory of wattle-
flowers and apple-blossom in the
spring; the painted leaves of the
ornamental pears —as distinct
from the edible variety; people
used to grow these pears for
their leaves as cherries are grown
for their blossom —in the
autumn, and the warm quiet
behind the sheltering trees.
From anywhere in my orch-
ard, myself unseen, I could stand
and look over the mists of the
City of Churches, as they used
to call Dunedin, the Edinburgh
of the South. To my left Aus-
tralian gums crowned a great
clay bluff which in summer was
a carpet of old gold because of
the flowering gorse; and from
the bluff’s foot the red-roofed
suburbs stretched briefly to the
harbor, backed by the symmetry
of Black Jack’s Point. Between
the harbor ahead and the ocean
to the right the Peninsular hills
timidly thrust an insign b.ant
barrier at the sky.
When I was a little boy the
hills were as high as the world,
and I could not understand why
the globe on the top shelf of the
store-cupboard represented that
the world was round. I used
to live near the sandhills that
fringed the ocean then; and
there were two things beyond
compare: the long breakers
running up the cliffs in winter,
and the orchard loud with the
bees of summer. I used to walk
there, about a mile, and sit and
watch the distant sea; and 1
knew that it was the most beau-
tiful place on earth.
I still felt that way when I
returned, old and seasoned, and
carrying twenty-four years with
a most remarkable immaturity ;
and built my house there. It was
financed on the most tenuous of
shoestrings, and we had to do
without quite a few non-essen-
tials such as paths, fences, re-
taining-walls, an entrance, and
all but the most essential fur-
nishings.
The builders constructed a
slide to get their materials to the
work. For their persons there
was only a goat-track that had
to be tackled at the run, both
going and coming, on account
of the steepness of the slope. A
total earning-power of sixteen
shillings a day (dry weather only)
kept my capacity small; but my
plans were expansive enough for
any income.
The house adapted itself to
the hillside by taking the form
of a shallow Vee. From the
clay bank at the rear one could
step on to the roof-tiles —I fre-
quently did, to clear the abun-
dant foliage from the guttering
—and in the front, only twenty
feet away, the foundations were
seventeen feet high before the
house began, which gives a
measure of the steepness of the
slope, “Front” and “back” were
misnomers; the front door and
the back were cheek-by-jowl,
and there was no other possible
place for them. The bathroom
had seven walls, and there were
other peculiarities occasioned by
the site, but it was our house,
and we loved it
Part of my plan was to make
the utmost of the orchard; a
desire* which was later foiled by
the New Zealand equivalent of
the Apple and Pear Board, but
one uppermost in my mind at
the time of building. In the early
winter before the builders came
on the job, I was anxious to get
the trees in some kind of trim
before the sap rose in the spring.
I decided I would have to learn
something about pruning. I had
cut away some of the under-
growth and planned to stack
it, cut into lengths for fuel, in
the enormous space under the
house as soon as that became a
reality, when I read the adver-
tisement in the paper ; and thus,
by inevitable stages, swam into
the ken of Mr. Mallow.
That was not his name. I
have forgotten what it really
was, perhaps as the result of a
solid six subsequent months in
which I made an honest endeavor
to forget the whole incident. I
am tempted to call him “Mr.
Thrush,” for he was a small,
brown, birdlike man, for ever
pulling away at advantage as at
a worm in the turf; for ever
making a bright song of
very little; for ever forcing
you to listen to pleasant-
ries that lacked continuity, and
indeed substance; an insignifi-
cant man of dowdy plumage, a
man who received and expected
more attention than he deserved,
but a pleasant and useful fellow
enough. But “Mallow” it will
be.
Mr. Mallow’s song was a
song of harvest. In the winter
of every year he advertised in
the paper his intention to give)
demonstrations of pruning, abso-
lutely free, to whomsoever;
should feel in need of the
lessons. Quite a large coterie of
people followed him round from
place to place and watched him
every winter Saturday.
In a vague way I suppose the
demonstrations helped the salts
of trees from his nursery. More
cogently they assisted his ego.
Mr, Mallow loved the position
of demonstrator. He never bad
enough of it to do. He adver-
tised for more orchards to prune ;
and in his orchards Mr, Mallow
asked nothing but variety—
cherry-orchards, apricot-orchards,
plum-orchards, gooseberry-plots,
apple- and pear-orchards ; a few
pedigreed trees, or a host of
common ones. Just so long as
he could vary his instruction to
meet the need, Mr. Mallow was
happy.
It was reasonable then to go to
Mr. Mallow and tell him that I
had an orchard with a great
variety of trees, including apples,
pears, plums, cherries, gages,
damsons and a medlar; and that
the trees had been neglected for
a half-century and presented an
intriguing problem. Mr. Mallow
was delighted.
“Of course the orchard is
rather wild as yet,” I told him.
“All the better,” he said. “All
the better.”
“Perhaps it would be as well to
come and have a look at it
first,” I suggested diffidently.
“Not at all, my boy,” he said.
“Just whart I was looking for.
A neglected orchard. The Sat-
urday after next. At three in the
afternoon. I’ll advertise the ad-
dress all next week.”
“The grass is quite long and
there is a certain amount of
wattle, scrub and broom. Quite
thick. Here and there you have
to push your way through it,”
I warned him.
“A medlar-tree,” he said, pay-
ing no heed. “I haven’t seen a
medlar for years. It would be
worth coming for that alone.
Are you quite sure it’s a medlar?
Do you,keep a lawn around it?”
“It’s not exactly what you’d
call lawn,” I said. “The grass is
quite long.”
“Next year you must keep it
cropped,” he said.
Whim the afternoon of the
pruning demonstration arrived I
went along to the orchard early
to make sure everything was in
order. The place looked as
much like Heaven as ever. Cer-
tainly it had been raining, and
the waist-high grass soaked my
clothes, but I felt that to be a
minor irritation. As was the
fact that the dampened clay
washings on exposed slopes con-
verted any downhill movement
into a glissade.
Mir. Mallow came early, too,
and when I emerged from the
gap in the hawthorn hedge by
which, lacking a gate, I usually
gained the steep slope that led
to the road, I saw him waiting
above me. Near by were four
elderly spinsters and a man in
a bowler-hat,
“Oh, good-afternoon,” said
Mr. Mallow. “I thought the
number you gave me was some-
where about here, but I just
haven't been able to find the
orchard anywhere. I really am
looking forward to seeing the
medlar. I haven’t seen a medlar
—or tasted one —since I was a
boy. Is the orchard near by?”
“This is it,” I said cheerfully.
“All this behind the hedge.”
“Oh,” said Mr. Mallow, and
it was only then that I realised
my orchard was not exactly on
the conventional pattern.
Mr. Mallow stepped gingerly
from the path, and his feet went
from under him on the slope, so
that he sat down at the top of
the bank. He looked startled,
but recovered his feet.
“I think we’ll wait for the
others,” he said.
It was a grey day; and a cold
South Island wind was blowing,
and by the time we had waited
twenty minutes we had all had
enough. By that time the party
had been augmented by nine
more women and a tall grey
man with a thin beard.
As each small party arrived
Mr. Mallow pointed rather hope-
lessly down the clay bank.
“It’s down there,” he said in
dispirited tones.
Finally he made up his mind,
gave a businesslike tug at his
coat-lapels, and said “Well, well
make a start.”
He half-walked, half-slid down
the slope and disappeared hur-
riedly through the hedge.
I was busy Jor the next ten
minutes handing women down
the slope, but after, when they
were all inside, I pushed my
way along their wake through
a dense growth of wet wattles
and found Mr, Mallow standing
by the nearest fruit-tree, a dis-
pirited apple from which I had
only recently hacked away a
heavy strangling stand of broom.
Mr. Mallow, shears in one hand,
pruning-saw in the other, had
assumed an expression of con-
tempt.
“There is only one thing to
be done with such a tree,” he
said. “Pull it out by the roots
and plant another one.”
I explained that further down
the slope, on the other side of
the standing brooraftscrub, the
fruit-trees were really* well devel-
oped and regular, but Mr. Mal-
low didn’t seem to hear me.
“Everyone has come to see a
pruning demonstration, so I will
go on with it,” he saiid. “But
believe me. Take nay advice.
Pull out all your treesuand plant
others.” He took another look
and said “Better still, build your
house somewhere else>and begin
a new orchard altogether.”
Hd began to prune the tree,
with a running commentary for
the benefit of the listeners, but
his heart was obviously not in
it. He was interrupted several
times by fresh parties of elderly
women who came charging
through the scrub frorrUan amaz-
ing variety of directions; artd
once he had to lie down for
twenty minutes in the open space
that had been cleared for the
house.
“I have a bad heart,” he said,
“but this is the first time it has
played up in seven years. Nor-
mally I take great care.” He
fixed his eyes on me accusingly
and added: “At most of my
demonstrations it has been cus-
tomary for the host to provide
afternoon-tea.”
There was nothing I could
say to that. Mr. Malloy moved
on to two or three of tie nearer
trees, describing each in turn as
a hopeless case, but indicating
how he would have gone about
pruning it if indeed it had been
worth pruning. Several times I
invited him to scramble down
the hill a little more and see the
Kentish cherries; or a rather
special jargonelle, or the Berga-
mots which were my pride and
joy, and a Reinette du Canada
which excelled itself in producing
outsize pears, but he declined.
“It means climbing up-again,”
he said. “But in any case they
will be no good. You should
have told me the trees were no
good,”
As he was going I remembered
the medlar, and mentioned it.
“Where is it?” he asked.
“Down the hill a bit, I’m
afraid,” I admitted.
“It will not be a medlaf,” said
Mr. Mallow firmly, though
mournfully. “I haven’t seen a
medlar since I left Devon.”
I did my rough pruning with
an axe that year, after I had
felled the scrub. 1 got a bumper
crop, especially from the pears,
some of which gave nine cases
to the tree. Quite a few of
the apples weighed more than a
pound. And the medlar was as
good as any.


df
Write for life
—. with a ...
Hard or Soft?
Thick or Fine?
Upright or Oblique?
The nib that suits one man will drive
another to distraction, so we make Swan
nibs in such variety that everyone can
find one that will "answer” to his hand
exactly. That’s one of the reasons why
it is so satisfying to own a Swan —the
precision writing instrument that is
made for a lifetime of faithful service.
Swan side-lever and leverless pens are
available at all better jewellers, stationers
and stores.
i
MABIE, TODD & CO, (AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
U. 69.1 ______
SYDNEY
established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
osmxmjf
; rrxm A ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporatinr
Watson Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HBATI OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
J. BULL SUPPORTING E.D.C.
dodged the issue. As a “New
York Times” correspondent
comments: “No French Govern-
ment has had the courage to put
it to a Parliamentary vote —some
for fear it would not be ratified
and others for fear that it
would,” The issue must be faced
any day now,
Mr. Churchill, in his most
recent foreign-affairs survey,
also spoke 1 very plainly on this
point. “If,” he said, “E.D.C.
should not be adopted by the
French, we [Britain] shall have
no choice in prudence but to
fall in with some new arrange-
ment which will join the
strength of Germany to the
Western allies through some re-
arrangement of the forces of
Nato.”
Hence, France (as seen by
a London correspondent of
New York “Herald Tribune”)
is not left much choice. The
alternatives to its turning down
E.D.C. are “quite simple”:
“First, the United States and
Britain would band together in
a move to obtain German mem-
bership in the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation. It was
this prospect—of an independ-
ent, rearmed Germany —that
led France two years ago to
propose the European Army
scheme. France, no doubtj
would oppose this with all her
might and guile, including the
veto power enjoyed by every
member of Nato. But U.S. Secre-
tary-of-State Dulles has already
hinted broadly, in private, of the
turn American policy would take
if both these projects—the
E.D.C. and Germany in Nato—
collapsed. Thus, we have the
second alternative: an Ameri-
can withdrawal from north-west
Europe and a retreat to what is
known as ‘peripheral strategy.’
“Both these alternatives are
ugly ones. But there is some
sympathy for the American atti-
tude in Britain. Prime Minister
Churchill’s Government is fully
prepared to join the United
States in pressing France to
ratify the E.D.C., and, if that
fails, in urging German member-
ship in Nato. If that, in turn,
Over the past month or two
there has been a noticeable in-
crease in reports to the effect
that Britain’s attitude towards
the European Defence Com-
munity is becoming much more
favorable and more in line
with that of the U.S.
An excuse for delay has been
that no one knew precisely what
Britain’s attitude was: it has
lately been explained by Under-
secretary for Foreign Affairs
Nutting as being that “Britain
would give full support, short of
participation, to the E.D.C.”
Hitherto the question of how
much support had been left
rather vague.
Mr. Churchill, too, has re-
cently spoken very plainly on
E.D.C.: “We,” he has said of
Britain’s commitment, “are go-
ing to do our utmost to promote
the formation of the European
Army with a strong contingent
of Germans in it. We, like the
Americans, shall maintain our
forces in Europe, thus restoring
the French balance of equality
with our German associate.”
Adenauer’s convincing win in
the German elections, endorsing
his campaign policy of integrat-
ing Germany with Western
Europe in that and other
respects, is held to be one major
factor now influencing Britain.
In a “New York Times” article
Robert Schuman, leading French
advocate of a united Europe, has
pointed out that the German
Chancellor made his whole cam-
paign on the doctrine that the
integration of Germany into
Europe is the first essential to
all other objectives, including
the unification of Germany and
peace based on Franco-German
co-operation. “Two out of three
German voters approved this
point of view, thus repudiating
both nationalism and neutral-
ism.”
The U.S. pact with Spain
could be another factor influenc-
ing Britain and also hastening
E.D.C. action, one way or the
other, in France, just as France’s
delays no doubt helped clinch
the deal with Franco. For close
on eighteen months France has
fails, as it might well do, there
would be more than a little sym-
pathy, tempered by considerable
alarm, in the Churchill Cabinet
if the United States decided to
pull out of both Germany and
France and relied on its air-
power to save itself.”
A Paris correspondent of
“New York Times” quotes re-
ports there and in Bonn that the
British “are working behind the
scenes to secure the ratification
of E.D.C.” Another corres-
pondent of the same New York
paper has reported;
“The British Government is
now understood to have become
an advocate of the European
Army treaty, partly because the
British believe the West Ger-
mans have an unfair advantage
London "Daily Mail"
THE NEXT STEP?
in foreign markets as a result of
their freedom from the financial
burdens of defence borne by
nations that compete with them
commercially,
“Consequently the British have
offered far closer association of
their Continental forces with a
European Army than they were
willing to offer last spring when
negotiations on this subject were
opened. The British have agreed
to train German troops in Eng-
land, to link their Air Force
with the Continental one and
to be represented by a Minister
in the Council of Ministers pro-
vided in the treaty.
“The concessions, though
falling short of full membership,
are expected to go far to allay
French apprehensions of being
left ‘alone with the Germans’ in
a united army—apprehensions
long held by Socialists and
others in the French Parlia-
ment.”
London “Economist,” explain-
ing E.D.C. and how it can, and
should, be used, implicitly advo-
cates British support:
“The E.D.C., thanks to the
arguments and misrepresenta-
tions of its opponents, has been
made to look like a monstrous
conspiracy to liberate Com-
munist Europe by German
soldiers using American tanks ;
whereas it is, in fact, an attempt
to ensure that the restoration of
independence to a German Gov-
ernment will secure its allegiance
to a European community and
provide a limited —but only a
limited —contribution to the
common defence.
“So long as the Russians have
the faintest hope that the Wes-
tern ranks can be divided on
this issue they will continue to
represent the European Defence
Community as the main obstacle
to peace and German unity.
That bluff must be called before
any progress in negotiation cain
be made ; and the way to call it
is to press on with the political
acts that are needed in France
and Italy to bring the community
into existence and the Bonn con-
ventions into force.
“Clearly the Malenkov regime
wants to concentrate as much as
possible of the country’s energies
and resources on simultaneously
improving the standard of liv-
ing, continuing the sensational
progress in heavy industry and
assisting the industrialisation of
China. To be left alone to pur-
sue such aims it may be willing
to pay quite a high price to the
West.
“But there is no sign so far
of what the price might be ; and
the sign is lacking for the simple
reason that the hesitations and
disagreements among the Wes-
tern allies must have made
Malenkov and his advisers hope
that no price at all need be paid.
Dr. Adenauer’s victory was a
warning that the judgment was
wrong ; but it needs reinforcing
by a clear determination to go
on with the organisation of a
strong Western Europe for the
containment of Soviet influence
and the restraint of German
nationalism.”
In the U.S., where E.D.C.
optimism has always been
strongest, action on those lines
is expected shortly. U.S. Assist-
ant Secretary of State for Euro-
pean Affairs Livingston is quoted
as expressing confidence that
“the Parliaments of the nations
involved will approve the E.D.C.
treaty within the next month or
two.” On this the Baltimore
“Sun” comments:
“As we examine these hopeful
possibilities, remembering as we
do so how often in the past
similar hopes have risen and
faded, we might glance for a
moment at Mr. Livingston’s
further report that Charles E.
Bohlen, U.S. Ambassador to the
Soviet Union, does not foresee
any violent Russian reaction if
the European Army plan goes
through. The Russians, of
course, will cry against the
E.D.C. until the final ratification
votes have been counted. Once
it has come into existence, how-
ever, they will have to take it
and like it, or fight. Mr. Bohlen
apparently believes that they are
not prepared to fight, on that
point at least.”
Ike's Handicap
Why President Eisenhower
isn’t so internationalist as many,
judging by his record, expected
him to be has been explained by
a “New York Times” corres-
pondent thus:
“When Dwight D. Eisenhower
carried the country he did not
merely enter the White House
as a distinguished inter-
nationalist. He carried into con-
trol of Congress a predominantly
rural and predominantly Mid-
western Republican party that is
and always has been —never
mind the great exceptions like
the late Senator Arthur H. Van-
denberg, of Michigan—basically
nationalist in its thinking.
“Not to grasp this point is not
to grasp the history of the last
40 years or so. It has been the
Democrats who since the time
of Woodrow Wilson, right or
wrong, have slowly forced this
country [U.S.A.] from political,
and sometimes economic, isola-
tion to the present position of
the world’s rather reluctant
leader. Thus when the Republi-
cans returned to power after 20
years they brought with them at
the centre of the stage one of
history’s greatest administrators
in the art of international col-
laboration, But in the wings
they brought a Congressional
group that has never accepted
by conviction of heart that
which part of it has often agreed
to accept as a matter of emerg-
ency pressure—the notion of
genuinely close association with
Europe.”
German Nonsense
After seeing the effects of the
extraordinary uprisings in East
Germany in June and consider-
ing the attitude of Germans in
general towards Russia, leading
American foreign-affairs writer
Stewart Alsop suggests that U.S.
policy in Germany, having been
based on assumptions which
have thereby been proved fal-
lacious, is due for overhaul.
The view would be strongly
reinforced by Adenauer’s easy
victory in the West German
elections.
One assumption on which
U.S. policy has been based, says
Alsop in New York “Herald
Tribune,” is that the Russians
will fake any supposedly free
election which might precede a
German peace treaty and Ger-
man unification. The answer, he
holds, is “let them,” as long as
the Red Army is withdrawn, the
experience of these recent
months having proved without
question that Ulbricht, Grote-
wohl and the lesser Soviet
puppets in Germany could then
save their lives in only one way


Lindbergh's
Own Story
Now, for the first time,
Charles A. Lindbergh tells the
complete story of his famous
New York-to-Paris flight.
November Reader’s Digest
brings you a 30-page condensa-
tion of this autobiography—a
selection of the Book-of-the-
Month Club. Salted with dare-
devil exploits of Lindbergh’s
youth, pulsating with the
thrills of an epic ocean-span-
ning flight, It is a classic
among real - life adventure
stories.
Also in November issue
“Kinsey Report on Female Sex
Behaviour”—and other stimu-
lating articles condensed from
world’s leading magazines and
current books. On sale now
—l/6 at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine,' Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Manager.
—by scuttling out in the van of
the Red Army:
“Another assumption has
been that, given the withdrawal
of the Red Army, the Soviets
would leave behind a Com-
munist ‘apparatus’ which would
take over all Germany. This is
nonsense. The long-established
Communist apparatus in Eastern
Germany collapsed instantly and
totally in June, and was re-estab-
lished thanks only to the Red
Army.
“A third fear has been that a
united and sovereign Germany
would soon form a German-
Soviet alliance on the Rapallo
pattern. For the immediately
foreseeable future, at least, this,
too, is nonsense. Given only the
withdrawal of the Red Army,
under whatever conditions, a
violently anti-Communist,
strongly anti-Soviet, all-German
Government will very quickly be
formed. The real danger, in fact,
is all the other way —that a
united, sovereign Germany
might eventually drag the West
behind it into a war with the
hated Russians.”
Disowning Joe
Malenkov’s policy statement
at the last meeting of the
Supreme Soviet has since been
generally interpreted as mdicat-
mg that things had been going
very badly in Russia under the
through the speech. ,
These concessions, said
Russian expert Edward Crank-
shaw in “Manrbester Cuardian ”
snaw m Manchester Ouardian,
“add up to a revolutionary
change of line, and put beyond
all doubt the seriousness of the
anti-Stalin reaction.”
Thev mean amone other
thingsftha?“ta wMe fabric of
Stalin’s post-war agricultural
policy has been shattered, and
the failure of that policy
admitted. The changes, if
announced boldly and unequi-
vocally for what they are, would
be seen to be the most radical
disowning of Government policy
for many years past.”
Nationalising Out
The general run of British
voters (as observed editorially
by London “News Chronicle”)
are already expressing, “with
unusual clarity,” the “priorities”
on which their next votes will be
cast:
“It is as plain as it could be
(short, perhaps, of a national
referendum) that no priority at
all is now being given to any
new project of nationalisation.
“The essential reason behind
this manifestation of public
opinion is similarly clear. The
British voter, for the most part,
is simply not prepared to attach
the maximum importance to the
argument that nationalisation is
the logical and proper course
because it accords with basic
Socialist theory.
“The lesson of the last few
years is that the British voter is
not immensely exercised by what
is and what is not basic Socialist
theory. The British test is not
Is it sound doctrine ? but Does
it work ?
“Nationalisation, where it has
been effected, has not been seen
to work so well and with such
advantages to both State em-
ployees and consumers as to
justify any manner of extension,
On the contrary, nationalisation
has erected a warning-sign
against a danger that has been
little considered in the past. It
is the danger that an industry or
an undertaking run by the State
may assume a size which makes
it too big and too unwieldy to
be controlled. The electorate will
assign one of its priorities to the
reduction of this danger.”
“Manchester Guardian” sees
“nationalisation” as symbolis-
j ng » tke futility of the whole
Bevanite campaign”:
„ Does anybody [it as ks] now
H (h he nationaUsa tioa
_
of * he a * rcraft mdus
produce better or faster British
aeroplanes? Is the nationalisa-
fi°n of rented agricultural land
likely to increase anything ex-
cept officials? Is steel to be
nationalised and denationalised
every few years on the chance
turnover of votes in a handful
f marginal constituencies? The
trade-unions have clearly mani-
fested impatience,and distrust of
this clamor for nationalisation.
Mf Churchill, in his recent
swee pj n g survey of world and
h £ affairs a i so noted a wide-
d turnin g. awa y from the
ationalisati on fallacy.” He
sa j d .
“Nothing is -.d^than
Sl,"ved fm-
w . nrp
/ n . • • Vu f a i
altering their Opinion. Ihe tai-
nationalisation of all
UIC /‘v. .•
the means of P ,
j? udoa ai ? d e * f ’ th m
“ sed , to “
Dorado of the working man—
this fallacy has already become
a PP arent to ml 10 •
“There are now grave doubts
about the theory of nationalisa-
tion and there are even more
disagreements about the practice,
The trade-unions and Co-opera-
tives are organisations in daily
con tact with reality. They are
not hunting for votes and ppliti-
cal notoriety but facing facts.
There is anxiety among them
lest, for the sake of political
slogans, the practical interests of
t he large masses for whom they
are responsible will be en-
dangeretk A few years ago
nationalisation was the cure . aU
for social and econ omic difflcul-
fes . nQW , here is a general
that it is an utter flop^
There is no doubt that it has
P rovec l a failure, hampering the
competitive power of our mdus-
try, rendering an inferior service
fo the public and weakening the
l“ st , and necessary influence of
*e trade-unions by confronting
Jem, not with private employers,
hut with the power of the
“All this is an illustration of
the inherent fallacy of Socialism
as a philosophy.”
Isolating the U.S.
Uncle Sam, as viewed by
“U.S. News and World Report,”
is in the process df being iso-
lated by other Western nations
and by U.N.O. —over Russia.
The U.S. publication notes
“growing pressure” for a deal
with Moscow;
“Britain insists on trying for
one. France and Italy do as
well. The United Nations is
tending to gang-up on the U.S.;
trying to force it to talk with
Russia about big deals involving
the world.”
The odds, it says, are against
top talks for the present, be-
cause, while Russia, with noth-
ing to lose, wants these to seal
her conquests,’ to get the Western
nations to recognise the new
Communist empire, the U.S.,
with nothing to gain from talks,
can only make concessions to
Russia if it enters them.
Neutralism is noted as taking
on more appeal than ever for
Europe: “Britain, already, is
angling for the role of ‘honest
broker’ between the U.S. and
Russia, and trying to stay in the
middle in the United Nations.
France is ducking on defence
commitments that Russia
opposes. Italy, like France, is
backing away from the Euro-
pean Army. The idea, more and
more, is to try to get out of the
line of fire; to let the U.S. and
Russia square off alone if there
is to be a showdown now or
later.”
Winston Anthony
Welcomed back into harness
by London “Daily Mail”:
“Looking back upon the past
few months, it is these two —
New York “Herald Tribune”
“WELL, WHAT DO YOU KNOW. I THINK
IT'S COMING!"
and only they—who have been
responsible for any progress in
removing world deadlock.
“Sir Winston’s contribution-
his proposal for a high-level
conference—has made history.
But Mr. Eden’s has been no less
impressive. He did more than
any other statesman to bring
peace in Korea. The Indian
plan upon which the truce was
Anally based grew out of a
speech he made to UN.O m
November, 1952. When this
proposal reached deadlock he
suggested, as a means of break-
mg it, the exchange of sick and
wounded prisoners. This led to
further agreement and to the
armistice.
“Never before was wise and
experienced statesmanship so
desperately needed as it is to-
day. It is the world’s one hope
—and the world looks to the
British Prime Minister and
Foreign Secretary to provide it.”
Dulles
As already noted here, U.S.
Secretary of State John Foster
Dulles gets probably the worst
“Press” (especially in Britain)
that any holder of his office has
had.
A change may be on the
way; London “Observer’s”
Washington correspondent now
reports that Dulles “is begin-
ning to be accorded increasing
respect both by Allied diplo-
mats and by American observers
and diplomatic officials who
have hitherto been highly critical
of his conduct of affairs.....
“Those diplomats who have
dealt with him at first-hand in
recent months feel that the pub-
lic estimate of him, in Britain
and Europe, does considerably
less than justice to the flexibility
of his mind and to his readiness
to take account of other points
of view.”
Dragnet Digest
Alcoholics. There being,
these days, somebody to count
up everything, the World Health
Organisation has figured out
that the U.S. holds the world-
record for alcoholics: 3952 per
100,000 adults. The French are
runners-up with 2850. France,
however, wins easily in alcoholic
consumption per year about
seven gallons of alcohol in the
pure state for every man,
woman and child
Air-power. —Reported on by
London “Economist”: “In this
age of jet-aircraft and atomic
weapons, air-power has become
the predominant factor in Brit-
ain’s strategic calculations. This
is true not only because Britain
could be crippled, if not de-
feated, by air-attack alone, but
also because neither sea-power
nor land-power can provide the
means of effectively restraining
or striking at the only enemy it
has to fear.”
U.N.O. Low. Washington
correspondent of “New York
Times”: “The United Nations,
assuredly, is at the lowest point
of (U.S.) Congressional esteem
in its short and hard history.”
Profit Aloft. London “Fi-
nancial Times” takes its own
sort of look at air records;
“During the financial year 1947-
48 the gross deficit of 8.0.A.C.
amounted to £7.571m. By 1952
this deficit had been wiped out
and the Corporation recorded a
gross profit for the financial
year 1951-52 of £274,999.”
By Way of Comparison. —
“U.S. News and World Report”
looks into election figures: “In
West Germany, a country still
divided into zones of occupa-
tion, a country which Soviet
Russia desires to control more
than any other. Communists got
only 607,413 votes out of 27.5
million cast. They lost all of
their 15 seats in the West Ger-
man Parliament. Less than 2.2
per cent, of the West Germans
who voted took the Communist
bait. In France, which receives
more U.S. aid, per capita, than
any other country on the Con-
tinent, the Communists got 5
million votes out of 18.9 million
cast. That is more than 1 out
of every 4 votes in France for
the Communists.”
U.S. Slump Signs. —Noted in
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
feeling that the American econo-
my is losing the forward mo-
mentum that brought about the
amazing war and post-war ex-
pansion is reflected in the pages
of all serious American publi-
cations that look beyond 1953.
It is supported by the figures of
large accumulating stocks of
raw materials and finished
goods, especially in the heayy-
and durable-goods industries.
The continued growth of instal-
ment credit, though probably
not yet dangerous, suggests that
demand is in need of artificial
stimulation.”
Soviet-held P.-0.-w. —Editori-
ally reported on by “New York
Times”: “A commission has
been at work for two years in
an effort to gain freedom for
1,500,000 Second World War
prisoners still missing and pre-
sumed to be in Soviet confine-
ment or slave-labor camps. The
Soviets have simply ignored
this commission and little has
been accomplished except to
list numbers and names. The
United States has already de-
nounced the Soviets for their
inhuman attitude. What is re-
quired now is to cite the Soviets,
and if necessary the Chinese
Communists, before the bar of
world opinion to answer to the
indictment. This is a duty which
inevitably falls to the United
Nations and which it cannot
afford to ignore.”
They Get Around. —In 1933
(“U.S. News and World Report'’
figures) U.S. armed forces were
serving in three countries, in
1943 in 39 countries, and this
year of 1953 they’re serving in
49 countries.
Hat Trick. Sir Ambrose
Heal, London “Times” letter:
“It should not be inferred that
because it was a custom to pre-
sent a hat to the performer of
the hat trick that any particular
make of hat was habitual or that
the term bowler hat originated
from the practice. The name
for that type of headgear de-
rives directly from the original
maker, Mr, Bowler, of the old-
established firm of hatmakers
which was founded at Denton
near Manchester in the eigh-
teenth century and subsequently
migrated to London. The tradi-
tion in the family is that the
hat owes its name to a certain
William Bowler whose factory,
according to the London Direc-
tory of 1852, was near South-
wark Bridge.”
Where Did That One Go
Off? —“Competent independent
scientists” are quoted by “U.S.
News and World Report” as
vouching for the fact that by
sampling the upper atmosphere
it is possible to tell three things,
beyond any reasonable doubt:
(1) that an atomic explosion has
occurred in a certain area ; (2)
what material (plutonium or
uranium 235) caused the ex-
plosion, and (3) whether the ex-
plosion occurred in the air or
on the ground. And “the U.S.
has a system for taking such
samples all around the world.
It employs new, unique instru-
ments of incredible sensitivity.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“Poor Old Repat.”
Poor old Repat. has stood in the dock
a long time. In time and verbiage the
case must be second only to the Pyjama
Girl. Repat. has been accused, inter alia,
of neglect and discourtesy, of being under
the influence of forms and red-tape, and
recently (B. 14/10/’53) of having in its
‘possession a cockeyed medico-legal set-
up with intent to commit torts and
felonies.
Yet what is the proportion of men
who should have received pensions and
didn’t to those who should not have re-
ceived them and did? I would say ICO
of the latter to one of the former.
What is the proportion of psychological
defects to accident and combat injuries,
and how many of the nervous indigestions,
neurasthenias and irritable colons, etc.,
were ever north of the “Brisbane Line,”
and owed their incapacity to enemy action
and not to inherent personality defects?
Your guess is as good as mine, but I
feel we could have a royal commission
every week on the amount paid out in
these pensions.
Tis said the officers are hard to
approach and discourteous. No wonder.
They’ve all had their legs pulled so long,
so hard and so often that they probably
need crutches. The best I know in that
regard was a gentleman who secured an
early discharge (plus a pension, of course)
by the simple expedient of developing
a “spot” on the lung. Lead paint is
opaque to X-ray and a little applied to
the skin at the right time
Senator Cooper was annoyed when he
heard that a man with inoperable cancer
was sent home to die (B. 14/10/’53). In
that case Health Ministers had best
keep out of their hospitals or they’ll all
get savage as hornets, for until someone
finds a cure for cancer that tragedy is
repeated every day in every week in all
large hospitals.
Repat. has a pretty fair record in two
wars and a very large family to main-
tain. — Jonfor (Q).
Debit and Credit
Years ago private credit was
advanced almost exclusively by money-
lenders, pawnbrokers or a few stores
specialising in instalment payments. The
business was transacted rather furtively,
as the clients did not wish to advertise
the source of their affluence. Within the
last 25 years the scene has changed.
The success of the few credit-mongers
has induced or compelled many of the
cash stores to follow the gleam, first by
offering to supply goods on payment of
a deposit to be followed by “easy” instal-
ments, and then by waiving the initial
deposit.
The result is that such trading has
become fashionable instead /of furtive
and that thousands of buyers find it con-
venient to live beyond their means by
signing on the dotted line. Keeping up
with the Joneses is easy. The only diffi-
culty is keeping level with the due dates.
The tempting technique gives the
appearance of prosperity, but it is simply
private inflation. It is quite legal and
respectable, but debt is always danger-
ous, and a drought or a depression,
always possible if not imminent, will
prove that the present boom for borrow-
ing from the future is really a symptom
of present bankruptcy or, at least, a
shortage of ready cash. — Jock W. (S.A.).
Juvenile Crime
Undoubtedly the influence of the home
is of most importance. A large number
of parents whose children have ended-up
in the police court protest that they are
“decent, hardworking people.” That is
just the trouble. They are too hardwork-
ing, both of them. Many parents are
unwilling to give up the extra money
earned by the mother working, and the
children are left too much to their own
resources. Childish mischief soon leads
to juvenile crime.
Broken homes, of course, are inevit-
able causes of juvenile crime, although
a Child Welfare officer told me once that
it is the breaking homes that affect
children most : the antagonism ever pre-
sent between the parents breeds an
antagonism against society within the
child. There have always been these
homes, but since the war the position
has worsened.
Newspapers for their part give far too
much publicity to criminals and their
methods rather than to the horror of the
crimes they commit.
Next, modern education is lacking in
discipline. Psychologists stress the untold
harm done to the growing child by cor-
poral punishment, but they forget the
obvious harm done by lack of discipline.
The old-fashioned birch may have started
a few along the road to crime, but it
kept a dickens of a lot more on the
straight and narrow.
The causes are obvious to any think-
ing person. What is to be done about
them is the problem. Publicity is needed
in the first place. Parents must be shown
the duty they have to their children by
drastic means if others won’t suffice. The
law should see that the parents, too, are
in front of the magistrates.— Wackford
(N.S.W.).
Egg*
“Tukang Kebun’s” argument (B.
14/10/’53) that the high cost of eggs is
due to increased costs of poultry-feed is
true enough, and it is obvious that costs
of upkeep hit the poultryfarmer and
backyarder equally.
Still, any producer entirely dependent
on buying feed cannot possibly carry on
his business economically and, at the
same time, give the consumer a fair deal.
Long before egg boards came into
existence, the farmer with a large acre-
age under crops produced eggs as a side-
line. Now, with so regulations to
be observed, that source of supply has
practically ceased. No farmer can afford
the time to fill-in yet another batch of
forms. Boards have been responsible for
encouraging poultry-breeding by many
persons lacking practical experience—*
and all of them lacking arable land.
In Hobart nearly every grocer’s win-
dow displays the Egg Board’s printed
card, urging people to buy eggs for pre-
serving while supplies are plentiful. Yet
the price is ss. 3£d. a dozen, as against
ss. lid. when they were in short supply,
and as eggs sold through the board are
invariably stale, there is no great likeli-
hood of a buyers’ rush for a saving
of 8d!
There was a time when supply and
demand governed prices. Now, appar-
ently, prices are governed by boards, and
producers and consumers alike foot the
bill. —J.B, (Tas.).
Rabbits
After suffering a death-knock from
myxomatosis of about 80 per cent, in
less than three years, the Victorian rab-
bit is threatening to stage a comeback.
According to the Lands Department, it
is increasing at an alarming rate and
within a few years will be as thick as
ever, and for obvious reasons.
The killing-off of the 80 per cent,
caused an enormous growth of pasture,
some in places where grass hadn’t grown
“Then we have the peg-leg, which is strictly functional."
for generations. The 20 per cent, sur-
vivors had an unprecedented supply of
fodder, and, as rabbits reach sexual
maturity at four months, produce an
average of six litters per year, with an
average of five or six young per litter—
well, work it out for yourself.
The Australian rabbit was started on
its fell career by a Geelong farmer who
received 24 rabbits from England. Six
years later he killed 20,000 on his own
property and estimated that one-third of
the population remained. In the late
1870’s the Geelong rabbit crossed the
Murray, ten years later reached Queens-
land and by 1895 had crossed from S.A.
into Westralia, Within 40 years rabbits
had spread from the original Geelong
two dozen to cover an area equal to half
the continent of Europe.
This positive achievement of bunny,
however, was spectacularly outdone on
the negative side by myxomatosis. It
" Shake it up—I've HAD it!”
covered with dead rabbits in three
months an area of eastern Australia
roughly the same as that occupied by live
rabbits in 15 to 20 years. In the summer
of 1950-51 it was spread by the scientists,
helped probably by the mosquito, over
an area of 1000 by 700 miles. It was the
second most successful demonstration of
the biological control of a pest in his-
tory, the other being the elimination of
prickly pear in Queensland.
Myxo. has the ball at its feet as regards
bunny. It has only got to be kept on
kicking. Of course a mutant virus might
arise and produce a race of immune
rabbits, but it wouldn’t be beyond the
capacity of science to deal with that. —
C,B. (Vic.).
Television
I’ve just had a look at television and
I’m not too sure about it. Its weakness
and its danger is that it has to be
watched. The radio can be used in the
background and a normal home life can
continue, but that’s not possible with
TV. Everything must stop, the lights
must go out and all family communica-
tion is broken.
One American writer claims that,
despite TV, children soon return to old
habits of study and scholarship, I doubt
it. The student who has a matriculation
exam, and a university career to look
forward to will soon get back to his
study if he finds TV interfering with it,
but that is not so with the big majority
of children of average intelligence. It is
these who tolerate school and do their
home-study only when they know that
it means trouble not to. These are the
ones who will be most affected by TV.
The claims that television is educa-
tional are not logical. If it were educa-
tional the public would soon stop looking
at it. The public does not want to be edu-
cated. The citizen today goes to a movie
or reads a book for entertainment or
relaxation. But such relaxation is not
possible with TV. No one can sit gaz-
ing at a small screen and relax. Also,
although few people ever go to a movie
each night of the week, with TV they
will get movies in their home night after
night.
Since television is inevitable, the best
thing we can do is to see that it is limited
to certain hours of the day,—R. W.
(N.S.W.).
Sex
Kinsey’s report and opinions are based
chiefly on questionnaire data. He could
not possibly have had the intimate
personal knowledge of the lives of the
thousands of people interviewed that is
necessary for really accurate conclusions
as to the sex habits of American citizens.
Questionnaires can be very misleading
in the absence of intimate knowledge of
the person answering the questions, A
few years ago a psychologist visited a
Brisbane school to give advice on post-
school vocations. He used
the questionnaire technique.
The lads soon got “the
strength” of him and put in
a series of answers which,
had he known anything at
all about schoolboys, must
have shown him that his
leg was being pulled. Never-
theless he put in reports on
the lads, though there is no
evidence that anyone took
any particular notice of
them.
Using this technique with
intelligent but whimsical per-
sonnel an investigator is
liable to get peculiar and
startling results.
One wonders if Kinsey—and, for that
matter, many another psychological re-
searcher —has ever read of those hysterical
cults which maintained that forgiveness
was the major sacrament and that in
order to be forgiven one must first sin,
preferably along sex lines.
Sex-revelation is one of the most
favored forms of exhibitionism.
Reports such as Kinsey’s may make
interesting reading, but as contributions
to real understanding of human behavior
they have a limited significance. In any
case, as “Sydney Psychiatrist” suggests
(B. 21/10/’53), sex should neither be
stressed nor suppressed.— E. M. Pyrac
(QO.
Japan After Business
It is significant that while Japan was
signing for her U.N. membership ticket,
Jap woollen export missions were dis-
playing cut-price samples in Formosa,
Hong Kong, India, Pakistan, Persia
Irak, Egypt, U.S.A., Central and South
America. As incentive for Jap mills to
go all-out for new overseas markets the
Government has offered sterling alloca-
tions for woolbuying in ratio to their new
business.
Dalgety’s Boston correspondent re-
ported that Jap imports were flowing
into U.S. in steadily increasing volume,
and were being widely accepted by the
American public notwithstanding the stiff
competition from U.K. and Europe. At
116 million dollars Jap dollar earnings
for the first half of 1953 were 27 p.c.
higher than a year ago, and had reached
an all-time record. Think that over.
A.W.C. (N.S.W.).
“Kinseyitis ,!
As most male animals are polygamous,
man included, social conventions down
the years have done nothing whatever to
control the sex urge; and the presen
sharply immoral trends which have come
into notice along with modern educa-
tional methods and scientific discoveries,
all of which have helped to push religion
into the background, have opened wide
the door to sexual licence.
As the result of civilisation’s attempts
to interfere with natural creation, to find
morality today we might have to searc
the heart of equatorial Africa, where un-
civilised and unclothed people live more
or less in a state of nature. We a
getting fairly dose to that state ourselves
if the summer beaches are any cnteno
to judge by, but we have no taboos to
pull us up.— -Shellback (N.S-Wdi


Coolgardie Water-scheme
In September, 1894, John Maher did
put forward an entirely practical scheme
for supplying Coolgardie (W.A.) with fresh
water, and G. El burg’s inquiry (B. 9/9/ ’53)
as to why Maher approached the then
Minister for Lands instead of the “all-
powerful” Premier was also asked by
the “West Australian” of that time, ex-
cept that it wanted to know why Maher
had not approached Commissioner for
Works Venn. Maher replied that he had
approached Venn, but had been referred
to Minister for Lands Marmiou, the
reason being that his request for a fran-
chise came within that department.
Maher’s scheme was so practical that
he even indicated the type of pipe
he proposed to use —a spiral-riveted,
wrought-steel pipe. Sin. in diameter,
with flanged joints, bolted and water-
proofed with rubber insertion. Such
pipes were being produced in both
Britain and Germany by the mile, and
could have been obtained without delay.
They were later used by the mile around
the mines of W.A.
That John Forrest should have pro-
fessed ignorance of any such scheme
when attending a banquet in Kanowna
late in 1895 is incredible. By the report
in the “West Australian” the request by
Maher was taken info the Cabinet by the
Minister for Lands and must have been
discussed. That was the way, and the
only way, in which Maher’s proposal
could be brought, officially, before the
“all-powerful” Premier.
And that’s another illusion. John For-
rest at that time was far from being
“all-powerful.” He was faced by a strong
and bitter Opposition, led by George
Leake, who had such an opposition to
the spending of millions on the Cool-
gardie Water Scheme that he predicted
“that not sufficient water would emerge
from the Coolgardie end of the pipe to
dilute a glass of whisky.”
Supporting Leake was a strength of
hard-shell Gropers who begrudged even
the early few hundreds spent on sinking
wells and building dams on the road to
the goldfields. And this Opposition,
inside Parliament and out, got properly
vindictive when Forrest borrowed mil-
lions to build a harbor, a railway and,
finally, a pipeline for the development of
goldfields, the bottom of which, the
Opposition declared, would fall out
within a few years.
With this kind of thing aimed at him
year in and year out, and at the time
about to bring the Coolgardie Water
Scheme before Parliament, Forrest was
entirely willing to accept any outpouring
of ideas on long-distance water-pumping
from Mr. Harper or anybody else who
professed acquaintance with the subject.
Forrest was a surveyor, explorer and
politician; he had no practical know-
ledge of engineering. Spending many
anxious hours with his chief engineer,
C. Y. O’Connor, concerning this colos-
sal and hitherto unprecedented under-
taking, he must have appreciated any
outside support to the ideas O’Connor
was busy transforming into “blueprint.”
Also, he was much too astute a politician
to stem Mr. Harper’s eloquence by blurt-
ing out that such a scheme was already
under way.
The bill was carried on September 3,
1896, and the scheme then, as was essen-
tial for its presentation to Parliament,
was in the complete “blueprint.”
Exploration by survey gangs and a per-
sonal inspection by O’Connor had de-
cided on the site for the reservoir at
Mundaring on the Helena River. Deep
borings into the walls and bed of this
gorge to test the nature of the rock had
then been made. Following this had
come surveys for levels, rises and depres-
sions, and the sites for relay storage-
tanks and pumping-stations along the
300 miles east to Coolgardie.
Nothing can deprive John Maher of
the credit of being the first to outline a
workable scheme for the supplying of the
W.A. goldfields with fresh water. It is
there in print, in the Perth Public Lib-
rary, for anyone to read, the date Sep-
tember 9, 1894. — W. Charnley (W.A.).
*
School Poetry
Educationalists seem to have overlooked
the fact that school youth from kinder-
garten to the leaving certificate is a
constantly flowing tide, in the main pos-
sessing the same characteristics, brains
and general make-up as all the other
generations that have gone on before
them. Apart from very minor changes,
what was good for the children of my
generation is just as good for the children
of today.
The great days of music and literature,
and art generally, have passed, but we
have been left with classics of every kind
to provide the education of the young
and these classics will be here when all
the neurotic emanations of the modern-
ists have been forgotten.—S. B. (N.S.W.).
Mood or Mastery?
Orthodox artists and art-lovers should
question the reported opinion of
Desiderius Orban (whose “At Mittagong”
has been chosen as the Immigration De-
partment’s picture-of-the-month) that “In
art, nature should only be an excuse to
present something that comes from within
the painter.” This implies that the sub-
ject should always be secondary to the
“And if he d said another Word I’d have knocked him cold .”
creator’s moods. For insitance, Mr.
Orban excuses the darkness which per-
vades his pictures of the Australian scene
by the indelible memories of sadness or
misery of his earlier Hungarian life and
surroundings. This unconscious or un-
guarded faculty for imposing the moods
or memories of the artist on his pictures
may be self-expression to some degree
but it is not good art.
If it were, a chronic inebriate might be
pardoned, even applauded, for livening a
placid waterscape with a collar of froth;
or for giving a cathedral the mad look of
a pub at 6.5 p.m.
To grant the artist the right to sub-
jugate his vision to his immediate feelings
or to his subconscious antagonisms or
yearnings would condone wholesale dis-
tortion. I have always understood the
first principle of painting or drawing to
be that of delineating on a plane surface
true resemblance of objects as the objects
appear to the eye from any distance or
direction —the truer the resemblance the
truer the artist. — P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
“Comics”
The old question of banning “trashy”
literature is burning again. It doesn’t
seem to occur to the would-be banners
that the worst examples of this trash are
bought by adults and that this is a
scorching criticism of the public education
system —free and compulsory.
However, I’m all for banning “horror”
comics, not because of the “horror” but
because they destroy the habit of reading.
It is said that fairytales like “Jack the
Giantkiller,” “Bluebeard,” “Ali Baba,
etc., are just as bloodthirsty as “comics.”
True, but there is the reading difference.
The harmful effect of “horror” comics
lies in the pictorial depiction of every gory
detail. No mental effort is needed. Per-
haps it is because of this necessary mental
effort, involved in the reading of the
fairytale, that there is not in it the same
effect of stark horror.
Writers of serious literature should be
among tile loudest in protest against
trashy comics. A generation brought up
on monosyllabic trash, with most of the
speeches made up of grunts and howls,
won’t read their works.
A comic-bred child will not only not
read novels and poems, but will probably
be barely able to read and write. That
is my objection—not that there is so
much murder in them but that there is
so much murdering of the King’s English.
—Keima (Q.).
Too Many Doctors?
Hobart “Mercury” quotes a writer in
the “Medical Journal of Australia” as
expressing fear of overcrowding in the
medical profession, and “This will result
in a lowering, not only of the standard
of medical practice, but also of the ethical
conduct of many practitioners.”
Eyewash! The writer and those he
speaks for—if he speaks for anyone—
are more worried about a surplus of
doctors putting an end to the easy money
enjoyed by so many in their profession.
Many doctors and specialists work hard
and conscientiously for their money.
But too many of no outstanding ability
set up as specialists, consultative
physicians and what-have-you merely
as an excuse to charge more and to dodge
night-calls and other less pleasant medical
duties.
More doctors should result in better
service to patients. Competition in
medical services is no less healthy than
in other services. The customer should
always be free to choose.
What we need is more old-fashioned
G.P.s and fewer specialists concentrating
on odd parts of the anatomy subject to
only three or four diseases. — Tonsi (Tas.).
The Huon Campaign
That article on “The Huon Cam-
paign” (B. 14/10/’53) describes Major-
General George Wootten as “the first
Australian to command American troops
in battle.” Well:
In the attack on Hamel in France on
July 4, 1918, four American companies
were attached to units of the 4th Austra-
lian Division (Major-General Sinclair-
Maclagan).
In September, 1918, when the Austra-
lian Corps, under General Monash, at-
tacked the Hindenburg Line, it included
the 27th and 30th American Divisions
and the 3rd and sth Australian Divi-
sions. (Major George Wootten was
G. 5.0.2 of the sth Division at the time.)
In Java in March, 1942, Brigadier
A. S. Blackburn, V.C., commanded a
mainly Australian force which included
an American artillery battalion.
Major-General C. A. Clowes had
American troops under his command
during the fighting at Milne Bay in
August-September, 1942.
The 32nd American Division formed
part of the command of Lieutenant-
General E. F. Herring in the Buna-Gona
area in November, 1942, and Major-
General G. A. Vasey (7th Australian
Division), Brigadier J. E. Lloyd (16th
Australian Infantry Brigade), and Briga-
dier S. F. Porter (30th Australian Infan-
try Brigade) all commanded American
troops along the Sanananda Track before
Brigadier Wootten took command at
Buna on December 17.
The article also stated that “Major-
General Berryman had been Major-
General Allen’s chief staff-officer from
Bardia onwards.” The fact is, however,
that General Berryman never at any time
served in this capacity to General Allen.
For at that time he was Major-General
Mackay’s C.G.S.O. (see Gavin Long’s To
Benghazi). —D. McC. (A.C.T.).
That account of the Huon Campaign
fills-in much of the detail of planning
and action that the ordinary soldier
never knew. But there was much that
the soldier did know ; things that would
not often find their way into top-level
files.
Shortage of essential equipment was
the first. We never seemed to have
enough of anything. Where we would
try to do the work with one bulldozer
the Yanks would have half a dozen.
Heavy a.-a. guns seemed non-existent
until the Yanks built the airstrip at
Langemak Bay. .Until then we simply
had to put up with the 115 raids in two
months, with the raiders flying just out
of the range of the Bofors. The long-
promised automatic weapons for the
driver’s offsider in the transport were
never forthcoming.
At the time of the Jap attempt at a
counter-invasion the only ammo depot
in the area had enough stripless belt
ammo to allow one company of the
2/2 M.G. two minutes’ firing. What the
machine-gunners had in their own store
1 don’t, of course, know. Bofor ammo
was also very short.
There was the 2/3 C.C.S. acting the
part of an A.G.H. with the equipment
and staff of an advanced dressing-station.
Most malaria patients were held there
and then returned to their own unit. As
most in the area seemed to get malaria
at some time or another, that job alone
was enough for a hospital without all
the other casualties. Then there were the
constant attempts to get the more urgent
cases evacuated to Moresby. When the
’planes arrived there would be no barges
to get the patients across the bay ; when
the barges were there there would be no
’planes. 1 was taken across to the air-
strip twice before being put on a ’plane.
In all, I was held at the C.C.S. for ten
days before being evacuated.
Also, then? were those things that are
personal to the soldier. Lack of mail
and parcels was one of the reasons why
the morale was never as high as it was
in Tobruk, for example. In Tobruk you
expected shortages, in Finschhafen there
seemed to be no reason for them; you
seemed too close to home to go short.
Even when letters started to come
through regularly the parcels were left
lying in the rain at some depot along
the coast, so that when they did reach us
everything in them was useless and had
to be dumped.
The Huon Campaign was undoubtedly
well-planned and -executed, but to us it
did not appear so. There was far too
much muddling of things which, although
they might not be important from a mili-
tary point of view, are very important to
the soldier. I left the war at Finschhafen
and for the first time in four years I was
glad to think Ididn’t have to go back-
Rann (N.S.W.).


. ■■
m
m
" ****
4 '
Highland Land &
Livestock Com-
pany, Emmetfj
Idaho, bought 5
ALL-CROP Har-
vesters for har-
vesting foun-
dation -stock
Ranger alfalfa
seed
the ALL-CROP
Harvester is
tf-ikit Choice
Where Quality Counts
Where returns depend on quality, the
ALL-CROP Harvester is Australia’s
and America’s favourite. Malting
barley, legume seeds, seed grains,
flower seeds, edible beans are few
examples. The ALL-CROP success-
fully harvests over 100 different
kinds of grains, seeds and beans.
These six features assure quality
harvesting;
O Full-width cylinder— a foot of cylinder for every foot of cut.
© Rubber threshing surfaces—better shelling with less craclcage.
0 Cylinder speed changer—adjusts cylinder instantly for ail
crops and conditions.
O Air-blast separation—separates much seed in air stream
before it reaches straw rack.
Oversize straw rack—separating area equal to most 10-foot
combines.
0 Saw-tooth wind valves—precision wind control for all seeds
and conditions.
mmm
m
mM
msmm
Lars Peterson,
Ravalli Country,
Montana, World's
Wheat Champion,
World's Oat Cham-
pion and 5-Hme
World Barley Cham-
pion, chooses the
All-Crop Harvester.
If quality harvesting is important to
you, let us give you full details on
the ALL-CROP Harvester.
ALL-CROP jt an Allis-Chalmers trademark.
AC
CHALMERS
TRACTOR DIVISION
N-S.W. Mitchell Shearer Form Machinery Pty. Ltd.. George Street. Homebush. VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd.. Footseray. S AUST.; John Shearer & Sons Fty. Ltd., Kilkenny.
W. AUST.: Westrallan Farmers 1 Co-operative Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co,
of Aust. Ltd., Brisbane. TASMANIA: A. G. Webster & Sens Ltd., Hobart.
££'£B/1r
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Topping-off Paid
“C. Punch”; Fifteen-months-
old steers, weighing to 10001 b.,
and selling to £3B 16s. Od. a
head and at an average of
£35 ss. Od. for 28 head, were
sold at Homebush (Sydney)
when Dalgetys handled a re-
markable consignment from
Belubula Farms, Canowindra
(N.S.W.).
The steers were fed in a
topping-off test based on Ameri-
can practice and varied to suit
Australian conditions. Belubula
Farms comprises a small area
of rich country on the Belubula
River, where the flats are noted
for lucerne-production. Thirty
Aberdeen-Angus, Aberdeen-
Angus Shorthorn cross, and
Aberdeen-Angus-Hereford cross
steer calves were put on the test-
feed on July 1, 1953, at 12-14
months. Gross weight of all
steers was 19,7501 b. When the
test was complete and the draft
sent to Homebush last month,
the total live weight was
27,0621 b. Live-weight gain of
all steers during the 108 days’
feeding was 243.71 b., the aver-
age daily gain per head 2.2561 b.
The steers were fed on the
U.S.A. plan of high-roughage
and low-concentrate rations, in
a 4-acre lot with no natural
feed—rwhat the Americans call
a “dry lot.” The concentrate fed
was 31b. per head per day. It
included nitrogen (protein) to
nourish rumen bacteria; a
limited amount of easily-
digested carbohydrate (energy)
feed; a source of vitamin A ; a
suitable mineral content and 10
per cent, molasses. A pound of
this concentrate was estimated
to equal 2-31 b. of grain.
During the first half of the
period the roughage was lucerne-
hay that had been rained on
twice before being picked up.
In appearance it was bleached
and unattractive and, from a
market point of view, worthless.
In the second half a fair to good
meadow-hay was used.
The results showed that where
suitable roughage is available,
cattle (or sheep) can be kept in
condition in winter, or when,
owing to dry conditions, natural
feed is so poor in quality that
stock do not thrive on it.
Cost of the concentrate at
4d. per lb. totalled £162, equal
to an average cost of Is. per
steer per day. Cost of concen-
trate per lb. of gain was 5.317 d.
Sargent, a dfrector of Thorpes
Ltd., who run Belubula Farms,
said success of the plan de-
pended upon ample supplies of
roughage and use of the right
supplement. Roughage could
be meadow-hay, lucerne-hay,
cereal-hay, silage, and standing
'surplus pasture.
The tests showed that with
this type of supplementary feed-
ing it is possible to have a turn-
over in cattle under 18 months
at 10001 b. live weight, thereby
providing earlier marketing, and
getting a premium price for the
beef.
Resistant Flies
“Musca”: As soon as races
of flies developed resistance to
D.D. T. new insecticides such as
methoxychlor, dieldrin, lindane
or chlordane were used success-
fully against them in America.
The flies then produced races
resistant to all these insecticides.
These races don’t develop uni-
versally. They arise in localities
where use of the particular insec-
ticide becomes general.
So far, flies resistant to all
these insecticides have suc-
cumbed either to pyrethrum or to
its synthetic substitute, allethrin.
Though these substances are
deadly to flies, their lethal effect
depends on a quick knockout,
and they have no residual effect,
like D.D.T. and similar chemi-
cals.
A persistent residue appears
to explain the development of
resistance—with a few tough
ones use becomes second-nature
and they breed a superior race.
Prepare for Sprouts
“Konanda”: Brussels-sprouts
are one of the best of the brassi-
cas, and seed should go in from
November to January. The
sprouts do better in a cool
climate. Broccoli, too, is worth
a place in the garden, although
it takes longer to mature. Plant-
ing of seed should be made
from December to February.
Make a second sowing six weeks
after the first. It is estimated
that a half-packet of seed is
enough to sow of either of these
vegetables for the needs of the
average family.
Lime the soil freely for all the
brassica family. As lime releases
ammonia in manure, it is neces-
sary to lime at least a couple
of weeks before manuring
the ground. It takes some
"It must be yours. Dad — it's called 'nail-polish.'"
weeks for a plot to become fit
for planting.
Better Than Cup-winners
“C, Punch”; Pedigree beef-
cattle are as important to us as
thoroughbred racehorses, says
Argentine rancher Dr. Carlos
Guerrero after a tour of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. He is
a partner in his family’s 35,000
pedigree Aberdeen-Angus—one
of the world’s largest Aberdeen-
Angus studs—and said beef-
cattle studs should be located on
the best land, pastures and
climate.
“Stud cattle bred in arid
regions * can seldom compete
with cattle bred under better
conditions. On the other hand,
in areas of low rainfall and
sparse pastures you must breed
commercial herd sires right
there so that they can adjust
themselves from birth to the
rigorous conditions.”
Dr. Guerrero said there was
room in Australia for more big
stations in sparsely-settled areas
and for small herds in closer-
settled districts where pasture-
improvement is possible. No
Australian cattle-raiser would
lose on the home market if he
concentrated on early-maturing
cattle. If Australia hoped to
produce beef that could com-
pete on world markets she must
give cattle the same access to
good land and good pastures
as was given to sheep.
The wide variation in soil and
climate made it impossible to
urge any one single line of
development as the best for the
beef industry. Introduction of
Santa Gertrudis cattle would
lend impetus to the industry in
the hotter parts where British
breeds could not thrive economi-
cally, but it would be unwise to
introduce any Brahma cross to
areas where Aberdeen-Angus,
Shorthorns or Herefords had
proved their ability to go ahead.
Yard-feeding beef-cattle, as
done on a large scale in the
United States, did not seem
practicable here, with Australia’s
milder climate and year-round
pastures. Crops had a place as
supplementary feed during
drought or other severe weather,
or for topping off, but good-
quality improved pastures were
the main necessity. Vital for
the production of young, early-
maturing beef was to have
enough good pastures to feed
stock strongly from birth to
slaughter and to allow no drop
in condition after weaning.
Corn had been tried in the
Argentine as a supplementary
feed for steers, but found to be
far too expensive when good
pastures could do the same job.
Maturity in Chickens
“Springvale”; Early-hatched
broods should now be free-
ranging and every effort made
to keep them growing. Growth
may be retarded a little by hot
weather later, so build them up
now with ample food. Laying
hens inherit, among other fac-
tors, body-size and egg-produc-
tion. With normal management
they will reach maturity at ages
varying from four to eight
months old.
Early laying is essential if
flocks are to be run at a profit.
Some precocious birds are srfiall
and lay undersized eggs; there
are a few in every flock. Put
leg-bands on such pullets when
they first lay and cull them
later. But it’s a mistake to try
to control early laying by
reducing the meatmeal in the
mash.
Feed a mash consisting of
wheatmeal, 401 b.; bran, 101 b.;
maizemeal, 201 b.; with dried
buttermilk, 101 b., or meatmeal,
101 b.; or dried buttermilk, 51b.,
and meatmeal, 51b.; and com-
mon salt, |lb. If desired, 21b. of
bonemeal or of di-calcic
phosphate may be added.
Ample greenfeed should be
fed if there is none in the run.
And don’t forget fresh, clean
drinking-water.
Blinded by Science
“Triticum”: Bothered by their
own and the bakers’ inability to
produce good flour or bread
from N.S.W. f.a.q. wheat of
declining gluten-content, N.S.W.
flour-millers recently made a
substantial grant to Sydney Uni-
versity for research on the sub-
ject.
Millers have an abiding rever-
ence for the Uni., apparently be-
lieving that some wizardry exists
there which is absent from
graduates who have topped their
theoretical Uni. training with
years of highly-practical experi-
ence in the State Department of
Agriculture.
Reasons for production of
wheat of poor or good baking-
quality are now generally well
known. The greatest need now
is to determine how high yields
of good-quality wheat can be
produced at a profit to the
grower.
With experiment - farms
located 'in the wheat-belt, the
Department of Agriculture
should have by far the better
practical knowledge, experience
and facilities required to under-
take field research of this kind.
It’s to be hoped the Uni. people
realise this and co-operate with
GET IN EARLY
“The Bulletin" no sooner
fills the special pen in which
it keeps its new drop of Wool
Type Cards than it empties
and has to be filled again. So
popular has this invaluable
guide become to classers,
sheep-owners, wool students,
and others associated with
wool, that the demand keeps
on threatening the supply.
Send for yours now if you
wish to avoid waiting. All
that is needed is your name
and address and a postal-note
for 7s. 6d.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
5*
Established 1808 in Reign of
George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas** has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
S Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HE HAS A
, . .CUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BA ÜBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAKRMIE
acts like a band
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
CARKEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3c), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
sd
JOINERY
WINDOWS, DOORS, etc.
SAVE MONEY
Full details on request.
L.B.C. Wood Products Pty. Ltd.
Cnr. Bdwardes St. and Plateau Bd.,
Reservoir, N.IB, VIC. JC 5277
Divorce Notices
IN THE : SUPREME COUNT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO THEODORE JOHN COBB formerly
of Melbourne Street St.
NOTICE that DULCIE MARGARET COBB
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2212
of 1953 on the grounds of your adultery
with DOROTHY CURRY If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Fifth day of January
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from C. P. DIGNAM,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO JOHN HENRY STARKEY late of
Rockdale.—TAKE NOTICE that ROSE
EVELYN STARKEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2874 of 1953 on* the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
January 12th 1954 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from A. S.
SHAW, Solicitor, 34 Martin Place, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
... .^
H *
HRHH #
<Cs .
-;<p
_..„ s ..._ % ' 8Sm
rag&g&Sv •■•■ *
x-?*SS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE
HVGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS. . NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
fss
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
DISTRIBUTORS;'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land). 609 Colonial Mutual Building.
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIC.; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.; R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
m
!!H
i;
I
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATIKS;
Single Rooms—
From 18/6 pep night
Double Rooms—
From 84/- pep night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METRO POLE.“
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
the department, which is starved
of funds for its very necessary
work.
The Maize Show
“Zea”; It is not so long ago
(and it still persists to some
extent) that ears of maize a foot
long and a pound or more in
weight were the prize-winning
pride of maize-growers.
Field experiments have now
demonstrated, especially with
hybrid maize, that if the ears
of a crop average more than
about £lb. the crop has not been
sown thickly enough to make full
use of the soil-fertility. Growers
of big ears are therefore losing,
sometimes substantially, in yield
per acre.
Wheat-yields
“Agric”; Dr. R. A. Bottom-
ley, a South Australian scientist,
told a conference in Toowoomba
(Q.) of wheat-, flour- and bread-
men that Queensland wheat-
growers should not become
“yield-happy” like those in other
States, or they might have large
quantities of wheat no one
would buy.
In regard to quality, Bottom-
ley said that protein-composi-
tion of Australian flour varied
markedly—from 8.2 to 12.5 per
cent, in commercial flour, and it
had been as low as 7.5, which
was a critical level. If the range
varied by more than a half per
cent, the difference in the loaf
was noticeable. For the last
three years the protein content
of Queensland flour had varied
from 9.5 to 11.9 per cent.; this
year a range of 7.9 to 12.1 per
cent, was found in one brand,
Protein-content was controlled
by variety of wheat and soil.
Since 1950 the protein-con-
tent of wheat in N.S.W. had de-
dined by 0.5 per cent., in Vic-
toria by 1.4 per cent, and in
South Australia by 1.6 per cent.
The maximum protein-content
of flour available in Victoria and
South Australia was 9.1 per
cent., and the best they could
average was 8.7 to 8.9 per cent.,
at which level it was remarkable
that a baker could make a loaf
at all.
Australia, he said, should not
aim at producing the maximum
crop from the soil, but the
greatest return without reducing
soil-value. Professor L. J. H.
Teakle, Dean of the Faculty of
Agriculture, Queensland Uni-
versity, said he visited the Wim-
mera (Victoria) last June, which
district was producing 40 per
cent, of Victoria’s wheat crop ;
it was the lowest-quality wheat
produced in that State. That
soil, which had much in com-
mon with that of the Darling
Downs, had been farmed since
1880, and available nitrogen had
been reduced. That was a warn-
ing, and Queensland must find a
system of management to main-
tain her fertile black soil and
avoid the risk of what was hap-
pening in Victoria.
Sudan Grass
“Almum”: Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture has been
trying to take some of the danger
of poisoning out of grazing
Sudan-grass by selecting strains
of low prussic-acid content. It
is not a simple job to do this and
get a productive strain at the
same time, for self-fertilisation
decreases the vigor of growth to
some extent.
A number of improved strains
have been developed in U.S.A.,
the best of these from the stand-
point of low p.a. content being
Piper. In southern U.S.A. a
variety called Tift has been
found to excel all other strains
of Sudan-grass in productive-
ness, especially in recovery after
grazing.
Latest development, however,
is a perennial Sudan-grass.
After a few years’ trial in north-
western N.S.W. seed of this type
is now being offered for sale.
Pasture Cockchafer
“C.S.”: The pasture-cock-
chafer, which flies round on
warm summer evenings, is the
parent of the native white- or
curl-grub which is causing in-
creasing damage to pastures in
southern Australia. Sub.-clover-
dominant swards are most sus-
ceptible to attack, especially if
soils are light, friable and well-
drained. At times this grub has
removed every vestige of green
from pastures up to 80 acres in
extent.
Cockchafer larvae emerge
about March, and their presence
is usually obvious by May, when
freshly thrown-up earth lies
over the sward. Most damage is
usually done in June and July,
which is a particularly bad time,
as feed is then usually scarce,
C.5.1.R.0. trials showed that
D.D.T. had little effect on well-
grown larvae, but the insecticide
remained active in the soil for
many months and killed the
young larvae as they emerged in
the early autumn. D.D.T.
applied at rates as low as lOoz.
per acre lowered the larval popu-
lation for at least the following
three seasons.
Applications by drill of 2 per
cent. D.D.T.-super. (201 b. of
10 per cent. D.D.T. dust to
lewt. of super.) at the rate of
lewt. per acre stopped the pest.
Ideally, the super, should be
applied just before the larvae
emerge in late February, but in
tests at Canberra it was just as
effective when applied in the
previous August, owing to- the
persistence of D.D.T. in the
surface-soil. With lighter soils
and heavier rainfalls increased
dosage may be necessary.
Cabbage Pests
“Farmer Bill”: Cabbage-
moths do the most damage when
the plants are half- to full-
grown. Breeding quickly in
summer, the moths, while in the
caterpillar stages, eat holes in
the foliage. Thorough applica-
tions of derris-spray or -dust
once a week not only destroys
the moth but also stops cabbage-
aphis, which suck the sap and
lower the vitality of the plant.
Another summer enemy of
cabbage is the centre-grub.
Burrowing down the centre into
the stalks of the young cabbage,
it kills them. As derris is not
always effective, culling affected
plants is safest. By gathering
and destroying the residue of a
crop and not planting on adja-
cent areas carry-over of insect
pests is reduced.
Potato-moth
“8.F.”: Potato-moth is pre-
valent in most potato-growing
districts this year, and its cater-
pillars threaten damage to
foliage and stems, with conse-
quent reduction in yield.
Greatest damage occurs when
tubers become exposed through
cracking of the soil, when Cater-
pillars crawl down the cracks
from dead or dying foliage, or
when moths lay eggs on the
exposed tubers.
The potato-moth is brownish-
grey, with minute darker mark-
ings scattered on its wings.
Although hard to find during
the day, it can be easily seen at
dusk, being about £in. across the
wings. It can be stopped by
dusting or spraying 11b. of
D.D.T. per acre. Spraying
generally gives better results,
and 3i pints of Rulene or |gal.
of Pespruf 20 per acre is
recommended. The initial spray
should be applied two to three
days after the first sign of the
moths, and should be followed
by a second spray in three to
four weeks.
Hints for the Farm
“Billy”: Once they reach the
six- to Seven-weeks ; stage
chickens can be housed in
ordinary sheds. Best growth
factor is plenty of grassy free
range, plus good feeding. If
the range is restricted, increase
the food, with particular atten-
tion to providing a higher
protein-level.
“C.A.A.”; Make sure the
brooder has sufficient warmth
without the chickens having to
look for it. If they have to
crowd under the warm area they
need more heat —they should
always spread out at night if
conditions are correct.
“Big Billy”: When collecting
day-old chicks travel them
under conditions which would
be comfortable for a human
passenger. Use the back-seat of
a car, or, if a utility, have it
nearly covered over and don’t
delay unnecessarily on the trip.
Month-olds need the same care
in handling. Remember that the
ventilation-holes are there for a
purpose.
“K.”: Camellias can be
rooted easily from cuttings if
care is taken. Ideally cuttings
are rooted in a glass frame, but
where only a few plants are
required it is much less expen-
sive to grow them under pickle-
jars. If possible place the cut-
ting where it is to grow so that
no handling will be necessary
later. Cuttings should be rooted
in sand.
“Quorn”: In a hot, dry
climate bulbs are usually set
in solid ground by the time they
should be ready to lift. It is
necessary to divide overgrown
clumps. As soon as the tops of
daffodils yellow- they can be
lifted and left to dry for storing.
They can be left in dry sand.
Beware of mice and rats. It is
sensible to dig them as soon as
possible, preferably after rain.
Liliums seem to do well if left
to grow in clumps, and nerines
need not be lifted at all.
“Rooster”; Chinese-cabbage
flourishes in hot weather with
less waterings than other leaf-
crops. Its seed should be sown
in late spring in seed-beds, for
transplanting. Successional sow-
ings can be made. It responds
well to heavy manuring before
and after planting, and is a
good summer green-feed crop
for poultry, the heavier-leafed
Wong-bok variety being the
best.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
In early November general rains are due over eastern
Australia under the present cycle. There may be heavy
rains In s'ome parts. On the Central-Queensland coast,
south-east Queensland and the N.S.W. North Coast and
Tablelands a sunspot boost could occur and cause heavy
rains. Just now there are no sunspots, and in such a position
the development of spots can cause freakish weather. Dis-
astrous hail in the Dalby (Q.) area recently was a marked
example of what can happen with a sunspot boost at a
generally weak sunspot period.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY EDGAR FITTER late of
Homebush. —T ARE NOTICE that
MARJORIE GWEN SMITH FITTER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2375 of
1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by January 12th 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge irom
A. R. SHAW,. Solicitor, 34 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Public Notice
1, ANNA STERN, of Hungarian nation-
ality, bom at Pucho, Czechoslovakia,
resident five years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 28 Orr Street, Bondi, N. S. Wales,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948-62.
elaborate frizz of hair standing
high above his broad forehead
could detract from the quiet
dignity of his bearing. This
man, you felt, came of a proud
race, a race of mighty warriors
and headhunters.
“Quietly, in fluent pidgin, he
explained how he had held the
course his master had laid
down. He told of the reef ap-
pearing and of Bika’s descrip-
tion of it. Unwilling to risk the
entrance without direct orders
he had sought and obtained
these. He had supposed his
master wished to fish for shell,
he concluded, indicating the
pile already on deck.
“Rusty swore. He cursed
Yagura and Bika and he cursed
the trochus-shell. In spite of the
profits that were often made out
of it he’d never touched tro-
chus. It was a stinking cargo.
The Islander was his home, the
smartest, best-kept schooner in
the Islands and he intended to
keep her that way—not have
her smelling like a Jap sampan
in the beche-de-mer trade.
“When his outburst threat-
ened to bring on a relapse of
fever he quietened down. Ya-
gura had done his best and
could not be blamed for run-
ning them into this trap. Even
Bika couldn’t be held respon-
sible ; poor, ignorant fool. His
father’s canoe had got in and
out, he would reason, so why
shouldn’t this schooner? The
entrance was wide enough, and
he was completely ignorant of
the depth such a craft required.
“Finally, Rusty resigned him-
self to the inevitable. At this
time of the year the nor’-wester
might keep on for days, even
weeks. And while it blew he
was weather-bound. If he sank
his prejudices and fished for
shell until the weather broke he
might convert the voyage from
a financial failure to a very
profitable one. Trochus was
booming, someone in Tulagi had
said. Bringing up to £250 a
ton. ‘All right,’ he told Yagura.
‘Catchem laiiai,’
“A bunch of schoolboys
learning they had been granted
an unexpected holiday couldn’t
have greeted the news more
enthusiastically than did the
native crew when they heard
they were to continue diving.
Clad only in diving goggles, they
remained below for incredible
periods, completely in their
element. As Rusty well knew,
there was more playing-about
than serious work beneath the
surface of the lagoon. But in
spite of this the shell came
aboard in gratifying quantities.
The six recruits were put to
work boiling the shell and ex-
tracting the fish. Coming from
an inland village they were use-
less as divers.
“A few days later Rusty was
to realise that they were far
from experts as shell-cleaners.
6 6'THE trochus is one of the
conical types of shell, and,
unlike the pearl-oyster, cannot
be opened and cleaned. The
boiling is done in a large oil-
drum set up on deck, mangrove-
wood being used as a fuel. The
shellfish is then extracted, usu-
ally with a piece of wire. It is
regarded by the natives as a
number-one delicacy.
“But in a hot climate it soon
becomes obvious that it is im-
possible completely to clean the
shell. Particularly when stacked
in a hold it sets up a rank, fishy
smell. The natives never notice
it. Nor did the Islander’s crew
appear to notice that their cargo
was becoming infinitely worse
than any other load of shell.
But poor Rusty found it almost
intolerable. Day after day the
nor’-wester blew, keeping the
Islander imprisoned while the
smell increased and filtered
through bulkheads to every part
of the ship. And each day, to
prevent himself dumping it back
in the lagoon, Rusty had to
force himself to think of his
cargo in terms of hard cash.
Cockroaches fattened and mul-
tiplied, crawling over food and
bedding in teeming thousands.
And to add to Rusty’s troubles
food and water began to run
low. A little rain-water caught
in a sail was; not only salty, but
tasted strongly of rotting shell-
fish.
“On the tenth day Rusty got
his big idea. The smell by then
had him completely rattled,
otherwise he wouldn’t have en-
tertained it. Amongst the trade
goods were dozens of bottles of
the cheap scent so popular with
the natives. Generally speaking,
it is too strong for even a
toughened white man, but Rusty
felt that anything would be pre-
ferable to this rotting stench.
Sprinkled on his blankets and
clothing it seemed to help. So
why not go to the source of the
trouble, he reasoned? Lord
knows the scent was strong
enough and there was plenty
of it,
“Bottle after bottle he emptied
down the hold till his noisome
cargo was drenched with it.
“The boys were appalled at
such waste. Two days later they
were appalled for a very differ-
ent reason. The combination of
cheap scent and rotting shell-
fish set up such a stink that even
they objected. They liked the
scent and they didn’t notice the
smell of rotting shellfish. But
the combination of both was so
powerful, so sweetly nauseating
that even the natives’ stomachs
revolted.'
“Lord knows what would
have happened if the wind
hadn’t dropped next day. Never
was anchor weighed more read-
ily. Very cautiously Rusty felt
his way through the entrance,
but once outside he opened his
engine to full-throttle and
headed for Rabaul. Decks were
scrubbed till they gleamed;
every outward trace of their re-
cent enterprise removed. But
beneath the hatches were three
tons erf the most evil-smelling
cargo any man had ever been
shipmates with.
“Even at £250 a ton Rusty
knew he would have dumped it
overboard had he been com-
pelled to put in one more day
in that cursed lagoon. The
sickly reek of it was in his bed-
ding, his clothing and even his
hair. Salt-water did nothing to
remove it. It clung to him when
he went ashore in Rabaul; and
naturally it drew ribald remarks
from his friends. But Rusty
took it all good-naturedly. ‘A
man can put up with a lot for
750 quid,’ he said.
“In Sydney or Brisbane the
whole incident would have been
forgotten in a day or two.
Unfortunately men in the
Islands have little to occupy
their minds and all jokes are
overdone. The story went from
port to port, and for months
‘the sweet smell’ in some form
or other was introduced into
the conversation whenever Rusty
showed up. And to make mat-
ters worse the bottom fell out
of the trochus-market before
Rusty could unload his lot; and
he’s been paying storage on it
ever since.”
r |PHE District Officer stood up
-*■ and smiled. “It takes a big
man to put up with that sort
of thing,” he said. “But even
with the best-tempered there
comes a breaking-point, a sort
of last straw. Unfortunately,
Mr. Catherwood, you happened
to be that final straw. Do you
blame Martin? Don’t you think
that if he made a suitable
apology you could forget the
incident and shake hands?”
Catherwood felt his bruised
eye tenderly. “You can scarcely
expect me to forget the incident
until this cursed swelling has
gone down,” he answered. “But
under the circumstances I’m
willing to overlook it, if he
makes a suitable apology.”
“He’ll apologise.” Knowing
that he was in possession of a
useful piece of information the
D.O. was quietly confident.
“I’ll slip over and meet him out-
side the courtroom. Stay where
you are for ten minutes and
then join us.”
Rusty was both surprised and
indignant at the suggestion of
an apology. “Be damned to
him,” he snorted. “He asked
for it and he got it. And I’m
willing to pay the fine for the
pleasure of giving it to him. I’ve
been saving that up for a long
time.”
“It’s not only a question of
paying a fine, Rusty,” the D.O.
said quietly. “If this case is
heard in court the full names —
the full Christian- names —of the
principals will be published and
made available to the public.
That’s law, Harold Percival
Martin. On the other hand, if
you apologise I’ll have those
names struck from the record
and —er —forget them.”
“Gawd! ” Rusty breathed.
“Blackmail! And from a Beak,
too!”
Over the D.O.’s shoulder he
saw Catherwood approaching
and he moved to meet him.
Slowly but very deliberately his
foot came down on one of the
D.O.’s white canvas shoes.
“I’m sorry. Mister,” he said,
ignoring the D.O.’s startled yelp
and extending a huge paw to the
scientist. “I’m sorry I did my
block and clouted you. If you’ll
shake hands and forget it I’d
like to buy you a drink to sort
of even things up,” An amiable,
completely innocent grin spread
over his weathered face. “And
I’d like to buy the D.O. one.
That’s if he feels he can walk
as far as the pub.”
“You’ll buy me two,” the
D.O. announced grimly. “My
presence may make the whole
affair look like bribery or—er —
blackmail, but I intend to see it
through to the end, however
painful I may find it.”
Wills, and brought home King,
the survivor.
He had taken carrier-pigeons,
but, on being released, they we~e
attacked by hawks and none
reached home. Otherwise all his
party and livestock came back
safely ; he reports his only losses
as being two canteens, a water-
bag, a pair of hobbles and a
butcher’s knife.
He arrived back in Adelaide
to find himself lionised, and was
thankful to beat a hasty retreat
to the home of an old Notting-
ham friend, Judge Boothby,
whose daughter he later married.
The Government then asked
him to return to Cooper’s Creek
to bring back the remains of
Burke and Wills for burial in
Melbourne. This trip gave more
leisure ; his anxieties were not so
great; once again there was
ample feed and water. From
his first journeyings in the bush,
the aboriginals had interested
him, and now the inland tribes
became an absorbing study;
from Cooper’s Creek he brought
a blackboy to Adelaide —the
first of his tribe to see wagons
and towns.
Alfred sent him home with
new clothes, tomahawk and
blanket, safe transit being
arranged for him through
stations which represented the
ground of hostile tribes.
“I had no real trouble with
the natives,” Alfred writes. “I
have always tried to give them
just and fair treatment.”
One letter was hurriedly inter-
rupted when Alfred rushed out
to administer soapy water to
wild blacks who had stolen and
eaten arsenicated sugar which the
“whitefellows” had set for ants.
The blacks all recovered.
In Menindie, Howitt was a
peer among his peers. He calls
it an explorer’s township, a place
where every action concerning
explorers was carefully and
critically dissected by its
public:
“The men all have the veteran
bushman look, beards, pipes and
cabbage-tree hats. They examine
specimens of dried-beef; taste,
smell and talk about it. Their
talk is of the many parties that
are out looking for new country:
‘Who is in? What country have
they seen? What water? What
brushes with the natives?’”
Alfred, who all his life
abhorred publicity, brought back
the remains of Burke and Wills,
to find his name on all the
hoardings ; he was pointed out
in the streets; five artists were
commissioned to paint pictures
from the sketch he made of the
burial at Cooper’s Creek.
“No one imagines,” he com-
plains, “that I can talk of any-
thing but Cooper’s Creek, Burke
and Wills and blackfellows.”
Now, a new life began for
Alfred. The Government sent
him to Omeo as police
magistrate, coroner and warden
of the goldfields; he was
potentate over an area of
roughly one-hundred-and-fifty
mountainous square miles.
From Omeo he writes:
“It is so healthy here that the
place cannot support a doctor,
as in ten years only fifteen
people have died from natural
causes.”
He writes proudly of “my
beloved Gippsland” and of “my
territory.” He was kept busy
studying the Magistrate’s
Manual, and brushing-up his
knowledge of stellar navigation,
in preparation for his future long
and lonely mountain journeys:
“Soon I will be ready to
sentence drunken diggers, and
settle rows between Chinese
puddlers.”
Gippsland then offered him
little society : “We talk about
the American war, pleuro-
pneumonia in cattle, about sheep
and horses, and, I am sorry to
say, very rarely books.”
Goods were three-hundred per
cent, dearer than in Melbourne,
due to £5O per ton freight.
Omeo had a large Chinese popu-
lation who were inveterate
gamblers. They regarded perjur
so lightly that Alfred threatenec
to cut off the pigtails of those h
suspected of lying.
He admits it is very convenien
to always have prisoners in th
“log.” “They clean my saddlery
burnish bits, cut wood and di
the garden.” He disregarded th
uniform and gold braid to whic
he was entitled, perhaps remem
bering the ridicule it had callec
down on its wearers on th
gpldfields.
In the mountains he rod
alone, or attended by a mounte
trooper, for thousands of mile
of snow /and rain and gales
bushfires and blazing heat
administering justice and makin
friends.
Court affairs over, he and hi
trooper would eat with th
diggers, or go fishing with them
“without my dignity or authority
being in the least danger from
this familiarity.” As a bachelor
he received great hospitality
from his Omeo neighbors, one
kind and pious lady keeping him
provided with “tracts for the
soul and tarts for the body,”
In 1864 Alfred went to
Adelaide to marry Miss
Boothby, “my dearest Liney,” as
he called her in all his letters
afterwards. Their journey back
to Omeo, by boat and coach anc
horseback, reads like a saga
Their slab-walled house, built by
the Government, cost over £6OO,
most of it being spent on nails
and freight.
Mrs. Howitt made the bush
dwelling a very happy home
under her care, even the august
Bench grew domesticated, for she
used it on which to set her
dishes of milk, which had to be
removed on Court Day.
Life was always a challenge
to Alfred Howitt. Even his long
rides on circuit were not enough
to occupy his mind, for he would
return with saddle-bags stuffed
with botanical and geological
specimens, and, as recreation,
spent his spare-time classifying
and recording them.
In 1866 he and his family
moved to Bairnsdale, where he
bought land and built his home.
His horizon widened, as his
latent interest in the blacks
awoke.
The aboriginal tribes at that
time were in a state of flux be-
tween the Stone Age and semi-
civilisation ; their memories
were in reach of their fading
tribal laws, and they were still
under some command from their
heaclmen. Alfred set himself to
study them, these living Stone
Age specimens, men of the
Brabralong tribe of the Kurnai
nation of Gippsland.
They respected and trusted
him, but he found it a decided
advantage in his work to have
lost a tooth identical with the
one the old men of the tribe
knocked out of the boys’
mouths, when they were “made
men.” This made the old blacks
regard him as a tribal brother,
belonging, like themselves, to the
Emu-wren Totem. Secrets were
told to him, secret rites were
carried out before him. He
mastered their language and their
laws. It is doubtful if any white
man has learnt more of the
native mind.
He wrote Native Tribes of
South-East Australia, and, in
conjunction with the Rev.
Lorimer Fison, Kamilaroi and
Kurnai. When he died at
Bairnsdale at the age of seventy-
eight, he left unfinished a book
on eucalypts.
From the morning he first
smelt mimosa off the Victorian
coast, Alfred Howitt packed his
fifty-six Australian years with
learning and experience and the
wisdom that comes from these
things. He could talk on equal
terms on scientific subjects with
men of letters, but he was as
much at home in the fossicker’s
hut or the stockman’s camp;
perhaps the honor he cherished
most was the fact that he was
admitted into this jealously-
guarded inner circle of the Aus-
tralian bush.
NAME THE TOWN
Call the town Come-by-chance, Accident Creek or A Rest,
and you’ve stated a fact and a reason for living;
and if here there is nothing that the name doesn’t hold in
its breath,
then perhaps that nothing is our reason for here-living.
Call it Nevertire, Happiness or Hogan’s Dream
for there’s no word in poetry that can be satire
where living is store-talk, farm-work, pub-beer and sleep;
and truth is enough: it’s life that will tire.
Call it Lonely, Lazy, Dead-man’s Town;
or Fungus, Mushroom, Whiteant, or Sandfly;
or Tin-roof. Ugliness, Hot-breath-of-the-south:
but we’ll call it life if that’s how the days lie.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


THE WORLD IN MY DIARY
From Melbourne fo Helsinki
bp Norman Banks M.B.E.
The author, one of the best-known broadcasters in Australia, flew to Helsinki asan
official delegate to the Olympic Games. He gives an inside story of all events. This
is a sports book of the first order, also an entertaining travel book covering the
author’s 40,000 miles journey.
36 half-tone illustrations 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
Melbourne : : London s i Auckland
Order From Your Bookseller
THE DEVIL RIDES OUTSIDE
The story of a man, torn asunder by God and the Devil; by the longings of
the soul and the demands of the flesh.
By John Howard Griffin 18s. 9d.
ANNA FITZALAN
A tale of a remarkable woman—her family, her loves, her life by one of
the most successful authors of the day.
By Marguerite Steen 15s. 6d.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
THE NATURE OF THE
UNIVERSE by Fred Hoyle
In this collection of his broadcast
talks Fred Hoyle deals with the great
problems of time and space in
simple, lucid and forceful terms.
How was the Universe created?
What is the fate of the Earth? Is
there life present on other planets?
These are but a few of the problems
discussed. 10/- (post 5d.)
CADDIE—A Sydney Barmaid
An Autobiography
Introduction by Dymphna Cusack
Described as “a moving and most
human story,” this is the simple
account of a courageous and prac-
tical woman who earned a living
for herself and her two children in
various bars of Sydney hotels. It s
revealing—and entertaining.
18/9 (post 9d.)
* T 1
Write , ’phone or call in for these two best-sellers, or for any other books you would
like. They're available now from
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
An Anthology with a difference
Australia Writes
Edited by T. Inglis Moore 19/6
This unique collection brings together in a handsome volume of 320 pages, the work
of 74 writers, the best of contemporary prose, short stories, essays, articles, and poetry. .
“This book has what an anthology should have—variety, vigor, sophistication
and a truly representative flavour.” — Daily Telegraph, Sydney.
“Australia Writes is an admirable performance.”—Sydney Morning Herald.
“The editors have done an excellent job in the interests of Australian litera-
ture.” — Brisbane Telegraph.
“A book you’ll thoroughly enjoy.”— Melbourne Herald.
A t all good booksellers or at
CHESHIRES
338 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.J. MU 9532
believe that this rather naive assumption
that a materialist psychology and a
materialist politico-economic theory can
between them supply the answer to what
Thomas Browne once called “the alphabet
of man,” is an assumption that is still
made by a number of sincere and honest
people. They are, of course, entitled to
their opinions, but in so far as they
imagine them to rest upon the established
tenets of modern psychology or psychiatry,
it is time that such misleading over-
simplification was exposed for the fallacy
it is.
We know a good deal about the way in
which conflicts between fundamental feel-
ings and impulses come about. We know
nothing of the original source of those
feelings and impulses themselves. We know
something about the power of genius to
transform the expression of such conflicts
so as to convey with astonishing force
that extraordinary blend of love and hatred,
violence and compassion, beauty and
horror, and pity and despair, which strives
for mastery within us all, when we become
aware of our lives and the world in which
we live them; but we know nothing of the
source and origin of that power which we
call genius which works such miracles with
our imagination; and to say that it comes
not from inspiration from without, but from
conflict from within, is in the last analysis
an entirely meaningless observation. Man
has not made himself, nor has he made
the conflicts he encounters, or the aspira-
tions with which he was born.
Other recent Penguins include: The
Hittites, a summary by O. R. Gurney of
the art, achievements and social organi-
sations of a great people who flourished
2000 b.c. and seem to have got along
quite well without Freud ; “The Observer”
Second Crossword Puzzle Book; a
magnificent series of the Theban Plays by
Sophocles—the “Electra,” the “Trach-
inise,” “Philoctetes” and “Ajax”—in an
excellent new translation by E. F. Wat-
ling; The Sea and the Jungle, by H. M.
Tomlinson, the disciple of Joseph Conrad.
Bertrand Russell’s Mysticism and Logic
and Locke’s Philosophy come in for re-
prints, and T. S. Eliot’s Selected Prose
is edited by John Hayward.
Among the novels is Gerald Kersh’s
Prelude to a Certain Midnight —Kersh
has considerable literary gifts and he
uses them ruthlessly to depict the sordid
and disreputable but living and compre-
hensible characters of the backwaters of
London Bohemia in the ’twenties. He
is such a competent craftsman that he
carries the reader surging])' through the
mire to the hopelessly pessimistic end,
hopeless pessimism being all the feeling
Mr. Kersh chooses to display. Pity and
hope play no perceptible part in his
fiction and even his idealist, Asta, can
attain nothing but frustration.
Maurice Ashley, in England in the
Seventeenth Century, the latest in the
Pelican “History of England” series,
brings life and wit in addition to scholar-
ship to produce an eminently readable
book. While all that have been published
so far in this series have been interesting
and informative, Ashley and Bindoff
{Tudor England ) have that extra some-
thing which lifts books of this type from
interesting to absorbing.
The Horns of Elfland
Some of H. A. Manhood’s stories, A
Long View of Nothing (Heinemann), are
set in Ireland ; and whether or not he is
Irish, he has the Irish green-fingers with
words, and the Irish gift of fantasy, which
makes fantasy of the everyday world,
whether he is writing of a conspiracy with
a little girl at an auction sale—she pours
soot down the chimney to drive the
buyers away—or of the carious behavior
of a lady-killer who pushes a reluctant
barmaid into a lake, or of a “midget on
horseback” who settles himself upon a
startled old maid, or of the curious
behavior of an auctioneer’s brother at
a sale of books.
These stories, have some of the startling
exactness of those brilliant and astonish-
ing confections which Leon Gellert used
to insert in the Sydney “Herald” on
Saturday mornings, but now has aban-
doned for literary criticism and domestic
causeries; the old man with the ear-
trumpet, and the old man pummelled in
a tram by little boys.
But when a Lancashire chronicler of
the common people takes to fantasy, as
in J. B. Priestley’s The Other Place, and
Other Stories of the Same Sort (Heine-
mann), the result is a set of mechanised
transitions between the world of the real
and a dream-world; the real world full
of dough; the dream-world full
of half-baked moralisings; none of it
either credible or interesting. Here is
what happens when a writer who has made
a success of a series of sober pictures of
a large part of society that he knows very
well sets out to be profound and evocative.
The elfin gift is not achievable by in-
dustry, and the horns of elfland, like
the bells of hell, sound for Mr. Manhood,
but not for Mr. Priestley, though Mr.
Manhood’s aim is reality, and Mr. Priest-
ley’s is fantasy. From this general bon-
fire, one should except the story, “Uncle
Phil on T.V.” ; the story of the television-
set bought with Uncle Phil’s life-insur-
ance, and how Uncle Phil came back on
that television-receiver to denounce his
murderer.
Some Recent Novels
With Clive in India: G. A. Henty
(Latimer House). They also advertise
reprints of The Treasure of the Incas,
Redskin and Cowboy, Cornet of Horse,
With Wolfe in Canada and Under
Drake’s Flag. Rereading Clive in India,
one finds its sedate matter-of-fact adven-
turing a tonic to the hysteria of contem-
porary machine-gun and atom-gun books
for boys, with their improbable wish-
fulfilment of vacuous plots.
* * * *
Dead Man Falling: Desmond Cory
(Muller). Johnny Fedora, half-crook,
half-secret-serviceman, with a beautiful
young lady, goes to an inn in Austrian
mountains much-beloved of the moun-
taineers ; rumor is that Hitler’s private
collection of jewels is hidden on the
mountains. At the inn they meet a mother
and child who, Mr. Cory suggests with
bated breath, are probably Hitler’s wife
and child, and a collection of tough-guys,
one of whom is the Nazi responsible for
the safety of Hitler’s cache. Mr. Cory
keeps one guessing at his identity until
the last long-drawn-out battle on the
mountain-peaks; but such thrillers are
less than the detective-novels Cory might
have written.
* * * *
Calypso: Humphrey Slater (Long-
mans). Calypso was a strikingly beautiful
and intelligent girl of a rich middle-class
English family. In 1921, a few days
before a respectable marriage she ran
away to France with Alan Black, her
lover known less than a week. Later in
Italy she married him. In France, largely
as a result of her impulsiveness, Alan and
Calypso were implicated in a jewel rob-
bery, but were later released by the French
police. Thirty years later, wealthy and
widowed, Calypso, living most respect-
ably in Italy, becomes involved with a
brilliant but disreputable poet. He com-
mits a murder, and, in arresting him, the
police accidentally shoot and kill Calypso,
The story, though rather improbable, is
really no more so than many actual life
histories, and Humphrey Slater lends con-
viction, wit and an engaging sophistica-
tion to its telling.
*
The Lesser Infortune: Rayner Heppen-
stall (Cape). The strange title of this
novel derives from an astrological de-
scription of the planet Mars. Mr. Hep-
penstall writes well, sometimes strikingly
so, of the “intellectual” Frobisher's un-
satisfactory military career both in the
Army and in a psychiatric hospital. If
his version of the hero’s committal to
this institution is correct (which one
doubts), the hospital must have housed
a collection of as unadmirable malin-
gerers—hero included—as one could ever
hope not to meet. The tale, such as it
is, is slow and long-drawn-out, with
intimate descriptions of dreary camps in
England and Ireland becoming almost
as wearisome as the places must have
been. Occasional incidents of interest,
however, excellent character-studies and
tantalising insertions of original observa-
tion occur exactly often enough to hold
the reader’s interest.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 250
Across
I—What may be drunk on the head-
lands has nipped the seabird
sibilants for such aggrieved states
of mind. (12)
7 A couple in tow. (3)
8 — The minority is going to the
north and the operatic solo is
going to the north, old man. (12)
11— Cut the product of the first two
vowels? (3)
12 — Havoc caused by disorderly Dave
on the ranch. (11)
13— Misplaced snow has nothing but
three directions. (4)
14 — Friend surrounds an ex-convict
in this kind of cadence which can
be all gap. (6)
16 —Crag backing bosh. (3)
19— Cop. (3) , . ..
20— Circle a sea-food like a bumpkin.
22—Tidings for the bridge four. (4)
24 —Ways of tying the buckshee
dollar missing a postscript by
Henry, Henry and Henry, with
soup-bones. (11)
26 A brief year in a Scottish region.
(3)
27 Develop a wolf-call by practice,
and express an expression. (5-7)
28 — Penniless gesture of agreement.
(3)
29 — Color-changes that mean rows
for Communists. (5, 3,4)
Down
1 — German league jour; a midday
resort in N.S.W.’s highlands. (9)
2 Colorist to arrest an Algerian
bigwig near a scene of Words-
worth’s inspiration. (7, 5)
3 A wilderness in which David,
fleeing from Saul, sojourned
while Saul went off to fight the
Philistines. (6)
4 Fathers of wrath aboard ship.
(5)
5 Eon black may be rubbed out (8)
6 Sun on an Athenian lawgiver
taking 50 inside shortly. (5)
9 —“ A Christmas Carol” is one and
five during Christmas. (5)
10 —Jot a lottery fellow on the
French gossip. (6-6)
15 —He married Mohammed’s daugh-
ter Fatima. (3)
17 — About the tennis initiators they
book. (9)
18 — A soldier who is better off with-
out his lance. (8)
21 —Muscle of swine. (5)
23 —One who flings the grayer like
yesterday in France when his are
replaced. (6)
24- do this to get seats
and put up with a holy conjunc-
tion in Custer’s last achievement.
(5)
25 — He surrounds one German poet.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 249


w-
*■
‘ v- • :■*«:
/ ”
t*SiMz
rJ '' ?
: 4
<"-T 4 '
—-if _
• -3
t•: ♦
=a>*
MM..J
tPZ
v-,;,;
tv
/V V-::M
If,
/- :•
_
«sg
>i 4
:V
-,4 -
- ■
<
-
I^2
«^Jr
i-
’.'A, "
oaf
<J:r f k*
i* r •: I S
p*
O l i
1\
V '
.r^::...PrP
%.. *'<
-.. <‘^r;:;^:::.r.
V. •«■. ' v£
*_***—■'.“!•••.
c'__
fee -
:i ii
IJ'V.
V/-■',//-:
\%\ IWJf
• \V:
r>^i .
;; ••'O
*%:s f,
w l
I W
ri»K' r< W
!
/■<-
r ft;;
I
% -seal
p-p
* i*i- h ■'£&■'''i# K ** '*i '
• ''
1
.
C.4
/A o y/'
A
r--j.
rw
:■ \
i-.._
•:
::: •
*
s'— /
‘
>0
~ ~/C'Cv
> M H
L'Pp,
rf;.
y" ; / k v f :kilij
K! v.v/* 4'*- .- ,
TyvxTxi -# . 4 > 4 ‘*Jsbkb w
sSm •J \t M r * F
s•' is t » '•}#'?■ ■
\ v y-'- .'•■•■■' ‘./-ri-v . T--';.■ '■ v
::
PRODUCTS OF EXPERIENCED
DESIGNERS & MAKERS
W&m.
msmv
MARS iok/11 All Geared
Head, S.S. & Sc. Lathe
Gap bed, hollow spindle, available to 12 ft. centres. Built to Schlesinger limits of
accuracy. Manufactured of Meehanite castings produced in Mars laboratory controlled
Meehanite Foundry.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY!
drert
MARS 10|in*
SHAPER
Thig is an ideal all-
purpose shaping
machine with a wide
operational range.
Designed to cut key
ways in long shafts.
Guaranteed accuracy,
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
THE “MARS”
GEAR DIVISION
Provides prompt service.
Gears completely manufac-
tured or your own blanks
generated by Sutherland,
Fellows, Bobbing or Glea-
son Bevel processes.
Makers of the
greatest range
of machine tools
In the Southern
Hemisphere
iwfMi
WifTis&m m
ymM ’
: • I
■
<■
PM
(h
wmm
■ .
' s%?.'’L f -W* 2 »
MARS
HIGH SPEED
PLANER
6' x 2 6 " capacity
Automatic feeds
Ideal general purpose
planer. Castings of
heavy sections are of
robust design.
EARLY DELIVERY
MEEHANITE
(Regd. Trade Mark)
CASTINGS
All castings are produced
in the Mars Foundry under
supervision of highly
trained metallurgical and
laboratory staffs. WE
MANUFACTURE ALL
GRADES of MEEHANITE
IRONS.
THE MARS No. 4
UNIVERSAL MILLING MACHINE
A fine and modem milling machine with guaranteed accuracy and outstanding qua-
lity. Rapid Power Traverse all movements. Wide range of speeds and feeds. Built ia
electrics. Schlesinger standards of accuracy. Complete with all accessories.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Distributors in all States
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co.. 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. VIC,: Herbert
Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. N.S.W.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 109 Oxford Street, Sydney.
QLD.; Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd. TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins Street, Hobart. INDIA: (Bombay Pro-
vince) R. S. Mehta & Co., AH Chrs., Port Bombay, PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
