

II
.• • •
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange im-
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Four nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons
Ltd. will supply details of this service. Orders for de-
livery in Great Britain before Christmas must be placed
before 16th November.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE; Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE; Box 64, G.P.0..
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
SYDNEY’S “GREEN-BELT” PLAN-mge za
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74-No. 3846
Wednesday, October 28, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
COWDRAY HOUSE ONE OF MEDIEVAL ENGLAND'S FINEST MANSIONS
THE imposing ruins of Cowdray House stand in an eight-hundred-acre
wooded parkland near Midhurst in Sussex. Although little more than a
skeleton today, sufficient remains to give an impression of its past magnificence.
The original manor at Cowdray was granted by Henry VII to Lord
Montague, from whom it passed to Sir Anthony Browne, Grand Standard
Bearer of England and favourite of Henry VIII. In 1540, four years after his
marriage to Jane Seymour, the King entrusted to Sir Anthony the somewhat
delicate task of representing him at the Court of John of Cleves, whose sister
Henry had agreed to marry.
Another instance of the attachment shown by Henry VIII to Sir Anthony
Browne was the gift to him of Battle Abbey after the Dissolution of the
Monasteries. According to legend Sir Anthony Browne, when taking possession
of his property in 1538, insulted the monks, one of whom pronounced the
“Cowdray Curse” —“that the house of the despoiler should perish by fire and
water.” Although Sir Anthony himself was spared the ordeal of seeing the
prophecy come true, misfortune did come to his descendants. In 1793, while
Viscount Montague, the owner of Cowdray, was abroad, a fire broke out in
the gallery of the great mansion and swept through the apartments, destroying
pictures and other priceless treasures.
A week after this disaster, and before the news of the fire had reached
him, the Viscount was drowned while attempting to shoot the Laufenburg
Rapids in Germany. Further misfortune followed successive owners ot the
estate. ~
The present excellent condition of the sixteenth-century ruins is due to the
preservation-work of Sir Aston Webb, the architect, who was commissioned in
1909 by Viscount Cowdray to save the ancient building from further decay.
In the middle of the western range of buildings is the three-storied Gatehouse,
with a turret at each corner and structurally complete. Over the entrance arch
is a carving of Henry VIII's arms which commemorate that king’s visit in
1538. King Edward VI also stayed at Cowdray in 1547, and a great pageant
was arranged for the visit of Queen Elizabeth I in 1591. During those days
of Cowdray's greatest splendour hospitality for the royal visitors was on a
lavish scale. Ancient records recall the fact that in those days a breakfast
x menu consisted of three oxen and 140 geese.


The Red Page
"AUSTRALIA WRITES"
It is a great satisfaction to find in
Australia Writes, an anthology edited for
the Canberra Fellowship of Australian
Writers by T. Inglis Moore (Cheshire),
two of the finest Bulletin stories of their
years, “A Study in Anger” by Ethel
Anderson, and “Johnston Needs a Hand”
(which first appeared as “The Beddable
Bushranger”) by Roderick M. Daw. That
such writers could have been neglected
by previous anthologists has been a
matter of great grief to at least one
literary gent., and a proof that the literary
pendulum has swung too far in the direc-
tion of tiddly perfectionism.
Mr. Daw’s story is not even an
ordinary very-good story ; it is a story
which rules a line between old and new
stories of cattle-duffing. His cattle-duffers
make use of outback pedal-wireless trans-
missions and take a ride in an aero-club
plane to spy out the land. In addition,
the story details a two-up game and a
wild party at Broken Hill, with the dis-
posal of the stolen stock and a country-
town mock-trial to round it off—all
within 13 pages. It is something new
added to the list of Australian master-
pieces ; every scene done for the first
time, and every scene authentic.
If we regard Daw as a sophisticated
writer by cattle-duffing standards, what
are we to say of Ethel Anderson, who,
in the best of her stories of old Parra-
matta, seems to speak with the serene
wisdom of a century, building story and
atmosphere from a jnosaic of exact fact
and observation? !Mrs. Anderson will
probably never write a story of Mr.
Daw’s immediate appeal to a wide circle,
but their two stories, so opposite in kind,
are at one in being excellent short-stories,
and in having what is hard to describe,
but what a story of the first-class must
have, a certainty and distinction of
manner.
One suspects that this “certainty and
distinction” may have a different em-
phasis for readers of different tempera-
ments ; one finds it again, for instance,
in Olaf Ruhen’s story, “The Woman
Molak”; but when one cannot manage
the same enthusiasm for such obviously
excellent writing as “The Catch” by
Vance Palmer, in which a boy brings
home a huge fish for his mOfher’s admira-
tion, and is impatiently rebuffed —she is
dressing for her last night with her lover—
and “Black and White” by Allan Ashbolt,
where a negro is hunted down for a
murder done by a respected Mount Isa
citizen, it is probably because this par-
ticular reader prefers a cheerful view
of life to a dark view.
It is also good to see “Macnell” (J. E.
Macdonnell) making his debut in an Aus-
tralian anthology. “Open Sights” is not
the finest of the naval stories that ran
through The Bulletin, became an Eng-
lish novel, and were then serialised in
the Sydney “Herald,” but it is well in
the “Macnell” manner. T. A, G,
Hungerford, who chose the stories in this
anthology, is represented by his Canberra
two-up-school story, “The National
Game”; and like Kylie Tennant, in her
brilliant survey of a flooded coastal town,
“The Face of Despair,” writes more with
the stride of a novelist, an episode rather
than a story. “The National Game” was,
in fact, used as a chapter in Hungerford’s
Canberra novel Riverslake.
David Campbell has chosen the verse,
which is sandwiched between stories and
articles throughout the book, ingeniously
classified under headings derived from
some poem in the section; “The Quality
of Always” (visions of permanence
through change), “Deserts, Flowers,
Stones and Trees” (nature-studies), “The
Hand Upon the Body” (love), “Trice Up
—Lay Out —Loose Away!” (Adventure),
“Blane Street” (town-poems), “Bayonet
and Grass” (war and national poems)
and “In Eight Directions” (comic and
satiric). Of this huge selection, the piece
that most immediately strikes the present
reader is “1 danced before I had two
feet,” by Max Dunn:
I bore the fruit of many lives
Before I came into this day;
I knew before my grave was made
The worms eat only death away.
About the most ambitious verse is a
set of four striking scenes from “A View
of Montreal” by Francis Webb ; Douglas
Stewart appears in section after section
with his little exact studies of Australian
flowers, a fine sea-song, “Crean’s Song,”
and some pieces from the set he did on
returning from Central Australia ; Ken-
neth Mackenzie, as one should expect,
is largely represented in the “hand on
the body” section, which takes its name
from one of his love-lyrics; that rare-
appearer, A. D. Hope, writes in “Imperial
Adam” practically the same poem that
astonished and pleased us so much in
H. M. Green’s anthology some years
ago, where it was called “The Damnation
of Byron”; there is a selection from
Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s monumental
Between Two Tides; and there are other
admirable poems by Rosemary Dobson,
Judith Wright, Nan McDonald, Ray
Mathew, Nancy Keesing, Roland Robin-
son, David Campbell, Elizabeth Riddell,
T. Inglis Moore, David Rowbotham, etc.
In the last section Hugh McCrae is in
characteristic high spirits in praise of his
Shackeau,” Peter Hopegood appears as
a leaser of ponies to children ; and there
is a charming, quiet little piece of comedy
called “Cairo Hotel” by J. R. Rowland.
The articles include a Leon Gellert
‘ Sunday Herald” special, “Bacteria Back-
ground”—no “Herald” writer is allowed
to catch a common cold. Alan McCulloch
writes too narrowly about trends in art,
restricting himself to the (daily-news-
paper) fashionable viewpoint. Professor
Sawer, Professor of Law at Canberra,
reveals some not very legal practices of
“The Acton School,” a kind of poetic
Mafia society of Canberra intellectuals,
addressing each other in such couplets
as those dedicated by their leader, Pro-
fessor Hope, to the incoming Professor
of Geography, Professor Spate:
Welcome, welcome Spates
Youse and us is mates.
With one of John Morrison’s wharfie
sketches, one of Dal Stivens’s Australian
farces, one of the slightest stories by that
remarkably able author Lyndall Hadow,
another by D’Arcy Niland, another by
Elyne Mitchell, and an aboriginal sketch
by Alan Marshall, and with essays by
Flora Eldershaw on our landscape-
writers, by C. P. Fitzgerald on a possible
Chinese discovery of Australia, by
Henrietta Drake-Brockman on Miles
Franklin; with a bush-diary by Frank
Dalby Davison ; a story by Hugh Clarke
of Australian prisoners working for
Japanese, and one of Judah Waten’s rich
and vital stories of Jewish migrants in a
country town, the anthology may be
seen to cover, in general with force
and charm, a wide field of Aus-
tralian life and attitudes and to
display contemporary Australian litera-
ture in a welcome state of vigor and
variety. Either for Australian or over-
seas reading this anthology, as a kind
of supplement to a summary of Coast to
Coast and Australian Poetry, should have
a wide circulation. —R. McC.
Italian Novel
The Materassi Sisters by Aldo
Palazzeschi (Seeker and Warburg), pub-
lished in 1934 in Italy and very popular
there, is the first novel by one of Italy’s
best-known contemporary writers to be
translated into English.
The theme is simple. Two sisters,
Theresa and Carolina, daughters of a
spendthrift farmer, retrieve their family’s
mortgaged possessions by a lifetime of
hard work. Their craft is fine needle-
work and they are famous all over Italy,
not only as the most accomplished makers
of luxury underwear for women, but as
supremely artistic ecclesiastical
embroiderers, honored by an audience
with the Pope.
To their village cottage come princes
of the church, fashionable women of
European renown, and more humble but
invariably wealthy clients. Locally they
are reputed to be immensely rich. They
look like scarecrows and live simply.
Their servant is an odd and lovable
woman, Niobe, who in her youth fell
before masculine blandishments not once
but twice. Giselda, another sister, victim
of a brief and disastrous marriage, com-
pletes the household. Fully, humorously
and compassionately, Palazzeschi de-
scribes this feminine stronghold—the two
sisters who have never known or sought
men’s love except in their grotesque
imaginations ; the repentant but psycho-
logically irrepressible Niobe, and the
embittered deserted Giselda.
Into this house at the age of fourteen
comes Remo, orphan son of another sister
who has died in poverty. He develops
into a young man of uncommonly
beautiful appearance and physique—
selfish, spendthrift, and, although intel-
ligent, without employment. Eventually
he runs through his aunts’ fortune and
departs, leaving them sad and destitute, to
America with a wealthy bride. However,
he is really only able to live in
extravagant idleness because of the
willingness of Theresa, Carolina and
Niobe to be duped and dazzled by his
charm and comeliness.
This comedy is, basically, a tragedy of
frustrated womanhood beautifully told
with leisurely sureness. Palazzeschi,
though earthier and livelier, has in
common with Henry James an under-
standing o£ the “architecture” of novel-
writing From its opening and most
original description of Florence and the
Tuscan scene, to the last chapter in which,
with Niche’s help, the sisters make some
compromise with complete ruin, the book,
ably translated by Angus Davidson, is a
delight. The dustjacket by Pat Marriott
deserves mention for its attractiveness.
ences in ports on the east coast, are a
different matter.
As they threaded through the maze
of Patagonian islands they anchored at
night in glacial sounds, Visited the light-
housekeeper and his family at Cape
Raper, shot steamer-ducks, which they
found not very pleasant eating, gathered
flowers like Australian Christmas-hells,
saw nutria, thirty of whose pelts make
a £450 coat, disporting themselves in
Connor Cove, ran on the rocks at Gray
Harbor and gouged a large lump of lead
from the keel, and met some seal-hunters
who, in a 20ft. open boat, loaded with gear
and stores and eight powerful dogs, their
shelter-tarpaulin serving as their only
sail, could not be overtaken by the
racing-cutter travelling “at a fine clip
under full main and stays’].” These
travels have been annotated by the author
with extracts from the observations of
some famous predecessors in those parts:
Sir Francis Drake, Darwin in the Beagle,
and, of course, Magellan.
With a visit to Punta Arenas, the
“southernmost city,” a wild port turned
prosperously respectable, the travels take
on a more social style; dinners ashore ;
entertainments aboard; trouble with
South American Customs-officers, the
most aggravating being a demand from
the marine police at Buenos Aires to ex-
plain why the 46ft. cutter had sailed
into port without two tugs and a pilot
—it turned out that the demand was an
excuse to find out why an introduction
given Mr. Davenport for Buenos Aires
had not been presented. They found that
Buenos Aires shipwrights had a different
way of slipping yachts from those of Tas-
mania ; but perhaps the most interesting
discovery of the whole voyage was at
Recife, principal port of the State of
Pernambuco:
In some parts of the city there was an
explosion every few minutes. These left the
locals unmoved and proved to be fireworks
left over from “Carnival”—-those several
days of wild festivities when everyone stops
work to sing and dance to exhaustion. We
were told that during “Carnival” the young
bloods carried water-pistols or sprays filled
with ether. If a pretty girl caught their
eye she would receive a freezing jet of
ether on bare arm or 1eg.... .
Well, they really “rolled down to Rio”:
Philip Davenport, his wife Rosetta, his
brother Keith, and Don Brown who had
been “a flight-engineer in the airline with
which Rosetta had been a flight-hostess
and I a pilot.” But Rio was only on
the way: their goal was Cowes, where
they hoped to win the Fastnet race with
their Tasmanian cutter. Alas, when Mr.
Davenport pointed out his yacht to an
English yachtsman through a yacht-club
window at Cowes he “looked at her
critically for a few moments, then said:
‘She looks a good, sthrdy sea-boat. Just
the thing for a long ocean passage ; a bit
slow, though, for ocean racing.’ ” Mr.
Davenport was hurt:
As right as he may have been, it was
the sort of remark I couldn’t take. We’ll
show him.
But, as he continues, “We didn’t show
him or anyone else.” Waltzing Matilda
was thirteenth on handicap correction,
and one of the last of the sixteen to
finish the 650-mile course. Neverthe-
less, they got a good voyage and a good
book out of it, especially for yachtsmen,
or people thinking of going a long way
in a small boat. What beginner, for
instance, could foresee the dangers of
“chafe”? ,
Another thing we had to guard against
was chafe. As the clothes swung to and
fro with the rolling of the boat they rubbed
against the sides of the lockers. We wedged
them stationary as far as possible in canvas-
bags or dust-covers. In spite of these pre-
cautions a red velvet top-coat of Roz’s had
a saucer-sized hole worn in the shoulder
and the collar of a suit of mine was rubbed
ragged where it protruded over the dust-
cover.
Patagonian Passage
Philip Davenport’s story of The
Voyage of Waltzing Matilda (Hutchin-
son) should be of great interest to yachts-
men thinking of going round the world
in a small boat. The general reader may
find it tedious as the ocean in those long
stretches of sailing which the author has
padded-out with small-talk about happen-
ings which seemed amusing enough at
the time. But the yacht’s passage through
the Patagonian channels and Magellan
strait down the cold south coast of South
America, the crew’s adventures among
Indians who go half-naked in sleet and
snow, and a few of their further experi-
THE CUP
Silence is harder, Una said.
If I could be quiet I might come true,
like the blue cup hung over the sink,
which is not dead,
but waiting for someone to fill it and drink.
Una said, Silence can reach my mouth;
but a long way in my trouble lies.
The look of my eyes, the sound of my
words
all tell the truth.
They come from my sorrow like a flight
of birds.
Let silence travel, Una said,
by every track of nerve and vein
to heart and brain where the troubles
begin.
Then 1 shan’t be dead,
but waiting for something to come in.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Footnote to Fawcett
Col. P. H. Fawcett of Exploration
Fawcett (B. 14/10/ ’53) might best be com-
pared with Don Quixote—the chivalrous
though obsessed philosopher of the
Mancha as he appears in the original text
and not the buffoon or madman
unhappily familiar to the readers of
bowdlerised translations and adaptations
into English. The resemblance is even
physical, for, were it not for the pipe,
the frontispiece photograph of Fawcett
is reminiscent of sketches of the Knight
of the Sad Countenance by early illus-
trators of Cervantes.
The Fawcett manuscripts, in contrast
to so many travel-books, bear the
manifest impress of truth. Long acquaint-
ance with similar (but not identical} parts
of the Andean hinterland over much the
same period enables me to bear witness
to the faithful description of town and
hamlet, of forest and untravelled stream,
and of the joys and calamities of primi-
tive excursions. Where there is exaggera-
tion, it is never deliberate.
Concerning Fawcett’s 62ft. anaconda,
and in spite of the fact that other less-
veracious travellers have reported encoun-
tering anacondas of 80ft. and more in
length, I am not surprised to read, in an
editorial footnote: “When this serpent
was reported in London, my father was
pronounced an utter liar.” My own reac-
tion, however, is that Col. Fawcett was
an exceptionally truthful recorder, but
that he was also extremely credulous* with
reference to statements made by others.
For this reason, gny hearsay repeated in
the volume must be treated with caution.
The traveller in the outback Andean
foothills or inter-Andean valleys, if he is
to believe his native helpers, is never
more than a few leagues from a lost city
roofed with gold and paved with silver,
but he always just misses finding it. It
should be remembered, however, as Col.
Fawcett points out, that gold and silver
were not only locally abundant, but were
very easily worked. Ornaments made of
these metals were commonly interred with
even the undistinguished dead.
Up to 1930, to my own knowledge, the
search for ancient graves was a recognised
profession carried out by hmqueros who
sold the gold (sometimes beautifully
worked), thus obtained at the ruling price
by weight for the crude metal. I employed
many of these men and the gatherers of
ipecacuanha ( raiziUeros ) owing to their
intimate knowledge of the bush, but I
never reached El Dorado.
L. O.
Spearheads of Invasion: Lieut.-
Commander W. N. Swan, R.A.N. (Angus
and Robertson). The author, for almost
the whole of the Pacific fighting, was an
officer in H.M.A.S. Westralia, converted
from an armed-merchant-cruiser to a
landing-ship-infantry. Responsible for
controlling the disembarking of invasion
troops, Swan was very much the hub of
the hubbub, has a careful eye for
observation, and has written a concise
and fact-packed story of the seven main
invasions ranging from New Guinea to
the Philippines. While obviously
conscious liimself of the dramatic impact
of the operations he witnessed, he has
written of them with a restraint which
could have been loosened a little to add
more color to the narrative. Even so, he
has produced a valuable record of how
the invasions were launched, a story
hitherto restricted to what happened after
the troops were beached. The book is the
first on its subject, and, so comprehen-
sively has the author covered every facet
of training and disembarkation, probably
the last.


J !!■■■■■■■—MW "'ll , . .. LL'A'.'.I.M.IMIMM-.I . . 1.1.1. M I'PIMI .1 MPIP. . 1 Ml .1,......., ..... U .. ......■■ M.,,,,, ........ .......... ..
Senior Store News Bulletin
weekly news of activities, values and advantages from Anthony Horderns 9
Don't entertain flies this Summer!
Buy expanding wire screens now!
I '
I
is '. \
i M
■%®Sl5
A
iS
.
■ • ...i
14in. x 19in., expands to 14in. x 36in. 9 from 7/3 ea .
In with the breeze and out with the flies with our modern expanding window screens
from only 7/3 each. Just raise the window, place your wire screen to any width
you require (from 14in. x 19in. to any size up to 14in. x 36in. wide). When screen
fits snugly, draw window down and, presto, your window is flyproof! They come in
unpainted wood frames (just ready for any handyman to put a oab of paint and
blend with your own colour schemes), with galvanised wire at 12/3 each, or with
bronze wire at 16/9 each. Homemakers can obtain the metal frames (painted
green), fitted with galvanised wire and priced at only 7/3 each.
Fly-wire screen door from 57'9
Come in 9 designs , 3 sizes in bronze or galvanised wire
Guard your family's health and keep those flies out this summer! JHheck your door
for size and order now! 'Phone M 2401, ask for T.O.P.S. (Anthony Horderns
Telephone Orders Personal Shopping Service), quote No. of door, size, whether
galvanised or bronze wire screen and your fly wire screen door will be on your next
delivery. Remember, Anthony Horderns’ fly door frames are made by expert crafts*
men from selected Oregon. Yes, we can supply handles, bolts and spring hinges
for only 3/6 set extra.
WL
No 13
Noll
No 4
No 7
No 8
fflpMiL] J -
i
Cl
c
Colourful Cunvus Blinds
Made up to any style you choose
This year the trend will be to “add colour” to your home with the latest
style of canvas blinds. Anthony Horderns’ can make up all styles of blinds,
either drop-out or plain drop style. Call into our famous Blind Department
(3rd Floor) and view our extensive range of canvases. Stripes or Gay Stripes.
RING M 2401
ask for T.O.P.S.
(Telephone Orders)
>iiViW«Vii
1
mm
i
»
i^tfitfiWiyfliiiiji.il
Quality Scotch Holland Blinds
Made to any size and in six different colours
Yes! Anthony Horderns’’ can make up all your Holland Blinds to any size,
in plain, kilted or fringed, in six different designs. Our huge range of
colours include Beige, Brown, Sand, Slate Grey, Jade Green and Red.
Next time you’re in town be sure to call up to our Holland Blind Department.
BLINDS. Sird FLOOR. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE M 2401
*
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Hordern]
sdf


The Early Mount Isa Sceptics
NEAR-MISS
OF A FORTUNE
By HENRY G. LAMOND
FAIRLY early in 1919, when things
were pretty slack, Queensland’s
far west was excited by a reputed
rich find of silver-lead at a place
called O’Brien’s Soak, a watering-point
for teams and travellers on the road from
the copper-town of Duchess to Uran-
dangie, on the Georgina.
The reported find was approximately
25 miles west of Duchess, about eight
miles beyond Bushy Park, the station
then owned by that grand old pioneer
Alexander Kennedy.
At that time Les Griffiths and Teddy
Wright were running cars from Duchess
to “the Dangie” (these two partners
opened a number of car-roads in the
west). After the rush fizzled out, with
not enough silver won to make a watch-
chain pendant, not enough lead to mould
a bullet, Les and Ted told me it had
fitted in nicely with their domestic
economy: they ran full cars day and
night while the boom was on. They did
very well out of it.
Later in 1919, discussing the find with
Alexander Kennedy, he told me in his
short-clipped Scottish accent of some of
his mining ventures. A blackboy in
Kennedy’s employ had discovered the
mine he called “Duchess” and sold for
£20,000. That boy had told his boss
there was another and a better show
further west. Kennedy never found this
other show —the boy died in ,the mean-
time —but, roughly, it would be about
60 miles west of Bushy Park.
I remembered all this later when Mt.
Isa burst into the news. I felt that the
real discoverer was the boy who found
“Duchess” for Kennedy.
Alexander Kennedy sold Bushy Park
and retired to live in Brisbane; I left the
Georgina country and, after sundry ups
and downs, mainly downs, found my-
self managing a bit of a cattle property
in the Charters Towers district. Times
were tough, money was scarce, jobs were
few, cattle were valued in shillings where
they are now measured in pounds. Prac-
tically all cattlemen were struggling to
keep on their feet, leaning against each
other for support to keep from falling.
In 1923 the owner of the property I
was managing worked out a scheme to
amalgamate with Glencoe Station, near
West Leichhardt, on the road to Camoo-
weal. It was quite a good idea: bring
in stores from Glencoe, fatten them on
Braceborough, have them handy to the
markets when they were fit to sell. As
a preliminary, I had instructions to in-
spect Glencoe and make a report. That
was easy—after I’d raised the money to
pay my train-fare from the Towers to
Duchess and return.
The train pulled up at Julia Creek
to have a drink. The passengers, or
some of them, followed the example of
the engine. While I was strolling along
the platform I met Teddy Wright. I
learned he had a motor-rail contract in
the district. I asked after his partner,
Les Griffiths. Les, so far as Teddy knew,
was home in Tasmania. The train
whistled, I climbed aboard and went on
to Cloncurry.
Colin Watts, then managing Ardmore
Station, picked me up at “the Curry”
and drove me to Duchess. He had spent
much time, labor and money in search
of the lost goldmine out from Caran-
dotta. Several times he was all hotted
up; had his fingers close to it; but he
never got closer. He spoke casually of
a reputed silver-lead find at Lagoon
Creek, on the West Leichhardt. He
dismissed it with a sniff: that game had
been played before.
It was interesting to return to Duchess
after the lapse of a few years. I knew
that township when two pubs did a roar-
ing trade, when picture-shows attracted
crowds, when the constant pitter-patter
of girls’ high-heeled shoes sounded in
the main street as they went to a dance.
In those days a procession of cars rolled
about town. In June, 1923, I unrolled
my swag on the road which was the
main street; I lay and rested there until
Percy Glendenning, the mail contractor
to Camooweal, was ready to start.
There was mild excitement at Duchess,
very mild: a prospector named Campbell
Miles had discovered a new show at
Lagoon Creek. Doherty, the publican,
bad a lump of ore from that mine. It
was a piece of rock of, say, stbout one
cubic foot. Doherty used to ask patrons
to test its weight. He had great fun
with that first sample of ore from what
was to be Mt. Isa.
Percy Glendenning started his old truck
some time before midnight. It stopped
many times before we reached Lagoon
Creek Soak late in the afternoon—-it
stopped on every bank of each steep
creek. We discussed old times and noted
men on the Georgina. We each spoke
of the new find with a snort. Yes, that
game had been played before at O’Brien’s
Soak.
We reached Lagoon Creek Soak,
where it had been arranged I was to
meet Arthur Campbell, the owner of
Glencoe. I was rather keen to have a
look at Campbell. He, a couple of years
previously, had put up the stupendous
record of lying in the hills for five days
with a broken leg. No water, nothing;
anchored by a projecting splinter from a
broken bone. His horse had fallen with
him. And after that five days, with
Death as his companion all the while,
Arthur had enough spirit to joke with
the man who found him! I liked Arthur
Campbell before I met him.
Jack, his son, met the lorry at Lagoon
Creek. He was bailing water for a few
cattle that fed in the area about the soak.
Jack was then about 18, a superb bush-
man, a real chip of the old block. He
told me his father would be there later
in the night. To prove himself as a host,
and to entertain his guest, which was me,
he invited me to take a ride with him to
have a look at a new show being opened
on the Leichhardt.
I’d come that far to inspect a cattle-
station, not to muck about with mines.
Still, as he was so nice about it, I agreed
to go—and I hope X put up a semblance
of being interested. Jack mounted me on
a good sort of a dapple-grey gelding and
we rode to the hilly outcrop—now Mt.
Isa.
Four men were there. They were
bearded, begrimed ; they looked as tough
as they undoubtedly were. They
were glad to see me: they thought Iwa
a Government geologist or some other
species of civil servant. That was the
first and only time in my life I’d been
mistaken for one of those things. When
they learned I was only a simple station-
manager they were somewhat disap-
pointed. They, were gentlemen, in spite
of their rough appearances. I tried to
act like one: I didn’t object to the affront
which had been offered me.
Those four men showed me oyer their
claim ; they talked more or less learnedly
of the run of the reef and of other things;
but each confessed that none of them
had the faintest idea what they’d struck.
As one of them expressed it: “We don’t
know what we’re doing—we might be
baggin’ th’ rubbish and throwin’ th’ gooc
stuff away.”
After a drink of a tea and a slice of
brownie. Jack and I returned to the camp
at Lagoon Creek. I had with me, and I
still have somewhere, a few specimens of
the first stuff mined at Mt. Isa.
Arthur Campbell came along ’ that
night. I put in a week or so with him
inspecting his station. I was charmed
with his manner; I was more ‘than de-
lighted with the way in which his cattle
had been worked. I thought then, anc
I haven’t altered my opinion since, that
he was one of the smartest all-round
stockmen and bushmen I’d ever met. Dur-
ing my inspection of the property we dis-
cussed the new mine, which, then, hadn’t
received a name.
Somewhat tentatively, Arthur put it up
to me to go in partners with him and take
a claim adjoining the original lease. 1
did some hasty mental arithmetic: I had
£3 Bs. 9d. in the bank—or it may have
been 6d. less. I had a fair bit owing me.
I couldn’t collect it without embarrassing
others. Some years previously, when I
had more money and fewer children than
I had then, I’d dropped £l5O in
copper show.
So I stayed out; I didn’t take up a
claim beside the original. Others can
calculate how much I lost in £ s. d. I’m
still healthy and fairly sound on my feet.
What did I lose?
I returned to the soak. I have a distinct
memory of sitting by the road, waiting for
Glendenning to come with his mail-
lorry: I was smelting some of the first
of the Mt, Isa ore, using an empty
tobacco-tin placed on the coals.
When I returned to Duchess the town
was agog—if the term is applicable to
such a spot. The reason of the excitement
was the coming race-meeting, due in
about a week. All the tea-and-sugar bush-
rangers and saddle-strap burglars in the
district had gathered for that. As for
the new mine on the Leichhardt —oh,
after the races, and if there was nothin’
else doin’, some of them might go out and
have a look at it.
On the train from Duchess to “the
Curry” I travelled with a Mr. St.-Smith,
or some name like that (he, as with many
of the others, has since gone over into the
silence). He was a geologist, and so I
showed him my samples of ore from
Lagoon Creek. He looked at them
casually, dubbed them by some name
which was neither Shorthorn nor Here-
ford, and, if he was excited about them,
he hid his enthusiasm well.
That was the general attitude: no one
was excited. Few were even interested.
But it was only a week later, when the
news flashed through of what the thing
really was, that the rush set in properly.
By that lime I was back working white-
faced cattle. Arthur Campbell did well
out of it, I heard. I was glad of it. Others
I have named missed out. My own share
was experience.
Improbable Epistles
My Dear Warwick,
Allow me to tender my heartiest
congratulations on the successful
launching of your Sunday “Sun-
Herald.”
Need I say that I read it from
last to first —wasn’t that the way it
was intended to be read? —and I
really couldn’t fault it. Your news-
coverage is far superior to anything
of which my organisation is cap-
able, whilst the advertising-revenue
and -space make our outfit appear
like a bucket-shop.
Perhaps if my dear old pal Ezra
and I get together—and, heaven
knows, as you and Sir John also do,
that the exigencies of Sunday journ-
alism force strange bedfellows into
the one lumpy bunk —we might,
with a Sunday “Teletruth,” get with-
in a quarter-million of your initial
circulation. But 640,000 phew!
The thought of it makes my circula-
tion go haywire.
Yours most sincerely,
Frank Packer.
P.S.; Perhaps I may see you at the
next surrealist art show and we can
have a yarn about things.—F.P.
Mr. A. Nanias.
Dear Sir,
This paper followed with the keen-
est interest the evidence you gave
in certain recent judicial proceedings,
and in particular the details you dis-
closed regarding the phenomenal
sums you won from your turf invest-
ments.
We feel that our readers should
get the benefit of this uncanny
ability you have shown in picking
long-priced winners so consistently
and without benefit of any “inside”
information.
We therefore extend an invitation
to you—if you are not already under
contract —to join our editorial staff
as chief turf commissioner at what-
ever figure you care to name.
Yours faithfully,
A. Dill,
Editor, “Daily Whinge.”
Dear Dick,
I write to you in heartfelt anxiety,
not only as an ex-president of the
U.N. General Assembly and (if I
may modestly claim) part-author of
the U.N. Charter which, inter alia,
guarantees freedom from compulsion
to join any association, but as a
world-recognised champion of the
small nations.
I feel that it is your bounden duty
as Australia’s chief delegate to U.N.
to draw to the attention of the
General Assembly in the strongest
possible terms the outrageous
tyranny which it is proposed to fasten
on to a large section of the people
of the most populous State of one
of the small nations —I refer of
course to our own country.
It positively makes my blood boil
to think that, under the dire threat of
depriving them of their means of
livelihood, all workers (if Joe Cahill’s
legislation is passed—and what’s to
prevent it?) will be forced, many
against their will and conscience, to
join a trade-union. I , visualise with
great distress the virtual certainty
that hosts of decent men will be thus
compelled to put themselves in the
power of Communist leaders. That
I fought so stoutly in the courts on
behalf of these same Communists
is quite beside the point.
I implore you therefore to strike
a blow for liberty at the next con-
gregation of that “Parliament of
man, the federation of the world” of
which I was once so vital a force,
and, if I may say so, so great an
ornament.
Yours in mortification,
Bert.
Parliament House,. Canberra.
The Social Editress,
The “Daily Guff.”
Dear Madam,
My attention has been drawn to
yesterday’s issue of your paper, in
which a report of proceedings at a
ball-committee meeting of which I
was convenor also ran a photograph
of myself.
It was one taken at least 20 years
ago. I must therefore register a
strong protest at what can only be
regarded as giving a deceptive im-
pression of me. In future, should
it be deemed necessary for my photo
to appear (and I must add that this
is certainly not my object in engaging
in social pursuits) I should be very
pleased if you would have one taken
of me as I appear today, wrinkles
and all.
Yours faithfully,
Belinda Sheltex-Bowzer.
To the Commissioner of Police.
Dear Sir,
I wish to pay sincere tribute to the
work of the parking-squad under
your command.
Within the minute-and-a-half dur-
ing which I parked my car in the city
while I was picking up a parcel at
a near-by shop I was booked. The
parking-constable wasn’t in sight
when I left the car or when I re-
turned.
Such a feat of speed and efficiency
must engender in the breasts of all
who, by taxes and fines, keep the
Force going a glowing pride. It is
my special pride that I was the un-
witting medium by which this sterling
record—for such it must be ac-
counted—was made. Set beside what
I must with modesty regard as my
small part in assisting to make it, I
account the two-pounds-and-costs
fine as of no whit.
Yours faithfully.
BO.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 28, 1953
Vol. 74—No, 3846
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
JAPAN AND RED CHINA
Reasonable people will approve Mr. Casey’s com-
monsense statement on Japan and Red China at New
Delhi. He said that the United Nations, if it were
to perform its real function as a world forum, must
include all world ideologies and must not be just a
closed shop for democracies. Therefore he is anxious
to see not only Japan admitted, but Communist China
as soon as it has demonstrated its bona fides —but, of
course, only then. As Mr. Menzies said subsequently,
there is little chance of China being admitted while
still a belligerent against U.N.O.
Whether U.N.O. will ever be able to perform its
real functions under its present constitution, even
if it included the whole world, is, clearly, a
matter for speculation. The conception of groups of
nations of opposing viewpoints at the moment seems
to be that the be-all of U.N.O.’s existence is to provide
them with a field in which to manoeuvre in the cold-war
or a stadium in which to stage their propaganda displays.
Nobody ever allows his principles to stand in the
way of expediency, as is being shown just now by the
immediate opposition of the A.L.P. and trade-union
councils to Mr. Casey’s views for the simple reason
that they emanate from a non-“ Labor” Government,
and also by the manner in which the articles of the
Atlantic Charter dealing with human rights of free
association are being brazenly flouted by Mr. Cahill’s
introduction of compulsory unionism with Federal
“Labor” support.
Red China is a matter on which, of course, “Labor”
is split wide open, as illustrated by the fact that Mr.
Kim Beazley, guarded by uniformed police, advocated
it last week in Melbourne, and went much further
than Mr. Casey in a speech calling for recognition of
Mao’s regime. But this split wohld not exist if “Labor”
were in power, since the dormant Communist party,
which pulls its claws off the A.L.P. and its basic union
support when “Labor” is out of office, would put
pressure on Dr. Evatt as soon as he re-attained power.
At the moment the Chinese question is, however,
a remote one with which “Labor” can afford to play.
It is doubtful whether the Anzus Pact could continue
to exist if Red China were recognised by Australia,
and, at any rate, China is not yet showing the good
faith which is a condition precedent to acceptance
inside the circle of civilised nations. It is still a
barbarous and murky fastness which civilised way-
farers approach at their peril, and its manifestations
in the outside world are a huge volume of cold-war
propaganda, obviously written in its name in Moscow
and printed on Kremlin-provided machinery, aggressive
war in Korea and savage acts of piracy against unwary
passers-by along its coasts who happen to come within
reach of its gunboats.
Japan, however, is a different matter. Its integra-
tion within the comity of Western nations might easily
be the decisive factor in the result of both the cold-war
and of a third world war. It provides the bases from
which the Northern Pacific trade-routes can be
attacked, including aerodromes within six or seven
hours’ flying of Australia’s outer territories. It has
immense reservoirs of skilled labor, far above the
standard of either Chinese or Russian. It has military
knowhow; and, moreover, the Russians and Chinese
both have bargaining-points which could certainly
appeal to the Japanese if estranged from the West or
if threatened by economic starvation.
It is impossible to imagine a world in which Japan
is not one of civilisation’s responsibilities. The policy
which played the Russian game and stripped the
Imperial Islands of Manchuria has also stripped the
country of all living-margins and left the West with
a large baby to carry. The Japanese islands, over-
crowded to the limit and heavily-dependent even now
on food-imports and on a growing export-trade to
pay for them, are slipping down beyond the breadline
as the population grows—despite the inroads of war,
it is now in the region of 86 million. The situation
in which the dam is likely to break is already in
sight. Pressure of numbers on resources soon will
become crushing.
It is no wonder that Japan craves the resumption
of trade with China more than almost anything in the
national list of requirements. And in the creation
of conditions which will keep Japan among the
Western collaborating allies and allow that trade to
develop lies one of the most important measures of
security and world peace.
An arrangement is dependent on rationalisation
of world association between China and the Western
world, something which the Russians will try to
PLAYING WITH MATCHES
prevent with every ounce of influence which they
can hope to attain. Of course the settlement of the
Formosa and of the Ryuku problems remains to be
faced. The indeterminate status of those territories
gives Asians a grievance in that the very occupatiqn
of both territories by American or American-supported
forces makes them unstable in a manner repugnant
both to the Japanese, who regard them as their own
territory, and the Chinese, who also lay claim to them.
However, time can heal any situation once 4tpl° mac y
has a foothold from which to act. And a very good
beginning for a settlement would be the admission
to the United Nations of Japan and the re-establish-
ment of full diplomatic relations between all British
Commonwealth countries and China a matter on
which a beginning could be made with Korean peace
achieved.
Both moves the Russians would make as hard as
possible to complete. They have signed no peace-treaty
with the Japanese, and they know from long experience
that the British have beaten them hands-down in
straight diplomacy whenever the relationships of
Moscow and London clashed in China. They will
therefore do their best to prevent the U.K. and China
getting together. And there can be no question as to
which country would be of more value to world security
within U.N.O.—Russia or Japan. The rickety U.N.
structure would sit much more firmly on its base with-
out the Communist bloc as it is at present represented.
Intentions-Honorable or Otherwise
After the latest piece of kite-flying on behalf of
payments to aldermen—long known to be a darling
ambition of the “Labor” movement—Mr. Cahill told
inquirers that his Cabinet had no intention of intro-
ducing such a system. With most Governments this
would mean just what it appears to mean—that the
Government will not introduce payments to aldermen
—but with this Cahill Government no such assumption
can be made. Its expressed intentions are so seldom
a guide to its subsequent actions that if its doings
are ever made the subject of a novel it will be almost
essential for the author to put a note on the fly-leaf
warning readers that “any similarity between the
intention and actions of the characters in this book is
purely accidental.”
The reason for this lack of co-ordination between
intent and action is that the Cahills never know what
they are going to do until the powers behind them
tell them. Of the truth of this there has been ample
evidence in the past twelve months.
The customary and appropriate time for a poli-
tical leader to announce his intentions is when deliver-
ing his policy-speech at the commencement of an
election campaign. Mr. Cahill delivered a policy-
speech last January, and it is reasonable to conclude
that it represented the intentions of his Government
if returned, to office in the new Parliament. As he
made no reference to compulsory unionism it is also
surely reasonable to conclude, if his party is to be
credited with any political honesty at all, that he had
no intention of introducing such a measure. Yet in
this, the first session of the new Parliament —apart
from a one-day flurry in March —a biff for compulsory
unionism (disguised as “absolute preference”) is the
chief item on the legislative programme. In this matter
Mr. Cahill’s intention was announced for him on
June 13, while the Premier was in London with his
mind on other things. The announcer was Deputy-
Premier Heffron, and the occasion not a meeting of
Parliament but the annual conference of the N.S.W.
branch of the “Labor” party.
Another decision of which no intention was dis-
closed on the hustings, but on which action has now
been taken, is the reorganisation of the Sydney City
Council and the change in the system of voting at
local-government elections. There is a strong sus-
picion that on this matter the forces pushing Mr.
Cahill were themselves pushed by pressure of events.
Opposition-leader Treatt’s first comment on the move
was that “the real motive is to anticipate and side-
track the ever-growing demand for a royal commis-
sion,” and he is not alone in regarding as “extra-
ordinary” a change of such a sweeping nature almost
on the eve of the municipal elections. The lack of
co-ordination between intent and action is shown by
the fact that “Labor” candidates for the City Council
elections under the old system had already been
chosen.
Further examples needed? Mr. Winsor, Com-
missioner for Railways, could supply a couple. A
few months ago he applied to the Arbitration Court
for a reduction in weekend penalty-rates for railway-
men. 'Phis was a counter-claim in reply to a Union
claim for increased rates, and the commissioner was
acting well within his powers, Mr. Cahill having on
more than one occasion asserted that the N. S. Wales
railways were free of political control. The Trades
and Labor Council protested against the commissioner’s
action, and its assistant-secretary told the Press that he
had complained to the Minister, who would, it neces-
sary, issue a direction to Mr. Winsor “telling him
where he got off.’’ In due course Mr. Winsor was
told to withdraw his application.
History repeated itself last week when Mr, Winsor
was instructed to withdraw his application for sus-
pension of quarterly adjustments of wages. Only a
month earlier, when presenting his Budget, Mr.
Cahill had said that his Government felt that the
economy of the State should be allowed a breathing-
space, yet when the Arbitration Court, after long
consideration of all the factors, decided on a course
of action which might provide just that breathing-
space, he chose instead to obey the dictates of the
Trades Hall. This time the court rebuffed him, and
refused Mr. Winsor permission to withdraw. On
Monday Cahill was busily engaged trying to decide
what his latest intentions were.
Two other matters on which the Government
is wavering between intention and action are enter-
tainments-tax and land-tax. Of the former little
has been said, although there is an uneasy feeling that
the imminence of the Kahibah and Waver ley by-
elections may be responsible for that. Of land-tax
Mr. Cahill said in his Budget speech that whether
a land-tax would be imposed, the form it would take
and so on would receive “very careful consideration”
before any move was made to introduce it. Taken
by itself this sounded like a very reasonable expression
of intention, but Country-party leader Bruxner was
able to produce a letter written by Lands Minister
Hawkins less than a week earlier which stated that
careful consideration had already been given and that
a land-tax would be imposed. It is thus clear that
not only is there disagreement between the Cahill
Government’s intentions and its actions, but that
members of the Cabinet do not always agree on what
it intends.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Totalitarians All
Mr. Cahill is daily subjected to more
pressure to make him def et bringing down
his —or perhaps Mr. Heffron’s compul-
sory-unionism measure; but whether its
opponents succeed or not the country
can have no doubt but that Mr. Cahill
and his personal followers in the Ministry
are all for it, and that Federal “Labor”
is behind it and just as totalitarian as
the N. 3. Wales State Government.
Dr Evatt is, of course, silent at this
stage, but this means nothing. As the
Grand Chief Robot of the party he is
merely waiting for the Federal A.L.P.
Executive to frame his views for him
and then he will utter them. There need
be no question, either, what those views
will be. Compulsory unionism is a plank
of the Federal “Labor” platform (In-
dustrial-Plank 5). The Federal “Labor”
platform, indeed, seems to be made up
almost entirely of planks—socialisation,
abolition of the Senate —which its leaders
admit either that they cannot carry out
constitutionally or that they don’t want
to carry out.
Unfortunately for this country’s repu-
tation, “Labor” seems to have introduced
the same principles tongue-in-cheek to its
international agreements as it has into
the platform. The article of the United
Nations constitution to which its leader
in person agreed in terms of a solemn
treaty, which has the force of Australian
law, specifically declares in so many words
that Australia as a whole has adopted
the principle that none of its citizens may
be compelled to join an association. But
the deputy-leader of the “Labor” party,
Mr. Calwell, says that compulsory
unionism is not a violation of the human
rights safeguarded by this article any
more than compulsory voting or compul-
sory payment of taxes —neither of which
involves the forcible induction of those
involved into an association. A much
better parallel would be the forcing of
members of the Roman Catholic Church
to join the Anglican Church, since com-
pulsion in unionism involves, in Aus-
tralia, compelling its victims to subscribe
funds to a section of a political party
with whose principles they may utterly
disagree and whose leadership they dis-
like. No country outside the Russian bloc
or Hitler Germany has ever considered
a measure of that sort, and where one has
been fully enforced its sponsors have
usually gone the way of dictators in
short order.
If there is opposition to the Cahill
measure within the “Labor” party it is
because there are many who are afraid
of their skins. If there were a general
feeling for sound principles and honesty
in the party councils members would be
leaving the movement in droves, disgusted
at the dishonest refutation by the leader-
ship of the agreement with U.N.O.
and at the totalitarian outlook of Mr.
Calwell.
A suggestion has been made that the
Commonwealth Government should hold
a referendum to allow the electors to vote
as to whether they desire compulsory
unionism or whether they would have in
the Constitution a provision preventing
any State Government from operating it.
It is no matter for legislation or deci-
sion by a majority. Individual freedom
depends on the maintenance of the rights
of minorities and individuals, and there
is no need for Constitutional amendment,
since the right to freedom of association
is a basically inherent right of the indi-
vidual, whether he happens to be in a
minority or not. It is just as basically
the possession of every individual as is
the right to vote according to his con-
science, which must be destroyed if the
Calwells and the Cahills force him to sub-
sidise principles, and submit to the discip-
line of juntas, to which he is politically
opposed.
Cahill and the Courts
A week ago the pattern of life on the
wage-fixing front seemed relatively simple
to Mr. Cahill, Urged on by the back-
seat drivers of the transport unions and
the Trades and Labor Council, he had
just instructed N, S. Wales Railways
Commissioner Winsor to withdraw his
application to the Arbitration Court for
the suspension of quarterly adjustments
on the basic wage. Mr. Winsor’s appli-
cation was about to be considered along
with over a hundred similar applications
from private industry which had been
lodged as an outcome of the court’s earlier
decision in the case of metal-trades
awards.
In announcing the instructions he had
given the Commissioner, Cahill said his
Government’s policy was that the 3s. in-
crease which would normally have fol-
lowed the publication of the cost-of-living
index-figures would be paid to all N. S.
Wales Government employees. Among
other reasons, the Premier said that he
and his colleagues felt that the lowest-
paid workers should not have to carry
the increase in living-costs when figures
show that the lowest wage on which they
can five is a certain amount; also it
would be wrong to deprive workers of
wages below which the law said no man
should be allowed to work.
That statement just about takes the
cake for fallacies. To begin with, Cahill
was not proposing to grant the increase
only to the “lowest-paid workers” ; Gov-
ernment employees on all grades were
to get it. The basic wage is no longer
reckoned merely as a bare subsistence
wage; it is based on the capacity of
industry to pay—in the case of the
railways a long way beyond the capacity.
(There have been various “prosperity”
loadings in recent memory.) As to the
piece about “wages below which the law
said,” etc., the law, as laid down by the
Arbitration Court, had just said, and was
in process of repeating, that the 3s. should
not be paid.
Mr. Cahill was probably not prepared
for the court’s reaction to his order;
after all, he had successfully used the
same tactics earlier in the year. But
this time the court refused to allow the
application to be withdrawn, the Chief
Judge saying that inconsistent basic-wage
provisions would not be conducive to
goodwill in industry. The following day
the N. S. Wales Industrial Court issued
a certificate ending quarterly adjustments
on N. S. Wales State awards.
At the weekend the back-seat drivers
were suggesting various ways by which
Cahill could get around the decision of
the courts. Cabinet was expected to dis-
cuss the problem on Monday. In view
of “Labor’s” professed belief in arbitra-
tion it was a very knotty problem, too.
Had things gone as Cahill expected his
3s. largesse— at the taxpayers’ expense—
could have been paid merely by the com-
missioner’s refraining from making use
of the machinery of the court. To pay it
now will be nothing less than open
defiance of the principle of arbitration.
■ $ ■ . ■* '
The Ceaseless Battle
Flies, fleas, bugs, grasshoppers, ants,
cutworms, aphis, scale, caterpillars—
multitudes of creeping, flying, boring,
chewing organisms seek to inherit the
earth. And the more man multiplies and
his crops and herds increase, the more
he makes an acre yield, the greater be-
come the hordes of insects trying to eat
him off the earth. This ruthless battle
between man and insect is a far bigger
and, in the long run, more important one
than current or future political and
ideological battles between man and man.
Great urban populations, consuming
vast daily quantities of food, have no
idea that before it reached their tables
it had to be defended against the ceaseless
onslaught of a myriad of insects and
disease-germs. Even before seed goes
into the ground it has to be treated with
anti-pest chemicals, and all the way thence
to the storekeeper’s shelves the battle is
on. The suburban gardener, spraying
his roses or dusting his pumpkin-vines,
sometimes wonders where the deuce the
aphids or the pumpkin-beetles come
from, but it seldom occurs to him that
if his two pumpkin-vines attract so many
beetles how many beetles must there be,
and how rapidly they must breed, when
all the pumpkins everywhere are being
attacked by the black-and-yellow
devourers.
Occasionally city populations, who have
most to fear because if ever the pests
get the upper hand starvation will stalk
the cities overnight, hear echoes of the
battle. In Sydney the Press has been
featuring a grasshopper plague in central-
west N.S.W. Now and then there are
items about potato-moth, cane-beetle,
fruit-fly, cattle-tick, wheat-rust and so
forth. Few realise that more than half
the work of departments of agriculture
and of the C.5.1.R.0. is concentrated on
fighting pests, few realise that an army
of Government experts is reinforced by
private firms making insecticides and
machines to apply them and employing
scientists to study the pests and seek new
and economical ways of beating them.
Until recently all these defenders of
man’s living have been disorganised—at
least in Australia. So have the farmers.
Disorganisation—in the sense that com-
peting private firms and Government anti-
pest bodies are distrustful of others—still
exists. But there is a distinct im-
provement. Interest, rather than an-
tagonism, is displayed towards new dis-
coveries, new chemicals, new methods.
Business rivals co-operate with each other
and with Government experts in experi-
ments. And more and more farmers are
eager to have the experimenters work on
their farms.
The arrival of F. J. D. Thomas, a
highly-qualified scientist from England,
to take charge of a new agricultural-
research laboratory being established by
1.C.1.A.N.Z. in Victoria, may be regarded
as just another, move by a big chemical
firm to get more business. Even if that s
all it is, it shows how big the battle has
become and the importance of big capital
in fighting it.
Our Opulent Diplomats
A glimpse at the External Affairs Depart-
ment expenditures analysed by the Public
Accounts Gommittee, which declares that
they are “not out of line with that of
other British Commonwealth countries,”
is apt to produce wonder as to how
Australia stayed on the map before 1940,
when Mr. Casey resigned his seat to
become an Ambassador and thus started
the building of our diplomatic services.
It is held that the maintenance of em-
bassies, trade-commissioners and consuls-
REPORT ON COSTS
AND COMPETITION—
page 14
general is vital to our external relation-
ships, but nobody seems to be quite sure
what most of these people do that makes
them a necessity. Those who have ob-
served the diplomatic corps at work in
Canberra find it difficult to understand
what goes on there. In fact, in some
cases (such as the Russian Embassy) it
is obvious that almost nothing goes on
on the surface. And certainly it is hard
to conceive what justifies an Australian
charge-d’affaires in Moscow getting
£15,984 a year salary and expenses and
second- and third-secretaries who draw
between them £12,989 a year; or what
the occasion is in Russia for a typist
whose modest support is provided by the
Australian taxpayers at the rate of £5291
a year.
And what does a Minister drawing
£9425, supported by a second-class sec-
retary drawing £4860, a third-secretary
£5565 and a clerk £2020, plus two typists
at £1940 each, do in Rio de Janeiro that
is worth the money?
It is possible to vision what can be done
by High Commissioners in the capitals
of the British Commonwealth of Nations
and in Washington and by trade-commis-
sioners anywhere, even by a director of
materials-supply in Washington. But it
is impossible to see value for the money
spent on most of the 126 diplomatic staff
of 28 embassies, legations and missions,
apart from an army of hangers-on in the
shape of chauffeurs, messenger-guards and
whatnots. We had 17 diplomatic em-
ployees who drew very modest salaries
before World War 11.
The question is all the more in need
of an answer because whenever anything
of real importance needs to be
discussed abroad a Minister or civil-ser-
vant is sent off at further expense to
discuss it.
So far as appears on the surface the
main changes which the expansion of the
“diplomatic corps” have wrought have
been to provide lives of elevated opulence
for large numbers of people who would
be useful clerks if their natural abilities
were used rationally, and to increase the
annual cost of the External Affairs De-
partment from £70,168 in 1938-39 to
£7,097,000 in 1952-53.
At the rate at which the department’s
expenses have been increasing it will
before long absorb as much money as
defence. Its budget has grown five and
a half times since 1946-47, when it had
grown five times since 1943-44.
Tito's Sabre-waving
If Tito wants war he and his Ministers
are going the right way to get it. De-
pendent on the West for armaments to
keep him out of the hands of Russia—
if he wants to keep out, which is doubt-
ful, since he insists that his regime is
Communist—his latest move is through
his Vice-President, Comrade Renkovic,
who, at the weekend, issued the Marshal’s
reminder that Britain and America are
invading the peace treaty, and asserted
that Yugoslavia refused to acknowledge
the sections of the Italian peace treaty
dealing with Trieste, and that it would
counter the Western allies’ backstage
move by marching into the Zone A if the
Italians entered it. At the same time
he was emphatic that, even if Italian
troops didn’t enter, Italy wouldn’t be
allowed to take over the civil adminis-
tration.
This peremptory and warlike attitude
is in contrast to that of the Italians, whose
readiness to conciliate by withdrawal of
their troops from positions near the
Yugoslav frontier does not mean any
weakening of their determination tha
Trieste shall be an Italian city—which
historically it is, since its national root
go back to ancient Rome. Dante spoke
of “Pola by Quarnaro’s Gulf which
bounds in Italy and laves her shores,’
and modern Italians of the Trieste lit-
toral look on themselves as citizens of
Imperial Italy (whoever rules them) just
as much as those who declared themselves
to be so in 1518.
The settlement agreed to under the
peace treaty was framed on a somewhat
clumsy basis by a commission appointed
by the Council of Foreign Ministers of
the Allies in September, 1945. The com-
mission found that on the basis of both
history and nationality it was impossible
to deny Trieste the character of an
Italian city, and that it was fully proved
that Italians formed not only the majority
overall but sometimes almost the entirety
of the towns of southern and western
Istria.
Nevertheless, U.N.O. got control of the
Free Territory of the West, but its
Security Council, as any observer could
have predicted, failed to elect a Gover-
nor because of the obstruction of the
Communist bloc. The Foreign Ministers
of the United States, Britain and France
decided that the Free Territory should
be returned to Italy.
At the time of the commission survey
in 1946 there were 200,000 Italians in
Zone A and 21,000 Slovenes, but there
has since been an influx of Slovenes,
whose numbers have been increased by
30,000, partly refugees from Tito’s Com-
munist regime, partly his own purpose-
ful infiltrations. This is the zone which
the Yugoslavs flatly refuse to allow to be
handed over. In Zone B there were
55,000 Slovenes and 21,350 Slavs at the
time of the 1946 census. This was virtu-
ally seized by Tito and strongly garri-
soned at the time of the U.N.O. settle-
ment and incorporated in the Yugoslav
Customs system.
It is impossible to justify the Yugoslav
claims on any ground, and they are
unlikely to be conceded even if he resorts
to force.
Surgery and Beasts
“C.S.”; At Sydney zoo a lioness having
trouble in bearing cubs was operated on
not by veterinary surgeons but by a couple
of eminent gynaecological surgeons whose
practice is usually confined to women.
The event was duly headlined and photo-
graphed in the Press down to the last
stitch.
Rightly enough, some veterinary
surgeons made a public protest about it—
though without headlines or pictures. It
isn’t hard to imagine what sort of a fuss
the B.M.A. would have kicked up had a
couple of vets, performed a similar opera-
tion on a woman. The real point, how-
ever, is that the Press publicity was in
bad taste.
Publicity is an integral part of modern
life, and though it sometimes becomes a
bit raw it seldom descends to such silliness
as this. It is, of course, an offshoot of
that daft sentimentality about animals
which, has led, in America, at least, to
the setting-up of psychiatry clinics for
unhappy dogs and cats, books on how tc
rear chimpanzees like children, and the
manufacture and sale of mustard-plasters
for wet hens.
Tight Export Markets
A dairy-industry spokesman has had a
lot to say about export prices and has
talked of the need to bolster them
or something of the kind if the industry
is to be “saved.” Much the same sort
of thing is being said by spokesmen for
the meat-, egg- and wheat-industries.
The assumption, obviously, is that
overseas buyers, by some mysterious
force, should be compelled to pay more
for Australian products, and, if they can’t
be so compelled, then Australians should
be forced to pay more, either directly or
by way of subsidy, on the home market.
Yet it is—or should be —common
knowledge that the U.S.A. has enormous
accumulations of food and raw material
and is trying to get rid of it in the very
markets where Australian exports must
be sold. The U.S. Congress earlier in
(Continued on next page)


the year authorised the President to sell
up to £ll2 million-worth of U.S. farm
surpluses abroad for non-dollar cur-
rencies, and on October 13 the U.S.
Foreign Operations Administration said
it was willing to sell £7B million-worth of
cotton, corn, wheat, beef, tobacco, dairy-
products, fruit and fats to Europe, Asia
and South America and would accept
local currency in payment, using that to
finance part of its foreign-aid pro-
grammes.
It doesn’t need much pondering over
that to realise that Australia is no longer
offering its exports on a seller’s market.
And it oughtn’t to need much pondering
for farmers and their spokesmen to
realise that not subsidies, not increased
home-prices, but a close concentration on
cost-reduction is the true answer. That
much of the costs come from outside
the farm doesn’t alter the position. In-
deed, farm-spokesmen should be well
aware of this and using their influence on
Governments to get those costs down
rather than trying vainly to keep up
prices that simply won’t stay up.
Many Australian producers of food
and raw materials have, since the war,
received less than world parity for their
produce. This must be acknowledged.
But the overall need to keep costs down
and to increase all-round efficiency must
be acknowledged, too.
POLITICAL POINTS
Both houses of the Canberra talking-
shop subsided into silence on Thursday
night. Governor-General Slim is to open
a new session on November 10.
• «
There’ll be two by-elections for the
N. S. Wales Assembly next Saturday—
for the late Clarrie Martin’s metropolitan
seat, Waverley, and Kahibah, the northern
coalfield seat vacated by ex-Mines
Minister Arthur as an outcome of the
Doyle inquiry. In Waverley Ben Doig,
who stood as a Liberal against Martin
at the general election last February, is
again in the field. Last time Martin’s
personal vote and a general swing to
“Labor” left Doig a long way behind ;
he should come a lot closer on Saturday.
“Labor’s” candidate is W. Ferguson, who
resigned a newly-acquired seat in the
Legislative Council to contest Waverley.
There’s also a Com.
• a
Kahibah looks like an interesting poll.
“Labor’s” official candidate is J. Arthur,
senior, father of the ex-member. Liberal
choice is Harry Quinlan, one-time Lord
Mayor of Newcastle, and there are two
Independent Labor runners—Armstrong,
another Lord Mayor of Newcastle, and
Alexander, who stood as a Liberal in
February—and a Communist, Olive.
Kahibah is a “Labor” stronghold, but the
party’s supporters are at cross-purposes
as to whether they want the seat to
continue in the Arthur family. If it comes
to a distribution of preferences Arm-
strong could easily be the new member,
• •
A serious lapse in the programme pre-
pared for the Royal tour is that no pro-
vision has been made for inspection of
the Royal lottery offices. These are
established by her Majesty’s sovereign
Governments of Queensland, West Aus-
tralia and N. S. Wales, and the tickets
bear the emblem of the Crown for each
State; the Acts of Parliament setting up
the establishments bear the Royal Assent.
* Surely her Majesty would be interested
v to see the only lottery offices in the
British Empire run by the Crown,
• •
By “Labor” logic a half-crown increase
granted in pensions is an insult and a
three-bob increase not granted in the
basic-wage a betrayal.
• ' ©
Not one of the newspapers which
assailed Fadden over a Commonwealth-
loan failure a couple of years ago offered
him a word of praise for the striking
success of the recent loan —he asked for
£5O million and got £66 million. In it-
self a clear public expression of faith in
the Menzies-Fadden financial policy.
• . •
N. S. Wales “Labor” has a new official
paper, “News Review.” For the front-
page story of its first issue it chose the
Bland committee’s disclosures of the
Federal Government’s extensive ownership
of house-property in Sydney. Asserting
that “the Menzies-Fadden Government is
a slum landlord in a very big way,” it
comments that the “tenants of some of
these shabby and unpainted hovels, many
of whom are old-age pensioners, can’t
remember the Federal Government ever
haying spent a penny in paint and re-
pairs,” What? Not ev’en during the
eight years when “Labor” was the Federal
Government?
• •
Reciprocal advertising* As the “News
Review’s” columnist has put in a plug
for You're Wrong, Delaney, it is only
fair that The Bulletin should congratu-
late the “Review” on its photograph of
the Indian boy with 12 fingers. What a
union official he’d make! Even Jackie
Ferguson at the height of his power could
only manage a finger in seven or eight
pies.
• •
This year the grasshoppers seem to be
getting in ahead of the tax-collectors.
• •
Usually there’s a drop in the price
of milk in Sydney as summer approaches,
t although this didn’t happen last year,
the Milk Board apparently feeling that if
it didn’t reduce the price it could then
pat itself on the back for not putting it
up again when winter came. Since July
the board has been holding an inquiry
into the price; it has now been granted
permission—granter. Health Minister
O’Sullivan —to continue the inquiry for
another two or three months, by which
time it will be able to plead that summer
is nearly over, anyway.
Madam president of the Housewives’
Association sees this as “a trick to cheat
the public” and she says;
I know one thing—you can’t buy a
dairyfarm under a small fortune at the
present day.
Anyone who is inclined to disbelieve her
should make the attempt.
• •
Keon, “Labor” M.H.R. for Yarra,
speaking on the Commonwealth Shipping
Line, said there was a complete monopoly
over all shipping in Australian waters:
Not a ship could sail, not a ton of cargo
could be picked up on the Australian coast
without the approval of the Associated
Steamship Owners.
He’s only half-right. That approval
doesn’t mean a thing unless it is endorsed
THE THREE-BOB TIP
by the Waterside Workers’ Federation,
a considerable number of whose members
live in Keon’s electorate.
• •
The Speaker of the Victorian Legisla-
tive Assembly (Mr. Sutton) has warned
members that if they “defy the authority
of the Speaker in the future they can
expect to be named or suspended.”
Couldn’t they have expected it in the
past?
• •
Once agaifl the Commonwealth Con-
stitution got a mention in the Canberra
Parliament, when Attorney-General Spicer
advocated an all-party committee to ex-
amine and suggest amendments. This
was after Senator McKenna had said an
article in the “Law Review” described
parts of the Constitution as “stupid” and
“unreasonable.” The time is overripe
for another convention, but the A.L.P.
will remain the nark.
• •
It’s purely an academic question, but
would Cahill’s reaction to the basic-wage
“freeze” have been the same if the index-
figures had indicated a decrease?
• •
It seems that Cain and Cosgrove are
still on talking terms and that Tatts is
their main topic of conversation. Re-
ported fhat Cain offered Cosgrove up to
20 p.c. of Victoria’s whack of the profit
if he’d undertake not to set up a new
Tatt.’s in Tasmania. Cossie said “no” and
put up a couple of suggestions of his own
—that Tatt.’s should operate in both Mel-
bourne and Hobart and that N.Z. sales
should belong to Tasmania.
Cain refused, although the proposition
seems fair enough if he was sincere in
his main reason for bagging TatL’s —to
keep in Victoria the large sums that had
been crossing Bass Strait every year.
Cosgrof e still has a trump up his sleeve.
On his visit to New Zealand he gave
Prime Minister Holland an undertaking
to pay 6d. on every Tat L’s ticket sold in
the Dominion.
• •
A big meeting of poultrymen at Wyong
(N.S.W.) demanded the abolition of the
Australian Egg Board. It would have
been a much better motion had it read all
Australian Egg Boards.
• •
After persistently refusing to table the
police-files of the Doyle-Arthur inquiry
Cahill has now somersaulted. However :
Certain prosecutions have been launched
and as these have not yet been dealt with
the matters are sub judice. When the pro-
secutions have been disposed of I will have
no objection to having the papers tabled.
This year, next year, sometime...
• •
“Labor” Ministers as a rule do not
throw Latin tags around, but they must
often feel a throb of gratitude for that
little phrase sub judice.
• •
In support of his argument that lotteries
discourage savings Bolte quoted savings-
bank figures per head of population in
the various States;
S.A. (No lottery) £165
Vic. (No lottery) .. .. .. £147
Tas. (Lottery) £ll5
N.S.W. (Lottery) £lOO
Q’ld. (Lottery) .. .. .. £94
W.A. (Lottery) .. .. .. £9l
Bolte also claimed that public charity
dried up with the introduction of lottery-
support for hospitals, pointing out that in
1951 Sydney Children’s Hospital received
only £lB,OOO in donations compared with
Melbourne Children’s Hospital £179,000.
A lottery, he said, would reduce Mel-
bourne’s figure overnight. Most authori-
ties would agree he is right.
• •
Tasmania’s House of Assembly is
inching its way towards dissolution. It
sat for one day last week, then adjourned
until yesterday. Cosgrove has given a
definite assurance of an election before
Christmas.
• •
Odoriferous hides were the reason
advanced for a one-day stoppage of
watersiders in Bowen (Q.). Complaining
that the stench from the ’tween-deck
cargo was overpowering, men engaged
for sugar-loading walked off a ship and
when they were suspended next day a port
stoppage was called. Ear-plugs are pre-
scribed for excessively noisy jobs ; nose-
pegs might be the answer in cases like
this.
• •
Although hides have not been specific-
ally mentioned as the source of the
aroma said to be associated with the
Sydney City Council, opinion is firming
that something smells there. Morton,
M.L.A. for Mosman, says there’s “an un-
savory atmosphere” hanging over it, and
Liberal-leader Treatt finds the new council
plan “unwholesome” and a thing that
“reeks to high heaven.” Perhaps it could
be called a Nosepeg bill.
• •
When the U.L.V.A. suggested an altera-
tion of hotel hours in Victoria Premier
Cain told them there would be no altera-
tion without a referendum of the people
first; it was “Labor’s” policy that the
electors should be given an opportunity
to express their views by referendum be-
fore trading hours were altered. With
State lotteries —or half-State lotteries —•
it’s another matter. Liberal-leader Bolte
moved an amendment to the Tatt.’s bill
demanding a referendum. Cain’s party
opposed and defeated it.
• •
N.S.W. Water Board has fallen behind
in its schedule of works because it cannot
find enough labor, its president told a
meeting of board members last week.
Why not get in touch with Eddie Ward?
He is usually prepared to find anything
up to a hundred thousand unemployed
at a moment’s notice.
• •
Probably the most hypocritical motion
ever raised in the Federal Parliament was
the amendment moved last week by Eden-
Monaro Fraser proposing that age and
invalid pensions should be increased by
12s. 6d, instead of 2s. 6d. as provided
in the Budget. “Labor’s” concern for the
pensioner is greatest when in Opposition;
it can then make a great parade of
generosity without having to accept the
responsibility of finding the money. Inf
the debate on Fraser’s futile motion no
one put up the slightest suggestion as to
the source from which the extra millions
were to come,
• •
Brightest note last week was the an-
nouncement that the N.S.W Government
would “press for an impartial investiga-
tion into the costs of the Snowy Mountains
hydroelectric scheme.” This was in the
same week that the same Government was
frantically refusing requests for investiga-
tion into the costs of its own electricity
scheme.
• i
Price-control threatens another “crisis”
in Victoria. Cain’s bill to continue it for
a further two years from December 31
faces a Hollway amendment limiting the
extension to one year. As the
the Cockies are opposing any extension
at all the amendment should get their
support, which means it should pass the
Council. The question then is whether
Cain would accept the defeat as a vital
issue demanding resignation and an elec-
tion. He’s weathered several such threats
already.
• •
These State “Labor” Governments are
all money-hungry, but they‘go about it
in different ways. Three of ’em grabbed
entertainments-tax, Cain a lottery. Gair
(Q.) while overseas looked over Ireland’s
betting-shops and hopes to get his rake-
off from legalising s.-p. in Queensland.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Hist”: There is the nucleus of a
stamp-collection every morning in my
official mail. I can pick from my batch
of letters at least eight different, but
current, Australian 3|d. stamps —one with
the head of George VI, the small red
Queen Elizabeth stamp, the Produce
Food, Coronation, Scout, Junior Farmer,
and two different Tasmanian Sesqui
centenary commemoratives. There’s an
other one due for release —it celebrates
the centenary of Tasmania’s first stamp-
issue—and there will be the Royal Visit
stamps early next year. Who said that
this is the age of standardisation?
❖ ❖ *
“Emjai”: For some time I had noticed
the “activities” of a road-gang, a mixed
team of New and Old Australians with
nothing to choose between the two
varieties in the matter of go-slow. But
the real artist in the technique of shifting
a shovel from one place to another,
tentatively scratching at a water-pipe,
arguing around the water-bag under a
shady tree and avoiding the awful horror
of sweat, was Horace, a local lad who had
had a promising beginning, lost some
good jobs and preferred to be on a Gov-
ernment payroll. Passing the time of day
with the foreman, I commented “See
you’ve still got Horace with you.”
“Yair,” said the foreman. “Best man
I’ve got,” This set me back a bit; then,
sensing a catch, I asked “How come?”
" You left such a lot of oily marks on it!”
“Well,” he said, “they all do nothing,
but Horace is the only one that does it
proper.”
♦ ❖ . ' *
“Yair”; Pushing the handcart, he
stopped for a moment to go into the
near-by park and take two bottles from
the rubbish-basket. I noticed that he
put them onto a small heap in the cart,
but kept his coat and an old sack care-
fully between three other empty bottles.
“Sentimental value,” he grinned. “I’ll sell
them last of all. Had to buy that three.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Gunyah”: “Qui’s” character who
“buys” four imaginary lottery-tickets at
every window and generally comes out
“losing” (B. 30/9/’53) reminds me that
a friend recently “bought” from me by
calling numbers at random for three-
quarters of an hour without picking up
so much as a fiver on the lottery result-
list from which I was “selling.” Appa-
rently even with dope-rings and the
cussedness of horses thrown in, the tote’s
a better proposition.
*> ❖ ❖
“Becks”: Any builder tell me whether
there’s still a use for secondhand roofing-
slates? Thousands of older-type Sydney
homes are roofed with them, and presum-
ably there should be a steady demand for
replacements, yet in my suburb where the
local school is being reroofed with
galvanised-ipon no effort is being made
to salvage the slates; the workmen up top
merely hurl them down 40ft, to smash to
smithereens on the asphalt pavement. It
the Education Department doesn’t want
to be bothered with them, surely they
could be put aside for the school s
P. and C. Association to dispose of in
aid of school funds?
$ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Macnell”; Like “Benbow” (B.
21/10/’53), X hold no brief for the Silent
Service—and, anyway, a captain of a
cruiser is really no different from a
captain of industry in his liking for a
bit of publicity—but I must defend the
apparent noisiness of a warship. The
Navy has. special-sea-duty men because
most warships under a battleship berth
without tugs; and the Old Man needs a
trusty hand, in the form of the chief-
quartermaster, on the wheel. The equiva-
lent of the third-mate would find it a
bit difficult signalling with one hand and
working telegraphs with the other —the
telegraphs being in the wheel-house below
the compass-platform. And friend third-
mate’s doing the signalling, instead of a
specialist, could be the reason why war-
ships are required to call-up and test the
'signalling efficiency of every merchantman
they meet at sea. In war, a watch of
men aboard a cruiser in two watches
could number 300. A “silent touch and
a whispered word” to each of those boys
—the watch would be over before they
were on deck. As for the pipe “Hands
to dinner,” you might have hands work-
ing in the cable-locker, painting the boot-
topping, chipping the funnel, or scrubbing
out the lower conning-tower—a fair sort
of tour for the bos’un to tell ’em person-
ally. There’s only one noise which affects
experienced sailors. That’s when the
ventilating fans stop. The silence then
is frightening.
“This is going to cost you money, hats, dresses, receptions, shoes, taxis,
presents for bridesmaids ....”
“Peelis”: Reversing evolution, a Ger-
man geneticist is said to have succeeded,
after five generations, in reproducing a
Stone Age type of horse similar to those
in 15,000-year-old cave-wall paintings—-
"also a facsimile of the forebears of
modern cattle. His method is to breed
from animals which show traces of primi-
tive characteristics. Maybe in the tutuie
someone will go a step further and appl r
the same technique to Homo sapien
thereby settling once and for all the con
troversy about man’s ancestors!
* *
“Narumee”; Recent headlines describ
Bude, Cornwall, as “Cornwall’s Bondi
an Australian team of surf lifesavers ha
given demonstrations and tuition there t
the Bude Youth Club. It is not widely
known, even in England, that Cornwa
(north and west) possesses surf-beache
which can compare favorably with Aus
tralian and Indian ones, Bude and New
quay being the best known ; but Pol
zeath, Perranporth, Holywell, Treyarnon
and many others provide fine sport. The
training of Cornishmen in Australian
methods of lifesaving will be a great help
in reducing the yearly toll of lives los:
in the treacherous currents and heavy
undertow. The few lifebelts and lifelines
on Cornish beaches are all placed wel
above the high spring tide-marks anc
patrols are unknown.
♦S ♦> ❖
“F.M.H.”: Any traveller in foreign
parts comes across “genuine” souvenirs
made in Birmingham, but I wonder how
much of that sort of thing goes on in
Sydney. A mate asked me to give him a
lift with one of those “Chinese’
camphor-wood chests the girls seem to
like for glory-boxes. This one cost some-
where about £4O, There was plenty of carv-
ing on the outside, but, then, there are
plenty of Chinamen in Sydney who could
have done that, I looked at the lock —a
cumbersome, ugly thing and virtually
useless; if that and the hinges ever came
from China, the Chinese must be slipping
badly. There was also a folding-strap
hinge to stop the lid going back too far
—the poorest and softest piece of brass
I ever saw. But what I query most is
the wood used—supposedly camphor-
wood from China. If it is not good old
camphor-laurel such as grows in any
Sydney suburb I’ll apologise to every
Chinaman in the Alexandria-Waterloo
district, outside which I don’t believe the
box had ever been.
& ♦> ❖
“20746”: My R.A.A.F, ambition was
not to meet someone who’d been on
No. 1 flying-course (B. 14/10/’53) but
to come across someone with a service-
number below 1000. It remained un-
gratified—probably all the low-numbers
were, by my time, high-rankers. At one
time I began a profound study of service-
numbers and soon had a rough idea
when most of my fellow-airmen had
enlisted. But when I challenged with
being of later enrolment than myself a
corporal with a number just over twice
mine, it cost me the fiver I wagered to
learn that my numerical research had
not been quite as profound as I’d
imagined. Numbers were allocated in
blocks to the various States and even in
the same State they were not always
issued in order.
* ❖ ❖
“Peep Sight”: If “Ceg” (B. 7/10/’53)
had tasted jugged hare as served up by
the late Sandy Church at his hotel in
Terowie (S.A.) he wouldn’t be wonder-
ing why people drool about that dish.
Sandy’s method was to clean the hares,
leaving the skins on. This seemed to
take the “wild” taste out of the flesh. He
would then hang them for several days
before jugging. In my time I’ve eaten
all manner of food, from the roughest
diet to the daintiest, but I’d ask for
nothing better than Sandy’s jugged hare.
♦♦♦
“Not a Scientist”: “Bert the Carpen-
ter” (B. 23/9/’53) unknowingly gave the
reason for the long life of the roofing he
wrote about when he described it as
galvanised iron. What we call galvan-
ised iron nowadays is in reality galvan-
ised mild steel. The reason for the long
life of galvanised iron is that it acts to
the zinc (galvanising agent) as a sponge
to water, becoming impregnated right
through; the galvanised steel takes only
a very thin film which is not long in
oxidising and exposing the steel to the
elements. The iron sheet was produced
from ingots made from cast-iron by
puddlers ; mainly a hand-worked process,
hence “wrought” iron. No doubt a
description of the operation could be
found in any Public Library, but today
the process would be very expensive.
ON BEING BLUE
“Warned by the Postmaster-General, Mr.
Anthony, against ‘blue’ jokes on the air, the
president of the Australian Federation of Com-
mercial Stations, Mr. Beaver, said 8.8. C. pro-
grammes rebroadcast in Australia often con-
tained questionable humor which might be
suitable for the British public but not for
Australian listeners.”
N.S.W.
Why are you blue
When you
Are far away ?
Must we be, too —
Must we be blue ?
The B.
B.C.
Has come, to be
Blue as the b
B sea —
Why are you blue ?
Have you no Hank
The Yank
To tell your frank
And risque stories to ?
You will get cheers .
All right
For red and white,
But only leers
For blue.
Why do you live
Insin-
uating, in
The way
They say
You do?
Why don’t you give
Our dance-
Band chaps a chance
To make
The break
Taboo?
Our seed-
Y man
Comed-
ian
Does what he can —
That’s true —
But when you dump
Your jokes,
They jump,
Our blokes;
They can’t be blue
As you.
I like your stuff ;
Though rough
And tough
Enough.
It’s pol-
ished fol-
ly, too;
Our*blokes, when lewd
And rude
About the nude
Are mostly crude,
Being blue ;
Nothing can spoil
Your toil
On English soil —
The art
And heart
Of you;
But we’d be hurt
To miss
Australian dirt:
For us, this is
True-blue.
SWILLIAM.


“Soc”: Dunno whether there’s any
cause and effect in this, but a couple of
hours after the atom-bomb went off
I saw something I’d never seen in Sydney
before —two parsons sprinting flat-out up
George-street.
❖ $
“Bogaduck”; There’s no trouble about
getting rid of hares if you take them to
the right places (B. 7/10/’53). In fact,
there’s money in them —and you could
sell them even during the depression.
When I was doing some carting back in
1930 a friend offered to come along as
unpaid offsider; he said he’d be satis-
fied with what he could make by shoot-
cffiOS 4
“Try this for size, sir.”
ing the hares which ran before the head-
lights at night. As soon as we reached
the hare country he’d leave the cab and
sit outside with his shotgun ready. It
meant a lot of stopping and starting, but
it was worth it to have a mate with me.
The hares were put in chaff-bags and
taken back to the city. Every big pub
would take from a pair to a dozen —at
2/6 each. The real market, however,
was supplying the overseas liners. They’d
take fifty at a time, if they could get
them. Similar markets exist today, if you
care to find them, and the price has
doubled.
“P.0.M.C.”: When I was an unwill-
ing schoolboy, I was constantly repri-
manded for remarking that I was “going
to go,” I was finally cured, and the
solecism now strikes both my ear and
eye like a blow. The latest blow came
from a cable quoting an illustrious con-
temporary who told reporters that he
“did not mean to say that the Soviet
threat of -bombardment was right on the
doorstep. He was not going to go any
further.” President Eisenhower speaking.
But perhaps it’s correct usage in
America.
“Pip Tok”: Only fell for the job of
duty drunkard (B. 16/9/’53) once. My
performance of the hospitable duty
earned me an outsized hangover next
morning and a telling-off from the C.O.
“Look here,” he said, “that was a damned
inhospitable thing you did last night.
Noticing my puzzled look, he .condes-
cended to explain. “You asked one of
the guests would he have another. What
business of yours was it how many he’d
had? Never ask a man to have another.
That implies he’s had his issue before,”
and so on. I felt duly chastened, but
took heart of grace when I overheard
the next in turn for this convivial duty
ask a visitor “What are you having this
time?” From the Old Man’s glare one
didn’t need to be a prophet to foresee
what would happen next morning.
♦♦♦ ❖
“P.T.”: Introduction in the Westra-
lian Parliament of a private member’s
bill to prevent the unauthorised use of
the R.S.L. membership badge may pro-
vide a new headache for a friend of
mine. As a young serviceman, he be-
came an addict of the tattooing-needle,
so that by the time he was demobbed his
pelt was worth inspecting. Then, as a
grand finale, he had the R.S.L. badge
tattooed on a forearm. Proudly showing
it to his father, a hard-boiled War One
Digger, he said: “There you are, Dad.
No leaving the badge on the other coat.
I’ll always have mine with me.” Dad
retorted sourly, “Yes, and wont you
have a hell of a time changing the
financial crown every year!”
❖ * *
“Cyda”: That 1908 car mentioned by
“Bo” (B. 30/9/’53) could have had a
battery. In early models it was com-
mon practice for the ignition to be sup-
plied by “accumulators” (storage-
batteries), an induction-coil being used
to step-up the current from low tension
to high tension. At this time there was
no generator on the engine to charge the
accumulator, this having to be done at
what we now term a service-station. It
was thus very important that the accumu-
lator should hold its charge,
A *
“Horncastle”: Matrimonial requests
( B 30/9/’53) ? In 1883 a Darling Downs
newspaper reported that the Agent-
General for Queensland had received a
letter from an “up-country settler,” who
b e was prosperous, well-known in
his d i str i ctj and had every comfort ex-
cept a w jf e _ Would the A.-G. select an
English bride for him ? The colonist
that he was 35, sound in wind and
limb, fairly well educated, and fairly
good-looking. He wanted a healthy wife
rather than a beautiful one, one with
good temper rather than accomplish-
ments, with cheerfulness rather than
money. He was prepared to pay for the
passage and outfitting of the prospective
bride. The colonist mentioned that he
had a friend in the same “unfortunate
condition” as himself, but not so prosper-
ous. This friend “would also like a wife,
but she would need to bring just suffi-
cient money with her to pay for her own
board and lodging.” The writer stressed
that, should a suitable applicant be
found, he expected priority. The news-
“It's worth a try.”
paper files are silent on the outcome of
the negotiations.
♦> ❖
“Harrovian”: What has become of
the prefab houses brought here by
Governor Phillip of which the Sydney
Women’s Letter tells (B. 14/10/’53)? At
least one of those brought to Adelaide,
in 1838 and onwards, by John Barton
Hack is still in use and is in first-class
condition. It is the Adelaide meeting-
house of the Society of Friends and
stands behind St. Peter’s Cathedral, fac-
ing the cricket-ground. Hack came from
Chichester and in his native county he
must have been quite familiar with the
black-and-white or “magpie” houses
built during and after the Middle Ages.
In the depth of winter when the beasts
had been attended to, farmhands used
to make the slabs in the stone barns,
sheltered from the bitter weather. These
slabs were tenoned-and-mortised together
when a house was needed, and the supply
was kept replenished whether they were
needed at the time or not.
hJ*
“H.A.L.”: Those ads. of 50-60 years
ago, in which “specialists” claimed
miraculous cures for all ills (B. 30/9/’53),
went out for several reasons. In some
cases the law stepped in with successful
prosecutions for fraud. That put quite
a lot of quacks out of business. The
British newspaper “Truth” issued a cau-
tionary list about the miracle-workers, in
which terms such as “Ignorant humbug”
and “Heartless charlatan” were used
With what seemed to be complete dis-
regard of possible libel actions. Very
few actions were launched, and they all
failed. Then a booklet entitled “Secret
Remedies” was published. It created a
great sensation and knocked quack reme-
dies to leg, for analysis of many popular
nostrums showed that they contained
nothing save alcohol, water and a color-
ing such as burnt sugar. Amendments
to the Pure Food and Drug Act furthered
the good work. So did the law against
using the mails to defraud. What really
put the quacks out of business, however,
was the outpatients’ departments at the
big public hospitals.
■ijf
“Mem”: Used to wonder why the ad-
vent of some characters into films should
be the signal for the same kind of uneasi-
ness with which one might view a toddler
on a railway track. I now realise that
certain types are inexorably marked
down for death or disaster as the reels
go by. They are expendable. There’s the
bloke who rides madly off to get relief
for a beleaguered fort or wagon-train,
only to be shot down before he’s had
time to raise a cloud of dust; the settlers
who have painstakingly scratched a home
from the wilderness—certain Indian bait;
the expectant mother, quarrelling with
her husband at the top or the stairs u
signal for apprehensive groans from the
female audience ; the “baddie,” locked in
a cliff-top struggle with the hero. Finally,
after the hero has gone astray for a few
reels, there’s his erstwhile best-friend,
who tries in vain to make him see the
error of his ways. Repulsed, blinded
with tears, he falters out into the street,
and if the first car doesn’t collect him
the second does.
♦I« *>
“Eve”: Radio-announcer, harping on
nylon frocks from city store: “And, re-
member, it is certainly going to be a
Nylon Summer.” Three days later, same
announcer, same store, re cotton frocks:
“And, remember, it is definitely going to
be a Cotton Summer.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Arthur R.”: Re “Twin Sylvie’s”
query regarding the personal pronoun
“I” in “On Our Selection” (B. 7/10/’53),
I mentioned this matter to Davis, on one
occasion. He referred me to his book
From Selection to City, in which the
“I,” Rudd himself, is employed in the
sheriff’s office. The “I” is definitely Steele
Rudd, and the reason why nothing of
his doings is included in the straightout
“Selection” books was, as he expressed
it, because of his unassuming modesty.
*
“A.R.G.”: H.M.A.S. Protector (B.
30/9/’53) was originally built as a “Flat-
iron” gunboat of 920 tons. Her arma-
ment consisted of an Bin. gun fixed in
a fore-and-aft position and pointing out
over the whaleback, four sin, guns in
sponsons—two forward and two aft —•
four six-pounders on the upper deck for-
ward, and four Nordenfeldt quickfirers.
She had two fire-tube boilers and twin
horizontal engines, but no evaporators
or condensers, so that her radius of action
was limited by the 30 tons of water
carried in each boiler. Her wheel-house
was of steelplate £in. thick and she rolled
terribly—the only ship I have ever known
in which my hammock touched the deck-
head on each side as she rolled. She
practically finished her seagoing career
when she rolled her funnel out while
minesweeping off Wilson’s Promontory
after World War I,
. . . . . )
“Cringle”: When the Protector arrived
at the China Station to take part in the
Boxer War of 1900, her engineer-
lieutenant, Clarkson, later Rear-Admiral,
who kept her works in wonderful nick,
was asked for his list of dockyard defects
which would have to be put right before
the ship was ready for service. “No
defects” was his reply. Incredulous
higher-ups investigated; but it was a
fact.
THE FRIGID AIR
“In an excavation under three layers ot
glacial gravel in Persia anthropologists have
found the skull of a woman whom they
describe as having been tall, fair and slender,
a far cry from other known primitive humans.”
The Cro-Magnon man
Had a large flat pan
And a narrow, back-sloped forehead,
A prognathous jaw
And a hairy paw —
And he looked distinctly horrid.
For he’d deep-set eyes
So minute in size,
And hair like coconut-fibre.
He’d a missus, too;
By the same terms you
Might adequately describe her.
Now, that ancient man
With the big flat pan
Was by Nature handed a raw deal;
For to contemplate
His long-haired mate
Was less a thrill than an ordeal.
Why babies first yelled
Was because they beheld
Those mummies’ most primitive
features.
Ah! No pin-up girls
With synthetic curls
Were enjoyed by Cro-Magnon
creatures.
But not long before
Every sea and shore
Was completely, fearfully frozen.
Girls were fair and slim
Such as any him
Would have willingly, eagerly chosen.
Drop a salt tear, though,
For those Ice men, so
Deceived. Though some beauty facial
Had the Ice Age dame.
It was just a shame
She was so aggravatingly glacial!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Reckoning 40 years in khaki is more
than enough, Brigadier Thomas Charles
Eastick, D. 5.0., is leaving the Army for
his engineering business in Adelaide.
Too young for War I, he began soldier-
ing at 18 and was a militia-officer for 20
years. When the Hitler fracas started
Eastick joined the A.I.F. and was ap-
pointed to a command in 1940, cam-
paigned in Palestine, Greece, the West-
ern Desert and at Alamein, and took the
Jap surrender in Sarawak in 1945. Lately
commander of the Headquarters Group
(S.A.), president of the State R.S.L., and
trustee of several Diggers’ funds, the
new civvy starts anew at 53.
John Cameron Loxton, of Sydney,
rates M. 8.; 8.5., F.R.C.S., and Member
of the Royal College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists. He’s lost count of the
babies he’s delivered, though at least two
operations probably stand out above the
heavy routine of theatre-work —the times
he operated in a cowshed in Persia, and
aboard a destroyer at sea. But one
recent obstetrical delivery will surely re-
main as a monument in his progress—
the day he delivered Lulu of her second
offspring. Lulu had produced her first,
stillborn. Her second, dead, was unborn,
and it looked bad for Lulu. So Loxton
was called—having performed five major
operations already that day—and got to
work. Operation, successful: operating-
theatre, Sydney zoo, at which Lulu, being
a lioness, is one of the star attractions.
False bulkheads, opium laid into the
• strands of a hemp rope, hidden in lemons
and oranges, diamonds concealed in every
conceivable place from ear-plugs to
chewing-gum—they’re all old tricks to
William Wildy, retired the other day as
Collector of Customs in Queensland.
Half a century in the Commonwealth
public service, he started as a telegraph-
messenger, shifted to Customs in 1904,
and foiled the smuggler in Adelaide,
Fremantle and Sydney before northing
to Brisbane. A Rotarian for years.
Had a designing hand in the new quid-
note, sculptor Leslie Bowles and artist
Napier Waller. Bowles designed the 1951
Jubilee two-bob, created Melbourne’s
Monash and George V memorials, and,
in 1940, the statue of Diana whose bronze
skirts billow in the breeze in Fitzroy
Gardens even on the calmest spring
morning. While apprenticed to a master
woodcarver in Brisbane, the pugnacious-
jawed Bowles won a scholarship which
took him to London to study under Sir
Bertram MacKennal, R.A. Bowles laid
down his mallet and chisel when Wilhelm
tried his bit of redesigning, joined the
25th London Regiment and was its crack-
shot when he changed to the Royal Tank
Corps. He went back to his clay in
1919, was brought to Canberra to execute
work for the War Memorial people and
stayed on in Melbourne. His studio at
Frankston looks like a stable—there’s
usually a horse in it. In his spare time he
enjoys designing stage-settings, attending
meetings of the T-Square Club and
dabbling in politics.
Note-fellow Waller is an Old Digger
who lost his right aim in France, and this
year gained an 0.8. E. in the Coronation
honors. He painfully trained his left
hand to the job of painting, and took
to executing murals which grew ever
larger till one of them succeeded in
covering the four walls of the huge Mel-
bourne Town Hall concert-chamber. The
pastoral panorama decorating one of the
bars of Menzies Hotel and the 20ft.
mural in the Public Library vestibule are
also products of his agile left. Bowles
hails from Sydney, Waller from Pens-
hurst (Vic.).
Dr. Lilian M. Gilbreth, shortly arriving
from the U.S. to lecture on industrial
management, psychology, engineering
and what-not, is a woman who makes no
secret of her age, which is 75; she’s the
mother of six sons and six daughters, and
her honors, orders, distinctions, publica-
tions and achievements would fill a
column. She is the author, with her
husband, of Time Study, Fatigue Study,
Normal Lives for the Disabled and Living
with Our Children, is president of her
own concern, Gilbreth Incorp., member
of a score of scientific associations and
during the war was on a number of com-
missions. She holds degrees from eight
of Uncle Sam’s academic institutions and
she has two homes —one in New Jersey
and one in Massachusetts. At her age
she must not be overburdened, so she
will get one spell during her 12-day Aus-
tralian sojourn, visiting the Blue
Mountains.
Ex-destroyer Quadrant, now anti-
submarine frigate, gets a good small-ship
man in Captain Tom Morrison. Senior-
officer of the First Frigate Squadron,
Morrison was the first skipper of our first
Battle-class destroyer, Tobruk, and is a
torpedo-specialist. Though his new ship
is more concerned now with depth-charges
than tin-fish, she mounts an extensive
array of electrical wiring—radar, asdic
and so on —and electricity is the main part
of a torpedoman’s province. With
0.8. E. for his part in cruiser Hobart’s
Berbera evacuation, and D-S.C. for his
share, as Squadron Torpedo Officer
aboard the flagship, in the Lingayen busi-
ness, Morrison is the son of Professor
L. N. Morrison, and is one of the two
R.A.N. officers ever to represent the
Mother Navy at cricket.
Died in Melbourne, Percy Code, two
years after retiring as senior conductor
of the A.8.C., and after years of stalwart
service to orchestral music in Australia.
As well-known as any musician through
his broadcasts —he conducted upwards of
2000 broadcast symphony concerts —he
had several years with the San Francisco
symphony orchestra, and came from there
to start his long association with the
A.B.C. Born in Melbourne, he was 66.
Kevin Miles, now at Melbourne
Comedy in “Reluctant Heroes,” was the
only Yarraside actor to attract the notice
of Anthony Quayle when the Stratford
director was looking round the local
theatre. Miles was then playing in “Sea-
gulls Over Sorrento,” naval counterpart
pf his present show. He has now got an
invitation to go to Shakspeare’s birth-
place for an audition and has been
guaranteed work there. He is 25, started
with the Firm and is well known in the
wheat-belt for his performances when
touring with the Council of Adult Educa-
tion,
“MacneU” meets a geodesist:
In a quiet office in Sydney’s old Maritime
Services’ Building works a slight, balding man,
unknown to the Australian public, with an inter-
national reputation as a geodesist. Dr. Kurt
Rhonstock, born near Berlin, D.Sc, from Koen-
igsberg University, completed his surveying
cadetship, joined the Luftwaffe in 1936, and by
1940 was engineer-in-charge to the German Air
Ministry. For the whole of the war he re-
searched into position and direction-finding in-
struments for aircraft, a sort of surveyor of the ’
air, and, as he worked in Berlin, he had some
feeling for the competence of his opposite-
numbers in the British Air Ministry. So highly
did the B.A.M. value his work that, at the sur-
render, it made him one of the “frozen per- ,
sonnel,” and bade him continue his research.
He still holds a special order from the R.A.F.
and R.N. “to continue scientific work and in-
strument-development for astronomical naviga-
tion and magnetism.” Two volumes he wrote
while “frozen” are now official instruction-books
in the British Ministry of Aircraft Production,
and in 1948 he was elected to membership of
the British Institute of Navigation. One of his
instruments, a magnetometer to determine the
SURVEYS
best position for magnetic compasses in aircraft
and submarines, is now in use in the Royal
Navy.
The man responsible for training and equip-
ping the navigational survey-parties of the Afrika
Corps for the North Africa landing, Rhon-
stock in 1950 was invited by the Ministry of
National Development to co-ordinate the geo-
detic network of the Snowy River scheme. When
that contract was completed the N.S.W. Sur-
veyor-General got hold of him, offered him the
job of building-up from scratch the organisation
now engaged in mapping, partly fronj the air,
the whole of N.S.W. for the technical devel-
opment of the State —as he calls it, a geodesist’s
dream. Rhonstock has the qualifications all
right—what he needs is public and political in-
terest in the job. Most of the State’s present
maps are mainly of tourist-value.
This year is one of distinction for
A. T. Pugsley, researcher into wheat-
breeding. In July he was appointed
director of the Agricultural Research
Institute at Wagga (N.S.W.); earlier he
was awarded the Farrer Memorial Medal
for distinguished services to agriculture.
The other day Adelaide University made
him a Doctor of Science.
Hunter Freeman, due for slippered ease,
starting next Friday, has been with
C.S.R. for 43 years, in his time clerk,
chemist, bug-hunter, experimental cane-
farmer, cane-inspector, mill-manager and
(present rating) the company’s senior
mill-inspector. As well, he’s sat on
royal commissions and inquiries galore,
and for 11 years from 1940 sat on the
Queensland Cane Prices Board as the
trusted representative of all mill-owners.
Remembered widely and well in Queens-
SUGAR
land, N.S.W. and Canberra for a ready
willingness to help and advise, he’ll take
his growing know-how on to his nursery
farmlet at St. Ives, north of Sydney, his
main product there being gladioli.
Two I.P.s of 1.C.1. landed in these
parts from the U.K. the other day—
S. P. Chambers (deputy-chairman) and
C. R. Prichard (development-director).
Chambers joined his co, as its finance-
director in 1947, changing from the Com-
missionership of Inland Revenue. Earlier
. he was taxation adviser to the Govern-
ment of India and member of the Indian
Legislative Assembly. Prichard first saw
Australia before the war, investigating
the project for an alkali-works, which was
subsequently erected at Port Adelaide,
beginning operations in 1940. Wing-
Commander, R.A.F., in Hitler’s show,
he directs a research and develop-
ment department which goes through
£7,500,000 a year.
“Pip Tok”: The two top-ranking
officers of the Westralian Police Force
hold qualifications not usually held by
policemen: Commissioner T. H. Ander-
son is a chartered accountant; Assistant-
Commissioner James M. O’Brien, the
first appointed to this newly-created post,
is an assaying chemist. O’Brien, hitherto
Chief Inspector, did his course at the
Perth Technical College and was first em-
ployed at Fremantle Smelters. Then he
went to Kalgoorlie, but the closing-down
of mines in the mining depression of the
early ’twenties forced him to look for
other employment. He found it in the
police, which he joined in 1921. Now a
burly 52, he was stationed at Broome in
the more boisterous era of pearling, and
did the usual run of country appointments
until transfer to Perth. His appointment
has given the move-on order to several
seniors of the Force. Among those
affected is C. 1.8. chief Hugh McLernon,
who puts on uniform again as Chief
Inspector.
A fine and ancient pipe arrived in
Sydney the other day with, firmly and
affectionately attached to its stem, one
F. J. D. Thomas, A.R.C.S., B.Sc., bio-
logist, and Nemesis of sundry bugs, wogs
and other insect pests. Thomas and pipe
are on the way to Melbourne to take
over as Director of 1.C.1.A.N.Z.’s agri-
cultural research laboratory, an establish-
ment devoted to fundamental research
into the control of diseases and insect
pests in plants and animals; the job he
has just left was Deputy-Director of
1.C.1.’s agricultural research station at
Hawthorndale, England, probably the
biggest commercial venture of its kind in
the world and one of the finest labora-
tories. Tallish, with high forehead and
a glint of humor in his voice and eyes,
Thomas saw in biology a chance to get
about the world, and he certainly has —
he, and presumably his pipe, have been
in 30 different countries, from Sweden to
Peru, from the U.S. to Africa, on the
track of one wog or another. They are
world authorities on locust-control and
pipe glows like a furnace when Australia's
grasshoppers are mentioned. Thomas was
the co-discoverer of the insecticidal pro-
perties of B.H.C. (benzene hexachloride),
which stands beside D.D.T. as a pest-
exterminator —he got onto it while look-
ing for something to skittle the flea-beetle
in brassica and, probably, while smoking
his pipe.
Charles Bush, the most indefatigable
prize-winner among Melbourne artists,
has done it again with both barrels by
winning the Henry Gaselli Richards prize
for landscape in oils given by the National
Gallery of Queensland as well as the L. J.
Harvey prize for drawing. Last year,
too, he won the Richards prize, which
has the condition that the subject of
the painting should be north of the 30th
parallel. He painted a bit near Tumbul-
gum, on the Tweed (N.S.W.).
“Dash D”: In telling of Colin Wood-
full “M S.” (B. 7/10/’53) did not mention
how Woodfull came to get his Christian-
name. His father, Rev, T. S. B. Wood-
full, was a Methodist parson and he con-
ceived the idea of perpetuating the
memory of his several years' sojourn in a
particular “circuit” by calling a member
of his family after the town. Colin
Woodfull was born whilst his father was
stationed at Collingwood. His cricketing
brother, W. Maldon Woodfull, was born
whilst his rev, dad was exhorting at
Maldon.
Landed in Melbourne to judge brass-
bands at the South-street (Ballarat) com-
petitions, Professor Henry Geehl, Lon-
don University and Trinity College lec-
turer and examiner. Recognised as
possibly the foremost authority on brass-
band music, Geehl composed “For You
Alone,” claimed to be Caruso’s first
song sung in English. In London the
visitor has his studio at No, 1, Devon-
shire-place—Dickens’s home. In Sydney
he’ll meet brother Walter, for the first
time in 40-odd years.
Although Dr. Patrick Neil O’Donnell,
appointed medical /superintendent of
Royal Melbourne Hospital, comes to his
immense job from Otago, New Zealand,
he knows Melbourne, having been born
there, and having been assistant medical
superintendent at Royal Melbourne,
1946-1951, when the Americans handed
the big sickbay over after the late war.
Dr. O’Donnell spent most of that war in
Changi, having landed in Singapore as a
captain in the 10th A.G.H., Eighth Divi-
sion. Educated at Wesley and at Queen’s
College, University of Melbourne.
Into the Silence:
In. Melbourne, George Alexander Brew, one
of the city’s best-known eye-surgeons. One-
time president of the Ophthalmological Society
of Australia, he had devoted 25 years to St.
Vincent’s as honorary eye-specialist. His only
son is a medico.
At Rotorua (N.Z.), at 78, Sir Nesbitt William
Armstrong, an Irishman who succeeded to the
baronetcy in 1922, and married a daughter ot
J. C. Hodgkinson, of Maryborough (Vic.).
Succeeding to the title, his son, Andrew St.
Clare Armstrong, aged 40, is a native of
Tauranga (N.Z.); he served with Diggers in
New Guinea for four years in War 11.
In Perth, at 61, Cyril Guy Norton, theatre-
owner and director, who had devoted much of
his life to charity. Since 1944 he had organ-
ised an annual picnic for orphans of the metro-
politan area. Long before that he was organis-
ing-secretary of the Ugly Men’s Association,
which was formed in War I and which raised
thousands for various charities. A life-member
of the W.A. National Football League and
vice-president of the East Perth Club, he man-
aged the Westralian teams which played in the
Australian Carnival at Hobart in 1924.
In Melbourne, at 73, Peter Gutrie Tail,
founder of the “Commonwealth Engineer” and
a string of other periodicals for engineers. He
also .founded the Tait Book Co., specialising in
the sale of technical books.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 77, James Mitchell,
a veteran of the Boer War. He was particu-
larly active in keeping the South African War
Veterans’ Association alive.
In Brisbane, at 78, John Kyle-Little, eldest
son of Captain Robert Kyle-Little (Indian
Army), who served in the Indian Mutiny, took
part in the Relief of Lucknow, and was ap-
pointed inspector of Queensland Native Police.
At 18, John K.-L. had his own droving plant,
and was known as the “boy drover.” Not
long afterward he joined the Native Police ana
was stationed at Turnoff Lagoon, near Burke-
town. He enlisted for the South African War,
in which he served as a sergeant in the otn
Queensland Imperial Bushmen, in charge ot
scouts. On return to Queensland he was ap-
pointed officer in the Native Constabulary at
Coen —the last native police-detachment in ser-
vice in Queensland. In later years, he was
manager of several stations, among them Elsey,
of We of the Never-Never. He also managed
properties for Vesteys.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 67, Sir Humphrey
Francis O’Leary, Chief Justice of New
Zealand, a few days after Sir Erima North-
croft, also of the Supreme Court Bench. A
fine Rugby player in his day, O’Leary had
been president of the N.Z. Law Society tor
11 years when he became C.J. in 1946.


REAL LIFE IN THE N.S.W. BLACKSOIL COUNTRY!


ABORIGINALITIES
“Horseless H”; In S.A.’s south-east
corner one species of bird which arm-
chair naturalists keep telling us is dying
out because of lack of its native foods is
on the increase. It is the cockatoo; the
black, the red-tailed glossy black, and the
yellow-feathered funereal. Anywhere,
any time, in the vast miles of pine forests
planted by the S.A. Government you will
see mobs of them and hear their whining
call as they feed on the Baltic-pine cones.
Fifty years ago they were a rarity.
The only time the cockatoos come near
homesteads is when the almonds are bear-
ing, which doesn’t matter much, as crows
formerly ate these. Almonds always
seems to me a most extraordinary diet
for a crow.
♦ * * *
“Wpngamelo”: Papua’s native courts
impose convictions for unusual offences.
Eight natives were convicted for drum-
beating after 9 p.m.—the village sleep is
regarded as something
almost sacred. Gambling
headed the list, with 800
convictions. Sorcery is
apparently losing its hold ;
there were only seven con-
victions.
“8.A.K.”: I haven’t seen
a joey dive into a ’roo’s
pouch (B. 7/10/’53), but I
have often witnessed a
young possum shooting into
its hidey hole. When the
silver-grey is very young he
never leaves the pouch—
unless something frightens
the mother into a sudden
movement which throws him
out; then he will be seen as
a little, nude creature like
a small, skinned rat. He
will dangle, because his
mouth is attached to the
nipple, a fact which caused
early observers to jump to
the wrong conclusion that
the embryo forms in the
pouch (actually he becomes
attached when he first
sucks), but even the hairless,
dangling baby has instinct
enough to strike out desper-
ately with all four feet, and
thus scramble back into the
pouch. His entry will be
made head-first, but a few
seconds later a tiny “hand”
may be seen gripping the lip of the pouch
—evidence that he has somersaulted to
right-side up. When he reaches the stage
of being carried around on mum’s back
he will still do his dive into the pouch
if danger threatens, though how he man-
ages to fit his bulk in is a mystery; even
more amazing is the fact that he still
finds room to do the sugardoodle that
brings him into a Mr. Chad position.
Incidentally, the mouth of a possum’s
pouch opens vertically, following, in the
case of the silver-grey, the dark-brown
streak of fur which runs down the exact
centre-line of the body.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Jackstay”; My faith in the pronounce-
ments of the pundits that all eels in Aus-
tralian waters breed in the vicinity of
New Caledonia, and those of the Atlantic
in the Caribbean, has been shaken by the
capture of a female sand-eel, heavy with
spawn, a few miles out from Redhead,
on the N.S.W. coast. She was taken by
a seine-trawler whose skipper said she
appeared to have partly-spawned before
being taken aboard; this would not have
been due to the bumping-about received
in the net, as fish equally heavy with
spawn are not affected by it. The eel
was larger than others of the same species
generally caught, weighing nearly eight
pounds,
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Old-timer”: Gilgandra (N.S.W.),
which got headlines in the city Press
lately because of the advent of quad-
ruplets to a family camped on the out-
skirts, has long been noted for its wind-
mills. On a rough estimate there’s one
per citizen —at least, that’s what it looks
like when you come into it from Dubbo,
Coonamble or the Warrumbungle side.
Tall, skinny windmills and short, fat
windmills stand everywhere. The town-
ship lies in a bend of the Castlereagh,
or rather the dry channel that once carried
that river. Most of the water seems to
have gone underground; it’s only in wet
seasons like 1-950 that the river fills and
overflows, whereupon sandbag barrages
are built and the citizens stalk about
with their clothes tucked up in the flooded
streets. Like most western N.S.W.
towns it lives on sheep and wheat and
in the past few years has had more money
to spend than ever in its life before. Un-
like most of the other settlements along
the Castlereagh, it never seems to have
featured in bush ballads and stories,
though Banjo must have known of it and
Lawson passed just west of it on his Way
to and from Hungerford.
* * * $
“Gravelsnatcher”; Can’t see a team of
drovers with good dogs taking all morning
to get 600 to 700 head of cattle out of a
10,000-acre paddock (B. 7/10/’53); or
even a good team preventing the same
mob, turned loose at night, from mingling
with the station cattle. And once they’re
boxed, how does “Gulliver” suggest sort-
‘Not a spark!”
ing them out without a spot of counting?
He’s evidently never heard a station-
manager discussing a drover who’s just
passed through and taken a few extra
head with him. And why would he send
a man looking for holes in fences that
were kept in repair by the station staff,
as these should and would be? And
finally, “G,” thinks holding-yards would
be preferable to my 10,000-acre paddocks.
Well, we’re discussing the East Kimber-
leys, and my paddocks are holding-yards.
* * * *
“Coonowrin”; Further on bull-oak and
she-oak (B. 7/10/’53). Actually both
are Casuarinas. I can recall offhand
several quite distinct species known as
she-oak, and all have the drooping foliage
referred to by “West Wimmera.” The
prefix “she” applied to timber often
denotes inferiority; e.g., she-pine. Inci-
dentally, the bulk of the silky-oak which
reaches the market comes from a North
Queensland variety known locally as bull-
oak, but this is not a Casuarina.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Those “prehistoric sea-
creatures” whose fossilised remains form
the powder used in the making of lip-
stick, high-explosive, face-powder and
“Come on in — it's not so hoi!”
beer (B. 30/9/’53) were really diatoms,
microscopic members of the algae family,
and their shells, deposited on the beds
of lakes and swamps, form this very fine
powder. No crushing is required; in
fact, modern machinery couldn’t produce
so fine a powder. These beds are up to
1000 ft. thick and are practically pure
silica. The powder is used in beer-making
as a filter, and it serves the same use for
sugar, fruit-juices, mineral-oils, perfumes
and vitamin-extracts. It’s the kieselguhr
that used to be the holding—and safety—
agent for nitroglycerine in dynamite ; it
goes into paints, varnishes, battery-boxes,
rubber, gramophone-records and synthetic
plastics, besides which it’s a great in-
sulator against heat, cold and sound.
Diatoms still live, and since they thrive
in conditions of Arctic cold and also in
the waters of thermal springs they’ll prob-
ably be the last life on earth, whether
this orb is consumed by the sun’s heat
or frozen by the cold of outer space. A
cubic inch of such powder may contain
up to 70,000,000 skeletons.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Bass”: Ever watched a blue bald coot
walking around the edge of a swamp?
It treads daintily and looks quite sedate,
and if you examine its tracks you’ll find
one footmark dead in front of the other
and touching toe to heel. Seems a re-
markably short stride for a long-legged
bird until you realise what an advantage
it gives him on soft ground or weeds.
It comes in handy, too, for climbing
trees or reeds, or walking over water-
lily leaves, while in running the bird
can lengthen its stride and leave most
ground-animals standing. However, I’ve
just struck a case where the coot’s legs
and feet ran a poor second to those of the
barnyard fowl. The chooks were working
on one side of a manure-heap, heads
down and feet tearing the heap to pieces.
On the other side the coots were forag-
ing, but it didn’t occur to them to use
their feet. They simply prospected with
their beaks, and they weren’t in it with
the chooks.
* * * *
“Archaen”: Meteorites (B. 9/9/’53)
have assumed a new importance:
we don’t know what effect cosmic-
ray bombardment beyond our earth’s
atmosphere will have on the metal
of the space-ship, and examination
of meteorites, radioactivity and other
cosmic-ray effects may yield some clues.
Further, it’s possible that some-
where out in space there is a new
kind of matter. On earth—and else-
where in the solar system, as far as we
know-all atoms have a positive charge
of electricity in their nucleus and the
electrons revolving around it carry nega-
tive ones. The other kind of matter has
this reversed. It can be shown mathe-
matically that if these two types of matter
are brought into contact, then the smaller
one will be annihilated, with all its mass
turning into a gigantic outflow of energy.
We have proof that something of the kind
has occurred at least twice on the earth.
In 1908 a meteorite fell in northern
Siberia, blasting everything within a
radius of 20 miles, while the shock was
recorded 3000 miles away. In the Libyan
desert a type of fused sand is found.
Known as “Libyan glass,” it is similar to
the sand fused where the first atomic-
bomb was tested in New Mexico. It was
obviously formed by some meteorite
which liberated an immense amount of
energy when it struck the earth, being
itself annihilated in the process.
* * * ♦
“Macquarie”: Domestic flowers are
beginning to “go bush,” and the result
is pleasing to the eye of even such a
horticultural philistine as I am. Along
the banks of scores of little creeks on the
N.S.W. south coast lilies are established,
their snowy blooms not a bit smaller or
less attractive than they were in the garden
from which they were washed by flood-
waters. Even more striking is the array
of white-iris blossom which, in places,
covers whole paddocks. By what agency
they were distributed has me thinking.
Water is not responsible in their case,
since clumps of the flowers have the habit
of appearing on ground higher than that
where the first blooms showed. Wind
could scarcely blow the seed of a bulbous
genus; neither could birds carry it. I’m
left with two alternatives: (1) Cows un-
wittingly carry the bulbs —either by eat-
ing them or getting portions stuck in
their hooves; (2) the embryo iris plants
are introduced into the paddocks in bags
of seed-potatoes —every paddock I’ve seen
where the irises grow wild was at one
time or another cultivated for spuds,
* ♦ * •
“Sister Ellell”: Leaping Lena, the
hospital train made from cattle-trucks
(N.T., 1942), once clanked her way to an
uncertain stop. The poor frail engine,
Snowdrop—circa 1865 —gave up a reluct-
ant ghost. The crew started banging
about, and scraping her out with iron
rods, and in the clear moonlit night their
highly-colored references to her ancestry
were heard very easily by us, further aft.
After a while they watered Snowdrop,
and to my horror I heard the driver call,
“What about the gin—do we need any
water?”.... .Heavens! I thought; not
content with a breakdown, now they’re
going to get on it! However, very soon
we choofed off without further mishap.
The incident must have worried the driver,
for next morning, in answer to his call
of “Are y’ there. Sister?” I popped my
head out with “Wot’s to-do?” and he
replied “I must apologise for the language
last night, it was most out of place, but
she was a sore trial to us.” I white-lied
about the language, but ’gave him a dig
about the mother’s-ruin. He looked so
confused that I explained further. He
threw back his head and roared with
laughter, “My dear young lady, the gin
is the water-carrier behind the engine!”
COTTAGE CREEK
(Newcastle, N. S. Wales)
The spectre of a soldier came,
A private of the convict age,
Who knew the city ere it passed
From village into urban stage.
And, sauntering on Hunter-street,
He found to his intense surprise
The place had grown and changed so much
That nothing could he recognise.
“I say,” he said and hailed a cop,
“I wonder could you show me where
The cottage stood by Cottage Creek,
For years ago I dutied there.
“The cottage was a guardhouse, sir,
About a mile to west of town,
And some of us were stationed there
To hunt escaping convicts down.
“The creek was quite a pleasant spot,
A merry brook among the trees;
But now I’ve walked a mile or more
And cannot find it. Tell me, please.
“The bush has gone and where I walked
Were only rows and rows of shops,
A theatre and a bank and such,
And so I thought, ‘l’ll ask the cops.’
“What has become of Cottage Creek,
For while a cottage can decay
Or be demolished, where’s the man
Who’d sweep a placid stream away?”
The cop replied: “A creek, you say.
Beside a cottage? Let me see . . .
Oh, yes, you mean the concrete drain
Beside the public lavatory.”
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


“Uramao”: The value attached to Aus-
tralian hardwoods and New Zealand
heart-of-totara was shown when an old
bridge on the Masterton-Gladstone high-
way, New Zealand, was demolished and
its timbers auctioned The bridge was
erected over the river 52 years ago at a
cost of £1250, including labor at £242.
Local cockies sparred up £1250 for the
timber.
♦ * ♦ ♦ i
“Shamuseen”: The Torres Straits
Islands are the habitat of what must
surely be the Goliath of the bee family.
A full inch in length, he is a very sportily
attired fellow: glossy black head, black-
and-yellow jersey-striped thorax and all-
gold abdomen. Consistent with his bulk
he is a slow flyer, and, if it is nectar he is
prospecting for amid the tropical
blossoms, the absence of the feverish
activity characterising the native- and
domestic-bee schedules indicates that he
is on day-labor rather than contract-
rates. He seems to lead a hermit’s life ;
I’ve never seen more than one at a time
and I’ve never been able to locate his
hive. Probably, like the native bee, he
is stingless, which is just as well; equipped
with an offensive apparatus in keeping
with his bulk, he would be a most
formidable bloke.
♦ * * *
“Yapping Bushman”; Southern Vic-
toria’s bleak plains ar§ reverting to their
former “look.” Some mysterious blight
has caused the countless miles of pine and
cypress-pine windbreaks to die off fast.
Old and young trees are affected alike
and not even the C.5.1.R.0. research-men
have been able to get a clue. At Koo-
weerup the huge flats which groves of
cypress had made into parklands are
going back to what they were when the
swamp was first drained half a century
ago—except, of course, for rows of stark
tree-skeletons.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A Commonwealth
bug-chaser and a W.A. health-officer
who’ve been scouring W.A.’s north-west
for malarial mosquitoes have found two
types of anophelines,, and now a Search
is to be made for otherj more dangerous
types. There’s a big chance they’ll be
found. There are several types in Aus-
tralia, from Queensland to the Kimber-
leys, and they may easily extend around
the north-west corner. Many of the early
Kimberley cattlemen and prospectors got
malaria, and a malignant form of the
disease swept across the Ord and Fitzroy
"I've got a place four minutes from the station."
river valleys in 1934. That caused over
200 deaths, mostly natives, and the fact
that it hasn’t happened since may provide
a clue. Some years after the coming of
settlers to the East Kimberleys a decrease
in malaria was traced to the puddling of
the pools and swamps by stock. During
a few dry seasons this puddling dries up
the swamps and seems to raise the levels
of their beds, and without their breeding-
grounds the mosquitoes die out. Only a
torrential downpour will clear the swamps
out and restore their holding-capacity,
and that doesn’t happen often. It hap-
pened in 1934.
* * * ♦
“K.R.”: Prof. Auguste Piccard, who
lately went down 10,000 ft. under the sea
in a contraption (the “bathyscaphe”) of
his own design, is known as the “man
t with the Jules Verne mind.” This is
because Piccard, too, has made scientific
forecasts of a seemingly wildly improb-
able nature. But there the similarity
surely ends. It does not follow that
Piccard is a “modern Jules Verne,” as a
Sydney paper called him. The two men
operated in different spheres. Piccard
is an active, adventurous scientist who
has risked his life in search of scientific
truth and possibility. Veme was a story-
teller, a vividly imaginative one, certainly,
but a story-teller first and last. It isn’t
on record that he ever personally faced
any of the dangers he wrote of, or ever
carried out a scientific experiment.
* A A A
“Brick E.”: I confess to a fellow-
feeling for Scorfield’s brickie who gave a
questioning bystander the sarcastic
answer “No, it’s a beehive I ” (B.
14/10/’53). When you’ve answered die
same unnecessary question a few hundred
times you do feel Idee that. But the most
nerve-shattering of all question-askers is
the humorist who bounces up and says:
“Tell me, what is it keeps the bricks
together?” The brickie, of course, is ex-
pected to naively reply “The mortar.”
Whereupon the funny-man will chortle
“Oh, no—that’s what keeps ’em apart!”
No doubt Henry the Eighth sprang it on
Cardinal Wolsey when they were watch-
ing the brickies at work on Hampton
Court; still, the fellow who hits you with
it every second day obviously thinks it’s
a new-’un, and I’ve often “gone quietly”
rather than spoil a layman’s innocent
amusement. My dad, however, had
suffered from the thing a good number
of years longer than I had, and he refused
to compromise. His answer to the ques-
tion always was: “The bond.” It
flattened ’em completely.
*•• ♦ •
“K.”: An eight-year-old Donnybrook
(W.A.) boy who saw a bird jump down
from a tree and enter a rabbit-burrow
dragged it out and found it had one wing
damaged. A goshawk, it was no doubt
going Mto the burrow to get the prey it
couldn’t get on the wing—an act forced
on it since it won’t touch carrion. It’s
the chief hen-house raider in W.A., and
it’s a good bet that this one collected its
injury in a fowlyard. From its wing-span,
about 3ft., it was apparently the female
of the species. The male’s smaller, its
wing-span not much over 2ft. 6in.
* * ♦ «
“Coonowrin”: “Ringing” in gidyea
(B. 7/10/’53) is a form of wavy grain;
the fibres, instead of being straight, as
usual, run in a series of short waves. It
is probably an inherited characteristic of
the few trees in which it is found. The
swaying of the tree by wind, mentioned
by “Billy T.,” would hardly be the reason,
though leaning trees may sometimes
develop pseudo-rings of darker wood—
the tension wood of hardwoods or com-
pression wood of softwoods. The most
common cause of rings in timber is a
temporary cessation of growth due to
climatic factors, such as the dormant
winter period of the colder regions, which
is responsible for the phenomenon in
pine, Oregon, Baltic deal, etc. In tropical
countries, partial or complete defoliation
during the dry season may produce a
ringed effect.
* ♦ * •
“Horseless Horseman”: We were
bringing a mob through Pooncarie,
making for the Murray ; shorthanded, we
negotiated mallee scrub that wouldn’t
support a blowfly in a good season, then
we night-camped on the Garnpang-No
Man’s Land boundary. At sundown we
got some very heavy rain, after which
there was no sign of the boy who had
taken all the horses back 16 miles to
water. At dawn there were still no
horses, so, marooning the cook, my mate
and myself with dogs set off to drove
5000 road-weary wethers 10 miles across
Djarra paddock. Whipstick-mallee and
white sand and spinifex that pricked
mighty hard, and hardly a bit of copper-
burr to draw the mob along. At noon
the boy caught us up with the neddies
and at dark we reached the far fence,
where, by hand, we began tearing down
mallee boughs to make a rough brake
as we had no cook, no cart and no
tucker. Four horses in the wagonette
could not make more than a knot and
a half, and that night we intermittently
walked round hungry sheep that wouldn’t
camp or trudged three miles back to the
"Say 'Ah'—in English ”
wagonette for a feed. At dawn it was
still five miles to the tank and grass.
Who’d go droving?
* * * *
“Broadway”: The American Chemical
Society says loco-weed, the cattle-poison-
ing, pea-like weed of the U.S. western
plains, is a potential commercial source
of selenium; it seems the mineral is one
of the plant’s foods and is found stored
in its tissues. That’s logical. lodine’s a
mineral, and in that form it’s extracted
from Chilean nitrate, which yields about
a pound of iodine to a ton of nitrate.
But we also get it from seaweed. Hickory-
ash contains a lot of aluminium; some
plants contain zinc, others vanadium, and
one, the horsetail plant, is said to con-
tain gold. Many of these mineral-bearing
plants aren’t commercial propositions, but
loco-weeds may be if they really yield
selenium, which has a lot more uses than
gold. Most of them stem from the fact
that when light impinges on it its electrical
resistance is lowered. The explanation is
this: A good conductor of electricity is
one in which the electrons are easily
detached from the atoms; and, although
this happens with selenium in light, in
darkness the electrons refuse to budge.
Thus selenium becomes the principal con-
stituent of the electric-eye, or photo-
electric cell.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Kelms”: The coots nesting in the
tea-tree thicket have acquired a family,
and I was there to watch the hatching.
It required patience to get into a favor-
able position and fortitude to remain
there up to my hips in water, but how
else could I see what went on? The
nest is a solid affair, constructed mainly
of paperbark, 18in. deep, very snug, and
placed between several tea-tree branches
so that it can rise with the water. The
builders are the common coot, smaller
than the blue bald coot, and the adults
are black to dark-grey with a white head-
shield. Now, I know that the young of
most swamp birds bear little resemblance
to the adults, but the first of these coots
to break the shell amazed me. The body
was mainly black down which appeared
to have been dusted with yellow
powder, while the neck, head and beak
were reddish. That’s a lot of color for
a bird that’s going to be almost all black
when he grows up. But then he’s a sur-
prising little coot all round. Within a
minute of breaking the shell he’d ex-
panded to at least twice the size of the
egg he’d emerged from, and three minutes
from the moment of hatching he was in
the water. At home in it, too. Jim
Mollison reckoned the only born flyer in
the world is the Mallee hen, which flies
as soon as it scratches its way to the
surface. I’ll nominate the coot as a born
swimmer.
♦ * * ♦
“Villefair”: I was a downy-faced youth
when our council bought a horse-drawn
mower for use on the local oval, Paddy,
who drove, the road-roller —a loaded tip-
dray with a steel roller in lieu of wheels —
was elected driver, it being considered
that his experience would be an asset.
For the same reason Roanic, the draught,
was given the honor of providing the
motive power. To protect the sward, the
mayor had obtained leather boots for
Roanie’s o.s. hooves. Everybody thought
it a great idea —except Roanie. In a
very sulky mood he reluctantly allowed
himself to be attached to the mower.
Paddy took his seat, the aldermen
beamed smugly, and Roanie grudgingly
responded to his driver’s duckings. At
first he seemed mystified by the strange
behavior of what should have been either
a roller or a tip-dray. Then the cutter
whirred. It was too much for Roanie’s
nervous condition. He leapt forward,
saw the leather boots on his own feet,
got the fright of his life, and set off
around the oval, scaring himself even
more as the cutters whirled madly. It
was Paddy’s bad luck that he became
unseated at the first plunge, and did the
first lap in a graceless position with the
blades missing the well-filled seat of his
pants by an inch. But the memory of it
has always prevented my enjoyment of
the many revivals of “Ben Hur.” Holly-
wood’s chariot-races always seemed such
tame affairs.
* ♦ ♦ •
“Mat’s Mate”: We were working
together in a big farm-implement factory
in Melbourne and I picked up £3 in
folded single notes off the floor. About
an hour after I told the foreman Mat
said, “Bloke cornin’. Leave this t’ me.”
A worried little cove bustled up. “You
the blokes found me dough?” “How
much did y’ lose?” Mat asked, “Three
quid.” Mat looked regretful. “Couldn’t
ha’ bin yours, mate,” he said. “What
we found was twenty-three.” The little
cove looked dashed and went away.
Half an hour later a thin coot breasted
us. “Believe you blokes picked up
twenty-three quid I lost.” “When did
y’ lose it?” “This .mornin’.” “Sorry,
The twenty-three we found was up near
Echuca, seven months ago. What we
found this mornin’ was only three.”
Lanky frowned and went. Then a fat
man came and said he’d lost three. Mat
told him it was twenty-three. There was
no more till afternoon. Then the fore-
man came and said we’d better leave the
cash with him and he’d find the owner.
“Found him,” Mat said. The foreman
looked blank, hesitated, and went off.
“It was my dough,” Mat told me, “Fair
dinkum?” “Too right.” “Then what
the hell was all the”— “Aw,” he said,
“a man’s got t’ have a bit o’ fun some-
times.” He kept chuckling to himself
about it all the way home.
ALOE
The shark’s toothed jaw is not more fierce
Than these cold shapes that stab the sky—
Sabre-pointed, serrate-edged
Aloe. Femininely perverse,
It raises spikes of creamy bells
Shielded by savage spines that hold
Venom like a snake’s. It flowers
Grudgingly, once in seven years,
A bitter juice runs through its veins;
I know its heart is cold.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


Would you like
good whisky better?
{ ye J
BELtS
•00% SCOTCH WHISKjJ*
OtSTIUIO AHO BLV**> tD
*; IM “SCOTLAND
iTLfl^
D| STIILERSk«™ SCO,
PICIAL RMI
*"ooucr of
There’s nothing better than a real
old Scotch Whisky. Or is there?
If whisky is really good, made in
Scotland, well matured—can one
ask for anything more? We think
so. You can ask for just one thing
more—that it should bear the
name ‘Ben’s’. We have been distilling
and blending whisky since 1825.
We hope and believe that Bell’s
Whisky is as near perfection as
can be.
We are one of the few old firms of
independent distillers. We value
our Independence. It gives us the
opportunity to go on making, as
we have done for some 125 years,
the finest whisky our long
experience can produce. But you.
Sir, are the man to judge. Buy a
bottle of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if you
do not savour that subtle flavour
which is Scotch Whisky at its
spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS per™ SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
L
IT
theatre
■ : ■**-*-**-*jan s xji'x ««'* .r»i^r7i
WORLD'S GREATEST PLAYS
The greatest stars of Australian radio bring you the world’s finest
comedy or drama every Sunday night at eight in a full hour of
memorable entertainment.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR, 2MW, 2LF, 2PK, 2 MG, 2WL, 2LT, 2CA,
x 3CV, 4GY, 6WB, 6MD, 6BY, 7LA
The Macquarie Broadcasting Service
Business Rollery Etc.
A Successful Loan
'T'HE £5O million Eighteenth
A Security Loan, offering, at
par, 4\ p.c. bonds maturing in
October, 1966, and 3 p.c. bonds
maturing in December, 1955,
was oversubscribed to the extent
of about £l6 million, exceeding
by £l4 million the total Com-
monwealth public borrowings
for 1952-53. It was the most
successful operation of its kind
for several years, and indicates a
steadying of interest-rates that
ha„ been becoming evident in
Australia and elsewhere for
some time. The Bank of Eng-
land and the Bank of France cut
their discount-rates in Septem-
ber, to be followed by Danish
National Bank. In the United
States interest-rates, too, have
tended to shorten. Yields on
Australian 3i p.c. 1966’s in New
York dropped from 4.54 p.c. in
September, 1952, to 3.89 p.c.
last month. In London our
stocks have similarly streng-
thened.
Treasurer Fadden reports that
there was, up to Tuesday of last
week, a conversion of 86 p.c. of
the 2 p.c. securities maturing
on October 15. About £34 mil-
lion was involved in this
maturity altogether.
The new borrowing year is
thus off to a favorable start.
The Commonwealth has ap-
proved a £2OO million borrowing
programme for 1952-53 (against
Loan Council requests for £231
million), and is prepared to
assist the States by special sub-
scriptions to public loans up to
£95 million. If public subscrip-
tions, etc., exceed £lO5 million,
the Commonwealth guarantee
will be reduced to the extent of
the excess.
The public debt of Australia
at June 30 last was £3432 million.
Tariff Board Report
With the warning that the
tariff, in its function as an in-
strument for providing protec-
tion for local industry, could
easily be caught up in a spiral
of its own creation—of higher
duties, higher prices, higher
costs, and again higher import-
duties —the Tariff Board, in its
latest report, gives Australia
something realistic to think
about in its economic and poli-
tical musings. A tariff-spiral,
carried to its ultimate conch
sion, would, in the board
opinion, represent “the final di
aster,”
The report says that numerou
Commonwealth and State
dustrial tribunals are contini
ally reviewing wages anc
conditions of employment,
industry applying for higher pro
tection because of increasec
labor costs may argue that i
incurring these costs it is simp]
complying with a legal obliga
tion. “Acceptance of this con
tention,” says the report, “cou]
be interpreted as an acknow
lodgment by the board that th
industrial tribunal is the fina
authority on the level of cost
•and consequently of tariffs.”
On the burning question of th
removal of import-restrictions
There has been nothing in th
evidence tendered to the board
recent inquiries to support the view
of hopelessness suggested by som
public statements.
On the other hand, the evidenc
of rising costs in Australia doe
little to encourage belief in the exist
ence of a sound competitive position
The board’s general feeling is tha
there are some worth-while industries
that will experience some shock
when they meet the blast of over-
seas competition, particularly if tha
blast has behind it the full reserve
ot competitive strength .which the
board believes exists in some indus-
tries in the United Kingdom.
These will need protection. There
will probably be others, not so worth
while, which will not survive.
But at the back of these is a wali
of well-established economic indus-
tries which in the past have met and
survived many difficulties without
panic and which, with a little adjust-
ment, can do so again without further
recourse to the tariff.
These would represent the largest
proportion in value and importance
of production....
It is clear that the tariff can only
provide temporary protection.
In contributing to the cost-price
spiral the tariff would be hastening
the day when it would be sheltering
a cost-price structure so high that
trade with the rest of the world
would be impossible. The board, in
framing its recommendations, is faced
with the following alternatives:
(a) Placing a limit to excess costs
and enabling a readjustment of
employment while export production
is profitable.
(b) Sheltering excess costs which
will ultimately result in the loss of
export markets and cause widespread
unemployment and disruption.
In other words, the choice is
between an immediate local and
temporary dislocation or a delayed
but widespread-and more permanent
unemployment.
With regard to requests for
provision for higher ’profits:—■
Higher profits are sought for
various, reasons —to provide for
higher depreciation, to provide for
the renewal of plant, to put back re-
serves into industry, to meet infla-
tion, to meet a possible slump, to
maintain or increase dividends—all
reasons of some validity.
The effect of higher profit, how-
ever—unless achieved by lower costs
—is to increase prices still further,
and to add to the difficulties that
the higher profit Is Intended to over-
come.
The Tariff Board believes that
lesponsibility for higher costs
has to be shared by labor and
management. Australia was los-
ing ground by the reluctance of
unions to provide staff for con-
tinuous production in some in-
dustries recognised in competing-
countries as continuous-process
industries. Also;
While the management of many
enterprises, within the limits of
industrial and other conditions in
Australia, is of a very high standard,
there is still considerable room for
improvement.
On the other band there are com-
panies which have teen allowing
various kinds of laxity to develop
to an extent which would have been
most unusual had there been greater
competition during the past few
years.
“There is no doubt whatever,”
says the board, “that the com-
petitive position has weakened to
a critical point, but no good pur-
pose is served by overstating the
case and suggesting that Aus-
tralia is already faced with an
inevitable calamity. The situa-
tion today presents a challenge
to the community to put Aus-
tralia’s house in order.” It was
necessary that balance be re-
stored so that in the event of a
major collapse in main primary-
product prices rural industries
would have sufficient variety in
sufficient strength to withstand
the shock.
Australian industry had the
following special burdens to
bear: (1) High penalty-rates for
weekend and holiday work, etc.
(2) Unwillingness of some unions
to permit continuous produc-
tion. (3) The introduction and
proposed extension of long-
service leave. (4) Industrial dis-
putes and stoppages.
The board is of the opinion
that the adjustments necessary
to strengthen our internal eco-
nomy automatically strengthen
defence against aggressive im-
ports, and these adjustments can
be made at present re-
course to “heroic measures.
The Tariff Board’s report, on
the whole, presents a picture
very much in the same focus as
the leader and financial articles
in last week’s Bulletin.
’Wales Rights
Bank of N. S. Wales
rights opened on a strong note
last week; at one stage it was
dearer to buy the rights and
to pay calls (£2O) and premium
(£7 10s.) than it was to buy the
fully-paid shares. On October
19 the rights opened at £B, the
fully-paids at £35 15s. As the
week went on the rights weak-
ened to £7 15s. and the fully-
paids moved up to £36 ss.
Of course, the prospect of
having to find £27 10s. a share
by December 15 (when applica-
tions close), or half that amount
on that date and the rest by
March 31, may bring a weaken-
ing in the rights later on. There
are 219,500 shares to be taken
up, involving a total of over £6
million (over £7| million, includ-
ing present value of the rights),
and the weight of the operation
may make itself felt. At the
same time, both paids and rights
are now on a cheaper basis than
the last cwm-rights quote in
September.
The issue is one-for-two. The
scrip carries a £2O liability call-
able only in the event of a
winding-up. Divs. are payable
quarterly—at the current rate
of 9 p.c., it works out at 9s.
per share per quarter. On the
basis of £36, fully-paid, the im-
mediate yield offering is 5 p.c.
Paper Projects
Overseas experts have been
taking the pick of the jobs in
N.Z.’s new industrial enterprises
based on commercial forests,
with the top post knocked down
to an Englishman, Maurice L.
Hobday, who becomes g.m. for
the Tasman Pulp and Paper Co.,
Ltd. In 30 years in the industry,
Hobday had previously gradu-
ated to executive level as
business- and production-man-
ager of Imperial Paper Mills,
Gravesend, Kent. Tasman and
N.Z. Forest Products, the two
giants in N.Z.’s forest develop-
ment, have agreed to dovetail
their manufacturing and market-
ing and to pool research, which
is a sensible “live-and-let-live”
policy. The agreement lays
down a basis for “orderly, effi
cient and economic” expansion
Tasman wifi specialise o
newsprint and fine writing- anc
printing-papers, and will sell an
surplus pulp abroad. Forest Pro
ducts will have the run of th
field for kraft pulp and paper fo
use and sale in N.Z. and ove
sea. Most of the commercia
paper will go into bags and con
tainers for trade and industr
If the cos. come into conflict
any point they’re pledged t
co-operate “for mutual benefit.
The two have behind them
more than half the total exoti
forests in N.Z. Forest Products
the pioneer, is already in th
pulp-export business and
shipping a growing volume o
other timber lines, mainly
Australia. With overseas talen
a vast supply of raw material
the backing of science, and State
encouragement, they should both
go a long way,
“Tobacco’s”
British Tobacco rights (the
issue is 3,500,000 20s. ords. a
a ss. premium, in the ratio o
one for four ords. or B ords
held) are fetching around 7s. 7d.
making the fully-paid price 32s
7d. The “old” shares have been
changing hands at 335. So far
the rights market for either Bank
of N., S. Wales or British
Tobacco has offered no bargains
by comparison with the fully-
paids. But the scrip of both
looks good buying on either
basis, and the yield in both cases
about 5 p.c. on present div.-
rates.
Textile Recovery
The return to the div.-list by
Felt and Textiles (with an 8 p.c.
distribution) and Australian
Knitting Mills (6 p.c.) is char-
acteristic of the woollen-textile
trade. Lincoln Mills has also
done better. Yarra Falls, leader
in the worsted industry, showed a
big recovery in profits and main-
tained its 8 p.c.; its chairman
reports “ample orders to keep
the mills going for several
months.” Some of the less-
robust members of the industry
are still trying to disentangle
themselves from, earlier stock-
losses and the like, but, generally
speaking, the pattern set by
Patons and Baldwins earlier this
year has been broadly repeated
in the industry’s results for
1952-53.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
J//a> ALL-BRITISH
czSflK ALL OKI 113>n
|mwmj
gicMort
1
W
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CQ.LT&,LONDON
From
25/-
to
65/-
r GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divoecb.
TO KEITH CHARLES STUART formerly
of Mosman New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that ZETA MERYL STUART has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1480 of
1953 on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
of January 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from W. D.
SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrat.
E
.OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3j ins.,
68 x 3§ and 9 x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY And SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [{J;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufactures Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Export
Opportunities
are in
the
AIR!
AC.I4
i
-ssss---
. There are always fresh markets
for fresh merchandise. Enterprising exporters
are quick to realise that, by QANTAS inter-
national air cargo system to 21 overseas
countries, merchandise moves faster . . .
arrives fresh!
Transit time to destination is cut from weeks
to days. You save on packing and handling
costs —and QANTAS provides comprehensive
insurance cover at surprisingly low rates.
Substantial rebates for bulk consignments
and concession rates on a wide variety of
commodities.
Specialised advice is available from any
QANTAS office or Air Cargo agent.
• England
• Germany
• Italy
• Egypt
• Lebanon
• Pakistan
• India
• Ceylon
a Malaya
• Indonesia
• Borneo
• Hong Kong
• Philippines
• Japan
• Mauritius ,
• South Africa
• New Guinea
• Fiji
• New Hebrides
• New Caledonia
• Norfolk Is.
Australia's
Overseas
Airline
mmrm
AIR CA
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED (Inc. in Q'land), in assoc, with 8.0.A.C, and TEAim
32 YEARS FLYING EXPERIENCE
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
“Good old pals. Jolly old
pals...”
There was never such an
ostentatious and, at times, up-
roarious orgy of mateyness as
occurred during the Labor-party
conference at Margate. At the
very last moment Herbert Morri-
son withdrew his nomination for
the treasurership which he was
to have contested with the well-
respected holder, Arthur Green-
wood. The latter, also chair-
man of the conference, closed
his address with a plea for a
“new spirit of loyalty, confi-
dence and unity” to “shine upon
us all.” Those two sworn
enemies. Alfred Deakin, pillar
of the T.U.C., and Nye Bevan,
champion of the oppressed, were
to be seen together in effulgent
cordiality. That irrepressible
defectionist, Tom O’Brien, last
year’s chairman of the T.U.C.,
was volubly castigated for
fraternising with Sir Winston
Churchill and for other indiscre-
tions no less alien to good party
conduct. And, in an atmosphere
entirely conducive to the jubi-
lant singing of “Auld Lang
Syne,” Mr. Attlee, in forceful
speech, proved how good a
leader he is when everybody
promises to pull together.
The impetus behind this brave
show of solidarity is twofold. It
derives partly from self-interest
and partly from a genuine self-
searching in all quarters. But
“self” is the operative word.
The factions which make up the
Labor movement know that they
cannot function severally. Their
survival depends, if not exactly
upon identity of interest, at least
upon close and unbroken asso-
ciation with each other. And
the mutual anxiety that has
forced the showdown is the
urgent need to close the ranks so
as to be able to wage an effec-
tive election campaign when
the time comes.
What has happened is that the
cracked fa?ade of unity has
given place to a hard, shower-
proof crust that is quite inade-
quate as a protection against
heavy weather. Moreover, the
real danger to the patched-up
structure lies within rather than
without: once the uneasy house-
hold breaks away from its
strained truce the building will
rock aUd the crust will shatter.
A glance at the composition
of the executive committee is
revealing. Where are the future
leaders of the party? Not
among the women members (5).
Nor from the trade-unions’ sec-
tion (12). Nor from the co-
operative section (1). From the
constituency organisations? Of
these seven places, six are held
by Bevanites —all with increased
votes and with Nye himself
polling more votes than the en-
tire membership of the Labor
party. The seventh member is
Jim Griffiths, who is acceptable
to all because of his Celtic elo-
quence and fervent social con-
science ; but he is not fitted to
supersede Mr. Attlee.
There are three ex-officio
members: Attlee, Greenwood and
Morrison. The last-named, once
the pet of the constituencies, has
fallen from grace. He owes his
place solely to a rather crude
device to get him back on the
executive as deputy-leader. But
who after him? Hugh Gaitskell
is the bright boy and strongly
tipped, but, though topping the
losers’ poll, he failed to oust the
junior Bevanite, lan Mikardo.
All this is sad disillusionment
to the trade-union leaders and
other men of the centre, for they
sought to give Mr. Gaitskell their
powerful backing and “groom”
him as a future Prime Minister.
The Other Parly
No sooner had the Socialist
delegates moved out of Margate
than the sheets were changed
and the meeting-halls rearranged
for the Tory delegates to move
in. (If it seems odd for Mar-
gate to be a common venue, the
reason is simple. There are, in
England, only two resorts with
halls big enough to accommo-
date the 4000-odd delegates,
Blackpool is the other one.)
The essential difference be-
tween the backgrounds of the
two kinds of delegate is not
inapt as a reflection of
times. Labor deliberated from
Monday to Friday, with the
weekends thrown in for recrea-
tion. The delegates were
ordinary people, most of them
on special leave from work. The
Tories (so they affirmed and so
they seemed) were also ordinary
people, but their absence from
work required a much higher
degree of organisation than the
automatic, expense-free attend-
ance of many of the Socialists.
And they were forced to cram
their proceedings into the latter
half of the week.
Generally, the news-value of
the Conservative conference is
low. Indeed, one outspoken
back-bencher, Lord Hailsham,
has described his own party’s
agenda as covering “almost the
whole range of political plati-
tudes from the merely pompous
to the openly sycophantic.”
There are no doctrinaire issues
to be ironed out or covered up,
no clashes of personalities and
no elections, by card-vote, of
executive officers. Since the war
one sensation only has occurred.
That was three years ago at
Blackpool when the floor upset
the platform by demanding a
building programme of 300,000
houses a year.
But the recent conference
turned out to be neither unevent-
ful nor docile. The return to
the active political scene of the
Prime Minister and the Foreign
Secretary naturally highlighted
the proceedings. There were
also some forthright expressions
upon the Government’s policy,
particularly with regard to agri-
culture, coal and rent-restric-
tion; and the entire gathering
unequivocally voiced its grave
apprehension of the trend of
events at Suez.
Another fact to emerge clearly
is that the order of “succession”
has quite clearly determined it-
self. Mr. Eden comes first, then
Mr. Butler and, after him, Mr.
Harold Macmillan.
*
General Disorder
A Luftwaffe general not only
refuses to belong to the Nazis
but also goes out of his way to
pour derision and ridicule upon
them. He vaingloriously flaunts
the Gestapo, making light of
concealed microphones, and
hurls defiant insults at the odious
doctrinaire from the Propaganda
Ministry. And, professionally,
he has to account for a crop of
casualties due to sabotaged
Messerschmitts. Not unnatur-
ally, he is a marked man. After
a fortnight of characteristic
“interrogation” he is temporarily
released to investigate, and un-
cover, the sabotage. The sabo-
teur, who turns out to be his
chief engineer, admits, rather
than confesses, his acts, which
are for the glory of the new
Germany that will emerge after
the Nazi gang has perished.
Thereupon, with a shout of
exultant concurrence, the general
leaps through the window to a
fate that qualifies him as Sydney
Carton of the Third Reich.
Carl Zucjcmayer, who made
caustic fun of the Prussians in
“Captain von Koepenick” nearly
30 years ago, uses this plot as a
base for castigating the Nazis in
“The Devil’s General” (Savoy
Theatre). It is an interesting
play, yet puzzling and unsatis-
fying. One readily sympathises
with the author’s abiding hatred
of the swastika and all it stands
for, but, unfortunately, he has
chosen to overstate his case by
introducing tediously high-
sounding counter-propaganda of
a theatricality that is only ex-
ceeded by the creaking melo-
drama of the general’s undoing.
John Fernald’s production,
especially in the first act, is
quite tremendous. Here the off-
duty general throws an airman’s
wild party. The seamy back-
ground of opulent brigandage,
raffish excess, heel-clicking in-
doctrination —and mutual dis-
trust —is so powerful as to sus-
tain the interest through two
further acts of diminishing
power. Trevor Howard also
manages to uphold the forbid-
ding part of General Harras.
But it is heavy going. He has to
be in turn swashbuckler, rebel,
wine-bibber, lecher, Scarlet
Pimpernel to the Jews, thinker,
sentimentalist, idealist and,
ultimately, self-sacrificing lover.
A large cast is just about ade-
quate to the author’s immoderate
demands, though Wilfrid Law-
son, as the general’s lean and
toothless Sancho Panza, intro-
duces succulent comedy into the
rather portentous comings and
goings.
Five-year Plan
The Old Vic intends to pre-
sent all the 36 plays in the first
Shakspearian Folio during the
next five seasons. If there are
two minds as to the value of
this, at least the task is a for-
midable one, commendably and
confidently assumed. The Vic
has certainly dismissed “All’s
Well That Ends Well” with easy
relish, chiefly by dressing it up.
Michael Benthall has scooped
deeply into the producer’s box of
tricks to prevent -flagging, and
Osbert Lancaster’s bright, jocu-
lar costumes are no less plaus-
ible as accessories to the fact.
And the fact is that, trappings
apart, this comedy of a lovesick
maid who would woo a disdain-
ful scion is little more than
attenuated contrivance.
Claire Bloom’s orthodoxy as
Helena amounts virtually to
abnegation, but John Neville
gives a sharper definition to the
insufferable Bertram. The one
“find” is Parolles —a ripe, comic
part that gets exuberant but
rough treatment from Michael
Hordern —but on the whole this
excellent company glides
smoothly and rhythmically to a
sparkling and rapturous finish.


How much
advt
time will your
Executor have for i/our affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of k
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet:
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, O.B.E.
(Vice-Chairman).
4i. E. Bond. J. R. FavielL
F,. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland,
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. StewarU
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W, LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Pf. 80.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Patons and Baldwins
npHE British knitting-wool firm of Patons
and Baldwins, Ltd., sold its Australian
business to Patons and Baldwins (Aust.),
Ltd., in April, 1951, and a public issue
was made in Australia in June the same
year. The vendor co. took a million
fully-paid ords., £1,200,000 in cash, and
£1,679,016 remained as a 25-year interest-
free loan owing to the parent co. The
issue to the Australian public was
£500,000 in ord. stock and £750,000 in
5 p.c. pref. stock. Paid capital is now
£2,250,000.
In the new co.’s first year’s operations
came the precipitous collapse in the wool
market, with a halving of the previous
year’s average prices. Only a nominal
profit was shown in the initial term.
But during the last financial year there
was a good recovery in wool prices,
turnover was in excess of that
for the previous year,” and the co. re-
covered “the substantial write-down of
stocks” which so drastically affected the
1951-52 figures. The result was a jump
from £46,533 to £359,856 in disclosed
net earnings:
( —Dividends Re-
May, Profit. Pref. t Ord. serves. Deficit.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., etc., £49,727 .. 49,727
1952.. 46,533 29,025 Nil 17,508 82,219
Added intangibles, £2OB .. .. 32,422
R6S€rV6B<
1953.. 856 37,500 6 p.c. = 90,000 282,356 199,934
The latest figure includes £27,800 of tax
overprovided previously and £2451 of
other adjustments, and is written after
setting aside £23,911 for depreciation and
£293,248 for taxation. Allowing for the
5 p.c. pref. requirements, the balance
represented 21.5 p.c. on ord. capital, so
that the 6 p.c. distributed to prd. share-
holders was no hardship. There re-
mained a balance of £232,356 to be car-
ried to reserves, which at balance-day
stood at £199,934 in excess of intangibles.
Freehold land and buildings appear in
the books at £244,041, plant at £206,876.
In the 1951 prospectus it was stated that
the Launceston (Tas.) factory, plant and
warehouse offices were insured on a re-
placement basis at £2,251,672. Last year’s
balance-sheet movements were as follows:
Capital— 1952. 1953.
Pref £750,000 £750,000
Ord. 1,500,000 1,500,000
Creditors .. .. .. 100,832 148,399
Tax reserve .. ~ 67,500 299,673
Final div 18,750 90,000
Deferred liability .. .. 1,679,016 1,678,946
Freeholds 176,001 244,041
Plant 180,741 206,876
Stocks 2,501,486 2,484,872
Debtors 581,190 887,916
Advances ... .... —• 626,769
Cash, etc 634.461 266,478
The liquid position is strong. With
£611,306 in the bank at the previous
balance the co. during last year advanced
£626,769 to the English parent, this
being in the nature of an offset to the
deferred liability to the parent, which
figured at £1,678,946 at May 2. There
was an improvement of £137,908 in the
net liquid position during the year. Fixed
assets moved up £94,175 during the term
—mainly because of the building of a
warehouse at Mascot (Sydney)—and, as
previously indicated, are in at a remark-
ably low valuation in relation to all the
co.’s other accounting figures. Stocks
(£2,434,872, down £66,614) are in at the
lower of cost or market-values, and are
of particular interest. Raw-material
vahies are of profound significance to
the co., seeing that processing the wool
adds, by other textile-cost standards,
comparatively little to the cost of the
saleable yam.
The business obviously possesses
healthy earning-power under stable trad-
ing conditions. During the present term
wool prices have risen slightly, and there
has been a strong increase in the Aus-
tralian output of woollen yarns. Be-
sides making hand-knitting wools, P. and
B. turns out yarns for machine-knitting
and it has been extending its opera-
tions by adding to plant and factory-
space. Indications at the moment are
that, from a purely trading viewpoint,
this year should be a better one for the
co. than last, and that, while last year’s
figures benefited from an unspecified
write-back of stock-depreciation, this
year’s profits should have the advantage
of the decrease in company-tax from
9s. in the £ to 7s.
Div.-policy may be conservative. That
has been indicated from the outset. But
eventually the prudent financial policy
should bring fruits to shareholders’ hands.
The £1 ords, at 265. 6d. give a yield of
4.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. As a
holding proposition they appear to have
distinct possibilities.
R. B. Davies Industries
The original R B. Davies enterprise
began in Sydney in 1923 as a manufac-
turers’ agency. In 1929 a factory was
built in Annandale, and in 1935 activities
were transferred to Marrickville. During
World War II an annexe was set up
to make Mills bombs, fuses and anti-tank
grenades, with high efficiency in output,
NoW the co. and its subsidiaries are, as
a whole, the biggest mass-producer of
builders’ hardware in the Commonwealth.
The present holding co, was formed in
1950, when it took over several operating
cos. and placed them under one owner-
ship.
Rostron B. Davies, the founder, died in
February. His place as managing-direc-
tor has been taken by W. Wills, who was
in the business with him from the
beginning.
Last term, for the first time since 1939,
the organisation had to look for
customers, and turnover in some lines fell
away. But overall profits expanded:
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Nom. Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.'*
1951.. 59,316 8 p.c. = 41,709 15,607 56,241
From tax reserve, £2844 .. .. 59,085
1952.. 49,129 8 p.c. = 41,709 7,420 66,505
Added reserves, £13,590 .. .. 80,095
Written off intangibles, £3500 .. 76,595
1958.. 59,768 8 p.c. = 45,185 14,583 91,178
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (£29,089 at 30/6/’53).
Net earnings, after setting aside £9755
for depreciation and £34,362 for taxa-
tion, .and allowing £5715 for outside
pref. interests, .were £10,639 higher at
£59,768, and equal to 10.5 p.c. on in-
creased average ordinary capital, com-
pared with 9.4 p.c. in the preceding year.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c., and reserves
(subject to £29,089 of goodwill, manu-
facturing rights and other intangibles)
rose to £91,178, including £12,500 received
during the year from the Yorkshire
Copper Works (Leeds) as an allowance
for the loss of its agency rights.
The R. B. Davies concern has now
become a partner with the Yorkshire co.
in a new Australian subsidiary, Yorkshire
Fittings (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., in which it
owns a 49 p.c. interest. This appears in
the R.B.D. books at £147,000; it was to
buy these that 130,315 shares were issued
during the past year. The new joint
enterprise has commenced manufacture
of capillary brass and copper fittings for
the plumbing trades; these save about
50 p.c. of the copper used in hot-water
and similar installations, but during the
establishment period no return can be
expected by R.B.D. shareholders. Later
on the potential should be considerable.
Balance-sheet movements mostly have
to do with the Yorkshire joint venture:
Consolidated Figures.
1950. 1952. 1953.
Ord. capital ... .. £437,2i0 £521.367 £651,160
Pref. Interests .. .. 75.500 75.500 75.500
Reserves and p. and 1... 26,441 66,505 91,
Secured creditors .. 92,156 174,692 222,1
Yorkshire Fittings .. L’om
Sundry creditors .. 100,346 127,602 | ,
Final dividend .. 24,966 41,709 45,
Freehold and plant .. 383.729 473.994 441,683
Stocks .. .. .. 283.939 423,562.477,800
Debtors .. .. .. 69.285 80.491 90-257
Yorkshire shares .. *n’noo
Yorkshire loan .. .. „ & o,uuu
Cash. etc. .. .. 522 543 2.876
Goodwill, etc. . . .. 19,143 28,795 29,
The increases in R.B.D. capital, in shares
in other companies, in advances and
liabilities have much to do with York-
shire. The drop in freeholds reflects the
transfer of part of the factory area to
the new offshoot. Trade-debtors are up
£9766, and stocks are £54,248 higher.
With regard to the increase in stock,
for the first time in the co.’s history
delivery of almost any one of the 1000-
odd lines which it makes is now avail-
able out of stock. This has helped to
counter sales-resistance, and turnover is
now “definitely on the upgrade.” Ot
the many standard overseas products
which the co. makes in Australia under
licence, sales of Schlage mortice-locks,
L.C.N. hydraulic door-closers and Grand
Rapids Invisible sash-balances are moving
well, and the cost of production of
butt-hinges, handles, brackets, etc., which
the co. turns out in the mass encourages
its belief that it will continue to be able
to cope with imported as well as locally
made products, though the rising cost of
raw materials is causing some concern.
Though visible net tangible backing for
the shares amounts to no more than 21s.
lid. in the £, there is more financial and
industrial sinew in the undertaking than
the figures themselves disclose. The co.
has had a progressive plant-replacement
policy which is a factor in its confidence
in meeting present keener competition,
and it says that “plant and machinery
have been well maintained” during this
past year.
At 235. 6d., to yield 6.8 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis, R. B. Davies shares
represent the cheapest buying for several
years. Prospects are attractive.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.)
To Re- Re-
June Profit.* Dividend. serves, serves.*
80, £ £ £ £
1944.. 23,496 8 p.c. = 9,935 18,561 206,947
1945.. 20,402 8 „ „ 9,935 10,467 217,414
1946.. 17,998 10 „ „ 12,419 5,579 222,993
Profit sale investments, £2298 .. 225,291
1947.. 24,396 10 p.c,= 12,419 11,977 237,268
1948.. 32,879 10 „ „ 12,419 20,460 257,728
To staff fund, £2300 255,428
1949.. 44,143 12i p.c. = 15,524 28,619 284,047
To staff fund, £4119 279,928
1960.. 48,465 12£ p.c. = 15,524 32,941 312,869
To staff fund, £929 311,940
Goodwill written off, £l7BB .. .. 310,152
Profit sale assets, £4252 .. .. 314,404
1951.. 44,964 12J p.c. = 19,131 25,833. 340,237
To staff fund, £2568 337,669
1952.. 51,975 12$ p.c. = 21,734 30,241 367,910
To staff fund, £4273 363,637
Profit sale assets, £1205 .. .. 364,842
1953.. 55,346 12i p.c. = 21,734 33,612 398,454
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ;. .. 393.454
* Includes additions to depreciation • reserve, etc.
£101,000).
An increase in Queensland sugar-milling
capacity and the ensuing heavier demand
for new equipment and repairs helped
keep this 65-year-old and stoutly-ribbed
Maryborough engineer’s workshops busy
and its earnings buoyant last term. Com-
pletion of the co.’s new works at Mackay
(where Cameron’s old-established
engineering business was taken over in
1950), and a readier supply of raw
materials, contributed to the improved
result, too.
Despite sharpening competition, the
growth in trading profit and sundry in-
come (£177,092) was £59,432, or 50 p.c.,
but most of the gain went in bigger bills
for exes. (£78,746, up £40,061) and tax
(£43,000, up £16,000), leaving declared
net profit only £3371 higher at £55,346.
That was before transferring £15,000 (up
£5000), some of which might be genuine
profit, to the depreciation provision. The
£55,346 was equal to 31.8 p.c. on capital,
which compares with 29.9, 29.4, 39, 35.3
and 26.4 p.c. back to 1948. So the
steady 12| p.c. div. was a very comfort-
able matter.
The co., which was one of Australia’s
pioneer heavy-engineers, has a fine record,
thanks to its efficiency, versatility and
diversified activities. It now builds steam
locomotives, ships, bridges, etc., manu-
factures diesel- and steam-engines, mining,
sugar-mill and other machinery, and does
jobbing-engineering, steel-, iron- and
brass-founding, boiler-making, copper-
smithing and forging.
Only once in the last 46 years have
those on the register failed to receive a
div. Average rates were 7 p.c. for the
13 years to 1920, 9.5 and 6.1 p.c. for
the next two decades, and 10.2 p.c, for the
13 years to close of last accounts. There
were then reserves of £393,454 —including
£lOl,OOO earmarked for depreciation— to
support and assist the £173,871 of share
capital, which, until £49,678 was gathered
in 1950, had remained unchanged since
1916. So capital and reserves combined
need turn in only a modest 3.8 p.c. to
cover a, 12i p.c. div.
Most of the finance needed for the co.’s
development and expansion has come
from ploughed-back profits, and, in recent
years, from bank overdraft. Since 1949
£193,299 has been added to the book-
value of fixed assets —most of it on
account of the Mackay branch—and the
bank has advanced £145,026, Last term’s
net addition to fixed assets was £43,169:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. £173,871 £173,871 £173,871
Overdraft . . .. 75.122 139,318 *145.026
Sundry creditors* .. 92,008 89,037 113,156
Staff fund .. .. 12,000 15,000 20,000
Final div 19,131 21,734 21,734
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 249,809 306,581 349,750
Stock 109,585 134,186 123,058
Work in progress .. 124,844 72,589 153,005
Book debts .. .. 94,235 157,742 109,537
Investments and cash .. 131,378 131,501 131,892
* Includes provision for taxation and contingencies.
Fall in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£217,576) was £13,353. Investments
(£130,850) are a compound of Govern-
ment securities and shares in other cos.
The board proposes to issue to share-
holders £104,323 in 6 p.c. unsecured notes
with a currency of five years; the idea,
apparently, is to reduce the overdraft.
Construction of two grain-carriers and
a boom-defence vessel will keep the co.’s
shipyards busy “for the immediate
future,” and the outlook in other sections
of the business seems to be for fairly
steady demand. Threat of local and
overseas competition places the emphasis
on costs. At 535. (455. 12 months ago)
the £1 shares return 4.7 p.c. on the
12} p.c, div. or 5.7 p.c. should the rate
advance to 15 p.c. Net assets cover is
655. 3d., including the depreciation pro-
vision.
H. B. Dickie, Ltd. (Melb.)
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1943.. 17,581 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 14,400 3,131 5,227
1944.. 16,597 6 „ 8 „ 14,400 2,197 7,424
1945.-17,592 6 „ 8 „ 14,400 3,192 10,616
1946.. 15,199 6 „ 8 „ 14,400 799 11,415
1947.-17,157 6 „ 8 „ 14,400 2,757 14,172
From tax provision, £lO7l .. .. 15,243
Wages subsidy, 1946 and 1947, £2294.. 17,537
1948.. 17,454 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 14,400 3,054 20,591
1949.. 19,247 6 „ 9 „ 15,900 3,347 23,938
Fixed assets revalued, £263,157 .. 287,095
1950.. 19,914 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 17,400 2,514 289,609
Reserves capitalised, £150,000 ..139,609
Tax short-provided, £lB3 .. •• 139,426
1951.. 22.526 6 p.c. 6 p.c, 20,514 2.012 141,438
Tax short-provided, £4056 .. 137,382
1952.. 24.245 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 20,584 3,661 141,043
Tax short-provided, £8 .. .. • • 141,035
1953.. 37,269 6 p.c. 9 p.c. 29,677 7,952 148,627
Staff fund, £llB2 147,445
f After deducting goodwill, £27,000.
The record of this 27-year-old efficient
towel- and towelling-manufacturer, which
carries out all the processes between
the raw cotton and the finished article,
till 1952 was one of progress and
consolidation, helped on the one
hand by war and post-war conditions,
which restricted competition from abroad
and stimulated expansion of the local
market, and hindered on the other hand


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE ® ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAXES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1078
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
PROGRESS
AND
sdf
LANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bllgh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
F*Uhl In iJw
T4tluf*c
Vice-President Richard Nixon of the United
States told Australians during his recent visit:
“America has no better or greater allies than the
countries of the British Commonwealth.”
To me, that rates as one of the notable sayings
of the year—a distinguished year for Australia.
Who can fail to appreciate the significance of the
visit to these shores in 1953 of leading representatives
of the two great institutions for freedom in our modern
civilisation?
In addition to Mr. Nixon, world figures to have'
come among us include Lord Swinton, the Secretary
of State for Commonwealth Relations ; Lord Cherwell,
scientific advisor to Sir Winston Churchill; Sir William
Penney, Britain’s foremost atomic scientist; Field-
Marshal Sir John Harding, Chief of the Imperial
General Staff. '
And we can number among these Famous Men,
our own Governor-General, Field-Marshal Sir William
Slim.
Let there be more of these visits from eminent
Americans and Britons. The greater the interchange,
the firmer the friendship will grow, the stronger the
alliance will be.
Yes, Australia is taking her place as a vital
“bridge” in Anglo-American relations. We like to
see it so. It sets a seal on our Pacific nationhood.
To correspond with that welcome and expanding
role, however, we must strengthen from within ; build
our productive economy; justify the recognition that
leaders of the free world are according us.
That’s the very message I have, been seeking to
convey to my fellow-Australians in these articles. Open
the land, water it, push on with internal communica-
tions of rail and road. “Fly ahead of your machine,”
as I used to tell pilots when instructing them in aerial
fighting in the Royal Flying Corps in the First World
War.
And do it fearlessly. There’s no place for fear in a
country that is taking partnership with Britain and
America in the Grand Guarantee of freedom and
justice.
~~/V.
by a shortage of suitable labor.
The labor position meant that
plant could not work to capacity,
and for that and other reasons,
including price - controls and
soaring costs, profits showed
only moderate increases. The
div., steady at 8 p.c. for the
seven years to 1948, climbed to
10 p.c. in the next two years,
and in 1951 dropped to 6 p.c.,
which, however, was worth 12
p.c. on capital as it stood before
a one-for-one bonus issue made
in 1950. To finance the gift-
issue, which cost £150,000, free-
holds and the heavily-depreciated
plant were written up by
£263,157.
It was in 1952 and 1953 that
the co. really showed its mettle.
Textile-manufacturers in general
were dealt a heavy blow in the
1952 term by a combination of
factors, particularly the decline
in demand and the need to
write-down raw-material stocks
to conform to lower price-levels.
Most towel-weavers felt the
pinch severely. But H. B. Dickie
actually stepped up production,
thanks to a better supply of
labor, and it had no trouble
selling the increased output. The
co. was able to get all the em-
ployees it wanted in the 12
months covered by the latest
accounts, production showed a
“material increase,” and net pro-
fit shot up by £13,024:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Gross profit .. £73,014 £88,606 £121,252
Expenses 19,867 25,980 33,162
Depreciation .. 13,121 13,381 13,621
Taxation ~ 17,500 25,000 37,200
Not profit .. 22,526 24,245 37,269
The £37,269 of net profit was
enough to pay the 6 p.c. pref.
div. (£2400) and cover 12.3 p.c.
on the ord. capital, as against
8 p.c. and 7.4 p.c. in the two
preceding terms. The div, was
lifted to 9 p.c., and the £7952
surplus took free reserves to
£147,445, after £llB2 was sent to
staff funds. The improved result
was in some measure due to the
drastic curtailment of imports,
which cut the value of overseas
supplies of towels, etc., from
£2.9 million to £0.3 million and
thus revitalised the whole in-
dustry.
Balance-sheet figures reflect
higher production and sales;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Ordinary .. 303,080 303,080 303,080
Preference ..' 40,000 40,000 40,000
Reserves .. 163,157 163,157 163,157
P. &1. balance 5,281 4,886 11,288
Proposed final
divs. . . 10,292 10,292 16,354
Bank overdraft 36,642 59,231 70,878
Creditors .. 86,811 61,127 68.779
Tax provision 17,500' 22,843 37,200
Freehold
property .. 211,578 219,526 218,905
Plant . . . . 142,315 134,999 122,195
Stocks on hand 204,313 194,027 226,098
Debtors .. 75,926 87,612 115,052
Cash, etc. .. 1,631 1,452 1,486
The co. added £32,071 to stocks,
carried £27,440 more debtors’
balances, went to its bankers for
a further £11,647, and added
£7652 to the amounts coming to
sundry creditors. At present the
board is asking shareholders to
take up £75,770 in £1 unsecured
notes, one for four ords. held,
to finance additions to the co.’s
dyeing and spinning plant. These
notes are convertible to ord.
shares at par in five years’ time.
Prospects for demand are good
enough, but the outlook at the
moment is overshadowed by the
easing of import-restrictions,
which the Government has
clearly stated to be a temporary
measure. Judging by its per-
formance in 1952, H. B. Dickie
is well equipped to take care of
any competition local manufac-
turers may offer, but overseas
competition is another story. So
in the long run the level of costs
and tariff policy will be the im-
portant elements.
The market prices the co.’s £1
shares at 275. (225. 12 months
ago), to yield 6.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 235.
return 5.2 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 295. 9d. ords. and £l2
ss. 3d. prefs.
Publishers Holdings (SycT.)
Consolidated Accounts.
Re- Defi-
June, Profit. \ —Divs.——, tained. cit.f
£ p.c. £ £ £
’5l. . 54,301 7J 15,000 ")
Divs. paid by sub. f 22,217 54,830
cos., £17,084 ..J
Added intangibles, £2OOO .. 56,830
Loss sale plant, £551 .. 57,381
’52.. 48,088 15 = 30,000 18.088 39,293
Tax overprovided, £B7 .. 39,206
Profit sale plant, £2 .. 39,204
’53.. 66,640 15 =30,000 36,640 2,564
t After deducting intangibles, £2564 at
30/6/’53. * After eliminating outside
shareholders’ interests.
Impressed by the co.’s fat profits
and liberal dividend policy, the
market has lengthened its bid
for the ss. shares over the last
14 months or so from 6s. 7d.
to 9s. 9d. It is thus one of the few
stocks which have recovered to
1951 peak prices. The'yield at
9s. 9d. is 7.7 p.c. on the well-
covered 15 p.c. div., and seems
reasonable for this class of
business. Net tangible cover for
the shares is a fraction under
par.
Publishers Holdings has a
string of 11 offshoots which be-
tween them produce, print and
publish the K, G. Murray group
of magazines and children’s
comics. K. G. Murray founded
the organisation in 1936, when
“Man” first appeared. In 1946
it bought post-war presses and
set up its own printing-plant
at Chippendale. Here’s how the
audited circulation figures of
the co.’s main publications have
moved over the past couple of
years;—
Monthly Sales.
1951. 1952. 1953.
“Man” .. 150,00,0 175,000 175,000
“Man. Junior” 75,000 105,000 105,000
“Cavalcade” .. 35,000 60,000 60,000
“Adam” .. 45,000 55,000 55,000
“True Story” .. 90,000 95,000 95,000
“True Romance” 90,000 90,000 90,000
“Photoplay” .. 45,000 40,000 40,000
“Australian House
and Garden” 40,000 50,000 60,000
The holding co. joined the
’Change-list in June, 1951, after
a public issue of 200,000 ss.
ords. at par. Fixed assets (plant
and equipment) were written up
by £42,810 after the issue, and
at June 30, 1951, the balance-
sheet disclosed net tangibles of
3s. Bd. a share. High cost of
paper, the greatest single factor
in the co.’s costs-structure, and
a write-down of stocks after
world prices collapsed, were
mainly responsible for the slip
of £6213 in 1952’s profit.
Though, judging by news-
stand displays, sex and “cheese-
cake,” in which the co. has a
vested interest, would appear in
abundant supply, sales last term
were buoyant. Advertising rev-
enue remained “strong,” and
overseas paper prices stabilised
at the new lower levels. The
resultant improvement in group
profits before tax was £30,220
to £120,435, or 33 per cent.
After tax of £51,795 (up £11,668)
at the old rates, £10,288 (up
£326) for depreciation, and
£2OOO (unchanged) for outside
shareholders, net profit was
£66,640 (up £18,552), or 33.3
p.c. on capital, as against 24.0
and 27.2 p.c. in 1952 and 1951
The £36,640 left after paying
the 15 p.c. div. wiped all but
£2564 off the deficit on capital
account, (excess of cost of sub-
sidiary shareholdings over the
net assets they represent).
To swing the cash position
from a net overdraft of £4052
to a net credit bank-balance of
£45,430, to spend £3746 on free-
holds and £12,334 more than
was written off on plant, to
carry £3659 more debtors’ bal-
ances, and to pay off £20,000 of
debentures (due 1962) the co.
used surplus profit, reduced
stocks by £34,832 and added
£17,660 to the amount owing to
its h.-p. financiers, creditors and
the tax-collector (£136,096):
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. 200,000 200,000 200,000
Outside interests 2,7§0 2,750 2,750
Debentures .. 20,000 20,000
Hire-purchase
creditors .. 5,282 13,345 20,599
Overdraft' .. 78,183 8,646
Creditors .. 67.700 58,785 63,702
Tax provision.. 44,244 51,856 61,795
Staff funds .. 8,500 8,600
Pinal div. .. 15,000 15,000 16,000
Freeholds .. 1,700 17,889 21,635
Plant, etc. .. 64,411 81,296 93,629
Stocks .. 103,007 198,479 163,647
Debtors .. 65,270 31,783 85,442
Cash, etc. . . 65,708 72,131 54,076
They are all healthy, encourag-
ing movements. The increase in
freeholds represents a
block bought at Silverwater, on
which the co. is building a new
printing factory. One new press
has arrived and another is on
order, and ancillary machinery is
also on order; the total cost of
new plant will be about £50,000,
of which £21,250 was taken into
account by June 30 last. With
new plant, and existing plant
transferred from Chippendale,
the Silverwater works will be
one of Australia’s most efficient
and modern, claims the board.
No new capital will be issued
to finance the factory ; the board
hopes to provide the outlay out
of profits and proceeds of the
Chippendale freehold (bought in
1951 for £17,000).
Uranium Price
Mr. Menzies, in answer to a
question asked in Parliament,
said that it was impossible to
disclose the price which Aus-
tralia was to receive for uranium
without giving away the means
of ascertaining the quantities ex-
ported. The only uranium
being sold was to be bought by
the Combined Development
Agency, which was representa-
tive of the United States and
United Kingdom Governments.
One of the terms of the agree-
ment was that the price should
not be disclosed. If this secrecy
provision were broken there
could be no exchange of atomic
information with the countries
concerned.
Mr, Menzies subsequently
told a Press conference that Aus-
tralia had two agreements to
supply uranium to the Combined
Development Agency and the
British and United States Gov-
ernments. One covered output
from Rum Jungle (N.T.), the
other from the Radium Hill
mine in S.A. He added: “You
can take it that the price which
South Australia sells at and the
price at which we sell is a price
which provides for all cost-
factors and for a profit. You
cannot discover what the price
is until you have produced the
goods. There is no such thing
as a world price for uranjum.
The price that keeps on being
quoted (16s. 3d. a pound) is a
complete invention.” He con-
cluded: “The only people who
could conceivably be interested
in forcing a disclosure of the
price would be the representa-
tives of our potential enemies.”
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is paying Australian private
producers a minimum of £504
a ton for ore carrying 10 p.c.
uranium oxide. This works out
at £5O Bs. a unit, or 455. a
pound, for the oxide content.
But the ore has .to be refined
before the oxide is transported
abroad.
Moina Tungsten-tin
At Moina (Tas.) the mine has
been completely unwatered and
the main shaft and underground
workings were found to be in
good condition. A considerable
tonnage of broken ore which
was previously reported as hav-
ing been left by the old co. is
visible on the No. 2 level. Dr.
Loftus Hills was at the mine
recently to get bulk samples of
the ore which will be tested to
ensure that the proposed treat-
ment-plant will be thoroughly
effective, and to ascertain
whether the bismuth concentrate
can be separated during treat-
ment. Winding-gear for the
main shaft will be arriving at
the mine soon.
It is a promising show, in
good hands.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The Penguin Club of Australia con-
cluded its very successful Sydney con-
ference with a function at which
10-minute speeches on the subject “Aus-
tralia’s Future in World Affairs” were
given by club-members representing
different States. Mrs. M. C. Rofe, of
The Grange (S.A.), made a pleasant
speech, touched with humor; Miss
Queenie Chugg gave a very logical and
succinct talk on behalf of W.A.; Miss
Claire Anderson was the speaker for
N.S.W. and Miss lima Allen for Vic-
toria.
Mrs. H. T. Glover represented Tas-
mania in the absence of her*sister, Dame
Enid Lyons, who had had to return home
that day for the engagement-party of her
son Kevin to Pauline McKenna, of
Devonport (Tas.). It was interesting to
hear, by the way, that, although five of
Dame Enid’s six daughters are married,
this is the first of her five sons to become
engaged. At the meeting, the Federal
president, Mrs. M. Jean Ellis, welcomed
among the guests Miss Hilda Lane Mul-
lins, who, with her, had been one of
the six original members of the Penguin
Club. On behalf of the members Mrs.
John Hicks presented an attache-case to
Mrs. Ellis in appreciation of her services
to the club.
☆ ☆ ☆
The 400 women who, looking as beauti-
ful as birds, flocked into Prince’s
Restaurant last week for a mannequin-
parade of clothes by Jerome filled the
place with such a surge of fashionable
femininity that one wondered what cause
had drawn them there. It was ironical,
therefore, to find that the parade’s purpose
was to raise funds to build a retreat house
for men at Wahroonga. Mrs. Tom Bate-
man, who organised the parade, wore a
deep-cream dress of pure silk flecked with
black and a wide black hat. Her official
party included Mrs. J. Cahill, wife of
the Premier, the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
P. D. Hills, Madame Daneo, wife of the
Italian Minister, Mrs. Len Robb arid
Father Benedict (who doubtless returned
to his monastery more than
ever that a retreat house for men is a
pressing need in this city),
☆ ☆ ☆
The members of the Lady Mayoress’s
Relief Fund Committee are to be con-
gratulated on the result of their ball; it
raised £949, which, with other money
raised during the year, will be presented
to participating charities at the Town
Hall on December 3, at 11 a.m. At the
recent meeting of the committee the
winners in the guessing competitions were
announced, and, although the Lady
Mayoress returned her hufsband’s winning
ticket to the barrel for the electric-jug
she herself had donated, it came out
again and everyone said she was destined
to have it. Men won nearly all the other
prizes, too, including the refrigerator,
which went to Mr. E. Bollen.
☆ ☆ ☆
After seeing “The Maid of the Moun-
tains” performed by the Mosman Musical
Society one understood a little better
why this piece gets itself revived so much
more frequently than other musicals, for
its good music and humor seemed to
restore to the Mosman Company some of
its old vitality. Betty Parsons’s voice and
sense of theatre, with Keith Goddard’s
good appearance and healthy baritone,
gave the principals a substance which
has been lacking of late. Even so, it
seems about time this company tried its
hand at something just a little different,
for its leads are becoming typed and its
chorus jaded. A completely different type
of work would do them the world of good.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney visitors who will be going to
Wollongong to attend the fashion-parade
and Cup-day party of the Illawarra
Orchestra Ladies’ Auxiliary will include
Mrs. Hope Gibson, Miss Dorothy Helm-
rich and the Countess of Effingham. Mrs.
Hope Gibson will be staying with Mrs.
H. H. Hartley, president of the auxiliary,
and the party will be held at the home
of Dr. and Mrs. H. C. Maldon.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Independent Theatre Ball, very
formal and glamorous this year, was held
at Prince’s, where about 250 people came
along to help raise funds for redecorating
the theatre, The president, Lady Braddon,
Mr. and Mrs. Erik Langker and Miss
Doris Fitton all entertained large parties,
and, although the old, slightly Bohemian
flavor to this annual ball was missing,
many stage- and radio-people were
present and the atmosphere was gay.
There was not very much in the way of
decorations except for an enormous, rather
terrifying gilded griffin at the foot of
the stairs, but there was a guessing com-
petition with an amazing assortment of
things for the prizes (a painting by Erik
Langker, several bottles of Scotch, several
brassieres and girdles and some groceries
among them).
The dressing was attractive and at times
brilliant. Miss Fitton’s dress of blue-and-
misty-grey-striped organza was charming.
Mrs. Leon Henry wore a lovely ballerina
of smoke-grey net, appliqued with gar-
lands of silver-threaded lace. Miss Inge
Hess looked fragile and elegant in Swiss
cotton, pale-yellow with grey flowers, and
Mrs. Rex Money wore an elaborate dress
of oyster satin, with a pearl-and-flower-
embroidered bodice and a skirt of
accordion-pleated tiers veiled in net.
☆ ☆ ☆
Poet and author Will Lawson, who was
guest-speaker at the meeting of the
English Speaking Union’s literary circle,
was introduced by the chairman, Mrs.
Helene Rankin, as “the last of Sydney’s
real Bohemians,” and he spoke in a quiet,
conversational way of Sydney from the
’9o’s to the first world war, calling this
period “the golden age of Australian
writing.” Mr. Lawson said that although
there many Australians writing today
they were not, in the main, writing Aus-
tralian books, though he said he thought
the women were doing a better job in
this respect than the men. Mrs. Rankin
added several recollections of Australian
Bohemian writers to Mr. Lawson’s and
said that, just as there has been a book
written about Rowe-street, so there should
be one about Bond-street, Little George-
street and the environs of The Bulletin
office, with all their wealth of memories.
The Australian Women Pilots, who are
meeting in Adelaide next month, have
decided this year to follow the lead of the
“Ninety-Niners,” their sister organisation
in America, and have an air-race to their
meeting-place. In our picture is Dr.
Dorothy Rutherford, of Willoughby, who
will be one of the entrants in the race,
which starts next Saturday. Photo, by
Hugh Spencer.
“In Honor of the Rose,” that very lovely
flower-show organised in aid of the Bush
Book Club, has now become one of
Sydney’s annual events, and this year
drew large crowds to David Jones’s
Gallery. The flower-arrangements
attracted much attention; Mrs. E. C.
Waterhouse’s wall-vase with driftwood
and white wistaria; Lady Lloyd Jones’s
“Things Nostalgic,” which included two
octagonal framed pictures made of shells ;
Mr. Walter Taylor’s pewter container
with dried grasses and Honolulu roses
(which are the seed-pods of the convol-
vulus) ; Mrs. Maurice Samuel’s flower-
piece in yellow tones in the style of the
Dutch and French paintings of the 17th
century; Paul Jones’s clever artificialties
(this year a tiny tree with pearl drops);
and the exquisite early-Victorian figurines
dressed by his mother, Mrs. M, W. Jones,
set against backgrounds he had painted.
Miss Barbara Knox, who is president
of the Bush Book Club, showed an
arrangement of columbines and white
roses grown in her own garden, a section
which also included Mrs. J. McPhillamy’s
mixed vase set on a genuine 17th-century
oak coffer. Miss Winsome Henderson’s
beautiful red roses in a brass jug, Norah
Firth’s delicate cluster in a slender altar-
vase, and Mrs. Brian Canny’s remarkably
subtle blending of flowers in red, white
and blue tonings.
MCLBOIJDNC
Mrs. Norman Strange arranged the
mannequin-parade held at the Australia
to swell the coffers of the Queen Victoria
Memorial Hospital. The many furs
shown ranged from moming-wear, races,
the cocktail-hour and dinner to the
luxury minks, dyed-ermine, white Arctic-
fox and white ermine for evening-wear.
These were supplied by Seymours, of
Collins-street, and the pretty hats which
accompanied the stoles, jackets and coats
were from the Anne Austin salon. Lady
Brookes, president of Q.V., opened the
parade, and members of the hospital-com-
mittee included Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh,
Mrs. A. G. Hunter, Mrs. J. Gilruth, Lady
Martin and Mrs. M. Patrick.
The Miki Sekers fabrics for spring and
summer were also shown. These have
great beauty of texture and design. Suits,
dresses, coats and sportswear represent
the latest development in nylon. Miki
Sekers has also mixed it with cotton and
silk with fine effect. These nylons are
48in. wide —a boon to dressmakers, as
it avoids joins in skirts and enables
economy in cutting.
Oliver Messel designed the fabrics,
which for Royal Tour functions include
evening-gowns in duchesse-dogana, which
has a rich sheen. Another exciting fabric
is acetate brocade. Filmy nylon in white,
checked with a series of black stripes at
intervals down and across the white nylon,
was used to make a full-skirted evening-
gown. Topping the bodice, going under
one shoulderstrap and across the other,
was a -wide band of shocking-pink nylon,
which finished in a long drape to the
hem of the gown.
Among other fascinating designs are the
trellis-and-rose (this beautifully expressed
in white and gold brocade), oakleaf-and-
acom, and wheat-ears. Colors ranged
from pale-pastels, ice-blue, lilac and
deeper-toned brocades, ideal for the
matron. There were sapphire-blue, rich-
icd (toreador), and coffee. For the young
girl there was a pink-and-white candy-
striped button-through coat which showed
a white frock underneath. A formal
evening-gown in toreador-red duchesse-
dogana satin with a decollete petal bodice
allied to a skirt, slim in front but with
fullness and a slight bustle at the back,
was made by Frederick Starke of London.
He also made a short evening-dress in
steel-grey duchesse-dogana. The bodice,
cut away to the shoulders, had three-
quarter sleeves, the skirt straight and full.
A white wedding-gown by Arthur Banks
of London was of Miki Sekers nylon-and-
cotton Jacquard brocade.
/ # # V
Lesley Baxter (“Bunty”), only daughter
of Sir Leslie and Lady McConnan, of
Toorak, and Frederick, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. Ewart Moreton, of Geelong,
have become engaged and plan to marry
early next year. Both are graduates of
Melbourne University ; Bunty is a 8.A.,
and he is deputy-chief-engineer of Im-
perial Chemical’s Sydney plant. Bunty is
working in Sydney at the moment, but
will be home for Christmas and after a
wedding in this city will make her future
home in Sydney.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another interesting engagement just
announced is that of Valerie, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Gray Staley,
of Middle Brighton, to Brian David, only
son of Mrs. E. M. Boston, of Brighton,
and the late N. L, Boston. Valerie, who
was educated at Firbank and spends most
of her time as a Red Cross aide at the
Royal Melbourne Hospital blood bank,
is wearing a sapphire-and-diamond ring.
Brian is an old Wesley Collegian. Wed-
ding-plans have not yet been made.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Lowe was at Moonee Valley to
see her husband, Sir Charles Lowe, pre-
sent the cup. She wore a fine navy-wool
ensemble and a wide-brimmed navy straw
hat trimmed with blue-and-white straw
flower-motifs. Lady Burston added a
small white hat to her black faille coat.
White chiffon floated at the back of the
small white boater Mrs. Norman Hill, of
Sydney, wore with a pencil-slim black
suit. Lady Snow’s small white hat
matched the white lapels of her grey
suit. Carolyn Buxton had a cloche hat
in navy-and-white check to go with her
navy-blue suit.
Carol Griffith’s attractive hat had a
white crochet crown and platter-brim of
fringed straw. With a flecked pale-yellow
silk-tweed frock Mrs. Arthur Sayers wore
a tiny cap of yellow daisies. Mrs. W. K.
Burnside’s large platter-hat was of butter-
cup-yellow straw ; her shantung coat was
in deeper tones of yellow. Mrs. Norman
Robinson chose a nigger-brown faille
frock and a wide-brimmed straw hat.
Irish actress Mary Mackay, who plays
the Duchess in “Call Me Madam,” began
her career with the famous Abbey Players
in Dublin. Later she went to London
with the Abbey Players and appeared in
the original production of “Juno and the
Paycock.” A tour of South Africa fol-
lowed, in which she played with well-
known London stars George Relph and
Mercia Swinburne. Mary is a cousin of
the noted playwright and producer, James
Bernard Fagan. During the war she was
in the A.T.S. and was sent as senior officer
of a group of 15, one of whom is now
the Duchess of Westminster, on a lecture-
tour of Canada.
Shoes for the autumn-winter season of
1954 shown at a parade organised by
Footwear Retailers Association of Vic-
toria disclosed many new trends. New
colors include swamp-brown, very deep
and designed to wear with black
ensembles; mulga, a light-brown ; desert-
tan (or Woomera-dust); Royal Pacific, a
deep rich blue; waratah-red and fern-
green. Two-tone casuals are used for
walking or golf, and the dip-sided court-
shoe will not be seen next season. In its
place has come the pointed court-shoe, cut
high at the sides and featuring the new
high, tapering heel. This type of shoe
was designed for the shorter skirt-length
and gives the feet the long, narrow look
so much in vogue when skirts were knee-
length.
Another feature of next season’s shoes
is the “mudguard,” designed to save suede
shoes. The “mudguard” is just a band of
calf or patent-leather which goes round
the edge of sole and toe. Black suede
shoes for afternoon wear carry a little
decoration. On one pair were three
narrow bands of braid, and tiny jet beads
on the toes. A panel of black lace
was set into the toes of another after-
noon court-shoe, and in a sling-backed
shoe for cocktail wear black Chantilly
lace was set in clear plastic. Heel and
mudguards were of black suede. One
pair of shoes for casual wear, of fern-
green calf, had a- tiny gold crown set
on the outer portion of the instep.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Thanks For the Memory,” now at the
Princess, is old-time vaudeville in which
George Wallace, Jim Gerald, Queenie
Paul and other old favorites appear. Also
on the bill is George Nichols, Joy’s
brother. Seen enjoying the first night’s
riot of laughter were Mrs. Garnet
Carroll, in frock and coat of ruby-red
velvet, the edges banded in pale-mauve
faille and embroidered in gold-thread
flower-motifs; Mrs. Jim Campbell, m
hyacinth-blue satins; Mrs. Arthur
Haworth, whose short evening-dress of
eau-de-nil crepe had clusters of matching
beads on the bodice; Mrs. Tom David-
son, who covered her garnet-red velvet
frock with a coat of black-and-gold
brocade ; Elaine Prior in a shocking-pink
faille strapless frock and short matching
jacket.


KIEV mom SAFE*
SANDERS
(^fcFILES
Correapondenc®. I a f o Ic# ».
r>' ,
M-
•tatement*. etc., tiled In the
“Sander* can be *ocurely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
Price* and fur-
ther i formation
hdod application
any other period.
Jackson & O’Suu.ivan Ptv. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Go. (Aust.)
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ROY GREEN late of 133 Spit Road,
Mosman.—TAKE NOTICE that JOAN
BARTLEY GREEN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3411 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by sth of January 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BASIL JOHN MACREE,
Solicitor, 129 Phillip Street, Sydney.—J.
, DOUGHAN, Registrar. /
TO WILLIAM HOWARD O’BRIEN
Address Unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife DILYS HILDA O’BRIEN, of
19 Lovegrove Avenue Bunbury Western
Australia has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of desertion If you desire to de-
fend such proceedings you must within
Forty (40) clear days after the date of
this publication file in the Central Office
Supreme Court at Perth a Statement of
your defence In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make ■ orders
against you. Dated the 13th day of
October, 1953. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.—ROE & BLACKWOOD, 19
Howard Street, Perth, Western Australia,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO MONA VICTORIA GILLETT late of
Paddington.—TAKE N O TICE that
CLAUDE EARNEST GILLETT has filed
his Petition in Divorce No. 3035 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court Sydney by the 30th De-
cember 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from
CHRISTOPHER LIGUORI SHEEHY,
Solicitor, of 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO MARY WORTHINGTON late of Kings
Cross Spinster.—TAKE NOTICE that
AGNES ELIZABETH GURNEY has filed
a Petition No. 4105 of 1950 praying for
a Divorce from JOHN BAYLY GURNEY
on the grounds of his adultery with you
You may apply to the Court to be allowed
to defend A copy of the Petition may
be obtained without charge from MESSRS.
MADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solici-
tors, 38 Martin Place, Sydney. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO JAMES ERNEST RILEY late of
Kendall via Taree. —TAKE NOTICE that
MARGERY ORANMER RILEY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3784 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the sth of January 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from PAUL LINCOLN SMITH.
Solicitor, of 51 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO MARY AGNES AUGUSTUS late of
Redfern N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
FRANCIS JOHN AUGUSTUS has filed a
Petition for Divorce in suit No. 3802 of
1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Sydney by the
12th day of January 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
N. V. MENLOVE, Solicitor, 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO DOREEN MAY VAUGHAN.—TAKE
NOTICE that VICTOR FREDERICK
ARTHUR VAUGHAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2006 of 1946 on the
ground of your desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 6th day
of January 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
BOYCE & BOYCE, Solicitors, 79 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Tovarich”
Jacques Deval’s comedy
about the two Russian aristo-
crats who escaped the Red Terror
and fled to Paris with four mil-
lion francs entrusted to their
keeping by the Tsar, and who,
in Paris, want nothing more than
the safety and security of em-
ployment as butler and house-
maid in a comfortable home —•
is almost a charming little
period-piece even at this early
stage, and its wit, warmth and
polish are certainly worth pre-
serving.
Except in ! the first act, which
had an atmosphere of grubby
squalor instead of romantic
poverty, Leila Blake’s produc-
tion for Sydney Mercury Theatre
is a very good one, allowing for
the difficulty little theatres always
have in filling their stages with
princes, financiers and the like.
Owen Weingott, as Prince
Mikail Alexandrovitch Ouratieff,
and Gloria Payten as his wife,
the Grand Duchess Tatiana
Petrovna, make a very polished
and graceful picture of the exiles,
although Weingott gives more
Convincing indications of his
exalted origin than does Miss
Payten ; Eric Rasdall and Zelle
Gordon are the banker and his
wife who suddenly find that they
are being tended and waited on
by nobility; Ken Hannam is
the other banker who tries in
vain to persuade the Prince to
invest his trust in French bonds ;
and Mary-Jane White and John
Godfrey are two nicely normal
adolescents.
John Weiner as a hapless little
Hungarian ; Lyle O’Hara as an
ambassadress of the petrol
empire; and Kenneth Warren
as Commissar Gorotchenko, who
has to persuade the Prince that
the rightful owner of the four
billion francs is Russia; are all
outstanding in their moments.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Reluctant Heroes”
At Melbourne Comedy, Colin
Harris’s farce, “Reluctant
Heroes,” forms a trilogy of
Army, Navy and Air Force
humor with “Worms’ Eye View”
and “Seagulls Over Sorrento.”
The reluctant heroes ate a group
of National Service trainees
being whipped into shape by the
usual hoarse-voiced but secretly
warm-hearted sergeant-major.
The s.-m. is impersonated with
groggy passion by William
Hodge, and the troopers with
varying degrees of moronic im-
becility by Brian James, Michael
Anderson and Kenneth
Thornett.
Sex rears its ugly head with
the arrival of Lieutenant Gloria
Dennis (Maree Marsden) and a
pair of giggling Waafs, Shirley
Smith and June Jago. The
female warriors conceal them-
selves beneath the beds of the
trainees just as an orderly enters
and orders the male heroes to
strip for medical inspection. The
humor extracted from this situa-
tion is pretty high, judging by
the gales of laughter issuing
from the theatre nightly.
♦J’
“Liliom”
Eunice Hanger gave Brisbane
a very satisfying theatrical ex-
perience with her production
of Molnar’s “Liliom” for the
Twelfth Night Theatre. It is a
pathetic, touching play border-
ing on tragedy, and the main
role is as much a heart’s goal
for Continental actors as is Ham-
let for English players.
Hans Farkas was Liliom and
Jacklyn Kelleher was Julie, the
two inarticulate young people,
she the timid little Hungarian
cockney and he the fun-fair
barker who marries her, mask-
“She’s not only married , she’s engaged, too! What d'you
reckon the others mean?”
ing his love behind an almost
sadistic off-handedness and bru-
tality. In an attempted robbery
to provide for her unborn child,
he suicides to escape police-
capture. In a heavenly police-
court presided over by a benign
magistrate (Alan Denby) Liliom
is allowed one more day on
earth to make an effort towards
redemption but. Sartre-like, this
fails. v
Farkas gave a very good per-
formance, and should be better
in his next one —when his facil-
ity with the English language
catches up with his acting abil-
ity. Miss Kelleher’s portrayal of
Julie tops a series of fine per-'
formances by a young actress
who can move with simple dig-
nity across a stage and speak
with clarity and intelligence.
“The Poltergeist*
“The Poltergeist” (Metropoli-
ton Theatre, Sydney), by Frank
Harvey, Junior, deals with the
infestation of an English vicarage
by one of those mischievous
ghosts, and, like its subject, it
has rather more noise than sub-
stance. As well as the bemused
vicar, his nervous wife, their
two daughters and a bovine
domestic, there are an enthusi-
astic ghost-hunter and an
equally enthusiastic insurance
assessor who has, however, no
enthusiasm whatever for such im-
material items as invisible spirits,
mysterious knockings, swinging
lamps, leaping bunches of
flowers, unaccountable fires and
hot coals hurled from nowhere
by nobody in sight.
It is all vaguely reminiscent of
“Blithe Spirit”—and, indeed,
there seems to be more than a
similarity between Harvey’s
fussy-ghost hunter and all his
paraphernalia and Coward’s
Madame Arcati—but it is, un-
fortunately, a long way behind
Coward’s comedy.
Still, Alexander Archdale, who
produced the piece, did the best
thing possible by making it
a brisk hunt for laughs and,
with himself as the ghost-hunter,
Robert Cubbage as the insur-
ance bloke, and Yvonne Louis
as the servant, got quite a lot
of them in the course of the
evening. Archdale and Cub-
bage, in particular, were very
good in the quick, intelligent
manner in which they brought
life and humor to roles which
really had very little life in them.
Lionel Bain’s vicar never quite
rdsolved himself into anyone
definite, although Patricia Schu-
mann, as his wife, added an-
other well-judged and entertain-
ing performance to her list. Lola
Brooks and Jocelyn Hernfield
made a pleasantly lively busi-
ness of the two daughters. <
Susskind
Walter Susskind, who has en-
gaged himself to the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra for a season
in succession to Castro, made a
strong impression at his first per-
formance with the baton at the
Melbourne Town Hall and deep-
ened it at his second, which
could be described without ex-
aggeration as a triumph of
rhythm and imagination.
Somebody has said that for
hundreds of years the Czechs
have been the heart of music,
and on this occasion the concept-
goers had a Czech conductor
and a violinist of renown, Car-
mel Hakendorf, who, if not a
Czech herself —she is a South
Australian —was taught her
rhythmic style by another Czech,
the late Ludwig Schwab, when
he was in Adelaide.
There were also two eminently
distinguished Czech composers
on the programme. The Fairy-
tale Suite of Suk, which started
off the evening, was a dainty cur-
tain-raiser to the Dvorak Violin
Concerto in A Minor through
which Miss Hakendorf carried
her fiddle. The mixture of fire
afid tenderness in her playing
seemed to justify Sir John Bar-
birolli’s prognostication that he
had discovered the greatest
violinist of her generation. A
vital interpretation of Tschaikow-
sky’s Fifth Symphony followed.
The well-stirred audience gave
the conductor a great ovation.
Perry Hart
The young Australian violinist,
who gave such an excellent read-
ing of the Mendelssohn Violin
Concerto with the Sydney
Orchestra, collaborated with
pianist Olga Krasnik at her
Sydney Con. recital in sonatas
by Handel and Debussy. The
Handel work, the No. 4 in D
Major, was thoughtfully
wrought, the Acridity never
exaggerated; the delicacies —
and inanities —of the Debussy
(the G Minor, No, 3) were pre-
sented much as it has been pre-
sented before.
The major work was Bach’s
great Partita in D Minor, and
it was pleasing to see the
violinist setting about the build-
ing-up of this tremendous edifice
of sound with so firm and confi-
dent a touch and setting the key-
stone with that final Chaconne
which is the joy and the despair
of violinists.
It was quite an achievement,
physical and intellectual, which
bodes well for Miss Hart’s
future. She has a fine bowing
style, she hits her notes dead-
centre in fast passages and her
tone is good. That she has an
especial affinity for Mozart
elegance and subtlety she proved
with quite captivating playing
of his Adagio and Rondo. A
spot of Bartok rounded off a
programme which had some-
thing for almost everyone.
(Jt
National Folksongs
Sydney’s Cammeray Music
Group rustled up some fine
vocal talent of both Old and
New Australians for their Inter-
national Night, when folksing-
ing of some worth was heard.
Lily and Olga Kolos, whose
joint recital at Sydney Con.
earlier in the year had been such
a marked success, sang some
fine songs of Bohemia with
beautifully-blended tone and
great animation. Lucille Rath,
whose soprano is of pleasing
quality, limned the French and
Austrian scenes very gaily.
Contralto Mary Blake moved
from grave to 'gay in the Celtic
songs she sings with authority
and subtlety, and Allan Gamble,
a baritone from Westralia,
looked after England’s interests.
John Golden was accompanist
and pianist.
Talkies
“Sailor of the King” (Sydney
Embassy): A remake of one of
C. S. Forester’s earliest books.
Brown on Resolution, modern-
ised into the radar-age. All the
excellent elements of Forester —
independent command with
Captain Michael Rennie, R.N.,
having to make his decision, as
did Hornblower, far from the
comforting advice of Whitehall.
Wendy Hiller makes a brief,
early appearance, then the
sailors of the King get down to
action. As usual with British
films about the Services,, techni-
calities are faultless —though the
paintwork in the bridge scenes
has a shore-based gleam about
it. The Walter Mitty touch of
the British sailor held captive
aboard the enemy cruiser, and
eventually holding her captive,
is done with conviction and a
nicely developed tension.
“The Actress” (Sydney St.
James): This biting little comedy
(from Ruth Gordon’s stage-
play “Years Ago”) about a 17-
year-old’s determination to be
an actress, first breaking down
the mother’s opposition and then
setting to work to crack the
harder parental nut, is notable
for the warmth and sympathy of
its domestic scenes.
Spencer Tracy is the father
who turns out to be not
quite the tyrant his tongue and
demeanor indicate, and who is
absorbed by ever-mounting
household bills and his reminis-
cences as an old sea-dog. Jean
Simmons keeps undeviatingly in
character as the starry-eyed
flapper living in a world of
romantic dreams, and Teresa
Wright plays the mother who is
both peacemaker and mediator.
“Gone to Earth” (Sydney
Esquire). The best thing about
this screenplay by Michael
Powell and Enteric Pressburger
of Mary Webb’s novel is the
splendor of the Shropshire scene
as it emerges under the Tech-
nicolor camera.
The play, however, is the most
blatant melodrama. Jennifer
Jones, who seems to have been
typed as the Wild Untamable
Girl who loves to bite her man
on the chest and rush away
giggling and hoping he will
chase her, is the Hazel of the
piece. David Farrar is the
persistent villain who laughs
brutally in the best ham style.
Cyril Cusack is likeable
enough as the country parson
who marries the girl and who
later tells the wowser-elders of
the kirk what he thinks of them.
Esmond Knight as the girl’s
father and Sybil Thorndike as
the parson’s snooty ma try out
too many old stage-tricks to be
impressive.


You're wiong Delaney
By BANT SINGER
THE STORY SO FAR
Delaney, suspected of the
murder of Con Martini, night-
club owner, over a singer named
Lily, is held by Det.-Sgt. Keough
in Black Springs, but is free to
move about the town. He works
a swindle with a local young
man called Fat, but has to “get
tough” with Fat to get his share.
Among the money he takes
forcibly from Fat is a passionate
love-letter from a woman named
Elaine. Delaney, pondering this,
meets Kathy, a young house-
maid at the hotel where he is
staying, and, while making ad-
vances to her, is stunned to
learn that Fat, whose real name
is Baler, has been found dead.
Keough promptly picks Delaney
up and tries to link him with
Fat’s death.
CHAPTER V
50 I’m back at this table
in the police-station and it’s
on again. Only it isn’t
about Martini this time.
“You see about a job yet?”
“Not yet.”
“What you been doin’?”
“Oh, looking around.”
“Where’d you meet this
feller?”
“The dead feller —Baler?”
“That’s right.”
“Did I meet him?”
Keough turns his head and
calls, “Costello, come in here,
will you?”
He turns and gives me a hard
look and says, “If you want to
get smart with me, Delaney, we’ll
get it all down, see. For the
coroner,”
A grey-haired man in a grey
suit comes in and sits at the end
of the table. He puts a pipe in
his mouth and a notebook on
the table and looks me over,
then looks at the wall and waits.
They have these shorthand-
writers take down what you say
so you got no argument. You
got to watch your step they got
them around. #
“All right,” says Keough,
“where you meet Baler?”
“I run into him in Swissen’s
pool-room. I didn’t know who
he was. He was there in the
game.’’
“You know a man named Syd
Kortz?”
“No.”
“Kortz says he was in Gunn’s
pool-room and Baler was there
and Baler asked him —asked
Kortz—if Kortz was going to
Swissen’s. Kortz says he told
Baler he might go to Swissen’s
later. Kortz says there was
a stranger there and that
Baler and the stranger went out
together. We got men who was
in Swissen’s and they say Baler
and a stranger entered Swissen’s
about nine o’clock. What you
got to say about that?”
So they been over the ground
all right, tracing Fat and this
stranger he met. All right, so
I’m ahead of them so far. No
harm in me meeting Fat and
going with him to Swissen’s.
“That’s right. That was me. I
don’t know this Kortz, but I
remember Fat..
“Who’s Fat?”
“Name I give Baler. I didn’t
know his name until I see it in
the paper, I called him Fat. To
myself I called him Fat. Hd’s a
plump—was a plump sort.”
“Keep going.”
“That’s about all. Me and this
Fat went to Swissen’s. We
played. About eleven o’clock I
drifted. That’s all.”
“Was you there when Swis-
sen’s'was raided?”
“Was it raided?”
“What did you and Baler
play?”
So it was danger-level again.
This Keough starts weaving off
the line you got to watch him.
He got to the raid I’m not sup-
posed to know about and he
switches. He switches is the
time to watch your step.
I grin at him. “We wasn’t
playing ludo.”
“No, you wasn’t playing ludo.
We got men was in Swissen’s
say you ran the marbles three or
four turns while Swissen was
out.”
“That’s right. I told you I
run a pool-room once. Over in
Rochester it was and”
“Yair, you told me that. We
got men say Baler won three or
four big pools and good money
in side-bets. What do you
know about that?”
You get a bunch of scared
peanut gamblers in a raid and
you always get some ready to
spill all they know. Because
they want to show they ain’t real
bad and out to help the jacks
and keep the peace, and what
they hope is they don’t get it
hard from the magistrate for
getting caught in the raid. So
Keough’s boys found some of
Swissen’s customers busting to
spill the lot, and Keough’s shoot-
ing it at me. What do I know
about Fat’s winnings? Me, I
don’t go round counting fellows’
winnings.
“Maybe he won. I wouldn’t
be sure. I gathered in a couple
of frogskins myself. I got an
idea Fat won a couple of good
pools. I wouldn’t swear to it.”
“You say you drifted out by
yourself?”
“That’s right.”
“About eleven o’clock?”
“I got no watch. I reckon
that’s s about right.”
“Baler wasn’t with you?”
“No. I told you. I drifted by
myself.”
“Where did you go?”
“To the hotel. To my room.”
“That was before the raid?”
He was back on the line
again.
“There wasn’t no raid while I
was there.”
“Swissen’s was raided at
exactly eleven-twelve. Baler
wasn’t there, either.”
Ah, that was a point. He had
a point there. No way of prov-
ing where Fat was. Because how
can you prove a man wasn’t
with you when you chase him
along a lane in the dark? Maybe
some of these peanut gamblers
said more than Keough give
me. I got to find that out.
Maybe they give me the alibi
without knowing it.
“Look, Mister Keough, all I
know about Fat —Baler—is what
I told you. He was still playing
when I left Swissen’s. After I
left I stopped in the street to
light a smoke, then 1 went
home.”
“Then if he won big pools
while you was there he must
have lost quick after you left,
because there was only seven
shillings in his pockets when he
was found?”
I feel sweat running down the
small of my back and some
prickling under the hair on my
head. I got to force myself not
to move my hands, because he’s
a good man can stop some
movement of his hands when
the going gets rough. It was
getting rough for me now. This
Keough keeps after me I got to
watch it close or make a slip. I
make a slip they got something
and they get something I got to
prove Fat was dead when I fell
on him. I’m sweating because I
got more money in my pocket
than I ought to have. I can
say I won it at Swissen’s, but
they line up Swissen and some of
the peanut gamblers and it’s
something else I got to prove.
“We was playing Murrum.
You have a losing run and
you’re making big side-steps you
can lose plenty in ten or fifteen
minutes.”
“You got money in your
pockets and somebody wants
that money and that somebody
knows commando stuff you can
lose it quicker,” he snapped.
So it’s building up and I sweat
some more. I ought to put some
of them frogskins in the enve-
lope with Elaine’s letter and
stashed the lot behind the cis-
tern, because Keough searches
me and finds £6 it looks bad. So
it’s a spot where a bluff might
be pulled. I dive my hand into
my pocket and yank out some
—not all —the money and chuck
it in front of him,
“That’s all I got. You reckon
I took it from him you know
what to do.”
It starts to work. He looks at
the frogskins and he looks at me
and he looks at the shorthand-
writer. Most of the time I can’t
get ahead of this Keough’s mind,
but this time I’m ahead, be-
cause his blue eyes way back
under the black brows is
clouded. He looks like a man
betting up on three high cards
and suddenly raised the limit by
someone he thought would call.
You get a chance like that you
got to grab it quick, I grab it.
I put heat in my voice and
scream a little, “I’m no stand-
over man, see. I don’t get a liv-
ing dipping pockets or rough-
housing coots for their small
change. That’s for dopes.”
It worked. Keough reaches
over and pushes the money back
to me.
“All right,” he says, cool. “So
you ain’t that kind of dope.
Maybe you ain’t that kind.
There’s other kinds.”
I stow the frogskins where
they belong and grunt out, like
I’m hurt in my pride, “I’m no
(dope”
“Not the way you see it,” he
says. He’s hard again and the
■snap is back in his voice. “The
way I see it you are. You’re the
kind of dope thinks he can live
without working honest. Well,
you’ll wake up.”
“I been awake a long time.”
He don’t say any more, just
sits there pursing his lips and
frowning with that cliff of his.
It don’t look like he’s thinking
about me any more, but I know
he is. Like I told him, I been
awake a long time.
“There’s somethin’ I want you
to get, D&aney,” he says, slow
and easy, like he’s coaxing a kid
or kidding to a girl. “I want you
to get it good. I’m no dope,
either. Somebody used my
name last • night to phone the
station-sergeant and order a raid
on Swissen’s. It could have
been somebody with a grudge on
Swissen or somebody havin’ fun
with the police. And it could
have been somebody who knew
Baler had money and wanted to
get him out of there, to get him
scared and runnin’ down back-
lanes where he could be easy
got at. It could have been some-
body like that. But that’s only
an idea, so far. It wouldn’t
stand as evidence, so far. What
I want you to get, and I hope it
does you good, is that whoever it
was called the raid said some-
thing about Delaney. Only you
and me and the jailer and
Kennedy,” that’s the jabber,
“knew about our bit of business.
And it wasn’t me or the jailer of
Kennedy who phoned up for
the raid. Like I said yesterday,
I could slap Martini on you. I
can still do that. I could slap
Baler on you now and watch you
get out of it; I’m not doing it,
not yet, because I got some
ideas. So you can get out. But
don’t leave this town.”
Maybe he knew it and maybe
he didn’t, but he had me sweat-
ing again. Because that about
the raid and my name showed
me how he’d run this thing to
the last word, linking up the
bits. So I don’t say a thing be-
cause my mouth is dry and I try
to speak I’ll likely screech. I
screech he knows I’m rattled.
They know you’re rattled they
take you and shake you and
rattle everything right out of
you. So I get up and make for
the door.
“Just a minute, Delaney,” he
calls.
I turn round, slow. It gives
me time to gather the frayed
ends and tighten up. I look at
him. The sweat in the small of
my back is cold now, I stand
there, waiting. t
“You get yourself a job,” he
says.
“Yeah,” I says,
“Look, Delaney, you get a
job it’ll maybe save me a lot of
trouble.”
“Save you trouble?”
“That’s right. With you
workin’ regular maybe you
won’t keep gettin’ mixed up
with dead men.”
Him and the shorthand-writer
start cackling at each other like
they’re laying eggs.
I go out and it’s raining and
nowhere to go and nothing to
do, except worry. There’s a
matinee at the movies and people
going there and maybe it’s warm
inside and a man can sit and
watch a movie and forget his
troubles. So I go to the movies.
“Cry of the City”—Victor
Mature, Shelley Winters
crime, blondes, guns. I go to
sleep.
It’s dark when I come out and
I go feed mysejf at a cafe and
hang over some coffee and
smoke a little. Maybe that little
pouter-pigeon is looking for
somebody to fly with tonight.
When I get to the hotel she’s
flown, because I can’t sight her
anywhere. The clerk in the
office looks at me, but I don’t
tell him what I’m looking for.
So I drift down the street,
watching the rain blow in the
lights and the people scurry
across the corners. Maybe
they’d scurry some more if they
knew who I was —the man up
for Martini and Fat and maybe
got a letter worth dough to one
of their citizens. So I drift into
a pool-room and it’s dead. I
try another and it’s dead, too.
They’re all dead. Because that
raid last night got ’em scared.
Swissen getting raided twice so
quick means maybe the police
on the warpath, so there’s no
Murrum anywhere. Round about
ten o’clock I drift back to the
Enterprise and into my bed and.
sleep some more.
You do a lot of thinking and
worrying and get talked at
plenty by police, first chance
you get you sleep good. I
mean good. No dreams, no
waking up, just sleep.
So I sleep and it’s bells ring-
ing the next thing I know. Bells
ringing and rain falling outside
and I turn over and sleep some
more. Because Sunday in Black
Springs don’t mean a thing to
me, not in the morning. Maybe
in the afternoon I can find
something.
In the afternoon I don’t find
no little girls like pouter-pigeons.
In back of the hotel I find some
fellows having a tame game of
whisky poker and get in it. It’s
tame because the ante is only
sixpence a hand. They tell me'
maybe there’s a big game or two
around the town, but you don’t
get in them if you’re a stranger.
So I stay in the tame game and
win maybe six or eight shillings
in about four hours and take on
some drink and after that I feed
and pretty soon I’m in that bed
again because the drink and the
feed and tired from the game
makes me sleepy. I got things to
do and maybe I’m going to need
all the sleep I can get. Because
it’s another day tomorrow and
first off I got to locate this hot
woman with the Elaine name
that writes passion letters to fat
men. So I sleep.
So it’s Monday morning in
this Black Springs and I’m walk-
ing about in it. The rain is gone
and the sun shining and it’s
fairly warm on the street. Black
Springs is going about its busi-
ness and people talking to one
another and cars moving and a
big road-freighter with its load
sheeted down is pushing slow
through the traffic. It’s heading
down Street to the river and the
bridge and the road running out
into the country and maybe I
thumb the driver he’s glad of
the company and I go out of
Black Springs in his cabin and


maybe get sixty-seventy miles or
farther in a couple of hours.
And I drop off in some town
and pick up another trucky
going some other road and by
night I’m where I’m hard to
find, and by the time they run
the truckies down and get it
from them where I dropped off
it’s maybe Tuesday or the be-
ginning of next month. And
maybe I’m Jim Smith by then
and got a beard and a thousand
miles away and never been in
Black Springs in my life and
never heard of Detective
Keough, if anyone wants to
know.
So I look this big road-
freighter over and think about
it and it comes to me I don’t
know the country out there, or
maybe the freighter isn’t going
through, or maybe Keough’s got
a tail on me, or maybe—oh hell,
maybe a lot of things, but my
nerves need a rest. So what I do
is go to the street lavatory and
spend another penny and get
the letter and go to my room
and think about this Elaine.
I shed my shoes and coat and
lie on the bed. I got plenty to
worry me, but I shove it away
and think about Elaine. You’re
in this game you don’t miss any
turns without you look ’em over
first and see what’s in ’em. May-
be there’s nothing in Elaine.
Maybe she’s just a little back-
street wife having herself a time.
Maybe she isn’t even a wife and
this Richard is a brother or a
boss or something. Maybe she
Isn’t even Elaine. Could be she’s
a plain Maggy or Polly giving
herself airs with Fat, taking
Elaine for a name to play with
him, like she’s the Lady of the
Lake or one of them sheilas you
read about in school. Maybe.
But the way the letter is writ-
ten says she’s not any of them.
It says she’s way up where the
high teas is held and the vicar
calls and they work for the hos-
pital board and send their bets
in by the side-door and take
round petitions to stop the drink
trade; and when they travel the
Black Springs “Beacon” puts
their name way up on top of the
gossip page with “The charming
Mrs. Elaine So-and-So was
among the passengers on the
east-bound Skymaster this morn-
ing,” and all that means she’s in
the dough. She’s in the dough it
maybe means there’s dough in
this letter, because she’s all that
she’s got no legitimate business
with the Fats of this world. The
other kind of business is where
the dough is, if you’re smart
enough.
So I get up and wash my face
and put on my shoes and coat
and start out to see if I can
locate this Elaine. Coming up
the stairs is Kathy and she gives
me a smile. It’s the second smile
she give me and it comes to me
sort of sudden she’s the only
person give me a smile since I
shot through from St. Kilda, and
it sort of runs through me like
you feel a straight rum going
through on a cold night, only
this feeling isn’t so harsh and a
whole lot not like the rum feel-
ing. It sort of creeps and warms
me bit by bit and when I smile
back at her I get a silly feeling
that my face looks real pleased,
like a boy when somebody gives
him a great big ripe peach.
“You in a hurry, Kathy?”
She puts down the vacuum-
cleaner she’s carrying and leans
against the stair rail and she’s
plump as a little pigeon.
“No, Mr. Delaney.”
“People like me they call me
Del.”
She laughs a little bit and
looks back, straight back, and
watches me while she says, “I
don’t know if I like you a real
lot.”
“You ought to like me. I’m
easy to like.”
“Oh, I don’t know,” she says,
and picks up the cleaner and
makes to pass me.
I put a hand on her arm to
stop her because there’s some-
thing I want to know. • But she
jerks her arm away from my
hand like the hand is red hot or
something, and presses away
from me against the stair rail.
“Don’t you touch mel”
Her mouth is tight and her
eyes not soft any more, and she
stands there all tensed up. No
kidding, she’s real mad. She
stands there with her head up,
and Delaney’s just a fresh gink
she’s got no time for and her
eyes tell him so. It’s the way I
like it because you get a girl
mad the first time you put a hand
on her like that it’s because she’s
been thinking about having your
hand on her and maybe she’s a
little scared.
“Sorry, Kathy. I didn’t mean
nothing. Guess I done it with-
out thinking. Wanted to ask you
something.”
She leans there and pats her
hair and the fire dies down and
she just looks sulky.
“Oh, well, what is it?”
“How about coming to the
movies tonight?”
She pats her hair some more
and looks down the stairs and
up again and all around and
the smile starts to come back.
“I might.”
“Say you will.”
“I —well, you don’t even
know me.”
“I wish I did know you.
That’s why I’m asking you to
come to the movies.”
She picks the cleaner again.
“ Don't you touch me!” Her mouth is tight and her eyes not soft any more, and
she stands there all tensed up.
“I might. I’ll see.”
“All right. Will I see you
around later? About quarter-
to-eight, eh?”
“Perhaps.”
“I can’t take you to the movies
unless I know where to meet
you.”
She goes slowly up the stairs.
I watch her. When she gets to
the landing she stops and looks
back at me,
“I live here,” she says, and
darts round the corner.
Igo down the stairs. She’s
like a plump little* pigeon, and
even the work overall don’t hide
what she’s got. So she lives in
the hotel and maybe she’s got a
room to herself somewhere.
Plump little pigeons get lonely
roosting alone. Maybe I’ll find a
wing to tuck my head under.
Pretty little mopsies like Kathy
aren’t meant to sleep alone all
the time. Maybe I get my busi-
ness over and the night folds its
wings over me and a plump little
pigeon.
My business is locating this
Elaine, because maybe that
letter’s worth dough and I get
dough and have a pigeon to
play with I can stick it out with
Keough over Martini and Fat.
CHAPTER VI
"VZOU got legitimate business
with somebody in one of
these Black Springs towns you
ask around and find out where
they’re located. My business
with Elaine won’t be legitimate,
so I want to locate Elaine I got
to do it sly. Nobody’s to know
I’m looking for her. That way
nobody connects me with her,
and if we got business it’s all
nice and quiet. If we got no
business it’s still all nice and
quiet.
So I don’t go to the post-office
or ask the hairdressers or the first
cop I meet if they know any-
body named Elaine and where
she’s at. I go to a cafe and get
some lunch, and after that I go
to the district electoral office. I’m
doing it the hard way because
this is the only way to keep it
quiet.
On the wall-maps I locate
Black Springs and the map tells
me the electoral division. Then
I find the subdivision which
covers Black Springs and go to
the racks and pull out the book
of voters’ names for the sub-
division. So I’m started, but
there’s a long way to go because
there’s maybe ten thousand
names in that book, starting with
the Aarons and ending with the
Zlotkoffs. You turn up a page
and what you see is :
4365 Lonsdale, Charles Arthur,
34 Oak Street, Black
Springs, bricklayer, M.
4366 Lonsdale, Ethel Jane, 56
North Square, Black
Springs, dressmaker, F.
4367 Lonsdale, Mary Doris, 34
Oak Street, Black Springs,
home duties, F.
4368 Lonsdale, Alex Carl, 124
Murray Street, Black
Springs, postal official, M.
Lines and lines of it, all the way
from Ato Z. The M stands for
male and the F for female, and
you’re over twenty-one the law
says you must be on the electoral
roll. Me, I’m over twenty-one
but not on the roll. Because
you’re in this game you keep off
rolls. You settle in one place
they catch up with you and
maybe fine you and put your
name on the roll. Maybe they
catch up with me one day » and
I’ll be fined. That ought to give
Keough a laugh, if I’m alive to
see it.
So I got to start with the A’s
and run my finger down those
first Christian-names till I come
to Elaine. Maybe I’ll have
twenty Elaines when I’m
finished. Then I’ll have to go
through that roll again till I find
all the Richards and check them
with all the Elaines till I find a
Richard and an Elaine with the
same surname. Because I’m
betting Richard is my Elaine’s
husband. Maybe I’U find two-
three Richards coupled with two-
three Elaines and have to get ’em
apart and sort ’em out some
more.
Elaines are scarcer than hen’s
teeth in the first thousand names,
but I locate one at 1273 Chand-
ler, Elaine Mary, 127 Fortune
Road, Black Springs, home
duties, F. It’s a start, and some-
how it gives me a kick to locate
the first one. I get my pencil
and paper and write it down.
The clerks inside the counter
go about their work, and one or
two people drop in, ask a ques-
tion or run through a roll and
go out. I get tired and take time
out for a smoke and a girl calls
across*the counter to tell me I
can’t smoke in there. So I mark
the place in the roll and put my
pencil and paper in my pocket
and go outside and have my
smoke. When I come back she
asks me if she can help me, but
I don’t want no help on this job
and give her a smile and thank
her. I’m real polite and cold
because I don’t want nobody to
see what I’m looking for.
You run your finger down
lines of names and pages of lines
and it’s work. It’s work and it
jnakes your head dizzy and your
eyes play tricks and lines run
together. So after a while I go
out for another smoke and lean
against the building and shut
my eyes and try not to see names
and lines. When I go back the
girl behind the counter catches
my look and she says, “Are you
managing all right?”
I tell her I’m managing all
right and go at it again. When
I finish up with a gink named
Zutger, Willi Peter, watchmaker,
M., I got five Elaines. It’s easier
to locate Richard, because the
five Elaines are Chandler, Fre-
man. Levy, Paterson and Young,
and all I got to do, if the Elaine
I want is married, is look among
the five names. Pretty soon I
got two names on my piece of
paper:
9760 Paterson, Elaine Mar-
guerite, 14 Silvermine
Street, Black Springs,
home duties, F.
9766 Paterson, Richard Otway,
14 Silvermine Street,
Black Springs, miller, M.
It’s been a hard day’s work,
but it looks like I got the cards
I want and maybe can open the
jackpot. I write the Paterson
names and addresses in a top
corner of Fat’s letter. Then I
copy Fat’s letter in pencil on a
piece of paper. I fold the letter
and the copy and put them deep
inside my pocket, and take all
the bits of paper I been using
and roll them tight together and
put them in another pocket. I
get up and go out of there and
I’m no sooner on the street than
they shut the doors and I see
the sun has gone and lights on in
S)pme of the shops and that tells
me it’s late.
I want to take Kathy to the
movies, but I want to get my
business with Elaine started.
Richard is a miller, but I don’t
know what sort of miller. What-
ever sort he is he’s maybe still at
his mill and I want to contact
Elaine I got to do it before he
gets home.
So I amble along the street to
a telephone-booth and I think
out the play. I got my pennies
ready and I find the number,
which is 650, and run the dial
round. A woman’s voice
answers and I press the jigger
and the pennies fall down and I
open the deal.
“Mrs. Paterson —Mrs. Elaine
Paterson?”
“Yes?”
“Is Richard at home?”
“Rich?— — No, I’m afraid
he isn’t. Who is calling, please?”
It’s the kind of voice would
write that kind of letter and use
that kind of language and there’s
(Continued on next page)


a little stir inside me because I
know this is it.
“Who you going to love when
Richard is away, now Herman is
dead?”
I got my ear stuck close to the
receiver but I don’t hear a thing.
If it hit her she don’t make a
sound. I can hear the blood in
my head, like when you listen
to a seashell, but not a breath
from her. I get to thinking she’s
hung up or maybe turned away
and called somebody.
“Listen, Mrs. Paterson, you
could have had a lovely time if
Herman had come when Richard
went to Eastern”
That brings her. The voice is
sharp and quick.
“Is that the police? Have
you?”
“No. It ain’t the police. Just
somebody found a letter.”
“What do you want?”
“For the letter?”
“I know nothing of anf letter ;
what do you want of me?”
“This letter I got is one you
wrote to Herman Baler”
“I! Why, I don’t know any-
body of that name.”
“Oh, pull your head in, Mrs.
Paterson. Too right, you knew
him. You had a very special
evening all lined up for him.”
She don’t say anything to that.
I lean against the wall with the
phone jammed against my ear
and fumble out a cigarette and
light it. I take two puffs and
she speaks again.
“This is dreadful.”
She’s not saying it to me, but
it does me good to hear it, be-
cause it means I got the right
Elaine and she’s past bluffing
about she don’t know what I
mean. So I smoke a little and
wait, because it’s her next play.
“Are you a friend of Her-
man’s? Did he?”
“No, Mrs. Paterson, I’m just
me and how I got the letter is
my business.”
“What are you going to do
with it?”
“That’s for you to say.”
“How did you know it was—
well, how did you know who
wrote it?”
“That’s my business, too.”
“I see.” She was thinking now,
getting a hold of herself, trying
to plan up some way of getting
out of it. “Why did you tell
me you had it?”
“Letter like that could be
worth something.”
“You mean you want money
for it?”
“Nothing else but.”
“You mean you’d give me the
letter if I gave you money?”
“That’s what.”
“You could get into trouble
for that,”
“For what?”
“For stealing a letter some-
body wrote to somebody else
and then demanding money for
it.”
“Mrs. Paterson, you want to
make trouble you start making
it and see who gets in the most
trouble.”
She Takes time to think it over.
I finish the cigarette and stub it
out. I’m getting tired of this.
“Listen, Mrs. Paterson, what
about it?”
“If I give you money you’ll
really give me the letter?”
“That’s right.”
“Where are you? Where
could I see you to get the letter
from you?”
“You don’t see me unless you
got the money.”
“I’ll ring the police and tell
them about you.”
“What’ll you tell ’em?”
What would she tell them?
That some gink called her up
and said he had a love-letter
which she had written to Her-
man Baler and wanted money
for it?
“Would five pounds be all
right?” \
“What do you think Lam?”
“Oh. Well, how much do you
want?”
“Maybe Richard would give a
couple of hundred.”
No silence this time. I heard
her give a kind of cut-off little
scream. :
“Richard! You wouldn’t!”
“Maybe Richard knew about
the letter he’d pay that to stop
it being sent to the coroner. You
know, protect his good name and
all that?”
“You —you nasty”——-
“It ought to be worth a hun-
dred to you, Mrs. Paterson.”
“A hundred!”
I got to wait some more while
she thinks it over. Some women
married to rich fellows don’t
have much money of their own,
not so much they can raise a
hundred quick without the hus-
band knowing. So I give her
time, because getting the money
is her picnic, not mine.
When she talks again she’s
cold and tight, like she’s made
up her mind and knows what to
do.
“Do you know North Park?”
“I can find it.”
“The Baptist Church, opposite
the top gate. I’ll meet you there
in ten minutes. I’ll be in a green
sports car. We must be quick;
I must be back before Richard s
comes home. Bring the letter.”
“You bring the dough.”
“Ten minutes, outside the
Baptist Church.”
She hung up in my face.
I go out in the street and the
day is gone and the night com-
ing. I light another cigarette
and put the match to the bits of
paper I used in the electoral-
roll office and drop them in the
gutter and watch them burn.
Two girls going past look at me
and a little boy walks over and
stands With me and looks down
at the burning paper. Across
the street a tall man stands
looking over at us.
“Any taxis in this town,
laddie?”
“Up by the post-office,” he
says. He stays there watching
the paper burn and I make for
the post-office. Three cabs
stand in the little square.
“The Baptist Church,” I tell
a driver and get in. It’s along
the main street and up a side-
street and behind a park. I get
out and the cab goes away. I’m
maybe three or four minutes
ahead of her. So I wait and
think about the coot I saw when
I come out of the phone-booth.
He was across the street,
hunched up in an overcoat and
his hat forward over his face.
A tall, thin-looking coot lean-
ing against a light-pole. I
thought he was just looking at
the little fire I made and I no
more than noticed him. But
when I went up to the post-office
to get a cab I got a feeling some-
body’s watching me, and when
I get in the cab I take a look
around and he’s across the street
and this time he’s looking at the
cab. It’s too dark to see his
face at that distance and I look
him over, but all I see is a tall,
thin coot in an overcoat.
He don’t ring any bells of
memory in my mind. When I
look out of the cab at him he
turns his head away slowly and
starts to amble off and I think
maybe it’s just one of those
things, him being Outside the
phone-booth and then outside
the post-office. I give him
away, but when I look back out
of the cab rear-window he’s
standing still watching the cab
take me away. So while I’m
waiting for Elaine I think about
him.
I only see Keough and
Kennedy and Costello, and the
jailer and the smart cop, when
Keough has me at the police-
station. So I don’t know all the
cops in Black Springs. There’s
maybe a score of them in a town
like that, uniformed and plain-
clothed, and Keough puts a tail
on me he’s sure to give the job
to one I don’t know.
So Keough’s man sees me
grab a taxi and go off and maybe
he ought to of grabbed another
and followed, only in Black
Springs it’s not like a big city,
and one taxi follows another you
can’t hide it. So he makes like
he isn’t interested, but what he’ll
do is wait for that taxi to re-
turn to the rank at the post-
office and then he’ll ask the
driver where he put me out.
And when he hears it’s the Bap-
tist Church he’ll know I haven’t
gone to pray and he’ll get
curious. Maybe he’ll call Keough
and tell him and Keough will
send him here quick, or maybe
he won’t call Keough but will
amble up here himself to see I
don’t get captured by no clergy
or start ringing the church-bells
or something. I don’t want
Keough or any of his offsiders
around while I’m dealing with
Elaine and she better hurry or
maybe I’ll postpone the busi-
ness,
I got a date with Kathy at
quarter-to-eight and that leaves
me nearly a couple hours for
my business. But Elaine , has a
date, too. With Richard the
miller, who is due to come bust-
ing in any time calling out for
his dear little missus and a hot
meal and his slippers where they
ought to be. So we got to be
quick and we don’t want none
of Keough’s boys around.
She’s right on the dot. The
green sports comes round the
corner with its headlights on and
I see a woman in it and, think-
ing about Keough’s tall man, I
step out and grab the door be-
fore she stops and open it and
slip in and say, “Get out of here
quick; someone’s following
me.
I got to hand it to her for
being quick. She don’t even
look round but hits the accelera-
tor and takes a couple of corners
and heads out along a straight
street with thick trees on either
kerb.
She’s got a scarf over her head
and a fur coat with the collar
up and all I can see is her nose
and the eye on my side of her
face. It’s a longish nose for a
woman and the eye is the kind of
eye worn by women who aren’t
girls any more and know their
way about.
“Who’s following you?” she
says out of the coat-collar.
“Never mind. He’s lost me
now. Pull up somewhere.”
She pulls into the kerb under
one of the big trees and kills
her headlights and the engine.
So we’re sitting there in the dark.
I get to wondering what she
looks like, a woman who could
play around with Fat. I can’t
see her features in the dark, but
I can feel her the way you feel
a woman who keeps her body l
clean and uses a little perfume
and wears silk underneath. The
fur never came from no rabbits,
because it’s got the smell that
puts it up in the big guineas
bracket. Elaine has a smell,
too. It’s made up of the fur
and her perfume and her clean
body and her hair and herself,
and my mouth gets a little dry
thinking about that. For about
a half-second I have a sort of
dreaip of my hands going in
under the fur and holding her
and feeling for her mouth with
my own. But it no more than
starts to be a dream when she
cuts it short.,
“Be quick. Where is the
letter?”
“Where’s the dough?”
“I must be sure —how do I
know you’re not?”
I reach in my pocket for the
pencil-copy of the letter and
hold it to her.
“Switch on your dash-light
and read it.”
She reached out and flipped
the switch and took the copy and
held it under the little light.
While she does this I try to see
her face, but there’s no more
than the nose and part of a
cheek, and the eye on my side,
and it’s all shadowy. She reads
the copy in about one second
flat, and her fingers crush it up
and she turns away from me and
I feel a sort of stiffening of her
body. Then it relaxes and she
trembles so much I think maybe
she’s going to faint.
But Elaine isn’t the fainting
sort. The trembling stops and
she says, sharply, “This isn’t the
letter! ”
I’m waiting for her to say
just that.
“The real one’s here. You
got the dough?”
“I must know whether you
really have it,”
I pull the letter opt and hold
it near the dash-light, away from
her, because I think she might
grab at it. I don’t want that
letter torn.
She pulls a shoulder-bag
round from where she’s had it
between her hip and the door of
the car. I think she’s going to
get the frogskins out of it. What
she does is shove the car-door
open and slip out of the car and
then turn round and reach in
and poke a little gun at me. I
get a prickle all up my back
because this gun is one of them
little short-nosed twenty-twos.
It shoots a bullet no bigger
than a dried-pea, but you get a
dried-pea in your heart or may-
be between your eyes at about
two feet range and it does you
just as well as a forty-five. She’s
got me plenty worried because
they teach you unarmed combat
in the commandos but they don’t
say nothing about sitting in a
sports car while the person with
the gun is outside and standing
up and can duck from your
slightest move or shoot a lead
pea at you without a chance of
missing.
“Now give me the letter!”
A person means to shoot they
do it, quick, without talk. So
Elaine talks it means she reckons
to get the letter without shoot-
ing. All right, so she talks I got
time to think.
“You wouldn’t shoot, Mrs.
Paterson. I’d be a damn’ sight
more trouble to you if you
did.”
“You give me the letter. If
you don’t I’ll shoot. I’d sooner
shoot you and get the letter and
then put up with trouble than
have my husband”
' “Be a lot easier to pay the
money. That way you get the
letter and no fuss.”
“I haven’t got the money. I
don’t trust you. I know what
you think about me. It isn’t for
me I’d pay the money if I had
it. It’s for my husband. I’ll
shoot you because of him if you
don’t give me the letter.”
“You scared of him?”
“Scared of RichardJ ” She
gave a little laugh.
I leaned a little towards her
and looked out past her head
and said, “0.K., Jim, grab the
gun before she”
Old tricks are as good as new
ones in the right places.
She only half-turned her head
when it come to her that it was
a trick, but by that time my right
hand had her wrist and my left
was forcing her thumb back so
that she had to drop the little
gun. She gave a choked-off
scream and I let her hand go.
She pulled back and I got the
gun from the floor and opened
the door on my side and slid out
and round the car and faced her.
She was nearly as tall as me.
There was some light from a
distant street-lamp and I see her
face white against the night.
While I looked at her she leaned
over and rested against the car
and dropped her head and I
heard her crying.
She’d had me scared plenty
while I was in the car and that
little gun looking at me. Now
I was on top and I felt like
smacking her down. But I still
had a hundred frogskins to col-
lect, and if I smack her down
she’ll likely get to screaming;
because you get a woman all
tensed-up and then it snaps and
she starts hysterics, and before
you know it there’s a crowd
around. So I wait a minute or
two while she eases it off with
tears and get a hold of myself.
“Look,” I say. “You was too
sudden, Mrs. Paterson. You
might of shot me. That
wouldn’t have been good, no
good at all. You better get back
in the car.”
She don’t say anything, just
turns and gets back in the car.
I put my head down and talk to
her, keeping my voice quiet.
“Look. I got to have that
dough. You was too sudden.
Just because you didn’t have it
right away didn’t mean you had
to rush out here and talk
about shooting me. I can wait.
I can wait maybe a week. But
I got to have it. You get what
I’m saying?’”
“Yes.” Her voice is, all
crowded up because she’s keep-
ing her head down and she’s all
stirred-up inside.
“You get the dough I give
you the letter and it’s all done
with, see? What you do is go
home now and start getting the
dough. I’ll call you tomorrow
or maybe the next day to see
how it is. But I got to have it
and it won’t do for you to stall
me.”
“You won’t —the police—
Richard —the inquest?”
“Not if you get the dough.
You better get going, Mrs.
Paterson.”
She gets out a handkerchief
and wipes her eyes and clears
her nose. I’m watching her,
and I can’t see her face, but I
can see she’s sort of blown-out.
She starts the motor and the
car moves. I don’t want no guns
about me and so I throw the
little gun in on the seat and
then watch the car pick up and
go away.
So I got to wait for my money
and right now I got a date with
Kathy. I light a cigarette and
get my bearings and head for
the main street. I got maybe a
mile to walk and I got to make
it .snappy if I want to be on time
with Kathy. I haven’t the hun-
dred frogskins, but I’ll get them.
T don’t mind waiting, now it’s
sure, because I got to wait any-
how. Keough will see to that.
Keough looks like he’ll want me
for the coroner when they in-
quest on Fat. He still wants me
for Martini. He put a tail on
me tonight and maybe the tail
has reported about me taking a
taxi to the Baptist Church and
how he lost me. Right now, if
I’m guessing right, Keough’s
tail and maybe three or four
more johns is searching Black
Springs for me. So I make it
back to the town quick and
pick up Kathy and go to the
movies it sets them back. May-
be they’ll want to know what
I’m taking taxis to church for.
Well, maybe I’ll tell ’em—
maybe.
So I keep a lookout for search-
ing johns as I pad back to the
main town and don’t worry
about keeping in the shadow. I
walk under street-lights, where
anybody can see me, because
I’m just a gink going to meet his
girl and take her to the movies.
And I’m crossing the mouth
of a dark lane running off be-
tween some unlighted shops
when somebody in the lane calls,
“Delaney! ”
I stop, looking in the lane,
because the tone of the voice
rings a bell somewhere and I’m
trying to recall which one of
Keough’s boys got a voice like
that. But it’s so dark in the lane,
I can’t see anybody. I must of
dreamed it, I reckon, and start
to walk on.
“Delaney!”
It’s no dream this time, be-
cause the voice is low and it
means business.
“Who’s that?”
“Put your hands on your hat
and walk slow towards me!”
“What!”
“You heard me.”
“What the hell!”
“You heard me, mate. I got
a gun on you, and I ain’t par-
ticular about keepin’ you alive.
Put your hands up on your hat
and walk slow, Delaney.”
I put up my hands and start
into the lane, slow. My back is
prickling and my heart thump-
ing and I’m a whole lot scared.
This is the second time tonight!
been under a gun, only this
time it isn’t a woman holding it.
Because now I remember.
There’s only one man I know
got that flat, hard voice. And
when I identify the voice I
identify the tall, thin gink who
tailed me to the post-office and
watched me take the taxi.
There’s only one man got that
voice, and that figure and would
carry a gun in Black Springs.
Peters!
(To be continued next week)


PRODUCTS OE THE
ROOTES
GROUP*
Rootes GROUP
PRESENTS
m
jr
■
"Si&s? ■■'•iv.
' ' '■■■' -r~ ;- r ’«~- r
< ®
Hi
:.Av
■'
:
i I
V
THE^en/
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
Here is the car that takes you straight into “A New Era” of
finer motoring. The new immensely powerful “Blue Riband”
O.H.V. engine, new coil suspension, supreme comfort, panor-
amic vision, and elegant styling provide a new best in powerful
luxurious motoring.
, -
gl
M
im
mm
.
I
i
m
IB
mm
THE
HUMBER HAWK
Brilliant new styling, beauty of line and a fine performance,
coupled with economy are the hallmarks of the new Humber
Hawk. Here is your opportunity to own and drive a car of
distinction, elegance and quality, ideal for business and family
needs, yet moderately priced.
’'
■
MM
ii:
r m
1
, v.
mm
THE
HILLMAN MINX
Twenty-one years of progress and achievement are behind the
new “Anniversary” Hillman Minx. Twenty-one thousand
million miles have perfected this latest member of the family for
you, providing new appearance, all round increased economy,
more comfort and still greater refinement in every detail.
-v-V-v -■ * .•
J'- '■ , ‘ . , ' . v-r-
-.
HUMBER, HILLMAN,
Products of the Rootes Group, Melbourne, Australia.
SUNBEAM-TALBOT CARS • CONNER, HARRIER TRUCKS


Sydney's Fantastic "Green-belt"
The Cumberland Plan
By "JINDIVICK"
FEW legislative acts in our
day and generation have
impressed themselves more
vividly upon the minds of
the ordinary citizen than the
New South Wales Local Gov-
ernment (Town and Country
Planning) Amendment Act,
1945, and the additional amend-
ment of 1951, which brought
the actual Cumberland County
Plan into being.
Town-planning has long been
a recognised science in Europe
and America, whilst the Ancient
World has revealed evidence of
planned towns and cities.
Nevertheless, modem town-
planning has usually been
practised in association with the
development of new towns in
open country, pruning ribbon-
development to force lateral
growth and replanning bomb-
blasted cities and towns.
Under conditions such as
these the planners have been able
to give free rein to their theories
and imagination. They have
been able to experiment to their
hearts’ content. When one field
has been covered, there has
always been another on which to
try out new ideas or correct
mistakes.
Then the planners came to
Sydney, and commenced by
pointing out the “harm” done in
150 years of development from
the primeval to the present.
Sydney’s “plan,” and those
which Newcastle and
Wollongong-Port Kembla will
get in due course, are very
patently the dreams of theorists
and planners trained under con-
ditions other than those pre-
sented by cities working at high
pressure in an age marked by the
rapidity of the changes of needs
and conditions, <
Since June 27, 1951, when the
plan received Royal assent, many
thousands of property-owners in
the County of Cumberland have
been affected by its provisions.
Some have no cause for com-
plaint ; others might be excused
for going screaming-mad.
Few indeed are able to under-
stand the scheme sufficiently to
be able to say with any degree of
assurance just what is their posi-
tion in respect to their property
at any given time, mainly be-
cause of the multiplicity of
authorities concerned in the
administration and implementa-
tion of the scheme, with result-
ant contradiction and buck-
passing.
The booklet issued by the
Cumberland County Council
excuses the scheme in the fol-
lowing terms: “So that hap-
hazard, mixed development and
other evils of the past will not
be perpetuated by new building,
the ordinance provides that
buildings may be erected on any
particular land, or the buildings
or land used, only in conformity
with the appropriate zoning. For
all development, other than
dwelling-houses in Living Areas,
it is necessary to obtain planning
permission from the authority
responsible for the particular
use. The responsible authorities
are described in Part 1 of this
booklet.” They are listed as
being the Cumberland County
Council and the local municipal
or shire councils.
It is worth noting that the
Cumberland County Council is
responsible for:
Land subject to reservation
or restriction for ‘Open Spaces’
and for County Roads or rail-
ways;
Green-belt zones;
Special Uses zones; .
and, irrespective of zones or
reservation, for:
Lands of the Crown or of any
public-utility undertaking;
Places of scientific or historic
interest;
Controlled-access roads and
restriction of ribbon-develop-
ment.
Under the Act, the entire
County of Cumberland is
divided into zones Living
Areas ; Restricted Living Areas ;
Industrial Areas Class A, Class
B and Glass B Reserved, Water-
front, Extractive, Offensive and
Hazardous ; Business and Com-
mercial Centres County, Dis-
trict ; Green Belt, Rural Areas;
Special-use Areas; Undeter-
mined Areas.
The County Plan provides a
broad plan or scheme for the
development or redevelopment
of any area, but it is the respon-
sibility of the local authority to
prepare the detailed scheme.
Thus it is that property-owners
find themselves shuttling back
and forth between the County
Council and their local council
in what is frequently a vain
endeavor to find out what’s
going on.
“Living-area” zones seek to
provide for residences and all the
facilities and amenities associated
with residential areas.
The plan prohibits industries
in these living-areas other than
what are termed “local light
industries.” These are restricted
to a floor-space of 5000 square
feet, do not require any services
other than those normally
supplied to a living-area, and
must not generate traffic likely to
create danger or congestion on
residential roads. Permission
for the erection of dwellings in
these areas is not necessary
beyond the usual requisite that
plans must be approved by the
local authorities.
“Restricted living-areas” are
areas which the County Council
has set aside for future develop-
ment, taking it upon itself
to say that an owner of land in
this type of zone must wait until
services are available or seek
suitable laijd elsewhere if he is
not prepared to wait. The Act
provides that “restricted living-
areas” must be reviewed every
three years. Affected owners
have the right to appeal against
an adverse council decision direct
to the Minister for Local
Government.
Just as industrial premises are
generally precluded from resi-
dential areas, so in “industrial
zones” houses and other resi-
dential buildings are prohibited,
other than those that are neces-
sary for the use of persons whose
residence locally is essential to
an industry in the zone.
Class A areas may contain all
types of industry other than
those of an offensive or
hazardous nature, and even
these may be permitted if the
siting or other conditions are
suitable. Class, B industries are
described as “those which do not
interfere with the amenity of the
neighborhood by causing noise,
vibrations, smell, soot, fumes,
dust or other nuisances.”
As with Reserved Living-areas,
Industrial Areas, Class B
Reserved, are potential industrial
areas where industrial develop-
ment is deemed not immediately
desirable because of the present
nature of the development or
because of the lack of essential
services. A number of the older
residential suburbs have been
brought into this classification—
a sentence of dekth by decay.
Considerable restrictions are
placed upon other types of indus-
tries according to their nature
and the conditions they require
for their successful location.
Thus waterfront industries are
carefully vetted to ensure that
those needing a deep-water
frontage get deep water, whilst
those that require only shallow
water do not encroach on the
deep water. Extractive industries
—those that take their raw
materials from the earth —pot-
teries, brickworks, etc., and
offensive or hazardous industries
which require isolation from
other buildings may be per-
mitted in Green-belt areas or in
Rural Areas with the consent of
the County Council or the local
council.
The City of Sydney and the
major suburban centres have
been reserved for County Centre
and District Centres respectively.
These areas are reserved for
administrative- and shopping-
centres, and for the most part
industries are prohibited.
All the zones to which refer-
ence has already been made, to-
gether with certain “Special-use
Areas” (an example of which is
the zoning of a very large area
in the vicinity of the Sydney
University, which takes in much
residential property in Dar-
lington and the Missenden-road
area adjacent to the hospitals),
apply to the intensively de-
veloped residential and indus-
trial areas of Sydney, including
the eastern, southern and much
of the western suburbs, especially
Redfern, Waterloo, Erskineville,
Newtown and St. Peters. In
these districts the entire face of
the earth will ultimately change
as roads are rededicated, dwel-
lings appear where factories now
stand and factories where houses
are. Through and around these
districts the plan envisages the
provision of expressways,
secondary roads, parks, railways
designed to expedite the flow of
traffic into, out of and through
or around these areas, according
to its nature.
Thus traffic moving across the
city from one side to the other
is to be hurried across as quickly
as possible, whilst provision is
there for the traffic • which
requires to move into and
remain in a business or industrial
area.
Having provided for the
expanding needs of industry and
commerce—in their own fashion
—the planners have also turned
their attention to the provision
of breathing-spaces for the
health and recreation of the
residents and the toilers. They
have also given a thought to the
food requirements of the
populace.
Many districts have been
zoned as “Rural,” and set apart
for market-gardening, orchards,
pig- and poultry-raising, etc.
These properties must be of not
less than five acres in extent, and
houses for rural workers or
“country dwellings” may be
erected with consent of the
County Council.
All in all, the Cumberland
County Town Planning Scheme
amounts to about forty separate
plans in varying stages of de-
velopment, according to the
degree of enthusiasm of the par-
ticular local authority respon-
sible for the areas. To some
extent, residents in a locality
controlled by an enthusiastic
council are fortunate in that they
are not left in doubt regarding
the effects of the local planning.
In other areas, where the local
council “couldn’t care less” and
little progress has been made
with the local plan, property-
owners know that a plan affects
their district, and that some day
its effects may be more or less
severely felt by them, but they
suffer the disability of uncer-
tainty and confusion as to the
precise position at any given
time.
Over and above all the muni-
cipal plans that have been pre-
pared in conjunction with the
master-plan, the Council of the
City of Sydney has drawn up a
plan covering the city itself and
its satellite suburbs. This plan,
which has not yet attained the
force of law, differs sharply from
the plan of the Cumberland
County Council for the same
district and has 'many contro-
versial features.
Among the most important
of these is the limitation of
floor-space in the city area as a
result of which it is -proposed to
reduce the city working popula-
tion. This is achieved by apply-
ing a “space-index factor” to
every building in the city, and
multiplying this factor by the
sum of the site-area and an area
equal to the road-frontage multi-
plied by half the street-width.
This mathematical formula pro-
duces the total permissible floor-
area of the building that may be
erected on the site to replace the
existing structure. As a result of
this limitation, many of the city’s
finest buildings Hordern’s,
Farmers, David Jones, etc. —
when due for replacement will be
cut down to a maximum of four
stories. The whole nature of
Sydney will change, and history,
if given the chance, may be able
to say if the planners were right.
Criticism of the town-planning
scheme has been constant and
severe from the moment the
Interim Development Plan was
first announced. Because the
plan affects so many people with
many and varying interests, that
is to be expected. Some people
have said nothing. These—such
as the owners of land in areas
like Bankstown, who found their
property appreciate in value
overnight, as the result of the
re-zoning of the district “Indus-
trial”—have found the plan of
more than passing benefit.
Many others, such as the owners
of large commercial properties
in the city and near suburbs,
finding they stand to lose many
thousands of pounds, are com-
plaining loudly and bitterly.
Examination of the plan
reveals the hand of the theorist
rather than the practical mind.
Quite improper is the constant
reference to “the mistakes of the
early developers of Sydney.”
The second-largest city of the
British Commonwealth was not
made by mistakes in a Uttle over
150 years. It was developed to
meet the needs of the times, and,
if the early engineers and’
architects, businessmen and poli-
ticians failed to envisage the
great strides that were to be
made by commerce, industry and
agriculture following upon the
invention of the internal-
combustion engine, we in our
time are displaying precious
little imagination in our own
approach to development
problems.
Bearing in mind the scientific
wonders which are appearing
every other day in the field of
transportation, the very recent
development of atomic energy,
have we any really good ground
for planning great networks of
roads in and around the metro-
politan area —roads that will cost
millions of pounds to construct
after many millions have been
expended upon the acquisition
of land and buildings? If scien-
tific progress continues for the
next twenty-five years at the
rate of the last twenty-five, road-
transport may well have given
way to some form of aerial
carriage of passengers and goods
that will call for numerous small
landing-fields—on the roofs of
the railway-stations* for instance.
In that case a future genera-
tion will be wondering at the
mentality of the people who
built miles of concrete ribbons
for a transport system that relies
largely upon the air.
The scheme itself is open to
considerable criticism from a
planning viewpoint. The
administration of it is vulner-
able from several angles. Apart
from anything else, it is
obvious to anyone who cares to
spend five minutes considering it
that it will take many years to
implement, will cost the nation
millions of pounds—and that
there is no money in “kitty” to
meet the cost. In addition, the
Government does not appear to
budget for the plan.
It is debatable whether a
scheme is good or bad that takes
from the reach of the lower-paid
element in the community
thousands of choice home-sites,
creating a shortage of such land
with a consequent sharp upward
trend in land-prices and -values.
In a county bounded by so
great a seaboard, by so many
acres of national parks and
reserves, crisscrossed by so much
“rough” country which can never
be built up, and watered by so
many rivers, the necessity of
reserving so much otherwise
good building-land for “open
spaces” is open to question. It
is little satisfaction to know that
the County Council says it is
prepared to buy building-blocks
from owners in such zones. The
owners bought it to build their
homes upon, and to buy else-
where generally costs much more
than what they receive for the
land they are prevented from
using.
Then, in the Sutherland Shire,
for example, ofie can have one’s
choice of “rural” land —in five-
acre lots —that is far too poor to
feed a bandicoot, land that
consists of six inches of gravel
over rock: or choice land next
to a suburban railway-station—
at £9OO an acre. The position is
ludicrous. Who could economi-
cally farm either?
The plan is said to have been
drawn up with a view to adjust-
ment where it is seen to be


QUEENSLAND
ELECTRICITY
■
PEAK
t, n 1,. imhili ■ hml i MH.
v j|v IT 8% ,] I w
i.,iv....l I i——
PS*- e«Nt !NTE*eST4-'’'(. :1,<4
a r s- t ir h
Notable for Its national significance, Its security; and the magnificent
support It receives the Queensland State Electricity Loan has un?
challenged distinction. Gilt-edged, offering interest at ’ peak-level . , ,
It Is the most attractive investment of Its kind in all Australia today!
REPAYMENT IN FULL AT MATURITY IS GUARANTEED
BY THE QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT
• Interest rate h MORE than DOUBLE Bank interest. Interest is paid half-yearly.
• You can Invest £5O or any multiple of £5O for either an 8 years or 20 years term.
• The Loan is a Gilt-edged investment. Subscriptions to the loan are free of exchange.
Queensland State Electricity Loan bonds .can be reconverted to cash, if desired.
APPLY NOW through any branch of the Commonwealth Bank, direct to
the office of the Queensland State Electricity Commission in Brisbane, or to.
any member of the Stock Exchange.
CLOSING TUESDAY!
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co., Melbourne.
LOAN CLOSES 3rd NOV., 1953
unworkable or unnecessary or
where development necessitates
alterations. Experience of many
people indicates that no matter
how earnest its authors may have
been in their belief that they
were creating something that
could be readily adapted to
changing conditions, they
patently calculated without tak-
ing into account the bureaucrats
who are charged with adminis-
tering the plan.
A bureaucrat is a little man
with big powers. He seldom sees
beyond the big stick he wields.
He shows us —and be damned to
us. Ask him a simple question
about the plan—and you’ll wait
weeks for a reply. Why? Is it
because he doesn’t know the
answer and has to find an
“expert” to tell him, or because
he just isn’t disposed to do any-
thing in a hurry and you cannot
make him? Whatever the
reason, his dithering and dally-
ing is costing the country
thousands of pounds a year in
lost time in the offices of lawyers,
agents, builders and the like.
Buyers of property become dis-
couraged after weeks of waiting
and change their minds about
completing their purchases.
Owners lose opportunities of
developing their land. Profes-
sional men do much abortive
work —lost money because they
are not able to charge for work
not completed. Even where the
planners agree to some change in
the plan—such as re-zoning of
green-belt land to living area —
the simple task of publishing the
particulars in the Government
“Gazette” to make the change
effective and legal takes, in some
cases, more than a year.
This wholesale blotting of titles
has overnight changed many
holdings, virtually, from free-
hold to leasehold. Owners are
no longer able to look at their
houses or their paddocks and
say “This is mine to do as I like
with,” Instead of reading his
title-deed, he has to take notice
of a certificate that his local
council will issue to him under
the provisions of Section 342 AS
of the Local Government Act to
ascertain the extent of his right
to the land he bought and paid
for. That certificate will tell him
the extent to which his property
is affected_by the plan, and the
planners will tell him what goes
from there on. Every owner of
land in the County of Cumber-
land should seek a certificate
under Section 342 AS from his
local council. It costs five
shillings, and may take any-
thing from one week to six
weeks to get. Having got it, if
he has any doubt about what it
means he should take it to his
lawyer or his estate-agent, who
will advise him how to exercise
his rights as an owner of affected
property.
The sands of time are running
out. The time-limit for lodg-
ment of claims for compensa-
tion for injurious affection aris-
ing out of the plan expires on
December 31 next —in about
two months’ time. Not much
time for the experts to prepare
claims for compensation, especi-
ally as so many are in doubt as
to the basis of such claims.
From a practical viewpoint,
the plan would have received
more support had it been a more
workable proposal. Are Sydney’s
roads too few, too small for
Sydney’s traffic streams? Yes!
Very good. What is needed?
A cross-town highway with
another bridge over the harbor
to divert through-traffic from the
city! Again very good! Cal-
culate the cost, allocate the
money, draw the plans, acquire
the necessary property, compen-
sate the dispossessed owners for
the property they have to give
up, and for the disturbance they
suffer in acquiring property else-
where and re-establishing them-
selves in their new location, and
get on with the construction of
the new bridge and highway.
That, however, is not the way
of planners. Dealing with a
problem in that manner would
put them out of business too
quickly. That such a happening
was never further from their
minds is indicated by the
premises they have acquired in
Sydney, and the chain-of-office
recently draped around the neck
of the chairman of the County
Council. They anticipate living
for many years to administer
their plan, which will depend
upon the goodwill and healthy
financial condition of a multi-
plicity of Government depart-
ments as well as of private enter-
prise to bring it to fruition.
Construction of the roads and
railways envisioned in the plan
is the responsibility of the Main
Roads Board and the depart-
ment of Railways—and from
present appearances will not take
place for many years to come,
Nevertheless, the mere fact of
planning such roads and railways
has imposed extreme hardship
on many people who, desiring to
sell their properties, find that
purchasers are not interested,
Meantime, rates payable to local-
government authorities on
affected land have generally in-
creased enormously since the
Cumberland Plan became law.
Planners insist that in theory
these properties have lost nothing
in value because the owners will
not suffer interference until con-
struction is put in hand, and at
that time they will be compen-
sated at the market valuation of
the land. Practical experience
indicates that purchasers are not
interested in affected properties
at the current market-prices, and,
even if prepared to take a
chance that they would be left in
possession for as long as they
need the property, they find that
lending institutions are not pre-
pared to advance money for the
financing of such purchases. In
this way many people who are
compelled by circumstances to
move away from their property
are subjected to real hardship be-
cause the plan makes no provi-
sion for acquisition of improved
property by the County Council.
Added difficulties arise from
the fact that few of the zone
or reserve boundaries have been
surveyed—they are just lines
drawn on maps, and it is prac-
tically impossible to ascertain the
exact limits of the affected areas.
This makes all the difference to
the saleable qualities of some
properties, as is instanced in the
case of a place at Auburn, where
an intending purchaser bought
on condition that sufficient of the
property would remain unaf-
fected to enable him to erect a
factory of specified dimensions.
Inquiry from one authority indi-
cated that the property would be
suitable for his requirements. A
check inquiry from another in-
terested authority brought the
reply that “the property is likely
to be wholly affected.” Result —
no sale.
The only certain thing about
the entire scheme is the fact that
Sydney is stuck with it, whether
it likes it or not.
Property-owners look appre-
hensively at maps of the scheme
and say “It’ll cost too much —
the Government’ll have to chuck
it away—they’ll never be able to
finance it.” They hope they are
right. They aren’t overconfident
about their beliefs. The N.S.W.
Government continues to talk
about decentralisation —knowing
that they daren’t kill Sydney, no
matter how they may abuse her,
and decentralisation means tak-
ing great chunks of Sydney’s
livelihood away and starting new
cities elsewhere, which probably
would kill her.
Meanwhile the planners just
go on planning. For them it’s a
good job—easy, well paid, and
safe as long as there are enough
suckers on the electoral rolls in
and around Sydney. And it
looks as though there are!


SPORTING NOTIONS
Australia’s greatest race, the
£14,550 Melbourne Cup, two
miles, will be run at Flemington
next Tuesday afternoon. Of that
big'' prize the owner of the
second horse will receive £2BOO
and third £l4OO. The £550
represents value of the trophy.
The V.R.C. has everything
ready for a successful four-days’
carnival, and the customary
high pitch of racing excitement
prevails in Melbourne. Thous-
ands of visitors from all parts of
the Commonwealth already are
there for the opening day, next
Saturday, when the programme
includes the £6OOO Derby, the
£2OOO Mackinnon Stakes
(w.-f.-a.), the £2OOO- Cantala
Stakes for the best milers and
the £2500 Maribyrnong Plate.
The £lOOO Wakeful Stakes and
the £l5OO Hotham Handicap
are also on the programme.
Winner of the last-named does
not incur a penalty for the Cup.
• • • •
From the running of the Hot-
ham and the Derby, and maybe
to a lesser degree the Mac-
kinnon Stakes, additional light
should be thrown on Cup pros-
pects. In the Derby Prince Morvi
remains the popular choice.
His chief danger in the classic
should be Victorian-owned and
-trained Cromip.
The Hotham Handicap will
include a number of Melbourne
Cup acceptors. Foxzami in 1949
won both the Hotham and the
Cup, as did Dark Felt in 1943.
Over the years the Hotham has
been a Cup guide.
Hydrogen could have a fairly
easy task in the Mackinnon
Stakes this Saturday if his
owner decides to start him
against what looks modest
opposition. If he runs and wins
he will have his chance to equal
the performances of the last
three winners of the Mackinnon,
Dalray, Delta and Comic
Court, all three going on to win
the Melbourne Cup three days
later. The Trump, in 1937, also
won both events.
It hasn’t paid to support aged
horses in the Melbourne Cup.
They have won only seven
times since the Cup was first run
in 1861. The six-year-olds‘have
had 14 wins, four-year-olds
leading with 25 firsts. Three-
year-olds and five-year-olds
have each won 23 Cups. Four-
year-olds likely to be in the Cup
picture next Tuesday include
Welloch, Wodalla, Advocate and
Lord Forrest. Fancied five-year-
olds include Hydrogen, Friendly
Feeling and Shell Fire. Six-
year-olds appear stronger this
year than for some seasons past;
they are likely to be represented
by My Hero (Caulfield Cup),
Earldom and Windsor.
r X:. . /
Odds against a mare landing
the Melbourne Cup should al-
ways be reasonably long because
of their poor record in the two-
miler, and there could be the
usual seasonal reason. Few
have started in the race. How-
ever, Sydney-owned and trained
five-year-old mare Friendly
Feeling has been specially set
for the Cup, in which she fin-
ished eighth last spring. Though
she has won races over a middle
distance and finished third in the
last Sydney Cup to Carioca, she
is unproved as a real stayer, and
with eight stone to carry will
find the opposition tough. Her
sire, Delville Wood (imp.), was
a good stayer in England, while
her dam, Platonic, commands
strong staying lines. Artillery-
man, winner of the 1919 Mel-
bourne Cup, figures in the pedi-
gree. Mares to win the Cup
have been Briseis (1876), Acrasia
(1904), Sister Olive (1921),
Rivette (1939) and Rainbird
(1945)..
Cup selections: Wodalla, 1;
Welloch, 2; My Hero, 3.
Victoria Derby: Prince
Morvi, 1; Cromis, 2; Walu, 3.
Wodalla’s record prior to his
excellent second in the Caulfield
Cup and his brilliant runaway
victory in the Moonee Valley
Cup was only modest; he
appears to have come really
good in a matter of weeks. He
won the Caulfield 1010 Welter
(nine furlongs) with 9.11 on
October 10 on a holding track,
starting favorite. Then came
his fine effort in the Caulfield
Cup to reach second place to
My Hero, the race run in fast
time as the track was in splendid
order. In that mile-and-a-half
he showed staying ability, as he
was 12th half a mile from home
and was beaten a neck only. He
also had a wide barrier draw.
Then came the Moonee Valley
Cup, and he won that mile-and-
five in dashing style, almost mak-
ing an exhibition of opponents.
Time for the race, 2.44|, was
average, but the four-year-old
Helios horse wasn’t pressed ; he
might have improved on those
figures.
After the Moonee Valley Cup
Wodalla quickly firmed for the
Melbourne Cup, and his party
expect him to run a great race.
His dam, The Rip, was bred in
1941, by Midstream (imp.), sire
of Delta. The Rip’s dam, Pas-
sage, was got in England and
foaled in Australia. She is by
Salamis from Dark Day (imp.)
by Dark Legend from Nonsuch
by Sunstar from Nonpareil by
Radium.
The Moonee Valley Club
added a record sum of £4OOO to
the W. S. Cox Plate, run at
weight-for-age last Saturday,
when there was a record attend-
ance of 48,000 —too much of a
good thing for comfort at the
Valley. The Cox Plate drew
the best weight-for-age field of
the season, and in winning the
spectacular contest Sydney
champion weight-for-age per-
former Hydrogen added £2BOO to
his stake earnings, as well as
gaining a £2OO trophy. The
crack performer has now won
£54,029, and further wins at the
big V.R.C, meeting should take
him past Phar Lap’s Australian
record, £56,425. So far, the
black horse has had 48 starts for
23 wins and 15 minor placings.
V.R.C. vice-chairman E. A.
Underwood and his trainer, R.
Sinclair, hit the jackpot at
Moonee Valley when they won
a double with Wodalla (Cup)
and Spritsail (St. Alban’s Stakes
for two-year-olds). The owner
bred both winners. Wodalla is
by Helios (imp.), a son of
Hyperion, from The Rip by Mid-
stream (imp.), while Spritsail is
a Masthead (imp.) colt from
Roshanara by Dhoti (imp.) from
Purity by Melfort (imp.) from
Hall Mark’s Sister by Heroic.
Speedy Sydney filly Seofon
was a 2-to-l favorite for Sprit-
sail’s race, but, after showing
brilliant pace from 17 barrier,
tired badly and finished sixth.
Another from Sydney, Lovely
Day, was a moderate second,
Mizzen Top, a winner of the
V.A.T.C. Debutant Stakes,* is a
Masthead three-year-old. Mast-
head is by Blue Peter (imp.). He
was raced in England 10 times
only, and won the St. Leger at
Newmarket.
This coming Saturday at
Randwick backers will be able
io support their fancy for the
Melbourne Cup on the tote.
Kia-Ora stud. Scone (N.S.W.),
supplied the three placegetters
in last Saturday’s Canterbury
Maiden Two-year-old for fillies,
in addition to the winner of the
colts’ division of that event.
Respective winners, Bali Swell
and Finisterre, both are progeny
of imported Channel Swell. Bali
Swell cost owner V. C. Bath
lOOOgns. at the Randwick April
sales. She is a first foal and
closely related to Laudus, a
Randwick and suburban winner
of a few years ago, and the
family lines include four top-
liners of the past, Hall Mark,
Nuffield, Trivalve and Murray
Stream. Bali Swell is trained at
Randwick by Fred Allsop, who
won the colts’ division with
Finisterre. Karen and Shannon’s
sister, Middlebrook, followed
Bali Swell to the winning post.
Grand Vite and Krakatoa,
other winners on the same pro-
gramme, also were bred at Kia-
Ora,
When she first began racing in
Sydney Merry Diane, now a
three-year-old, gave promise of
being an early two-year-old win-
ner, but it was not until the
latest Gosford fixture that she
won, and then at 5-to-l on be-
“Just look at that shameless Mrs. Seatwell flirting with
our bowling-instructor."
cause she had only one oppo-
nent. Merry Diane has a sound
background. She is related to
Young Idea, winner of £18,790
in stakes, including the A.J.C.
Sires’ and Champagne Stakes.
Her dam, Vain Appeal, is a half-
sister to Balmore (a central-
Queensland winner), and is by
Veilmond from Final Appeal
(three-quarter sister to Persua-
sion, dam of Young Idea) by
Thrice from Flowery Speech
(imp.) and tracing back to Per-
simmon.
Three-year-old filly Edelweiss,
winner of a Newcastle Maiden
Mile, starting a warm favorite,
is a daughter of Cragsman and
Bintali by Burhan Ali (imp.)
from New Flower by Nuffield.
Bintali is a half-sister to Alister,
winner of both Derbies and
several other races, including the
W. S. Cox Plate. The family
lines also include Silver Stand-
ard, one of the unluckiest of
horses: he finished second in
both the Melbourne Cup and
Caulfield Cup and was similarly
placed in other important handi-
caps. Newtown Boy, winner
of Newcastle’s Three-year-old
Maiden, is another of the
speedy Newtown Wonder’s, His
dam, Elope, is a Dark Lover
(imp.) mare from Daring by
Brazen (imp.).
• • • .
The Randwick-trained New-
town Wonder (imp.) col t Towns-
man earned a modest sum to-
wards his cost of 2000 guineas
when he won a Two-year-old
Maiden at the latest Hawkes-
bury meeting. He outclassed the
weak opposition, scoring by
half-a-dozen lengths. Buzgold,
dam of the colt, is a sister to
Auto Buz, a winner of the
Q.T.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes,
Guineas and Derby, as well as a
Tattersall’s (Sydney) Cup. Buz-
gold was got by The Buzzard
(imp.) from Gold Frock by
Seremond (imp.) from Golden
Robe by Syce (imp.). Towns-
man’s bloodlines include some
interesting winners of past years,
best known among them being
Autumn Wind (Queensland);
Anpapejo (13 wins at Fleming-
ton, Randwick and Canterbury,
including hurdle events), Trago-
pan (Brisbane Cup), and Al-
moner (A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate).
Owners and trainers of horses
not quite up to Sydney standard
were complaining a few months
ago of a lack of opportunities
for their moderate gallopers, but
going by some recent meetings,
particularly in the near-northern
centre, there could be an over-
dose of fixtures or poor pro-
gramming. At the latest Gos-
ford fixture two horses con-
tested a Maiden scamper over
five furlongs, three competed
in the Three-and-four-year-old
Novice, and three in the main
event, the Gosford Handicap.
Should Sydney Turf Club secure
even a partial resumption of
mid-week racing—and there are
prospects of this coming about —■
some provincial clubs will ex-
perience an even leaner spin.
“A.G.”: Charlie Howie, cen-
tral figure of a recent newspaper
story of a once-rich bookmaker
who lost a fortune, was a noted
character of the paddock ring
at the old “pony” courses. He’ll
be best remembered as the
“£lOO to £1 treble” fielder. He
had a habit of pinning a £ 100-
note on one of the top corners
of his immense betting-board,
the biggest on the ground.
Punters occasionally picked the
winners of the selected three
races and were paid the £lOO
note. One day, in the excitement
of rushing off to see a race and
how the third “leg” of his
treble was shaping, Charlie for-
got to remove the £lOO-note.
When he returned it had van-
ished! Another bookie had
noticed it sitting pretty, simply
waiting to be taken away, and
temporarily took care of the
hundred “smackers.” Charlie
panicked for about ten minutes ;
then the note was returned to
him. He never put another on
his betting-board.
“M.”: Big horses (B.
30/9/’53)? While not a big
stake-winner, a prad named
Tiny that raced in Sydney in
the ’twenties Pleasured 18 hands,
and I remember a really good
sprinter named Balarang who
was about 17.3. I saw him
stroll home in The Shorts at
Randwick in 1919 (I think) with
over list, on his back, beating
a really hot field. Among other
races he won a Carrington, if
memory serves me well.
* ♦
N. von Nida had to shoot a
course record of 66, then break
it by a stroke, to aggregate 278
to win the Australian Open on
Royal Melbourne. The aggre-
gate equalled his own record of
278 when he won the Open in
Perth last year. Von Nida led
by four strokes over Peter
Thomson on the first round,
then fell four strokes behind on
the third round, then turned on
a 65 to win by two strokes.
Seven birdies and an eagle
helped to make the record.
* * *
Former Test - openers Ken
Archer and Jim Burke are head-
ing early next year for the
Lancashire-league, which has
already imported quite a few
from Australia and other parts.
Both will play in this year’s
Sheffield Shield, and will be
away One season. Which means
they’ll be back in Australia when
the Englishmen tour in 1954-55.
Playing in the league might help
their return to Test-cricket.
Burke made a century in his
first Test (101 not out, in the
second innings)—the match was
the fourth against England in
Adelaide in 1950-51. He didn’t
open that time, Morris and
Archer being the starting pair.
In that series and against the
1951-52 West Indies, Burke and
Archer were successively tried
and discarded, and were passed
over altogether against S’Africa
and for the team for England.
Burke has begun well with the
bat in grade-cricket this year.
He is also a spin-bowler of fair
quality. His first-class figures
with the ball have not been out-
standing, apart from taking 4-11
in the first N.S.W.-Vic. tussle
last year (he also made 78 the
same game). But his figures in
the last three Sydney grade-
matches last year are noteworthy
—7-38 and 7-31 in one match,
7-51, and 6-6 and 4-23.
In Lancashire-league Archer
is to play with Accrington; in
a hotel thereabouts back in 1890
was held the meeting which de-
cided to form the league. Other
Australians who’ve been with
Accrington have been. Alan
Fairfax (in the ’thirties) and,
more recently, Queensland left-
hand bowler Mick Raymer.
Burke is going to Todmorden,
which claims as unique in the
league its winning of the (1927)
competition with 11 locally-born
laads!
The Commonwealth side in
India, led by Australian Ben
Barnett and including Loxton
and Meuleman, started off with
three drawn games. Worrell and
Ramadhin, at present with the
side, are returning shortly to
the West Indies to play against
Hutton and Co. They will
probably be replaced by Aus-
tralians—Bill Johnston has been
refused permission to go by the
Board of Control, and Iverson,
who was earlier said to have been
invited, may be asked again.
“K.R.”: Press reports have
wrongly stated that new Indian
cricket-captain “Polly” Umrigar
toured Australia. He went to
England and the West Indies
under Hazare, but definitely did
not come here with Amarnath’s
1947-48 side. Incidentally, after
India’s tour of England, Wisden
said that Hazare, “though a
thorough gentleman and a great
cricketer, was far from an ideal
captain.” Which may help to
explain the change.
* * *
Randolph Turpin having de-
feated South African Duggie
Miller and Frenchman Charles
Hamex early this year, British
boxing enthusiasts thought Tur-
pin would surely win the world
middleweight championship, de-
clared vacant when Ray Robin-
son retired. Turpin had won
this title from Robinson in July,
1951, but lost it in a return
match two months 4ater, so his
supporters seemed justified in
feeling sure he was the best
11.6 boxer anywhere. Turpin,
however, was well beaten on
points by Carl (“Bobo”) Olson
in their title scrap in New York
last week. It’s sufficient com-
ment on what a classy performer
Dave Sands was that he should
have outpointed Olson at Syd-
ney Stadium on March 20, 1950,
and again in Chicago 18 months
later.


RONDI TRAM
by David Camplell
r\ FAT pink woman carry-
/ I ing a baby was hurrying
t I along in the dusty shade
under the fig-trees in the
Domain. The day was hot, and
every now and then the woman
paused for breath, to dab at the
deep runnels in her powder, to
scold the dozen ragged children
straggling and horsing between
the trees. Every time she paused,
the cicadas poured down their
monotonous summer voices like
pain through the flat, leathery
leaves.
“Remember,” the woman said,
“Say nothing; nothing at all.
You understand?”
The boys made possum noises
in imitation of automatic
weapons, and one said “You‘re
dead. Fatty. Why don’t you lie
down?”
“Why don’t we go to Bondi?”
There was a chorus of wails
and laughter.
“I’ll take you to Bondi; but
first you must remember: just
yes and no ; and no skylarking.”
The flat urgency of the
woman’s voice silenced the
children, and they followed her
in the blind sunlight around the
Mitchell Library and across
Macquarie-street.
“Skylarking!” said the oldest
boy. He was a red-headed,
freckled, bitter child of fourteen,
“Who ever saw a skylark any-
way?”
But between the granite cliffs
of Martin - place, in the
anonymous stream of people, he
was suddenly overawed, nerv-
ous ; and he plucked at the
woman’s arm.
“I want to go somewhere,” he
said.
“Oh, all right.”
Waiting with the girls by the
circular iron railings in the
centre of Martin-place, with the
sober buildings toppling on
either side and a road of sky
between, she was suddenly
terrified; a child herself. But
crossing the sticky tar, holding
up the traffic, a Yellow Cab
driver gave her courage, crying
“Hi, Missus, where’s the circus?”
It was the voice of her own
people; an attitude she knew,
and she walked smiling, herding
the younger children before her,
wiggling her great soft shoulders.
“You’ll be right, sport!”
And she needed courage, for
they were there. Here were the
marble steps and the sentries;
and with one word, “Re-
member!” she turned and
climbed the steps, clutching the
baby like a parcel marked
Fragile in her arms. The
children clambered up after her
on tiptoes.
6 6TITHAT can / do for you,
»» madam?”
The clerk behind the inquiry-
counter had the impersonal,
shabby look of the office-
furnishings. Out of breath,
terrified, the woman laid the
baby down between them and
began adjusting its napkin.
“Mrs. Samuals,” she said.
“You’d know my husband.
There —soaked through, and I
only changed him in the park.
You’d hardly credit it!”
She began rummaging in the
cavernous cloth bag on her arm.
The clerk was smiling thinly,
disdainfully, with his top Up.
“You can’t change it here,”
he said. “This is a Government
office, not a creche.”
He was alarmed, not by the
baby, but by the naive intimacy
in the woman’s eyes. He was
used to names in a file, and here
was a human being asking him to
share her sympathy with life.
Her face, in spite of the gross-
ness of her body, was strangely
pure and unwrinkled.
“Oh, don’t worry,” she said.
“I’m looking for his dummy. I
came to see the Minister. Mrs.
Samuals.” Arid she stole a look
at the clerk.
“Have you an appointment,
Mrs. Samuals?”
“He’ll see me,” she said, coax-
ing. “I know he will. He looks
kind. You see, my husband’s in
the Army, in Korea.” And the
gesture of her arm hooked the
children into her argument,
“You should have thought
about that before he left, Mrs.
Samuals.”
“Ring through,” she said.
“Be a sport. I know he’s here,
at a conference. I read it in the
papers.”
“I’m sorry, Mrs. Samuals,” the
clerk said. “You must make
your application in the usual
way—like everybody else. Or if
you care to give me your par-
ticulars ...”
Afterwards she said, “I don’t
know what got into me.” But
she knew she was cornered ; it
was now or never. The private
lift stood opposite, on the
ground floor; the others were
high up in the building. Lean-
ing over to gather up the baby,
she looked at the clerk and
unexpected venom narrowed the
cloudless blue of her eyes.
“You’ll be done over,” she
said, “when George gets back.
They’ll say it’s war neurosis.”
And within an instant she was
in the private lift, dragging half
the children after her. Five were
left; their wails followed the
cable up the lift-well. The clerk
pressed all buttons together. He
had not leapt a counter for
twenty years.
TPHE Minister’s office was on
-*• the top floor, next to the
conference-room. It looked
through slats over flat roofs to
the harbor. Passing ships tugged
at the eye, carried thoughts far
out to sea.
Miss Bempton allowed herself
a moment’s voyage. She was
young, neat and grey-haired.
This morning she was worried,
for her man was in danger.
The Minister was new to the
department, and today he was
discussing Army-appropriations
with headquarters-staff: his first
test. His hat and gloves lay on
the desk, a black hat, sober, but
with a certain flair, a style: that
was the Minister. Miss Bempton
was smiling vaguely at the hat,
conscious of the blur of voices
next-door, when she heard a wail
and a hundred rats’ feet in the
corridor.
The door of the office slammed
open, a huge fair woman with a
baby in her arms smiled briefly,
mechanically, in the doorway,
ragged children squeezed past
her into the room. The woman
shut the door and turned with
wide-scared eyes.
“I’m Mrs. Samuals,” she said,
“Don’t let them touch me.”
Miss Bempton was shocked, at
a loss. The tendons stood out
white at her throat.
“Shushhhhh,” she said.
“Qui-et! No one will harm you.
For goodness’s sake!”
The woman began cuffing the
children, wiping their noses on
the folds of her dress.
“There! You hear the lady:
no one will hurt you. Oh, what
a lot of watercarts! Bondi’s
off, then.”
The baby and children were
crying. The woman blew their
noses, a vast hen, mothering
them.
“Where’s Sn»w and Curly?
They’ll get lost.”
The woman began weeping
herself. Bright pear-shaped tears
splashed down her cheeks on to
the baby.
“It’s my fault,” she said. “I
done wrong. There, there.
There, there,” rocking with grief,
with shanl’e.
“I really must insist...” Miss
Bempton began, but the door of
the conference-room opened.
“What’s this. Miss Bempton?
Bush week? Who are"you?”
“Mrs. Samuals, sir. Oh, it’s
my fault. I done wrong.”
“It certainly looks like it.”
The Minister was annoyed.
He looked at Miss Bempton, who
pitched her shoulders. The
conference had reached a vital
stage. The Army had stated its
objective and dug-in. It was his
t
job to starve them out. And
now this teeming woman . . .
He felt the general s short breath
on 3 neck - ' .„ ,
Give the lady a chair, the
general said.
The general was short, thick,
aggressive. In conversation he
planted his feet, thrust his face
at his listeners. He thought
nothing of ninety days and
reduction to the ranks ; but to
women he was chivalrous. They
made campaigning intelligible,
In the field his men were the
first with mail from home.
“Tch, tch, tch,” he said.
The door to the corridor
opened and the clerk came in.
He was pale, his eyes sick with
spite and headache.
“Five more culprits, sir,” he
said. “Nipped in past me. Very
sorry, sir. Have them out in no
time. Guard’s on its way up.
Kicked me, he did, the little
devil.”
Four children were howling ;
the fifth, the red-haired boy, was
hot-faced, with white finger-
marks on his cheek.
“Gam,” he said. “My dad
could lick you blindfolded.”
The guard grounded arms in
the corridor. Miss Bempton
stood with her shorthand-pad in
her hand. The situation was
unintelligible.
“About-turn: quick-march,”
said the general. *
THE Minister slewed his head
at the clerk.
“Now, Mrs. Samuals?”
The woman felt that all eyes
were on her. With the resilience
of her kind, she shook herself
together. Talking into a flat
compact; dabbing, adjusting,
suddenly at ease, coquetting, as
if in a tram, she said,
“Such a fuss. I’m that hot and
bothered! What a fright,” curl-
ing ice curls. “But I knew it
would come right. Dorothy, take
that thumb out of your mouth
and don’t slummix round like
anybody’s brat. Remember your
father’s fighting in Korea.”
“Are these all yours, Mrs.
Samuals?”
“Oh, yes,” brightening.
“They’re a handful, I can tell
you! I knew you’d see it my
way.”
“And you say your husband’s
in Korea?” The general was
shocked. “What could this man
have been thinking about?”
“I leave it to you, general,”
the Minister said.
He began walking up and
down the room, hands behind
back, like a barrister, taking
smiling side-glances at the
children: an alert, vigorous
broken-nosed man of forty. His
eyes and smile were quick as
birds.
“I hope you won’t hold it
against my George.”
“George Samuals.”
Miss Bempton began taking
notes.
“Tch, tch, tch,” said the
general. He was watching with
A . r
distaste the pacing of the
Minister. _ _
Blay cricket? the Minister
said, halting.
Oh, yes, sir. .
“What’s that you ye got in
Y°ur pocket?
A gun, sir. j
The children relaxed under
his glances.
“Funny thing, general,” the
Minister said. “In my day it was
always ‘Bang-bang’; but today
for our children it’s ‘Grurnxr!’
Like a machine-gun. Isn’t that
so?”
“Grurrrrr,” the boys hissed,
sharp-shooting at the staff
through the doorway.
“Are you a real general?” one
said, •
“I expect you’re real, Tuppy?”
said the Minister.
“Tuppy! ”
The children hooted with
laughter.
“You needn’t laugh,” said the
Minister. “What’s your dad do,
anyway?” to the red-headed boy.
“Works on the docks, sir.”
“Can he fight?”
“Can he! Gee! My dad
sa Y s •• •
“Gam,” said Curly. “My old
man could lick him rotten.”
“My old man ...” said Snow,
The Minister looked at the
general, looked at the woman,
The boys skated through the
doorway, paused, and steadily
eyed the ribbons of the staff.
“Shortie’s got the most,” one
whispered.
They giggled. The woman was
breathing heavily.
“I got to feed the baby,” she
said.
“How long is it,” Miss
Bempton said, “since your
husband left for the north?”
The general suddenly laughed,
a delayed parcel of laughter.
“Their fathers!” he said,
“Fighting men!”
TTE glanced sharply from face
to face, his eyes lively,
forceful, inquiring.
“Very good!”
The woman had started to cry,
but Miss Bempton’s feminine
malice was something she under-
stood.
“All right,” she said. “We
haven’t any children. But have
you? What do you know about
it, anyway?” For a moment
scorn set its flag in her face.
“Frightened to let her chest out
in case someone looks twice!
Why do you think I hang around
with these kids?”
Then, seeing the general’s
shocked, Jcindly face, she threw
great white arms about his neck
and wept bitterly. “You don’t
know what they’re saying! They
say he’s gone through, left me.
It’s not true; him home! ”
“There, there,” said the
general.
His staff caught each other’s
eye in the doorway.
“That’s right,” said the red-
haired boy. He had climbed with
Curly and Snow to the top of the
filing-cabinet. “My dad says the
way they talk fair makes him
throw. I warn you, Curl ...”
“I got here first!” /
The boys started to push each
other from the locker.
“Mind'the baby!” cried Miss
Bempton. She caught up the
bundle of rags by the Minister’s
hat and gloves, rocked it to and
fro against her narrow chest,
gazing down uncertainly.
“Whose baby is it?”
“Here, that’s no way to hold
him!” Mrs. Samuals snatched
up the child. Her forearms were
like babies themselves. “I’m
sorry,” she said, turning, “It
was all a mistake. I got that
worked up, that’s all. It’s lonely
without a man. Come on, kids.”
The children came down from
the cabinets, out from under the
conference-table, stood on one
foot, waiting to go, clustered
about the big pink woman.
“Most irregular,” the general
said. He cleared his throat,
looking at the Minister, stirred
by a profound sadness. Women
and war: they did not mix.
“What’s to be done about her?”
The Minister was pacing again.
He knew all the answers, but
before this woman’s candid eyes
they were meaningless.
“Ever do any cleaning?” he
said. “These offices are intoler-
ably dusty; need some fresh air
in them. We’d be grateful.”
“Oh, yes, sir!”
“Monday, then. See the clerk
at the desk. Miss Bempton will
ring down. But no children.”
“No, sir. You’re a real sport.
Glad to have met you, all of
you. TUI Monday.”
Nodding, smiling, bumping the
furniture, she backed out
through the door.
“Grurrr. Grurrr.”
The boys, retreating, fired
around the jamb.
IN the conference-room, gazing
down between the ink-wells,
the square blotters, the Minister
joined his finger-tips.
“Well, gentlemen, I think we
may come to a compromise.”
“I think so,” said the general.
At her desk next-door Miss
Bempton sat idly frowning. She
took a compact from her bag,
propped it open on the keys of
the typewriter. She gazed
curiously at her image in the
glass; slowly, coloring slightly,
she drew back her pinched
shoulders. A great liner was
passing on the harbor.
Dreamily, with a pain like the
snapping of streamers, it drew
her thoughts out to sea.
And on the Bondi tram,
flushed, jolting, smiling, among
the people and petrol-fumes, by
the pubs and the glazed brick
villas, Mrs. Samuals took the
children to the seaside.
AT NIGHTFALL
He is not less my shepherd.
He,
To mind the Milky Way,
Safely depasturing star and bright-companioned star
Along the trackless valleys of the void;
Not less my shepherd,
Who,
Steering a small soul through time’s labyrinth,
Drives planet flock from whence
To where;
And in a stillness, grey.
Unhurrying swings sun’s lantern high for day,
And gathers greenhoods for the wind’s loose hair;
Folding our frightened souls,
Folds to their separate pens
Quantum of winds, and sounds, and summer smells.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TURNING ON UNCLE SAM
“The deterioration in Anglo-
American relations is perhaps
the most disquieting factor in
contemporary world politics.”—
London “Time and Tide.”
“From rassling around Europe
lately I have been asking myself
a couple of questions—Where
did we fail? Why do they hate
us? And they do hate us. What
did we do so badly that every-
body says ‘Go home, Ameri-
cans’ ? ” — A merican syndicate-
writer Robert Ruark, whose
comments are featured in hun-
dreds of U.S. newspapers.
Anyone regularly reading a
wide range of overseas Press
comment and reports must be
struck from time to time by
one recurrent phenomenon in
particular; that is, whenever the
Bear appears to be a little less
bearish than usual, anti-
Americanism will invariably
crop up as a leading subject of
discussion. That doesn’t apply
to Britain only, as Mr. Ruark
and others have noted.
Most of those discussing it of
course deplore it, but the fact of
its existence remains. Examples
have been given here before;
in the latest outbreak London
“Spectator,” for instance, has
stated;
“Anti - Americanism, which
has never died out in this
country [Britain], however great
the American contribution to
the common Western cause of
peace and prosperity, is in
danger of becoming something
more than a device of Com-
munists or a foible of the woolly-
minded, It is standing in the
way of the sane development of
Western foreign policy.”
The “Spectator” further com-
mented :
“It would no doubt infuriate
our present-day pro-Russians to
tell them that they are behaving
towards Mr. Malenkov in rather
the same way as Neville Cham-
berlain behaved towards Hitler,
until the truth killed his hopes.
But it is true just the same. They
are well on the way to the new
appeasement.
“Yet the fact remains that all
the post-war successes of the
free world against Communist
aggression—in the Berlin block-
ade, on the northern frontier
of Greece and in Korea—have
been scored by the very opposite
of appeasement. Firmness has
paid every time. The North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation
had its origin in the belief that
firmness pays. And yet what
seems to be most strongly ob-
jected to, where Americans are
concerned, is that they go on
thinking that firmness will con-
tinue to pay.
“But we have no real evidence
that they are wrong. AH we
have is an undermining of sane
policy by the insidious prejudice
whose short name is anti-
Americanism.”
On the same theme London
“Times” has commented;
“Nothing is more disturbing
than the outbreak of Anglo-
American bickering over the best
means of treating with the Com-
munist Powers. Moscow and
Peking must be rubbing their
hands more gleefully than for
many a long day, reminding
each other that peace hath its
victories no less renowned than
war. To exploit all differences
among Western Powers is their
oldest and most diligent pur-
pose.”
As another typical British re-
port, London “Sunday Times” :
“The less ready the Kremlin
is for war-risking adventure, the
more it will strive to divide the
free world and to probe any soft
spots in its solidarity. This, not
the H-bomb, is the weapon and
tactic to be immediately guarded
against. Blind, it seems, to the
danger, some people in this
country [Britain] seize on every
opportunity to widen rather than
heal the differences that exist
between British and American
attitudes on certain issues.”
Anti-Americanism is noted as
dangerously prevalent in France,
where the deal with Spain is very
unpopular and support for
neutralism strong. One of the
only countries excluded from the
discussion is Germany, strongly
pro-American which, again,
could have its effect on the
French.
Among other Continental
countries which are included are
Denmark,. Austria and Yugo-
slavia, from which, says a “New
York Times” report, have come
signs of a growing resistance to
United States policy; “Author-
ities are Watching developments
carefully, in the belief that if
this ‘creeping neutralism’ con-
tinues to gain, it would present
grave questions to the makers of
United States foreign policy.”
In Britain (as seen by “U.S.
News and World Report” cor-
respondents, in London) there
are many who harbor a feeling
of hurt pride and envy that the
U.S., rather than Britain, has be-
come the strongest single nation :
“This is a more deep-seated
sentiment than is generally
realised. Distrust of the U.S. is
fanned energetically by Com-
munists and their sympathisers.
Campaigns are waged to discredit
American airmen in Britain, to
play upon racial tensions and to
accuse the U.S. of insincerity in
its international policies.”
Toronto “Globe and Mail”
notes particularly “the prejudice
displayed by British Socialists”;
“It shows an ignorance of the
facts and a lack of a sense of
proportion almost unbelievable
in a party which, after all, has
some intellectual leadership.
When the Americans think of
what they have done for peace
and security through the
Marshall plan, in Nato, in Korea
and in aid to underdeveloped
lands, they are understandably
infuriated by a demonstration of
undiluted and unreasoned anti-
Americanism on the part of an
organised body of opinion like
Britain’s Labor party.”
As typical American com-
ment, a Washington correspon-
dent of New York “Herald
Tribune”:
“There is no one in Europe
who does not agree that the
American-led Western coalition
is in a frighteningly shaky con-
dition. And there is no one,
including the [U.S.] Administra-
tion’s major representatives
abroad, who does not agree that
this is largely because American
prestige, arid thus the American
capacity to lead, has fallen off
disastrously in recent months.
“This has, in fact, been the
subject of a series of warning
messages to Washington from
the most successful Eisenhower
appointees abroad. Ambassador
to Great Britain Winthrop
Aldrich and Ambassador to
France Douglas Dillon.”
On the closely related pheno-
menon of the “great upsurge
of neutralism” taking place in
Europe “Manchester Guardian”
has commented:
“Is the Russian empire in the
East really as rickety as incidents
in Berlin and Pilsen indicate?
If so, say many people in the
West, the time has come to turn
away from preoccupation with
the Russian danger and concen-
trate instead on organising a
new relationship with America,
since the present one is con-
sidered unhappy.”
On which the Cincinnati
(U.S.A.) “Post” makes the dry
comment : “If Europe has been
unhappy under the American
assistance programme the new,
relationship which is envisioned
must be something quite out of
this world. And if Europe seeks
a new relationship, so should we
London “Daily Express”
“DID YOU WIN, BUD ?”
(Funny, or bitter—according to point of view—this cartoon comment on the Yank occupation of Britain
appeared after the winning of the Ashes.)
[Americans] —but it should be
realistic, and one in our own
interest.”
It all looks a little odd against
the background sketched in by
the Dallas (U.S.A.) “Morning
News,” giving a “score-card of
recipients of American aid since
World War 11, the latest aid
figures not included”:
Britain .. .. $8,100,000,000
France 6,200,000,000
West Germany .. 3,700,000,000
Italy .. .. ... 3,100,000,000
Greece ~ .. 1,900,000,000
Netherlands .. .. 1,300,000,000
Other Europe .. 3,500,000,000
Japan 2,100,000,000
China, Formosa .. 2,000,000,000
Philippines ... ~ 1,000,000,000
Korea 1,000,000,000
Other Asia .. .. 1,000,000,000
The paper comments:
“Has the 39 billion spent
abroad been worth while? You
might say yes, in that a great
part of the world has been kept
from Communist hands.
“On the other hand, the
chaotic condition in Western
Europe makes the international-
ist sceptical. The pro-American
policy in Italy is on the ropes.
France, heavily infiltrated, faces
revolution one way or the other.
The British seem to follow us
[America] only on British terms.
The strategic Middle East has
not gone Communist, but it has
gone farther away from the
American-British influence. The
same is true in North Africa.
“You cari’t win friends with
money, unless you are adroit in
the diplomatic field—which we
aren’t. Yet—and this must be
what the President is thinking—■
if we don’t extend aid to the
non-Communist world, will it go
Communist? Would it not be
preferable to keep it out of
Communist control, even if it is
not friendly to us?
“The answer is yes—if we can
do it.”
World's Great
Airports
All sorts of inferences, good
and bad, can be drawn from a
London “Times” special corres-
pondent’s survey of the rapidly
expanding great airports of the
world.
The survey indicates how
completely the air is being taken
over as a normal element for
man’s purposes on a vast scale.
All very nice—in peace-time.
London airport, for instance,
has handled close-on 200,000
passengers in a month, yet it is
only one of thousands of air-
ports which, altogether, are ex-
pected to have had 50 million
travellers pass through them by
the end of this year—“five mil-
lion more than last year, when
scheduled air transport achieved
a passenger movement more
than two and a half times the
volume of 1946.” Regular air
schedules are expected to com-
plete more than 1060 million
miles before the year is out.
The London port of call (with
“prospects of becoming the
most advanced and luxurious of
its kind in Europe”) has a run-
way of 9000 ft., though size of
runway, it seems, does not indi-
cate the relative importance of
an airport, and is, in fact, to
some extent conditioned by alti-
tude of the site and temperature
thereabouts.
That, it is pointed out, is one
reason why probably the longest
runway in the world for civil
flying is at Tucson, Arizona —
11,500 ft. Jan Smuts airport, in
South Africq, needs a 10,500 ft.
runway largely because it is
5500 ft. high. Another of the
longest runways—El Alto, La
Paz, in Bolivia—has a stretch
of 10,230 ft. because it is 13,397 ft.
above sea-level, the loftiest in the
world. There is quite a drop
between this eminence and the
lowest airport, El Lisan, on the
eastern shore of the Dead Sea,
1180 ft. below sea-level.
There are several airports with
runways of 10,000 ft. or more,
including Istres, in France,
Madrid, and at least three in
America —Boston, Denver and
Mexico City. “At one time
there was a tendency to prolifer-
ate runways so that aircraft
could have plenty of choice of
the most suitable for the pre-
vailing wind - direction. But,
since the invention of the tri-
cycle undercarriage, aircraft
have become better adapted to
tolerate crosswinds, and the
trend has been to concentrate
on having fewer and better run-
ways.”
One of the “Times” man’s
most striking illustrations of
what’s going on is his passing
mention of the fact that last
year 4000 more passengers
arrived in the Union of South
Africa by air than by sea.
Probably a direct result of
American interest in Spain as
a vital defence base, Madrid
has easily one of the biggest
airports in Europe. It has four
runways of 8530 ft. and a fifth
of 10,000 ft.
The correspondent gives a
special mention to Amsterdam,
“with its beautiful terminal
building, lavishly equipped with
restaurants where music as well
as good food help to beguile
the apprehensive.”
Casting an eye south, the
correspondent adds:
“Australia, with its vast dis-
tances and scattered communi-
ties, may well rank as the most
air-minded country in the world,
because there are probably more
air movements per capita of the
population than anywhere else.
“Flying doctors and parsons
are a commonplace. The De-
partment of Civil Aviation
maintains more than 200 air-
ports, and there are also some
270 licensed airfields, most of
them stopping - places on
scheduled services.
“There are encouraging re-
ports about runway- and hangar-
constrUction at the big new air-
port at West Beach, Adelaide,
and hopes are rising in Aus-
tralian breasts that the project
will be ready for the royal visit.
The other major undertaking,
at Mascot, Sydney, is also well
advanced. It has involved the
diversion of a river and the
pumping of vast quantities of
sand from Botany Bay for the
construction of an 8000 ft. run-
way.”
“Thus,” he concludes, “from
the Antipodes to the far north
the complex pattern of airlines
and their airports spreads
steadily over the globe. It is a
vast and varied enterprise in
which every natural resource is
exploited—from crushed coral
on the Cocos Islands to oiled
sand on the Persian Gulf.”
Dropped "Germs"
It having served its temporary
purpose, the Communists’
“germ-warfare” atrocity propa-
ganda has now been dropped,
mainly because such a baseless
invention could not be kept
going any longer under the
closer spotlight of world
inquiry.
Noting that among the very
last of the prisoners handed back
by the Chinese in Korea were
several American airmen who
had been accused by their cap-
tors of dropping bacteriological
bombs, London “Economist”
has summed-up on the mon-
strous fraud which took-in quite
a lot of dupes, apart from the
usual assortment of them, in and
out of gaiters;
“The great world-wide propa-
ganda campaign on germ-war-
fare conducted by the Com-
munists has been largely centred
on the alleged confessions of
these [belatedly released] air-
men, which were publicised with
a wealth of superficially plaus-
ible detail; but although some
of the airmen had been prisoners
for a year or more, no inde-
pendent witness had ever been
allowed access to them.
“Now some of them have told
the sickening story of how the
‘confessions’ were extracted in
the course of agonising months
of solitude and suffering.....
“The accused airmen, who
resolutely withstood both threats
and ill-treatment to the end,
have now been solemnly ‘ac-
quitted’ by their captors. A
spontaneous and notable tribute
was paid to these men by one
of the other airmen who had
himself succumbed to pressure ;
he said that they deserved the
highest awards for bravery,
while he and the others who had
signed ‘confessions’ considered
themselves traitors.
“Public opinion will scarcely
condemn such men as harshly
as they condemn themselves; it
will do well, on the other hand,


t& aMaVs teady!
Always ready
for cooking
Always gallons
of Hot water
A/wayS greater
convenience
All-forde
ONB
LOW
Mt
CaajkuJuuJ
Canmichael s*o
DOMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND HEATER
with true thermostat control
• HEAVY CASTING within the range stores the heat, and
thorough insulation prevents heat loss.
• TWO LARGE COOKING OVENS and TWO BIGGER HOTPLATES
allow you to do all your cooking at the one time.
• CONTINUOUS BURNING means that the “520" is always
ready when you decide to cook.
• BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL—including coal, coke,
anthracite, briquettes, etc.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Car~
michael 520 is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
Norite for free illustrated literature to Carmichael's,
Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W.
CONSTANT HOT WATER
★ In the kitchen
★ In the bathroom
★ In the laundry
The Carmichael 520
will supply enough hot
water for all your
household needs.
Naturally
Makers c
it cooks perfectly . . . it’s a IjUIIiIUJChjOJSIL
•f fine fuel stoves since 1892 ... A Unit of Email Umitod
to take note of the truth that is
now emerging about the ‘germ-
warfare’ campaign—one of the
cruellest farces ever played on
the political stage.”
Turned Corns
Without giving detailed figures,
a “U.S, News and World Re-
port” Correspondent in Korea
indicates that the Corns suc-
ceeded in “converting” quite a
lot of American p.-0.-w.
Reporting that these Ameri-
cans came back from the prison
camps “confused and mentally
dazed,” he added:
“American soldiers seem to
have turned into enemies of each
other. Some have turned into
friends of Communism,
“People at home—parents,
friends and the vast public hear-
ing this story —are puzzled.
Americans in significant num-
bers never have gone over to the
enemy before. What happened
this time?
“Scores of them —the final
tally will remain uncertain for
months and perhaps for ever —
took the Communist bait, hook,
line and sinker. They refuse to
come home, and they say they
would rather stay with the
Chinese Communists.
“Men who turned Communist
do not fit any noticeable pattern
of education or social back-
ground. Some are Negroes,
some are white; some are city
boys, some from farms and
country towns.”
Not only Americans, either,
according to London “Specta-
tor” report. It says that of a
batch of 530 British prisoners-
of-war from Korea nearly half
were at one time unofficially
reckoned to be Communists or
to have “absorbed sufficient in-
doctrination to be classed as
sympathisers.”
“To many people,” the
“Spectator” commented, “this
must undoubtedly come as a
severe shock, and its effect has
not been entirely removed by
the denials of some of the troops
that the proportion of Com-
munist-sympathisers among
them was anything like 50 per
cent. But this first batch con-
tains the men who responded
most readily—or appeared to
respond— to indoctrination and
were the first to be released
“These particular prisoners
have been subjected, when the
physical war ended for them, to
a new war on the mind. In
America the Army has tried to
meet the problem by sending
such men to its psychiatric hos-
pital at Valley Forge. So far
there is no indication that the
British War Office proposes to
‘re-educate’ or ‘cure’ returning
prisoners. To submit them to a
process of ‘brain-washing’
would, in fact, be to hand over
a powerful propaganda point to
the Communists, and to endorse
their practice by imitation.”
“The Chinese and North
Koreans,” “Manchester
Guardian” points out, “evidently
went to a lot of trouble to divide
them into groups, separating the
‘hostile’ elements from the re-
mainder, and isolating officers
and sergeants who showed any
sign of individuality or ‘resist-
ance.’ For those whose attitude
was ‘incorrect’ there were weeks
and months of solitary confine-
ment, lengthy interrogations and
hours of enforced sitting cross-
legged on the ground. For the
remainder there were lectures
and instruction on ‘progressive’
politics.”
Despite all that, “the strong-
minded and the senior men
appear in the main to have held
their own,” and moreover, adds
the “Guardian,” some who had
been listed as turned Com-
munist have since strongly
denied it.
Also, London “Economist”
has commented on the “sicken-
ing story” of how “confessions”
were extracted. It added:
“One second-lieutenant, badly
burned when his aircraft crashed,
was refused medical treatment
until he agreed to confess [to
the false and utterly baseless
germ-warfare charges], although
his tormentors blandly offered
him a choice of three crimes to
admit.
“It appears from the released
men’s stories that after the sign-
ing of the armistice the pressure
on them was actually increased,
and that up to the last days be-
fore release they were being
threatened that refusal to con-
fess would destroy their chances
of being repatriated.”
France's Remote War
“If,” comments a Paris
correspondent of “Manchester
Guardian,” “France and the
Associated States in Indo-China
have, with American backing, an
immense advantage in material
and men over the Vietminh they
have, of course, the disadvant-
age that so big a proportion of
the French people feels no in-
terest in fighting a war in Indo-
China at all. It is certainly much
less a national cause to France
than the Korean war has been to
America.” *
Similarly, a Paris corres-
pondent of “New York Times”:
“The French people are more
impatient to get their troops out
of Vietnam than the Americans
were to stop the fighting in
Korea. The Indo-Chinese war
is so unpopular that even
the prospect of receiving
$385,000,000 in American aid
to continue the fight arouses
nothing like the enthusiasm
evoked by the hint that it might
be ended by diplomatic negotia-
tions ‘during or after’ the Korean
political conference.
“This conference seems a
long way off to most observers.
Nevertheless, the French seize
on any * straw that appears to
point to an honorable way out
of the costly struggle in Asia.”
A "Bold Experiment"
Now a shade over a year old,
the High Authority set up to run
the “bold experiment” of Wes-
tern Europe’s coal-and-steel
combination is evidently refuting
the sceptics, who predicted cer-
tain failure.
The six nations (France, Ger-
many, Italy and the Benelux
countries) which agreed to pool
their coal and steel resources
under its management are taking
its orders and obeying its rulings,
“The surprise,” says a “New
York Times” correspondent, “is
to discover how well it does
work. In less than a year the
High Authority has abolished
Customs duties, quotas and
restrictions on currency and ex-
change. It has eliminated dis-
crimination in transport-rates
and double-pricing, the practice
of setting different prices at
home and abroad. It has passed
the first anti-trust law in
Europe.
“Government subsidies are a
more difficult problem. So are
uneconomic industries. Conces-
sions are made in both these
fields to cushion the shock of
passing from one system to
another, but by the end of the
five-year transition period it is
expected that all the industries
the coal-and-steel business, the
advantages of a common market
are beginning to be appreciated.
“The experience of a year
convinces the supranationalists
that they are on the right track.
Their prime objective now is to
establish a European Parliament
by popular vote to stand above
nationalist Governments.”
integrated in the plan will be
able to stand on their own feet.
“More astonishing is the way
in which the orders and rules of
the High Authority are carried
out. There was strong opposi-
tion to the Schuman Plan on the
part of Governments and pri-
vate industrialists. Naturally
there is grumbling when its de-
cisions hurt. Complaints have
been submitted to the Com-
munity’s court. But to date,
without exception, the orders of
the High Authority have been
followed and the rulings of the
court have been accepted. This
is because decisions are made
only after the widest consultation
and explanation, and also be-
cause, in spite of a decline in
F.. Mao, I sa'«d ;
I ’/m strait >n I
I eye, never wiU I 1
■ start a Communis tm
■LCell in Puddle Jm
walioß*i||r,
London “Daily Mail"
RETURN OF THE NATIVE
Dragnet Digest
So Yachting's Off. —Edin-
burgh’s “Scotsman,” reviewing
sport beyond the Iron Curtain:
“Yachting and sailing are a
source of embarrassment to the
Communists; firstly because
they are exclusive and there-
fore bourgeois, and secondly be-
cause sailing-boats on the Baltic
or the Black Sea can be con-
venient methods of escape.”
Conservatives Gaining.
Britain’s political parties, as seen
by a visiting New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondent: “The
central fact is that the Conserva-
five party is now very much
stronger than anyone would have
predicted a year ago. By the
same token the Socialists,
bitterly divided internally, no
longer confident of their doc-
trines, their grim forecasts of
war and depression blown higher
than a kite, have reached a new
political low point.”
Security Plus Security.-—A
London “Observer” corres-
pendent, looking over Scandin-
avia: “In Sweden there is still
the highest standard of living in
Europe. One hundred and forty
years without a war has brought
them great prosperity. No one
need go without in Sweden, there
is almost total social security
In the rocky cliffs on the out-
skirts of Stockholm an occa-
sional explosion [reminded me
that they were busily providing
security against atom-bombs
also.”
Quiet Uproar. —“ New States-
man”; “The general tenor of
the Margate Conference has
been as uncontroversial and as
decorous as the Labor party
ever managed.” “Yorkshire
Post”; “Mr. Deakin in particu-
lar was nearly howled down.”
London “Evening News”: “Mr.
A. Deakin lashed Mr. Tom
O’Brien in a sensational attack.”
Destination Unknown. —Or
so it has seemed to London
“Economist”; “It is dearly ho
longer the case that the free and
allied Powers are working to-
gether on an agreed plan and
bending events to their purpose.
They rather seem to be pro-
ceeding by expedient on diverg-
ent courses to a goal that is in
doubt,”
Temperamental Team-mates.
Finding by “Manchester
Guardian”; “The present differ-
ence of view in Britain and
America reflects a difference of
temperament. The British are
apt to think pessimistically that
the world is always in a pretty
bad way, and that the wisest
course is to see what may be
done here and there to alleviate
conditions and prevent great
wars. Americans see things in
more clear-cut terms and fear
anything which looks like com-
promise with iniquity.”
Complacency on Commun-
ism.—Noting a “complacency
about Communism” in both
France and Italy (which seems
to be a considerable understate-
ment regarding the strength of
Communism in both of them)
“New York Times” ascribes it
to the assumption, zealously
propagated by the Communists
themselves, that if Communism
does come to Western Europe it
will not be of the Russian
variety but of a “liberal” Wes-
tern type. “That,” it comments,
“is" Europe’s new illusion, which
saps its energies and could lead
to disaster.”
British Priorities. —Viewed by
“U.S. News and World Report”:
“Britain assigns its priorities to
Europe first, the Mediterranean
and Middle East next. China is
far down the list. In addition,
Britain is weak in and around
China. As a result, the British
will make concessions to Com-
munist China, for the sake of
peace and some trade, that
they’d never think of making to
Egypt or Iran.”
Less Rearming.—-In “Man-
chester Guardian’s” view, if
armistice in Korea leads to
more peaceful conditions gener-
ally it will be impossible, at any
rate in the democratic West, to
keep defence efforts at anything
like the present level: “What-
ever the military experts might
regard as essential, the voters
will press hard for relief —and
nowhere harder than in the
United States.”


The New Teacher
Oar New Selection
By "STEELE RUDD" (Arthur H. Davis)
Merrily saddietop was
going ahead. A new
church and an old public-
house went up, the public-
house that used to be at
the Gap. A camp of men
came along with a tent and some
tools and dug a new Govern-
ment dam ; some more cleared
the lanes of timber/ and trees,
felled them and chopped them
up and left them stacked in
heaps on the roadway to frighten
horses and make them bolt.
A lot of new selectors came
and brought large families with
them and murmured like the
Israelites because the school was
six miles from them. Dad be-
came their Moses. He couldn’t
see what they had to grumble
about, but Dad always listened
to people with a grievance. He
went to work and agitated
earnestly for a new school at
our end of the district. Dad
worked night and day to get
them that school, and when at
last it was granted and the
building went up they mur-
mured more because it was
erected within a few feet of
Dad’s land.
One day a young man, over-
whelmed with a collar —a lean
stripling of a man, with no more
hip than a goanna, a clean face,
a “haw” in his voice, a cane in
his hand and a gorgeous band
on his straw hat —mounted the
veranda and announced himself
to Dad as the teacher of the
new school.
Dad scarcely heard him. He
was confused. He stared and
couldn’t think of anything to
say. Had the Angel Gabriel
or the hangman suddenly
appeared before him Dad’s
equanimity couldn’t have been
more disturbed. Dad was never
himself in the presence of lead-
ing people, and the prig-peda-
gogue and the sage were one
and the same to him.
The teacher bowed and said
he believed Dad was Mr. Rudd.
His own name was Wood-
Smyth — Mr. Philip Wood-
Smyth—and he handed Dad a
card, and, sitting in an easy-
chair, began to talk of schools
and curriculum in an earnest
and learned manner. He be-
lieved in teaching a boy mathe-
matics, and mentioned Napoleon
Bonaparte and others whom
Dad hadn’t heard of, but he
condemned classics and the dead
languages.
“What is the use of them?”
he said. “What earthly use is
Greek to you now on this farm,
Mr. Rudd?” Dad looked along
the veranda boards. “Can you
say you have ever found your
Latin or your ethical problems
in Shakspeare of any use to you
since you left school?”
Dad, in tones of uneasiness,
said he hadn’t.
“And yet”
Mother found her way to the
veranda and Dad told the
teacher she was Mrs. Rudd.
They shook hands, and when
Mr. Wood-Smyth looked round
to address Dad again he was
gone.
The new teacher was a polite
man and enjoyed society. Never
before had there been anyone
like him at Saddietop. When-
ever he met Miss Wilkins or
Gray’s daughters or Sarah he
would smile and take off his
hat and strike his knees with it.
And it didn’t matter how far
off they were, whether on a
veranda a mile away or on horse-
back or carrying in sticks, he
smiled and took his hat off just
the same.
Dave regarded Mr. Wood-
Smyth with disfavor. The polish
of him and his attention to girls
annoyed Dave.
“He’s a goat, no matter how
much he knows,” Dave said in
the kitchen one day.
Sarah stood up for the ways
of the pedagogue. She thought
it proper such respect should be
shown to her sex.
“Then you’re mighty fond o’
being noticed,” Dave answered
cynically.
Young Bill was sitting at the
table, having late dinner alone.
He joined in.
“Not when they’re m-milkin’,
Dave, an’ haven’t their stockin’s
on”—Dave looked at him and
grinned—“or ’n a tub.”
Bill struggled on the floor
from a poke Mother gave him
with the teapot.
“But it wouldn’t hurt you,”
Sarah went on quietly, “to lift
your hat.”
“No, it wouldn’t,” Dave
snarled, “an’ it wouldn’t hurt
anyone if I didn’t. An’ who
wants t’ wear a hat out swingin’
it about as if he wanted t’ block
a cow?” And Dave chuckled
triumphantly and went out.
Mr. Wood-Smyth was a fre-
quent visitor to our place, and
if he chanced to remain for a
meal any time Dad would be-
come agitated. He would lose
his head and at the table make
all kinds of mistakes. When he
didn’t pass meat to someone
who didn’t want any, he dropped
the plate and spilt gravy about
or mutilated his fingers with the
carver.
But Dad usually contrived to
avoid Wood-Smyth’s society.
Dad had never received a great
education himself, and the
presence of so much learning
annoyed him. But always when
the teacher had left Dad talked
favorably of him. Once Mother
asked how much salary he
thought Mr. Wood-Smyth re-
ceived, and Dad reckoned he
would get at least a thousand.
Politeness was the broad plank
in Wood-Smyth’s curriculum,
and he hammered it hard into
his pupils.
One day Dad was riding on
the road and met the scholars
returning home. Several raised
their hats to him. Dad stared
and went on. Some more hats.
Dad scqwled. Then Tom limped
along, swinging a lizard by the
tail.
“Hello, Dad.” And up went
his hat.
Dad turned the mare sharply
and went after him.
“Y’ young devil! ” he
shouted, striking at Tom round
the base of a tree with a riding-
switch. “Would y’ make sport
o’ me, too?”
“ ’E tol’ us t’,” Tom whined,
“Who?”
“S-S-Smith.”
“T’ make fun o’ me?”
“No, t’ ”
Dad attempted to dismount
and Tom dropped the lizard and
escaped.
Boxing Night. A party at pur
place—Sarah’s party. Such a
gathering! Every soul on
Saddletop must have been pre-
sent everyone except the
Careys. And the display of
lights and lanterns would have
almost blinded you. The
verandas right round were hung
thick with them. Two accordion-
players and a violinist were in
attendance, and to hear the
music they made when you
reached the gate would make
your heart jump.
Sarah flew about everywhere,
met her female friends at the
steps and tugged them and
escorted them in and took their
hats and things and found sleep-
ing places for the babies.
Joe looked after the men for
her, warned them of the dog and
the barbed-wire, showed them
where to put their horses and
conducted them to the ballroom
and introduced them to any
young ladies they didn’t know.
Dancing about to commence.
Mr. Wood-Smyth arrived. He
came late, and McGregor, a
very old mate of Dad’s, strolled
in about the same time. Dad
hurried forward and seized Mc-
Gregor by the hand and wel-
comed him boisterously. Dad
hadn’t seen McGregor for a
number of years, and the pair
sat together at a table and talked
of old times. They talked for
hours.
Intermission. The room con-
taining Dad and McGregor be-
came crowded and cake and
coffee were being handed round.
A lull in the clatter of tongues.
McGregor turned to Mr. Wood-
Smyth, who sat near him sip-
ping coffee, and in a loud sonor-
ous tone said “ ’N’ hoo’s th’ auld
mon—quite weel, Phil?”
Dad stared and nudged Mc-
Gregor. He thought his old
mate was making a mistake.
But Wood-Smyth understood.
He blushed and fidgeted, then
forced a smile and answered
“He’s —ah —pretty well, in-
deed.”
“An’ auld Mick?”
Mr. Wood-Smyth fidgeted
more. He wished someone
would come to the door and call
him. The company appeared
interested.
“Pretty well, I think,” he said,
eyeing the door.
McGregor turned to Dad,
“Y* ken auld Mickey,” Mc-
Gregor said, “who cleanit the
dustboxes i’ Dreeyton—uncle to
this mon?” And he pointed his
thumb at the teacher.
Dad drew himself up like a
cockatoo, aroused.. “Not his
uncle!” he exclaimed, his eyes
opening like a door.
“Yes, mon” —and McGregor
laughed at Dad’s astonished
100k —“yes, Phil’s a son o’ auld
Jem Smith, o’ Quartpot, is he
nae? An’ wus nae auld Micky
a brither o’ Jem’s?”
The discovery was too much
for Dad. He stood up and
stared at Wood-Smyth.
“Dammit!” he said. “I know
y*.*»
“Y’ couldna f’get auld
Jemmy,” McGregor said.
“Remember him well,” Dad
answered, his eyes shining with
enthusiasm. And turning to the
company, who, to the discomfort
of the teacher, were all grinning,
he said, with a ring of pride in
his voice, “His father an’ me
knew one another thirty years
ago.”
“Eh! An’ th’ auld woman
tae,” said McGregor.
“An’ his mother,” Dad
answered.
“An 5 y’ min’ th’ bannocks she
used tae mak’ us a’?”
Dad burst into a loud laugh
at mention of the bannocks.
But Wood-Smyth didn’t. He
only smiled, but his face was
very red.
“An’ min’, too, th’ auld black
hen she used to hae siltin’ wi’
eggs in the bed?”
Dad held his sides, and the
tears ran down his furrowed
cheeks.
“An’ the p-p-p” —McGregor
couldn’t speak for laughing—
“the pig i’ the hoose wi’ ” —
choked again—“wi’ ribbon tied
tae it!”
Dad gave a tremendous roar.
The whole house exploded, and
it was minutes before Joe’s voice
could be heard yelling “S’lect
your partners for a waltz.”
SONG FROM A
NEW YEAR
0 I am twenty, Wednesday,
in this double-hearted weather,
and if I cannot understand
1 know your body feels my hand
and in the tree the bird is green
and song and love cannot be
seen,
I know your mouth is warm,
and shy,
and our new world grows out of
love;
there is a country in our blood
that lies within our storm-calm
mood,
and this is the country we’ll dis-
cover
and make our own; the bird, the
tree.
Beyond the dunes the wrinkled
water
leads to another sea and storni:
but here we life together and our
world
is certain of its grief and harm.
In the bottlebrush a green bird
sings
of a simple world its heart has
found.
We’ll move towards our un-
known land
(O new year’s climate of her
love)
and find what other years have
found:
the complicated, simple and the
good,
and take with us our unsung
green
where we’ll make song and love
be seen.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
The Prodigal*s Return
TN harvest-time. Dave and Joe
-*• and Bill carting barley off the
house-paddock. Dad poking
round on his old mare annoy-
ing the cows.
Dave, in the act of heaving a
sheaf into the dray, paused and
looked up. “Who’s the cove?”
he said wonderingly. Joe, from
the top of the load, stared in the
direction of the house. Bill, on
the opposite side to Dave,
walked round and took obser-
vations. Bill, always dog-tired,
never lost an opportunity to
recover.
“Dunno,” Joe said. “They’re
all shakin’ his hand, anyway.”
“Another parson, I s’pose,”
Dave groaned apprehensively.
Dave disliked the clergy. Their
presence always made him un-
happy, and one of them in the
house would almost drive him
from home. And parsons were
never in any hurry to leave our
place now. Different from
Shingle Hut. It was rarely that
they remained there for a meal;
never when there was a well-
butchered leg of a kangaroo
hanging under the veranda. Dad
mostly saw that one was
dangling there whenever a par-
son was reckoned to be due.
And he would tear it down and
heave it into the grass the
moment the pilot had left. Dad
was a wise man, though he is
not mentioned in Proverbs.
“His nag’s poor enough for a
parson’s,” Joe chuckled, “on’y
y’ never see ’em with two —one’s
always dead ’fore they get
another.”
Bill laughed a stiff, ready-
made laugh to encourage the
conversation and prolong the
“recovery.” But Dave wired in
with the fork in silence.
To gain time Bill asked Dave
a useless question. He said
“ ’Ow’d yer like t’ be a parson,
Dave?”
Had it been anyone else Dave
might have committed some
violence. But he always got on
well with Bill. He only turned
his eyes on him in forgiveness.
The stranger, wagging his
head and working his hands and
arms like a temperance, orator,
was walking between Mother
and Sarah, both hatless and
holding newspapers above their
heads, towards the house. They
seemed to know him, and
listened eagerly to things he had
to say.
Joe couldn’t make him out.
Bill volunteered to run up and
see what he was. Then Joe
grinned. He remembered when
he had been like Bill.
The stranger tossed a greasy
bundle he had taken from his
saddle on to the veranda, and
the next moment was striding
over the stubble towards the
dray. He carried his head high,
his hat well back, and walked
like a person not afraid of tres-
passing.
“I know that stride,” Dave
said thoughtfully, and stare
hard.
The man drew near. His hai
and whiskers were long anc
wild and running to seed. Bi
giggled and stared. Dave stooc
thinking of that stride.
In the tongue of the cheerfu
aboriginal the man called ou
things as he approached.' Jo
didn’t understand, but he dis
approved of them and yelled
back “Get y’r ’air cut!” Bi]
sniggered, and, crouching down
took the pitchfork with him
under the dray. But Dave sud
denly cast his away.
* “Bless me! It’s Dan!” he ex
claimed, and damaged severa
barley-stooks tumbling over
them to reach him.
Bill crawled out from under
the dray without the pitchfork
and rolled his eyes about. Joe
slid off the top and tore his
trousers and dragged half the
load down on top of himself.
“Dan,” each murmured, fol-
lowing Dave.
Dan it was. The same old
Dan that Dad had twice huntec
from home, but older, shabbier
more useless and more dilapi-
dated.
He shook Dave’s hand with
fervor, but he didn’t know Joe
from Bill or Bill from Joe till
Dave mentioned their names.
Bill looked pleased. He felt
proud of Dan. Often he had
heard of him; he used to won-
der if he would ever see him;
and now all at once Dan stood
before him. And as Dan pro-
ceeded rapidly to account for
fourteen years of absence Bill
stared him all over and hugged
the ground near his careless,
greasy form.
Almost before you could
think Dan had plunged into the
back-country; fought several
fights with naked blacks ; dashed
into a scrub in pursuit of
brumbies on a horse called Silver
Star, coming out without a
stitch on but his boots and belt;
had broken his right leg three
times in the same place; lost
three hundred pounds on the
Cooper and was rejoicing on his
way to Sydney in charge of a
thousand wild C. 0.8. bullocks.
Bill’s breath threatened to
leave him. His mind wasn’t
nearly large enough to hold the
impressions Dan made on it.
Even Joe —Joe who was always
cool enough to calculate —was
carried away, and a lively long-
ing to see some outback life
filled his soul. But Dave was
only moved to a smile. Dave
remembered Dan.
“Let’s go up to the house,”
Dave said, and as they all walked
on Dan continued. “I’ve seen
life! Fancy humpin’ a swag
from Nudgee Nudgee to Nor-
manton*—five hundred miles —
without a boot on or a bob
about y’, and the last stage
havin’ t’ pull off and fight two
infernal big Danes fer three
hours fer your own water-bag.
An’ ” —pausing to breathe —
“after knockin’ ’em both out,
t’ have t’ pour every drop o’
water down their blanky throats
t’ bring ’em round!”
A thrill of excitement went
through Bill. He swung his
clenched fist at the imaginary
forms of the Danes and caught
Dave in the small of the neck.
“Damn y’l” Dave yelled.
“Damn y’!” And he sprang on
Bill and squeezed his neck, and
there must have been trouble
only Bill managed to gasp that
he “didn’t m-mean t’.”
They reached the house just
as Dad arrived at the steps on
the mare.
“Don’t! Sjce if he kn °w s
me,” Dan said, silencing Bill,
who began yelling to announce
the home-coming of the heir.
Dad stared hard from the
party approaching him to the
horses left unprotected in the
dray, scowled, and looked ugly.
Dan separated himself from
the others.
“Doesn’t know me from a
crow —told y’ he wouldn’t, he
said, saluting Dad as though
Dad were a colonel with gold
lace and a wooden leg.
“I don’t know who y are,
man,” Dad answered gruffly,


SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
?61bs.
sdf
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers'
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
/S'.
"It s nice o/ you to remember
my preference for Scotch . . .1
anJ White Horse at that.
WHITE
SCOTCH
ASK FOR IT
HORSE
WHISKY
BY NAME
WH22.S2
and was about to revile Dave
for wasting time when Dan
bowed like a man winding water
and said “Your fust-born..,.
Daniel, sir—Daniel Damascus
Rudd.”
Dad nearly fell off the mare.
“Dan!” he blurted out and
urged the old mare towards the
prodigal and stretched out his
hand. But all at once he
checked himself. He remem-
bered he had kicked Dan out
and never wanted to see him
again. He changed color.
Then it was that Dan showed
himself a strategist.
“Not a word —not one syl-
lable,” he said in grave tones,
seizing Dad’s hand without a
blush. “I know what’s in your
mind, exactly. Say nothing—it’s
past. Let it slide... You
turned me out, that’s true, but I
don’t mind—l deserved it. But
I went—l obeyed like a man,
didn’t I? And now” —Dan
paused, so that Mother and all
standing round might hear—
“and now I’m back” —paused
again—“back a wiser” —another
pause—“a better” —here Dan
smote himself hard on the thigh
where his pocket had been be-
fore he tore it out to wear on
his foot —“and” —elevating his
voice—“a richer man —wanting
no one’s favor, fearing nobody’s
frown! ”
Dan was a rare speaker.
Dad never before displayed
so much agility in dismounting,
except when he fell off. He
gripped Dan by both hands.
Large tears like hailstones
gathered and broke in his big
eyes, and one smothered sob like
a colt choking was all we heard.
It was too much for us. We
stared at our feet and felt we
should have been dead. If there
was one thing more than another
we couldn’t stand it was Dad
blubbering.
“Never mind,” Dan said in
tones of forgiveness, holding a
hand high above Dad’s head.
“Never mind! Fer me own part
it’s fergotten long enough ago,
’n’ I’m back. ’N’, as I hinted
before, well off, Dad, well off
—independent! ” And he looked
down on Dad and smiled.
Dan was an object-lesson in
filial affection,
. Dave smiled, too, and went
back to work. Dave smiled be- -
cause he knew what a beautiful
liar Dan was.
Dan followed Dad inside and
had something to eat. He ate
everything Sarah placed before
him. Then he sat back and all
the rest of the afternoon talked
to Dad and Mother, and ad-
mired the furniture, and smoked
and spat. But he didn’t spit on
the floor. He rose every time and
went to the door and did it on
the clean boards of the veranda
that had just been scrubbed.
Dan confided to Dad his
plans for the future. He’d had
enough outback life, he said,
and intended putting a bit of
money into a farm and settling
down. If he could get a suit-
able place, about eighteen hun-
dred acres with water, he’d start
dairying, milk a hundred cows,
feed them on lucerne and fatten
wethers and steers beside.
Dad said there was a big thing
in it, and knew the very place
Dan required—“ Curry’s,” he
said, “joining me. Two thousand
acres, creek runnin’ right
through it, two pounds ten an
acre.”
“We’ll have a look at it,” Dan
said reflectively.
Just before tea-time Dan
apologised to Mother for the
sad condition of his clothes.
“Fact is,” he remarked, “me
wardrobe’s cornin’ down be
train, so I’m afraid y’ll have to
put up with me as I am till it’s
here.”
Mother said if he liked he
could put on some of Dave’s for
a change. Dan thought he
would. He put on a full suit
of Dave’s, besides a shirt and
collar, and came to tea a new
man. He put them all on the
next day, too, and never took
them off any more.
For nearly a month Dad
accompanied Dan through the
district, inspecting farms that
were for sale, and at night they
would sit together on the
veranda and discuss the ad-
vantages and disadvantages of
each. And when Dad would
advise Dan to buy a certain one
Dan would disagree and express
a preference for some other,
always concluding with “Better
t’ wait a bit yet ’fore decidin’.”
In the morning Dad would have
to go to work, but Dan pre-
ferred to sit on the veranda
Smoking and making up his
mind. *
Dan was going to give five
pounds to a young lady who
called one day collecting for the
hospital, but all his money was
in the Savings Bank and he
hadn’t any change about him.
“Worst of banks,” he said,
“can’t run to them when y’ wants
to,”
But Mother had plenty in the
house, and offered him the sum
till he could draw some of his
wealth. Dan accepted it and
went to the veranda and gave
the young lady a half-sovereign
he had found in Dave’s trouser-
pocket.
“Alwez like t’ give t’ the hos-
pital,” he said, returning to
Mother. “Altergether, I s’pose
I’ve given hundreds o’ pounds,
now.”
Mother was delighted with the
way Dan had turned out, and
was anxious to know the
property he meant to buy. She
questioned Dad about it one
morning.
“I don’t know,” Dad said
angrily. “I don’t know what the
devil he’s going t’ do.”
Dad began to treat Dan badly
again; He showed feelings of
distrust towards him and re-
fused to accompany him any
more to inspect properties. Dan
took offence. He went away one
morning to buy Curry’s place,
and when we heard of him again
he was working among the selec-
tors at McCatta’s Corner, about
eight miles away.
Dan never bought any farm,
but he settled down. He
married Mary MacSmith —had
a great wedding, too —and lived
comfortably and happily on his
wife’s people. And he promised
to do well, till one day, about
three months after his marriage,
Mrs. Geraghty dragged her
daughter Polly, who was crying,
into Mac Smith’s place, and,
within hearing of the whole
family, told Dan he wasn’t a
man or he would have married
Polly, and asked him what he
meant to do.
Dan was imperturbable. He
laughed and said “Git out!” —
and would have argued himself
innocent, but his wife, the very
person you’d expect to stand
up and fight for him and decline
to hear anything the Mac Smiths
would say, believed it all and
flew into tears and hysterics,
and Dan, of course, was thrown
on the cold world again.
In compensation for Dan’s
infidelity, his wife rushed to the
store and got a cart-load of
goods in his name. Dan got the
bill. It made him restless. He
came to Dave for advice. Dave
read the bill and when he saw
the last item looked up and
asked “What did she want with
twenty-four pair o’ stockin’s?”
“Dunno,” Dan said. “She
must be a blessed centerpee’!”
[The End]
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Whereabouts of Frank Hoare,
painter and decorator, who left Eng-
land many years ago. Sister inquir-
ing. (Reply direct to Mrs. Ramsden,
17 Front-street, Callercoats, North
Shields, Northumberland, England.)
To buy copy of On The Wool
Track by C. E. W. Bean and Aus-
tralian Ballads by Wm. Sharp.—s6l4.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Story
Book (1901).—5612.
To buy Old Bush Songs, edited by
“Banjo” Paterson; and Three Ele-
phant Power by “Banjo” Paterson;
The Bulletin Story Book and On The
Hop; Our New Selection by “Steele
Rudd”; Bushman and Buccaneer:
Harry Morant: His Ventures and
Verses; Rhymes from the Mine by
Edward Dyson and Collected Poems
of James Brunton Stephens. —s6l3.
Whereabouts of descendants 9!
John Henry Hargrave, who arrived in
Sydney from England about 60 years
ago. (Write direct to Mrs. Georgina
Emmes, 39 Rivergrove, Gipsyville,
Hull, England.)
Information Sought
What is quicksand?
A bed or mass of loose, moving
sand saturated with water to such an
extent that it readily yields to pressure
and cannot support the weight of
people or animals. It is usually very
fine, mixed with clay or calcium car-
bonate. Sometimes fine mud with a
thin layer of sand is called quicksand.
Small tracts occur fairly frequently at
river mouths (especially in the rivers
of Iceland), or along the coast) dif-
fering little in appearance at a glance
from the shore of which they form
part. Old writers sometimes give the
name to the drifting sands (of a
desert or the seashore) carried by the
wind over the neighboring cultivated
land.
* * * *
Under what Act is a convicted per-
son declared an habitual criminal in
N.S.W.? For what period are habitual
criminals detained in prison and by
whom are they , declared ? Is there
any periodical review of their cases?
The Habitual Criminals Act, 1905,
empowers a judge to declare as a
habitual criminal any person con-
victed for the third or, in some cases,
the fourth time of specified criminal
offences. Since 1924 the system'has
applied to persistent offenders con-
victed shmmarily, as well as to those
convicted on indictment. )n the cases
first mentioned, a stipendiary magis-
trate may direct that an application
be forwarded to a Judge of the Sup-
reme Court or a Court of Quarter
Sessions to have the prisoner declared
a habitual criminal. The habitual
criminal serves the definite sentence
imposed for the offence of which he
has been convicted, and then is de-
tained for an indefinite term until he
is deemed fit for freedom. The inde-
terminate stage is divided into three
grades intermediate, higher, and
special. The cases of all habitual
criminals are considered at quarterly
intervals by a consultative committee
appointed for the purpose, and each
case is brought annually under the
notice of the Minister for Justice. Re-
leasees are required to report to the
authorities at stated intervals during
a period specified in the licence.
* * * *
Some particulars about'the emu-
wren ?
The emu-wren is noteworthy for its
curious tail-feathers, which in struc-
ture resemble those of the emu —
hence its name. It frequents swampy
localities in eastern Australia and Tas-
mania, and reappears in the extreme
south-west of the continent and on
Dirk Hartog Island. It thus has a
remarkably discontinuous distribution.
The male has a bright blue throat and
reddish-brown head. Two other
species of emu-wrens inhabit the dry
scrubs in certain inland districts of
Australia, these being the Mallee
emu-wren of north-western Victoria
and the rufous-crowned emu-wren of
north-western Australia, whose range
extends from North-west Cape to the
western districts of the Northern Ter-
ritory. This little inhabitant of the
most arid part of Australia is the
smallest of our birds in body, though
owing to its long tail its total length
exceeds that of several other species.
* * * •
Some particulars about the Irish
writer Liam O’Flaherty ?
Born in 1897 in the Arran Islands,
County Galway, he was educated at
the National University, Dublin. He
served with the Irish Guards during
the First World War; after being in-
valided out he took part in the Irish
Revolution of 1917. After the war he
entered the merchant service and
travelled widely. His first novel, Thy
Neighbor’s Wife, was published in
1924, followed by The Black Soul in
1925, and a volume of short-stories,
Spring Sowing, in 1926. With The
Informer and Mr. Gilhooley, novels
of Dublin low life, both published in
1926, he established his reputation as
a powerful, realistic writer, but the
romantic side of his nature found ex-
pression in his idyllic short-stories,
many of which were descriptive of life
in the Arran Islands where he was
born. Other novels include The
Martyr (1927), The Assassin (1928),
The House of Gold (1929), The
Puritan (1932), Hollywood Cemetery
(1935), Famine (1937, a novel of the
potato-famine of 1846), and Land
(1946, an adventure of the Fenian
rebels). Two Years (1930), I Went to
Russia (1931) and Shame the Devil
(1934) are autobiographical books.
* * * *
Some information on John Adding-
ton Symonds, English critic and poet ?
Born Oct. 5, 1840, he was educated
at Harrow and Balliol College, Ox-
ford, where he won some distinctions.
In 1862 he became a Fellow of Mag-
dalen. His health broke down, and
he went to Switzerland, where in 1864
he met and married Janet Catherine
North. They settled at Clifton (Eng.),
where he lectured in the well-known
schools and where he wrote, in 1872,
his Introduction to the Study of
Dante and (1873-76) his admirably
vivid Studies of the Greek Poets. At
Clifton he began his Renaissance in
Italy (seven vols., 1875-1886), which
remains the classic authority in Eng-
lish on the subject. His work, how-
ever, was continually interrupted by
illness, and in 1877 he moved to
Switzerland again, and spent the rest
of his life there. There he completed
the Renaissance in Italy, and also
wrote biographies of Shelley (1878),
Sir Philip Sidney (1886), Ben Jonson
(also 1886) and Michelangelo (1893),
several volumes of poetry and essays
and a translation of the Autobiog-
raphy of Benvenuto Cellini. He died
at Rome on April 19, 1893, and was
buried close to Shelley., There are a
Life by H. F. Brown (1895) and The
Last Days of J. A. Symonds by M.
Symonds (1906).
* * * *
Why are there said to be twelve
tribes of Israel when Joseph’s two
sons became heads of tribes? Why
not thirteen tribes?
When Jacob, the father of the
twelve tribes, gathered his sons to-
gether, it was written (Genesis xlix
28):
All these are the twelve tribes of
Israel: and this is it that their father
spake unto them and blessed them; every
one according to his blessing he blessed
them.
The twelve tribes are the twelve sons
of Jacob. Unlike the other sons of
Jacob, however, Joseph is sometimes
reckoned as two tribes (viz., his sons
Ephraim and Manasseh). But in
Joshua xvi-xviii we find Ephraim
and Manasseh, settled in the hill
country south of the fertile Esdrae-
lon plain, regarded as forming a
single tribe. The “house of Joseph,”
occupying the centre of Palestine,
more or less comprised the northern
kingdom.
Brief Answers
J.O’L.: Try York Fiction Fea-
ture Service, 140 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney H.L.D.: “Biblionews” is
the official monthly of the Book C9l-
lectors’ Society of Australia; copies
are obtainable from Walter Stone, 64
Young-street, Cremorne (N.S.W.)
T.8.H.; John Charles Wright was
consecrated Archbishop of Sydney in
St. Paul’s Cathedral on August 24,
1909, and on reaching Australia was
in the following year elected Primate
of the Church of England in Aus-
tralia F.L.M.: The badge of the
Governor-General of the Common-
wealth is a wreath of laurel-leaves in
a white field; inside this a seven-
pointed gold star; above it an im-
perial crown proper M.McG.:
The first Australian to win a swim-
ming-race abroad was Percy Cavill,
who in 1897 won the 440-yards and
long-distance championships of Eng-
land. In 1899 F. C. V. Lane won the
•English 220-yards championship in
2min. 38.25ec., defeated England’s
best swimmers, and established several
records.... W.H.S.: See Coghlan’s
Labor and Industry in Australia and
Sutcliffe’s A History of Trade Union-
ism in Australia at the Public Library
of N.S.W., Sydney.... T.M.C.:
Mountain-ash, spotted-gum, bluegum,
carbeen, teak and hickory make good
axe - handles... .R.G.: Minute - men
was a popular title for the soldiers of
the militia during the American War
of Independence, and refers to their
hasty preparation for war (at a.
minute’s notice). The first contest of
the war was between Minute-men and
British troops at Lexington....
W.R.Mc.: Particulars from the sec-
retary, the Book Collectors’ Society
of Australia, Box 905, G.P.0., Syd-
ney... .J.J.F.: Our Book of Mem-
ories, by Justin McCarthy and Mrs.
Campbell Praed W.P.S.: Nmman
Douglas did not visit Australia....
P.8.0’R.: (1) No. (2) No. (3) These
Glorious Crusaders, by Kurt Offen-
burg... .M.D.: (1) “Baltic” derives
originally from the Latin —mare
Balticum, the Baltic sea; Baltia,
Scandinavia. The Swedish word bait
means a strait, or a sea full of straits.
(2) “Arafura” is Portuguese. Some
of the wild tribes of the Moluccas and
Celebes were called by the Portuguese
“Arafuras,” and the name was later
given to the sea. (3) “Niagara”
comes from the Indian Oni-aw-garah,
“the thunder of the waters.” (4)
“Balkan” is Turkish for “mountain.”
It is only since the early 19th century
that the name Balkan has been used
for the peninsula C. 8.5.: Profits
of the “Big Seven” English banks for
1951 were Barclay’s £1,908,437, Dis-
trict £508,217, Lloyds £1,815,858,
Martin’s £725,107, Midland £ 1,925,316,
National Provincial £1,469,765, West-
minster £1,405,453 T.J.R.: Suggest
that you write to P. B. Hepburn,
General Secretary, Booksellers’ As-
sociation of Great Britain and Ire-
land, 14 Buckingham Palace-gardens,
London, S.W.I R.T.: King George
VI died at Sandringham on February
6, 1952 J.McK.: Since the passing
of the Marriage (Scotland) Act, 1939,
only one form of irregular marriage
is recognised, viz., marriage by co-
habitation and habit and repute. If
parties live together constantly as
husband and wife, and if they are
held to be such by the general repute
of the neighborhood, then there may
arise a presumption from which mar-
riage can be inferred. Before such
marriage can be registered, however,
a decree of declaration of. marriage
must be obtained from the Court of
Session... .R.K.M.: The Norfolk Is-
land hibiscus (Lagurarip patersoni ) is
an ornamental and shade tree bearing
large, hibiscus-like flowers. It is
especially suitable for seaside planting,
but has been used successfully in
inland areas. It- is frost-sensitive
when young C. 8.5.: Write Chief
of the Division of Wood Technology,
Forestry Commission of N. S. Wales,
Harrington-street, Sydney H.J.S. :
Write Lewis Berger' and Sons, Box
23, Burwood (N.5.W.)... .P.K.:
Write Arup and Associates Pty. Ltd.,
428 George-street, Sydney, or Austra-
lian Merchandise and Enterprise Pty.
Ltd., 72 Pitt-street, Sydney
J.A.J.H.: The lines are from Alex-
ander Pope’s “The Temple of Fame,”
which will be found in any collected
edition of his poems V.M.: Nor-
man Hetherington’s cartoon “A Day
in the Life of a Model” appeared in
The Bulletin of July 23, 1952.


Always qn the job
AG A
RegtL Trade Mark
GIVES CONSTANT HEAT
FOR COOKING
PLUS
,
CONSTANT HOT WATER
The correct grade of
coke now in ample supply.
Heady for instant use day and night,
the Aga Cooker also maintains a con-
stant hot water service to meet kitchen
and bathroom needs. No other cooker
gives these double benefits at so little
cost. Fuel bills are smaller with Aga,
because low consumption of coke is
guaranteed. Heavy insulation ensures
heat does not escape, your kitchen al-
ways stays cool.
TEMPERATURES JUST RIGHT!
Two ovens and two hot plates are automatically
adjusted to cook at different speeds. You can safely
leave food cooking in Aga, even overnight.
FUELLING SO CLEAN AND EASY!
There's no work involved in keeping Aga in action.
Fuelling, so clean and easy, is needed only three
times in every twenty-four hours. Aga burns con-
tinuously on coke and low consumption of coke is
guaranteed. Nothing surpasses Aga for economy
and excellence of cooking.
A SSSpa»
JO Y[fiDe>
jMOANTft
*Z*rlal? Ult y
bSPs&Z
,!f eiim
last
OTHER
AGA
COOKERS
MODEL "E" (Four ovens, two
hot plates, one warming plate).
MODEL "ET" (Four ove;ns, two
hot plates, one warming plate,
plus hot water tank).
MODEL "CS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates).
MODEL "DS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates, plus hot water tank).
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. In 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND
lENOIX HOME WASHER
J NEW SOUTH WALES _____ 45 King Street, Sydney ■
l VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne i
• QUEENSLAND Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane !
I SOUTH AUSTRALIA 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide I
J TASMANIA A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart J
S WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., >ertb |
SB
JOINERY
WINDOWS, DOORS, etc.
SAVE MONEY
Full details on request.
L.B.C. Wood Products Pty. Ltd.
Cnr. Edwardes St. and Plateau Bd.,
Keservoir, N. 19, VIC. JC 5277
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
de
HVGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage ue
matter where your home may he,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can inttal it!
Xhe treated sterile sewerage la
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write lor free illustrated pamphlet.
■DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd.. 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle
St.. Adelaide. „
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Me-
Inemey & Co., Ltd.. 441 Murray
St.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T, See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
More Eggs and Veges
“Emu”: Many Australians
could have more and cheaper
eggs, more and better vegetables
—and brighter flower-gardens—
by using deep litter in their back-
yard fowl-houses. The system is
so good that it is used now by
commercial poultry-farmers and
has lately been adopted by pig-
farmers.
Deep Titter for hen-houses
apparently had its origin in the
deep bed of straw used for
winter quartering of stock in
cold countries, and only recently
someone saw its possibilities for
poultry- and pig-keeping.
The method is simply to cover
the floor of the fowl-house and
♦ho _/ * , .. s ...
me run (or part of it) with a
layer of straw, grass clippings or
sawdust to a depth of 18in. If
only part of the run is covered,
or if the run is large, low
obstructions should be built
across it to prevent the litter
from being scattered by the hens,
After rain add more straw,
After six months or longer the
stuff is put on the vegetable- or
flower-garden and a fresh layer
of straw put in the fowlyard.
The confirmed results are;
(1) hens lay more eggs ; (2) feed-
ing costs are reduced ; (3) disease
and mortality are lessened; (4)
cheap fertiliser is provided for
the garden ; (5) eggs are clean
and appear to be more nourish-
ing.
Worms in Calves
“Urunga”: It is noticeable
that in dairy districts where feed-
quality has fallen away and per-
manent calf-paddocks are used,
calves are more liable to get
worms. This means that calf-
~ . , * ,
paddocks should be changed,
rested and rotationally grazed,
Calves should be kept off low-
lying spots where swampiness
may follow rain.
If worms become serious and
deaths occur affected calves
should be drenched and placed
on concrete or in a clean, spelled
paddock and fed. If this is not
done reinfestation can occur at
such a rate that treatment will
not prevent losses.
Phenothiazine is by far the
most effective drench for all
general purposes. Though only
reasonably effective against
hookworms, it will generally
give satisfactory control.
It is best given suspended in
water by using a sheep-drench-
ing-gun. Where only two or
three calves have to be done it
can be shaken up with water
and given as a forced drink.
The dose-rate» is: Four
months old, ioz.; six months,
|oz.; nine months, loz.; 12
months, l^oz.; 18 months,
l|oz.; 2 years, 2oz.
The drench should be given
slowly to safeguard against the
liquid entering the windpipe.
After treatment the urine is nor-
mally colored red for a few days.
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture puts out a very good
pamphlet, “Internal Parasites of
Cattle,” which gives good advice
on worms in calves.
*
Cornstalks
“Zea”; A problem on the
northern N.S.W. tablelands is
disposal of cornstalks when fol-
lowing maize with spring-sown
oats. If the stalks are ploughed-
in it is hard to get them rotted
quickly erlough to make a good
seed-bed. Moreover, the oat
crop is badly off for available
nitrogen, which is mostly taken
up by the bacteria in the soil to
decompose the maize trash.
Much loss of oat-yield is suffered
unless * nitrogen fertiliser is
added. But this is generally
conspicuously absent.
Burning the maize-stalks over-
comes the immediate problem of
getting a good seed-bed but
destroys much-needed nitrogen
and even more essential organic
matter, as well as making slop-
ing land vulnerable to erosion.
In a region of severe winter-
feed shortage and loss of condi-
tion, if not life, of stosc, the
soundest method of disposal of
the cornstalks is to make winter
roughage from them for the
starving stock.
“The scarecrow's crook!"
Don’t Overdo It
“Wonga”: N.S.W. experts
warn that continuous and heavy
applications of ammonium-
sulphate can have harmful effects
on the growth of plants.
Most plants respond very
rapidly to nitrogenous fertilisers,
and whilst nitrogen is most im-
portant in nutrition, excessive
and indiscriminate use of it may
be harmful.
In addition to an upset in the
nitrogen-phosphorus ratio result-
ing in excessive leaf- and stem-
growth at the expense of the
fruiting bodies, serious adverse
effects may be caused in the soil
by too much ammonium-sul-
phate. If in doubt get in touch
with the local agricultural officer.
Rice-pasture Farming
“Oryza”: Rice-pasture farm-
ing on the Murrumbidgee irri-
gation area replaced the rice-
wheat rotation when it was seen
that rice-wheat did not build
soil-fertility, that rather poor
wheat crops were obtained, and
that nitrogen fertilisers were
increasingly required to produce
good rice crops.
Questions yet to be answered
iii the new system are whether
nitrogen fertiliser will still be
required for rice crops after pas-
ture, and whether the soil can
be made too rich in nitrogen for
the rice crop by years of pasture.
American rice-pasture farm-
ing experience shows that unless
clovers are associated with
grasses in the pasture phase, rice
crops may still respond to nitro-
gen fertiliser. On the other hand,
with excessive clover in the pas-
ture the soil may be so enriched
with nitrogen that rice crops fail
to set grain.
Rape as Summer Fodder
“C.A.A.”; As rape needs
summer showers for full growth,
it should be regarded as a catch
crop profitable for fattening
stock, at least in Victoria.
Sown now, rape will give good
forige wheh it is most needed.
As the seed is small, thorough
soil-working is advised. Sow in
shallow, fine seed-beds, using a
drop fertiliser-spreader followed
by a light harrowing.
Sow at 41b, with a bag of
super, an acre. To stop sheep
scouring on the new growth sow
ilb. of white mustard an acre
with the mixture.
After the rape has been eaten
down, work the paddock with
light implements preparatory to
autumn - sowing of pasture.
Perennial-rye does well after
rape.
St. John’s Wort
“Hux”: St. John’s wort can
be beaten by burning the patches
off before the seed falls. Iso-
lated plants should be dug out.
An effective control is sodium
chlorate at the rate of lib.
per gallon of water, 150 gal, to
the acre. If begun in late winter
this treatment should be repeated
in early summer to destroy plants
that escaped earlier. The areas
should then be ploughed and
cultivated regularly from the
time the first growth shows up in
summer,
Sub.-clover has, on occasions,
successfully smothered the weed.
Ploughed Sin. deep in October,
the land is left to fallow, and in
March the clover is sown at 51b.
to 61b. of seed and lewt. of
super, an acre. There should be
annual top - dressings each
autumn.
Bees by Train
“S.”: In a recent big shift a
team of beekeepers moved their
apiaries from around Orange,
near the centre of N.S.W., to the
Northern Tablelands by goods-
train instead of the usual motor-
truck. The cost was a trifle com-
pared with the roadway, but
motor-trucks had to be on hand
at both points to handle the
hives.
Somewhere about 400 hives
could be packed to a rail-truck.
The saving in costs can be esti-
mated when it is stated that even
a big road-truck would have to
make about four trips over this
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
In early November rains should be general over eastern
Australia and Tasmania, but only light in other parts. Under
the long Neptunian cycle now repeating the weather events
of 1788, it was expected that October and November would
be dry, but the severity or otherwise of the dry spell could
not be stated. Time will tell how close the 1788 and 1953
cycles run.
As was forecast, the Murray River flooded this spring,
and may flood again. That forecast was based on the
inadequate cyclical data available, which shows that those
who follow the Crohamhurst system may open up a valuable
new way of weather-forecasting.


NockeKirby's A LIGHT TRACTOR
means less work with bigger profits ...
Because of their size and versatility, 8.M.8. LIGHT TRACTORS are the ideal means
of cultivating small farms, orchards and market gardens. Made by skilled
British engineers, they’re tough, efficient, economical to run,
and ready to tackle any job you give theml
m.
. ©
m®
m
n
a
m
®s
ii^
m
&
<z?
Top:
The 3£ h.p. “Cultmate” with
4-stroke engine. $334/15/3
Below:
The 11 h.p. “Hoemate” with
2-stroke engine. £155/12/6
The 6 h.p. “Plowmate”
tor heavier worh
Powered by a 4-stroke, single cylinder J.A.P. Engine with two forward
and one reverse gear, the “Plowmate” has adjustable track centres
and can be fitted with a power take-off to drive other farm
machinery. It comes with equipment for ploughing, harrowing,
hoeing, and cultivating. Other attachments arc available at extra
cost. Complete with Standard Equipment. Priced at £399/15/-*
• Agricultural Department 2nd Floor
The Agricultural Dept., Nock & Kirby Ltd. Please send me the pamphlets
available on the 8.M.8. Light Tractors. This coupon places me under
no obligation.
Name
Address,
- f;
417"421 George Street 9 Sydney . Boar 4250 9 G.P.O. Phone
••
300-odd miles one-way shift to
move an equivalent number.
The bees will come through
all right— provided a beeherder
travels with them to smooth out
the hazards of delays, off-shunt-
ings, waterings, etc.
Stem-gall Fly
“Jade”; “Sparks” (B. 2/9/’53)
can expect a rapid disappearance
of crof ton-weed if the stem-gall
fly attacks it as heartily as
another stem-gall fly has turned
from whatever it used to live on
to ruining citrus-trees on Queens-
land’s lower north coast.
The only treatment suggested
by the Agricultural Department
is to cut off affected parts and
burn them, at the same time
applying fertiliser to promote
new growth. By the time the tree
is cut back only a bare trunk is
left and it dies. We find that
they die no sooner and with less
effort on our part if left alone,
and we are trying to replace
them with more resistant types.
For instance, the Villafranca
lemon-tree is tougher than the
bush or Lisbon lemon. “Sparks”
and others should pray that the
new stem-gall fly does not get
tired of crofton-weed.
Disease of Pigs
“Porky”: Inflammation of
the lungs is often confused with
early stages of t.b. in pigs. High
temperature, rapid irregular
breathing, loss of appetite and a
desire to be alone are all symp-
toms. Plenty of fresh water
and opening food as the tempera-
ture subsides will right the
matter. Isolate the pig and don’t
disturb it unnecessarily.
Constipation is frequent in
sty-fed pigs and pregnant sows
close to farrowing.
Symptoms are scanty evacua-
tions in small hard balls and
high temperature. Stop solid
foods and give only slops, turn-
ing the pig out to pasture. In
extreme cases give oil or soapy
enemas.
Diarrhoea is caused by sudden
change of food and insanitation.
It can often be checked by turn-
ing sow and litter out to grass.
If caused by worms give a purga-
tive —joz. to 2oz. of castor-oil
per pig, according to size.
Salt-poisoning comes via the
whey from butter-factories.
Frothing at the mouth, panting,
continual sipping of water are
indications. Small doses of
whisky and warm water in equal
parts hourly may cure mild
cases. If .the victim is an in-
farrOw sow she will lose her
litter, and should not be bred
from again for three months.
Rickets (from malnutrition) is
usually apparent in young pigs
during the period of most rapid
growth. Like cramp or rheu-
matics, the mineral deficiency
becomes obvious as the animals
are unthrifty and unhealthy.
Cod-liver oil and bone-ash,
plenty of pasture-feed which has
been well-limed and sensible
maintenance rationing will soon
restore normal health.
)
Dogs’ Feet
“C.H.”: Summer grass-seeds
cause trouble in dogs’ feet. In
bindi-eye country paws can split
and fester. If the seed which
has worked its way into the flesh
cannot be seen, open up the paw
and extract it, then wash with
Condy’s fluid, let it dry, dress
with vaseline and bandage. Treat
split pads this way and repeat
every 24 hours,
A weak solution of alum and
salt will harden pads that have
become tender. Clipping the
hair from between the claws
prevents burrs sticking. Examine
the feet daily. Forcing a sore-
footed dog to work can cripple
him.
Crop Rotation
“Hortus”: Experiments at
Yagobie, near Inverell (N.S.W.),
show how worthless country may
be transformed into a paying
mixed-farming proposition. On
an eight-year rotation wheat is
sown in the first and fourth
years. Grain-sorghum, oats or
linseed comprise the crops in
the interval.
With the fourth-year wheat-
crop 21b. of lucerne and lilb.
of Wimmera rye is sown, but no
super. After wheat-harvesting,
the country is grazed, four years
before another wheat sowing.
Gabo, Festival and Celebration
have been successful wheats in
this plan. Last year 250 acres of
Gabo averaged 40 bushels. The
Wimmera rye proves a great
winter-feed asset, and lucerne
carries on the good work during
warmer months. Stubble is never
burnt but disk-harrowed twice,
then stump-jump harrowed ready
for scarifier and combine.
All farming work is done on
the contour, diminishing run-off,
even after heavy rainfall.
Rhodes-grass does well on sandy
ridges, couch holds in washed-
out sandy valleys, and liverseed-
grass grows satisfactorily else-
where.
Melons
“Big Billy”: Melon-plants will
produce earlier if sown now in
pots or tins and kept under a
frame so that the temperature is
«above that of open conditions.
Sow four or five seeds to each
container and cull them out to
a single plant for replanting in
November. Tip the seedling out
carefully with the ball of earth
around the roots intact.
Plant on low hills which have
had about half a bucketful of
compost or rotted animal
manure placed under them with
4in, to Sin. of soil on top.
In addition to loz. of'com-
plete fertiliser spread around the
plant, a sulphate-of-ammonia
solution (loz. per gallon) should
be watered-in every fortnight
after the first flowers have set.
In the north melons may be
planted in a shady situation ; in
the south, in the open.
Hints for the Farm
“Edd”: Herd-boars should
be detusked 4t least once a year
as a safety measure for both
owner and brood-sow. A simple
method is to rope the boar se-
curely to a post with a noose
over the upper jaw, when the
tusks can be cut off at gum,-level
with strong bolt-cutters.
“Edar”: When rushes appear
on a property either the drain-
age or grazing management is at
fault. Damp, low-lying areas
are usually associated with
their development. In pastures
that are reasonably well drained
mow the rushes in late spring
and keep the area heavily grazed
throughout summer. Give areas
on which rushes are growing a
more liberal dressing of super,
to encourage stock to graze the
rush-infested part and encourage
development of competitive
pasture species. When rushes
are too thick to cut with a mower
grub or plough them out.
“Rooster”: The secret of
quality in dried herbs is to har-
vest when the plants contain the
highest quantity of the essential
oils which give them their
flavors and dry them in such a
way that the flavors are pre-
served. Flavor is at its highest
when the herbs are about to
flower, about November to
January. Harvest before the
heat of day,
“C.H.”: For greasy-heels in
horses wash the heels with a
solution of two tablespoons of
Dettol to one of warm, soapy
water. Dry well and then apply
a powder of equal parts of
boracic-acid and zinc-powder.
Cover with a layer of cotton-
wool and keep in place with a
bandage. Repeat dusting each
day, but do not wash. In wet
weather keep the horse under
shelter to avoid the dressing be-
coming damp. Don’t use grease
or oil.
“Breck”: Though devoid of
nitrogen, wood-ashes contain all
the ingredients of a complete
manure. They supply good plant-
food, improve the quality of stiff
clays and bind up light, sandy
soils. To leach full worth from
ashes use them in a compost-
heap consisting of alternate
layers of vegetable-refuse or
lawn- or garden-cuttings and
wood-ashes. Stable-manure and
farm-refuse rich in fertiliser-
value can be added. Ashes make
an excellent top-dressing.
“C.S.”: A number of scholar-
ships and bursaries provided by
N.S.W. Government and other
bodies will be open for competi-
tion in January, 1954, in the
various courses at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College, Richmond,
and Wagga Agricultural College,
N.S.W.
GET IN EARLY
“The Bulletin” no sooner
fills the special pen in which
it keeps its new drop of Wool
Type Cards than it empties
and has to be filled again. So
popular has this invaluable
guide become to classers,
sheep-owners, wool students,
and others associated with
wool, that the demand keeps
on threatening the supply.
Send for yours now if you
wish to avoid waiting. All
that is needed is your name
and address and a postal-note
for 7s. fid.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Guide-dogs
I would like to put the case for guide-
dogs (B. 12/8/’53) from the viewpoint of
a blind person.
From my own experience one of the
greatest disadvantages of being blind is
the inability to move around freely and
at will with the consequent adverse
psychological effect on one’s peace of
mind —a most important factor. For over
50 years I was blessed with good sight,
and for over 25 years drove my own
car wherever my business took me. It
is less than four years since I lost my
sight and I am now totally blind. In
spite of that, I am still running my own
manufacturing business with quite a fait
measure of success.
My greatest difficulty, however, is
getting to and from my business. My
only means of transport is by taxi, which
costs 19s, a day. The alternative would
be by public transport and, even though
I have a free rail and tram pass, I could
not possibly travel alone. So I would
have to employ someone as an escort
and, judging by present standards of
wages, etc., that also would prove pro-
hibitive. The answer, in my opinion,
and after a great deal of thought, is a
trained guide-dog. With a trained guide-
dog one could use normal transport
accompanied by this dog free of charge,
and be deposited close to one’s destina-
tion.
Comparing my present cost of travel
with the cost of a guide-dog, I would
be very much in pocket, not to mention
the freedom and independence which I
feel quite sure a guide-dog would give to
me in my present circumstances.
When I lost my sight my first reaction
was to hide in a corner, and I think
most adult people in similar circum-
stances feel the same way. My doctor
more or less forced me to go out and
mix with people. It was a hard thing
to do at the time, but I gradually realised
how necessary it was. I soon became
interested not only in people but in
everyday affairs, and my advice to any
adult person who may be similarly
afflicted is to do likewise.
About two years ago I heard over the
air that Miss Betty Bridge, a qualified
trainer of guide-dogs who is now in Perth
(W.A.), had arrived in Australia. It
was this information which started me
thinking about the possibilities of obtain-
ing a trained guide-dog, and I am still
hoping that one day I will be the owner
of one, even though I am well beyond
the 50 years’ age-limit which is, apparently,
the maximum agreed upon by experts.
With this in mind, about 12 months ago
I acquired a dog—the first I have owned.
Although, because of certain defects, she
could never be trained to qualify as a
guide-dog, she is already enabling me
to get out and about within a fair radius
of my home. Instead of being more or
less anchored to one spot, I can freely
and confidently take ail the exercise I
want. And I have a real interest in life
because as soon as I return home from
business my dog is waiting and insists on
taking me for a walk. At weekends, in-
stead of sitting at home listening to the
radio or talking-book, most of my time
is spent outdoors in company with the
dog. Until I obtained her I was able,
with the aid of a stick, to tap my way
at a* very slow pace for only short
distances. Now, with the dog, I go for
long walks at a much faster pace than
when I had my sight. Although I carry
a stick,*! rarely have to use it.
From my own experience, I would say
that a properly-trained guide-dog is the
only way in which blind people can obtain
both mental freedom and physical inde-
pendence. The feeling of companionship
and protection and the psychological
effect of the benefits detailed above are
beyond the comprehension of sighted in-
dividuals, however well-meaning they be.
—-L, N. SCHOLFIELD (Vic.).
Parent-teacher Co-operation
Too many parents still visit schools
only to complain or offer excuses. Even
when they do inquire about their
children’s progress they are generally
hoping to hear some worn-out platitudes.
Rarely do they wish to hear the truth,
nor are they genuinely anxious to help
remedy any weaknesses in the child.
Such visits could clear away a lot of
misunderstandings and also help parents
to understand the particular problems of
a school. Each school has its own—pos-
sibly room-shortage, staffing, equipment,
playgrounds or any one of a hundred
things. Only by close contact can the
public know what help a school needs,
and so realise how such problems affect
their own child.
They can see why Johnny can’t get
'the individual attention they think he
should have. Fifty boys in class make it
impossible for a teacher to spend much
time on a particular child, but that child’s
parents can give the individual attention
at home. The parents must do their
inquiring first.
Parents should realise, too, the need
for uniformity and discipline in the
school. A lot of disciplinary problems
could be cleared up if (parents could only
learn that the freedom Johnny gets at
home is not suited to a classroom ot
playground.
A child’s progress could be helped, too,
if his parents could appreciate many of
the educational problems he is facing.
Too many fathers expect the sons to
come home with glowing reports ; their
only response to the child’s adjustment
problems is to force him along all the
more. Of such types are delinquents
made. A frank talk with the headmaster
or teacher could solve many of the child’s
difficulties.
Just as co-operative visits from parents
help them and their children, so do they
help the teacher. Many mistakes are
made by teachers which a few words
with the parents could prevent. It’s
remarkable, for instance, that the deaf
or short-sighted child will always pick
the back seat to sit in and often, unless
the teacher is told, he is unaware of the
reason for the child’s inattention.
Most of all it is heartening in a job
that is generally disheartening to find that
parents are interested and are willing to
help.— Frome (N;S.W.).
Houses and Rents
After 29 years of building, valuing,
letting and selling houses, shops and flats,
I was amazed to hear the Victorian
Premier assert that neither the Victorian
Landlord and Tenants Act nor price-
control had anything to do with the
failure of investors to build houses, shops
and flats for rent.
The present set-up under the Fair Rents
Court fixes returns to owners at 5 per
cent, net, which is absurd and iniquitous.
The equitable return should be 8 per cent,
net, of which 3 per cent, is recognised
as the cost of outgoings for repairs, rates,
taxes and insurances on 1953 basis —•
not the preposterous 1940 basis laid down
by the ruling of the obsolete Victorian
Landlord and Tenants Act.
I know hundreds of houseowners who
do not receive enough in rents to pay
for repairs, and find it a struggle to pay
rates, taxes and insurance. In most of
the capital cities there are thousands of
vacant blocks lying idle because owners
"That's all very well f'r Menzies—what about my chook?"
are not foolish enough to outlay capital
for the meagre returns permitted by our
regulations. That is the obvious cause
of the shortage of rentable properties.
In Britain hundreds of owners went
into smoke rather than continue paying
extortionate rates while receiving rents on
a 1914 basis. In 1949, 197 houses were
sold for two pounds (£2) by the local
authorities. That confiscation process
“You re in the dolly stage —you Wouldn't understand."
could occur in Australia unless we get
sensible laws regulating rents and pro-
perties.—Pelm (Vic.).
The Egg Board
Judged by his enthusiasm for the Egg
Board, “Tukang Kebun” (B. 14/10/’53)
is evidently selling eggs, not buying them.
The Egg Board certainly makes things
easier for the farmer. He has no
worries about costs of production—he
knows the board will adjust prices to
suit him. He has no worries about com-
petition, for the board will take his output.
There has been very little variation in
the seasonal price of eggs—the price
dropped sixpence lately, not because of
increases in supply but, according to the
board, because of reduction in the over-
seas price. I think, however, that buyer-
resistance had something to do with it.
The sixpenny breakfast egg was a bit
too hard for most people to swallow.
Comparing the cost of feed with the
price of eggs doesn’t prove that the board
and the poultryfarmers are philanthro-
pists. It could mearf that, before the
increases, the farmer was underpaying
for his feed. I can’t imagine the Egg
Board allowing feed to increase in price
75 per cent, and charging only 34 per
cent, more .for eggs,
If the consumer isn’t paying for the
cost of the board then my egg-man is
pulling my leg. He tells me that
he has to pay the board eleven-
pence for the privilege of deliver-
ing eggs direct to me from his farm,
Doesn’t that make me pay eleven-
pence more than I should for the eggs?
: Of course the consumer pays—just as he
does for the huge prizes given away in
quiz shows.
Poultryfarmers apparently made a go
of it in pre-board days; otherwise there
would have been no poultryfarmers. It’s
the consumer who has found he can’t
carry on at present, and that’s why the
Egg Board is trying to push the sale of
eggs by means of an expensive radio-
advertising campaign.— Rann (N.S.W.).
Diesel-electrics
“Transporticus” is a bit astray regard-
ing the respective merits of steam and
diesel-electrics on the Trans, (B.
30/9/’53).
That accelerated service given by steam
(Kalgoorlie to Port Pirie, 29hrs. 35min.)
for a brief period only in World War II
was not a typical performance on the
Trans, during its 35 years of steam opera-
tion, The department found that it could
not keep it up, and the fast steam service
was closed early in 1942 and never re-
sumed.
In a letter to The Bulletin some time
ago, “Transporticus” claimed that the
‘fast runs were achieved by an indifferent
or poor type of locomotive, but I can
assure him that the “C”-class 4-6-0 engines
used for haulage on that temporary fast
service were highly regarded and could
not be described as “poor class.”
The coming of the diesel-electrics has
transformed the prospects of the Trans,
and results have been remarkable to most
railwaymen.
Under steam operation, one-fifth of
the total freight traffic on the Trans,
consisted of coal and water for the depots
along the 1108 miles of track. The “C”-
class locomotives had to drag great
12-wheeled tenders which carried 12,000
gallons of water and 17£ tons of coal.
Diesel-electrics have been the direct
answer to that problem, which was suffi-
cient to ruin any railway.
In 1952 the Minister for Transport,
Senator G. McLeay, stated'that, for the
quarter ending March 31, 1952, the line
had shown a profit for the first time since
the war. The improvement was due to
the use of diesel-electric locomotives. The
profit was £69,789, compared with a loss
of £92,323 for the same quarter in the
previous year. Later, on March 17, 1953,
the Senator gave some figures illustrating
further remarkable economies effected
since the introduction of diesel-electrics.
Cost of operating diesel-electric loco-
motives, 47,55 pence per locomotive mile;
cost of operating steam locomotives,
187.17 pence per locomotive mile. Saving
in fuel costs with diesel-electrics as com-
pared with steam was £240,000; in
water costs, over £40,000. — Geo. Beesley
(N.S.W.).


The British Empire
It appears to be old-fashioned today to
refer to the British Empire, and the
decrying of things British has at oc
times been given semi-official approva
in this country —Labor’s attitude towar
titles and its stand on the Royal represe
tatives in Australia has done much
stir up what is almost an anti-Britis
attitude.
Britain has made many mistakes in
dealing with its Empire and with its ow
people. Today its decriers are quick
tell us of Britain’s treatment of convic
its prison inmates and its factory worke
Yet little is ever said of how quick
lessons have been learnt and how Brita
has led the world in social reform.
There are many in this country w]
are not prepared to hand us over
Russia, yet want us free from the ties o
the Empire. They take the attitude o:
Eire, South Africa and India in wantin
all the advantages the Empire can giv
without giving anything back to t
Empire,
At some stage during the war I ca
remember The Bulletin publishing
scoreboard which had entries somewh
like this:
France—Attacked by Germany; fough
Russia—Attacked by Germany; fough
U.S.A.—Attacked by Japan ; fought
Britain—Came in fighting.
I read that copy of The Bulletin whil
attached to a group of Tommies in th
M.E. and their reaction would hav
gladdened the heart of whoever wrot
it—C. Forth (N.S.W.).
W.A. Water-supplies
A town-planning authority said latel
that, in the not-far-distant future, Pert
will have a radius of 40 miles and W.A
a population of 40 million.
That’s a reasonable prediction anc
W.A. can certainly feed a far larger popu
lation than it is carrying now. Th
question is: can it provide water for
Water is the main factor limiting th
State’s population and there’s a definit
limit to the amount of water that can
be provided. There are still a lot o
streams, some of them perennial, running
from the Darling Ranges, and some coulc
be dammed at high altitudes, but most o:
them are used for irrigating food-pro
ducing areas on the plains. You can’
have it both ways.
Out of the million square miles in the
State one-third has a rainfall of less than
lOin.; two-fifths has between lOin. anc
15in., and less than a tenth has between
15in. and 20in. That leaves about only
one-seventh with a rainfall of 20in. to
50in.
Over a large part of the State, there-
fore, we can’t get a water-supply by im-
pounding surface water, and although
we’re fortunate in having a well distributed
underground supply, it is not always
available. Over part of the inland it
isn’t drinkable. Much has been made of
the fact that you can sink a shallow
hole at low tide around much of the
coast and get drinkable water, but you
couldn’t supply a community from it.
When Perth and the suburbs were sup-
plied from bores it was found that each
new bore reduced the run of the others
and it became necessary to prohibit the
sinking of them.
This problem isn’t confined to W.A.,
nor to Australia. It’s becoming almost
pressing in the U.S.A., where 150,000,000
people use up to 200,000,000 gallons daily.
In 50 years the population will be much
greater and the supply of water may
easily be less. Already in some States
water is being drawn from the ground at
20 times the rate of replacement and
some industrial plants are feeling the
pinch.
There are tremendous reserves of water
in the world, and man may find a way
to use them. He’ll have to, if he’s going
to survive. But the fact that America
may run seriously short of water within
the next 50 years should be heeded by
those who think that Australia’s capa-
city to absorb migrants depends solely
on the continent’s capacity to produce
food.—W. J, W. (W.A.).
Rommel’s Generalship
Surely “S. McC.” (B. 7/10/’53) would
agree that the directors of any large
business look to their experts and man-
agers to evolve the best use of -plant,
equipment and men. Why should any
other state of affairs exist with the Army?
Parliament does not decide on the
weapons, training and battle methods of
the British Army, but looks to the generals
and their scientific advisers to deter-
mine such matters. Provision is a
different thing and depends mainly on
what the Chancellor of the Exchequer
can underwrite in terms of the national
economy and on the realism of Govern-
"Who’s CRANKY?”
ment policy. All that can be said about
the last 250 years of Army history is
that both directors and directed have had
plenty of mutual disappointment in re-
ceiving advice and having it acted upon.
But it is the General Staff which must
initiate the ideas.
Admittedly reorganisation and re-
equipment require a great deal of money,
but adherence to old methods and gear
dissipates funds which could be more
effectively used. It is doubtful whether
generals before 1939 gave enough thought
to quality rather than quantity. The
R.A.F. did so and triumphed in the
Battle of Britain with superior equipment
and training. Although we had a head
start on Germany in armor after 1918
we were a couple of laps behind in the
evolution of the anti-tank gun and the
tank in 1939-45. We shuttled backwards
and forwards across Libya because of
that and came close to disaster.
The British people have had occasion
to take a poor view of some of their
military leaders, but it is not true to say
their general attitude is one of contempt
and derision. Outstanding performances
have been generously recognised, and there
have been just as many books pub-
lished on Marlborough, Wellington,
Roberts, Kitchener and Montgomery as
on Rommel.
As for the generalship displayed in
the early years of the war against the
embattled farmers of the Boer Republics,
the student of war does not rely on the
comments of the “newly Americanised
Press of the period,” but turns to the
official records and the subsequent reports
of the special committee of investiga-
tion into standards of staff training.
These are even more devastating. If we
cannot profit from hard lessons they must
be learned again at even harder cost. —
Hoplite (Vic.).
The Last Charge?
In that article on Churchill (B.
19/8/’53) a quotation from the book
under review states “About 1400 miles
inside Africa he took part in the last
real cavalry charge in the history of
war.”
What is a real cavalry charge and
when will the last be made? In the
1914-18 war there were several charges
by British Yeomanry, Indian Cavalry and,
last, but not least, Australian Light Horse,
Some may remark that Light Horse are
not cavalry; but look back to our train-
ing manual adopted before the 1914
war (“Yeomanry and Mounted Rifle
Training, 1912”): “Yeomanry and
Mounted Rifles are cavalry soldiers, en-
listed and enrolled as such, but are
trained to use the rifle as their principal
offensive weannn ”
a eapon. t
An early charge in the 1914-18 war was
by the Westminster Yeomanry in 1915
when fighting against the Senussi in the
Western Desert. They came up against
the same trouble as the 21st Lancers did
at Omdurman when they ran into an
unseen khor or deep ravine. A next
charge was that of the 4th and 12th L.H.
regiments on October 31, 1917, at Beer-
sheba, when these regiments, bayonet in
hand in lieu of sword, charged the enemy
trenches and saved the day and probably
the whole of the operation, for had not
Beersheba been taken that night the
mounted forces would have had to with-
draw many miles to water horses.
On November 8, the same year, 10
troops of the Warwicks and Worces
Yeomanry, which at that time form
part of the Australian Mounted Divisio
were asked by the commander of tle
60th (London) Division to clear t
enemy guns away. The C.O. of the Wa
wicks took over and charged the gun
and while they rode through a very heav
zone of artillery and machine-gun fi
the Yeomanry suffered heavily b
attained great results, capturing 11 gu
and three machine-guns and, what w
more important, smashing the Turkisi
morale and their rearguard. Anoth
charge by the Yeomanry was made
assist the 52nd (Lowland) Division
capture the heights of Mughar on No
13, 1917. The Bucks Hussars and Dors
Yeomanry made the attack mounte
Portion of the Dorsets dismounted
tending to fight on foot but were bad y
cut up. The Bucks who carried thei
charge home had relatively light casua-
ties in this engagement, while the Yeo
manry had 16 killed, 112 wounded anc
265 horses killed or wounded.
The 21st Lancers at Omdurman had
killed and 74 wounded, their gain ther
being mostly moral; the charge
Mughar created great panic among th
enemy besides Capturing 1100 prisoner
two field-guns and 18 machine-gun
From the outset of the campaign th
Yeomanry had been armed with the swore,
and early in 1918 the decision was mad
to arm the Australian Mounted Divisio
with this weapon.
The first charge by the Australian
Light Horse after being armed with th
long cavalry sword was near the viilag
of Semakh at the southerly end of th
Sea of Galilee on September 25, 1918,
and as far as the writer can ascertain thi
was probably the only cavalry charge
made in the dark. The enemy here
consisted of Turks and Germans, the
latter handling the artillery and machine
guns. The casualties were 14 Australians
killed and 29 wounded, 61 horses killec
and 27 wounded. The enemy lost 98
killed, 364 captured, of whom 150 were
Germans.
To the 2nd Lancers, Indian Army, goes
the honor of a charge with lances against
the Turk infantry on September 20, 1918
The Turks were advancing to seize the
outlet from the Mus Mus pass on to the
plain of Esdraelon near Megiddo. The
success of the Lancers’ charge made the
rapid advance on Damascus possible.
The known enemy casualties from this
charge were 46 killed and 470 captured.
It was in memory of this charge that the
Commander-in-Chief on the Palestine
front, when raised to the Peerage, in-
cluded the name Megiddo in his title.
The last charge to the writer’s know-
ledge was that of the 9th Light Horse
Regiment on October 2, 1918, at Khan
Ayash. Here in early morning the regi-
ment moved out of sleeping camp,
manoeuvred for position, and one
squadron charged supported by its own
Hotchkiss Rifles and movement of the
two other squadrons, with the result that
the whole of the enemy were killed or
captured, although they had three guns
and 26 machine-guns in action. These
guns were captured, together with 91
officers (including the Divisional Com-
mander), 318 cavalrymen, 1072 infantry.
Also taken was the Regimental Standard
of the 46th Turkish Regiment. Were
these the last Regimental Colors captured
n war? They are now in the War
Museum at Canberra. — Nugget (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 249
Across.
I—Taxi1 —Taxi carrying a Hayworth in a
Sydney suburb.(B)
s—Mr.5 —Mr. Olaf altered according to the
ceremonial rules the shape by a
boy. (6)
10 — Transportless 1 across describes
a wife of this prince. (3, 4)
11— This is raiment, so horrify his
Italic Majesty within it. (7)
12 — Essay is paltry when friendless.
, (3 >
14— Such quarrels produce 100 strokes
with the whip and 150 stakes in
Test Cricket. (7)
15 — Bald Shakspearian moneylender
is diffident in a place where one
might have one’s fling. (3)
18 — Lustier turn or Keaton. (8)
19— Comedian by the lake who is
worshipped by pagans? (6)
20 — Rectangle Of Siberian river pine.
(6)
21— Ray, a comedian, isn’t off course.
(8)
22 — Serpent like piano. (3)
23 — Rudds evidence of recent tears
in Marxist needles. (3, 4)
27 — Keats wrote one to autumn. (3)
28— Laborers who talk with the
manner of dove dishonesty. (7)
29 — Oilfield for its Polo, (7)
31— The proscription of a Greek. (6)
32 — Having a thought for skinny
majesty. (8)
Down.
1— Century tradesman whose busi-
ness is always topping is to throw
punches at a babbler. (10)
2 Port Phillip tree bark in recess.
(3)
3 Again lend an ear to chant when
readying an entertainment for
the public. (10)
4 Tithe residence for an Arab with
aspiration. (5)
6 Pole smashes a Greek vase. (4)
7 The first of the third with one
steamer noblewoman. (11)
8 — There is a firstly and a secondly
for this playwright and author
of “Euphues.” (4)
9 Produces an egg in Macaulay’s
verses. (4)
13 — Tidied up again about a West
Indian fast bowler with a uni-
versity faculty. (9)
14 — Paving a, coachman for fear that
one repairs the shoes on
, Franchot. (11)
16 — Even when this part of Ireland
wins at sport, it still sounds as
if it lost. (6, 4)
17 — Hairdressing with imitation deri-
sion. (10)
23— Tennis-player got up, (4)
24 Profundity. (5)
25 McTax. (4)
26 Equip a Baltic port. (4)
30 —Take the downward path—for
fun in winter. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 248


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide ; Stockowners’ Shearing.-
Limited, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Latfeceston,
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page ta a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
October
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
JAPAN BACK IN BIG TIME
"No drastic cuts in Sterling Imports by Tokio Government will
mean more big business for the Australian Wool Industry from
Japanese mills."...says Trade Expert
A top executive of one of Sydney’s
leading Wool Buying firms today
predicted that Japan’s wool pur-
chases from the Commonwealth
would reach even greater heights
than last season’s half million bales
(representing £A66,719,000 in
value).
The season opened with a rush
and prices of between 120 d. and
130 d. per lb. (greasy) for fine
wools have been frequently
obtained. A buying boom by
Continental Countries as well as
from Japan is expected to con-
tinue right through the season.
Usually the proceed-
ings are pretty sedate,
but Woolgrowers de-
pend for their bread
and butter on the
activities of the Buy-
ers. Photographs
show buyers examin-
ing samples, and as-
sembled in the Wool
Exchange ready for
the opening of the
1953-54 Sydney Wool
Selling Season.
—Photos courtesy “Land"
and “Farmer & Settler."
TABLE OF COMPARATIVE PRICES FOR NATURAL FIBRES
AND COMPETITIVE SYNTHETICS
(U.S.A. as at MARCH, 1953.)
Price.
Fibre. $ (U.S.) per lb.
Natural—
Wool V 1.70
Cotton .... 0.42
Regenerated—•
Rayon 0.42
Vicara ..... 1.00
Price.
Fibre. $ (U.S.) per lb.
Synthetic—
Nylon 1.70
Dacron .... 1.80
Dynel •. 1.25
Orion 1.80
It will be noted that of the two most dangerous competitors in quality
to natural wool, one (Dynel) sells at 35 cents less than wool, and the
other (Orion) at only 10 cents more, per lb. Further reductions in
the prices of synthetics are anticipated as their manufacturers step-up
production.
BUYING BOOM
Particularly heavy demand from
France and Italy has been evi-
dent. Speculation upon the possi-
bility of Russia’s re-entry into the
lists has continued. The U.S.S.R.,
a highly unpredictable buyer, is
liable to be back in earnest at any
time.
Japanese buying, however,
promised to be particularly heavy
again this year. The following
comments of the Japanese market
were supplied to your reporter:
“If sufficient sterling funds can
be released to Japanese Mills for
the purchase of Australian Wool,
the sky should be the limit this
year.
“Even though, due to the cessa-
tion of the war in Korea, the
huge market for Japanese textiles
from the U.S. Occupation Army
and the United Nations Forces
looks like drying up, domestic
consumption is rapidly increasing.
“In addition, Japan is developing
new markets for its textile pro-
duction, notably India and China,
where woollen goods were hardly
known prewar. Rapid expansion
of the Chinese market is antici-
pated.
“Before World War II only
about 50 p.c. of the Japanese
male city population wore Euro-
pean clothes. Today, however, at
least 95 p.c. wear them. The num-
ber of spindles is back to prewar
standard, while Japanese con-
sumption of wool was 1 2 3 million
lbs. (clean basis) last year, as
against 108 million lbs. prewar.
The latest Model
Trimmer Handpiece,
with patented self-
aligning back joint
and Anti-wear Compensator.
THESE NEWS
HIGHLIGHTS
ARE RED...
Warnings on the dangers that lie
in the years ahead for Australia’s
mightiest export-income earner
are sounded in these recent com-
ments by prominent people:—
Mrs. C. M. Croft, wife of the
Commercial Counsellor for
Canada.—“lt seems to me that
clothes in synthetic fibres, which
are cheaper, easier to get and
more stylishly made (in Canada)
than in Australia, are here to
stay.”
Mr. A. K. Hextall (Gov. Direc-
tor of leading Woolbuying firm).
—Discussing the complaints of
many large millers, especially in
Japan, regarding the presence of
tar and skin pieces in wool re-
ceived, he said: “Woolgrowers are
playing right into the hands of
opponents (synthetic fibre manu-
facturers) by neglecting to take
heed of these observations by the
Wool Manufacturers, who defi-
nitely have cause for complaint.”
Mr. O. McL. Falkiner (presi-
dent of N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Assoc.). —“Wool may become a
luxury within 25 years.” He con-
tinued that it was possible that
within that time wool would be
displaced by cheap synthetic
fibres, some of which were already
being sold to textile mills at be-
tween 6/- and 10/- a lb.
BEWARE!
Condemnation of another’s
product and his efforts, merely
because he is a competitor, is a
highly dangerous practice.
The development of synthetics
over the past twenty years has
been nothing short of amazing. A
comparison of Woolstra, one of
the early products, with what is
being produced today is ample
evidence of the strides that have
been made towards their objec-
tive, and millions are still being
spent in continued research.
Years ago Mr. G. G. Virtue, the
Managing Director of Moffat-
Virtue Limited, was warned by
one of Britain’s largest users of
Australian Wool that, unless steps
were taken to eradicate some of
the increasing problems associated
with the handling of our clip in
the mills, we might ultimately
fall a victim of other fibres.
The presence of tar and carbon-
ised oil in the wool referred to by
Mr. Hextall was one of them.
Experiments over a period of three
years, both in the Engineering
Shop and in the Field, resulted in
the introduction of the first Ball
Bearing Headgear which elimi-
nates carbonised oil trouble pre-
sent in all old-time shearing gear
This was followed by the full float-
ing transmission and other im
provements exclusive to Moffat-
Virtue gear. These latter features
ensure a constant speed to the
Handpiece and avoid the bruising
of the sheep, which has a detri-
mental effect on the subsequent
growth of the wool. Typical of
the experience of users of this
gear, one writes as follows: I
killed two sheep each day off the
shears and did not find a bruised
one amongst them as I did with
the previous machine. My ring-
shearer sheared 200 sheep and
still had three-quarters of an hour
to go before time was up, a tally
which he had never accomplished
before.”
Better shearing at a lower cost is
available to all graziers today,
and, furthermore, your early
model plant can be converted to
this new design at a surprisingly
low cost.
Full particulars, including Moffat-
Virtue Easy Terms facilities when
required, may be obtained from
any of the Distributors listed at
the foot of this page.
